

The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3660
Wednesday, April 5, 1950
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaoe
Seppelts
Dunbar’s Ancient Castle Now Looks O’er Tranquil Scenes
D Mn^h a \-af/° yal burgh and sea P° rt > twenty-nine miles from
Wite seaside resort wifh TF year s a go for smuggling.. Today it is a
an eventful cast which h' tb if amous 18-hole golf course. Dunbar has had
stand on a rock lh S h 6C f centr^ d ar ound its castle, the ruins of which
It was frequently besL ß ed e h.u arb ° Vr ’ S t h °f n m the accom P aa ying illustration.
a location on
Of ph ° n f n fi castle date from the year 835 5 after the Battle
embarked on a J l /" J 3l , 4 sought refu 8 £ “ her£ and later hastily
however when it wn S a f oat , r - nsdand - The castle became most famous,
a heroine better Swf"fl’VT by ,he Countess ot March
Moray— against the Fr!L f Black gnes ’ daughter of Randolph, Earl of
weeks the attackers S f under the Earl of Salisbury. After nineteen
gallant defence by the Countess'of ng J he if as - tle and ™ ised the sie S e - This
poem:— y Countess of March is recorded in the following
“She kept a stir in tower and trench.
That watchful, plodding Scottish wench,'
Come I early, come I late
I found Agnes at the gate.”
In 1435 Dunbar Castle passed to the Crown; it became a royal residence
and it was here that the Queen of James I died. Two days after the murder
of Rizzio at the Palace of Holyroodhouse, Edinburgh, in 1566 by Ruthven
and Darnley, Queen Mary took refuge with the latter at Dunbar Castle. A
few months later she appointed the Earl of Bothwell Governor of the castle
to which she paid two further visits in 1567; once when she was carried off
from Edinburgh by Bothwell three weeks before their marriage and again
when their honeymoon was interrupted at Borthwick Castle by hostile Scottish
lords who pursued them to Dunbar. On this occasion Queen Mary disguised
herself as a page. A few weeks later, after the battle of Carberry Hill, Queen
Mary surrendered to the rebel lords and was taken as a prisoner to Lochleven
Castle, and Bothwell fled to the continent from Dunbar Castle, which was
demolished by order of Parliament in 1567.
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
(


sraii
*J
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
—CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 150
AGE
The Red Page
NEW SPENDER POEMS.
w
profound in thought, sensitive in feeling
and technique, glittering with poetic life.
They mark a development in Spender’s
art, a growth in his stature.
ŵ
and finance, chartered a ship to bring
him to Australia, sold passes to recoup
his charter, had the project condemned
for overcrowding, was put into prison for
debt, proved the charges false, arrived
in Hobart in 1824, opened a sawmill, was
imprisoned for debt until 1831, estab-
lished a flourmill and a brewery, built a
theatre, and by 1840 was employing 50
to 80 hands making goods worth £IOO,OOO
a year. The shipyard he established in
1840 was more under his ownership than
his supervision.
John Watson (the book has him work-
ing in Degraves’s yard in 1831, though
it says Degraves could not establish a
yard until 1840) was engaged as Govern-
ment shipbuilding supervisor in 1835, had
to run the gauntlet of newspaper-criticism
of Government competition with private
yards; his kindly and forceful person-
ality made good shipwrights out of the
convict laborers. Watson was from
Southampton; John Ross was a Nova
Scotian who had learned shipbuilding at
Halifax and had studied patented brass
slips at Boston ; John Lucas was a Tas-
manian, a pupil of John Watson; John
Wilson, a Tasmanian, “often changed the
situation of his slip and yards, according
to where he could get good timber,” etc.
At a time when whaling vessels could
easily earn three times their value, Hobart
merchants had to look on while British
ships caught whales in the Derwent itself ;
Hobart residents were prohibited from
whaling—and when, in 1813, the ban was
lifted, the fears of the authorities were
justified by a report that one whale ship
had sailed with 40 runaway convicts on
board. Convicts in those days tended
to take control of ships on which they
were being transported; gangs of run-
aways infested Bass Strait, stealing ships
and acting as pirates; ships lying in
Hobart would often land their rudders
and sails to make them safe from con-
victs.
Bay whaling was highly profitable while
it lasted; in 1834 one company had 72
men working nine boats from coastal
stations and seven ships, with 24 boats,
working from Hobart; they took 209
whales, worth £14,373. In 1836 a season’s
catch was worth £74,000. It is not sur-
prising to read that bay whaling fell off.
The last to be caught in the Derwent
was near Hobart in 1852.
Hobart was also the headquarters or
calling-station for deep-sea whaling ships,
which %ame in with oil-cargoes worth
about £SOOO a voyage, provided the ship
was a “lucky ship.” Mr. Lawson has
innumerable stories of whalers leaping
into whales’ mouths and dying, or leaping
into whales’ mouths and, sensibly, leap-
ing out.again ; of bull whales with heads
all bone and gristle that charged not only
the whaling boats but their mother-ships,
and smashed like torpedoes into their
holds, so that they sank immediately.
And the man who got in front of the har-
poon-gun ; they were having some success
working the harpoon out of • him when
its bomb-head exploded “Thomas
Cracknell,” as Mr. Lawson says, “lost his
life in an astonishing manner.”
Whales were not the only troubles that
whaling captains encountered. In 1816
Captain Kelly, who, in 1815, had circum-
navigated Tasmania in a whaleboat pull-
ing five oars, landed in Otago Harbor
from the brig Sophia, ran into trouble
with the Maoris, escaped with his crew
to his boats, and then found his brig
filled with Maoris, who “literally stood
against them in a pack”:
Captain Kelly ordered his men to use
their short, razor-sharp sealing knives.
Forming into a solid square, Kelly led
them slowly through the crowd, stabbing
as they went. The Maoris were now the
ones to be cramped by the close quarters.
However, when one of Captain Kelly’s
schooners called at the entrance to
Otago 18 years later, Maoris attacked
it, seized a boat with gear, and some
dead whales lying alongside, and later,
when the schooner was sent back under
another captain to Admiralty Bay,
Maoris tied the crew to the masts and
rigging while they rifled the schooner
of everything, including her charts.
Blackbirding and mutiny are part of
the history of these ships ; and a skeleton
dug out of a guano-bed on Bird Island,
which reminded someone that two years
previously two men had been left there
to dig guano, and only one had been
taken off. Professors at Hobart said
the skeleton had been murdered; the
other man, already in jail, 'Was charged
with murder, but after evidence had
been taken it was decided that the
Tasmanian courts had no jurisdiction
over Bird Island.
And, talking of law, there was the
Tasmanian captain who appealed to the
American authorities for justice against
one of his sailors; whereupon the Cali-
fornian judge “sat on the Bench with
his feet on the table” and said:
“I guess you have made out a better case
than I expected, and by rights I ought to
give a verdict in your favor; but I can’t
because, you see, the sailor is worth nothing
and my fees must be paid. So I guess I
must give a verdict against you for £4 for
I m damned if I am the man who is going
BritiSS?'' no,hmß f " anj
And, talking of California:
“Between January, 1849,.and April IRSO
no fewer than 65 Hobart Town traders
cleared for California, all taking passengers
m large or small numbers”—to the gold
rush. B
And there was Captain William Wilson
of the brig Deveron, who boasted that
he could heave the lead over the fore-
yard while standing in the chains and
was challenged:
The lead whistled in the air as he swung
it, then it soared up, clean over the fore-
yard and plumped straight down into the
water, as clean as a whistle. The captain
retrieved the lead, swung again, and oast it
higher, still, over the fore-tops’l-yard, and
no man challenged him again.
And the smaller ships and their makers,
and the vehicular ferry Kangaroo’
launched in 1855, having two hulls with
a paddlewheel between them, known
variously as “The Siamese Twins,” the
“Twins” and “Doubleguts”—Mr. Law-
son’s book resembles the Derwent in the
days when the whales were thick for
the killing; and if we quote any more
from it, he will be charging us at article-
rates —there are 31 full-page plates of
ships, masters and master-builders; there
is a 22-page list in small type of Tas-
manian ships with depressing notes on
their ends; and an index.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Living Soil: E. B. Balfour (Faber).
Another of the flood of books on “saving
our soil” which began in the mid-’thirties
in the American dust-bowl and has in-
creased since World War II because a
lot of people believe man will‘soon eat
himself off the earth. Lady Balfour is
enthusiastic about compost.
* * * *
Writers on Writing: compiled and
edited by Walter Alien (Phoenix). Open
this book at random and you find, on the
one page, Coleridge criticising Words-
worth’s theory on poetic diction and
W. B. Yeats telling Dorothy Wellesley
that “Our words must seem to be in-
evitable.” Take another page, and you
have Stendhal telling Balzac, “I see but
one rule: to be clear.” On another page
there are E. M. Forster on the question
of whether or not the novelist should
“take the reader aside” and D. H. Law-
rence defending his characterisation in
The Rainbow. All of which, covering the
technique and purposes of prose and
poetry by means of quotations from the
critical writings of the great, makes an
anthology of rare quality both for the
writer and for the discerning reader.
* * * *
Maughamiana : Raymond Toole Stott
(Heinemann). For some days while this
book lay about his desk the reviewer was
under the impression that the title was
Maughamania —which indeed would do
just as well. It is a list of Maughams
books and magazine contributions for the
bibliophile, authorised and approved by
Maugham himself.
& ** * *
Men Before Adam : Anne Terry White
(Hale). Not for the scholar, but a good
popular survey of the various discoveries
of the skeletons of prehistoric men and
the controversies these discoveries aroused
in the worlds of science and religion.
The illustrations include some of the
lovely and amazingly sophisticated draw-
ings of boars and bison from the cave oi
Altamira.
* * * *
Melbourne: Pictured by Jack Cato
(Georgian House). Ninety-nme photo-
graphs of Melbourne streets, buildings,
homes and gardens, with an introduction
outlining the city’s history. Mr. Catos
triumph is, appropriately enough, JM-
Paul’s on a Winter’s Day,” which is about
the wettest photograph ever seen, but ne
also shows St. Kilda road, one ot
world’s best boulevards,” nicely chequered
with sun and shadow,
* * * *
Personalia: Rom Landau CPabtf|.
Reminiscences of such Eastern notab-
ties as the Mufti of Jerusalem and sucn
Western notabilities as Bernard Sha .
Paderewski and the philosopher Y
serling. Landau has a rather heavy,
serious outlook and is a little . toom ive
like a moral detective in disguise to g
the most vivid accounts of his celebni •
Thus he is chiefly concerned to disco
whether they are egotistical oi ■*<&*>
and finds Keyserling, who condemned^
entire population of the U.S. t° ex
because one of his books had P??. ~
ception there, excessively egoU«al,
Shaw, strangely, quite modest
talking brilliantly but not about
and Mrs. Shaw better still be,
was more serious and did
liantly.
Poetic Technique.
ẃ
R. G. HOWARTH.


' life’.
, //
"v
••■V/ ,■ ’-»
£2s . S
VWWf ,-D.
Wj A
?Af / T
«s
W,5
.
t
I
at
m-
=2s
>.\r
• fj
■/■'■*-. ■..;><:■■ •-
••* -, •o • • *
“TRUTH BlN r ADVERTISING**
Anthony Horderns’
The “Perfect” Seed Sower iS'3'6
The ‘ Perfect” Fiddle Pattern Broadcast Seed Sower. Light in weight, simple to
operate, strongly constructed. Used for sowing Fodder crops. Price £5/3/6.
•Ms?
" S^fTP^t
'Sjy^r^y^
' ~ - w>~'’
WmiiiiWß’&t*
HFUfURnr
I MW
rrv
- w s I
1
n
V*r ¥ Wil
K\ru
fes
$
r
r- <3{fAss?
r » ** .ir^r
,
rcrr?.
'1 ■ V
s’ CZ'
The “Treble R” Broadcast Seed Sower,
light, easy to handle. Similar to the “Per-
fect” Seed Sower in construction. £2/13/3
Bentall Hand Chaff Cutters, Model P.S.C.,
cuts sizes |in. and 4in. Fitted with rising
mouth, feed box, safety guards. £2O/14/-
Ransome’s Victory Plough. Sturdy British
single horse mouldboard plough. Channel
steel beam, steel share, knife coulter.
Price £lO/3/6
“7 Horse” Cultivator, all steel, five rever-
sible Steel Tynes. Adjustable to various
width rows. Depth regulated by front
wheel. Price £7/5/6
'i
VJ&. : -a
W%.
r’ ,-r.
Tm
s
■sm "*r
S?S.C lUt
-■i-Ni
K'KaK'Sfc-
Don’t fail to visit our huge
Show Pavilion this Week!
You are invited to come and inspect the wide selection of Furniture and
Furnishings now being exhibited at our pavilion at the Royal Easter Show >
HORDERNS’ AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
FOURTH FLOOR TELEPHONE: M 2401, BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


v "-:rv —....
x : :
Sissffi
U V i^B
m
SS«S&
I
: 1
*
&
&
****•
&*ri
&%-.r
.
•:
piggil
ii
ii
ill
ill
«
'
.*'*•%. ./V*
iiiii
ii
liliir
:
iiiii
: Si::: -
Hill
mt
iiiii
:
;. 'V : : : ''
i
THE HALLMARK OF QUALITY
PURE AUSTRALIAN
VIRGIN WOOL
YADPI
I ft K KM
FALLS
LIMITED
cM anu fact are rs of
FINE WORSTEDS
41
ABBOTSFORD,
VICTORIA,
AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
y 0 l. 71 —No- 3660
Wednesday, April 5, 1950
/rl if/
(tM Ml Wp&tsSP II W ill HS Mm
nillf «l// w{\ (XI 'Lwiffy in #| li He} kj? BfßwKraCT
GOOD HUNTING!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PARLIAMENT AT RECESS.
After having sat for a little over a
month, the new Federal Parliament has
risen for Easter with its present attitudes
defined and its gloomy future obvious.
Much of the original rosy rapture which
colored its assembly has worn off, reveal-
ing beneath a structure which is far from
cohesive.
On the Government side there is dis-
content among younger members at the
issue chosen for a first challenge to
“Labor” —banking—and at the milk-and-
water nature of the bill. Many thought,
and perhaps rightly, that Communism
should have been dealt with first, and
that linked with action against this
foreign conspiracy should have gone
measures to make the Senate workable in
the event of its siding with the enemies
of the country and having to be dissolved.
Not the least unsatisfactory feature of
the debate on the Banking Bill has been
the attempts of some Liberals to stifle
criticism. Such a move coming from
some neophyte might be excused; but it
did not. It was led by the former presi-
dent of the N. S. Wales Liberal party,
Mr. Spooner, who is now a Senator and a
Minister, and whose viewpoint is that
criticism is improper as being “a direct
reflection on our Prime Minister.”
If Liberalism means anything it means
that its supporters endorse the right of
electors to differ on measures if not on
basic principles. And the right place for
anyone who believes that a bill should
not be criticised once it has been brought
down by a Government is not in a Liberal
Ministry, but among the coterie of which
Messrs. Calwell and Ward are the
brightest stars. It is to be hoped that it
will be a principle with the new Govern-
ment, and that Mr. Menzies will make it
clear, that Parliament, and not executive
or party, is the master of its own legisla-
tion ; that any member who differs on
details of bills brought down is free to
do so without jeopardising his party
membership so long as he does not
impugn the main principles for which
Liberalism stands—free enterprise, free
thought and free expression, within the
limits of the law and the needs of public
safety.
A second matter about which there is
some dissension inside the Government
ranks is Foreign Affairs. The spectacle
of Mr. Spender skithering hither and
thither across the Indian Qcean and the
fringes of the Pacific distributing praise
and advice and “plans” and putting his
imprimatur on persons like Dr. Soekamo
is not altogether edifying. On that issue
it can only be hoped that time will sober
the Minister’s enthusiasms, and that he
will realise what is so powerfully taught
by history, that most of the great
diplomats of the world have been silent
and unobtrusive men save when major
situations have brought them to their
natural eminence as leaders of their own
•and other nations.
Leaving the two subjects of banking
and foreign affairs aside, the first month
of Parliament has been eminently satis-
factory, if only for the facts that Mr.
Menzies has shown strength and deter-
mination in dealing with the industrial
situation; that the Communists have had
notice served on them of what is to come ;
and that the public is beginning to realise
and give full support to the view that
industrial can and Will be dealt
Z no ' an u ef s Ctively ’ and tha t there
is no place in the Commonwealth for any
imported agitator who elects to prove that
strikes, unemployment and misery must
be borne by decent citizens to serve the
purposes of Australia’s coterie of Moscow
puppets.
Mr. Menzies has added greatly to his
personal stature during the brief begin-
nings of his session. He has shown a
calm and reasoned attitude in debate and
sef an example in decorum, as well as in
dignity and lucidity of speech. And he
has exhibited a firmness for which few
of his opponents would have given him
credit, and a toleration of those opposed
to him which seems occasionally to stretch
the edges of reasonable limits.
His personal demeanor and high
standard of conduct —and it must bo
said also of most of those behind him —
combined with the ability and debating
power of some of the younger members
on the Government side, has served to
throw into relief the true nature of the
Opposition. Served previously by a great
majority, protected by a sometimes openly
partial Speaker who occasionally took the
floor to attack the Opposition, and who
acted while in office as the official dele-
gate in caucus of the tyrannical New
South Wales A.L.P. executive, Mr.
Chifley and his party strode through the
years' 1945-49 with arrogance and dis-
regard of Parliamentary rights, national
dignity and fairness in debate. Their
attitude seemed to be that they were an
army of the class-war ordered by its
general staff to destroy ruthlessly. They
carried out their assignment with all the
recklessness of invading soldiery.
The present session has shown them for
what they are. Among their new
members only one stands out —Mr.
Clarey, whose ability and moderation of
speech has dashed the hopes of several
would-be “Labor” leaders. For the rest,
the Opposition resembles a rabble which
believes in nothing, and which has no
policy but hate and obstruction. Mr.
Chifley, who in the past protested against
the stigma that he supported full socialisa-
tion, has now defiantly and desperately
committed the Labor movement to it
in its extreme form. From being his
party’s idol —its leader; if not greater
than Stalin, at least greater than any other
Prime Minister of Australia—he has be-
come a bone of contention within the
party, sections of which blame him for
the trend of events in New South Wales
no less than for wrecking the Labor
movement by the introduction of the
nationalisation-of-banking issue.
The remainder of his party has dis-
integrated into a series of rebel bands,
each united to the other only in the
common purpose of obstructing every
move of the Government —even when
such moves line up with beliefs firmly
expressed by “Labor” for years—and de-
stroying, if possible, the attempts of Mr.
Speaker Cameron to carry through busi-
ness with reasonable dispatch and with
a minimum of irrelevance and abuse.
Towards the end of the first month of
sitting there was an obvious tendency to
warfare against the Speaker by a small
section of the House of Representatives
which must come to a crisis if it con-
tinues ; a crisis in which the makers of
it will undoubtedly be dealt with sud-
denly and thoroughly. It is to be hoped
that if action is needed neither the
Speaker nor the Parliament will shirk'it.
On the whole the new Parliament has
been a success, but there are trying and
difficult times ahead. The Government
will need all the support that can be given
it on the main principles of law and order
and the maintenance of Parliamentary
authority. It will also need just as much
the fair and salutary priticism which has
always, till the last few years of despotic
“Labor” rule, been used to guide Govern-
ments and influence Parliamentary
opinion. This, however, needs to be ad-
ministered tempered by a thorough
realisation of the new Administration’s
difficulties and of how much it will be
called upon to reform, in both the public
economy and the public outlook, before
it can fully establish confidence in itself
and in the legislature, and put Common-
wealth Parliamentary government once
more on a stable and self-respecting basis.
Public Service Army.
There was one war-time army that was
never demobilised. On the contrary, it
has increased and fattened yearly. Pro-
tests against its huge cost to the taxpayers,
its inefficiency, its making work for itself
by letting its people get in each other’s
way, have availed nothing. It is the army
of the bureaucracy—the Public Service,
especially the Commonwealth Public
Service.
This is not to say that the permanent
Commonwealth public servants are in-
efficient. They are hardworking, on the
whole capable, and the seniors resent with
the public the congestion with which they
must compete to keep the administrative
machinery running. But the permanent
employees in the Commonwealth service
are outnumbered about two to one by
the “temporaries.” And the “temporaries”
are today the war-time army, enormously
swollen in each post-war year, and now
rolling along of their own momentum
like any floodwaters. They are the very
expression of the inflation that is baffling
Governments and taxpayers alike. They
are the spawn of that socialisation which
post-war “Labor” Governments made
their chief objective; and during
“Labor’s” first steps in its’ socialisation
programme they were multiplying at the
rate of 2000 a month, a spectacle matched
in this country only by the cost-of-living
spiral and the rabbits.
“Research Service” has been doing
some investigation into the high cost of
government in Australia. Its analysed
comparisons of Government expenditures
between 1939 and 1949 look the more
alarming because no effort has been made
to reconcile the growth with the deprecia-
tion in the value of the currency; never-
theless the picture presented shows that
it is not enough for the electors to vote
Socialism out of office —it must also be
rooted out of the administrative nursery-
bed.
No Government can reduce taxation —
a reform to Which the Liberal-Country
Ministry is committed—without first cut-
ting down the army of “temporary”
public servants whose swarming ,into
Government “employment” accentuates
the famine in the industrial labor-market.
It is one of the worst indictments of the
Chifley Government that, while it was at
once crying out for “more production”
and boasting that its “full-employment”
policy had produced a condition of
120,000 more jobs than men in com-
mercial industry, it was at the same time
draining the labor market of young and
potentially energetic workers and burying
them in Government departments.
In 1932 there were 32,000 Commonwealth
Government employees, of whom some
28,000 were permanent. The depression
had cut the 1928 total by one-third, nearly
all of that third being “temporaries.”
In 1939 the total had risen again to about
the 1928 level at 47,000, “temporaries”
again nearing 40 per cent, of that figure.
The second world war bumped the
aggregate up to about 100,000, mostly
“temporary” employees, but even then, in
spite of greatly increased work in all
Government departments, the claims * on
manpower by the fighting services kept
down the intake. From 1945 to 1947 —the
year in which Mr. Chifley’s “real Labor
policy” began to take shape—the number
remained fairly constant. (“Research Ser-
vice.”)
But with 1947 the stuffing of Australia’s
working manpower into unproductive
Government jobs beat all records. The
numbers swelled to 149,000 by early 1949;
the increase in “permanents” alone during
those two years equalled that of total
employees during the peak war years, and
the increase in “temporaries” rose to a rate
of 100 a day. By August, 1949, the total
was 187,500 (increase of 2900 that month),
and by the end of the'year the 200,000 level
was expected to be reached. (Chamber of
Manufactures report.)
During the same 10 years (1939 to
1949) Government and local-government
employees in the six States rose from
275,652 to 381,400, but Canberra beat
the lot of them in a canter. There is now.
an annual wail from the States about the
Commonwealth’s denying them sufficient
income tax to pay their way, while for
what Victorian Premier Hollway calls
“the acres of clerks” in the Common-
wealth service more and more office-space
is collared in the State capitals and chief
towns, to the alarm of municipal councils,
which can'collect no rates from such
office-tenants.
Of the total population of Australia
7,579,358 at the 1947 census,
1,794,040 were disclosed as of under 14
years of age and 1,398,937 as of 65 and
over. That is to say, a little more than
one - half of living Australians
4,386,381 —were of working age, and from
this total a considerable allowance must
be made for some children still at school,
rural workers, housewives who do not
go out to work and men enlisted in the
fighting services. Of the remainder —the
numbers on which the country’s industry
has to rely—Government employment
demands about one in four. Many of
these are, of course, essential workers in
Government-controlled industries and
services—railways, power-plants, water-
works and the like. But no caveat on
that score can condone the excess lists on
the Canberra pay-roll. There were 10
Commonwealth departments in 1939 and
25 when the Chifley Government was dis-
missed last December.
“Research Service” finds some duplica-
tion between Commonwealth and State
departments which could be remedied,
and warns the Government that if the
extraordinary overseas prices for wool
and wheat reverted to normal the national
income would be utterly unable to sup-
port present Commonwealth Government
expenditure. When the Chifley Govern-
ment went out Commonwealth and State
Governments were spending 36.4 per
cent, of the national income (against 26.2
per cent, in 1939), which, if export prices
fell, could amount to about 50 per cent
of the national Income. Then
would collapse. In hard-press^d^S'” 2
today 40 per cent, is regarded as the
Research Service's” examination ft
departmental expenditure has been
difficult by the “concealment” of
partmental expenditure in official It!'
merits under a heading of “war charge ”
It is of prime importance that taxpayers
if they are to vote intelligently shorn* u’’
able to check from Budget be
how Commonwealth Govfrnment mooev
has been spent, for while an average
crease in expenditure by the State, i
tween 1939 and 1949 fJm £» 2?« *
t 29 16s. Id. per capita may be reason^,
explained by the inflated value of todav’l
money, the Commonwealth’s increase J
from £l3 12s. sd. to £7l Is. 8d percLhl
in the same period can ride
no such plea. 3 n
Of course the national Government is
today doing more, and is expected to do
more There is, for instance, the national
health service to be paid for and subsidies
on some consumer goods. Air transport
is a necessary daily service; aircraft are
bigger and more costly and so are their
. scientific aids for navigation, their land-
ihg-grounds and their cost in Government
subsidies. But when the red light shows
of electors’ insistence on a reduction of
taxation, a general overhaul of the spend-
ing machine is inescapable. At the rate
the Commonwealth has been spending an
otherwise healthy fall of prices for our
e u P ° l rtS x. Co !i , . d P roduce that depression
which Mr. Chifley has been expecting for
the past three years. Is the country to
wait till this “depression” hits it before an
unnecessary horde of “temporary” public
servants is put off the Government pay-
roll and sent to take up unfilled jobs in
productive industry?
The electors have thrown out Can-
berra’s “transitional” controls. It is time
for the transitional controllers to go also
The Crimes Act.
Invocation of the Crimes Act to halt the
Brisbane waterside manifestation of the
latest Communist tactic (“rolling strikes”)
marked perhaps the greatest single dif-
ference between the Menzies and Chifley
Governments—the Menzies Government s
attributes of both its willingness to serve
the total, instead of a sectional, Aus-
tralian interest and its freedom to do so.
Allowing any measure of recognising
the larger Australian interest among some
of the Chifleys, they would still have been
rendered incapable by their own sectional
ties of taking the only kind of action
that could have countered this particular
Communist tactic. In the first week, at
least, of the Crimes Act in operation the
survivors of the last shattered Govern-
ment mostly endorsed the counter-action
with their silence. By simply the very
nature of their own composition and
section-serving policies, they could never
have taken such action. And no other
would have been effective.
Mr. Menzies was able to counter-attack
because, for one thing, he himself and
his Government stand for the larger Aus-
tralian interest, and so are not section-
ally shackled ; and also because both he
and Government asked for and receive
a specific, unqualified mandate to carry
the fight back to the Communists, not
only to ensure a temporary freeing o
export and import trade, but in ue
course to wipe out the pretence that tncy
are just another political party, JJJ
“political philosophers” ; to ban them
a party, restrict their conspiratorial acti
ties, and, in full, brand them
conspiracy they are. ~ pctive
The action taken was at °nce effect
in its specific application and its- w “
purpose. It instantly even ff t fo e
mean only temporanly-^rok ®
vicious Communist blockade against
vital exporting to needy Britain duc ,
where of heaped-up Austrahan P y
tion and the importing of product
No other justification
could be asked for. It did what as
urgently required, and every , Xj a dd
the cargoes continue to move Aould
to the store of general Australian g'
tude. ft both
It is, of course, in the iwture
Communist activity at targ t h a t
“rolling-strikes” tactic m P a^ ia assaU lt
any day there will be
somewhere or other. Th . vernme nt
thing is that now adequate aS cer .
counter-action can be looke their
tain ; just as certain as tha ■ > v uln er '
past performances, Cornmumsis _ their
able under the law will not r int 0 f
“rolling-strike” fomenting to m E QUQtry
rolling themselves out oi
via deportation.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cameron v. McKell.
„ „ 4 ment closed in an uproar last week
being an incident in which
cnpfker made a statement regarding
the with the Governor-General.
Element was provoked by a ques-
hv Mr A. D. Fraser, of Eden-
Monaro, who asked the Speaker to com-
M nf on a newspaper paragraph descnb-
m his alleged behavior to Mr. McKell
Sf* Son of the delivery of the
made a statement in
which he said, inter alia
Tn March 1940, Hon. W. J. McKell
h? ~ c ir on me at the Labor party s
g£“ciSft£”on June 5 1940 he
Se upon me the most personal attack I
have ever been subjected to m my life.
Each was a prepared statement; the more
offensive was, I believe, broadcast as well.
Amongst the terms used in regard to
mvself were “mistrusted, detested, narrow
prejudice, blindness, personal jealousy,
intemperate, blackmailing, bushranging in-
direct harm done by this man mca culable,
a national liability, ‘an irresponsible head-
strong egotistical man able to hinder the
Xiencv of our war effort, arouse hostility
and dissension instead of a feeling of
national oneness, and thus serve the very
enemy we are fighting’.” The Government
was described as the vilest of vile coah-
‘on assuming the Speakership....! met
the Governor-General for the second time
in my life, and I trust that my conduct on
that day* was no disgrace to this House.
If it was, I have not heard of it.
On February 27, in reply to an invitation,
I called the Governor-General’s attention
to his past attitude towards me. I
informed his Excellency that I had no
desire to accept the hospitality of those
who spoke of me in the terms employed by
him. To that letter I have received neither
acknowledgment nor reply....
His failure to acknowledge my letter of
February 27 leads me to believe that he
still holds those views. If that assumption
is correct, he could hardly expect me to
accept the hospitality which I had already
refused, and I, for my part, could do no
other than what 1" did on March 22 —treat
his Excellency with the strict formality and
respect due to his high office and remove
myself from his presence as soon as my
duties had been discharged.
Mr. Cameron, when Mr. Chifley raised
a point of order that it was inadmissible
either to praise or blame the representa-
tive of the King, replied that he had
“carefully considered the position and had
made no attack whatever, I have given a
recital of certain facts.”
In view of the fact that Mr. Fraser
asked the question, apparently with the
approval of the Labor party, he must
have expected an answer which might
embarrass the King’s Representative and
certainly embarrass the Speaker. The
Opposition’s indignation at Mr. Cameron’s
statement therefore had a hollow ring.
There was no such outburst when Mr.
Harrison stated his intention to refuse
invitations to non-official functions at
Yarralumla. And he had far less
apparent justification for his action than
Mr. Cameron, some of Mr. McKell’s
comments on whom were made at a
crucial period of the war in a speech
devoted to an attack on compulsory
fv.ee before the Communist-dominated
“ii on^erence at which the notorious
Hands Off Russia” resolutions were
passed.
The incident would not have happened
if a r kft the matter alone. And
(bn ne Governor-General now becomes
subject of general public controversy
dr ° r mast take the blame for having
tn u IS name into the arena. It is
mat . e “?Ped» however, that the whole
matter wifi be allowed to die.
Warning from the West.
J?? l^ree years in office—it had pre-
* n the wilderness —the
bank f lan Coalition Government came
its n., • tke P° lls on March 25 with
the strength unimpaired, but
had * es ec * ky McLarty and Watts
Vola'? aSlon for Voicing,
of iqa/ ri§nres for the Federal elections
opinion • ai li showed that public
’gainst Str °'" Ely
the Lot c* ° r ln the three years since
"V won T e * ect ion—in 1946 Chifley
Decembp 11 / our out °f ® ve seats si n
State “i ab a » i three out of ei Bht. Yet
s Pectacuiar 0 L la £ m ? ntl ?’ with nothing
and ain t 0 °® er ln lts programme,
ment to m r ® COrd °f muddled govern-
seats tL down > was a ble to win 23
old ParlitJ ame num her it held in the
Parliament.
TaborV» tion had taken awa Y three
61 bo , rou 8 hs > one in the
the nor -west and two on
in the nirtr ’ v Ut a( tditional safe seats
t 0 offset ,W tan area were expected
seat was ij s ‘ Actually only one
“labor” restn i. Up in the cit y> but
back Bunhn° red tke balance by winning
had Geraldton ’ which it
Anbury the “Labor” man had a
narrow win over two opponents—-the
sitting Liberal member, Murray, and a
Country-party man. That fact largely
explains the failure of the Coalition
parties to increase their majority. They
did not fight the election as a solid team ;
in many districts electors must have
wondered whether the partnership was
still in existence. The two non-“ Labor”
parties clashed in almost a dozen elec-
torates, including one metropolitan seat.
The clear lesson of this private war
should not be ignored in those States
where elections are now coming up.
t —— ♦
Chifley Quid Quiz.
Mr. Chifley’s speech on the Bank
Bill left him highly vulnerable. He
had for so long addressed the
House of Representatives as a
financial dictator that he has come to be-
lieve that he —and the (of course)
brilliant financial experts he placed as his
lieutenants in the Commonwealth Bank
—are the only people in this country
who can possibly know anything about
the science of banking. Likewise he has
for years been convinced that the only
wisdom brought to light by the pre-war
Royal Commission on Banking was that
of the minority report (his own),
“Finance is government, and govern-
ment is finance.” Mr, Chifley cannot
easily tolerate being displaced or seeing
his ideas, once paramount, being dis-
carded in the essential function of gov-
ernment. His speech disclosed as much.
His ex-cathedra air is out of date. The
truth is (as that promising Liberal new-
comer, Mr. McMahon, who followed
him, adroitly showed) that he is not so
much a great financial expert as a
devotee of the Socialist conception of all
administration.
Mr. McMahon speedily applied a test
which brought to ruins Mr. Chifley’s
rather specious opposition to the bill. He
said —and it is undeniable—that the out-
standing feature in the conduct of the
national economy during the one-man
rule of Mr. Chifley’s Commonwealth
Bank was the steadily-diminishing value
of what rough-speaking fellows called
“the Chifley quid,” Since under the
Chifley system the governor of the bank
was solely responsible for central
banking operation—save for the personal
veto of the Treasurer —the currency’s dis-
astrous loss of purchasing value must
have been tHe result either of the
Treasurer’s own policy (which reigned
supreme) or of some weakness in the
bureaucratic direction of the bank,
divorced as this control was from all
“outside” advice.
On top of this, the general public—and
leaders in its various commercial activi-
ties are not so ignorant of finance as Mr.
Chifley supposes—has been left entirely
uninformed of what the late Treasurer,
or the governor of the bank, or both
did or left undone to combat the rising
inflation during the past four years. Mr.
Chifley’s argument that such technical
matters are no proper concern of any but
Treasury servants, being beyond other
men’s understanding, was with the help
of Mr. McMahon’s commentary laughed
out of court.
A Port at Iluka.
With memories of how N.S.W. Premier
McGirr once turned a sod at what he
thought was the site of a new coalmine
at Awaba, near Newcastle, and then dis-
covered he’d shovelled up somebody’s
private paddock instead, dwellers on
islands between the Tweed and the
Manning probably kept a lookout when
the gentleman was reported in their
vicinity looking for Woodford Island to
blow a hole in it and launch his “deep-
sea-port-at-Iluka” scheme.
Apparently he found the right quarry
on the right island, bang went the dyna-
mite and the sod was turned. But hope
would soar higher if Mr, McGirr’s State
were not already littered with the turned
sods of public works that he has
promised and “inaugurated.” Every time
a State election looms be produces them.
The prospective expenditure already in-
volved in these promises has been added
up to a total of £400,000,000.
Like his fellow-Premier in Queensland,
who, with his State election. bothering
him, has invited the sugar people to a
grand conference to “iron out their
problems,” Mr. McGirr is plainly
worried about his North. In N.S.W., as
in Queensland, it is the north of the State
which is actively demanding self-gov-
ernment in a revived New State move-
ment. The Opposition parties in both
States have made New States an election
policy, the Country-party portion,of the
N.S.W. Opposition having presented a
petition, signed with 13,000 names and
claimed to represent 650,000 people
(equal to the population of South Aus-
tralia), asking for a referendum; an
awkward petition for an election-bound
Premier to ignore,
Iluka, of course, should have been a
deep-sea port long ago. Nowhere else
in the world would a people allow
coastal products to be actually railed
away from the coast to one central, over-
crowded port hundreds of miles distant.
Linked with Iluka is Dr. Earle Page’s
vision of all-out hydroelectric develop-
ment on the Clarence. The port won’t
be possible without river control, and
river control on Page’s lines opens the
way to big land and industrial develop-
ment. After a lifetime of plugging away,
Dr. Page has at last convinced a Federal
Government that the Clarence works
are urgently necessary. From there it is
a step to linking the tablelands and the
north-west plains by road and rail. And
a new State should be an inevitable
corollary.
Flying Crockery.
“Findy” explains the inexplicable:
In an age when scientists and journalists are
daily seeking to outdo each other with
prophecies of more and more devastating means
of destroying an ever-increasing proportion of
the earth’s population it is natural that men
should assume that the so-called flying saucers
which have been reported as appearing singly,
{Continued on next page.)
EASTER EGG.


'
They satisfy
In every way
• • #
CRAVENA'
mack specialty
gfi!>9
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR IfMkljX
in coveys, in flocks and in swarms nv«
parts of the earth’s surface are 0 f 1 rious
origin. ot m an-made
Having assumed that, it is natural
should conclude that the workshop
the saucers are produced are situated k!u
the Ural Mountains or in the m“S
Martian deserts, according to whether Th™ the
sider the threat of WOTld-dcSSJ*
from regions comparatively near or C ° mes
remote. People of an earlier general ™ o *
limited by the conceited notion !hat tvemh" 0t
they could not explain must be the wofof
human hands, would have found simokr «
planations for the flying saucers P X '
So ™°!°ur ancestors wou ‘d certainly have
regarded the missiles as a sign of Divine dis
pleasure and would have wasted no time ?n
seeing that the proper propitiatory measures
were taken; either by the sacrifice of a S
or the waging of a holy war against a neighbor-
mg tribe. Others of our forebears would at
once have diagnosed the disks as manifestation
° f to be regarded tolerantly unless
they killed someone s cow or made the crons
wither in which case the burning of an old
beldam or so would soon put an end to their
nonsense. But a materialist scientific age scorns
to seek an explanation which depends on
supernatural agencies or on black magic- it
must be given a scientific story or nothing ’
It is, therefore, strange that no one has yet
put forward the obvious explanation, which is
at once simple and scientific. It might be
called the Satellite Saucer theory, for the flying
saucers are really nothing more or less than
small satellites of the earth—miniature moons.
The general assumption that the earth has only
one moon has been fostered by poets and
song-writers, but no scientist who has given
any thought to the subject would be so rash
as to say he was positive that there are not
other, smaller moons revolving around our
globe. After all, Mars has two moons, Saturn
nine and Jupiter eleven, all visible through
telescopes of medium size. Who knows how
many smaller satellites they have? And if the
other planets have miniature moons, why not
the earth?
It may be asked why these Satellite Saucers
have been observed only in the last few years.
The explanation is as simple as the whole
theory. Scientists agree that the moon will
gradually slow down the pace of its rather
foolish pilgrimage around the earth and that
in the process its orbit will contract, bringing
it ever closer to its parent. If this is true
of the big moon it must apply also to the
little ones, but with them the process will be
completed much sooner. In point of fact, it is
taking place now.
Owing to their small size, their great speed and
their distance from the earth, the miniature
moons have, until recently, been invisible.
When it is considered that before the invention
of the aeroplane no one ever had any occasion
to look up into the air, except to see if it was
going to rain, it is not surprising that the
Satellite Saucers were not noticed earlier. Not
that they would have been seen, anyhow; they
were then too fast and too far away. Obviously,
in the last few years their speed has slowed
down somewhat, causing their orbits 'to con-
tract, and thus enabling them to swim into our
ken. , , . .
This is borne out by the fact that the first
reports of the saucers mentioned only isolate
examples; lately there have been accounts
multiple appearances, as was only to be ex-
pected as more and more of the satelll ..
approached the earth. Why do they look
saucers? Why not balloons or te nnis-ba •
Well, the moon itself is known to be spheriw
in shape, yet to the naked eye it looks m
like a dinner-plate than a watermelon. ...
The question arises whether the sw
Saucers threaten any danger to the eartn.
may be said that the risk is practically
Every observer agrees that the saucers are :
Their speed, although slow by inter-P
standards, is still pretty brisk, and as
they come in contact with the earth s
phere the friction set ,up will cause footing
frizzle away in a flash of splendor as
stars.” Careful observation of the night j> 7
during the next few months will infirm of
as well as giving added proof of the rs
the theory. In time all the Satellite a (he
will come to the same sudden mo on.
earth will have, in truth, only ‘ ° nne has
Unless, of course, by that time so®
produced a real man-made flying sau
POLITICAL POINTS
In his Friday-night broadcast the Prime
Minister gave a strong hint of his inten-
tions if “Labor” should use its Senate
majority to block legislation. Claiming
that the Government had a clear mandate
to legislate and to govern, he said:
It proposes to do both, with your sup-
port and, if it becomes necessary, with
your further vote.
The Government is apparently prepared
to risk a double-dissolution and another
election; despite their brave words it is
doubtful whether “Labor” Senators are
really eager to go so far. Under pro-
portional representation it would mean
“Goodbye, Canberra” for at least half a
dozen of them, and the catch is they have
no way of finding out in advance who
will be among the six.
Arrant hypocrisy is the only term to
describe Federal “Labor’s” attitude to-
wards the Menzies bill to extend child
endowment to the first child of a family.
This proposal was contained in the Lib.-
C.P. policy-Speech, and it was then
opposed by “Labor” on the grounds that
it would mean a reduction in the basic
wage and was indeed a dark plot to break
down wage-standards. Now that the
Government has blown out this theory
Chifley and Co. have somersaulted. The
bill is to be opposed in the Senate not
because of its threat to the basic wage,
but because the threat isn’t big enough ;
“Labor” Senators are to propose an
amendment increasing the payment to
10s., although the Prime Minister has
announced that the Government is not
at present prepared to go so far. In
effect “Labor” is saying that it would
rather see no payment made at all than
accept the five-shillings proposal. Mothers
among “Labor” supporters are not likely
to endorse this view.
It is not often that Federal caucus has
to be called to order by the A.C.T.U., but
it seems that the child-endowment issue
may provide an instance. Last year the
A.C.T.U. asked the Chifley Government
to bring in first-child endowment —with-
out success. It now appears that the
Council still wants the measure brought
in, and is not at all amused at the thought
of its being thrown out through “Labor”
obstruction.
A windy resolution passed at the con-
ference between N. S. Wales caucus and
executive decided
to launch an immediate campaign in all
electorates to bring the organisation to the
highest peak of efficiency for the coming
general election.
First-fruit of the decision was an an-
nouncement by the executive that no pre-
selection ballot would be held in the
Hartley electorate, where Alderman
Luchetti, Mayor of Lithgow, is making
a strong bid to secure nomination for the
seat, at present held by J. Chalmers. The
executive will itself decide which of the
two will carry “Labor’s” banner and
blessing, thereby saving itself the embar-
rassment of having to veto the Hartley
branch’s decision should it pick the wrong
man. This democratic move was made
“in the interests of unity.”
The Reaper is being specially unkind
to Attlee. Two members of the Commons
have died since the general elections ;
both were “Labor” men and both won
their seats by fairly narrow margins. Dur-
ing the last Parliament Labor had a re-
markable run of successes at by-elections.
With its majority of seven now reduced
to four—there has been one resignation—
the party will be flat out to retain the
seats now vacant.
Last week’s defeat of the Attlee Gov-
ernment on a minor question is a fore-
taste of what may be expected during
the next few months. Six Ministers and
21 rank-and-file Labor members were
A.W.L. when the division was taken.
With a wide-awake Opposition similar
defeats on a snap vote,can be expected
at any time, and although the Government
is expected to announce that it does not
intend to take seriously defeats on minor
points it cannot face that sort of thing
indefinitely.
Queensland “Labor” seems to have
solved the problem of mixing oil and
water. Labor Minister Gair is stumping
the State telling everybody that his party’s
policy is “Socialism and industrial
reform”:
I would cease to be a member of the
Labor party if it did not believe in private
ownership. The right of private ownership
always has been upheld and encouraged
by Labor.
Notably in the case of the trading banks.
When Federal “Labor” was out to destroy
their right to private ownership not a
word against the plan was heard from
Gair or his colleagues.
Two clear points emerged from Oppo-
sition-leaders’ policy-speeches in Queens-
land. Hiley, for the Liberals, followed
Menzies in declaring the Queensland elec-
tion a straight issue between Socialism
and freedom ; Nicklin, C.-P. leader, said
a new North Queensland State was
justified. New States would be a safe-
guard against Socialism.
Running into people urging the separa-
tion of North Queensland into a new State
wherever he went in N.Q., Premier
Hanlon had the same answer for all: “It
would cost you £4 a head more in taxa-
tion, in addition to what it already costs
you. to run a State.” The man must
think the northerners would run their
Government on the same lines as he runs
his.
“Could you carry the £5O million of the
Burdekin scheme yourselves if North
Queensland were a separate State?”
sneered Premier Hanlon at a Townsville
(N.Q.) deputation. Nobody would ask it
to, any more than Hanlon’s crowd is
asked to do it. In any case, with Brisbane
off its neck there’s no telling what the
north might do.
Ward and Calwell, singing a duet for
the first time in years, are advocating the
taking over of the Melbourne Club, the
Union Club (Sydney) and Victoria
Barracks as emergency housing accommo-
dation. They are treading on dangerous
ground; the idea might spread to the
Lottery Office, the Stadium, racecourses
(including the dogs and trots), breweries
and hotel bars. And what would the en-
lightened electors who sent Eddie and
Arthur to Canberra say then?
A few years ago the cry “Up there,
Cazaly” was familiar to every ’Rules
football barracker in Victoria. It may
be heard in the Tasmanian House of
Assembly before long; Roy Cazaly,
former South Melbourne footballer, is one
of the Liberal team for Denison in the
coming election.
That petrol binge Chifley and Co.
prophesied would follow the lifting of
petrol-rationing doesn’t seem to have
started yet. Queensland Chamber of
Commerce secretary W, Pope claims that
sales of petrol in the northern State were
less in February than in January, and
there is a similar report in New South
Wales, where the secretary of the Service
Stations Association says that sales have
not risen since rationing ended. People
don’t keep filling their tanks up just for
the fun of paying three bob a gallon for
petrol.
The U.S, Congress resolution, later
reversed, recommending the cessation of
Marshall Aid to Britain until the partition
of Ireland was ended, was probably the
silliest —and the most impertinent—ever
passed in that legislature. It got through
on a snap vote, 99 to 66. When the House
regained its numbers and its senses the
vote was reversed, 226 to 60.
External Affairs Minister Spender told
a Port Moresby audience that Australia
would not take a passive role if anybody
interfered with the Papua-New Guinea
area. It is to be hoped Djakarta realises
that such an assurance was not necessary
as far as Papua and Australian New
Guinea were concerned.
Brisbane wharfies had no sooner
scuffled back to work at the rustling of
the Crimes Act than they sent a deputa-
tion to the Stevedoring Industry Board
asking for reinstatement of attendance-
money and annual-leave credits which had
been cancelled by the Arbitration Court
—the former for 28 days and the latter
for three months —because of the rolling
strikes. The board rightly told them that
as the court had cancelled the privileges
only the court could restore them. -
If, as several speakers have indicated,
the only sections of the Bank Bill not
acceptable to “Labor” are those dealing
with the Bank Board the Government
should read the whole thing through very
carefully during the Easter recess. What
is important is not how the present Gov-
ernment intends to use it, but Ijow a Gov-
ernment with Socialist ambitions could
use it
British-Argentina meat talks broke
down when the Argentines took offence
“about the language of a Note rejecting
Argentina’s demand for a 40 p.c. increase
in the price.” Meantime the British have
stopped buying Australian frozen rabbit;
they say they have too much of it already.
Major explanation for both developments
is that the European winter is over. Last
year the British took nearly three million
crates of our rabbits; with the continent
grassed from end Jo end this year and no
big market for carcasses we may have to
start eating the dashed things ourselves.
Queensland is to have a royal com-
mission “to plan the proper development
of the Queensland sugar industry over
the next 25 years.” So far the industry
has got along fairly well without this sort
of thing, but then a Premier must have
some election-bait for the sugar country—
which isn’t very promising territory for
Hanlon’s Labor party just now, what
with sugar rotting while wharfies loaf, a
breakaway Labor party in action, and a
lot of sugar-country people demanding a
State of their own.
The fellows who had so much to say
about “Pigriron Bob” in the last few years
have now run into the iron in the man.
A lot of them made the mistake of assum-
ing him to be built of the same material
as his predecessor.
No one can say the Melbourne
tpammies are not reasonable men.
Although at their mass-meeting last
Thursday they rejected a back-to-work
move, and voted for a continuation of
the strike which has deprived Melbourne
of normal transport for six weeks, they
had no hesitation in accepting the Tram-
way Board’s offer of bus transport to and
from the meeting.
“K.”: Extract from letter from a
Sydney passenger in the Italian motor-
ship Vivaldi, now en route from Sydney
to Genoa; “The barman in the lounge
told us on the Sunday evening we left
Sydney that during that Sunday one
wharfie, drawing at least £5 for the day’s
‘work,’ spent the entire day in the lounge
drinking about ten bottles of beer. His
‘work’ was to blow three whistles for the
various knock-off times of the
gang-morning tea, lunch and aftern. B
tea. He did not have to blow u ; I noon
and final whistle at 5 p.m as th f ° Urth
had already knocked off.” tlle Ban S
Golfers have joyfullv hailed tu
ing o£ the golf season, and fiotbSleS
barrackers await eagerly the
season; young peoplf IoV fUarff
the dancing season, and State notit- • to
greet the election season with hS? D i S
ings. In N.S.W. another season S' h f ' el ‘
but nobody welcomes it—the
season. blackout


ŵ
HOME-LIGHTING batteries to fulfil every
LIGHTING NEED —BACKED B v SI YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
SHU
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
• v Wagga lives a man
Dow n h a mogul—a word
with Wilks and Wagonians unques-
fr°m J f cl \f‘,.p,ets, linoleums, furniture,
tiomng Ld hff P out for the high places.
mone /rv nf the flood-warning committee,
Secretary or tfae ’Ogee's vagaries
f llk 9 S 5 years from the height the down-
for • I flood had reached at Gundagai,
SW fSt ?t would reach at Wagga, to
and if water released to ease the
tbe Burrinjuck and the added height
SexpS from flooding tributaries.
«s had his lookouts strung up-nver-
ilored other reports-and six days
S f *“e Wagga went under he predicted a
Sod three days before he gave rest-
dents°the time and height of its peak. So
that when last week’s deluge arrived it
found the birds flown to high land leav-
L s ventilators below floor-level stuffed
S sills of doorways bncM-up against
its entry Wagga elected Wilks its flood-
wamer after the unprepared-for disaster
of 25 years ago ; last week s orderly
exodus was the pay-off.
On Nov. 11, 1918, three opal-gougers
were busy at the bottom of a 40ft. shaft
through Bald Hill, Lightning Ridge.
One struck his pick, stared in disbelief,
bent down and came up with a fortune in
his hand—a softly-lustrous piece of
ancient mother earth which was to be-
come world-famous as the 253-carat
Flame Queen opal. Measuring 2.Bin. by
2.3 in., the stone was as large as a walnut;
they sold it on the field for £BB. Last
week, worth £15,000, this bit of Australia
was on display in London’s Bond-street,
as part of the Kelsey Newman gem
collection. Of the three gougers,
W. Bradley and J, Phillips are still alive,
and still living at Lightning Ridge.
“Macnell”: Bull-necked and broad,
trap-jawed and hook-nosed, Vice-
Admiral Herbert Annesley Packer, one-
time lieutenant out here in battle-cruiser
Australia, goes to sea again from the
Admiralty as C.-in-C., South Atlantic.
A still-bouncy 55, he left the Australia
to fight the rest of the Kaiser’s war in
battleship Warspite, and joined her again
in 1943 as captain. Before that he had
commanded cruiser Calcutta, left her a
few months before the Luftwaffe opened
her up off Crete in 1941, shifted to the
Manchester, and changed his address
again before that six-incher stopped an
Italian motor-torpedo-boat’s cargo off
Tunisia the following year. His next, a
shoreside appointment, was probably as
important as any afloat —captain of
Whale Island gunnery-school. Austra-
gunnery men who’ve been educated
at “Whaley” mention the fact casually,
in much the same way as a woman
mentions that the gown she’s wearing was
born in Paris. The Admiral takes 43
years’ blue-water experience to the South
Atlantic station.
H.W.M.”; Though many professional
men are disappointed in their sons show-
mg no inclination to follow their foot-
steps, judges in Victoria have been for-
tunate in seeing their offspring prominent
at Bar or Bench. W. M. Irvine, son of
one-time Chief Justice William Irvine, has
recently been appointed a Crown
f. ros ® cutor - Justice Starke has a son at
e Bar, and several nephews of Isaac
saacs, & s well as a brother-in-law, wear
me w lg and gown. Ex-Chief Justice
T ? nn \/ on i s a lawyer, and a son of
W Madden > Victoria’s third Chief
nee, whs a practitioner. Frank Gavan
a ini S SOt ) went a bit further, and is now
T,.L S l ® .the Supreme Court himself.
bhggms’s son had ascended several
War t t le l e S a l ladder when World
a’fiLA i laimed him, and William
haH ***’, first Chief Justice of the State,
BpnpV. ll t vho ultimately adorned the
0 f r ' Justice Holroyd was a grandson
of K-;° rge ? olr °y d > a judge of the Court
MolJ §S .uP and J ud § e Hickman
Rnhprf u, s immediate progenitor was
oE; M f es ' Vorth , known as “the father
Fullaoo 11 ® aw * n Australia.” Now Justice
Courf h recentl 7 elevated to the High
’ nas a s °n just admitted to practice.
Space prevents presentation of the rest
of the six or seven feet of whipcord
under the weather-burned dial of Sidney
Kyle-Little, patrol officer of the Terri-
tory’s Native Affairs, who’s been looking
Brisbane over as a change from Arnhem
Land. Up there, in a paddock of about
28,000 sq. miles, he looks after 5000
Binghis, in country which he covers on
foot, for the simple reason that it’s that
sort of country. In 1942 he tried
KYLE-LITTLE, of the Territory.
to cross the rearing Arnhem Land escarp-
ment, where in 1883 explorer David
Lindsay, making from the headwaters of
the Liverpool to Katherine, travelled
10 miles in eight days and lost 12 horses.
Only his tracker’s water-sense got Kyle-
Little back alive. In the next “wet” he
had another crack, and made it. Last
year, trailing a suspected murderer with
Constable John Gordon, of the
Territory Mounted, the pair began
their hunt from Millingimbi Mission
in the north, and when they’d ended
it at Mainoru they had crossed the 200-
odd miles of fearsome landscape from top
to bottom, probably the first time in
recorded history that white men had
done so. Now on six months’ extended
leave, and keenly interested in cattle-
raising, Kyle-Little sails shortly for
Trinidad and the Argentine pampas.
Loosed a London broadside against
he-girls, Admiral Sir Geoffrey Layton,
when he described youth-clubs as produc-
ing “long-haired, hand-holding sloppy
young men who compete with girls as to
who can grow the longest hair.” At sea
for 50 of his 65 years, Layton, whose
every hair is a rope-yarn and every drop
of blood Stockholm-tar, was C.-in-C.
China when Prince of Wales and Repulse
got theirs, with our destroyer Vampire
under his command. When C.-in-C.
Portsmouth three years ago he opened a
swimming-pool at Hove by pushing two
Wrens into it.
A rare honor, for an Australian, landed
last week on Dr. Thomas Campbell, of
Adelaide, in the form of a Fellowship in
Dental Surgery of the Royal College of
Surgeons. The ultimate achievement for
a fang-farrier, it was conferred in recog-
nition of Campbell’s international reputa-
tion as an anthropological researcher on
Binghi—with Professor Wood-Jones, now
Professor of Anatomy at the R.C.S., he
has led several Adelaide University ex-
peditions into Centralia. Nearer home,
Campbell has been superintendent of
Adelaide’s Dental Hospital, and, since
1939, Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry;
he fills his spare-time cavity with music
and repertory theatre.
Another lately to receive distin-
guished overseas recognition, Dr. David
Martyn, chief scientific officer of
C.5.1.R.0.’s radio research, who now
titles himself Fellow of the Royal
Society. A Scot, with doctorates of
Philosophy and Science from London
University, he has made the upper
atmosphere and ionosphere, where radar
speeds its electronic way, his particular
bit of country since coming to Australia
in 1930; when War II broke out he went
back to England to garner all the secret
dope on radar, and returned with it to
supervise Sydney’s first radiophysics
laboratory. There are as many tides in
the upper atmosphere as in the Seven
Seas, and since the war Dr. Martyn has
been up among ’em, per medium of Mt.
Stromlo’s instruments. As well, his study
of solar radiation and its effect on
radios brought him wide recognition, as a
result of which the International
Scientific Radio Union recently appointed
him chairman of its Commission on
Extraterrestrial Noise —whose findings
should further benefit radio reception.
Young-looking and serious-faced, with
singularly thoughtful eyes, Martyn is the
only physicist of hereabouts to be elevated
to the august Fellowship in the past 20
years.
Sid Rudkin, crushed to death by his
own utility-truck near Wagga (N.S.W.),
where he was district agronomist, was
one of N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture’s best-known field officers. Born on
a Lincolnshire farm 61 years ago, he came
to Australia in 1910 with an agricultural
diploma from Leeds University, joined
N.S.W’. department in 1913 after working
on sheep-stations, and was badly wounded
with the 3rd Battalion, old A.I.F.
There is small resemblance between
John Alden’s features, here recorded by
Dubois, and those of the Shylock he is
currently presenting at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney, Nor, for that
matter, is there any noticeable similarity
between his Shylock and his other
Shakspeare portrayals at the same theatre
over the last 16 months except that they
have all been very thoughtful Shakspeare,
well meriting the full houses they have
been drawing. A Manning River
(N.S.W-) product of 40 years ago, Alden
took his B.A. at Sydney University and
also took in a lot of Shakspeare from
such as Profs. J. Le Gay Brereton,
Ernest Holme and Arthur Waldock. He
taught school for a while —English,
French and music mainly—and joined
the Independent Theatre in 1932 when it
occupied the Sydney Savoy address. By
1936 the stage had him completely, and
he headed for England and put in three
years there picking up a living from the
theatre and much experience—acting,
managing, decor, fence to comedians, on
tour with Wolfit, and playing with
Olivier and Thorndike. He returned to
Australia just before the war, was re-
jected for service, went into radio and
JOHN ALDEN. of “The Merchant .”
stage work, toured Japan in 1947, and
in 1948 set up his own Shakspeare com-
pany, which has done excellent work
with “Measure for Measure,” “The
Merry Wives,” “The Tempest,” “Winter’s
Tale,” and the current “Merchant.”
“Lear,” “Antony and Cleopatra” and
“The Shrew” are under consideration for
forthcoming production when the com-
pany moves into its new address at St.
James Hall, Sydney, about the end of
May.
Melbourne’s Domain has more to
it than Bernard Heinze’s music-makers
and strolling flower-lovers. Here, in his
State’s national herbarium (largest in the
southern hemisphere), presides P. F.
Morris, senior botanist and acting-
director of the Botanical Gardens. The
building houses million sheets of
specimens, all tabulated ready for refer-
ence, including the original specimens
collected by Banks and Solander when
they were fossicking at Botany Bay with
Cook in 1770. The extremely valuable
library holds reference books dating back
to 1542, and its collection of Australian
plants is the world’s largest. One-time
president of the Field Naturalists’ Club,
Morris has been associated with his work
since 1913, and owns to a raft of treatises
on native grasses and fodder plants. Out
of the garden and on to the river, he has
coached many winning crews, and once
captained the Bank’s Rowing Club.
Leaving the motor-game before its
most interesting development, the turbo-
jet, is on the market, Hubert Charles
French, managing-director of Ford in
Australia. Hailing from Detroit (U.S.A.),
with Ford since 1919, he has seen just
about every other development bar
the jet. He had been boss of Ford’s
Canadian H.Q. for 10 years before taking
over the company’s sizeable works at
Geelong in 1935.
Passed on at 70, Dansie Thomas
Sawkins, little-known in proportion to his
greatness as a statistician. Son of a
pioneer family of the Hunter River
(N.S.W.), he took brilliant degrees at
Sydney University and Cambridge, where
he was a wrangler, was for a time a
master at Rossall, one of the great English
public schools, and worked as trigono-
metrical and geodetic surveyor under the
British and Siamese Governments in the
years before World War I. Since then
he has had a continuous connection with
the development of industrial statistics in
Australia. Most of the calculations on
which the basic-wage system was fixed
were his, and there has scarcely been an
industrial reform in the past generation
to which he has not contributed vital
formula and figures. In his personal
contacts he was a modest man whom it
was hard to recognise as one of the most
brilliant statisticians in the British Com-
monwealth.
Into the Silence:
At Finke siding, just over the N.T. border,
Ted Colson, gold-digger, cameleer, explorer,
one of the Territory’s best-known characters
and the first man to cross the Simpson desert,
west to east and back again. Dr. T. C.
Madigan did it in 1939 with a properly-
equipped expedition; Colson, three years before,
had a few camels and an abo. boy. He lec-
tured or his trip to the Royal Geographical
Society in Adelaide,
At 78, in Melbourne, Charles Crofts, one
of Australia’s best-liked union leaders. He
came to Australia in 1898, and started off by
fighting the union affairs of gas employees—he
was a meter-maker. President of the Melbourne
Trades Hall several times, treasurer of the
A.L.P. and first hon. sec. of the A.C.T.U., he
was a constant pleader in the Arbitration Court,
and one of that body’s stoutest advocates.
In Perth, at 74, knight Walter Dwyer, a
Tipperary man who began schoolteaching in
the West at 19, and rose to a judgeship and
presidency of Westralia’s Arbitration Court,
holding the position for just on 20 years. His
one shot at politics in 1911 won the Perth
seat, till then a Liberal Gibraltar, for Labor —
he held the seat one term, then returned to
legalising. Unfailingly courteous, and a first-
class conciliator, out of court he was one of
the first trustees of Perth’s Library, Museum
and Art Gallery, and president of the trustees
for 18 years to 1947.
In Hobart, at 64, Wilfred Hutchins, Supreme
Court Judge since 1938, He presided at the
Commonwealth tribunal to settle the disposal
of aliens interned in the late war.
In London, Australia’s old friend, Captain
James Avern, who in the Moreton Bay got
to know Sydney harbor as well as its Manly
ferries. Two months before War II broke out
he brought his brand-new 11,000-ton command,
Waimarama, here on her maiden run, and
handled her to some effect in preventing the
escape of a disguised German liner. His
seamanship brought him 0.8. E.
At Hamilton (M.L.), at 87, Henry Valder,
managing-director of the big sawmilling firm of
Ellis and Burnand. Suggesting means to pro-
mote good relations between employer and
employee he wrote Labor and Capital: A Pro-
partnership Solution. Some time back he*en-
dowed Wellington University College with
£lO,OOO for a research fellowship in social
science,


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Brolga”: The most consistent hitch-
hikers I know are almost in the heart of
Sydney. Every time I pull out with my
truck from one of the wharves at the
northern end of Sussex-street I am hailed
by at least half a dozen wharfies. Their
destination? The pub a quarter of a mile
down the street.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: It seems I’ve been misled
about twins. All I’ve heard or read about
them until the other day emphasised that
in thought and sentiment they were only
separated by the fact of their being two
persons instead of one. They were always
supposed to be unhappy when apart for
any time, prepared to make extraordinary
sacrifices for each other, even alleged to
have some sort of telepathic communica-
tion though hundreds of miles apart.
Strangers who ignore a really attractive
infant’Will gush madly over a pair of
freckled, sandy, watery-leyed, snivelling
twins, and every time we hear of twin-
cylinders, twin policies, twin cottages or
twin loaves we visualise something that
shares an identical appearance, an
identical purpose and identical
sympathies. I’m going to be a trifle more
careful in future. In New York a 14-year-
old girl up and shot her twin sister be-
cause she was jealous of her, and had
hated her for years and “would do the
same thing over again.” It’s started me
wondering what suppressions and secrets
walk about under the charming exteriors
of twins. And what a theme for a novel.
* * * *
T, McN.”; The ’Bidgee floods
soaking Narrandera and points down-
stream revealed some astonishing
geography in Sydney newspaper offices.
One had a diver going to Young to free
a debris-covered pump at Jugiong, an-
other had Wy along a mere 100 miles from
Gundagai by pipe-line, I’ve seen captions
under pictures placing the ’Bidgee on
both sides of Wagga, somehow or another
Ballina got itself threatened by ’Bidgee
waters, somebody else had Hay people
making for the hills, and the caption
under a picture of a septuagenarian de-
scribed him as still cheerful although all
his belongings were “in a house in
Narrabeen.” Still, it’s not as bad as the
time Mildura awoke one morning to find
a local tree-planting scheme described in
a Melbourne paper under the line:
“Mildura (S.A.), Wed.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: What is the most
extraordinary tragedy of the sea ever
recorded? So far as southern seas go an in-
cident that takes beating occurred aboard
the crack Black Ball ship Marco Polo
in March, 1861, when that vessel was
running her eastings down from Mel-
bourne to Cape Horn. One day she col-
lided with an iceberg, and on top of the
berg was seen a man lying down with one
arm folded under his head. He was
clothed like “a better-class seaman” with
a rough blue pilot-cloth coat. He was
hatless and his iron-grey hair was seen
to move with the wind. Alongside him
was a boathook with red bunting fastened
to it, showing that the poor devil had
“Hurry up with your vulcanising, Arthur, we Want to make some jaffles."
tried, in vain, to signal some passing
vessel before lying down to die. The
Marco Polo lay hove-to, but before she
drifted away from the berg those on board
could distinguish through the telescope
the features of the man. Marco Polo
was forced to run to Valparaiso for
repairs. Although the mystery was much
publicised no solution was ever found.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: November 22 will be a
fearsome date for the traditionalists of
Gilbert and Sullivan operas. After that
day, 50 years from the death of the com-
poser, anybody may print and publish
Sullivan scores, swing and jazz them,
without paying royalties to the D’Oyly
Carte organisation, which inherited the
performing rights and of which Bridget,
granddaughter of the original Carte, is
chairman of directors. At the same time,
nobody may produce the operas with
Gilbert’s librettos because W.S.G. didn’t
die till 11 years after Sullivan. The ques-
tion arises, however, whether some in-
genious pirate couldn’t both barbarise the
music and at the same time, write new
librettos. Somebody is bound to try it.
Gilbert left his rights to his widow, who
left them to her adopted daughter. The
unmarried Sullivan left his to his nephew,
who in turn left them to his widow.
♦ * * *
“L.W.”: Wog as an appellation for
the inhabitants of Egg-Wipe antedates
the Second A.I.F. (B. 22/3/’5O). It goes
back to the first days of the British Army
in Egypt when natives working in menial
capacities took to wearing trousers as
well as the traditional “Gelibeyeh” and
the tarbush. These oddities, dressed half-
European and half-Eastera, were referred
to as “Westernised Oriental Gentlemen,”
hence “Wog.” Major Jarvis, former
Governor of the Sinai, now writing for
England’s “Country Life,” refers to the
term in both Oriental Spotlight and
Backgarden of Allah, which should he
read by any tourist stopping off in the
land of the Wog. Both books were
banned in Egypt.
* * * *
“Plop”: There is a report that the
Press attache at the British Embassy in
Paris was asked by “Le Figaro” to vet. a
• cartoon, The French paper wanted
to know if the cartoon would offend the
British. It showed President Auriol in
London stepping aboard the State coach
and addressing King George with “Don’t
tell me you have a transport strike here,
too.”
* * * ♦
“Nakhoda”: There is a simple
naivete about Jap statements on their
brand-new acquirement, democracy, but
one made by a leading Tokyo brewer has
a refreshing honesty about it, “It is a
very democratic beverage,” said Masao
Saito, speaking of a new sake cocktail
placed on the market as part of the Gov-
ernment’s 20 per cent, increase in liquor
production. “It makes ail drinkers equal.
Everybody—high and humble alike—
falls down after drinking three glasses.”
The new blend consists of rice wine,
alcohol, grape-sugar and lactic acid, and
is said to have the kick of 10 mules. Mr.
Saito is outdone in tact by the Japanese
Anglican Bishop Michael Yashiro, shortly
to visit Australia. The Bishop has an-
nounced a wish to take back home a
kangaroo for the Kobe zoo.
♦ * * *
“Stone”; Arthur H. Adams’s first
book was not published “in Angus and
Robertson’s coveted Snowy River series”
(B. 15/3/’5O), but carried the imprint of
The Bulletin, which was at that time
producing some of the finest books ever
issued in Australia. It was titled M-aori-
land and Other Verses, and appeared late
in 1899. A poem, “My Mother,” was the
dedicatory effort, and this, added to the
fact that the opening line of the name-
piece was “Maoriland, my mother,” prob-
ably accounts for “T.L.M.’s” error. An-
other point—not only in London and
Wellington did editors ask authors to
review their own books.-A. G. Stephens
commissioned Joseph Furphy to write a
review of Such Is Life, which duly
appeared in The Bulletin on July 30,
1903.
* * * *
“Zake”: The latest Parisian decree for
the male who would exercise his
gregarious sense in imitation of the pea-
cock is, as accompaniment to such
nocturnal habiliments as a ruffled, scarlet-
banded shirt and lavender trousers, a
tomato-red coat. In view of the now-
exorbitant cost of dry-cleaning, and as a
confirmed tomato-soup addict, I am all
for this innovation. The mulligatawny-
shade trousers would, however, be far
superior to the lavender ones, whilst a
shirt spotted in spaghetti, mint-sauce or
peche Melba tonings would be my selec-
tion. Oh, I forgot—a black-coffee-colored
tie, by all means.
* * * *
“Jim O’Keefe”: I, too, thought rice
was short in these parts, but I was
corrected bluntly. The subject was
geography. Referring to tjie ’Bidgee
irrigation areas, a teacher mentioned rice
to a class of Brisbane schoolkids, and
mentioned that Australia’s rice crop is
nearly all exported. There were looks
of disbelief all round, and the teacher
asked how many of the class had ever
eaten rice. Every kid in the class hoisted
an arm, and a dozen voices claimed that
there was plenty of rice at their places.
The teacher put it down to th P a •
among kids to outdo each other V? lre
h . ls tu ™ wore a look of disbelief d tf
thought that most of the kids-tw , He
m the 11-12 years age-grouped^ 6
seen nee. Then he told tC t w l er
stuff had been strictly rationed fo?
why it was so, and concluded with* ’
usual statement about procuring it J he
medico s recommendation The n a
laugh, from a normally
class, fairly rattled the school. The whnl
business made the dominie a bit °!
about his own riceless condition. S
morning half a dozen small parcels of*
good white grain somehow'W ai S
his desk before school. 0n
* * ' *
~~ : FJathead’s” commentary (R
22/2/ 50) on the arrest formula allegedly
employed in the Dugan-Mears round 1m
recalls the devastating evidence I once
heard at Central Police Court fh!
detective-sergeant, having deposed to an
impeccable series of questions and an
swers preceding arrest, in textbook style
the accused delayed his plea of guilty m
give evidence of what really happened •
and this is how: ** ’
Him and his “Are you James Jigged”
Him and his “I have here a warrant for
your arrest!” Him and his “Anything
you rmght say may be given in evidence'”
AH he done was yell out from the bottom
of the stairs, “Hey, Stinker!” And when
1 asks what he wants, he sings out, “Come
on, mug; you’re copped this time.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Only the “hypnotised”
damsel herself could refute at firsthand
“Jemac’s” contention that she was not
burnt by Skinny Coleman’s magnifying-
glass (B. 22/3/’5O), but if her hell-fury
wasn’t a demonstration of a woman
burned, then I must have been hypnotised
myself. Theoretically it may be impos-
sible to project a scorching beam from a
magnifying-glass through a plate-
glass window; still, “Jemac”
would have had his work cut
out explaining the impossibility
to a Liverpool (N.S.W.) shop-
keeper some 12 years ago.
Anticipating the Empire Day
demand he filled his window
with fireworks, and prepared
for the rush. It came. In the
midst of the buying orgy
machine-gun fire broke out in
the window. Heavy artillery
joined in. Lightning flashed.
Jumping-jacks flung themselves
against the glass. Catherine-
wheels writhed and spat amid
cascades of sparklers and flower-
pots. By this time the shop
window was a roaring furnace,
with the flames spreading back
into the shop. The fire-brigade
succeeded in putting out the fire—but only
after serious damage had been done to the
premises and fittings. If the boy who had
been seen focusing a magnifying-glass on
the wick of a double-bunger was not
responsible for the conflagration, well, he
got the blame for it, anyway.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Encores in straight plays
(B. 8/3/’50)? I once heard one demanded.
Title of the drammer was “The Broken
Wing.” The flimsy plot was redeemed
only by the realistic reproduction of a
biplane—aircraft were then rareties—
crashing through the roof of a building.
Amid a cloud of dust, debris and wreck-
age, the pilot rolled on to the stage. It
was an excellent piece of stage-craft, and
the audience thundered its applause.
Whistles and shouts of “Encore” finally
brought forth the producer. He thanked
the audience, but explained that, owing
to the “extreme technical difficulties, the
scene could not be The re-
action? Hoots, hisses and catcalls from
gallery and pit. The play had a short run.
Jj; jJC *
“Hattie Hop”: Seeing a very posh
nailbrush in a chemist’s window,
marked 9d., I went in. “Will y
please tell me?” I began, wh
the elderly man behind the coun .
burst out, “Won’t do you a
of good. Simply a waste of money. £
these things here” (with a wave ot
arm towards a cabinet filled with oule
kinds of salines in packets and b
“are no good at all. The greatest ni
in the world. What you need is di &■
The trouble with all you women is y
bridge-parties—too much tea-drm ’
too much cake, too many frankiurts.
all that out, but don’t think y°
remedy matters with any kind o •
Did you ever hear of a poor a
troubled with rheumatism? Wh ; ng
shabby-looking chap comes in her
to cadge a bob, I ask ‘Do ‘Of
from rheumatism?* ‘No, he say • »
course you don’t,’ I say. ‘You reK>‘J *
enough off.’ ” I was too overpower &
explain that I loathed bridge, w
moderate tea-drinker, seldom ~ f
and had never tasted a fra ’ jf
staggered out without even mq
ninepence was really the pn
attractive nailbrush.
ONE PREMIER TO ANOTHER.
Hold hard, Ned. Lay ’em down once more,
and put ’em in the shade.
Old man, we’ve got our work cut out to
guide
Our forces, and to keep us in the saddle where
we’ve stayed
While sank Cain, Wise and Chifley ’neath
the tide.
The dawn for you and me, Ned, is a prospect
dark and bleak;
Election hopes, a sluggish, failing lamp;
I was dozing in the doorway of the caucus-
room last week;
I was dreaming of the blows that hit our
camp.
Aye, nearly all our comrades of the Ministerial
band,
Our sometime boon companions, Ned, are
gpne.
Rejected by the people, they in Opposition
stand
Or watch afar the halls where once they
shone.
There was Chif., who got in trouble through
that business with the banks —
You saw quite clearly what became of him;
And a hurricane in Gwydir swept Bill Scully
from our ranks—
Poor Billy’s hopes were always rather slim.
Then young Lemmon—Nelson Lemmon —and
Barnard, Herbert Claude,
Were sunk, with ne’er a soul to throw a line,
And up in Capricornia, much earlier, Frank
Forde—
But he was tossed by your State, while in
mine
I think of former leaders —Lang, and William
John McKell,
And your once dynamic fellows of the past;
The years have seen some changes as the for-
tunes rose and fell;
They’re sure to dump the best of us at last.
At times we’ve changed the tunes we’ve sung
in voices flat, yet sweet —
As when we found that “Lang Is Right” was
wrong—
I’m not surprised that Dedman in Corio lost
his scat —
Faith, the wonder was he held his seat so
long!
We’ve had our share of office—l nearly said
of spoil—
The space ’twixt “in” and “out” is but a
span;
D’ you think he’s waking up, that horny-handed
son of toil
By us acclaimed the Honest Working Man?
For good undone, for gifts misspent, and resolu-
tions vain
Tis somewhat late to trouble; this I know —
We’ll be as bad as ever if they put us in again;
D’ you think perhaps they’ll tell us where
to go?
When the ballot count is ended and the verdict’s
clear and plain,
The winners happy and the lost forlorn,
Should the obstinate electors pull the curtains
on our reign
D’ you really think that anyone ’ll mourn?
N.S.W.
JASBY.


“Skiamket”: Pawnshops (B. 15/3/’50)?
In Siam some years ago I was intrigued
by the number of pop-shops. They were
well patronised and their proprietors
were men of considerable standing. One
old Bangkok uncle I knew had sent his
son to Oxford, and on his return placed
him in charge of his pop-shop. Euro-
peans going there after bargains in
watches or clocks were usually surprised
at being attended to by a polite and
smiling Oxonian, speaking impeccable
English. The bloke was a first-rate Soccer
man, a tennis-player of class, and could
hold his own at most games. He soon
settled down and took unto himself the
usual quota of wives and concubines com-
patible with his rank and position in the
community.
* * * *
“Sesyou”: So “Ague”'(B. 22/2/’5O)
knows of a State Government department
which has discovered’ that it is cheaper
sn> Blp^cK
"I've warned you before about sawing too hard.”
messen^f r , corre, spondence by personal
youm? wi tban ky the postal service? A
E 8 ln Perth once had the same
and r<w • circu larising business firms
hired a IVm " , a favorable response she
equipped i“J? bc f of teen-age youths,
bicycle . ea , cb Wlt h a peaked cap and a
Postal service S ° F establlsbe , d * personal
"'onderf,,! e ‘ or a while she made a
had a «,« j Uccess of it. Then the law
realise anc * tbe lady was made to
* v amty o£ her [ deas prior t 0
fining her a nominal £1 with costs the
representative of his Majesty lectured her
gravely on her unwitting breach of the
laws of the Commonwealth. Because
the post-office undertakes to deliver all
mail, both for near and far at fixed low
rates, it has been given a monopoly in that
field. Anyone organising a private de-
livery of mail for a profit is competing
with the G.P.0., and is therefore guilty of
an offence. Possibly a State Government
can thus compete with * the post-office,
but woe to the private individual who
tries.
* * ♦ ♦
“Harold Hardupp”: Among sports
professional • football has no monopoly
of religious sentiment (B. 22/3/’5O). At
Randwick recently as a party near me
went hysterical over a win by a rank-
outsider, I noticed that one of the glad
group, on whose head and face the
humidity and excitement had brought out
the sweat, was more sober than the others.
“I didn’t see it win—l ’ad me eyes closed,
praying; I was praying it would win
every inch of the way. An’ it won! It
was an answer to blanky prayer!” he
said.
* * ♦ •
“Jim O’Keeffe”: There can be little
doubt that the Mona Lisa in the Louvre
(B. 15/3/’5O) is the genuine original.
Leonardo executed thousands of sketches
but finished very few pictures and signed
almost none, so critical was he of his
own work. It it therefore extremely un-
likely that he ever made a copy of the
Mona Lisa. He fell on lean times after
1510 because his patron and employer,
Ludovico Sforza, gypped him for several
years’ wages, and he was obliged
for a time to take chance commissions as
a portrait-painter. One of these commis-
sions gave the world the Mona Lisa. The
subject of the portrait was Lisa Gherar-
dini, the wife of a wealthy Florentine
named Giacondo. The lady, in mourning
for her dead babe, was 21 when sittings
commenced. Leonardo did not finish the
portrait till nearly seven years later, and
as he could not bear to part with it, it
was never delivered to its commissioner.
The artist himself regarded it as the
greatest single mark of his multiple
genius, and for a long time never let it
go out of his possession. He took it to
France when Francis I offered him em-
ployment. It was his most prized posses-
sion, and when he sold it very reluctantly
to Francis for 12,000 francs Francis
gave it its deservedly honored place in the
Louvre.
* ♦ * ♦
“Chink”: So “Bellerive’s” first effort
was published in 1908? For a generation
or so I’ve had an airy impression that he
has been part of The Bulletin landscape
from practically the first syllable of
recorded time, and yet 1908 —I record the
fact with a mingling
of pride and con-
sternation —is a year
later than the point
when I made my
own bow in The
Bulletin. The
occasion remains
quite clear with me,
largely because it
produced q triumph
over an elder
brother. Colin had
already been scoring
with the Bully for
a year, or two, and
when I proclaimed
that I also was hav-
ing a dash, he
poured pints of
scorn on the idea
that a mere youth
could attain his
eminence. None the
less, there came a
day when the Abo.
page was distin-
guished by the in-
clusion of a “Chink”
par. commenting on
a bush subject, and
—mirabile dictu !
attached to it was
an editorial footnote
summarising the
varying views of
several other writers.
That evening I
lounged at the gate
of our little home —
with a couple of
unsuspecting mates
for audience and
when Colin came along I announced very
casually “That par. of mine is in The
Bulletin.” Brother propped as though
stung by a bull-ant, “What! ” he gasped.
“Yes,” quoth I. “It’s there all right, and
what’s more a lot of other fellows who
wrote on the same subject have only got
a hearing in a footnote.” Colin made a
careful check on the point, handed out
seemly applause and appointed himself
my unofficial publicity-agent. I’ve had a
good many books published in the years
between, but I doubt if any has given me
the kick produced by that small par. of
190.7. Also, I doubt if any phrase of the
period remains so clearly in mind as the
final sentence of the Abo. editor’s foot-
note. “How this world,” he said pro-
foundly, “is given to argument!”
* * * *
“Pat”: A New Australian phoned me
on behalf of a compatriot who desired
practice in English conversation. Would
I consider acting as tutor two nights a
week? I inquired the nature of his in-
“Raise your hand and shout for help , Joan —it'll
bring SOMEONE surely!”
terests, “Oh, he has a high engineering
degree, and he is being considered for
an executive position. But it is when he
goes out to dinners and such functions he
finds the talking difficult. He wishes to
learn general conversation.” X said that
having a fair knowledge of politics,
theatre, literature, music, food and drink
I could perhaps oblige with a little tuition.
The telephone-wires trembled with the
N.A.’s scorn. “Oh, it is nothing like that
he wishes to know. But the races and
the betting and the comics—he must
learn to converse on them.”
* * * ♦
“Mullum”: “Zakc’s” statement that
“You are either a naturally good speaker
or you are not” must be exploded at once.
Public speaking is neither an art nor a
science; it is a habit. “Zake” is right
when he says that you cannot learn to
make speeches from a book. The husky
throat and blank mind are remembered
by every successful speaker, but constant
practice cures them. Opportunities for
practice abound. Meetings of any sort
are always looking for new voices, and,
when they hear one, the interjectors are
silent. So next time “Zake,” or anyone
who thinks as he does, goes along to a
lodge meeting, or tennis-club meeting, he
should get to his fedt and say something.
Before long—horrible thought!—he will
be one of those who speak to every
motion on the agenda.
* * * *
“Spoke”: A price-cutting war between
artists may be seen in Melbourne as a
result of the recent action of the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society in holding a “bar-
gain sale” of members’ works at which
prices were fixed between seven-and-S’X
and three guineas. Over £4OO was
realised, and artists who had never sold
a picture in their lives were dazzled by
the outbreak of red spots.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Chevroford”: In Punt-road, Prahran
(Vic) just down from Christ Church,
Melbourne’s first school traffic-lights have
been installed opposite the State school.
The keys are held by the headmaster, who
puts them into action when the children
are coming to or going from school.
When a child presses a button on the
footpath the lights will turn green for a
road crossing and revert to green tor
road traffic, and no matter how often the
button is pressed the lights will not stop
road traffic again for at least 40 seconds.
Years ago an. intelligent orphanage-
teacher, when she took her charges about
Melbourne, devised her own safety-first
measures. She made her youngsters
string themselves along a rope when they
crossed an unguarded intersection. The
spectacle of the human caterpillar snak-
ing across while motorists stayed put
used to be one of the sights of the city.
* * ♦ *
“Hamer”: New Zealand’s rebloora
into tourist advertising stirs a pleasant
memory. Touring Enzed with a theatrical
show I submitted a batch of three stones
and five verses, Bulletin rejects, to Fen-
wick, of the Otago “Witness.” Fenwick
diffidently made an offer after a lengthy
reference to his difficulty in paying for
new matter when he could buy syndicated
stories from England dirt-cheap. He gave
me 30s. for the lot! There was a tag to
the offer lhaf induced acceptance: Fen-
wick was prepared to pay full rates for
appreciative articles about New Zealand.
Thereafter not only for the Otago
“Witness” but later for others of N.Z.’s
remarkable weeklies I wrote articles about
the flax of Foxton, the hand-sawn build-
ing stone of Oamaru, Temuka’s cemetery,
the tides of Frenchman’s Pass, the flower-
gardens of Picton,,the roses of Reefton —
scores of subjects that got away from the
rut of tall mountains and picturesque
gorges. And the cheques, all good rates
for the times,
reached me regularly.
The explanation was
that the N.Z. Gov-
ernment paid the
journals a subsidy on
all articles calculated
to attract tourists;
actually it was Dick
Seddon who was
paying me.
V *
“Tom”: Most of
the 70,000 persons
said to have been
massacred by the
adherents of Boa-
dicea (B. 15/3/ ’5O)
were neither Romans
nor soldiers, but
British civilians. Not
many Roman
civilians settled in
Britain. The mass of
the villas that
studded south Britain
in the Roman period
were the homes of
wealthy natives who
had become
Romanised.. Though boasting Roman
amenities, in design and plan they were
generally of Celtic type, not on the model
of the Italian rural villa. Boadicea’s up-
rising was no nationalist revolt devoted
to the overthrow of the Imperial yoke.
Its ostensible cause was resentment at
the misdeeds of local officials. The sequel
to the rising has perhaps a moral for
today. Suetonius, who suppressed it,
favored vengeance. He maintained
martial law, and began a thorough comb-
out of suspected “war criminals.” “The
civil administrator, Julius Classicanus,
fearing the economic consequences of the
peace, appealed to Rome, He was more
fortunate in his appeal than Mr. Keynes
in 1919,” says Douglas Jerrold in his An
Introduction to the History of England.
Suetonius was replaced 5y Petronius
Turpilianus, who followed the policy of
conciliation advocated by Classicanus. It
Bore such fruit that 236 years elapsed
before southern Britain again knew
serious disorder.
« ♦ * *
“R.J.E.”: Those who complain at be-
iqg ordered out of Sydney hotels for not
wearing a tie should visit Paris. Last
August I was refused admission to the
Pere Lachaise cemetery, ’where Oscar
Wilde is buried, on- account of not having
a coat. I pleaded with the attendant,
in my very inadequate “Digger” French,
and tried to make the point that most
men in Australia went about in hot
weather clad as I was—in shirt and pants.
I claimed it was more or less our national
summer dress. What would he do if an
Indian came along? I asked. “C’est
reglemenf’ was all I could get out of him.
Finally I hinted that he was antagonistic
to one who had come to the aid of his
country “mills neuf quatorze.” He came
around the counter, and for the first
time I noticed that he had a wooden leg.
It looked as if he intended making a
meal of me on the spot. He got hold of
his wooden leg, tapped it savagely on
the counter and let loose a torrent of
words none of which I could understand.
Walking back he looked over his shoulder
and gave me a withering “Insignifique”
and then disappeared. Finally another
attendant detailed a man to go with me
in my car through the back gates.
* * * *
“Bagot”: Our office’s most inveterate
borrower tried on Monday afternoon to
bite me for five bob. “Hang it all,” I
protested, “this morning you collected a
fiver from the sweep on Saturday’s race ;
what became of that?” “Aw, that,” he
drawled. “I went out at lunch-time and
bunged it in the bank.”
* * * *
“No Sirrah”; Color in films brings
more problems than mere processing.
For black-and-white films, scenes in
moonlight, which is, of course, too weak
for the movie-camera, have always been
shot in sunlight, using a filter over the
camera. The other night I saw a romantic
moonlight scene, in color, and how it gave
the show away! Where the “moonlight
glinted on certain objects, it had a de-
cidedly red tinge. The sky was of a blue
never seen at night, and the whole scene
was so dark—resulting from an obvious
attempt to tone down the light that it
was practically indiscernible.
SIMPLE REMEDY.
ẁ
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Murlonga” : One of the remarkable
faculties of our native women is their
ability to shed real tears at will. I once
found an old boundary-rider’s body in
the bush, and I told the gins at the home-
stead. The leader, old Jeannie, looked
at the half-dozen other lubras. She
said ndVer a word, but, as though snapped
to it at the word of command, those old
girls commenced to cry—wailing sobs
which shook their bodies, with the lines
on their faces running full flood. After a
time they stopped as suddenly as they
had commenced. One told the other
what parsed for a funny story with them,
and they laughed till they rocked in
their glee. Again, as abruptly as one
might snap a finger, they ceased, took a
communal deep breath, and started howl-
ing again.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When I read of these
floods in the old Riverina it never fails to
remind me of 1917, when the Murray was
40 miles wide at Tapalin and Red Louis,
more than half stung, came over the
sandhills from Euston and asked to be
rowed to Kulkyne. About all that could
be seen of Kulkyne was the roof stick-
ing out of the water, and we told Louis
to lie down and sleep it off. With the
persistence of the drunk he tried to bribe
one of us to row him across, but there
was nothing doing, and when the boss
gave him .a stiff double-header of rum
he went peacefully off to the harness-
room and slept, We can only imagine
what happened' that night, but apparently
Louis awoke around midnight and, still
obsessed with getting to Kulkyne, decided
to borrow one of our flatties and row
himself over. Prowling along the flood
edge he found a flattie jammed between
two logs, got it clear, launched it and
jumped in. It was only when the current
took the craft that he realised there were
no oars in it. He tried to hand-paddle
back to the bank, but the current was too
Strong. After vainly trying to grasp
bushes and trees which the current
pushed him against, he yelled into the
night for succor, but only the distant
curlews* answered. In the end he lay
down in the boat and let her go, not
caring much, the rum still warm in him.
Next morning a startled Mjnduk rider
found a brand-new coffin aground on a
mud-bank and in it a —well, not a corpse,
as its language quickly conveyed. The
coffin, we learned much later, had come
all the way from Swan Hill, over 300
river-miles away. Why didn’t it sink?,
Because oil is lighter than water and this
is the dinkum oil.
* * ♦ ♦
“Penwing”: Some people have weird
ideas as to what constitutes cruelty to
animals. One woman asked a museum
director to collaborate in stopping a
diving-seal act, “It’s deliberate cruelty! ”
she said hotly, “The man who owns the
poor animal won’t give it anything to eat
unless it climbs a tower and dives off
the top into a tank of water.” The
director was quite unable to convince her
that a seal loves doing that sort of thing.
I know an island off our S.A. coast
where a fold in the granite, running from
a small shingle beach to a rock jutting
out over deep water, has been polished
to a glassy smoothness by generations
of playing seals. They come ashore on
the shingle, clamber up to the top of the
rock, poise there for a moment, then take
a header into the surf. I’ll swear they
enjoy it just as much as human young-
sters do when they follow each other
diving off a springboard. To deprive a
tame one of the same fun would be on
a par with regarding it as cruel to let
a young dog frisk about.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a hungry track,
and when we sighted a homestead off the
road a bit Mat decided to give it a go.
At the gate we encountered a man in a
"There're only holes in the roof, sir, where I tried to pot a pigeon.”
spring-cart. “What are y’ after?” he
said. “A hand-out,” Mat answered. “No
good,” the man said. “I run that place
an’ I don’t give handouts t’ youse kind of
blokes.” He flipped the horse and drove
off before we could say anything. Mat
stared after him, then calmed down and
leaned against a post and thought. Some
time later he peeled off his coat, rolled
up his sleeves, said, “You wait here,” and
headed for that homestead. In 15 minutes
“Stand back, boy, and let the man have air !”
he was back with a sugar-bag half-full of
tucker, even unto tea and sugar, hurriedly
recoated and reswagged himself and led
me at a dog-trot to where a tank showed
up in a paddock. “How’dja work it?” I
asked, as we got outside that tucker. “Met
his missus,” he jaunted. “Down-trodden
sort. Told her I was workin’ on a road
job an’ me dogs had pinched her
husband’s lunch while he was talkin’ an’
he reckoned he couldn’t lose time t’ come
back for more, but me bein’ a Govern-
ment man it didn’t matter if I come for
it. She got it together an’ handed it over
without a question. That new sugar-bag’ll
be handy.” He poured himself a pannikin
of tea while I reflected on his ability to
size up the spring-cart man and the kind
of wife he’d have.
♦ * * ♦
“Diba Tau” (Papua); Proceed by
launch up the Fly River in Western
Papua for about 250 miles through an
apparently endless vista of swamps and
mangrove, and the turbulent Strickland
River is met at Everill Junction. Another
50 miles against its swift-flowing current
brings you to the Strickland’s tributary,
the placid Herbert, which in a few hours
will take you into Lake Murray, named
after Papua’s famous Governor. Not so
many years ago this huge lagoon was in-
habited by savage headhunters who
travelled hundreds of miles down the Fly
to collect their grisly trophies. Nowa-
days the lake boasts a police-post, a
mission-station, a fortnightly Catalina
service from Port Moresby. The lake’s
most interesting denizen is the river turtle
known as Insculpta ramsay, much prized
by naturalists as the missing link between
the marine and river turtles. Its shell
is covered with soft skin and resembles
black leather, a striking contrast to the
horny shields of other turtles. In length
about 20in., a bizarre feature of it is that
its short neck is not retractable.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“B, A. Ker”; Seen from the veranda,
Fred’s kitchen looked like a miniature
art gallery; it wasn’t until the old
bachelor invited me in that I saw the
pictures on the walls were old calendars.
Big ones and small, they dated back to
1928. “You liked the pictures on ’em?”
I suggested. “Not particularly,” the old
chap drawled. “It’s just I like to keep in
mind what’s what about my place.” That
seemed about the most unsatisfactory
answer I’d ever heard until I happened
to look a little closer. Across the mar-
gins, around the borders, weaving in and
out between the name of a storekeeper or
the manufacturer of a product, were
dozens of pencilled notes: “Set hen, Oct.
9.” “Thunderstorm, Oct. 23,” “Only
two chicks. Sept, 2.” “Bought sulky, £7
10s., Jan. 14.” “Wheel collapsed, April
1.” “Daisy, first calf, Feb. 4.” “Sold
bull calf, butcher, 7s. 6d., April 27.”
“Butcher came for calf June 11. Howled
about paying extra for keep of calf since
April 27.” And so on. All the little
troubles, excitements and general inci-
dents that made up the old fellow’s life
were recorded in brief. “ ’Gripes,” he
informed me conversationally. ‘T was
lucky last Christmas. My sister and her
daughter came up for a holiday. Started
to tidy the place up. I just happened to
come home as they were going to dump
me calendars under the copper Went «
a bit, I did ; sorry after. But they diHn?
take offence, really. Matter of fact 7 J
a birthday present off the niece bv vest?*
day’s mail. Means well, of course • ni
thought. But what a silly thing to’ send
a bloke like me! What would I want
with a diary?” ni
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Realising that to the ground
nesting birds which the fox has decimated'
the wild ducks would soon be added,
owing to the fact that hollow limbs, well
clear of the ground, aren’t always avail-
able close to swamps and lagoons, two
S.A. men, Terrill and Rix, went to the
big swamp on the Buckland Park pro-
perty of G. and E. A. Brooks, and put
into the forks of trees old four-gallon
drums with the tops cut out, boxes with
one side removed, hollow logs and any-
thing else capable of holding a wild-duck
nest. The idea was an outstanding suc-
cess ; the ducks took to them at once, and
ever since an abundance of ducks has
been reared each year on Buckland Park.
I copied the idea around other swamps
and lagoons, with the same good results,
but when I advocated an extension of the
idea throughout all the fox-infested
regions of Australia, it aroused the un-
compromising hostility of some bird-
lovers’ leagues, which base their objection
on the ground that they “will not help
to breed ducks for so-called sportsmen to
shoot.” Some years ago the gun-clubs
of America initiated a similar scheme for
helping wildfowl to breed ; within a few
years America had more wild ducks and
wild geese than at any other time within
living memory. Anyway, for every duck
reared thus to be shot, 99 live to die from
natural causes, a fact that even American
bird-lovers’ leagues now admit.
♦ * * *
“Horseless H.”: For years it has
puzzled me how an old fisherman on
Westernport Bay (Vic.) keeps a flock ot
tame, full-grown parrots around his camp.
Ringnecks, rosellas and mountain lones,
they rarely leave the precincts of his old-
world garden, and they alight all over
his body when he calls. The trick, he
claims, is to “get ’em young.” Watching
a wild nest, he takes the fledglings just a
they are about to leave it; feed. 5 tn .
youngsters with arrowroot biscul
softened with hot water. After t
months of that it isn’t necessary to cui
their wings. I recall that a brood of young
red lories, which escaped from the v -
toria Market, Melbourne, were fed oy
resident at the top of Collins-street.
two pairs still breed on his balcony,
it is not unusual to see them Ay lo ® f .
calling as they go down Collins-st »
and roosting on the desert-oaks that
the roadway.
♦ * * *
“Naturala”: Running wild on Rot *° e t s *
Island, one of W.A.’s show places,
be seen many hundreds or
wallabies ; quaggas is their local. •
Averaging about 18in. in height an & 1
in color, they are so accustomed
humans they show little fear, an
night invade the settlement, to 1
scraps left in garbage-bins, or |f of .
around by picnickers. Another .
life, in season, is ihe ripe oil-lada
olives that fall from the score urt h er
trees planted on the island. fe
foraging must be found m t ese
miles of almost untouched scr • fatSj
quaggas are the same raccoon , -
observed by Vlaming when, m .
landed on an island off the m mU lti-
Black Swan River. Taken by
tude of these small marsupia l fit.,
the place Rottnest, or Rottesne
rats’-nest.
WRECK AT THE RIP.
All was motion. The trees on the cliff
Shook through their stiffened boughs as if
To join in the game the blue wind played
With shadow and substance, light and shade.
Scampering waves went capped in white,
Under the headland and out of sight;
Clouds in feather-light fragments flew
And sea birds hdnted, slanted and blew
About the mouth of the broad bright Bay
Where the measureless treasure of morning lay—
Gathering, vanishing, volatile
At so many million gems a mile
Where the ebb-tide tugged incessantly
To draw its diamonds put to sea.
All was movement, earth, sea and air
And wings on the waterfront. Only, where
Death lurked under a darkling glass,
A little old ship of the working-class
(Oh, winds might whisper or winds might roar
But Time will tramp through the Heads no
more)
Fixed on the fangs of the Corsair Rock,
High water, low water, round of the clock,
Waits till the end of the tale be told
With bursting timbers and thirsty hold
Greedily drinking its final fill , . .
Queerly—dreadfully—Time stands still.
VICTORIA,
K. DALZIEL.


“Shearwater”: Know professional
fishermen who, by throwing fish to a
porpoise, have made it very tame and
friendly. Americans have trained them
to come at a whistle to be fed; the
dolphins raise half their body out of the
water to take fish and seem to delight
in showing off in front of visitors. Our
Queensland coastal abos were well aware
of the intelligence of the porpoise ; they
gave each individual one a name, and
soon trained them to help round up
schools of fish and drive them ashore, to
be rewarded with part of the catch.
Scoffers are hereby informed that this is
well authenticated. There is a parallel to
it in the way killer-whales were used to
help round up and capture the bigger,
blubber-yielding whales at Twofold Bay,
N.S.W., in the early years of the last
century, their reward being the tongues
of the slain monsters.
• * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; American scientists
who are studying the evolution of two-
legged creatures, and are interested in the
Australian racehorse- or bicycle-lizard,
would find plenty of lizards, out from
Karalie, W.A., where a dam supplies
&ATh
" I guarantee I don’t miss out on the bacon and eggs again!"
nm tj engmes on the main Kalgoorlie
different ° W they ’ d ca tch them is a
°f a matter - They’ve got the speed
dances wTK° rSe ’ anc * won’t take
0r sight th s , tran § ers - At the first sound
two hi nf t i re °?> seemingly on their
Where j,' le Bs>8 s > with tails in the air.
ar ound r e i Tlet t^em they lived on, or
a Pproachi ocks ’ where netting, or even
C°me to tv t em . wou id he difficult,
be caught ,-i though, they might
hibernate f at r ‘Sht time. They
1 °t course, like the racehorse-
goannas, which they resemble in minia-
ture, and I can still see one which I
watched emerge from its burrow in
spring. It had hibernated alongside an
ants’ heap—one of those where the mound
is composed of short twigs criss-crossed
and mixed with sand granules, and im-
mediately he emerged he lay down on
the heap and began to eat. As the ants
rushed out he licked then up. He was
dog-poor, hungry and completely wrapt
in his work. He might have been caught
easily then.
* * * *
“Bo”: It was Sunday afternoon.
Barker, Mrs. Barker and the kids had
gone into the township to visit a relative,
leaving the hand to amuse himself at
home. Reading, as he lay on the sofa
on the back veranda, the hand happened
to look up just as the last foot or so of
brown snake was slithering across the
threshold of the kitchen. Bounding up,
he reached the door just as Joe was dis-
appearing into the living-room. Shutting
the door so it couldn’t escape, Bert got
the boss’s shotgun and a handful of cart-
ridges, Loading up, he cautiously turned
the handle, flung the door open and, not
seeing the snake, leaped into the open
centre of the room. As he bent to look
under the lounge, his finger on the trigger,
the mat he was on slipped on the polished
floor; as he .tried to regain balance his
finger involuntarily contracted, the lounge
taking the full charge. As Joe streaked
for the open door the hand loaded again.
The next wild shot got the big basin of
cream on the' table and shattered the
stove. By the time he’d loaded again
the snake was just reaching the sanctuary
of the tank-stand. Two seconds after
the shot the tank was spouting water from
a dozen holes. Bert was stiff trying to
plug the now-empty tank when the boss
and his family returned. After he had
assessed the shambles Barker turned on
his hand. “Y’ blasted goat!” he roared.
“All y’ had to do was get Tiger—y’ know
what sudden death that cat is on snakes! ”
“Well, I did think of him,” replied Bert,
“But he’d ha’ chewed his head off in
there, and y’ know how Mrs. Barker goes
crook if the house is left untidy!”
* * * *
“North”: A seagull which turned up
in Alice Springs a week or two ago prob-
ably did so to settle once for all the
vexed question that has been agitating
the Council recently. Certainly one can’t
get any closer to the Centre, or further
from the sea, than that.
* * * . *
“En B.”: This house is a lonely stone
island in a dozen miles of red plain. In
a valiant attempt to provide a spot of
greenery, a battered old morning-glory
creeper has filled in a panel of the front
veranda, from ground to gutterings. The
little rectangle of matted stems, tiled on
the outside with heart-shaped leaves, is
a jungle sanctuary to the small life that
congregates about a lone house. Lizards,
enamelled skinks nine or ten inches long,
rustle through the dead leaves on the
ground, securely fenced by the strong
lower stalks. The whole mass has a
waxhill’s nest to about every two square
feet, and from daylight till dark the
creeper is alive with the tiny plucked-
string notes, and social chirpings of the
immaculate little finches. Sparrows are
discouraged, but a pair of honeyeaters
own a spot immediately under the
guttering at one corner. Mice use the
creeper as a drawbridge to the house and
also, I suspect, as a pleasant promenade.
A mouse will flicker out of some near-by
stone pile or tussock, dart to the creeper
and whisk up a foot of main stalk into
the tangled thicket of stems. Once there,
the usual nervous murine mode of pro-
gression is dropped entirely. Safe in the
green-shaded fastness, the little mammal
will walk leisurely along a stem, so utterly
relaxed in body that it looks more like
a miniature ferret than its usual compact
mass of hair-triggered energy. It will
ramble on, climbing here, descending
there, always getting higher, but slowly
“Put that down! You’ve done enough pointin’.”
and with enjoyment. At last it finds itself
arrived at the fascia-board. It climbs on
to this, changes back dramatically into a
mouse, whisks up a rafter of the veranda-
roof, darts on to the wall-plate and, via
the arch of the corrugated-iron, into the
ceiling.
♦ * ♦ *
“Joey”: As a ’roo-shooter for over
60 years I’ll tell “Hopper” (B. 15/3/’5O)
who took artist Ted Scorfield to task
because he had made the Too’s pouch
horizontal instead of vertical, he should
himself hop off to a zoo and study one.
Actually, the opening is round; it is just
a bag with a drawing-string, which mother
Too can draw tight, shut or open as she
wishes,
* * * *
“Bughouse”: “Tarbush” (B. 15/3/’5O)
evades the point. I stated in my
par that fireclays had supported the im-
mense forests from which the present coal
measures were derived. My conception
of vegetation during the Carboniferous
Period is that plants then depended little
on soil, other than to afford an anchorage.
The atmosphere then was so laden with
tepid water and carbon that the immense
growths found all that they required in
that respect. How carbon-laden the air
then was may be appreciated by remem-
bering that all the coal measures and oil
deposits were then in gaseous fornl. That
vegetation can be nourished without call-
ing upon a soil is nowadays demonstrated
by science producing even root vegetables
grown only in water fortified by certain
chemical fertilisers.
m * * *
“Zake”: It was Monday morning, and
washing-day, and, the drought having
made too great an inroad into the tank
supply, the boss’s wife had sent Dopey
Jack down to the creek with the cart to
fill the 44gal. drum. The boss had come
up to look for him just as Jack was
coming back up the paddock with his
load. Seeing the water slopping out over
the sides with the motion of the eart-
hy then the drum was only about one-
quarter full —he pointed to the top of
the drum. “That’s useless that way,” he
said. “You’ll never be able to keep water
in a drum like that. Why didn’t you
take a cornsacfc and a bit of rope with
you?” Jack looked at him, his mouth
agape. “Cripes, what’d be the good o’
that?” he drawled. “By the time a man d
tied the top of a sackful o’ water up it d
have run out the bottom an’ sides! ”
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d had a big day, and
Seventyfiver was mooching shackward
with Blue and the pup, hunting a rabbit
as they went. Presently there was a yap
from the pup, and the old bloke went
back and found him scratching at a log.
“Cripes, couldn’t y’ find an easy place?
Seventyfiver sighed wearily. “Aw, well,
we got t’ get a feed some’ow. Might
split it with the mattick.” He toiled
mightily at the log, and 15 minutes later it
split from end to end, revealing nothing
but a sleepy lizard. The pup was the only
one pleased with the catch. Presently he
dashed off hunting once more, ran some
thing to earth in a fem-patch, and again
advertised his success. Seventyfiver eyed
the spot, and turned on him suspiciously.
“If this is another o’ them mad jokes o’
yours I’ll skin y’!” he growled, as the
pup wagged himself delightedly. “Bloke
ought t’ bash y’ one, the damn’ ideas y’
get.” Inch by inch he dug along the
small burrow with a stick, and at the far
end out popped a big rat. Pup grabbed
it and made off, leaving the old bloke to
splutter along in the rear. They were
nearly a mile further on, with still no
feed caught, when the pup again sum-
moned the others. This time it was a
hollow root embedded deep in the ground.
Seventyfiver looked at it for some time.
“Awright,” he groaned, “but I’ll have t’
go back f’r the mattick. Watch it, Blue.”
Blue didn’t want to watch it. “Watch it.
I said.” The old dog’s ears went back,
he dropped disgustedly beside the root,
and admired the cloud formation. The
root was tough, the ground rocky, and it
was 20 minutes before the old bloke
finally broke through on to another
sleepy. He chucked it on the ground and
wheeled round just as Sandy arrived.
And that’s how it happened that Sandy
got the new pup off the old bloke, after
all.
* * * *
“Metax”: Our now-old fox-terrier
has a sentimental value earned during the
war years by his faithful company and
protection for the household while the
boss was away. He eats off a special
board each night and has a saucer of
milk and a dog-biscuit for supper before
retiring to his kennel, set up under a
shed to further protect him from the
winter blasts. But there is one luxury
his canine instincts refuse to accept with
appreciation. He drinks from his enamel
bowl with its daily change of tank-water
only when there are no backyard puddles
or odd half-full pots or tins around the
place.
* * * *
“Mug”: When young Harry took a job
with Dad Parsons he conscientiously re-
ported every mishap to the boss. The first
week it was the wethers that were sick.
“Lying down all over the place,” Harry
reported importantly. “Might be worms.
Anyway, we better give them a dose.
Dad dragged his frame on to a nag,
mustered the wethers, and found them in
the pink of condition. “Aw, they was
only lying down for a spell,” he told his
youthful hand. “You take Champ and
work through the lambing ewes every
morning.” Two days later Harry was
back with news of two wedgetails that
were taking the lambs. “Are they, be
cripes!” roared the old bloke. “Get me
the rifle.” He made his way over the
paddock, inspected the ewes, and, when
he could find none with lambs missing,
sought the kid. “Well, they were flying
low over them,” the youth explained de-
fensively. Dad loosed, a snort. Look
here, me lad,” he said. “You make sure
o’ things, see? And in future don’t come
runnin’ to me with yarns, till you know
they’re right.” Harry went off, and peace
predominated for three days; then he
was back with an urgent report that
Champ had eaten a poison-bait. Dad rose
with a rush. “Cripes, I wouldn’t lose that
dog for fifty quid. Where is he?” he
yelled, diving for an antidote. Now i
don’t want to give him this if there s any
mistake —you’re sure he swallowed
strychnine?” “Certain,” came the reply.
“I reckoned when he ate it, it was one: oi
the fox-baits, so I sat down and watched
him for half an hour, and he died, sure
enough,”
THE RANGE TRACKS.
nV time I have ridden
° h v m y fwining boughs o’erhung
Wher w h ough the Yangar ranges
The ,u tra V and the worlds were young.
Wh f a 1 hoofs wakened the echoes
The « the range flung back,
The u S °fnrpst gloom grew deeper
“” d ° f the bridl'-track-
_ L, r!lll ches above me meeting
Jhhe o '"green Imefsclrcely trembled,
Tl cool of a coming change
* n i h ® evening breezes whispered
A Again through the miles of range.
, flowed the tracks through the ranges
I have f °/‘° eights were Jong and dark,
A ,Tk« .he % by, a dead bough
And Knew an iro nbark;
Andthe bS-sounds travelled with me,
A rhp t night-birds’ startling calls
aMS in the deep damp gullies,
A t«g> of the waterfalls.
u/'tracks that were made and trodden
Ttie scrubber bands
-nS faded where rugged spurs closely
gorges and streams below,
Where never a man has ridden
And never a horse could go.
There are tracks in the Yangar ranges
That climb to the ridges high
Where the trees sweep tall and restless
For ever against the sky;
And grand it was on the ridges
To look down on the plains and away
To the haze of. the far horizons
And the sea-mists over the bay.
It’s years since I rode through the ranges,
And withered has many a tree,
While torrents have raged down the gullies
And foamed their way to the sea;
But 1 know that the tracks are winding,
Still lead over slope and brow.
And times there are when I wonder
Who rides through those ranges now.
VICTORIA.
JOHN G. GUBY.


The [?]
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income, Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 6,552,288 8,619,596 528,133'
Written off premises, £lOO,OOO ■
Written off other assets, £200,000
2,104,559
1944.. 6,884,448 3,633,893 568,572
Written off premises, £lO,OOO •
To staff fund, £3,950
2,668,032
1945.. 7,208,804 3,822,276 626,481'
Written off fixed assets, £12,270 ■
To staff fund, £4,050 ...
2,743,727
1946.. 7,886,078 4,051,405 839,673'
Written off fixed assets, £96,654 •
2,698,346
Exchange adjustment, £200,000
1947.. 8,533,867 4,042,303 962,341 (
Written off fittings, £24,218 j
3,505,005
1948.. 9,300,665 4,448,507 1,065,303]
Written off assets, £40,000 ..
Exchange adjustment, £100,000..]
1949.. 10,211,276 4,54'9,727 1,131,214 )
3,646,856
Written off assets, £23,104 .. I
Exchange adjustment, £10,914 .. f-
To contingencies reserve, £750,000 J
3,746,317
* Excluding income tax and rates.
Outstanding features of the latest
accounts of the 80-year-old National —it
is second-largest of Australia’s five big
mutual offices —are (1) the large amount
of new business written, (2) growth of
surplus for division among policyholders,
(3) maintenance of bonus rates, (4) sub-
stantial strengthening of reserves, (5)
arrest of the drift in net interest earnings,
(6) tight hold upon controllable outgoings,
and (7) changes in investment policy. So
the accounts present a very healthy
picture in all those matters upon which
soundness and progress depend.
Soundness depends primarily upon the
strength of reserves, disclosed and hidden.
In this respect the co.’s assurance fund
substantially exceeds its liabilities under
policies, and there is a large provision
for contingencies as well. The lot is in-
vested in sound revenue-producing assets,
most of which are known to be worth
more than their book-value. AS for
progress, it took 67 years (until 1936) for
the volume of assurances in force to
reach £lOO million, a further 10 years to
climb to £l5O million, and only three
more years to reach the £2OO-million
mark. And it is all ordinary and group
contracts —no industrial business is
written —gathered in all countries of the
British Commonwealth except Canada.
Last year there was a drop of £421,400
in the amount of new business put on the
books; but that was due to early closing
of this section of the accounts because
of the actuary’s triennial overhaul of the
business:
1939. 1948. 1949.
Policies .. 28,382 50,462 48,641
Amount .. £10,158,497 £25,942,346 £25,520,946
Annual premiums 363,755 1,012,534 979,051
Av. per policy 358 514 525
Av. premium p.c. 3/11/7 3/18/0 3/16/9
Post-war buoyancy of the figures is
largely a measure of inflation, of an ex-
panding national income and “full” em-
ployment at high and rising wage-rates,
of growth in population, of creation of
new types of assurance to meet new
needs (notably staff superannuation
assurance), and of a widening realisation
that there is no substitute for the protec-
tion afforded by a contract with a sound,
regular bonus-paying life office-full pro-
tection is provided long before it is paid
for.
The year’s total income stepped up by
£910,611, reaching a record £10,211,276
£7,724,902 (up £778,981) premiums and
£2,486,374 (up £131,630) net interest,
dividends and rents. After paying all
legitimate claims and exes. £4,530,335 re-
mained. It was used £23,104 to further
write down the book-value of assets,
for exchange adjustment,
£/50,000 to further strengthen the con-
tingencies reserve (mainly on account of
appreciation of the New Zealand cur-
reJ\cy)> and the balance of £3,746,317 was
the assurance fund, lifting it to
£72,079,825. It has the support and
assistance of £3,273,406 of other reserves,
which also belong to policyholders, there
being no shareholders.
The amount available for distribution
among policyholders (excess of assurance
tK t u° Ver labilities under policies) for
waVdnn yea u S to Sept 30 last > and what
Dr* d rHn e w ‘ th it. compare with the two
fonows ?- tnenmal sur Pluses, etc., as
,- —Triennial Valuation ,
Brought forward ° /0/ ’ 43 - 30/9/ ’ 46 ' 30/9/-49.
SSprSL £3 ’ 339 ’ 736 £3,608,830 fSTIt
Actuarial 8 reserve".'. \folfol
Tax re g S ‘erve erVe " 318(684 138 ’ 654 7 50.000
~ eber ve . • 50,000 100 000
Staff fund .. 150,000 50,000
Carried forward ~ 500,000 258,622
The surplus in respect of 1949 was
£1,631,731, of which £1,373,091 was dis-
tributed among policyholders as bonuses
at the same' improved rates as for the two
preceding years. On whole-life policies
these rates range from 30s. p.c. on con-
tracts five years in force to 455. p.c. on
those 30 years old or more.
Bonus-paying capacity depends largely
upon the experience in connection with
interest, exes, and mortality. Last-
mentioned was well within expectation.
Including £19,000 sent to the staff fund,
exes, took 14.6 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums as against 15.3 p.c. in 1948,
which is also well within the actuarial
allowance. The drop in the rate largely
reflects introduction of mechanised office
equipment, not yet complete.
To preserve a satisfactory margin be-
tween the actual rate of interest earned
and that assured in the valuation, and so
further protect future bonus-paying
capacity, the co. gradually lowered the
basis of its policies valuation from 3 p.c,
in 1940 to a stringent 2\ p.c. in 1946.
The net rate (after deducting taxes) earned
on the mean assurance fund last year was
£3 12s. Id. p.c., same as for 1948. The
margin over the valuation rate is more
than usually considered adequate for
maintenance of reversionary bonus rates.
To help offset the low return from Gov-
ernment bonds, more attention is now
being given to mortgages and industrial
and other securities:
* 1948 , 1949 N
_ , ~ £ P-c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. .. 2,122,786 2.9 2,334,923 3.0
Govt, securities*. .49,227,711 67.8 49,227,835 63.9
Debentures .. 1,004,526 1.4 1,384,692 1.8
Mortgages ~ 9,297,266 12.2 10,813,669 14.0
Deposits building
society .. ~ 2,296,600 3.3 3,076,600 4.0
Loans on policies 3,759,768 5.4 3,982,286 5.2
Shares other cos. 1,940,683 2.8 2,998,676 3.9
Other assets .. 2,876,236 4.2 3,256,837 4.2
Total assets ..72,524,576 100.0 77,074,918 100.0
Liabilities! .. 1,608,455 1,661,963
Net assets ..70,916,121 75,412,955
* Includes local-govt.-body loans.
! Excluding liabilities under policies.
Anticipating a break in the markets, the
co, sold £1,000,000 of its holdings in
British and S. African Government
securities last term and reinvested the
money in local-body loans. Other major
changes in the portfolio were increases of
£1,516,303 in mortgages, of £780,000 in
deposits with building societies and of
£380,116 in debentures. Shares in other
cos. include £1,464,541 in building
societies, chiefly the Fourth Victoria
Permanent Building, in which the
National holds a controlling interest. It
pays 8 p.c. on its permanent and 1 p.c. on
its terminating shares.
Wool worths, Ltd.
, Dividends———^
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 12i p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1942 .. 253,790 7500 14,000 189,250 565,905
11 p.c.
1943 .. 148,303 7500 14,000 122,540 570,168
12 p.c.
1944 .. 176,574 7500 14,000 133,680 591,562
Added capital profits reserve, £1725.. 593,287
1945 .. 172,078 7500 14,000 133,680 610,180
Added share premium res., £7500.. 617,680
1946 .. 188,830 7500 14,000 133,855 651,155
Insurance reserve appears, £35,000.. 686,165
16 p.c.!
1947 .. 270,232 7500 14,000 178,640 756,247
Staff bonus, £22,330 .. ~ .. 733,917
15 p.c.
1948 .. 805,923 7600 14,000 209,343 808,997
Share premiums, £307,037 .. ..1,116,034
1949 .. 839,310 7500 14,000 223,300 1,210,544
Share premiums, £428 .. ..1,210,972
1950 .. 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
* After deducting goodwill ( £165,227) and excluding
depreciation reserve (now £434,760) and deferred
maintenance reserve (£7500). ! Includes 2 p.c.
victory bonus.
One of the mpst profitable developments
of modem merchandising methods has
been the evolution of the variety chain-
store. Features of the trading technique
are the handling of quick-moving,
medium- and low-priced goods for cash,
the aim being to clear most lines, pay the
bill and pocket the profit all within the
time allowed under ordinary trade credit,
thus reducing the risk of loss from price
fluctuations. There are no book debts
in the ordinary retail sense of the term,
and the stores are a specialised develop-
ment of the bazaar type of trading, which
helps to keep overhead down, while re-
search and buying departments are con-
stantly on the watch to keep the stores
filled with new and other lines having a
high general appeal.
From the time the public became in-
terested in 1928 until war slowed down
the supply of merchandise, the story of
the Woolworth group—parent and seven
subsidiaries which operate a chain of
over 100 stores scattered throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand —has been one
of unbroken expansion. And the infla-
tion, “full” employment and sellers’
market of the post-war period have
brought a resurgence of the pre-war
trend.
Paid capital shot up from £63,264 in
1928 to £1,388,999 in 1938. Of the in-
crease £944,712 was bonus scrip and the
other £381,023 brought with it £199,977
of share premiums. Early in 1947
1,116,499 new ss. ords. were issued, one
for four, at par, and another 558,250 ords.
were put out at a premium of 11s, each
(220 p.c.), one for 10, at end November,
1948. To help finance continued expan-
sion, those on the register at April 19
next are to be offered a further
1,535,186 ss. ords., one for four, at a
premium of 100 p.c. each —closing date for
applications is September 29, 1950. When
all the money on that lot is in paid capital
will be £2,193,982 in 75,000 first 10 p.c.
and 200,000 second 7 p.c. cum. prefs., all
of £1 each, and 1,918,982 ss. ords. The
pref. divs. and 15 p.c. to the ords. will
then call for £309,347, or £13,434 less
than average net earnings over the last
three years.
Last term there was a further sub-
stantial increase in turnover (amount not
stated), but the benefits therefrom were
more than offset by the official cut in
gross margins early in the term and the
steep rise in operating costs, especially
wages. After paying the previous year’s
tax bill (£80,193, up £16,422) but making
no specific allowance for the next one
when it arrives, net earnings were £16,200
short of the previous year’s at £323,110.
That was enough to pay the pref. divs.
and show 19.6 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 22.4, 20.3, 22,3 and 14.9 p.c. back
to 1946. The div. was kept at 15 p.c.,
making the average distribution over the
last four years 15.2 p.c., compared with
an average of 11.9 p.c. for the five pre-
ceding years of war-time shortages, and
16.6 p.c. for the eight years before that.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
suggest that goods are coming forward
in better volume, and that the subsidiaries
are expanding rapidly:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950,
£ £ £, £
Paid capital 1,391,499 1,670,624 1,810,186 1,810,186
Liabilities .. 394,979 390,175 439,194 547,141
Freeholds .. 41,271 41,831 44,506 44,987
Leaseholds .. 93,752 86,392 78,355 93,401
Plant .. 353,685 374,725 391,656 411;797
Shares other
cos., etc.,. 1,390,913 1,429,127 1,546,662 1,556,662
Stocks . . 786,796 1,077,065 1,371,238 1,061,611
Debtors* .. 252,656 270,138 643,225 1,106,149
Cash .. 1*24,477 173,483 16,583 9,553
Goodwill .. 165,227 165,227 165,227 165,227
* Includes advances to subsidiaries —£317,321, 1940;
£229,029, 1947 ; £206,172, 1948 ; £562,539,1949;
£1,078,124, 1950.
Stocks were £309,627 lower than at the
previous balance, and £107,947 was added
to the outside debt, in which a new item,
“bills payable on overseas shipments,
£164,550,” has appeared. Debtors’
balances, mainly advances to subsidiaries,
increased by £462,924. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,630,172) was £92,320, despite the net
addition of £35,670 to fixed assets.
The market, which sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky, is prepared to wait for further
benefits and prices the ords. at 295. After
exercising the rights to the new issue and
allowing for brokerage, the net price is
255. 5d., at which figure the return is
2.9 p.c. on a 15 ji.c. div, basis. The first
prefs. at 445. 6d. and the seconds at 325.
yield 4.5 p.c. and 4.4 p.c. respectively. In-
cluding the new issue, but excluding the
depreciation reserve, etc., net tangible
cover is £5l 9s. first, £lB 18s. seconds and
9s. 4d. ords.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.!
( Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re-
June, Profit. 12J p.c. 121p.c. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 559,676 37,500 328,125 193,951 1,701,371
1942.. 504,428 37,500 328,125 138,803 1,840,174
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1943.. 430,097 80,000 262,500 137,597 1,977,771
Added goodwill, etc., £19,938 ..1,957,833
Added difference par value and cost
shares subsidiaries, £204,318 ..1,753,515
B/f net from cos. acquired, £32,359 1,785,874
1944.. 472,128 30,000 262,500 179,628 1,965,502
Reduction intangibles, £l2l .. 1,965,628
1945.. 470,466 30,000 262,500 177,966 2,143,589
Intangibles reduced, £75 .. .. 2,143,664
From tax provision, etc., £799,519.. 2,943,183
1946.. 450,735 30,000 262,500 158,235 3,101,418
1947.. 403,659 30,000 262,500 111,159 3,212,577
To plant & invest, reserve, £50,000 1,262,577
Unexplained additions res., £48,734 1,311,311
8J p.c. 8J p.c.
1948.. 355,179 25,000 218,750 111,429 3,422,740
Net addition reserves, £11,104 .. 3,433,844
Added intangibles, £30,125 .. 3,403,719
1949.. 850,000 25,000 218,750 106,250 3,509,969
* After deducting intangibles (now £1,081,982).
! Excluding outside interests in subsidiaries.
There has been no falter in the expansion
of beer consumption, and therefore in
brewery turnovers, in Australia for over
a decade. The increase for the year to
June 30 last was 21 iriillion gallons, or
16.5 p.c., making total gallonage 148
millions, equal to 18.7 gallons per head
of population as against 12.1 gallons
in 1938-39. Moreover the co. is well
placed so far as sales coverage is con-
cerned, enjoying, as it does, the larger
part of tfie trade in Victoria. Further, on
Nov. 1, 1948, there was a small increase
(2d. a gallon) in the selling-price of bulk
beer—first thing of its kind from which
the brewers got any benefit since 1920;
all other increases during this period were
on account of excise levied by the Gov-
ernment. The price of the bottled stuff
remained unaltered, and the co. is unable
to meet the demand for it, despite an out-
put of well over a million bottles a week.
Still, for the third year in succession
the co.’s net earnings have moved in the
wrong direction. The trouble is that rising
costs —labor, raw materials, power,
transport and everything else —have 0ut-
stripped the gams from advancina t„ rn
over and the small lift i n tu . rn '
Until this lift was granted the
ment made off with l 4s ? d n?°Vem-
pound the brewer received for bulk K? 7
leaving only ss. sd. to cover the increasing
cost of production, distribution S g
tration and taxation, as well J
which are taxed again in the handf of
shareholders as dividends. Th~ L ,
amount paid by the co. in taxes'and w
last term was £8,755,239, or ? 5 tais ,S
amount of profit earned for shareSm
After allowing an extra £56,576 torSi
predation (£116,236) and an unspecified
amount for taxation, the net resuhS
£350,000, down £5179, mak ng the S
£100,735 over the last three *5
not since the troublesome first half nf
the 1930’s has less profit than that Len
shown. It was 11.9 p.c. on the £2,925 000
of share capital (which includes 300 000
£l7 p.c. cum. prefs. that advance with the
ords. beyond that rate) as against P i
13.8 15,4, 16 and 16,1 'p.c, bafk to 1944
That leaves out of the reckoning a net
unexplained addition of £11,104 to r«
serves and of £30,125 to the excess of
cost over par value of shares in other
cos. The div. was kept at p.c.* a
steady 12-£ p.c. was paid for the six years
*° 194 . 2 ’ S, oWed by 10 P- c - for te ?v r
years to 1947.
As for the current term, a further and
general increase in the selling-price of
beer has been granted since the close of
accounts, and an interim div. at the rate
of 10 p.c. p.a. was paid last month The
only ugly feature in the outlook is the
continued rise in wages and the price
of brewing ingredients— hopes are that
both are at or near their peS.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but by the following holding
cos., whose scrip is listed on ’Change:
Shares in Last Market
Paid C.U.B. Div., Yield
Capital. Par Value, pa:, p.c.’
Carlton .. .. £816,992 £928,295 11.5 SO
Melbourne Co-op. 481,981 987,268 20.0 8 S
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 6.7 4 0
Poster ~ .. 115,200 124,573 9.7 8.9
Shamrock.. ~ 141,345 124,573 8.5 8.7
McCracken’s .. 62,438 62,438 8.0 3.6
Miscellaneous ~ 621,732
In addition to divs. on their holdings in
C.U.8., some of these cos. gather rents,
etc., from properties on their own
account. Over the last 12 months the
price of the scrip in all the holding cos.
has strengthened, the gain being 9s. a
share in the case of Carlton, 6s. each
Melbourne Co-op. and Shamrock and 3s.
Castlemaine. This and the moderate
yields obtained at current prices suggest
that the market considers the worst of the
operating co.’s troubles are behind it.
C.U.B. owns over 8 p.c. of the hotels
in Victoria and has a big plant-extension,
remodelling and reconstruction pro-
gramme in hand. Last term £179,700 was
added to the book-value of plant, and
a lot more new equipment has yet to be
installed. The addition of £275,220 to
freeholds, etc., was mainly on account of
renovations; reconstruction is still held
up by shortages of materials and labor:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2, 925j000
Outside interests* 13,556 14,974 15,121
Creditors!.. .. 485,345 432,161 692,036
Suspense account.. 8,187 9,431 14,004
Freeholds, A _. _ on 7
breweries, etc... 2,850,175 2,970,177 8,245,397
Plant . . . . 531,520 648,227 827,927
Stocks, etc. .. 559,502 595,080
Book debts .. 1,227,862 1,156,525 1.425,619
Cash, etc 1,621,856 1,556,172 1,006 400
* Includes proportion reserves, t Includes ta
reserves.
To meet the outlay on fixed assets, carry
an extra £177,582 of stocks and £269,094
of book debts, the co. drew upon casn,
etc., for £549,772 and went outside tor
an extra £259,875. Although it is doubttut
whether the million-odd of cash, etc.,
be enough to see the construction pr
gramme to completion, there is no s S'
gestion at the moment that the hoi s
cos. are likely to be called upon to ass
Queensland Cement and Lime Co-
Net r Dividends —-—p To B®' ger ve9.*
July, Profit. V-Pref.—-v Ord. Total, server serve^
1940.. 20,833 9% 7% 7% 18,052 2,781 54,524
1941.. 23,369 10 ~ 8 „ 8,. 20,502 2.857 01,^
1942.. 27,580 10 „ 8 „ 8,, 20,502 7,078
1943.. 33,268 10 8 „ 8 20.502 12,766
1944.. 19,458 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,4 g 0(12 0
1945.. 19,541 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 Mg gl g4 g
1946.. 19,179 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,051 1.1 g5(32 5
1947.. 22,129 9 „ 7„ 7„ n 1 048 98,573
1948.. 31,300 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 13 ’1 9 lo i f 162
1949.. 21,431 9,, 7 „ 7., l - £446.616.
* Excluding depreciation reserve, now
When the books last closed paid
was £245,061 in 44,878 first 8P- • j
182,183 second 6 p.c. cum. P™ s - fs .
18,000 ords., all of £1 each. F d
rank in the order stated for ■
capital, and advance point for P , c
the ords. after the latter have h , t 0
Those on the register have neve j aS {
receive an annual distribution to
22 years, the average being 9.a P- '
and 7.2 p.c. seconds and ords 0 f
Too much notice need not be rQ .
the slip of £9869 in last yeair sne*
ings. It was due mainly to uc .
wide* coal strike, which held np P .
tion, and partly to the all-ro. aD( j
costs, especially wages, coal, gyp


FASTEST AIR ROUTE
V FROM SYDNEY TO
MEKONG
if/
*Tt
g&S6
feJSV
fev
.Afe'feS*
>M.-i
sMi&>
*?>>
S?i
5?
Aij
JO
STvV
Vo
S 3
Vo
cctc
cc
>S<-
uC
ys«s
&a
j 6
HONG KONG
labuan
‘^o
Sr JsaatJSs,
darwin
SYDNEY
Shortest, quickest air route to
Hong Kong is by Q.E.A. Ser-
vice via Sydney, Darwin and
Labuan. Comfortable Sky-
masters operate on a regular
schedule —fly you there in less
than 2 days from Sydney.
First-class, steward service—
excellent meals served in the air.
Enquire now from your local travel
agent, or
m
ŵ
ẁ
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
MARINE ENGINEERS AND ENGINE
IVA DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering and
desirous of passing examinations for ad-
vancement, write for prospectus regarding
Engineering Correspondence Courses,
Tuition for Engineers and Engine Drivers’
Examinations, also Special Courses for
Engineer Apprentices.
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.L Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, 0.1.
P.O. Box 904 NEW ZEALAND.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, 0.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Frice
ẃ
Simple
and
Reliable
We arc the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN
CONSOLIDATED
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
Extraordinary General Meeting
of Shareholders 22nd March, 1950
CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Before 1 formally move the resolutions which this
Meeting has been called to consider, I would like to
elaborate the details forwarded to the Shareholders
in the Circular letter dated 10th March, 1950.
You will have read in that Circular that your
Directors feel the premiums required by Capital Issues
Control when making the issue in 1948 ought now to
be treated as ordinary Capital. With that end in
view, it has been calculated that £641,531 of these
premiums could be distributed to Ordinary Share-
holders in the form of fully paid Ordinary Shares of
£1 each in the proportion of 13 new Shares for each
100 held at this date.
At the same time, the Directors thought it
desirable to distribute the major portion of what is
left of the Capital Assets Realization Reserve. You
may remember that this Reserve was created in 1939
when the sales to the new Subsidiary Companies took
place.
The amount to be distributed in this case is
£148,046 in the proportion of 3 new shares of £1
each for each 1 00 Shares already held.
The combined issue from the two sources will
mean an allotment of four new fully paid Ordinary
Shares for every 25 Ordinary Shares held on 22 nd
March. 1950.
I think I should emphasise that these distributions
are in no way connected with profits derived ftrom
ordinary trading activities. They are not profits in
the ordinary sense. They represent (I) monies
actually contributed by Shareholders in cash when
they paid a premium of 295. per Share in taking up
the Ordinary Shares issued by the Company in 1948,
and (2) the surplus shown when the Company's assets
were revalued in 1939 and transferred to Subsidiary
Companies as part of the plan to sectionalise the
Company’s business.
Distributions of this kind are quite properly not
treated by the income tax authorities as taxable in
the hands of Shareholders for, as I said before, they
do not represent a distribution of profits in the
ordinary way.
NEW ISSUE FOR CASH
The circular also intimated that your Directors
have decided to make a new issue of 1,000,000 £l
Ordinary Shares for cash at par; 986,971 of these
Shares will be offered to Ordinary Shareholders in
the proportion of one new Share for every five
Ordinary Shares held on 22nd March, 1950.
The balance of 13,029 shares is to be reserved
for offer to employees of the Company and its
Subsidiary Companies or otherwise at the discretion
of the Directors.
In my address at the last Annual Meeting, I in-
formed Shareholders of the Directors’, proposals to
erect glass manufacturing plants in Hobart, Tasmania,
and Christchurch, New Zealand, and also referred to
the extension of our activities in Singapore.
The general expansion of the glass industries
throughout Australia also calls for increased plant,
and part of the new capital will be spent in this
direction. , ,
The capital outlay involved in these and other
projects is substantial, but we are confident that the
increased productive capacity of the Company s Sub-
sidiaries concerned will increase the Company s
earning power.
For the information of Shareholders, Allotment
letters for the Bonus Shares are expected to be avail-
able about the middle of April.
The notices advising the quota of each Share-
holder in respect to the new issue for cash will be sent
out at the same time. *
Applications will close on 12th May, on which
date the full payment of 20/- per share will be due.
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
bags, without any com-
increase in the con-
penTs g elling-pn ce of cement.
troU £91431 of profit, written
T f!er allowing £37,386 (up £6105)
fnr depreciation and something
l°l taxation, was enough to pay
f or taxat » requirements,
to the ords., and then
P ! US / 2 3 pc. on the whole
sh0 4al foref and ord. combined)
capital (Pf 61 * 2 26 j 4 and 1.6
aS “ B bS fo ’ 1945. Divs. re-
gained steady at 9 p.c. firsts and
7 p.c. seconds and ords.
On the demand side the out-
inok for cement is one of steady
pressure for some time to come.
£ heavy users of the stuff-
large-scale public works and
factory and office and flat budd-
ings —are not yet at the head of
the queue of applicants tor
Building priorities. And until
more of the slack in home-
building is taken up, or until
there is a change m economic
conditions, other forms of con-
struction aren’t likely to get m.o
full blast.
This Queensland co. is the
only cement producer in the
northern State at the moment,
and it has been able to establish
costs on a very competitive
basis, thanks to an efficient plant
at Darra, near Brisbane, and
cheap shell-lime deposits in
Moreton Bay. To meet the
anticipated growth in demand,
especially in the southern half
of the State, a nVw 100,000-ton-
p.a, kiln is now being installed.
The co. has also taken 120,000 £1
shares, on which 2s. each had
been paid when the books closed,
in the recently-formed North
Australian Cement co. (Towns-
ville). It is a half-million-pound
proposition in which Adelaide
Steam and Goliath Portland
Cement are also interested. It
will be a few years yet before
the Townsville plant gets into
full production. Meanwhile, this
Brisbane co. will supervise erec-
tion of the new co.’s equipment,
as well as its first 12 months
operations.
During the year £32,050 was
added to freeholds and £37,758
to plant, while book debts were
reduced by £70,582 and £21,328
was snipped off the outside debt:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital. £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Creditors* .. 98,688 153,189 131,861
Freehold .. 21,190 21,573 22,075
Plant, etc... 575,2'87 669,8'92 701,942
Stocks . . 125,451 105,425 143,183
Book debts . 87,599 111,426 40,844
Cash. etc. .. 20,698 20,654 3-2,698
* Includes provision for taxation.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
was a trifle stronger at £84,864.
To help finance the expansion
at Darra and the investment in
the Townsville co., 245,061 new
£1 ords. were issued at par since
the close of accounts. When all
the money on that lot is in paid
capital will be £490,122, on which
last year’s rates of distribution
will call for £32,935, or only
£1635 more profit than was
shown in 1948.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the
undertaking by pricing the firsts
at 40s. 6d. and the seconds at
325. 6d,, giving a return of 4.4
p.c. and 4.3 p.c. respectively on
the basis of last term’s distribu-
tions. The f.-p. ords. at 31s. 6d.
return 4.4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div,
basis. At 13s. 9d., the contribs.,
now paid to 4s. each, appear to
be worth consideration. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible
cover is £l3 3s. lid. firsts, 60s,
seconds and 275. 9d. ords.
»
“Abdul Assiz”: In spite of the
past history and of the recent
spectacular strikes at Wedder-
burn, it is satisfying to note that
the Chief Government Geologist
for Victoria (Dr. D, E. Thomas)
has had the courage to point out
how small are the possibilities of
deriving a fortune from claims
in the vicinity of that town. Dr.
Thomas was actuated, no doubt,
by a detailed knowledge of the
geology of the Wedderburn area.
It is possible,, also, that he was
influenced by memory of the
uneconomic scrambles which
occur, periodically, in his native
Wales, when the necessity arises
because of a royal wedding to
produce sufficient Welsh gold for
the traditional royal ring. Dr.
Thomas’s statement is not likely
to be welcomed by W e dderburn
residents, as there can be little
doubt that, in the aggregate, the
claim-peggers will bring more
wealth into the area than they
take out of it. The statement
contrasts favorably with those on
“black” gold by some of his
Federal confreres, whose over-
optimistic opinions have been
avidly seized upon, and repro-
duced in and out of context, by
small oil-co. promoters and
share-pushers.
* * * *
Over the last few weeks the
London price of Lake View and
Star’s f.-p. 4s. shares advanced
by 2s. 6d., reaching 265. 6d.
(stg.). In Australia sellers
lengthened their price by 3s. 9d.,
making it 325. 9d. Mainspring
of the rise is hope concerning
the interim div., announcement
of which is due any day now.
Despite the continued rise in
costs, the Sept., 1949, increase
in the price of gold has consider-
ably widened the margin of
profit, the chairman said at the
annual roll-up *in London
on December 14 last. For
the year to June 30, 1949,
co. netted £139,051 (down
£12,497) from treatment of
551,191 tons (down 21,940 tons)
of sdwt. ore. Chief troubles
were shortage of skilled labor
and rising costs, which were 2s.
heavier at 10s. a ton, due
mainly to wage lifts and in-
creased price of stores and
electric current. The div. was
lifted from p.c. to 50
p.c., the final being 37- 2
p.c. English income tax of 9s.
in the £ reduces the 50 p.c. to
27| p.c. sterling, which is worth
34,6 p.c. Australian at the cur-
rent rate of exchange. The mine
continues to open up nicely
underground, and ore reserves
at June 30, 1949, were 100,600
tons stronger at 4,096,400 tons,
averaging 4.B6dwt.


ŵ
m
W
Blue Gillette
Every man owes it to himself to use the method
which gives him the cleanest, close shave
possible. When you have used a Blue Gillette
Blade for some time you realise it is not only
the most efficient, but the most economical blade
you can buy,
• SO DURABLE— each
blade gives you extra shaves.
® SO SHARP—they stroke
your heard away,
• SO FAMOUS—they have
made the world clean shaven .
ẁ
5 for 1/8
10 for 3/4
20 for 6/8
(In plastic dispenser)
*Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
* Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £65,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£10,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by;
Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invitbd to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited,
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
T rustee’*, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
m
%
DIRECTORS!
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
E. R. KNOX)
ALLEN C. LEWIS {
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; ' i
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES & OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT VAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Britain Hopes
Last week the British Treasury
issued its “economic survey”
(really a programme) for 1950-
51. The plan, as cabled, is to
cut the sterling area’s dollar
deficit nearly in half —from
$1532 million to $785 million —•
whilst maintaining a small favor-
able balance with the world as a
whole. Nearly one-third of the
improvement is expected to come
from other members of the
sterling area, which must mean
from the raw materials of Africa
and Malaya especially; the rest
is to be the result of Britain’s
own industrial export drive.
These figures are exactly what
Britain would have to do if she
is to be standing on her feet
when Marshall Aid stops two
years hence. They are the task
on the blackboard. There re-
mains the enormous problem of
working out the solution in detail
—and there have already been
economic surveys since the war
that simply didn’t work out.
One of the great “ifs” —a
continuance of American pros-
perity that will provide markets
for sterling exports —is beyond
any British influence. Two other
main conditions will be the vigor
of the exporting campaign and
the Government’s success in
keeping down costs. Deflation
is always an unpopular process,
and that the election stalemate
now makes it specially unpalat-
able to the Government is only
too obvious from last month’s
supplementary estimates for the
1949-50 budget.
This was a grievous volte-face.
Just after the September de-
valuation Mr. Attlee himself
announced “consequential
measures” of economy which in-
volved cuts of £l2O million in
public spending. The cuts were
strongly criticised then as inade-
quate, but at least they seemed
an earnest of good intentions for
the coming Budget. Sir Stafford
Cripps insisted they were “the
minimum that is absolutely
necessary to prevent frustration
of our new export drive.” Yet
three weeks after the general
elections were out of the way he
introduced a supplementary bill
to cover £240 millions more ex-
penditure than the original bud-
get. Instead of spending £l2O
million less than before devalua-
tion, the Government has spent
exactly that much more. All
that Sir Stafford can say is
that his road was paved tradi-
tionally.
Meanwhile a minor
crisis faces Britain’s exchange
funds in the negotiations for a
European Payments Scheme now
going on in Paris. The United
States is determined to break
down all quota restrictions on
intra-European trade by the end
of 1950, and $6OO million of the
proposed Marshall Aid grant
next year is conditional upon the
setting-up of a payments scheme
using gold or dollars for net
settlements. In the form sug-
gested, this would mean the end
of sterling as the accepted means
of international payment, and it
might also allow O.E.E.C. coun-
tries to draw on their blocked
sterling balances. The drain on
Britain’s gold and dollars would
be appreciable in her present
straits, but it is hoped to per-
suade the Paris meeting to
modify the payments scheme,
maintaining sterling’s special
status among European curren-
cies.
People of goodwill will join
in all these expressions of hope.
But if ever Britain needed strong
as well as optimistic leadership,
it is now.
Interest-rates
The ninth security loan has
quietly opened a new chapter.
After many years the Govern-
ment is again seeking its loan
money in competition with un-
restricted capital activity from
public companies.
As it happens, there was little
share-issue business during the
currency of the loan —apart from
that pleasant species, the bonus.
“ Don't he a nark —give him back his pole!”
which takes nothing from the
public’s pocket. But even before
complete subscription details are
available, the loan was clearly
very successful in its own right;
at least £45 million was shoaled
up in 11 days, and that included
only about £4 million falling due
for conversion. At this time,
when the inflationary wave seems
to be cresting, there is a logical
investment disposition towards
gilt-edged, especially short-term.
This loan also had heavy sup-
port from London, where
brokers have become impressed
with our strong Government
finances, the favorable interest-
rates by British standards and
the certainty that if there is any
movement in the exchange it
would be an advantageous one
for English bondholders.
So the long-term interest-rate
of 3| p.Cv still shows plenty of
signs of life. But first ’Change
dealings in the new bonds were
exactly at par, and there was an
easing tendency during March
in the older issues which raised
their yield practically in line.
Passing rumors may have
something to do with it.
There has been a fair amount of
conjecture lately about interest-
rates —the matter was first raised
here some months ago—and Mr.
Fadden mentioned in a general
way that the subject was on the
agenda of his Treasury survey.
The Government will certainly
be concerned in keeping its own
interest-bill down, but the new
conditions of capital freedom
suggest that the rate has touched
bedrock.
Australian Shares in N.Z.
New Zealand’s appreciated
pound, now approaching its
second birthday, is feeling a
gravitational pull from the Aus-
tralian quarter. Reserve Bank
controllers have to dig in their
heels and use all their weight
to safeguard their wad of £5O
million of exchange funds.
There’s no chance of restoring
transferability of Maoriland cur-
rency while the Commonwealth’s
magnetic attraction for capital
threatens to drain away MX. re-
serves, so Maorilanders can only
wait.
Investors, with appetites
whetted for Australian scrip, are
forcing up prices for tightly-
held securities to points that
leave Australian peaks well be-
hind, when allowance is made
for the difference in the pounds ;
and it is plain they’ve agreed
on a basis of their own which
fixes a liberal margin to cover
the overvaluation of MX. cur-
rency and the undervaluation of
Australian. For months past
Australian scrip in Mr ,
has been tradS at N.z'. SS
ranging from as little as 8 p “ S
1 - bdow the Common'
wealth prices—comparedwith
the currency gap 0 f 20 nc™
with the yield pared down a good
£ocS W of lt dged rates > af *r
Knocking off £1 m every £5 nn
transfers of divs, 0n
M.L.’s equivalent in Australian
currency for B.H.P. shares lately
works out at a shade over 59 s
for Felt and Textiles 56s 3d’
C.S.R. £7B 2s. 6d., Coles’ 31s”
Woolworths 325, Commerciai
Bank of Aust. 335. 6d., and Bank
of N.S.W. £5O 12s, 6d. There’s
a year or two’s dividends gone
west in some of these differences,
Local MX. scrip has felt the
bullish influence, in sympathy, so
the inflation of shares has been
well spread round, especially
since the Holland Government
took over the reins.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —■
AUSTRALIA
. NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
W MILLERS timber merchants
AMAZING RELIEF
FROM
RHEUMATIC AILMENTS!
For more than 30 years sufferers from ailments In the
Rheumatic Group have found quick, sure, safe relief in
Cluny McPherson’s Mixture. Cluny’s is a prescribed
scientific formula which, taken as directed,
quickly strikes at the root of the trouble,
restores proper functioning to the kidneys and
tones up the whole nervous system. End Rheu-
matic Agony and Exhaustion—start taking
Cluny’s to-day and get back to good health
and well-being quickly.
FOR ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, FIOROSITIS, GOUT,
LUMBAGO, and all ailments
of the RHEUMATIC GROUP
/ * i
■
;W(
cluny McPhersons
w
FROM CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
FAMED THESE 30 YEARS
;»:•* ' ■■ -K : . . • . - • t
XUL •
SaiMj
\ > -
4 I’m not worried about my future security . •
iVs in the bag! As a youngster I took out my
first Life Assurance policy , and since then
Vve increased that coverage as much as my
income would allow. As a result my wife and
child are enjoying the protection they need ,
and I am saving for my retirement. 9
ŵ
The sentiments of three million policy-
holders were echoed by Mr. Chris
k Marshall, of Raleigh Ave., Terens
Point, when he made that statement.
Like him, they have confidence in
I Australian Life Assurance and the
' free and independent Offices that
meet their requirements. Also,
though they may not realise it, their
savings, invested in Public Loans, and
a wide range of works of national importance, are work-
ing for the good of every man, woman and child in
Australia.
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
BENEFIT EVERT AUSTRALIA
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IH AUSTRALIA
jyjtjio — :
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
c rU, soring, with its inter-
£ a / flashes of sunlight, long
f, e “ scurrying clouds and
bluster, also reminds
./that food is a little less scarce
uS t was two years ago, when
paV was a rarity and milk
an Sited to four pints a week
W as limiteu to while the
f ° r vi tW °meat ration is still
W re especially in quality,
off the ration, and there
millc s to be by comparison
n °fh the lean ’’forties, a quite
t •shine gi u t of eggs. House-
as . ° h o S e long memories of
ues and disheartening im-
qU /visations have caused them to
r l a trifle incredulous as to the
rmanence of this boon, at
fast have the full satisfaction
f feeling on terms of closer
intimacy with their cookery-
books than v at any time during
the past 10 years.
People are watching the new
Minister of Food, Mr. Maurice
Webb, very closely and with an
interest that for the most part
transcends party feelings. Lord
Woolton’s extensive business and
administrative experience served
the nation superbly. Sir Ben
Smith blundered and failed,
Mr. Strachey’s peanut fiasco and
his uncompromising acidity
added nothing to his prestige;
and the didactic, overconfident
assurance of his assistant. Dr.
Edith Summerskill, echoed dis-
cordantly in the housewife’s
kitchen.
Mr. Webb is well respected on
both sides of the House for his
courage and sincerity. So far
he has promised well by his ex-
pressed determination to talk of
food and not of calories. His
later dietetic unorthodoxy, “A
little of what you fancy does
you good,” has caused a good
impression. If hardly original—
, _
the Radio Doctor, Lord Woolton
and, mbst of all. Mane Lloyd,
have often said the same thing
at least it seems to make
sense.
Meanwhile, Mr. Webb has
some firm decisions to make.
According to reliable sources,
Britain’s stocks of food are
mounting. Commonsense would
suggest that they be distributed
among the monotonously-fed
population. But it’s not as
simple as that. More food in
the shops means more subsidies.
That can’t be, for we’re already
oversubsidised. The alternative
is higher prices and another
marked jolt to the cost of living,
That can’t be either. A strange
paradox—but where’s the plan-
ning?
Out of Hand?
Last April, when introducing
his Budget, Sir Stafford Cripps
announced that he had told all
Government departments that
he would allow no more supple-
mentary estimates, except in
very special circumstances. A
few months later the Prime
Minister called for a 5 per cent.
reduction in estimates for de-
partmental expenditure in 1950-
5L We have now learned that
the supplementaries amount to
£170,000,000, of which sum
£99,000,000 is needed for the
Health Service, and that the
Prime Minister’s 5 per cent, re-
duction has indeed become a
5 per cent, increase.
What is the ordinary British
citizen, to whom a string of
noughts seems as unreal and
perplexing as a formula in
nuclear physics, to make of it?
Only what practically every
journal and authority has been
reiterating for a good three
years: that the Government’s
readiness to spend money is
yastly greater than the nation’s
capacity to earn it.
Of course, everybody wants
the Health Service to stay, and
we are committed to the Wel-
fare State, the five-day week,
holidays with pay, and subsi-
dised food and housing. But at
what cost? The annual bill for
food subsidies is £450,000,000;
direct taxation is at 9s. in the £,
and indirect taxation probably
makes an even deeper inroad
into the family pocket.
Uncertain Future
The administration of the
Health Service has been attacked
in Parliament, and Mr. Bevan has
defended himself. Perhaps it is
more correct to say that the
Opposition, with guarded
phrases, have timidly tried to
avoid a too-direct censure, lest
they should make a present of
electioneering capital to Labor
speakers. Also, it is truer to say
that Mr. Bevan made another
series of explosive attacks on his
usual hateful and often irrele-
vant targets than that he de-
fended the Health Service. But
at least he did admit the need
for tightening up, We’ve heard
that kind of statement before,
with no performance.
It remains to be seen how the
new Parliament settles down,
and whether the Socialists, with
their wings clipped and claws
blunted, will be forced into a
course of prudent retrenchment.
The way is certainly not an easy
one, A flood of wage-claims is
about to burst: and not- only
wages. Salary-earners, especi-
ally civil servants and school-
teachers, are becoming markedly
voluble. Which is the same thing
as saying that inflation is biting
deeper into the nation’s life.
The premonitory issues of the
next election are rarely out of
people’s minds. The Tories,
having nothing like the regular
income that the Labor party de-
rives from trade-union and other
industrial sources, as yet lack
money for another campaign.
Labor is uneasy because it is
unsure and neither fish nor fowl
—and certainly far from happy
in its unenvied state of being in
office but not in power.
An influential section of
Socialist opinion appears to be
moving away from nationalisa-
tion and the hard-and-fast
doctrine, no doubt with an eye
on possible converts. Whether
electors will fall for this sugar-
coated pill may be left to their
own feelings in due time. On
present showing they seem to
have taken enough medicine.
Moliere Motley
There’s rather more Malleson
than Moliere in “The Miser,”
which Miles Malleson has freely
translated for the Old Vic com-
pany (New Theatre). But since
Moliere in turn took liberties in
his translation of Plautus’s
“Aulularia” there isn’t much in
it either way. It’s chiefly over
the interpretation of the name
part—the egregious skinflint
Harpagon (played by Miles
Malleson) —and over the produc-
tion (Tyrone Guthrie) that
purists may tear their hair, Mr.
Malleson being his stage self —
a testy, impulsive but likeable
dodderer —is a very comic figure,
but no more credible than Baron
Hardupp or the Demon King,
His amiable pantomimicry de-
feats his best scene when, having
been robbed of his hoard, he is
left alone to wring his withers.
Instead of pathos to heighten the
satire there is a void of ex-
pectancy for some new comic
effect.
The production lacks style,
partly because of the actors’ in-
adequate ballet technique and
partly because of fussiness. The
young lovers, who by the end of
the piece have outwitted the
miser, won their hearts’ desires
and proved their high birth, are
well played by Michael Ald-
ridge, Diana Churchill, John
Van Eyssen and Jane Wenham.
Below-stairs, George Benson is
a cook-coachman who can’t tell
a convincing lie and Paul Rogers
is a Sam. Wellerish conspirator,
Angela Baddeley, as a carmined
baggage with a taste for “re-
fainment,” is a delight.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne'*weather at its worst dashed
all hopes of the second Government
House garden-party, but rather than dis-
appoint his guests for the second time' the
Governor held a “ballroom-party,” which
turned out a very pleasant affair.
Fashions were mixed. Cheek by jowl
with those in smart tailoreds and hats
were guests who looked as though they
were off on an Arctic expedition. One
lady even wore high knee-boots. Lady
Brooks wore a simply-cut caramel-beige
woollen frock with tucks ornamenting the
full skirt. Her hat was an aigrette-
trimmed chocolate-brown cloche. Her
daughter Jeanette wore a deep-turquoise-
blue woollen frock with a draped shawl-
collar and small tabac-brown hat trimmed
with posies of flowers. Mrs, R. W.
Spraggett, wife of the Governor’s private
secretary, was in a grey-and-Mack-checked
taffeta suit; her soft-pink beret was of
velvet. Her daughter Anne allied a lime-
silk-patterned frock and a wide-brimmed
leghorn hat. Mrs. Tom Hollway’s
cinnamon-brown frock had a softly-
pleated skirt. Her matching felt hat was
veiled and finished with a feather-mount,
Betty Everard offset her grey tailored coat
with brown hat and accessories.
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, was the essence of
smartness in black faille jacket-suit and
small white grosgrain cloche which carried
a tuft of black ospreys. To her frock,
also of black faille, Mrs. Harold Rabling
added a small black osprey-trimmed hat,
Mrs. Henry Dennett’s powder-blue
angora tailored frock was worn with a
midnight-blue velvet beret. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J, S. Disney, swathed a
wide stole of platina fox over her black
frock; a small feather-mount trimmed
her black felt cap. Mrs. J. Ferguson wore
under a brown ermine coat a white, black-
embroidered frock. The Brookes lady
covered her black chiffon frock with a
mink coat; her small black hat had a
feather-mount. A winter-white melusine
hat contrasted with a black feather trim-
ming gained nice effect for Mrs, Norman
Bennett’s black frock. Geraldine Le May’s
taffeta coat was in tiny silver-and-black
checks. Mrs. Maurice Nicholas’s suit
was of black barathea; white ospreys
adorned her small black cloche hat.
Mrs. Sam Pierce’s hat was notable, with
its white crown and red and black trim-
mings. Mrs. John Robb topped her black
suit with a royal-blue velvet cap. Very
smart was the deep-mulberry angora
frock worn by Mrs, Ray Joseph with an
aqua-blue satin cap. Mrs. Gordon
Darling’s forest-green tweed suit had for
company a vieux-rose felt beret with
pheasant feathers at each side.
At the big fair for the Red Cross
Appeal held in the Town Hall stalls were
loaded with everything from rich, exotic
Greek foods to snappy little hats, all
supplied by both Red Cross staff and
volunteers, including patients in con-
valescent homes. The most colorful stall
was that conducted by Mrs. J. Cosmas of
the Greek Red Cross, helped by members
of the Greek community, some in richly-
decorated national costumes. Before per-
forming the opening ceremony Lady
Brooks, who was with her daughter
Jeanette, was entertained at luncheon in
the Lower Town Hall. Her navy French
crepe frock was made with a small white
vestee ; her white straw hat was trimmed
with navy veiling. Jeanette wore a
jacket-suit of palest mauve crepe, the
skirt pleated and with a narrow pleated
peplum finishing the jacket; her small
head-hugging white straw hat had
flowers set on each side. The Govern-
ment House party, which included Betty
Everard, was welcomed by F. C. Stuart,
director of Red Cross branches, and Mrs.
Eccles McKay, vice-chairman of Vic-
torian Division of Red Cross and
divisional commandant. The official
luncheon-party also included Sir John
Newman Morris, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross, Howard Buchanan,
chairman of the Victorian division, and
Mrs. Buchanan, she wearing a black
ensemble. Colonel Allan Spowers,
treasurer of the Victorian division, and
Mrs. Spowers, whose modernistic-printed
silk frock was worn with a large natural
straw hat.
Practically every member of the
English-Speaking Union turned up at the
Victoria Palace for the 1950 inaugural
luncheon. Guest-of-honor was the Gov-
ernor, Sir Dallas Brooks, who was accom-
panied by his wife and daughter. Lady
Brooks covered her simple mushroom-
pink crepe frock with a blue-fox cape;
her black accessories matched her wide-
brimmed black straw hat. Jeanette
Brooks topped her pine-green coat with a
honey-beige straw hat trimmed with
deep-red roses. They were greeted by the
president of the E.-S.U., Sir Owen Dixon,
and Lady Dixon, the latter in a black
ensemble. Lady Lowe, wife of the
’Varsity’s Chancellor, wore a blue-and-
white-patterned frock under a blue coat
and a navy hat. Mrs, Bill Baker’s beige
frock was matched by a hat trimmed with
ruby-red velvet ribbon. Mrs. W. W.
Killough added a black osprey-trimmed
hat to her black frock.
Major and Mrs. Richard Noone gave a
cocktail-party to welcome home Alice
Carse, who has been on an extended
holiday in England. The hostess’s taffeta
frock was checked in brown and grey.
The guest-of-honor’s dove-grey taffetas
had a deep collar. The Robinson lady’s
jacket-suit was pale-green, her perky little
hat white. Mrs. Rex Ebbott’s ballerina
frock was of pale-beige lace. Mrs.
Charles Napier wore a pale-beige frock.
A wild-mink frock with a matching jacket
and dark-brown feather-trimmed hat
comprised Mrs. Peter Tronson’s outfit.
Mrs. Russell Coldham chose a black
cocktail frock. Nan Heath had pink
ospreys to brighten her black hat.
Mary Cecil Allen, an Australian artist
who has lived for some years in the
U.S.A., had a successful showing in
George’s Gallery, among her pictures
being scenes of Nantucket, Provincetown,
New Mexico and Brittany. Many of the
artist’s friends were present on opening
day, and included Mrs. Douglas Stephens,
in tailored coat and a white grosgrain
cap with upstanding wings of taffeta.
Mrs. Hylton Dale had white accessories
for her black suit. A dull-green crepe
frock set off with a white satin peaked
cap j was the choice of the artist. Mrs.
John Oldham had black ric-rac braid
trimming her brown-and-white-checked
taffeta frock. A green, black and brown
floral frock was worn by Mrs. W. Cass
with a black hat. Mrs. H. K. Reddan had
gold buttons on her black jacket-suit; a
band of glittering sequins finished her
black Matador cap.
Cynthia Rawson, who away from the
footlights is the wife of Tom Fields and
sister-in-law of the famous Grade Fields,
is here with her husband to play in
“Where’s Charley,” the musical version
of the old favorite, “Charley’s Auilt.” A
brunette with a soft and musical voice,
Cynthia was trained at the Royal
Academy of Music and studied and sang
opera in Germany before the war. She
speaks French, German and Italian, and
during the early war years was interpreter
in German for the Red Cross; for the
rest of the war she was a nursing aide in
a military hospital.
Prominent at the M.R.C.’s meeting at
Caulfield was Mrs. C. J, Taylor, whose
dark-brown woollen frock was trimmed
with amber beads and worn under a
London-tan tailored coat with a contrast-,
ing dark brown upturned felt hat, and
who had a number of guests to luncheon
before the first race. Mrs. J. Longden,
wife of the visiting American jockey, was
among them. One of the most attractive
suits was worn by Mrs. Iris Clark. Of
royal-blue woollen, it was fastened with
amber quartz in the shape of thistles.
Mrs. W. Plowright wore a frock of grey-
and-black-checked tweed and short
matching jacket. Mrs. K. Wilton’s suit
was of grey English flannel, her beret
green. Her daughter, Mrs. Dick Doyle,
was also in grey flannel, which she con-
trasted with a royal-blue felt cloche. A
flared coat in hunter’s-green was the
choice of Mrs. Gilbert Walsh. Mrs.
Harold Holt’s tweeds were of forest-
green. Ann Rogers wore a garnet-red
satin cap with her junior-navy coat.
From Sydney
The Governor and Mrs. Northcott have
sent out cards for a late-afternoon party
on Tuesday, April 11. And that’s an-
other Easter Week engagement to prepare
your white gloves for.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron is
feeling very proud. Some of its nabobs
bought in Carabella, one of the old
Tucker homes on Kirribilli Point,
adjoining the squadron, and this in
time will add a new stretch of water-
front and a pleasant old dwelling to the
original clubhouse, which has been suffer-
ing a bit from growing-pains. Carabella
was sold by public auction lately for
something like £BOOO.
Rosemarie Benjamin, founder of that
place of delight for the young in Reiby-
place, the Theatre for Children, is flying
off to England, where she will give lectures
and broadcasts, under the auspices of the
British Council. Rosemarie studied
•dramatic art at the Fay Compton School
of Acting, London, and voice-production
at the famed Elsie Fogerty school in the
Royal Albert Hall, Kensington, London.
She has written and broadcast on the
value of drama in education, has produced
and written plays for grown-ups as well
as for children. All in all, Rosemarie is
an expert and an enthusiast in the life
work she has chosen. Photo by Tony
Cleal.
Professor and Mrs. Lambie are just
about ready for their voyage to the other
side of the world. The professor goes off
on sabbatical leave, which is generally a
busman’s holiday for the academics.
Edinburgh and crowds of old friends are
waiting to greet them. Mrs. Lambie is an
authority on Celtic lore and old
Hebridean £ongs. Her talks illustrated
with songs have been great attractions at
the Celtic Society and the Burns Club.
Like all other Australians going abroad,
they have a car waiting for them, so after
England and Scotland they will tour the
continent. Mrs. David Gillespie and her
daughter Mrs. H. V. London, of
Vaucluse, gave a grand farewell to Mrs,
Lambie last Saturday. You could almost
sniff the heather, there were so many
members of the Celtic groups present.
Mrs. Lambie intends to increase her store
of old Scots songs during her travels.
The Persians must love to gallop about
on horseback. The exquisite paintings on
ivory by Persian artists now drawing
Sydneyites to the National Gallery depict
whole companies spiritedly engaged in
polo, or rushing off to the hunt —some of
the gentlemen seem to be sticking wild
boars with a long-handled weapon. The
amazing thing about these works is the
number of figures, each quite distinct, to
the square inch. How the artists’ eyesight
stands the strain is a puzzle. The work
is meticulous and accurate and delicately
colored. The bustle of life is in all of
them. There is one that might be a
corner of the Royal Agricultural Show.
Here is a man driving a span of oxen ;
slightly higher to the right is a driver
behind two spanking trotting ponies,
and to the left a rider on an ass.
Here and there are more livestock. And
there are two tents which might be
sideshows. Everybody looks as though
everything’s going his way. There’s a
merry little piece called The Grape
Festival, and it just shows Young that
its cherry fiesta wasn’t such a new idea
after all. It’s heartening, too, if you are a
writer of verse to see the rapt attention
with which a fellow-citizen sits on the
ground hugging his knees listening to
Sheik Saadi, the great Persian poet, who
is reading to him.
China of the time of Confucius, China
before and of the Manchu dynasty,
China of today, were represented in a
succession of richly-embroidered silks and
brocades fashioned -into the styles worn
by the ladies of China throughout the
ages, A number of young Chinese girls
displayed these gorgeous robes an*
at a party in the small ballm rt and Coats
second floor of the
Thursday evening. Ac die last
past and the pinks, c^ a l ked
blues, the wine-reds, the kingfisher hf° n '
the grass-greens burned vivid uSl blu ?»
lights, the onlooker wondered if the
again in this world sufficient timl ev f r
be spared for the of S uoh° Uld
tncate, such beautifully-balanced W '
broideries. ed ei ®-
There’s a touch of the wim
the three panel embroidery J&J?
hanging half-way down the Ittf
it, winging their way, preening
piumage (as the peacock is doing before
a meek and lowly peahen),
as the family of waterfowl is doing g
are a hundred birds. It was tZ h !
»‘ ngs that the party seemed to ce ntre
Mr and Mrs. W. Lee were the host and
hostess Mrs. Lee was slim elegance "?
kingfisher-blue brocades, the skirl S
which gained fullness from flat nleak
Her small black off-the-face hat wac
trimmed with upstanding feather-fronds
Deep jade rings were noted on Mrs
Woo, the wife of China’s Consul-General’
and on Vice-Consul Miss Wu. Miss
Young Wai was there with her doctor-
brother. Mrs. Oong, whose young
daughter wore one of the most ancient
costumes in the parade, helped organise
the display. The party was given by the
Australian-Chinese Association as a pre-
lude to the association’s ball on April 18
at the Trocadero. And, as if all the color-
vibrations in the room were not enough
those who glanced through the high
windows last Thursday were gladdened
by an evening sky all gold and rose.
Mrs. A. E. McConnell, down from
Cressbrook (Q.), was guest-of-honor at a
lunch given by her sister, Mrs. Sidney
Herring, at the Queen’s Club last week.
Mrs. McConnell is on her way to ILSA,
where she will pay a long visit to her
married daughter living in Boston. Other
guests were Mrs. Herring’s daughter,
Mrs. Brian Fleming and Jean Ofr, of
Norfolk, England, who is travelling on
to Enzed, and Brigadier and Mrs. Laurie.
Maoriland has discovered all its
treasures to Mrs, Persia Porter, now
returned from her stay in that
fabulous land. She has picked white
heather, the seed of which was brought
from Scotland, on the moors at the
Chateau Tongariro, National Park, at the
foot of the Ruapehu Gorge. She has
done the glorious Milford Sound walk,
and has walked among the tree-ferns and
plucked edelweiss, and gasped for delight
over the view from McKinnon’s Pass,
One interesting postcard from her depicts
the vista down the Franz Josef Glacier,
seen through a window at the back of an
altar in St. James Chapel.
Man-of-law T. J. McFadden brewed
his Sunday-morning “special” in honor
of the Clive Clifts, of Breeza station,
Breeza, who are in town for Easter
gaieties. Before her marriage Mrs. Clift
was Leila Thomas, one of this city’s most
graceful ice-skaters, and the party in TJ.’s
Darling Point flat gathered in many com-
panions of the former Figure Ice Skating
Club, of which the host was an active
member.
Just as this Letter was getting
into circulation this week 140 Aber-
deen Angus fans were at the
Carlton lifting knives and forks to
attack slices of a lordly Aberdeen Angus
roast. This was Rupert Wilson’s first
dinner as president of the society, and a
graceful navy linen lace was Mrs. Wilson s
choice for the evening. The Rupert
Wilsons are feeling very elated over their
Oberon pastures, which have fed one or
two of this year’s A.A. prizewinners.
Morna Condell, newspaper girl, formerly
of Orange and now of Melbourne
“Herald,” has composed the snappy and
topical menu.
Conservatorium attraction tomorrow
and Saturday nights is Verdi’s “Falstan,
which got off to a wet start last Saturday
inside the Garter Inn at Windsor a
outside in Sydney streets. The part or
great Falstaff is well acted and ric y
sung by James Wilson.
Still another pretty 'bride is added to
the long, long roster of St. Majk
Darling Point. At its altar last'
Robin Wisdom, elder daughter of Ml
and Mrs. F. A. Wisdom, of .Edgg dU ’
became the wife of Lieut. Geoffrey
R.N. Her frock of paiely-pmk slippc
satin was crusted with pearl embroi J
about the neckline. Her coronet
bouquet were of pink roses. J
who is the eider son of the J. F. H .V,
London, was surrounded by - ce
looking members of his own
Bride’s attendants were Mrs. ,j a
Mitchell, Tim Wisdom and
Hawthorne. They wore
Chantilly lace and tulle. The
was at the Royal Sydney Goit


ẁ
More Plea&f*
fwtn Mot
ẃ
/CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
ẅ
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MB. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., MeXb„ C.L,
0.F.0. Box 71.
Public Notice.
MRS. E. R. MORAN, Bourke.
Dear Madam, —In the Winter issue in
1948 of “The Bride’s Magazine” there
appeared on page 24 a photograph of you
in your wedding ensemble above the form
of an advertisement for one Marilyn Lea,
a florist.
We admit that the photograph in ques-
tion had been commissioned by you from
Montgomery Dunn, Photographer, of Syd-
ney, for a fee and not as a complimentary
sitting, and was, in fact, taken on the
date of your wedding.
We, Montgomery Dunn and Metro Trade
Press, admit that without your permission,
knowledge or consent a copy of the said
photograph was handed by Montgomery
Dunn to Metro Trade Press, the proprietor
and publisher of the said magazine, for
publication by arrangement between Mont-
gomery Dunn and Metro Trade Press of
the flower spray carried by you and as
shown in the said photograph. The whole
photograph was, in fact, reproduced as
aforesaid.
We and each of us, Montgomery Dunn
an‘d Metro Trade Press, deeply regret the
distress and embarrassment which you
have been caused by our error, it appear-
ing that you had sought publicity by the
form of the said publication and adver-
tisement and admit that the publication
of the said photograph and advertisement
was in no way authorised by or known to
you at the time of publication and that
no fee or remuneration was agreed to be
paid to you or was, in fact, received by
you.
We and each of us, the said Mont-
gomery Dunn and Metro Trade Press, de-
sire to make known publicly the circum-
stances of such publication and advertise-
ment and to apologise for having caused
the same without your permission.
DATED at Sydney this Fifth day of
July, 1949.
MONTGOMERY DUNN.
METRO TRADE PRESS.
until gammer is nearly over •
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
iLsusmi
No house, home. ©Mice or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless ll Is Insulated preferably with BJ*
SLAG WOOL,
w
cwf*Et
Insulutum
PTY., LTD.
SSK-WBSS-SSS-afSS
Perth 1,2107
BIG 18
SUNDRY SHOWS
R.A.S.
n, e r the last few weeks there
, n a “mighty rumbling
r/ Wales as the livestock,
Jtnce manufactures, country
Irf’sXshow people— -every-
fact, from cucumbers to
he B fairy-floss man—have all
converged on Sydney The
rumbling culminated in the open-
jn g on a threateningly dark and
amp morning last Saturday, of
the Royal Easter Show with all
ts wonderful attendant sounds—
he noises of cattle, dogs poultry
and horses; the jangle of merry-
go-rounds, the squeak of the
Ferris-wheel and the roar of
motor-bikes and motor-cars ; the
shuffle of footsteps, the thud of
axes and the clatter of crockery;
the hoarse cry of salesmen and
the clank and whirr of
machinery; the munch of pop-
corn and the bellows of bulls;
the overwhelming silence and
wealth of the almost incredible
district exhibits—all of them set
against and shot through with
the babble of conversation, the
gasps, the applause, the spruik-
ing, the crying and the scolding.
The first Show was in 1822 ; the
1950 edition occupies 721 acres,
is insured for a total of £50,000,
and, weather and turnstiles per-
mitting, expects that one and a
quarter million people will come
to eat ice-creams and buy
sample-bags and balloons while
contemplating the agricultural,
pastoral and industrial fecundity
of the land.
Oil and Duco.
If all the praise that has been
showered on Sidney Nolan’s
paintings in Sydney, in Mel-
bourne and in Paris were valid,
his current exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, would
be the most amazing ever held in
Australia. For if the annual
horse-fairs of Septimus Power,
contain an even more prodigious
quantity of art, Mr. Power has
not of recent years sent the
critics into comparable raptures.
Not even Turner, at the height
of his hitherto unequalled fecun-
dity, and power in landscape-
painting, could have turned out
so many pictures, of such enor-
mous size, as has Sidney Nolan
in the few months since he last
covered the walls of David
Jones’s Gallery with an equally
lavish display and staggered the
critics with his “amazing im-
pact.”
The present critic prefers to
take Mr. Nolan more quietly
than that; and thinks that the
artist, who undoubtedly has
talent, industry, a feeling for the
Australian environment, the
energy to travel and the courage
to experiment, would do well to
take himself more quietly.
Confronted with the 47
big red paintings, each roughly
as large as “Fire’s On”
or “Spring Frosts,” all
painted within the last six
months, one is almost tempted
to succumb to the popular en-
thusiasm. Certainly, except for
one caricature of Daisy, Bates,
there is none of the impertinence
towards the great figures of Aus-
tralian history and exploration
that made Mr. Nolan’s last show
so shallow. There is no more of
his deliberately childish draw-
ing ; no more of the light-hearted
jokes about dead ducks.
Everywhere, on the other
hand, is the evidence of a grow-
ing sincerity of purpose; a feel-
ing for the largeness of the
Centre, for its rockiness. Nolan’s
color has always been attractive,
and here, in a variety of reds
from gold to purple, rearing in
solitary rocks or rolling in rugged
mountains, there are acres of it.
And if the general effect is
monotonous, the sky a crude
formula of shiny blue, the
color-range limited to reds, one
must note that sometimes the
green winding of a distant river
varies the monotony; that the
greens and yellows of foliage in
sunlight are nicely-handled in
“Dry Jungle,” and that in “In-
land Australia” the sky has
turned sunset-pink.
One is aware, too, of pre-
judices to be overcome before
any paintings of the Centre can
be fully appreciated. Barren
country must be liked for its
barrenness ;, you cannot expect
King Leopold Range to look like
the Botanic Gardens. And here
is an unusual medium, for Mr.
Nolan paints in Ripolin, which
is a sort of Duco; and an un-
usual angle, for he paints, fre-
quently, reconstructions of views
from an aeroplane. And here
are pictures too large for the
average home.
Still, art remains art; and, if
the true spirit of art is in them,
one should not have too much
difficulty in responding to large
areas of barren country painted
in Ripolin from the air. The
present critic can respond to
these paintings with warmth —
up to a point. And he is strongly
of the opinion that it is the
artist who has failed, so far, to
go beyond that point.
It is a curious fact that you
can’t like any one of these paint-
ings more than another ; they are
all equally good and, finally,
equally disappointing. Partly
this is because of their mono-
tony. They have neither the
opalescent blues that Namatjira
has found in his Finke River
country ; nor have they the blaz-
ing heat that animates Hans
Heysen’s watercolors of the
Centre. Nor, of course, is the
cheap skit on Daisy Bates, as a
piece of portraiture, remotely to
be compared with the superb
portraits of the aborigines Arthur
Murch brought back from the
desert.
But this is another way of
saying they are monotonous, be-
cause they are superficial. Com-
pared with the luminosity of
good watercolor, the depth and
subtlety of good oil-paint, Ripo-
lin is a superficial medium;
and perhaps it is used here to
express a superficial vision—if
the term is permissible—for
nowhere do Nolan’s pictures
glow with that inner light which
is of the spirit and which, though
it cannot be defined, manifests
itself beyond doubt in any
genuinely great work of art. -
If these pictures do express any
vision, it is the statement that the
Centre is red, extensive and
rocky. They all say the same
thing, slickly and without pas-
sion. It would have been
much better for Mr. Nolan
to have painted one picture
—in oils —in six months and
to have concentrated in that
his response to the barren
wilderness he had visited.
Art is not so easy a game that
any man can turn out, in six
months, 47 pictures the size of
“Fire’s On”; and, in.fact, there
is more art, both in the technical
and visionary meanings of the
term, in one of the landscapes
by Lloyd Rees, Arnold Shore or
George Lawrence at the Con-
temporary Group’s exhibition at
the Macquarie Galleries than
there is in the whole of Mr.
Nolan’s show,
Tiv.
Sydney Tiv. has one of its best
shows for a long time —arid its
shows are generally good—in
“Here From There,” a fast,
colorful and humorous pro-
gramme of vaudeville with
several very good acts, and all of
it set off with show-window
costuming and decorated with
the Tiv. lovelies,
George Nichols more-or-less
comperes the show in a smooth
and adroitly humorous manner,
mopping up laughs between acts
and offering some pleasantly
satirical mimicry of commercial
radio. Marquis and family are
described on the programme as
“men like monkeys doing things
like men” ; they would be more
accurately described as
“monkeys like men doing things
like men,” or even “monkeys like
monkeys doing things like
monkeys.” At any rate, there
are one man and four monkeys
in the act, and one of the chimps
contrives to ride a bicycle and a
motor-bike and give other re-
markable displays of what more
advanced simians are doing these
days.
There is also an extremely
active and voluble stuffed duck
with a passive and mostly silent
ventriloquial master in Robert
Lamoqret, the pair of them in-
dulging in a good deal of fighting
and bickering with the duck
generally winning hands down.
Swiss miss, Alice Broenimann,
renders some extraordinary con-
tortions with her apparently
boneless India-rubber body, and
singer Nancy Brown seems more
like Jeanette MacDonald than
Jeanette MacDonald,
Guns Brox, a diminutive
acrobatic clown, plays an assort-
ment of musical instruments, in-
dulges in other humorous antics
such as finding his stool an inch
or so too far from the piano and
then struggling to move the in-
strument closer to his stool, and
makes some notable comments
on the origins of various dances
—the tango, for instance, started
with someone stamping on cock-
roaches.
Sydney Symphony
Orchestra.
In its programme at the Town
Hall under Eugene Goossens the
chief offering of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra was
Tschaikowsky’s Second Sym-
phony (“The Little Russian”), a
mixture of sentimentality and
naivetd, shot through with
Ukrainian folk-songs.
The rest of the programme
was disappointing. The Henry
Wood transcription of the
Toccata and Fugue in D Minor
represents by po means the best
of Bach. Debussy’s Saxophone
Rhapsody is dull—given no
melodious richness to feed on
the saxophone can be the most
boring of instruments, and even
Clive Amadio’s wizardry couldn’t
whip up any enthusiasm.
Dvorak’s Symphonic Variations
keeps mostly to the symphonic
lowlands, and of Goossens’s
own transcription of three
pieces from Albeniz’s “Iberia”
the middle section proved the
least uninteresting.
♦• * * *
In his two Sydney all-Chopin
Recitals Igor Hmelnitsky went off
the with 15 studies—
nine from Opus 25 and six from
Opus 10. Behind each of these
exercises lies a punishing test
not only of technique but of in-
terpretation and the subtleties of
phrasing; it says much for
Hmelnitsky’s command of his
instrument that the bulk of these
carried authority and a finely-
controlled strength. Particularly
attractive was his handling of
the F Minor Fantasie, one of the
composer’s really great works.
Only in the two Polonaises did
the recital fall below par—the
one in A Flat Major, Op, 53,
was marred by a woolly texture
in the bass in the opening sec-
tion, while some uncertainty
marked his handling of the Op.
72.
* * * *
David Fox, a young pianist
who, as far as this paper knows,
was making his first appearance,
rendered up a programme at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne
which justified the word colossal,
yet he held the interest of a
full house from start to finish,
and received an unusually pro-
longed ovation after his last
item, this a first perform-
ance in Melbourne of an im-
mensely long sonata by Paul
Dukas. Which argues an im-
mense amount of practice. The
sustained strength of Fox’s play-
ing for the duration of forty
minutes was amazing, for climax
follows climax in this sonata,
yet he had reserves of feeling
for the pools of quietness.
She Stoops.
Since May Hollinworth’s
“She Stoops to Conquer,” at
Sydney Metropolitan, showed
once again how immortally fresh
and delightful is Goldsmith’s
play the production —all minor
criticism aside —must obviously
be reckoned a success. It takes
a comfortable place along with
{Continued on page 35.)


A GRAVE UP THE COUNTRY
BY BRIAN JAMES
< t I IP the country,” said Grandfather
/ 1 in a voice as thin and bare as
I J the virginia-creeper vine now
that late autumn had breathed
upon it. “Up the country! Oh, ay! I
mind it all.”
“Bushrangers?” prompted the re-
porter. Such a nice young man; so quick
and alert; so sympathetic.
“Bushrangers! Ay, and all that. Up
the country —let me see”
“Ben Hall and Frank Gardiner?”
“Ay, indeed,”
“Dunn and Gilbert?”
“Ay. Up the”
“Gold?”
“Gold —ay, gold—up the country.”
“Girls —nowadays ? ”
“Oh, ay, there were girls—up the
country,”
“No, no—l mean the girls you see
now—the modern girl, Mr. Shore?”
Grandfather was puzzled. “Oh, ay,”
he commenced. “Up the country”
But it didn’t matter. The reporter was
such a nice young considerate fellow. He
chatted away in a soothing fashion ; half
pitying as of some wild thing tamed and
brought low; half condescending from
the heights of his youth and vigor. And
with the curiosity of the young at the
spectacle of age. Age being such a thing
apart from his own life, and his danger
of ever experiencing it himself being so
remote.
And Grandfather filled in the gaps of
the talk and the questions with his thin,
cracked, high-pitched formula, “Oh, ay—
up the country.”
Then, like stepping stones in the dark,
he mumbled “Yarragrin, Warrumbungles,
The Spire, Tunderbrine; Merrygoen,
Caigan, Armatree ; Bowenfels ; Walker,
Brown, Sidey ; Mendoran”
The names were nothing to the re-
porter, and little more than nothing to
Grandfather now. What did it matter,
anyway, what was written of Grand-
father’s past when he remembered so little
of it, and other people remembered less?
Oh, ay!
MRS. BOWEN trundled a traymobile
round the corner of the veranda.
She was the granddaughter who > had in-
herited Grandfather, A pleasant woman
of forty or so. Bulky in places ; chin and
neck run to rounding fat; black eyes
with glints of light in them; extra
pleasant just now on account of the
young man from the newspaper.
“Ah,” she said as she steered the tray-
mobile to a handy position, “how you
two do talk! ”
“A real powwow, Mrs. Bowen—and no
doubt I am enjoying it. Mr. Shore is a
most interesting man. Real entertaining.”
“Well, stop now and have a cup of
tea.”
“Really, really, Mrs. Bowen”
“Not a word! It’s Grandfather’s time
for morning-tea. Grandfather!”
“Ay, Nellie!”
Mrs. Bowen gave the reporter a wink,
and in aside said “He always thinks I’m
Nellie. That was my mother, you know.”
“Now, about his age *. , ” the reporter
said.
She put a cup and saucer on the broad
flat arm of Grandfather’s chair. “It’s all
stirred. Grandfather.”
“Ay, Nellie, and thanks.”
Mrs. Bowen turned to the reporter. “I
can’t truly say, now that you mention it.
He doesn’t know, of course. But 96 is
what we reckon.”
“A ripe old age,” said the reporter
smoothly and piously.
“Too old,” said Mrs. Bowen. “All I
hope is that I never see it myself. When
you can’t help yourself any more —what’s
the use?”
Just when Mrs. Bowen would decide
she had had enough and would gladly
reconcile herself to final dismissal she
didn’t say. But evidently she considered
it would be a long time yet, and no
immediate personal contemplation of the
matter need arise.
She was easily confidential and easily
romantic. “Did he tell you, Mr. ?”
“Welton, Mrs. Bowen.”
“Oh, thank you, Mr, Welton—did he
tell you of the trip we gave him a few
months ago?”
“No, he didn’t. He didn’t come to
that.”
“A real treat for him. My hubby [the
“hubby” was a confidential peep into a
happy home] —my hubby and I took him
up to Merrygoen”
Grandfather had been dozing
and nodding, his thin face had gone
over at an angle against the cushion put
there for the purpose. But the name
Merrygoen brought him back with a jerk,
like that of a bald man asleep in church
when flies have settled on his head.
“Merrygoen Oh, ay, up the
country”
“That’s right. Grandfather —I’m just
telling Mr. the gentleman here —of
your trip to Merrygoen.”
“Merrygoen—Mendoran—Armatree—
Mr, Sidey”
Grandfather dozed off again.
“And we took a car to show Grand-
father all the old places over again—we
went out to Yarragrin.”
Grandfather came to again. “Yarra-
grin—oh, ay—up the country. Not a
post or rail missing. Sound as the
day”
He dozed off again.
MRS. BOWEN made a serious face
without deep conviction to it, and
lowered her voice,
“That was the little grave.”
“Oh!”
“He might have told you—did he?”
“No, he didn’t come to that.”
“His daughter—my auntie, she would
have been, of course. Burned to death,
they say. Oh, Lord, that must be seventy
years ago nearly. And they buried her
on a little hill. There’s a big kurrajong
growing alongside, and the creek runs
through the flats just below. We saw it
all on that trip.”
The reporter stifled a yawn and cast a
sidelong glance at his wristlet-watch.
“We saw it—such a funny little grave,
when you come to think of it —all there
by itself. And Grandfather had put a
fence round it. Harry—that’s my hubby,
you know —said it was ironbark, though
I wouldn’t know that myself.”
“Thank you so much for the tea, Mrs.
Bowen, but I really must go. You have
been very good, and I did enjoy my chat
to’your grandfather.’^
“You are going it in?”
“Too right we are, and I’d like to take
a photo of him. Pity he’s asleep.”
“We have a good photo of him —taken
six years ago when he was ninety. In
that very chair, too.”*
“That might do, if you wouldn’t
mind”——
Mrs. Bowen produced it in a minute.
“The very thing. Can we use it? We’ll
take great care of it.”
“You’re welcome indeed.”
The reporter prepared to take his leave.
Grandfather woke up—at Yarragrin.
“Oh, ay, up the country. Posts and rails
—sound as the day”
KA R- WELTON hurried off, impatient,
annoyed with himself for listening
so long to that garrulous woman who
really had nothing to tell —nothing worth
while. Men as old as Grandfather were
cut-and-dried cases. They fell into several
looked-for and expected categories.
Stories of the foolishly sentimental sort
about lonely graves
and ironbark fences
had no value. The
reflected glow from
bushrangers a
Cobb and Co, coach,
or a gold escort,
maybe but bush-
rangers most of all,
when bushranging
.was something of a
major industry:
that’s what people
wanted for the old
boys over ninety.
They must have it,
really.
He waved to Mrs,
Bowen and caught
One last glimpse of
Grandfather dozing in the screened sun-
light at the end of the veranda. The
virginia-creeper on its netting support
was leafless, and it impeded not at all the
bright May sun. Grandfather had a rug
oyer legs and feet, an old shawl round
his throat, a flapped cap on his head. His
few sparks of life were quenched in this
repose. Well, he wasn’t much alive any
more, reflected Mr. Welton, He thought.
too, what queer old folk you can dig up
in some of these quiet back-streets in
Burwood —so out of the stream of life
and living.
He hurried towards the station.
THAT trip to Merrygoen referred to by
Mrs. Bowen had taken place in the
previous spring. It is hard to say what all
the motives were that underlay the adven-
ture. But there was something of pity
in them, and not a little of understand-
ing. Something of resentment that
Grandfather was a bit of a nuisance,
though he couldn’t quite help being that,
of course. Harry—on proper occasions
“hubby”—had his annual holiday. He
had grumbled a bit —“It will cost us a
lot, you know.”
“We can afford it, and we’ll be seeing
the country, too.”
Seeing the country! Harry was
frankly amazed. Merrygoen the country!
People didn’t go to such God-forsaken
and unheard-of holes when they went for
holidays in the country, Bowral,
Katoomba, Thicroul, Terrigal yes.
These were holiday country. But Merry-
goen, and all the wild jargon of names
that came to Grandfather’s tongue!
Better consider it a charity trip and be
done with it. That’s what it was, anyway.
Merrygoen!
“And there’s another thing. X don’t
see why we should be the ones”
Harry was an easygoing fellow most
times, but occasionally grew bitter about
the support of Grandfather. Weren’t
there old-men’s homes and that sort of
thing? And what on earth else were
they for if not to look after people like
Grandfather? No, it wasn’t quite fair,
and didn’t they have their own lives to
live? Then there was the pension—the
old-age pension. Grandfather had been
very stubborn about that. Perhaps he
didn’t understand exactly. He had some
old-fashioned notion about it, and his
independence as he liked to call it. But
he had a real horror at the thought of the
pension. As if anyone at that age could
be really independent!
BUT in spite of everything, they had
gone to Merrygoen, which at‘first
sight was eyen more terrible than Harry
had imagined. The emptiness and the
distances had oppressed and dejected
Harry, though, to do him credit, he had
made the best of things. It was the spring
of 1926—a truly glorious springtime
with rare soft skies and a thin veil of
misty-blue spread over the immense land-
scape, and the distant Warrumbungles to
northward were grotesque toys on the
‘skyline. A lush and sappy springtime
following on the heels of what the papers
like to call unprecedented rains. The rich
red soil had pulled on its greenest gar-
ment, and even the bunchy kurrajongs
that dotted some of the rolling paddocks
of wheat were fresh and new and re-
joicing in life.
It was the threshold of Grandfather's
own country—the “up the country” of
his dreams and memories; it was “on
the Castlereagh” once more. And he was
known—at least, he had been heard of.
The Richardsons knew him—or. what
was nearly the same
thing, their old
people, long since
gone, had known
him and used to
speak of him. The
same with the
Monks and the
Watts. Remem-
bered him when
the Sideys and the
Walkers and the
Browns were names
no more.
Arnold at ,the pub
said he would drive
them out to the old
places, but he wasn’t
hopeful. The recent
rains had brought
down all the creeks. But he’d see —he’d
see what he could do. A most obliging
fellow, Arnold, and he grew quite fond of
Grandfather—the wistful uncomplaining
patience of him. And that justified Mrs.
Bowen in coming to Merrygoen, and it
soothed and reconciled Harry, too.
HEY went out to Richardsons’—the
f old place on the banks of the Merry-
goen creek, The creek was running
strongly, and it didn’t often do that tk
oM grape-vine was stiU growing at ‘i*
back of the house.. Grandfather seeiS
to remember that vine. He had knoC?
well-it was an old friend. There were
only a young Mrs. Richardson and £
daughter at home. They insisted on a
Grandfather. “ d ** mad ° “* *
Some of the reflected glory fell on the
Bowens as well. Dimly Harry felt that
there was an inner core to a holiday-!
thing of the heart it could be. He helrvH
Grandfather round—took him down to
look at the swirling creek, took him to
the old slab sheds, let him pat the thick
harsh stem of the grape-vine ...
Through Mendoran, where" the sandy
bed of the Castlereagh was a fine river
again. The old, old Castlereagh, as old
as Grandfather. Older even than that but
like him, too. And now it flowed with a
week of-youth renewed. Soon it would
be its dry bed of sand again. Grand-
father knew that—he nearly recalled now
that flood at Wallumburrawong—once or
twice was it?—when the cattle bellowed
frantically at the yellow flood that lay
between them and tlieir drinking-troughs
How they swam the creek in their thirst
Foolish things, cattle . , . Grandfather
revived a chuckle at the memory. It
passed . . .
On to Monks’! Only a bearded big
man at home here. Old, too, but not
old enough to remember. But his father
had known —yes, indeed, he had known
Jim Shore. He was genuinely pleased to
welcome Grandfather. The kettle was
on the stove —they must have a cup of
tea. Rough and ready, he said, if they
didn’t mind. Womenfolk out, unfortun-
ately. Monk knew the country, every
inch of it. But more or less the modern
map of it. Grandfather hardly fitted into
it now —and the Bowens not at all. Mr.
Monk drank tea noisily and talked. He
loved talking. Every now and then
Grandfather said “Oh, ay—X remember—
up the country it was.”
Mrs. Bowen in aside said to Mr. Monk
—“He doesn’t remember too well now.”
“Oh, ay,” said Granfather, and he
tried to fit the pre'sent Monk into the
picture
AT Yarragrin the creek was down a
banker. Arnold looked at it and said
it was impossible to cross in a car. It
certainly looked it. No hope at all of
getting through to Wallumburrawong.
They’d have to miss that, said Arnold.
He was sorry, but it couldn’t be helped.
But there was Yarragrin to see first.'
Further down was the old homestead,
or what was left of it, which wasn’t much
now. Everything altered beyond recog-
nition.
There was a nice new station-home,
built long after the tracks of the pioneers.
Mrs. Watt came out to the car. Mrs.
Bowen did the explaining, and did «
volubly and proudly. ,
“Oh,” said Mrs. Watt. “The grave! Its
over on that little rise. I’m new here, o
course. I don’t really belong to this pan
at all. Pity my husband is not at horn
to show you over. He knows all abo
this country.”
“We’ll be all right,” said Mrs. Bowen
graciously. “You won’t mind if we lo
round —it’s Grandfather, you know.
They went to the top of the rise,
there sure enough was the kurrajong-
—dumpy, not so high, but a £ian
girth for a kurrajong. Beneath its S P
was a level grassy space, twelve-tour iw
feet square maybe, fenced-in with
hard posts and rails. Worn smooth ,
glazed in places where cattle had r
against them, and a strand or t
horsehair on the corners' where
horses had rubbed their itchy
Nothing much more —the square P
the kurrajong-tree, and the ns jty
fence—a speck, all of it, in the im
of the Castlereagh country.
point in all that “up the country-
“Oh, ay,” said Grandfather £“ lul ®
rails, feebly trying to shake th. F
“Sound as the day I put them up.
SIXTY, nearer seventy years before.
Grandfather was the f rust^ hnre but
of Mr. Walker. Young Jim Emigrant
lately from Surrey, out by
ship, was good enough ana nou ,
to have charge of the Yarrag good
He was new to the life, certai y»


inexperienced, but quick to learn
and ready to do ful bush
His wife hateu d But there had
s° receD t uLb England for them, only
been noth mg i and here was a
hungry days rQugh fare here, a
chance. -.W 1 n 0 hunge r. And no
rough j IVI % There were four young
affl frrSe oldest only six. and the
children, . Q ds cra dle.
youngest of f ear for the
J Mrs. Em had ag dangers: fir es,
chUdr h?q - occasional floods in the creek;
dro fl h ’the mournful eerie cries of
snak c in the everlasting bush; and
worse than the dingoes; wild
curlews, half-witted shepherds on
scrub if u’ns half-tame blacks who
the OU £ cheeky d f am iliar when the
were y away mustering. No
Sor, no church, no school, no com-
Pgfl V was a chance—if one could
foreeMhe present and look ahead. But
Jim didn’t understand. Not quite. Not
ft loyal she was to him. How much
it cruelly meant to her. ,
The home was of split slab, and bark-
roofed, hard-beaten earth for floor.
Furniture, apart from a few treasured
things brought with such care and diffi-
culty from England, was rough and sub-
stantial-in keeping with the house.
House! It was only a big hut.
Behind it was the kitchen—nearly as
big as the house and detached in the
custom of the day. Jim had, however,
put a b’ark-covered way from house to
kitchen. He was thoughtful enough,
though he was always so busy . . .
In this nearly-square kitchen was the
big table, with legs fixed in the ground,
in the centre. Heavy pit-sawn timber
but serviceable. At the end was the fire-
place—full width of the wall and capable
of taking logs that taxed the strength of
two men to lift. Kettles, skillets, sauce-
pans and a big camp-oven for baking
bread and roasts made up the chief sum
of cooking utensils; all these of cast-iron.
An array of frying-pans hanging on nails.
Primitive, but effective when you got used
to them. Black hooks and chains hung
from a crossbar in the chilhney. Rough
mantle above the fireplace, and various
tins and containers thereon.
Life in the raw —but good enough and
healthy, if you could reconcile yourself
to it.
THERE was old Polly—best of the
1 gins, but how ugly—repulsively so.
Mrs. Jim could never get used to the
blacks. They were of a lower race;
hardly the same race at all, Polly’s flat
nose, thick lips and big white-toothed
grin—all were painful. And the smell
of her! It was nauseating. She smoked,
too—a blackened, notched briar, no
doubt a discard from some stockman.
But Polly was good-natured and willing
to help. She did help— not in anything
to do with food. But she could sweep
and clean up, bring in wood and water
and help with the washing. There was
really a good heart in Polly somewhere
—if one didn’t look at her, or stand on
he windy side of her. And Polly was
the only woman Mrs. Jim would see for
ong weeks at a stretch. Months, some-
times,
Pol |y loved the children, and they
bought no end of her. Greatest com-
°f all, they even accepted her
nn t. r aut h°rity than their mother —
? her as such in Polly’s queer dis-
tnM°*u S °f *h? English tongue. Polly
1 1 . stories, some of them terrible
nes, that had their roots deep down in
She amused them most of all
qnm ,u er sm °king. No doubt there was
PS u g .Congruously comic about
sen k • ,k are splay feet —what fun to
thr J r P lck up chips with her toes and
movpm m r i n the with a jerky
—who £n °f i e 8> or forks and spoons
lom> «!u t m< ? tker was n’t watching; her
very dean . single gnrment, never
her Km!? nd lookl ng like a nightgown ;
mobile face, and tremendous
how lining gian when you didn’t know
black S Po - 1 7’ s fac ® was; her mat of
it • her J ! ll r a grey streak or two in
black So ° n l e ? ul eyes—so big, so liquid
guilt ’or e £ y When any feeling of
But thn embarrassment was upon her.
or how t . dr f n knew nothing of this
Ye v? evoke it.
hear here/ bved old Polly, loved to
an d nrak* , les » her words of affection
hurning-off fi° Ved to see her sitting by a
ing, sittmo fire at fhe edge of the clear-
villainous a J° 8 and enjoying her
absence They acted Polly in her
Was.. * rare compliment, again, that
A how it happened.
a week. a^ ay > had been away for
howenfeh tr, i, . a iker had sent him to
1° Y arragdn brm w a f u m u l flock of sheep
hang-B ane _p n him were Billy
011 y s son—and a young
fellow named Merton. It would be some
weeks before they returned.
Polly was away with her people some-
where. She had been gone several days.
Polly’s service was irregular and inter-
mittent like that. Perhaps continuous
civilisation bore heavily upon her. Mrs.
Jim almost welcomed these absences.
The three children were playing out-
side some high-shrilled happy game
of their own. Mrs. Jim was in the house
making a patch quilt. She had looked
at the kitchen fire —back log blackened,
white ash and dead coal beneath it, the
half-shut eye of some live coal winking
now and then through the ashes. There
was no need to worry about the fire. She
stitched to and fro at her work, the
happy din of the children in her ears.
The baby was asleep in his cot.
The game outside ceased, and in her
preoccupation she didn’t notice for a
time. She went to the front door, and
there they were in some silent sneaking
game. They were all right. She went
on with her work. Stitch, stitch, and
the fitting of some patch into its place in
this Joseph’s coat of a quilt . . .
HERE came a piercing scream, and
* more screams. She dropped her work
and dashed out the back door. Eddy,
aged three, was running like a fear-
maddened colt for the scrub at the bottom
of the slope.
But it wasn’t ’ Eddy who screamed.
The rending cries came from the kitchen.
and out of it rushed Ella in a sheet of
flame. Blindly she rushed, the wind
fanning the flames, and near the corner
of the house she crashed to earth, twitched
and then lay still. The flames retreated
to black smouldering.
Mrs. Jim was to her almost as soon as
she fell. Regardless of burns, she lifted
Ella and almost fiercely pressed her to
her bosom. It took less than a second
for the fear to form and be confirmed.
Ella was dead.
As quick as that. The young life of
four and a half snuffed out in the instant.
Mrs. Jim allowed herself one wild wail.
“Come back—come back to Mummy ! ”
Then “Annie—quick—a blanket!”
With her blistered hands she wrapped
the child and smothered the last of the
smouldering rags. She carried her inside
the house and applied crude remedies for
burns —butter where the skin was red and
blistered. The little body was in places
hardly touched by the flames, but the
head was singed nearly bare. The ravages
here made the death more terrible.
Annie —not much more than six—
crept in, stunned not so much by the
tragedy of death as by the spectacular
nature of it. , T
“I couldn’t help it, Mummy. I
couldn’t. I couldn’t,” she sobbed in her
guilty share of it. A responsibility be-
yond her years had been the care of the
younger children. “I’m sorry, Mummy,
I’m sorry. I couldn’t help it.”
And just then old Polly returned. An
angel if a very black one. She wept and
wailed, for in a way the children were
hers, too. Then she patted and soothed
the stricken mother. It was with the
blessed hand of mercy.' And she calmed
Annie, too, and went and found little
Eddy in the scrub and brought him home.
Six miles away, up the creek, some of
the station men were building a yard.
Polly caught a horse and galloped up
to the yard for help. The men came and
did what they could. And that wasn’t
much, for there wasn’t much that could
be done. But next day they buried little
Ella on the -rise. There was no woman
but Polly to comfort Mrs. Jim.
BOWENFELS was a long, long way
off in those coachless and trainless
days. For nearly half the distance there
were no roads except the tracks of the
bullock-drays that sneaked through the
scrub. A messenger was dispatched to
tell Jim of the tragedy. It was four —five
hard days of travel to Bowenfels —it
would be over the week before Jim could
be home again—well over the week.
The young fellow who volunteered to
carry the sad news was never clear which
child had been burnt —one of the girls,
but he didn’t know which one. Perhaps
in the enormity of the thing it didn’t
matter which one —since it had to be one
of them. So Jim at last could only learn
that one of his little girls was dead. But
it did matter to him that he didn’t know
which one —the very indeterminateness of
the grief lent a sharper edge to it —like
waiting for a body to be recovered, that
can never be recovered and given decent
burial. No finality to one phase at least
of mourning and sorrow.
All those hundreds of miles from
Bowenfels Jim shared his grief between
Annie and Ella, and doubled it. Home
at last, wearied, gaunt, sleepless. The
house was silent under the stars. There
was a light in the window, however.
“I’ll get back to the camp, I think,”
said Tom Willert, the young fellow who
had brought Jim the news, and his com-
panion the long journey back.
“Come in, man, come in and have a
drink of tea and a bite.”
“Oh, it’s late enough as it is and I
want to get back.” Tom sounded grumpy
about it. It may have been weariness,
or it may have been delicacy of feeling.
Anyway, he went off up the creek.
Jim rode up to the house. The dogs
barked and Mrs. Jim came to the door.
And then Jim broke down helplessly—
something quite out of his rehearsing of
his homecoming. He had meant to
comfort his wife, and it was he who had
to be comforted. The loss of a young
child is the greatest of all losses. No
other bereavement can ever be quite so
poignant.
“Which one was it?” he sobbed.
POLLY became quite practical in her
primitive arithmetic. “Mine tink
more piccaninny—one, two, tree, plenty.”
The processes seemed easy and natural
to Polly and an excellent means of making
up for the loss of Ella.
It was Polly, too, who helped piece
together the cause of the burning. Annie
could give no coherent account of it,
couldn’t bear to hear it mentioned.
Beyond that a “flame jumped out” she
had nothing to say. But Polly found two
“pipes”—those oval galls on gum sticks
that did look like real pipes. It was easy
to put the story together from these —
playing Polly smoking her old pipe,
raking the fire and fanning it to a blaze,
sitting solemn like Polly when she
smoked, lighting the “pipes” with burning
twigs. Easy enough then for the dress
tO CatCh . .
Jim cut down a solid ironbark, sawed
it into lengths and split the posts and
rails —of good hard centre wood —well
away from the sap. He trimmed these
with care, mortised the posts and erected
the fence round the new grave. There
was even a pleasure in doing so much.
Th greatest of grief grows into that at
last. A merciful Providence has if so.
And so with the white cross, fashioned
from a softer, sawn timber —not endur-
ing ironbark. The legend on it was
simple:
ELLA SHORE
Aged 4\ years.
Died 30th May, 1858.
Jim saw Mr, Walker soon after. “I’m
sorry, Jim,” said Mr. Walker, “that you
must go. I think I understand.” ,
“It’s not for me, Mr. Walker,” said
Jim, “But it’s the wife. It’s no good
to her—she must get away. Before it’s
too late. Even now she doesn’t want to
go. But we must.”
Jim went down to the settled districts
along the Cudgegong, and did well
enough there in a modest way. Old Polly
went with them, and no doubt had much
satisfaction in seeing her arithmetic was
not astray. “One, two, tree —plenty.”
Grandfather hobbled round the
small enclosure —grassy and green; but
the cross had crumbled and disappeared
into the years. The white roses planted
as soon as they could be procured had
withered into the droughts. But the fence
was solid still, more solid and enduring
than Grandfather.
Tears came into Grandfather’s eyes.
“Sound as the day . . . oh, ay.”
Mrs. Watt saw them off. “I’ve often
wondered,” she said, “what that little
grave really meant. Mr. Watt is not too
sure of it himself.”
But Grandfather couldn’t tell her —
beyond the soundness of the timber —and
Mrs. Bowen didn’t know. And Arnold
remarked that “queer things must have
happened in the old days.”
It had to go at that.
YOUNG MR. WELTON did Grand-
* father grand, as they say. “Oh, my,”
said Mrs. Bowen. “You are in! Can
you hear me, Grandfather? They have
you in—picture and all” —she blushed —
“and me, too, and Harry, We are
‘charming people’ —can you hear me,
Grandfather? It’s all here—lots and
lots of it . . . Now do try and listen, and
I’ll read it to you. Um! Some of it not
quite right, but I suppose they have to
do that to make it interesting. And
what a funny heading—‘Knew Ben Hall’
—did you. Grandfather? Did you know
Ben Hall? And Frank Gardiner, and
Johnny Gilbert? / didn’t know you had
been stuck up like that . . . Oh, fancy!
‘Looked straight into Johnny Gilbert’s
pistol and lived to tell the tale!’ Now
where did they get that? And this bit
about driving Cobb and Co.’s coaches?
Are you listening, Grandfather? Oid
you drive for —what’s the name again?
—Cobb and Co.?”
“Oh, ay—up the country, Nellie.”
“And, Grandfather, you drove a gold
escort, too, from —some place with a
queer name —never heard of it j . . And
you read —oh, this is funny! ‘without
glasses,’ and me always straightening out
those old steel rims when you sit on
them! .. . And this—are you listening,
Grandfather?—you ascribe your—what’s
the word? —oh, longevity—to rum and
plenty of it. I never knew you drank,
Grandfather. Nor smoked—it says here
you smoke the strongest black tobacco
you can get —and twist, if it’s to be had
at all . . . And, well, I never! You think
the girls nowadays are wonderful, more
attractive, more sensible than in the old
days. Oh, Grandfather, when did you
tell him that ? Are you listening? And
you are always saying you are going up
the country again . . . And Mrs. Bowen
—that’s me —says you are restless to get
away—that there isn’t enough work round
the place to keep an active young man
going . . .
“Did you hear it all, Grandfather?
Well, I think it just lovely! ”
But Grandfather had dozed off. He
jerked awake —“Oh, ay, Nellie —Up the
country —Merrygoen, Wallumburrawong,
Tunderbrine, Walker.”
“Grandfather!” said Mrs. Bowen
sharply. “Don’t go through all that
again.”
“Yarragrin,” finished Grandfather.,
“Oh, ay—Sound as the day” » . s
MACKENZIE
(1) In The Dock.
The tall swart fellow standing in the dock:
Which way does the sun strike and I’ll give
you
His character. Does he turn
So that his eye-sockets are pools of shadow
With the browse overhanging, face is a
carven rock.
Glint of the sun in his hair turns it tawny,
Auburn, a marriage of red and black . . .
Or is the sun turned full upon him
His hair is brown, soft brown.
And the column of rock becomes a sway-
ing tree.
Only his eyes, when he lets you see them,
Are truthful to his nature: taka-hoka,
As the Maoris call it, eyes
Light and small; like the ferret,
Someone has said.
Now I can see his eyes and it’s no wonder
It’s animals he understands, dog, sheep or
bullock.
There’s something elemental in that soul or
why
Are we held in contempt? Does he sway
now?
Does the great bleak frame of him ever
bend ?
Here is a difficulty: is this rogue
A conscious rogue?
Silence from him up till now, all through
the questioning,
Except for the Gaelic. English
He does not understand! We have had
A few phrases, mutilated fragments. That
is all.
“He does not understand." Neither do I.
That tall swart fellow in the dock,
NEW ZEALAND.
His bearded face a thrust of insolence,
He moves, he melts,
He stands confounded in shameless misery,
The tears pouring down his cheeks as he
pleads,
In English mind you! that, sentenced to
jail,
The black there should come and
share his cell!
(2) The Ghost of Mackenzie’s Dog.
Some have said that sometime
Far out under the night
They discern strange movement among the
sheep
And swear they hear a bark.
Though when the dogs are tallied no
animal
la left to account for it.
Sheep scattered in the dark
Call to each other, they disperse
But keep in touch, their wandering
Is no more haphazard than the stars
Scattered in heaven, each
Knows where all the others are.
So that when the calling of sheep
Sounds in unison and faintly
One hears the patter of their feet
As they file head ta tail.
And numbers are gathered in a cluster,
shaped.
Rounded, herded, pressed toward a
Gate and those along the ridge
Trot in ghostly silhouette—surely
A dog is out there making a muster?
“Run out, Jack, and call the animal in!”
But' all the movement has stopped, the
sheep
Are calmly grazing
Under the moon and the white
Stars, and the dog has gone.
W. HART-SMITH.


Ancestors
of an
Industry
The Hon. Robert Boyle was the man who formulated
the theory on which all chemical reasoning is based—namely,
that an element is the simplest form of matter, and cannot be
resolved into other substances. He first stated his theory in
a treatise entitled "The Sceptical Chymist,” published in 1661.
Before that time, scientists had clung to Aristotle’s hypothesis,
dating back to the fourth century 8.C., that the four
"elements” were fire, water, earth and air, and that all matter
consisted of these in different proportions. Boyle’s apprecia-
tion of the true nature of an element changed the whole trend
of scientific thought.
Son of the Earl of Cork, he was born at Lismore Castle, in
Ireland, in 1627. At the age of eight, he was sent to school
at Eton. Thence he proceeded to Oxford, and spent much of
the rest of his life at the university carrying out scientific work
which covered a vast field. Amongst his achievements were
the invention of the first efficient air pump, the preparation of
methyl alcohol from wood, and the propounding of Boyle’s
Law, which is still used to describe how the volume of a
gas varies with pressure. Before Boyle’s time, chemistry
was the happy hunting ground of the quack physician and
alchemist. His work at Oxford raised it to
the status of a dignified branch of natural
science. It is not without good reason, there-
fore, that Robert Boyle is regarded through-
out the world as “the father of chemistry."
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD,
- IL/47/14 i i
ŵ
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease , . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
Grills are extra-rapid... and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
With AG A you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
by
the
COOKER
ir
r\
S’
6 '• t
> -
sss,ir>4
Wo riff,, lQ *s or
Bu!lt to n iZ !p -
We-
wtiei
//*77T
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING *AGA'
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. G. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents; MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
mmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmm ai/igo
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
oStuxn&v*
t prtun *,.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPi
OPERATORS
■TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUTPM enT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
**IACKSUL, W BRISBANE
A word to
troubled wives
The art of married loj®_
not something that' ® o: learn ed.
urally—it has to b gS
April Reader’s Digest
a discussion gr° up , - re
many women find
not alone m the * S y that
pressions, fears,
causes so many unh P ? . le
riages. This &>****
tells how K°* h lf ontt heir
learn what to do ab
common problems. Dige st
Get your
today: over 30 articl m
ing interest, condensed^^
ri ng srSr
and bookstalls.
The Maori Bones
BY JOHN GORDON
THERE was perfect peace in
the little bay. Our private
bay we considered it now.
After camping there for a
week we almost felt we had
proprietary rights. Old Paul,
the Maori patriarch of the place,
kept to himself in his cottage
at the other end of the beach.
Our tents were in
the tall scrub a few
yards back from the
lake. Through an
opening in the
screen of ti-tree and
fern we could see
the wide, shimmer-
ing expanse of water
and the ghostly shapes of the
distant mountains, Ruapehu and
Ngauruhoe, rising beyond the
further shore. This was another
of those calm, hot, sleepy Taupo
days. We had been up at five
to fish the morning rise. In the
forenoon we had sculled gently
up the river through the tunnel
of trees arching over its
meandering current. Now, with
the lunch dishes out of the way,
we were more than ready for the
afternoon siesta.
I was half-asleep, barely
conscious of the Doc’s snores,
when there intervened the
throbbing beat of a motor-
launch engine.
“Hey, D(oc. Wake up,” I
called. “There’s a boat com-
ing.”
Joe was already on the beach
with the binoculars,
“It’s the Eileen,” he said.
“Can’t see many, on board.
Doesn’t seem to be a big party.”
We had dreaded the arrival of
one of those major picnic
parties which the launchmen
sometimes carry across the lake
—a party consisting of youths,
maidens, children and middle-
aged couples, picnic-hampers,
li-los, trolling-rods and portable-
radio. The launchman would
grill them some trout, the youths
and maidens would flirt and
swim, the children would throw
pumice-stones in the river and
the elderly couples, having
smeared themselves with insect-
repellent, would fall asleep
under the kowhais on the beach.
Perhaps one or two members
of the party would fish in the
rivermouth or walk up the track
to the waterfall. All this time
the launchman would be watch-
ing the lake for the slightest
whisper of a hostile wind. At
3 p.m. his little gong on the
launch would summon the party,
and within a few minutes they
would be gone.
There was not much in all that
to annoy us, and, after all, we
didn’t own the lake. But this
was obviously no picnic party.
We could recognise the launch-
man, Tom Crompton, steering
the boat from the hatch amid-
ships. In the cockpit there
were only two figures. It looked
like a serious fishing party.
“It’s Hyndley,” said Joe.
“Hyndley and someone else.
Can’t recognise the other chap,”
“That means they’ll be here
for the night. We’ll have some
competition now,”
EVERYONE fishing at Taupo
that summer knew Ed
Hyndley, for he was having a
fabulous run of success. The
fishing had been hard, with
much windy weather, but even
over Christmas, when hardly
anyone was catching them,
Hyndley seemed to be getting
fish.
There were other anglers who
fished steadily and usually
caught something, but only their
friends knew of their successes.
Not so with Ed. He was one of
the spectacular kind of people
who always attract notice, and
his name appeared with almost
irritating frequency in the little
paragraphs published in the
Auckland papers under the
authority of “Our Taupo Corres-
pondent.” Such paragraphs
generally report the state of the
fishing, and more often than
not, lately, it had seemed to be
Mr. E. Hyndley who had
caught his limit, or taken five
well-conditioned fish in two
hours before breakfast
There were jealous whispers
among some of the other anglers.
No one could say for certain
that Hyndley deliberately courted
publicity. Perhaps there were
other reasons for jealousy: he
was well favored with the
world’s goods; the war-time
boom had been kind to him;
he drove a large, glossy car ; his
fishing tackle represented a lot
of money. Somehow, when
others were making do with pre-
war rods and patched waders,
Ed had new rods of beautiful
balance and finish and brand-
new rubber waders. He was a
skilful and experienced fisher-
man ; no newcomer to the game
could cast into the wind as he
did, and he had the knowledge
and resource to be able to adapt
himself to the conditions,
whether the fish were on smelt
or taking the orthodox fly. He
was a big man, well-dressed and
convivial; yet in spite of his
assurance and heartiness one
had a mental reservation about
him.
He was a pot-hunter.
He had taken his limit bag
on several occasions that season,
and it was on one of those days
that I sensed his almost childish
preoccupation with the mere
catching of fish rather than with
the sport. Fishing in one of the
rivermouths, he was taking out
his eighth fish —the limit bag
was ten that season—and was
moving out to avoid the other
rods while playing his fish at
the same time. The rest of us,
about nine in all, had not taken
eight fish between us. “You’re
having a great run,” I said as he
passed behind me. “It’ll do me,”
he said. “It’ll do me.” He
giggled with delight. Another
man might have been apologetic
about his luck or shown us his
fly when he came back to the
water, so that we might try the
same recipe. But all Ed wanted
was to get another fish on the
bank to add to the row of little
mounds, each covering one of
his fish, in the wet sand at the
lake’s edge.
After that he quickly got the
two more needed to make up
his limit for the day and jubi-
lantly went ashore. An hour or
two later someone looked up-
stream and there he was playing
another fish. “A man should
put his pot on,” growled old
Rod McGregor, who had not
caught a fish all day. But no one
did.
r T HE worst thing I held against
* Ed was the way he lost his
temper towards a young boy
fishing in the rip at Waitahanui.
The lad was on holiday from
one of the big boarding-schools
and had diffidently waded out in
a bathing-suit to stand at the
end of the line of anglers.
For an hour or two he had
endured the freezing cold of the
nver water pouring into the lake
from the mountains to the east
and in all that time had not had
a touch on his line. Then he
and Hyndley, who was towards
the middle of the row of fisher-
men, both appeared to strike
fish at the same time. The reels
spun merrily and a magnificent
nsb. leaped clear of the water
about fifty yards out. ‘T m on
a real tiger,” cried Hyndley “A
ten-pounder by the feel of him.”
He worked his way out of the
current and backed slowly to-
wards the beach. In the mean-
time the schoolboy, tight-lipped
and tense with excitement, was
also playing a fish. Suddenly
we all saw that their lines had
fouled, Hyndley broke into an
explosion of wrath. “You
stupid idiot,” he shouted
“You’ve fouled my fish. You’ve
got no right here unless you
know how to fish.” Swearing
and cursing, he edged along the
beach towards the boy.
Rod McGregor, who had
been sitting on the beach,
walked over to them.
“Hold on, Ed,” he said. “I
think the boy has the fish, not
you.”
The fish was still full of life.
“Let him run, son.” Then,
turning to Ed, “Give the lad a


liciht W
to
unflilina 11 * li B hter is precision built —for
built-in 8 w?nH ICe " j Fully automatic * with
Five V par W ndguard ’ s P are fl 'nt recess,
/ear guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Di “ributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
fights every time
ẃ
mas
Physician
all wool Pyjamas
at prices that
cannot be repeated
Bought before wool prices reached their peak, they
cannot be replaced to sell at this price. Remember!
All wool pyjamas will be scarce and costly this
winter. Physician pyjamas are soft and cosily warm.
Shrink resistant, too.
S.M., 0.5., 45/6. X. 0.5., 50/6 in stripes of blue, brown and green.
HEAVY FLANNELETTE PYJAMAS
Pre-war quality, strong and serviceable. Available in quiet stripes of blue or grey
and red. M., 0.5., X. 0.5., 32/2.
VIYELLA PYJAMAS
Viyella Pyjamas, wool] and cotton, soft, light and comfortably warm. In many stripe
designs, ,70
NEW SEASON'S
CARDIGANS
Pure wool, fine ribbed Cardigans
with button fronts and V necks.
In fawn, brown, light grey, navy
and blue marl.
Sizes 36, 38, 40, 58/-. 42, 44, 64/-.
Just opened! A good selection
of English and Scottish slip-ons,
long sleeve Pullovers and Cardigans
in wool, wool and cashmere and
pure cashmere. All new shades of
fawn, blue, grey.
Just opened a good selection of
SUPER QUALITY
WOODROW HATS
The first of these finer hats from England,
Now available to customers of Peapes.
2|in. brims, l£in. bands, lined with satin.
In grey, slate, light mole or fawn, 65/,-.
ENGLISH OVERCOATS
Just arrived from England, a fine assortment of Raglans and Chesterfields. Medium
weight Raglans, in brown herringbone, with over-squares; or in dark grey herringbone.
Lined throughout. Stylish and comfortable. £l3/9/-. .
Single-breasted Chesterfields, with set-in sleeves, made of hard-wearing fawn Scotch
tweed. Smart cut, excellent finish. £ll/13/6.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION, 285 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney)
. nce Can’t you see it’s his
chance-
l0 ?iu »on see whose fish .t
. T jntil then, keep quiet.
is pd stood by sulkily while the
Ed under Rod’s guidance,
l°Lmhl gleaming, full-bodied
into the shallow water.
S’ fish was now almost spent,
l a Ticked it on to the beach
R °tf looked intently at the line
• and cast. /‘Well done, lad,” he
Sa The b^y S turne r d to Ed. “I’m
S °Hvndley, without a word, un-
ravelled the tangled lines turned
on his heel and strode to his car
I had not seen him since that
day.
CROMPTON’S launch was
L close in now, gliding to-
wards the beach. Her bow
grated gently in the sand.
Crompton put a ladder down
and Hyndley and his friend de-
posited their tackle on the beach.
There was enough to show that
they were going to fish in earnest.
Rod-cases, fly-boxes, waders,
extra jerseys, waterproof jackets,
torches and even a square black
bottle bearing a once-familiar
Scotch label. What with import
restrictions and the war I hadn’t
seen one for years.
Ed introduced his companion
and we exchanged the usual
pleasantries. The fishing had
been slow, we told him, except
after dark and in the early
morning, when it was bitterly
cold in the shadow of the big
bluff. Red flies were the thing,
especially at night. The mos-
quitoes were hellish, we warned
them, and the sandflies worse.
But Ed was impatient with the
small-talk. “I think we’ll get
going, Cyril. See you chaps
later.”
We watched them plod along
the spit of sand to the river-
mouth, and yarned with Cromp-
ton while they put their rods to-
gether, donned waders and
selected flies. It was a picture
to delight the heart. The water
danced and sparkled where the
river entered the bay. Beyond
stood Paul’s cottage. Once there
used to be a large Maori popu-
lation at this bay, and the his-
torians tell of terrifying war
dances, which shook the earth
underfoot as the grimacing
warriors stamped and chanted
before sallying forth against
their enemies.
The day of the warriors had
on 8 s hice passed. Their spirits
had made the long journey up
tne northern penin-
sula to Cape
Remga, and their
bones had been
deposited in the
burial caves in the
cliff. Now only
Paul remained,
the younger
People, tiring of
their Spartan life
n solitude of the Wes-
f n Taupo, had departed
X the , towns and villages
ci there were hotels and
ea ™ as money was easily
orcha a °* d cultivations and
orchards were overgrown.
startS d ff u- and his friend had
flashM flSh '? 8, and the rod-tips
cast «,i!m sun on the back
’ the yellow lines of
tapered nylon streamed out be-
hind them in the fashion that
speaks of expert handling. Soon
the indolent languor of the
summer afternoon recaptured
us. We returned to the tents,
while Crompton, leaving a
dinghy on the beach for the
fishermen, anchored his launch
offshore.
AT six o’clock, having had
tea, we were ready for the
night’s sport. The usual ritual
of preparation had been per-
formed. Hands and faces were
smeared with ointment that
would ward off the mosquitoes.
Torches were hung round our
necks on cords, for night-fishing
is a tricky business, with many
a tangle to be unsnarled; and
even the changing of flies is an
art in the torchlight. On the
table in the camp we had left
everything ready for the late
supper of hot soup and tea that
would revive us at 11 o’clock,
after the cold hours in the water.
We walked along to the river-
mouth and found Hyndley in his
customary mood of elation.
“I’ve got five,” he said. “All
good. Two of them go nine
pounds on the scales. I lost a
couple of good ones. One took
half my cast. He must have
been a !”
I knew, without being told,
that he must have been a nice
trout; but Ed, in the meantime,
had another fish on his hands.
The running reel sang its pierc-
ing note —sweetest of all melo-
dies when the fish is on your
hook. The rod-tip bent like a
wand and registered every tug of
the fighting fish.
Ed, in his uncanny way, had
been monopolising the luck.
Cyril was subdued. “Haven’t
had a touch,” he said disgustedly
in reply to my inquiry.
We three took our places,
forming line abreast with them
across the current about twenty
yards out from the mouth. From
there we could cast into the tur-
bulent rip where the cold river-
water and the warmer lake-
water mingle.
That night was one to be re-
membered. Ed took two more
fish before eight o’clock and
was only two short of his limit.
Joe picked up a couple of rather
thin fish —or slabs as we call
them at Taupo —and threw them
both back. Doc, Cyril and I
tried one fly after another—red,
black, yellow and green. We
fished them fast and slow, deep
and shallow, in close and miles
out; but it made no difference,
and we each thought our own
private, murderous
thoughts, wonder-
ing if we were to
have the role of
spectators while
this overbearing,
impossible Hynd-
ley fellow caught
every fish in the
lake.
Then the situa-
tion changed. First Cyril
caught a fish. Doc took
two in successive casts and
Joe hooked a fighting ten-
pounder which ran like an ex-
press train and took him 20
minutes to land.
He was still playing it when
my turn came —that ecstatic
moment when a fish hits, and
the impact seems to come up
the line like a magnetic shock.
I got three then, one after
another. The water had begun
to boil with fish. They were
gambolling like porpoises, snap-
ping playfully at the flies as
they were being lifted for the
back cast. Such are the Taupo
rainbows when they are really
“on.” For such moments
anglers will travel across the
world and be content.
Hyndley, however, had fallen
silent. Seven fish had been
caught in half an hour, but not
one had fallen to his rod. With
a bag of eight fish he could have
gone out of the water then and
been well satisfied with his fish-
ing. Or he could have fished
until closing-time at 11 o’clock
and been happy even if he had
caught no more. But he never
liked to be put in the shade.
Except with good luck or ex-
ceptional good management
small mishaps are inseparable
from night-fishing in a narrow
rivermouth. Casting in the dark
one man can hook another’s
line. In changing a fly the rod-
tip is apt to behave repre-
hensibly, even to the point of
interfering with your neighbor’s
cast. Sometimes, too, a hook
whizzes close to one’s ear. Such
incidents are to be taken in good
part; but Hyndley, in his
surliest mood, made them an
occasion for grumbling and
complaints.
At half-past ten, after a
phenomenal two hours, I had
my limit and left the water.
Joe, Doc and Cyril had done
nearly as well; but Ed’s luck
had deserted him. Since eight
o’clock he had caught only one
more fish and regarded himself
as the victim of malignant fate.
I cleaned my fish by lantern-
light, buried the innards in the
fashion decreed by
commonsense and
jthe fishing regula-
tions and walked
happily back to
the camp to light
the primus. Soon
after eleven the
other two returned.
“He’s still there,”
said Doc. “Swears
he’ll stay there till he gets
his tenth fish. I think the man’s
a little mad.”
“What about Cyril?” I asked
in between gulps of hot soup.
“Cyril’s had it, He’s caught
six good fish, but he can’t go
back to the launch without
Hyndley, so now he’s sitting on
the beach hoping no ranger
appears,”
“Well, it would certainly make
a sensational case if a ranger
caught Ed Hyndley fishing after
hours. Think of the gear he
could confiscate.”
“Think of the story in the
papers,” said Joe.
IN the morning we were slow
1 in starting. At half-past five.
still in pyjamas and rubbing the
sleep out of my eyes, I walked
down to the beach. Hyndley and
Cyril were already on the job,
and Hyndley was landing a fish.
We joined them in time for the
last of the morning rise and
found Ed in high feather. His
woes of the night before were
forgotten. Already he had six
fine fish on the
beach.
That was a
glorious morning.
The rivermoutn,
still in shadow —
for the sun had not
yet climbed above
the huge bluff ris-
ing on the eastern
side fished as
well as I had ever known it.
All five of us had grand sport.
Often two at a time were land-
ing fish on the beach.
After breakfast Hyndley came
into the camp. “We’ll be off
back to Taupo shortly,” he said.
“Crompton has another party to
take out. But before I go I’d
like to climb up to the burial
caves. He tells me they are full
of bones.”
“So we understand,” said
Doc, “but we’ve never been up
to see. Personally I dislike the
thought of interfering with other
people’s bones, and I think old
Paul would like it still less.”
“Old Paul can like it or lump
((Continued on page 32 )


m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone MC26I.
k
IdJl
fr
¥■
4*
5%
&
H
rv
«•>
S* ~
Vay79y GfatyuA!
Men and women everywhere are realising how
much this safe, convenient method is streamlining
the payment of their accounts.
Just a few strokes of the pen make out the
cheque. A few more strokes address the envelope.
The postman does the rest. In modern business or
in the home, a cheque account in the Commonwealth
Bank is a necessity. An account is easy to open and
simple to operate.
The manager or other experienced officer at any
Branch of the Commonwealth Bank will be pleased
to open one for you.
Other services include :—
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS: OVERDRAFTS; LETTERS
OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS' CHEQUES: HOUSING
LOANS; SAFE CUSTODY; LOANS FOR PRIMARY
PRODUCTION, ETC.
faionwalftlaii
ofHustralfa.
C.G.8.18.82
ŵ
no)
■r *
ill
in
'•■ ''
J
«•
, " ~
%: y <- v ". ..\:<: : C > ;. I
• JtSSf" ,v * i: 1
||||| M
s • ■ v Wt*itf 7 W -
gJfPyffjll, :v ?«
TOPS IN
TRAVEL
TO CANADA
UNITED STATES
ENGLAND
r^aSa.
31
STOP OVER AT HONOLULU IF DESIRED
Fly across the Pacific in luxurious Canadian Pacific 4-engined
pressurised airliners. “Loungaire” reclining chairs give more
seat room per passenger than in any other aircraft.
Enjoy delicious meals superb service. You sleep ashore
at Fiji and Honolulu. Hotel room and meals at no extra cost.
You fly relaxed arrive refreshed when you go Canadian
Egdfic style. Through fare in Australian currency.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Company, or Union Steam Ship Co. ''william
Agents), W George Street. Sydney and 59 JJJgJ
Street, Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist AJ
MAffimLiNZS
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited - Incorporated In Canada-
NEW GUINEA
OUR BUFFER STATE
BY
M.H.ELLIS
ONE would have
imagined that
the events of
the First World War
would have proved
warning enough of the
importance fof New
Guinea and that World
War II would have
ended with the whole
Commonwealth des-
perately determined
that the great island,
or as much of it as
possible, should come
into the Common-
wealth as part of Aus-
tralian soil over which Aus-
tralian Governments had full
rights of sovereignty, including
the right of defence.
In the first war it was only
the arrival in time in our waters
of H.M.A.S. Australia and her
small sisters of the “Sydney” class
which saved 1914 from being a
year of disaster and pillage in
North Australian ports. There
was not a town from Sydney
northward which the Scharn-
horst and Gneisenau could not
have battered to bits.
Yet, after World War I the
Government and the Australian
people agreed nonchalantly that
the German section of the New
Guinea area, 93,000 square miles
of rich, tropic land, larger in
size by 4000 square miles than
Honshu, the main island of
Japan, which supports over
70,000,000 people, and twice as
fertile on the average, with im-
mensely more natural resources
of soil and timber, should be
condemned to an hermaphroditic
existence as the toy of the
League of Nations. The
League’s ambition was to turn
the natives into exact copies of
the more pink-and-white com-
mittees of Geneva. An Aus-
tralian administrative population
of returned soldiers was saddled
with the task of making sure
that the country which they
could reasonably think they had
fought to save should not be
defended.
Nat Race-war—-Class-war
World War II illustrated the
bankruptcy of the policy of
international control. Thousands
of Australian graves in the jungle
directly after the war advertised
what international politicians
had been responsible for. Most
of the islands had been captured
_ .
by the Japanese, who, after they
were turned back at Milne Bay
(the oldest-known part of south-
eastern New Guinea, since
Torres had sighted it a matter
of 350 years ago), held on
through many weary years of
bloodshed, fever, toil and battle,
The New Guinea campaigns
proved the strategical military,
naval and air importance to this
country not only of New
Guinea proper but of the Bis-
marck and Admiralty Islands
and of the Solomons, which The
Bulletin before the war had
advocated should be handed
over by the British Government
to Australia in order that it
m ight become part of the Aus-
tralian defence area,
However, the Wards and
£ vatts next came to power,
acce pting the theory that all
w bites not in the civil service
or equipped with B.Anthr.
degrees were exploiters and
sadists, and that the way to the
millennium in New Guinea was
to civilise the native by persuad-
ing him that he was the equal
or, on his own ground, the
superior of the white man. This
was all in line with the Com-
munist slogan: “Not black
against white, but class against
class,, not race-war, but class-
war.”
Mr. Ward No Sinbad
It might have been noted by
an intelligent Administration at
Canberra that the people who
brought to the surface all the
great innate virtues of loyalty
and devotion which distinguished
the native in the war were the
supposed brutal exploiters of the
old regime.
It might also have been noted
that when confronted with an
anthropologist or humanitarian
Brown Brother appeared to be
completely bemused and un-
gracious, with the result that
humanitarians were apt to lose
their tempers and smack his
face.
Mr. Ward himself set the
keynote of the official attitude
to the natives when, rather
than be carried ashore by a
horny-hoofed police boy over
dangerous coral, he bared even
his feet to the world and waded
manfully.
His theory was that it would
be degrading: to the native to
carry an Australian Minister on
his back; the native himself
probably felt somewhat insulted
at the refusal of the potentate
to grace his shoulders. Natives
naturally carry each other if
need be; and he who carries a
potentate would, until recently,
have counted himself lucky,
knowing that the experience
would endow him both with an
enviable stock of stick tobacco
and an inexhaustible subject of
conversation right down to his
dotage.
However, no longer, in the
age of freedom, could natives
set their own standards of cul-
ture and good breeding in such
matters, Mr. Ward having be-
come, as it were, the Emily Post
of New Guinea, determining its
etiquette, malting it as hard for
those who mattered most to
Australian safety to survive and
filling the pockets of the natives
—yes, some of them now had
pockets—with pelf which bewil-
dered them.
Culture flourished like passi-
flora in a forgotten plantation.
Mr, Ward built a village near
Moresby, hygienic and Euro-
peanised, for the natives, who
promptly refused to live jn it.
Stolid Papuan voices breathing
sentiments which sounded re>-
markably as if they had been
constructed by somebody like
the Honorable Camilla Wedg-
wood were relayed over the
radio to Australia as evidence of
the high educational standards
now attained.
The New Pidgin
The pidgin tongue was washed
and combed by philologists,
provided with a phonetis system
which would have delighted Mr.
Bernard Shaw, and displayed in
type and in oratory by a pride-
ful bureaucracy. No longer
would the language invented by
the Germans from Pacific beche-
de-mer to'enable them to com-
municate with the indigenes
without teaching them German
be written in vulgar Australian.
German words like haus
(house) were retained in all their
Purity; but all Aus-
tralian and English
words acquired a son
of New Guinea Oxford
accent when spelt in
the new native Press
which was calculated
to make them seem to
English - speaking
people an original
emanation of M r
Ward’s savants. “Fight
’im” became “faitim”
“Hurry up” became
hanap “House-
drink’ (a highly,
popular word under
aU regimes), grew unfamiliar
as haus dinng.” “Hard work”
masqueraded as “hatwok” and
“beggar up. finish” (the first
word, of course, in fruity
Australian) stalked through
sad domestic conversations!
about breakages of china as
“bakarep pinis,” while “mises”
stood, and stands for, that well-
known character “missus.” The
kitchen would scarcely recognise
in its new guise the useful com- j
bination designed for culinary 1
entertainment now known as
“pilet bilong kap,” which is
simply a saucer.
The New Mandate
Not only has New Guinea
proper been handed over to cul-
ture and to the United Nations,
but for all practical purposes
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Ward gave
away Papua as if it were their
own. They joined New Guinea


CARRY THE
BURDEN
/ V '
Bttablithed 1808 in Reign of
George 111,
STABILITY
The Atlas” has seen many
i w/ 8 ’ ihcludi ng the Battle
°t Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
8 BDIEDINC S,
bp »ING STREET, SYDNEY.
E. 7‘ Em™ ’ . Mana ger, N.S.W.
for A„p+ Assist ant Manager
LRniAon 8 and Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manage
and New Ze fl l»nH
THE
armidale school
N.S.W.
SCHooir ®? KAT PUBLIC
situated in the
Country,
EXCELLENT climate
Sr-Sttlf 0 -* and BttUd-
f rom the i-«f* Bouse separate
«»o rest of the School.
iS&K P«-o«Pectus on
n the Bursar.
°* A ' IISHER . 8.A.. B.Sc
Hoadmaste
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH JANE COOK and
JOSEPH GALEA both late of 20 Napier
Street Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
DAVID JOHN COOK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 8068 of 1949 from ELIZA-
BETH JANE COOK on the ground of De-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and on the
ground of her adultery with the above-
mentioned Joseph Galea If you, or either
of you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supremo Court Sydney by the 20th day of
Juno 1050 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from N. W. CALD-
WELL, Solicitor, 375 George Street, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce. ________
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANASTASIA VERONICA WILLIAMS
late of East Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
WESLEY SYLVESTER WILLIAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1052 of
1960 on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
Se If you wish to defend you may
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
16th day of June 1950 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from FRED
A. NEWNHAM, Solicitor, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES MARTIN TRACEY late of
Taree. —TAKE NOTICE that ELLA MARY
TRACEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
Mo. 464 of 1950 on the ground of habitual
drunkenness and non-support and habitual
drunkenness and cruelty for three years
and Upwards and ‘ repeated assaults and
cruel beatings for one year prior to the
12th of January 1950 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th day of June
1960 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from FRED A. NEWN-
HAM, Solicitor, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
—(n.s.> J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce. \
MAKE QUICK
•ASI3ER WORK
OF fIEAVIEfc
LOADS
U i
ẁ
INCREASE THE EARNING
POWER OF YOUR MANPOWER
Sturdy, long-life, Lemcol Hand and Platform
Trucks are particularly fitted for the needs
of modern business. Their tough, all-steel
construction cuts the bills for maintenance
and replacement to the minimum. Lemcol
2-wheel Trucks are available in capacities
ranging from 200 lb. to 1,000 lb. These
compact light-weights of 200 lb. capa-
city weigh only 28 lb., and are speci-
ally recommended as equipment ac-
companying motorised transport. The
Lemcol 4-wheel trucks are also all-steel,
but wooden decks can be supplied if
required. Write for illustrated litera-
ture to any of these distributors —
S.A.: Cornell Ltd,; Harris, Scarfe.
Ltd.; Industrial Truck b Equipment
Co.; McPhersons Ltd.; Wm. Adams
b Co. Ltd.; Lemcol Sales b Service
Co. N.S.W.; J. C. Ludowiei b Son
Ltd.; McPhersons Ltd.; Elisa Tins-
ley Pty. Ltd.; E. W. Cox; Power
Engineering Supplies Pty. Ltd.;
William Adams b Co. Ltd. Vic.
and Tos.: J. C. Ludowfci b Son
Ltd.; McPhersons Ltd.; Perrot
b Adams Pty. Ltd.; Elisa Tins-
ley Pty. Ltd.; Wm. Adams
b Co. Ltd. Q'sld.: Engineer-
ing Supply Co. of Aust.
Ltd.; ★ Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd.; ★ Hoey Fry Pty.
Ltd. W.A.: Atkins
Ltd., McPhersons,
Ltd.; Wm. Adams
b Co. Ltd.
Wheels and
Casters only.
• "LEMCOL” THE NAME THAT CARRIES WEIGHT! ww
. L3B—FOR
BAGGED GRAIN
Liu—DRUM
HANDLING TRUCK'.
<3
U*~-500 LBS, '■§
, CAPACITY ' -
f.
L4I—USMT
WEIGH
<5lOl
MANUFACTURED BY APAC INDUSTRIES LIMITED (U
• -ctration to that of Papua,
administratio the Govern-
The re f Papua? which is* vent-
ment Australian territory, our
able • as in destiny,
own m ♦Jfned B to follow the
is <? nstr o a a set of U.N.O.
diCta mittees some representing
com c not much more advanced
Papuans themselves, m
order that Al icies shall be urn-
‘"Stters have reached a stage
.ij-u even some of the
at Wh / C inducted into office by
Ur"" Ward and his colleagues
f«e begun to doubt whether
• V f- ofinn for the Papuan races
• IVI II that it’s cracked up to be.
There been strikes, a thing
S never happened before;
and there are labor conditions
which have largely paralysed
cold developments and helped to
paralyse the copra industry.
Senator Kendall’s Summary
Speaking the other day in the
Senate, Senator Kendall, one of
the new Queenslanders there,
and himself a very old New
Guinea hand, described some of
the conditions which rule in
Ward’s Northern Garden of
Eden. He recalled a time when
New Guinea and Papua cost the
Australian taxpayer only £40,000
a year instead of the present
£3,000,000.
He described the new humani-
tarian recruiting system which
replaced that in vogue in the
days which the native describes
as “good fella time before”-
or, as they would say now in
the new argot, “gutpela taim
bipor.” Contracts with the
natives to work for whites and
others are made on the basis of
one year instead of the old three.
The recruited worker comes out
of the bush. The authorities
spend six months getting him
clean according to the latest ideas
of Canberra hygiene, clearing up
his yaws and other maladies and
teaching him to speak accord-
ing to the new Oxford diction
and accent. Then he begins to
learn plantation work, but just
as he begins to understand what
is needed of him it is time for
him to go home.^
He goes home. The land is
fat. In the old days of Toryism
a benighted Government used to
spend its money on school trusts,
agricultural development and
other works calculated to enrich
village life and promote an in-
crease in foods and improve-
ments in health, physique and
law and order.
In the Ward days the Govern-
ment fell into the habit of pay-
ing out millions direct to natives
which Senator Kendall declared
to be equivalent to “giving £2O
to a boy six years old and say-
ing: ‘Spend this wherever you
wish.’ ”
The One-pound “Leaf”
The native, of course, has no
sense of money. He at once
rushes off to the Chinese store
which is nearest —kongkong
(Chinaman) is one of the words
which Mr. Ward and minions
have failed to Oxfordise —and
hands over his pound-notes,
which he describes as “leaves,”
receiving in return any handful
of worthless rubbish which Ah
Shi cares to part with.
As for white workers —
“toilers” in the jargon of
their union leaders —while it
costs employers of plantation
labor 10s. a day for natives
who sleep on their feet, the
democrats of Works and
Housing—beg pardon, “Haus-
ing” according to Senator
Kendall, are “paid £l7 to £2O
per week and kept for 16s. a
week” in Rabaul, yet “came to
me with a tirade of complaints
.... of such things as no Aus-
tralian beer, no proper sanitary
arrangements, no clubhouse and
no married quarters.”
Despite the advent of the new
Government and the prompt
visit of Mr. Spender, there is still
pessimism about the future in
New Guinea. Planters and
miners have been disappointed
so often that the older ones are
almost without hope. One of
them, a very gallant soldier of
both Great Wars, a man who
through good and bad has for
30 years withstood the rigors of
the climate and who really did
his best to help the new regime
to become workable, has set out
the position and its dangers in
a letter just received far better
than any remote observer can.
He says that a drastic change
must take place in New Guinea ;
that the fantastic Works and
Housing Department should be
abolished together with the
Directorate of Shipping which
has the whole island trade tied
up in hopeless knots.
He declares that the Terri-
tory should be placed under
a practical man of tropical
experience who would carry
decentralisation policy down
to district-control level. And
he repeats the main com-
plaints put forward by Senator
Kendall and touches on one of
the grimmest questions of the
moment —the Chinese invasion.
The Chinese Invasion
There have been Chinese in
large numbers in New Guinea
since the German time. As
everywhere in the tropics, they
have the upper hand in the store
trade. There are about 2500 in
Rabaul, 500 in Madang-Lae, 300
in Bougainville.
While the argosies of the Aus-
tralian Shipping Board have
been able to carry little except
cargoes of red-tape, boats arrive
about every three weeks from
Qjina waters, mostly worked by
Chinese or Malayan crews. There
appears to be nothing whatever
to prevent the Communist agents
of the New China from infiltrat-
ing into New Guinea. There is
certainly nothing to prevent
them, once there, from fading
into the country and spreading
Moscow’s glad news to their
hearts’ content, since the old-
time walking patrols which used
to saturate the whole land far
from the coast with authority
have become a thing of the past.
The new bureaucracy apparently
is incapable of motion ex-
cept on wheels, walking being
officially considered as undigni-
fied for the new apostles of
culture as pickaback riding is for
visiting Cabinet Ministers.
New Guinea now has no
Army, Navy or Security Police,
and the only real defence
measure which appears to have
been taken for some time in the
scandalously wrecked Manus
base, which has been in process
of digestion by the jungle, is its
renaming as Tarangau, which
means “blue-hawk,” in place of
Lorengau, by which the local
district station used to be called
before the war.
There is not even the skeleton
of a defence force —there was be-
fore 1939, thanks to the patriot-
ism of the planters and others.
There are no weapons, and the
Malayan situation is quite pos-
sible of duplication within the
next two or three years and in
an even more disastrous atmos-
phere.
Local Chinese, some in the
third generation, have suited
their sails to the new Com-
munist breeze. As in the Ger-
man time they suddenly ceased to
be imperialists and plumped as
one man for Sun Yat-sen, so
now they have liquidated the
Kuomintang overnight and
wiped out the Nationalist party.
Their very existence depends on
trade with China, and if they ex-
pect to continue to live and
thrive they must dance to the
Chinese Communist tune.
Alienating the Land
This facet of the situation is
doubly dangerous because of the
property position. It is an
axiom in the archipelagoes south
of Asia that as soon as the
Chinese begin to own the land
they begin to own the country.
The Germans knew that, and
they restricted Chinese owner-
ship of plantations to the west
coast of New Ireland opposite
Rabaul and to Manus in the
Admiralties, a delightful area in
which the manly inhabitants
could be depended on to miti-
gate the Chinese birthrate most
efficiently.
The Australian Government,
until the Ward-Evatt era, fol-
lowed the same salutary policy
of restriction. But now that we
are all Asian brothers it would
be against U.N.O.’s theories of
racial equality to give the British
and Australian imperialists privi-
leges denied to Hottentots and
kongkongs. So now the big and
rich Chinese merchants are hav-
ing a merry time buying up
plantations —freehold, of course
—from which Australian re-
turned soldiers have been driven
by the policies of Ward and Co.
and fellow-traveller advisers.
There is cause for relief that
Stalin does not want to buy land
in New Guinea. He could
scarcely be denied the right.
New Guinea is a glorious
example of how democracy
triumphs—over the white man —
in the tropics. The richest areas
are rapidly becoming provinces
of Mao’s Peking Soviet Union.
The eyes are beginning to be
picked out of rich districts,
and especially those near Rabaul.
Samo plantation, one of the best
in the Territory, recently was
sold to the Chinese for £24,000
cash on the nail. Herron’s plan-
tation near Rabaul has been
leased for £2900 a year—no
European bid higher than £l6OO
came in. Chinese outbid all
Europeans 100 per cent, in com-
petition for 10 blocks of land
near Rabaul. As far south as
Bougainville the Chinese have
begun to buy plantations and
trading-stations.
Meanwhile the copra industry
shivers when it thinks of what
will happen on the arrival of a
lower scale of prices.
The possible huge timber in-
dustry of this Great Dominion,
which has a total area larger
than that of N. S. Wales, is
moribund. With gold at a peak
price the gold industry lan-
guishes, prospecting especially.
New Guinea, including Papua,
indeed has been gradually sink-
ing to the level of Portuguese
Timor, except in the bungalows
of the New Order, made com-
fortable through the fact that
unskilled meddling with the
native goes hand in hand with
an atmosphere of restful toil in
which a small servant is still
called a “monkey”—manki to‘the
New Order itself —-and the
wherewithal is always available
to officials to ward off the birau
and the binatang.


How much
ŵ
time will your
Executor have for i/oiu- affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
ẁ
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COSTLY MEDICINE MEN.
Recalling that a year ago Sir
Stafford Cripps had said that
henceforth supplementary (i.e-,
additional) estimates would not
be permitted except in special
cases, “such as a major change
of Government policy,” but that
meanwhile he had asked for a
supplementary £22 million and
had lately asked for a further
£l4B million for the current year,
London “Times” notes that no
less than £99 million of this
latter sum is wanted for the
“free”-health service.
The “Times” had earlier
attacked the working of the
scheme on this same score of the
usual over-optimistic estimates
of its Socialist planners, and it
then forecast that the drift
would become worse before it
was arrested. On the latest
figures it gives it should be con-
vinced that the arresting cer-
tainly won’t be done by the
Attlee Socialists. The figures
are almost incredibly fantastic;
they indicate that in this field
particularly Australian taxpayers
had a very lucky escape on De-
cember 10.
Originally, in 1948-49, it was
held out that the British tax-
payers’ share of the health-
service cost would cOme to £l5O
million for nine months.
Supplementary estimates raised
this figure to £2OB million. For
the full current year the tax-
payers’ share (including a small
earlier addition) was to have
been £261 million, which would
have been in line with the actual
outlay of 1948-49, The latest
supplementary estimates raise the
total to be paid out of taxes in
1949-50 to £359 million.
Nor is this all. The summary
of civil estimates for the coming
year 1950-51 provides for a total
civil outlay (excluding the ex-
penditure of revenue depart-
ments) of £2167 million, com-
pared with £2208 million, the
main cuts falling on various ser-
vices surviving from the war, and
on the Ministries of Food and
Agriculture. But for the health
service expenditure is to rise
from £359 million this year to
£393 million in 1950-51.
Even these figures do not tell
the whole story, for in the cur-
rent year the health service has
also drawn £4l million from the
national insurance fund and
about £l6 million from rate-
payers. All told, the total net
cost of the service this year can
hardly have been less than £416
million, while next year the
Government appears to believe
that it will go up to at least £450
million.
Seeing the Health Minister as
now “the victim rather than the
controller of the service,” the
“Times” gives further figures.
The final bill for hospitals, medi-
cal supplies, artificial limbs,
hearing aids and other services
associated with the hospitals is
about £5O million more than was
bargained for. The bill for
dentistry, originally put at
£30,900,000, turns out to be
£48,600,000. Sight-testing and
spectacles have cost £25,100,000
instead of £14,700,000. The
chemists have drawn £35,300,000
instead of £20,800,000,
“The new estimates,” the
“Times” editorially comments,
“leave little room for doubt, not
just that the Government have
lost control of the finances of
the health service, but rather
that they failed from the start
to establish any control, except
over general practitioners and
local authorities. It is now clear
that the proposed Is. charge on
some prescriptions for some
patients—of which nothing has
been heard since it was first an-
30
Y£AK
R«#wrt
cnifo e
im
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun."
“ FRIENDSHIP, ALLIANCE AND MUTUAL AID” (vide Russia-Ching Pact).
nounced —is quite inadequate.”
Chiming in that the time has
come to save, “not ten or twenty
million, but a hundred million
or even more” on this particular
Socialist enterprise, London
“Economist” agrees that there
must henceforth be a charge, not
so much to make up the vast lee-
way between rosy estimates and
harsh actuality, but by way of
bringing home the financial
realities to both patients and
practitioners.
London “Spectator” comment
on the Socialists’ “supplementary
estimates” in general and the
“free”-health additions in par-
ticular deals with a question that
has occurred to others also:
what has happened to the British
people that they can apparently
be satisfied to let this drift to-
wards bankruptcy go on? :
“It is hard to believe, after the
presentation of supplementary
estimates of Government expen-
diture reaching the appalling
figure of £148,000,000, that
sanity remains anywhere in the
British economy. The next
general election will arrive soon
enough in any case, but it is the
solemn truth that if Parliament
really grasped the dangers of
our economic plight—dangers
which both the great parties
kept out of the recent election
argument —the present Govern-
ment might have fallen the day
after it opened.
“The British people must be
punch-drunk to allow announce-
ments of this sort to slip by
without a concerted protest —a
protest of the kind that must
be listened to even by such
irresponsible squanderers of
public money as Mr. Aneurin
Bevan, whose department de-
mands the fantastic additional
sum of £98,730,000 for the
National Health Service, How
many people realise that this
£148,000,000 asked for as a mere
afterthought represents more
than a shilling of the standard
rate of income tax, or that the
supplementary £98,730,000 de-
manded for the health service
represents an error of over 37
per cent, in the estimate for
1949-50 presented a year ago?
“And this is a performance
put up by a Government and a
party which claim to represent
planning...
“Some dam must have broken
not only in the State financial
system, but in the minds of
British people to let in this flood
of insane spending.”
An Atlantic Union.
Mention was made here some
time back of the strong Ameri-
can sponsorship of an Atlantic
Union an even more im-
portant structure than the
Atlantic Pact represents, and
one which might even (in a
“Christian Science Monitor”
phrase) “shelve the United
Nations.”
Actually, the U.S. Senate has
passed a resolution requesting
the President to invite the de-
mocracies which sponsored the
Atlantic Pact to send delegates
to a convention to consider the
Atlantic Union idea.
“The Atlantic Union people,”
the “Monitor” comments, “have
a great deal of history and
human nature on their side. The
rule of law has normally grown
from small units to larger ones
first where there were common
ideals and interests. Moreover,
in the world’s experience the
great periods of peace have been
those policed by some great
Power —as Pax Romana and
Pax Britannica. The most im-
mediate purpose of Atlantic
Union would be to establish a
Pax Democratica.
“Certainly there is logic in the
argument that Atlantic Union
would do far more effectively
and cheaply the military task
which the Atlantic Pact and the
Military Assistance Programme
are stumblingly attempting. Also,
it would solve not only the balky
problem of economic integration
of Western Europe, but by
bringing in the United States
would lift the democracies’ living
standards by providing one
market of 400,000,000 people.”
Last-ditch Formosa.
Looking at China from the
U.S., “non-recognition” point
of view, N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
reports that the bombing raids
and blockade tactics employed
by what remains of the Chinese
Nationalists on Formosa are
proving a more painful thorn in
the Communist flesh than the
outside world —arid perhaps the
Communists, too —had expected.
It notes that they are hamper-
ing the resumption of normal
4rade relations between China
and other countries, and are
forcing the Communists to main-
tain a large military establish-
ment at great public expense at
a time when they want to get on
with the mammoth job of
economic rehabilitation. Up to
now there have been no signs of
any substantial demobilisation
of Communist military forces,
“The crux of the Communist
problem,” it comments, “is
Formosa. It seems probable
that some time this year the
Reds will mount an all-out
effort to seize this island foot-
hold of the attenuated Nation-
alist regime. , What is not clear
is how they propose to overcome
Chiang Kai-shek’s air and naval
superiority—a necessary pre-
liminary to a successful crossing
of the 100 miles of water
separating Formosa from the
mainland. Did Man *
while in Moscow, obTain
ofSoviet^ade gm he
Will the assault of Formosa h!
accompanied by the *?L be
emergence of a strong
Communist airforce? These a T
interesting questions which ma J
be answered before long.” y
In any case, the “Her a u
Tribune” regards the
position as desperate at b ?
with already signs of disS
togedy.”° U and WCU COmpound the
Editorially, the “Manchester
Guardian” supports that Ameri
can report that the continuing
existence of the Kuomintanf
Government in Formosa is a
more dangerous threat to Com
munist China than it was at first
expected to be. “The Kuomin-
tang command has funds, and
also aeroplanes. Its air-raids
and blockade are causing a
shocking catastrophe i n
Shanghai, with its five million in-
habitants.”
Hence, “the Communist Gov-
ernment is driven by its vital in-
terests to try to extinguish imme-
diately this Kuomintang
remnant. They cannot do so
without allies who can supply
the air power and perhaps naval
power for invading Formosa,
and Russia in present circum-
stances can be their only ally,”
Also in “Manchester
Guardian,” Sir John Pratt, in
articles which may be said to
support what appears to be the
official* British, “recognition”
point of view, sees Formosa now
looming up as the most
dangerous trouble locality of all.
Sir John holds what many con-
sider to be a wishful view of the
Chinese Communists—that they
have not rejected the tutelage of
England and America in order
to place themselves under the
harsher domination of Russia:
“Mao Tse-tung has made it
clear that China is emphatically
not a satellite of Russia: China
under Mao Tse-tung is to play
the same role in Asia that
Russia under Stalin plays in
Europe. Sun Yat-sen, as he lay
dying, sent a last message to his
followers that they must follow
the road of Russia, for by that
road alone could China attain
a position where she would be
treated with the deference due
to a great Power, Mao Tse-tung
has now in view an even loftier
goal than that set by Sun Yat-
sen, for, having followed the
road of Russia, there is now the
prospect that China may once
again become the Middle
Kingdom surrounded by satellite
States looking up to her as the
fountain-head of civilisation.
However that may work out,
the British writer meanwhile
bluntly attacks U.S. policy in
China. He notes a cleavage in
the Chinese Communist ranks
between the ideas of Mao Tse-
tung and others whose ‘Com-
munism derives as much from
the Confucian dialectic as from
Marx,” and, on the other hand,
the “fanatical doctrinaires wno
would sacrifice even China s m
dependence on the altar o
Marxist-Leninist theory :
“If American policy had been
less inept—to use no stronger
word—the doctrinaires wouia
have very little influence
China today, The resumption


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
"CANADIAN CLIPPER” Ready
Knbbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
lacks. Priced 21/- per lb. or loose
I'wced 22/- per lb.
. Fine Cut Re ady Rubbed
or Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
l acks, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
I'nced 22/- per lb.
™SJON.” That Fine Old Well
Pipe Mixtu re that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
Per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box Valley ro - Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
S&AitBWTISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
writing
the popular pen
. With the
MARVELLOUS nib
Convoy Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
u J- W. RAMSAY
-Melbourne nnA
mm
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
for *n r das* of Machinery
METER CHARTS • Specialty
** r,e » (U.w.4 u. «.
O*SULUVAN%Lfic
21»»T, BMSBAkt
THE glorious tradition behind the Royal Australian Navy combines
with science to build a modern navy of which Australia can continue
to be proud. An enthusiastic, intelligent boy can mould himself a
fine career In the growing strength and responsibility of the R.A.N.
Your son can become a highly trained specialist,
with opportunities for promotion, for adventure
and the excitement of world travel. The excellent
rates of pay, together with generous contributory
pension benefits will ensure his financial stability.
ms
A
msk
MB
mmm
m
A PROUD FUTURE
for your son
Applications are invited foi
a ricT MIDSHIPMAN : Intelligent, healthy boys who become 13 years of age during
BS
yea 7,% e peciltue e d n VraTnlnfa Bnd 8 nd general education at the Royal Australian Naval College, they
are sent overseas on active service.
CADET-MIDSHIPMAN (Special Entry) = Thi. I.„•£gg«SfSKa£hlSs£
16| to 18 years of age to become off,c ®. rs IB^* h must’have passed Matriculation standard
of the R.A.N. Sound healthis have Stained satisfactory passes in
M..n,i..i.«*
MIDSHIPMAN (S) !The Supply and o Branches
ars of age, whose educational
and it offers an opportunity of service to boys o to y Senior Public Examin-
qualifications are that they must have passed the branches .
ation. Other than this, cond.t.ons of entry are the same be #OM
Applicants for CADET-MIDSHIPMEN,
of British subjects by birth or naturalisation and of R£ACH jhe secretary
CADET-MIDSHIPMEN (Special Entry) AND MID.
SH°PMEnIs) NOT N iAtER THAN 15th APRIL, 1950.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY
BBW ■"" cu/ars can be obtained from the Naval derail,ng Office m
P i r it\i rpYcebt Victoria when particulars should be obtained
NAVY OFFICE. MELBOURNE. S.C.I.
RANV26.83.30
ẃ
old exploiting society We do
not believe in an eternal
morality.’
“It is this amoral basis of
Russian Communism which has
in the end alienated the sym-
pathies of such intelligent per-
sons as Andre Gide, Stephen'
Spender and John Strachey, who
were at first attracted by its eco-
nomic doctrine. It leads, as
Professor Laski had written, to
‘deception, ruthlessness, con-
tempt of fair play, willingness
>
ẅ
—Newark (U.S.A.) "News.”
TYPICAL EXHIBIT.
to use lying and treachery to
gain some desired end and com-
plete dishonesty in the presenta-
tion of facts.’
“But for us there must always
remain certain principles which
lie at the foundation of human
society and which no man can
repudiate without grave damage
to his own individuality. Un-
truthfulness, for instance, is evil
always, everywhere absolutely.
Cruelty, for instance, is evil
always, everywhere, absolutely.
However much a man may be-
lieve in social justice, however
much he may be enamored of a
classless society, he must re-
main convinced, unless he pos-
sesses a disordered or a Scythian
mind, of these absolutes. It is
in their denial of these and
other absolutes that the Russians
and the Nazis have run counter
to such ethical advances as
Homo sapiens has been able to
achieve in the last 3000 years.
The terrible moral regressions
which we have witnessed in our
own lifetime (such as the rein-
troduction of massacre, torture
and slave labor as political acts)
cannot be justified by what
Marx called “the concrete
human situation” or explained
as necessary products of exist-
ing conditions of production.
Were we for one instant to ad-
mit such reservations we should
be denying the whole dignity of
man.”
Meanwhile, air-mail postings
continue to show the British
Press taking the dreadful case
much more seriously than it
did at first. There are some
attempts at defence of Britain’s
official position in the matter,
but most comment agrees that
the traditionally astute were
caught not merely napping but
trying to break the record of
Rip Van Winkle.
Thus, Rebecca West, report-
ing in the “Evening Standard,”
says that American reporters
were attracted to the Fuchs trial
in large numbers by the rumor
that it would show that British
security had fallen down badly.
“And they got what they came
for,” comments Miss West.
Though one of those to have
a shot at trying to defend the
indefensible, the “Manchester
Guardian” has to admit that
“Dr. Fuchs entered the United
States with a British Govern-
ment guarantee of his good
faith. It records that the U.S.
counter-espionage bureau ap-
parently learnt that the Russians
had acquired certain informa-
tion about the bomb which
could only have come from the
British atomic station of Har-
well.”
It states further on the matter
of how the Communist scientist
spy came to be found out that,
according to “Time” magazine,
throughout last October the
British security officers were
hunting spies at Harwell with-
out success. They invited the
Americans to send over a team
to help them. By a process of
eliminating all persons who
were ignorant of the mechanics
as well as the physics of the
bomb, the net began to tighten.
Another source in Washing-
ton has been quoted as claim-
ing that suspicions were aroused
after a tapped telephone call.
There is also the blackmail
theory—that the scientist spy’s
employers first tried to black-
mail him when his supply of
information stopped, and when
their threats failed they gave
him away to the American
F. 8.1.
As for the spy’s punishment,
w
Dragnet Digest.
Broke Britons. —A London “Daily
Mad” writer quotes a leading banker
as informing him that “Private
saving in Britain is almost a thing
of the past.” Savings in Britain in
1939, he states, totalled £141,000,000,
but the figure today has dropped to
£6,000,000; “An overall survey of
family budgets among salaried people
and craftsmen shows that two
families out of four can no longer
budget for holidays, And only one
in four is saving anything at all.
* * * *
Franco Shuffle.— The “Scotsman”
(Edinburgh) runs a London report to
the effect that Franco is expected
shortly to turn over the Premiership
to his brother Nicholas, the present
Spanish Ambassador in Lisbon;
Franco, however, to remain Chief ot
State. It is implied that this little
change will enable Uncle Sam (for
one) to get back on to the old foot-
ing with Spain,
* * * *
Sister Kenny’s U.S. Freedom.—
What amounts to the honor of
“freedom of the United States” has
been granted to the Australian who
figures over there as the Florence
Nightingale of infantile paralysis.
Sister Kenny (reports London
“Economist”) “has been given un-
limited and unprecedented privileges
for entering the United States as a
temporary visitor, without passport
or immigration papers.”
* * * *
U.S. Population— With no more
than a very small trickle of immigra-
tion, U.S. population is progressing
at an extraordinary bat, impressively
indicated by the London “Times Re-
view of Industry” note that, whereas
in the 1930 decade the increase was
only 8,500,000, over 20,000,000
people were added in the 1940’5.
* * * *
Very Informal Voters— Strange but
true, Australian informal voting has
been beaten hollow, and in totalitar-
ian elections at that. It happened
in the electing of the Students
Councils in the Humbfolt University,
which is under Soviet control in the
eastern sector of Berlin. Having to
vote for a single list of officially
approved candidates, the students had
no other way of expressing their dis-
approval except by spoiling their
ballot papers, and (reports London
“Time and Tide”) of the 5365 papers,
2810 were thus treated. Most of the
theology students wrote across the
list of candidates a verse from
Isaiah: “Behold, ye are of nothing,
and your work of nought: an
abomination is he that chooseth
you.”


LOOK YOUR BEST!
7
AN
VV# *•
ewue Jau4
“No question about it- —only tKe
finest of pure fur is used in the
making of Akubra Hats.
When you buy an Akubra you
get something no other make of
hat can give you ... an exclusive
Akubra process gives your hat
distinction, comfort and dura-
bility.”
AKUBRA
hate ofiQmlita
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO ARTHUR LEONARD ELLIS late of
Hill End in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that NORMA ISABEL
ELLIS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
8361 of 1949 against you on the ground
of your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the Sixth day of June 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. F. B. KENNY &
SON & BAILLIE, Solicitors, Rural Bank
Chambers, William Street, Bathurst, or
their City Agents, MESSRS. JENNINGS
& JENNINGS, Solicitors, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUQHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DEC®
with Newl Improvedl
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Now dental science offers
proof that always using
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating helps stop tooth
decay before it starts!
Continuous research hun-
dreds of case histories —makes
this the most important news
in dental history!
Tests were made in America
with 2 groups of college men
and women for over a year.
One group always brushed
their teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream right after eat-
ing. The other group fol-
lowed their usual dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
higher rate.
Family Economy V*
Giant 2A
Large 1/3
New! lmpre»« , JJ
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Ever!
SKsrfWv^Sas
white colour! New^
polishing action • foam For
less penetrat.ng * tal care-
effective that using
mj? vlsiAS?
decay with cois»-
Cream. i
w
AMERICA’S
LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Always Use Colgate s to
Clean Your Breath WbOe
You Clean Your Teeth a®"
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY^
♦Right after eabK
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Some time ago a reader asked if
anyone knew what to do with a cow
who milked herself.” — “New Idea.”
Send her to an agricultural
college to demonstrate to new-
chums.
4* 4* 4*
“I’ve given up buying bloomers
because of the awful seams.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Now she goes about scantily
dressed.
4* 4* 4*
“Through a window I saw two
Russian officers, one with the mauve
cap-band of the secret police, enter-
ing the station.”
—Sydney “Sunday Herald.”
To cloak his identity still
further, the one with the mauve
cap-band wore only the regula-
tion secret-police uniform, with
the letters N.K.V.D. silk-screened
in black on broad yellow arm-
bands. Moreover, both men
spoke nothing but Russian —and
then only when they opened their
mouths.
4* 4* 4*
“Woman for cleaning and polish-
ing factory workers (male) required.”
—Suburban paper.
One used to manhandling pre-
ferred.
4* # 4- 4*
Leaning Horse.
“The start of the race was delayed
mainly by one of the horses leaning
against the fence at the back of the
stalls.”— Sydney sporting report.
ẃ
there’s a bit of work to
be done the nag follows prece-
dent and props his listless frame
against the nearest fence hoping
the starter won’t see him. It
isn’t light exercise (the animal
probably soliloquises) tearing
around in circles at 30 m.p.h.
on a full tummy.
Such tendency to indolence
could easily be checked, how-
ever. Simply replace wooden
fences around and adjacent to
race-tracks with mildly electri-
fied ones. On race-days this in-
novation would have the double
effect of firing loafing nags with
a volt or two of ambition and
of shocking an occasional
punter into giving the game
away before it’s too late.
P. M-
-4* 4* 4 1
‘‘l am scared to death that I am
going to be an old maid.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Hence dying to get married.
‘‘Would finder of child’s brown
7 o’clock, February 15, please re-
turn.” — Suburban paper.
Lost time is so hard to re-
place, whatever color.
4* 4* 4*
“In Australia the theatre is dying
of malnutrition.” — Sydney “Sun,”
To compensate for this
theatregoers are fed up.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale, modem double bed,
horse.” — Country paper.
Thanks, we’ve had that night-
mare.
“ Haven't had a bite for hours —lesh try another shpot!"
“Glasses lost, reward will call.”
—Suburban paper.
Low or high note?
4* 4* 4*
‘‘One new pair (never worn) sports
necklace; heavy aluminium gas-
saving big man, 42in. waist, 30in.
inside leg.”
—Suburban paper.
With gas the price it is this
fellow should be worth his
weight in aluminium.
Something Out of the Bag.
ẅ
BERT.
Brain Test for a Boniface.
1. —By a strange coincidence,
the day on which you receive
your quota of bottled beer from
the brewery you have a visit
from Danny Chizzelor, at whose
night-club patrons are socked ss.
for a bottle of beer. There fol-
lows a stimulating discussion
with Danny on such subjects as
the high price of Murray-cod
fillets, Ur of the Chaldees, the
life-cycle of the bollworm, the
threat of the H-bomb, the
poetry of Rabindranath Tagore
and the impact of the new Con-
cordance to the Scriptures on
newly-converted Christians in
Tibet. The upshot of these talks
is that Danny arranges to send a
truck around after dark. Late
that afternoon a customer whom
you have never seen before de-
mands to be sold three bottles at
the fixed price. As a gesture of
goodwill towards a potential
good customer, would you meet
his request?
2. —lt is midday, by which
time you have, as usual, knocked
back several travellers who have
demanded a meal at your near-
city hostelry. Then in stroll two
men whom you observed get off
a motor-bike and side-car. Both
are very large, with extremely
large feet, and they have about
them an air of authority. They
ask to be supplied with a meal.
There has been criticism in the
papers lately about the reluct-
ance of publicans to supply
meals as provided for in their
licences, and threats of action by
Licensing magistrates. You
have been warned twice already.
In view of this, and taking into
consideration that the large feet
could indicate merely that the
visitors are footballers, would
you feel disposed curtly to re-
fuse their request?
3. —A customer has been in
the bar for about an hour, dur-
ing which time he has had 14
middies, half a dozen double-
header whiskies and several
rums. You are, you are aware,
under a moral obligation not to
go on serving him, as the con-
sumption of any more liquor
might constitute a public danger,
he having his car outside. The
customer had previously killed
two people in a hif-and-run acci-
dent for which he had been fined
the usual £lO. He slaps half a
note into the bar suds and says:
“Nuzza double-header an’ keep
change—plenny more where that
come fr’m.” Would you post-
pone your decision till his next
call?
4. —You hear, through certain
friends, that the party you sup-
port has arranged for one of its
members to get up in caucus and
demand a royal commission
into the drink traffic, and that
this item is to be given specially
to the Press. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that’this hap-
pens regularly each year, mem-
bers making the demand in
rotation as a pious gesture to
the public, and that the only
results are broad gr i ns
chiackmg in caucus, S d
deem it prudent to set in d 0u
of aspir& agaiL't 0 r“ s a s £k
of your being caused a Tot
sleep over this? oss
S.-Under the 40-hour week
the hog-swill rush at , k
boozery starts at approximli?
4.15 instead o£ 5 n.m nS^‘l ly
old 44-hour week. Yoo/loral
member, in whose election ex
penses you have always taken*:
sympathetic interest, informs “S
he proposes to urge the pa,,, 1 ?
m ?°K UCe -..‘ he 35-hour wLl°
which will allow workers a „
extra hour to spend in the fcj
each afternoon in pursuit of that
oWe U « of thi 5 ’ 0f C r se ’
object of the ever-shortcnint
week. Taking into account he
deep concern you would natur-
ally feel for the deleterious effect
this extra drinking would have
on the workers’ home-life, pl us
the realisation that it would en
tail extra work for your bar'
maids and extra profits which
would lift you to a higher-income
group and consequently result in
your having to pay additional
income-tax, would you feel dis-
posed to discourage the member
in his intention?
6—A proposal to reintroduce
counter-lunches is the subject of
the latest silly-season symposium
in the flapper Press. As you
are aware, your party will do its
utmost to maintain the present
happy state of things whereby
bigger profits are made in three-
hours-a-day trading than when
they were open for 10 hours;
but probably at some future
time there may be a revulsion
against the present system, and
as a result drinkers, instead
of being treated with the con-
tempt they deserve, may have to
be wooed. In view of this,
would you advocate an immedi-
ate introduction of elaborate
bar-lunches as in the old days
when Bungs were satisfied with
a modest 200 p.c. profit?
BO.


lAvrm
Seventeen-
L Jewelled
Swiss
Masterpieces
%
ft*
non
cOP
UVINA
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
EnabL?~ try the new Roussel Free,
comfort y n n^ to do hard work with
holds, a condltinn e ?h rit , y V , Definitely
tor improvement bsolutely necessary
d ° Ctors and «“>*'
Maranteed JS! }i serß - Satisfaction
PDr'P'Vvn matter where you live.
°*'T- K?om g aHonf? VS ’ trial
m u Tl Appliance co. f
Z7) - fl W "- Xi - Sydney.
*o*
PENS
>dofto» _ . guaranteed—*
9l
“I think rd like
a White Horse
better than anything”
p
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
44 A pleasure to remember a joy to find again, 99
WH4AX
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
tl» s, “ rs jfthat almost all the rele-
prospects is “ . hich pun ters
vant / ecen L f d h as been established
will b^ g fl ffecfed tracks. For the
ft at Randwick on Satur-
A j,C racegoers had a last oppor-
daj, when iap gO o gpoJ . Doncast er
SSr Conditions were once again
mS and the track heavy. . •
The 7-furlongs Liverpool Handicap
-«.rded as the Doncaster trial
waS r «n Saturday, and it certainly
ra , c H e d its quota of confusion' to the
add f Bungymun (B. Moon), Grey
Sts and Valiant Lee, none of whom
K been really seriously considered
for the Doncaster, filled the places,
while the also-rans included the New
Zealander Lord Moss, who had been
favorite for the mile practically since
weights were issued, and who was a
hot favorite for Saturday s race. In
addition, the Epsom winner and very
l 0 od mare De La Salle thrust her-
self well into the Doncaster picture
with a very sound run into fourth
place after having been well jo the
rear at the turn. Mentioned here
last week as being a much better
horse than he is generally rated,
Bungymun finished stoutly along the
rails to win by a head from Grey
Boots, who had taken the lead at
the top of the straight. _
As a result of his defeat, Lord
Moss lost his position as Doncaster
favorite, Buzmark now heading the
charts, but surely it would be rash
to dismiss Lord Moss purely on
Saturday’s showing. With 9st., rep-
resenting 61b. over weight-for-age, the
New Zealand colt was very harshly
handicapped, and the state of the
track didn’t make his job any easier.
Lord Moss has 8.7 in the Doncaster,
and he will be meeting those who
beat him on Saturday on much better
terms.
At time of writing there were some
80 horses still in the Doncaster.
Trying to narrow that bunch down
a bit, horses which impress present
observer as having bright prospects
are Buzmark, Lord Moss, De La
Salle, Achilles and The Groom.
Among the lightweights who might
go well on a heavy track, Grey
Boots, Wattle and Lady Finis are
possibilities. Buzmark certainly looks
very nicely handicapped with 7.13,
and his recent form is- up to the
mark, but his failure in the last
Epsom, for which he was also
favorite, raises a doubt as to his
ability to beat really top-class com-
pany at a mile. In’ the Epsom, Buz-
mark carried 7.8, and appeared to be
given every chance, but was com-
fortably beaten by Denali, carrying
8.5.
As a glance back through the list
of past winners will readily show,
horses which have earned the handi-
capper’s respect in the Doncaster
should likewise be respected by
punters, and three horses of which
the handicapper has expressed a high
opinion this year are The Groom
(9.4), De La Salle (9.3) and Lord
Moss (8.7). The considerable likeli-
hood of the Doncaster beipg run on
a rain-affected track does not en-
courage one to plump for a heavily-
weighted horse, but a performance
that comes very much to mind was
The Groom’s winning of the mile
George Main Stakes last October.
On a track so heavy that they took
1.41 to cut out the mile, The Groom,
carrying 9.4, finished brilliantly to
win by a half-length from the Don-
caster winner Bernbrook (9st.).
While the Liverpool Handicap did
little to clarify the Doncaster posi-
tion, the 12-furlongs Warwick Farm
Autumn Handicap consolidated Sir
Falcon’s position as a warm favorite
for the Sydney Cup. Allowed to run
along quietly in the rear division
during the early part of the race, Sir
Falcon gradually moved up to be
third at the turn, and finished in
grand style to win running away from
Benvolo and Hurry Up.
Sir Falcon’s form is excellent, and
in his breeding there is no reason to
doubt him, but he is, nevertheless,
an unknown quantity at two miles.
The Cup distance is the real
test of a true stayer, and, when they
are available, as is the case in this
year’s Cup field, horses which have
proven themselves over the 2-mile
journey are possibly to be preferred.
Three such are Carbon Copy, Dark
Marne and Flurry Up, while Benvolo
might be added to the list on the
strength of his fair third in the last
Melbourne Cup.
Making his first appearance in
Sydney this year, Carbon Copy
showed that he is thoroughly fit for
the fray by winning Saturday’s Chip-
ping 'Norton Stakes (10f.) very well
indeed. Favorite Dickens made a
race of it with Carbon Copy in the
straight, but Carbon Copy # deter-
minedly beat him off, and drew away
to score by a length and a quarter.
Other runners showed disappointing
form. Vagabond made up some little
ground to be a distant third ? but
doesn’t seem to have the brilliant
finishing effort he was wont to pro-
duce last year. Delta beat only one
horse home, and gave the impression
that he may have had enough racing
for the present. Carbon Copy heads
the Cup weights with 9.7; he won
last year, as a three-year-old, with 8.5.
While the better-class races, of
course, occupied the limelight, the
most spectacular winning effort of the
day, or, for that matter, in many a
day, was produced by the Genetout
five-year-old Bold Archer in winning
the mile Cabramatta Welter Handi-
cap. At the half-mile peg Bold
Archer was not only last, but was a
good four lengths behind the second-
last horse in a field of 19, It can be
readily imagined what sort of a burst
he had to turn on to win by a
matter of nearly two lengths. If the
track is heavy again next Saturday, it
would not surprise to see Bold Archer
given a run in the Doncaster, in which
he has 7st.
Of other winners at Randwick,
probably«the most significant was ? the
High Caste colt Karangi, whose run-
away victory in the second Fairfield
Handicap (6f.) looked a fair Sires’
Produce Stakes trial. A.J.C. Derby
winner and St. Leger candidate Play-
boy found the job of lumping 9.3
in the mud a bit solid, and was well
beaten into third place by Belle
Amber (B. Smith) and Beau China
in the 10-furlongs Cobbitty Handicap.
Nevertheless, he gave the impression
that it will be he, rather than Delta,
who will worry Dickens in the St.
Legef.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
No doubt partly responsible for
the surprisingly large crowd at' Caul-
field On Saturday was the presence
of the topnotch American jockey
Johnny Longden, visiting these parts
at present on the invitation of the
Melbourne Racing Club. Sensibly
preferring to have a little time to
study local methods and conditions,
Longden will not be riding in a race
until next Saturday, but he rode an
exhibition gallop on Beau Gem at
Caulfield, and got a great hand from
the crowd. Longden’s riding position
—well forward and extremely short —*
comes as somewhat strange to Aus-
tralian racegoers, but 3500-odd win-
ners and some 9,000,000 dollars in
stakes testify that he knows his
onions.
Punters would have had a far more
profitable day had the entire pro-
gramme comprised one-horse exhibi-
tion gallops. A card of seven races
produced one successful favorite, and
most winners did not remotely ap-
proach favoritism.
Possibly the best result of the day
for the books was the success of the
Grand National Hurdle winner Chat-
sol in the 12-furlongs Riversdale
Handicap. Saxony started a solid
favorite at 9 to 4, and at least five
other runners were well backed;
Chatsol went out at 16 to 1, and,
taking the lead from Bruin with a
furlong to go, successfully withstood
every challenge ' thrown at him,
finally scoring by a neck from Dash-
ing Beau, with Chilperic a head away
third.
Certainly the most thrilling finish
of the day was that of the 9-furlongs
Shannon Handicap, won by-the Syd-
ney galloper Karachi. There were
12 runners in the race, and at the
finish any moderate marksman could
have potted six of them with one
shot. The camera sorted them out
as Karachi, Sage King and Photon,
with Victory Law, Blank Music and
Regal Chief all giving supporters a
grand show for their cash.
An interesting winner on Saturday
was the aptly-named filly Buttons and
Bows, who took out the Balwyn
Handicap for two-year-olds. Raced
by her breeder, L. F. Aldridge of
Kismet Pa]-k stud, Buttons and Bows
is the first representative of im-
ported High Peak to win a race in
Melbourne. High Peak is a son of
the very successful English sire
Hyperion, now strongly represented
at a string of studs throughout Aus-
tralia. Buttons and Bows started at
14 to 1, and won gamely from Helles-
burn and Bright Law.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Vaucluse Handicap: Ashtray, 1;
Bold Archer, 2; Mortar, 3. Sires’
Produce Stakes: True Course, 1;
Karangi, 2; Matterhorn, 3. Autumn
Stakes: Carbon Copy, 1; Bruce, 2;
Dark Mame, 3. Doncaster Handi-
cap: The Groom, 1; De La Salle, 2;
Lord Moss, 3. AJ.C. St. Leger:
Playboy, 1; Dickens, 2; Delta, 3.
Princess Handicap: Carriole, 1; Dona
Marcheta, 2; Belle Amber, 3. Tocal
Handicap: 1; Indian Chief,
2; Roman Step, 3.
For the Sydney Cup: Hurry Up, 1;
Carbpn Copy, 2; Dark Marne, 3;
Persist, 4.
* * * *
The British golf champion, Rees,
is unlucky to have struck the Aus-
tralian, Cremin, right at the top of
his form. In the McWilliams Wines
tournament Rees lost to Cremin after
being in a nice position, and the
same thing happened on Saturday in
the “Advertiser” £5OO in Adelaide —
this time Cremin winning by a
stroke, 284. Cremin was 16 under
standard scratch for the Seaton
“Let's go back , Gadsby — We're getting into bad malaria
country."
course. A 20ft. putt for a birdie at
the 70th gave Cremin the prize.
* * * *
Skippering the' cricket tourists in
New Zealand, Bill Brown seems to
have a one-man team at his disposal
in the person of N.S.W. bowler Alan
Davidson. At Masterton last week
Davidson beat the opposition,
Wairarapa, virtually single-handed.
After taking all 10 wickets in the
first innings, Davidson, off his own
bat, knocked up 20 runs more than
the Wairarapa team was able to
manage in two innings. When Brown
closed the Australian innings at seven
for 603, Davidson was 157 not out;
Wairarapa was dismissed for 70 and
67, Australia winning by an innings
and 466 runs.
* * * *
The amazing Mr. Marshall has
been at it again! Competing in the
U.S.A. Amateur Athletic Union’s
championships the young Australian
swimmer lopped just the bare 7.3 sec.
off the world record for 440yds.;
Marshall’s time was 4min. 31.25ec.,
and, en route, he passed the 400
metres peg in 4min. 29.55ec., lower-
ing the record for that distance by
5.1 sec. Sinpe he has‘been at Yale
University, Marshall has set world-
record times for six distances —200
metres, 300 metres, 400 metres,
220yds., 300yds. and 440yds.
* * * *
The Riverview Gold Cup Regatta,
rowed on the Lane Cove course,
Sydney, on Saturday, saw school
crews once again prove too hot for
the older club-rowers. Actually, it’s
scarcely a fair test in that regard, as
the G.P.S. crews are approaching
their peak, with the Head of the
River a couple of weeks off, while
the club rowing season is about on
its last legs. Winners of the ‘ Gold
Cup this year were St. Joseph’s,
scoring by a half-length from Shore,
with the Haberfield club crew third.
Time for the race was given as 4min.
54sec., which suggests that it’s about
time they ran the tape over the
alleged mile course.
* * * *
At Leichhardt last week Nipper
O’Brien (9.12) was a hot favorite for
his bout with Darby Brown (9.11),
and, leading by a mile on points, the
O’Brien looked like fulfilling his part
of the contract until a moment of the
carelessness born of over-confidence
led him into the path of a haymaker
in the 10th round. It was a groggy
O’Brien who staggered up at the
count of nine, and the ref. wasted no
time in closing’proceedings.


v # ?■*
AMLI
JUMP
AS !H 6KfAT~
SKANVfATHVt'S
pay/
Today swift freight
’planes replace the sail*
ing vessels of yesteryear
in the transport of stud
stock—just one of the
great changes in which
A.M.L.&F. has partici-
pated during 87 years’
to the Man on
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches:— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land; Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandl,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., -Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd,, Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Koi'umburra.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griuder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work*
n
40z., Boz., IGoz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eytelidr
SOLD,
H.A.Rose&Co.Pty.Ltd.Klnn St. Sydney
“Phenovis” Worm Remedy
Inching time it
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
/'.//
■/////,
w
/.
'/
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
ẁ
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to:—
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd.,' MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fogging Sheep Pests.
“C.R.D.”; It is rather opti-
mistic (B. 22/3 / ’5O) to picture
the sheepman of the future “fog-
dipping” his flocks with a knap-
sack outfit. The plant currently
used requires a jeep or light
utility for transport. The prin-
ciple of producing a “thermal
aerosol” —or dry-fog of miscible
oils and insecticides —is one
which does not allow for knap-
sack plants.
Still, fog-dipping is showing
remarkable results against sheep-
fly, and one may forecast an end
to plunge- and spray-dips.
Crutching seems to be on the
way out. The sheep-fly itself may
soon become as rare as the
dodo, for fogging allows the
chemicals to do a complete and
lasting job of screw-worm and
adult-fly slaughter. The sheep
being their sole breeding-ground,
where are the pests to breed if
fogged off sheep? Fog-dipping
has been tested so thoroughly
that doubters are likely to have
their questions answered before
they’re asked.
“J.R.D.”: “R. Ney” is
optimistic. Use of fog as a
carrier of insecticides, fungicides
and bactericides has been fairly
extensive in U.S.A., but chiefly
on crops and orchards. In Aus-
tralia fogging machines have
been successful in fumigating
picture-shows, halls and dwel-
lings, and have dealt with grass-
hoppers in the hopper stage.
Main drawback against using
fog in the open is the difficulty
of controlling it, particularly if
there is any wind, and for this
reason, as well as in comparative
costs, manufacturers of dipping
and spraying equipment aren’t,
as yet, worried about fog
machines.
In spite of some extravagant
claims on fogging sheep the
C.5.1.R.0. and other experts re-
main unconvinced. B.H.C. and
gammexane appear to be m ost
suitable poisons, but the cost of
application is very high. The
machine itself costs nearly £BOO
and has to be mounted on a
truck. It costs plenty to operate
and needs a specially-trained
operator.
All this tends to put it in the
hands of contractors who can
work over a wide area where
sufficient jobs can be found to
keep it employed most of the
year. Even when the machines
have proved that they are cap-
able of controlling all external
parasites of sheep—ked, body-
lice, footlice, itchmite, blowfly
and maggots few graziers
would have sufficient work to
justify the cost of a machine.
Many experts are con-
vinced that to get any worth-
while results sheep to be treated
should be in small mobs, and
should be held in an enclosed
space—a shed or a covered race
—where the fog can be concen-
trated on them. Also, if woolly
sheep are packed tightly to-
gether the surface area of fleece
exposed to the fog may be re-
duced by half or more.
According to experts the only
pest in woolly sheep that the
fogger will treat successfully is
the sheep-ked or tick. Body-lice
can be attacked successfully only
when the sheep are freshly
shorn. Results of treating fly-
blown sheep are too erratic as
yet to recommend fogging. As
far as itchmite is concerned,
C.5.1.R.0. is definite that none
of the new insecticides has
proved 100 per cent, toxic,
irrespective of the method of
application.
Nevertheless, results obtained
from treating external parasites
of sheep by fogging are encour-
aging enough to be followed up.
In the meantime the man of
limited means can keep his flock
reasonably free from fly-strike
“I Wonder if she's still waiting for me!"
by existing methods to protect
the breech, and by spraying the
back with a good insecticide
such as D.D.T. or gammexane
to check body-strike.
Lambs in Africa.
“Agric”: Experiments at the
Summer Cereal Station,
Kroonstad (South Africa), in an
effort to produce a crossbred
lamb which will thrive on the
veld and reach an economic
slaughtering weight within three
or four months have produced
promising results.
During the past two years
excellent results have been
obtained with Dorset Horn-
Merino cross rams mated to the
offspring of Dorset Horn-
Merino cross rams and Merino
ewes. Second crosses have
been made so that ewes which
are 7/16th Dorset Horn and
9/16th Merino have now been
produced, and their offspring,
when mated to the crossbred
rams, have showp the best
results to date.
When the last weight tests
were made three groups of
lambs were slaughtered at an
average age of 137.5, 142.5 and
138.5 days, respectively. Aver-
age weights for the three groups
were 73.3ib., 78.51 K and 76.51 b.,
and average dressed carcass
weights were 32.51 b., 36.71 b. and
36.816,
Dairy Cows.
“C.H.”: Pre-natal care should
start with the drying-off process.
Starving to dry a cow off is a
bad and too common practice.
With the unborn calf well de-
veloped she is already run down,
and in addition to staging a
comeback after calving, she is
expected to maintain the heavy
milk-flow of the modern cow—
a further drain on the system.
About six weeks before calv-
ing date begin to build up her
strength. Put her on good feed
and water, with ample shade and
protection, tree as well as shed.
Though “springer” paddocks,
in which feed is scarce and water
doubtful, where odds and ends
of the herd are kept and to
which dogs have access, may
still be found in plenty, they are
ŵ
When green-feed is scarce and
weather dry, all springers need
bran in their food. A salt-lick
helps.
Don’t overfeed immediately
after calving. Bran mashes or
lucerne or clover-hay is the best
ration for the first two or three
days.
Take the calf away from its
dam at the end of 48 hours,
This gives it ample time to be
properly dried by the massage
of the cow’s tongue. Allowing
it to stay with its dam three or
four days is bad management;
the cow frets, the milk-flow is
andi is l ’ s hard t 0 bucket
the calf -
Meal Substitutes.
“Mr.”; The expected fall ,- n
flour exports this year ?L n
800,000 short tons per
to an estimated 500,000) 3
result in a drop i n bran 3
pollard supplies l , a r r
Hewitt, M.Agr.Sc., estimates £
bran and pollard shortage ii!
year at a ,b°s 130,000 short ton
Which will have to be made SS
by various alternative foods °2
dairy and livestock production
is not to suffer. uctlon
Principal substitute feeds for
bran recommended by Hewin
are maize oil-meal, maize gluten
(polly) feed, crushed oats L
branning, malt coombs, brewers’
grams, lucerne hay or chaff
peanut-skins or green foods As
the food values and bulkiness of
these fodders vary considerably
they should not be fed in the
same proportions as bran, and
Hewitt advises the following
measures, using 1001 b. of bran
as the standard: maize oil-meal
501 b., maize gluten (polly) f ee d
571 b., coconut-meal 581 b., barley
bran 691 b., crushed oats 711 b
oat bran 941 b., dried brewers’
grains 961 b., malt coombs 981 b
peanut-skins 1031 b., lucerne
chaff 1261 b. and wet brewers’
grains 3381 b.
For pollard the more common
substitutes are ground wheat,
oats, barley or maize; oats and
rice pollards or rice-meal.
Weights of these foods contain-
ing the same number of nutrients
(starch equivalents) as 1001 b. of
pollard are: ground maize 901 b.,
rice-meal 931 b., rice pollard
961 b., ground ryecora 961 b.,
ground wheat 961 b., ground
barley 971 b., grain sorghum
1011 b., ground oats 1111 b. and
oat pollard 1111 b.
For poultry the normal bran-
pollard mash can be replaced by
any of the following mixtures;
ground wheat 801 b., dried
brewers’ grains 101 b., meatmeal
101 b.; or ground wheat 601 b.,
ground oats 301 b. and meatmeal
10lb.; or ground wheat 601 b.,
ground barley 201 b., dried
brewers’ grains 101 b. and meat-
meal 101 b.; or ground wheat
501 b., ground barley 201 b.,


J eur jedding day, you. as the
S“ ,n the family add to your
can hr ' !l t,eS ‘ This responsibility
*kh b Li eqUate J y met b y or ranging
Zumn J^ lta , b L e P / obate & General
assuranr* C *'r Ltd ‘ or ° suitob,e life
Pony £dnJ > °77 COntact the com -
“otter d y ° nd dlscuss this important
h- V. PERKINS, General Manager.
dll' V PROBATE 8. GENERAL
W fj .... .INSURANCE CO. LTD,
ei37, *m*ei,Jt,Snstan
3BDCOLLINS < STRP^t A u DEL PLACE ' BYDNE
_ 10,15 STREET, MELBOURNE.
w
espeaaHw J** ®“ tlmes > and
Scan Cuticura
eu
W
Jk
ŵ
MODERN
SANITATION
ẁ
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE HYGEIA IIiSSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING .
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ẃ
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dlssolvenators (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’a Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Keo, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
Additional supply of
PREFECT SEDANS
PRICED LOWER THAN ANY OTHER
MAKE OF lOH.P. SEDAN
Shipments of
English-built Prefects
will supplement local production of
Australia’s most popular
10 h.p. car
These English-built 4-door sedans now
arriving in Australia maintain the Prefect
top-value tradition. The English-built
bodies are of a very high standard of
workmanship, finely upholstered and well-
equipped. On the road you’ll find the
Prefect big enough, smart enough, thrifty
enough for really satisfying motoring.
The, demand for Prefect grows every day-
so talk to your Ford Dealer NOW!
fOftD WSOTQR COMPANY Of AUSTHALIA LIS. (INC. W VBC.) RES. OFFICE: GEELONG, VIC.
i oats 201 b. and meatmeal
& To these add 4 per cent.
0 f romittOfl sa tt-
Smoking Bees.
I<R „. pine needles make the
B ; savs W. A. Goodacre,
5,1 WSenior Apiary Instructor.
t Hawkesbury Agncul-
Teit , ed r„lte it is the only
now used there. Pithy
"md tree bark, chips or old
wo ° • favored by many bee-
Xf’ ives a smoke that is
fooVand pungent and excites
the hive. In the spring-time dis-
content and absconding may
re The smoke given off by pine
needles is cool and aromatic
less liable to cause distress and
is helpful in controlling the bees.
To get the smoker going light
a loose bunch of the needles,
drop them in and give them a
cuff or two of your own wind.
Keep on adding and pressing
them down till the barrel’s well
filled. A good charge outlasts
other fuels. .
You can make pine-needle
cartridges by wrapping them up
in bagging the right size for the
smoker and tying them ready for
use. Most owners of pine-trees
will oblige with a bag or two of
needles.
Zebu Hybrids.
“Oxo”: After 40 years’ ex-
perience in butchering and graz-
ing in the Mossman district of
North Queensland, H. W.
Denford believes the Zebu is a
definite asset to that part of Aus-
tralia. Provided the blood is
diluted to a 1 / 16th or l/32nd
infusion the cattle, he says, are
not only hardier and more tick-
resistant, but the beef is more
attractive, more palatable and
less wasteful than pure British
breeds running under the same
conditions. The Zebu hybrids
were fattened on the famous
Daintree country.
Denford’s company recently
bought Lakefield, a 1292 sq. mile
property on Cape York Penin-
sula, which was running 8000
Devon-Shorthorn cross cattle,
but into which Zebu blood has
been introduced since the com-
pany took over. The trouble
with many hybrid herds, Den-
ford considers, is that too great
a percentage of Zebu blood is
used. The experience of breeders
in the Daintree area is that
where cattle are bred down to
1/16th and l/32nd Zebu the
cattle mature earlier, killing out
around 7001 b. at three years of
age, and there is much less
wasteful fat.
Where there is too high a con-
centration of Zebu blood, cattle
are often slab-sided, show evi-
dence of the hump and the beef
is dark and coarse. The ten-
dency to breed too close to the
Zebu is attributed by Denford
to the time it takes to breed
down to the 1 / 16th or l/32nd
strain.
Some of the first Zebus to
come to Australia were intro-
duced on the Daintree. Unable
to renew the Zebu blood cattle-
men got further and further
away from it until they found
they were producing a beast
which in many respects was
ideal. Even at this distance
from the Zebu blood, the cattle
are relatively immune to ticks
and drought.
The Soybean Farce.
“He-Ne”: The Chifley Gov-
ernment sent two “missions” to
the United States to study soy-
bean production. What they
cost isn’t clear, and they re-
turned seemingly with no more
information than was already in
the files of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture. For over
25 years experienced agricultural
officers were fully aware of the
merits —and demerits —of soy-
bean culture in Australia.
An Armidale farmer who was
with one of the Chifley missions
to the U.S. said on his return
that he would like to see 10
million acres of soybeans grow-
ing in New South Wales.
This is more than twice the
acreage of wheat, the State’s
main crop. Total known plant-
ing of soybeans in N.S.W. this
season, as reported upon by
Government agronomists, is a
mere 10 acres. That’s a big gap.
What happened?
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Whep using rye-
corn to stabilise sandhills, Vic.
Department o f Agriculture
advises sowing as soon after the
middle of March as possible, at
451 b. to 501 b. per acre with
fertiliser 501 b. to 601 b. Don’t
graze the crop if it is intended
purely as a soil stabiliser.
“Sundowner”: Where it is
necessary to feed bees, low-grade
honey may be used in preference
to sugar. Where sugar is easily
available two parts to one of
water, fed while warm, is satis-
factory.
“Myrrhee”; If vegetable
growth slackens before maturity
work in an ounce to the square
yard of sulphate of ammonia or
blood manure. For silverbeet,
Chinese cabbage and other vege-
tables which produce over an ex-
tended period use ioz. of sul-
phate of ammonia or its equiva-
lent to each plant every month
or so. Rapidly-growing plants
like lettuce will benefit from
lighter, more frequent applica-
tions, but don’t work in manure
within 6in. of the stems.
“Rooster”: Red water in
horses is often caused by eating
weeds which irritate the bladder.
Add one teaspoonful of salt-
petre to the ration, and change
the pasture. If the condition
persists it is probable that a
calculus (stone) in the bladder
may be causing haemorrhage.
This can be serious, as the stone
may eventually pass into the
narrow outlet and cause block-
age. Send for the vet.
“Bill C.”; If heavy showers
seem likely cover exposed seed-
beds with long grass to break
the rain’s force and stop pack-
ing or washing of the soil. Take
the grass off as soon as the seeds
start germinating.
“Sundowner”: Peas improve
fertility of the soil, and will re-
vitalise land suffering from over-
cropping with cereals. Peas do
well in all the better-rainfall
areas of southern Australia.
Sow early in moist soil, free from
weeds, and with heavy dressings*
of super. On new country in-
oculation of seed is advan-
tageous. Begin harvesting as
soon as peas are dry in the pods.
After harvesting, a pea-field will
provide one of the best of
stimulants for weaner sheep.
“K.T.”: If ticks or red-mite
are troublesome in the poultry
houses paint the roosts with a
mixture of two of sump-oil to
one of kerosene. This won’t
keep the fowls free of body-lice,
but creosote will. One side of
the roost should be painted, and
then turned over so as to avoid
direct contact with the birds.
“Billjim”: Pick sweet corn
when the silk turns brown and
while kernels are still in the
milky stage. Test by opening
sheath a little and pressing the
seed with the thumbnail or
pricking with a pin. If ready
they will give off a milky juice.
Cobs should be picked just be-
fore cooking; stored corn goes
on maturing.
“C.S.”: With five shipping
ports, all within 100 miles of
their respective wheat areas,
South Australia isn’t likely to
go in for a silo system while
sacks are available. Just now
the sack position isn’t too bright
owing to a currency row between
India and Pakistan, one of which
grows the jute and the other
makes it_into bags. No jute
means having some bulk system
or other, and S.A. is plainly
worried about it. The West
Australian system seems to be
the best bet —it had a capital
cost of about sd. a bushel
capacity, against 4s. 4d. a bushel
in N.S.W.


Hfp&ewee*
e
&
\
6
V
tj ./
rrvywr/v V »
pr?
£-,£X
-'not?' y
TP? t
»&
o »
r ~^ r Z, & fc iwy
/“ > 4 -c .*•?// O'! 1
/•&
0 V°l >J£»
‘■A
Vi
6.6
f v*
7>V
<w- *
1.6
’
>/
.»
<
fi\ /;
Ks*4K»fe~
I 0
TOOTH’S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
m
Time
flying!
When you have to count the minutes/
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world—lncluding those of
Melbourne and Sydney—lt gets you on
your way In the shprtest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and'many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind It the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-1 ranian Oil Company, Ltd.
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE. TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: "AIRBEEPEE" MELBOURNE
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the action
1946 No. 1055 Adams and Thompson
against The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited and Bey the
brothers or sisters of Charles Power late
of Laen in Victoria deceased (born Glou-
cestershire England about 1842 the son of
William Power and Jane (formerly
Arnold) at one time of Aust. or Henbury
near Bristol England) or the children
living at the 20th January 1887 of any
brother or sister of the said Charles Power
who died before that date and in par-
ticular the children of his sisters Eliza-
beth, Sarah and Anne his brother Thomas
and Sarah Moore and Fanny Power
daughters of his brother William Power
who died at Redbank Victoria in 1883
who claim to share in the estate of the
said Charles Power or the personal rep-
resentatives of any of the above who have
died pince that date are by their solicitors
on or before the 20th day of September
1950 to come in and prove their claims
at the office of the Master Law Courts Wil-
liam Street Melbourne or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit qf the said Order The 2nd day
of October 1950 at Eleven O’clock in, the
forenoon at the said office is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this Seventeenth day of March,
1960. —(1.5.) ERIC S. VANCE, Master.
OAKLEY THOMPSON & CO., 443 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne. Solicitors for
Plaintiffs.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF >
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARIA JOYCE
known as Lindo or Bartley). **
NOTICE that PETRO J^« E li nDo)
ZAROLI (also known as JOHN
has filed his petition for deeer-
-3890 of 1949 on the ground r °L* f or three
tion without just cause or exeunt
years and upwards If you ™ ce a t the
fend you may enter an appearance
Divorce Office Supreme C jggo an d
Sydney by the sth day of tit ” on without
obtain a copy °1 T & SERI°>
charge from HAROLD M Street,
Petitioner’s Solicitors, 8 Registrar
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
in Divorce. "p'keW
:N THE SUPREME C^^orce.
SOUTH WALES.-TN . - of
SOUTH WALES. —S of
ro MILTON CO NSTANTINE ticE that
Baradine N.S.W.—JAKE rtanT iNE ha
LU MIDIOH rr. * ITT? , -
Baradine N - S ;^urJ A f; oNSTANTINE a 0
FLORENCE ANNIE CON& No> 181-
iled her Petition for Devore with
’f 1948 on the ground of
mt just cause or excu ®?. t 0 defend th
S youmay entefan appear***
livorce Office Supreme, 195 0 «n<j
Sydney by the sth y petition ;,
ibtain a C °P^ T t °t*rd & BERRY-.®® I’gh 1 ’ g h
•har o, e from HlkklAK - 17
;5rs S for the Petitioner W doU GSA».
Street, Sydney.—(n- s ->
Registrar in Divorce.
it*” replied Hyndley. “I’ve
always wanted a Maori skull.”
He and Cyril took the path
through the scrub which led to
the swing-bridge over the river,
and thence through the clearing
past Paul’s cottage. Beyond the
cottage rose a bush-clad slope
of rocks from which access
could be gained to the burial
caves by a series of ledges and
crevices. It was a simple enough
climb.
Above the bush the pair came
into full view as they edged
along the vast grey face of the
rhyolite cliff. It was at this stage
that we heard angry shouts from
below. Old Paul, the venerable
custodian of the tribal relics,
was shocked and indignant at
the impending act of sacrilege.
Ignoring the old Maori’s cries,
Hyndley clambered the last few
yards to the mouth of the cave
and, torch in hand, led the way
inside.
Presently they returned, well-
laden, down the cliff face, and
made their way to the beach.
Paul followed them, a dignified,
white-bearded figure, addressing
them sometimes in Maori, some-
times in English. The old man
had quietened down, but his
distress was evident. Cromp-
ton had brought the launch in
to the beach, and Ed and Cyril,
with their bones, climbed up the
ladder to the foredeck.
Paul stood by the beach and
waved his hands in the Maori
fashion, which is almost as elo-
quent as speech. From his lips
came a stream of vehement
Maori phrases.
“Ka pouri te Pakeha! Ka
pouri te Pakeha! Kua ea aku
tupuna,”
“What does the old fool say?”
asked Hyndley.
“He says you will be sorry.
The spirits of his ancestors will
be avenged,” interpreted Doc.
“That’ll be the day,” laughed
Hyndley, The engine of the
launch roared and spluttered, she
backed into the lake, swung
round and headed eastward at
full throttle. Soon our little bay
was at peace once more.
OUR holiday lasted three days
longer. The day came at
last when we struck camp,
packed our kit and waited at
the prearranged hour for a
boatman to pick us up. Before
leaving we paid a courtesy call
on Paul.
Paul had not forgotten the
perfect English learned at a mis-
sion school in his boyhood. “I
thank my pakeha friends,” he
said gravely, “and I shall always
welcome you upon my ancestral
lands. For the other pakeha,
who steals the bones of my fore-
fathers, there can be no wel-
come, but only bitterness.”
That evening, back at the
hotel in Taupo, we made ready
to move off in the morning. The
glorious outdoor holiday was
over and collars and ties sat un-
easily about our necks.
After dinner we were talking
Sr said cordial| y. “Have
to make comersaton C “ ti " ued
show you the bones I J f “ Ust
the caves.” he said.
minute. a
He went outside to hk J
returned with a satchel / n S
were two complete skulls 1
some assorted bones. «g£S
specimens, aren’t they?” he
and offered one of the sS’
for inspection. s * u^s
At this point Doc assumed
fa* most professional manner
As a medical man I should
warn you, Mr. Hyndley, than
wouldn’t touch one of those
bones with a forty-foot P oT e
You may or may not be aw are
that the Maoris reserved certain
burial caves for the bodies of
those who died f rom the
scourges which they dreaded
One of those scourges was
leprosy. The cave which you
raided is well known to have
been set apart for the bodies of
lepers. It was chockful of
them.”
Hyhdley’s jaw dropped and he
licked his lips. “Good God ”he
said. “I didn’t know.”
“Neither did I, until Paul told
me this morning. But we might
have known it, otherwise vandals
would have ransacked the place
years ago. Anyway, it’s true
enough.”
“These bones —are they, are’
they infectious?” stammered
Hyndley.
“I don’t know what the danger
of infection is. It appears hun-
dreds of bodies were placed in
that cave and that some of
them were comparatively recent.
I should advise you to burn the
bones and disinfect yourself.”
Hyndley picked up the satchel.
We heard him retch violently as
he passed through the outer
door.
JOE and I turned to Doc.
“Why didn’t you tell us?
When did Paul tell you?”
Doc’s professional manner had
vanished. There was an impish
gleam in his eyes.
“He didn’t. I’m not certain
that the Maoris suffered from
leprosy at all. If he had been a
little more observant he would
have seen that the skull he
showed us had an obvious frac-
ture across the base. It was the
skull of a man who died by
violence ; probably killed in
battle.”
“Then why did you invent
that preposterous story?”
“Hyndley’s an objectionable
type,” said the Doc. “I might
have forgiven him his boonsh-
ness towards old Paul, but we
had an argument that night in
the rivermouth, and he had the
infernal cheek to tell me l
couldn’t cast a fly.”
Doc knocked the ashes out
of his pipe and gave us a quizzi-
cal look. “I think I’m all square
with him now,” he said.


DEFEAT THAT
OLD DEVIL
DANDRUFF
with Lustre Creme America's
Leading Hair Dressing
American men have proved Lustre
Creme banishes dandruff scales,
relieves dry, itching scalp, keeps
hair glossy and healthy. It’s
America’s favo.urite Hair Dress-
ing. Now it can be yours!
(uspte-
(WlTH LANOLIN)
THE INSTANT AID
TO HANDSOME HAIR
mm
A httle Lustre Creme- »
seconds combing and you’s
handsome hair all day! N
plastered down" look! Lusti
L-reme has a high quality Lanoli
{ ase, best for your scalp, be
£ 7. our hair - Lustre Creme hi
action, it spreads at
Penetrates double-quick!
'T’S HANDIERIN A TUBE-
TBY IT TO-DAY!
w
luffte-
fiiem*
(with Lanolin]
hairdressing
AMERICA’S
«» TO
BROOMED hair
• dry scalp
• Srrj?* dandruff
• u . re *° unruly hair
SOLD dv*!,, ° ir Ba '% and handiorr
«UI M M.L CHEHISTS AND STORK 21
__ Daumh Preparation
tHNAIW
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
Public Notice.
I, MARY SOLAS, of Lebanese nationality,
bom at Balbek, Lebanon, and resident 50
years in Australia, now residing at 693
George Street, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act,
1920-1946.
Missing Friend.
TO HENRY RALPH WINDAHL formerly
of 19 Austral Terrace Malvern South Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JEAN VICTORIA WINDAHL has com-
menced proceedings against you for a
divorce on'the ground of desertion UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 24th
day of May 1950 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that if you intend to defend the
said proceedings you must file an answer
in the said office on or before the 12th
day of Jupe 1950. —THIS ADVERTISE-
MENT is inserted by C. M. S. POWER, of
283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Soli-
citor, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
: INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). ' C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
ttHE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREB
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
of poems by
To b u 7 C °Pjon«
Tnhn Clare.- Thousand Best
To exchan* e copy of
poems of tne 6 -4806.
Hits I Skits! and
To buy v c^ y T° Goodge.-^SOS.
jingles! by vy-, f Koomvar ra by
To buy ufP Th Q rea t Australian
Charles Barrett, The £ Jhe
jsrfc-vs’a
rsrtgSr - ; by Betty
H<trDonald.— 4° u/ -
Information Sought.
Z'iJcS£e/a lair ,ally a,
,he Jm jack Howe shore 321 sheep
■ n 7hr 40ihin. For the previous week
I wt averaged 259 per day. The
he had a e j considerably
aVCrag Ao to class of sheep; tallies of
better were frequent with
. . mn |i nlain-bodied, bare-pointed
iLTten common, but the short-
stice}?j heaw-yoked, wrinkly Ver-
mont sheep would decrease tallies by
Tp,c B P lade-shearing is now prac-
tically confined to stud sheep, and 6
1 dav is fair. In the old days among
flock sheep 100 a day would be re-
garded as fair and 120 as good.
Treatment for a cat suffering from
eczema ?
Mix one grain per pound weight
of cat of areca nut with a little
butter; starve the cat for 24 hours,
administer mixture and follow after
an hour or so with a dessertspoon to
a tablespoon of castor oil. If the
animal is inclined to resist, damage
from claws can be avoided by laying
cat on a blanket and rolling animal
up' in it,
* * * ♦
Some information about the Africa
Star ?
This decoration was granted for
service in N. Africa from June 10,
1940, to May 12, 1943 (dates of
Italy’s entry into the war and cessa-
tion of hostilities in North Africa),
inclusive. The ribbon is pale buff in
color, with, a central vertical red stripe
and two other narrower stripes, one
dark blue and the other light blue.
Background is intended as a symbol
of the desert, the central red stripe for
the armies, the dark-blue stripe for
the naval forces and the merchant
navy, and the light-blue stripe for the
air forces. The ribbon is to be worn
with the dark-blue stripe furthest from
the left shoulder.
* ♦ * *
How to make white leather?
Soak the hide in clean cold water
for 48 hours. For fleshing and un-
hairing make up £lb. unslaked lime
and |lb. salt to each gallon of water
required to immerse the hide com-
pletely, and soak for 24 hours, when
most of the hair and flesh can be
scraped off. Make up another soak,
using lime only; all hair and flesh
can then be removed. Before curing,
soak again in clean cold water. For
a first-curing soak use 4oz. alum to
each gallon of water,' and 6oz. for
the second. About two days in each
will be sufficient. Before taking out
the hide cut it and see if there is still
a streak of color inside; the curing
must continue until the hide is white
right through. Then allow it partially
to dry in a dark, windless place and
rub in as much fat or tallow as it
can hold.
Best way to lure a dingo into a
trap? How to lay poison baits?
Drag a trail of meat or entrails
along a line of set traps, and where a
trap has been set brush lightly over
the earth covering the plate. A
freshly-shot bird - with strychnine
placed in the still-warm entrails or
poison mixed with liquid fat placed
on pieces of paper set and scattered
along the route usually travelled by
dingoes will prove effective,
* * ♦ ♦
Who invented the b.ulldozer? When
was it first used in Australia and
N.S.W.?
The machine was invented and
patented by an American, S. P.
Marsh, in 1908. Thiess Bros., a
Q’land contracting firm, bought the
first trailbuilder (which is much the
same as the bulldozer) to be used in
Australia in October, 1937. J,
Fleming, a grazier of Willow Creek,
bought the first unit to be used in
N.S.W. in April, 1938.
« * * *
Origin of opera)?
Dates from Greek times, when the
actor declaimed his words to an
accompaniment of flutes and lyres.
Evolution into its modem form begad
when the sixteenth-century Florentines
Peri and Caccini attempted to com-
bine music and drama. Monteverde’s
“Orfeo,” produced in 1608, made a
great impression on contemporary
musicians, and the idea spread
rapidly. The first 5 opera-house was
opened at Venice in 1637.
* * * ♦
Description of bottle-tree?
A large tree confined to Q’land
and ft Australia, with leaves grow-
ing on the sterile branches. The stem
abounds in a mucilaginous substance
which is wholesome and nutritious,
used as a food by the abos. This
juice is obtained by cutting holes in
the trunk. The trunk is contracted
at apex and base, the swollen part
holding water. , Trees reach 50ft. to
60ft. high, with a diameter of 6ft. or
7ft. at the thickest portion of the
trunk. Owing to the shape the tree
is sometimes called gouty-stem.
Brief Answer*.
P.S.R.; It is impossible to give the
average price of land in any area of
the State, as the values differ accord-
ing to (a) type of country and (b)
value of improvements on the pro-
perty J.W.L.: Assuming father to
be dead, copy of will can be obtained
from Registrar of Probates, Supreme
Court, King-street, Sydney FJ.F.:
No. Adoption orders may be made
in respect of children under 16, and
in very special cases under 21
E.W.0.D.: Information insufficient.
Suggest you see a solicitor J.J.;
Law Council of Australia, 382 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, and New
Zealand Law Society, Wellington,
N.Z C.S.S.: Try S. Lipscombe,
183 Castlereagh-street; G. D. Doling,
127 Macquarie-street, or Cravens Pty.,
Ltd., 10 Rowe-street —all Sydney....
G.S.: Mongolian Jpurney by Hen-
ning Haslund (215.) from Walter
Standish and Sons, 156 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney....E.L.F.: Try any of
the larger second-hand booksellers in
Melbourne C.C.; The Book Col-
lectors’Society of Australia, Box 905,
G.P.0., Sydney....A.W.L.: .From
Imperial Chemical Industries of
Aust.'and N.Z., Ltd., 408 Latrobe-
street, Melbourne....A.E.M.D.: (1)
Writc Oceanic Steam Ship Co., 39
Martin-place; Union Steam Ship Co.,
2 47 George-street; Wilh Wilhelmsen
Aeencv Ptv Ltd 63 Pitt-street—all
fyS (2) Write Consul-General
.for t he United 'States7 Wynyard-
str€et Sydney... .F.fi’.W.: Porting
you’cop? ofsyllabus S University
tutorial classes and W.E.A. classes
for the 1950 autumn session. Further
particulars from Workers’Educational
of St. James’s
(l ) ’ Five %ars ’ m any British
dominion. (2) No. (3) Not if an
enemy alien. (4) Yes. (5) Yes, pro-
vided he has resided continuously in
SEW
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
’ B- B - J Anecdote re the queemess of
mother-in-law more of family
•? nntinnal interest TDM-
than ot national interest j.u.ivi..
Rather tired of the brave, strong,
gnef-stneken, silent man who never
mentions the past.... A J.: There is
f n » Never Too Late ,»
it ... R . S . C> . Not
a gleam of reality in the lot P. 8.:
Its interest doesn’t compensate for
the appalling “atmosphere” that sur-
rounds it L.N.: Nice, sympa-
thetic little sketch, but out of our line,
....Bellerive: Blaze away:
F.W.: We looked doubtfully at
Bella and decided that she was too
riotous for our sedate pages C.A.:
You ask for criticism. Well, as patriot-
ism it’s good; but as literature it’s
very p00r... .H.A.M.: We blushed
furiously, and hurried it off to the
basket T.P.V.: It is a marvel of
incapacity 8.D.: It’s a mere inci-
dent, and a slight one at that....
C.L.: Your rustic who attained
middle-age without tasting mustard,
and who, on sampling it for the first
time in a city hash-house, uprose
violently and declared that he was
being poisoned, strikes us as a figment
of the imagination or as a baseless
fabric of a dream T.W.: Make
a break for originality and send us
a yarn about an Irishman who was
sane G.S.: You begin your
literary career by costing us sd. for
short postage. And did you ever see
anything in this paper to make you
think we wanted an essay on ‘.‘Per-
severance”? J.G.G.: Do you really
think we are in the market for poems
beginning: “Dear Australia, my own
sweet country. I do love you /....
L.R.R.: Beer-dnnkmg contest doesnt
entice us. .. .R.8.A.. Sorry, we ve r n
out of printable opinions.... H. 1..
You fed in a reverie; the reveneteji
in a basket.... A. McL.: Received
poem in which Billy Hughes is
rhymed with booze, snooze, clues and
cruise. Send it to 8i11y... .A.r..
Your threat to wr ite a story for us
every week equivalent to the one you
submitted almost made us close up
shop... .F.M.J.: There are draw-
backs about your story—many draw-
backs.
THE FIREMEN OF EASTEN HILL.
To cope against flames
With daring and skill,
Doth battle the firemen
Of Easten Hill.
Prepared for action
By day and night
They gamely set off
Big fires to fight.
At risk of life by
Daring and skill
Doth battle the firemen
Of Easten Hill.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Dutch New Guinea
Indonesian claims to Dutch New
Guinea make it imperative that Austra-
lians should have a full knowledge of
that benighted country. It was my mis-
fortune to serve for a time in the s.-e.
corner, the point nearest Australia, to be
precise, at Merauke.
Early in the war Merauke was, to tjie
western approaches of Torres Straits,
what Moresby was to the east. Had the
Japs continued their drive eastward from
Java simultaneously with their push on
Moresby, Torres Straits and Thursday
Island would have felt the nip of their
pincers. It was to block this possibility
that Merauke was, very secretly, gar-
risoned. The eastward drive did not
develop, but, the potentials remaining as
they wqre, the garrison was maintained.
The strategic importance of Dutch New
Guinea to Australia against an attack
from the north or north-east must be
apparent. Topographically the s.-e. area
is a strategic nightmare. It is the second-
largest swamp area in the world, second
only to Borneo. For 120 miles inland
there is no elevation more than a few
feet above sea-level. The vast swamp
area is covered with dense jungle forest
bisected by swift-flowing tidal streams.
The sole inhabitants of this swamp area
are primitive, sub-human natives, few of
whom have had contact with Europeans
except at the four or five posts main-
tained by the Dutch. These natives exist
on crude swamp-sago and fish; their
mode of transport is a dug-out canoe or
prau.
This was the country to which the
Dutch exiled their political firebrands be-
fore the war. Merauke existed largely
for that reason—as an administrative and
police post —and because the Merauke
River offered opportunity as a port for
the relatively drier area between it and
the Papuan border.
The Merauke defence area was set on
three old coral heads like the ribs of a
fan, and no more than a foot or two
above sea-level. The township is on the
bank of the river and along one rib of
the fan, the airstrip on another, and the
beach comprises the third. Between the
ribs is swamp. Across the river the coral
strip extends along the beach like a
broken dyke, the sea on one side, swamp
on the other.
This was the terrain that the 13th Aust.
Brigade turned into a military fortress.
The brigade’s work deserves an honor-
able mention. Despite the impossible
conditions swamps were bridged by troops
working waist-deep in stinking slime
piling coconut-logs one on top of an-
other until the mass formed a water-
logged, almost floating, foundation for a
track. Space was found or reclaimed
for troop quarters, ordinance stores, a
field hospital, and all that goes with, a
static army in the field. But throughout
the war, no women were permitted to
serve in the area, not even nurses; con-
ditions were considered too grim.
Merauke could never be a mobilisa-
tion point for an attack in strength on
Australia, but its strategic value as a
forward base and staging-point is im-
mense. ,
Aside from Hollandia and the possi-
bilities of the area north of the ranges
for colonisation, the wealth of Dutch
New Guinea lies in the “goose-neck” to
the extreme west of the island ; compara-
tively speaking only a hop-step-and-a-
jump from Ambon. The wealth here is
the newly-developed oil fields. It is here
also, at Manokwari, that the Dutch have
tried to set up a colony for Indonesian
Eurasians who are unwanted and perse-
cuted by the Javanese. On latest reports
the new U.S.I.R, is denying these D.Ps.
(i.e., persons they’ve displaced) supplies
of food and clothing.
On the whole, Australia needs to watch
carefully the activities of our nearest
Asian neighbor. The Javanese have no
racial or cultural ties with the Dutch
New Guinea natives, whom they treat
with contempt. Maybe it wouldn’t be a
bad idea to bring the area under inter-
national control, with Holland and Aus-
tralia as the administering Powers. Prob-
ably the Ambonese and the Kai Islanders
would welcome such a move. These two
races, to quote only two of the many, are
again distinctly different in build and
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
character from the Javanese, and they
differ also as between themselves.
This was brought home to me during
a sing-song X attended in the Dutch Army
compound, after the Dutch had tried to
build up a native army by enlisting all
Indonesians who were willing, or said
they were willing, to face the Japs. (The
conduct of this Indonesian battalion will
be remembered by all Australians who
were at Tarakan.) During the sing-song
the KaiSj big* brawny types, sang arrogant,
rollicking native songs. The Ambonese,
equally strong in voice, sang potent love
songs. The Javanese, by far the largest
party numerically, puny in physique,
murmured their songs like a choir of
timid schoolgirls. Yet, it is these puny
types who now shout in loud voice, and
'who, by the weight of their numbers, are
trying to dominate the numerically weaker
races. Unless Soekarno pipes down I
can see internal trouble and a possible
bloodbath, with the Javanese as victims,
if too much pressure is put on the
minority groups.
The Kais were satisfied under Dutch
rule. An Ambonese leader told me he
was proud to call himself an Ambonese
Hollander. A moderate Javanese leader
expressed himself this way: “We like
the Dutch, we will need their skill and
their finance. After we get out indepen-
dence there will always be plenty of
highly-paid posts for Dutchmen ; we will
need their co-operation.”
Australians should remember that,
though the Japs were defeated militarily,
“He’s really quite tame if you're FIRM with him!”
they won a major political victory. The
Jap slogans “Asia for the Asians” and
the “Asian Co-prosperity Sphere” still
echo throughout Asia. And it has been
largely through Jap arms and aid that the
Indonesian Republican Army was able
to hold off the Dutch and to massacre
European women and children and make
targets of any European males they
sighted, including Australians. — Wilkin
(N.S.W.).
High Price of Fruit
One reason is, as “Cave” suggests (B.
l/3/’5O), the fruit-fly. In W.A., at least,
there are others, one being the extreme
easterly gales which struck —twice during
early summer—at most of the fruit-grow-
ing districts. The high prices are, in
part, some compensation to some growers
for poor crops.
Hence the scarcity of fruit is simply
unavoidable. Nevertheless, prices are
unnecessarily high, and are incompatible
with the growers’ returns. The middle-
man takes too great a cut —often, para-
doxically, without showing excessive
profits.
Our method of distribution is at fault.
The grower is forced to market his pro-
duce in an immature state —ripe fruit is
unattractive to buyers (i.e., shopkeepers
and the like) because of the risk of loss
through over-ripening in the event of a
slow sale —and often fruit is picked so
green that it will never ripen.
That is especially'the case in the first
fruits of the season, when growers know
that a limited supply of immature fruit
will fetch high prices. Buyers, particu-
larly shopkeepers, must have whatever
is going, if only for display purposes.
They can’t hope to come out of it with-
out. a loss, but they accept that as one
of'the natural hazajite of the game. They
adjust their margin of profit on other
lines to cover it. So the public indirectly
pays for a lot of fruit—a surprisingly
large quantity —which is doomed to the
rubbish-tip and should never have been
picked.
Other factors causing the shortages are
lack of labor and the attraction of
secondary industries, with their high
wages and short hours. No orchardist
could work to an eight-hour day at pick-
ing-time without having broken shifts.
The picking is best done during early
morning and evening. Men won’t work
broken shifts while secondary industry
offers better conditions. Moreover, fruit-
picking is a seasonal industry, and most
reliable men seek permanent employ-
ment.
One suggestion is a labor pool,
operated by some central bureau, staffing
permanent workers \tfho could be ade-
quately compensated for the periodical
“rush” periods when they would be ex-
pected to work longer hours and pos-
sibly away from home.
Such work could be covered by an
Arbitration Court award, and the men
enrolled into a suitable union. As mem-
bers of a rural-workers’ pool, they would
have permanent jobs and a better stand-
ing in the community, which, for some
reason, has never favorably regarded
rural workers.
I believe that such a scheme would
attract the class of workers to whom fac-
tory work does not appeal, but who are
forced to take advantage of the per-
manency and amenities offering in the
cities.
Rural industry is now in a position to
compete with secondary industry. Its
only disabilities are lack of centralisation
and the seasonal nature of the work.
Taken over the year there’s ample rural
work available for a very sizeable pool
of workmen if all types of rural work
are combined —wheat- and sheep-farming,
orchards, vineyards, market-gardens.
Motor transport could easily overcome
the problems presented by the scattered
nature of the work. — Kelmscott (W.A.).
Workers and Socialism
That the regular Labor vote in Australia
ranges between 40-45 per cent, of the
population cannot be held as proof that
this proportion of Australians favors
Socialism.
Recently the Gallup Poll people held
a poll to test public reaction to Mr.
Menzies’s proposal to seek power to pre-
vent the nationalising of any industry
without a referendum. Of the cross-
section of Australians examined 75 p.c.
said they would vote “Yes,” 17 p.c. “No,”
8 p.c. were undecided. Nine out of ten
Liberal-C.P. were favorable, as were two
out of three Laborites.
Talking over the poll with a friend who
is welfare officer in a big Sydney factory,
he told me that many staunch Labor men
there had assured him they were anti-
Socialist. They would not have it that the
Labor party was pledged to Socialism.
“That’s just Liberal propaganda,” was
their argument. This type seems to vote
Labor through the belief that it is the
small man’s party. As the Labor party
makes no parade of its real policy at
election-time, it is easy for people whose
interest in politics isn’t sufficient to make
them familiarise themselves with the
various party programmes to be taken in.
There seem to be quite a lot of such
people, A “Sydney Morning Herald”
reporter who investigated public reaction
to the McGirr 70-hour Press and radio
election ban, during the Concord by-
election, found no fewer than 31 houses
in one street where the people were
ignorant of the ban. Worker, *
Liberal aspirant in this eW for Ae
busy defacing placards StUI
came, met with hostility from VT rDln B
factory hands homeward bo^nrf ht * Shift
thought they were sabotaging t£ d ’ who
date’s placards. Explanation tumj 3 ,!' 1 !'
indignation on McGirr. Yet S d J? clr
headlined the ban, right to the tin! res l
operation, and Liberal speakers L of
most of it, too. =>PcaKers made the
Mr. Menzies has chosen an oa*,
means of dealing with
no industry can be nationalised wLm
a referendum there is scant prospe? n?
Socialist economy being achieved n*
an issue like this the strong
element among Laborites will comh
with Liberal-C.P. adherents as a * 5
part of it did in the Powers and
though the issue was E
clearly defined on those occasions
Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).
Socialised Buses
Another blow to free enterprise can be
chalked up, due to the socialising efforts
of a body whose majority are reputedly
Liberals: the Brisbane City Council 3
Lud Mayor Chandler and his hench-
men decreed that most private bus-lines
in the Greater-Brisbane area should come
under council control, with the usual
promises of more efficient service. After
a trial of 18 months the bus-using nubile
is not enthusiastic.
Previously the owner-driver, or his em-
ployee, would even wait for an intend-
ing fare he saw coming. Now intending
passengers are at the mercy of the driver
as to whether he will let them on at all.
A new safety rule forbids the overloading
of buses, and when a driver-conductor
decides he has had enough of taking fares
on a reasonably full bus he bowls merrily
past the remaining stops, ignoring the
signals of the waiting crowds anxious to
get to work, or home, as the case may
be. Lateness caused by the usual morn-
ing bus refusing to stop for passengers
who depend on it to get to work in time
is becoming increasingly prevalent among
the city’s toilers.
An announcement that a further grab
of some of the few remaining private
lines is under way is no cause for re-
joicing; more reassuring would be an
improvement in the administration of
lines under the Civic Fathers’ control.—
Bamekau (Q.).
Picture-shows
Tied picture-houses (B. 22/3/’5O) are
like tied pubs—the managers of both
have to take what the film breweries or
beer studios send them, do what they
can to keep their customers from
violence and at the same time explain
to their bosses any falling-off in revenue
caused by the poverty in quality or the
deadly sameness of their wares. f
As a patron of both of some 30 years
standing, I frequently sob for the days
when I had a choice of any of six or
seven different beers and the same num-
ber of pictures. .
Now a new horror has appeared tn
“trailer” or long advertisement about
somebody’s cough-drops. No fewer th
four of these things disgrace each pro-
gramme in our suburb, taking the P
of “shorts,” many of which were tr
quently better than the “features,
is warned by the management to Min
7.30; there is a six- or seven-mimit
short, then 20 minutes of trailer,
p.m. comes the first “feature,
around 9.15. After intern theres
another quarter-hour of trailer
th If the legit tU theatre of
thing there’d be riots.—C. S. (N. •
"I 1 ' ,r ‘ f I'’’
Not So Independent stl , rl jy
We talk a great df 1 possess
independence; but do we real y P
such an attribute? Queensland
Just recently in a North Q““” cided
town a meeting of canegr arra oge
to ask the State Government to an
for cyclone insurance or cP • one
Undoubtedly something sh .° ul l° s wa y.
to assist anyone stricken t help?
But why cry for self-help?
What’s wrong with a iat ions;
Canegrowers have str ?” g for \ n '
through these they could t 0 the
surance against cyclone be a
crops of their grs aQ d
matter wholly for the can T g he Govern-
the insurance Company,
ment need have no part * Govern-
After all, you cant condem a
ment interference on one h £ drfß*
the other, run to it f °r h aterna iism wiU
culty. Independence and pa■. fdlo viSr~
not run together as >
Warrigal (Q.)h


“The Country Wife” and “Love for
Love,” those period comedies with which,
because they are such vital and amusing
plays and because the actors perform
them with a natural warmth, the Metro-
politans have always done best.
If any proof were needed of the lasting
appeal of Goldsmith’s plot it could be
found in the fact that it is, essentially,
the same as that which was dished-up for
our own times by George Hart and Moss
Kaufmann in “The Man Who Came to
Dinner”: in both cases you have the
spectacle of a visitor treating his host’s
house as his own, to the inevitable indig-
nation of the proprietor. The difference
is that the man who comes to dinner is
a bullying celebrity who assumes he has
the right to treat a private house as if it
were an inn, whereas in “She Stoops to
Conquer” the essentially inoffensive
young Marlow is misled by Tony Lump-
kin into believing that Hardcastle’s house
is public property. The celebrity is a
freak; Goldsmith’s play, granted the
initial mechanism, is more human ; and
the satire, in keeping, is more human and
more kindly throughout. The modern
play allows a spoilt child, a Tony Lump-
kin, to dominate ; but Goldsmith keeps
Tony beautifully in his place.
It was this kindly satire and human
warmth of Goldsmith that the Metro-
politans chiefly brought out. Something
was missing from the comic possibilities:
the servants were mere grotesque masks,
not characters, and unnecessarily repel-
lent in their cups ; the cynical wisdom of
Miss Neville’s determination not to elope
without her fortune was hardly made as
amusing as it should have been; and
even in the scenes where Marlow and
Hastings were ordering old Hardcastle
about in his own house it was Gold-
smith who was funny rather than the
actors. The true glitter of comedy must
be expressed by an actor’s whole being
—that was the delight of Quayle’s and
Diana Wynyard’s “Much Ado About
Nothing”: they had the inward spirit of
laughter as well as the technique for
presenting it.
But at least May Hollinworth’s prin-
cipals, Kevin Brennan as Tony and Ruth
Rutter as Miss Hardcastle, enlivened
their accurate characterisations with the
spirit of gaiety; and Frank Waters, if
not so successful when opposed to old
Hardcastle, was very amusing in his first
inarticulate scene with the daughter of
the house. He and Owen Weingott as
Hastings, handsomely costumed in Robin
Lovejoy’s harmonious setting, made a
vigorous pair of men-about-town; and
with them went pleasantly human if not
exciting performances from Roy Morgan
and Wanda Herbert.
TALKIES
"Shoeshine."
This Italian film at Sydney Savoy about
Jstreet urchins of Rome tends to
tmlanda more than to art, and rather
gSTa better world than exists as a
L- world of its own.
torturing of children to make a
Roman picture-show is no new idea ,
nckens, Harriet Beecher Stowe and
H 1 Lawson did likewise; and a
realisation of its being well meant and
of its chastening social and political in-
fluence upon audiences, must temper the
irritation of the filmgoer who feels that,
art and all aside, he has suffered incon-
venience by having to watch for an hour
or so the sufferings of boys and adoles-
cents in their three-tiered cages in an
Italian prison.
The two shoeshme boys, Giuseppe
(Rinaldo Smordoni), small and gay, and
Pasquale (Franco Interlenghi), tall and
earnest, have the ambition to buy a horse
from their earnings as shoeshiners during
the American occupation. Giuseppe's
no-good brother sends them to sell stolen
American blankets to a woman whom
the brother and kindred toughs after-
wards visit, and, posing as police,
threaten with exposure unless they are
bribed. Thus the boys quickly get the
money and buy the horse ; but soon are
recognised by the woman and denounced
to the police.,
When a prison official pretends to belt
Giuseppe, Pasquale betrays Giuseppe’s
brother; this angers Giuseppe, who hides
a file in Pasquale’s mattress and informs
on Pasquale. Thus the breach between
the two friends widens ; Giuseppe comes
under the influence of a vicious older
boy; and when he and his older boy
escape Pasquale, who has no parents and
now has lost his only friend in the world,
jealously denounces Giuseppe and offers
to lead the police to him.
Sure enoygh, Giuseppe and the other
escapee are found on the horse that had
been bought with the blackmarket
money; Pasquale lays into Giuseppe with
his belt; Giuseppe falls over a bridge and
dies on a rock, and the prison authorities
arrive to view Pasquale lamenting his
idle dead friend much as Rigoletto
lamented Gilda, with shuddersome sob-
bing.
These matters have all been expertly
managed; the scene where the two boys
“ re Parted and put in different cages, the
scenes in the cages, the business-like
manner of the officials, neither kind nor
unkind, dealing in boys as with any other
Kind of job, remain in the mind; and
e manipulations of misunderstanding
the plot are worthy the best grand-
operatic traditions.
J,i there is a blemish on the restrained
elience of this tear-jerking, it is in the
vy opiatic ending; suitable for Rigo-
bac ’ u°° v '°^ ent f° r boys ; moreover, it
m , b^ en , muddled—Pasquale meant
~:j. yto § lVe Giuseppe a hiding, laying
an iron bar to wale into him with
a belt, and Giuseppe’s death was an
accident arranged by the film’s director.
If Pasquale’s jealously was to have been
the motif for Giuseppe’s death it would
have beeij more artistic for him to have
hit him once, hard, with the iron bar. An
air of accident and the transitory over-
hangs the whole work: “I have tried to
give an idea of what life was like in the
great city of Rome dqring a very sad
period in our history,” says the director,
Vittoria De Sica ; thus, even in inten-
tion, the work is DeSiccated of the warm
blood of the usual and the inescapable.
No doubt a film which can make N. S.
Wales audiences smug about Gosford
Boys’ Home and its patient and pains-
taking management must have some good
in it; but one often wonders what does
most good in the world, the “moving in-
dictment of post-war society and of a
world in which such things could hap-
pen,” disguised as art and graded as “Not
suitable for children,” or such enchant-
ing things as “A Bush Christmas,” made
by Australian children in the Australian
bush, which gave pleasure to so many
children, and the view of a world of
happiness which, if it never existed, was
worth living for.
Empire Games Film.
Producers of the splendid London
Olympic Games film set a standard which
must have a disastrous effect upon the
morale of subsequent producers tackling
a similar job. First attempt at anything
in the same line is the British Empire
Games film sighted at Sydney Lyceum as
a support feature with the mediocre
Australian production “Sons of
Matthew.”
General impression of the Empire
Games film is that the producers, the
New Zealand National Film Unit, in-
spected the Olympic Games show,
charged confidently into the job, began
to falter in their stride, had another look
at the Olympic film, then gave up the
ghost and resigned themselves to turn-
ing out a straight newsreel coverage, of
the New Zealand Games.
Apart from a rather feeble attempt to
instil a little pageantry into the scenes
of the opening and closing ceremonies
and a mild nibble at capturing the in-
tense drama of the marathon race —done
magnificently in the London film —the
New Zealand production is, then, news-
reel pure and simple, and has its limita-
tions even as a newsreel. The London
film, of course, had a tremendous ad-
vantage in being done in color and
sport of any description is particularly
suited to color photography. Neverthe-
less, black-and-white can be very effec-
tive, but the photography in the Empire
Games film seems singularly lifeless. De-
void of eye-catching photography or any
emotion-arousing element of the dra-
matic, the film has to rest purely on the
sporting element, and this tends to re-
solve into a procession of identical men
firing guns and identically weary runners
breasting the tape.
However, it cannot be complained
that the film does not comprehensively
cover the meeting, albeit in a purely re-
porting manner, akin to a city news-
paper’s bare tabulation of the results of
a country race meeting. There seems
to be a s*hot of the winning effort in
surely every event. Australians will be
particularly interested to see an unmis-
takeable John Winter unmistakeably
winning the high jump—we were a trifle
dubious of the shot of an alleged John
Winter allegedly winning the event in the
Olympic Games film. And, for the en-
lightenment of those who enthuse over
the beefy pastime, some of the best stuff
in the film is that dealing with the rowing
and sculling events.
'The Forsyte Saga."
The main feature of this excellent
screen version of Galsworthy is the faith-
fulness with which the family, whose
creed is the worship of property, is por-
trayed. While there have been some
alterations necessary for purposes peculiar
to the continuity of the film drama, they
have in no way weakened the general
fabric of the story.
M.-G.-M. has assembled a strong cast,
of whom Robert Young emerges as the
strongest. With a cleverly-wrought and
well-sustained mixture of whimsical
humor in his architectural dealings with
Soames Forsyte and his less-prosaic in-
terest in Soames’s wife, he breezes through
with superb aplomb until a bolting horse
in a London pea-soup fog removes this
threat to Soames’s most valued piece of
property. m.
Walter Pidgeon is comfortably at home
in his philosophical role of Jolyon, the
artist-black sheep of the family, and
Errol Flynn as Soames, the cold, calculat-
ing Man of Property, does a surprisingly
good job. Greer Garson is the unhappy,
frustrated yet always dignified wife of
Soames. The whole production is given
the very best M.-G.-M. polish as to sets,
photography and direction, and every
speaking voice falls on the ear like music.
At Sydney Liberty.
"Blue Lagoon."
This technicolored confection at Sydney
Regent is the result of a slavish follow-
ing by the J, Arthur Rank organisation
of Hollywood’s standard formula for the
production of a super-potboiler. The in-
gredients, stacked ready for the pot, have
been kindly supplied by H. De Vere
Stackpool: Innocent boy and girl cast
on tropical island paradise ; comical Irish
seaman who remains alive long enough
to teach them enough to ensure their
looking after themselves, then meets with
convenient accident to allow boy and
girl to grow up unhindered; sudden
E)awn of Love; entry into paradise of
serpents in form of Oxford-bleating
tough and offsider in motor-yacht, but
paradise regained when each bumps other
off ; lovers (with child) eventually rescued.
What! No fight with a giant devilfish?
Don’t be silly—and anyone can write his
own ticket if he wants to back the devil-
fish.
The scenery of this lightweight opus
is superb, and there are some magnificent
shots of a tropical hurricane. The film,
however, reveals one hitherto unknown
scientific fact; that living on a tropical
island retards the hair-growth, as in-
stanced by the fact that the hero has
exactly the same Cornel Wilde haircut at
the end of his long session in isolation
from the hairdressing fraternity.
"You're My Everything."
This laughable, if not very original,
item at Sydney Mayfair, has to do with
a song-and-dance man who is screen-
tested with, for lack of any other female
handy, his Boston-blooded wife, who, as
a result, rates for herself all the super-
latives of which the film capital even in
silent days was capable. There is a
daughter, of course, who reveals early a
yen for the stage, and, of course, there
is the inevitable bust-up between the
proud father and sensible mother, who
thinks her nipper should chase pothooks
instead of a screen career.
The advent of talkies brings father into
the film limelight; an accident to a
current star juvenile fixes his daughter’s
ascension to the Milky Way; and the
combination sends mother home to
mother. All ends happily where it
started, on-stage, after a triumphal first-
night. Anne Baxter gives a charming per-
formance. Dan Dailey is his usual static -
as-mercury self, and the child, Shari
Robinson, is enough to boost the disposal
business of orphanages.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 63
i T t Across.
stolen rC I' VC ,i receiver (male) of
six and far '
brook hides a babbling
id— A vnpM Portu 8 u ese India. (7)
fathers' a tix ir f d n Creaon Permits the
failed tn A ow tbe fellow who
(original «n ii° W x up Parliament
U--Weep (3) ng) - (4> 3)
a mtroduced to me at
13 -Fish-Wks t meal - (?)
rn mg thus before
by a Po a military decoration
.^*Sb,£nh) fath “'
” io“ ood from this
io p °y Rpn« from
: he e J° t Stalin - (7)
m w hich is fill meatal capacity
is fo flllcd to capacity. (7)
—Cloth isn'i nitlat , e htigation. (3)
insect ]S w u SUch a Sdf-ball. (7)
32 food - (7^ a ° ws Cltr us or any
iIFh 16111 an angelic
fbe expert anybod y who boos
rifleman. (12)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1— This cloth will perish under the
musical instrument. (8)
2 Wayward rodent swallowed by
Ambler. (7)
3 Stretchable Gippsland town turns
up with a muscular twitch. (7)
4 When the sprite does a bunk for
a stone arrow-head. (3-4)
5 A number with a queer favorite
may be eaten like a legislator in
the salt, pepper and mustard con-
tainer. (7)
6 Sibilant in donkey language? (6)
7 German admiral to act for a
slangy piece of motoring equip-
ment. (6)
9—Come on, don’t be diffident about
fibbing—sick people do it. (3, 2)
15 — A pound investment? (3)
16 — Sick of Chicago’s postal sur-
roundings. (3)
17— Scottish county. (3)
18 — Lauder of a loud art. (8)
20— It is nothing to see the upper-
most one of these creatures that
employ lots of suckers to feed
them. (6) . , ,
21 — Provide angle around the vessel.
(7)
22 Red lost and disturbed this
veteran. (7)
23 Lowers me among clergymen. (/;
24 — Boredom of nue? (5)
25 — A straying policeman character-
istic of a syncopated note. (7)
26 Stipendiary magistrate wearies
with such leers. (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 62.


,
.
iMil
■m
Memories cannot furnish
the funds for children’s schooling
How can you guarantee your child will reap the benefits
of greater educational facilities, if you should die?
Your wife could not give a mother’s care and earn a
living, too!
Memories cannot furnish the funds for children’s school-
ing. Remembrance cannot provide for the years to come.
You can guarantee their future right now with an A.C.A.
Educational Policy available to children of all ages from
birth upwards.
The safe, sound plan, possible even on modest earnings,
of saving a small amount each week assures your children
of receiving a sound education or the choosing of a pro-
fession, regardless of what may happen to you.
PLAN WHILE YOUNG
Assurance costs more every year you wait. A wise step
for wise parents is to take out an A.C.A. Educational
Policy now.
Act now—clip the coupon below and write in for your
free copy of “I’m the Big Reason’’ which explains in
detail the advantages of an A.C.A. Educational Policy.
A.C.A. POLICIES ARE GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
C lncorporated in N.S.W ,)
HEAD OFFICES:. A.C.A. Building, 66 King St., Sydney. ’Phone, 8X2165
MELBOURNE ... A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen St., Melbourne. MU5706
BRISBANE A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen St., Brisbane. B 8529
ADELAIDE .... Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, 12 King William St., Adelaide.
Cent. 7889
PERTH Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth. 86815
LISMORE 102 Molesworth St. Lismore 659
NEWCASTLE ... 69 Hunter St. Newcastle B 1121
TAMWORTH ... Royal Chambers, 377 Peel St. B 696
gnimiiimmiiimHiifnnmnniimmmiimnnrPOST THIS XO“l
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 King Street, Sydney.
A.C.A. POLICIES FOR EDUCATION
Without obligation, please send me complete inform®* 1
A.C.A. Educational Policies.
| Name
I Business or Home Address
State ..••••
The assets of the A.C.A. total over £2,750,000, including Commonwealth Stocks, Freeholds,
Mortgages, Shares, Municipal Loans . Benefits: Claims exceed £2.050.000.
