

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 71 —No. 3680
Wednesday, October 25, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
STANDING like a sentinel off the
v 3 Cornish coast between the Lizard
and Land’s End is St. Michael’s Mount,
which is surrounded, not only by the
ocean, but by numerous legends and
fairy stories. One of these concerns Jack,
the famous giant killer, for the tradition
is. that it was at St. Michael’s Mount that
he killed his first giant, whose name was
Cormoran, and the pit into which he fell
is still pointed out beside the steep cobbled
pathway that winds upwards to the castle.
This romantic sea-girt fortress bears a
striking resemblance to Mont St. Michel,
off the coast of France, and it is the
westernmost of all the castles in the
British Isles. The island on which it
stands was known to the Phoenicians and
Romans, and it was there in the year 495,
according to legend, that a vision of St.
Michael appeared to a group of fisher-
men. The first recorded reference to the
Mount is the grant of it, with its Bene-
dictine Priory, by Edward the Confessor
in 1044 to the Benedictine convent of
Mont St. Michel in Normandy. The exist-
ing group of buildings were built in 1430
during a period of great prosperity, for
the Benedictines as pilgrims flocked to
the Mount from far and wide to pay
homage, and with proceeds from their
pious offerings the monks were able to
rebuild their modest Norman Priory.
In 1473 St. Michael’s Mount first came
into the possession of the St. Aubyn
family, when the Earl of Oxford, whose
mother was a St Aubyn, disguised his
company as pilgrims and secured entry to
the monastery and overcame the garri-
son. Late in the fifteenth century it
assumed a military character, and was a
bone of contention in the Cornish rebel-
lion of 1549. In the Civil War it was a
Royalist stronghold, but after a long
siege surrendered to the Roundheads.
The crowning glory of the Mount is
the Church of St. Michael at the sum-
mit dating from the fourteenth century.
The original refectory used by the monks
is now the Banqueting Hall, the most
impressive room in the castle, and be-
cause of its Tudor frieze, depicting
sporting scenes of many kinds, it is known
as Chevy Chase. Its south windows look
straight out to sea from a height of 400
feet.
At low tide St. Michael’s Mount is
reached by walking across the causeway
which joins it to the mainland. At other
times the crossing is made in a motor-
boat, which takes visitors into the minia-
ture harbour where Queen Victoria
landed in 1895.
NOT MONT ST. MICHEL BUT ST. MICHAEL’S MOUNT!
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
A Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WUNE-FOE-
BKITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts ‘‘Wine-For-Britain’’ scheme; Write to The House of Seppelt, Box JAZZU, G.F.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


sd
ESSSpBSBSxn
EEZZEmIm
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin
Uy Name
Uy Address
S.B. 250 AGE
The Red Page
FLY-FISHING.
Sometimes it befalls to the angler that
fishing makes him mad: and this is not
when the trout refuse to rise, but on
hot bright windless evenings when every
insect in the world dips or dashes itself
in a rain of wings on the water and every
trout in the river comes up, eager for the
shining banquet, until the surface, as we
say, “boils” . . . and that is when the wise
angler if, having tried everything in his
box, from the tiniest nymph to the largest
hare’s-ear, he does not wish to finish by
hurling his old felt hat at the fish—and
perhaps that is really what they are rising
for —sits down and discovers that there
is a sunset to look at.
And if Mr. M. E. McCausland’s Fly-
Fishing in Australia and New Zealand
(Lothian) is to be the perfect, the ulti-
mate handbook, Mr. McCausland must
be able to tell us what to do about those
exquisite and demented evenings. Mr.
McCausland does. He has the answer.
And how simple it is; one has merely
been using too large a fly:
Why do so many fishermen carry small
flies tied on No. 00 and 000 hooks in their
fly-box, but seldom or never use them?
During the evening rise, when fish may
refuse to take any fly you put on, examine
the surface of the water. If there is no
insect that can be plainly seen, then it is
reasonable to conclude that the fish are
taking only very small insects. This is the
time to try out those very small Ants and
Duns. One of the reasons why giants of
fly-fishing, like Mr. Malcolm Gillies and
Mr. John Brookes, are so successful is their
ability to stop and think, instead of going
on with fruitless oasts to fish that are not
taking that fly.
So here we have the perfect handbook ;
already, tying the smallest of Duns and
casting a long line some 500 miles from
George-street to a stream beyond Can-
berra which must not be located more
precisely, one becomes in anticipation a
giant of fly-fishing like Mr. Gillies, Mr.
Brookes and Mr. McCausland. And in-
stantly some touch of delight, some gleam
of promise vanishes from the prospect;
for there is, after all, a rare, wry pleasure
in not catching fish ; and the more you
make fishing a certainty the less, some-
how, it appeals. But then a saving
thought occurs: Mr. McCausland has
been talking about dvenings when “no
insect can plainly be seen” ; and on the
evenings one has in mind a million
insects can be seen. Has Mr. McCaus-
land anything to say about precisely
those nights? He has:
t doubt if any experienced fly-fisherman
has not had the experience of casting
among steadily-rising fish for a whole even-
ing without landing a fish, in spite of trying
numbers of different patterns of flies. I
have experienced this on a number of
occasions, particularly on the Shannon
Lagoon in Tasmania, in those rare instances
where there is a flat calm.
Ah! So even Mr. McCausland ... Per-
haps even Mr. Gillies and Mr. Brookes
. . and in spite of trying those infini-
tesimal Ants and Duns ... So there
remains one mystery yet to lure the
angler ; and Fly-Fishing in Australia and
New Zealand is companionably im-
perfect after all.
One serious imperfection it has: the
fault of so many nature and travel books
in this huge continent, of trying to cover
too much ground. Except perhaps in
Victoria, where Mr. McCausland (past
president of the Victorian Fly-Fishers’
Association) is at home, anglers every-
where in Australia will find that their
favorite streams are mentioned too
sketchily. It is pleasing, for example, to
find that Mr. McCausland has fished the
Duckmaloi, on the Jenolan Caves road
in New South Wales, where he caught
six fish on an evening rise: but you
would not learn from his brief references
that, ovep the ridge from the Duckmaloi
when you turn towards Richardses’, there
is the Fish River Creek, nor that, after
the Creek and the Duckmaloi have joined
to become the Fish River, the best fishing
of all (one has seen a five-pound rainbow
landed) awaits the energetic angler who
climbs over the saddle where the pipe-
line runs. And, courteous though he is
to the Duckmaloi, except for its snakes,
one fears that Mr. McCausland has not
seen that incredible day when the black-
ants hatch and the trout will take nothing
but a black-ant with a red tag on its
tail (and not a Zulu either), nor that
even more inci edible night when the big
hawk-moths hatch in the tea-tree and
(believe it or not; not would be wiser)
the trout climb up the bushes to get
them . . .
The same criticism, however reluct-
antly, must be made of Mr. T. H. Brunn’s
article —Mr. McCausland has been
helped by contributions from Mr. Brunn,
Mr. A. Dunbgvin Butcher, Mr. J. M.
Gillies and Mr. R. Lyne—on fishing in
New Zealand; indeed the inclusion of
New Zealand in the title is rather mis-
leading. Mr. Brunn writes an enjoyable
account of a trip to the Rotorua-Taupo
area, and that is all the book has to say
of a country where there is a fishable
stream about every seven miles . . .
where in the 24 miles between Eltham
and Opunake, for example, in little
mountain streams unknown to fame, you
can drop a fly (alas, it was long ago and
one dropped a worm) in whichever you
may choose of the Waingongoro, the
Kapuni, the Mangatoki, the Tangatara,
the Mangahume and the Waiau, to say
nothing of the Town Creek where a
poacher once speared a nine-pound
brown and was duly hanged, drawn and
quartered for it . . . and Where, in the
wide Awakino at Mahoenui, a rainbow
river, such surprising things could be
done with the Peveril-of-the-Peak when
the green ladybird was on the water.
But perhaps it is enough that Mr.
Brunn’s article covers about as much of
New Zealand as the Australian visitor is
likely to encounter; and Mr. McCaus-
land’s notes, besides evoking pleasant
memories even when they are too brief,
are packed with the most useful tips and
everywhere enlivened by fish stories as
delightful as any you could tell yourself
and not much more improbable.
Mr. Dunbavin Butcher writes expertly
about acclimatisation and has helped
Mr. McCausland in a learned investiga-
tion of the trout’s stomach ; Mr. Gillies
contributes beautiful colored plates of
flies and some notes about an important
Tasmanian beetle; and Mr. Lyne, the
appropriately-named holder of the Aus-
tralian long-distance casting record, de-
scribes his art so vividly that —well, it is
not often a reviewer is to be seen, to
his wife’s utter astonishment, reading a
book and, at the same time, wildly waving
his right arm (but with the wrist
locked) high above his head.
In all, the book is an invaluable in-
troduction to fly-fishing for the Aus-
tralian beginner; and we are all, except
perhaps Mr. McCausland, Mr. Gillies and
Mr. Brookes, beginners enough not only
to enjoy it but, in frequent moments of
desperation, to need it.
Whitebeards and Birds .
James Devaney’s Poems (Angus and
Robertson) is a selection from five small
books of verse now out of print. It
confirms one’s impression that Devaney
is at his best when he writes about birds,
and it reminds one how important it is
for a poet to keep his eyes open, to say
something definite ; to be precise.
Devaney writes two kinds of poetry ;
one you could call anonymous, and one
that is unmistakably by James Devaney.
The difference between the two kinds may
be illustrated by two lines from a page
of his long poem about the coming of
spring to Queensland; the anonymous
line
The ranges respond, the furry things fee] it;
and the Devaney line
The nutty-scented whiteboards too.
The point is, that anybody could write
about “furry things,’’ which might be
anything from rabbits to bandicoots;
and, in fact, most people who haven’t
been warned about it have: the line is
imprecise, and a romantic cliche. Nutty-
scented whitebeards, on the other hand,
are something that only a writer who has
seen the spring in Queensland can de-
scribe ; they are something new; and,
whatever they may be, they are something
definite —they have white beards and a
nutty scent. They add something to the
body of Australian poetry. They add
something to the total effect, the personal
statement of James Devaney’s poetry:
he is not merely a romantic verse-writer
who has sat around thinking up “furry
things” out of vague imaginings and other
people’s poetry but a genuine worshipper
of nature who has observed the white-
beards. .
All the way through the book the two
kinds of poetry mingle. Sometimes the
anonymous writing jars in style; some-
times it is pleasant in a quietly-reflective
way ; but tHe Devaney poetry is always
delightful. Take him, for instance, when
he has a bird’s egg in his hand:
A silvereye’s secret nest,
A trim cup cosily lined,
Hung in a brambly screen,
Dainty and deep, and dressed
Neatly in mosses green;
Ah, and a marvel more —
One little egg I see.
First of the season’s store,
Blue as September skies:
I handle it reverently,
Trove of the silvereyes!
Here in my hand I hold
Two little wings to be,
Feathers of greeny-gold . . .
There is, occasionally, a third kind of
poetry; the poetry of vision. It comes
when the poet is looking at nature as
directly as this but with an added in-
tensity that makes whatever he is looking
at suddenly become, in his own phrase,
“more than the thing seen.” His winter
westerlies, harrying the land and “search-
ing into the very soul,” have this visionary
force; so has his fish that leaps out of
the black water of midnight; so has “The
Evening Gleam”; —
The evening gleam of still waters
Can stay the feet that roam,
As if the soul in its long homelessness
Came suddenly home.
With these poems one could place the
charming love-lyric “Dedication,” “The
Willows,” “Otherness,” “Vision,” “The
Frog Pool” with its unforgettable “pande-
monium of delight” and, in spite of the
sentimental “baby breeze,” the glimpse of
light on a lake entitled “Lyric.” Also the
Wordsworthian ballad “The Six Sons.”
But these occasions, even with the flashes
of vision that occur among the other
poems, are too infrequent on the whole
to place Devaney in the company of, say,
Shaw Neilson or Judith Wright as a
visionary poet of nature.
Allowing for some romantic weak-
nesses of style, compensated for by
many felicities, you can read all
his work with pleasure, especially
such long pastoral essays as “Eagle
Height,” hut it is in a group of nature-
poems, directly observed and none the
worse for being written chiefly for
children, that he comes most clearly to
a distinctive and enduring utterance:
“The White Hawk,” “To the Little Blue
Wren,” “Rain in the Bush,” “The Coming
of Spring,” “The Blue Egg” and “'The
Bunyip.” “The White Hawk,” particu-
larly, is a most lively and engaging col-
lection of birds, likely to be reprinted
whenever an Australian anthology is made
for children ; hut all these verses, some
of which are of considerable length and
which, put together, make a world of their
own, are excellent in their field and not
likely to be forgotten by anyone who
cares for Australian birds and the poetry
of nature.
Scots in Melbourne.
The Royal Caledonian Society of Mel-
bourne has persuaded Mr. Alec
Chisholm, one of its vice-presidents, to
write its history, Scots Who. Hae {Angus
and Robertson). In a cautious foreword
the Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, plead-
ing that he is Scottish only on his father’s
side, manages, after considerable search,
to find two qualities to praise in Scots-
men —their spirit of independence and
their sense of continuity.
The society began as the Caledonian
Society of Victoria, protesting lustily
against the use of “English” for
“British” ; gained an initial membership
of 200, held “Nichts wi’ Burns,” an
“annual festival” in 1859 of Which no
record remains, and a “Grand Cale-
donian Gathering” on a Friday and
Saturday in 1860 at the Zoological
Gardens which attracted 20,000 people to
witness the music, dancing, games,
archery, rifle-shooting and daughts
tournament. There was another, even
more splendid, annual orgy in 1861, from
which, apparently, the Melbourne Scots-
men did not recover until 1884.
In June, 1884, a meeting decided to
“reconstruct” the “Melbourne Cale-
donian Society,” discussed the aid which
might be given to needy Scots and to
Scots immigrants, protested again against
the terms “England” and “English,”
formed a Caledonian Choir and held a
Caledonian Ball; gave its patronage in
1886 to “the Herd Laddie,” a cow-tender
who played draughts blindfolded, but
without accepting financial responsibility ;
also agreed to patronise the concert of
a man named Ireland, “conditionally
upon Mr. Ireland being proved to be a
Scotsman” ; and in 1889 journeyed by
special train to Ballarat for the unveiling
of a statue to William Wallace.
In 1898 the Scottish Regiment was
formed, largely with the help of the
society’s president, Sir John McIntyre ;
and in 1902 the society gained an un-
official journal: “The Scot at Hame an’
Abroad.” In 1909 one Milligan resigned
the secretaryship of the society, volun-
tarily, to reorganise his activities; but
at the same time was forced to resign his
eldership of the Presbyterian Church—
he had won first-prize in “Tatts.”
In 1912 the society moved from Queen-
street to more commodious premises in
Queen’s Walk, Swanston-street, with a
good library, billiard-room, and “an
elegantly-appointed bar with supplies to
suit all tastes.” At about this time it
became apparent that there were limits
to even Scotsmen’s ability to stomach
old Scottish songs, notably “Bonny Mary
of Argyle”; —
Meeting one day a member whose
Scottish blood was overlaid by the surname
of Patrick, Hector McLennan inquired why
he didn’t attend any concerts. “Because,”
said Patrick, “I can’t stand that damned
‘Bonny Mary.’ ” Hector had just then pre-
pared a programme for another concert, and
he offered the assurance that “Mary” would
be missing, upon which Patrick agreed to
attend. Alas! the first item the two men
encountered, on meeting at the hall, was a
band fantasia of Scottish airs that included
“Bonny Mary.” A few minutes Jater Signor
Manzoni played a medley on his mandolin,
and again “Mary” got a hearing. Soon
afterwards W. G. Barker rendered the self-
same song as an encore ; and before
Patrick had recovered his poise he was
listening to a Zelman violin fantasia in
which the irrepressible “Mary” bobbed up
again. Then, to round matters off, Gregor
Wood took a hand —having been absent
at another concert when Barker sang, he
was in a state of cheerful ignorance, and so,
when an encore was demanded of him, he,
too, lifted up his voice in “Bonny Mary.”
Imagine it! —five times did the undeniable
“Mary” enter a programme from which
she was supposed to bfe banned. No wonder
that the unhappy Patrick, with all the repeti-
tion ringing in his ears, swore for ever after-
wards that the programme had been rigged
for his benefit.
In 1921 the Caledonian Society was
granted a Royal Charter, in honor of
which, says Mr. Chisholm, it became very
severe with its members. In 1923 it
bought a Russell-street building for
£10,500. But, strangely enough—indeed,
the most curious point in Mr. Chisholm’s
book —the Scotsmen couldn’t make the
building pay; and in 1933 it was
abandoned—for a profit of only £3500
on the original purchase-price— to the
Young Women’s Christian Association ;
the Scotsmen hiving off to rooms in “the
new and stately Manchester Unity Build-
ing,” where, with all good wishes, and
commendations upon having found so
amusing and informative a chronicler, let
us leave them. ■
p.s. Just a wee deoch-an-doris:
Twenty Scotush-Australians, says Mr.
Chisholm, have given this country cash
and property to the value of about
£3,000,000; and Governor Hunter,
Governor Macquarie, Dame Nellie
Melba, A. B. Paterson, Mary Gilmore,
Hugh McCrae, Dorothea Mackellar and
The Bulletin’s W. H. Traill, William
Macleod and James Edmond were
Scottish.
The Making of a Saint
The French seem to like their saints
to be soldiers and patriots, as witness
Joan of Arc ; and the claims to beatifica-
tion are being put forward of Charles
de Foucauld, “today,” says Anne Fre-
mantle in her biography, Desert Calling
(Holds and Carter), “the most generally
revered character in France, after Joan
of Arc.”
There was one saint and there were
many devout and powerful nobles in
Vicomte de Foucauld’s father’s family,
which ran back to before 1066 and all
that; and his mother’s family had been
mostly soldiers: Mrs. Fremantle attempts
a Freudian explanation of the personal
qualities, which made him extraordinary,
but decides in the end that “no human
agency can explain a goodness, an un-
selfishness, an intelligence, and finally a
heroism that lifted this obscure French-
man to the highest levels that humanity
has reached and made of him not merely
a national, but an international, figure of
majestic proportion, an inspiration to
countless thousands.”
De Foucauld began as an adolescent
by leaving his Faith ; then, having been
put through the crack French military
academy, St. Cyr, and the crack cavalry
school at Saurnur, he resigned his sub-
lieutenancy at Setif, in Africa, refusing
to give up his mistress, whom he had
domiciled as Vicomtesse de Foucauld in
the local pub. Fat and gay in those
days, he was almost a franc-millionaire
when francs were real money, and
famous for such entertainments as that
in which coffee was made with brandy
instead of water, or that in which, before
the time of electrical floodlighting, he
had frozen meadows by the Meuse lit
with torches and bonfires so that his
guests might skate and push their , girls
in sleighs over the ice.
But having returned to France to live
in hotels with Mimi, he read of the
massacre of the Flatters mission by
Touaregs ; thereupon and for ever he left
Mimi ; got back his commission, and
served against the Bou Amama rising.
Then, having been refused permission to
accompany his friend and fellow-officer
Laperrine on an exploration southwards,
(Continued on page 35.)


'TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING' 1
nthony Horderns’
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES' WALK
m
m
HI
W
FROM TOWN HALL STATION
HARDYS
P/AAf
GUT
LEAD
m-**
*****9*o*l6*U
Hardy's "Olympian" tapered
Trout Casts, 7ift. Available
in sizes lx to 4x. Price, 7/-
_ rn£- , *
fes?.f?OA/A
*V*mS2T J *
Hardy's "Corona" double
tapered Fly Line No. 3. 1057-
Line No. 2 is priced at 95/-
American Plastic Line, 25
yards long. Green, Brown
and Blue. Priced at 8/6
m
X.
R
Hardy's Cerolene. A perfect
preparation for spinning and
dry fly lines. Price, tin, 3/2
N£>\\
Fisherman's Pocket Knife with
hook disgorger, two blades,
spike and corkscrew. 30/-
iuutp-jy
luuuuuy
jjuuuuy
A sturdy, compact and light
aluminium Fly Case. 12/6
The Trout are Rising... Rising...
What visions of sparkling brooks and smooth flowing rivers,
happy hours and thrills the word trout can conjure up for
those anglers who are lucky enough to have fished for this
prince of sporting fishl Once again the season will soon be
opening and Anthony Horderns' has a large range of trout fishing
gear to choose from. Be early, for supplies are still limited!
Trout Rods
Hardy's Halford Trout Rod, two-piece, 9ft. 6in. Priced at £l6/5/-
Ogden Smith Royal Sovereign Split Cane Rod, 9ft, Price, £l5/17/6
Landing Nets
Triangular Net, completely collapsible (illustrated). Priced at USA-
Triangular Net, all Duralium, not collapsible (unillustrated). 35/-
Fishing Bags
Fawn material Fishing Bag with five compartments, leather bottom,
net rings, air cushion shoulder strap, also detachable water-proof
lining. The ideal fishing bag (illustrated at left). Priced at 84/-
Troul Casts
Tapered Trout Casts, lx, 2x and 3x. Priced at 5/6
Trout Flies
English Dry Flies, size 12. Red Ant, Red Quill, Royal Coachman,
Blue Dun, Black Gnat, Olive Dun, White Moth, Coachman, Cocky-
bondhu, Zulu March, Brown, Olive Quill, R.A.B. Priced at 12/-
English Wet Flies, sizes 8 and 10. Alder, Black Gnat, Bredbo,
Coachman, Cockybondhu, Colndung, Governor, Greenwell's Glory,
Hardy's Favourite, Heckum-Peckum, March Brown, Peveril. 9/- doz.
m
w:
' <
WS:
J
i'-' N
QjkpK -0
m
Aluminium Fly Cases with partitions. 3£in. x 2iin. 247-
Spoon Flashes, with lead, Red bead, iin., 1/6; fin., 1/9;
lin., priced at 2/-.
Hardy's Unique Reel. Priced at £5/8/6.
Three of the numerous Flies listed above. Price, per dozen, 9/
Clear Plastic Fly Boxes fitted with partitions. Price, each, 4/6
Good quality Aluminium Cast Cases with felt pad. Price, 6/6
WRITE FOR OUR FISHERMAN'S POCKET GUIDE. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT


Built-in Fire Protection
!
► Ss \ •'■'•* >*** f s
mmmm
_«■ - A-*. <■
-
S_
ii
■> •< X V
iiiilil
S -s
* !
iliilllo
»•
!
’Sms,
U.
...
5
ni
I;
" ' ' --V\W
■ <s®
rm%
i I!
|s:g|g§
ms
2J$m
mm.
-
:.:; : Xv; :
mmm.
WM
.< . : :
I;§|:t
; '
m m
:
m
PLAN YOUR GRINNELL
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
INSTALLATION AS A
BLENDED PART OF YOUR BUILDING'S DESIGN
Today, every type of building needs
fire protection. For even though the
structure itself may be so-called “fire-
proof” ... its contents are not.
Wormald Brothers engineers, long
experienced in working with archi-
tects, will make provision for
Grinnell protection whilst your build-
ing is still ‘on the board.’ This way
it preserves the beauty of interiors
.. . becomes a blended part of a
building’s functional design.
The Grinnell Automatic Sprinkler
System meets the design require-
ments of every type of commercial,
industrial and institutional building.
Wormald Brothers bring to you
over 60 years of accumulated ex-
perience in fire protection. Take
advantage of it to plan your auto-
matic sprinkler protection to comple-
ment your building’s design.
A complete fire protection service
is maintained at all branches located
throughout Australia and New
Zealand.
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND ALARM SYSTEM
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since iBBg
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LTD. Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Townsville.
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LTD. Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LTD. Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.


The Bulletin
Vol, 71—No. 3689
Wednesday, October 25, 1950
%<\
EXIT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors: _
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Queensland: Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.). Wellington.
"THE TSARS HAVE SPOKEN"
Unless democracy in Australia is dead,
no more than a ragged remnant of the
so-called Federal “Labor” party can sur-
vive the almost inevitable general
election.
What has taken place over the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Bill has empha-
sised and clarified for the general public
facts known for a long time to those
close to the political scene. The Federal
Parliamentary party, with its “great
leaders,” its “world figures,” its “prin-
ciples” and its fervor, has been proved to
be only a shabby fa9ade behind which a
group, their names known only in limited
circles, are the real rulers of “Labor.”
This group sits behind closed doors and
issues its ukases out of the mouths of its
Charlie McCarthys on Parliament Hill.
When Mr. Chifley speaks it is with the
voice of these people; when Dr. Evatt
weeps for the death of “high principles”
he sheds their synthetic crocodile-tears.
No party has ever made such an ab-
ject exhibition of its chains as “Labor”
in the last few days. For six months it
has been fighting the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill while pretending not to
fight it. It has never questioned the
validity of the reasons for the introduc-
tion of the bill. It has never challenged
the claim that the Australian Communist
party is a seditious conspiracy against
the security of Australia, operating in the
interests of a foreign Power. It has not
challenged the proved fact that Com-
munist methods are based on violence
and unlawful policies designed to pro-
duce insurrection, the overthrow of the
Constitution and the establishment of a
one-class Government operating under
dictatorship and gaining its ends by the
physical destruction of its enemies. It
could not deny that these are the prin-
ciples of the Communist party even if it
wanted to, since they are set out in print
in 10,000 Communist documents, bel-
lowed at intervals from every Communist
platform.
It cannot deny, either, and has not
attempted to deny, that certain key indus-
tries are vital to Australia’s defence and
that those industries are being strangled so
as to destroy our safety in the cause of
Russia’s rapacity for world conquest.
And there has been no disagreement be-
tween the Government and Mr. Chifley
and his fellow-serfs about the need to
destroy Communism. The latter sup-
ported the bill “in principle” when it was
introduced. They gave open support to
the parts of the measure which dissolve
the Communist party, expropriate its
property and declare it unlawful.
On the other hand, from the first they
have bitterly opposed those sections of
the bill which make it difficult for the
Communist party to continue to work
from within the unions, to bore into the
civil service and sabotage defence effort,
to spy for the enemy, to cause disruption
and generally to engage in sedition.
Mr. Chifley summarised his party’s
attitude when he declared that the right-
of-appeal and onus-of-proof clauses in
the bill “jettisoned the principles of
British justice” and that the bill had
“abandoned the principle that people had
the right of a free expression of opinion.”
During the past few days Mr. Menzies
has quoted both Mr. Chifley and his
deputy-leader at their most indignant.
Mr. Chifley declared that “to ruin a
man’s reputation by classing him as a
traitor, without giving him a right of
appeal, seems to me a departure from
the principles not only of British and
American justice but of natural justice,”
and Dr. Evatt cried out that “when we
are attacking one form of tyranny and
one kind of subversive activity we must
not establish a tyranny of law and a
denial of justice, because that would inter-
fere with the very basis of Australian
citizenship and the due administration of
justice.” He added that “provisions of
the character I have tried to sum up
would not be passed by any Parliament
that had any respect for justice or for
the dignity of man as man.”
All this is clear enough. The two
“great leaders” and their abject fol-
lowers, some of them shouting one view-
point in caucus and the opposite in
Parliament, were arrayed, it seemed, in
defence of great truths and were pre-
pared to fight to the death for them, even
before the electors at a double-dissolu-
tion election ; for Mr. Chifley believed
“that if the question were put frankly
and fairly to the men and women of Aus-
tralia there could be only one answer.”
When, however, it came to the issue
of whether the fight would be on the
matter was taken out of the hands of
“Labor’s” “great leader” and (if the
latter’s publicity-men can be believed) his
“greater” deputy.
A body which calls itself the “Federal
Labor Party Executive” assumed com-
mand Jt represents nobody but the
so-called branches of the party chosen
in a hole-and-corner manner by
State A.L.P. executives, and some-
times confirmed in office by equally hole-
and-corner State annual conferences,
which are not even allowed to discuss a
resolution until it has been approved and
censored by a secret junta and to which
the Press is usually not admitted.
This body, some of whose members
are in Parliamentary life as subordi-
nates, and mostly lowly ones at that, of
the great democrats whom the public
elects, issued “directions” which those
same great democrats immediately
obeyed with their tails between their legs
even though they professed to disagree
with everything that was done.
The representatives of New South
Wales and South Australia in the execu-
tive alone stood out; but the rest agreed
that “Labor’s” stand on “undying prin-
ciples” must be abandoned in order “to
test the sincerity of the Menzies Gov-
ernment before the people, and to give
the lie to its false and slanderous allega-
tions against the Labor party.” This was
to be done by allowing the bill to pass
“in the form in which it is now before
the Senate.”
The Federal Parliamentary Labor
party immediately accepted the direction
and reversed its previous attitude.
The country had every right to expect
that the acceptance of the orders of this
unelected secret junta would be at least
accompanied by a frank exposition of
their positions by Messrs. Chifley and
Evatt. But with them it seems to have
been a case of “the Tsar has spoken ;
the Duma is dissolved.” Only Mr. Ward
gave tongue to say that he is “quite con-
fident that Mr. Chifley and the large
body of the party still believe that they
were right in the original attitude they
adopted to his [Mr. Menzies’s] bill.” In
other words, the majority of caucus are
meekly voting against their consciences—
Mr. Ward presumably included —because
they are afraid to face the electors on an
issue without the support of a furtive
body which controls union and election
funds.
The position is far more serious than
appears on the surface when the position
is examined. It is the naked truth
that for years Parliamentary “Labor” has
not been able to make its own decisions.
It is therefore equally true that Australia
has been governed unawares by a polit-
buro little more representative of the
people than Stalin’s Kremlin coterie.
This has decided what Parliamentary
“Labor” shall do with defence policy,
what it shall say, whom it shall appoint
to office. In other words, “Labor” is
almost as communist as the Communists
whose central-committee members, when
they wish to get inside the A.L.P., seem
only to have to make a public announce-
ment on the platform that they are leaving
the Communist party, whereafter, without
more ado, they are admitted to the
Chifley fold, as has been done several
times in recent years.
The facts being what they are, it seems
vital that the public should study closely
the events related to the A.L.P. change
of front, and particularly the relation-
ships which exist between some A.L.P.
branches and the Communists.
Almost immediately after the meeting
which directed Messrs. Chifley and Evatt
to allow the bill to pass, and which gave
lip-service to the idea that the Com-
munist party should be suppressed (but
not on the Government plan), the presi-
dent of the A.L.P. executive (a former
Communist) flew to Melbourne to con-
sult with the Federal president of the
union which employs him as New
South Wales secretary, regarding the
extension of the Communist-organised
Victorian railway strike. The Federal
president is Mr. J. J. Brown, a well-
known member of the Communist-party
Central Committee. The A.R.U. formerly
was affiliated with the Red International,
the union-organising body of the Comin-
tern.
Next day the solicitors to the
Communist party, Mr. Harold Rich
and Miss C. Jollie Smith, issued
statements indicating that the Com-
munist party and 10 unions intended
to seek a High Court injunction against
the Communist-party Dissolution Act.
One of the unions involved is the Aus-
tralian Railways Union. As its delegate
to the State A.L.P. branch, Mr, J. A.
Ferguson derives his qualification to be
Federal president of the A.L.P. —which
believes, it says, that Communism should
be suppressed. Another is the A.E.U.,
which provided the A.L.P, with its
previous Federal president.
Five of the largest unions involved
are members of, and largely finance, the
A.L.P. in New South Wales despite the
fact that they persist in electing Com-
munists to high office to manage their
affairs—the Waterside Workers, the
A.E.U., the Federated Ironworkers and
the Australian Railways Union and the
Building Workers Industrial Union. Some
of these have briefed, among others, well-
known Communist counsel who appeared
before the Royal Commission on Com-
munism in Victoria last year.
As Mr. Menzies has declared, the next
election must be fought on the issues of
the Communist-party Dissolution Act.
The sooner that election is held the
better. The “Labor” party has openly
and flagrantly abandoned all right to be
called either a constitutional or a repre-
sentative party. It has accepted the prin-
ciples of Socialist dictatorship, such as
that under which Russia is governed, and
has shown that if it is again returned to
power Parliament under its “manage-
ment” will be only as powerful as the
Supreme Soviet, which meets for a day
or two each year to take the orders of
its Kremlin bosses.
The Government's Duty.
In more senses than one the extra-
ordinary reversal of attitude by the
Socialists on the bill which is now the
Communist-party Dissolution Act greatly
cleared the air. The reversal came from
a change of mind by two (Westralian)
members on the Socialists’ supreme junta
of 12, and its sole motive was to avoid
certain defeat at fresh general elections.
It entails no change of Socialist policy
at all on the issue, either now or after
any elections, whatever the submissions
of “Labor” at the polls. That is made
perfectly clear by the statements of the
Socialist leaders.
Material portion of the declaration on
the anti-Communist bill by the Federal
A.L.P. executive as read in the Senate
by the leader of the “Labor” obstruction
for the past six months:
The Federal executive of the A.L.P
directs the Federal Parliamentary Labor
party to withdraw its opposition to the
bill in the form in which it is now before
the Senate, while leaving all members of
the party free to criticise the controversial
clauses. It further directs the party to
insert Labor’s amendments in the legis-
lation immediately upon its resumption of
Governmental office.
Upon which Senator McKenna, speaking
for the obstructionists of the Senate
majority, said:
I confirm and emphasise every word I
said [in resistance to the bill] The
Federal executive is the controlling body
of the party. We obey orders. Every
member, not only of the [“Labor”] Parlia-
mentary party but throughout Australia, is
honor-bound by the executive. Whatever
we may say within the walls of Parlia-
ment, we are bound to accept the decision
unquestionably.
To avoid (if possible) the judgment of
the electors, the “Labor” party declares
it will cease obstruction in Parliament in
order to continue obstruction outside;
that its members in Parliament are
“honor-bound” not to the electors but
to an outside junta ; and that on whatever
policy “Labor” may in future obtain the
electors’ confidence, whatever pledges on
the point it may give or avoid giving, it
will, once it obtains power again, “im-
mediately” carry out the A.L.P. execu-
tive’s orders.
Abundantly clear is Mr. Chifley’s pre-
ference in his election appeals for a
programme of “No promises at all.” To
be honest, he should have said that he
no longer looks to the electors for
approval of what, as leader of a Govern-
ment, he will do, but solely to “Labor’s”
backroom boys, whose decision “we are
bound to accept unquestionably.”
This is not democracy ; it is govern-
ment not by will or Parliament, but by
an irresponsible body outside Parliament.
The event does not remove the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Act as an issue
for elections following a double-dissolu-
tion —to look no farther ahead than that
—but rather confirms it as an issue, as
Mr. Menzies promptly declared.
The Government’s duty is clear, and
Mr. Menzies leaves no doubt about his
intention to press for a double-dissolution
in order to ask the country for a work-
able Parliament. Mr. Chifley has been
so bold as to chide the Government with
having given undertakings to the electors
“which it cannot cany out.” The Gov-
ernment is not to blame for the inflation,
he says, but for having proposed what
Mr, Chifley apparently regards as the
impossible, namely, to raise the purchas-
ing-power of the currency—“value in the
pound”—by taking all measures within
the Government’s power (and requiring
the community within its powers to co-
operate) to increase the volume of goods
produced.
Just what “promises” in this
direction Mr. Chifley holds that the Gov-
ernment cannot perform is not easily
gathered; he has so far refused to allow
it to try. Everybody knows that mere
exhortations to the community are use-
less, and none better than Mr. Chifley,
who “appealed for higher production”
about once every three months through-
out his recent term of office, and without
any effect whatever. Mr. Chifley and his
followers, resentful of their loss of office,
demand action from the Menzies Govern-
ment, although they themselves were
never game to take any. They base the
demand on Mr. Menzies’s undertaking to
the electors, while for 10 months they
have frustrated from their prearranged
roadblock in the Senate every effort for
action by the Government they assail.
There can be no doubt that the
“Labor” plan of campaign to regain
office was, by means of this Senate road-
block, to prevent the Government from
doing anything, and then to denounce the
Government before the electors as im-
potent. On the anti-Red legislation—with-
out which it has all along been
obvious that the country would never
be able to depose the dictators of key
unions which are restricting production
and transport services—the six-months’
roadblock was last week suddenly lifted.
But, like the Communist cold-war artists
in Berlin, the “Labor” obstructionists
can, and will, reimpose the blockade
whenever they feel like it, and their be-
havior over the lifting of their embargo
on the bill which the Government de-
clared urgent six months ago proclaims
that their tactics of obstruction are but
temporarily shifted, not abandoned.
This is Mr, Menzies’s cue. As a result
of “Labor” tactics all this year his
Government’s task is so much harder than
it was 10 months ago that even to check
depreciation of the pound, as distinct
from restoring value, is perhaps as much
as the Government can now hope to do
within reasonable time. Even this will
require an assured majority for the
Government in both Houses of Parlia-
ment, especially if “Labor” obstinately re-
fuses to co-operate. An emphatic vote
of the electorate, the only means of achiev-
ing such control, should be decisive also
in confirming tentative gestures by the
A.C.T.U. president towards co-operation
in the industrial task.
The critical state of the emergency
demands action to create a workable
Parliament without loss of time. General
elections for both Houses can be held
before Christmas if the Government acts
energetically. Mr. Menzies described his
own attitude with force and clarity at
the Master Builders’ dinner in Melbourne:
The Government will not permit itself
to be forced into a position of futility by a
Senate which was elected three years ago.
Let me say this' quite plainly to the people
of Australia: If you are going to elect a
Government to govern this country in a
time of immense economic difficulties,
putting it into office in the House of Rep-
resentatives and then allowing the Senate
to ignore your Government and to use its
majority to prevent Government business
from being discussed at all, then I want to
make it clear that I am not governing on
these terms....
The main business politically of Australia
at the moment is to clean up a state of
affairs in which a popularly elected Govern-
ment can be frustrated, humiliated and
perhaps ultimately destroyed by another
House of the Parliament which has not
been simultaneously to the people.
But there is more to it than the frustra-
tion of a party Government representing
the popular majority. With every day
that this frustration remains—at the whim
of an embittered Socialist council outside
Parliament —the task of restoring indus-
trial production, checking inflationary
processes let loose by “Labor” three
years ago and rescuing the country from
sheer lawlessness in the key unions is
made harder. The manner of the
“Labor” surrender in Parliament over the
anli-Communist legislation must compel
the Government to further political
action, for it virtually transfers obstruc-
tion from the political to the industrial
field. The incitement of the Communist-
led unions to revolt is barely disguised.
In this sense “Labor” has already referred
the quarrel to the electorate, and the
Government cannot do less than use all
its constitutional resources to follow it
there before much further damage is
done to the nation’s economic structures


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Snag.
If the “Labor” party, on political and
industrial sides alike, is not trying to
hasten an economic crisis from the
serious condition of inflation afflicting
the country, then the behavior and state-
ments of its spokesmen belie it.
These spokesmen are bent upon forc-
ing upon the Government, as remedies
by way of checking inflation, two
measures —revaluation of the pound
against overseas exchanges, and renewed
Commonwealth control of prices of
goods, but not of wages. Other calls —
for higher production in basic materials
of industry, and for nation-wide co-
operation in tackling the problem
through common sacrifice —leave them
quite cold. “Labor” spokesmen, with two
notable exceptions, will have none of
such co-operation.
The exceptions are Mr. Monk, presi-
dent of the A.C.T.U., and Mr. Clarey,
M.P., late president of the same body.
They appear to speak only for that Vic-
torian section of “Labor” which has de-
finitely sided with the Government on the
Communist-party Dissolution Act. Mr.
Monk said on the morrow of the basic-
wage determination by the Arbitration
Court:
We particularly urge upon workers in the
basic industries, such as coal, steel and
transport, the necessity for improving their
production and handling, not only in their
own interests, but in the interests of the
rest of the workers in the Commonwealth
and of the development of Australia as a
nation.... It is essential for a stable
economy that Governments, employers and
workers’ organisations should realise how
they fit into the economic position. Each
must do its part in the new circum-
stances
The A.C.T.U. had said it would not tell
the workers to strive for all-out production
unless it knew the workers would partici-
pate in the benefits accruing from their
efforts. Now the A.C.T.U. feels the matter
should be reconsidered in the light of the
court’s judgment in favor of a £l-a-week
increase in the basic wage. The trade-union
movement does not wish to shirk its share
of the responsibility to ensure that the
increase will be effective.
He added that there was no doubt of
the “absolute necessity of reintroducing
Commonwealth price-control.”
Mr. Clarey, M.P. (supporting): Until
consumption equates demand, inflationary
tendencies are bound to continue. Greater
production, especially of basic raw
materials, is essential to secure effective
increase in the purchasing-power of wages.
The Prime Minister promptly re-
sponded, warmly commending Mr.
Monk’s statement, with the suggestion to
the A.C.T.U. for a conference concern-
ing a campaign for increased production.
In Parliament the spokesman for the
A.L.P. in S.A. (Mr. Clyde Cameron,
M. retorted that Mr. Monk “was not
authorised to make a statement,” and in
Sydney Mr. Ferguson, president of the
A.L.P. Federal and State executives and
of the A.R.U., declared:
Mr. Menzies seeks the help of the Labor
movement and Labor Governments, but
our answer is all the support he will receive
is nil.
To further coalfield stoppages and
shipping stoppages in most chief ports —
especially against the B.H.P. steelworks
and ships carrying coal and steel —were
added last week F.E.D.F.A. strikes in
opencut coal workings in Lithgow and in
the sugar-refinery in Adelaide, the rail-
way strike in Victoria and wharf-strikes
“to protest against high cost of living”
—the rail-strike extended on Monday to
N. and S.A.
It is quite obvious that any Common-
wealth control of prices would entail,
first, a referendum (entailing delays) and
then, if approved, rationing and sub-
sidies (involving very heavy taxation) on
most commodities. After the comments
from the Arbitration Court Bench on the
deleterious effect of wage-increases on
prices, and the remarks of the A.C.T.U.
president, it is clear that wages would
have to be pegged as well as prices, and
this would require either (1) carrying of
a referendum for Commonwealth powers
over industry, or (2) a unanimous de-
cision by the States to transfer all neces-
sary powers to the central Government.
There is little warrant for believing that
the Australian people would vote for
wage-pegging, rationing and taxation for
subsidies —a renewal of war-time restric-
tions and universal blackmarketeering
—as accompaniments to price-fixing.
Since Mr. Chifley as Treasurer decided
on devaluing the £A a year ago, it would
be interesting to have his comments on
the “Labor” demand for reversal of that
decision now, regardless of what other
authorities have to say about it. There
has been a good case for revaluing the
£A upwards; but at the current rate of
its decline any such action may soon
become derisory.
In the call for harder work all round,
the supreme need is greater output in
cod. There is the snag in the log-jam.
Given the coal the country needs, and the
fair service of transport for its distribution
—even no more coal than could be pro-
duced by cutting out absenteeism and
irresponsible stoppages in the mines—the
problem bemusing everybody could look
vastly more tractable in short time.
Pensions.
From Senator W. H. Spooner, Minister
for Social Services:
There is some force in the criticism
of social-service benefits made by “West
Riding” in B. 18/10/’5O. There is, how-
ever, another side to the case.
“West Riding” suggests that pensioners
should be permitted to earn more without
sacrificing portion of their pension. The
case against that proposal is that depart-
mental records indicate that 96 p.c. of
age pensioners are unable to supplement
their pensions by more than £1 a week.
So that, if the departmental estimates are
correct, a proposal to increase the limit
of permissible earnings gives no ad-
vantage to 96 p.c. of those receiving
pensions. They cannot earn even the
amount of 30s. a week which is available
to them without reduction of pension.
As the pension is at present 425. 6d. a
week this means that 96 p.c. of these
single people now receiving the age
pension have a total income from all
sources of less than 625. 6d.. a week. And
everyone will agree that they cannot go
far on that these days.
So that if “W.R.’s” suggestion is
adopted no advantage is gained by those
who are now pensioners. Its effect would
be to make a new group of people eligible
for the pension who cannot now get it
because of this means-test.
A relaxation of this means-test by in-
creasing permissible income from 30s. to
355. a week is estimated to cost £750,000
a year. An increase from 30s. to 40s. is
estimated to cost £2,000,000 p.a. An
increase from 30s. to 50s. is estimated to
cost £6,000,000 p.a.
The present pension at 425. 6d. a week
is inadequate. It is surely better to
provide for the wants of those now on a
pension more adequately than to bring
into the pension field a new group whose
wants are not so great. It is not
financially possible to do both things.
Each increase of a shilling a week in the
pension rate costs £1,100,000 p.a. And so
it is proposed to increase the pension rate
by 7s. 6d. a week.
“W.R.’s” next proposal is that “a start
should be made to get rid of the means-
test by providing pensions for all on
reaching an advanced age, say 70 years.”
This means that everyone from age 70
onwards (and there are a lot even over
80) would automatically qualify for the
age pension. The estimated annual cost
would be £26,848,000 p.a. at the present
rate of pension of 425. 6d. a week.
I haven’t an estimate of the cost at the
new rate of 50s. There are many ways
of spending money on social services to
better advantage than by adopting this
proposal.
I have only dealt with the two sugges-
tions made by “West Riding”; many
others have been also examined. All
roads of thought lead inescapably to the
conclusion that only a national-insurance
scheme can provide a fair solution to the
problems which arise in the administra-
tion of social services.
Call for the Crimes Act.
While the Communists are chortling over
their opportunity to seek “British justice”
on an interpretation of the Communist-
party Dissolution Act and are moving
the democratic laws they abhor to delay
the action for which Parliament has
legislated against themselves as conspira-
tors, they are not omitting to call strikes
by unions which they control in vital
industries and services.
Communist Elliott’s seamen have laid
shipping idle all over Australia, Com-
munist Brown’s railways union has
just performed a trial run in stopping
trains in three industrial States at the
drop of a hat. These efforts bear all the
signs of being only a beginning in wider
Communist disruption. They have been
directed particularly at the transport ser-
vices, and for these there would seem no
doubt about the application of the Crimes
Act, even if it does not apply to the
holding-up of coalmining and, through
coal, of steelworks, building and other
industries.
The Commonwealth Government has
at its hand an instrument for action
against the leaders of these transport
strikes which even the “Labor” party has
called upon it to use. If there is any
efficacy in the special provisions (section
J. 30) of the Crimes Act, here is the call to
prove it. If there is not, then the sooner
the hollowness of relying upon it is ex-
posed the better.
Whatever may be the efficacy of the
Communist-party Dissolution Act, its
operation must now be delayed for a
period perhaps to extend over some
weeks. The plain need is for some drastic
action now to stop disastrous damage to
the industrial life of the community.
Maybe these wanton strikes against
services aimed at the heart of our eco-
nomic life are designed to test the Gov-
ernment’s resolution. On that ground,
also, the challenge should be taken up
immediately.
Saving the Hunter Valley.
The McGirr Government in N.S.W. has
only itself to blame if people are sus-
picious of its motives, a fact which has
had a singularly bad effect on the good
work of its Ministers for Lands, Agri-
culture and Conservation in their respec-
tive spheres. Mr, Renshaw, the new
Lands Minister, has yet to prove him-
self in the job ably filled by Mr. Sheahan,
now gone to Transport; Mr. Graham
has handled Agriculture very well, and
Mr. Weir has done the same with Con-
servation.
Formation of the Hunter Valley Con-
servation Trust, which the McGirr Gov-
ernment proposes, is in itself a good
thing, and one that should have been in
motion long ago. The fact that New-
castle Harbor has become dangerous for
shipping as a result of the silt carried
into it by this year’s Hunter River floods
is sufficient evidence of the enormous
damage done to some of the most pro-
ductive land in Australia.
The trust is to consist of six Govern-
ment officers and eight Hunter Valley
representatives, and it will have power,
within limits, to decide how land shall
be used in the valley with the object of
checking erosion and restoring eroded
lands. Compensation will be paid for
loss of production, and where a land-
owner is unable to do works ordered the
trust will do them. A conservation-rate
will be levied and collected by local-
government authorities.
This sort of thing has long been the
obvious answer to the problem of ero-
sion-control. In Australia, as was earlier
discovered in America, far too many
landholders ignore all appeals to conserve
their land, and far too many sneer at the
efforts of others to conserve it. Par-
ticularly in areas of intensive produc-
tion, as in the Hunter Valley, the time
has come to adopt the same measures as
are adopted with noxious weeds and
animals.
The N.S.W. Opposition, while not
opposed to the idea, voiced suspicions
of the administration “tremendous
power is vested in the trust, and it is a
definite infringement on the rights and
liberties of the individual.” So, for that
matter, are the laws relating to weeds and
rabbits, but nobody would deny their
necessity.
The move needs proper scrutiny, of
course, for any Socialistic strings. But it
is the first action taken in this
country to compel landowners to check
soil-loss. Given tolerant exercise of the
authority and accompanied by clear ex-
planations of why this or that order is
given, it could come to be welcomed as
was the American system —which is simi-
lar to this—after it had survived the first
suspicion and hostility and proved its
value to all concerned. Government con-
trol is a thing to be avoided wherever
possible. But in the matter of erosion
no other remedy will work-in time.
From Board to Bunker.
Two N. S. Wales “Labor” Ministers have
agreed with the Federal Minister for
Labor, Mr. Holt, that there is a definite
Communist plan to hamper Australia’s
production by hitting at the coal and
steel industries. Petty coal strikes,
especially in B.H.P. mines, waterfront
disputes and the holding-up of ships all
contribute towards this purpose. Various
pretexts are given for delays to ships or
the withholding of crews from vessels,
but, whatever the excuse, the purpose
served is the same.
In the case of two ships held up
at Port Adelaide a new complaint
was found the poor quality of
bunker coal the firemen were called
upon to handle. One fireman told Con-
ciliation Commissioner Hamilton Knight
that “at one time the quality of coal used
was so bad that sufficient steam could
not be generated to provide power to
work the ship’s radio.” Another man
aired his complaint in the Press, and sug-
gested that “shipowners should be com-
pelled to use a little of their high annual
profits to purchase good-quality coal.”
Apart from the fact that the commis-
sioner found the allegation unsubstan-
tiated both the direct and the indirect
accusations were wide of the mark. High
profits are only a memory with most ship-
ping companies—the one which employs
the complainant paid a 5 per cent, dividend
this year compared with per cent, in
1939. As to compulsion, he is looking
in the wrong direction; shipowners, like
Bunnerong powerhouse, have to take
whatever coal the Joint Coal Board allots
them—good, bad or indifferent. Still, it
is not much good asking the board ques-
tions about anything so recent as last
month’s allocations of coal; it is still
struggling to bring forth its report for
the year ended June 30, 1948.
Worker Wizards.
If the “Labor” members in both Houses
at Canberra are right, membership of a
trade-union is the greatest wonder-work-
ing alchemy of the age. Let a person be
ever so stupid, vicious, dull, lazy, dis-
honest or unpatriotic, he or she has but to
join a trade-union to become immediately
one of the only fit and proper persons to
govern Australia. The non-trade-unionist,
no matter what success he has attained in
any field of human endeavor, no matter
how upright a citizen he may be, uo
matter how patriotic or humane or
brilliant in creative thought and action, is
unfitted to while he remains a
non-unionist.
That is what “Labor” members in both
Houses have been saying ever since the
Menzies Government was elected last
December. To them, as anyone can tell
who listens to the broadcast the
paragon of paragons in this sinful world
is the “worker.” And by “worker” they
don’t mean the farmer or the builder, the
executive or the artist, the shopkeeper or
the lawyer or indeed anybody else, no
matter how hard he works, except the
trade-unionist.
Only the “worker” makes sacrifices,
produces goods, builds houses, runs trains,
sails ships, fights tyrants, suffers in the
cause of freedom and all the rest of it.
And because of this only the “worker”
knows what is best for Australia, best for
you and me. He and he only knows the
solution to the great financial problems
that confront the nation, to the tangle of
foreign affairs and foreign trade. Only
the “worker,” in short, knows the answer
to everything.
This model of intelligence, this master
of destiny and morals and progress, how-
ever, is far too busy doing all the work
to go to Canberra and Tart governing the
country, so he elects his representatives
to do it for him. Thus, according to the
“Labor” members, is his wisdom dis-
played. But one thing remains to be ex-
plained : how on earth do these
wizards manage to select such represent-
atives?
A Man in Amber.
Let the prohibition people make what
they like of it, but the fact is that
thousands of people have enjoyed the
vision of themselves swimming in a sea
of beer, and thousands appreciate the
deeper significance of the old joke that
when Bill told Harry that Jim had been
drowned in a tank of beer Harry said,
enviously, “Gripes, what a glorious
death.”
However, there is a vast difference be-
tween vision and reality, as John Owens,
a nightwatchman in a Wellington (N.Z.)
brewery, has probably discovered. John
fell into a vat containing 3000 gallons
of beer, and had to swim and float around
for a couple of hours before somebody
found him and pulled him out. The re-
port has it that he went to hospital—
“suffering from shock.”
We may suppose that beer, being gassy,
is more buoyant than water. Drinking
it certainly has a more buoyant effect
than drinking water. Then, again, we
are told in brewery advertisements that
beer refreshes and sustains, though so far
nobody has claimed that Mr. Owens sus-
tained himself by a swallow or two of
his surroundings.
It is easy to imagine oneself in a like
plight, uncertain whether to take a bite
or merely a nibble of the temptation in
which one floated, debating whether or
not it is true that “you can’t kill a drunk”
and paddling round and round with so
much good stuff available for the mere
opening of one’s mouth. There is in the
human being a far more determined will
to live than in other animals, but in this
case the temptation to drink oneself to
death would be enormous,
Mr. Owens, happily, survived. He is
likely to regard beer with deep aversion
for the rest of his life, though his is one
of the most unique stories a man could
have to tell. We are told that on the
C Continued on next page.)


T
KEEfttaiHiia
V.
5728 B-R
Keep
CRAVEN A
tor your *hr»»* 8 “*
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■
morning after he was saved the brewery
ran the 3000 gallons in which he had
been immersed into Wellington harbor.
It is well that this was secretly done,
otherwise the harbor might have been
full of people endeavoring to emulate
Mr. Owens, though with a different
motive.
POLITICAL POINTS
Last week saw Federal “Labor”
touch a new low in dignity and principle
when its Senate majority, having vowed
it would fight to the last ditch on the prin-
ciple of onus-of-proof and trial-by-jury
for persons declared under the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Bill, came to heel
at the behest of its masters, the party ex-
ecutive. The executive’s resolution on the
subject was a long, wordy affair which
admitted in effect that it was inspired by
expediency; the speeches of McKenna
and Co. in the Senate matched its perfectly.
McKenna set the keynote: His opinion
on the bill was unchanged, but the execu-
tive had directed the party to allow if to
pass and he was “in honor-bound” to
obey. Other “Labor” Senators sang the
same song—and took three days to sing
it. When the last whingeing note died
away they allowed the bill to pass with-
out a division.
Chifley described the Government’s de-
fence of the onus-of-proof clauses as “a
sham and a farce”; Doc. Evatt said that
the provisions would not be passed “by
any Parliament that had any respect for
justice or for the dignity of man as man.”
Despite these statements from “Labor’s”
leader and deputy-leader the bill was
passed, onus and all. “Labor’s” Senate
majority wasted the nation’s time for
three days—as it had previously wasted
it for as many months —and then let the
bill pass on the voices. Senators Morrow
and Ward, who had vowed they would
not vote for the bill, kept the letter of
their promise by creeping out of the
Chamber before the vote was taken.
Almost as soon as the Communist-
party Dissolution Act had received the
Royal Assent application was made to
the High Court by the Communist party
and several Red-controlled unions seek-
ing an injunction to prevent its applica-
tion. Mr. Justice Dixon granted an in-
terim injunction restraining the Com-
monwealth from “declaring” persons,
seizing property or disposing of books,
papers, documents or records seized under
the Act. The interim order expires to-
day, when the hearing of the applica-
tions is due to begin. His Honor inti-
mated on Saturday that if he was satis-
fied today that the interim orders should
not be extended he would terminate
them.
The impression gained by listening to
some “Labor” members’ speeches on the
anti-Red bill is that in their view the only
persons likely to be declared under the
Act will be “decent Australians” and that
all those who give evidence against them
will be pimps, spies, liars and perjurers.
It’s an alarming line of argument. Every
city knows the type of citizen to whom
anyone arrested is a martyr and all police-
men bullies and “mug coppers.” The
national Parliament is hardly the place for
such a philosophy.
Rank-and-filers in caucus must be
wondering just what sort of leaders
they’ve got. Chifley and Evatt told them
a few years ago that they could nationalise
airlines. They found they couldn’t. The
same authorities said the Bank-Grab
would be O.K. The High Court and
Privy Council said nay. More recently
caucus —and the Australian people—were
told petrol couldn’t be derationed without
causing chaos. It was, and it didn’t.
Then there was the matter of paying en-
dowment for the first child. “Can’t be
done” was the Chifley attitude, and he
maintained that if it were done the Arbi-
tration Court would take it into con-
sideration in fixing the basic wage.
Caucus loyally argued that way—until
they were told to cave in and pass the
bill. The recent basic-wage judgment
took no notice of the extra endowment.
The record of the misleading leaders was
bad enough before last week. But
now . . .
“The Standard,” official organ of the
A.L.P. in N. S. Wales, took the climb-
down rather sadly:
There will be deep regret in a large
section of the Labor movement that
political tactics have been allowed to out-
weigh political principles.., .However, the
decision has been made, and it is to be
hoped that recriminations will be reserved
for the future.
The paper professes to hope that
“Labor” will soon have the opportunity
of emasculating—er, amending —the Act.
The Menzies Government, by its indeci-
sion and by its lack of administrative
ability, has already cost Australians ten
times more than all the Communist-led
disputes for the last ten years.
“Standard” therefore urges the Senate to
“force the Government to face its masters
—the people—for a reckoning.”
If the Senate wishes to follow the
advice it has no excuse for waiting; the
means are ready to its hand in the form
of the Bank Bill. All it has to do is
throw it out again and the election cam-
paign is as good as on. But before
Labor Senators can do that they will
have to see if the 12 men outside Parlia-
ment want them to.
The McGirr Government refused to
give the people of New England the
chance to say by referendum whether or
not they wish to form a new State. There
are 620,000 people there, more than there
in Tasmania and West Australia.
The McGirrs knocked the suggestion
back on the question of cost, saying it
could not “justify” the expense “unless
there was a majority of people in
northern N.S.W. in favor of a new State.”
This trivial excuse is best answered by
asking how on earth the McGirrs know
there isn’t a majority without taking a
vote on it.
Senator McKenna waited till he got
outside Parliament—it was at a “Labor”
meeting at Sydney Town Hall—to say in
reference to Commonwealth control of
prices that it cost under the Chifley Gov-
ernment only £706,000 “to operate.” No-
body knows better than Senator Mc-
Kenna that when the Chifley Govern-
ment abandoned price-control in a hurry
in 1948 subsidies of prices were costing
consumers (as taxpayers) about £5O
million.
Like the Fat Boy in Pickwick Papers
who threatened “to make your flesh
creep,” Eddie Ward was bulging with a
mysterious secret when he spoke at the
Sydney Town Hall meeting to protest
against high prices. He said he had in-
formation about the anti-Red bill “re-
ceived in the last twelve hours” which
would cause the Prime Minister great dis-
comfort. He would say no more at that
time, but “if the opportunity presents
itself tomorrow night in the House of
Representatives I will do so.” No revela-
tion came the following night—or the
next. Perhaps Eddie has changed his
mind and intends to hug the awful secret
to his bosom.
In the Reps Ward shrieked that if the
unions took “direct action” to oppose the
anti-Red bill he would support them.
That was to be expected of Ward, But
will the unions support him ?
The McDonald-Cains say they mean
to push on with their “Greater Mel-
bourne” scheme, a “Labor” pet which
McDonald adopted as the price of Cain’s
support. It would result in the disap-
pearance of Melbourne’s suburban cities,
many of which are an example to other
communities, and their replacement by a
central city council. Significantly enough,
the first public protest meeting in
Prahran, a “Labor” centre, drew a large
and very annoyed crowd. Any Mel-
bourne suburbanite who favors the
scheme ought to get hold of the histories
of Greater Brisbane and Greater New-
castle and the “Labor”-amalgamated
councils of N.S.W.
Fadden is receiving a lot of abuse for
what his Budget does or leaves undone,
but he has earned the gratitude of the
vast majority of taxpayers for reducing
the assessment system to the simplest pro-
portions. Taxpayers can at last work
out their taxes without difficulty and
check their bills from the tax office. And
that is what few of them were able to do
under the Socialist regime.
When Curtin, “Labor” member for
Watson, gets up to speak, Government
members relax and his colleagues wriggle
in their seats and wonder whether it
mightn’t have been better to stick to
Maxie Falstein after all. One gem that
rocked the FTouse on Thursday night:
“The grins on the faces of honorable
members opposite will bite the dust.”
Later in the same speech, recalling his
pre-selection for Watson, “Labor’s”
No. 1 Comic Monologuist said “There
were seventeen runners up against me in
Watson.” Curtin can take consolation
in the fact that not one of the 17 could
run to heel any faster than he did when
the executive cracked the whip.
J. A. Ferguson, as president of the
N.S.W. A.L.P., attended the Federal
A.L.P. Executive to urge it to direct
the Federal “Labor” caucus to reject
the anti-Commo bill. As Federal
president he was then obliged to
direct caucus to let the bill pass. After
this order had been issued Ferguson
went off to Melbourne to discuss with
Communist Brown, president and boss of
the Australian Railways Union, whether
the Victorian rail strike should be ex-
tended to N.S.W., where Ferguson is
State secretary of the union. The orders
he accepted were brought home to all
N.S.W. on Monday last. S.A. trains
were stopped, too.
At the weekend before the rail stoppage
was thus extended, Ferguson told the
Press that union mass meetings to “hear
reports” would be held on the idle Mon-
day and
Though these meetings are entitled to
express opinions these will not necessarily
be regarded as policy. The State branch
executive is the only policy-making body
between meetings of the State council.
In other words, the railwaymen would not
have a vote on whether the strike would
continue. That is policy.
On the same day “S. M. Herald” pub-
lished an article on the virtues of Fer-
guson’s suggestion for a Faculty of Labor
and Industrial Relations at Sydney Uni-
versity. “ ‘Jackie’ Ferguson,” it said, “is
one of the most thoughtful men in the
movement,” On this past week’s record
he ought to be.
On Monday, when the one-day rail-
way strike saw most roads from Sydney
suburbs to the city jam-packed with a
crawling mass of cars, trams, trucks and
buses, almost the only section of the
metropolis where business-as-usual pre-
vailed was the area which has been wait-
mg since 1890 for the building of the
Eastern Suburbs railway.
When John Michael Mullens, “Labor”
member for Gellibrand (Vic.), accused
the Country party of being “Socialists in
times of distress and capitalists in times of
prosperity” there should have been some
red faces in the House —and not all in the
Country-party benches.
Just before he left Sydney for Hobart
last week, N.S.W, Prices Minister
Finnan, who was chairman of the Prices
Ministers’ conference, announced that
State price-fixing was hopeless and the
States intended to “hand it back” to the
Commonwealth. After which the con-
ference fixed the prices of woollen- and
rubber-goods, wet batteries, battery-boxes
and matches and deferred decisions on
petrol, meat and tobacco. Finnan, of
course, was merely echoing the “Labor”
yells in Canberra, designed to sidetrack
attention from “Labor’s” Red-bill climb-
down.
Another of those peculiar manifesta-
tions which distinguish N.S.W. Chief Sec-
retary Clive Evatt appeared last week
when he issued an order compelling all fish
merchants in N.S.W, to sell imported fish
through the Sydney fishmarket. The
sole result will be an increase in the
price of imported fish by 2d. to 3d. a
pound because the Evatt order loads it
with a 6i p.c. selling-charge. Yet Evatt’s
party is yelling for Federal price-control
as a means of keeping prices down!
One of Victoria’s biggest egg-pro-
ducers, T. Lapin, of Bayswater, who was
marketing 1,500,000 eggs a year, is fold-
ing up the business and selling his hens
for slaughter because the Victorian Egg
Board has cancelled his licence to sell
eggs outside the board on the ground that
he was not sending the board 75 p.c. of
them. Lapin claims he graded his eggs
on the farm, sent the board all the ex-
port-quality ones, and sold the others.
He says that under the board’s rules
he’d have to sell non-exportable eggs to
the board at 2s. o£d. a dozen, then buy
them back at 2s. s|d. to sell to his cus-
tomers. This is the same board which
recently tried to sidestep the State Gov-
ernment by going to the Crown Law
authorities for a rule to allow it to enter
and search premises; its chairman de-
clared some time ago that it would fix
prices irrespective of what poultrymen
or consumers thought. The board seems
to have become addled with bureaucratic
despotism.
Poor old “Fixer” Ashley, almost in
tears over “Labor’s” plight in the Senate
on the anti-Red bill, tried to defend Mc-
Kenna: “Nobody in this House, on
either side, would deny that Senator
McKenna is not an upright man!” But
apparently not even his own side was lis-
tening to “Fixer,” and the remark went
unchallenged.
The “Labor” attitude to the Prime
Minister’s call for more production as a
means of checking inflation is like that
of the fellow in the bunk on the ship.
Told that the vessel was sinking, he
snuggled down in the bunk, pulled the
blankets round his ears and snarled “Let
it sink ; it isn’t mine.”


df
sd
AMONG THE DUMPERS.
“If you want to get out of this you’ll have to help ME to help YOU.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
‘ The ‘Labor’ party, which had said it would go
to an election over onus-of-proof and trial-by-jury
amendments to the Anti-Communist Bill, has with-
drawn its opposition, Senator Nicholas McKenna ex-
plaining to the Senate that he and the rest of the
party were bound by the decision of the Federal
Labor party’s executive.”
Old Crab”; When I sent a youngster
in my class on a message to the teacher
in charge of the cane, and he collected
two ‘ cuts” by mistake, I remembered
the story of the head teacher who always
had a dozen lined up outside his office
by the nine-thirty bell. This morning
they all took their punishment stoically
until he came to the last delinquent, who
put up his hand
and mumbled
something about
a message. Any-
how, the h.t. had
given him the
works before the
kid could fish in
his pocket and
drag out a note —
he was a mes-
senger from a
neighboring
school. Without
turning a hair the old man sat down,
scribbled a few lines and handed the
martyr a slip of paper. “Give this to
your headmaster,” he said. The note
read: “Please credit the bearer with six
cuts.”
* * * He
Mrs. P.”; At last it came to my turn
at the busy wool-counter. When it came
to a choice of brands I hesitated. “This
wool. Madam,” the assistant prodded,
“will wear very well. It’s crossbred wool
—it’s got a lot of cotton in it.” I
staggered out with the knitting skeins, but
haven’t managed yet to work out how
she thought the wool-cotton cross was
effected.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”; At least one Perth 10-
year-old has had his faith in the Aus-
tralian Army reinforced. The lad was
one of a crowd outside the Army’s dis-
play at the Royal Show when engineers
showed how a mine-detector could
locate even the tiniest pieces of metal
buried in the ground. The youngster
moved on towards the sideshows, but
dropped a two-shilling piece, his entire'
fortune, into the sand. Without going"
through official channels he ran back to
the Army display and told his tale of
woe. An obliging lance-corporal took
the detector along and within a few
minutes the coin was recovered.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”; When I visited my Maori
friend Hori I found him facing a huge
pile of dirty washing. Selecting three
soiled shirts, he tossed them aside. “Too
hard to wash,” he declared. “I’ll keep
’em for old ones.”
“Bo”: The N. S. Wales Railway De-
partment is carrying out extensive altera-
tions to several stations on our outer-
suburban Sydney two-track line in
preparation for its quadruplication.
Abutting the platform of one station is a
huge outcrop of rock which is under the
jackhammers, it being the location of one
of the proposed extra lines. Somewhere
above the outcrop is a fence. Among
the huge piles of displaced sandstone is a
bold j “Road Up. No Thorough-
fare.” The warning has unquestionably
had excellent results. So far as is known
not one motorist has sought to defy it by
bringing his car on to the railway plat-
form and attempting to traverse the huge
pile of boulders, or, alternatively,
endeavored to get down on to the
platform by crashing through the fence
and bouncing down over the rocks.
“Safety First” is a motto the depart-
ment is indeed living up to.
* * * *
“G.S.W.”: Judge Berne’s caustic re-
marks to three jurors in the Sydney
Quarter Sessions who sought exemption
on the grounds that their firms were short-
staffed brings to mind a court classic of
a few years ago. When a juror asked
to be excused for the reason “That they
were very busy at the works,” his Nibs
observed, “Oh, so you are one of those
people who think you cannot be done
without?” “No, sir,” was the reply. “I
know they can do without me, but I don’t
want them to find out.”
* * * *
“Aestur”: As well as for its apples,
beer and lottery, Tasmania has long been
noted for its cheap and plentiful electric
power, made possible by its geographical
luck in having several large lakes on the
3000 ft. plateau in the centre of the island ;
it has been suggested that parts of the
mainland could be supplied with power
by submarine cable across Bass Strait. A
prolonged drought has changed the
picture, suggesting that if a cable were
laid it might be to bring power to the
island. The Central plateau is normally
one of the wettest parts of the State, but
the fall lately has been so low that an-
other dry season could lower the lakes
to a critical level. The Hydroelectric
Commission is seeking the advice of the
C.5.1.R.0., and a party of scientists plus
an R.A.A.F. plane are to attempt to
make artificial rain fall in the area.
* * * *
“F.L.T.”: “Sixenate’s” par, of the
dentist’s “inflamus conduct” (B. 4/10/’5O)
reminds me of a depositor of our bank
who declared that the withdrawal order
passed to the debit of his account was a
forgery. As the one who had passed the
signature I was on tenterhooks when he
brought his solicitor to the bank to view
the exhibit. After studying the order
Costs turned to him and asked, “How
do you spell forty?” The answer
“Fourty” came in a flash, and as that was
the spelling on the form we heard no
more of the alleged forgery.
* * * *
“N.F.K.”: A. D. Kay’s memoir (B.
27/9/’5O) reminds me that in my time
I’ve put up with a good deal of dis-
paraging comment from my elders and
betters. I express admiration for a singer.
“Ah — spring!”
“Ah,” they exclaim, “but then you never
heard Melba.” An actress: “Not a bad
performance, but, of course, you wouldn’t
remember Sybil Thorndike.” I have dis-
counted much of this as being due to that
rosy haze with which every generation
apparently obscures its youth, but on
one occasion I had to accept defeat and
admit that the present tribe of Domain
orators compares poorly with the standard
of other days. Having reported some of
the repartee at a recent Sunday afternoon
I was told: “You should have heard A.
D. Kay. I remember a character trying
to gain Kay’s attention throughout a
whole afternoon. Finally Kay turned to
him and said, ‘Well, what is your
question?’ T just wanted to know,’ re-
plied the joker, ‘if you’re in favor of black
gins wearing white stockings?’ ‘Sir,’
answered Kay, ‘it is a matter of complete
“I'll sugar it for you too , Bert.”
indifference to me what color stockings
your wife wears! ’ ” No. There’s no-
thing like that in the Domain now.
* * * *
“Blue P.”; I have always been aware
that the English cherish their vicars, who
occupy a rather important place in English
community life, especially outside the
great cities ; and having met one or two
specimens I can easily understand the
affection in which they are held. But I
had no idea that the vicars themselves
lasted so well until I came across this
passage in an English magazine:
In the spring of 1947 a gale blew out
the east window and seriously damaged the
tower of the little church of Tilty, in Essex.
Being of unusual archaeological interest, the
vicar, who had some experience in tobacco-
growing in South America, offered to help
any local subscribers for the restoration by
advice in cultivating the weed.
This leaves me wondering if the vicar
could possibly have been a relic of the
Incas, but I suppose the point will never
be cleared up.
“Lyle”; The Essex vicar who has
been prominent in the recent development
of tobacco-growing in England spoke
truth when he referred to the 17th-
century efforts to grow tobacco in Eng-
land as being “stamped out in the face
of riot and bloodshed” (B. 27/9/’5O).
Persistent ignoring of the prohibition of
tobacco-culture eventually brought about
the use of troops to root up the plants.
The Privy Council forbade the business
in 1619, but it was not until the reign of
William 111, at the end of that century,
that this policy finally triumphed. Jersey
and Hampshire were about the most im-
portant tobacco areas in early 17th-
century England. A fairly substantial
acreage was under the crop in the latter
county. The Government’s action in
banning the industry was inspired by the
then prevalent economic doctrine —Mer-
cantilism. A cardinal dictum of the
mercantilists was that trade between a
colony and Mother-
country should be re-
ciprocal. The colony
should only be allowed to
develop industries that
would not compete with
the basic ones of the
parent community. In
return the latter should
discourage the building-
up within its boundaries of
industries important to the
colony.
* * ♦
“Dahakalas”: A Mel-
bourne chemist recently
received a letter requesting
a repeat of a prescription he
had dispensed some years
ago for an old lady suf-
fering from a heart com-
plaint. Owing to the lapse
of time since the original mixture had
been prescribed he wrote asking after her
present state of health and inquiring if
she had been suffering from any other
ailments. Her reply left nothing out —
measles at five, mumps at seven, fell off
a pony at 12, scalded herself when wash-
ing clothes, bore five children over a
period of years, their various ailments (also
listed), lost her false-teeth when travelling
between Tasmania and the mainland, fell
down the back veranda-steps. The letter
finished with an urgent request for the
speedy dispatch of the medicine, as her
heart was crook and one daughter had
just had twins.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; Was privileged to witness a
stand for those rights of the unionist and
the one-man-one-job principle without
which my boss and yours would grind
3ur faces in the dust. My Sydney tram
drew to a stop. Ahead of it were five
others. Behind it trams piled up steadily.
Yielding to curiosity I went ahead to
where an empty double-decker bus stood
oh the line in front of the first stalled
tram. On the kerb stood the bus-driver
and his “connie.” Said a citizen, “What’s
wrong with the bus?” The driver replied,
succinctly, “She’s broke down.” “Well,
there’s enough of us here; couldn’t we
push it off the line and let the trams go?”
The driver gave him a bleak look.
“Listen, kid,” he said. “Only a mechanic
can touch a stalled bus, see? It’s a
union rule.” And there the rule remained,
inviolate, until a mechanic came from the
depot five miles away—at least, I sup-
pose that’s what happened, for I didn’t
see the end, being picked up by a friend
in his car.
* * * *
“Wester”: The end .of the rabbit-
menace in Australia is now in sight. A
doctor told the English Anti-Smoking
League that a drop of clear nicotine on
a shaved rabbit caused immediate con-
vulsions and death. As soon as I can
find out how much of the rabbit to shave
I’ll let you know; my lawyer is working
out the question of royalties.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is no humanity in
authority, as Shakspeare said. Edward
Semini, a Maltese, left his island home
and came to Australia two years ago.
Unable to obtain accommodation, he
spent all his savings in returning to Malta,
where he built himself a house with a
bedroom, kitchen and bathroom. He
brought it back to Melbourne, got a job
at Sunshine and fondly hoped that, hav-
ing put it together, he would be able to
live in it on his own allotment while he
built a permanent home. But no! The
Customs department impounded his pre-
fab. and the council suspended permits
while it looked up the regulations. It
then told him that even if he put up his
home he mightn’t be permitted to live in
it, even temporarily. Still, there ought
to be a hollow log he could crawl into
when he isn’t working. It’s a free
country.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: You can’t beat the
modern youngster when it comes to bar-
gain-hunting. When I was left in tem-
porary charge of a small shop selling
school requisites one of my first cus-
tomers was a nipper who required a red
lead-pencil. I was hazy about the price,
and the customer said he had no idea,
so I settled for a trifle more than I payed
for the same sort of pencil when I was
a kid. Next morning, before school-
time, the shop was besieged by youngsters
all wanting “red-leads.” I did a roaring
trade —until the boss came in. Then
sales dropped to nil.
THE MAIDEN’S TEARS.
Early one morning, just as the sun was rising,
1 heard a maid singing in the valley below:
C)h, never leave me! Oh, don’t deceive me!
How could you use a poor Commo so?”
Said Bert and Ben and Nicholas, “Our con-
sciences, they prickle us.
There’s certain things that gents like us would
' never, never do:
' e’ll never leave you; we won’t deceive you;
n d now, if you’ll excuse us, we feel it’s time
to go.”
Remember the promises you made to the
Commissars,
Remember the promises you made to be true:
- on t let the Onus be put upon us—
dow could you use a poor Commo so?
A man would need to be a rat to do a dreadful
thing like that,
I he sort of thing wild horses would never drag
us to:
:Ve never would condemn — we’re merely letting
them —
And any more that we can do, just kindly
let us know.”
”R em ember the fury men got into over jurymen,
And how you spoke of freedom with your faces
all aglow:
Now you have stopped the fight. Pray, is that
wrong or right?
How could you use a poor Commo so?
“Oh, never scold the old and bold, who do
exactly as they’re told;
We stick to our opinions in the faces of the
foe !
Only our bodies jump, kicked smartly in the
rump,
Otherwise we’re certain to maintain the status
quo.”
But still I heard the maiden, a-sighing and
complaining,
morn i n § 1° evening in the valley below:
’’Oh, don’t deceive me! Oh, never leave me!
How could you use a poor Commo so?”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Ceg”: He was a somewhat self-
important director of a bank with head-
quarters in London, out to have a look
at the branches in the Colonies —er. Com-
monwealth. He had been closeted for
most of the afternoon with the manager
of the Melbourne office, and towards four
o’clock they emerged and walked through
the banking chamber, where the clerks and
tellers were en-
gaged in balanc-
ing for the day.
Their emergence
coincided with a
temporary black-
out. After a
moment or two
the lights came
on again, and, as
is usual on such
occasions, a mild
cheer went up from the helots. The
visiting director, misunderstanding the
reason for the cheers, raised his hat and
gave a sort of bow. Turning to the
manager he remarked, “Very gratifying.
A nice spirit.” Possibly he thought that
the annual hearty vote of thanks to the
staff, passed with monotonous regularity
12,000 miles away, contributed in some
way to a magnificent esprit de corps.
“You can see what they mean by ‘like floating on air .”
“Clooter”: All the material for a novel
of marital strife seems to be in a Queens-
land case wherein the wife outlined
her battle against her rival’ —sport.
The marriage, of 18 years’ dura-
tion, suffered its first injury immediately
after the honeymoon, when Hubby began
going away to weekend tennis, leaving
her at home. Children arrived and helped
to fill the gap, and the wife evidently
hoped that by the time they were reared
hubby would be too old for tennis. Time
did catch up with him, but he took to
golf, and there are thousands of wives
who know what that means. The wife
saw less than ever of him at weekends,
because golf is an all-weather game.
Finally he took to bowls, and since you
can play bowls at night his absences
were multiplied. Then she got fed up
and left —one day while he was away at
bowls. For his part, defending a claim
against him for maintenance, hubby
alleged that ma-in-law was the main
trouble, that he took his wife to the
pictures “about six times a year,” as well
as to other outings, and that his home
was still open to her. The court was
still working it out the last I heard of it.
* * * *
“E.G.8.”: In childhood we laughed at
the story of the Irishman who was fish-
ing in a boat with two others when the
boat was swamped. Pat swam ashore,
then returned and rescued the others.
Asked why he swam ashore first he re-
plied, “Bejabers, I thought I’d better save
me own loife first.” That, on no less an
authority than “Sydney Morning Herald,”
was what occurred during the burning of
a guesthouse at Yamba (N.S.W.). Tell-
ing of a rescue from the flames, “S.M.H.”
put it this way: “After he had saved his
own life he went back.....”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: When newspaper reporters
heard of Clifford Godfrey, of Nottingham
(Eng.), and the giant potatoes he grows
they looked him up and were shown
spuds up to 21b. in weight and Ift. long.
The biggest, according to Godfrey, he’ll
“save for his Christmas dinner.” This
shows the dreadful lack of enterprise of
the modern Englishman; if he were at all
alert he’d bring his spuds out to Sydney
and make a fortune, though Sydney
citizens might have to be taught to appre-
ciate them, it being so long since most
of them have tasted a potato.
♦ * * ♦
“Trans-T.”: Add to the list of extra-
ordinary accidents the one which ended
the life of Brian Brady, an 18-year-old
N.Z. runner. On the mark in a foot-
race at Otane (N.Z.) sports, he was shot
through the chest when the starter “gave
them the gun,” the implement being a
cut-down .303. The unfortunate youth
died in hospital.
* * * *
“Findy”: Patronising the local trades-
man (B. 18/10/’50)? Back in the depres-
sion years many shops in the suburbs of
Adelaide stuck on their windows neatly-
printed notices which read: “If you don’t
shop in this suburb and your friends don’t
shop in this suburb, what will become of
the shopkeepers in this suburb?” It was
a fair enough question and may well have
had the desired effect, but, unfortunately
for the logic of the argument, it bore in
the bottom lefthand corner the imprint
of a big Sydney printery. Which prob-
ably accounts for the reply someone
scribbled on as many of the notices as
he could reach: “The same as has hap-
pened to the printer in this suburb.”
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: Another risk of
a cop’s life (B. 11/10/’5O) came the way
of a Sydney constable who was building
up a reputation for straightness and zeal
and was in the plainclothes division. As
the station-sergeant handed him a warrant
for the arrest of a social menace he re-
marked that the chap had the same
name as the cop, adding jestingly “It
might be your old man.” The idea
seemed absurd enough to make a joke
about safely; but it was the young cop’s
father. Trained piously by a mother who
had parted from an unsatisfactory hus-
band shortly after the child’s birth, the
young cop had imagined himself father-
less. He carried out the job he had been
given, but after seeing his old man safely
locked in the cells he wrote out his resig-
nation from the force. The Police Com-
missioner himself tried to induce him to
reconsider it, but the resignation stood.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: In the National War
Museum at Canberra can be seen the
Shellal Mosaic, one of the most important
antiques in this country. This beautiful
mosaic came to Australia in unusual cir-
cumstances. During the second battle of
Gaza in World War I the mosaic pave-
ment was uncovered by a party of Turks
constructing a machine-gun post. The
Turks were routed, and on April 17,
1917, the Australians discovered the
mosaic and, with the aid of some New
Zealanders, it was carefully removed. It
was all that remained of a 6th-century
Byzantine church, believed to have been
erected in a.d. 561.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: Sometimes I despair of
my fellowmen ; they’re a queer lot. Con-
sider their attitude to night attire; some
will wear pyjama trousers only, some only
the coat, while others sleep in the singlet
they wore during the day, and have their
pyjamas under the pillow in case of
emergency. With this diversity of taste
I have no quarrel; it is right that each of
us should choose what suits him. But
when men, for some peculiar reason
known only to themselves, wear that
which does not suit them, then I despair.
A friend of mine complained of feeling
cold in bed ; under cross-examination he
admitted to being one of the coat-only
brigade—he couldn’t bear the cord round
his waist. I sympathised. But when I
suggested he wear a nightshirt, and
showed him mine, you should have seen
the look he gave me. Anyone would
think I was the queer one.
* * *
“Simon”: Why don’t cordial-makers
make some non-swectened drinks? In the
cool-drink shops it is impossible to get
anything but syrupy, palate-cloying tack
that won’t quench thirst and makes the
consumer sticky all over. No drinkers
in hotels call for sweet drinks, and they,
being the most experienced, surely indi-
cate a taste that the cordial people might
do well to consider. According to recent
Newcastle tests there must be a high per-
centage of diabetics among us who should
not drink sugared drinks.
* * * *
“Slim Jim”: Coincidences? Here’s
one vouched for by a former mem-
ber of the South African Police
Force. In 1908 a prisoner named
Cresswell escaped from his escort while
being taken from Bulawayo jail to Salis-
bury jail in Rhodesia. The escapee was
4ft. 1 lin. in height, and on his right arm
was tattooed a ship in full sail, on his
left the picture of a dancing girl. On the
back of his right hand were the Prince
of Wales feathers and underneath the
plumes the initials J.C. He was a rigger
bv trade. Some time later a man was
arrested up-country who fitted the
description perfectly, including all the
tattoo-marks. His papers showed him
to be a rigger. He gave his name as
Snowden and denied all knowledge of
Cresswell. Police recalled that Cresswell
was known to his friends as Snowy. Ex-
plaining the initials on his hand, Snowden
said they were those of a girl-friend in
Johannesburg. One of the escorts, con-
fronted by Snowden, said he was defi-
nitely not the wanted man. Some time
later Cresswell gave himself up in Lon-
don. His statement that he had walked
from Salisbury (Rhodesia) to the port of
Boma, in the Congo, and then worked
his passage to England was in itself a
saga of endurance and determination, and
as it encompassed the time when Snow-
den was having his spot of bother with
the B.S.A.P. it proved beyond doubt that
Snowden was not Snowy.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The demand of the
N.S.W. Public Service Association for 10
days’ special leave for fathers when their
wives have babies took me back to
Labuan, Borneo, where the right, known
to anthropologists as the couvade, goes
back to immemorial antiquity. Our peon
asked me for 21 days’ leave as his wife
was going to have a baby. Subsequently
I visited him in his kampong. He was
in bed going alternately through all the
motions appropriate to a nursing mother
and also of a new-born infant and, being,
like most Malays, a natural actor, his
gurglings and belchings were most
realistic. The village obstetrician was in
attendance performing the ritual appropri-
ate to the occasion, and no notice what-
ever was being taken of the real nursing
mother, who was in a room adjacent.
Most husbands on these occasions are
nervous, self-conscious, helpless asses, but
this one was performing a very useful
function. The evil spirits of unpre-
possessing appearance and unpleasant
habits prey on women in childbirth, and
it was his job to act as a decoy. Frazer
records examples of the couvade as still
existent in the remoter parts of Europe,
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The chap who delivers
our papers is an obliging and conscien-
tious bloke, and he was rather puzzled
when complaints came in that 12a had
been missed five mornings running.
Making the next
dawn delivery he
broke his run at
the top of the
street and returned
past 12a. The
thief was caught
red-handed — 12 a’ s
own pup. Five
‘ more papers were
1 found in the
cache under the
house. Another
man would have
huffily told the complaining customers to
control their dog and stop wingeing.
“Pap-oh” didn’t. “Just leave him to me,”
he said genially. Within a month Nig had
developed the habit of waiting for the
motor-bike, receiving a pat on the head
and the paper, then taking the latter on
to the front-step and standing guard over
it until his boss came out to collect. A
pity the little mong became overzealous.
The neighbors from Emoh Ruo, loner
and Welivere know that a man who col-
lects stamps is called a philatelist, but
that’s not what they call a dog which col-
lects newspapers.
A THOUGHT.
Since the Angles and Saxons combined,
Our language this merit’s possessed;
It has never been kept too confined;
Elasticity’s given it zest.
As a consequence, fashions in phrase
(As has happened in manners and dress)
Change speedily. Some you can praise.
Some condemn. But, say! How stands the
craze
“I couldn’t care less”?
It was born of the giggle-suit days.
Round hangar and hut it was tossed.
A token, this jocular phrase,
That vexations could always be bossed.
Were some part of your gear souvenired,
Or the sergeant got “full” in the mess;
If in paybook some red ink appeared,
Good-humoredly thuswiss you jeered:
“I couldn’t care less!”
No circumlocution it bears;
It’s pithy, and right on the dot.
It sorts with the devil-may-cares.
And it’s had an unusual “trot.”
The term many husbands employ
When their wives strong opinions express;
Should the boss with some strictures annoy,
You’ll hear from the small office-boy:
“I couldn’t care less!”
’Twould be dynamite, though, were it used
By an angry M.P. in reply
To constituents who had refused
With his actions to see eye to eye.
At the storm that would quickly ensue
You might very easily guess
Were the rector, if told by a few
Of his flock that his sermon was too
Dull and windy, came back with this view:
“I couldn’t care less!”
And, speaking of this, I don’t see
Why the spinner of jingle may not
Use philology’s new nominee
For his rhymes, which, Lord knows, are
hard-got.
So if anyone starts in to curse,
And swear they have read nothing worse
Than this rocky and flatulent verse
I will pronto get in with a terse
“I couldn’t care less!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
)ld-timer”: That Wee Waa crocodile
(B. 18/10/’5O) reminds me of the awful
monster that hid in the wild tobacco on
the fringe of Prill Lake all one autumn
ar roared and moaned pretty well every
night. At first we thought it was a
sic’ cow, but a census showed all cows
he thy; the horses never went into the
icco-bush ; inquiries in Euston showed
tha t nobody was on the booze ; the last
ghost had been arrested and placed on
b g od-behavior bond the previous Christ-
mas. Opinion in the hut was divided
between a bittern, an escaped lion and
questions as to whether there really was
a bunyip, and one night five of us sallied
forth with rifles, shotguns and Little
Curl’s muzzle-loading horse-pistol. After
we passed the clump of needlewood-trees
behind the hut the roars ceased and we
had to go by guess as to the beast’s
location. Big Fleming shot a wild wether
and Little Curl almost lost his hand when
he fired the horse-pistol and it flew into
64 pieces, after which we retired to con-
solidate our forces. The old boss, who
believed in stern measures, ordered two
horses yoked to a roller and in a day
we flattened most of the tobacco-bush.
Nothing was heard for a week, then it
started again. The mystery was never
solved—until we got a letter from Kelly,
who’d left to go fruit-picking, advising
us to pull the beer-bottle out of the
needlewood-tree, Fleming shot it out,
* * * *
“Kelms”: Visitors to Perth’s annual
wild-life show have been invited to
sample cooked bardies, and the demand
exceeded the supply. I’m not surprised.
Properly cooked they’re not only
palatable but delicious. In fact, their
flavor is challenged
by only one other
delicacy, also of
native origin and
to be had for the
gathering: toasted
white-ant eggs.
But, unless you
know your job, let a black man cook
them for you. They must be fresh, of
course, and not well on the way to hatch-
mg, and they must be free from grit. A
gin can take a mixture of eggs and soil in
her yandi-dish, and separate them per-
fectly (she can do the same with sand and
sugar, by the way). They’re cooked the
same way as bardies, and spread on bread
and butter. If white people knew their
flavor, and had the sense to eat them, the
termites would cease to be a menace—
they’d be eaten out of house and home.
* * * ♦
“North”: When we came to this house
three years ago the place had been un-
occupied for some time, except by a
nankeen kestrel which roosted in the back
veranda. Like many homestoads, this
one had a now-abandoned pioneer habi-
tation near by. When we moved in the
pretty little hawk moved out —to “the
old house.” He has camped there ever
since, with odd departures, and this year
he has been sleeping in the hollow left
where a stone has fallen from the south
wall, A fortnight ago he brought a wife
home, a slightly smaller edition of him-
self, with a plainer coat than his lord-
ship’s fine cinnamon jacket and lacking
her husband’s bright face-markings. Her
ladyship has been installed in the snug
hole, and every evening when the mouse
patrol is over the cock bird perches on
the 6ft. netting fence a few yards away.
There, directly opposite the nest, he
“talks” to the lady till dusk in the scold-
ing kestrel language, sometimes leaving
off to present her with a dead lizard. As
darkness falls he flits to a 4in. or Sin.
bolt projecting from the wall a foot from
the nest. There, his tail-feathers pressed
against the stone to get some purchase
in the streaming wind, he keeps watch
through the night.
* * * *
“Clo”: Knowing not picture-shows,
races nor double-headed pennies, the
happy Malay of Cocos Island gives his
money a fly on a limited bit of cock-
fighting, reserving the big betting for the
weekly scorpion contests. Scorpions on
this island are among the world’s biggest
and fiercest. The Malays scrape a narrow
and shallow furrow in the sand and put
their respective champions in about 2ft.
apart, facing each other. The brutes
never attempt to scale the sides, but
advance slowly along the trench. For the
first half-minute of their meeting there
are only preliminary skirmishes for the
right-of-way, and then the contestants
start in hammer and tongs. Battles,
which usually last up to 15 minutes, are
marked by snappy manoeuvres and
lightning-like lunges until one gets in the
woodener, for all battles are to the death.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; The bush
camp of the forest and the plains is
rapidly becoming a thing of the past in
south-east Australia. Nowadays timber-
getters, fencers, boundary-riders, con-
tractors, etc., reside mostly in the nearest
towns or homesteads and drive to work
daily. Even in Gippsland sawmills are
now placed in the townships—Pakenham,
which never had one until the war, now
has seven —and all logs are mechanically
hauled there, so that mill-folk can enjoy
the amenities of electricity, pictures and
ice-cream. Even at the bigger mines and
road-camps hands no longer cook for
themselves, but eat served meals in mess-
huts. Still, occasionally you run across a
rare species. I struck Bill the rabbiter, a
First-War Digger, who has a camp on a
station near Casterton (Vic.). Bill goes to
SiD
"It's pretty rough when the wife has to go out and earn a living !”
bed with the sun, uses no light, rarely
reads, has no wireless and gets his stores
once a week from the homestead. His
only interests are his job, his dogs and
the run, on which he knows every bird
and tussock. Last week the boss tried
to raise his salary from £5 to £7 a week,
but Bill refused it. “A fiver’ll buy all the
beer I want,” he replied. What a man!
* * * *
“Carver”; Tell “Loulalo” (B.
4/10/’5O) that his hunk of beef was
almost certainly infected with luminous
bacteria. These quite harmless little pets
are more common in environments rich
in salt. Luminous species were described
“What d’you think this is—a sideshow?”
by the Dutch scientist Beijerinck at the
beginning of the century, from the sand-
tide pools on the coast of Holland. He
bred them by boiling any fish in sea-
water and adding to the strained soup
one two-hundredth of its weight of pep-
tone and enough gelatine to “jel” it firmly.
When set hard the jelly was inoculated
from boiled sea-water in which the
beach-sand had been shaken up. If you
want to try it, however, the method of
Molisch, an Austrian botanist, is even
simpler. He hung up ordinary butchers’
meat so that it was half-immersed in a
3 per cent, solution of salt-water. The
addition of a drop or two of glycerine
to the brine gives increased light. Sugar
diminishes the light, and the wogs don’t
like acid media.
* * ♦ *
“Larrakeah”: The tribesmen of the
Northern Gulf country are frightened of
nothing that lives, but they are terrified
of the spirits of the dead. So that these
spirits cannot follow them to a new
camping-ground the warriors go to a lot
of pains to see that the bodies of the de-
ceased are badly mutilated before burial.
The bones of legs, arms and thighs are
broken and gashes made in the stomach,
heavy stones being forced into the cavity.
As an added precaution the tribe moves
quickly after burial takes place. To
confuse the spirit further, in case it
should be possible for it still to follow
them, they light numerous fires extend-
ing for up to a mile from their camp, but
in the opposite way from which their new
stamping-ground is contemplated. Then
they pack up and go for their lives.
* * * *
“Tarbush”; The rash energy of the
early-settlers . literally wiped out the
nicely-balanced native flora in parts of
northern S.A. The dominant saltbush
went first. With its disappearance
Nature fell back on her second line of
defence, and the bindi-eye multiplied and
took over the job of holding the flats.
But in many places even the bindis got
the worst of the man-made blitz. When
they went the flats, left defenceless, were
quickly denuded. Nature then cut her
losses and started over again. Now
where the wind-blown sand and top-soil
have accumulated in gullies and hollows
man’s vegetable camp-followers have
moved in. Some of these aliens are
frankly pests—Bathurst-burr, star- and
saffron-thistles and three-cornered-jacks.
But they answer Nature’s purpose well
enough: they’re good soil-holders. Others
are at least ornamental: the red-capsuled
dock blazes along Hookina Creek and
the flats to the north, Salvation Jane
often turns hundreds of acres of drifting
country into a glory of luminous blue,
with wild mustard providing the appro-
priate foil. The first two of these are
excellent feed as well (though not so good
or as reliable as the vanished saltbush).
And milch cows like mustard, as many
an irate Mrs. Woolbale knows. Then
there are smaller aliens striving valiantly.
Sweet scabious appears in clumps here
and there among the native daisies. The
great red sandhills carry the night-
scented stock C Mathiola ), its fragrance
reminiscent of English cottage gardens
rather than of sand-drifts. And along
the railway-line, between Mern Merna
and Edeowie, there are drifts of fairy
blue —winged statice.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Lately I’ve been
observing two swamp denizens, one of
whom is in process of becoming flight-
less, and the other may be. Both show
a marked disinclination, almost an
aversion, to flying, although both
can fly, and do, on occasion. The
water-hen, or red-headed coot, will run,
wade or swim in preference to flying, and
just how thoroughly the habit of flight
has been discarded was shown recently
when an irate parent-bird evicted a dis-
possessed son. The youngster was
almost as big as the old bloke, but he
made no attempt to dispute possession of
the swamp. Through the shallows and
across the
grass he ran,
keeping just
a few yards
ahead of
Dad. The
chase con-
turned in bursts for about a quarter of a
mile, and in all that time neither bird
left the ground. Yet it would have
seemed the logical means either of
escape or pursuit. The musk-duck, on
the other hand, escapes any threatened
danger by diving. He dives particularly
well, and from the length of time he can
remain submerged, and the distance he
can travel, I’d say he was rather more
at home beneath the water than above
it. I’ve tried to make him fly, but either
he can see through my bluff or he con-
siders it safer to dive. I’ve never seen a
musk-duck in flight, and I’ve never met
anyone who has, yet it seems to be gener-
ally accepted that they do fly, at night,
between swamps.
* * * *
‘Sackyille St.”: Ever since avicul-
turists discovered that the ordinary bush-
green budgerigar could develop changes
of plumage the bird has held a strong
fascination for breeders. Yellows were
developed, then blues, mauves, cobalts,
silvers, greys, albinoes, lutinoes, violets
and literally hundreds of other varia-
tions. But there has long been an am-
bition in the heart of every breeder of
the amazing birds to produce a red
budgerigar. All over the world lovers
of the species have tried to achieve that
object, while conceding that a fortune
awaited the successful breeder. But with
not a red feather to begin on, the pros-
pect looked hopeless. Then, some weeks
ago, a “grapevine” spread the rumor: a
man at Ashfield (N.S.W.) had bred a
budgerigar with a red head. Immediately
the Sydney Budgerigar Society delegated
a member to investigate. The rumor was
found to be based on truth; the bird
had a patch of red about the size of a
sixpence on its head. In the same month,
by a remarkable coincidence, a report
came from New Zealand that a bird
almost identical had been bred there.
Now enthusiasts are waiting with keen
interest —and hoping that skilful line-
breeding will develop the hitherto impos-
sible : an all-red budgie.
THE HAPPY FARMER.
Here is the young farmer: he isn’t clever,
isn t handsome; he speaks with a drawl.
But he is tall, and strong, and holds himself
consciously: is proud and laughing about the
, cr °P
he s planted, smiling a little and boasting
when the wheat is green with promise. His
wife
isn’t pretty. But she’s young, and working, and
she does,
and they are married . . . The wheat that’s
green
for him is green for her, and proud.
She knows him, and is more timid on occasion
than if she didn’t —frightened of his arms:
and he laughs. Oh it is pleasant to be a young
farmer
who can laugh in the quiet night and smile;
knowing her near and thinking of the green
crop
sm in the moonlight shaking the dew —
a c so many tomorrows.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Kmo Roustabout
Some time ago
in this column we
discussed “Ultra-
sonics,” and, in-
deed, since then
Ultrasonics have
been referred to in the daily press.
Ultrasonics, the branch of science deal-
ing with “sound” waves that are inaudible
because the frequency is too high, has
been the subject of active research oyer
at least the last thirty years. Many strik-
ing effects were observed even by the
early workers ; in fact, their techniques
were employed with comparatively little
change up to the recent war. While many
of these effects immediately suggested
possible commercial applications, little
or nothing has been done in that direc-
tion, and it was to help bridge this gap
between the fundamental discoveries and
their industrial exploitation that the
original Mullard Ultrasonic Generators
were designed. It should be emphasised
that few of the projected applications of
ultrasonics can be immediately used in
the production line, but there are many
cases where the subject is ripe for the
research and development departments in
the appropriate industries to take up the
study of where they can apply this new
tool.
We mention this device because here
in Australia Mullard have Ultrasonic
Soldering Irons which enable one to
solder such metals as aluminium, and,
also, a large Mullard Ultrasonic Genera-
tor is shortly being installed in a leading
Australian research and educational
establishment.
As these Ultrasonic waves are not
audible, it may not be immediately ob-
vious why such waves should be able to
serve a particularly useful purpose, and
scientists do not yet know the exact rea-
son for many of the effects which are
produced. In short, the particular pro-
cess is akin to subjecting the object under
test to an intense and high recurring
vibration.
In this process yeast cells lose their
reproduction ability—yet certain bacteria
are stimulated to increased activity.
Volatile liquids can be atomised almost
instantaneously. Likewise, dissolved gases
in liquids are instantly driven off, or a
mixture of oil and water can be con-
verted into emulsion. Some of the other
applications recorded are: —
Emulsification for giving smoother ice-
cream, mayonnaise, and other food
products.
Acceleration in ageing wines and spirits.
Acceleration of chemical reactions.
Treating seeds to stimulate plant growth.
Treating paint for smoother, more durable
finish and decreased drying time.
Distribution of photographic emulsions
for fine-grain film.
Successful treatment of sciatica and
asthma.
Cleaning and washing applications (a
Mullard Ultrasonic Generator actually com-
pleted a whole week’s wash in 15 seconds).
These are a few applications this
wonderful device is able to offer us, and
we foresee a rapid development in the
service of Ultrasonics to man by the
work of the Mullard research engineers,
who have also developed the world-
famous Mullard Radio Receivers and
Radio Valves. — advt.
“Vet”: If anything happened that
Beakie didn’t know about it wasn’t his
fault. His questions were direct, his hide
thick, and he prided himself on his ability
to recognise a lie when he was handed
one. No stranger was in the town long
before he ran up against Beakie and had
his private affairs spread out for inspec-
tion. Then one day a short, dark-skinned
bloke arrived. Unconcerned and unques-
tioned, he slipped out again within the
hour, and was gone for three days.
Beakie was in the
bar when the
bloke reappeared,
tossed a sugarbag
into a corner and
lined up. “New
around here, ain’t
y’,” Beakie began.
“Yair.” “Heard
you called in
three days ago,”
he continued. “Where y’ been since?”
“Tiger Gully!” “Huh. Nothin’ out that
way but rocks an’ a broken-down hut,”
sniffed the inquisitive one suspiciously.
“What y’ got in the bag?” “Snakes.”
“What, after one drink! Awright,
please y’self. ’Course y’ weren’t lookin’
f’r the lost reef out there, was y’?
Honest, mate, what have y’ got in the
bag?” “Snakes.” “Oh, well, be
mysterious if y’ want to,” said Beakie
scornfully. “It’s more’n half-full, too.
Good stone in that reef. Wouldn’t let
a bloke see what’s in that bag for any
money, would y’?” “Aw, I don’t mind,”
agreed the bloke easily, “Come in close.
That’s right; and bend down.” He
swung the bag, untied it, and grabbing
the two bottom corners, spilled its con-
tents on the middle of the bar floor.
Bepkie’s been the least inquisitive bloke
in town since that snake-catcher left.
♦ * * *
“Wippegong”: In times ancient and
not so ancient some pretty mean deeds
have been done under the cover of
ecclesiastical surroundings; but I doubt
if any surpass for sheer hypocrisy those
of the kookaburra now nesting in the local
church-tower. Early morn finds him
perched on a high ledge, apparently deep
in devotion; but I have seen him sud-
denly drop to a lower level, drag a young
sparrow from a nest near the eave, bash
the victim a couple of times on the stone-
work, gulp it, and return to his position
and attitude of solemn piety. The doves
which built in the hedge below were any-
thing but peaceful the day old Jack left
them chickless, yet with those nestlings in
his crop the solemn hypocrite slowly shook
his head at the clamorous objections, and
you could almost see him raise his eyes
and murmur, “Peace, be still.” He has
a fair turn of speed for his build, when
assisted —as he usually is when passing
my place, for the maggies down the back
and the peewees next door move him on
in fine style whenever he wanders this
far; but when tackled he invariably
heads for that tall tower, and yells
“Sanctuary! Sanctuary! ”as he nears it.
I sometimes wonder why such blatant
marauding is tolerated from an institution
where a good example is expected, but
“Did you get it caught in a trap?”
maybe a certain amount of mouse-catch-
ing in said tower, together with a shrewd
blindness towards parson’s little white
pullets, may leave his reputation unsullied
where he needs it most. Apparently the
laborer is worthy of his hire —or his camp-
site —whatever he may do with his time
when off duty.
* * * ♦
“Tarbush”: In S.A. there are two
vegetables which no bushman ever uses
to stoke up the fire under his billy or
quart-pot. One is the tobacco-bush that
grows in sandy watercourses from Gawler
to the far north ; the other is the tar-
bush, a gnarled Eremophila that is usually
the only plant above a foot high on the
gibber-tablelands. Both produce a pun-
gent and acrid smoke guaranteed to make
a billy of tea undrinkable. As a quite
conventional bushwhacker I never
dreamed of using either —until I got
married. The missus started the rot by
using tobacco-bush as stove kindling, and,
after the first few horrified protests, I
noticed that when the smoke went up
the chimney the chops tasted all right.
And then one day of wood famine she
cooked a dinner with tarbush sticks. And
that went down well. Since then, when-
ever she wants a good, quick fire and
there’s no acacia handy, the missus de-
mands tarbush. But it’s only in an
effort to forestall the terrible day when
some local bloke is going to discover tar-
bush on my woodheap that I’m writing
this —after all, married life teaches you,
as well as the use of unconventional fire-
woods, to get your excuses in first.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Bert was trotting along lead-
ing a half-broken bay when the empty
stock-crate overtook him and pulled up.
“Where you going, Bert?” yelled the
driver. “Taking the colt out to Feather-
stone’s.” “I’m going there. Lead the nag
into the crate off that bank,” invited the
bloke. “It’ll save you a couple of hours.
I’ll back round. What about your hack?
Let him go if you like and come back
with me. It’s only ten miles back to town
and the horse’ll go straight back.” Bert
jumped off, pulled a stirrup through the
reins, and started his hack off at a smart
pace. Then he led the colt on to the
bank and tried to get him into the trans-
port. The animal snorted, backed and
fought stubbornly till the driver produced
an old rope, which they fastened on the
sides of the vehicle and passed behind the
nag’s rump, to keep him in close. Fol-
lowed a lot of urging, a tussle, and as
the rope slipped and each man jumped
for an end the centre broke and the colt
escaped. The country was unfenced bush
and* the hills steep. Day after day Bert
hunted the animal, and after a week
captured him and once more set off for
Featherstone’s. He’d covered half the
distance when a stock-crate from another
firm drew abreast and stopped. “Where
you going, mate?” called a voice. Two
minutes, and the transport started again,
its astonished driver solemnly vowing it
was the last time he’d ever offer a lift to
a so-and-so on the road.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I take on a job lookin’
after a bit of a ranch out of Echuca,”
Mat said. “There was about five hundred
acres carryin’ ewes an’ lambs, with a bit
o’ irrigated lucerne. The boss lives in
town an’ there’s a telephone on the hut
an’ he’s bothered f’r fear I’ll be usin’ the
thing t’ ring up girls or somethin’.” Mat
snorted. “Anyhow, he keeps harpin’
about the cost o’ the phone, an’ one day
I says, ‘Aw, give it a rest. What’s the
flamin’ thing for, anyhow!’ He looks
at me an’ says, ‘The quickest way for
you t’ lose y’r job is to be wastin’ my
dough on unnecessary telephone-talk,’ an’
off he goes. Well, I put in a coupler
months or so and then one day I finds
out the cow had gone to the exchange
an’ tried t’ get a check on who I rung
up an’ who rung me up. Ido a bit of a
brood over this, and one day I’m properly
fed up with the heat an’ the job an’
everythin’, so I grabs the phone and rings
him up and says, ‘Hey, there’s a hot wind
out here an’ it’s blowin’ dust all over
the lucerne. Send out a coupler brooms
so I can sweep the paddock, an’ if that
ain’t unnecessary conversation I can
think of a lot more.’ ” “Did he sack
y’?” I asked. “Didn’t give him time,”
Mat said. “I jam the thing on the hook.
Of course, he rings up straight away an’
before he can say a word I hops in and
snatches me time.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Gypson, a horse with a
heart bigger than Phar Lap’s, dropped
dead on the training-track at a Perth
racecourse recently. Racehorses usually
have bigger hearts in proportion to their
weight than other horses, and at 91b. soz.
Phar Lap’s was considered extra-big.
Apparently it takes more than a big
heart to make a fast horse, or Gypson,
with a 101 b, pump, would have been a
champion. He wasn’t.
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: I dumped the tin of water
inside the hut door as Seventyfiver turned
round from lighting the fire. “That new
bucket taints the water,” he announced,
scowling at the kero.-tin. “I know. I’ve
been tasting it for days.” “Well, ’a’ we
got t’ go on drinkin’ it f’r ever?” he
complained. “There’s nothing else to get
the water in,” I said. “It must wear off
soon. Anyway, it won’t hurt you.” “No,
and it won’t do a bloke no good, neither,”
he persisted. He went on mumbling as
I shoved up enough room on the table
to put out the bread and the jam-tin
and sorted our cups from the melee
further along. “Billy boiling yet?” I in-
quired. The old coot eyed the big heap
of sticks that were smouldering- sullenly,
and, bending down, he blew on the coals.
The flames shot up so quickly he nearly
fell over backwards. They subsided, and
as he puffed once more, the fire again
roared wildly. “There y’ are, Sol,” he
exclaimed, pointing at the blaze. I
told y’. It’s me drinkin’ that karrasene,”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Wally’s cobber was a
materialist. The niceties, he conceded,
were all right in their place —but that
place wasn’t a rabbiter’s camp. There-
fore, when Stumpy triumphantly slapped
down a Bible on the primitive table Wal
was badly shaken. “Where’d you get
that?” he demanded, eyeing the accusing
object from a safe distance. “Old girl
stayin’ at the homestead’s givin’ ’em
away,” the little bloke explained happily.
“Look at that paper:
thin but strong, and
just about the right
size, too.” Wally’s
dismay took a com-
plete about-turn, but
he was just as horri-
fied in the other
direction: “You’re
not —you’re not goin’
to use that for trap-
paper?” “Well, ain’t it better to use it
for somethin’ than shove it away in a
box like most people do?” demanded
Stump. He picked up a file, and, like a
man very pleased with the world, set
about filing the triggers of his new traps.
Next day he returned from doing the
rounds, dropped his load and requested:
“Remind me to take that file next round,
will y’? One of them new traps is still
heavy-triggered.” Three days later he
was still asking to be reminded. On the
fourth day his long mate remembered:
“Oh, don’t forget to take that file.”
Stumpy stopped. “Aw, I forgot to tell
y’,” he grinned. “I found out what was
wrong. The trap was all right; it was
that paper. D’ y’ know what was writ
on it? ‘Thou shall not kill.’ ”
LEGEND OF THE EVENING STAR.
Do you recall, Wirwana,
fishing-nets by a cave?
and the crescent moon on the wave
beyond the evil shade
that the mangroves made?
All as it was that evening
when the dark old man of the sea
snared you cunningly,
and set you as a star
behind the sunset’s bar?
Long the tribe remembered,
lingering wistfully
in pale dunes by the sea.
Often the twilight rang
with long laments they sang
And wrinkled crones in the ranges
tell of her still today:
Rollo-mano’s prey;
girl by the deep blue water,
laughter’s dearest daughter.
Tell us, bright Wirwana,
are you happy where you keep
vigil on the deep?
leaning through the gloaming
where once the tribe went roaming?
Or as you lean down, gazing
on islands that encumber
the sea, like lilies slumber —
do old corroborees
fill you with dark unease?
Do you hark to the feasts and dancing,
the nulla’s rhythmic beat,
and the pulse of tireless feet,
until the hour is late
and the boo-book calls its mate?
Tonight there’s moan in the tea-tree,
and a skirl of wind-borne sand.
Moon’s blotted out with rainclouds
that lurch away inland.
I cannot see Wirwana
upon her bench of pearl
gazing down at the coral
she gathered as a girl.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.!
1913.. 126,287 8f p.c. = 87,500 38,787 484,648
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 479,648
1944.. 111,289 9sp.c. = 95,000 16,289 495,937
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 490,987
Plant-replacement reserve, £21,000 .. 469,937
1945.. 111,450 9sp.c.= 95,000 16,450 486,387
Plant-replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 476,387
To outside interests, £lB ~ .. 476,369
1946.. 97,524 9 p.e. = 90,000 7,524 483,893
To staff fund, £4OOO 479,893
1947.. 206,873 12$ p.c. = 125,000 81,373 561,266
To plant-replacement res., £30,000 .. 531,266
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 521,266
From tax reserve, £104,185 .. .. 625,451
1948.. 295,362 17$ p.c. = 175,000 120,362 745,813
To plant-replacement res., £43,532.. 702,281
To staff fund, £16,700 .. .. 685,581
1949.. 258,449 12$ p.c. = 125,000 133,449 819,080
To plant-replacement res., £46,000 .. 773,030
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 748,030
1950.. 299,002 12$ p.c. = 125,000 174,002 922,032
To staff fund, £26,000 .. .. 896,032
* After eliminating outside interests,
t Excluding replacement reserve, now £387,696.
This enterprising and efficient giant in
the Australian woollen and worsted
yarn-spinning and textile-manufacturing
industry is adding to its stature by
doubling paid capital, now £1,000,000.
Those on the register at Oct. 31 are to
be offered a one-for-one par issue of new
£1 ords. The offer surprised the market,
in which the price of the old shares shot
up from 655. 3d. in August to 85s. 6d.
last week After exercising the rights, the
net price at the higher figure is 535., giv-
ing a return of 4.7 p.c. on a 12j p.c. div.,
which, on the increased capital of
£2,000,000 would call for £250,000, or
£49,002 less profit than was claimed last
term. The new money is wanted to
finance all-round expansion of the under-
taking and for provision of more work-
ing capital, especially for stocks, the
financial weight of which has been greatly
increased by the rocketing of wool prices.
The parent’s main mill is at Abbots-
ford (Vic.), and that of its chief subsidiary.
Globe Worsted Mills Pty., a concern of
equal size, is at Marrickville (N.S.W.).
Another offshoot, Byfas Pty., turns out
dress-goods at Abbotsford (Vic.). Addi-
tions have been made recently to all the
mills, more plant is on order, and some
of the idle equipment at Abbotsford—
shortage of labor is the trouble —is being
transferred to new premises alongside the
post-war branch factory at Dandenong
(Vic.), which is giving a very good
account of itself. Furthermore, the co.
has built up a substantial export trade,
especially with Canada, New Zealand and
South Africa. And the Government’s de-
cision to leave the exchange-rate as it is
has removed fears that the co.’s com-
petitive power in foreign markets might
be impaired on this account.
Last term turnover shot up by
£750,000, reaching £3,750,000. The
increase was due more to higher prices
than to a bigger volume of output.
Although the co.’s total export trade was
less than the previous year’s, especially in
piece-goods and yarn, shipments of tops
increased, and foreign trade accounted
for most of the extra profit, the chair-
man says. The local market, in which
demand was not fully satisfied, con-
tinued to operate on a quota basis,
defence requirements called for a greater
proportion of available output, and the
call can be expected to grow louder very
soon.
After allowing for depreciation of fixed
assets (£35,469, up £4834), for special re-
placement of plant (£48,155, up £1956)
and for taxation (£214,000, up £34,450),
net profit was £40,553 stronger at a
record £299,002. That was 29.9 p.c. on
capital as against 25.8, 29.5, 20.6, 9.7 and
11.1 p.c. back to 1945. The distribution,
which dropped from 17£ p.c. in 1948 to
12{ p.c. in 1949, was maintained at the
lower rate, of which 2\ p.c. is labelled
bonus. After sending £26,000 to the staff
fund, the £148,002 that remained lifted
reserves of the group to £896,032. That
leaves out of the reckoning £387,696
(up £15,406 net) specially earmarked for
plant replacement—a provision designed
to protect future earning-power by ensur-
ing that the cost of renewing wornout
plant is a charge against earnings, not
against new capital, which thus becomes
available wholly for expansion of the
undertaking and not partly for its main-
tenance.
At June 30 the group had gone to its
bankers for an extra £526,679, mainly to
finance additions to stocks (up £475,336)
and debtors’ balances (up £100,784). Hie
growth in the figures is largely the result
of the rise in the price of wool, which has
rocketed since the accounts closed, and
of other raw materials;
Yarba Falls and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests* 609 643 716
Overdraft . . 247,463 774,142
Sundry creditors! 443,367 534,531 457.924
Staff funds .. 50,000 64,000 80,000
Final div. .. 125,000 75,000 75,000
Freeholds .. 460,745 470,931 481,537
Plant, etc. ~ 345,345 393,329 439,303
Stocks .. .. 1,005,210 1,705,389 2,180,725
Debtors .. .. 375,691 338,027 438,811
Shares . . .. 36,087 35,246 45,260
Cash, etc. . . 367,314 89,035 85,874
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
The year’s net addition to the book-value
of fixed assets was £56,580. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,363,604) amounted to £106,901.
The subsidising of woollen textiles will
not contribute directly to the co.’s
profits; it is intended to soften the
double blow to the public from present
high, prices for the staple and from the
coming steep rise in the basic wage,
which will also bump up costs and selling-
prices as well as purchasing-power.
What is really involved here is the
public’s marginal income—what is left
after necessities have been satisfied.
Clothes, if not at the head of the list of
necessities, are far from the bottom,
hence the subsidy. The two conflicting
forces at work are the trend of costs and
the fiend of wages, and costs look like
winning the race, leaving the wage-
earner’s last position worse than his first.
A large part of the answer lies in in-
creased production, another part in.
reduced Government spending.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
t t . „ . . To Ke-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 53,226 7 p.c. = 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7„ „ 38,500 5,408 269,620
1942.. 37,732 6,, „ 33,000 4,732 274,352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 11,048 285,400
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO .. 385,400
1944.. 56,809 7 p.c, = 38,500 18,309 403,709
1945.. 53,659 7 „ „ 88,500 15,159 418,868
1946.. 57,156 7„ „ 38,500 18,656 437,524
1947.. 64,386 7„ „ 38,500 25,886 463,410
From inner reserves, £105,000 .. 568,410
1948.. 78,341 9 p.c. = 49,500 28,841 597,251
1949.. 83,183 9„ „ 54,000 29,183 626,434
1950.. 111,411 10 „ „ 60,000 51,411 677,845
Never before have the growing and
selling sides of the wool industry
enjoyed such phenomenal prosperity,
which has now become an embarrass-
ment to Jhe Australian economy because
of the inflationary effects. Three good
seasons in succession, with consequent
bigger clips, have been accompanied by
spectacular price rises for both the staple
and livestock; and on top of it all came
a windfall distribution last season of
£24.3 million to Australian growers from
profits on sales of war-time wool stocks
by J.O. And for the current season
nature has continued to smile, and the
fatness has been larded with an even
more spectacular rise in prices.
Last season the Australian clip totalled
3,515,787 bales (up 226,239 bales), and
sales (including some previous season’s
carryoyer) realised £286,628,900, or £92-
odd million more than the previous clip,
the average per bale being £79.75 as
against £60.0 for 1948-49. The current
season’s clip is expected to approximate
3,600,000 bales. For the three months to
August 31 456,339 bales were sold for
£66.5 million, an average of £145.9 per
bale, or 82.9 p.c. more than the average
for the preceding 12 months.
On that basis the current clip
would be worth over £525 million,
or £239 million more than its
immediate predecessor. To cushion the
inflationary effects the Government, after
toying with a number of proposals, left
the exchange-rate unaltered and in-
structed selling-brokers to slash 20 p.c.
off the gross amount realised for wool
sold or shipped on account of clients, and
to hand the money to the taxation de-
partment. This pre-payment of tax-
individual cases are to be adjusted when
assessments are issued —is expected to
turn in about £lO3 million, of which £2O
is to be used as a subsidy to damp down
rises in prices for locally-manufactured
woollen goods. Brokers will receive no
compensation for the large amount of
extra work involved in acting as agent
for the Government in this matter.
Winchcombe Carson, which has strong
connections throughout N. S. Wales and
Queensland, put an extra 40,624 bales of
wool under the hammer for the year to
June 30 last:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1946 .. 227,552 436,266 22,474
1947 .. 212,817 322,693 28,069
1948 .. 206,606 258,334 24,660
1949 .. 237,296 306,957 24,934
1950 .. 277,920 306,099 25,237
There was little material change in the
number of sheep and cattle sold, but
prices were higher, turnover in the
produce and machinery departments ex-
panded, and property sales were “grati-
fying.”
After allowing £12,146 (up £4631) for
depreciation and whatever was considered
necessary for taxation and other con-
tingencies, net earnings shot up by
£28,228, reaching a record £111,411.
That was equal to 18.5 p.c. on capital as
against 13.8, 14.2, 11.7, 10.4 and 9.4 p.c.
back to 1945. The cautious board raised
the div. from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c., of which
1 p.c. is labelled bonus.
And the 10 p.c. was sweetened with a
par issue of 200,000 new £1 ords., one
for three, to those on the register at
July 1. When all the money on this issue
is in—it is wanted to finance further ex-
pansion of the undertaking, including
provision of more working capital—paid
capital will be £BOO,OOO, on which 10 p.c.
will call for £31,411 less profit than was
shown last term. And shareholders’
funds (on the basis of reserves at June 30)
will need to turn in only 5.4 p.c. to cover
10 p.c. on capital alone.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect in-
flated prices and continued expansion of
the business:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital ..£550,000 £550,000 £600,000 £650,979*
Creditors. . 602,736
Overdraft. . 91,221 f
1,135,964 1,230,297 1,897,314
Freeholds.. 279,388 279,927 291,731 336,380
Plant .. 18,397 28,177 37,299 62,712
Stocks .. 93,276 143,505 166,176 219,491
Advances,
etc. .. 1,324,284 1,714,018 1,875,314 2,344,770
Investments
and cash 11,272 182,596 116,211 295,785
* Includes £50,979 of application money on new
share-issue.
The growth in outside liabilities (up
£664,017) and in advances (up £469,456)
are interrelated, being largely on account
of wool and other transactions unsettled
at balancing-date. Expansion is further
reflected in the additions to freeholds (up
£44,649), plant (up £25,413) and stocks
(up £58,315).
At 445. 6d. (41s. a year ago) the f.-p.
pound shares return 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Including the new issue, net
tangible cover (book-value) is 38s. lid.
Finney, Isles & Co. (Brisbane)
To
July, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1941*. 25,789 10 p.c. = 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ ~38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63,568 10 „ ~38,663 24,905 194,457
1944.. 65,945 10 „ „ 39,253 26,692 221,149
1945.. 78,453 10 „ „ 39,883 38,570 259,719
Maintenance reserve down £2568 .. 257,151
1946.. 82,290 10 p.c. = 40,206 42,084 299,235
Maintenance reserve down £1782 .. 297,453
1947.. 74,002 10 p.c. = 40,206 33,796 331,249
Maintenance reserve down £1925 .. 329,324
1948.. 83,377 10 p.c. = 40,206 43,171 372,495
To staff fund, £5OOO 367,495
Maintenance reserve down £9605 .. 357,890
1949.. 82,319 10 p.c. = 40,206 42,113 400,003
Maintenance reserve down £2988 .. 397.015
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 392,015
1950.. 91,060 12jp.c.= 50,259 40,801 432,816
* Six months.
War and post-war inflationary influences,
which have not yet run their course, have
steadily forced up the national income,
wages, prices and costs. At the same time
scarcities, etc., have taken much of the
edge off competition and, compared with
pre-war, reduced the sales effort needed
to turn goods into cash. Thus far the
benefits of expanding turnover have more
than offset the effects of reduced gross
margins and the rise in costs.
Finney’s—the store is in one of the
busiest shopping blocks in Brisbane —has
mad© the most! of its opportunities. Over
the last 13 years shareholders have had a
steady 10 p.c., with a p.c. sweetener
added last term, and during the same
period reserves have climbed from
£95,375 to £432,816, which was £30,749 in
excess of paid capital at July 31 last.
Surplus earnings have been used mainly
to improve and brighten the store and to
carry more stocks at higher prices, thus
underpinning earning capacity.
Last term turnover continued to ex-
pand. The improvement in gross profit,
etc. (£456,131), was £31,917. Including
allowances for depreciation (£12,559, up
£1127) and taxation (£52,710, down
£2030), exes. (£365,071) gobbled £23,176
of the gain, leaving the net result £8741
stronger at a record £91,060. That was
22.6 p.c, on capital as against 20.4, 20.7,
18.4, 19.4 and 16.6 p.c. back to 1945. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the latest profit figure was 10.9
p.c., which suggests, among other things,
good buying and careful budgeting.
Much of the turnover is on a cash
basis, and the co. is trading well within
its own resources—shareholders’ funds
amount to over 74 p.c. of total assets —
which is sound practice in an uncertain
economic climate:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. £402,067 £402,067 £402,067 £402,067
Creditors, etc. 60,928 54,392 94,460 191,291
Tax reserve,
etc. .. 104,455 116,390 67,395 66,835
Final div. .. 20,103 20,103 20,104 30,155
Property,
plant, etc. 500,263 515,642 529,174 545,733
Stock .. 317,931 341,435 345,587 434,067
Book debts, etc. 41,287 50,217 50,061 65,998
Investments
and cash .. 59,321 58,153 59,255 82,365
The year’s bigger turnover is further re-
flected in net additions of £88,530 to
stocks, which are reported clean and well
assorted, and of £15,937 to debtors’
balances. The net growth of £16,559 in
fixed assets was on account of further
improvements to the store. The amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., was in-
creased by £96,831. The improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£294,149),
or net amount of working capital in the
business, was £21,255.
Despite anti-inflationary measures in
the Federal Budget, the immediate out-
look favors maintenance of buoyant re-
tail trade turnovers, for a while at any
rate. But without a compensating all-
round lift in selling-prices, the steep rise
in costs which will inevitably follow the
pound-a-week lift in the basic wage will
bite deeply into traders’ net earnings.
And as these costs percolate through the
whole process of manufacture and dis-
tribution they promise to bite deeper still
into the wage-earner’s real purchasing-
power. At the moment, however, the
Whole position, both local and inter-
national, is so fluid that the foreseeable
future is a very limited one indeed.
The market notes the co.’s strong
points, including the wide margin
between earnings and distributions, and
prices the f.-p. pound shares at 445. 6d.
(395. 6d. a year ago), giving a return of
5.6 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis, or 4.5 p.c.
should the rate drop to 10 p.c. again. Net
tangible cover is 395. Id., including
£40,057 of uncalled capital.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- De-
June, Profit. / Dividend—serves. flclt.*
£ £ £ £
1940 . . 7,154 5 p.c. = 3,773 3,381 10,410
Added intangibles, £92 .. .. . . 10,508
1941 .. 6,670 5 p.c. = 5,371 1,299 9,209
1942 .. 8,144 7i „ „ 8,195 9.260
1943 . . 7,646 6 „ „ 6,556 1,090 8,170
1944 . . 8,565 6 „ „ 6,656 2,009 6,161
1945 .. 9,628 6 „ „ 7,272 2,856 8,805
1946 .. 13,331 7i „ „ 9,983 3,848 457
1947 .. 19,206 10 „ „ 13,311 5,895 5,438
Prom tax reserve, £6718 .. .. 12,150
Profit sale Govt, securities, £655 .. 12,811
1948 .. 24,371 . 10 p.c. = 13,908 10,463 23,274
To staff fund, £5OOO 18,274
1949 .. 24,437 10 p.c. = 21,656 2,781 21,055
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 19,055
Share premiums, £46,422 .. .. 65,477
1950 .. 47,673 10 p.c. = 33,659 14,014 79,491
To staff fund, £2OOO 77.491
* After deducting intangibles (now £7517) and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £83,080).
This 14-year-old, which makes high-
grade and standard Axminster carpets
and rugs from locally-spun yarns, has
put up a heartening performance. Share-
holders got a 5 p.c. div. in the third year
of operations. The rate climbed to 10 p.c.
in 1947 and has remained steady since,
the average over the last 11 years being
7.5 p.c. At June 30 last the whole of the
share capital was intact, and £77,491 be-
sides, and the immediate outlook is one of
continued expansion.
Production has grown as fast as addi-
tional plant, skilled labor and supplies of
building materials, etc., would allow, and
a ready market awaited the output. Last
term more looms and other plant were at
work, and shareholders were pleased to
put up an extra £40,613 —the remaining
ss. a share on the contribs.
To ensure adequate supplies of the right
kind of yarn, a controlling interest was
bought in Sydney Woollen Mills Pty.
early in the term. Besides carpet and
other yarns, the new subsidiary, which
used to be an offshoot of John Vicars and
Son, makes blankets, rugs and tweeds
and does contract carbonising as well.
The price paid for the scrip purchased
was £93,076, satisfied by the issue of
46,422 of the co.’s own f.-p. £1 shares at
a premium of 100 p.c. each.
The subsidiary, for which a full year’s
figures were not available at June 30, is
a satisfactory profit-earner. It sent along
£9052 in divs., of which £8046 was passed
to a tax-free reserve. After setting aside
£19,274 (up £4346) for depreciation and
£16,200 (up £2995) for taxation, the
parent’s own profit was £14,184 stronger
at £38,621, making total profit from all
sources £47,673 (up £23,236). That was
14.1 p.c. on average capital as against
11.2, 17.5, 14.4, 10 and 7.9 p.c. back to
1945. It was an encouraging result con-
sidering the steep rise in costs and inter-
ruption to production caused by the coal
strike and power rationing, the effects of
which were partly offset by auxiliary
power plant which the management had
installed.
Expansion is the keynote of balance-
sheet figures:—
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital* £135,071 £165,138 £259,387 £346,422
Overdraft .. 13,368 64,744 115,754
Sundry creditors 19,748 22,442 20,771 38,022
Tax reserve.. 21,600 15,000 15,747 31,748
Pinal div. 12,020 17,821
Premises .. 68,558 126,650 186,557 241,987
Plant .. 46,618 80,238 130,935 196,956
Shares subsid. 93,076
Stock .. 47,696 54,825 106,056 135,910
Debtors ~ 18,205 28,630 31,971 45,210
Cash, etc. .. 45,247 15 15 51
* Includes calls paid in advance —£8185, 1948;
£7107, 1949.
To add £55,430 to the book-value of
premises, £66,022 to plant, £29,844 to
stock and £13,239 to book debts, the
overdraft was increased by £51,010, the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£17,251, and shareholders put up an extra
£40,613. The other £46,422 of capital,
and a like amount of share premiums,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
DOCTORS o STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
EDITORS
mm
mm
mm
,v £
nmm
mow
jymsomo?
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
It’s been proved that Palmolive Lather
Shaving Cream gives smoother and more
comfortable shaves to 3 men out of every 4.
1251 men tried it . . . 81% reported "Beards
easier to cutl” 76% said "Less razor pull!’’
71% said “Closer shaves!" 80% . . . "Smoother
feeling skin!” You be the judge. Prove that
Palmolive Shaving Cream will give you, too,
smoother, more comfortable shaves.
USE
a %
ONLY
±9
MB/120
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
after
40
THE
STEPS
GROW
steeper
When steps seem a little
steeper, the days a little longer, the bustle of modern life
more irksome, it’s time to heed nature’s warning signals.
After 40, most men and women find their system requires
extra care . . . and thousands have found the help they
need in Wolfe’s Schnapps. Known and proved for genera-
tions, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits, a safe
stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal properties
found in no other spirit. With ice-cold water, soft drinks,
lemon or cordial, it is a pleasant drink and a tonic with
lasting beneficial effects. Some also prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon at bedtime.
Available in large, half and quarter-size
bottles. Start the “small bottle test”
. . . to-day 1
WOLFE’S
czrnmiatic
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
W9.tCO.ty
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Adtt.
No more need io worry
... our affairs
are in safe hands
mm
** My husband’s father named Burns Philp Trust
Company as his executor, and we've found the Company
prompt, considerate and wonderfully efficient.**
You can save your beneficiaries endless anxiety by
taking a similar step. If you are unable to call and
see a senior trust officer, please write for the interesting
booklet, “ Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.**
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR TRUSTEE ATTORNEY
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
■rtiA~ao
Want
LOW
NITIAI
OS T
& LOW MAINTENANCE COST
df
m
mm
mm
■
I
(
Mr. Steele, of Melbourne,
praises the performance of
his Bradford . . .
“On occasions we have grossly over-
loaded our Bradford but it has always
stood the strain. Its hill climbing
ability is more in line with a 12 h.p.
type. The maintenance and running
costs are remarkably low.”
Bradford
8 h.p„ 10 cwt
van as
supplied to
Mr. I. R. Steele.
203 Swanston St..
Melbourne,
C.l. Victoria.
Call on your local representative and hear more
about the amazing performance of Bradford vehicles.
All are powered with the sturdy, horizontally-
opposed engine designed by Jowett, the exclusive
engineering principle which makes it possible to offer
you a { tonner with an economical 8 h.p. engine.
Bradford
VANS • STATION WAGGONS . TRUCKS
Mode in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LTD.
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.C.T.; Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., 134 New South Head Road,
Edgecliff. FM 2045.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Auat.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward Street, Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 480 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
reflects the deal in connection
with Sydney Woollen Mills.
The excess-profits tax and
other Budget proposals aren’t
aimed at businesses of this kind.
More plant is scheduled to arrive
from England over the next
couple of years and output
should benefit. Rising wage
and other costs promise to be
the most troublesome factor.
At 475. 3d. (41s. a year ago)
the scrip returns 6.3 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. At June 30 net
tangible cover was 245, 6d.
Western Mining Corp., Ltd.
For the year to March 31
last this big Melbourne-
controlled holding and prospect-
ing co. netted £154,204, mainly
divs. from Central Norseman
Gold Corp, (£82,031) and Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie (£23,082)
and partly profits on sale of
shares in Great Western Con-
solidated, etc. (£58,751). Two 6d.
divs., together 20 p.c., called for
£139,718. For the previous year
25 p.c. was paid from a profit of
£271,345, which included
£248,001 from sale of shares and
properties.
Half-way through the term the
co. widened and strengthened
its interests by taking over the
assets (shares in a number of
goldmining ventures) of Gold
Exploration and Finance, paying
in scrip. At the same time it
offered the public 3,000,000 10s.
shares in Great Western Consoli-
dated.
Co.’s principal shareholdings
are now:
Shares Face Market
Company. Held. Value. Price.
Westralia—
‘Central Norseman
Gold Corp. . . 1,312,500 5/- 14/9
•G. M. of Kal-
goorlie . . 369,782 10/- 19/-
*New Coolgardie 532,000 10/- 11/-
*Gt. Western Con-
solidated .. 500,000 10/- 2/7t
Victoria —
G. M. of Australia 260,500 2/6 3 /-h
‘Central Victoria
Dredging .. 395,500 10/- 24/-
Victoria Gold
Dredging 110,600 20/-t 12/-
* Operating cos. f Price 4s. -paid contribs.
W.M.C. holding not listed. b buyer,
t Face-value 20s. paid to 10s.
At March 31, 1950, holdings in
cos. listed on the Stock Ex-
change stood in the books at
£1,178,960, and their market-
value was £2,540,899. Scrip
held in cos. not listed figured at
£262,174, freeholds and plant,
etc., £59,470, properties under in-
vestigation £30,839, stores
£12,620, suspense accounts
(mostly for plant) £50,802,
debtors £109,654 and cash £5038.
There was £77,840 coming to
sundry creditors, including sub-
sidiaries (£23,788).
For the year to March 31 last
Central Norseman (paid capital
£650,000 in ss. shares) netted
£182,628 and paid Is. 3d. a share
(£162,500). Ore reserves were
put at 278,000 tons (down
23,000 tons) averaging 7.sdwt.
Co. has since pegged 31 addi-
tional claims adjoining its Phoenix
group of leases and a further 34
claims in the Princess Royal area.
Also a 90 p.c. interest has been
taken in the 12-months’ option
secured by W.M.C. over the
Mount mine at Widgiemooltha.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
(paid capital £614,750 in 10s.
shares) netted £139,862 (up
£73,919) for the year to March
31, and paid Is. 3d. a share
(£138,319) as against Is. for the
previous year. Ore reserves
stood at 486,150 tons (down
18,915 tons), averaging s.4dwt.
There is a lot more payable stuff
in the 324 lode system and else-
where.
The future of W.M.C.’s scrip
as an investment depends largely
upon how Great Western Con-
solidated and Central Victoria
Dredging turn out. The last-
named (paid capital £590,000 in
10s. shares) got its first dredge
going on the Jim Crow area, near
Newstead (Vic.), in December,
1949, and a second is expected
to begin digging on the near-
by Amphitheatre area about the
end of 1950. To date recoveries
have exceeded prospectus esti-
mates, and satisfactory profits
are being earned. Chief obstacle
is rising wage and other costs.
Great Western Consolidated
(issued capital £1,768,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 3,000,000 were
paid to 2s. each at March 31,
leaving £1,200,000 at call) is
still in the development stage.
Preliminary prospecting dis-
closed ore as follows:
, —Probable —^
Tons. Tons.
’OOO. dwt. ’OOO. dwt.
Underground .. 500 5.5 800 5.5
Opencut .. 790 3.4
Total.. ..1,290 4.2 800 5.5
Shortage of skilled labor has de-
layed development, but good
progress has been made with
erection of surface equipment,
houses, etc. Full-scale produc-
tion (400,000 tons p.a.) is not
expected to be reached inside the
next three years.
New Coolgardie (paid
capital £426,000 in 10s. shares)
is also in the development stage.
It is opening up the Surprise, ,
Barbara and Burbanks leases
(Coolgardie) and Callion (Davy-
hurst). Production has begun |
on a limited scale, but a lot more
prospecting and development
needs to be done before a reli-
able estimate of the co.’s future
can be formed. Ore reserves at
March 28 were Surprise 34,600
tons (lO.ldwt.), Barbara 48,600
tons (ll.Tdwt.) and Callion
63,000 tons (lO.Odwt.),
Gold Mines of Australia is a
prospecting concern, and Vic-
toria Gold Dredging a holding
co., whose chief asset is shares
in the Central Victoria co.
The Government’s decision
to leave the exchange-rate
where it is has eliminated
fears concerning an immediate
reduction in the price of gold,
but costs are still rising and
threaten to become very trouble-
some.


PENFOLDS \
BRANDY 1
HOS PJTAVI
V JZA
m.
4 : W&m
mmi» : »Mmw
-♦♦s'*
» m» S *M-
'H! ■ ■;.:
*»' WTIHAUAM ; i
■
Jr
L ' ' ','S'-
THE 1 i LITRE JOWETT JAVELIN
s
>•
x
'ne & nnoclemiti
m
• THE ROOMINESS OF A FAMILY SALOON
• THE COMFORT OF A LIMOUSINE
• THE ROAD MANNERS OF A SPORTS MODEL
Acceleration 0.62 fa
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
Here is a car that incorporates
all the outstanding qualities of
power, acceleration, spaciousness,
comfort and appearance yet gives
you economy up to 35 m.p.g. under
average conditions. A streamlined
beauty with ample room for 6
passengers and luggage and the
full protection of an all steel body
on an immensely strong main
underframe. Once tried you’ll
say *i Pd rather go by Javelin!’
* Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
ti.S.W. and A.0.T.: Bradford Oars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edged iff.
Phone; FB 3100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty, Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
THE I* LITRE
jorarJAVEUN
t&Ae ajood faojk wbesr Jt/radaeayou
Business.Rollery.Etc
The National Income
For 1949-50 the national in-
come, expressed in terms of de-
preciating money, was estimated
at £2265 million, compared with
£1955 million in 1948-49 and
£Bl4 million in 1938-39. Im-
ports and other external pay-
ments for services were reckoned
at £6lB million last year, and in
the same period gross fixed
capital investment was put at
£642 million. In 1938-39 im-
ports, etc., were £l2B million and
capital investment £lB6 million.
The Commonwealth Bureau of
Census and Statistics comments
on the figures; “The outstanding
feature of post-war movements
has been the rise in imports and
capital investment. Both these
elements have risen even more
rapidly than the value of gross
national production of goods
and services. Imports, at five
times the pre-war level, add
nearly a quarter to home-pro-
duced supplies to make up the
total available for home use and
export.
“This rise in imports has made
it possible for expenditure on
public and private capital invest-
ment to rise to nearly a quarter
of the gross national product,
and, at the same time, for con-
sumption expenditure and
standards to be more than main-
tained. Investment in fixed
capital equipment has risen
steadily from £172 million in
1945-46 to £642 million in
1949-50 —from 11 per cent, of
the gross product to 24 per cent.
—and the percentage rise has
been similar in both public and
private investment. Investment
in new motor-vehicles, however,
has risen from less than 10 p.c.
to over 20 p.c. of the total.
Private investment (including
public housing) has been over
70 p.c. of the total in each of
the last five years.”
In the national income, wage
and salaiy payments rose from
£444 million in 1938-39 to £ll9O
million in 1949-50 —an increase
of 170 p.c. Company income,
after deducting direct and in-
direct taxes (but subject to taxa-
tion in the hands of share-
holders), increased from £6B
million in 1938-39 to £145 mil-
lion last year—a growth of
114 p.c. Though there was a
jump of £135 million in wages
and salaries last year, the up-
ward movement in net company
earnings was only £4 million.
On the other hand, the in-
come of “unincorporated busi-
nesses, farms, professions, etc.,”
expanded from £l6l million in
1938-39 to £569 million in
1948-49, and to £730 million last
year. In 1950-51 it looks as
though the income of this section
of the community will rise to
over £9OO million because of the
increased price of wool. That is,
of course, the gross income—
before deduction of the 20 p.c.
wool levy.
1893, 1930—and Now
Would you please supply
particulars of the 1893 boom or
depression ? When did it start
and finish, and what was the
cause of it ? Any similarity with
existing conditions? And was it
world-wide ? Service Dept,
inquiry.
In a booklet entitled The
Boom of 1890 —and Now Pro-
fessor Shann wrote, in 1927:
“An acceleration of Government
and other capital expenditure
after 1887 in providing for a
continued progress that did not
happen because of a deep rut
in the value of staple exports”
was the cause of the 1893 crisis.
Reviewing the booklet, the
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” of
October, 1927, commented: “In
simple words, we backed bills
in the expectation that tomorrow
we would be earning as much
as we seemed to be earning to-
day ; and when the earnings fell
off tremendously we were in
trouble. In particular wool,
which for ten years prior to
“It has what might be called the ‘bold look,’ sir.”
1885 had never been under a
shilling, fell away steadily until
in 1894 it was worth only a
shade over half of what it had
been; and the slump in bul-
locks was worse.” The depres-
sion was evident in the United
States and other countries as
well as Australia. Wool prices
recovered fairly quickly, but
some banks, building societies
and pastoral concerns took de-
cades to recuperate. The 1902
drought delayed full recovery.
Comparing the conditions of
the eighteen-nineties with those
of the late nineteen-twenties
“The Monthly” of 1927 pointed
out that “one present condition
is at least the same as it was in
’92 or worse. We have been
borrowing more prodigiously.'
It added: “But if conditions
now [1927] are in some respects
analogous to those of the
’eighties and ’nineties and in
some respects worse, they are in
other respects much better. Per-
haps it would be truer to say
that they are different—that the
points of danger have shifted.
The position of the banks is now
quite different. They were the
rotten foundations on which the
boom of 40 years ago was built.”
“The Monthly” then forecast,
accurately, as it was to be de-
monstrated, that the Govern-
ments of the nineteen-twenties
would take the place of the
banks as the weak spots in our
economy. It was Government
finance that had to be recon-
structed as part of the Premiers’
Plan in the early 1930’5, though
most private interest-rates were
reduced at the same time.
At present we have boom
prices for our exports. But we
do not have the production of
essential goods and services on
the scale that in the past has
usually accompanied a boom.
A number of essential raw
materials are still in short
supply throughout the world.
Interest-rates are low. Money is
abundant. We are, in fact, in
a production depression, with a
plethora of paper money about.
Other countries more produc-
tive than Australia look like
overcoming the shortage of raw
materials more quickly than we
shall, in which case world prices
of many of our exports will fall
at a time when our output per
man is still low and our costs
correspondingly high.
The lesson learnt from the
’93 depression was that the
banks were weak and often too
speculative in their activities,
and this was rectified by the
time the 1930 slump occurred.
In the ’thirties the great problem
was for Governments to pay
their way, for the country to
pay its way externally, to get
costs down and at the same time
cope with unemployment.
The affair of the 1930’s de-
monstrated—after many vicissi-
tudes—that credit, in time
of slump, could be safely ex-
tended to bring men and
materials together in order to
do work (at a reasonable cost)
intended to supply a legitimate
public need for which the people
would ultimately be prepared to
pay.
Our great weakness today is
that credit is being created by
Governments without due
regard to the amount of work
being done in relation to its
creation. “Full employment”
has become the yardstick of our
ci edit volume. Governments
have a multitude of non-produc-
tive dependants for the support
of which the productive com-
munity is forced to pay heavily.
And the “productive” com-
munity is not nearly as produc-
tive as it should be. The
danger in front of us now
is that, in the event of a heavy
fall in world prices, we shall
indeavor to get out of the slump
by monetary manipulation with-
out the backing of a hard-
working effort. That would
mean a further depreciation of
our paper currency, which since
193 t) has not been convertible
into gold.
Coal, Steel and Silt
“Abdul Assiz”: Whatever the
advantages and disadvantages of
the revaluation of the Australian
pound may be as a palliative in
the current inflationary crisis, it
is obvious that no permanent
relief from spiralling costs can
be obtained without an all-round
increase in production. Labor,
under sane leadership, can go a
very long way towards the solu-
tion of this problem, which, if
not remedied, will have tragic
repercussions on the living
standards of the Australian
workingman in addition to
eliminating leisure and cultural
progress.
. No toiler, however, can be ex-
pected to do his best when he
suspects that additional effort
will result only in, at least tem-
porarily, exhaustion of existing
stocks of primary materials and
in unemployment.
Nature has abundantly blessed
this country with ample deposits
of iron ore and coal, upon which
all industry is dependent, directly
or indirectly ; but the deliberate
policy of strikes and “go slow,”
pursued by the Communists and
their dupes, has already suc-
ceeded in reducing production of
these vital items to a dangerously
low level. In spite of this, how-
ever, the low output is still cap-
able of choking the bottlenecks
through which distribution has
to flow.
This fact was illustrated by the
results of the inquiry held at


FRENCH
ICORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
I Anthony Horderns’!
Announcing ...
The first prettied plan
to safeguard pensions
& superannuation funds
against inflation . . .
Here is an announcement of great importance to people
entrusted with the formation and administration of
Superannuation Schemes. Many of these schemes are
in danger of becoming practically worthless. According
to the Sydney “Sunday Sun” (July 9, 1950): “Inflation
is pushing the value of the £ down at the rate of about
10 per cent, a year .. . Insurance policies, bank savings,
bonds and pensions are all losing value as the inflationary
years go by. These means of providing a man with an
income when he retires are no longer effective” . . •
To provide a plan by which Superannuation and Pension
Funds may be safely invested so that members on retire-
ment receive payments commensurate with to-morrow’s
values and to-morrow’s cost of living, the directors of
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd. announce the
formation of . • .
First Australian Superannuation Trust
This trust will function on the Unit Trust plan
of safe investment introduced to Australia 14
years ago by Australian Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd.
Investment of its funds is spread over a wide
range of shares of leading industrial and
commercial companies, which experience shows
grow steadily in value as the years go hy.
Only in this way can the value of Super-
annuation Schemes be safeguarded. Contact
the managers of the Trust for full details.
iilil
mm
AtlOti
mm
MANAGERS OP THE TRUST
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
t-14 BONO ST., SYDNEY. PHONES > BU 2235. BU 3234
17 BOLTON ST„ NEWCASTLE. PHONE < B 1808
Dl RECTO
VICTOR G. WATSON
(Chairman), Company Director
NORMAN L. COWPER
Solicitor
JOHN A. L, GUNN
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
AUDITORS
D. P. DICKSON & SON
R S
PALMER BLENT
Retired Chief Inspector,
The Bank of Australasia
PAUL A. CULLEN.
D. 5.0., ED.
Managing Director
SOLICITORS
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY
53-63 Martin Place
Sydney
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
19 Bridge St., Sydney
MANAGER & SECRETARY
CHARLES A. ALLERDICE, A.I.CjL, A.C.A.A,
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOKLET
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PIV. LTD.
8-14 Bond Street. Sydney
Please send me [|jjj copies of the FREE BOOKLET,
“First Australian Superannuation Trust,"
NAME.
ADDRESS
Newcastle on the delays resulting
from silting-up of the harbor
and the causes of that siltation.
No useful purpose is served
by blaming, as did the Govern-
ment representative, the winter
rains ; rain has fallen in previous
years and vessels have grounded
on silt banks in Newcastle
Harbor before, but now a state
has been reached which cannot
be remedied, or even improved
to any great extent, by the equip-
ment, the technique and the staff
now employed.
Very naturally, the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce is per-
turbed, particularly as the posi-
tion was ominous at the begin-
ning of June of this year, when
three vessels were grounded at
their berths.
The matter was referred by
the Chamber to the Maritime
Services Board, which replied at
the end of July, stating that addi-
tional dredges were under con-
struction. The position con-
tinued to deteriorate, however,
and the equipment and staff
available were unable to cope
with it.
During September, eight
vessels were stranded, and, as a
consequence, badly-needed ton-
nage was diverted to other ports.
On September 25 a conference on
harbor siltation was held in New-
castle and was attended by the
principal engineer Harbors and
Rivers, who was able to offer
very little help. He stated that
silt had moved downstream from
the Maitland-Morpeth section
into the harbor during the last
18 months. This was attribut-
able to three floods, of which the
last was the worst. Of the three
dredges available for harbor
work, one was held continually
in reserve and the other two
could be worked only 10 hours a
day, at best.
When it was pointed out that
the dredges were supposed to
work from 7.30 a.m. to 4 p.m.,
but frequently stopped at 2 p.m.,
the engineer replied that this
was because of breakdowns in
some instances. It was expected,
however, that the new Richard
Vowell would be working in
mid-October, and this would give
50 per cent, more output. Work-
ing two shifts, the output could
be increased by 70 per cent. He
said that echo-sounding had
proved unsatisfactory in the
harbor; it had given false read-
ings. (The C.5.1.R.0. could
surely help here.)
The president of the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce, in clos-
ing the conference, regretted
that the Public Works Depart- i
ment didn’t appear to be doing
anything more than it did last
year.
And there the matter appears
to rest.
New dredging equipment may
ease the situation somewhat, if
further heavy silting doesn’t
occur, but dredging, at best, will
give only temporary relief, and
it is surprising that more per-
manent remedies, such as the
building of reaction jetties,
have not been undertaken or,
apparently, even considered.
Reaction jetties have proved
successful in many harbors and
river ports subject to periodic
flooding and silting in other
parts of the world. By creat-
ing a scour, much of the silt
which otherwise would settle in
me.shipping channels is carried
out to sea* 4 , and the dredging
equipment and staff necessary
to keep the harbors at an effec-
tive depth, as well as the opera-
tional costs, are greatly reduced.
Pending any positive action
by several authorities concerned
the Communists are taking full
advantage of the present chaos
to cripple industry further by
making it impossible for even
those ships which can use New-
castle Harbor to obtain their full
complement of men.
Maoriland Manpower
Tension is growing in New
Zealand’s overstrained employ-
ment market, with the pressure
now heaviest at the upper levels,
where skilled men have been
disappearing, the majority of
them to Australia, leaving a
vacuum behind. Government
executive heads don’t know
where to look for engineers,
technicians and trained scien-
tists. Hardly an echo of a
response resulted from a call for
engineers on the other side of
the world, and it’s beginning to
dawn on conservative Maori-
landers that salaries and pros-
pects in their little islands just
don’t attract when lucrative jobs
are waiting to be filled else-
where, If Maoriland can’t hold
able young men who come up
from the ranks it will be in a
fix. Planning is the bottleneck
at this stage. There are con-
tractors abroad ready to take in
skilled staffs and plant to build
hydroelectric dams, power-
stations and, possibly, the Auck-
land harbor bridge—all million-
aire schemes —but nothing can
be done until designs are com-
pleted.
Over - full employment has
been putting the brake on pro-
duction and national develop-
ment in every direction. Today
vacant jobs total at least 30,000,
two-thirds of them rural, where
a void was created by the long
drift to the town under Social-
ism. In the ’forties thousands
of farmers went out of dairy-
ing or cut down herds to a size
that could be milked by the
family, many switched over to
grazing and wool, and some
converted farm homesteads into
places of semi-retirement.
Basic industries, like woollen-
manufacturing and tanning,
which have all their main
materials at their own back-
door, have been throttled down
for years, while men and women
sit in warm, comfortable, shel-
tered industries that are doubt-
ful national assets. Shrewd ob-
servers warn that a change is
coming, but they can’t say when.
W. J. Truscott, ex-president of
N.Z.’s Manufacturers’ Federa-
tion, said lately: “Eventually
New Zealand will have to choose
between working harder or
longer. The Dominion’s pros-
perity, standard of living, Wel-
fare State and social-security
benefits entirely depend on in-
creased all-round efficiency and
greater hourly output.”
Many Maorilanders admit the
40-hour, five-day week has failed
on results, but no one is ready
to put it in the dock, so wages
and costs are growing problems
in industry. The shorter week
was seized on as a pathway to
leisure and an easy life, and its
possibilities in those directions
have been exploited to the limit.
Without much sacrifice N.Z.
output could be boosted if the
will to work was there, but in-
centive is weak. As long as men
can demand pay based on the
number of hours they are on
the job, regardless of how much
work they do, there’s not much
hope of change, but the margin
left is slender. First moves were
made in the August budget to
give the unbalanced economy a
push back in the right direction,
but results won’t come quickly.
Low labor performance, easy
money, shortages, high costs and
inflated prices die hard. House-
hold budgets, however, are now
feeling the squeeze, as high
wages and low performance
kick back, and the pinch to pay
weekly bills is at last forcing the
rank-and-file of Maorilanders
to think deeply about trends.
Australian Wool Brokers has
been much publicised in Stock
Exchange circles lately. Its pur-
chase of pastoral properties in
1947 and 1948 in the Moree
(N.S.W.) district, and, later, of
Balarang, a little farther out,
was followed by the sale of its
broking and agency business and
woolstore. Next, the book-value
of the two first-acquired proper-
ties was written up by £101,836
and that amount added to re-
serves. Later the £1 shares were
split into ss. units, which gave
them a wider spread for Stock
Exchange dealings. Now it is
proposed to make an issue of
bonus shares, four for five, to
ord. shareholders, out of the
assets-revaluation reserve. All
very interesting from the mar-
ket viewpoint, no doubt, but
much of this activity adds noth-
ing at all to the earning-power
of the business, even though it
is highly profitable at present,
with wool prices considerably
above those for the last financial
term, when 35 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal was shown.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Annual Greek Ball, held last week,
had a unique quality, marked by a vibrant
and intense enthusiasm. The Trocadero,
which is comfortably filled when there
are 1000 dancers, housed 1600 for this
ball, all intent on having the time of their
lives. At each end of the ballroom huge
paintings showed the interior of Sancta
Sophia at Constantinople and the goddess
Minerva at the Pan-Helion festival. On
the bandstand a panorama of Greek
history was drawn as a background to the
tableau posed by girls in classical costume.
Evzones in their frilly skirts formed a
guard-of-honor and led the folk-dance
performed by the debs and their partners
after their waltz. The Torch of Life was
borne round the hall by a barefoot
runner. The debs were preceded by a
tiny boy and girl in Greek costume. Mme.
Vrisakis, wife of the Consul-General,
wore t red tasselled hat and a red braided
jacket. It was pageantry-plus. At the
tables exotic Greek foods made the cold
platter provided by the Troc. look colder
and more platter-like than ever —Greek
cheese (very sour to the uninitiated),
baclava-cake with a thick filling of nuts
mixed with honey, cream-cheese tarts,
chocolates, oysters, olives. Some salami,
flown from Rome, also found its
way on to one of the tables. The Greeks
don’t leave mama or grandma at home
when they celebrate, for she is there in
most of the parties, sitting at the head of
the table, too. Perhaps it is she who
brings all the others. Whichever way it
is, everyone has a wonderful time.
Guiding spirit behind the Gilbert and
Sullivan season at the Empire is producer
Anna Bethell, who shuns publicity and is
as hard to interview as a piece of quick-
silver. Over a cup of tea, however, she
gave such a modest account of herself
that Evelyn Gardiner, who was present,
indignantly seized the conversation and
gave forth: “Actress! She was one of
the greatest actresses England has seen.
For her part in ‘Hindle Wakes’ she was
proclaimed all over the country. She
made her husband, Sidney Granville, the
great actor he was. She could have had
the whole theatrical world at her feet,
but she gave it all up for Gilbert and
Sullivan. She knows all the roles. She
has played soubrette, she has played con-
tralto. Ton my word, I think she’d play
the baritone if she had to. On technique
she is an authority. There is no tradi-
tional point that she does not know, and
when J. M. Gordon died, D’Oyley Carte
chose her, a woman (unheard-of thing!)
to be the producer. She works day and
night. She is indefatigable (if that’s the
word), at the beck and call of every
member of the company. She is (and this
is saying something) the one producer I
know whom everybody likes—mechanics,
electricians, stage-managers, everybody!
I was, delighted when I heard she was
coming out, for she is a wonderful person.
She won’t say it for herself, so I’ll say
it for her and you can quote me.”
There was no lack of animated con-
versation at the supper-dance arranged
by ex-students of Sancta Sophia in aid
of their scholarship fund. The rooms
of the Pickwick Club were brilliantly gay
with flowers and the banner of Sancta
Sophia (Sydney University, not Con-
stantinople) decorated the end-wall. The
dressing was rather varied (it’s always so
at 6.30 parties), perhaps the happiest
choice being made by three of the present
students who wore correct cocktail-
dresses of tie-silk in various manifesta-
tions. Annette Playoust wore a skilfully-
contrived dress of satin and crepe in
brown to match her eyes. Trixie McGirr
wore delicate buttercup silk. Freda
Keighery’s white shoulders were swathed
in black satin. Her sister, Clare Lea-
beater, wore a ravishing gown of dusty-
pink chiffon, its accordion-pleated skirt
shading through many tones to brown at
the hem. It was worn with a brown faille
jacket and a small hat massed with pink
roses. Kit Boulton’s dress was fuchsia
georgette, Sheila Drescher’s black spotted
net over pink. President Sheila Hurley
and vice-president Mary Collingridge
found entertaining the guests an easy
task, the atmosphere was so gay and the
friendliness so spontaneous.
Marsie Godfrey’s talk on her travels
in Sicily, which she gave at last week’s
meeting of the English-Speaking Union,
was full of vivid little pictures of that
beautiful island. Her first glimpse of its
quaintness came when the train in
Southern Italy seemed to be heading
straight for the sea. It drove on to a
boat that was waiting to receive it, the
passengers alighted and went to the upper
deck, where they remained while the
straits Q f Messina were crossed, then got
j nto t he tra j n aga j n and drove on into
Sicil In Sicily the fruit-sellers will tell
you when their apples are not good, even
y OU t 0 an other stall where they
are In Syracuse the hote i is a
training-school for waiters and hotel
manag | rs> so th at every meal is a cere-
* th ’ s mixing of salad-dressing like
the l’ onducting an orchestra, each
s t uc jent adding an ingredient at the direc-
don maes tro, while the guest waits
f or t g e masterpiece and is closely watched
as s jj e eats d j n Agrigenta the “hot
running water” turned out to be a jug of
W ater, “running,” it was explained,
because it was poured into the basin with
one hand while you washed with another,
Miss Godfrey recalled the beauties of
t be Greek temples and amphitheatres, the
Byzantine cathedral at Palermo, the Per-
sephone country, the catacombs, the
mystery of the storied land with its
friendly people, so vividly that her audi-
ence felt Sicily was a place they had
visited and must see again,
c , D ,. . . . , . n ,
„ SMa R ° bb .i wb ° trained at Royal
Prmce Alfred Hospital, recently returned
from England, where she did post-gradu-
ate nursing work as winner of the
Florence Nightingale Scholarship. Sheila,
who went to England in 1948, is now
stationed at the Royal North Shore
Hospital, which was the training-school
for the two winners of last year, Helen
Davidson and Helen Molesworth. This
scholarship is awarded by the Florence
Nightingale Foundation and is open to
fully-qualified nurses from any part of
Australia. The candidates must be
between the ages of 25 and 35, and must
be of matriculation standard. It covers
two years of post-graduate tuition as well
as the fare to England and back. It is not
generally known that Florence Night-
ingale herself was interested in our own
Sydney Hospital, In 1851 a party of
nurses trained by a Nightingale superin-
tendent came to Australia, and later, in
1867, the plans for the Florence Night-
ingale Wing at Sydney Hospital were for-
warded to her for supervision before the
wing was built.
Pardonably pained is Mr. H. Tindale,
general manager of the Australian Gas
Light Company, who writes: “In your
recent excellent description of the Cen-
tenary Ceremony in the Great Hall of
the University, ‘the atmosphere of quiet-
ness and old-time that spread over the
ceremony’ was emphasised not ‘by candles
in branched sconces flickering against
the stone,’ but by brackets of flickering
gas-lights which blend in so fittingly with
the architecture of the Great Hall that
they obviously can be mistaken for
candles. This artistic use of gas-lighting,
which is unique in Sydney, has been a
source of considerable pleasure to us and
was the joy of the former Yeoman Bedell,
who always asserted that the dry heat
from these gaslights helped materially
in keeping damp and mildew from the
many magnificent oil paintings housed
there.” Sorry, Mr. Tindale. In future
we will, as you suggest, “extinguish the
candles and put on the gas.”
The younger set of the Queen Victoria
Club held a pleasant evening last Friday
when Peggy Miles and Janet Bardsley
welcomed Doris Fitton as guest-of-honor.
Club-members gave a witty and amusing
play-reading, produced by Doreen Ray-
mond, who also proved herself quite a
promising character actress. Later
Richard Meale played compositions by
Arnold Bax and Bartok, in addition to
three interesting songs of his own com-
position and sung by Jacqueline Tallx>t.
Modern in technique, they had very little
key-feeling —they just floated in a mood
of fantasy. The words were from poems
by Stephen Spender. There was a curious-
ness about the songs that was appeal-
ing, also a youthfulness and strange
harmony.
From Melbourne
Delegates from every State in the Com-
monwealth took time off from the War
Widow’s Association conference, for
which they are gathered in Melbourne, to
attend the reception given by the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney. The
hostess’s dove-grey worsteds had faint
stripes of pale-blue and grey to form
large checks. Her small matching cloche
was trimmed with grey feather-flowers.
Mrs. G. R. Vasey’s navy suit was worn
with a pastel-pink blouse ; pink-and-grey-
striped taffeta trimmed her small navy
hat. Lady Wales was the only guest not
a member of the delegation. Her silk
frock was in blue-and-white-checks, cuffs
and lapels of her junior-navy jacket were
in navy checks ; Mrs. John Edgley enter-
tained the guests with details of her visit
to the Duchess of Kent, who is the Royal
patroness of the War Widows’ Associa-
tion of Australia. Leader of the N.S.W.
delegation, Mrs. Archie Cunningham,
wore a grey suit with a matching hat.
Queensland’s leader, Mrs. Nigel McKay,
teamed teal-blue with black accessories.
From Tasmania came Mrs. H. P.
Brownell, her aqua-blue suit matched
with a draped beret. W.A.’s leader is
Mrs. H. L. Fowler. South Australia was
represented by the acting-president, Mrs.
H. C. Hoskins, and the treasurer, Mrs.
E. J. Mobsby.
Caulfield Day weather being adverse
for the wearing of the gay, the light and
the colorful, lightweight tweeds, soft
jerseys, flannel and whipcord, with grey
as the most popular shade, came into
their own. The most popular hat was
the narrow-brimmed boater, trimmings
being of flowers and feathers, with lots of
veiling. Sprays of lily-of-the-valley
trimmed the navy cloche worn by the
Governor’s wife with her navy frock and
beige fox-fur bolero. Jeanette Brooks’s
suit was of grey flannel; her amber
straw bonnet was swathed with matching
chiffon. A wide-brimmed black straw
hat finished with a soft pink feather and
a black face-veil was worn by the wife
of the chairman of the V.A.T.C., Mrs.
Norman Robinson, with a tailored black
barathea suit. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
J. S. Disney, was tailored in grey, a tiny
grey felt hat being added. Over her
tailored yellow-and-blue checked frock
Mrs. Norman Myer wore a long, loose-
fitting coat of grey flannel lined with
citrus-yellow. Mrs. Harold Holt topped
with a veiled white pill-box hat her blue-
and-white-checked tweed suit. Mrs.
Geoffrey Cohen’s hat was unusual; of
fine black felt, it had coils of bamboo-
feathers over each ear.
Night’s candles hadn’t quite burned
out when the dinner-dance at the Delphic,
organised to raise money for the Isabel
Henderson Free Kindergarten, wound
up. Wyn Kellow, acting-president of the
committee, was in merry mood, and no
wonder: her horse Jana had won the
Gwyn Nursery Stakes in the afternoon.
Wyn’s willow-pattern frock had a long
graceful skirt; the folded shoulders were
finished with draperies at each side of
the low-cut bodice. Among the brocades,
taffetas and satin, the white, lime-green-
coin-spotted French-silk jersey gown
worn by Lady Snow was outstanding.
Mrs. Lionel Grimwade, a committee-
member, covered her Parma-violet crepe
gown with a housewife’s apron which she
wore, even when dancing. Mrs. Bruce
Mead danced in filmy pale-yellow chiffon.
Mrs. Leo Frankel topped a wide skirt
of steel-grey satin with a ruby velvet
strapless bodice. Mrs. T. Edwards em-
bellished her dove-grey gown with pearl
embroidery. A white guipure lace gown
set off Mrs. Adrian Perry’s bronzed skin
to perfection. Soft lavender moire taffeta
was the choice of Mrs. Arthur Laver.
Frothy cinnamon-brown tulle heavily en-
crusted with opalescent and copper beads
fashioned the lovely gown worn by Mrs,
John Mollard. Mrs. Graham Nathan was
in navy guipure lace.
Sacha Guitry’s sparkling and witty
French comedy, “Don’t Listen, Ladies,”
had its premiere at the King’s Theatre on
Saturday night. In the lead is English
actor Clifford Mollison, and a strong sup-
porting cast includes Avril Wheatley and
that old favorite Lily Moore. Mrs,
Garnet Carroll covered her short black
dinner-frock with silver-foxes. Mrs. T. T.
Hollway was also in black, hers under
dyed-ermine, Mrs. Norman Watts wore
powder-blue crepe and a short white
ermine cape. She was with Mrs. John
Heath, whose black tulle gown was pat
temed in gold. Singer Gladys Moncrieff
was there with Mrs. P. Henry and
daughter Margot.
Guests came early and stayed late at
the welcome-home party Ronald Non
gave for his wife in their Toorak home
The returned traveller wore a Christian
Dior model of white waffle pique which
had a wide flared shorter-length skirt and
an off-the-shoulder top of heavy white
lace. Sharing the honors was Betty
Smith, Mrs. Nott’s sister, who had been
overseas with her. Betty’s short black
frock was worn with a black velvet cap
finished with sweeping black
Mrs. Fred Dennett, who has also just
returned from England with her daughter
Mrs. Sue Cecil, wore black with a small
black hat. A tailored frock of gunmetal
satin was worn by Mrs. Keith Morrison
with a grey picture-hat. Mrs. Harold
Holt’s frock was of her own design; of
black tulle, it had swirling ruffles at the
hemline of the short skirt. Her small
cap was finished with towering feather
fronds dotted with sequins. Turquoise-
blue grosgrain and a small black velvet
cap made smart alliance for Mrs. Nor-
man Poulton,
Mrs. Ronald Nott had plenty of
fashion-news. Navy and black are the
colors for next season, and jackets nipped
in at the waist and flared about the hips
will be worn with slim, short skirts.
Lapels are cut low and sleeves are brace-
let-length. There will be lots of tiny
checks for woollen suits. The evening
scene will be dominated by black velvet
gowns. Up to 80 yards of tulle go into
the skirts of evening gowns, while the
bodices of, satin are as brief as ever.
Pearl embroidery still highlights evening
gowns. Other materials used by leading
Paris houses include satin, panne velvet,
ombre chiffon, Africa taffeta and shan-
tung in a thick weave.
Mrs. Edward Campbell, subject of this
Broothorn photo, has acquired quite a
reputation for committee-work. For
some years she was a member of Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell’s younger set and
~ , „
worked in many money-spinning ettorts
for chanties. Mrs. Campbell is ticke; ■
secretary for the Navy Ball, which will
be i* l St. Kilda Town HaJl
November 1.
' American flags fluttered from a centre-
piece of red-and-white roses and buc
cinerarias on the buffet table when Mr ■
Lionel Newton entertained about
guests at luncheon in her Toorak hom
to farewell Mrs. Alan (Mary Lou) Me
ton, who is leaving to make her bo ™ e .
America. Mrs, Newton wore a“ a
knitted frock of Kelly-green and
guest-of-honor a slim-fitting black ir ,j
black Persian-lamb jacket and a s ,
white hat frothing with black-spoi
veiling. Lilian Wightman’s French-m
frock of black crepe was worn t
a large cinnamon-brown stra’.v ,
American guests at the party inc
Mesdames A. E. Hotchkiss, rie
Allen, J. W. Clymer and G. Begg.
For her wedding at St. Mary’s, Lau -
field, Rhoda Olive, youngest daughter o
Mrs, D. Taylor, of Toorak, wore ago ,
of deep-cream satin with an overskirt
cream tulle. The fingertip-length t
veil was held with a ring of cream sa ’
trimmed with lily-of-the-valley.
bouquet was a long sheaf of deep-cr
roses and lily-of-the-valley. . o g ue
sister Louise was bridesmaid a nS
Brockhoff was flower-girl. I ne & pa t-
were of powder-blue Chinese *je
terned brocade. Cream georg waS
Louise’s Dutch bonnet, ou - e(I
fashioned of cream tulle. Bo grjde-
cream roses and lily-of-the-vaiiey.
groom was Alan Frederick, el 0 f
Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Ye °
Brighton. His best man Q Uec n’s-
Johnstone. Reception was ati v
road.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
<Lk7
PERSONAL ITEMS
As a young Light Horse officer in
Palestine, Robert Harold Nimmo possibly
had his own opinions on the songs of
Araby; as a major-general he is now
getting a chance to check up on the tales
of far Kashmir, to which disputed land
he goes as senior military observer for
the United Nations. Nimmo commanded
armored brigades during Hitler’s war,
and went to Japan in command of 34th
Infantry Brigade with the occupation
forces. To take on the Kashmir job he
steps down from the post of G.O.C.
Northern Command.
Only three years younger than her
fellow-irishman Bernard Shaw, Daisy
Bates celebrated her 91st biuthday in
Adelaide last week. Like Shaw, she began
her career in journalism (with W. T.
Stead on his “Review of Reviews”), but
that part of her story ended over half a
century ago when, on her second visit to
Australia, she decided to make the care
of the aborigines her life’s work. This
resolve she kept, familiarising herself
with the customs and problems of the
blacks, winning their confidence, living
among them and being admitted to kin-
ship of several tribes. First she worked
in outback West Australia, then at
Fowler’s Bay and Ooldea (S.A.) until
advancing years and declining health
forced her to give up her self-imposed
task. For some years “Kabbarli” has
lived in retirement in Adelaide.
Before writing became his main occu-
pation instead of a highly profitable side-
line, Nevil Shute Norway—he drops the
Norway when signing best-sellers —
worked for years as an aeronautical
engineer. He started with Ds Havillands
and was chief calculator on the construc-
tion of airship RlOO. Then he was joint
managing-director of Airspeed, Ltd., till
preoccupation with writing and the
realisation that although the firm was
making better and better aircraft it was
also making less and less money led to
his resignation. When war came he
joined the R.N.V.R. to serve in trawlers,
but the Admiralty whisked him off to
work on weapons, some of them novel in
the extreme. He saw the Normandy in-
vasion as a Ministry of Information
observer —also the closing stages of the
Burma campaign. A couple of years ago
Shute flew his Percival Proctor from
England to Darwin, down the railway to
Tennant Creek, east to Cloncurry,
Townsville and Cairns, where he met
BEST-SELLERS.
an A.M.P, man and a doctor whom he
new around the Gulf country. What he
saw of Australia then apparently pleased
! • TTI > he’s now out here for good, bring-
lnB with wife—who is a surgeon
, fenffiy, an outsize in limousines and
ine Percival Proctor. He has bought 30
p cres at Langwarrin, on the Mornington
(Vic.), and when Ray Whiting
called to sketch him he was wading
rough a pile of Department of Agri-
culture booklets, undecided whether to
raise cattle or capons, and cheerfully
admitting that the whereabouts of bow
and stem of either species was still a
mystery to him.
s h £a f °f engagements for next
Festival of the Arts in his pocket,
Wffham R Carr, producer for the
National Theatre Movement in Mel-
bourne, has arrived back from London.
Artists signed up include Henry Darnton,
the premier danseur, actor Leslie Sands
and actress Pauline Williams; plays to
be produced at the King’s and the
Princess include “She Stoops to
Conquer, The Taming of the Shrew”
tinci Moliere s The Miser.” Carr found
Glen Byam Shaw, director of the Old
Vic School at West Dulwich, interested
in the N.T.M. and anxious to establish a
theatre of his own in Melbourne ; his
wife, Angela Baddeley, wants to come
with him and star in a series of repertory
dramas. Carr has previous successes to
his credit in the two seasons of ballet,
opera and drama which surprised the
professional entrepreneurs by their
finish. He came to the National Theatre
from Melbourne Tivoli.
Doc ’ Quigg, United Press correspon-
dent “somewhere in Korea,” notes an
absentee from the scene:
You can say what you want, this war will
never really be official until Long John Brennan
ambles on to the premises. Long John is a
mighty man. He is gainfully employed at the
moment, I am informed, in Australia, but with
his talents for movement he is likely to show
up here at any time.
John was an Australian correspondent in
central-, south-, and south-west-Facific theatres
m the second world war, and when Pacific war-
correspondents get together to talk over old
times his name leads all the rest.
Here was a man about six and one-half feet
tall, his height abetted by one of those broad-
brimmed Australian soldier’s hats with brim
snapped up on one side. His rail-lean body,
gaunt ascetic face and saintly if slightly-mangy
beard evoked a nickname which was first riveted
to him by some wondering G.I. John was
known as the Messiah.
He had a habit in invasions and other battles
of moseying around a couple of hundred yards
ahead of front lines, just so he could be sure
of what was going on. He never got hurt
himself, and that was strange, because he made
a practice of pulling wounded out under fire.
On New Georgia, in the Solomon Islands, he
went on an action with a marine raider
battalion, and helped bring out wounded. He
was scheduled to be decorated by the American
Army, but some quirk of international protocol
prevented it. Again, in the Philippines he
went out and got a wounded man under fire.
Ihey wanted to give him a medal, but never
could figure out how to do it
Long John was a deadly man with dice, and
a convincing writer. Once he wrote a who-
dunnit detective-story which was a masterpiece,
but he never finished the last chapter. As he
explained it: “When I finally got down to
the last chapter I realised / didn’t know who
killed the bloody bloke.”
John Brennan, of course, was The
Bulletin’s correspondent in the Pacific,
and is now with “S. M. Herald.”
Group-Captain John Waddy, who has
been appointed to the Air Board as
representative of the Citizen Air Force,
is president of the New South Wales
branch of the Air Force Association. He
had a distinguished war record in North
Africa and the Pacific, was credited with
shooting down 15£ enemy planes—four
of ’em in one scrap—and was awarded
the D.F.C. and the American Air
Medal. In New Guinea he was in
charge of No. 80 Kittyhawk Squadron.
According to the Minister for Air,
Waddy’s task will be to keep direct con-
tact with Citizen Air Force units in every
State to ensure that he represents the
general opinion of weekend airmen.
A few years ago Arthur O. Richardson,
of Glenelg (S.A.), retired from his pro-
fession of photographer, but didn’t
give up work. Since 1947 he has packed
and dispatched to Britain 23,500 food-
parcels, including 8000 to blind people—
a one-man effort that would take some
beating. Richardson’s fan-mail is in the
film-star bracket, and he replies to every
letter he receives. That is really a labor
of love ; his favorite hobby is writing
letters to the Press,
“D.S.”: Frank D. Clewlow, due to
retire this month, has been the A.B.C.’s
Director of Drama. That means, if I may
be pardoned for speaking from personal
experience, that you can wander into his
office and talk for two hours about
Euripides and find that he knows 10 times
as much about Greek playwrights as you
do yourself; that if you happen to write
a play such as “The Fire on the Snow”
he will instantly (with Leslie Rees) buy
it for the A.8.C., produce it, talk about
it and afterwards, out of pure goodwill,
when he is touring the world, sell it for
you in Canada as he sold Ruth Park’s
plays in England and Ireland ; if you do
RADIO DRAMA.
another play, full of technical faults, he
will quite mercilessly tell you where you
are wrong but buy it all the same; and
if the Fellowship of Writers want to have
a reading of another he will come down
to whatever dark tenement they inhabit
and brilliantly play your leading comic
character . . . and everybody who has
written plays while Mr. Clewlow has been
at the A.B.C.—George Landen Dann,
Dymphna Cusack, Max Afford, the new-
comer Colin Thiele—will tell you the
same story. I’ve heard all sorts of
opinions about his qualities as a producer,
for opinions vary more fierily in the
theatrical world than any other ; my own
is that I would never want a better —he
has the intuitive understanding to know
exactly what you meant and the ability,
the cheery good spirits and the tact to
persuade the actor to do it. He is go-
ing to do some live-stage producing in
Hobart and some lecturing in Brisbane
after his retirement, then speaks of going
abroad. Personally, I would like to sec
him director of an Australian National
Theatre; if that isn’t just a dream, and
if he would take on the job.
Title of the “Australian Week-end Re-
view,” newest of Melbourne’s literary
journals, is rather a misnomer, as the
paper, under the editorship of G. B. Allan
and poet Bertram Higgins, comes out
fortnightly. Melbourne-born, Higgins
went from Melbourne University to
Oxford, where he took an M.A. and then
launched himself into the English book
world. In between writing poetry, he did
reviews for the “Spectator,” “Times
Literary Supplement,” “New Statesman,”
“Saturday Review” and others, and was
assistant-editor of the “Calendar.” His
verse and original contributions began to
appear in various journals, and he got
between covers with critical essays on
Masefield and T. S. Eliot. The last-named
may possibly have been the inspiration for
his long poem, “Mordecaius,” which
drew a lot of attention when published.
Back in Australia for a few years in the
’thirties, he was literary-editor of
“Stream,” which flashed a meteoric
course across Melbourne’s literary
firmament. After that he wandered
around Spain at the height of its revolu-
tionary ferment. Son of Justice Higgins
and brother of Nettie Palmer, he’s had
war service with the R.A.F.
Dead in Melbourne at 63, James
Bristock Brigden, an economist with an
original mind and forthright manner. A
Digger of World War I, he went to
1 Oxford as a Kitchener Memorial Scholar
and later became Professor of Economics
at the University of Tasmania. He served
on various commissions and committees
and was Director of the Queensland
Bureau of Economics and Statistics from
1930-38. When war broke out Brigden
was appointed secretary to the Depart-
Supply and Development, to
which was soon added Munitions, and
m 1942 he was sent to Washington as
economic counsellor to the Australian
Legation. After the war he was a vice-
president of U.N.R.R.A. In 1941 his
old college, Oriel, elected him an
Honorary Fellow.
Made a landing in Melbourne for a
whirlwind tour of this country, where his
parents lived for 10 years during the
eighties, Yngve Overgaard. of the noted
Swedish electrical firm, A.S.E.A. Asked
the much-debated question as to whether
it would be possible to relay the Apple
Island’s electrical juice under Bass Strait
to the mainland, he said “Why not?
Haven’t you a phone-cable to Tas-
mania?” This was contrary to some local
expert opinion, but the visitor has some
justification for it. His country is selling
electricity to Germany by means of over-
land and submarine cables from the
schemes on the abundant lakes and rivers.
A. W. Moran, War II Digger of
Mildura (Vic.), must be the first Aus-
tralian male nurse to conduct his own
hospital—rating 12 beds and Health
Department approval. Financial reasons
checked his medical studies at 16, and
when the R.A.N. mobilised Moran
donned bell-bottoms. With discharge,
he changed them for the white robe of a
male nurse (alias sick-bay tiffy) in the
Flinders naval hospital, and duly got all
the qualifications. Now he runs his
hospital with the aid of two sisters and
four F. Nightingales, none of whom
seems worried about having a mere male
of their own noble profession for chief.
Francois de Castella, doyen of Aus-
tralian wine connoisseurs, saw a life-
long dream fulfilled during National Wine
Week in Melbourne when most of the
experts forgathered at a dinner at the
Hotel Australia. The wines which figured
in the repast were, in his opinion, as indi-
vidual and as peculiar to the country as
the hocks, burgundies and clarets of
European vineyards. He comes from a
dynasty of winemakers. His Swiss grand-
father started one of the first Victorian
vineyards, and his wines were considered
so good that they gained grudging
entrance to the gubernatorial table —at
lunch-time, not at dinner. Government
House lost its appreciation later, but now
De Castella thinks we are getting close
to the rarest wines of Europe with our
product. At 83 the veteran viticulturist
still has a palate for good food and liquor
and still attends the periodical Lucullan
feasts of the Food and Wine Society.
The Bulletin’s W. E. Fitz Henry will
give a talk on “Bulletin Black-and-
White Art” at a meeting of the Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia, to be
held next Friday at 8 p.m. in the Lecture-
room, Public Library of N.S.W., Mac-
quarie-strect, Sydney, Bulletin readers
are invited to attend.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 64, Charles George Johnson,
member of the Adelaide City Council and a
vice-president of Adelaide R.S.L. In his youth
a professional boxer, he had for many years
been in business as a manufacturing chemist.
In London, Dr. Helen Sexton, one of
the first women to practise as a surgeon in
Melbourne. She was one of the founders of
the Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital.
In Sydney, at 68, Dr. Edmund Harold Moles-
worth, president of the Medical Board of N. S.
Wales, lecturer at Sydney University for over
30 years on diseases of the skin, and an
authority on leprosy and cancer.
In Sydney, at 75, William McNeil, a pioneer
of the motor-industry and first works manager
(in 1896) of the Daimler company. He estab-
lished his own firm in 1901, came to Australia
ten years later and ran a motor-engineering
works until his retirement a few years ago.
At Penzance, Cornwall (Eng.), at 72, Harry
Rountree, a New Zealander who went to
London in 1901 and became famous for his
black-and-white sketches. Apart from work
for "Punch” and other magazines, animal-life
and drawings for children’s books absorbed
most of his time. He illustrated Conan Doyle’s
Lost World, and turned out some fine seascapes
in oils.


9 GALLONS OF BEER
by H.H. COX
ON New Year’s eve, 1947, old
Uncle Will had, as usual, far too
much to drink. If ever a man
drank himself under the table,
Uncle Will did this night. At 1 a.m.
he crawled under the billiard-table
of the Sydney Artists’ Club, snorted
vaguely for a minute or two, like a baffled
dog, then rolled gently over on one side
and went to sleep.
One of Uncle Will’s companions, with
all the conscientious cunning of the drunk,
took his shoes off, climbed on top of
the billiard-table and slept there, snuffling
fretfully, with his head in baulk.
Four more of Uncle Will’s party sat
on the floor in one corner of the room,
stacked limply and moistly against each
other, in a heap rather like a wet stock
of wheat. It was surprising that they
could remain in this state of humid
cohesion through all the hazards of grunts
and lurches and unexpected saggings.
Last of the party to sleep was a small
degowned classics master, known by no
other name than Jordy, Jordy, not being
an artist, was only an associate member
of the club, but he had, nevertheless, a
rebellious, pernickety, lawyer-like interest
in its affairs. He sat in a chair now and
addressed the unconscious bodies at both
table- and floor-level, thrusting out his
jaw, wagging an authoritative forefinger,
and assuring them, one by one, that a
man had every right to sleep in his own
club. Suddenly, in the middle of one of
these pronouncements, his voice plopped
into a kind of fat, puffing noise, his head
fell on his chest, and he was asleep.
| I NCLE WILL and his Bohemian
friends had for months been break-
ing two rules. They’d been singing in the
club and sleeping in the club. They’d
all been before the committee for it.
They’d all been warned that if it happened
again they’d be expelled. And now look
at them.
The all-night steward had been in-
structed to remove any members he found
asleep on the premises after midnight.
But this night he made a quick private
assessment of the dead weight of seven
soggy bodies, and decided that, officially,
he hadn’t seen them.
Sleeping in the club had become a
crucial issue with the committee. After
all, most of the members, and all of the
committee, were practical, hard-working
artists. They let up, after their day’s
work, had their few drinks at the bar,
perhaps got quietly tiddly at times, re-
furbished their old bawdy stories, plotted
against each other those quaint practical-
jokes common to artists and commercial
travellers, argued relentlessly about the
abstract and the subjective in art, but
always, about midnight, went more or
less comfortably home.
All except Uncle Will and his inde-
fatigables. Uncle Will was a homeless
Bohemian of 70. He was the last casual
nomad left over from the roistering
Sydney art colony of the ’nineties. He
was one of those incessantly and urgently
benign people, violently happy with
friends and strangers, precipitately
amiable with everybody, living each im-
petuous moment with a kind of breathless
joy, as if life, even at 70, were altogether
astonishing.
He was tall, lean, stooped from the
shoulders, with a hawk-like nose, coarse,
bushy hair like an Airedale’s, and bright,
round, wondering blue eyes. He wore
baggy trousers, a loose, drooping coat,
an old tawny felt hat back to front, a
pair of pince-nez (with a heavy steel bar
across the top) that he always took off to
read, two dental plates which he always
took out to eat, and round rubber heels
on the toes of his shoes.
Jordy said to him one day:
“Uncle Will, what the hell have you
got heels on the toes of your shoes for?”
“Ah, my dear fellow,” said Uncle Will.
“My dear Jordy, I’ll tell you. It’s to fool
the blacktrackers.”
There was an artless, childlike frank-
ness and honesty about Uncle Will that
was disconcerting to all but his Bohemian
friends. He was always alarmingly ready
to admit to drunkenness, wanton neglect
of a commission, marital infidelity, unpaid
debts and any of the other dire short-
comings that most of us try so shame-
fully to hide.
The cold contract of marriage, of
course, meant very little to him. In the
blandest, frankest way, he’d been married
and divorced four times. He contrived
both with the same affable facility. There
was, in fact, the same kind of virgin
frankness about his sex-life as there was
about his drinking and his minute-to-
minute happiness. Even to a wife, it
seemed. Uncle Will just couldn’t dis-
semble. When a suspicious wife ques-
tioned him, Uncle Will would scratch his
shaggy head and say: “Yes, that’s right,
my love. I remember now. I spent last
night with a funny little blonde piece,
What was her name? I can’t remember
her name. It was in a place somewhere
in Redfern, I think. She had one tooth
out in front.”
AMONG the people who could never
understand this preposterous honesty
was Frederick Jones, paid manager of the
Artists’ Club. Frederick Jones was, by
instinct and training, an accountant. A
kind of earnest and competent commer-
cial policeman. Before he came to the
job at the club he’d always known that
artists were ratbags. And drunks. All
that he’d seen since he took over the
managership here confirmed these early
convictions. To him Uncle Will was not
a congenitally honest fellow with a wild,
expansive love for everybody, but just a
drunken irresponsible. Until the club
got rid of him and his little gang of
dissolute revellers, it could never hope
to be respectable.
It was to this kind of bleak outer
world that Uncle Will awoke on New
Year’s Day. He crawled out from under
the billiard-table and looked around at
the sack-like lumps still giving out smug
and amiable guttural sounds on to the
steamy air of a hot summer morning.
He took his teeth out of his pocket
and put them in his mouth. He adjusted
his pince-nez, pulled his hat hard down
on his head, back to front, and trudged
out to the passageway and along to the
bar.
To launch himself into the New Year
Uncle Will needed a couple of glasses of
frosty-cold beer. It was 9 a.m. “Glass
of beer, Sam,” he said to the steward,
“Sorry, sir,” said Sam. “The beer’s
not on till twelve.”
In those days of the great post-war
beer drought, beer was rationed. At
the Artists’ Club it was on from twelve to
one, and from five to six. Even then it
was limited to two glasses per member.
But blithe Uncle Will never seemed to
understand such complicated rostering.
To him it amounted to this —sometimes
you could get beer, and sometimes you
couldn’t. When you couldn’t, you could
generally get something else. So ration-
ing never bothered easygoing Uncle Will.
“All right, my dear fellow,” he said
to the steward. “I’ll have a brandy and
soda.”
“Sorry, sir,” said Sam. “But all drinks
are rationed this week. It’s the transport
hold-up. I can serve no liquor at all till
twelve this week —unless I’ve got special
permission from Mr. Jones.”
“Ah,” said Uncle Will, his easy faith
in humanity taking in even the cold and
officious Mr. Jones.
“Where’s Mr. Jones,
Sam?”
“He’s not in yet,” said
Sam, and then began to
hiss slightly, like a groom,
as he polished up a beer-
tap.
Uncle Will nodded
gloomily and padded out
into the passage and back
to the billiard-room. He
and the steward and the six unconscious
bodies were the only inhabitants of the
club. So he decided he would go further
afield, out into the rank, steamy pubs
of the city, for his morning drink.
As he was going out, he noticed, in a
corner, four nine-gallon barrels of beer.
He stood looking at them. After a while
he went over and tapped one of them
expertly with his knuckle, They were full
barrels.
O NLY those who knew Uncle Will and
his naive ways could hope to under-
stand the disastrously artless mental pro-
cess that now led him so happily into
crime. It was an act that couldn’t be
measured by any normal standards of
behavior. It was peculiarly, exclusively
an Uncle Will special. Rolling out a
nine-gallon barrel of beer on a New
Year’s morning was, to Uncle Will, one
of those bland, native enterprises he was
fond of describing as “a good thing to
do.” It would be safe to say that Uncle
Will had no other feelings about it.
There was simply this pervading sense of
the dire and beautiful fitness of the thing.
The idea of literally rolling out a barrel
was, to Uncle Will, the sweetest adventure
of his life.
For a little while his ecstasy was tinged
by a gently nagging, insinuating after-
thought that nine gallons was a bit more
than he really required. He’d started out
to get two glasses of beer. Now he had
a barrel. “Hmm,” brooded Uncle Will.
“Nine gallons. Hmm.”
As he turned the barrel on its side and
rolled it out into the passageway and
through a door to the outer lobby, he
was still muttering moodily, “Hmm. Nine
gallons.”
He pressed the button for the auto-
matic lift that served all the tenants in
this small, four-storied building, huddled
down, rather guiltily, among the massive
bank and insurance buildings of Martin-
place. When the lift came, he rolled the
barrel pensively in and went down with
it to the ground floor. Here he held the
door open with one foot while he gave
the barrel a shove that sent it out into the
lobby.
There he up-ended it, sat on it, took his
hat off and began to mop the perspiration
from his head. He heard the automatic
lift click and go up. The dick reminded
him of something. He leaned over and
tapped the barrel with his knuckle. It
gave back a deep, dark clack. It was
full all right.
By now Uncle Will had decided, as
if it was a kind of concession, that he’d
take the whole nine gallons and have
done with it.
HE was still sitting on the barrel, his
legs wide apart, and his feet clamped
on to the marble flags, when Frederick
Jones arrived. Frederick Jones carried
a fat tan brief-case and wore that set
expression of polite boredom that some-
times distinguishes the residents of the
more select suburbs of North Sydney. He
glanced quickly, contemptuously at Uncle
Will, and then pressed the button for the
lift.
Here, once more, Uncle Will’s almost
pathological honesty broke loose.
“Good morning, Mr. Jones,” he said.
“I’m just taking one of your barrels of
beer. I don’t suppose you mind?”
Frederick Jones nodded curtly, as one
well aware of the absurd jokes of ratbags
like Uncle Will. Then he F-pked anxi-
ously for the lift. When ' ’ Tne he got
quickly in and floated upstairs, obviously
relieved to be able to escape so soon
from such a foolish old fellow with such
a futile sense of humor as to sit on a
barrel in a passageway and pretend to
have been moving it about,
'T WO days later Uncle Will and three
1 of his fellow-revellers sat down for
lunch in the dim, smoke-stained dining-
room of the old Francatelli, in George-
street.
It was another of those clammy Sydney
days, dull and murky, steamy as a
laundry.
Uncle Will took his shoes off, took his
teeth out and put them in his vest-pocket,
slipped his coat off on to the back of his
chair, took his heavy pince-nez off while
he read the menu, and then ordered mulli-
gatawny soup. Even the Sydney weather
was extraneous, almost superfluous, to
((Continued on page 32.)
FOUR POEMS . . . Douglas Stewart
THE FIREFLIES.
But they are moving steadily, the height of a man.
Like a man among the dark trees holding a lantern
A clear small floating flame with a tinge of green.
Many small flames, all climbing thei stony mountain,
Like an invisible army; but no footfalls move
Over the soft red dust, no shadow ruffles
The yellow-box trees that the silver phalangers love;
Oh no there are no men here, there are only the fireflies,
Steadfast and radiant travelling over the spur
Where the hot earth lies heavy in dust and silence;
But indeed oh indeed some army is moving here.
Some invisible power flashing in points of brilliance
Unravelling over the earth its unearthly plans,
Uncanny to meet at night among the stones.
THE MOPOKES.
Somewhere on some wet stringybark bough there whirls
night’s crystal centre,
The mopoke called his mate to it and now where it spins
they enter.
Cry and reply across the bush, “Mopoke” they called,
"Mopoke,”
Shadow flying to shadow there and silence calling silence
As rain and midnight moved in them and trees and
sandstone spoke.
Black was the night before they met and still is dark
enough
—Feathers on end and glaring eye and murderous beak
and talons—
Oh but how bright the centre whirls where they grapple
and blaze in love.
FLYING ANTS.
Pouring straight up in their excited millions
Like smoke from the hot earth in narrow rings
The flying termites, blind in their own bright shower,
Whirl in a crystal tower not there at all:
For while the glimmering column holds them safe
To dance their delirious dance of summer and love
How frail and small it floats in the evening’s brilliance:
And, striking in shafts of light that burn their wings,
Infinite space pierces the crystal wall
Where thought itself floats glinting in that tower.
THE WILD VIOLETS.
O little blue-and-white violets growing wild
Between the thunder-cloud and the rage of the sea
Set your small lights in my mind as jn the grass
Of those enormous cliffs all seared with salt
To mark one hour lit by my eager child
Running in a world of jewels from shells to shallows,
From rock to violet, all in one gleam of delight
Where no cliff drops its shadow and no wave follows—
Live in my mind because such moments pass
Oh like blue-and-white violets growing wild
Between the thunder-cloud and the rage of the sea.


\PZ j*
GW
m
•fiKS*
*H2
BY APPOINTMENT
GEM DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
vymictns
suopion
until summer <i nearly over ,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.I.SLAG WOOL
No house, home, office ox building is modem and entirely
healthy unless It to Insulated preferably with BJ.
SLAG WOOL.
mm
CWOQL 7
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY. MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 63504 • ADELAIDE. C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
The Rain Forest
THE children were the right
fauna for the Rain Forest.
Encircled by the great
black trunks of tree-ferns,
Hanes and forest giants, their
imaginative minds could still
make a miniature world near
the ground. The tree-trunks
pressed close together, but
parted their green tops high
overhead ; supple-jacks writhed
and clambered thick as serpents,
and if you got caught in a mass
of bush - lawyer you got
scratched all over; fantails and
other tiny birds somersaulted on
twigs near nests that were always
in darkness.
The colors of the Rain Forest
were bronze, sombre green,
grey and quick scarlet. It was a
world of many towers where
leaves shone high above carpets
of springy yellow and green
moss. You could smell the lost
trees, the decay of many cen-
turies of leaf-mould, and the
coldly pungent trodden filmy
ferns.
The children seldom looked
up at the fronds, branches and
epiphytes overhead, because the
delicate diversity of moss,
maiden-hair fern and tiny seed-
lings made the earth on which
they trod so silently infinitely
more interesting.
“If you stare at the monkey in
the fern too long, you get the
creeps,” said Paddy, the eldest
girl.
“If you pick him he bleeds
sticky white blood,” said her
small brother Paul, who had a
thin elfin voice that always
tailed off into a little giggle, half-
proud, half-guilty.
Katy, the Maori girl, said
“His fur comes off all over you.”
Their voices rose and fell, but
never sounded as shrill or harsh
as they did on the beach. It
was as if the vapors of the small
patch of bush that they called
the Rain Forest diluted all tones,
breaking them down into the
merest whisper. Their conversa-
tion was confined to a few
excited exclamations. “Look
what I’ve found!” “Look what
I’ve found!” “A baby
umbrella!” “A fern necklace!”
“A tiny laundry-bag full of
nothing.” “It’s a puff-ball!”
“But look what I’ve found!”
They were following the
stream up from the beach where
an old knock-kneed notice-
board warned them that tres-
passers would be prosecuted.
But nobody ever took any
notice of the warning. They
went upstream every day when
they were tired of the beach,
and when their friend Katy had
finished initialling rulers with a
piece of glass held up to catch
the sun’s rays. She was very
clever at burning your name in
little dots, and was in great
demand among the holiday-
making children at the beach.
To the two children with her in
the bush she was a special
friend. Always when they ran
down to the beach cottage at the
beginning of the holidays or for
long weekends, there was Katy
waiting to welcome them. There
was always a brief awkward
pause and then crows of delight.
“Katy! Katy! ” “Paddy!
Paddy! Paul! ”
AS they made their way up-
stream they each carried a
treasure. Katy had her piece of
“magic glass.” Paddy had a
baby sea-egg tied in the corner
of her handkerchief, and Paul
carried a match-box in which
was a tiny crab. The crab had
been there all night and was not
liking it; it had staggered
feebly over his pillow that morn-
ing, and Paul decided that what
it needed most was a drink of
fresh spring water.
There were other people in the
bush. An elderly couple who
had the cottage next door to
their own and who collected
ferns. Every day they disap-
peared into the Rain Forest, he
carrying a trench-tool, she hold-
ing a cut-down kerosene-tin.
Every evening their mother was
called in to admire the spoil
from the Rain Forest: moss-
ferns that withered and died in
a few hours, languishing filmies,
and hacked-up clumps of bush
clematis.
There were sun-tanned boys
and girls dabbling their feet in
the small pools, and sometimes
the children came upon a pair of
lovers almost hidden under the
drooping fronds of silver ferns.
Then there was the stranger
whom they had seen on the
beach for the last few days—a
tall, fair man, not young, but
not yet old. His rather bleached-
looking blue eyes followed the
children with mysterious
übiquity. He had offered to
teach Paddy to dive if she would
accompany him to the other
side of the rocks where the water
was deeper, but the child had
run laughing away. Now he
seemed to be always bobbing up
in the bush, sometimes he would
linger a short distance behind
them, and then he would over-
take them and go on ahead.
Once his hand shot out and
grabbed Paddy by the shoulder.
He told the others to go on, and
he would bring her as soon as
he had shown her something he
had found in the bush. She
dragged herself away, and he
stepped backwards into a little
pool that was hidden by fern
and rotting leaves. As he fell
over he grasped a slender plant
with long-pointed leaves which
were armed with thin white
stinging hairs. He gave a howl
of rage and pain and swore
loudly. The thought of the
stinging-nettle set Paddy’s teeth
on edge because she had once
touched it only lightly and her
thumb had been sore for hours.
“Onga - onga!” exclaimed
Katy, pointing to the plant.
“Onga-onga! ” echoed Paul
and giggled.
“He’ll have pins and needles
in his hand for a week.”
THEY met the fern-collectors,
and the woman asked them
if they had ever come across a
small plant with a purple
flower, something like a spider.
“It usually grows among the
moss,” she said, and opened a
book to make sure. “Yes, among
moss, in damp forest, and you
would be more likely to spot it
than we would.”
“Like a spider?”
“Well, with curious narrow
petals,” she was reading from
the book. “Not uncommon,
flowers in spring and summer.
I will give you a shilling if you
can tell me where to find one.
Don’t attempt to move it —leave
that to me.”
“A spider-flower? Here? In
the Rain Forest? It says on the
board that nobody must take
things from this bush.”
“This isn’t a Rain Forest. It
is just a few acres of forest land
that some old crank of a farmer
won’t clear and cut into seaside
lf we don’t get these
ferns and orchid now they will
entirely disappear, what with
your children tramping all over
them and couples sprawling on
the ground.”
“My father said that this was
once part of a Rain Forest.”
Paddy lifted her square, sensible
little face and looked defiantly
at the man with the trench-tool.
“Maybe. Maybe,” said his
wife, “but you don’t say if you
have ever seen this spider-
orchid. Have you?”
The children shook their
heads, but not convincingly;
somehow they managed to
convey to the fern-collectors
that even if they did know
where to find it they would
never, never tell.
“What have you been pick-
ing?” asked the man.
“It’s necklace - fern,” said
Katy.
“Asplenium. From splen, the
spleen. Asplenium.”
“Asplenium flabellifolium,”
corrected his wife, who, after
all, had the advantage of the
book. “Fan-leaved. What has
the boy in his hand? Matches?”
“No,” said Paul.
“It is a box of matches. How
dare you bring matches in here.
Don’t you dare to strike one. In
this weather, with everything
dry as tinder we’d be burned
alive before we could get out of
the bush.” '
“Give them to me!” ordered
her husband. “Give those
matches to me, my lad, at once.”
“No!” said Paul, and clam-
bered further up the bank of the
stream with the other two fol-
lowing him like sure-footed
fauns. Soon they were high
above the beach and the water
was falling down in silver
cascades.
“Come, I’ll show you some-
thing.” Katy looked very know-
ing, “Something pretty. Some-
thing I have found all by
myself.”
NOW they were in a small
clearing where the sun
blazed down on a fern-fringed
pool, and where there were no
big trees, only Hanes and ferns.
Some of the fem was brown and
scorched by the sun, but the
clumps by the pool were green
and cool-looking. They left their
things on a rock covered with
dry fern, Paddy’s sea-egg tied in
her handkerchief, the now-
withered puff-ball, the fern neck-
lace and Katy’s piece of glass.
Then Katy led them through
dense undergrowth where the
ground was cold and damp and
where they had to wriggle on
hands and knees. It was so quiet
they could hear only the regular
sound of their own breathing
and water falling somewhere
near them, falling as if it was
milk being gently poured from
a jug. A bird sang one note,
“Clong!” It was like the little
silver hammer of a gnome. And
between the moist earth, the fern
and the sky there seemed to be
a silent, breathless conspiracy.
Suddenly Katy knelt down
and peered among the moss.
“Here! Look what I’ve found! ”
For a second or two they
could see nothing at all. And
then, there it was! The spider-
orchid lay back among the moss,
taking life easily, very comfort-
able it looked in its cool little
bed. Its mouth was wide open,
and its thin legs waved above
thick cold leaves that were half-
crowns with no markings on
them.
“Hide it. Quick, hide it!”
they cried, and looked over their
shoulders, dreading vandals,
dreading strange men.
But they were utterly alone.
They dragged moss - covered
stones from the edge of the pool
and made a circle around the
(Continued on next page.)


hi (netty.. .it's
*OO
f
juft
wssa
Housewives especially will welcome the
new Waterproof Elastoplast First Aid Dressings. The thin
plastic skin is proof against water, dirt and grease, keeping
cuts and wounds clean and dry. The dressings stretch with
skin movement, adhere firmly, and always wash clean. Ask
at your Chemist.
lii*
• Elastic — adhesive.
• Does not ruck up,
catch or fray.
• Medicated pad
assists healing.
FABRIC ELASTOPLAST remains
available, and is still the recog-
nised stand-by if you do not specfic-
ally require protection against water.
NOW .
. . 2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST .
Fabric and Waterproof
• •
£2/120
Products.of T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., Hull, England
"HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM"
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry,
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, the
Apiary and General Farm Activity.
PRICE ONE SHILLING
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
253 George Street, Sydney; 347 Collins St., Melbourne.
8
“I think I’d like
a White Horse
better than anything”
m
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
“A pleasure to remember a joy to find again.”
ABIIa
plant, they covered it up with
branches and moss.
“We shall catch flies for it!”
“We shall come again to-
morrow.”
“And the next day!”
“We won’t tell them.”
“We shall bring it things to
eat and drink in a leaf.”
O UDDENLY there was a
'-s strange noise. A sound that
did not belong to the Rain
Forest. They knew all the voices
of the bush, rustle of leaves,
notes of birds, people whisper-
ing, hushed tones. There it was
again! It was like a small
cracker being fired from some-
where below them. Then
another report, and another —
louder and louder, and up from
the bush rose a thin curl of
smoke. They could smell it.
Now they could see red flames
leaping. Yes, the bush was on
fire—the Rain Forest was burn-
ing.
Quick! Run! Follow me!
Katy, don’t leave us! This is
the way! No, this, no, this!
Come back, don’t go down, go
up ! Not there, here ! Take my
hand ! Let me go !
They struggled upwards,
always upwards. Never, never
had the leaves and lianes been
so vindictive to them. Never
had they felt so frightened. Oh,
would they never, never reach
the top!
Impossible now to go back to
the beach.
They panicked.
Listen, it is following us! I
can feel my hair on fire! I am
bleeding! I have lost my
sandals! I have broken my
arm !
Terrified, half-crying, pulling,
prodding each other, at last they
struggled out of the bush. They
were on farmland high above
the beach. They were in a pad-
dock where cows were uncon-
cernedly chewing cud. In the
distance there was a farmhouse
with white dots of hens pecking
about the yard. Then from
sheds and from paddocks where
haymaking machines were work-
ing came men running—men
with wet sacks over their heads
and long fire-switches to beat out
the flames, to stop them from
spreading into the uncut grass.
“Get away from here,” they
shouted to the children. “Keep
away from the bush. Go home
by the beach road!”
NOW the Rain Forest was
roaring and blazing. Great
balloons of smoke floated above
the windless sky. It seemed as
if the world was crashing and
banging to an end.
“Our beach-house will be all
burnt up,” cried Paul,
“No,” said Katy. “No. My
Uncle Sam, he watches day and
night for fire. He will save your
house and your mother. The
fire is going away from the
beach.”
There was a gathering of
people on the beach, and their
mother came running to meet
them. “Where have you been?
How dare you frighten me by
staying away like this? What
have you done to your arm?
Where are your sandals?”
The fem-collectors looked at
them accusingly.
“He had a box of matches. 5 '
said the woman.
“Here is the culprit,” said the
man and pointed his trench-tool
at Paul.
“No!” they chorused. “No!”
“I saw the boy with a box of
matches.”
“No,” gasped Paul, and felt in
his pocket. “It was a crab. It
has gone. I have lost it.”
“X saw her strike a light,” said
the strange man and jerked his
thumb at Paddy.
They opened and shut their
mouths like sick sparrows.
They could not believe their
ears. The staring people mut-
tered angrily as their mother
hustled the children into the
house and sent Katy home.
They were shaken and scolded
and made to feel very wretched.
UNTIL late in the evening
men fought the fire, trying
to save some of the more valu-
able trees. Then everything
came to a queer stillness. Here
and there a flame shot up, but
the fire died slowly and the
smoke cleared away.
The people on the beach con-
templated the damage and then
began to plan. “I like that top
piece of land . . . grand site
there . . . you could see right
across to the mainland . . .
must have a caravan . . . must
have a road graded right down
{Continued on page 32.)
VARIOUS VERSE
TANGI FOR HUA.
[From “Tamaki-Makau-Rau, a poem on the history of Auckland.]
and the peoples of Tamaki gathered from the shores,
headlands and valleys to the marae at Maungakiekie—they
mourned for their great chief, Hua . . . One sang:
O Sir, as in a chill cloud under a raining sky
We come twining the dark leaf, the bitter herb;
Deep and still the sleep wherein you lie,
A calm that all our grief cannot disturb.
Where is now the strength of mana for those days
When storms of war and witchcraft break upon us?
O Ripe in Council, Learned of Ancient Ways,
How shall we stand alone, alas, alas. Aue!
O Sir, shall we hear your voice in sea or wind?
Will you speak, who though far away are near?
He shall and hq shall not. He sees and yet is blind.
He lives but does not live. Hears but does not hear.
Loudly the women weep, red tears of mourning
Flow down their breasts, they sway and sigh
Sad as the sullen tide of Manukau turning
From black rocks and seagulls’ bitter cry. Aue!
O Sir, death has not broken your authority,
Or the strong spear lifted in your guiding hand,
And in your name are gathered here Hawaiki,
Children of Toi, and the fairy-blood of the land.
Lamenting we remember now the words you spoke,
(Do not think we shall forget who heard!)
I shelter the land of Tamaki under my cloak,
The people shall be the waters of my gourd!”
O Sir, behold your l Wai-O-Hua, we shall keep
The gourd unbroken, your cloak our hearts shall drape,
Go now, go take the long path North and leap
Over death’s distant cape! Aue!
N.Z.
GLORIA. RAWLINSON.
SEA BRAWL.
The land rises and the waves rise, and the rocks’ knuckles
Batter the tides. In the melee of surf and sound,
Of shattering glass as each big wave like a window buckles
And splinters, we are, as onlookers, spellbound.
Such damage outside taprooms should mean war.
Such large-scale tugging at nerves should frighten us.
But there s no prettier fight than sea versus shore.
Here is a brawl to watch, with the sun to enlighten us.
See the pandanus lean down the cliff? You have seen
Such ladies with parasols, high in the bleachers, score
Wildly on some mute’s cranium: screw-pines that have been
Watching such fisticuffs, lifelong, six decades or more.
Roll your eyes, now, out to sea; a hat flies in there . . .
A seabird drops into the waves. There was the glint
Of something that shone like silver . . . coins, you would
swear.
And this is no walkover bout that a patron might stint.
Parry and thrust of the rocks, pounding of surf . . .
There is much damage here, and skying of towels.
Roar of the sea ... of the crowd . . . deep guttural laugh.
Loud hisses, and aspirates wandering awry from vowels.
Here’s a big fellow in blue, drives into the fuss.
High-pitched note of a sea-bird, or whistle that shrills?
Why should such turbulence hold excitement for us?
We onlookers are such fierce, incontinent devils.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6k YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
KEEP mo?K SAFE!
SANDERS
FILE|
Correspondence. Id volc«i.
•tote menu. ate.. 01 ad la the
"Sanders'* cob ba securely
fcound and converted Into o
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.anth —or
any other period.
fO*!
A.r-.
Price* tar-
dier
•poo applicant*
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DistribiOtng Agf/ut—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE •
• W- c. Pcofald A C«. Pty. Ltd,
• • M«rm»a Bros. Pty. Ltd.
i • Vardta A lou Ltd.
• w o«ik*t Back Cm. (AuU
/-
Sp
i
mMmi
** »
*usu?r
mi
“33 MILES...
1 gallon of petrol"
<e ... I have now had a Holden car for three months and have
travelled 6,000 miles. From the first time I drove it I found
it was extremely light on petrol, but was amazed recently
when I tested it out. My Mail Run is a distance o t thirty
three miles and I have to call at thirty mail boxes and I did
the trip on one gallon petrol ...”
Fred Cooper, Mail Contractor, Ye oval, N.S.W.
Holden is your best buy
because it gives you...
OVERALL ECONOMY
... in petrol oil and maintenance.
BIG CAR COMFORT
... leg and elbow room for five or six.
LIVELY PERFORMANCE
. . . fast-stepping 21.6 h.p. engine.
STREAMLINED-STYLISH
Holden has good looks that will last.
Jf "Air Chief ” Radios are specially designed
for Holden. Air Chief 5-valve with a
6-inch speaker, or Air Chief 6-valve with
an 8-inch speaker.
Convenient hire purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. General
Motor’s own finance company.
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia. 2780C/N
SUNDRY SHOWS
Two Beethovens.
A touch of typical Bernard
Heinze imagination was his pre-
sentation, at the concert in which
he directed the Sydney Orch-
estra, of the First and the Ninth
Symphonies of Beethoven.
The two works, his first and
last, span the quarter-century of
the Master of Bonn’s efforts in
symphonic writing. It seems
peculiar now, 150 years after its
premiere in Vienna, to find that
the critics of the day condemned
the overuse of the wind instru-
ments, “so that the music
sounded as if written for a
military band rather than an
orchestra,” For this First Sym-
phony, while bearing unmistak-
able evidence of the giant just
finding his feet, has all the 18th-
century grace of Haydn and
Mozart.
The playing of this was chiefly
marked by the lilting exuberance
of the string choir in the scherzo-
like Minuet.
The Ninth —the great Choral
Symphony in which Beethoven
revealed the true extent of his
matured genius—lost little, if
any, of its sublimity and
grandeur in the interpretation.
The gradual darkening of the
chromatic passages for the
strings through which is threaded
the plaintive voices of the oboes
in the first movement; the out-
standing work of horns and
trombones in the Trio of the
Scherzo; the beautifully serene
playing by the four string
sections in company with horns
and clarinets in the richly-scored
Adagio; and the surging vigor
with which the Finale was en-
dowed —these highlighted the
orchestra’s good work.
For the choral section the
soloists were Phyllis Rogers,
Muriel Luyk, Alan Eddy and
John Dudley. Generally their
ensemble work was good, the
quartet “Hail Thee, Joy,” being
finely balanced. The Hurlstone
Choral Society displayed the
artistry of its voice-control in
the solemn passages which fol-
low the tenor solo “Joyful Like
Her Sons,” and in the tumultu-
ous Finale the choir rose above
the orchestra in a veritable
thunder of triumphant exhorta-
tion.
Snakes and Singers.
Melbourne “Sun-Pix” had two
shows going last week. One was
a live snake displayed in the
window of the journal’s offices in
Newspaper House which
attracted almost as much atten-
tion as the other one which was
at the Town Hall. The snake
looked much happier in the early
morning when there was nobody
looking at it than it did in the
evening when there were
hundreds milling around the
window with policemen scratch-
ing their heads and wondering if
the “Sun” shouldn’t be had up
for causing an obstruction of the
traffic.
The other show was on a
higher cultural level and con-
sisted of the eight finalists in the
“Sun” Grand Opera Aria con-
test, previously sieved out from
a million others at Ballarat, and
there were thousands looking at
them, mostly relatives and friends
and parents who dreamed they
had produced a potential
Austral or Melba, or maybe
Brownlee. The tension was con-
siderable as Lynette Kierce,
John Weaving, Bettine Mc-
Caughan, David Allen, Patricia
Baird, Noel Spark, Mina Foley
and Marjorie Harrison mounted
the platform and did their stuff,
which ranged from Meyerbeer
and Beethoven to Donizetti,
Wagner and Verdi, with Verdi
easily the most favored com-
poser.
There was little question as to
the quality of the singers. Aus-
tralia seems to be able to pro-
duce good singers as easily as it
does snakes and batsmen, David
Allen, of Surrey Hills, sang him-
self into first place with the Pro-
logue from “Pagliacci” and the
“Vision Fugitive” of Massenet.
His pure, rich, and expressive
baritone earned him the respect-
able sum of 535 guineas, plus
750 guineas to be invested in
trust to advance his career as a
singer. The second prize, 100
guineas, went to Mina Foley, of
Auckland, the beauty of whose
coloratura soprano raised hopes
that here was another Melba,
granted the enormous amount of
practice and the intense obsession
of the diva.
Visiting conductors have
sometimes lifted the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra to new
heights, and Eugene Goossens
performed the feat for the Mel-
bourne Philharmonics when they
sang Verdi’s Requiem at the
Town Hall the other evening. It
was some feat, for there were
150 singers, and it had its limits,
for some of the fortissimos of
Verdi’s dramatic opus were too
much for the capacity of the
building. More delicate pianis-
simos, however, have probably
never been rendered by that
choir or any other. The Sydney
conductor succeeded admirably
in giving the dramatic quality of
the work without sacrificing the
underlying note of lament which
runs through it. Soloists were
all good.
* ♦ * *
For Queensland’s final Youth
concert for 1950, the resident
conductor, John Farnsworth
Hall, chose half a dozen com-
positions ranging from the
mediocrity of John Ireland's
“London Overture” to the excel-
lence of the Brandenburg Con-
certo No. 5. Unfortunately, the
Bach, promising to be the pro-
gramme highlight, was marred
by inadequate soloists. Only
Una Murray, pianist, seemed to
play without evidence of strain.
Elise Longwill, winner of the
vocal section of the A.B.C.’s
1950 Concerto and Vocal Com-
petition, chose the “Willow
Song” from Verdi’s “Otello,”
and, while not managing to
convey all the sense of fore-
boding, sang with purity and
ease. The orchestra was heard
at its best in Liszt’s symphonic
poem “Tasso,” but with the
youthful audience Shostako-
vich’s satirical “Age of Gold”
suue was popular enough to pro-
cure an encore.
"Yeoman of the
Guard. 11
The machinations of the
Assistant-Secretary of State and
their consequences in that “grim
old fortalice” the Tower, set in
the happy days of the Tudors
when the headsman had a blithe
and well-placed confidence that
he would never lack for practice
to perfect his backswing and
follow-through, make up the
weightiest libretto Gilbert ever
devised, and gives the comedian
that heaven-sent opportunity—
to salt his comic business with
the touch of tragedy.
Ivan Menzies didn’t miss the
opportunity in the current season
at Sydney Empire, and gave to
his brief chance for real drama
the authentic touch.
Anna Bethel’s production
never deviates one iota from the
Savoyard tradition —and, as
always, she concentrates, with
admirable results, on good team-
work. From the romantic view-
point the team has been streng-
thened by the inclusion in the
cast of John Fullard as Colonel
Fairfax. He is, as it were,
another Fairfax with a mourn-
ing herald, but only temporarily,
for the swaggering headsman is
happily confounded. What
Fullard’s lyric tenor lacked in
volume —it seemed rather lighter
than formerly—he made up for
in its artistic use, and he went
from resigned sadness at his pro-
jected appointment with the
block of hopeful lovemaking
with conviction.
Helen Roberts, the captivating
Elsie of the piece, lent her
talents rather more to Thespis
than to Euterpe, though her
singing in the duet with Jack
Point “I Have a Song to Sing
O” was satisfying. Richard
Walker, slowly-deliberate, heavy
and clear in his speech-delivery,
looked and acted the oafish clod
Shadbolt. Leslie Rands as the
Lieutenant of the Tower Guard
sang well and strongly, but he
could unbend his deportment
with advantage—the high dignity
is rather overdone. Evelyn
Gardiner made the most of her
only solo, “I Keep My Silent
Watch and Ward,” and Bernard
Manning directed his strikingly-
apparelled guard with aplomb.
Sun and Snow.
Unless they are distantly
sketched L in as color-notes it
takes an extraordinary force to
get lyrical or dramatic quality
into human figures in watercolor
landscape; and, lacking this
special force, John S. Loxton’s
paintings, showing for a fort-
night at Sydney Grosvenor Gal-
leries, too often drop—as B. E.
Minns’s sometimes did —from
the poetic to the merely factual.
Take the skiers out of “Winter,
Mount Buffalo,” and you have
a fine picture of mountain coun-
try in which the snow, for once,
really looks cold —a haze of grey
cloud does the trick. Take the
man with the stockwhip out of
“Evening Light” and you have
a warm, rich sunny landscape
that might have been painted by
Hey sen. With the figures in,
the paintings descend to the level
of what makes a good poster,
magazine illustration or calendar.
Loxton shows himself, how-
ever, as a capable and versatile
watercolorist who has painted in
Tasmania, Victoria, England and
Venice and always painted
pleasantly. “Country Road,”
“Australian Landscape” and,
especially, “Green Fields of Eng-
land” with its stormy atmos-
phere, stand out.
Some of the forms in Clifford
Last’s show of sculpture at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne,
have their counterpart in Nature
—as with his “Lady Into Fox,”
for instance, a study of ballerina
Sally Gilmour. The same may
be said more or less of his
gigantic Reclining Figure, done
in Canadian myrtle and priced
at 200 guineas. Others haven’t
any discernible counterpart in
Nature, but, although there is a
great variety of forms in the ex-
hibition, there is no variety of
content. The content — the
quality of observation—is much
the same in the Sally Gilmour as
in the Reclining Figure. They
all look equally lifeless. That is
why the show gives an effect of
extraordinary monotony
although Last has not only used
a diversity of forms but a sur-
prising variety of materials,
ranging from ironbark, lamber-
tiana, blackwood and poplar to
mahogany, freestone, kaolin and
alabaster.
* * * *
Several self-conscious and
blushing schoolboys, four or five
pretty girls, James Meagher
looking rather like a sprightly
old leprechaun as Sir Berkeley
Nightingale, Douglas McKellar
giving a nicely-measured per-
formance as schoolmaster Frank
Hastings, and Peter Richards do-
ing the same with the role of
that fair cow of a headmaster,
the Rev. Edmund Ovington, all
followed the familiar and well-
worn paths to the study of Ian
Hay’s “Housemaster”—the Kur-
ingai Theatre Guild’s current
presentation at Killara Hall.
The title-role is well-suited to O.
D, Bisset’s air of benevolent
autocracy, and he touches it in
the right places with the right
amount of dignity, feeling and
humor. Altogether a pleasantly
entertaining production, particu-
larly for those who have senti-
mental memories of their school-
days—or like to have such
memories dreamed up for them


Born 1t»~
Hill going tfroog.
s
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.IMI.II
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
J
m
i m
m
w.
3
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
THE SERVICE MAN
Shift to Indo-China.
“FT r»nm” • R«
it seemed that the Korean war
was almost over. Using the
British-Austrahan Brigade as a
spearhead on the west and the
First Cavalry and the South
Koreans further east the United
Natfons forct were verv nearlv
in pnntmi nf thn rp i,„i bv
October 90 The A roviieUeH the
-LI h =i r S
on ri? Commonwealth troops
on the last 35-mile drive, ac-
Amfrahans catchinn™“o.h
s r bans catching up. Duly
stray shots were encountered,
and their measure was shown by
the fact that the Argylls lost
oniy one killed and a few
wounded, and the Australians
had no casualties.
There were still some Com-
mumst strongpoints in and
around Pyongyang at the week-
end, but their time was running
out fast.
Unless it is found necessary
fer the U.N. forces to fight their
gallant ally Dr. Syngman Rhee,
who has repudiated the U.N.O.
plans for settlement, the 5000-
odd Turks who came during the
week have arrived too late for
any fighting to their taste, and
would be more useful back on
their own borders, where an
ominous situation has been de-
veloping thanks to massing of
Russian troops and to the deter-
mination of the Bulgars to
squeeze their 250,000 men of
Turkish origin over their borders
into Thrace.
After the weekend the main
operations were directed to the
further task of completing the
occupation of North Korea,
This became more urgent when
it was reported that some of the
North Korean detachments were
apparently retiring to Russian
territory with American p.-0.-w.
as hostages and that others had
murdered the prisoners in their
hands. One prison at Sunchon,
a few miles north of the North
Korean capital, had 66 Ameri-
can bodies in it.
The unfortunate captives had
been killed by machine-gun fire
in a mass.execution. An attempt
to isolate the town with its 30,000
Communist troops, who were
su PP°sed to be in the area last
by a ma f dr0 P o£ P ara ‘
ch ““ sl s; f” e “°. > ate -, . ..
~ £ n n oc , tober 23 « >°° ked as ,‘ f
UN -°- troops would be m the
region of the border in a or
tw o. T* l6 spearheads were mov-
steadd y northward in their
°™ s P her “. ” ot always blood -
les siy, the British Common-
wealth Bri d in which the
lead had been ,aken oVer from
t h e Argylls by the Australians,
meetin „ onnosition a few miles
to the no P t u 0 f Pyonevane in
the § The
brigade was heading for Sinanju,
on the west coast, about 70 miles
from the Manchurian border.
United States estimate of
North Korean losses is 265,000,
including 70,000 prisoners, which
will be a heavy drain on a total
population of about 9,000,000.
The flower of North Korean
youth seems to have been wiped
out, and the remaining North
Korean forces are placed at only
70,000, who are pretty powerless
in the face of growing U.N.O.
strength.
There have been no signs that
the Chinese Communists intend
to take any part in the Korean
war, apart from continuing
threats from official Peking. The
Communist centre of aggression
has been shifted to the Indo-
China border.
>
In Viet-nam
There what the French ap-
peared to regard as merely the
normal flare-up of dissension
with the Viet-minh forces has
been growing ominously since
the beginning of the month.
The evacuation of Kaobang
outpost, near the border, with
the subsequent disastrous retreat
and cutting-up of French and
Viet-nam forces was followed by
the evacuation of the fortress
town of That Khe, but this was
made inevitable by the disclo-
sure of the strength of the Viet-
minh detachments which broke
into the Kaobang retreat. Only
500 of the 4000 garrison of Kao-
bang and their would-be res-
cuers escaped.
Why the French have delayed
so long in taking major mea-
sures it is difficult to say. As
far back as September 18 they
knew that the frontier to Com-
munist China was virtually open
and that the line of frontier
posts could no longer be held
against the large groups of Viet-
minh troops and partisans armed
heavily with Chinese-Russian
arms and obviously well and
specially trained. The realisa-
tion was brought home to them
by the fall of Dong Khe, which
lies in difficult jungle country on
a main highway. The best that
can be said for the French com-
mand was that the country was
very difficult to reconnoitre and
that the Viet-minh forces were
operating with great skill and
cunning.
An Ambush
The attack on the retreating
column from Kaobang was not
made until it began to climb
down from the passes almost
within gunshot of That Khe,
when about 25,000 of the enemy,
outnumbering it by six to one,
fell upon it on a day when the
weather precluded the French
from giving their troops air sup-
port. The attackers had every-
thing necessary for attack, in-
cluding very good mountain
guns. It was by far the worst
defeat the French have suffered
in four years.
On October 10 the French
Cabinet decided to send M.
Letorneau, Minister for Associ-
ated States, and General Juin,
Commander -in - Chief of the
French North African forces, to
Saigon just as the Viet-minh
Radio was announcing a “glori-
ous victory after nine days’
heavy fighting,” with the capture
of 2000 prisoners.
Retreat Inevitable
During the past week further
border-posts have gone. The
French and Viet-namese are
much in the same position as
the South Koreans, beset in the
north by an enemy who draws
his strength from the forces of
the world revolution commanded
from Moscow and riddled with
fifth-columnists and traitors,
apart from differences between
a French Administration which
has shown itself far from bril-
liant and a quarrelsome and
inept Viet-nam Government
which is demanding complete
control of Viet-nam forces,
which would be disastrous on
their past showing.
It seems that the French and
Viet-namese will have their work
cut out to save the ricefields of
the Red River delta, along with
the provincial capital of Hanoi
and the port of Haiphong, and
that they must present Viet-
minh with the rest of Tonking,
king-cobras and tigers (if any)
included.
Meanwhile the United States
is hastening its aid, and has
promised £ A110,000,000-worth
of military equipment before
July next year, together with a
squadron of 825 s within a few
weeks.
But these measures will
scarcely be enough to save Tong-
king without further outside in-
tervention.
Show at Lake Success.
“Ek Dum”: The United
Nations organisation—about as
united as the McCrackens and
the Muldoons on Orange Day—
continues to play to entranced
audiences at Lake Success.
Anybody who put the antics
of the organisation into a book
would have to class it as fiction.
The round-to-round account of
the “peace offensive” during the
week was roughly as follows:
October 16: North Koreans armed
with Russian arms were making for
the refuge of Soviet Russia carrying
with them U.S. hostages and murder-
ing those whom they could not carry.
Tension rising in Israel, mainly
because a pro-Soviet bloc is attempt-
ing to get control of the country,
and in Indo-China, where a large
force armed by Communist China
(which Russia wants admitted to
U.N.0.) is invading Indo-China.
Nehru says that the plan for a United
Nations police force would be more
likely to lead to world war than to
discourage it—for once he is right.
Russia engaged in making it impos-
sible to continue Secretary-General to
U.N.O. in office. U.S. to switch Far
Eastern forces from Asia to Europe
for defence against Russia when the
Korean war ends.
October 17: Mr. Bevin rejected a
suggestion that Britain should arrange
a meeting with Messrs. Truman and
Stalin. He says he would prefer
U.N.O. to settle disputes.
October 18: President Truman
warns Soviet Union that “we are
going ahead in dead earnest to build
up our defences.... our policy of
building-up a peaceful world has met
constant opposition from the Soviet
Union....we face a violent cynical
attack by Russia upon our demo-
cratic faith.... Let the aggressor make
no mistake about that. U.S. plans to
give France up to £ A 1,071,000,000 to
build up her military strength in
Europe against Russia.”
October 19: “Red Army moves —
tension in Turkey—new Red drive in
Indo-China.” And the same day the
U.N. Political Committee approved
a plan to enable U.N.O. to “act
swiftly against aggression” by making
provision to call the Assembly
together on 24-hours’ notice. The
Russians failed to have the veto move
made applicable to the convening of
the meeting. A peace observation
commission of 14 members is to
report on “situations of danger and
tension.” Portions of national armies
are to be earmarked as U.N.O. units.
A “collective measures committee” is
to be appointed.
October 20: The Premier of
France told the National Assembly
that France “is facing advanced
forces of a big Communist move-
ment which aims at dominating
South-east Asia.” Russia, which has
militarised East Germany, apart from
its own huge forces there, declares
that the Kremlin “will not tolerate
the arming of Western Germany.”
Russia, which has not allowed its
delegate to attend the Far Eastern
Commission sessions in Tokyo, while
it has been arming the North Koreans
to fight the other members of it,
announced that its man would now
return to the commission to “resume
his work.” Russia is elected as one
of the members of the Peace Obser-
vation Commission (invented to
circumvent Russia’s use of the veto) —
the others are Britain, United States,
France, “China,” Colombia, Czecho-
slovakia, India, Irak, Israel, N.Z.,
Pakistan and Uruguay. It was not
made clear whether Communist
China or Nationalist China had been
chosen to the committee. Molotov
and delegates from Russian satellite
countries are holding a U.N.O. of
their own in secret at Prague. Their
main theme is that Germany must
be re-united by a peace treaty—and
especially that Western Germany must
not be rearmed to interfere with
Russia’s plans for the conquest of
Europe.
And then the Political Com-
mittee of U.N.O., on the motion
of those great peace-loving
nations Syria—where the ruling
Premier is assassinated regularly
about every six months as part
of a revolution —and Irak, it was
decided that the Big Five nations
should be called on to meet and
discuss ways of ending their
fundamental differences. The
Big Five have been ordered to
report “as soon as appropriate
the results of their consulta-
tions.”
Any prophet prepared to do
that now?
Cameron of Beersheba.
“Ek Dum”; Save to attend
his wars and for an occasional
flying visit to Sydney, Donald
Cameron, of Beersheba, rarely
moved very far from his native
Reuchell, near Aberdeen
(N.S.W.), where he knew every
leaf and stone and where every-
body and the dogs had a friendly
hail for him whenever he
appeared. There he lived and
there a great gathering of friends
and relatives and soldiers who
served with him in South Africa
and Palestine buried him on
October 9, his passing virtually
unnoticed by the metropolitan
Press after his death in hospital
at Muswellbrook, at 73. He died
more than 50 years after he had
first enlisted for active service
abroad.
Donald first betook his lean
young form, which seemed to
grow leaner and wirier with the
years throughout his life, to
South Africa after he had joined
the Australian Light Horse in
January, 1900. Returned to Aus-
tralia with his unit and by that
time commissioned, he went back
for more and saw the war out
with the Third Bushmen.
When the A.I.F. was formed
in 1914 he was chosen as a
squadron-leader of the 12th
A.L.H., serving with it through
the campaigns of Gallipoli,
Sinai, Palestine and Syria and
commanding the regiment after
Lt.-Colonel Mclntosh went down
amid the barley and the red
poppies at Second Gaza, —he died
of shrapnel wounds on April 24,
1917.
At Beersheba
Cameron remained in com-
mand until demobilisation in


FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
0
&
During the Festival season, from May to
September 1951, Britain will be at home to the
world. Here, briefly, is the official programme.
EXHIBITIONS
LONDON (May — September)
South Bank Exhibition
Festival Gardens, Battersea Park
Exhibition of Science, South Kensington
Exhibition of Architecture, Poplar
1951 Exhibition of Books, Victoria and Albert Museum
GLASGOW (May 28th —August 28th)
Exhibition of Industrial Power
BELFAST (June I—August1—August 31)
Farm and Factory Exhibition
FESTIVALS OF THE ARTS
Aldeburgh ....
Bath Assembly • • •
Belfast . , . . •
Bournemouth ...»
Brighton (Regency Festival) •
Cambridge ....
Canterbury ....
Cheltenham (British Contemporary Music)
Edinburgh (International Festival of
Music and Drama)
Liverpool (Music and the Arts) ,
Llangollen (International Eisteddfodd)
Llanrwst (Royal National Eisteddfodd)
Norwich
Oxford ......
St. David’s Cathedral (Music and Worship)
Stratford-on-Avon (Shakespeare Festival)
Swansea (Music) ....
Worcester (Three Choirs Festival) .
York
June 9-17
May 20 —June 2
. May—June
. June 3-17
July 16—August 25
July 30 —August 18
July 18—August 10
July 2-15
Aug. 19 — Sept. 8
July 22 — Aug. 12
. July 3-8
. August 6-11
. June 18-30
, July 2-16
July 10-13
. Apl. — Oct.
September 16-29
September 3-7
June 2-16
There will also be a Special Festival Season of the Arts
during May and June in LONDON
Included in the programme are special events in.*-
SCOTLAND
Edinburgh:
Gathering of the Clans and Pipe March
Exhibition of 18 th Century Books
Exhibition of Scottish
Architecture and Traditional Crafts
Glasgow:
Exhibition of Contemporary Books
- WALES
Cardiff
Exhibition of Contemporary Painting
St. Fagan’s Folk Festival
Dolhendre, Merioneth:
Welsh Hillside Farm Scheme
NORTHERN IRELAND
Belfast:
Royal Agricultural Show, Combined Services Tattoo,
Ulster Tourist Trophy Race (Motor cycling)
bi addition, there will be carnivals , pageants and
Sporting events in many parts of ike country .
COMISHPMn
TT
S/
/.
“Cousin Jack Characters”
The odd caption "Cornish
Pasty" aptly describes this
collection of cartoons by
Oswald Pryor. Containing 60
drawings depicting amusing
situations of early Cornish
characters as published over
many years in "The Bulletin."
Price 2/- (postage l^d.).
Available at all Booksellers
or the Australian Distributors:
ARGONAUT BOOKSHOP, 224 North Terrace, Adelaide
' ‘ At 45/4
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAPHNE GRACE LESTER late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that KENNETH
JOHN LESTER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 8750 of 1950 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd day of January 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
LEWIS 0. ABIGAIL, Solicitor, of 56
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— Exercising Federal
Jurisdiction in Matrimonial Causes.
TO MAXWELL GORDON MARSH late of
No. 11l Perth Street Toowoomba Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that PEARL
MARY MARSH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2979 of 1950 (Federal Matri-
monial Cause) claiming relief under Sec-
tion 21 of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1864-1945 of the State of Queensland on
the ground that you have deserted her
without cause continuously for three years
or upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry King Street Sydney by the 27th
day of December 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from HUNT
& HUNT, Solicitors, 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD JOHN FREDERICK
TATE late of 11 Victoria Avenue Wool-
lahra.—TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS
VICTORIA TATE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 945 of 1949 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 3rd January 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from T. G. RIDGEWAY, Solicitor,
Room 212, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID JONES formerly of 48 Tam-
bourine Bay Road Lane Cove.—TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL MARY JONES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2535 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 9th day of January 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. E. R. TRACEY &
CO., Solicitors, 81 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN McGRATH formerly
of Mudgee in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE
PEARL MARGARETTA McGRATH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1745 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 2nd day of January 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BARRY NORRIS WILDES &
LENDER, Solicitors, 60/66 Hunter Street.
Sydney— J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
The ALL-BRITISH
(onhKUfffilLhKllt
(Tend, t/ie
Greatest
rblue
N?5B
45/-
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
19/6
TO
55/-
A
N 9 70
22/6
7/ie 7*esi
the 7MaA#ei&m6 Hih/
ONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Time
flying!
too
is
When you have to count the minutesv
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world—including those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
m
Anglo-lranian Oil Company. Ltd.
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEFEE” Melbourne.
013/9518
1919. He was not long in mak-
ing his name a legend, his great
chance coming on October 31,
1917, at Beersheba. Up till then
the 12th A.L.H. Regiment had
not seen much really serious
fighting, and it was his desire to
give it a chance along with
the Fourth Regiment which in-
duced Chauvel to put Grant’s
brigade straight at the enemy in
his trenches. Allenby issued
the peremptory order to “capture
Beersheba today to secure water
and take prisoners” but this
instruction merely confirmed
Chauvel’s own plans, which were
already taking shape.
When the message arrived the
regiments were being deployed
—the 11th spread out over out-
posts, the 4th (Victorians under
Bouchier) and the 12th, under
Cameron, near Iswaiwan, four
miles from Beersheba, their
horses off-saddled, fed and
watered and fresh from a quiet
day’s rest. They were scattered
in single troops as a precaution
against air-raids, but at three
o’clock they began to assemble,
and by half-past four the two
regiments were drawn up behind
a hill. From the crest above
them they could see Beersheba
ridge four miles away. Below
them lay a long slope, without
cover or vegetation and cut up
by small gullies made by the
heavy rains.
Cameron was on the left and
Bouchier on the right, each
regiment in squadron in lines
from 300 to 500 yards apart
ready for the breathless adven-
ture. They were not yet armed
with swords —they were still
mounted infantry. At 4.30 they
moved off, their horses casting
long shadows in the failing sun-
light as they trotted down the
slope, closing in on each other
till there was only a five-yard
space between them, and gradu-
ally building their pace to a
gallop. Grant and Mackenzie
led till they passed the crest,
Cameron and Bouchier remain-
ing at the head of their
regiments so long as they could
stay there.
At first the only opposition
was distant shrapnel fire, but
after going two miles they were
hotly assailed with a cloud of
machine-gun bullets from posts
quickly put out of action by our
own artillery.
Then the rifle bullets came like
hail straight in their paths as the
breathless pace increased, men
and horses in the lead falling
before a rapid fire as they drove
on over ground on which they
never knew from one moment to
the next what they might meet
Lawson, leading the forward
squadron of the Fourth, was the
first to hit the Turkish trenches,
some 10ft. deep and 4ft. wide,
but the 12th were quickly in the
fray.
Sending the horses off to cover
at a gallop, the men leapt into
the trenches with their bayonets,
and soon there was a forest of
hands elevated to the fast-
darkening sky, and blood every-
where.
The 12th struck a redoubt at
their first sampling, and Major
Hyman, leading the van, dis-
mounted with a few men to deal
with it in a bitter fight in which
60 Turks were killed, but most
of the 12th’s squadrons went
hurtling past and did not stop
until they had overrun Beer-
sheba. It had all happened in
less than an hour and almost
without serious casualties. The
4th had only 20 other ranks
killed and 12th four officers and
15 troopers wounded. Yet the
charge remained one of the most
breathless and spectacular of
events, to be talked of whenever
Lighthorsemen gathered, the
more so because the terrain pro-
vided so fine a stage on which to
view the operation until the
dust and the dusk engulfed the
galloping squadrons.
Cameron’s Share
The conception of the tech-
nique of the charge, which
had a vital effect upon the whole
campaign, was more due to
Cameron than most people knew,
for he had had experience of
mounted attacks against stone
sangars in South Africa.
The little victory became an
epic of the war. It had effects
on the moral of both British
and enemy troops, and one Ger-
man said: “I have heard a great
deal of the Australian soldiers.
But they are not soldiers at all;
they are madmen.” Turks ever
afterwards were allergic to a
charging squadron of Austra-
lians.
Cameron led the regiment
right through the war in
a steady companionship with
Bouchier, taking part in the
Es Salt Raid and in the
heady adventure of the
descent on Damascus (in which
he won a bar to his Beersheba
D. 5.0.).
When he returned, a lieutenant-
colonel, he went back to Upper
Reuchell, married and had two
sons and a daughter, his eldest
son dying of illness on active
service with the Armored
Division in World War 11, hav-
ing enlisted as soon as his age
permitted.
Few officers gained the trust
and affection of his troops as
did Donald Cameron, and few
of his officers lost touch
with him during his long
fife, the latter part of which
was marred by failing health,
which did not spoil his cheer-
fulness, any more than the
glamor which surrounded him
put a blemish on his innate
modesty.
His is one of the names which
will live in Australian military
annals, linked with a deed never
surpassed in modern mounted
warfare.


The importance of
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation are two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
r*
p ; r
5:5-
E
91
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds—investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to such a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATION BTC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £70,000,000.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; K. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A a ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
dfs
fwA
FOR LONGER HAULS
Long distance hauls need tyres specially
engineered for today's conditions—that's
why you need Hi-Milers —they deliver far
longer service.
Imk
FOR FASTER SCHEDULES
Hi-Milers stand up to the internal heat
generated in tyres by today’s faster hauls—
because they are built with heat resisting
Rayon cord.
01
&
3^
Hundreds
FOR GREATER SAFETY
Hundreds of operators have proved that
U Hi-Milers not only give better mileage, but
are superior in traction, blowout-resistance
and non-skid protection.
md louqli/
FOR LOWER COST PER MILE!
The toughness built into Hi-Miler Truck and Bus tyres adds up to
money in your pocket—they cost you less per mile. See your local
Goodyear Dealer for expert advice and service.
HI-MILER
Truck & Bus Tyres
GOODYEAR
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast
hauls and for
service where
long mileage is
required.
m
mm
mmrn
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
Recommended
wherever
greater trac-
tion is needed.
mmmm
m
m
3 Ik
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS"
KOREA: THE EVIDENCE.
Probably not even on any
front ten times as big have
so many correspondents been
crowded as packed into South
Korea ; and probably never has
a war been worse reported.
Among other shortcomings, it
seems curious that so little Press
use has been made of the actual
evidence sheeting home the
aggression to the Communist
North ; it was sent to U.N.O.
by that body’s Commission on
Korea. Perhaps needless to say,
it completely refutes the de-
liberate Soviet lie, reiterated by
the Communist fifth-columnists
everywhere, that the South
started the fighting.
One or two British newspapers
used the report, including, natur-
ally, two of the soundest —
“Manchester Guardian” and the
London “Economist.” The fol-
lowing condensed extracts and
comment are from the “Econo-
mist”;—
The military observers of the
U.N.O. commission made a field
trip along the South Korean side
of the 38th Parallel —they were
not, of course, permitted to
enter North Korea —between
June 9 and June 24, that is to
say, during the two weeks before
the attack was made. They
reported that “South Korean
army is organised entirely for
defence, and is in no condition
to carry out attack on large
scale against forces of North.”
Supporting paragraphs of the
report contained the following
evidence:
South Korean army in all sectors
is disposed in depth. Parallel is
guarded on southern side by small
bodies. Troops located in scattered
outposts together with roving patrol.
There is no concentration of troops
and no massing for attack visible at
any point So far as equipment
of South Korean forces concerned,
in absence of armor, air support and
heavy artillery, any action with object
of invasion would, by any military
standards, be impossible... .no sign
of any dumping of supplies or am-
munition, petrol, oil, lubricant in
forward areas.... no concentration
transport anywhere encountered....
no indication of any extensive recon-
naissance being carried out north-
ward by South Korean army or of
any undue excitement or activity at
divisional headquarters or regimental
levels....
Nothing could be more clear
and definite than this. Also, a
message from the Commission
to the Security Council dated
June 26, the day after the inva-
sion, says;—
Commission considered latest
reports on hostilities and results direct
observation along parallel by military
observers over period ending 48 hours
before hostilities began. Commis-
sion’s present view on basis this
evidence, first, that judging from
actual progress of operation Northern
regime is carrying out well-planned
concerted and full-scale invasion of
South Korea; second, that South
Korean forces were deployed on
wholly defensive basis in all sectors
of parallel, and, third, that they were
taken completely by surprise, as they
had no reason to believe from intelli-
gence sources that invasion was
imminent.
Towards Peace.
At least Korea (as seen by
David Lawrence in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune”) has made clear to
Russian strategists that the U.S.
and U.N.O. will stand together
and resist any aggression in
Europe or Asia which threatens
the territorial integrity of mem-
ber-nations.
This, he believes, means that
the Soviets now may assist in
reinforcing the satellite armies
and stir up local wars, but will
not allow a large-scale war to
happen.
“Meanwhile,” he goes on,
“America, apprehensive of a
large-scale war, is mobilising
slowly but surely for that con-
tingency. Military force is at
best a ‘holding’ or delaying
operation. Concurrently, the op-
portunity for a psychological
approach to the Russian people
increases, and it would not be
surprising to see in the immedi-
London ‘‘Time and Tide.”
"SORRY, WRONG NUMBER!”
ate future more moves along this
line emanating from Washing-
ton.”
In editorial comment on the
same theme, London “Times”
mentions a danger to the pre-
carious balance that usually isn’t
openly referred to —that of U.S,
patience at last snapping. It
advocates general Western re-
armament as a way of lessening
that possibility as well as to
guard against Russian attack:
“The need for building up the
collective means of safety in
Europe, without having to rely
in the last resort in any emerg-
ency upon the unmeasured con-
sequences of atomic bombard-
ment, has been long apparent. It
is given new urgency and edge
by the possibility that the great
American people might be
forced by the untiring Com-
munist pressure and penetration,
and by the mounting ransom
which they have to pay, to strike
back. Peace hangs in a double
sense upon the will and the
ability of the other Western
countries to make themselves
strong enough with all speed.
Only thus can the sole burden
of the world’s defence —and of
the grimmest choice in history—
be lifted from American shoul-
ders. Only thus can the nations
of Europe—with first among
them Britain and France —play
their proper part in seeking the
possible terms, as well as in
creating the military conditions,
of a real peace settlement.”
U.N.O. Army.
Pointing out that it cannot be
the task of the U.S. to protect
the free world, both because
this would be beyond the U.S.
capacity and would lead to sus-
picions and misunderstandings,
London “Time and Tide” sees
necessity forcing the U.S. and
the rest of the free peoples,
which are all interdependent
for their survival, into an en-
tirely new line of action which
will imply the abandonment of
a great deal of national
sovereignty:
“The United States was forced
to assume the responsibility in
Korea instead of bearing its
naturally very great share in a
common responsibility. If the
United Nations wishes to live it
must assume responsibilities and
it must act. It cannot do so if
it is not prepared. There must
be a United Nations army, and,
above all, a United Nations
general staff and economic coun-
cil planning beforehand and
being prepared to meet aggres-
sion.
“There are almost insuperable
obstacles to carrying out such a
reorganisation of the United
Nations. Yet without it the
United Nations cannot survive
nor the free world be protected.”
Communist Peasants.
“Manchester Guardian” edi-
torial comment on a current
phenomenon:
“One of the curiosities of re-
cent history, of which much too
little notice has been taken till
now, is the part which the pea-
sants have played in the march
of Communist revolution in
Eastern Europe and Asia. There
is not a little ideological irony in
this. A hundred years ago, in
the Communist Manifesto, Marx
had declared the peasant to be
an economic anachronism, and
had passed an irrevocable ver-
dict of social death upon him,
and no Marxist disciple has
questioned that sentence. But it
is in fact this class of ‘sub-
human’ tillers of the soil which
has made possible every Com-
munist victory so far,”
The explanation, it finds, is
simple enough: “Communism,
with its policy of nationalising
the land and collectivising agri-
culture, is inimical to everything
the peasants hold dear, but in
the Eastern countries they have
suffered such economic neglect
and political misgovernment
that they are ready to support
any action which promises a
change of rulers and methods.”
“Point Four" Results.
Mentioning in a speech on
his “Point Four” programme of
aid to backward countries that
in Asia “hundreds of millions
of people have a life expectancy
of 30 years or less,” President
Truman gave instances of what
is already being done, though
it’s generally admitted that, so
far, what’s being done falls far
short of the need. One ex-
ample :
“In Northern India there is
a very rich farming area known
as the Terai district. In recent
years the malaria mosquito
forced people to leave this land.
One hundred and four villages
were abandoned. Even in the
face of India’s tragic food short-
age no crops were planted in
this rich soil,
“India called on the World
Health Organisation for help,
and that organisation sent a
malaria-control team which
arrived in Northern India in
April, 1949. In the face of great
difficulties, this international
group sprayed the area with
D.D.T.
“Today no infected mosquito
is to be found in any village in
the Terai district. Local workers
have been trained to continue
the spraying. Families who were
refugees from malaria only one
year ago are back in their homes,
and their fields are green
again.”
At least this is an indication


%
\ I
MC!'W
HIVES
THE
3S
V*\
r
&
»
r,
$
<po
<7 tK
o>£>
as
\y
iJt>.
nh«
MS
/A/
M,| 0 L
AV
.. '«
«• ', \ '
//;. 7
V. ,
«& *?
<•"> / \i '
r? >,
’ r
>®S-Vsfe &»v/i /yw vi ?iu j-
'</ M iVVf, •» : ,',.v<
SS£Q2
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
SETA
- ■;
i ; - v «* %
f r «
ii
PB
&
1. ~ ~
. w;;
/
1
'<yX<wSR»SK
*«•
>" ; '
The
Incomparable
df
hy ojj rul
Where yon see the leaders in business, fashion, you see
the Sheerlines,” the world s smartest car . . . providing
she£>r mxury, sheer heauty, sheer quality, and the
distinction of hnest-car ownership.
£1955 (plus tax)
New South Wales Distributors:
LARKE, HOSKINS & COMPANY LTD.
Head Office and Car Showrooms: 207-213 William St., Sydney. FABIII
UWKI HOSKIWS
AC24.83
of what could be done. As a
matter of fact that southern
part of Asia has so far received
only a pittance, in extraordinary
contrast to the American hand-
out elsewhere. The most recent
report of the Economic Com-
mission for Asia and the Far
East gives the following figures,
in millions of dollars, of Ameri-
can grants and credits from
July, 1945, to December, 1949:
To Western Europe .... 18,628
„ China \,155
„ Japan 1,765
„ Philippines 568
„ South Korea 300
.. Rest of Asia 53
Incidentally, by way of con-
trast, the report shows that the
British grants, loans and releases
from sterling balances to the
southern area of Asia amounted,
in terms of United States dollars,
to $1775 million.
The U.S. Com. Curbs.
As with Mr. Menzies himself,
it took U.S. Congress and Senate
a long time to reach the con-
clusion that the avowed fifth-
column of an aggressive foreign
country is a kind of fungus it’s
ridiculous to tolerate.
But when they did get round
to action they sure made a job
of it. The following extracts
from the 25,000-word curbing
measure, passed despite Tru-
man’s veto, will serve to put the
main provisions on record:
(1) All Communist and Com-
munist-front organisations must
register with the Government.
Members of Communist groups
must also register individually.
A new Subversive Activities
Control Board will decide what
organisations are Communist
and Communist-fronts. It is
illegal for a member of either
kind of organisation to receive a
passport, or to work for the
Government or in any defence
plant or installation.
(2) In time of war emergency
the Government has the power
to hold Communists and other
potential saboteurs in detention
camps.
(3) A large number of new
restrictions are placed on immi-
gration and naturalisation. Per-
sons who have ever belonged to
the Communist party are barred
from entering the country. A
person who joins any Com-
munist or Communist-front or-
ganisation within ten years after
entry cannot be naturalised.
Second-string foreign diplomats
lose their traditional immunity
from immigration laws.
Israel’s Home-comers.
Jewish Agency figures show
some striking changes in Israel’s
immigration, apart from the
remarkable enough fact of
roughly 400,000 new-comers in
the last two years, compared
with a total of 465,000 in the 29
years of the mandate.
During the mandate more
than three-quarters of the immi-
grants came from Europe, espe-
cially from Poland, by far the
largest single source ; countries
in Asia contributed less than a
tenth ; Africa less than one per
cent. In the last two years the
number of migrants from Asia
(almost entirely from the Middle
East) has jumped from forty-
four to eight-five thousand, and
from Africa (mainly Libya and
the French dependencies) from
four to fifty-seven thousand.
The European contingent has
fallen from 376,000 under the
mandate to 228,000.
Figures from the same source
(quoted editorially by “Man-
chester Guardian”) show that no
less than 12 per cent, of the
total population will spend this
winter in immigrant camps or
temporary work camps, nearly
all of them under canvas.
Also, that the Jewish communi-
ties of seven countries can now
be considered “liquidated,” in
the sense that all the Jews in
those countries who wished to
move to Israel have already
been moved. The countries are
Germany, Austria, Yugoslavia,
Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Cyre-
naica and the Yemen. The
Jewish Agency’s offices in Ger-
many are shutting down.
Rumania is now the largest
source of immigrants; Irak is
another important source.
Economically, it has to be
added, the going continues very
heavy, Israel depending on what
the “Jerusalem Post” has called
“the recurrent miracle of annual
appeals.”
Dragnet Digest.
Marx, One Of. Complete item
from London “Time and Tide”:
Steel Nationalisation.
Behind these Governmental larks
Is it Karl or Harpo Marx?
R. H.
* * * *
Reverse Subsidising. London
“Financial Times” on the Attlee
Government statement that it would
be impossible for Britain to carry
out the full programme of rearming
itself without substantial U.S. assist-
ance: “In the days of George 111
we subsidised the Hanoverians to
fight against American independence.
In the days of George VI we expect
the Americans to subsidise us to tight
for our own independence.”
* * * *
Marathon Runners. Czechoslo-
vakia’s 10,000-metres world cham-
pion, in a letter to Prague’s
Communist daily (quoted in London
“Daily Telegraph”): “I protest
against American intervention in
Korea, whose aim is to rob Korean
sportsmen of their healthy attitude
toward sport.” But surely not his
own line of sport!
* * * *
They Can’t Take It. —N. Y. “Daily
News” attends to a few Socialist
patients: “Mr. George Bernard Shaw,
in hospital with a broken thigh, did
not accept Socialist medicine even
though the old rooster has been a
Socialist since the later Bronze Age,
or thereabouts. He demanded a
private room in a hospital, for which
he would have to pay out of his own
pocket. When top-drawer Socialists
like Shaw, Attlee and Bevin can’t
take their own brand of Socialist
medicine, just how good or how
desirable for anybody is that medi-
cine?”
* * * *
Britain and China. —Mr. Bevin,
addressing U.N.0., took pains to
make quite certain Uncle Sam could
have no doubts abtout J. Bull’s China
policy: “I wish to make it clear that
we [British] do not intend to break
our long-established friendship with
China. I can assure the Chinese
people that we look forward to the
day when they again take their proper
place as one of the great Powers.”
* * * *
Sick Mr. Bevin. “New York
Times” on the Foreign Ministers’
meeting a few weeks back: “They
met at a time when Mr. Bevin,
recovering from a serious illness, was
often unable to muster enough
strength to keep awake.” On which
London “Daily Express”: “It is
shameful to have such things written
about a British Foreign Secretary.
No one disputes Mr. Bevin’s sincerity.
No one should dispute, either, the
utter folly of entrusting to his en-
feebled hand Britain’s chance of
peace.”
* * * *
V.N.O. Reform. —ln London
“News Chronicle” former Belgian
Prime Minister Paul-Henri Spaak
(now president of the European
Assembly) expresses a view held by
many other observers of U.N.O. in
action: “U.N.O. will never be able
to function if the U.S.S.R. refuses
to comply with international law,
abuses the right of veto, sabotages
decisions properly made, retires when
in a minority and disputes the legality
of what has had to be done without
it. The experiment has lasted
long enough. The San Francisco
Charter must be revised, and at once,
if we want peace to be assured by
the co-operation of peoples within a
great international organisation.”
* * * *
European Federation. —Outlook of
the two main British parties, as
assessed editorially by Edinburgh
“Scotsman”: “The British Conserva-
tives’ attitude to European unity is
not so narrow and prejudiced as that
of the Socialists, who think in terms
of a union of Socialist States. But
Conservatives regard federation as a
distant goal to be achieved by long
practice in co-operation and consul-
tation, as a project which will grow
and ripen, but which should not be
forced prematurely. The European
Assembly is a young and immature
body; it is not capable in the second
year of its existence of legislating for
Europe.”
* * * *
Nationalising Brake. —A suggested
wage-brake in nationalising advocated
by Sir Arthur Salter in the “National
Provincial Bank Rev iew” has attracted
considerable attention in Britain.
Advocating that a statutory body—
independent of the Government—
should be set up to determine the
total wage bill in each nationalised
industry, he reasons that under
nationalisation the old system of
collective bargaining between employ-
ers and employed does not work.
Under private enterprise the em-
ployees knew that if they pushed their
demands too far the firm would go
bankrupt. “There is no such restrain-
ing influence in a nationalised mono-
poly. Because it is a monopoly it
can pass on increased costs in
increased prices to me consumer till
he breaks. And if there is still a
loss the taxpayer shoulders it.”
Why The y Swim.— A Manchester
Guardian” letter-writer explains why
SQ many a pp aren tiy sane people, to
sa y nothing of sea-lions, swim across:
“No wonder so many people are
swimming the Channel; return tare
from Dover to any of the French
ports j s £3 j or approximately Is. 6d.
per mile. This is surely the most
expensive rate of travel in the world,
dearer than a taxi, the Snowdon Rail*
way> a j uxury jfo er or a st rato*
cruiser.”
Formosa’s Future.—Viewed by N.
y. “Herald Tribune”: “Formosa
cou i d be turned over to the Formo-
sans an( j permanently neutralised
under United Nations protection; it
cou]d b maintained as it is now as
. f . , rili ’ „
a >ase from which the C g
Nationalists couia stoxe tne ores or
resistance against the Red dictator-
ship in China proper; it could be
more directly assimilated into the
Japan-Okinawa-Philippines defensive
chain. Such are the realistic alterna-
tives open. With the Soviets breaking
every legal and moral undertaking
they have ever made, there is no legal
or moral compulsion upon the West
to enforce one or another answer to
these questions. The proper answer
is to be found only in the actual
balance of military, political, psycho-
logical and moral force involved;
but that the West should find and
agree upon coherent answers, and do
it now, is vital.”


Even men with
hides like his
M
I
feel almost as
fresh as this
m
I
r
after a cool,
cool Ingram
shave...
'
BMc &
mmm
i 1 1
r
►
Soothing Ingram's helps condition your skin for shaving
while it turns whiskers practically limp as old lettuce.
And while you whisk through the stubble, cooling
Ingram's soothes shaving burns and stings. And that
coolness lingers! Smile when you shave tomorrow. Get
Ingram's today from your chemistl
COMBINES ITS OWN FACE LOTION
A product of Bristol Myers
ngm
SHAVING C
Ingram's
Shaving
Cream
for Coot Slum and
CoafortaMc faces
e n
GET THERE SOONER
STAY THERE LONGER
/a
LcU
ONE OF THE 51 COUNTRIES ON SPEEDBIRD ROUTES
You can cover the world and save weeks of valuable
travel time by Speedbird services to all six continents.
One ticket can take you to any of eighty ports of call on
8.0.A.C. world routes—with 8.0.A.C.’s incomparable
standards of service catering to your personal comfort all
the way. Complimentary meals include drinks. No tips, no
extras to pay.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • FAR EAST
HONG KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA
PAKISTAN • AFRICA • ITALY • GREAT
BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia ) at Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin or from Travel Agents
in all cities and towns.
f 8.0.A.C, TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
JVOB AU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANT AS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“A ladies’ sewing-circle is a
gathering at which more husbands
are darned than socks.”
—Editor Lilian Christine.
“The material creed of ‘Eat, drink
and be merry’ is the philosophy of
fools.”— Brisbane preacher Rev. R.
E. Pashen.
Especially with things at
their present prices.
4* 4* 4*
“Scientists expect to learn whether
humans can survive by breathing a
fluid instead of air.” — Sydney “D.T.”
Given their choice of a liquid,
some will be found frothing at
the mouth.
“There is no more accurate baro-
meter of world conditions than
women’s clothes.” — Fashion article.
They certainly register ups
and downs.
d*
“Urgently required, furn. flat or
cottage, three adults, good person.”
—Suburban paper.
The other three won’t be
easily taken in.
•b
“Blonde locks show wear and tear
sooner than darker tresses.”
— Woman’s paper.
But the overhead is much
lighter.
•4* 4*
“Men have been caustic in their
criticism of women since time im-
memorial.” — Sydney “D.T.”
But it pays to soft-soap them
at times.
4*
“Would anyone who found a black
half pom., female dog, with tan feet,
vicinity golf links, return.”
—Suburban paper.
She has evidently wandered a
fair way from her base.
4* 4* 4 1
“Although beaten, Beaton was not
disgraced.”— Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
But even had he won he would
have still been Beaton.
4* 4* 4*
“Most of us are continually rub-
bing up against ‘touchy’ people, and,
perhaps, we, too, are often guilty.”
—“New Idea.”
This is bound to cause friction.
4* 4* 4*
“You can’t make a fighter, you
can only improve him.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
But you can knock him into
shape.
“A milk-bath is simply wonderful.
It banishes tiredness and endows me
with bountiful energy.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Men, Those Heels!
Can men afford to let their wives
With unrestricted freedom
gather
At sewing-circles in whose
blather
The spirit of backbiting thrives ?
Won’t women, who trot out their
socks
To do a little useful mending,
Lay them aside, preferring
spending
Their time in lowering our
stocks ?
Perhaps they will, but we must
take
The risk of womenfolk
narrating
Our foibles and in public stating
The ills they suffer for our sake.
For men, when all is said and
done.
Would rather be discussed
adversely
By darning women—speaking
tersely —
Than have their spouses sock
them one.
D.H.E.
Concession.
My dear old boarding-school is
shut.
The rigid rule ne’er marred
this place:
Fixed meal-times fifteen
minutes—but
We always got ten minutes’
grace.
B.B.
“Among topics treated in films now
before the camera or ready for release
are divorce, lynching, adolescence,
drug-addiction, rape and disease.”
—' “S. M. Herald.”
Here! What about pick-
pockets and thumbsuckers?
Noblesse Oblige.
“In his memoirs Churchill discloses
that when, in 1943, Molotov visited
England he invited him to Chequers,
the P.M.’s official residence. There
secret-police who accompanied the
Soviet emissary stripped the bed and
remade it with the sheets and blankets
parted in the centre to allow the
Russian to leap from the bed
unhampered in case of emergency.”
The man in charge of the
secret-police squad clicked his
heels and bowed deeply to the
exalted member of the Com-
munist hierarchy, as befitted one
“An' a couple in me ’ at , lady. It's an 'orrible ’eadache."
who was, in Leninist-Marxist
theory, the equal of the other in
that happy, happy Toilers’
Paradise so far from the be-
nighted little isle where people
were still stupidly allowed to
think their own thoughts.
“I have had mine-detectors
over the whole suite, Magnifi-
cent,” reported the N.K.V.D.
man with that air of easy
familiarity which is in such strik-
ing contrast to the sickening
sycophancy which marks the
class-ridden democracy of the
decadent West. “There is no-
thing.”
“You have closely examined
the mattress for hidden gren-
ades?”
“Yes, Magnificent. We found
none, nor any spring-guns con-
cealed in the curtains. We have
been over every inch of the walls
with a light hammer, but dis-
covered no secret passages
through which an assassin could
enter. It is very strange. The
fact that there has been nothing
of a lethal nature found any-
where makes it doubly suspect —
the English are cunning.”
“What about the soap in the
bathroom?” asked Molly.
“I thought of that. It has
been probed thoroughly with an
ice-pick. It contained no deton-
ators.”
“Most peculiar. However,
send it to our Embassy for
analysis—it might have been
treated with some subtle poison
which could enter through the
pores. I’ll use our Soviet soap.
It is equally good as the Eng-
lish product, except that it won’t
lather. Now, what about the
pillows? Poison-tipped needles
could have been concealed in
them. We must be extra-
cautious —after all, these people
are our allies.”
“It contained nothing but
kapok, Magnificence. It is most
puzzling.”
Just then a servant entered
with a box of cigars with the
Prime Minister’s compliments;
they were his own favorite
brand, which he trusted would
be to his distinguished guest’s
taste.
After the servant had gone
Molotov bent an ear to the box
and listened keenly for a while.
“There is no ticking noise,” he
said, straightening up. Cauti-
ously opening the box he took
out a cigar, gingerly revolved it,
tested it for weight, sniffed at
it, then put it back in the box,
which he handed to the
N.K.V.D. man.
“They could contain one of
those rare South American
poisons which, when inhaled, eat
away the lungs,” he said, shud-
dering. “Put them in the mass-
crematorium chamb —I mean the
incinerator. And send in Serge,
my venom-taster,” he ordered.
“I want a vodka before turning
in and the bottle might have been
got at.” .
When all preparations had
been made, including secret-
police guards at all windows,
doors and ventilators, with a
different lot of secret-police to
guard the guards in case any of
them were secret Trotskyist
traitors, Molotov switched off
the light, using a rubber glove in
case the subtle English had
arranged for the switch to be
“alive,” then got into bed.
It was a cold night. As the
Soviet Foreign Minister drew his
knees up they came through the
opening in the centre of the bed.
for the secret-police had done
a thorough job of making quick
egress a certainty in case Chur-
chill’s hired murderers got past
the guards by hacking a 2in.
strip straight through sheets and
blankets. As he turned over on
the other side and went to draw
the blankets up to his chin
Molly's arm came through the
aperture. •
He bawled for an eiderdown,
but when this was procured it
had, for security reasons, to be
also split down the centre, and,
as he went on turning, the two
pieces kept falling to the floor
on each side of the bed. He
twisted and turned miserably all
night, wrestling with half-sheets,
half-blankets and half-eider-
downs, but he couldn’t beat the
icy draught that kept coming in
the split down the middle of the
bedclothes.
In the morning he came down
to breakfast accompanied by his
venom - taster, haggard - looking
and with deep bags under his
eyes.
“Well, Vaycheslav,” greeted
his genial host, showing con-
cern. “You don’t look so
well this morning. Didn’t you
have much slaep?”
“You English make it impos-
sible for us trusting Russians, no
matter how hard we try, to be
co-operative,” snarled Winnie’s
gracious guest, “with your low
suspicions. I know what you’re
thinking—that I’ve been up half
the night snooping around
Chequers trying to look for the
British Government’s secret
papers!”
BO.
Strawberry Flavor.
Grown weary of a daily plunge
In water, like the “hoi-pollo'C
With scented soap and squelchy
sponge,
I found a substitute — Oh, Boy I
No common H.O for me
Complete with algce and their
ilk,
But, coming straight from
Strawberry,
A tub of fresh, delicious milk.
And so I wait for it to come,
Refusing meanwhile bite and
sup ;
And when I add some O.P. rum
Just watch me lap the mixture
up!
BERT.


Ik** 0
TRACTORS
PULL BETTER
ON—-
37
m.
VBMnmm
Bmo(
SPARKPLUGS
I wumvj
mmM
\ cit
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABKEKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27Q), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
/Or,
?
M
7.
V,
6t
Y
tins of 20
V«10
A
8T appointment
TOBACCONISTS TO
MB MAJESTY THS KINO
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonZ,d Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges ,
Old Bond Street , London —in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In reporting the grey Denali’s
Epsom victory last year, this page
commented: —
“It was not surprising that such a
thorough student of anything he
tackles as is Winston Churchill should
have chosen a grey as the first horse
to carry his colors when he recently
added racing to his countless other
interests. And not surprising, for that
matter, that he should have chosen an
evidently very good ’un. Churchill’s
grey colt Colonist II has won at its
last three starts by margins of up to
10 lengths.”
• • • • •
With a couple of additions to bring
it right up-to-date, that comment will
serve equally well as an introduction
to the present page. In England last
week Colonist II won his fifth in a
row and seventh in all for this season,
while in Melbourne Grey Boots added
the Toorak Handicap and £lO,OOO
Caulfield Cup to the astonishing
string of major races won by greys
in Australia over the past few years.
One may ask “What is there so re-
markable about greys winning a few
good races, what about the hundreds
of good races won by bays, or browns
or chestnuts?” The answer of course
is that there are thousands of bays,
browns and chestnuts racing, but only
a comparative handful of greys. To
get some rough notion of the com-
parative numbers, take a glance
through the catalogues for the Sydney
Yearling Sales of the six years 1945-50
inclusive. For those six sales a total
of 3573 yearlings were catalogued. Of
that number just 32 were grey, or, at
least, akin to grey. For good measure
we have thrown in eight roans, four
others described as brown-or-grey and
one bay-or-grcy. In short, including
the odds and ends, rather less than
one in a hundred of the yearlings
offered has been a grey. To dissect
the figures for one year, in 1945 the
total offering was 431 yearlings, of
whom 184 were bays, 120 browns, 99
chestnuts and two greys. One of
the two greys was Denali.
When Grey Boots opened his Mel-'
bourne campaign by winning the
Toorak Handicap he was the third
grey to do so, but none of his color
had been successful in the Caulfield
Cup until the Sydney horse scored
his splendid win in the 73rd running
of the event on Saturday. To his
added credit it can be fairly said that
Saturday’s field was surely one of the
best that has contested the race —
certainly in recent years.
In an open betting race Grey Boots
went out favorite at sevens, and his
backers had no reason to reproach
themselves at any stage of the race.
He had the good luck of an inside
barrier position, and jockey N. Sell-
wood didn’t miss a trick m making
full use of this advantage. Before
they had left the straight Sellwood
had secured a beautiful position in
fourth place on the rails and there-
after didn’t strike a bit of trouble.
He left the rails only when he moved
up to pass the leaders as they rounded
the home turn and the race, then, was
in the bag. The only two mares in
the field, Chicquita and Saxony, after
both striking a lot of bother in the
running, came home well when they
did get a clear run, but Grey Boots
fought on most gamely to withstand
the challenge; it was three parts of a
length to Chicquita and a further
neck to Saxony.
Although the first requisite is, of
course, that the horse be good enough
to win, the individual who deserves
most credit for Grey Boots’s win is
owner-trainer H. V. Cooper. The
win represented a combination of
skilful placing, justifiable confidence
based on good judgment and tiptop
training. Until he passed the post
on Saturday Grey Boots had never
tackled anything beyond a mile. Yet,
on a preparation of just a few fairly
widely-spaced runs over sprint
distances, he was turned out fit to
tackle and beat over 12 furlongs a
field containing an absolute galaxy of
classic winners .and proved weight-for-
age and handicap stayers. A fine feat
of training, and, of course, a fine
horse that could do the job.
In discussing the merits of various
horse colorings, the 17th-century
author Gervase Markham in his
The Compleat Jockey mentions in one
paragraph “the Roan, the White, the
Lyard, the Bay, the Sorrel, the Dapple
Gray, the Flea-Bitten, the Iron-Grey,
the Black, the mingled Roan, the
White Sorrel, the brown Bay, the red
Bay, the blue Gray, the Mouse, the
Dun and the Grizzled.” Fortunately
for the peace of mind of racebook
printers the nomenclature of
thoroughbred coloring (and inci-
dentally the spelling thereof) has been
standardised, but it must be admitted
some of the older distinguishing terras
were picturesquely expressive. The
present standardised Bay, Brown,
Chestnut, Grey, etc., conveys only a
broad general description. What
appears in the racebook as a grey,
for instance, is likely to be anything
from the near-white of Denali to the
dark iron-grey, near-black, noted in
some of the Nizamis.
Grey Boots is the perfect picture-
book rocking-horse type of grey—
a prettily-marked, lightish dappled
grey with long black mane and tail.
When first sighted a year or so back
he really did look like a little rocking-
horse, but he has grown into quite a
burly solid fellow. One oddish
feature of his appearance is a rather
disproportionately big head, which
however tends to look a trifle
humorous rather than in any way
ungainly. Certainly it is impossible
to agree with a Melbourne critic who
describes Grey Boots as an ugly-
looking horse. Grey Boots is a five-
year-old gelding by Nizami from the
Robespierre mare St. Cloud. In
three years progeny of Nizami have
won two Melbourne Cups, a Caulfield
Cup, two Oaks and a Doncaster, to
say nothing of a Breeders’ Plate and
a host of other good races.
Among the said other good races
credited to progeny of Nizami have
been two successes in the One
Thousand Guineas, and on Saturday
the Sydney filly Niaranga almost made
it a third. Just when the favorite True
Course seemed to have the race com-
fortably in the bag, Niaranga came
on the scene with a late but very
brilliant burst and ran True Course
to a neck. Still, while Niaranga’s
run was a thoroughly meritorious
effort True Course, fighting back
gamely at the finish, seemed to be
holding the grey, and, since True
Course was at the disadvantage of
being switched back to a mile after
contesting the AJ.C. Derby at her
previous outing, the honors of the race
were surely with her. The pair should
meet again in the Oaks, and unless
her hard run in the Derby has taken
more toll than was noticeable on
Saturday, True Course should take the
money.
* * * •
If their present nigh-incredible run
of luck continues much longer Sydney
punters will be deluded into the fatal
belief that picking winners is easy.
Well on top over the four days of
the AJ.C. Spring Meeting and sub-
sequent City Tattersall’s fixture at
Randwick, the troops ascended to an
absolute seventh heaven at Rosehill
on Saturday when the card of eight
races was distributed between six
favorites and two second-favorites.
Actually the S.T.C. could scarcely
have chosen a worse day to introduce
its new doubles totalisator. Fancy
odds are the spice of doubles betting,
and, with results as they were, there
was certainly nothing fancy about the
dividends returned by the two chosen
doubles on Saturday.
If handicappers are subject to night-
mares these probably take the form
of witnessing a day’s results in which
every race is won by such big margins
as were noted on Saturday. As it
happened in this case, five of the eight
races were fixed-weight affairs and no
responsibility of the handicappers.
The photo-finish operators must have
had the quietest afternoon they can
recall. Running through the results
briefly, and in order, Sea Ruffle (A.
Podmore) won the Maiden Nursery
for fillies by eight lengths, Neat
Andrew (R. Horton) took the other
Nursery by two and a half lengths,
Freyberg (B. Killian) had five lengths
to spare in the Flying, Video (J.
Thompson) was six lengths to the
good in the first Parramatta Mixed,
Phil Tress (J. Deely) won the October
Handicap by eight lengths. Grey Theo
(J. Rincheval) the Auburn Mixed by
“If you can't 'it 'im, BREATHE on 'im ."
six lengths, Romany King (A. Pod-
more) the Welter by five lengths and
Bifold (B. Smith) the second Parra-
matta Mixed by two and a half
lengths. And in almost every case
there was nearly as great a margin
between second and third ; friend
Brown’s cows were much in evidence.
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies):
Fourth Dimension, 1; Pretty Buttons,
2; Felburn, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(colts): Midtide, 1; Channej Rip, 2;
Feringhi, 3. Three- and Four-Year-
Old Maiden: Amico, 1; Lady
Rosetta, 2; Jovial Lass, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Grey Theo, 1; Final Act, 2;
Gold Quest, 3. Flying: Cognac, 1;
Romany King, 2; Hesdin, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Karangi, 1;
Great World, 2; Phil Tress, 3.
Welter: Ambolo, 1; Golden Wedge,
2; Damascene, 3.
* * * *
At Newmarket (Eng.) a week or
so back the present Royal colors were
carried to their first important handi-
cap victory when his Majesty’s filly
Above Board won the Cesarewitch.
It was a splendid and, of course,
most popular victory. The field of
38 was the biggest that has ever
contested the race, and the London
“Times” racing man declared “She
was the easiest winner of the race I
have ever seen.” The winning margin
was officially given as six lengths
(French Squadron second, Harlech
third) and inspired another con-
tributor to the “Times” to recall from
other days what must surely be the
classic description of a horse win-
ning by half the length of the straight:
“Towards the close of an autumn
day a solitary horseman might have
been seen wending his way over New-
market Heath.”
• ♦ * ♦
After a little further limbering-up,
in the course of which they stoushed
Westralian Colts by an innings and
149 runs, the M.C.C. tourists entered
upon their first important match of
the tour when they tackled Western
Australia at Perth over the week-
end. Opening proceedings, England
knocked-up 434 before declaring with
one wicket in hand. ContributSJto
this score were two individual efforts
FW) h R mUSt have J hea rtened skipper
Fred Brown no end. Denis Compton
whose form and health have been
much m question, weighed in with a
reassuring 106; although he was
favoring his doubtful leg the innings
was played in the best Compton
manner, and that is about as good as
the 7 h*hl e ' Pfu’ not to be outdone,
RH bab £ °f the team, 19-year-old
Brian Close, belted up 108—surpris-
es1 /’ the first century he has scored
in first-class cricket, and certainly a
nice reward for the initiative shown
oy the selectors in committing them-
selves to such a young player. Bv
stumps on Saturday Westralia in
reply had collected 43, with all
wickets intact.
While cricket warfare on the inter-
national plane was being waged in
W.A., others of the local troops
launched into their own private
fight with the first Sheffield Shield
match of the season, N.S.W. v.
Q land, in Brisbane. Highlight of
the early stages of this match was
the performance of Keith Miller, who
decided to answer a few critics by
demonstrating just how much the
perfect cricketer he is. Openers
Morns and Moroney laid a solid
foundation with 134 on the board
when Morris departed with his per-
sonal tally 74. When Miller came
m he allowed Moroney, who was well
settled in, to retain most of the strike,
and, continuing to play cautiously
after Moroney had gone with 113 to
his credit, Miller took 250-odd
minutes for his first hundred. After
that Miller proceeded to delight the
crowd with an innings that inclpded
five sixes, one of which fell to earth
they knew not where. When N.S.W.
declared at nine for 529, Miller’s con-
tribution was 201 not out. Faced
with something pretty solid to chase,
Q’land had lost one for 42 at stumps
on Saturday.
* * * *
Looking the best southpaw Sydney
has sighted since Vic Patrick, ex-
amateur champion Jimmy Carruthers
(8.7) had too much class for Novo-
castrian Fred Kay (8.12) at Leich-
hardt last week. Kay employed the
right tactics, but just wasn’t good
enough. Leading rights at every
opportunity—the best way to tackle
unorthodox opponents—Kay did quite
well until a left downstairs dropped
him for eight in the final round. Kay
was obviously in a bad way when
he got to his feet; showing com-
mendable good sense Carruthers
refused to dole out further punish-
ment, and, with about one minute
of the bout to go, the ref. gave it
to Carruthers on a t.k.o.


Milestones in our National Progress N? S
RESPONSIBLE
GOVERNMENT
GRANTED...
NSW- /SSS
Victoria /855
Tasmania /856
Sth Just /856
Qianci /SSO
West Hast 1890
tRT
...
m
*hS
■
J %S~T
m
Decentralised government brought progress to
every section oi our continent. Cities grew and trade
and commerce prospered.
Primary production then depended almost entirely
upon imports for its machinery but a new spirit of
self-reliance was developing and a few years after
the turn of the century the Nation witnessed the
founding by Ronaldson-Tippett of an enterprise dedi-
cated to the service of the Nation's primary producers.
Approaching the half century of its establishment,
the Ronaldson-Tippett Organisation looks forward to
the future with faith in the Nation and its people.
RONALDSON BROS & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke Street.
N.S.W. Distributors: Eonaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., Frazer House, 42 Bridge
Street, Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
sd
Be a Perfect Cook
with a
Quirk's Electric Mixer
You'll wonder how you ever managed with exhausting hand
beating, once you've mixed with a Quirk's Electric Mixer.
In a few fleeting ticks of the clock your cakes will be ready
to pop into the oven, and what delicious, feather-light cakes
they'll be. Here are two famous Quirk's Mixers.
Vfcv 'wyftagiijjil
Quirk's All-Purpose Electric
Mixer mashes, whips or beats,
stirs, folds or creams . . .
turns out a perfect job in fast
time. A special juice extractor
which is attached to the mixer
squeezes the juice of fruits.
Equipped with powerful high-
speed motor, governor con-
trolled, providing power at all
10 speeds. Matching plastic
bowls are supplied. Available
in 32, 50. NO and 240 volt
models.
Here's a low priced model to suit all
your mixing needs. This modern electric
mixer has a special plastic enamel finish
and a powerful motor which operates at
three speeds, low, medium and high.
Sold with two attractive bowls of which
the small one can be used as a kitchen
measure, being graduated in ounces and
cups.
f
r
The following appliances, for city and country homes, are
available from Quirk's Stocks: Lighting Fixtures, Radios, Vacuum
Cleaners, Floor Polishers, Washing Machines, Fans, Kettles,
Toasters and Irons.
CONTACT YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR SUPPLIES OR WRITE TO;
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 Castlereagh St., Sydney . . . Phone M 3114
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Sheep and Its Teeth.
“Bungaree”; A C.s.i.K.O.
Bulletin —“Diet and Dental De-
velopment in the Sheep,” by Dr.
M. C. Franklin —is of consider-
able importance to sheep-
breeders. The question of
whether licks are beneficial to
sheep or a waste of money has
raged intermittently for many
years. It is now generally con-
ceded that stock need a certain
amount of mineral matter in
their diet but that under good
seasonal conditions they can get
it from natural pasture, always
provided, of course, that the
district is not notoriously defi-
cient of some mineral or other.
Dr. Franklin’s experiments and
the evidence he produces should
settle the question as far as
calcium is concerned. If sheep
do not get sufficient calcium in
the growing period—say, up to
2} years—they will be stunted,
wool growth will be affected,
bone structure light and fragile;
but the most outstanding effect
will be shown in the teeth.
Lambs and weaners were used
in the experiments. All the
sheep were hand-fed on an un-
restricted ration of chaff and
grain (wheat or oats or maize).
This diet is very low in calcium,
but it is very similar to the type
of ration fed to sheep under
drought conditions. In addition,
a number of the sheep in each
group received 1 per cent, cal-
cium in the form of finely-ground
limestone. Some of the experi-
ments lasted nearly four years.
Dental growth of the lime-
deficient sheep was not only
much slower than normal but
the teeth were deformed and
weak. The permanent front
teeth (incisors) of a healthy
sheep are broad, even and
strong. The mineral-deficient
teeth were weak, long and
shelly and straggled out at all
sorts of angles. The same
applied to the molars, which,
instead of presenting an even,
strong grinding surface, were
most uneven and irregular.
These defects would prevent a
sheep getting its fill of grass and
chewing it properly.
A normal sheep gets its first
pair of permanent incisors at
12-16 months; it reaches the
four - tooth stage at 18-24
months, becomes a six-tooth at
27-36 months and is full-
mouthed just before it reaches
four years old. These are the
usual calculations when a sheep
is being checked for age. The
limeless sheep would upset these
calculations completely, as some
did not get their first pair of
incisors until they were three
years old. As a rule, the sheep
on the lime-deficient ration were
at least two years old before the
first pair of permanent teeth
showed up.
In some of the experiments
the test sheep were put on to
lime after about a year without
it. It took some months to show
any benefit, and although they
started to put on weight after a
while they never recovered from
the early stunting.
Body weights added further
evidence. A comparison of
weights at weaning (three
months) show that a 631 b. lamb
starting on the lime-deficient
diet against another weighing
381 b. on full ration weighed only
771 b. at 13 months compared
with his mate’s 1291 b. At 31
months the comparison was 961 b.
and 2041 b. Photographs show
a more startling difference. The
lime-deficient sheep are not only
about half the size of the nor-
mal animals but their frames are
small and frail and the animals
have a moronic appearance.
In one test bonemeal was used
to supply calcium, but this group
did not do so well as the lime-
stone-fed groups. It was also
proved that the quality of the
limestone is an important factor.
Coarse - or unevenly - ground
material cannot be assimilated
so well as finely-ground, and for
this reason limestone for sheep
should be fine enough to pass
through a 100-mesh sieve.
The importance of this work
to studmasters and graziers can-
not be overestimated. The lime-
stone may be fed with the cereal
ration at the rate of 1 per cent.,
or can be made available as a
lick. To encourage sheep to ea'
their full requirements start
them with one part limestone to
four parts salt. When they are
taking it freely gradually reduce
the salt content to equal parts
salt and limestone.
Cattle for Climates.
“Outback”: Berry Reynolds,
Moorlands Hereford Stud, on
the Darling Downs, believes that
many stud-breeders associated
with British breeds of beef cattle
disregard variability not because
they do not see this factor at
work, but because they can see
no way of controlling it.
Time - honored breeding
methods have proved remark-
ably successful in the past, but
there are indications of the work-
“ They’ve sent the Wrong brand of plum jam again.”
ing of certain factors which pre-
vent a breeding programme being
followed to its logical conclu-
sion.
Reynolds instanced the diffi-
culty of maintaining the standard
achieved in a top stud with the
risk incidental to obtaining a
sire to follow on after a particu-
larly successful bull had gone
out of a herd. The geneticist
had come to the aid of stud-
breeders by showing where the
old methods had failed, and had
proved, with the aid of quick-
breeding birds, animals and in-
sects, that, by concentrating the
best blood in pure blood lines,
variability could be controlled
and stock be guaranteed to re-
produce their like.
Referring to inbreeding,
Reynolds said the only instance
on record where this method
had been used with outstanding
success with livestock was in
America, where Anxiety 4th was
bred. He proved to be the out-
standing sire of the American
Herefords, and it was probably
owing to the successful concen-
tration of the best blood in this
sire that American Hereford
breeders were in a position to
discontinue importations.
Inbreeding, said Reynolds,
was fraught with many pitfalls,
and should be undertaken only
by the expert, who not only must
be capable of recognising the
I qualities which go into the make-
up of a successful sire, but also
have a complete knowledge of
I the ancestry of the stock with
I which he was working. Close-
; breeding concentrated not only
the good, but also the bad, points
of an animal’s make-up.
Trace Elements.
“Rooster”: It’s as well to
know something of them, since
adding or neutralising a par-
ticular mineral will eradicate the
resultant disease. As striking ex-
amples of this it has been shown
that (1) chickens need man-
ganese in their food or they de-
velop a disease known as perosis,
which affects the bones, deforms
the legs and shortens the wings
considerably ; (2) lack of copper-
sulphate will induce swayback
in lambs, a disease of the ner-
vous system, resulting in muscu-
lar weakness, blindness and
usually death. In the latter ex-
ample provision of a copper-
sulphate lick ensures immunity.
How or why this comes about
is a biochemical enigma, but it
is thought that the copper some-
how affects the microbes which
live in the young lambs’ intes-
tines. These germs, it is now
known, play a vital part in mak-
ing vitamins and other special
substances which the body needs.
Some intestinal germs, however,
fail to do these jobs, and their
multiplication may result in de-
ficiency diseases.
The effects of copper is shown
in recent knowledge about a
cattle disease which took the
form of an unpleasant diarrhoea,
and was particularly marked in
Somerset, England. The out-
break was due to poisoning by
the mineral molybdenum, the
pastures (especially clovers) con-
taining six times the normal
amount. The biochemical
neutraliser in this case was
again copper-sulphate.
Conversely, too much of cer-
tain trace elements sometimes
induces a disease. In the mid-
west States of America the ex-
cess amounts of selenium in the
soil cause a disease affecting
cattle, horses and pigs, in which
the hair falls out, the horn of
the hoof sloughs and the victim
loses condition rapidly. Only
certain grasses absorb selenium
from the soil. Once inside the
body the mineral reacts just like
its close relative, sulphur. Sul-
phur, in right amounts, is an
important part of hair, skin and
hoof. Selenium is a poor substi-
tute. The remedy has been to
search for grasses which would
grow on this type of soil with-
out picking up the toxic mineral.
Many plants become stunted,
or develop brown dead areas in
their tissues, through lack of
boron. Normal proportion of
this “tracer” in most soils is
about one part in a million.
Brown heads in cauliflowers,
brown heart in swedes and wilt-
ing of tomatoes may all be due
to this deficiency. Copper is
also essential, but more than a
certain amount is poisonous.
Studies along these lines are
subject to numerous pitfalls.
For example, manganese, a very
essential trace element, may be
present in the soil yet somehow
not available to the plants. It
would seem that the activities
of some soil bacteria control
the amount left free for plant
life. The study of soil bacteria
is one of the present spearheads
of research.
Seeds from the Air.
“C.S.”: Now firmly estab-
lished in England and America
as a means of fast, economical
and efficient sowing of seeds,
spreading of fertiliser, and spray-
ing of crops, orchards and pas-
tures against pests, the aeroplane
is proving its value for these
purposes in Australia. The other
week representatives of the rice
industry and N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture expressed
themselves as completely satisfied
with a demonstration of aerial
sowing of rice conducted by Air-
griculture Control, Ltd., at
Camden (N.S.W.).
Australian Rice, Ltd., has de-
cided to seed a trial area of 50
acres by air at Wakool (N.S.W.)
—the first planting by this
method in Australia. Spectators
were interested by the even dis-
tribution of the seed, and the
manner in which the pilot of the
Tiger Moth (Squadron-leader R.
D. Shaw, D.F.C.) was able to
control it through the specially-
designed apparatus.
A. E. Simons, of the Aus-
tralian Rice Equalisation Associ-
ation, said aerial sowing would
enable pre-germinated rice to be
sown, which was not possible
from a drill. This suits the short


FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
It is merely “round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
, , . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in c
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
V
0
5"
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY ,
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 25/10/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7230
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
‘‘CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
lop Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb,
"WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEFT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
nil,. n I
-
r
Esdaile's 2Jx
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT. £l6/5/-
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system,
9 Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
9 Very long eye relief.
9 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2\x —Eye relief 3|in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
42 KlTfUCB SIEETT, SVDMT.V.|
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
‘Phenovis" Worm Remedy
fichiny »
ti** l
/ /
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
fs
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
f
sd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
iiliiiiiii
:
■am
I ■
laps
m
fH
mmmm
■' : -V;' ; .
v.n:
Pi
i s
SPBAY
SKTJONS
m
■■■
«
l; : :.
m
M
my
ton
Here's what you gain...
Surging further ahead in the spray irrigation
field, RAINBOW now introduce ALUMINIUM
Spray Sections. This is just another reason why you
should instal RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION . . , the
system already renowned for such features as the combined
outlet and hydrant, flexible couplings and improved spray-
heads. Rainbow is the only system with a 48-ft. coverage.
ONLY HALF THE WEIGHT:
Rainbow’s new Aluminium Sections are approximately half the weight of normal
piping. This means a further cut in time and labour.
SEAMLESS, 24- F T. SPRAY SECTIONS:
Frictional loss In RAINBOW Aluminium Sections has been reduced by at least
10%. They may be used for all water purposes and are supplied with flexible
couplings or non-flexible joins.
COSTS STILL LOW:
Though the cost of a new RAINBOW Aluminium plant Is naturally higher than
previous Rainbow systems—because of the many RAINBOW advantages—the cost
of our complete plant—WlTH ALUMINIUM SECTIONS—is still comparable with
other systems. Longer life and labour-saving features cost you less in the long
run. Remember—irrigation is essential—spray irrigation is best-~and RAINBOW
make the best spray irrigation.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEADS.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
afcj edrzszt 1^.
<O/83.5
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.,
102-124 Melbourne St., Sth, Brisbane. Victoria:
C. BEAUMONT, 64 King St., Melbourne—MU 5271.
South Australia: RALPH CURRY, 24 Light Sq.,
Adelaide. 'Phone: C 1065.
fs
COMBINED OUT-
LET & HYDRANT.
STURDY STANDS.
Australian growing season. Use
of aircraft would also enable
sowing to proceed at the right
time, even though the soil were
too wet for land machinery.
“Kelms”: Aerial dusting for
the control of cutworms proved
successful in a recent W.A. ex-
periment. A 3000-acre crop of
lupins was dusted, with an esti-
mated efficiency of 90 p.c. From
the modifications suggested by
this trial it is considered that a
plague could be completely
eradicated by this means.
This method of control should
mark the end of periodic plagues
of cutworms, caterpillars, etc.,
and it may even be adapted to
visitations of rats and mice. It’s
cheaper than hand-spraying, and
an entire district could be dusted
in a short time.
The time is approaching when
a community aeroplane will be
standard equipment for shire
councils —and periodic dustings
will be simply a matter of course.
The New Sprays.
“E 605”: The new sprays are
indeed so good (B. 27 /9 / ’5O)
that they have the manufacturers
of sprays which are not so good
worried. So much so that the
story of the “deadliness” of
parathion and E 605 (to humans)
is being spread far and wide.
Any potent insecticide i s
“deadly” if misused.
One to two gallons of E 605
spraying fluid (1 pint in 300
gallons), if drunk, may cause
your demise (deservedly so). But
from legitimate use of E 605, if
the manufacturer’s elementary
precautions are followed, not a
single death has been reported,
although an estimated million
tons of E 605 spraying fluid has
been used in orchards so far.
Parathion formulations which do
not contain the special emulsi-
fier as used in E6O5 —Folidol —
are certainly more dangerous as
regards skin-penetration.
The dictum of bitter medi-
cines being good certainly applies
in orchards. The insect has yet
to be found that stands up to
E 605 in suitable concentration.
E 605 commands respect in two
ways ; in the way it should be
handled and in the way it acts.
Fodder Reserves Low.
“He-Ne”: If N.S.W. runs
into a dry summer the pastoral
outlook could be serious, as
fodder reserves are at a low ebb.
Most dairymen in the metropoli-
tan area will soon be forced to
make extensive fodder pur-
chases, and on most other
coastal areas the position is not
much better.
Flood damage to lucerne last
winter was serious, and stock-
raisers should not expect nor-
mal lucerne supplies probably
until the spring of 1951. Fod-
der reserves on the Tablelands
are low, and farmers would be
well advised to conserve as
much meadow-hay as possible
until lucerne stands come back
for full production again.
Hints for the Farm.
“Old Crab”: At an Eidsvold
station (Queensland) field day
the Mundubbera Inspector of
Stock, demonstrating the intra-
venous injection, warned that
with some drugs, such as soluble
sodium sulpha pyridine, there is
a danger of irritation and
abscesses with faulty handling—
should the drug, for example,
miss the jugular and hit the
tissues. The intravenous is an
easy winner over the subcutane-
ous injection for speed and
effectiveness.
“Beau Forte”: When black-
berry plants are sprayed with
the new hormone-type weed-
killer, 2-4- ST, the brambles
j should not be burned as soon as
they dry off. This weedicide has
a slow but effective killing action,
and if plants are burnt within
12 months they Will start to
sprout again from ground-level.
“Rooster”: The sow needs a
well-balanced diet of lucerne,
pollard, milk and scraps, with a
supply of green stuff in the
middle of the day. Give a bran
mash about three days before
farrowing; another, in which is
placed 3oz. of castor-oil, 48 hours
before farrowing. When close
up feed lightly. Give no food
bn the day she farrows. If it’s
a first litter, stand by to assist,
if necessary.
“C.A.A.”: Where machinery
is stored in separate sheds it is
wise to have fire extinguishers
of the foam type in each. This
is a safeguard particularly if
stocks of petrol, oils and paints
are stored in the vicinity. In any
case it is a good precaution to
keep inflammable materials in
a store of their own, as far away
from the other sheds as possible.
“Weedexp”: A dwarf creep-
ing grass commonly known as
sour or yellow grass, and to the
botanist as Paspalum conjuga-
tum, is spreading rather alarm-
ingly on the Queensland coast
north of the tropics. This im-
portation from South America
takes possession of closely-
cropped black soil or moist sand
pastures and its twining surface
and underground stems smother
useful grasses. The plant can
be recognised by its yellowish-
green leaves up to Sin. long and
the reddish, very tough stems
which root at the joints where
they touch the ground.
“Big Billy”: To guard against
thrip Vic, Department of Agri-
culture recommends two alter-
native sprays —D.D.T, (emul-
sion) .05 per cent, or parathion
(E 605) .0075 per cent. D.D.T.
in powder form is not effective.
E 605 has the advantage that it
can be applied at early blossom
stage and will kill the insect by
penetrating the unopened flower.
“Wilco”; I have seen pigeon-
pea used as a protective hedge
or windbreak on a N.Q. farm.
The soil was poor white stuff,
yet the closely-planted pea-
bushes grew 12ft. high and
carried dense foliage. Pigeon-
pea is a soil-improver, but is
better known for its peas, which
are good feed for poultry. Stock
sometimes eat the bushes when
they are a bit withered.


FORDSON MAJOR
FARMS AUSTRALIA
in ever/ type of job, in every type of soil
m
&
a
wt
'll
4\
Read these reasons why Fordson Major
is Sales Leader among tractors
Because of their complete suitability and versatility in every kind of Australian
farming there are now over 22,000 Fordson Majors working throughout
the Commonwealth. Every day the preference for Fordson is growing
because only Fordson provides all these features:
I* Choice of Diesel or Kerosene power. 2* Wheeled or half track units.
3* Choice of gear ratios. “Special” ratios for work where soil conditions
and size of implements demand extra pounds pull at the drawbar. “Standard”
ratios for conditions where extra miles per hour and normal drawbar pull
are desirable.
4. Range of wheel and tyre equipment. 5* Lowest cost per horsepower.
6. Specialised Fordson Service available in districts all over the Common-
wealth.
Ratings by official Nebraska-type Tests
Diesel power; Rated 28 drawbar horse-
power—which is better than a 12 horse team.
In second gear at 1500 r.p.m. rated load
travelled at 3.5 m.p.h. when equipped with
special ratio gears and at 4.6 m.p.h. with
standard ratio gears. In both cases fuel
consumption was 1.79 gallons per hour.
Kerosene power: Rated 21.5 drawbar horse-
power — equal to a good 10 horse team.
With special ratio gears, in second gear and
at 1200 r.p.m. rated load handled at 2.88
m.p.h. and, with standard ratio gears, at
3.64 m.p.h. Fuel consumption at rate of
1.96 gallons per hour in both cases.
Advice from your local Fordson Dealer
Your Dealer will be glad to give you all details of the Fordson combination that is best
for your job. He will also arrange on your property, a demonstration under your
particular working conditions.
Wide choice of
models
Both Diesel and
Kerosene models arc
available in Agri-
cultural or Row
Crop (each with
either rubber tyres
or steel wheels) and
Roadless (half-
tracked).
Half-Track
Equipment
Available for fitting
to both Diesel and
Kerosene models.
Virtually gives
farmer two tractors
in one and the
change-over is a
simple matter. Half-
tracks cut rolling
resistance to mini-
mum, give more
pounds pull at draw-
bar and lower fuel
consumption and
allow handling of
implements in soil
conditions unfav-
ourable for wheeled
tractors.
FM62-44
Enquire from your State Distributor: ...
N.S.W.:—Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA;—-IMalcolm Moore Pty. Ltd.,
300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND:—Buzacott’s (Q’ld.) Ltd., St Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie Street, Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA:—Lynas
Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay Street, Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG. VIC.
Uncle Will. If he liked mulli-
gatawny soup he liked it and
he’d have it, midwinter or heat-
wave.
When the soup came Uncle
Will dredged up from the deep
hip-pocket of his trousers a long,
rod-like bottle of oysters. He
prized the cork out with a fork
and tipped the oysters into the
soup, forcing them out in a
sequence of reluctant glug-glug
sounds by smartly slapping the
bottom of the upturned bottle
with his hand.
Then Uncle Will told the story
of the nine gallons of beer.
“I rolled it into a cab,” he
said. “The driver was a lovely
bloke. He knew where we could
get a spigot, so out we went.
It was a place in Paddington—
you know, one of those old grey
terraces with a black polished
door like a coffin-lid, a polished
window-sill with a potted pelar-
gonium in the middle of it, and
for the rest, a long, dark hallway
reaching out to the kitchen,
“It was a nice hot day, so we
decided to drink the beer in the
kitchen, where they had some ice
we could put on the barrel. It
was lovely out there. They were
beautiful people. There was a
very pretty young girl there, a
dark girl with full lips, and later
on her mother, not very old,
either. I remember kissing the
girl as she sat on top of the ice-
chest. Later I remember kissing
her again, over by the sink, only
this time it turned out to be her
mother. It didn’t matter. We
were all happy. It was a lovely
day.”
“Which of the women did you
finish up with?” asked Jordy,
always a stickler for facts.
Uncle Will abruptly stopped
eating his soup, put his spoon
down and looked intently at
Jordy.
“My dear fellow,” he said
slowly. “My dear Jordy—l
don’t know!”
OF course. Uncle Will was
up before the club commit-
tee. Mr. Jones was even more
outraged, on discovering that
Uncle Will had been thoroughly
candid about his theft, than he
would have been to confirm the
incident as only one more fine
piece of ratbaggery.
Uncle Will, with many small
borrowings, had paid for the
beer. But that meant nothing.
Beer was desperately short.
That was the thing.
“You knew, I suppose,” said
Mr. Jones at the committee meet-
ing, as Uncle Will sat humbly
on a stiff-backed chair, rolling
and unrolling the brim of his
old felt hat. “You knew beer
was rationed at the club?”
Uncle Will nodded.
“And you knew that nine gal-
lons would mean the loss of
almost a day’s ration for all the
members?”
Uncle Will looked puzzled.
He’d obviously never thought of
that. But he nodded glumly and
kept rolling the brim of his hat.
“Then why did you take this
beer?” demanded Mr. Jones.
“I don’t know,"” said Uncle
Will.
The committee asked Uncle
Will to wait in the next room
while they considered the situa-
tion. After a while they called
him in again and Mr. Jones said;
“The committee considers that
you haven’t yet explained satis-
factorily what made you take
the beer. Why did you do it?”
Uncle Will thought for a
minute. Then, with the tentative
air of a man who’s hit upon a
barely feasible explanation, just
slightly better than nothing, he
said:
“I can only think it’s one of
those things you do when you’re
very young, and keep on doing
when you’re very old.”
They expelled Uncle Will
from the club.
A FEW weeks later Uncle Will
was taken off to Sydney
Hospital. Here, after a genial
debate with an earnest young
Anglican parson on the need for
atheism and the poetic beauty of
mortality, old Uncle Will died,
almost as casually as he had
lived.
But before he died the club
committee decided that, as he
was very old and very ill, it
would be a nice gesture to for-
get the past and restore him to
membership. Mr. Jones himself,
roused to sudden pious regret by
the news that old Uncle Will
was close to death, went up to
Sydney Hospital and presented
him with his membership badge.
There were tears in the old fel-
low’s eyes as Mr. Jones left.
The day before he died. Uncle
Will was leaning back against
his pillow, proudly telling Jordy
how amiably all the trouble at
the club had been patched up.
He reached one thin white arm
across to the small bedside
pedestal and showed Jordy the
club badge.
“You know, my dear fellow,”
said Uncle Will, “it was really
very nice of them. But Jordy—
my dear Jordy—have they
thought of this, Jordy—what if
I get well?”
to the beach . , , must get a
section.” They were always
saying what they must have.
Must have a car, a trailer, a
radio, must have a new this and
that . . . must have, must have.
Now it seemed that they all
“must have” a piece of the burnt
Rain Forest.
Paul slept soundly in his
bunk, but Paddy lay awake for
hours hoping for a miracle. She
could still hear voices on the
veranda, the twang of a ukulele
on the beach. She could still
smell the smoke and the damp
earth where the fire-fighters had
tried to put out the flames.
Once she thought she heard
Sam Thompson, Katy’s uncle,
talking to her mother. Surely
he was saying something about
Katy’s piece of glass setting the
fem alight. Or something about
the strange man who had told
such a lie about herself. She
hoped his hand burned with
nettle-stings. Well, the fern-
collectors both smoked. He had
a pipe in his mouth when they
were talking about the poor little
spider-orchid. People were
always smoking cigarettes in the
bush. And indeed, it did seem
hard that the children, who had
merely wandered upstream in a
sane and happy fashion, neither
taking from the bush nor de-
stroying its probity, should have
their joy dimmed, their laughter
stifled, their old activities sud-
denly switched off, by the de-
lusions of two fem-collectors
and a strange man.
In the early morning the
blackened hillsides looked lonely
and quiet. A lancewood, still in
its juvenile stage, had miracu-
lously survived the fire, and
pointed downwards with blades
that were black, ribbed with
lemon; and, where the stream
had only yesterday flowed
down to the beach and formed
a rusty little pool, there was a
great patch of cream arum-lilies
assembled like ladies-in-waiting.
Soon, over the blackened hill-
sides, beach-houses would be
built. There would be Army
huts, and tents and crazy-looking
shacks called Beam Ends,
Thistledome, The Willows,
Peacheroo, Nesti Resti. Next
year there would be dozens of
yachts sailing into the bay, fly-
ing their jaunty boastful flags
“Owner on board.” Soon, for
the children, new activities
would commence.
AT breakfast Paul asked a
fatal question.
“When are we going home?”
“Tomorrow,” answered his
mother promptly.
“Oh,” he said, and began to
romance. “You know, last night
I dreamed that Bambi had her
kittens in the garage and Mrs.
Clark forgot to feed them, and
a man came in and lit a fire
and burned up the garage and
the kittens and everything . . .
His voice tailed off into its exas-
perating guilty little giggle.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
6suixiy*]Vv /
mott * AJ
*tei>s Vt*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Rtutn
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
» quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
l cuts, bruises and sores. One
I of the famous trio- Cuticura
% Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder.. 533
df
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
j&iwce
z. jo
wm
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH EDWIN HADLEY late of
Moree.—TAKE NOTICE that VERA
DAPHNE HADLEY has filed a Petition
in Divorce No. 2189 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without Just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 19th day of December 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from ARCHIBALD ANDERSON Mc-
LELLAN, of Kelly Street. Scone, or his
Agents, MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOM-
SON, Solicitors, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
'The Australia I know"
A way of life to work for ... A land to love and fight for ~, A future strength to strive for ~
by a Family Man
Perhaps it is because I’m the father
of a growing family that I regard
Australia in terms of the future. In
common with every parent, I want the
best for my kids.
Comparisons of our Australian way of
life and standards of living with other
ways and standards which I saw as a
serviceman brought home to me one
great truth—that no other people any-
where in the world are so privileged, so
well off, as Australians. It made me
want to be more than a passive citizen
just accepting my Australian nationality.
I wanted to be an active Australian, to
make a contribution to our national
prosperity, as I had made a contribution,
however small, to the part Australia
played in the war.
I realised what it means to be an
Australian. I, as an Australian, can meet
and talk to my employers on a footing
of equality and mutual respect. I don’t
have to regard myself as inferior to
a man for whom I work. If I have a
grievance to air, or if I believe the
award under which my wage is regulated
is inadequate, I can seek by decent
means to have my grievance remedied
or my wage increased. I enjoy a high
degree of security—not the security of a
caged creature in a zoo, but the security
of the Australian respect for Australian
citizenship—the respect which prohibits
the indignity of arbitrary dismissal from
a job, eviction from a home, or
victimisation or injustice of any kind.
To possess Australian citizenship is to
possess rights such as no other people
in the world can claim, and an equality
social and economic that exists
nowhere else.
But it is also a privilege that carries
with it the obligations of democratic
citizenship—the obligation, for instance,
to give of one’s best. As an Australian,
I should lose my self-respect if I were
not worthy of my hire as an employee.
It may not be easy for all of us to see
just where our work contributes to the
common good. But it does. All work
and every worker giving of his best,
willingly, contributes to the common
wealth—Australia, And in that word
“willingly” do I see the secret of our
greatness. To work well, willingly; to
fight even die— defending our country,
voluntarily; to strive to improve it by
being an active, reasoning, willing citizen;
that is to be Australian.
What we do over the next few years
may well determine the fate and future of Australia
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
DR9.U3.90
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Copy of instruction-book for 1928
Essex Super-six car.—4934.
To buy copy of Communism in
Australia by J. T. Lang.—4933.
Whereabouts of descendants of
Ralph Ward, son of Ralph and
Martha Ward, of Watergate, near
Consett, Durham, England, who came
to Australia about 1880. (Reply
to Mrs. J. E. Pearson, 6 Bay View-
road, Newbiggin-by-the-Sea, Nor-
thumberland, England.)
To buy copy of Saltbush Bill, J.P.,
and other Verses by A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson.—493s.
To rent, by Bulletin staff man,
flat or cottage, Sydney waterside
suburb.—4936.
To buy copies of Lachlan Mac-
quarie by M. H. Ellis. —4937.
Information Sought.
Are the dwarf trees grown by the
Japanese in flower-pots a species of
their own or the product of a process
of dwarfing?
They are tiny trees which have all
the appearance and characteristics in
miniature of the same species grow-
ing freely in the open; they some-
times live as long as 250 years.
They are grown from seed, and the
treatment consists of frequent pruning
of shoot and root, twisting and bend-
ing of the branches, insufficient
nourishment, the use of small pots
to confine the roots, and anything
which can paralyse vitality without
actually killing the plant.
* * * *
(1) Is there a school for foresters
in Victoria? (2) What are the fees?
(3) Entrance conditions? (4) Dura-
tion of course, and is there any higher
forestry education available after its
completion ?
(1) The Victorian Forests Commis-
sion trains its own officers at the
Victorian School of Forestry, Cres-
wick (Vic.). (2) There are none. The
school is residential, and board and
lodging are also free of charge. (3)
In January, a competitive written and
oral entrance examination is held in
mathematics, English, geography,
general knowledge and intelligence.
Intending candidates must hold the
Leaving Certificate and have passed
in physics, chemistry and a branch
of mathematics. Matriculation is
desirable. Successful candidates must
submit themselves for medical exami-
nation before a Government medical
officer. (4) Three years. Selected
Creswick graduates may continue,
still on a scholarship basis, to study
for a further two years for the degree
of Bachelor of Science (Forestry) at
the Melbourne University. Salary is
paid during this period.
* * * *
What is argol ?
The crude product deposited on the
bottom of a cask during alcoholic
fermentation. It is used for the
preparation of cream of tartar and
tartaric acid. The argol is partially
purified by recrystallisation from hot
water, is dissolved in water and
boiled with chalk, when calcium tar-
trate is precipitated. After washing,
the tartrate is treated with sulphuric
acid, which sets free the tartaric
acid.
* * * V
In astronomy, what is the phenome-
non known as Daily’s beads?
It is a phenomenon which is
observed in connection with the total
eclipses of the sun, first fully
described by Francis Baily, an English
astronomer. Owing to the effect of
irradiation and the irregularity of the
moon’s edge, the crescent-shaped
portion of the sun that is unobscured
by the moon’s disk looks like a belt
of bright spots in a dark background,
compared to a string of beads.
* * * lie
What is the branch of science
known as genetics?
Genetics is concerned with the
origin of individuals, varieties and
species, and with the causes of
similarities and differences between
individuals and their ancestors. It is
intimately connected with the study
of heredity and with cytology, for
its great problems are those of the
ways in which offspring inherit cer-
tain characteristics and yet at the
same time have individual differences.
How these arise and how resemblances
are contained in the egg, manifest
themselves at various stages during
development and are again passed on
to generations of descendants are
problems for the geneticist to solve.
Brief Answers.
H.G.H.: The Sydney National
Sporting Club was opened on October
13, 1902. In the preliminary North
(Vic.) knocked out Black (N.S.W.)
in the ninth round. In the main bout,
between Bill Doherty (Vic.) and Billy
McCall (N.S.W.), for the heavyweight
championship of Australia, McCall
knocked Doherty out in the fifth
round J.T.8.: Write Superinten-
dent of Fisheries, Chief Secretary’s
Department, Sydney R.J.C.: Jim
Jeffries retired as unbeaten champion
in 1905, and Jeffries conferred the
title on Marvin Hart after Hart de-
feated Jack Root. Burns outpointed
Hart over 20 rounds in 1906, and
Burns was generally recognised as
world heavyweight champion until
Johnson stopped him in 14 rounds.
Jess Willard won the championship
when he defeated Johnson in 26
rounds at Havana, Cuba, on April
5, 1915 M.M.: (1) Populations of
the capital cities at the 1947 census
were Sydney, 1,484,004; Melbourne,
1,226,409; Brisbane, 402,030; Ade-
laide, 382,454; Perth, 272,528;
Hobart, 76,534. (2) Canberra, 15,156;
Darwin, 2538 P.T.G.: The stan-
dard textbook on librarianship has
for many years been James Duff
Brown’s Manual of Librarianship
(6th edition edited by W. C. Berwick
Sayers). For a simple account of
routine methods see Edith J.
Carnell’s Library Administration
P.F.F.: A code address for telegrams
may be registered at the P.M.G.’s
Department, Sydney. For Common-
wealth telegrams the charge is £2 2s.
per annum; for international tele-
grams only 10s, 6d. per annum. Par-
ticulars of a code address and rela-
tive full address may be published in
the “Post Office Guide” on payment
of a fee of 2s. 6d. per annum
F.W.G.: Wilcox Mofflin, Ltd., Lang-
land-street, Newstead, Brisbane
T.C.: Easdale is a small island on
the west coast of Argyllshire, Scot-
land, in the firth of Lome. It is
Ijr square miles in area, and is noted
for its primary slate quarries belong-
ing to the Earl of Breadalbane
F.S.: See article “Literature in
Australia” in “Current Affairs Bul-
letin,” September 11, 1950, published
by Commonwealth Office of Educa-
tion, Grace Building, York-street,
Sydney W.G.: In making foot-
running tracks each competitor must
have a separate lane 4ft. wide divided
with a 2in. chalk-line... .G.S.: The
seed is dried to prevent fermentation,
then sown in a light, sandy soil
during September on a level surface.
The seed is spread over the surface
and pressed into the soil. If the
weather is hot and dry the seedbed
should be covered with light branches
The young seedlings can be trans-
planted the following year C.8.L.;
Write Cement and Concrete Associa-
tion of Australia, 14 Spring-street.
Sydney N.H.G.: Executors are
allowed commission at rates approved
by the court on application made to
it; usually 1 p.c. on capital and 2\
p.c. on income between all the execu-
tors. A solicitor should be consulted.
....H.J.M.: Bob Fitzsimmons was
born at Helston, Cornwall, on June
4, 1862, and was 35 years old when
he k.o.’d Jim Corbett (round 14) to
win the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship. The contest took place
at Carson City, Nevada (U.S.A.), on
March 17, 1897.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.F.: You’re still struggling for the
right word and your characters are
as hackneyed as ever P.J.T.;
“Calloway’s Caravan” became bogged
half-way through the story N.V.:
Not fond of suitors who address their
sweethearts in medieval English
H.R.: Tussle between homing drunk
and billygoat merely made us yawn.
.... Bellerive: It reminds us of Bobbie
Burns:
W.S.T.: Well, at least it enabled
you to let off a lot of steam....
K.C.: We prefer the way Maupassant
wrote it N.W.: Reads like a few
pages torn from a cookery-b00k....
8.L.: Same old stranger to the bush
running rings around the rustics....
H.E.D.: “A Perfect Murder” is most
imperfect T.C.: Our Chinese
laundryman assures us that your story
is not a true picture of Sydney’s
Chinatown A.G.D.: Buy a dic-
tionary before putting another word
on paper M. 8.: Subject-matter
too local for a national weekly....
R.A.S.: Send us something based on
your own observation and experiences.
M.F.C.: “I just scribble for the
fun of it.” So it seems... .E.J.: “A
Night in the Cells” spent a day in
the basket before being removed by
the office-cleaner P.N.McK.: That
is not the way a two-up school is
conducted... .8.T.N.: You’re a long,
long way below publication 1eve1....
J.D.: What gave you the impression
that editors are on the lookout for
that kind of material? W.H.G.:
Let the characters speak for them-
selves. .. .L.S.: We have encountered
that hangman many times before
A.F.: You’re just a novice...,
R.S.M.: “Free Beer” has a most
alluring title; alas, the story was stale
and flat from start to finish....
W.H.W.: Even the office-boy guessed
that it would end up with a death-bed
repentance....H.O’B.: Cut down by
half and polished, it might stand a
chance... .F.C.8,: Couldn’t you be
persuaded to devote your leisure
hours to some other pastime?....
N.D.C.: Nothing exciting about any
of them... .R.G.: Whatever it was
you set out to write, it certainly was
not a short story P.Y.: Received
five yarns dealing, respectively, with a
bush wedding, christening, funeral,
picnic and race-meetings. We’ve had
them all, a thousand times and more,
and much better written... .T.M.8.:
“Sailors’ Shore Leave” is a very
tame affair. What has happened to
the Navy? D.D.: “Punch Drunk”
is punch-drunk, and the yarn about
the absconding bank-clerk is an echo
of one we read recently.
The DORMOUSE.
Huddled in their nests
Of moss and grass,
Bleak winter months
In seclusion they pass.
Furnished with bright
And sparkling eyes,
Ingenious and cunning,
Though of miniature size.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Consumer
One of the more unfortunate post-war
casualties has been the consumer. There
was a time when the whole end and
meaning of economic activity was the
satisfaction of consumer demand. In
saner days the word of the consumer was
law. A man who could not satisfy con-
sumers’ wants just did not prosper.
Today we are beset by all manner of
pressure-groups organised as producers
and practising at the expense of the con-
sumer. The uneconomic manufacturer
seeks protection for his industry, the in-
efficient primary producer demands a
subsidy on his production—and the con-
sumer foots the bill.
In Australia at the moment our shops
are full of expensive rubbish, while basic
production lags. Insanely, we produce
high-priced luxury items which we could
get much more cheaply from overseas,
and neglect to take advantage of our un-
rivalled ability to produce good, cheap
steel.
The shufflings of the parties at Can-
berra in recent days bear out the con-
tention that the consumer is being
sacrificed to the wishes of all manner of
pressure-groups. The issue of revaluation
is a case in point. There is no simple
answer to the revaluation problem, but it
seems obvious that one of the desirable
repercussions of an appreciation of the
£A would bo the elimination of un-
economic manufacture. Less of our
resources would be diverted to the pro-
duction of fripperies, and more to the
production of the things we want.
The concept of the sovereign consumer
needs to be resurrected, and the need for
sending the uneconomic and inefficient to
the wall must be recognised.— Quill
(N.S.W.).
Wine Standards
K. T. Hardy (B. 27/9/’50) is supported
in his advocacy of good blended wines
by T. A. Layton, wine merchant and
restaurateur, in his book Restaurant
Roundabout. He writes that after the
war “the wine trade will by then be
sharply veering towards implementing a
policy of standardised blends,” and goes
on: “For the few it will be a tragedy, but
to the wine trade and the public as a
whole it will almost certainly be
beneficial.”
But though Hardy gives some reasons
why South African wine is more popular
than Australian in London he omits one
important matter —price. South African
sherry is advertised at 12s. 6d. a bottle
while Australian is 15s. Now that the
days of scarcity are over and money
tighter, the extra half-crown may be a
deciding factor. — Anna Chembee (Vic.).
Age-pensions
Abolition of the means-test for age-
pensions, though generally approved, is
said to be impracticable because it would
greatly increase the cost. No doubt the
ultimate solution is to make the pensions
contributory; but meanwhile considera-
tion might be given to the substantial
saving which would be effected by chang-
ing the age of eligibility.
There are several possibilities. First,
the pension, at existing rates, might be
granted without means-test, but not until
the age of, say, 70. This could be justified
by the great improvement in the health
of the elderly, and their ability to work
(at least at some kind of job) that has
occurred since pensions were first granted
early in this century. If 65 were then a
reasonable age for retirement, surely 70
is not too high now.
If that seems too drastic a change, per-
haps unconditional pensions could still
be paid at 65, but at a reduced rate until
70 years. During the intermediate five
years the pension would be merely a kind
of subsidy to enable the recipient to
“ease-up.”
Again, there is the possibility of still
paying full pensions at 65 subject to
means-test, but lifting the latter at 70.
That would eliminate the unfortunate
tendency of the means-test, as at present
operating, to encourage the dissipation of
assets.
Apart from the urgent need of
budgetary economy, the current labor
shortage, which looks like lasting in-
definitely, makes the present time oppor-
tune for considering any schemes which
would encourage people to continue in
some sort of productive work beyond the
hitherto normal retiring-age. Arc
(N.S.W.).
The Wool-tax Plan
The woolgrower, on the whole, is put-
ting on precisely the same act that he
put on last time there was a boom in
wool, and if there is another period
ahead comparable with 1929-35 it will
again be the cry that “the Government
should do something to save this valuable
industry.” In the meantime “it’s our
money and the Government should keep
its hands off it.”
C. M. Williams, of the Graziers’
Association of N. S. Wales, says “the
woolgrower has done nothing more than
submit his wool to public auction.” Very
true, but the poultryfarmer would like to
do that, too, in times of scarcity, and so
would the tin- and lead-mining com-
panies. However, they have a fixed price,
not necessarily comparable with open-
market price, but based on cost of pro-
duction.
“The woolgrower has done that
throughout.,. .taking the good with the
“ Caramba! Why must I always make the sweeping bow !”
bad he received no subsidy” (B.
20/9/’5O). Why was the exchange-rate
with sterling fixed at 25 per cent.? I
always thought it was to help wool and
other valuable primary industries.
The graziers apparently dislike the
wool-tax plan. What would they think
if the Government paid them a fair
price, based on cost of production, sold
the wool on the open market and reduced
the national debt, or spent the money on
development works?
As for “this industry which has stood
on its own economic feet since its begin-
nings,” in Queensland, anyway, it stood
very hard on the feet of its creditors
when the Queensland Government
passed its “Farmers Assistance (Debts
Adjustment) Act” of 1935, under which
many primary producers (not only wool-
growers) were financed by the Govern-
ment to pay their creditors a composi-
tion of so much in the pound, the credi-
tors writing the balance off. Now that
prices are booming there has been no
reported rush to repay the amounts
written off. That is all gone and for-
gotten.
I agree that “it is manifestly unfair to
single out the woolgrower to subsidise
the 40-hour week, etc.,” but on to that
statement should be tacked “and allow
him to charge the community black-
market prices for his commodity, with
the sky the limit.”
Of course, the woolgrowers, as a
body, probably plump for things as they
are. They are only human, and show
the usual reluctance to shoot Santa Claus.
The rest of the community is human
also, and possesses a certain amount of
human intelligence. The woolgrowers
have been asked for co-operation in what
is a grave social problem, but the gist of
their reply as expressed by their organisa-
tions seems to be “keep your hands off
our money.” Human, perhaps, but not
very helpful.
Not all of them are delirious with joy
at the present trend. Those who have
to buy fresh stock have moments of
sober reflection. Prices of stock and
land have risen steeply; so have costs of
production. They won’t be so easy to
get down when wool prices recede. A
steadying influence is needed now. One
of the first steps should be revaluation to
par with sterling. Any opponents of
that idea should be asked if they know
why the present rate of exchange was
fixed. After that the growers should be
compelled to save some of their easy
money for the time when they can get
men and material for accumulated repairs
and further improvements. —N- E. R.
(Q-).
Sorghum
Peak Downs grain-sorghum harvest,
now finished, is one answer to the
“knockers,” both political and local, who
doubted the soil’s ability to produce grain
as a commercial proposition. Just before
the harvesting I travelled 26 miles in one
direction through sorghum paddocks with
the rusty red heads of the grain extend-
ing on each side, in some places as far as
the eye could see —all sorghum which
averaged a yield equalling Darling Downs
country, the latest selling-price of which
is up to £3O per acre, as against the £1
which was about the average price paid
by the Queensland-British Food Corpora-
tion for its holdings.
A yield of 23 bags to the acre on one
block, the size of a big wheatfarm, pro-
duced a sample comparable to the best
that can be grown. As with all agricul-
tural ventures, the main factor on which
success depends is the season, and that,
combined with management, controls the
destiny of the scheme. Old-timers in the
locality have a strong prejudice against
breaking the soil, claiming that burr-
growth is the natural sequel, and it must
be admitted that Noogoora has a grip on
some sections.
The Q.-B.F.C.’s project is gigantic and
ambitious, and is a tribute to the mind
and eye which conceived it. In some
respects it may have developed too
rapidly, although it is said that next year
will see operations extended beyond
Clermont on Wolfgang.
Grain sorghum has been grown with
indifferent results around Emerald for
some years, but the spectacular success
achieved by the corporation has in-
fluenced some of the big cattlemen to put
500 to 1000 acres under sorghum.
—Mac Fergus (Q.).
Rents and the Landlord
I act in a legal capacity for a number
of the small landlord class —decent, thrifty
people who keep their properties in a
good state of repair and their tenants
comfortable —and I can tell “K.R.”
(B. 27/9/’5O) that one and all are facing
penury, although, in 1939, they were
entirely free of such worries.
H. A. Lindsay, in the same issue, indi-
cates an easy way out, but he confuses
the sale of vacant-possession homes with
those subject to a tenancy. There is a
wealth of difference. The former seldom
comes on the market, as the owner cannot,
except in rare cases, obtain vacant pos-
session owing to the harsh and restrictive
tenancy laws. It is with the occupied
property that we are mostly concerned
and for which there are two kinds of
buyers, the investor and the tenant.
An investor requires at least 6 per cent,
net return, as his is a depreciating asset,
and as we can’t offer him that, we have
to turn to the tenant, who is often a buyer
at a price.
I have just completed the transfer of
several brick homes to tenants. The
homes, which were erected between
1936-39 at an average cost of £9BO, are
all in an excellent state of repair and
were sold at an average price of £l2OO.
With the proceeds the former owner could
possibly purchase a poor type of fibro
home in a second-class suburb for which
he has exchanged a substantial brick home
in a good locality, or he can place the
money in a sound share investment show-
ing a net return of 4 per cent., some £4O
p.a. in depreciated money as compared
with a net £5O from his rents in 1939
with its much greater purchasing-power s
The reason for sale in each case was
an urgent need of ready cash. Admittedly,
an owner fortunate enough to sell with
vacant possession can obtain a substantial
increase over 1939 values, but this chance
seldom comes along to the general run
of small landlords.
That is the position of a worthy class
of people singled out for vicious sectional
legislation, and their days are numbered
unless the tenancy laws are modified, for
they cannot continue indefinitely to give
shelter to the populace at an uneconomic
rent.—N.C. (N.S.W.).
Socialist Enterprise
At what stage of the game do Socialists
give up? A few days ago the N. S.
Wales Auditor-General tabled his annual
report, which was an all-round condemna-
tion of Government enterprise.
The report dealt with every aspect of
the State Government’s trading activities
over the past year, and in only one de-
partment did it report a profit or surplus
—in the Sydney Fish Market, where in-
creases in commission charges resulted in
a small surplus.
The railways cost the public nearly
£2,500,000, Sydney buses and trams more
than £500,000, and general business under-
takings £1,177,000.
For years we heard a grand song and
dance about the relief that would be
afforded homebuilders when the Govern-
ment brick-and-tile works came into pro-
duction. The A.-G. reported that “the
Government had spent more than
£341,878 on a State tileworks at Black-
town for negligible output.” He also
reported that “the State Government had
accepted an offer by Jaywoth Tiles
(N.S.W.) Pty., Ltd., for the lease of its
cement-tile works at Villawood. The
Government, which had shown a loss of
£6370 on the works, had leased the works
and plant for five years ” “The
deficit on the State brickworks was
£6193.”
The story of transport deficits is too
tender to be discussed now, but it is
significant to note that in the last four
years, in spite of an increased popula-
tion in Sydney, passengers on buses and
trams decreased in number by 53,937,000.
The much-vaunted State Housing
Commission, which is ousting private
enterprise, constructed the grand total of
3455 homes in 1949-50, including 149
shops and experimental cottages, 19 hut
units and four imported prefabs.
The devil of all this inefficiency and
waste is that private enterprise is being
hindered from doing the job it could
otherwise do if given a free go and
allowed to use the supplies of materials
which are being diverted into Govern-
ment dumps, to rot, rust and become
overgrown by weeds.
In every department of activity covered
by the Auditor’s report, private enter-
prise is compelled to backpedal, dissipate
its energy and slough off its capacity be-
cause Government undertakings are using
manpower and materials to no advantage.
The report is one which should arouse
the utmost ire in the community, be-
cause in these times of shortages and
unsatisfied demand, no business should be
conducted at a loss, but should be mak-
ing record profits. Private enterprise is
doing that in spite of the handicaps under
which it is operating. Why then can’t
State Government undertakings, which
pay no taxes and which have every pos-
sible advantage over their rivals, break
even? Government departments should
be able to operate so as to contribute to
consolidated revenue as private companies
do to their shareholders, or, alternatively
—and rightly—to produce their goods at
prices which should compel private firms
to restrain their prices and so govern and
regulate costs. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).


BOOKS FOR GARDENERS
THE AUSTRALIAN GARDEN
BOOK, by Reg. G. Edwards.
Practical, comprehensive. Features Aus-
tralian sowing and planting calendar.
Profusely illustrated, including colour.
35/- (post 1/5)
BETTER ROSES, by A. S. Thomas.
Deals with all aspects of rose lore, in-
cludes Australian rose calendar, lists
varieties for Australian conditions. Fully
illustrated, including colour.
19/6 (piost lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD,
Booksellers; Publishers; Librarians
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
A New and Fascinating Novel . . .
THE CHINESE CAMELLIA
HELEN HENEY
This Is a novel of character that records the impact made by the
arrival of a Chinese girl in an unhappy family. The Camellia, as she
comes to be called, is a silent figure, remote and serene, but her coming
to the Bent household is explosive in its effects. The secret turmoils in
each of them are brought to the surface by her influence. By gesture and
motion, by her clothes and her painted face, are revealed the charm,
subtlety and power of her alien presence.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS —9/ 6d.
COLLINS
DYMOCK’S OCTOBER CATALOGUE
Includes Gift Books and Stationery for Friends Overseas
Send for our latest Catalogue of New and Recent Books. It has an excellent
selection of Books and Stationery listed—as well as the best of Books on
and about Australia, indeed, books your friends abroad will cherish,
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
For an excellent guide to reading ask to have your name placed on our
Mailing List. Catalogues Free on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE! BL 3611.
A Selection of PENGUINS and PELICANS
Add Sd. per copy postage. Write for free list of all titles in stock.
THE PENGUIN BOOKSHOP
10 Hosking Place (Off 86 Pitt Street), Sydney. BW 7318.
By purchasing six of the titles at the right
(select the ones you prefer) you automatically
become a member of the famous “WOKXII
BOOKS” Book Club. Call and collect them,
or if you want them by mail, post the coupon
below with £3/1/- (cheque, money order, etc.)
yhlch includes postage, together with your
List of titles.
Choice of 6 Books for £l/17/6
[f you prefer to receive monthly a new book which
uccomes entirely your own property write im-
mediately for details. Rates: 6-book Subscription,
£l/17/6 (posted, £2/1/-), or 12-book Subscrip-
tion, £3/15/- (posted, £4/2/-).
£7/7/- WORTH OF BOOKS FOR £l/17/6 POSTAGE
CHARLES DICKENS—by Una Pope- '
BERNARD SHAW—by Hesketh Pet
HEART OF THE MATTER—by Gw
JUNGLE IS NEUTRAL—by F. Spenc > ■
CATALINA —by Somerset Maugham.
ELIZA BETH CA PTIVE PRINCESS-
CRY THE'BELOVED COUNTRY—by
FOOLISH GENTLEWOMAN—by Mm r».
YES FAREWELL —by Michael Burn.
! MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP,
9 Oastlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the 6 titles indict ■ 1 on h
I attached list. I enclose £ /
| Name
| Address 1 26.10.50
An Ideal Christmas Gift Book . . .
SYDNEY ILLUSTRATED
(1842-1843)
by J. Skinner Front, and letterpress description by
John Rae, with 14 coloured plates, two portraits and
illustrations of the original title and wrappers.
A very finely produced work, beautifully printed. The plates are
reproduced from the Artist’s own copy, specially coloured, the originals
being lithographed in Hobart or Sydney in 1842 and 1843. Edition
limited to 750 copies.
TYRRELL’S PTY. LTD., Publishers, 281 George Street, Sydney
he again resigned, and again left the
Army.
From Mascara barracks he went to an
apartment in Algiers, where the adven-
turous McCarthy, the French librarian
of African literature and Irish descent,
helped him cook up an expedition into
Morocco. Disguised as a Jew, with a
Jewish guide, having by continual study
mastered Arabic, Berber and Hebrew,
and carrying sextant, compass and
barometer in the use of which, also, he
had taken lessons, De Foucauld travelled
from one end to the other of Morocco,
crossed the Atlas Mountains, stayed as
guest in the palaces of rich Moroccan
Jews, or begged accommodation in
synagogues, went by lonely caravan
routes, was rescued from robbers, and
returned, barefoot, bearded and in rags,
after a journey of 2500 miles:
He had in his eleven months’ journey
mapped 1406 square miles, of which only
430 were known; he had determined 45
degrees of longitude and 40 of latitude;
he had determined 3000 altitudes and had
corrected the course of the Oued Dra as
given on Rohl’s map by a whole degree.
That was in 1883-84. He had found
the merchant-classes weary of the Sultan's
taxation, and expectant of French con-
quest ; and his book held good:
Lyautey used the Reconnaissance au
Maroc as his guide-book during his con-
quest of the country in 1912. Again, in
1928, during the Tafilalet campaign, De
Foucauld’s book was used continually by
the officers attacking the eyries of the
Atlas cheikhs. And today the book is
still an instruction manual in French staff
colleges.
Back in France his family, using the
power which French families have over
even grown men, made his next renuncia-
tion for him, of a girl he wished to
marry: she was not “noble.” Thereupon,
with the Geographical Society’s praises
thick upon him, he returned to Africa,
where he joined a military expedition
into the Sahara, to El Golea, working
on his forthcoming book about Morocco
as he travelled.
But back in France in 1886, deeply im-
pressed by the preaching of Abbe
Huvelin, he returned to Catholicism ; and
in 1888 he made a pilgrimage to
Jerusalem, after which he entered a
Trappist monastery, Our Lady of the
Snows, in Languedoc. He swept floors,
polished candlesticks, and lived hard:
From year’s end .to year’s end no meat,
no fish, no eggs, no butter, no oil.
But when he was sent to the Trappist
monastery at Cheikle, in Syria, he began
a long series of letters and disquisitions
demanding that a more severe set of rules
be set up ; and he finally left the Tfap-
pists on the grounds that their order was
not strict enough for him. Thereupon,
still followed by the advice of the Abbe
Huvelin, he set out for Nazareth in
a costume which he hoped would approxi-
mate sufficiently to that of any Oriental
working-man to allow him 4o pass un-
noticed. It consisted of a long blouse,
striped blue and white, a pair of cotton
breeches, and on his head a thick, white
woollen cap, around which he wound a
piece of stuff turbanwise. He wore a
leather belt from which hung a big rosary
and he had sandals on his feet and
Dom Sebastian’s cross about his neck....
He became gardener to the nunnery of
Poor Clares at Nazareth ; he slept on a
bench in a toolshed with a stone for a
pillow, he shelled lentils for dinner, he
swept, he fetched the mail, he spent many
hours every day kneeling in chapel:
He had been suffering very much from
chaps, and now also from rheumatism of
the knees. The nuns had stuffed rags to
make pads to ease the pain of his kneeling.
One day, when he had been sent on some
errand, the Sisters -rushed into the chapel,
washed and mended the kneepads and
added several thicknesses of stuff. When he
returned he smiled his thanks: “I see they
have been fattening in my absence” . . .
He journeyed between Nazareth and a
convent in Jerusalem; he proposed, with
the co-operation of a lawyer, to buy the
Mount of the Beatitudes for 13,000
francs, or the village of Chorozain for
12,000 francs, and give it to the Fran-
ciscans for them to establish a church
there, where he might be sacristan. In
the midst of these negotiations he went
by foot from Nazareth to Jerusalem to
ask the Patriarch to ordain him ; arriving
thus: —
His sandals had broken, and he had
replaced them with bits of wood, tied to
his feet with pieces of string. Large pieces
of paper patched the holes in his trousers,
torn and gaping at the knees. Moreover,
he had become terribly sunburnt on his
day-long midsummer journey: his eyelids,
his forehead, his cheeks were scarlet and
swollen....
By the time the Patriarch had thought
the matter over, De Foucauld was back
in Nazareth, convinced that it was God’s
will that he should not be a priest. Next
he found that the Beatitudes mountain
had been sold to someone else. Next he
decided that he would go to France to be
ordained, and, in defiance of the Abbe
Huvelin’s instructions, he went; arranged
to be ordained at the Trappist monastery
he had first entered, Our Lady of the
Snows, Visited Rome for the advice of a
monk and two professors; returned, and
in 1900 was made sub-deacon.
Thus in 1901 De Foucauld established
his Fraternity of one at Beni-Abbes in
the Sahara, on the bank of the Saoura
River ; a village of 120 houses populated
by Arabs and their emancipated slaves,
the Harratin, in the middle of a palm
forest. In a chapel of palm trunks with
a green canvas roof, he administered the
sacrament to the soldiers of the French
Army, and cared for local vagrants and
hangers-on. Here, or later at Taman-
rasset, among the Touaregs, he never
made a convert; yet his manner of life
made him respected throughout the desert
as a holy man or marabout.
Mrs. Fremantle gives a fine and detailed
account of his life in the desert, his
clothes, his establishments, his bearing
among natives and French alike, his
translation of more than 6000 verses of
Touareg love poetry, etc.; but the reader
is left not in doubt of De Foucauld’s
devotion, ability, or sincerity, but unable
to account, from what is here published,
for the width and strength of the influence
that is claimed for him.
He seems to have been of great use to
the French Army, if not as a spy, then
as a supplier of information on native
movements and causes, but little is shown
of such services. On the other hand, his
rigorous continuance in the desert among
tribes of the filthiest of human beings
showed him always prepared for a martyr’s
death ; and probably it was this, which
he met willingly in 1916, when French
soldiery in the desert had been depleted
by the European war, allowing himself
to be hauled by the arms out of the door
of. a practically impregnable fort, which
set the seal on his greatness.
No doubt Frenchmen look at Taman-
rasset as it. is now, in Mrs. Fremantle’s
description, a place of hotels, villas and
greenery, and see in its translation from
desert rocks a measure of De Foucauld’s
power, and an example, the more admir-
able, as it is the harder to follow.
Death of a Halo: Frank King (Hale).
After a coolness has sprung up between
a well-beloved doctor and his charming
wife and he has been acting unaccount-
ably, the wife dies of arsenic; there is
much talk of poison-chests, a weakling
brother with a hard-eyed wife, a widowed
sister who acted as dispenser, a widowed
banker with a roving eye, an unhappy
daughter and an assistant M.D. The
conclusion makes it necessary to believe
that the doctor’s wife, besides being
charming, was a complete ninny.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 92
Across.
I—Train description of smoking
turning up with the fortissimo
twice. (4, 4)
4—Spiteful and malicious Oriental
weight. (5)
9—Ship and a bandit. (7)
11 — Short royal cake-spoiler doubled
a fodder. (7)
12 — Gilbertian lord has a lot backing
somebody who stands about in a
lazy, slouching manner. (9)
13 — Girl to litigate. (3)
14 — Old-fashioned believe backing
this herb is the answer. (4)
15 — Large antelope. (3)
16 — These fliers comment on one
who performs the office of a
door-to-door salesman. (5)
20— Less Wilhelmina goes to America.
(5) .
21— Comedian’s joke shuts up Parlia-
ment. (3)
22 — High-spirited joy. (4)
26 — Mother lost by Little 80-Peep. (3)
27 Diary circle goes to the end of
Tasmania for a disease in the
faculty of language. (9)
28 — Meteorological signs and I, in
this manner, go to the establish-
ments visited in 1 down. (7)
30— Violinist-composer puts a road-
maker container on one. (7)
31— Craft to slide on the snow with
loud music. (5)
32 — Interpret studies with the loyal. (8)
Down.
1— Turn up with a bee stroke for
swimming hobby for drunkards
who like a change of scene. (3, 5)
2 Bats skedaddle with a division of
the school year on ice. (11)
3 Iridescent piano ahead of schedule
enables the discoverer of the
North Pole to swallow fifty. (6)
5 Morning stronghold like a
character in “Parsifal.” (8)
6 Lit up for Eulenspiegel. (3)
7 Noblemen multiply the middle of
3 down. (5)
8 — Stork’s cargo has 50 noises
galore. (5)
10 —Medical man possesses and dies
from too much water. (6)
13 —This thing that juts out into Port
Phillip Bay suggests that a very
holy person murdered a noble-
man. (2, 5,4)
17 — The muscular tissue behind a
policeman’s shin? (4-4)
18 — Rodent to spoil the epigram. (6)
19— American desert shrub takes
yours truly to the south and has
quite finished. (8)
23 Character in “II Seraglio” is
miles up. (5)
24 — A pith of the matter is to move
stock to grasslands. (5)
25 — Essen crumbs make pig-like
noises. (6)
29 —It is all right about a wood. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 91.


i
saw
CONTRIBUTES TO
AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING
DEVELOPMENT
lESEL ENGINES
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
AVAILABLE FOR EXPORT
i .■ n
' .A.
■ i
THE “MARS 8-H.P, DIESEL ENGINE
' :<V,.
THE “MARS” S-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
THE
‘MARS” 3-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF DIESEL ENGINES:
SLOW RUNNING— Bosch Injection-Water Cooled—Replaceable Liners—Detachable Cylinders—Variable Speed— Sensitive
Governor ControI—DYNAMICALLY BALANCED (Crankshaft and Flywheel are individually dynamically balanced— means
smoother running, less wear and tear)—Force Fed Lubrication —Easy Starting—Economical fuel consumption Simple to operate.
* “MARS” DIESEL ENGINES ARE ALMOST VIBRATION-FREE *
WITH PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
m
m/m ■
;--^:-v.
THE “MARS" No. 4 UNIVERSAL
MILLING MACHINE
(Fitted with Rapid Power Traverse, also
all attachments)
■
s|(§pL
'\v. pL
* » *Tf
'
THE “MARS” 101-INCH ALL GEARED LATHE
(Motorised and complete with all equipment)
m
-*b *
THE “MARS” 161-INCH SHAPING MACHINE
(Complete with graduated, vice and motorised
drive)
BUILT UNDER GUARANTEE.
TEST CHART Showing tolerance against Schlesinger stan-
dards, supplied with each machine.
BALANCE—AII necessary revolving parts are Dynamically
Balanced.
FINISH-—All mai n working surfaces are Machine Ground.
DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS “Meehanite” (Reg. Trade Mark) Casting*
throughout.
SMOOTH RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are Generated.
VERSATILITY—AII Lathes have generous Detachable Gap
Bridges and Large Hollow Spindles.
"MARS” Lathe Lead Screws are cut from a certified and
tested Master Lead Screw.
s£, si, 6,7, 8, 11, 12 and 14-inch Lathes: 18-inch Shapers;
Radial Drills; Planers; Horizontal, Universal, Plain and
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS AVAILABLE
Vertical Milling Machines; Lathe
Dividing Heads: Machine Vices.
Miller
-' v ;sh
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W.: Gibson Battle & Co. Pty. Ltd. I W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.,
Perth. S.A. : W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth St., Adelaide. Queensland:
Mars Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd. India—Bombay Province: E. S.
Mehta & Co., Alii Chambers, Fort, Bombay.
Hales Representative; 0. Evans, C/o Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
A FEW INTERSTATE AND
OVERSEAS AGENCIES VACANT
sd
CASTINGS; All castings arc produced in the
“MARS” Foundry under the supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and laboratory staff.
We manufacture 21 grades of MEEHANITE (reg. Trade
Mark) IRON.
m.
©
m
©
RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFC. CO.PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES! VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O S. Advert.
