

PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
d
OUSE Of- SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3647
Wednesday, January 4, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at fee General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
AN ANCIENT STRONGHOLD OF THE NORTH IS YORKSHIRE’S KNARESBOROUGH
tpHE ruins of Knaresborough Castle stand near the River Nidd, eighteen
A miles west of York. The castle was founded in the eleventh century by
Serlo de Burgh, one of the followers of William the Conqueror. Later it
came into the possession of Eustace Fitz John, the great favourite of
Henry I.
The castle is reputed to have given refuge for a year to the four
murderers of Thomas a Becket in Canterbury Cathedral in 1170. “These
miserable men retired to Knaresborough Castle in Yorkshire, owned by a
baron who was their friend, but finding themselves avoided by everyone,
that none would eat and drink with them under the same roof, they took
a voyage to Rome, whence, by the Pope’s order, they went on a pilgrimage
to Jerusalem, spent the rest of their lives in a penitential discipline, and
were buried near the door of the Templar’s Church there, with an inscription
over the tomb, ‘Here lie the wretched men who murdered St. Thomas of
Canterbury.’ ”
In fee reign of Edward II (1307-1327) Knaresborough Castle was
bestowed on Piers Gaveston, Earl of Cornwall. On his death it reverted
to the Crown, and was granted hy Edward 111 to his fourth son, John of
Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster.
It was in Knaresborough Castle that the unfortunate Richard II (1377-
1399) .spent part of his bitter imprisonment, and from the castle keep waved
the banner of the Loyalists after the battle of Marston Moor. The garrison
surrendered, however, after a lengthy siege by republican arms. The castle
was dismantled in 1648. Today these historical ruins overlook a famous
bowling green; and many of the town’s houses are constructed from the old
castle’s original fabric.
Two miles from Knaresborough is Percy House at Scottpn, the boyhood
home of the notorious Guy Fawkes, while Knaresborough itself is the reputed
birthplace of Ursula Southiell, better known as Mother Shipton, the soothsayer,
and of John Mitcalf, the blind road-making pioneer and bridge-builder.


TtorM^ltmq
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE
The Red Page
THE ELKIN RING.
As a good professor should. Professor
Elkin has included with his and W. E.
Harney’s Songs of the Songmen: Abo-
riginal Myths Retold (F. W. Cheshire) a
critical standard by whidh they may be
assessed. From his introduction we learn
that these verses were first written by W,
E. Harney, who has spent his life among
the aborigines in the extreme north, and
then rewritten by Professor Elkin ; that
the verses are not translations of abo-
riginal chants, but versified folk-lore and
legends and songs; and that an effort
has been made to reproduce aboriginal
rhythm in a few of the songs.
For instance, “Song of the Oven” is
in Bangal rhythm:
How tasty is food when it’s cooked in the
stones
In the ways of our fathers of old!
How tasty the flesh, how sweet are the
bones!
So follow this way as it’s told.
But, however this may be tricked out
with stresses and the rest of the para-
phernalia of prosody, it must remind the
English reader more of the wild Irishmen
of Thomas Moore than of the Northern
Territory aborigines of Bill Harney ; nor,
in fact, could one imagine its being sung
to the music of Mr. Antill’s ballet,
“Corroboree,” which must be admitted
to give a very good impression of abo-
riginal rhythms. Or take “The Kula-
man”:
The 'Kulaman 'tree is 'tall, is 'tall;
Be'hold the 'seed pods 'fall, they 'fall,
And 'whirl and 'twirl, then 'dance in 'twist-
ing 'maze.
it hardly helps the reader, to learn .that
this is an example of the Lira, a trade
totemic dance of the Maieli (stone-coun-
try) tribes: —
The use of the same word for the third
and fourth strong beats and often one
word for the preceding weak syllables in
the first and second and fourth and fifth
line of each six lines represents both the
repetition and emphasis of the native chant,
while each longer third line simulates, to
those familiar with it, the tattoo-like effect
of the tapping sticks and the blowing of
the didjeridoo
‘To those familiar with it," a group-
ing of words might take almost any
rhythm, while it would still remain, for
those unfamiliar with it, as devoid of
rhythm as the words of a modern dance-
song stripped of their music: the art of
making songs of words that will hold their
rhythms for all people and all times is
limited to very few people in the world’s
history, and maybe, taken over scores of
centuries, hardly exists at all. And the
art of translation of songs from one
language into another is an art of
diminishing returns: we must be satis-
fied, in the long run, if the original
images are transmitted. They are trans-
mitted, for instance, in the example
Professor Elkin cites: Mr. T. G. H.
Strehlow’s rendering of “the chant form
of the Myth of Ankotarinja”;
Red is the down which is covering me;
Red I am as though I was burning in a
fire . . .
The red tjuringa is resting on my head,
Red, too, is the hollow in which I am
lying . . .
Like a whirlwind it is towering in the sky,
Like a pillar of red sand it is towering in
in ffie sky—
that has the feeling of genuine primitive
art; and by putting two lines of the trans-
lation against two lines of the aboriginal
chant (the colon lengthens the preceding
vowel —
No:mabuae: re:rlanopa:i
No:majati:n tje:lanopa:i—
maybe you can get some idea of how the
images sound in their proper rhythmical
setting—and maybe you will not. But
in these songs with which Mr. Harney has
made the Elkin ring, the only one that
seems to have anything like aboriginal
rhythm and cast of thought is the “Wan-
derer’s Lament,” which, they say, is in
Walaka rhythm—
Once I was gay,
Once I was gay,
Once I was gay.
Poor fellow me.
Then came the day,
I went away,
Now I am grey,
Poor fellow me;
—and even here the charm of the piece
would seem to lie half in the reviewer’s
having heard Mr. Harney himself intone
it, during a Sydney evening when many
things were intoned, in a rich and full
and woolly reproduction of the aboriginal
voice. However, it is quoted on the cover
as the prime sample of the work, and
by Professor Elkin as one of the book’s
closest approximations to the real thing.
To say all of which is to say little
more than Professor Elkin has said in
his Introduction. What remains is a set
of poems in English aimed at interesting
in the Australian aborigines “a class of
readers, many of whom might not bother
with scientific or descriptive works, and
perhaps might not read novels or short
stories.” Here again, as English verse,
there is hardly a stanza that is not awk-
ward ; so finally what is left are the legends
and the folk-lore: the long song of how
Lardjal stole Kanderack’s two wives and
Kanderack chopped his head off with a
boomerang ; the reason why Kitkilya the
lizard lost his ears; why the brolga has
a lump in his throat; the story of the
aborigine who met Wolgaru, king of the
dead; and the reason why the big Wal-
cutta lizard always goes back on his
tracks after a kill —he is seeking his lost
memory.
As might be expected from such an
authority as Mr. Harney, these tales and
legends are so good as to make the reader
wonder why they were not put in prose.
But suppose they had been, might they
not have been dismissed as just another
set of interesting aboriginal legends?
Whereas, as inferior verse, they shine
forth and, with the Professor’s introduc-
tion, which says so much about aboriginal
versification, make a novel and sincere
little book, if not an entirely successful
one.
The Price of Fish.
Anyone who, reading of G. M.
Trevelyan’s bias against the “scientific
historian” (B. 14/9/’49), wondered what
a scientific historian might be has only
to consult Ruth Bird’s monograph. The
Turbulent London of Richard II (Long-
mans) ; some 121 pages of monograph,
which adduces about seven pages of
authorities in fine type, runs from three
to 18 notes to the page, and has a 26-
page appendix.
It is a study which a reader unfamiliar
with the history of London during the
reigns of Edward 111 and Richard II should
have to reconsider three or four times
in the light of the late Professor Tait’s
Introduction and of Miss Bird’s own
Conclusions before beginning to make
sense of it; by then, no doubt, he will
join Professor Tait in being “impressed
by the skill with which she has dis-
entangled the twisted threads of a most
complicated series of events and thrown
new light upon much that has been still
dark to us.”
The study revolves mainly around the
price of fish in the fourteenth century, but
it has familiar overtones for Australians
who have heard the threat of the super-
cession of Parliament by a Supreme
Economic Council of Trade Unions. In
a small way, that was what was enacted
in 1376; London was to have a Common
Council elected by the misteries or guilds,
and not by the wards; and this was to
be consulted by the mayor and the
aldermen, who were elected by the wards.
Also, retiring aldermen were required to
stand down for a year before re-election.
The idea was to prevent an oligarchic
city Government.
At that time, the circumstances of
medieval trade made victuallers (fish-
mongers, grocers, vintners, etc.) rich, and
therefore more powerful than members
of crafts or guilds dependent on manual
skill; so the victualling leaders tended to
govern the city, supplying most of its
mayors and aldermen, and, with various
rich merchants not of victualling guilds,
were gradually gaining a monopoly of
power.
In 1381 John de Northampton, a
draper, was elected Mayor at the head
of a party of the smaller, mostly non-
victualling guilds, and set out to attack
the “monopoly of power possessed by
the merchant capitalists both of victual-
ling and non-victualling misteries.” First
he took on the fishmongers, who were a
law unto themselves:
they kept up the price of fish by
refusing to allow anyone to sell it in the
City but themselves they refused to
have any plea touching their mistery
settled in any court but their own
they used the power of controlling their
own mistery to cheat the public by falsify-
ing the baskets in which their fish was
sold, in order to increase the weight....
Northampton laid it down .that no one
could buy salted fish of merchant
strangers to sell again before it had been
exposed three days in the open market,
and no free fishmonger (London fish-
merchant, or middleman) could enter
into partnership with any strange victu-
aller. Parliament put through a law for-
bidding victuallers to hold judicial office,
forbidding London’s free fishmongers to
buy fresh fish for resale excepting eels,
pikes and luces, and allowing foreigners
to trade in fish retail and wholesale —
clearly, it was an effort to oust the
middleman.
The attack upon the fishmongers was
popular with everyone except the fish-
mongers, though the big men of other
victualling guilds, pleased enough to see
the fishmongers stripped of the protec-
tion of their private courts of law, took
no pleasure in being shut out of judicial
jobs at a time when mayors and aider-
men had so much judicial power, and
when to insult an alderman was to risk
having your hand cut off. John de
Northampton was re-elected in 1382, but
it was soon borne in upon the merchant
capitalists that he was “attacking the
wealthy and powerful merchants of
London by encouraging the jealousies
they roused among their poorer fellow-
citizens—his object being to maintain
himself in power.... .Northampton,”
says Miss Bird, “seems to range himself
with all dictators or would-be dictators.”
He was defeated in the next election, and
Nicholas Brembre, a rich grocer, became
Mayor,
Thereupon John of Northampton got
tough, knocked the City Chamberlain
about for supporting Brembre, conspired
in churchyards, held meetings, spumed
friendly overtures, and finally led 500
members of guilds in rebellious procession;
there were riots ; John de Northampton
was arrested, tried and sent prisoner to
Tintagel; and in 1386, by interposition
of the King’s uncle, John of Gaunt, whose
protege he is thought to have been, he
was freed on condition that he stay 80
miles away from London.
Then everything was put back in its
place, only more so: the statute forbid-
ding victuallers to hold office, and free-
ing wholesale and retail trade to
foreigners, was repealed in 1383 ; in 1384
the guild-election for Common Councillors
was replaced by ward-election; aldermen
were allowed to be re-elected without
the year’s interval; and mayors and
aldermen were to choose the new mayor
from two names put forward by the
electors. In 1385 it was laid down that
only an ex-sheriff could become Mayor.
In 1394 the electors were Reduced to
the nomination of two men (four in
1402) from each ward, from whom the
existing mayor and aldermen would
choose the new aldermen.
Thus, in spite of John de Northampton,
or maybe because he made them feel
the cold breeze, the merchant capitalists
established a “mercantile oligarchy,” says
Miss Bird, which “could strike effectively
in general politics unhampered by serious
disturbance within itself,” while the
Common Council of 1376, “freed of its
guild organisation and firmly based on
the primitive local divisions of the City,”
says Professor Tait, “had features which
brought it safely through the revolu-
tionary stage.... .The governing bodies of
the city.. ..with needful adjustments to
later conditions alone survived the
Reform Act of 1835 and still transact
the business of an otherwise transformed
community.”
In 1388 Nicholas Brembre was hanged
for having supported Richard II against
the Lords Appellant; and in 1389 John
de Northampton was permitted to return
to London, though he never took office
again.
As to the price of fish: free trade in
victuals was re-established in 1388 ; but
Richard II restored fishmongers to all
their privileges in 1399, judicial immuni-
ties and all, just before setting out for
Ireland; and thus the hatred of the
London mob for Richard at his deposi-
tion—they intended to seize him outside
London and murder him —may be ex-
plained by the price of fish: —
By restoring the privileges of the [fish-
mongers’] “halimot” he angered the
governing class and roused craft jealousy,
while a rise in the price of fish is suificient
to account for the hostility shown the
fallen king on the part of the mass of the
population of the city.
So there is a “sad story,” which Shak-
speare in his “Richard II” did not tell,
“of the death of kings.”
And indeed, a week after his deposi-
tion, in October, 1399, foreigners were
again allowed to sell fish by retail.
Miss Bird’s contribution to all these
matters has been to show how complex
they were; she has done immense
research into the business dealings of
Northampton and Brembre md other
city dignitaries to show where their
allegiances lay, and prints listfc of their
followers and of council-members to
prove that it was no clear-cut battle be-
tween victuallers and non-victuallers ; nor
does she feel that John de Northampton
was a strict Lollard, for although he cut
down the amount that could be asked of
the poor for baptisms, marriages and
requiems, his “regulations of 1382 as to
the dress of women of ill-fame only re-
produce those of 1351” —indeed, if this
article explaining these complexities
strikes you as not being complex enough.
Miss Bird’s book may be confidently re-
commended to satisfy the most intricate
taste.
There is also a large map of fourteenth-
century London by Marjorie Honey-
bourne, which must be the product of
as careful research as Miss Bird’s prose
study and —no disparagement intended
—is a little easier to understand.
Reviewed Briefly.
Romance and An Outcast of the
Islands are the latest additions to Dent’s
reprints of Conrad’s novels. Type is
readably large and the sea-blue binding
appropriate, but it is a pity that the poor-
quality paper lets the print show through
from the back of the page.
* * * *
Ack-Ack: General Sir Frederick Pile
(Harrap). General Pile was in command
of Britain’s anti-aircraft defences during
the whole period when Hitler was trying
to make Britain a mass of rubble. He
tells the full story of those years frankly
in a book which is at once a history, a
military textbook and a lively piece of
general reading/
* * * *
Within the Streams: John Hillaby
(Harvey and Blythe, Ltd.). Auto-
biography of an angler who began with
eels in the Leeds and Liverpool canal
and ends his book with basking-sharks
off the Hebrides. Between whiles it is
mostly trout, with some useful informa-
tion on fly-fishing. Anybody who ever
wore waders will enjoy it.
* * * ♦
Wishful Cooking: Emily Lina Mirrlees
and Margaret Rosalys Coker (Faber).
“The aim has been to record and pre-
serve from a family recipe book of the
old style the best traditions of English
country-house cooking.” A noble pur-
pose nobly fulfilled; and never more
nobly than in the recipe for Pheasant
Maryland; though Mother’s Meat Jelly
is, alas, more to the point.
♦ ♦ • ♦
Earlier Diplomatic History: Sir
Charles Petrie (Hollis and Carter). A
survey of Power politics from 1492 to
1713 on the fines of the same autlior’s
Diplomatic History, 1713-1933. The
complicated story of British foreign
policy, compacted as it is in these pages,
is formidable stuff for the ordinary
reader, but the specialist should find it
invaluable.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
The Western Isles: Alasdair Alpin
MacGregor (Hale). One of the “County
Books” series. On a single page you
have an anecdote about Bonnie Prince
Charlie —landing at Eriskay to have his
first taste of real Highland whisky—a
practical account of trout-fishing today
in South Uist, and a note on inns and
ferries, their prices, and degrees of com-
fort. Illustrated with some very fine
photographs, the book goes on in the
same useful and interesting way for 350
pages, and at the end there is a map.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
The Selected Writings of William
Clowes: edited by F. N. L. Poynter
(Harvey and Blythe, Ltd., London). For
doctors, and also for anyone interested
in Elizabethan life and the vigor of
Elizabethan prose —“Yea, nowadays it is
too apparent to see how tinkers, tooth-
drawers, pedlars, ostlers, carters, porters,
horse-gelders and horse-leeches, idiots,
apple-squires, broom-men, bawds, witches,
conjurers, soothsayers and sow-gelders,
rogues, ratcatchers, runagates and proc-
tors of Spittlehouses, with other such
rotten and stinking weeds, do in town
and country, without order, honesty or
skill, daily abuse both Physic and
Surgery.” Clowes was surgeon to Queen
Elizabeth, and was on the battlefield
where Sir Philip Sidney met his death.
* * ♦ ♦
The Origin of Things: Julius E. Lips
(Harrap). An exposition of anthropology
intended for “the average citizen,” but
more in the style of a children’s encyclo-
pedia, both in the simple, factual, rather
dull style and in the elementary line-
drawings and secondhand photographs
which illustrate the text. The idea is to
show the primitive beginnings of culture
and the relation between tribal and
national cultures all over the world —a
kind of summary of Frazer. For the
benefit of readers in other countries it
might have been as well for Dr. Lips to
make it clear that when he refers to the
“rudimentary windbreaks” which “the
Australians” inhabit he means the
aborigines —the white Australian, very
often, has no house at aIL


“TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
mm HORDERM
BE YOUR OWN PRINTER WITH A
Complete "few Adana” printing machine
................... mm ....mm, mmm.mmmmlm.mmmmmmmmmm.mmm.,
A
Jt
%
■lit
■ ■
n mm - :
n
m
mm
am
mm
mmM
• : : ; , ..
■
The “Adana” No. 2 is so simple to
operate . . . that’s why it’s ideal for the
beginner! For notices, billheads,
invitations, etc., just the thing for institu-
tions, etc. Priced at £36/17/6
Complete with outfit of type and accessories.
Sturdily constructed, ink plate rotates by ratchet
drive affixed to main frame. See adjustable lay
gauge and slots in Platen to raise or lower gauge.
Note the sturdy construction o£ the heavily
ribbed Platen and the toggle or knee-action joint
which connects the handle to the Platen. Type
area is x 4in.
u mm
t : ■:
■.... j
UN*'-’ 1
■
"Palace” steel safes suitable for Home or Office
Fire, thief, explosive-resisting,
fitted with safety locking
device. Sizes and prices:
24 x 18 x 18in., £2B/14/9;
30 x 24 x 24in ; , £42/18/9;
36 x 24 x 24in., £49/12/9.
Stand, 44/-.
English Deed Box with lever
lock, two keys, Black crackle
finish. 10in., 20/-; 12in., 25/6;
14in., 31/-; 16in., 38/6.
English Cash Box with
lift-out tray, lever lock with
two keys. Olive Green
crackle finish. Bin., 23/6;
9in„ 26/6; 10in., 30/-;
12in., 33/6. '
Four-drawer Utility Cabinet.
16in. x llin. x 12in.,
2iin. drawer, 38/6
: ;; : :
m
m
II
SHOPPERS
DIGEST
£
KOALA STAPLING
MACHINE, 22/6
Wilf staple for temporary
or permanent
fastening and is
“jam” proof.
m
PRINT TRIMMER
FROM 52/6
With polished wood
base and gauge,
10 in., 52/6; 12 in., 62/6,
DESK CALENDAR
PRICE, 5/3
Calendar on metal
base.
“QIK-N-DEX”
PRICE, 15/-
The perfect all-purpose
index. Cream base, 16/3;
Bean Ivory, price, 1.9/ 11.
g f
‘ IV)
mo
UNIVERSAL DIARIES
Sin. x s in. 5/3;
10m. x Bm., 8/-;
13m., x B in., 8/6.
All cloth backs, quarter
bound, week to opening.
ACCOUNT BOOKS
FROM 20/6
Half bound, leather
backs and corners,
all rulings.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ STATIONERY DEPT.
GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. ’PHONE: 312401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,


The Log of a Leprechaun
by SHANE WARCICK
I CAN only suppose: that you were one
of the teeming millions, or maybe it
was only thousands, who crowded into
one or other of the Merry Shoe
Salons the other day for that colossal one-
day sale. If you didn’t, I can’t think why.
You must have read the advertisements, or
heard them on the radio, proclaiming the
opening of yet another —the twenty-first
Merry Salon, and the sale at all the rest
to mark the occasion. Even with one of
the shoehorns given away with every pair
of Merry Shoes we couldn’t have pushed
one more person in.
TO understand the story of Merry
Shoes is to understand the story of
Marty O’Keefe, To understand the story
pf Marty O’Keefe is to go back to the
time when I first met him.
I’d reported to the adjutant’s office ; I’d
been allotted a room in the mess and done
all the other usual things, before going to
meet the CO.
The adjutant, a little unhappy at being
called away from the mess fireside in the
winter twilight, looked at his watch and
informed me that the squadron com-
mander would now be in the bar. He was.
But the adj. had forgotten to warn me
that the squadron commander was
probably the largest amount of Irishman
I’d ever seen in one piece.
I was formally polite. Junior officers
are supposed to know their places. Five
minutes later I was calling the C.O.
“Marty,” and wasn’t quite sure where my
place was. I found I was destined to be
a replacement in his crew. That sobered
my thoughts a little. C.O.’s crew, I
thought. Not much flying and any
amount of odd jobs—mostly unpleasant.
I didn’t know Marty.
We flew on every possible occasion and
a lot of impossible ones. If there were no
ops. on we went on training stooges, or
just simply got up in the air and moved
about England. How Marty ever found
time to spend on the administrative side
of his job, if he did, I never discovered.
This was probably the reason for the
perpetually harassed air that the adj.
wore.
There seemed to be never any discipline
about the place, but every man on the
squadron did his job quickly and
efficiently. . So did every woman.
Particularly every woman. They told me
that when we were out on ops. the
WAAFs in the control-tower wore
strained expressions until Marty’s home-
coming voice had screamed out over the
R.T.
AFTER six months of this I still didn’t
know Marty. Then one night, a
night when the winds poured in from the
North Sea across the fens, and the
bombers were tethered and silent on the
Lincolnshire fields, he ambled up to me in
the anteroom.
“Coming up to Nig’s?” he asked
casually.
I was astonished.
Nigel Ingham was the senior flight-
commander. In defiance of Bomber
Command’s views on operational air-
crew living out, he had a tiny cottage
with his equally tiny wife at the far end
of the village. There was a very small
number of people who drifted up there
every night when they had no work to do.
Marty was the leader of the gang, of
course, but this was the first time I’d ever
been invited. I realised that I had stopped
being one of Marty’s innumerable friends
and had become one of his cobbers.
It was only when I arrived at Nig’s that
I realised how little rank meant to
Marty and Nig. There was even an ACI
represented at the gathering. Our own
flight-sergeant was there, too.
The principal occupation, so it seemed,
was sitting in the small, firelit room
listening to Marty telling outrageous
stories of banshees and leprechauns and
solemn curses. On this night he was re-
lating, by request, another incident from
the improbable life of Shamus, his own
personal leprechaun.
Nig’s wife told me in a whisper that
Shamus, like all true leprechauns, was a
cobbler of the highest degree, and was
responsible for the perfectly-kept appear-
ance of Marty’s shoes. If I felt that a
more probable reason was the effect of
Marty’s Irish charm on his batwoman, I
didn’t say so.
When the fire had died away, and Marty
and I were strolling back along the dyke-
side path, I met the real Marty. Perhaps
it 'was the real Marty who was walking.
He was always rebelling against some-
thing, and with transport his rebellion
took the form of an attack by example on
the long-established if slightly illegal
custom of squadron-commanders using
their staff-cars when going about their
own private occasions.
I don’t think that up to that moment
I’d ever tried to dissociate Marty from a
uniform. I found that night that he had
plenty of money, which was fairly obvious
anyway, and that before the war he had
been reading in chambers with a London
barrister. The only picture I could form
in my mind of Marty as a barrister was
a vision of his being led away to the cells
for contempt. But the main thing that
impressed me was that he wanted a lot
more money, to set out on an enormous
and probably impracticable plan of
social reform.
Such is the power of an Irish voice in
the firelight that after a few more nights
at Nig’s place I found that I knew
Shamus quite as well as the rest did, and
more than once caught myself specula-
tively eyeing Marty’s shoes. Sometimes,
as I passed his room in the mess, I
thought I heard a hammering noise
coming from inside, but I never looked to
see.
THE human mind being what it is, I’d
just about forgotten Shamus, though
not Marty, when my secretary told me
that a Mr. O’Keefe wished to see me. I
hadn’t taken very seriously Marty’s
intention of following me to Australia
after the war, but, knowing no other*
O’Keefes, I instinctively thought of him.
I was wrong.
The small man —the very small man —
whom my secretary showed into the office
had the oddest face I have ever seen on a
man. I think I realised who he was
before he introduced himself.
“Well, now, Jordy,” Shamus asked in a
very businesslike manner, “would you
be knowing of any empty shops here-
abouts?”
I sat down rather weakly. It was some
time before I recovered anything of my
normal poise, and all the while Shamus
looked at me with twinkling eyes.
“Wh - wh - ere’s M - m - arty?” I
stammered.
“Sure, now, and he’ll be along on the
next boat. We’re going into the boot- and
shoe-trade, and well be needin’ a shop.”
The next fortnight was a trying one.
We —or at least I —found a shop, but the
key-money was staggering. Shamus
assured me he could fix up that part. He
paid it, in gold. It was then that I
remembered that every leprechaun knows
the whereabouts of a, pot of gold.
The landlord was more than staggered.
I think he must have felt, philosophically,
that it would be better to risk being run in
for being in possession of gold than to re-
fuse it and have us put him in for asking
key-money.
I was glad when Marty arrived. He
seemed to have some sort of control over
Shamus.
THAT’S how Merry Shoes started in
business. We had one or two minor
obstacles-to overcome. The other guests
at the hotel where Marty and Shamus
were staying complained about the noise
of hammering that went on during the
night; and at last we found a quiet
country shack not too far away.
There seemed to be no limit to Shamus’
output. When our sales hit the thousand-
a-day mark for the first time he was still
keeping pace, with a few over to put in
store. Dop’t ask me where the famous
Merry Leather came from. Only Shamus
knows that.
When we opened our first branch store
we had another hitch. Transport was
getting to be a bit of a problem. Petrol-
rationing was still pretty tough, and we
thought that the fuel inspectors might
ask awkward questions if they saw our
van coming in from the country every
day. We overcame any risk of its being
stopped on the road by camouflaging it as
a horse-float, and Marty, who of course
had to drive it to prevent anybody else
from seeing our manufacturing set-up,
picked up a bit of racing slang to use
when talking to strangers.
WE had ten shops, a warehouse and
our present head-office set-up when
Marty and I had our first argument.
Shamus had long since retired from any
say in the direction of the business. Five
thousand pairs of shoes a day was keeping
him pretty busy, and he was devoting his
spare time to working out better mass-
production methods.
The argument was all about Shamus.
He was starting to feel a bit homesick.
My idea was to buy him a radiogram
with all the Irish records we could find,
or even a talkie projector with some
James A. Fitz Patrick travelogues. Marty
cried me down. He thought that the
sooner we turned Shamus into a New
Australian the better it would be for us
all. His suggestion was to get ail the
purely Australian books for the lepre-
chaun to read, and subscribe to all the
newspapers so that Shamus would forget
about Ireland and become absorbed in
Australia, and what Australia was doing.
In the end we did both.
I don’t think that I need bother giving
a sale-by-sale account of the growth of
Merry Shoes. You might have been one
of the lucky people who were handed a
five-pound note and a free pair of shoes
because they happened to be in the main
Merry Salon when the millionth pair of
Merries was sold. On the other hand,
you might have been one of the shoe-
manufacturers or dealers who started to
form queues at the Bankruptcy Court,
Merry Shoes didn’t wear out as quickly
as other shoes, and it looked for a time
as though the market might dry up.
Perhaps you remember how we got round
that. We cut the prices again and started
Shamus off on as many new designs as he
could think of. The results were beyond
our wildest expectations.
WE were nearing our majority. In
other words we were about to open
our twenty-first branch.
Marty planned a big social function.
We hired the town hall for it. But .Marty
and I attended that function with break-
ing hearts. For all we knew—for all we
still know —the stocks in our big ware-
house, enough for about three weeks’
trading, even allowing for the fillip
given by the one-day sale and the town-
hall party, may be the last of Merry
Shoes!
The day before the opening, Marty
went out as usual to get the'day’s load of
shoes. I was in my office, putting the
finishing touches to the opening plans,
when he returned.
One look at his face told me of a
major disaster.
“It was wrong,” he muttered, half to
himself. “Very wrong.”
He looked at me sadly.
“We should never have tried to teach
Shamus Australian ways,” he continued.
“You were right about that.”
Still in the same broken tones, he told
me the story. Shamus had religiously
read every piece of news in the papers
that we had sent him
One carried an extra-large Merry ad.
The other printed a preview of the twenty-
first opening day.
Shamus had gone on strike.
Marty fished a piece of paper from his
pocket.
“Read that,” he told me. “He calls it
his log of claims.”
Useless for us to tell Shamus his
private bank account was larger than man
dreamed of. A leprechaun who can call
on a pot of gold has no need of bank
accounts. I read the leprechaun’s log of
claims.
“Two tons of peat a week for cooking
and house-warming ... a fresh bed of
shamrock-leaves every night . . . and at
least two banshees to wail outside the
windows .”
“No chance of his changing his mind,”
Marty went on. “He thinks the thing
to do as a New Australian is to go on
strike.”
Perhaps peat could be found in Aus-
tralia, I thought. Perhaps we could
cultivate shamrocks in huge quantities.
But two banshees . ..
J F you are a banshee, or if you have a
* voice like a banshee, get in touch with
Merry Shoes!
Merry Shoes have need of one such as
you. The work is all night-shift, the
working! conditions are excellent. You’ll
get more than night-shift penalty rates.
The pay is yours to name,
VARIOUS VERSE
Ixion in Camden.
Today, my hunting eye beheld
Athwart the lofty heavens spread,
A drowsing mother-cloud who fed
Red-shouldered centaurs freshly born;
The thirsty sons of Ixion . . .
As sharp as fire, each for himself
Dragged at a dug, nor cared one whit
If that his brother went without.
All this I saw from Camden Hill,
And thought that I had seen alone,
Until a stranger, tall and strong.
Threw off a shadow while he said
“Go up, thou bald-head! Be with them!
They are my sons; and I? And 1
Am Ixion.”
N.S.W.
Hugh McCrae.
Toppled Pines.
What is the reason, pray
What is the reason
For so many pines lying prone, .
One after another overthrown?
And everywhere the cruel stone
Clutched in the mummied fingers of the
roots,
Yellow plates
Of clay,
A circle of turf,
Tipped on its edge, the trunk
Tapering to the far away
Crash of the waves
And the invisible surf.
A gale, a single gale, you say.
With snow, that came in a night
And toppled them all in a row?
Or is it simply that the roots don’t bite?
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.
St. David’s Park, Hobart.
It has a gum-tree
And six plovers
And the lawned loam
Entombs sisters and brothers.
Pallid death-stones, black with dust,
Seedless grass and sapless trees —
What a background for midnight lust,
Or pollen-gathering bees.
The winds of Time have worn stones bare,
Have sanded moss-lipped paths;
But this is the willowed place where
Goldfinches take their baths.
This is the place where Collins rots,
And there’s a stone to a Russian tailor:
Where a public collection provided the
tomb
For nine from a derelie*, whaler.. .
Mid-Victorians, puritan-cold,
Are now but one with the damp leaf-
mould . . .
It has a gum-tree
And six plovers
And the weeping willow
Shades many lovers.
Tasmania.
Vivian Smith.
In the Old Story.
N.S.W.
In the old story
Out of the past
It was foredone
Down to the last:
The hand at the lattice,
The note to the pageboy;
In secret meeting
The orchard joy;
The nurse asleep
As the lovers flee,
The friar too late
For a ceremony—
All from the first
Passing in doom
By poison and knife
To the long tomb;
Let us die now
Lest over the page,
Our legend outliving,
We just die of age.
J. Shewcroft.
Totems.
This page be cursed. It is the worst page
I have ever used as a stage
For my evocations. My poems,
Like totems,
Are tortured wild dreams here.
They have nothing of the clear,
Lyric mask of the lark:
Only the dark.
Sinuous casts of a mind
Sealed by eyes that are blind
To natural graces;
Only the impossible carved faces
Of wooden gods, stolid
As they are solid.
And wooden, and brooding,
All life eluding.
Yet, totems,
Are they not the wild poems
Of dark minds?
Though talent blinds,
Still in the murk
The carvers work.
Queensland.
John Blight.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3647
Wednesday, January 4, 1950
A JOB FOR EVERYONE.
“Come on, boys; you’ll all have to pull your weight if we’re going to get this thing back to earth again.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
.Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUSTRALIA AND INDONESIA
January, 1950, not only presents Aus-
tralia with a new year, but with a new
adjacent world. What seemed to be
guaranteed by the strength of the unified
British Empire a few years ago has now
become ominously questionable,
f In three years of retreat from empire
almost everything that could be given as
a hostage to Moscow’s plans has been
given. Where, before 1939, Britain was
the dominating Power in a peaceful
South-East Asia, the whole of Asia has
come under the shadow of Communism
and its allies. India and Pakistan have
! become “independent,” paying only lip-
service to the ideal of a British Common-
| wealth, though both nations appear to
, assume that it is still a British Common-
wealth duty to do for them what they
can’t do for themselves,
i For years the Communists have been
the principal propagandists in favor of
| “freedom” for the Indias from the
“bloodthirsty tyranny of the British
butchers.” Now they are the heralds of
another new dawn —that of “freedom
from the bloodthirsty tyranny of the
butcher Nehru,” under the paternal wing
of the Kremlin gentleman whom the
Communist party of Australia described
the other day as “leader and teacher of
the international working-class, architect
of Socialism, and defender of world
peace,”
Ceylon has followed India. The Aus-
tralian Communist Press is currently re-
joicing at the inability of the Malayan
Government to suppress Communist
movements there. Burma -has been
plunged so far in chaos as a result of
its breakaway from Britain that some of
its leaders are talking of retreat under
the shelter of British wings. Their
country is in a state of anarchy and
ruin.
r The Chinese Communists have returned
from Moscow, where they received their
orders, and the first steps in the war
against Hong Kong have been a strike
organised in the tramways union, there as
here Communist-infiltrated, and the aim
is ultimately to paralyse the colony and
make it an easy prey for Mao.
Nearer home, the funeral of Nether-
lands colonisation has taken place. A
new “nation” has been created in the
Federated States of Indonesia. The
friendly Dutch have been cast out, largely
■through the effort of those who owed
'most to them, and a new “Federation”
has taken the place of their benign
.colonial rule, which for 50 years had
been moving towards Dominion self-
government, in the last quarter of a
century at a very steady pace.
The new nation is an artificial creation
of diverse races headed by a Japanese
collaborator, who has been placed in the
Presidency largely through Communist
influence, including that of the large
Australian Communised unions which
form a dominating section of the so-called
Australian Labor party and which are
always to be found on the side of any-
thing which Moscow sponsors.
The new champions of merdeka—
“freedom,” imposed with the butcher’s-
knife and the bludgeon—have thanked
Australia for its servile backing of Com-
munist orders at the behest of Russia.
The Australian official viewpoint was, in
fact, the Russian viewpoint and adopted
the lies that emanated from the Kremlin
about the situation.
And Dr. Evatt and his Russian
ally, along with those who followed them
in U.N.0., now have their momiment in
the Indonesian Federation. The East
Indies is no longer a friendly barrier be-
tween us and Communist-dominated
Asia. The eyes of its Government are
turned northwards towards its affinities.
Its theories pledge it not only to the ex-
pulsion of the Dutch from Indonesia, but
of the British and all other Europeans
from Asia. It cannot logically support the
British in Hong Kong or in Malaya or
Borneo, in the face of its own attitude at
home. And it cannot —though it does
not express its thoughts openly in these
days— support the continuance of Aus-
tralian trusteeship of New Guinea, Aus-
tralian rule of Papua or even the con-
tinued occupation of Australia by whites,
if that continent should be needed to take
the spill of mounting population in Asia
and its islands. Australia is, in the eyes
of the New Asia; a part of Asia.
When it is realised that the population
of the 700,000-odd square miles embraced
in the Indonesian Federation has in-
creased from 49,000,000 in 1920 to not
much less than 80,000,000 today, the
dangers of the situation are obvious, and
mutual understandings and an agreement
on policy are called for urgently from
the beginning to assure that Dr. Evatt and
his friends have not created a monster
which will one day swallow us.
The patent perils of the Asian situa-
tion seem to have dawned suddenly on
all those who face them. Within a few
days on January 9—with India just be-
come a republic and Indonesia “freed,”
the nine nations of the British Common-
wealth, including those which have been
republicanised, meet in Ceylon to discuss
the whole situation, with particular atten-
tion to Japan, China and Indonesia.
It is a timely meeting, and the more
useful since it will include for the first
time for years two representatives of
Governments in Australia and New
Zealand which are not in favor of the
policy of British Empire dismemberment
as carried out by the Bevins and the
Evatts. It is to be hoped that Mr. Spender
and Mr. Doidge will not be backward iri
pressing their viewpoints, and that a
British Commonwealth policy on Asia
will be arrived at which all can support,
and which will make it clear that while
we are eager for friendship and trade
with neighboring countries, it can only be
established on a basis of mutual respect
for each other’s rights and status.
A friendship in which some members
spend their time plotting to absorb
Australian and British territory and re-
sources in Borneo and New Guinea and
to liquidate the White Australia policy
would not be a friendship at all. The best
way to avoid misunderstanding is to open
whatever relationships are established on
the basis of a clear agreement that our
rights and sovereignty must be fully
recognised, and that entry into this
country must not be used, as it was during
the war, by some Indonesians now in
influential positions, to engineer, with
Australian Communists and other
sympathisers, the weakening of European
influence in the Pacific and the seizure
of some of our territories and par-
ticularly of our defence ramparts in the
north into the Asian zone.
Subject to the recognition of our rights
in these matters, every Australian will
wish the new Indonesian Government
success in establishing tranquillity and
continuation of the prosperity and pro-
gress brought to the East Indies by the
Dutch, without whom the areas now com-
prised within the Indonesian Federation
would have remained a medley of bar-
barous and effete sultanates.
The internal government of a country
is its own concern. So long as the Indo-
nesians confine themselves to their own
affairs and develop no expansionist ideas
there is no reason why we should not live
on the friendliest and most mutually
advantageous terms with them.
National Unity.
When Mr. Chifley essayed to explain to
readers of an American magazine the
reasons for his phenomenal defeat at the
December elections he described the Aus-
tralian voters as moved by “an idea that
they wanted a change but did not knotv
why.” Most Australians would be pre-
pared to lay long odds that neither to the
people of this country in general nor to
his own decimated party in particular
would Mr. Chifley present himself as be-
lieving such nonsense.
The truth is that the late Socialist Gov-
ernment failed to get the industrial out-
put of the nation lifted above a level quite
inadequate to combat inflation and pre-
serve the standard of living; that its
class-war policy had so divided the com-
munity that united effort in any direction
was hardly possible; and that the ordinary
daily activities of everybody were coming
more and more under the control of a
bureaucratic despotism hateful to a
democracy which had just emerged from
an exhausting war fought against the
same thing under Hitler. The Australian
people were well aware why they voted
against a Government which, while pro-
fessing complete faith in the efficacy of
an international effort to bring about
peace and unity over the whole world,
lost no opportunity to enforce sectional
policies of its own which were obviously
destructive of peace and unity at home.
They had had enough of “the class war.”
They returned the - Liberal-Country
parties with an overwhelming majority,
being moved primarily by the undertak-
ing from Mr, Menzies to end that dis-
ruption and to tackle the industrial
problem by a new approach of co-
operation, united effort, and suppression
of the Communist fomenters of disorder
in industry.
The task is no easy one, and along with
the practical proposals for encouragement
of “a new spirit in the industrial world”
Mr. Menzies will be obliged to deal with
the damaging effects of the late Socialist
regime upon the functioning of Parlia-
ment itself. Many developments have
contributed to the decline of Parliament’s
prestige during the past generation or so.
What “Labor’s” prosecution of the
“class war” has done is to threaten the
whole future existence of Parliament as a
governing body. That is true in Britain
as well as in Australia, and the features
of the problem that has to be faced, as
described by Mr. Christopher Hollis,
Conservative member for Devizes in the
House of Commons in his latest book,
Can Parliament Survive ? (Hollis and
Carter), will be as familiar to Australian
as to British readers.
Contrasting the atmosphere of Parlia-
ment in the nineteenth century with that
of this modern era of intense mechanisa-
tion and the growth of trade-union power,
Mr. Hollis cites these evidences of de-
terioration, which had set in anyway:
We have not Parliamentary government
today; we have Cabinet government.
Parliament can only vote on such legisla-
tion as Ministers see fit to submit to it.
The old-fashioned Cabinet system cannot
work except under a Prime Minister who is
prepared to assert himself ruthlessly against
his colleagues. Since the end of the First
World War Prime Ministers have been able
to dominate Cabinets in a way in which
none of the great figures of the nineteenth
century could dominate them.
The private member must be the obedient
servant of the party machine. He votes as
he is told. On bills for the organisation
of industry he but rarely has any opinion
of his own which is of any value. What
he says in debate does not matter, because
the Government has already made up its
mind. Parliamentary debates are not
reported, and broadcasting direct to the
public “is a thousand times more important
than the Parliamentary debate.”
These developments have seriously
affected the “free Parliament” of British
tradition. The party system on which the
functioning of Parliament depends is
under fire as never before. But another
and serious menace appears from the new
“Labor” policy. When the Australian
“Labor” party plumped in 1921 for the
revolutionary Red Objective its bosses
openly explained at that time that the
means of operating the new policy must
involve the elimination of Parliament and
its replacement by a syndicalist Economic
Council responsible to the trade-unions.
The Australian people, to whom the
history of this “Labor” conspiracy is now
well known, are shown by Mr. Hollis
how easily a fatal blow can be struck;
A free system of Parliament can survive
only so long as all members are genuinely
anxious that it should work When the
differences between the two parties are very
deep then the party system cannot work.
But the dilemma of the inter-war
and post-war years was this: How was
national unity to be obtained when half
the nation honestly believed that industry
should be ordered one way and the other
half believed it should be ordered in
another?
The doctrinaire Socialist urged the
Government to press ahead with its policy
of nationalisation, but whatever the merits
or demerits of nationalisation, no one
could pretend that it was uniting the
nation.... *
A great industry requires continuity of
policy if it is to survive. All will be
thrown into chaos if periodical changes
of Ministers and parties in power bring
with them constant changes of industrial
policy The more the Socialists clamor
that the State should run industry the
more certain do they make it that in fact
industry will run the State.
“Industry” here does not necessarily
mean the trade-unions only. We are in
the presence of two impressive develop-
ments —one, the aggregation of business
enterprises- into big units, in which the
shareholders invest without exercising or
wishing to exercise any control, but merely
to get a return from their money without
being bothered with responsibility; and
two, the construction of great trade-
unions in which the members, having
paid their dues, look to the union execu-
tives to look after their industrial welfare
without their bothering to go to union
meetings. With the growth of large in-
dustrial concerns ownership and manage-
ment become increasingly divorced, and,
as heavy taxation and death duties con-
tinue, the old-time “wealthy capitalist”
is displaced from the seat of power. If
he is a Government manager he is bigger
and worse, because there is not even the
opportunity for checking him at share-
holders’ public meetings. Socialism has
no answer; for, writes Mr. Hollis:
Nationalisation and the rule of
managerial boards means merely the sub-
stitution of bigger units for big units;
Socialism has not thereby given the
ordinary man a real membership in the
unit in which he is compelled to work; and
what emerges is not “the classless society,”
but bureaucratic despotism.
As foreshadowing the new tyranny he
quotes Mr. Herbert Morrison’s frank;
refusal to give Parliament information
on day-to-day decisions of nationalised
industries and the disposition of man-
agerial boards to decline responsibility for
management of a great industry, if,
through questions in Parliament, “policy
is to be subject to inconvenient pub-
licity,”
Mr. Hollis proposes as a solution
(which to Australian observers would
seem to suit the militants very well) the
formation of a third House of Parlia-
ment, a House of Industry, elected by
those engaged in industry, and with power
to legislate subject to disapproval by the
Commons within a time-limit. How this
would really safeguard the status of
Parliament is not clear. A more likely
solution of the problem is the develop-
ment of employer-worker councils within
industries to encourage workers’ interests
in both the running of a business and
the distribution of its profits.
It is this field, the cultivation of inti-
mate co-operation between management
and employees, that Mr. Menzies’s chief
lieutenant, Mr. Casey, has made his par-
ticular study. Upon the success of efforts
in this direction depends very greatly the
reform in industrial relationships against
the intrusion of irresponsible political
agitation. It may be doubted, too, whether
any other course would furnish better
assurance against usurping of Parlia-
mentary authority by the conceived rivals
for control of industry and, through in-
dustry, of the State —the managerial
boards appointed by Governments to run
nationalised industries and immune from
criticism, and the executives of swollen
trade-unions holding over Governments
the threat of bringing all industry to a
standstill.
Einstein.
Every hundred years or so there bobs up
some inquisitive bloke who isn’t satis-
fied with his three meals a day, a bed at
night and two bob each Way Lionschow
on Saturday, Whereas most of us are
content to accept obvious truths, such as
the heat of the sun, the wet of the rain,
the light of the stars and the incompre-
hensible nature of women, these odd
characters want to know why it is thus,
and whether or not the whicheverness
of the absolute is only partially so.
Thus there arose this Einstein, who
went poking and probing about with
sines and cosines and other weird articles
and presently proved that when we look
at a star’s light we don’t look straight at
it but in an arc or something. Anyhow,
the notion went and threw out of gear
all the previous scientific notions about
time, gravity and space, demonstrated
that mass is one thing and energy another,
though both constitute the same, and
started all those bores who’d read Wells’s
The Time Machine and set themselves up
as authorities in public bars, drovers’
camps and coffee-shops the moment the
Press began to write about “relativity.”
This “theory of relativity” set the
scientists agog some 30 years ago, and
they’ve been agogging ever since. Now
the old boy’s got them agogging more
than ever with an announcement about a
“generalised theory of gravitation” which,
it seems, attempts to explain the laws
governing gravitation and electro-magne-
tism, these, with the force which holds
together the atomic nucleus, being sup-
posed to make the “three fundamental
forces of the universe.” It took a war
to burst apart whatever holds the atomic
nucleus together, and at least one writer
on the new Einstein theory suggests that
we might now “have the key to the con-
quest of interplanetary space by revers-
ing gravity,” which would rather upset
the old axiom that what goes up must
come down.
As it is, we must wait until February
for Einstein to publish the details of his
new theory, though people arrested for
drunken driving needn’t suppose they can
get adjournments of their cases on the
ground that the new formulae might upset
calculations on the specific gravity of the
alcohol in the “three small beers” such
people invariably have.
Meantime, it - seems a pity that Mr.
J. T. Lang lost his seat in the Federal
elections. Imagine the scene in Canberra
had he retained it and, when the new
Parliament met, (arose and said “Mr.
Speaker, I desire to ask the Honorable
the Minister for Development, who is in
charge of the C.5.1.R.0., to explain to
this honorable House the new Einstein
theory and its effect upon the Common-
wealth Wheat Board.” And Mr. Casey’s
reply: “I assure the honorable member
that, as soon as I can obtain the infor-
mation, I shall place it before the House.”
(Uproar and cries of “It’s a Liberal plot!
Robbing the farmers!”) On the whole,
perhaps Einstein should be suppressed.
C.S.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The A.C.T.U. Incorrigible.
During the last three years of Chifley
and inflation the A.C.T.U. showed no
more inclination towards any effectual
steps to increase man-hour production
than did the Chifley Government itself.
When the late Prime Minister yielded to
A.C.T.U. demands to “raise wages and
peg prices” he set in train a vicious
spiral, and the A.C.T.U., for its part,
gave all its energies to a campaign for
a basic wage of £lO-a-week-and-bust.
The result is already seen in the
current sterile increases in quarterly
basic-wage rates. These futile but costly
rises arp mere mockery to wage-
earners and a tragedy to all pensioners
and others on small fixed incomes. The
failing value of the Australian pound-
note under the relentless impact of this
“Labor”-made inflation is Chifley’s
political monument. To the A.C.T.U.
belongs a great share of the blame.
No sooner was the Menzies Govern-
ment elected on a policy of dealing with
this inflation by every available correc-
tive means than A.C.T.U. spokesmen
leapt into publicity in defence of the
evil. To Mr. Menzies’s announcement that
he would seek early co-operation of the
unions against rising prices, the new
A.C.T.U. president replied with as much
reserve as though he were a potentate
meeting some treacherous approach by an
enemy. Since this was clearly a mistake
when Mr. Monk’s organisation represents
merely “Labor’s” failure in the ordering
of the national economy, and Menzies
has a clear endorsement from the Aus-
tralian people for his own proposals, the
Melbourne Trades Hall decided to intro-
duce a more cordial tone. Its secretary
declared his “belief” that “the A.C.T.U.
will be happy to discuss any industrial
question with the new Federal Govern-
ment” >
But only under certain conditions. The
Menzies Government is expected to
comply where Chifley jibbed, and to
“raise wages and peg prices and profits.”
The unions will want higher wages than
ever, says Mr. Stout, plus extra paid
annual holidays; and he says not one
word about lifting union limitations on
man-hour output to provide the where-
withal. Apparently Mr. Menzies is re-
quired to embark on a wholesale subsi-
dising of all commodity prices at the tax-
payers’ expense—a move to which even
Mr. Chifley could not be persuaded by
the union pressure-group which rode him
like an Old Man of the Sea. And the
A.C.T.U. is still adamant against any
system of incentive payments for harder
work, though the Arbitration Courts,
Federal and State, recommend it, and
both the Socialist Government in Britain
and the T.U. Congress there have been
obliged to require all unions to work
harder and forgo wage claims as part of
the collective effort for national recovery.
One Australian union, that of the
Manufacturing Grocers, has even been
told by its Federal secretary at its
biennial conference that labor-saving
machinery introduced to restrain mount-
ing costs of production is so overtaking
shortages that it is threatening to satisfy
home-market demands, “and so produce
unemployment”! That is how these
“Labor” planners have always talked.
This particular spokesman ties his tail to
his horns by concluding that when mar-
ket demands are met, since “production
follows profits,” the result would be,
“briefly, no profits, no production,” and
so the works would stop.
The new Government is not likely to
spend much time debating such fatuous
nonsense With union spokesmen who,
judging by these expressions, do not
want to combat inflation. Why should
they? Inflation was their own cherished
baby.
A New Blair Athol Move.
After the big let-down over the English
proposition to work the Blair Athol coal-
fields, Queenslanders will have a cautious
outlook on a new statement that an
American concern is thinking of taking
on the job of development, in the process
spending about £l2 million, building a
standard-gauge line 150 miles to the
coast, installing a port at or near Mackay
and taking out million tons of coal a
year.
Nobody has been satisfied that the full
story of the collapse of the original plan
—whereby the English Electric Supply
Corporation was to spend £lB million for
similar purposes —has ever been fully
told. It is no exaggeration to say that
the Queensland vote against Federal
“Labor” in the recent elections was influ-
enced by a belief that the Communist-
led Miners’ Federation had somehow got
at the ex-Prime Minister to block Blair
Athol, and that the English people, whose
representatives ,were here for several
months and got striking evidence of the
Communist power in coal, decided that
their money was safer at home.
Whatever the truth of all that, the first
Blair Athol plan collapsed. It was a
blow to Queensland, which had seen in
the scheme vast industrial development
for the centre and the north and escape
from its dependence on the south for
power and manufactured goods.
That there is more than rumor in the
latest announcement seems clear in that
D. M. Corrie, boss of Blair Athol Open Cut
Mines, Ltd,, has lent his name to it. He
said there had been an American plan
last August to build a conveyor-belt
system to the coast at a cost of £8 mil-
lion, and the new plan replaced that.
Another name was that of Major E. B.
Nevin, a shareholder in Blair Athol, who
was on MacArthur’s Brisbane staff during
the war. The Americans are said to only
await a guarantee of a market for the
coal in the Philippines, in Victoria and
South Australia before hopping into it.
Two things are certain about Blair
Athol. It is the biggest single deposit of
black coal in the world. Tests show a
proven 200 million tons of it within 70ft.
of the surface, with possibly 500 million
tons all told, AH it needs is management
and transport, and it could well put this
country beyond the tyranny of the deep-
coal pits in N.S.W., aside from the trans-
formation of central and north Queens-
land.
Australia now has a Commonwealth
Government committed to suppress Com-
munist interference with industry and
national progress, and to encourage free
enterprise and investment for all it’s
worth. That’s the only kind of Govern-
ment likely to encourage American capi-
tal and industrial brains to this country.
A "Fiahf 1 for 1950.
M “ign •
T . _ . » incn nlrW
In its first issue for 1950 Sy
and most conservative daily p JL
headed one of ds more imp „
items Beer Will Still Be S ’
and said:
Thousands in Sydney had a hard fight
getting their Christmas and New Year oeer.
And it looks as if the fight this year will
be just as hard
It then proceeded to interview the presi-
dent of the publicans’ guild, or associa-
tion, or whatever it is, who said awe-
somely that he couldn’t see “production
overtaking demand in 1950,” and put the
shortage down to more drinkers, more
pending-power and shortages of hops.
labor, casks and bottles
• r c P fx? er added that iLf "P „ nver
6Cem mnnrpd with
gallons, co P
2,957,750 gallons in Sep , •
This suggests that eit S
population has nearly doubled itself m
10 years or is drm g
pe it hplain'that the availability or other-
and 6
nation’s largest dty. Press and public
tSk about beer as though it were the
first essential to life. The fact that there
is no beer or there is beer gets as much
prominence in the news as anything else,
And about all Sydney people ever hear
of their hinterland is whether or not
Bogan Gate, or Boggabilla, or Palla-
mallawa has run out of beer.
Quoted headline and paragraph are
symptomatic of this absurd business. No
wonder visitors from other States express
astonishment and wonder when they en-
counter this extraordinary public mani-
festation.
In one sense the Press can hardly be
blamed. The “on”-ness or “off”-ness
0 f boej. j s neV y S j n Sydney, and
thousands are elated or deflated accord-
ingly. All the same, the Press ought to
ask itself whether the thing isn’t being
overdone. If all the beer dried up for a
year Sydney would survive ; life doesn’t
end for anybody who can’t buy a bottle
0 f j t And recording with breathless
ijahtAcf- word cnmp
urgency tne lightest word oi some
brewer or publican on the subject, as
*ou gh it were as importont as the stot
ot Mim§ter ’ encourages
the
. p- ,l
That retrol JJOllar Content.
n trf G overnment at Canberra, t™
ing to make the facts of p etro l supply fit
his political predilections for control and
rationing, told the State Premiers—and
the Australian people at large—that there
was no petro j to f, e obtained abroad
except f or dollars, which were not
ayailable> eithef p remi er H anlon, of
Queensland, expressed the general public
he was not going to
Tf argument between Mn
a ? d , Mr - Fadd J n fl convinced
nobody that Mr Chifley really
wanted to P? tro1 ’ especially m
Jhe light of his antagonism o
the Ampol company when it said it
could bring m big supplies of dolkr-
petrol if only it could get a permit
fr °m Mr. Chifley. Other oil companies
statements—especially those semi-official
ones current at most service-stations
seemed to confirm that there was ample
as well as Ampol petrol available if the
Government wanted it.
What agreement in self-demal on
behalf of Australia did Mr. Chifley really
( Continued on next page.)
TRYING THEM FOR SIZE.


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
CRMEK
M
i
•>%*!
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVENA”
-i /i
M
G435E/R
P CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
make with the British Socialist Govern-
ment?
The question is of some importance
in view of news that British and American
oil interests are fighting each other like
tigers for the Japanese market, into which
each of them is apparently eager to pour
unlimited quantities of crude oil for dol-
lars, sterling, or even for nothing. The
British say certain Anglo-Japanese tenders
were cancelled in Tokyo because the
Americans alleged that the British oil was
of “too high a sulphur content and would
corrode refinery plant.” The Americans
then agreed to “give” Japan oil, to be
paid for out of American financial aid to
Jap industry.
Japan, of course, has her own refineries.
Australia’s are inadequate. But even
if the Chifley Government had wanted to
buy Jap-refined petrol’as well as Japanese
steel, that would not have been permitted
under the British agreement, for pro-
ceeds from the British oil “could not
at any stage become convertible into
dollars or used for purchases where
dollars were otherwise required.” (A.A.P.
report.) This may be all very right and
proper, but it shows how some of that
so-called “dollar-content” that Mr. Chifley
was always harping on can be introduced
into any overseas petrol.
New York “Journal of Commerce”
reported the other day that U.S. oil com-
panies were losing customers to expand-
ing British oil trade by reason of British
Government’s restrictions against Ameri-
cans’ selling on a sterling basis. Yet
Mr. Chifley used to tell us that there was
no sterling petrol anywhere which Aus-
tralia could tap, and that America would
not sell petrol except for dollars.
One American critic commented last
week that “an international oil war is
long overdue.” May it come soon. The
first signs of it are perhaps visible in
the Anglo-American differences over the
recognition of the Communist regime in
China; that was how the back-room boys
taught the world to interpret similar
Anglo-American differences in the mid-
’twenties over the recognition of the
Soviet Government.
Points
If newspaper reports have it correctly,
Australia celebrated the Christmas and
New Year season with unprecedented
enthusiasm and good spirits. It could
have been that the Christmas election,
having removed the threat of socialisa-
tion, added to the general joy. Nobody
feels more lighthearted than the man with
a load off his back.
If Einstein can be persuaded to drop
work on his new theory for a few
minutes his services would be valued by
the Commonwealth Electoral Depart-
ment, now engaged on the task of sifting
the Senate votes; in the mainland
States the split-up begins this week. Pro-
portional-representation counting is a
simple matter to men like Einstein; to
lesser minds it seems slightly complicated.
First the total number of valid votes cast
is divided by one more than the number
of candidates and one is added to this
result. This gives the “quota.” Any
candidate who has polled the quota in
first-preference votes is automatically
elected. The surplus votes of the elected
candidate are then distributed on the
basis of second preferences, in the pro-
portion the surplus bears to the total
votes cast for the candidate. As other
candidates obtain their quota the process
is repeated with their surplus votes. If
by this time the required number of
members has not been elected the candi-
date with the lowest number of votes is
eliminated and so on until the team is
complete.
Tasmania uses proportional representa-
tion in Assembly elections. This may
explain why Tassie’s Senate count was
completed before the other States got
properly into their stride. The more
likely reason is that outside the two main
party groups there were only three candi-
dates in the Speck—two Communists and
an Independent—and they polled less
than 4000 votes between them. The re-
sult in Tasmania —four Liberal Senators
and three “Labor” —is likely to be re-
peated in every State except S.A., where
the Chifley party will almost certainly
pick up the odd seat.
Even in Tasmania the counting is often
a marathon affair; in 1946 in the divi-
sion of Denison six members were re-
quired, and there were 18 candidates.
The last of the six seats was not decided
until the 208th count. New South Wales
has 23 names on the Senate card and
South Australia 25. Come in, Einstein!
Speculation on the future of top-rank
“Labor” appointees such as Coles and
Wilson has died down for the time being,
and the seers are trying to read the horo-
scope of Doc. Evatt’s mystery man, Sam
Atyeo. There’s a report from America
that Sam intends to resume his farming-
p/MJ-painting career in France. No one
seems to have hazarded a guess on the
future occupation of D. A. Mountjoy,
of C.5.1.R.0. —or, for that matter, of the
Communist Rudkin of the same address.
During the Federal-election campaign
“Labor” speakers had a lot to say about
the millions allegedly poured out by their
opponents in an effort to secure their
defeat. The Socialists seemed to be in
complete agreement about the existence
of the millions, but not so unanimous
about the origins of the dough. The main
school of thought accused the Libs of
having unlimited backing from the trad-
ing banks and other “vested interests” ;
another, with Cal well as jeer-leader, while
not disputing this main thesis, claimed
to have proof that Casey had made a
special trip to Britain to raise funds for
the overthrow of the Government,
The A.L.P., of course, was held out to
be an impoverished party, running its
campaign on a shoestring; nothing was
said of the flood of thinly-disguised
propaganda put out by the departments
of Information and Post-war Reconstruc-
tion at public expense. It is much the
same story in Britain, where Attlee’s
Socialists talk of the unlimited funds at
the disposal of the Conservatives;
Herbert Morrison recently uttered dark
hints of invoking the penal clauses of
the electoral laws to prevent steel com-
panies and other concerns from printing
propaganda against nationalisation. This
brought a reply from a former Conserva-
tive Minister for Information, Geoffrey
Lloyd, who accused Morrison of “trying
to focus public attention on electoral ex-
penses and make people forget their own
living expenses.” He said that under the
Socialists the Central Office of Informa-
tion had spent about £6 million in home
propaganda in the last three years, and
he quoted the Ullswater Committee as
saying that Ministerial statements “neces-
sarily have some political flavor and tend
to stress the beneficence of Government
activities.”
Roy Morgan’s Gallup poll was un-
cannily accurate in its final pre-election
forecast, which gave .the Lib.-C.P. 50
per cent, of the votes; the actual figure
was 50.45 per cent. His interpretation of
how these figures would work out in
terms of seats was not so good; “The
chances of either party winning by a sub-
stantial majority of the seats seems re-
mote.”
Dilapidated schools and tumbledown
hospitals are features of the McGirr land-
scape, and every time the McGirrs are
chipped about it they come out with
something about no money, no materials,
no men. Yet they’re cheerfully going
ahead with a new suburban railway that
will absorb vast quantities of all three
and which is nowhere near as urgent as
hospitals and schools.
Never introduce your fairy to a
Pharaoh.
The hurry-up boys are at work trying
to talk the new Government into a pre-
mature announcement of the lifting of
petrol-rationing. Nothing is surer than
that Menzies and Fadden will free petrol
as soon as they can, as by doing so they
will not only be making good an election
undertaking, but will also be demonstrat-
ing that the Chifley Government was
wrong in saying it couldn’t be done. But
they must first make sure that the lifting
will be permanent; to cut out rationing
and then have to reimpose it would be
worse than not lifting it at all.
Seems strange that Australia under the
Chifley Government couldn’t get petrol
anywhere, when it looks as though sterling
petrol and dollar petrol were, and still
are, fighting each other for delivery to
Japan—in the form of crude oil, of
course, but still it finishes up, according
to latest reports, with U.S.A. giving the
stuff to the Japs. The remedy for such
necessities is apparently to become an
occupied, defeated country.
Tasmania did not resume petrol-ration-
ing when the other States did—its Legisla-
tive Council knocked the bill back —yet
the holiday period found just as many
Apple Island motorists on the roads as
usual. And none of them seemed short
of petrol.
Aikens, the “North Queensland Labor
party” member in the Queensland House,
says N.Q. was “politically aroused” by the
Federal elections (in which it threw out
all candidates with “Labor” pretensions of
any kind) and his “party” intends to con-
test nine N.Q. seats in the State elections,
Aikens will find N.Q. politically aroused
all right.
South Australia intends to give the
portable-home idea a trial, 800 timber and
fibre prefabs to be erected this year by
the Housing Trust. Chief merits of the
scheme are low cost —estimated at about
£6OO a time —and simplicity of erection
and removal. The danger with any tem-
porary housing scheme is that it may be
allowed to become permanent, with a con-
sequent fall in general standards, and
some Adelaide architects are taking a
gloomy view of the plan. The essential
point is what is understood by “tempo-
rary” ; Playford’s guess is that the prefabs
will be needed for seven years.
The McGirr official gamble announced
at the end of the year that it had sold
more than 22 million tickets in 1949, an
average of seven for every person in
N.S.W., and the net profit was £1,157,750.
This is supposed to be whacked up among
the State’s public hospitals. They don’t
look as though they get much, though
at 3d. a time ticket-agents must have
whacked up a fair sum among them.
Recounts took place last week in
Bendigo and Fawkner, the only two
Representatives seats in which the first
figures were questioned ; in each case the
protesting Liberal picked up a few votes,
but not enough to alter the result. P. J.
Clarey, of the A.C.T.U., won Bendigo
for “Labor” by 152 votes, and in
Fawkner W. M. Bourke, his colleague,
got home by 27. This was the narrowest
win of the election, but another Burke,
the sitting member for Perth, had a close
call to retain his seat by 81.
Queensland is to have its Royal Com-
mission on the Golden Casket, but there
seems to be considerable room for doubt
whether the results will satisfy those who
asked for it; certainly the terms of refer-
ence don’t satisfy Opposition - leader
Nicklin or Bruce Pie, who first asked for
the probe—they maintain that the terms
don’t permit sufficient inquiry into Golden
Investments. Premier Hanlon’s attitude,
that he has granted a Royal Commis-
sion and that should be the end of com-
plaints, seems a little unwise. He was
in London on December 10, but any
Federal “Labor” man who campaigned in
Queensland could tell him of the un-
seasonable cold breeze that came from
the Casket storm —and Hanlon’s own
polling-day is only a few months off.
Trouble-centre on the waterfront has
shifted temporarily from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, where the two holiday weekends
saw the port tied up because of the re-
fusal of watersiders to accept employ-
ment. The Commonwealth issued a
summons against the Federation after the
Christmas stoppage, but Clarke, the
wharfies’ secretary, informed the Press
that this “would make no difference,” as
he had told his members to cease work
on Friday and not to resume until yester-
day, Under the Chifley regime if a union
secretary stuck his neck out there was
usually someone there to scratch it for
him; Clarke may find that times have
changed.
A few weeks ago a correspondent
in the Adelaide “Advertiser” put
forth a novel scheme for over-
coming tramway losses. Arguing
that when the tramway systems were laid
down motor-cars were a novelty, he said
that times had changed and “motor-
owners have left the rest of the public to
carry the baby” ; people who drive their
own. car to and from business or the races
are, he argued, “bilking” the tramways.
His solution: bump up car-registration
fees and hand the surcharge to the tram-
ways. A broadminded fellow, apparently,
he concluded, “No exception can be taken
to people owning motor-cars, so long as
they do not involve others in a burden
which they should share.” The signatory
was G. E. Yates. There was nothing to
indicate whether he was the G. E. Yates
who was “Labor” M.H.R. for Adelaide
back in the ’twenties or whether either
was identical with the G. E. Yates who
stood as an Independent Senate candi-
date on December 10. If so, the South
Australian electors didn’t think much of
his scheme; they gave him 343 votes.
U.N.O. is now being defied by five
member-States, including one of the latest-
joined, Israel. S, Africa and the U.K.
are both bucking the Trusteeship Council,
the one on the question of annexing the
mandatory (former German) South-West,
and the other on the demand for U.N.
supervision over Britain’s colonial empire
in Africa. With this British stand France
and Belgium conform. Israel has re-
jected U.N. resolutions against moves to
make Jerusalem the Israeli seat of gov-
ernment. But all this is nothing to the
disagreement due to break out over
China’s permanent seat.
An American has come out with the
statement that the “flying saucers”
allegedly seen over the U.S.A. in recent
months are “space-ships from another
planet.” A more reasonable theory is that
they’re the words Chifley and Co. wasted
in the Federal election, still looking for
somewhere to roost.


tn
LU
£
§
CO
LXJ
CJ3
z
CD
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTUR
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the bank-fowl freed from the
threat of plucking, Leslie James
McConnan, chairman of the Associated
Banks of Victoria throughout the
nationalisation campaign (normally the
chair rotates annually), feels he can now
relax back with his own National Bank,
of which he’s been chief manager since
1935. Taking over the Associated chair,
Aubrey Roy Wiltshire, g.-m. of the Bank
of Australasia, is an Old Digger ; now 58,
he left with the 22nd Battalion, A.1.F., in
1915, served overseas for the rest of that
war, and came back with C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
M.C. and four mentions. In Hitler’s war
he was for a time Inspector-General of
Administration in the Defence Depart-
ment, ranking brigadier. Both bankers
are sons of clergymen.,
“Nego”: Kyancutta, in the centre of
Eyre Peninsula, is normal in that it has
the usual country post-office, garage, add
so on: there normalcy ends. It holds as
well one of the finest museums and
libraries to be found outside a capital
city, collected by Robert Bedford, Oxford
graduate and one-time man-on-the-land.
The museum includes an exceptional
collection of fossils, a suit of Cromwellian
armor, one qf Bell’s first telephones, a
copy of Sydney’s first newspaper, Roman
apparel circa first to fifth centuries a.d.,
a sarcophagus, gold coins minted six
centuries ago, abo, and Polynesian handi-
crafts and weapons, fish-lore, bird-life
and a human anatomy section. Not less
remarkable is the library, holding many
first editions centuries old—among them
The Alcoran, The Mabinogion (Wales’s
first book) and the Decameron, all in the
first translations. As practical as his
collection is remarkable, Bedford, with
no doctor within a hundred miles, has
ministered to several locals, though he is
not a doctor. But he is an astronomer
and meteorologist, and five times daily
relays reports to the Perth-Adelaide air-
liners flying overhead —a link between the
old and the new.
Back in Maoriland after a visit to Eng-
land, John Gordon, gold-dredging expert
from Malaya and designer of probably
the world’s largest dfedge. Capable of
operating 180 ft. below water-level, it
beats its nearest rival, also of Gordon
design, by 45ft. Gordon runs a fleet of 15
gougers in Malaya and Siam, with one
of them clanking in Australia. Hailing
from the Central Otago town of Alex-
andra, he was well-known in those parts
in the heyday of the gold-dredging boom.
Now rounding off his senior-officer’s
course at the Imperial Defence College,
Captain Herbert James Buchanan,
D. 5.0., R.A.N., will return to command
Flinders Naval Depot, the springboard of
every recruit to (the Australian Flefet.
With the characteristic übiquity of Aus-
tralians in the last scrap, Buchanan was
in at Dunkirk, driving destroyer Valen-
tine. Caught by two Junkers 88 eggs in
the Scheldt while supporting the French
7th Army, Valentine found herself supl-
- by the bed of the river, leaving 81
survivors up top. Evacuated to England,
Buchanan returned in quick time to take
charge of pier parties on the final night
of the evacuation. With that over, he
took command of destroyer Vanity, (she
was the savage little boat which beat the
life out of three U-boats in the Mediter-
ranean in one day), then returned to Navy
Office in Melbourne. Once a destroyer
man always one, and in 1943 Buchanan
was again afloat on the bridge of de-
stroyer Norman, then one of the screen of
the Eastern Battle Fleet. Seventeen
months later he was captain of his flotilla,
driving destroyer Napier. Napier was
unique in that, a destroyer, she was h.q.
ship for the Akyab, Myebon and Ramree
Island landings, which led to Rangoon’s
recapture. A few months later Buchanan
was the first bluejacket ashore in de-
feated Japan, when he landed at Yoko-
suka dockyard in command of the British
landing force. Gunnery is his baby.
First Minister of Maoriland’s new Gov-
ernment to go overseas, F. W. Doidge,
who, as Minister of External Affairs, will
represent it at the Ceylon Conference.
Son of a N.S.W. country newspaper-
owner, Doidge crossed the Tasman young
to journalise in Auckland, having quali-
fied for the Inky Way by experience as
copy-boy, compositor, machinist and
reporter. Shifting to England, he rose
rapidly to become Lord Beaverbrook’s
right-hand man in the control of
his string of journals. Doidge it
was who secured cartoonist Low
from the London “Star” for the
“Evening Standard.” Retiring on pension
in 1935, Doidge returned to M.L. to enter
politics. Beverley Baxter, in Strange
Street, has something to say of the Maori-
lander’s work in Fleet-street. Referring
to Beaverbrook he wrote: “Throughout
his expeditions he was sustained and
stage-managed by the faithful Fred
Doidge, a New Zealander with a
maternal heart and an lago brain, whose
loyalty to his chief would not have
stopped at death.”
Leaving Sydney “Herald” for Mel-
bourne “Herald,” cartoonist John Frith,
formerly of The Bulletin. Sydney
“Herald” is now hotfoot after another
cartoonist.
Retired on Christmas Eve, Percy
Hutton, 73-year-old South Australian
superintendent of the Australian Wheat
Board. He had planned to retire before
the late war, but his wide knowledge of
grain matters made him the board’s in-
evitable choice to supervise the State’s
war-time grain storage. As a youth he
played for S.A. in Sheffield cricket, and
later, as bowls player, was runner-up in
the British Empire Pairs Championship.
The Last Post has sounded at Digs-
well, Herts. (Eng.), for Claude Stanley
Smith, an Old Fortian who sailed in the
Afric with the First Battalion of the first
contingent to leave Australia in 1914. In
at the Landing, he was on Gallipoli until
he was blown up and buried in the Lone
Pine savagery. Invalided to England, he
became a permanent resident, and in
1938 was in the guard-of-honor at the
unveiling by the King of the Australian
War Memorial at Villers-Bretonneux.
The original of his diary covering the
period from the outbreak of war to Lone
Pine has been acquired by the Mitchell
Library.
Herewith a Whiting impression of the
man now wearing the vacant Attorney-
NEW ATTORNEY-GENERAL.
General shoes of H. V. Evatt —Senator
John Armstrong Spicer. Barrister and
solicitor since 1921, Spicer had four war-
time years as a Victorian Senator, during
half that time chairing the Senate Com-
mittee on Regulations and Ordinances.
Though born at Armadale (Vic.), he learnt
his pothooks at Torquay, on the south
English coast, and developed them at
Melbourne University, leaving there with
his law degree. Keen-brained, and of a
likeable, unassuming character, the new
Attorney-General’s first and most import-
ant function will be in his own legal
sphere—dealing with Communists. He is
60.
Scored here by Lambart, Dr. Dalley-
Scarlett, musician, of Brisbane. What he
HONORED BY HALLE.
doesn’t know about Handel and his works
it’s not much use asking the next man
about; in recognition of this encyclo-
paedic knowledge the doctor recently re-
ceived from the Lord Mayor of Halle, in
Germany, Handel’s birthplace, the Halle
Handel Medal, one of -the world’s out-
standing musical honors. The Brisbane
musico is the first Australian to win the
medal, a 4in.-wide, thick bronze plaque
which, since its institution in 1930, has
gone outside Germany only twice. Actu-
ally awarded in 1940, its acceptance had
been delayed by Hitler. Founder, in
Brisbane, of the only Handel Society in
Australia, the doctor has been a student
of Handel since he first knew a crotchet
from a stave, and his collection of the
master’s first editions is probably the
finest of its kind. Some of his editions
are unprocurable now even in Europe,
and Halle’s Lud Mayor has asked the
local expert for some of his writings and
research work to be included in that city’s
Handel Museum. A keen linguist, the.
doctor owns acquaintance with archaic
and modern Greek, French, German,
Russian and Arabic. Born in England in
1890,“ he plays tennis, is a voracious
reader, recently conducted “The Messiah”
for the A.B.C. in Brisbane and loves cats.
The cove who had a shot at burgling
Justice Owen’s home in Sydney recently,
and won for himself a spirited scrap on
the lawn with the owner, might have been
less surprised had he known a bit about
his intended victim. An Old Digger, the
judge enlisted at 15, joined the Second
Division in France in 1916 and fought
through the Somme battles and the Flers
and Gaudecourt winter of 1916-17. His
efforts there won him inclusion in the
select band which first used Bangalore
torpedoes to blow the German wire ,at
Bullecourt, carrying across no-man’s
land 20ft. water-pipes crammed with h.e.
Wounded at Passchendaele later in 1917,
he came back for more, and in 1918 was
badly gassed and burned at Mericourt.
Having had enough of the ground, he
came out of hospital and shifted to the
A.F.C.; he had just pinned his fighter-
pilot wings when the cease-fire rang.
Back home, he took on law, and was
called to the Bar in 1923, where he once
startled the court and an expert witness
by picking the lock of a safe. Made
K.C. in 1935, he was appointed acting-
judge the next year, thus following in his
father’s and grandfather’s footsteps. In
1937 his appointment was made per-
manent, and there he’s been since, with
a four-year interruption in World War
II to chair the Central Wool Committee,
one of the country’s most successful war-
time organisations.
J. J. McDonald, new district superin-
tendent of the Queensland Bush
Children’s Health Scheme, which brings
kids from the far inland for a spell by a
sea they would probably otherwise never
sight, has begun a 4000-mile tour of the
scheme’s area. Travelling from Brisbane,
through Maryborough, Townsville, Col-
linsville and the Gulf country, he will try
to convince graziers en route against their
argument that the scheme and its city
lights tend to unsettle the young out-
backers. Begun in N.S.W. 25 years ago,
the organisation now rates 30 branches ;
it plans to spend £20,000 bn a new brick
building at Redcliffe, one of the northern
capital’s bathing meccas.
*“M.”: Passed on into the music of the
spheres, veteran Brisbane organist and
conductor George Sampson. Born in
England, where at 27 he was music-master
and precentor of Brighton College,
already with a reputation for fine organ
musicianship, he came to Brisbane in
1898 as organist of St. John’s Cathedral.
At that time a superb four-manual organ
by Willis was offering for sale in Brisbane
at £3OOO. Toowoomba on the Downs had
its musical eye on it —so* did organ-lover
Sampson. He at once began a series of
recitals which roused up, as well as £2OO,
public interest in the purchase. The City
Council did the rest, and now the instru-
ment, which Sampson was playing until
a few months ago, is still on active service
in the City Hall’s auditorium. To Samp-
son music was life —with the organ safe,
he conceived the Queensland State and
Municipal Orchestra, and conducted and
cajoled its growth for 31 years, when the
A. merged its maturity into the
present Brisbane Symphony Orchestra.
All this time Sampson bad been gathering
musical masterpieces into a fine library
which he presented to the State for the
use of the new orchestra when it was
established in 1938. Composer, textbook
author and musical adviser to Brisbane
University, he was 88 at the Last Chord.
The first interchange of conductors be-
tween the 8.8. C. and the A.B.C. will
occur when Joseph Post, the diminutive
associate-conductor of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, exchanges in April with
Charles Groves, conductor of the 8.8.C.’s
Northern Regional Orchestra. A chorister
at St. Paul’s, London, Groves joined the
B. as chorus-master and then got his
present position, in which he has con-
ducted 700 concerts. Joseph Post, whose
parents prophetically middle-named him
Mozart, was something of an infant
prodigy of music. He was the first man
to be professor of two instruments at the
Sydney Con. —piano and oboe. He con-
ducted grand-opera seasons for both
J.C.W. and Fuller’s, has been a guest
conductor in Adelaide and Melbourne,
toured abroad, served in the late war
(gaining his majority), and has been an
A.B.C. conductor since 1933.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 75, Thomas Mellon, who, with
his mate Jim Willis, thoroughly proved that
cattle-stations in the West were practicable and
payable. In 1904 they left Leonora to open
up, in virgin land, 250 miles to the north,
Wongawol station, which they fostered into
one of the State’s biggest. In the bush since
he was 12, Mellon was conceded by old-timers
to be one of the finest bushmen in the West.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 62, P. E. Pattrick,
public accountant who, in World War I, was
liquidator of German firms in Samoa after the
Maorilanders took possession. From 1920 till
1922 he was commissioner of Crown Estates
and acted as Public Trustee in Samoa, becom-
ing a Legislative Councillor there. Examiner
in accountancy at M.L. university and an
enthusiast in child-welfare, he was a big
light in Masonry.
In New York, in a train accident, Maori-
lander Dr. John Edward Lovelock, World
War II major in the R.A.M.C. and Olympic
champion miler. Brilliant scholar, as well as
athlete, he won three M.L. scholarships and
was a front-ranker in boxing, tennis and football
as well as long-distance running. In 1933 he ran
a world-record mile at Princeton (New Jersey),
clocking 4 minutes 7.6 seconds. After the
war he settled in the U.S., his special interest
infantile paralysis in a New York clinic.
At 56, in Sydney, Sidney Garnett Bell,
BHP’s Sydney manager. Born at Normanton
(N Q.) educated at Brisbane Grammar, he was
the co’’s representative in his home State before
crossing, as manager, to Westralia. Sydney
manager for the past 12 years, he was a son of
Colonel Bell, who was chief-engineer of Queens-
land’s Railways and the first Commissioner of
the Commonwealth Railways.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Sackfair”: I’m all for the good old
Christmas customs and traditions, but this
Christmas-card business is beginning to
get me worried. Bill sent me a card
again this Christmas ; he hasn’t missed for
eight years now. Most people would have
got the huff if they hadn’t had a reply
to the first one. But not old Bill; his is
the kind of friendship that gives and
expects nothing in return. He doesn’t
waste words or go in for a lot of well-
wishing ; hjs only contribution is invari-
ably scrawled just beneath the gold
lettering—never more nor less than
“From Bill.” Good old Bill! I wonder
if he’ll ever wake up to the fact that Bill
is a pretty common name, and a surname
or an address would unravel things a bit!
* * * *
“Col M.”; My New Year resolutions
lie battered around me. I have leaped
about wildly and cursed the hillbilly
singers that come through my radio in
the morning—and I said I wouldn’t. And
because of this same weakness of my
character my neighbor’s white Orpington
was kicked back over the fence when in
1950 it started in my bean-patch where
it had left off in ’49. I still smack my
child when she errs despite the book on
the psychology of children, presented to
“But, darling, if I drive slowly everybody will KNOW I'm only a beginner
me by an aunt at Christmas and which
I had sworn to follow. Because of these
smashed ideals and a dozen others like
them, I might feel a thoroughly fickle clod
with no willpower if it was not for one
resolution that X haven’t broken, I said
as the year died that I would never again
approach a Sydney taxicab and plead-
ingly look through the window and ask
the driver if he could possibly drive me
to where I wanted to go. No! I’d
beckon the cab and keep my mouth but-
toned up till I sat inside and then I’d
demand to be taken where I willed, men-
tioning casually in the conversation the
number of cab-drivers in this city who
have lost their licences recently for not
complying with such requests. My debts
incurred over Christmas should render
this resolution inviolate for at least six
months.
* * * »
“8.A.K.”: The one maxim that has
remained with me from childhood is:
“A good action loses half its value every
time the doer mentions it,” Perhaps it
gained special significance because I first
heard it about the time the local mayor
gave us schoolkids a lecture on civic pride.
During the half-hour we stood sweltering
in the sun while he droned on from a,
shaded veranda he five times cleverly
wove in the fact that he had presented
the school with a whole tin of biscuits.
My share turned out to be a solitary
wheatmeal one —the only kind I didn’t
like. Unhappily, our late mayor lives
today, in many different guises; his
generosity is astounding—when there is
a reporter and Press camera in attend-
ance. But recently my faith in human
nature was completely restored. I was
sitting in a cheap restaurant when a
waitress approached the woman at an
adjacent table and asked: “Would your
baby like an ice-cream? A gentleman
has just paid for an ice-cream for every
child here.” The gentleman, I presume,
was the quiet chap who had just un-
obtrusively made his exit. And he wasn’t
blotto either.
* H= * ♦
“Bo”: What I like about Govern-
ment in its management of a tight
monopoly is the delicate manner with
which it handles the sordid question of
payment for its commodity, so distinct
from the brutally forthright manner of
commerce. Take the telephone people.
I pass by the fact that I am not allowed
to buy a phone, though what I have paid
in rent during the period I have been a
“subscriber” would have bought possibly
a dozen instruments. Recently my phone
went dead when I went to make a call;
yet shortly afterwards I was able to take
an incoming call. Again I rang—dead
as Nero. A ring to Complaints from a
public phone-box brought a promise to
“look into it.” Two more days of a dead
outward phone, though incoming stuff
was normal, I rang again to Complaints,
and a further coy and cautious promise.
It was then I discovered that I had over-
looked paying the phone-bill. After it
was paid, another ring to Complaints;
by then suspicious, I mentioned that I
was now out of their debt. That brought
the magic response: if I would ring
Accounts they would have me recon-
nected. Soon afterwards the phone gave
a faint click, and I knew that, cleaving
to their motto of doing good only by
stealth, the department had graciously
put me back in touch with the world,
and I was now permitted to have a fire, a
seizure or some other emergency. But
how beautifully tactful to give me first
a guessing competition as to the cause of
the telephonic deadness!
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Those fakers of the
“Manchu Man-Fish” (B. 2/11/ ’49) could
have saved energy by taking a leaf from
the book of a Sydney showman of 30
years ago. He drew capacity houses with'
“My father Was an extremely modest man.”
the mummies of a merman and mermaid,
said to have been captured off Algiers. I
recall my juvenile thrill at the spruiker’s
description of the chivalrous manner in
which the male had been himself netted in
a courageous attempt to rescue his cap-
tured consort. The merfolk were chastely
garbed round the nether regions, and, to-
wards the end of the session, the ladies
were asked to leave as the barker “had
something of interest to point out to
the gentlemen in the audience.” In my
10-year-old precocity I hung back till
kicked out by the spruiker. My curiosity
was satisfied 20 years later by my first
close-up of a Torres Straits bull and cow
dugong. In general bone formation the
skull of the dugong so closely resembles
the human article that in 1934 an NT.
policeman, on the trail of a native
murderer, mistakenly produced as an ex-
hibit what was later identified as the top-
piece of an adolescent sea-mammal.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: I’m worried. Tas-
mania’s Director of Mental Hygiene, Dr.
Brothers, says that Tasmania is an ideal
place in which to set up an investigation
of the mental problems of inheritance, be-
cause of its size, insularity and static
population. If he’d left it at that I
wouldn’t be worrying. But he didn’t. He
went on to say that a further reason was
that cases of virtually every hereditary
mental disease occur here. Even this
would not have worried me unduly but
for the fact that, the day before, I read
his address. I’d read an article by an
eminent scientist who quoted the rhyme:
Look at the happy moron!
He doesn’t care a damn.
I wish I were a moron.
My goodness! Perhaps I am.
* * * *
“F.S.”: There has been considerable
glorification of Ned Kelly in Australia,
but local admirers of the outlaw are com-
pletely outclassed by Jean Cassou,
eminent Parisian art critic. Overcome
by the spectacle of Sydney Nolan’s pic-
tures of the hero, he let himself go in this
wise: “Nolan is the singer of a
marvellous chronicle of knighthood and
romance.” So our Ned has been put in
the same niche as Sir Galahad and King
Arthur. As for our Nolan, the critic
says: “With Nolan’s exhibition Aus-
tralian painting appears as a new revela-
tion.... he has astonishing imagination
we feel in his work something instinc-
tive, truly primitive he is a painter
who creates in us a wonder of something
new being born.” M. Cassou reminds one
of the critic who remarked of the author
of the famous drainpipe statue that he was
a “Don Quixote of art tilting against
shams.” The sculptor was a Dutchman
who for a joke sent to the Paris Salon a
statue of a toreador made out of drain-
pipes, with the protruding viscera of the
horse made of old bicycle tubes, and, to
his astonishment, woke up next morning
to find himself famous. He was taken so
seriously by all the critics that in the
end he took himself seriously. An Aus-
tralian artist who saw him in his studio
numbering the drainpipes and packing
them for transport to another capital for
exhibition said: “But X thought it was a
joke on your part.” “It was no joke,”
said the sculptor solemnly. “It was my
unconscious speaking.” Paris has always
been the home of bull as well as the
world’s artistic Mecca, and it is riot in the
least surprising that it has been taken in
by painting that has no more Eesthetic
quality than the Dutchman’s drainpipes.
“Rooster”: Most-appreciated Christ-
mas dinner I ever saw was in Aleppo,
Syria, in 1941. An unusually harsh
winter forced even the hardened nomads
into the city, and the very mixed off-
spring of the multifarious Syrian races
were in the habit of congregating daily
around the main entrance of our M.D.S.
It seemed a natural gesture to organise a
bit of a beano for them on Christmas
Day. Supplies were limited, but we
pooled our A.C.F. hampers and had
access to some Red Cross consignments.
The result was well worth the trouble.
Some 300 youngsters turned up. They
massacred the piles of sandwiches, cakes
and scones, stuffed themselves with
tinned plum-pudding and chocolate. Ice-
cream made their teeth ache ; most had
never tasted it before. It was a happy
mob of children that finally dispersed.
And, for the first time on record, the
mess orderlies had no scraps to collect.
Family economics in Syria allows for no
waste.
* * * *
“Mabsout”: Afiy Diggers recall “De
Gypshun Strongman” of Alexandria
(Egypt)? He was only a little chap, but
his chest, arms and shoulders were very
powerful. Carrying a little case contain-
ing his strongman’s gear he’d perambu-
late Alex, in an athletic singlet and tight
black riding-breeches. A few piastres
would send him through the usual muscle-
merchant’s repertoire—bending iron bars,
breaking chains, biting pieces out of
armorplate and so on —but his culminat-
ing act was to produce a solid 6in. nail
and offer to drive it through his biceps
for a pound. Several scars on his upper
arms seemed to prove his ability to do
it; but like “Ceg” and his beerbottle-
digester (B. ,30/11 / ’49) I never saw any-
one put down the money.
sj» SfS
“Curate’s Egg”: My memory of the
Pile Light (B. 2/11/ ”49) dates back to an
N.G.-bound convoy of 1942, from one of
whose vessels a case was dropped over-
board. The salvaged case,was opened by
the crew of a naval launch and found
to contain a marathon daisy-chain of
sausages. The crew of the Light was
hailed by megaphone and accepted the
proffered gift of the snags. • A light line
was lowered and attached to the leading
sausage, and from waterline to Light
they ascended in a manner which,
observed from a distance, was strikingly
reminiscent of the Indian rope-trick.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The notion that “cooked
meat should be cold before it is put in
the fridge” (B. 2/11/ ’49) is disproved by
Frood, a war-time accomplishment,
designed to provide American servicemen
with the type of home cooking Yanks
expect when abroad. Frood is frozen
straight from the oven. Enclosed in
moisture-proof wrapping it will keep for
years. It is Currently supplied in England
to hotels, restaurants and hospitals, and
its manufacturers visualise a world sup-
plied from a huge kitchen staffed by the
final exponents of the culinary art.
THE FLEETING DUTCHMAN.
“Holland has handed over the East Indies to the
Indonesians, who have renamed Batavia Jaearta.”
“It’s time to draw the Holland blind,”
Said Tasman to Mynheer Van Diemen,
“So let the world see we don’t mind,
And greet the Indonesian freemen:
It’s handing-over like a lamb
That puts the damn in Amsterdam.
“Yes, let’s be on our best behavior,”
Van Diemen said; “don’t act the martyr,
But say goodbye to old Batavia
And welcome to the new Jaearta:
Britain and India make it easier
For us to farewell Indonesia.
“We have to bow to modern fashions
When, during international sessions,
The pleasure of the member-nations
Is ceding other folks’ possessions:
Freedom for them is truly free
To give away with pounds of tea.
“And soon in that far southern land
You kindly christened with my name
Britons will rise at Evatt’s command
To follow us and do the same:
Nieuw Holland, too, from York to Gabo
Will be reverted to the Abo.”
Said Tasman, “I can’t see why not,
But no doubt Evatt had a reason
For tolerating such a blot;
However, he’s not there this season:
After his international bender
He’s left that point to Mr. Spender.”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Pitt St.”: Among those waiting in the
barber-shop was a garrulous chap who
had to tell the whole place what a good
Christmas he’d had. “Never see so many
presents round our place,” he said. “The
missus an’ kids was loaded down with
’em. Things for me, too. Never got so
many presents in me life.” A barber put
in with, “Yair. My oath, she was a good
Christmas. Plenty o’ money about.
Never bin so much money about before,”
“Yair,” said a derisive voice, “an’ what-
does it get y’? Plenty o’ money an’ look
what y’ pay for things. Man’d need thirty
quid a week't’ keep up with it.” Brief
silence. “Aw,” the barber said, “it ain’t
as bad as that. It don’t take” “You
oughter talk,” the derisive one interrupted.
“One time a man could get a haircut for
a deeper; what’s it cost now? Two an’
three an’ the blanky barber expects a tip,
too, what’s more,” After that a blessed
silence fell.
* * * *
“Plop”: Sydney dailies, to meet the
after-Christmas dearth of news, have been
featuring stories of the outrageous be-
havior of trains at Central Station, of the
holidaying thousands going away and
coming back. One paper had a picture of
a young lady who had returned from her
leisure and who sat resting her elbow on
“Just one more kiss , pet.”
her typewriter, looking wistfully into
space. Her holiday was over. Appar-
ently the compositors who added the
caption felt the same way. This is how
it read:
Many returned to work today with
week-end. Joan Aldridge, leaning on her
fond memories of the long Christmas
typewriter in a city office, was one of the
daydreamers , . ,
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I knew one wife who
frowned on her book-collecting husband
(B, 14/12//49), “He does nothing but
haunt the second-hand shops and attend
auctions,” she complained. “It’ll bring
us to the poorhouse in the end. It
wouldn’t be so bad if he bought books
worth reading, but they’re all dry old
rubbish.” The husband was killed in a
motor smash and left mighty little to his
widow. She decided to sell all the books,
and asked a man who knew something
about books to give her an idea of what
the collection was worth. The expert
started to take volumes off the shelves
—and began to whistle with astonishment.
“Good Lord,” he said. “These are first
editions. Here’s Ellis’s Polynesian Re-
searches and a first edition of Melville’s
Typee. Here’s a Mariner’s Tonga in
splendid condition!” In the end the
whole lot were boxed up and sent to the
U.S.A.; I have no idea what they fetched,
but the widow now draws a good income
from a row of shops. On the other hand,
I know of a “fine” library which aver-
aged only a bob a book when sold ;
popular novels of 20-30 years ago, whose
popularity died with their authors.
.** ♦ , *
“D.H.R.”: Unlike the Showman (B.
21/12/’49), I do not consider that the
listening audience was “royally served by
the splendid radio ‘Macbeth.’ ” I con-
fess I found the production unconvincing.
It is the essential role of an actor, in
Hugh Walpole’s words, “to finish the
unfinished creative work of the play-
wright,” Shakspeare, merely read, is an
unfinished Shakspeare, waiting for the
deft, understanding and energetic touch of
the creative actor to make the play the
masterpiece it really is. The radio
version of “Macbeth” failed, in my
opinion, because Anthony Quayle and
Diana Wynyard were not nearly creative
enough—and the actor discovering the
murdered Duncan and trying to convey
the horror in that speech about “sleep
that knits up the ravelled sleeve of care”
left me, metaphorically, cold. “Macbeth”
also failed because it was never intended
to be a radio play, despite the fact that
Anthony Quayle tried to whittle down
the disadvantages involved in radio pro-
duction. To my mind it was made
obvious that Shakspeare is as verbose as
Dickens, and I didn’t want to be made
aware of this, especially where the
dramatic element is so potentially power-
ful. I cannot question the actors’ tech-
nique, involving such discriminations as
timing and selection, but I do question —
with goodwill; the radio version must
have been devilish hard to produce—the
absence of conviction in the voices of the
actors. As I listened I wondered if the
voices emanated rather from a too-great
concern about how a thing should be
said than a belief in what was to be said.
, * * * *
“Dusty Mile”: In the words of
undertaker (B. 7 /12/*49)
“people do keep coming back to you.” I
knew a coffiner who would excuse his
anticipated absence from a social engage-
ment with “I don’t think I’ll be able to
make it tonight—l’m expecting a call.”
Then, in an explanatory whisper, “It’s
old So-and-so —they’re customers of
ours.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: Upon discovering that
somewhere around 100 million Ameri-
cans would rather miss their breakfasts
than the adventures of numerous “comic-
strip” heroes variously named Palooka,
Mandrake, Orphan Annie, Dick Tracy,
Superman, Vic Flint and so on, a Yank
university is to consider whether or not
the “comic-strip” can be used as an edu-
cational medium. I doubt it. The
moment a strip begins to carry a “mes-
sage” it will lose its public in just the
same way as novelists and short-story
writers do when they adopt
some cause or other. The strip
method jvas tried in the recent
Federal election by both sides,
and it’s a safe bet that it didn’t
swing a vote either way. In
the most popular strips the
heroes go splendidly on their
way defeating “crooks” irre-
spective of politics, wars, world
changes and human cataclysms.
And on the rare occasions
when they’re defending their
country it’s always against the
“agents of a foreign Power,”
which could be foreign to any-
body. No, comic-strips are
popular for the same reason
as films about lurv and
crooks, cowboys and Indians, pirates and
treasure-trove —the reason being that
people want to look at them as an escape
from reality, and the last thing they want
their strip to do is make them think.
Education must make, them think or be
wasted,
♦ ♦ *
“F.S.”: Musicians will be relieved to
hear that Dmitri Shostakovich, the
Russian composer, has purged himself of
his anti-democratic virus and been re-
stored to favor. His latest opus, “Song
of the Forests,” an oratorio dedicated to
Russia’s land-reclamation and forestry
plan, which praises Stalingrad workers
and collectivist farmers, was applauded at
its Moscow premiere for 10 minutes,
“Izvestia” remarking that “the composer
sincerely endeavors to answer the re-
quirements of the party and the people.”
Soviet asstheticians must be as simple as
our own if Shosta has succeeded in
pulling their legs with that old device of
the artist who is up against mob
The words that the composer used won’t
make any difference to the quality of the
music—some of the most glorious songs
“Could 1 tempt modom with these?”
in the language have been set to the
trashiest of verses. Shostakovich may be
doing what Titian did in his day. Titian
loved painting nudes, and the models he
used were the people with whom he was
surrounded —his wife or mistress and,
most frequently, his daughter. That sort
of thing is fashionable now, but it
was just not done in his day. So he
painted scores of Cupids, Dianas, Aphro-
dites, Madonnas and Child and Old
Testament subjects. But the same models
appeared in all his pictures,
* * * ♦
“A.E.S.”: Judgment as to who was
supreme among Purcell’s group of
composers (B. 23/11/ ’49) depends on how
greatness is to be assessed. The continued
popularity of a composer’s works should
be a good test. Purcell’s part-song
“Nymphs and Shepherds” is as fresh and
popular today as it was 300 years ago.
Any man who produces a work of such
universal appeal is not only great; he’s
phenomenal. Has any music by
Buxtehude, Monteverdi or Palestrina
worn so well as this composition of
Purcell’s? Admittedly Palestrinas
famous “Missa Papse Marcelli” did save
the day for polyphonic music. The
Council of Trent had intended to abolish
this type of music in churches because of
its decadence, corruption, complexity,
artificiality and the frequent irrelevance
of its subject-matter. This decision was
reversed when Palestrina performed the
titanic feat of constructing a major
polyphonic work that made sense when
performed; that is, with passages so
arranged that all voices would
occasionally be singing the same words at
the same time!
« ♦ * *
“Cauboy”; The killing of Madame
May Kovar by a circus lion in Cali-
fornia has moved newspaper critics in
Australia, who remember her mauling by
a lion at Penrith, to demand the excision
of all animal acts from circus perform-
ances on the ground of cruelty. No
doubt there is cruelty with individual
trainers, but Madame Kovar’s case is a
poor example. She was an English ballet-
dancer who married an Englishman, went
into the circus business, had two children
and then lost her husband. She married
the animal-trainer who. schooled the
beasts for the film “Tarzan,” had another
child and all were brought up in the
circus. Her son Michael is carrying on
with the lions out of respect for his dead
mother’s wishes. Training animals is an
obsession, like art. Circus people love
their animals, even the freaks, and when
Wirth’s two-headed calf got a tumor be-
tween the two heads the management
spent upwards of £2OO to keep it alive,
and when a veterinary surgeon decreed
that it must die the staff wept. When
Madame Kovar came to Australia under
a Wirth contract she was given young
cubs to train. They were thoroughly
ferocious, and if they had been cruelly
treated it is difficult to explain how she
could go into the cage armed with noth-
ing but a small whip and a pointed stick,
the purpose of which was to spike the
meat she carried to reward them for their
efforts. Actually it was all done by kind--
ness and persuasion, and they were never
struck, though they were constantly
kissed and cuddled. Still, even well-
handled animals will revert to their primi-
tive instincts if the trainer slips on wet
grass and falls, as Madame Kovar did
in California. I once went up to investi-
gate a charge of cruelty made against a
trainer at the old Palace Theatre in Mel-
bourne, He had two baboons chained
up, and he handed me a stick and told
me to threaten him with it. The moment
I did so the baboons leapt at me in de-
fence of their trainer, and I was very
glad the chains were strong. The
animals would not have done that if their
trainer hadn’t had pleasant associations
for them, and they can only be built up
by kindness.
* * * *
“Outidands”: It was not the battleship
George V (B. 14/12/*49) that saw Hood
blown to smithereens by Bismarck but
the Prince of Wales; George V did not
come into the picture till two days later,
when, with Rodney, she was in at the kill.
* * * *
“Becks”: “Cuchulain” (B. 28/12/’49)
seems a bit put out because “the State
schools allow only one stroke through
the £ now.” I don’t know whether they
do or not, but one stroke has been the
rule for printed matter for a very long
time. My typewriter, vintage 1904, ex-
presses the quid in that way, and the
comps who set the first number of The
Bulletin back in 1880 used a pound
sign with only one stroke —and I don’t
think the type they used was exactly
new. Anyway, whether it should be one
stroke or two, who introduced this new-
fangled idea of using the capital L?
When my great-great-etc.-grandfather
was a boy they got along quite all right
with a small italic 1 placed after the
amount, thus: 6,000,000 /.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The army of youngsters
who “have a go” at the violin (B.
26/10/’49) and give it up includes
myself. A wealthy aunt sent me a fine
fiddle and, cash being too short to pay
for lessons, I taught myself to play; I
look back with a shudder to the torture
my practice must have inflicted upon
our neighbors. My greatest difficulty in
lack of instruction was regarding tuning
and the liability of the E string to snap as
I tuned her up, or while I was playing ;
this got on my nerves so badly that finally
I threw in the towel, and the fiddle, to my
relief, was sold. Before that happened
I had been roped in to play at a Band
of Hope concert. Even today I go hot
and cold when I think of the effrontery
of that appearance, forced upon me by
much pressure of persuasion ; amazingly
my first item went well; incited to give
an encore,, I was called upon for a third
and even a fourth ; moreover, towards
the end of the programme a demand
from the audience “What about the violin
again?” sent rqe flying through the door,
making tracks for home. X am still
amazed; my success seems only explain-
able by the appalling quality of the enter-
tainment that used to be —and probably
still is—provided at such concerts.
A TRICKY QUESTION.
“The British Food Ministry has set its ..legal de-
partment on the question whether fish-and-chips
constitute a .meal within the Meals in Establish-
ments Act of 1946.”
As fodder it has never quite been classified
patrician,
With silver and fine napery it scarcely seems
to sort.
If fastidious Lucullus gave it honored recogni-
tion
It has never formed the subject of historian’s
report.
The greasy duo ill assorts, it seems, with regal
ermine;
Yet those who at its lowly status sneer must
face the fact
That a board has set its legal bloodhounds
searching to determine:
Are fish-’n’-chips a meal within the meaning
of the Act?
Perhaps it might be argued that this scran
whose perfume lingers
So long upon the atmosphere can’t possibly
be classed
As orthodox collation, ’cause a handy set of
fingers
Invariably replaces knives and forks for the
repast.
It’s easily transportable, and might prove quite
a teaser
To claim it’s table d’hote or d la carle and
be exact.
Polemical delight is here for some old horse-
haired geezer:
Are fish-’n’-chips a meal within the meaning
of the Act?
The snooty nightclub 1 waiter would with scorn
be most unwilling
To serve up such a low plebeian food to
any guest.
He recks not that it might be appetising—yes,
and filling;
Points that by any hashhouse would be weli-
and-truly stressed.
So there you are! The legislators never were
foreseeing
Enough; the clauses of their bill some*,special
virtue lacked.
The world remains agog to hear Authority’s
decreeing;
Are fish-’n’-chips a meal within the meaning
of the Act?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.E.”: “It’ll be your job to get the cows
in every night,” Dad informed the new
hand. “Them three there,” he added,
pointing to a trio of bo vines feeding
quietly about 20 yards off. “Will y’
walk round ’em? Aw, cripes, no need
fT that. The dog’ll bring ’em. I’ll show
y’. Here, Splinter!” He whistled and
yelled till, five minutes later, the mong
arrived. “Fetch ’em. Splint. G’on, fetch
’em. Splint! Aw, get on, blast y’.” A
few more orders and a kick on the tail,
and the mong trotted cow-ward, “Good
dog. Fetch ’em on.” The tyke reached
the nearest cow and raised a bark that
turned all three and set them off towards
the far end of the paddock. Then he sat
down to gloat over their retreat. “Go
’way, there. Get hold of ’em. Aw, cripes,
the silly goat never misses sendin’ ’em in
the wrong d’rection.” Dad bounced up
and down, bellowed and waved his arms,
and finally set off in pursuit. “Fetch ’em,
Splint. Fetch ’em.” The cows hit the far
fence, followed it, and half an hour later
ended up at the yards. “Right, that’ll do.
Good dog.” Dad rubbed a sleeve over
his wet face, and turned to the new hand.
“There y’ are, just call Splint when y’
want ’em, any time. It’s his job t’ go, and
anyway, y’li soon find there’s plenty fT
you to do round this place without
lookin’ fr work.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Beware the anger of a
patient bird. The big, thick paper-bark
by the shed is occupied during sunlight
by a solemn mopoke— not the boobook-
owl that says “mopoke,” but the podar-
gus, which doesn’t —and if allowed he
“Strangleholds are barred, see!”
sleeps from dawn to dusk. The other
day a disturbance sent him flopping from
the tree, whereupon a clamor arose from
the local fowl and the stranger —his
speech being negligible and his accent,
even then, unusual —was promptly set
upon, heckled and hounded. The soldier-
birds were worst, for their words and
actions were those of the mob. When
the big grey owl tried to slip into another
fhady camp the squeakers headed him
off, and even when he left their territory
they followed and wheeled him; so that
when he approached his own tree and
tried to slip in and a couple of soldiers
denied him this right his tolerance
snapped. He reared back, raised a power-
ful wing and brought it crack across the
head of the leader—a sweet right cross.
The victim rolled over and over and hit
the ground a very groggy bundle of
feathers and for the next few minutes
forfeited all rights to one of his names,
the garrulous honeyeater. Most of his
cobbers dropped down to sympathise, and
during this distraction the mopoke quietly
withdrew. There was a rowdy confer-
ence, during which I seemed to catch
the word “aggressor,” but to date retalia-
tive action has been restricted to talk.
*** , *
“E.”: Dad turned the draft of fat
lambs into the small paddock on the
creek and strolled around the row of old
fruit-trees. The apples were nearly ripe,
but there seemed less than when he had
last inspected the tree. He spotted a broken
limb, then several green apples near the
road fence, and decided to set watch for
the culprit. Two hours after dark he
was crouched in a patch of wattle on the
edge of the flat when Bill Tuck’s jinker
showed faintly, coming along the grass
edge. It stopped by the fence. Dad’s
eyes strained in the darkness and he
picked out Bill and his dog for a moment
before they disappeared towards the fruit-
trees. Followed a lot of scuffling noise,
a yap from the mong and a quick oath
from his boss, then Dad glimpsed them
returning. A few strides and he jumped
forward to find Bill adjusting a tarpaulin
behind the vehicle. “Got y’,” he yelled,
grabbing the little bloke. “Y’ never was
no good, Bill Tuck, an’ I’ll just take a
look under that tarp., if y’ don’t mind.”
With a quick flip he turned back the
cover and disclosed a hot and panting
lamb struggling madly against the rope
on its legs. “Sheep, eh?” Dad felt all
over the jinker. “Awright, Bill,” he
grunted presently. “Seems awright, an’
I s’pose I’ll have t- let y’ go, but”
He paused and ran a hand suspiciously
over Bill’s pockets. “But, just the same,
I could ’a’ swore I ’card y’ near them
apple-trees.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Attention, naturalists in
the Council! You are familiar with the
caterpillar which wraps itself in a long,
cigar-shaped cocoon with thin sticks
pointing backwards built into the sides?
Right; then grab a bike and pedal along
this rural road with me at about five
o’clock after a scorching day. The tar
will still be hot —so hot that leathern-
footed boys will prefer to chance the
bindies in the grass close to the fences.
After we pass the mayor’s gate the road
will become merely bush gravel, but that
will be very hot, too. Now, in the two
miles we travel I warrant you’ll see at
least two of those cocoons, the tenant’s
head protruding, gripping the hot road
with (presumably) his mouth and
laboriously dragging his home behind
him. At his rate of speed he’ll take per-
haps 15 minutes to cross that burning
stretch. Yet, to the human eye, there is
nothing more attractive on one side than
the other: dairy paddocks or market-
gardens ; market-gardens or dairy pad-
docks. Why, then, does the little crea-
ture emulate the well-known chicken?
One point might be worth noticing: the
small travellers always cross towards the
setting sun; I’ve never seen one coming
back the other way. Merely coincidence,
or can it be that their diminutive souls
rally to the same cry that inspired
Drake: “Westward Ho!”?
* * * #
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver had been in
the pub some time, but as I brought the
mob around opposite he and Sandy
straggled forth. The old bloke paused
at the edge of the veranda and ran an
eye over the sky, “Hope it don’t rain
fT the next five days,” he drawled idly.
“After that it can pour itself dry.” “It
“Sol says to her, I says”—
can’t then,” Sandy put in resentfully.
“If it wants t’ rain, it can do it the next
couple o’ days an’ get it over. I’m
shearin’ Bill Saxon’s sheep next week an’
I don’t want ’em wet.” “Yair, an’ I’ll
be out with the mob for five days, I
tell y’,” glared Seventyfiver. “An’ I
ain’t goin’ t’ be wet t’ the hide all the
time t’ please nobody. Cripes, y’ ain’t
very c-conshid’rate.” “Well, the flamin’
country wants rain, don’t it?” challenged
Sandy, “Awright then, it don’t have t’
wait till I’m doin’ Bill’s sheep. Let it
rain now.” “I won’t,” bawled the old
bloke stubbornly. “Wet all day an’ wet
camps ; shleepin’ in water. Cripes, y’d—
y’d drown’d a man, you would. No”
He took another squint at the sky and
reached for his nag. “I still ’ope it
won’t rain for five days,” he reiterated,
glaring truculently at Sandy. “An’ what’s
more, it ain’t got nothin’ t’ do with you,”
he added. “If y’ ain’t satisfied, you do
y’r own hopin’, y’ lazhy cow.”
* * * *
“G.P.”: It’s a long time ago since J,
Hope’s team of six shingled 1760 ewes
and lambs in nine hours at Branscombe,
Akitio (N.Z.), and made it 1831 by shear-
ing an extra 20 minutes to cut. out the
shed. The tallies were 326, 321, 280, 334,
291, 279, the ewes being four-tooth with
14 months’ wool. Hope is now a con-
tractor with five teams of fast Maori
shearers, has given up shearing himself
and is local golf champ, at Dannevirke,
where he lives. In his day you couldn’t
see his comb-marks on the sheep. Now
they say he has just as good a long blow
down the fairway.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Mac had had the
car about 14 years, and in that time had
clouted, scraped or touched pretty well
every bush and stump, gate and telegraph-
post between his place and Cowangie,
nine miles away. He had also left the
mark of that car on most of the farm
buildings, the implements, the horses and
his own offspring, domestic animals and
himself. Never careful about anything,
Mac drove in a slapdash sort of way
and got through more by the mercy of
God than good judgment. The car itself
bore dents and scratches fore and aft and
on port and starboard sides from bonnet
to tail-light and back again. Both bumper-
bars had long since lost their symmetry,
and where they weren’t bent or buckled
they were scarred or dented. The off-
side rear door could be opened only if
the car stood on a slant with the front-
wheels at an angle, and you couldn’t
get into reverse unless the near-side back-
wheel happened to be on a stone or some
other slight elevation. There were a lot
of other things about that car which
testified to its long years of suffering
under Mac’s hands. Then came the great
day when young Tom, 19, persuaded his
father to let him drive Ettie May, 17,
from the next farm, into the football.
Young Tom knew that car inside out,
and he conducted it proudly to the
grounds. There, while it was parked* a
backing ute touched the front mudguard,
doing no damage. Tom drove home.
Next morning Mac went out and came
back, “So y’ had t’ go an’ knock some-
thin’,” he snarled, “Y’ don’t get her
again till y’ learn t’ drive properly.”
Yes, he’d spotted the tiny mark on the
mudguard and he knew it wasn’t one
of his.
♦ * # *
“Zake”: Most insects dropped on to
an ant’s nest toss in the towel in double-
quick time. But the wood-grub knows
just how to deal with the aggressive
platoons. Watched one intruder as the
ants tore out the emergency exits, sharp-
ening their bayonets as they ran to toss
him off their menage. The platoon com-
mander was just about to hop in for a
bit of stoush when he stopped a globule
of milky stuff exuded by the grub. As
he pulled out a handkerchief to wipe his
eyes a few henchmen rushed to his
assistance and copped the same. Within
a few seconds what ants hadn’t been
gummed up were remembering appoint-
ments elsewhere, and the grub was luxuri-
ously stretching himself prior to snoring
off on the ants’ roof. With what might
by a stretch of imagination be called the
battle he’d appeared to be quite bored,
* * * *
“Royal St.”: Okinawa has been in the
news again ; the Americans want to keep
it as a permanent western base. Judging
by the work they were putting into the
place when we helped them usher in 1946
there they had every desire and intention
of retaining it as such. More work had
been done on main roads in six months
than is done in N.S.W. in a year, and the
magnificent airstrips from which Libs
and Superforts had plied a systematic
shuttle-service that burnt out Jap in-
dustry before Hiroshima, far from being
neglected, were being improved. Good
troops were there —we were renewing
acquaintance with Ist Marine Division —
and with typical American concern for
her servicemen there was established,
beside the usual amenities, the University
of Okinawa, with a teaching staff from
the States. But the military interests of
the place had less appeal to me than the
natural ones. The southern part of
Okinawa had been closely settled, and
Naha was—or had been —a fair-sized
town; but the Americans went in there
with 200 warships blazing and all the sup-
porting aircraft they could muster, so
when the dust cleared all you could see
of towns and villages was the ground plan
—walls had been wiped off at ground-
level, but foundations and the lowest
bricks told where homes had been. Yet
a few months later green growth was
striving to cover the mutilation, and the
plants told more of former days than
could the mins. Where bulldozers built
embankments for roads, silver-beet and
tomatoes sprang from the raw slopes of
red soil; where backyards had been
blasted, the scars were disappearing under
masses of pumpkins, and sweet-potato
vines climbed all over broken equipment,
and rusting steel-helmets with a luxuriance
that suggested unwonted fertiliser beneath.
Sugarcane and pawpaw poked through in
places, wild violets smiled from the lips
of shell-holes, and sometimes a clear patch
carried carrots; but the most impressive
relics were the bits of garden wall that
had stood through the bombardment. In-
variably these were covered by old
creepers—ficus, ivy or such types — or
were clutched in the roots of trees Similar
to our coastal figs; silent testimony to
the strength and stability that comes from
having roots deep in the soil,
MIDDLEBACK RANGE.
Crouching with bellies flat on the vast plain—
Iron backs humped like sphinxes against the
sky—
Thirty miles in from Whyalla, Middleback sees
Eternity go by.
The desert climbs in a blaze up the evening
west
Hurling back bars of flame; heavily set
Against the backdrop of the heavens, heaves
Each stolid silhouette,
Till the darkness swarms from the east like
a black breath
Blurring the solid edges of their height,
Melting sharpness in a sooty invert dome —
The star-fired crucible of night ...
And the desert-wind chafes deftly at their backs
(The polished tool of every aeon’s hand)
Moulding the Universe its chain of iron beads
Set in a timeless land.
Blue at the dawning, blue in the rippling noon,
They drain the sun-shafts of each newer age,
Writing unmoved in patient endlessness —
Page on page;
Till Man, in passing, courts their sapphire glow
With sweating flesh and, clothed in ferric
grime,
Grunts as he gouges out his sunset gash—
His nick in Time.
S.A.
Colin Thiele.


“Bo”; The three Ennis boys comprised
the backbone of the Bardie Creek cricket
team, which that morning had journeyed
across to Flywire to play a team from
Billy’s Corner. Just on dusk they re-
turned—or, rather, were returned —in
the utility. Joe was black from bruises
all up his left side from knees to shoulder.
One of Jim’s eyes had a beautiful shanty
on it, while Harry had to be carried in
on a stretcher. Mrs. Ennis raised her
hands at the sight. “Why you boys
can’t play a game without having to get
into a fight over it I don’t know,” she
began. “We didn’t get into any fight,”
protested Joe. “It was the ground we had
to play on.” “But didn’t y’ play in
Thompson’s paddock, same as usual?”
asked old man Ennis. “No,” said Joe.
“Y’ see, when we gets to Flywire we
hears that the truck bringin’ the beer
from Tolhurst had busted an axle out
at Gibber Ridge. We reckoned it’d be
more trouble to get the beer to the cricket
match than to take the cricket match
to the beer. And you know what that
ridge is for gibbers!*
“Billy T.”: “Quofn’s” dragon-fly that
flew a straight track across-wind (B.
7/12/,’49) adopted much the same method
as aircraft do, particularly on photo-
graphic flying, where you must not only
go from A to B, but fly straight and level
all the way. You first fly on the desired
course long enough to find your drift,
lay it off, then start your run —that is, if
you had to fly west and a cross wind
took you 10 degrees to starboard, the
aircraft would be headed 10 degrees south
of west, and so long as the wind re-
mained constant your track of 270 degrees
should be made good. To find the drift
you’d use a bomb-sight, any drift-sight,
or that daddy of photographic aids the
Aldis sight, like a vertical telescope fitted
on wedge-mounts. A twist of the barrel
and you had not only the amount of
drift but, with the minimum of calcula-
tion, the correct time-interval between
shots for any lens used. A couple of
lock-nuts had to be tightened when the
sight was fitted, and this was overlooked
by one bright lad who set out to do
aerobatics in a Wirraway that had previ-
ously been used for photography. He
returned without the sight and swore he’d
never seen it —he flew -solo and it was
in the rear cockpit—so it was his word
against the rigger’s, who had signed for
and fitted the instrument. The deadlock
was solved by a bloke on a stockhorse
who pulled up at the guardroom a week
later carrying a bent and battered tube,
minus the eyepiece, which he had picked
up in his back paddock. He “thought it
might have dropped out of an aeroplane.”
It certainly had.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat hated talking
barbers, so when this one said some-
thing about racehorses Mat grunted. The
barber tried again with a
question as to whence we’d
come (I was sitting waiting
my turn). Mat growled. The
barber shot a look at me,
eyed Mat off, then wondered
if it would rain. In despera-
tion Mat said “No spika da
Engleese!” The barber fell
silent and finished him off.
Mat sat down on the bench
while I got in the chair.
“How y’ doin’, pal?” ven-
tured the barber. I caught
Mat’s eye in the mirror and
remained silent. “Nice day,
ain’t it? You two mates?”
he tried. I grunted in a
puzzled sort of way. Silence,
while he stropped a razor.
Then, to nobody in particu-
lar, the barber murmured
“Gripes, two in one go.” All I could
think of was “Nein. Ja wohl,” which
I’d read somewhere and vaguely sup-
posed to be German. The barber
frowned, inspected me carefully, turned
and looked at Mat, and began to shave
me. * In came a townsman, “How y’
doin’, Hughie?” he greeted. “Not bad,”
replied the barber. He concentrated on
my chin, then added. “Got a coupler
queeries here. Big bloke sounds like a
Dago ; this is a Fritz, I reckon. They
don’t talk English. Queer sort o’ mates,
ain’t they?” He finished me. Mat gave
him a quid, pointing to himself and me.
The barber rang up 6s. and gave Mat
14s. change. It was then he discovered
that Mat could talk Australian, anyhow.
Jk Jfc
“C.A.”: Strawb. was having trouble
with the old man. After years of patient
routine he had gone and shifted the bail
from its place below the calf-yard to a
sheltered corner above the dairy. Strawb.
wouldn’t stand for such goings-on. Every
night she presented herself at the old
accustomed place, and every night the
old man dogged her cursefully to the
new site. Bad feeling resulted between
the two, and it was easily seen a show-
down was imminent. Then, as I passed
one night, I noted Strawb. standing in
her old place, while at the new bail the
old bloke waited with the bucket. Came
a low moo from Strawb. “I won’t, I
tell y’,” bawled the old bloke in return.
“You come up ’ere. I told y’ what’d
happen, didn’t I? Awright, y’ know
damn’ well where the bail is now, and
y’ got t’ come up y’rself and stop all
this flamin’ nonsense.” Followed a
period of silence. Then Strawb. mooed
again, and the argument was resumed.
Strawb.’s line of approach was low and
unaltered, her persistence drew sweat with
each repetition, and, knowing whose
patience would break first, I made tracks.
That was three nights ago. Tonight as
I passed I noticed the bail back in its
old place below the calf-yard, while a
few yards off Strawb. eyed the familiar
corner, a great contentment on her bovine
mug.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; It is reliably estimated that
every day, in the United Provinces of
India alone, monkeys eat or destroy
£BOO,OOO-worth of food, and that there
are 20,000,000 of them and they are
multiplying. They roam the streets and
grab travellers’ lunches from railway com-
partments and even bite children in class-
rooms. According to one observer they
look plumper and healthier than the 60
million human beings—though that would
not be hard to do—and they have actu-
ally compelled a previously self-sufficient
province to import hundreds of thousands
of tons of food yearly. The Governor
said; “It is a queer world in which
human beings suffer and monkeys lead
a happy life.” It seems to be a case
of the survival of the fittest. Hindus
regard all life as sacred and won’t kill
or even strike a monkey, so they are
tyrannised over by an idea which might
eventually destroy them. The monkeys
haven’t any ideas but follow their natural
feelings, so, in this particular situation,
they are the most fitted to survive.
* * * *
“M.S.”: The new bloke in at the
smithy made gates in his spare time,
and, though he wouldn’t take orders.
“Might as Well make ourselves comfortable. We may
be here for years.”
local farmers never failed to scan the
front of his shop in the hope some were
offering. Young Bill Hooper was work-
ing for him when business once more got
slack enough to include the sideline.
“Righto, where’s that gate-iron?” asked
the boss one day. “Might’s well make a
few.” Bill unearthed the material,
“Gripes, it’s poorer than ever,” remarked
the boss gloomily. “Terrible the stuff
they shove on to y’ these days. Know
anything about making gates?” “Not a
thing.” “You’ll do, then,” nodded the
boss. “Start in on that stuff there and
see what y’ can knock up.” A few days
later he eyed the finished articles,
“I find this increasingly difficult to do, doctor.”
“Awright,” he grinned ruefully. “Take
’em out and stand ’em up outside. An’
don’t forget to put a price-ticket on
’em.” * “How much?” Bill called back.
“They aren’t nearly as good as the last
lot you sold. Think I’d better mark them
down a bit?” “Down?” The boss
turned an astonished glare. “Easy seen you
ain’t used t’ business,” he scoffed. “Do
y’ want people t’ wake up the things is
no good? You stick t’ the rules o’
modern industry, me lad,” he ordered
peremptorily. “Call them gates extra-
special value an’ mark ’em up two quid
more than the last lot.”
* * * *
“K.H.H.”: A pair of magpies built an
intricate nest on a not-too-safe bough of
the bluegum in our backyard last year
and reared their young. Half an hour
after both parents and offspring
abandoned it the nest fell. This year a
similar incident occurred. What I want
to know is whether this time-sequence
between the birds quitting and the nest
falling is bound up with planning, instinct
or chance?
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: What authority has
“Amdee” (B. 7/12/’49) for asserting that
the mosquito, like the fruitbat, rests
during the day? In good mosquito coun-
try —and that isn’t necessarily the tropics
—the real night hours are apt to be the
most peaceful. Anywhere around tree-
grown swampy areas the insect is on the
job right through the day, putting in a
special effort round about dusk; then
returns to the fray just on dawn.
:jc Ht * *
“Colonial Cove”: Without question the
Australian aboriginal, was the world’s
prime passive - resister and cynical
humorist. Back in the 1830 s, when
Governor John Hutt ruled the Swan
River settlement, it was decided in defer-
ence to Exeter Hall to establish an
aboriginal prison settlement on Rottnest
Island. This went fairly well until 1849,
when the Home Government, always
parsimonious regarding the Swan River,
ordered the recently-arrived Governor
Fitzgerald to transfer the
native prisoners, about 20, to
the mainland to put them to
useful work. Half a dozen
were put to mail-carrying, the
rest to roadmaking around
Perth. For a while the
scheme worked well; the
mailbags, carried by two
runners, were faithfully de-
livered to Bunbury, York and
Guildford, the two first being
at considerable distance. As
a concession the mail-
runners were housed in the
viceregal garden, the others
in the unsubstantial Perth
Jail, Then one (spring night
some telepathy seemed to stir
the captives: in the morning
the Perth jailer, unlocking his
Bastille, found it empty.
That same night four who had been sent
to clean up the garden still on Rottnest
stole the pilot-boat and lit out for the
coast up towards what is now Geraldton.
Even the favored mailmen decamped.
Worse, to show their contempt for the
white man, and the Big Boss in particular.
they uprooted and threw into me near-by
river a plantation of young fruit-trees
that the Governor had brought with him:
then, as a final gesture, cleaned up the
Governor’s hen-roost.
* * * *
“Tarbush”; The Acarina are a numer-
ous tribe, and one gets used to mite-
and tick-infested birds, lizards with ticks
roosting under their scales and dogs with
their ears infected. In time one might
even get used to scrub- and kangaroo-
ticks in one’s own hide. But pink beetles
are a phenomenon that requires alcohol
to habituate itself. In this droughty slice
of S.A. a large grey weevil —five-eighths
of an inch or more of armorplated length
—is very common out in the paddocks,
where it congregates in scores under fiat
stones, old kero.-tins and other adven-
titious shelter. Early last month the
nipper brought in a weevil that was liter-
ally pink with the mites that clustered
at every chink in its armor, antennae, the
joints of the legs and such spots being
especially favored, A few weeks later it
was a rarity to see the insects without
mites. Apparently the gregarious habit
of the animal favors the passing-on of
the parasites, and it remains to be seen
how the old grey battlers make out,
* * * *
“Quorn”: Old Sam had been a fettler
on the Central Australian railways since
the days before yodelling hit the bush.
The sight of the old chap working at a
job in the township the other day called
for explanations. “Yair, I left the line,”
he mumbled through the froth of hjs
second pot. “Y’ see, the last three years
there’s bin so many blokes cornin’ an’
goin’ on the job a man didn’t know his
own mates from one payday till the next.
Well, a month ago I went down t’ Port
Augusta on me holidays. Soon as I’m
in the town it’s ‘G’day, Sam,’ ‘How do,
Sam?’ all roads, an’ from blokes that’re
total strangers far’s I can remember. I’m
in the cooler be closin’-time, an’ next day
I had the biggest hangover ever I had.
An’ what’s more, me flamin’ wrist’s
puffed up like a politician’s head from
shakin’ hands. No, fettlin’s no good no
more—a man can’t work among strangers,
y’ know. It’s not flamin’ well safe.”
* * * *
“McNark”: Appreciated the joke of
the bloke caught by a binder and tied
up in a sheaf (B. 28/12/’49), but would
give a lot to know what sort of an im-
plement the chap is carrying on a
shoulder and what it’s for, and what sort
of a binder ties a knot like that.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Zake’s” par. about
the retired cocky who’d thought to settle
in Melbourne to enjoy the sea-breezes
(B. 30/11/ ’49) makes me wonder how
far inland the sea is wafted in Victoria.
In Westralia I’ve smelt it in a breeze that
rustled the wheat crop I was harvesting
at Mukinbudin, some 200 miles from the
coast. Its breath, playing around a gravel-
pit at Merredin, has induced an almost
irresistible urge to ram the shovel down
the ganger’s throat and head due west.
I’ve heard blokes swear they could sense
it in Kalgoorlie. And once, on a strong
summer westerly, I saw five big birds
borne along to the newly-constructed
dam at Babalin, in the north-eastern
My wonder at seeing five
eagles together lasted until they settled
on the dam. They were pelicans. I’ve
often wondered how they fared on the
way back.
WIND IN THE TEA-TREE.
The selfsame sun goes down —how strange!
As that of long ago;
The same winds through the tea-tree range
The beach we used to know;
Unchanged, the punctual planets burn
Their torches in the sky;
But hither does the past return
Np more than you and I.
Now flimsy seaside shacks outflank
With their encroaching line
The bush-house site where once we drank
A daring glass of wine.
There Memory invites your ghost
Tremulously to come,
Pledging my shadow in a toast
As fugitive as foam;
And since we have submitted both
To Fate’s alternative,
Forget that we forgot our troth —
Remember, and forgive!
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


BRANDAUERS
I
(PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
ldo'te<tf ®n>eriinent with imitations
| cliiup&AOEß a co. ltd, Birmingham, eng
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRBRE acts like th<*
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
bakbbbe distribution CO.
(Dept. 26t), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office! Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager,
GUARD
Crfs&it/
Suitable for every type of business It record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing tn appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
PROTECTA „
d
Distributing /Ignis—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE .
PERTH a
W. C Penfc»ld & Co, Pty. LI 6.
• Mormao Bros. Ply. £td.
• Vardon A Son* Ltd*
• Docket Book iAatlJ
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the
73-year-old Australasian Temperance and
General lylutual Life Assurance Society,
Ltd., is known throughout Australia and
New Zealand, where it writes ordinary,
industrial and accident business. Here is
a summary of revenue accounts in the
two life departments:
Ordinary Life Department,
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds,
£,£,£,£> £
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1.546,498 17,769,026
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500.. .. 17,708,996
’45 4,317,267 522,790 1,531,656 2,262,821 27,115,341
Written off premises, £20,505.. .. 27,094,836
To investment reserve, £52,000 .. 27,042,836
’46 4,889,772 680,669 1,687,587 2,521,516 29,564,352
Written off premises, £21,807 .. 29,542,545
To investment reserve, £25,000 .. 29,517,545
’47 5,500,853 785,646 1,752,683 2,962,024 32,479,569
Written off premises, £24,149 . . 82,455,420
’4B 6,089,559 849,171 1,906,248 3,334,140 35,789,560
Written off premises, £19,466 t
To staff fund, £2450 .. ..) d5,7b7,b
’49 6,785,786 937,020 2,195,073 3,602,693 39,370,337
To staff fund, £2450 39,367,887
Written off premises, £15,877 .. 39,352,010
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£,£*£/£> £
’4O 3,265,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15,850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. . 15,792,636
'45 3,845,155 971,915 1,949,460 923,780 19,637,949
Written off premises, £15,109.. .. 19,622,840
To investment reserve, £BB,OOO ~ 19,584,840
’46 4,008,095 1,039,911 1,980,867 987,317 20,572,157
Written off premises, t £15,792 .. 20,556,865
To investment reserve, £25,000 .. 20,531,365
’47 4,200,881 1,109,800 1,966,818 1,124,263 21,655,628
Written off premises, £17,488 . . 21,638,140
’4B 4,363,554 1,137,928 2,021,432 1,204,194 22,842,334
Written off premises, £12,977 1 99 R9fi qn i7
To staff fund, £2450 . . .. J
’49 4,506,077 1,189,512 2,087,110 1,229,455 24,056,862
To staff fund, £2450 24,053,912
Written off premises, £10,151 .. 24,048,761
Life assurance- is sold primarily on the
fairness of the contract and the prospect
of a future benefit commensurate with
what is given up meantime to obtain it.
A policy with a sound regular-bonus-
paying office provides protection for the
holder and his dependants long before it
is paid for ; and a wide variety of indi-
vidual wants and needs are catered for
outside the range of the bread-and-butter
provisions of social-security legislation.
A recent development has been the
introduction of group assurance, out of
which has grown subsidised staff-super-
annuation assurance. Together with in-
flationary trends, this has given new busi-
ness figures a tidy lift of recent years.
Under the new form of contract O.D.
benefits are secured on payment of
weekly premiums, deducted from wages
and remitted to the society by employers.
This class of business, however, promises
to raise some intricate actuarial and
other problems relating to costs and the
equitable distribution of surplus earn-
ings. The writing of industrial contracts
of less than 25 years’ duration has been
discontinued by all offices, owing to the
rise in costs and the drop in interest
rates, an unholy combination for a life
office.
Last term a record amount of
new ordinary business was put on the
books (£20,395,496), the growth (£726,585)
being 36.9 p.c. as against 25.4 p.c. for
the previous term, and the average per
policy (£496.8) increased by £59. The
buoyancy of the figures was due largely
to the influence of group assurance. For
reasons already stated there was a drop
of £335,731 in the amount of new in-
dustrial business written (£8,295,018).
In the accident and sickness section,
a profitable associate of the life
department, new policies assuring
£4,539.320 (up £223,345) were issued, and,
in addition, benefits assuring £7,690,715
(up £229,941) were added to life policies.
Combining the figures of the two life
departments, gross income was £788,750.
stronger at £11,241,863. After paying
exes, and claims, contributing £4900 to
die staff fund and writing £26,028 off the
book-value of buildings, £4,801,220 was
added to the assurance funds, making
them £63,395,771. In addition there was
an investment reserve of £1,005,685 (up
£25,000 transferred from the accident
section) and a contingency fund of
£342,329, which also belong to policy-
holders, there being no shareholders.
The surplus available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over policy
liabilities) increased by £49,555;
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Net surplus—■
Ordinary £665,828 £744,470 £830,518 £850,299
Industrial 324,514 838,478 366,680 396,404
Total £990,842 £1,082,948 £1,197,148 £1,246,703
After reserving £25,000 in the ordinary
and £20,000 in the industrial section for
actuarial contingencies the balance, or all
but a small fraction of it, was distributed
as reversionary bonuses among policy-
holders. These bonuses, though on a
slightly reduced scale in the 0.D., were
at very satisfactory rates.
Bonus-paying capacity is governed
mainly by the experience in connection
with interest earnings, exes, and mortality.
Mortality was well within expectations.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the assurance funds alone (after de-
ducting taxes) was £3 15s. 7d. p.c. (down
Is. 5d.), and the rate might ease a trifle
yet before the present trend is arrested.
The actuary assumes that the assurance
funds will turn in only 2\ p.c. in the O.D.
and at a mixed rate of 2 p.c. and 2\ p.c.
in the I.D.
The difficulty so far as actual
interest earnings are concerned is that as
old securities mature the money, together
with current income, has to be reinvested
at lower rates. Still, the comfortable
margin between these assumed and actual
rates of earning augurs well for main-
tenance of satisfactory bonus distribu-
tions. Excluding taxes and contributions
to the staff fund, etc., exes, took 15.2 p.c.
of net premiums in the O.D. and 30.2 p.c.
in the 1.D., compared with 15.1 p.c. and
29.6 p.c. respectively in 1948.
The year’s growth in total assets was
£4,794,056, of which £4,378,679 went into
public securities;
Public 1948. p.c. 1949. p.c.
securities ..£47,730,991 77.5 £52,109,670 78.3
Loans .. .. 9,474,216 15.0 10,056,422 15.1
Freeholds . . 3,454,699 5.6 3,492,914 5.3
Cash, book debts,
etc. .. . . 1,046,791 1.7 841,777 1.3
Loans include £7,762,845 (up £320,212)
of mortgages, largely in connection with
home purchases by policyholders. No
credit has been taken for overdue in-
terest, agents’ balances, plant or other
non-interest-bearing assets.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends •
Ist 2nd Nominal
Profs. Prefs. Oijds. Written lle-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 64 p.c. sfp.c. Off. serves.!
£ £ £ £ £ £
1942.. 62,603 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,473 64,328
1943.. 59,388 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,384 65,824
4 p.c. '
1944.. 63,682 18,000 19,360 16,198 8,094 67,854
5 p.c.
1945.. 68,660 18,000 19,360 20,247 6,578 72,829
6 p.c.
1946.. 80,382 18,000 19,360 24,296 7,151 83,904
Capital profit, £13,817 .. .. 97,721
1947.. 86,692 18,000 10,360 24,296 8,733 114,024
Capital profit, £5711 .. ~ .. 119,735
July,
1948.. 90,287 18,000 19,300 24,296 6,525 141,841
1949.. 80,718 18,000 19,360 24,296 6,060 153,943
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
The £1,002,786 of share capital is in
300,000 £1 first 6 p.c. and 297,848 £1
second 6i- p.c. cum. prefs. (not subject
to the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act) and 809,876 ords. of 10s. each. The
market, which now looks for a slightly
better return on its money than it did
12 months ago, notes the make-up of the
business, the trend of costs and the fact
that trade generally is becoming more
competitive and prices the ords. at 9s. 6d.
as against 11s. a year back. At the lower
figure the return is 6.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. The firsts at 235. 9d. and the
seconds at 245. (255. 7d. and 255. 6d. a
year ago) yield 5 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. respec-
tively. Net tangible cover (book-value) is
£3 12s. 3d. firsts, £2 12s. Bd. seconds and
12s. ords.
From headquarters at Central Square
(Sydney) and branches at Newcastle,
Wollongong and Dubbo the co. does a
large trade —much of it on a t.-p. basis—
in drapery, furniture and furnishings,
crockery, sporting-goods, etc. It also
owns the £lOO,OOO of ord. capital in Bon
Marche, drapers (Sydney), and over two-
thirds of the £105,000 of ord. capital in
Miller Anderson, the Adelaide drapers.
After a 16-year drought the ords. in Bon
Marche got 5 p.c. p.a., for the three years
to 1948, followed by 5| p.c. last term,
when Miller Anderson, which had been
a steady 6-per-center, lifted its distribu-
tion to 7 p.c.
So the drop in profit from Marcus
Clark’s own trading last term was a little
more than the figures in the table suggest.
After allowing for depreciation (£6960,
shown as written off) and other contin-
gencies, the amount available for share-
holders was £73,758 (down £10,004). The
prefs. called for £37,360, leaving £36,458,
or 9 p.c. on ord. capital as against 11.4,
10, 8.8, 6.1 and 4.5 p.c, back to 1944. The
div. remained at 6 p.c., making average
distribution over the last nine years 4.6
p.c. Three years before that £219,790 of
ord. capital (10s. a share) and £23,558 of
reserves were rubbed out, mainly on
account of the, failure of Craig William-
son (Melbournb).
The trouble last term was that sales
increased at a slower rate than the cost
of conducting the business —the wages
bill alone rose by £42,000, and is expected
to go up by another £22,000 during the
current term. Also gross margins
(officially controlled) narrowed, and the
coal strike dealt earnings a staggering
blow toward the close of accounts;
operations for July alone resulted in a
loss. With all kinds of merchandise now
coming forward in better volume, buyers
are getting more discriminating and. trade
increasingly competitive, and costs are
likely to go higher before they turn in
the other direction. So, although there is
still plenty of money about, the co. will
be fortunate if it is able to show much
improvement in its net figure at the close
of next accounts.
The financial set-up compares as
follows:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Secured
credits . . 261,250 419,565 535,258 627,050
Other debts* 219,437 294,173 241,496 193,040
Freeholds, etc. 700,855 692,215 688,741 697,515
Plant, etc. 82,951 42,000 47,585 52,836
Stocks . . 278,215 434,014 453,103 444,117
Book debts 811,525 430,588 500,138 546,491
Shares, etc. 172,916 175,319 184,288 189,931
Cash, etc... 41,512 26,410 18,174 16,527
Goodwill .. 72,378 72,378 72,378 72,878
* Includes provision for taxation.
Principal movements last term were the
net addition of £46,353 to book debts
and of £43,336 to the amount com-
ing to outsiders, most of which
is secured by mortgage. Excluding
shareholdings, there was a drop of £7616
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£187,045), due to the outlay on fixed
assets. When the books closed there was
14s. 2d. of outside money at work in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders. However, the £89,750, plus
interest, received since the close of
accounts (it was in settlement of the co.’s
claim against the Railway Commissioners
for resumption of the old flatiron build-
ing at the corner of George- and Pitt-
street) should help reduce the debt and/or
provide more working capital.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1940.. 275„860 B|p.e.= 135,625 92,935 1,713,662
1941.. 265,316 81 „ „ 185,625 95,975 1,747,378
1942. . 226.811 S| „ ~ 185,625 71,182 1,767,432
1943.. 234,183 8} „ „ 185,625 64,760 1,801,240
1944.. 161,927 8J „ ~ 135,625 52,672 1,774,870
1945.. 39,095 5 „ „ 77,500 34,902 1,701,563
Removal overburden, £7llB .. .. 1,694,450
1946.. 87,222 Nil 32,987 1,748,685
Removal overburden, £9068 .. .. 1,739,617
1947.. 156,791 5 p.c. = 77,600 38,972 1,779,936
Removal overburden, £33,846 . . 1,746,090
1948.. 140,155 5 p.c. = 77,500 84,320 1,774,425
Removal overburden, £28,931 . . 1,745,494
1949.. 127,989 5 p.C. = 77,500 27,570 1,768,413
For last term’s disappointing result share-
holders can blame the coalminers. More
and slightly better-grade ore was sent to
mill, and there was more recoverable
copper in the concentrate, too. But for
the eight months to end May, 1949, de-
liveries of coke were below requirements,
and then no more of the stuff came
forward till toward the close of accounts,
owing to the mischievous strike on the
coalfields. The blast furnace was out of
operation for the last 15 weeks of the
term, and the smelter produced only 3871
tons (down 2684 tons) blister.
So, despite a lift in the locally-
controlled buying price of copper from
£AI6O to £AIBO a ton at end March,
1949, there was a contraction of £339,162
in income from mining. An extra £19,635
was received in divs., reducing the net
shrinkage in total income to £319,527;
Income— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Copper, etc. .. £1,089,370 £1,096,753 £757,591
Dividends .. 86,901 86,901 106,536
Total .. £1,126,271 £1,183,654 £864,127
Exes. —
Mining . . 513,314 557,512 873,547
Refining, smelting 377,251 421,755 800,119
Development, de-
preciation .. 38,972 34,820 27,570
Admin., etc. .. 78,997 64,333 62,568
Total . . . . £1,008,534 £1,077,920 £763,804
Net profit .. 117,737 105,734 100,323
The heartening feature is the drop of
£183,965 in total mining exes., despite
the lift in wage arid other costs and bigger
tonnage handled —2,014,485 tons (up
44,383 tons), of which 586,295 tons (down
61,949 tons) was waste. Treatment
charges (down £121,636) were lower, of
course. Including a small unexplained
addition (£96) to reserves, net earnings
were only £5315 lighter at £100,419, equal
to 6.4 p.c. on the £1,550,000 of capital as
against 6.8, 7.6, 0.8 and 0.2 p.c. back to
1945. Disregarding the cost of income
from investments, mining resulted in a
loss of £6213 compared with a profit of
£18,833 for the previous term. For the
5 p.c. div.—it is difficult to say when
better need be expected—shareholders
can thank returns from investments.
The co. is faced with a large tonnage
of low-grade ore that can be treated
profitably only by large-scale throughput,
and by judicious handling of overburden
in relation to ore. The new 84in. x 60in.
jaw-crusher in the West Lyell opencut was
the main factor in the lift of 106,685 tons
in quantity of ore treated:
1946. ■ 1947. 1948. 1949.
Ore treated
(tons) ..1,472,290 1,462,461 1,319,429 1,423,114
Assay, copper,
p.c. . . 0.67 ' 0.68 0.60 0.64
Blister pro-
duced (tons) 8,203 8,273 6,555 8,871
.Contents —-
Copper
(tons) . . 8,143 8,208 6,515 3,840
Silver (oz.) 29,630 30,313 24,001 14,089
Gold (oz.) 5,486 5,712 4,275 2,394
Had enough coke been available, output
of copper from ore won during the year
would have been 7454 tons. When the
books closed 17,431 tons concentrates
containing 4093 tons recoverable copper
were stacked at the smelter as against
2020 tons and 467 tons respectively a
year earlier. Co. also produced 52,966
tons (up 835 tons) pyritic concentrates,
assaying 49.6 p.c. sulphur, and more ship-
ping space helped deliveries to consumers.
Ore reserves at end Sept, last totalled
33.193.000 tons, assaying 0.73 p.c. copper,
0.050 z. silver and 0.00840 z. gold.
The new ball-mill and classifier, now
nearing completion, should help increase
the current year’s throughput in the fine-
grinding section. But still bigger tonnages
are needed to cope successfully with ris-
ing costs; and that means that more
excavators, heavy-ore trucks and mill
plant will have to be installed. The co.
aims to lift production of copper to
10.000 tons p.a. within a few years. It
will call for heavy outlay, and share-
holders are to be asked to assist —details
of the board’s proposal in this respect are
to be announced presently.
During the year the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £775,337, lifting the
overdraft to £1,364,533:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Metals .. .. £398,720 £395,152 £771,776
Book debts . . 181,749 39,084 67,949
Stores, etc. . . 383,784 385,993 459,961
Shares other cos... 1,821,797 1,965,559 2,212,807
Total . . £2,736,050 £2,785,788 £3,512,493
Liabilities .. 650,404 711,941 1,478,469
Liquid surplus . . £2,085,646 £2,073,847 £2,039,024
The new money was used mainly to
finance accumulated metal stocks (up
£376,624) and add £247,248 to share-
holdings, lifting the co.’s total interest
in Metal Manufacturers, Ltd., to 49,204
7 p.c. prefs. and 823,351 ords., which
received 6 p.c. last term. Other hold-
ings are principally in fertiliser cos.
Fixed assets total £1,356,889, comprising
mine (£520,551), plant, railway, etc.
(£823,078) and freehold (£13,260).
The market prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 235. 6d. (265. 6d. a year ago),


fd
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J, P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
fd
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
13 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.K.B, Victoria.
m
vs.
ICURE YOUR
Imily’s FUTURE
Your family's security is an
important matter which should
receive your immediate atten-
tion. This family responsi-
bility can be fulfilled by taking
out a suitable life assurance
policy with the Equitable Probate
& General Insurance Co. Ltd.,
who are fully experienced in
these matters to expertly advise
yOU ‘ R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager. A
•ft
I
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Persons, etc.,
Insuring with any Insurance
Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, has been applied, in respect ot
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property of such
insurance companies during the year 1949.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st Janu-
ary, 1950, subject to a penalty not ex-
ceeding £1 per day for every day of de-
fault. .
NOTE: Returns are required only cl
the proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such
companies in respect of risks against fire
during the year ending 31st December,
1949; within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies ; less any
part of such premiums actually paid by
way of reinsurance to any other insurance
companies contributing under the said
Act. , .
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1950 ; subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
218 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
The Machinery
m
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
O Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established IS7B
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
n n GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A 0 MAITLAND Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
.GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
fd
&
. I
Q'
H
r-N
&
r» —<i
ti
-rgr-
-6Y APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Zj Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
To mark those occasions
when charm, perfection
and easy confidence are
the keynote, nothing could
be more in keeping
than a cigarette bearing
the hallmark of
Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London —
when only the best will do.
In
tins of 20
3/-
I as valuing the undertaking at
17,774 less than the liquid
rplus. The return at 235. 6d.
4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
iluna-Mt. Charlotte (W.A.)
The rise in the price of gold
[lowing the Sept., 1949, cur-
acy devaluations, which lifted
e value of ore in situ in Aus-
ilian mines from 10.765. to
.495. per dwt., has brightened
e outlook for the Mount Char-
ge and Porphyry properties,
which Wiluna Gold Mines and
hers are interested.
Wiluna Gold Mines, which
ased mining at Wiluna early in
>47 and has been re-treating old
Icined cyanide tailings since, is
e Australian operating offshoot
London-controlled Wiluna
old Corp. It holds a 75 p.c.
terest in, a £220,000 option,
hich expires at end 1950, over
e Mt. Charlotte area, at the
jrthern end of the Kalgoorlie
olden Mile.
Here drilling has indicated
•me 1,600,000 tons, averag-
g 4.9dwt. on core assays,
id the Reward shaft has been
conditioned over its depth of
>7ft. But prospecting work on
le northern ore-body at the
10ft. level gave an average
rade of only 3.6dwt. from 553
imples. However, this grade
mnot be taken as mine average
ir the whole property, including
le southern ore-body and
orthern one at greater depth,
amely 500 ft. Still, owing to
re steep rise in costs, the
lanagement decided to go slow
n plant installation until it
ould see more clearly where it
tood.
Now that 3.6dwt. ore is worth
n extra 17s. a ton, it is likely
hat this mine will be brought
ato production as soon as
nough labor can be obtained
nd equipment installed. It is
oo early yet to say whether the
•ption will be exercised. If, and
vhen, it is, a new co. is to be
brmed in Australia to take over
ind work the property, and the
Vlt. Charlotte co. has the right
o subscribe for 15 p.c. of shares
offered. Moonlight Wiluna, an
affshoot of Gold Fields Aus-
tralian Development, holds a 25
p.c. interest in the option con-
tract.
The option over the Porphyry
property' in which Wiluna, Lake
View and Star and Moonlight
Wiluna each have a one-third
interest, was exercised in Sept.,
1947. Here 750,000 tons of
4dwt. ore has been proved to
date, and work, above and be-
low ground, is well advanced.
Mountain View Gold, N.L.,
which left the stocks at Perth in
Sept., 1947, to work part of the
northern end of the Great Fin-
gal quartz vein at Cue (W.A.),
from which prospectors had
taken some rich ore at shallow
depth, has given a satisfactory
account of itself to date. For
year to Nov. 30 last, 3557 tons
of selected development ore was
put through the State battery
for 56830 z. fine gold by amalga-
mation, worth and
there was a further £4500-worth
in the sands, etc. Including
£4851 for depreciation, exes,
totalled £36,968, leaving a profit
of £37,322. With £30,028
brought forward, £67,350 was
available, of which a shilling div.
took £50,000. Current assets,
mostly cash, totalled £47,487,
and current liabilities £5292.
The major job of dewatering the
Day Dawn shaft to below the
Great Fingal No. 7 level (660 ft.
underlay) has been completed.
This will enable the Mountain
View shoot to be developed on
the new 650 ft. level and at
greater depth, and the northern
.end of the upper levels of the
Great Fingal to be explored. Ore
reserves at end Nov. were 3270
tons in the main shoot, averag-
ing 3.010 z., and 6000 tons of
second-grade stuff, averaging
lOdwt. Gold in the shoot is in
streaks, 3in. to 12in. wide. In
the Great Fingal ore was rich
down to 1000 ft, and continued
to diminish in value down to
2000 ft. Co. is now installing it;
own battery. It has a million
4s. shares to feed, which the
market prices at 7s. each, oi
thereabouts.
* * * *
Announcement that a hitherto
undisclosed dyke bulge exists
some 50ft. east of the main dyke
on No. 16 level at A 1 Consoli-
dated, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.),
and that only another 25ft. of
shaftsinking is needed to prove
the westward extension of rich
ore indicated by the drill, sent
the co.’s Bs.-paid shares from
70s. to 765. in the market.
Paid capital is £90,000, and the
co. had distributed £711,000 in
dividends to Feb. 3, 1949.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Mining
Areas, an Adelaide concern
which is interested in Blue Spec
and in the old White Hope mine,
Hampton Plains (W.A.), is
negotiating with London in-
terests concerning development
of the whole line of lode at
Hampton Plains, and installation
of a central treatment plant
there. The history of this field
has never suggested that the
lodes live to any great depth.
Something more definite is
expected to be heard.


A Penfold Hospital
It must
he
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61, YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
mu t
rr
m
❖
it
aiw/ae
'oo2rf&sfra//a/t, Ctam/fr'ws cfMe faaaf
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRp & RUBBER CO. LTD.
OT3I
Mil
Business, Rollery, Ete.
New Year, New Era
Australians and New
Zealanders not only Welcome a
new year in 1950; they look
forward to the beginning of a
new political and economic era.
Socialism has been routed in
both countries after a long
period in Government office;
and now a change in the general
direction of the industrial
economy is looked for, even if
the principle of elaborate social
services is not drastically modi-
fied. In particular, Australia
has, for eight years, been victim
to the doctrinaire and the poli-
tical experimentalist and adven-
turer, and a variety of parasites
have been living on past accumu-
lations of wealth as well as on
current production ; the political
emphasis has been on redistri-
bution of what has already been
accumulated and already planned
for rather than on what greater
production for all can be achieved
by greater real investment in in-
dustry (which implies a greater
thriftiness) and a greater output
per man per hour, assisted by the
new machines and processes that
are a feature of our age.
Those who understand our
economic situation look for more
efficiency under the new Federal
Government, for greater incen-
tives to the producer, the wage-
earner and the investor, for more
discipline of industrial outlaws,
for more freedom of enterprise
generally, and, perhaps, a
gradual return to natural
economic laws in place of the
arbitrary rules and regulations of
the Socialists, who have been
such architects of distortion and
disruption in our economy.
Most of Us are satisfied that
we have to get away from a
Socialist set-up as quickly as
possible. But we must remember
that if a change has to be made
and we accept the judgment of
Macbeth and agree that “ ’twere
well it were done quickly,” then
we shall be in for some rather
sharp reactions. “Labor”
controls have for a long time
tended to conceal the extent of
the Socialist mischief that has
been wrought over the years, and
many of the prices and standards
we accept today are an economic
fiction. Interest rates are below
the true level of the money
market, and more freedom in
borrowing, lending and banking
operations would soon tend to
bring higher interest rates.
Higher dividends from industry
would also tend to lengthen
interest rates. It may, indeed, be
necessary, to encourage thrift, to
encourage some slight increase
in the cost of borrowing. The
thrifty have had a bad run over
the past 10 years, especially on
the score of inflation.
As has been said here before,
so far as seasons and world
prices have been concerned,
Chifley became heir to what will
probably prove to have been the
lushest and flushest of the post-
war years. Chifley, in those lush
years, sowed an inflationary
boom; Menzies may inherit the
problems of the inevitable re-
action. But Menzies has a great
country to work on, and if the
people support him industrially
as well as. politically all the
damage that has been done by
the Socialists in their reckless
political adventures may soon
become a thing of the past. He
may be helped in this respect
by the fact that the people have
at last had a good look right into
the Socialist tiger’s mouth, and
have also seen what Communism
has done to the trade-union
movement.
Both Mr. Menzies and Mr.
Fadden have made a pledge to
put more value back into the
pound. This implies a greater
production per man per week, as
well as flank attacks on inflation
through the monetary system. It
may involve a return to parity or
thereabouts with the pound
sterling, with reductions in in-
come and other taxes. It may
require some temporary sub-
sidies. But it may be, also, that
the best we can hope for, for
They Want to know if you re interested in doing a
job-lot at a cut price?”
the present, is a putting-on of the
brakes on the existing infla-
tionaty momentum, which has
been increasing with each passing
year of Socialist administration.
It is unlikely that we have seen
the peak of the post-war infla-
tion yet. And if Menzies can
stabilise the situation within 12
or 18 months he will have
worked something like a miracle.
We must remember that we have
Suffered a major economic and
industrial upset during the years
of war and post-war Socialism.
We have had a complete decade
of disruption, which is something
far greater than what we suffered
in 1914-18 and its aftermath.
Underneath all this disor-
ganisation we have a big indus-
trial demand on the construction
side. We want at least 50 p.c.
more coal, and large increases in
supplies of steel and steel pro-
ducts. Our roads and railways
need extension and repair, and
there are several years’ arrears
of homebuilding and factory and
office construction to be gone
ahead with. This all means
employment for those willing to
work, and greater opportunity
for the managerial and pro-
prietary side of industry. And
the bigger the job of work we
undertake, and the larger our
population grows by immigra-
tion and otherwise, the smaller
will the inflationary blister left
by the Socialists become in com-
parison. The attitude we should
take as a people, then, is that
whatever the mess we have been
landed in by war, Socialism and
Communism, there is still plenty
of firm ground beneath our feet
if we are prepared to start push-
ing along in the right direction,
which is towards the old tradi-
tion of a fair day’s work for fair
pay.
The immediate prospect in
1950 is for good seasons and
prices for our exports still higH.
Any unemployment will be solely
the result of strikes. There will
be growing competition for
manufactured goods as former
enemy countries get back on
their industrial feet again, and
this will affect Britain in par-
ticular, ourselves, directly, not
so much. The United States
would be a stronger competitor
in many parts of the world but
for the fact that U.S. goods have
to be paid for in dollars, which
are only obtainable by sales of
sterling and other non-doll ar
goods to the United States. The
general level of production in
North America at present is far
greater than before the war.
Australia cannot lay claim to any
appreciable increase over 1939
yet, and Britain is little better by
comparison. It is in increasing
our output that hopes principally
lie, and it is on that increased
production that a better deal for
all the community will depend.
Not only the wage-earner and
the industrial investor should
benefit by a greater national out-
put of goods and services; the
holder of Government loans and
mortgages and the general body
of consumers would all benefit.
The Sharemarket
The Stock Exchanges will re-
open throughout Australia to-
day, They closed at the year’s
highest levels, and there is every
reason to expect that they will
reopen on a firm note. Export
prices are still high, there has
been bountiful spending over the
Christmas period, and investors
have taken fresh heart as a re-
sult of the return of the
Menzies-Fadden Government to
office. Relief from the tax bur-
den is expected wherever relief
is possible; a happier relation-
ship with the trade-unions
would help the national produc-
tivity greatly, and it is on pro-
ductivity that real dividend in-
comes as well as real wages
depend.
There should be no delusions
in Canberra about the experience
of the Stock Exchange investor
over the past 10 years. He has
not done well, on the average.
Commonwealth Bank statistics
show that quite clearly. Though
the basic wage has been raised
from 795, to over 130 s. in 10
years in order to keep pace with
the rise in the cost of living, in-
vestors in industry have done
well even if they can point to
the same money income from
their investments as they received
in 1939. There has been no
general compensation to inves-
tors for the war-time and post-
war inflation.
It remains to be seen whether
the market will suffer its usual
March recession in 1950. Of re-
cent years this recession has
been of a purely market
character, and recovery has
usually taken place before the
end of the year.


BRANDTS fam TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
11l
mmt
300 CANDLE POWER
Here’s a safe, reliable lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to
operate, this famous British
Kerosene Pressure-type Lamp
is moderately priced at
86 1-
Retail Trade Supplied.
Write for particulars.
Tilley Happy Mantles, 1/6 ea.
All Spare Parts Stocked.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phones H 4651.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: fBOM AS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone; B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States,
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES
Single Booms—
From 8/- per night
Double Booms—
From 15/- per night
,
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
'■ METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
r* ™—l "mil I in I ■ ' * :
iMr'M'tk y' -' J//' %"
H
m:
M
ill
iiiiiH!
iHiiin
! I !
\m
mm
t o
1.1
The Lovely
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream Metal Parts
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L. 106 “THE QUEEN” 21J" High
T. L. 136 “THE PRINCESS” I6J" High
TILLEY.„ LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle I
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers’ Representatives:—
MELBOURNE, C.l
Huu
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Interest Rates and Shares
Maorilanders are counting on
dearer money when inflation is
reined-in during 1950. The 3 p.c.
basis for gilt-edgeds was already
tottering before Christmas, and
N.Z. was feeling the pull of
economic forces in the direction
of higher rates. In end-of-year
operations gilts had substantial
dealings at a discount, which
lifted the yield to about Is. lOd,
above £3 p.c,, and there was a
sizeable diversion of funds to
shares, which finished the year
on a bullish market. There’s
likely to be keen rivalry between
big institutions, like life offices
and insurance cos., and small in-
vestors for securities of all sound
dividend-producing cos. under
the stimulus of restored confi-
dence in free enterprise now the
Socialists have been dumped
overboard.
Socialists’ claim that they
could hold the tiger of inflation
by controls and stabilisation
decrees was thoroughly un-
masked before the Nationalists
gave them the k. 0., and most
Maorilanders have seen the
futility of seeking prosperity by
moneyspinning. The love of
cheap money that became an in-
fatuation with the Socialists was
costly for New Zealand. Like
Socialists elsewhere, the Govern-
ment planners of a get-rich-
quick paradise overreached
themselves and abused the privi-
lege of credit-control by making
it a general mandate to conjure
up credit ad lib. until cheap
credit was the bane of Maori-
land, and the Socialists, who
once stood forth as untried
guardians of the people’s money,
became master architects of in-
flation and skilled operators of
the printing-press.
M.L.’s thrifty and self-reliant
older generation saw much of
their hard-earned savings melt
away with the shrinkage of the
pound, and many young Maori-
landers were nurtured on ideas
that easy money and soft living
were real substitutes for hard
work. Production and turnover
in key trades and industries were
hit to leg, and the Dominion
felt the boomerang in inflated
living costs and ever-rising taxes.
Up on an unstable pedestal
now, they’re speculating whether
they can level-out on a high
plateau of more solid prosperity
or will have to make a precarious
descent to safer ground. It
amounts to guessing whether
production can be lifted enough
to build a reasonably firm foun-
dation under present-day values,
prices, wages and general in-
comes or whether some of the
inflation will have to be squeezed
out to give the pound a healthier
look. As some Maorilanders are
not earning their full pay they’ll
have to choose before long be-
tween putting their backs into
it or being left behind, but there’s
no suggestion of an attack on
wages generally; the Nationalists
and public sentiment are dead
against that. Mr. Sid Holland,
the new P.M., is keen on incen-
tives to give men (and women)
something to work for, and the
odds are that a carrot would
make a world of difference in the
attitude towards jobs. But
some of the strong-man unions
have always been against the
idea of the carrot and might take
a lot of converting. They prefer
pressure-group tactics, which
amount to getting as much of
the cake as you can, even if the
other fellow has to go short.
It’s a dog-eat-dog policy, actively
fostered by Communists, because
under it there can never be in-
dustrial harmony.
With these ticklish problems
ahead, Maoriland’s new Govern-
ment. will have to do the tight-
rope act, perhaps, a number of
times. Its high-price economy
will not be easily disciplined. If
adjustments have to be made to
a new plane superman strength,
wisdom and nerve will be needed
to keep everything in balance
during the shakedown. Maori-
landers, however, are not an
emotional crowd, and if the
effort is made while prosperity
is still flowing there should be
a sporting chance of success,
' ' t i , '’r „ '
Investment Factors
In N.Z.’s still-isolated and
-insulated investment market —a
hangover from Socialism —Stock
Exchange leaders took a rosier
view of the future in year-end
reviews, but complete revival
must wait for a return to free-
dom in the exchange field,
especially between Maoriland
and Australia. It’s now more
than 16 months since M.L.’s
“new-look” pound restored sterl-
ing parity and opened up a 20
p.c. trans-Tasman currency gap,
and over the whole of this time
MX. holders of Australian
securities have had to take a 20
p.c. cut in divs, and interest. The
capital - cut, however, hasn’t
been quite so heavy, but has
ranged mainly between eight and
15 p.c., with the latest trend in
favor of holders.
Post-election confidence gave
a push to business which partly
atoned for earlier setbacks and
drift on the share front and put
an end to crowding in the gilt-
edged market, where investors,
jittery under Socialism, had been
sheltering against nationalistic
risks and threats. Insurance
rallied spectacularly for a
double reason —liberation from
the Socialist menace and promise
of an early hand-back of
workers’-compensation policies
grabbed last April to set up. a
State monopoly. Cashing-in on
gilts released sizeable funds to
boost shares as fat cheques from
wool, meat and dairy produce
also began to flow in, and sellers
once again began calling the
tune. This was a clue to pros-
pects for the New Year.
Paper prosperity and over-
accumulation of idle funds in
the banks and elsewhere are the
catch. President Keith N.
Buttle, of N.Z.’s Stock Ex-
change Association, said institu-
tions, including banks, are
scratching their heads and rack-
ing their brains to find profit-
able outlets. “When resources,
be they monetary or otherwise,
become unemployable there is
lack of incentive, which must
be the spur to progress,” de-
clared Buttle. “There are signs
that thrift is seeking greater re-
wards, but so far it has been
frustrated by cheap money,
which is still with us, although
there is evidence that the flow
is now diminishing.”
borrowing
should get back on the rails
again in 1950, after four years
of non-stop “tap” loans, which
set no limit to what the State
will take if funds flow in.
Buttle’s forecast of a revival of
fixed-dated loans seems on the
mark; for the rest of the year
the Government should keep
out of the market.
On taxes Buttle had this to
say: “With monotonous regu-
larity, and with the utmost
vigor, I have year by year criti-
cised the reluctance of the past
Government [Labor-Socialist] to
accord any worth-while relief
from the steadily - increasing
burden of taxation which New
Zealanders are called on to bear.
From all sections of the com-
munity have come similar pro-
tests, together with grave warn-
ings of ultimate economic
damage through taking from
those who provide the natural
increase a proportion so great
that the incentive to con-
tinue to earn and provide is dis-
couraged and destroyed.., .A
reduction in taxes, to encourage
enterprise, is absolutely essen-
tial. Taxation relief is needed not
only for our economic health
but to bring lasting- benefits.
The crushing burden, which is a
legacy from the war, is such a
drag on prosperity that it is
threatening the sources from
which it is derived.”
Overtaxing and Socialist ex-
travagance have led to much
loose living financially. Now
Maoriland must work its passage
back to a sound economy and
better appreciation of real
wealth. The ever-mounting in-
ternal debt has more than can-
celled-out gains from paying off
John Bull.
An inflow of capital from
abroad is predicted by A. J.
Scott, chairman of the Christ-
church Stock Exchange, if over-
seas investors can be sure they’ll
be able to take their funds out
again if they want to.
“Depression talk” is con-
demned by P. W. Blundell,
Wellington chairman. “There’s
nothing on the horizon to indi-
cate that a severe depression is
coming,” he said, “although we
must realise we’re living in un-
certain times and that world
prices might not always be at
present record levels.” Pep talk
like this is attuned to the new
mood of Maorilanders.


— r
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d.
THE SERVICE MAN
Communism's Plans
for 1950,
“Ek Bum”: Amid the spend-
ing boom in Australia nobody
seems to realise how critical a
year has come to this country.
It is the year which will un-
fold the Communist plans and
policy in Asia, the Pacific and
Europe to an extent not yet
guessed in many quarters. Fresh
grounds for controversy will
arise in the consideration of the
Japanese peace treaty, which the
United States State Department
is said to have drafted without
help from the Allies and in the
further militarisation of Ger-
many and the development of
the defence of Western Europe.
The fate of Hong Kong will
be settled. The struggle with the
Communist party in Australia,
in India and probably in Indo-
nesia will be fought out. It will
be decided whether the Com-
munist armies in China will be
allowed to, push further south-
ward into Indo-China as a pre-
liminary to the infiltration of
Siam and Malaya. The Indo-
nesian Republic should exhibit
its strength or weakness and the
babblers of U.N.O. prove finally
what they are worth.
It is generally an alarming
situation. The Chinese Com-
munists have reached the point
at which they hold in China all
main centre and transport lines,
which they appear to be
strengthening with the help of
a flood of Russian “experts”
who are showing them how to
rebuild the shattered railways
and to plan the invasion of
Formosa.
Strikes in Hong Kong
Meanwhile, in Hong Kong
they have begun to apply the
technique which has long been
set down in every non-Com-
munist country where there is a
trade-union organisation run by
Communists to provide the basis
for Soviet conquest. The tech-
nique which was set out for
Australia as far back as October,
1929, when it was embodied in
an order from - Moscow to the
Australian Communist party,
provides for the development of
a pretext for a general strike to
produce chaos and make the
country unable to defend itself
against insurrection.
There have been large impor-
tations of labor from China
proper to man Hong Kong’s
fast-expanding industries, some
of which immigrated themselves
in front of the Communist ad-
vance, and no doubt with this
labor has come an army of
Moscow-trained organisers of
trouble. These are at work in
the industries best calculated for
their purpose. Their operations
have begun with go-slow strikes
in the transport unions, fol-
lowed by demands, in postal,
electricity, telephone and other
public-utility organisations which
would be most useful in paralys-
ing the community and particu-
larly defence organisation, for
“higher pay” and “bgtter condi-
tions.”’
The authorities apparently
recognise the movement with its
threats of sympathy strikes in
other unions for what it is, and
precautions, far more prompt
than those taken by Australia’s
Chifley Government during the
coal strike? last winter, have
been taken to deal with the
whole matter and place utilities
under military and naval con-
trol immediately real {rouble
develops.
The Hong Kong Tramway
Company last week dismissed
several hundred conductors who
had refused to collect fares, and
this has been met by the Tram-
way Union with increased de-
mands and with threats of
“liquidation” against moderates.
Contemporaneous with these
events there have been moves in
three directions.
The Southward Moves
A veil seems to have fallen
over Communist operations
along the Chinese central coast.
Behind it large-scale preparations
for the invasion of Formosa are
said to be in progress—an in-
vasion which will involve, if the
reports are true, up to 200,000
men. 4
The second moves, and the
more important ones, are south-
ward. It was suddenly an-
nounced from various Com-
munist sources during the week,
the fountainhead of news being
the Vietnam H.Q. in Indo-
China, the commander of which
is Moscow-trained, that Chinese
Nationalist troops, 30,000 strong
and headed by General Pai-
chunghsi, had crossed the border
into North Tonking before
Christmas and that large num-
bers already were join-
ing the French garrisons. The
announcement obviously was
made to give an excuse for an
invasion of Indo-China by the
Chinese Communists.
Next, there has been an expan-
sion of Communist propaganda
in Siam, which is seething with
the operations of Communist
agents, who are there in droves,
and an eagerness has developed
to establish a situation in Burma
which would enable the advanc-
ing Communists to outflank
Siam and Malaya and create a
foothold on the flank of India.
With Russian influence estab-
lished in Afghanistan, this move
would put the new Indian
countries in a Communist sand-
wich and bring them very much
under Russian influence.
All these things go with added
pressure in Europe, with the de-
velopment of Communism in
Hungary under new laws, that
country being the key to the
approaches of southern Europe
from Russia. They also go with
the purge in Bulgaria and with
swiftly proceeding organisation
of the armies of Poland and
Eastern Germany under the
supervision of high Russian
generals of the Zhukov and
Rokossovsky types, combined
with hypocritical protests against
the supposed organisation of
Western German defences —
which began years after the
initiation of Russia’s plans in the
East, if they have begun seriously
at all—as “a menace to the safety
of democratic Europe.”
Western Germany’s Defence
The Australian Communist
party, of course, is slavishly
carrying on the propaganda of
this campaign. Earlier in the
month the official “Tribune”
quoted a speech by Max
Reimann, leader of the West
German Communist party, at the
British C.P. congress in Liver-
pool, in which he warned Britons
of “the alarming extent of Ger-
man remilitarisation.” Fie said
that the U.S. General Staff
planned 25 divisions in Western
Germany.
The paper quoted a remark-
able number of Russian-con-
trolled authorities in evidence of
what would happen under the
guise of the creation of a security
force which would be “under the
command of Anders, Haider and
Guderian.” All this is obviously
the normal type of Russian
propaganda antecedent to doing
just exactly what the other side
are condemned for doing. It
follows the pattern which pre-
ceded the invasion of the little
Baltic countries and of Finland,
as well as of the taking-over of
the “Iron Curtain” countries in
Eastern Europe.
The New “Co-Prosperity
Sphere”
The most serious part of what
is going on from an immediate
point of view is in East Asia.
The conferences of British repre-
sentatives, taking place at high
level, in Ceylon, which are to be
followed by an American diplo-
matic conference in Siam, indi-
cate that British-American policy
is being made regarding Red
China. The events taking place
there follow the pattern of Japl-
- invasion of the south. It
is clear that Russia and its satel-
lites are creating what the Jap-
anese had long ago thought
—a “Greater South-East Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere.” It is a
particularly dangerous concep-
tion, since it offers something to
a lot of small addle-headed
countries which, largely thanks
to U.N.0., have developed
swollen ambitions along with
swollen heads.
Bacterial Warfare.
“Ek Dum”: No sooner had
the American Occupation Force
H.Q. in Japan accused the
Russian Government of the
destruction of 374,000 Japanese
prisoners-of-war, in defiance of
all the principles of humanity
and all agreements with the
Western Allies, than Moscow
came forward with its usual
riposte.
It did not categorically deny
the American charges or attempt
"I told you you Wouldn’t be allowed in without a tie.”
to produce the missing prisoners.
But in the same way that the
Germans were accused of the
Katyn Polish atrocities to offset
German charges of Red Army
atrocities, and as the demand for
the internment of the Australia
First men in Sydney followed
the revelations of Communist
fifth-column operations here,
so charges against the heads of
the Japanese Kwangtung Army
followed the U.S. accusations of
Russian brutality to Japanese
p.-0.-w.
Almost instanter, the alleged
villains were brought to trial at
Khabarovsk, in Russian Siberia.
No reporters were present save
those representing the Russian
agencies. Nobody explained why
it had taken four years to pre-
pare the charges and nobody
said anything about the timing
of the trials.
However, 12 Japanese alleg-
edly pleaded guilty in the oblig-
ing manner in which defendants
plead guilty universally in Rus-
sian courts, “Pravda” and other
Russian. papers were uniformly
enthusiastic. They declared
heartily that by destroying the
Japanese Kwangtung Army in
Manchuria the Red Army had
saved the world from the
horrors of bacterial warfare
planned for instant use by the
Japanese, the fact being, of
course, that the Red Army in
Manchuria scarcely fired a shot
except at murders and execu-
tions. Russia entered the war
against Japan only six days
before the Japanese surrender
and after the first atom-bomb
had been dropped on Hiro-
shima. It met with no resist-
ance whatever in its advance
into Manchuria,
The star witness, according
is Moscow, is Major-General
Kiyoshi, He allegedly admitted
the injection of 3000 persons
with lethal bacteria. And he
allegedly told a story of how
bombs filled with plague-infested
fleas were dropped on 15
prisoners tied to posts. It takes
a little bit of aiming to direct a
bomb to 15 prisoners tied to
posts, and it seems no wonder
that “not all the prisoners
died.” Mr. Kiyoshi, however,
reported even more widespread
experiments in 1942, when
plague bombs dropped from air-
craft started an epidemic in the
Changteh district of Central
China and when wells, rivers,
reservoirs were infected with
cholera, typhoid and anthrax.
Another witness, Lieutenant-
General .Riuji Kajitsuka, alleg-
edly declared that plague germs
had been dropped in the areas
south of Shanghai, which he ad-
mitted to be “an inhuman and
criminal act,” but “effective.”
Then witnesses were produced
who swore that they had made
germ-warfare experiments on
U.S. prisoners.
This did not impress the
United States Government. In-
stead of shouting with indigna-
tion, its Mr. Sebald in Tokyo
calmly remarked that the
charges were a propaganda
smokescreen, intended to cover
up the atrocities against Japanese
p.-0.-w,, and that anyway it was
not even known whether the
trial at Khabarovsk was taking
place, save on paper.
Actually, at the extensive
Tokyo trials the Japanese were
exculpated in respect of germ
warfare, the American prose-
cutor making it clear that there
was no evidence that U.S.
prisoners had been used for
bacterial-warfare experiments.
The nonsense from Khaba-
rovsk, in any case, scarcely
needs denial. The areas in which
the Japanese are supposed to
have sown germs on a large and
horrible scale in rivers and reser-
voirs included some which,were
in Japanese satellite areas and
some which were thickly occu-
pied with Japanese troops!
The Russians are frequently
dogged and persevering with
horror propaganda, but they are
always clumsy. These accusa-
tions, despite the fact that the
Japanese, like every other
nation, may have tested the pos-
sibilities of germ warfare, are
obviously deliberate inventions.
Military
Standardisation.
“Ek Dum”; A few days be-
fore Christmas it was an-
nounced by the Defence
Ministry in London that an
agreement had been reached
under which Britain would col-
laborate with the United States
and Canada in the standardisa-
tion of arms. Australia, and in
major respects the Western
European countries, must per-
force be included in the arrange-
ment whether they like it or not.
To agree and to do, however,
are two differing operations. So
far it would seem from the text
of the agreement that a policy
has been laid down and an ex-
change of officers arranged,
but no detail or workshop
standardisation has yet been
agreed upon and cannot be
agreed on without long and
complex discussions, consider-
able changes in tools and fac-
tory equipment, unification of
methods and tactical methods
and other matters of great im-
portance. There could be no
change even within five .years
without wholesale scrapping.
And whether standardisation
beyond a certain point can be
achieved without sacrifice of
that originality which means so
much to progress in armament
as in everything else,is a moot
point. i
The R.A.N., perilously short
of manpower, has decided that
men may enlist in future for a
preliminary six years instead of
the normal 12, after which they
can re-engage for three more
terms —one of six and two of
five years, making a total of 22
years. Thereafter they may
keep on for two-year periods
until they retire at 50. The
minimum age is \l\, and those
who serve 20 years after reach-
ing the age of 20 are eligible for
pension on retirement.
* * * *
“Retired” from the Permanent
Army this week, deeply regretted
and more able-minded and able-
bodied than many a man half
his age. Brigadier Roy Meldrum
Thompson, D. 5.0., M.C. A
Wyalong (N.S.W.) native, he was
one of the very early Dun-
trooners, served with the Second
Division Artillery in World War
I, with which he went direct to
the front-line to become widely
known as a cheerful and en-
couraging figure wandering
round in the fierce artillery duel
in the La Chapelle Canal in
July, 1917. Third Ypres won
him an M.C. and Passchendaele
a D.S.O. The loss of an arm
did not stop his military pro-
gress. He went through Cam-
berley, spent a couple of years
at Quetta, 1936-37, under F.-M.
Montgomery, whose conducting-
officer he was when the latter
visited Australia after World
War 11, went to L.H.Q. as G.I.
Ops, in 1939 and served during
the war successively as B.G.S.
Southern Command and Second
Australian Corps before appoint-
ment to First Australian Corps
overseas as B.G.S. Towards
the end of the war he was
L.H.Q.’s No. 1 authority con-
cerned with training and opera-
tions, becoming 8.G.5., Eastern
Command, at the close of hos-
tilities. Latterly he has been
engaged on important work con-
nected with the development of
the new-type Army. His retire-
ment is conditional —though the
authorities probably don’t know
it —on there being no new war
for the next 50 years. He will
be in the middle of any one
which takes place between now
and a.d. 1999 whether the
Military Board likes it or not.
* * * *
Major - General N. C. D.
Brownjohn, Vice-Q.M.G., has
been appointed Vice-Chief of
the British General Staff in
place of Lieutenant-General G.
W. R. Templer, who becomes
C.-in-C. Eastern Comipand in
the U.K. Major-General Brown-
john is a Royal Engineer who
was Deputy C.O.S. at General
Eisenhower’s H.Q. in 1944. He
served three years in Germany
after the war, being Deputy
Military Governor when he was
called home to take office in
the Q.M.G.’s Department,


Women’s letters
From Sydney
When it came to the last day of the
old year, and human beings remembered
all the mistakes they had been saved from
making by gpod luck or good friends, the
mistakes they ha’d blundered into didn’t
seem anything much to blush about.
And as the day wore on 1949
began to bear the resemblance of
an old acquaintance, who, though he
often annoyed and bored, still, probably
meant very well. As midnight struck
men and women waved a somewhat
nostalgic farewell to the old, and turned
in an orgy of glad sounds to greet the
new —1950 still bright with hope. All
around Sydney traditional merrymaking
went on from early in the evening of the
31st till after midnight. Half the streets
about the .Cross were closed to traffic,
and the people, about 50,000 of them,
paper-capped, be-streamered, complete
with some sort of noise factory, had the
right of the road. Farewells to 1949
were even more flamboyant than fare-
wells to other years.
Martin-place, too, had its crowds, and
Bondi and Manly and Palm Beach. At
12 o’clock the ships in the harbor blew
their heads off. In streets and homes
countless thousands, on and off key, sang
“Auld Lang Syne.” And then as a part-
ing shot the rain-clouds that had been
sulking about all day let loose, and
washed the old year for ever from our
ways, and drenched the revellers home-
ward-bound. Those traditionally revelling
at the Pacific Club, Palm Beach, were
soaked at their uncovered tables and seats.
Annie Get-your-gun Evie Hayes didn’t
forget old friends at Christmas. Her
greetings-card from Maoriland showed a
picture of herself as the wild young
hunter Annie, gun and all. Across the
card are a few notes of “Doin’ What
Comes Naturally” and then below the
picture “Evie Hayes wishing you Season’s
Greetings.” The front of the card is a
proscenium, and across a stage that
stretches to infinity an old-fashioned train
is sturdily puffing. “Buffalo Bill” Claude
Flemming and his wife also send
greetings. The Kiwis’ card was
quite a bright idea. It shows the words
“The Kiwis” on a white ground that
might be a Maori shield. This is
superimposed on a red background. Also
in white is a Maori battle-axe (dormant).
Like a column on the left-hand side rises
a reproduction in gold of a Maori carving.
Hundreds and thousands of Sydneyites
found a lovely way of spending the morn-
ing of Boxing Day. They, went down in
the Show Boat and other craft to give a
send off to the yachts competing in the
Sydney-Hobart race. There was some-
thing gallant and blood-stirring in the
sight of craft, canvas spread, speeding in
bright sunshine across blue waters to the
Heads and then to the open sea. Sight-
seers who crowded in thousands on the
foreshores right to Vaucluse got even a
more extensive view of the panorama
than the tightly-packed humans in ferries,
launches, 18-footers, dinghies, canoes and
even an island schooner. It was a grand
start, and a grand send-off.
In the turgid coma in which Sydney
had its being during the holidays fol-
lowing Christmas, Randwick was the most
animated corner of the metropolis. Cer-
tainly the beaches were crowded, but
the humans there were lazing through the
hours of sun and breeze to the sound
of the surf —and not a bad thing either.
This Australian way of life builds healthy
bodies and easy tempers. That’s why we
laugh off, instead of punching the critic
on our hearth. Anyway, there was
Randwick, big, bright and bustling.
The sky was blue, the air as soft
as the lining of a broad-bean pod.
With a view, no doubt, to keeping
temperatures down, horses with such
cool names as Snowstream and
Johnny Zero sped to victory. But in the
final count, home went the Punter home
to his bills and the bookie home to his
tills.
There is a lack of formality in the
summer-holiday frocking at Randwick
that adds to the charm of the scene. At
this meeting girls wore their hats wide
and white or equally wide and black.
Frocks were cool and thin, and vari-
colored as a flight of butterflies. Helen
Louison, of Killara, wore with a frock
ot deep-blue crepe a hat of cream corded
silk, its wide brim edged with a flax-like
fringe. Melbourne’s good-looking Mrs.
Henry Rosenthal wore a trig white linen
suit with a white felt hat, its brim wicker-
edged. A cape collar of white pique was
the distinctive touch on Mrs. Jamieson
Williams’s black crinkly silk. Pale-pink
linen was worn by Mrs. Anthony
Hordern, junior; her wide-brimmed hat
was of navy straw.
Noted among other racegoers of the
week were Jennifer Snelling, daughter
of the popular Major Joyce Snelling, at
her first meeting, and Mrs. Robert Ruark,
wife of the visiting New Yqrk columnist.
Mrs. Ruark introduced an unusual style.
Her frock of navy flowered pink silk was
made with a sloping neckline that left the
left shoulder bare. The bodice had a
scarf effect over the right shoulder, and
this was draped to a soft bow on the left
side.
Last Friday evening at All Saints’.
Woollahra, Joy Garling became Mrs.
John Knibbs. Joy is the only
daughter of the Gerald Garlings, of Lind-
field. She is an Australian of the fifth
generation and a descendant of Frederick
Garling, first Crown solicitor. Joy wore
a frock of soft grey ; her hat was almond
green, and with the deep-gold roses she
carried made striking contrast. The
bridegroom is a great-grandson of the
late George Knibbs, knight and Gov-
ernment statistician, who also painted
and wrote poetry. Toasts were drunk
at Rancliff, Woollahra.
The pretty youngster in this John Lee
photograph is Wendy Playfair, second
daughter of the well-known Strath Play-
fairs, and beginning to be well-known in
her own right as a radio- and stage-actress.
Wendy is playing lead in the current play
for children, “Pirates at the Barn,” and
is making an appealing Kathy, the down-
trodden little heroine. The play, written
by Eleanor Whitcombe, centres around
the Barn at Mosman in the bad old days
of pirates, rum and what-have-you. The
play will run throughout the school holi-
days.
At half-past-three next Monday after-
noon friends bidden by Mrs. G. Craw-
ford, of Warrawee, will gather in the
drawing-room of the Royal Empire
Society’s home in Bligh-street to farewell
Margaret Gillespie, who sails for England
this month.
Among gaze-captivating accessories
seen during the Christmas festivities were
the necklet and bracelet of hyacinth-pink
nylon “pearls” worn by Mrs. P. J. Man-
ley. A great point in the necklet’s favor
was its feather-lightness. The wearer
had brought them from U.S. before the
dollar grip had such a stranglehold.
My word, the Merinos, the Romney
Marshes and all other great Australian
wool families will have to cease wool-
gathering and get down to this matter of
production. From what is practically an
S.O.S. sent out by the Australian
Wool Board, it is learned that the con-
sumption of the Dominions’ wool is pro-
ceeding at a rate of 30 or 40 per cent, in
excess of production. Just another
problem for the new Government to
solve. And this is one that cannot be
overcome by incentive pay.
This Letter would like to throw a spot-
light on the social committee that has
made such a splendid effort to help in its
work the N.S.W. Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb and the Blind
Children during the year just passed.
Under the presidency of Mrs. Ralph
Doyle, this energetic committee raised
£1000; a cheque for this amount
presented to the president of the insti-
tution, Mr. E. Minnis, was a very-grate-
fully-received Christmas gift. There are
250 deaf-and-dumb children at the
Darlington school, and 50 blind children
at the Wahroonga school, both of which
are maintained by the N.S.W. institution.
Joseph Post, popular associate-
conductor of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, goes off in April to England,
where he will stay until September. The'
A.B.C. is sending him abroad under ex-
change agreement for 8.8,C. conductor
Charles Groves. Joe, who is noted for
his fine musicianship and easy-to-get-on-
with manner as a conductor, joined the
A.B.C, in the 1930’5. He is a favorite with
celebrity-concert audiences and has con-
ducted for most of the visiting artists of
the A.B.C. Mr. Groves has been with
the 8.8. C. since 1938, and has been per-
manent conductor of the 8.8. C. Northern
Regional Orchestra for the past five years.
While in Australia Mr. Groves will con-
duct studio and public concerts for the
A.B.C. throughout the Commonwealth.
Among the most striking models shown
at a recent Paris display and filmed by
Gaumont were the pale-orchid-mauve
tea-gown with long scarf drapery over
the- matching satin bodice designed by
Jean Desses, and that shown by Maggy
Rouff —a white wool serge evening dress,
its bodice sparkling with elaborate rhine-
stone embroidery. Equally effective was
Manguin’s night-blue wool crepe dinner-
dress made with a rounded decollete, long
tight sleeves and a checked red and blue
taffeta scarf falling from the left side
of the waistline. Facecloth was used for
a number of dramatic models, including
Jacques Path’s restaurant outfit in black
facecloth with a jutting basque movement
on the right hip and a tightly-fitted
jacket which could be removed to show
a strapless white corsage embroidered
with black jet beads and sequins. White
facecloth was also used by Paquin for a
dress with a white cape trimmed with gold
embroidery and a high funnel-shaped
mink collar. In mustard-yellow face-
cloth, another evening dress, elaborately
embroidered with gold on the bodice, had
a short skirt developing into a fin-shaped
train on the right hip, while Bruyere used
white facecloth for a strapless gown worn
beneath a threequarter-length coat in
cinnamon blanket wool with silver motifs
on the sleeves. The display was entitled
“Wool from 6 p.m, to Midnight.”
On January 8, at 6.30, the social
committee of the American-Australasian
Ex-servicemen’s Memorial Club is holding
a cocktail-party, to be followed by a
dramatic fantasy from the pen of Max
Afford, who, with his wife, leaves early
in the New Year for England, where he
will represent the P.E.N. at its 1950 con-
ference, The name of his play is “The
Consulting Room,” and it will be pro-
duced by Paul Jacklin. Also on the bill
is Noel Coward’s “Red Peppers,” pro-
duced by Maxwell Dunn. Scene of all
these doings will be the Independent
Theatre, Miller-street, North Sydney.
A young staff-sergeant having holiday
leave in Sydney explodes the idea that
life on the rocket range is a dull and un-
interesting affair. She and the other 25
Army sisters who are running the hos-
pital at the range are loving the routine
and the clear air of Woomera. Also,
they like being flown for short leave to
Adelaide and back in the R.A.A.F. planes.
From Melbourne
The Governor’s wife, Lady Brooks, is
finishing the holiday festivities on a
quieter note at her summer home, Cliff
House, Frankston. The immediate pre-
Christmas period was an extremely busy
one for the viceregal family, and the
cooling sea breezes and placid air of Cliff
House are proving a welcome change for
Lady Brooks. Lieut. - Commander
Sansoni, who is A.D.C. to the Governor-
General of Ceylon, and Mrs. Sansoni,
who are looking forward keenly to seeing
the Australian tennis championships,
which start shortly at Kooyong, have
been her Excellency’s house-guests.
There seems to be a grand revival in
the sending of Christmas-cards and New
Year cards. Even tucked in with the
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year
gifts came brightly-flowered greetings,
greetings with stately bits of architecture
attached, greetings with rosy-cheeked,
pelissed and bonneted young ladies step-
ping into a Christmas morning of snow
and frost. However, none of this writer’s
cards, except one or two from America,
bore any of the Christmas symbols. The
bright star, the wise men, the shepherds
and their flocks were all absentees. Some
people even sent comic-cards, and some
sent lottery-tickets, and tickets in art-
unions. The cards reproducing well-
known Australian paintings reached as
high an art level as any from overseas.
This Christmas brought a good selec-
tion. That from the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress had the city’s coat-of-
arms in color on the front, whilst on an
inner page was a small replica of the
Town Hall and in the centre, opposite the
greeting, a copy in color of John
Rowell’s “A Bush Road.” From the
Australian Embassy in Washington came
a rather chaste card with the Australian
coat of arms on the front. A typical
English winter scene adorned the card
from Lieut.-General and Mrs. C. A.
Clowes. David Copperfield meeting Mr.
Micawber in Canterbury was the picture
chosen by Dr, and Mrs. Alan Tate. A
reproduction of Streeton’s “Near Heidel-
berg” embellished the greeting sent out
by the L. J. McConnans. Naturally it
was a nautical scene for Commodore and
Mrs. H. Showers’s card —W. L. Wylie’s
“Trafalgar, 2.30 p.m.” Among original
cards was one from Dermot and Bea
Connelly. On a large sheet of art paper,
intricately folded, were printed lots of
greetings and good wishes and attached
to the folder were snaps of daughters
Julie and Sue.
Mrs. Victor Letcher, who has returned
after having been touring abroad for
seven months, during which she attended
the fashion shows of Jean Desses and
Maggy Rouff in Paris, visited the famed
isle of Capri (remember the Axel Munthe
story?), and met Winston Churchill at
a Buckingham Palace garden-party, will
soon be back in her self-imposed harness
as honorary treasurer and buyer for the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Kiosk
Auxiliary.
This Broothorn study is of Dympna*
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. F.
O’Collins, of Frankston, who was edu-
cated at Sacre Cceur and recently returned
from a holiday abroad. She has just
become engaged to Kevin, only child of
Mr. and Mrs. P. L. Coleman, of Aspen-
dale. Kevin will be admitted to the
Bar about the middle of the year, and
shortly afterwards the marriage will take
place at Newman College Chapel. The
pair will then go to England, where he
will do more study in law.
Judith Pett, only daughter of the
Vernon Petts, of Toorak, who has an-
nounced her engagement to Allen, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. H. Allworth,
of Tantilla, Narromine (N.S.W.), was
educated at St. Margaret’s, Berwick, after-
wards training as a Itheatre sister at
Prince Henry’s Hospital. Judith knows
country life intimately—she housekept for
her brother Tony when he was managing
Umagarlee station, Wellington (N.S.W.).
Now Tony has his own property at
Narromine, and Judith has the pleasant
prospect that when, as they hope, she*
and Allen acquire their own property in
that district after they marry toward the
end of the year (at present Allen is
managing his parents’ property), they and
Tony and his wife (the former Pam
Cowper) will be close neighbors.
The lawns of Mooleric, the Birregurra
home of Mrs. Robert A. Ramsay, were a
mass of lights for the big barbecue given
by Mrs. Ramsay, her daughter Ann, and
her sons Andrew and Robert last Friday
night. Many were house-guests, some
from N.S.W. and New Zealand. Among
those who enjoyed the sucking-pig and
the subsequent dancing indoors were Dick
Minifie, who had come up from holiday-
ing at Anglesea, Wendy Faulkner, her
sister Marcia and her fiance Peter
Goddard, Robert and Russell Chirnside,
of Skipton, John and Virginia Fiskin, of
Ballarat, Elizabeth Hughes, the Tom
Austins and Stuart Austin, Judith and
Graeme Dowling, of Ballarat, and Mari-
gold and Bill Manifold, of Camperdown.
The hostess’s frock was of grey silk pat-
terned in red and white. Ann Ramsay’s
Chinese-printedi silks were fashioned with
small Chinese sleeves.
Mrs. Michael Searle is eagerly antici-
pating settling into Camberwell Grammar
School with her husband, who is the
new headmaster. The Searle family in-
cludes three children, Jane, aged eight,
Julian, five, and Bridget, two ; they have
just arrived from England in the Chitral.
Before the war Mrs. Searle worked with
the publishing firm of Longman’s, Green
and Co., but on the outbreak of war
went into the A.T.S., where she served
until April, 1941. Specialising in signals,
at her discharge she had charge of a
signal company of 200 girls. She is keen
on sports, especially ski-ing, tennis and
swimming, and loves music.


The name is«
I
The whisky ls_
m
JSO
u
-
3 f
'6
ftllßilliilllll
.a
S
VJ
«S
CA<|»*u«qH (»oum6«6 1807) e SvOM«
Meeting
an 0/0/ friend
is always a
pleasurable
occasion !
JheJauceMt/i aJecM.
a.
\r<
\ -i?S |c
as\ 'XSi • 1-
J
4?ir;
Vsxvj>' '
r /V
.-T^rssc^iE^*
■im
M
n f
f~] I yrtHKI
/ NTT — m —ff
m
~=StJ
*pi
m
mm
m
mm
<
SsBfi&&
mm
mi
Matured like
Old Wine
which Imparts
its
“Secret Flavour”
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
UMCABLED
ADDITIONS
ENTER, INDONESIA.
In accordance with the agree-
ment reached at The Hague by
the conference of Dutch and
Indonesians which began last
August and ended in November,
the new United States of Indo-
nesia now starts its career as a
nation.
Comprising (to summarise
from “New York Times”) all of
the islands in the Indonesian
archipelago with the present
exception of Dutch New Guinea,
whose status is still in dispute,
it will run to a total land area
of 735,000 square miles and a
population of 76,000,000. The
largest of the islands are Java
(population 50,000,000) and
Sumatra (population 8,000,000).
The U.S.I. will be an inde-
pendent sovereign federal re-
public like the U.S.A. Its terri-
tory will be organised into 16
States of which the largest will
be the Indonesian Republic in
the islands of Java and Sumatra,
scene of most of the recent fight-
ing between Dutch and Indo-
nesians. The other States—in-
cluding East Java, East Borneo,
West Borneo, South Sumatra,
Madura, Great Dayak, Pasudan
(West Java) —now have their
own semi-autonomous Govern-
ments. Eventually plebiscites
will be held in all of the States to
determine final Governments and
boundary-lines. The U.S.I. will
be governed by a President, a
Senate and a House of Repre-
sentatives. Each State will have
two members in the Senate, while
the House will be elected on the
basis of population.
Relations between the U.S.I.
and the Netherlands will be
governed by a Statute of Union
signed at The Hague conference,
for a “Netherlands-Indonesian
Union” with the Queen of the
Netherlands as its symbolic head.
They will be equal partners in
that union.
The Dutch are to complete the
withdrawal of their troops by
July, 1950. The Indonesians will
recognise the primary Dutch
commercial interest in the U.S.I.
and will protect Dutch invest-
ments in their country. But the
U.S.I. Government will have
final and complete authority over
Indonesian economic and
financial policies. The Nether-
lands will sponsor the U.S.l.’s
application for membership in
the United Nations. In so far as
is possible, the two countries will
conduct international negotia-
tions as a union.
“Manchester Guardian” edi-
torial comment on the new in-
dependent Indonesia (the com-
ment began ironically, from the
Dutch point of view, with a
quotation from Paradise Lost)
can be taken as widely typical of
the general British Press out-
look :
“Indonesia has achieved in-
dependence at a moment when
all south-east Asia is threatened
by revolution and civil war.
Burma stands before it as an
example of a country which
achieved its independence only
to fall into chaos. What are
the chances of Indonesia avoid-
ing the same fate? The Repub-
lican Government in Java—
which will be the most important
constituent part of the Federal
Republic—has already met and
defeated the attempt of the
Communists to seize power by
force. The Communists struck
when the Republicans were pre-
occupied with their relations
with the Dutch. If the Republi-
cans beat them in such circum-
stances they have a grand
chance of doing so again when
they do not have to conduct a
struggle on two fronts.
“Indonesia begins with many
distinct advantages. It has no
racial minorities which are
likely to play the same part as
the Karens in Burma. Though
there are 2,000,000 Chinese in
Indonesia, they have not in the
past shown themselves un-
manageable. Indonesia is happy
in having the ocean between it-
self and China. There will be
no border incidents. Indonesia’s
worst problem is the population
increase. Java, India and Japan
are the three countries whose
population is most alarmingly
outstripping the means of sub-
sistence. But there is plenty of
room in the outer territories.
The Dutch had already planned
to move there some of the sur-
plus population from Java, and
the new Government may take
over their plans. Java is rich
in resources. Parts of it have
been badly damaged by the civil
wars, but, if there is peace, they
will recover quickly....
“The Dutch,” it concluded,
“have gained prestige by proving
themselves realists and accepting
what the trends of the age made
inevitable. Though they re-
linquish political control of In-
Kansas City (U.S.A.) “Star.”
LOOK OUT FOR PIRATES!
donesia, they have won Indo-
nesia as a permanent associate.
Everybody who was at the
Hague was impressed by the
willingness of the Indonesians to
continue to work with the
Dutch.
“Thus the time has not come
to write an elegy over Dutch
history in the East. Indonesia
will not become a foreign coun-
try to its partner the Nether-
lands.”
As a break in the chorus of
such comment, a London “Daily
Telegraph” special correspondent
strikes a less emotional note,
while, incidentally, giving the
Dutch a meed of credit:
'“Outside the Netherlands, and
especially by Left-wing people
in the English-speaking coun-
tries, much foolish abuse has
been hurled at ‘Dutch colonial
imperialism.’ How ill-founded
this conception is may perhaps
be gathered from the fact that it
is in Government and industrial
circles [in Holland] that the
settlement is received with least
regret, as being in a large de-
gree inevitable.
“It is among the ordinary
middle-class citizens, and to
some extent among the working-
classes (who have learnt much
about Indonesia recently from
the letters of young Dutch
soldiers), that there is a puzzled
dismay. ‘Why have we sacrificed
so many Dutch lives in recent
years if this was. to be the re-
sult?’ ‘Could we not have given
the Republicans Java and seen
how they handled that before
entrusting them with the rest?’
‘What chance is there of sav-
ing the lives of Dutch planters
up-country when the transfer
occurs?’ Those are some of the
questions that are being asked
in gloomy tones, particularly by
those who have lived and worked
in Indonesia... .The average
Dutchman who has been in Indo-
nesia in recent years is extremely
sceptical of the capacity of the
country’s new masters to run it
efficiently or even to keep order.
He is doubtful of the fate of
the 200,000 Eurasians who are
considered aliens and not
allowed to own arable land. He
fears for the fate of the other
minorities, European and
Asiatic, and for the various
‘Ulsters’ which have shown
themselves strung across the
3000-mile-wide archipelago with
its 76,000,000 inhabitants and
200 languages or dialects.
“Most of all he fears for the
future of Dutch trade, v
“Commercial rather than im-
perial thoughts are uppermost
in the Dutch mind, but it would
be unfair not to stress the strong
feeling of paternalism and re-
sponsibility for backward peoples
which has inspired the Dutch
rule in Indonesia. One of the
points which most troubles the
Dutch conscience at the moment
is that the country will have lost
the power to intervene in ful-
filment of old pledges.
“One of the reasons which
has inspired the Dutch to keep
New Guinea out of the United
States of Indonesia—its future
is to be decided before the end
of 1950—is a doubt whether,
even if the United States of In-
donesia can set their house in
order, they could exercise a use-
ful tutelage over more primitive
neighbors.
“Moreover, the Eurasians look
to the maintenance of Dutch
rule in New Guinea to provide
a possible field for migration
now that they have, as they feel,
been betrayed in Java and
Sumatra.
“With our own quite recent
experience of the communal
massacres in India which fol-
lowed the transfer of power and
our unhappy position as on-
lookers in the matters of Hydera-
bad and Kashmir, we should be
able to sympathise with Dutch
opinion when it fails to endorse
in advance the idealistic picture
of Indonesia.”
The Canberra Change.
A few additions to cabled ex-
tracts from overseas comment on
the changepver at Canberra:
London “Daily Telegraph.” —
“Some change may be expected
from Dr. Evatt’s boisterous
policy as Minister for External
Affairs, with its tendency to
idealise those non - European
nations from which Australia
nonetheless has discouraged im-
migrants. A renewed sense of
responsibility may well mark
Australia’s relations with the
outside world, without in any
way diminishing the proverbial
vigor and forthrightness of her
statesmen,”
Another from the “D.T.” —
“The two Dominions towards
which our own Socialist party
has repeatedly pointed as ex-
amples of the enlightened and
beneficent government which
Social democracy could bestow
upon peoples of British stock
have rejected the panacea after
quite adequate experience.”
London “Sunday Times”— 1 It
is the direction of advance and
the spirit of policy that matter.
Majorities in Australia and New
Zealand want them to be in-
formed henceforward by enter-
prise and freedom, not dead-
levelling and control. They have
spurned the path that leads at
length, as Socialism must, to the
totalitarian State. That, too, is
the real issue before the people
of Britain, who now have two
encouraging examples to fol-
low.”
“Yorkshire Post” “The
power of anti-Socialist feeling
has given nationalisation a stag-
gering blow in Australia. It


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
ItutiUiticns throughout Australia
JACKSON $
osumvAv
. vpnija
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I 1 PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Goodbye to the Common Cold?
If you begin to take them at the first sign of a cold, certain
new antihistamine tablets will likely kill your cold within
36 hours. They will also prevent the sneezing and coughing
and runny noses that now spread Infection to others. In
January Reader’s Digest Paul de Kruif tells how this new
drug was developed . . . how it has been tested both as a cure
AND as a preventive.
Also in January Reader’s Digest
21-page condensation: "W. C.
Fields His Follies and For-
tunes." Raucous, boastful,
suspicious, this beloved man
was as funny and preposter-
ous in real life as the craziest
of his screen roles. “A rol-
licking 1 book about a rol-
licking guy,” says Fred Allen.
You can dine out for weeks
on the anecdotes in it.
Your mind can keep you well.
Half the people going to doc-
tors today actually think
themselves into sickness as
real and painful as any—says
Dr. John A. Schindler. Read
how your attitude toward life
actually brings on physical
illnesses . . . and why think-
ing “right” lifts the emotional
tension in you that causes
them.
I dm a selfish mother. Would
you agree with a mother who
decided, when money ran
short, SHE’d take, the piano
lessons, not her daughter . . .
feels it more vital for her to
dress well than it is for her
child? A mother gives her
reasons why a woman who
puts herself first is not only
a wise parent but a better
wife
Do you fit your job? Do you
talk about your job at home?
Think the boss sometimes
picks on you? Prefer to give
—or take—orders? How did
you happen to get your job,
anyway? Here are 14 key
questions to help you decide
■if you and your job match up
... or if you’d be happier
doing something else.
The heart that did not break.
At 64 she entered college,
•worked her way through. At
70 she prepared for a movie
career, taking lessons in
swimming, tap dancing, fen-
cing! Heroic life of Hollywood
star, Adeline De Walt Rey-
nolds, who at 88 proves "It’s
never too late to make dreams
come true.”
My own private miracle. The
last crowded lifeboat pulled
away, leaving him to drown.
He was alone, hopelessly
alone in the Indian Ocean.
Then a voice said; ‘You d
better start praying.” Here is
the miracle that came to
William McDougall, Jn. when
a Jap sub sank his ship 250
miles off Java.
In January issue more
than 30 articles of lasting
interest , selected from
leading magazines and
current books 9 cow*
densed to save your time.
Read and enjoy January
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
means that more money will be
freed for private enterprise;
there will be coupon-free petrol
at last; there will be great de-
velopment of industry. Full em-
ployment will continue. The
plan for expansion is ready. All
that was needed to put it into
operation was the removal from
office of a Government which,,
being Socialist, did not believe
that every man should be free
to run his .pwn business in his
own way, provided he was
honest.”
Lord Vansittart. —“I have
always felt that a Government
which would lead the way
against Communism would be
doing a fine thing. Well, Aus-
tralia leads the way, and pro-
vides our own people with an
example.”
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” —
“The accumulated resentments
which played their part in the
Dominion overturns were not
the result of mismanagement or
inexperience; they were the in-
evitable consequences of a sys-
tem which sets out to direct en-
larging spheres of the indi-
vidual’s life and work. It may
be questioned, indeed, whether
Socialism can long endure where
the door remains open to a
freer, less-restrictive type of
Government. For a time the
burden of grievances may be
outweighed by the superficial
gains. In .a comparatively simple
society, like New Zealand, the
Socialist incubus may not be
felt as quickly as in so complex
and sensitive an economy as
Britain’s. Even in Britain
the weight may not bear down
equally, or equally fast, upon
all areas. But in the end the toll
of petty restrictions" mounts un-
bearably ; and, whether after 14
years or after four, the lid
blows off.”
China Recognition.
Through about the last half of
1949 the British Press, with only
one or two exceptions, strongly
urged the diplomatic recogni-
tion of Communist China. It
differed in this markedly from
the U.S, Press, which has been
lukewarm all along, even while
writing of recognition as some-
time inevitable.
An exception in the British
chorus, Christopher Buckley, a
London “Daily Telegraph”
special correspondent in the Far
East and elsewhere, had his
doubts about the consequences
of recognition, not in regard to
China itself, but to elsewhere in
Asia, particularly Malaya, where
Chinese Communist bandits have
been in armed rebellion for 18
months.
“It is scarcely disputable,”
commented Buckley, “that the
recognition of the Communist
regime in China will be inter-
preted as a signal diplomatic
defeat for the British and lend
an additional impetus to the
rebels. The Communist party
in Malaya is, very properly,
banned; our recognition of the
Communist Government in
“Marc Aurelia,” Rome.
"DON'T FIDGET, FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE!”
China will be seen somewhat in
the light of a Far Eastern
Munich.
“I know that British officials
in Malaya are disturbed at the
prospect of seeing the Chinese
consulates transformed into
centres for supplying aid and in-
formation to the bandits. We
shall be conceding, they argue,
particular privileges to the very
people whose aim it is to sub-
vert all law and order in Malaya
in the interests of Communist
revolution.”
Despite that, however, there
could be no point in Britain
seeking guarantees that that
would not follow in due course:
“We should know by now that
any Communist State will not
keep promises a day longer than
it finds it convenient to do so.”
Western Defences.
Most reports on Western-
Union defence planning have
inclined to the pessimistic ; some
of them downright dismal. As
an exception, a London “Daily
Mail” correspondent visiting
headquarters at Fontainebleau
declares that, though confront-
ing the potential aggressor
(there’s only one) with a really
solid defence is still ahead, what
has already been achieved “is
little short of miraculous.”
First and foremost there has
been created “an integrated
General Staff of four nations —•
French, English, Belgian and
Dutch —and anyone who remem-
bers the initial difficulty of form-
ing a combined U.S.-British
Headquarters such as
S.H.A.E.F. must appreciate the
vastness of this achievement.
“It is a staff of all three ser-
vices—navy, army and air
force. That in its initial stages
alone meant that the forms of
procedure of all three arms of
four completely separate nations
had to be blended together,
simplified and put on a working
basis ; and more often than not
with considerable opposition
from one of the Service Minis-
tries of one of the four coun-
tries concerned.
“Once achieved, though, it
had to begin on the spadework
of creating nothing more nor less
than an international manual of
war, or of the prevention of
war. Logistics, air-reconnais-
sance, close support, charts,
communications, the infinities
of every form of warlike action
or procedure had to be studied,
the best approved and then a
common-to-all policy drawn up
and standardised.
“That in itself is a gargantuan
task particularly when one
must admit that eveiy nation
has its own pet foibles and
preferences, every service its
own whims and every individual
his particular likes and dislikes.
“At times there have been as
many as 50 small international
committees working at the same
time, each one on its own prob-
lem, ironing out difficulties,
taking part from one nation’s
procedure, part from another
and welding a new entity.
“It has been said occasion-
ally,” concludes the corre-
spondent, “that differences of
opinion have arisen and have
caused trouble. Of course. But
I would also say sincerely that
the harmony which exists
throughout this integrated staff
is a very moving tribute to the
honesty of the beliefs and the
good sense of every officer and
man.”
Visiting America late in the
just-passed year, Montgomery
bluntly told the U.S. at
large, in a nation-wide broad-
cast, that “after a successful
invasion from the East it
would be quite useless
promising to rescue the West in
due course.” The peoples of
Western Europe, he said, “must
be protected against invasion
and not just told they would be
rescued.” They must, he em-
phasised, “be defended from the
beginning,” and that could only
be done “by the acceptance
without reservation of the prin-
ciple of ‘one for all and all for
one.’ ”
Towards implementing that
principle, there is due to begin
this month the first U.S. peace-
time co-operative military action
of a really effective kind —the
transport to Western Europe of
the forerunner cargo of military
contributions (“probably includ-
ing artillery and ammunition,”
says “New York Times”). This
by way of positive practical
endorsement of the declara-
tion of U.S. Secretary of
Defence Louis Johnson in Lon-
don that, even though “the
danger of war had lessened in
recent months,” America would
in the interests of peace be
“ready for any eventuality at
4 o’clock in the morning.”
False Food Figures.
Food Minister Strachey having
asked British people to find com-
fort in the knowledge that their
consumption of calories, com-
pared with other European
countries, was below only that of
Ireland and Denmark, the
“Economist” retorted with a
somewhat overdue debunking of
the “calorie”:
“This year’s 400,000 British
visitors to Europe will find Mr.
Strachey’s way of putting things
very puzzling. Do the statistics
conflict with the evidence that
they saw for themselves?
“The first obvious objection is
to the use of the calorie for pur-
poses of comparison. It measures
only the amount of heat energy
obtained from food, whereas
good feeding depends on a large
number of more subtle factors
which defy statistical computa-
tion.
“Secondly, most of the Euro-
pean countries produce a large
amount of food which is con-
sumed domestically on a most
generous scale and which there-
fore tends to escape the net of
official statistics.
“Finally, the comparison of
national diets can give quite arti-
ficial results if differences in
geography and social environ-
ment are ignored. Because a
country has a smaller calorie in-
take, it does not necessarily fol-
low that the people are worse off
nutritionally.”
Dragnet Digest.
Some West Advantages. —In an
editorial analysis of how the “cold
war” is progressing, “New York
Times” makes the point that at least
there is no schism in the West re-
motely comparable to the defection
of Tito. “No democratic State has
revolted or deserted the fold; we
have no enemies in our midst except
the Communist Fifth Columns, and
they are weaker today than at any
time since the war ended. We are
facing the Iron Curtain with allies
who are on our side by choice, not
because they have been occupied and
dragooned by hand-picked Govern-
ments.”
* * * *
Socialised Speed. —Th e Attlee
Socialists can fairly claim to have
provided “Yorkshire Post” with this
item of railway news: “Our old
friend the Flying Scotsman no longer
flies, but takes 1 hour 13 minutes
longer for its journey than it did in
1939.” In fact, the “Post” com-
pients, what Britain’s now socialised
railways 'have to offer the travelling
public “is deplorable compared with
what was provided by the unnational-
ised companies before the war.”
* * * *
British Commonwealth Alive.
Having attended both the first “un-
official Commonwealth Relations Con-
ference” (organised by the Institutes
of International Affairs, and held at
Toronto, Canada, in 1933), and the
one held at the same address a few
months back, H. V. Hodson has
summed up in the course of a
London “Observer” article: “Never
in previous such conferences in my
experience has there been evident
such a strong sense that the [British]
Commonwealth is a unity, with a
spirit and destiny of its own. Far
more than our statesmen sometimes
let us think, it is real, dynamic and
alive. Moreover, within the Com-
monwealth the moral leadership of
Britain is still supreme, if she does
her duty.”
* * * *
Mudslingers’ War. —Reporting from
Belgrade in London “New States-
man,” Alexander Werth sees a
glimmer of hope through the barrages
of mud with which Yugoslavs and
Russians continue to pelt each
other. “One has the impression,” he
writes, “that, having embarked on
the quarrel, the Yugoslav leaders,
with Balkan exuberance and reckless-
ness, are immensely enjoying this
mud-slinging and spilling of the
beans However, the fact that the
Yugoslavs are shouting defiance at
Russia from the housetops probably
means that they are pretty sure that
the Red Army won’t march. And,
knowing this, they feel they can
indulge in a great verbal contest
which must at times make the Rus-
sians highly uncomfortable.”
* * * *
The Churchill Bite. —Lest anyone
should happen to think the old bull-
dog’s teeth may have become a little
blunt, here’s how Mr. Churchill de-
clared his party’s intention to wipe
out the Attlee Socialists’ measure for
nationalising the steel industry:
“Should we be returned to power— ■
(Ministerial cries of ‘Wishful think-
ing!’)—one has to take all things
into consideration; not to do so
would be to throw doubts on the
freedom of elections end the intelli-
gence of the electorate —one of our
first steps will be to expunge from
the Statute Book—(loud Opposition
cheers, and Ministerial laughter)—this
wanton, wasteful, partisan measure,
in which many of those associated
with it do not in their hearts believe.
It strikes this country a bitter blow
at a bad time. We shall let the steel
industry continue its splendid career
of ever-improving production and
efficiency, with unbroken goodwill
between employers and employed—a
record almost in this country and in
all the steel industries of the world —
without its being dragged into party
politics by the fanaticism of obsolete
and discredited Socialist doctrines.
(Loud Opposition cheers.)”


BLOTCHY 1 !
s SKIN I
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
Y. quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
, Talcum Powder., 533
fiiticiira
ointment
f
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FIELDGATE formerly of
Lugarno New South Wales but at present
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
EVA FLORA HOWELL FIELDGATE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2924 of
1949 on the grounds of your desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 16th March
1950 A copy of the petition may be
had without charge from HANCOCK,
ALLDIS & CO., Solicitors, of 225 Forest
Road, Hurstville, or their Sydney Agents,
S. E. COOK & SON, 14 Spring Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
WILL CHARLES RICHARD GAUNTER,
formerly of Batchelors’ Hall Farm, Prince-
town, Devon, England, aged about 56,
who, on the 26th February, 1925, left
England on T.S.S. Euripides for New
South Wales, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. WINDEATT & WINDEATT,
Solicitors, Totnes, Devon, England.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS.
With six city houses present-
ing flesh-and-blood shows and
the repertory groups, headed by
Doris Fitton’s Independents and
May Hollinworth’s Metropoli-
tans, doing sterling work, the
stage in Sydney dived into the
New Year looking better and
healthier than it has for years.
As well as their evening shows,
the Tiv., Minerva and Palace
have excellent day-time panto-
mimes “Cinderella,” “Pirates
at the Barn” and “Little Red
Riding Hood” respectively—and
the ages of the children ganged
up in python-like queues seem
to range from two to 62.
Three of the legit, theatres
seem comfortably set for long
runs: the Royal has its slap-up
musical “Oklahoma!,” the
Palace expects its English
comedy “One Wild Oat” to run
for a good spell yet, and the
Minerva’s slick American
comedy “Separate Rooms” with
Australian Hal Thompson, plus
June Clyde and Stewart Long,
who came here with “Born
Yesterday,” should account for
a fair slice of the new year.
One interesting and possibly
significant development of the
last couple of years has been
the switch of three theatres from
films to stage. The Empire
changed from celluloid to flesh-
and-blood with the arrival of
the Kiwis, now in their third
programme after a year’s run-
ning ; the Palace did likewise
with the brilliant Coward
comedy “Present Laughter”;
and lately the Tatler has changed
from films to variety, the
management claiming that the
former were too expensive. It
should also be mentioned that
the M.-G.-M. film company was
unsuccessful in its attempt to
get possession of its theatre, the
Minerva, to use it as a film
house, the court holding, ap-
parently, that the present occu-
pants, Whitehall Productions,
should be given a chance to re-
coup some of the money they
have lost on stage productions
in that theatre.
Of melancholy interest was
the bankruptcy of Philip Myers,
the man who, with his wife,
gambled a small fortune on pro-
ducing a stage version of Robert
Close’s “Love Me, Sailor” in a
large and handsomely-appointed
tent at Rushcutter’s Bay. The
venture failed and the producers
lost a packet, which was a pity
because the play, being very
well presented and acted,
humorous and interesting, de-
served a long run. In
this commentator’s opinion
the main reason for the
failure was the location —a
vacant lot in a side-street be-
hind the Stadium. With a
theatre or a more convenient
situation the story might have
been very different; in fact, the
play may yet come to light and
make a wad for someone game
to back it.
Backing untried plays or un-
tested performances, of course,
is probably more risky than
backing horses, and nobody can
be blamed for not doing it, par-
ticularly when such certainties
as “Annie Get Your Gun,”
“Edward My Son,” “Okla-
homa!” “Present Laughter,” the
Kiwis and others are available
to put your money on. This
reviewer, however, sometimes
thinks that, if he had a theatre,
which he hasn’t, and a fortune,
which he definitely hasn’t, and
the courage to risk ’em both,
which be most certainly hasn’t,
he would use the lot to bring
into a full-sized theatre in the
city proper some of the out-
standing work done by repertory
groups and others around Syd-
ney. The abovementioned
“Love Me, Sailor” Is a case in
point; others which come readily
to mind are the Independent’s
“Volpone” and “Rusty Bugles,”
and the Metropolitan’s produc-
tion of Douglas Stewart’s “Ship-
wreck.”
So much for fancy; the
managements of Sydney’s
theatres seem to do very well
with a more realistic view. Syd-
ney Tiv., for instance, which
suffered a slight setback during
1949 when the strike forced it to
close down for lack of power,
came back better than ever with
the Stratford-on-Avon Memorial
Players in “Much Ado About
Nothing” and “Macbeth” and
then, last week, went back to its
customary tiptop vaudeville.
The charm about the Tiv. is not
only its “infinite variety” but its
unflagging rush and vitality and
the fact that its costuming is
generally the last word in fresh-
ness and originality. The cur-
rent programme includes the
Colleano troupe —a team of
Australian origin which made a
name for itself in England and
U.S.—led by Maurice Col-
leano, a comedian, acrobat and
dancer of the first water who,
like the best of his kind, brings
the house down with the simplest
things.
Also filling a large part of
the Tiv.’s bill, and filling it very
well, are pianists Ivor Moreton
and Dave Kay, who drench the
audience in a pleasant shower
of light music and equally light
comedy. No less spectacular in
their way are the Ganjou
Brothers and Juanita, whom
they toss and hurl about in a
manner that literally draws
gasps of anxiety from the audi-
ence for the slight young
woman’s safety; and Kristel
and Krista, twins who do grace-
ful, incredible things on the
trapeze which seem to indicate
that their shapely feminine
forms conceal nothing but un-
breakable wire and steel springs.
Looking over all of them,
then —Royal, Palace, Minerva,
Tiv., Empire and Tatler —it is
apparent that they are all offer-
ing good to excellent shows. In
the total picture it is too much
on the light side for a good bal-
ance of a city’s stage entertain-
merit —there is more substantial
fare at the Independent (John
Alden’s Shakspeare and
“The Residuary Legatee” com-
ing up tomorrow night) and
at the Metropolitan (“Heart-
break House”) —but there is this
obvious and important fact
about it: every show has an
energy and an eagerness to en-
tertain, and that, in contrast to
the slight weariness and lethargy
which seemed to be creeping
over the legit, theatre in Sydney
not so very long ago, is the best
possible spirit in which the stage
could enter into a new year.
"The Messiah."
Is there anything in musical
literature to compare with “The
Messiah” which Handel is
credited with having composed
in three weeks? There seems to
be everything in it, and when
adequately rendered it sounds
like the continuous burst of in-
spiration it apparently was when
its author wrote it.
Melbourne Philharmonic, 160
of them, assisted by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra of 65
players, an organist and four in-
dividual singers, all under
Bernard Heinze’s baton, gave the
vast opus its 97th airing at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Christmas
Eve, and, if the performance
lacked sensitiveness in places,
that could be put down to the
vastness of the forces engaged,
and the difficulty of manoeuvring
the aforesaid individual singers
against two armies of 65 and
160. The soloists who won out
to the most advantage were
Ronald Dowd, whose tenor was
beautifully used in “Comfort
Ye,” and Robert Payne, whose
bass was dramatic enough to
make “Why Do the Nations So
Furiously Rage?” sound like an
indictment of the United
Nations.
Soprano Betty Fretwell and
contralto Trudy Daunt sang well,
but in places the waves of sound
from the human backcloth be-
hind them submerged them.
The diction of all parties was
very much better than on some
previous occasions, with the
curious result that the libretto, if
it can be called a libretto, sud-
denly assumed a new importance
and extraordinary contradictions
in it became more manifest than
usual.
Handel’s oratorio was con-
fected of direct quotations from
the Old Testament and the New,
and the deity described in the
one is a very different deity from
the one described in the second.
One was a nationalistic, tribal
symbol and the other was uni-
versal, and the bloodthirstiness
of the one made a queer contrast
with the lovingkindness of the
other.
"The Love Racket."
Melbourne Tiv.’s Christmas-
box to Melbourne is Stanley
Lupino’s “The Love Racket,”
with a small comedian named
Arthur Askey as chief racketeer
and Ray Johnson and Charles
Norman as subsidiary laugh-
getters.
As, contrary to Tiv. precedent,
the show is a continuous story
the jugglers, tumblers and inci-
dental crooners have been
eliminated, but the story
wouldn’t tax a telegraph-pole’s
powers of intellectual assimila-
tion. It concerns a group of
film-stars concerned with the
making of a film or with
quarrelling about it while a
mysterious stranger, in the person
of Frank Thring, drifts in and
out trying to dispose of a hoard
of illegal dollars, while the Tivoli
lovelies make frequent appear-
ances as ancient Greeks, though
only ancient, of course, in a
historical sense, and as Holly-
wooden fairies. The final ballet,
“Reaching for the Moon,” sur-
passes even Tivoli standards.
The show is fast and funny,
and Mr. Askey is an unusual
buffoon who captured his audi-
ence immediately on his first
night with his dancing and his
wisecracks.
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy copy of Little Known of
These Waters by R. S. Porteous
(“Standby”).—4764.
To buy copy of Fragments from
France by Bruce Bairnsfather. —4763.
To buy copy of The Animals Noah
Forgot by A. B. Paterson. —4762.
Information Sought.
Why are native bees attracted to
freshly-painted walls, and how to
keep them off the walls ?
Bees sometimes raid freshly-painted
walls because they require gummy
material, which they mix with their
pollen and use as a sealing compound
to close cracks in their hives and to
make them waterproof. In the
absence of sufficient natural gum
from local timber they use fresh
paint. Trouble can be avoided by
waiting until the change in the
weather, which stimulates this activity,
is over, or, if this is not possible,
you could try mixing in the paint
one teaspoonful of carbolic acid to
a gallon of paint. Bees are repelled
by carbolic acid, and it should not
be deleterious to the paint.
* * * *
What was the old English law
known as abjuration of the realm?
By the old common law of Eng-
land, if a person accused of any
crime other than treason or sacrilege
took, sanctuary in a parish church or
churchyard, and within 40 days went
in sackcloth to the coroner and con-
fessed his guilt, he was allowed to
take the oath of abjuration of the
realm, i.e., he would leave the
country forthwith and never return
without licence from the King. All
his property was forfeited, and'the
penalty for returning without leave
was hanging. By a statute of Eliza-
beth, Roman Catholics and Dissen-
ters might be required to abjure the
realm. The privilege of sanctuary
was abolished in the reign of James 1.
* * * *
Can an elector at a Federal election
who finds that his name has been
struck off the roll claim a vote?
An elector who attends at a polling-
place and claims to vote and who
finds that his name has been struck
out of the certified roll may vote
under the provisions of Section 121
of the Commonwealth Electoral Act
by completing the requisite declara-
tion that his name has been omitted
from or has been struck out of the
certified roll for the polling-place at
which he claims to be entitled to
vote, owing to an error or a mistake
of fact.
* * * *
/ have a plant for orchard-spraying
and would like to use it for painting
and whitewashing poultry buildings,
if possible.
It is assumed that your spraying
equipment has a hydraulic pump for
handling orchard-spraying solutions,
in which case the only application
which you could spray on buildings
would be limewash or similar water-
paint. Best results would be obtained
by cutting down your nozzle’ and
working with a fairly high pressure.
Careful sieving of the paint would be
necessary. If you wish to spray oil-
paints, obtain an air-compressor and
a suitable spray-gun. You may obtain
these items from firms selling spray-
gun equipment, and when approach-
ing them it would be advisable to
state exactly what paints you intend
to use. Spray-guns are available
with interchangeable orifices suitable
for different types of paint. Names
of some suppliers of spray-guns are:
Samson Spray Equipment, Ltd., 18
Gorman-street, Marrickville (N.S.W.);
F, R. Pulford and Sons, Ltd., 133
Storey - street, Maroubra Junction
(N.S.W.); and Excelsior Supply Co.,
154 Broadway, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Must intending nurses pass an
educational examination in order to
be eligible to commence training as
a nurse in N. S. Wales? (2) When
are such examinations held ? (3) Sub-
jects for such examinations ? (4)
From whom can copies of previous
examination-papers be obtained?
(1) Unless candidates hold an
Intermediate, Domestic Science or
any higher certificate of the N.S.W.
Education Department, or their
equivalent, it will be necessary for
them to pass the educational examina-
tion conducted by the N.S.W. Nurses’
Registration Board. (2) In February,
May, August and November in each
year. Applications to sit must be
lodged with the Nurses’ Registration
Board, 52 Bridge-street, Sydney, not
later than the first day of January,
April, July and October, accompanied
by the required fee of ss. (3) English
composition, dictation and elemen-
tary arithmetic. (4) From the Govern-
ment Printing Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Price, 6d. each, plus postage.
* * * «
Details concerning Dore, the
French painter and illustrator?
Louis Auguste Gustave Dore was
bom at Strasburg in 1832, and drew,
at the age of 16, for the “Journal
Pour Rire,” and later for the “Journal
Pour Tous.” His drawings show
genius for grotesque and humorous
illustration, as also fertility of inven-
tion and preference for the fantastic.
He illustrated an edition of the Bible,
and among other works were Balzac’s
Les Cent Contes Drolatiques, Dante’s
Divina Commedia, Milton’s Paradise
Lost, Tennyson’s Idylls, La Fon-
taine’s Fables and Rabelais’ Gargan-
tua and Pantagruel. As a sculptor
he is remembered for his statue of
Dumas in Paris, whilst he was ambi-
tious for fame as an historical and
religious painter. In the Luxembourg
hangs his “Tobit and the Angel,”
whilst the Dore Gallery in London
was long decorated with his huge
canvases depicting “Christ leaving
the Prsetorium.”
Brief Answers.
D.W.8.: Handy Hints for the Farm,
obtainable from The Bulletin, Is.
lid., posted... .P.T.: See Sidney J.
Baker’s The Australian Language,
pages 99-100, available most public
libraries E.F.F.: Winners of the
Adam McCay Memorial Medal Com-
petition for 1949 were J. Balfour
Brown, 1; Edward G. Coucher, 2;
and Kevin S. Bridger, 3 A.C.H.:
Write E. Esdaile and Sons, 42
Hunter-street, Sydney.,. .P.N.W.: A
mixture of beeswax and paraffin
would be quite effective for water-
proofing the tent-fly, You may obtain
expert advice on waterproofing from
the superintendent, Defence Research
Laboratories, Ascot Vale (Vic.)....
A.F.H.: Write C. Byrne, 240 Queen-
street, Brisbane, who is the represen-
tative of the Zinc Corporation, Ltd.,
in Queensland W.R.D.: Sydney
agents for the American Pioneer Line
are Wilh. Wilhelmsen Agency Pty.,
Ltd., 63 Pitt-street, Sydney
R.H.W.: Australian National Fitness
activities are controlled from the
office of the Commonwealth Director-
Genera! of Health, Canberra, through
National Fitness Councils operating
in each . State. These State offices
are under the control of a director or
similar officer, and information is
available from them if required
H.W.H.: The provision relating to
the closing of hotels in N. S. Wales
on election days was first introduced
by the 1905 N.S.W. Liquor (Amend-
ment) Act, The Carruthers Ministry
was in power at the time and C. G.
Wade was the Attorney-General and
Minister for Justice... .F.H.C.:
Bluthner (1908), 70569; Ronisch
(1913), 6000; Lipp (1914), 36326;
Bechstein (1913), 103787; Thurmer
(1913), 23512 L.M.: (1) In order
to qualify for a Federal age-
pension a claimant must have resided
in Australia for not less than. 20
years. (2) Any large amounts with-
drawn from a bank balance would
have to be taken into consideration
in the computation of a pension, but
the amount depletes itself annually.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken ra
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor,
C.8.P.: Rough and cheery camp-
verses not up to publication standard.
L.L.: Your sudden saioon-bar
acquaintance won’t bear critical
examination R.M.: Too many
others have juggled with the idea....
E.H.T.: So far as The B. is con-
cerned it has no love for faint pencil-
ling on shiny paper. The stuff may
be worth a lot, but the staff’s eyes
are worth more N.H.: Too many
bards already harping on that string.
Bellerive: No 40-hour week for
them:
R.W.: Printable poets aged 12
are rare.,. .J.S.S.: “Hail Australia”
received. Send its return fare and
it will go home as requested....
R.T.C.: Stop writing long enough
to learn something about life
A. 8.: Straight from the nursery
C. 8.8.; No, it doesn’t get to the
boundary T.8.E.: Jry it on your
local editor. Only room here for
stuff that will interest all Australia.
W.T.W.: You can’t earn money
on the Inky Way by simply dropping
an aspirate here and there K.G.
You’re too slow a starter.. . .A.H.:
Is it a sermon? Commences like one.
... .8.R.A.: Point too small; humor
too thin... .A.C.N,: Verse should
flow —not leap like a scalded cat and
jolt like a bucking tram 8.T.M.:
Would you mind drowning your
wowser in a vat of beer?... .H.D.:
Nice, respectable, stay -at - home
rhymes.,. .P.LJ.: You can’t make
verse by feeding prose into a chaff-
cutter and turning the handle ....
F.M.: It is such an innocent, blue-
eyed story that we hesitate to send
it home by post. It should be sent
home by taxi, in charge of a serious
elderly person with unimpeachable
references... .L.M.S.: Not Bulletin
material F.H.F.: Old theme
roughly treated... .C.G.: All corners
and rough edges W.H.A.: Quite
enough mystery, but not enough ex-
planation W. 5.8.: Your story was
reverently laid to rest in the office
tdmb... .T.J.K.: What a whirl of
words! For a start, knock out four-
fifths of your adjectives G.J.M.C.:
Why not recite it personally to the
lady? H.G.M.: Might have made
a brief par.; not enough in it for a
sketch R.8.A.: Large, heavy re-
marks received, and treated with
dynamite J.W.C.: “Sea Breeze*' is
a thin little zephyr T.D.: “On
reflection I have come to the con-
clusion that my effusion is not quite
good enough for The Bulletin."
Then why did you send it?/
Rhyme of Backyard Ants.
In our backyard
Black ante abound
And in dry weather emerge
From under the ground.
Active and busy in
The sunlight glow,
Here and there they
Glide to and fro.
At eve to their
Burrows under the soil
The seekers for food
Bear forth their spoil.


...
r?T.>Wy*- *
■• , ■ i
|K
«s•a - ”
,%T
df
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
c£a4ades
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you , . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action a
tyre! Then examine it closely . . . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
df
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
Wade by William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, p.l, Victoria.
Q.P.O. Box 71.
Public Notice.
“X HELENE GLESER, of Estonian
nationality, bom at Tallinn, Estonia,
resident one and a half years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 147 Church St.,
Hyde, Intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948.
ft
m
Archibald Scott Couper, a Scottish
chemist, was one of the earliest workers on the
structure of organic compounds. In 1858, when
only 26 years old, Couper, who was studying
in Paris, submitted a paper “On a New Chemical
Theory” to the French Academy of Sciences. It
was not read, however, as his tutor considered
his theories to be too revolutionary. In this paper,
Couper suggested that benzene had the ring
structure which is accepted today. Shortly
afterwards the German chemist Kekule published
a paper proposing exactly the same structure and,
through the delayed publication of Couper's
paper, was acclaimed throughout the scientific
world as the discoverer.
Born in Kirkintilloch, Scotland, in 1832, Couper
started his career as a student at Edinburgh and
Glasgow Universities, but chronic illness, and
disappointment at his lack of recognition, com-
bined to break his spirit, and from the age of 2
he took no further active part in chemical li e.
It was not until several years after
his death in 1892 that a group of
scientists investigated his dis-
coveries, and rendered homage to
this long-neglected genius.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LJMJTED
Ancestors
an Industry
ICI
Sporting Notions
YOUR SHOUT?
ANO IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The response of owners to the
plethora of racing in ’ Sydney over
the past week or so (five meetings at
Randwick in 10 days) scarcely lent
support to the loud demands from
some quarters for the reintroduction
of midweek racing on the ground
that the present normal one-day-per-
week set-up does not provide
“battling” owners with sufficient
opportunities for their nags. On
Boxing Day, from a card of seven
races, one race was .contested by
only five runners, one by six, while
three events had only nine starters.
Saturday (New Year’s Eve) saw the
poorest day’s racing turned on at
Randwick in ages; four runners in
one race, five in another, only seven
in two races and eight in another.
As the least well-endowed race on
the card sas worth £562 to the win-
ner, some of these “battling” owners
must have been feeling pretty flush
over the Christmas period.
Highlight of the racing earlier last
week was Snowstream’s slashing, and
to a degree sensational, Summer Cup
victory. Viewed before the race, the
flashy-looking chestnut looked rather
too much on the fine side to be at
his best, but there was no gainsaying
the manner of his win. At least
twice during the very roughly-run
race he struck trouble serious enough
to have finished the chances of any
inferior animal particularly , one
carrying a steadier of 9.1. Forced
to go wide out round the field, Snow-
stream covered lengths more than
any other runner, but got up bril-
liantly to win by a long-head in a
rough, bumping finish. Steady was
second, with Silver Buzz a nose
further back and the topweight and
favorite, Dark Marne, the closest of
fourths, *
Run on Saturday, Tattersall’s
Club’s Carrington Stakes carried
£1750 added money and was worth
£1376 to the winner, yet the sprint
attracted only ’ seven runners —the
smallest Carrington field in 50 years.
A flash iof well-timed feminine intui-
tion led owner Mrs. E. Sinclair to
start Skip Court in the Carrington
against the advice of the horse’s
trainer, E. A. Halcroft, and, with a
featherweight of 6.13, the Agincourt
five-year-old won stylishly. Stable
apprentice R. Binder, who had had
only half-a-dozen previous mounts,
rode Skip Court, and, following in-
structions to the letter, notched up
his first winner. With the 1948
Breeders’ Plate winner High Jip set-
ting a cracking pace and the hot-
favorite San Domenico nicely holding
a box-seat behind the leader, young
Binder settled Skip Court down
quietly at the rear of the field, with
only Caruso, who had missed the
jump, behind him. In the straight
High Jip quickly compacted and,
going to the front at the distance, the
favorite looked home and hosed —
until Skip Court arrived on the scene
with a finishing burst which there
was no withstanding.
The Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap was really as funny as a
circus, Prior to the race riders of
the other three engaged no doubt
took it for granted that in the very
speedy Wattle they had a ready-made
pacemaker, and one, moreover, who,
on her recent showings, could be
relied upon to turn it in before the
end of the mile. Jockey Doon, how-
ever, upset calculations by taking a
good reef on Wattle at the start,
and the ensuing battle of “tactics”
’twixt the other three was a treat to
watch. After the field had covered
three furlongs at a muddling-slow
pace, Doon decided that Wattle
would certainly see out the remaining
five furlongs, and let her loose. The
Brueghel mare was six lengths clear
entering the straight, and she battled
on nicely to beat Alabama King by
half a length, with Nerscot third.
Punters, or such of them at least
as backed the second-favorite,
“Dammit, Gadsby , We seem to have been going round in circles this morning
Burnley, in the Denman Handicap,
were handed a rough deal. When
the starter yelled “Go!” one end of
the barrier failed to rise properly,
caught Burnley’s rider, W. Cook,
under the chin, and neatly picked him
out of the saddle. However, the
starter evidently deemed that a proper
start had been effected and left
matters as they stood, or rather, in
Cook’s case, lay. To rub salt into
the wounds of those who had done
their cash cold, the riderless Burnley
ran a perfectly-judged race to be
first past the post by a length or so.
However, High Spirits (A. Podmore)
won very clearly from Great World
and Air Flare.
* * * *
A very fast track for the Mel-
bourne Racing Club’s meeting at
Caulfield on Saturday was made to
order for topweights, and four such
were successful from the card of six
races—three of them hot favorites.
Carrying the solidest weight of the
bunch, and winning the most im-
pressively, was the Law Maker four-
year-old Ungar, lumping 9.5 to win
the" 7-furlongs Carrum Handicap by
a neck from Heroic Sovereign (8.13)
and Solray (7.10). Heroic Sovereign
tried to lead from the start, but was
beaten for speed by the outsider
Torrent’s Title, who showed the way
until they entered the straight.
Ungar, meanwhile, with Breasley in
the saddle, had taken up a nice posi-
tion behind the leaders, and entering
the straight he was perfectly placed
to unwind the cracking finish of
which he is so capable.
Another handsome performance was
that of the Kinderscout colt Merry
Scout with 9st. in the Berwick Handi-
cap for two-year-olds. With only
four other starters, to whom he was
conceding half-a-stone and upwards,
Merry Scout started a solid favorite,
and had far too much pace for the
opposition. Winning by four lengths
from Just Jane and Riverina Lass,
Merry Scout clocked 59|sec.
As was the case at Randwick, fields
at Caulfield were mostly small on
Saturday after the previous week’s
surfeit of racing. The Manitoba colt
Eclair (J. Purtell) had only five
opponents in the mile Clarendon
Stakes for three-year-olds. Eclair
headed both the weights and the
bookies’ charts, and he justified both
opinions with a narrow victory over
St. Fairy’s somewhat unlucky brother
Prince o’ Fairies.
The thumping weights their horse
was being given in jumping events
actually have proved a blessing in
disguise for connections of that splen-
did hurdler Latani. After the old
fellow had scored over the jumps at
Caulfield with 12.7 and then struggled
into third place at Flemington under
a killer of 12.11, connections decided
that enough was more than enough.
Since then Latani has had three runs
on the flat for two successive, and
very good, wins, Obviously relishing
the sst.-odd drop to 7.9, Latani
made an excellent job of winning
Saturday’s Gladstone Handicap (12f.).
It was a particularly commendable
effort, since Latani, in front through-
out, did all the bullocking work and
then fought on as gamely as possible
at the finish to down favorite Eucar-
dius by a half-neck. Ridden by R.
Hutchinson, who, without taking up
too much of the limelight, is one
of the most capable lads riding at
present, Latani started at 14 to 1.
* * * *
In two ways captain Lindsay
Hassett was mainly responsible for
the easy victory scored by the Aus-
tralian tourists over S’Africa in the
first Test concluded at Johannesburg
last week. Hassett played his most
devastating shot when he won the
toss, allowing his men to bat first
in moderately decent conditions and
giving the S’Africans the rougher end
of the evilly-sticky pitch which de-
veloped as the match progressed.
Having thus won half the battle
before a ball had been bowled,
Hassett then came to the rescue with
the bat; pulling his side together
with a splendid captain’s innings of
112 after both his opening batsmen
had virtually chucked away their
wickets without scoring.
The Australians totted up a first-
innings score of 413, after which the
S’Africans had to face up to the
attack on a pitch which would have
imparted spin to a raw egg. Bowling
a nicely-mixed variety of balls, Keith
Miller tore the opposition to shreds,
bagging 5 for 40 off 15 overs, includ-
ing two maidens. All back in the
stand for 137 —276 behind the Aus-
tralian total—the S’Africans were
promptly put through the mill again,
this time doing a little better with
191, though nowhere near good
enough; Australia by an innings and
85 runs. In the second onslaught it
was Bill Johnston who did most of
the damage, bagging 6 for 44 off
20.1 overs, with five maidens. Several
of the South African batsmen seemed
likely to get settled in, but all found
the thirties a fatal stage; Rowan went
at 32, Wynne at 33, Cheetham at 35
and Nourse at 36.
**s * *
As a Test captain Hassett has at
least one distinct advantage over
Bradman —he’s a most reliable man
with the coin. For the second Test,
which was launched at Capetown on
Saturday, Hassett again spun a win-
ner, and again it was Australia to
open.
Suitably chastened after their
exuberant, scoreless performances in
the first Test, openers Morris and
Moroney forswore the dreaded duck
and settled down to business. Morris
was first to go, with a useful 42 on
the board before he was caught off
Tayfield; Moroney better than
doubled his erstwhile partner’s effort,
with 87 to his credit when caught off
Mann. Keith Miller ran up a
businesslike 58 before he joined the
onlookers, Hassett toted up 57, and,
at stumps on Saturday it was Har-
vey, 55 n. 0.; Loxt'on, 7 n. 0., sundries,
6; total, 4 for 312.
* * * *
Collapsing badly in the second
innings for a total of 123, N.S.W.
went under to Victoria in the Sheffield
Shield match in Melbourne last week,
leaving Victoria, then, the only un-
beaten side in the competition. On
first-innings scores matters had looked
like being close, with Victoria 353
in reply to N.S.W. 360, but after
the subsequent collapse of the
’Walers Victoria had no difficulty in
obtaining the necessary, to win with
five wickets in hand. Also completed
last week in Adelaide, the Shield
match South Australia v. Q’land
earned a place in memory as one of
the dullest affairs on record. When
the dreary business came to a merci-
ful conclusion both sides had com-
pleted only one innings, while S.A.
had lost one for 194 in the second
spasm. The South Australians’ earlier
total of 460 gave them a first-innings
victory over the Bananalanders, who
had managed only 372.
* * * *
The New Year weekend saw a
couple more Sheffield Shield matches
under way, N.S.W. tackling Q’land
at Sydney Cricket Ground while
Victoria, on its home ground, was
having a lash at South Australia. Of
the Sydney match about the best that
could be said after the first couple
of days’ play was that it had not
been quite as dull as the Adelaide
fiasco of the previous week. After
the Bananalanders had been outed
for 231 the ’Walers went in on a
perfect pitch and proceeded to bat
as though they suspected that every
third ball was a Mills bomb in dis-
guise; they took 333 minutes to
make 243 runs at a loss of eight
wickets, on which doleful note the
Old Year was ushered out. In Mel-
bourne Victoria set South Australia
something to chase with a first-
innings effort of 424; in distant pur-
suit the South Australians had lost
one for 71 as this went to the printer.
* * * *
Arrived in Sydney on Sunday for
an Australian tour, the American
women tennis-players Doris Hart and
Louise Brough. Ranked No. 3 in
the world, Miss Hart was very popu-
lar when she toured these parts last
year. Miss Brough, who had not
visited Australia previously, has No.
2 ranking, and won the 1949 Wimble-
don title, also taking the mixed
doubles with Bromwich.
Sailed under mild conditions, the
680-miles Sydney-Hobart yacht race
saw the 46ft. cutter Waltzing Matilda,
skippered by airline pilot Phil Daven-
port, first across the line in five days,
10 hours, 33 minutes —one of the
slowest times on record for the event.
It was an exciting finish, with the
yawl Margaret Rintoul second across
the line, only two minutes behind
Waltzing Matilda, and the all-steel
cutter Trade Winds also soon on the
scene. On corrected times Trade
Winds was placed first, with Waltzing
Matilda second and Ellida third.
Owner-skipper of the 43ft. Trade
Winds is M. E. Davey, commodore
of the Cruising Yacht Club of Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
The Australian athletic champion-
ships, under way in Adelaide on
Saturday, saw few really outstanding
times recorded, which was not sur-
prising in view of the unsuitability
of Adelaide Oval as a championship
arena. N.S.W. had a field day,
bagging six of the 10 events decided
on Saturday. John Treloar clocked
9.9 sec. in his heat of the 100yds.;
then, running uphill against a stilt
headwind, he found lOsec. plenty
good enough to win him the final.
Other -winners on Saturday were E.
W. Carr (N.S.W.), 440yds.; D. Mac-
Millan (Vic.), the mile; R. Weinberg
(Vic.), 120yds. hurdles; G. Gedge
(N.S.W.), 220yds. low hurdles; P.
Denton (N.S.W.), pole vault; P.
Mullins (N.S.W.), shot putt; T.
Bruce (S.A.), long jump ; L. McKeand
(N.S.W.), javelin; and D. Kean
(W.A.), the two-mile walk.
* * * *
“Pongo”: How swimming times
have been slaughtered since 1912!
When at the Stockholm Olympiad
the Australasian team, Cecil Healy,
Harold Hardwick, Les Boardman and
New Zealander Malcolm Champion,
won the Olympic 800-metres relay
title they clocked the then world-
record time of lOmin. ll|sec. At
Newhaven (U.S.A.) last week John
Marshall, Australian all-distance free-
style champion, in a time trial under
record conditions, assisted Yale team-
mates Jimmy McLane, W. Moore
and R. Thoman to cover the distance
in the amazing time of Bmin. 44.6.
That clipped 8/10 of a sec. from the
world record established by the Jap
team at Los Angeles in August.
* * * *
Some racing owners, fed-up with
"seeing their horses starting from out-
side barrier positions, will envy the
luck of Australian rowing crews for
the Empire Games. Australia drew
No. 1 marble in four of the five
events —the eights, fours, pairs and
single-sculls.


if vou
WERE
TRERE
ybureelf
... your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
In your interests at every stage —valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured o£ the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
your wool I
>6 Yeort In the Servita of the Mon on the land
Inc. in England, isa. '
AMLI
A 24.41
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 HUGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Oharleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc, Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittaworth. Vic,: Wodonga.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
\s &
VA
ifUS!
P
ss
ordotfs
2tcmds Supk&ma
to
0
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, IMTSENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS"
Brands and Earmarks.
“Bungaree”: Marking of
sheep to denote ownership is
governed in N.S.W. by the Pas-
tures Protection Act, 1934. A
person owning several adjacent
properties may use the same
brand or earmark for all sheep
thereon, but fol 1 any other
property separated from the
original holding a separate appli-
cation is necessary. The marks
concerned include registered
earmark (as distinct from age
marks), fleecebrand, firebrand
or hombrand.
Until recently it was compul-
sory in N.S.W. to fleecebrand
all sheep over six months old,
but this is now optional. These
color brands must be of a mini-
mum letter-height of 3in. The
six branding positions are (1)
back, (2) rump, (3) left shoulder,
(4) left ribs, (5) right shoulder
and (6) right ribs. Branders
should be instructed to put the
brand on the correct area, right
side up. Back and rump brands
should read as from behind the
sheep.
Choice of color is left to the
individual, who may vary them
to denote different flocks or
culls. For many years wool-
buyers have complained about
the damage caused by the use
of fleecebrands, particularly
where tar or paint was used.
The difficulty was to find a
brand which would last from
shearing to shearing, yet would
scour out without damaging the
wool fibre. Claims are now
being made for such a product,
but in view of optional branding
its importance is not now so
great.
Use of colored raddle for class
marks is freely permitted, but
these marks should be kept clear
of the registered brand. Fire-
branding sheep on the sides of
the face or on the nose is an
alternative to fleecebranding
that has not been used to any
great extent. Firebranding of
rams’ horns is used by practi-
cally every Merino stud of note,
and some studs have also
tattooed stud sheep inside the
lip for identification and as an
alternative to other methods.
Most indelible brand of all is
the registered earmark, which in
N.S.W. is placed on the right
ear of ewes and left ear of male
sheep.*! In Queensland it is the
other way round, a fact that has
tricked m,a n y unsuspecting
drafters. The other ear may be
used to carry the age-mark, the
forms of which are left to the
choice of the owner and do not
have to be registered.
Restrictions covering earmark-
ing include penalties for alter-
ing a registered mark, for re-
moving more than one-fourth
of the ear and for using an in-
strument that does not comply
with the regulations. A knife
may not be used.
An interesting point concerns
Queensland sheep brought to
N.S.W. If they have a full ear
on the age-mark side it is com-
pulsory for the N.S.W. owner to
place his registered earmark
there, but if both ears already
carry marks they should not be
interfered with. The use of the
T-brand on travelling sheep is
now optional.
Cattle for the North.
“Archaps”: E, Cunningham,
Strathmore, Bowen, one of the
most successful cattlemen of
north Queensland, contends that
in no circumstances could the
Zebu be tolerated. He admits
that the Zebu has its virtues,
such as being hard, tough and
tick-resistant, but buffaloes and
camels also are hard, tough and
tick-resistant.
Cunningham believes that all
British breeds will adapt them-
“The shire's Wantin' two good men for roadwork you ain't feelin too
good, are y', Steve?"
selves very easily to our northern
climate and conditions provided
two factors are observed: (1)
that cattle are kept as free as
possible from ticks and buffalo-
flies and (2) the type desired is
firmly fixed in the mind of the
breeder and this type is con-
sistently bred to.
The fashionable ideas of studs
situated in the favored sheltered
areas of secure rainfall and
crop-fattened conditions should
be disregarded, and we should
remember that during the dry
seasons stock in north Queens-
land often have to walk seven
and eight miles, sometimes 10,
for water, with the thermometer
averaging around the century.
The little, short-legged cattle
could not do this, and the
“soggy” type would be around
the water instead of grazing.
We should also remember
that long hair harbors lice and
ticks. It is worth recording that
the late Edward Cunningham,
who originally took up Burde-
kin Downs in 1862, built the
first dip in Australia at Spring-
field station, on the Barratta,
adjacent to where Ayr now
stands. The fluid was salt water
with about 6in. of oil on top.
As new fluids were evolved these
were used, until modem cattle-
dips were marketed and found
most effective; then the arsenic-
resistant tick became apparent.
The use recently of “Rucide”
and “Gamatik” on Strathmore
has proved effective against ticks
and buffalo-flies and increased
the weight of stock by at least
251 b. per head. During October
Strathmore dipped 16,828 cattle,
and the average annual dipping
is about 130,000. The station
runs a herd of between 30,000
and 35,000 head, basically Short-
horns with an infusion from time
to time of Devon blood to
instil a little extra hardiness and
constitution.
Good and Bad Make F.A.Q.
“Teg”: A problem which con-
fronts the wheat geneticist is
that of breeding a wheat which
combines high acre yield with
high miller’s yield. Under the
existing f.a.q. system and a fixed
price the inferior wheats tend to
drive the good wheats out of
production.
The late Hugh Pye, noted
cerealist and disciple of
Farrer, and once principal of
Dookie Agricultural College,
wrote in 1931:
“Unfortunately the f.a.q. sys-
tem of buying and selling wheat
is a drawback to the use of the
best wheat because the low-
strength wheats are more pro-
lific .Millers want the high-
strength wheats because these
give more loaves per sack of
flour. In 30 tests of two-bag
mixings of Minister wheat-
flour these gave 21 more loaves
than a similar quantity of f.a.q.
wheat. One miller, to encourage
the growing of high-strength
wheat, offered a bonus of 6d.
to 9d. a bushel, but the farmers
killed the goose that was ready
to lay the golden eggs by mix-
ing high- and low-strength
wheats together, making the
high bonus unprofitable to the
firm.”
Today the term f.a.q. covers
a variety of wheats of good, bad
and indifferent milling quality.
For example. Quadrat, a popu-
lar Victorian wheat, winner of
several crop competitions last
season and a spectacular yielder
in bushels per acre, has been
condemned by millers in S.A.
and elsewhere as of very poor
milling quality.
It. is just as illogical to buy
wheat at a fixed price f.a.q, as
it would be to buy greasy wool
at a flat rate per pound, regard-
less of spinning quality and
yield. Indeed, the decline in
fleece quality of the American
Vermont Merino, from the
’fifties to the ’nineties of last
century, was attributed to just
such a system of wool-buying.
In either case it is the ultimate
yield—whether in clean scoured
wool per pound or loaves per
sack of flour —which really
counts.
Wheat Cultivation.
“He-Ne”: The technique is
changing in southern N.S.W.
from the once-popular winter
bare fallow and frequent sum-
mer cultivations to a pasture-lea
period, combined with a shorter
fallowing period. Commenting
on this, a cereal specialist, G.
Nicholson, said economic con-
siderations and weed and erosion
problems have been largely
responsible for the change.
In the better-rainfall areas
moisture conservation is of lesser
importance. Soil-fertility, con-
trol of erosion, maintenance of
a good physical structure, com-
bined with effective weed con-
trol, are the major considera-
tions. This can best be achieved
by a five- to six-year pasture-
lea period, followed by a couple
of grain crops and one of graz-
ing oats.
The pasture could consist of
Wimmera-rye and sub.-clover or
lucerne for the western parts.
Lucerne is proving most valu-
able for control of skeleton-
weed. There should not be more
than at most three cereal crops
in any nine- to 10-year period;
the intervening years of grazing
give the land a chance to build
up humus after the grain crops.
South-east S.A. Soils.
“C.A.A.”: Costs of develop-
ing thousands of acres of low-
fertility heath soils in the plain
country south of Keith (S.A.)
will be determined by an ex-
periment of carrying capacity
on a test area of 500 acres.
In a report to S.A. Govern-
ment, Dr. A. R. Callaghan,
chairman of the Land Develop-
ment Executive, says that
although work of the C.5.1.R.0.
has given the key to agronomic
development of at least 50 per
cent, of the area, it would be
fatal to assume that superphos-
phate, zinc and copper spell the
complete answer.
Only time, he says, and the
influence of a soil-building
legume stimulated by a proper
matturial system can bring
about a satisfactory level of
fertility in the soils.
Feeding Ducks.
“Keekwun”: I have seen
Queensland duck-breeders los-
ing heavily during winter.
Hatches were poor, and they
blamed the off season. Others
blamed the drakes for infertile
eggs. Mostly it was poor diet,
a sure sign of which is eggs
turning blue in the nest.
Much so-called green-feed is
old autumn growth held over
for winter, and its protein con-
tent is low. A good plan is to
feed pure riboflavin at this
time: it is expensive, but will
show a profit.
Many farmers force winter
crops with heavy dressings of
“hot” fertilisers such as fowl
manure or ammonium sulphate.
These nitrogen-rich fertilisers
encourage rank growth without
a corresponding intake of
minerals. Consequently, birds
are fed a diet that looks well
but is insufficient. Proprietary
brands of vitamin A extract are
an essential substitute for green-
feed, and increased amounts of
bonemeal will take care of the
mineral position. If hatches
don’t make 90 p.c. for the whole
year look to your feeding.
The Choko.
“Billjim”: A useful and pro-
lific vegetable whiqh does so
well in the southern Australian
climate that too many regard it
merely as a filler of odd corners,
it needs soil which should be
well drained and 3oz. to 4oz. of
Carbonate of lime each square
yard.
Prepare a large shallow hole
about 4ft. in diameter and 12in.
deep and fill with compost,
stable manure or a mixture of
sheep manure and straw, over
which spread 21b. of bonedust.
Cover the manure with 6in. of
top-soil. Plant with the sprouted
ends uppermost and cover with
Sin. to 4in, of soil. Train the
plants over a support such as a
trellis or pergola, though they
can equally well be set against
sheds, hedges, trees or rock
walls.
Apply annually a dressing of
animal manure up to 101 b. each
square yard or a complete ferti-
liser mixture. Either dressing
should be made at £lb. each
square yard.
To store chokos, place them


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HXI/LTOF, A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co M
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order .
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
VAfMWI
Seventeen-
Jewelled
d
Swiss
Masterpieces
f
non'
£M¥im
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
Numetal
SAVES
dfd
NEW
RINGS
-Just (poor KBWU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. KO-METAL will re-
condition your motor white you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
'—. NU-METAL has been proved and
by over 100,000 users since 1934,
owners having used NU-METAL
and fqnr times ia the same engine.
pwMprAL comes to .you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
[Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs lor X, 4,6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-.
Z7/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
iMail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P-N.
Or please send me illustrated Foldei
describing action of NU-METAL.
Kame.....
Address..
B. 4/17*60
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250.
#ll
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.ROS&&Co.Pty.Ltd-King St. Sydney
Write for
particulars
"SIRIUS "
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling,
irrigation and drainage,
etc. High-quality in-
struments for immediate
delivery. Complete with
case and tripod,
£34/17/6
including Horizontal
Circle (in Degrees).
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements.
fd
AND^SONS
PTYniD.
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
Low cost Crude Oil operation
for MEDIUM power users!
f
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which mbre than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
30, 40 & 45 H.P. MODELS
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h,p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest, Strongest, Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Built I
k.l.&|Planz
BULLDOG
(hudeOU TRACTOR S
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA. K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd.. 304
Spencer St Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA. Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA, K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.,
233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart. QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
“22L.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m.
• ■•■
* -*
<<* <
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Ft. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAG HT' S " WIRE, WIRE NETTING , ETC,
in a sunny position for five days
to mature thoroughly and then
pack into boxes between layers
of dry sawdust.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nubis”: Bronze fly-wire
mounted on a rigid frame is
better than muslin for covering
cream-cans; heavy insects and
small animals cannot fall in the
cream.
“Sundowner”: To enable the
tractor radiator to be cleaned
quickly—an operation difficult
to fit in on a busy harvest day—
take out a sparkplug, then con-
nect a short length of high-
pressure hose to the hole—an
old plug with the core out makes
a good connection. With hose
connected, start the engine and
the blast from the cylinder will
blow dust and chaff from the
radiator shell.
“Kun”: When delousing in-
dividual birds use flowers-of-
sulphur in a shaker-top tin. Rub
through the feathers into the
skin. Quick and easy.
“Ben Acre”: The “ripe-fruit
beetle,” about |in. long, fawn-
colored and wingless in its early
stages and black and winged as
an adult, is a new pest to wes-
To M.O.L. Contributors
There’s been some trouble
with the sub-editors, who’ve
become sulky and hard to get
on with. They allege that
farmers usually leave a head-
land on a ploughed block and
never crowd the rows of a
crop or cram a paddock with
stock so that they suffocate,
yet writers to the M.O.L. page
won’t leave margins, won’t
double-space their lines and
try to jam herds of w*ords on
one page. Please save us from
the sub-editors.
tern N.S.W. fruitgrowers. It
enters the hearts of figs, nec-
tarines and peaches. It seldom
attacks the tart varieties of
fruit. As it attacks only fruit
that is fully ripened or over-
ripe, it is a problem for the
home-gardener, and has not re-
ceived much attention from the
C.5.1.R.0. Simplest control
would be to pick fruit two or
three days earlier than usual.
“Ware”? Corroded ferminals
on a car battery? Keep a strong
solution of baking-soda in water
in an old jar in the garage ana,
with it, a cast-off toothbrush.
Scrub the terminals over with the
soda-water, using the brush.
When the action has gone on
briskly for a minute or two and
the native color of the copper
shows, rinse off by pouring a
cupful of clean water over the
terminals, (This presupposes
that there are no cracks in the
battery-top.)
“Moira”: Soot contains some
ammonia and is useful as a
mulch. It is a deterrent to snails
and slugs and helps to make
clayey soils more friable, as well
as giving color and body to light
pipeclay. Mixed with ashes fine
soot can be poured through a
funnel and used as a protective
barrier around seedbeds of
lettuce and other succulent
plants.
“Wilga”: A valuable tree,
easily grown in warm coastal
areas, is the corkwood. Its
leaves are in demand for the
manufacture of drugs. Seeds or
seedlings should be procured
from N.S.W. north-coast areas,
where th£ trees grow wild. In-
formation about its value can be
obtained from the Department of
Agriculture. Scientific name is
'Duboisca myoporaides.
“Honey B.”: About the
Gundagai (N.S.W.) district,
which is so heavily infested with
Patterson’s Curse that the spring
landscape shows purplish tints
on the hillsides, the migratory
beekeeper reaps a rich harvest —
reckoning the “curse” as an extra
heavy honey-yielder (a tin of
honey to each hive), and claim-
ing the flower is good for bee-
breeding, too. The weed flowers
prolifically when other flowers
are not yet out. P.C. honey is
always good for a high price.


In the complex business world of to-day success
depends on knowledge, not only of the special needs of the
enterprise itself, but also of those conditions which may be
affecting markets throughout the world. Realising this,
the Commonwealth Bank provides specialised departments
to help those engaged in business.
Problems of finance, trade and commerce, exchange,
importing and exporting all come within the scope of these
departments. You may discuss your difficulties in strictest
confidence with representatives of the Bank and you will find
that friendly and practical advice is always available when
you need it. ,
The Bank provides a most comprehensive range of
Banking services which includes Cheque Accounts, Letters
of Credit, Travellers’ Cheques, Import and Export Credits,
Safe Custody, Hire. Purchase, Industrial Finance, and Loans
for Primary Producers and Home Builders.
The Manager will do everything possible to assist you
at any Branch of the
€ommonwcalrh®aiik
of Australia.
HEAD OFFICES
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
8 OLD JEWRY, E.C.2
C.G.B. 16-82
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
A
n
Pi?
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
a
It bakes and browns
to perfection; bolls, simmers,
toasts, deep-fries and does
the most glorious grills that
ever came sizzling to fable.
A coke-burning stove that stores its own
heat, the AGA is ready for instant use day
and night, and its fuel-costs are strictly
controlled ... it has a guaranteed maxi-
mum fuel consumption. StreamliQed, and
with sparkling enamel finish, the AGA is
an asset to any kitchen ... a life-long
servant guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
AGA
THE HEAT-STORAGE COOKER
You are invited to see the AGA
in action at our showrooms.
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bourka Street, Melbourne.
113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink for
Wise men
“Lift your head out of the
shoulders, your shoulders out of the
waist, your waist out of the hips.”
—Physical exercise in • woman’s paper.
But remember to pull your
head in again at the end.
•J* 4*
“Sheer force of numbers beat our
stolid junior team on Saturday.”
—Country paper.
Probably they were too stupid
to count the opposition.
-2- -I- *l*
“Would the person who took frock
from phone-box near railway-station,
Saturday, please return.”
Suburban paper.
Owner desires to hang up.
4*
“For sale, Xmas tress, also Xmas
bush.” —Suburban paper.
Cuttings a specialty.
“ ‘Secrets of Life’ is first of all
entertainment, secondly an impressive
warning and finally proof that im-
mortal living doesn’t pay.”
—The “Riverina Grazier” (N.S.W.)
What —no future in it?
•5*
“Purse found in Wahroonga poll-
ing-booth.” —Suburban paper.
There a Liberal reward was
certain.
“Wanted, a female general, soldiers’
rest-home.”
-—Brisbane “Courier-Mail
But one, however, who re-
frains from crossing swords.
Frontal Attack.
“ ‘Bosomless beauties will make a
comeback because men don’t like
women thrusting themselves at them,’
she said.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
In olden days when from his lair
Man stalked, a grim and ruth-
less hunter,
He dragged his bride home by
the hair
Unlike the modern sport and
punter,
Who now prefers to play and
swim
Or concentrate his thoughts on
racing
While women titivate and slim.
Obliged in turn to do the
chasing.
It all seems wrong, but if and
when
The need for racial survival
Makes women throw themselves
at men
Let bosoms cushion their
arrival!
Bert.
Old Bore’s Almanack for
1950.
Jan. : A major sensation will be
caused in Sydney racing circles by
there being not a single doping in-
quiry for three consecutive days. The
miners at a northern N.S.W. pit will
strike in protest against one of the
lodge members having twice won a
raffle for a dozen bottles of beer.
Following a critic’s disclosure that he
had no trouble in interpreting his
latest canvas, a surrealist artist will
suicide by deliberately trying to think
straight. Moscow Radio will an-
nounce that a famous Soviet scientist
has evolved an atom-bomb no bigger
than a hen-egg, which is capable of
completely devastating the whole of
North America, thus rendering out
of date all land armies.
Feb.: “Red Star” will announce
that, owing to the continued threats
of war by the aggressive Western
Democracies, another 70 divisions
will be added to the Red Army’s
already mighty strength. The Jap.
Premier will demand permission to
build six 70,000-ton aircraft-carriers
for the sole purpose of meeting the
menace of Chinese junk-pirates, and
a high-ranking American will be
quoted as saying it will be given
sympathetic consideration.
Mar.: At an Ugly Man’s Competi-
tion held in Bucharest the prize will
be accidentally awarded to Madame
Anna Pauker, the Rumanian Foreign
Minister, when she is mistaken for
a competitor. Shortly afterwards the"
relatives of the promoter of the
competition will receive a bill for
his “liquidation.” The Apple and
Pear Marketing Board will hold
special celebrations to commemorate
the first sale at Is. 6d. each of
Granny Smith apples. Aneurin
Bevan will disclose that the cost over
estimates of £6OO million for the
National Health scheme was caused
by the unexpected and enormous
demand for free bed-sox, hot-water
bottles, medicinal whisky, facial
uplifts and corsets. N. S. Wales
Premier McGirr will promise that he
will abolish the Sydney Harbor Bridge
toll by 1982.
Apl. : A Conservative M.P. will
demand a Parliamentary inquiry into
allegations that peasants in Normandy
are getting free face-lifts and whisky
under the British National Health
scheme, and this will be refused .by
the Socialist Government. The
N.S.W. Premier will disclose that, so
wonderful has been the effort by the
workers and the “Labor” Govern-
ment, that with a month to go he is
within 68,000 of achieving his promise
of providing 90,000 houses in three
“Quick, Bill, Wake up—l think there's a cop in the house!”
years and that he would easily have
reached his goal had it not been for
the Menzies Government’s vile action
in refusing him dollars to import
70,000 piano-cases, which would have
been sufficient to provide that number
of temporary dwellings. A Mel-
bourne clergyman will condemn the
sordid commercialising of Mother’s
Day.
May: The Retail Traders’ Asso-
ciation will announce that turnover
for Mother’s Day is up 10 p.c. on
last year, In his election policy-
speech N.S.W. Premier McGirr will
promise that if returned his Govern-
ment will build 200,000 houses in
three years, give the workers six
weeks’ annual leave on full pay and
forbid the extra cost of this to
industry to be passed on in the form
of increased prices for goods, and
a 10-weeks Christmas vacation for
schools instead of the present six.
Stalin will appear to smile while
attending a diplomatic function, and
this will give rise to alarmed specula-
tions as to his health.
June: An Indonesian politician
will be found who knows what he is
a doctor of. After the “free” elec-
tions in an Iron Curtain satellite
country, in which voters can only
vote for Communist candidates and
the recording of their votes is super-
vised by the secret police, the result
will he proudly announced: 101.2
p.c. for the “Government.” Moscow
Radio will cite this as a splendid
example of the loyalty and unity of
the happy workers and proof of their
complete satisfaction with their con-
ditions. A Sydney wharfie who
keeps on working even after a rain-
cloud has appeared on the horizon
will be expelled from the union for
scabbing on his mates.
July: Following angry protests by
thousands of parents Premier McGirr
will withdraw his promise of 10
weeks’ Christmas holidays for school-
children. Following a total of 14
purges that will sweep through six
Iron Curtain countries this month
“Pravda” will warn the Western
Plutocracies that the Soviet bloc was
never more united than now. An
American airline co. will spend eight
million dollars to evolve an airliner
which will cut four minutes off the
existing New York-Chicago schedule.
The President of a Central American
banana republic, deposed by a palace
revolution, will be compelled to flee
without having time to rat the
national “Peter.” A girl hiker for
whom a large search-posse combed
rugged mountain country for three
days will, on turning up at her
boarding house, express resentment
at this reflection on her bushman-
ship.
Aug.: A drunken Sydney hit-run
driver who mangled two people will
be fined £2 and costs and warned
that a repetition of his offence may
entail even more severe penalties,
Ari American hit-tune will be written
by four composers, not one of whose
first-names will be Ike, Butch, Manny
or Hank. A Hollywood star will
secure her 11th divorce on the
grounds that her re-marriage to her
fifth husband was a case of mistaken
identity, and the judge will recom-
mend that in future she keep a
husbapd-diary. There will be some
hail with rain in Sydney and a morn-
ing paper will unaccountably fail to
describe it as a “freak storm.”
Sept. : Not once throughout a
Hollywood gangster-film will the
chief character say “But they kaint
do this to me!” and when this omis-
sion is drawn to the attention of
the director he will sob bitterly into
his Manhattan. A criminal serving
a 20-yea.r sentence for murder in an
N.S.W. jail will be released after
having done three weeks of it on
the ground that he is suffering
acutely from boils.
Oct. : The Retail Traders’ Associa-
tion will inaugurate Great-grand-
father’s Day. A famous Soviet
scientist will invent the spring clip.
A Sydney tram will be given a coat
of paint and several elderly people
seeing it go past will be treated for
shock.
Mov.; The president of the Fruit
and Vegetable Growers’ Association
will blame the dry conditions for
the prevailing high cost of green
vegetables. A British Press corres-
pondent who was at the trial in
Budapest of seven top Communists
on charges of treason will dis-
close as soon as he gets back to
England • that all accused, who
after prolonged “examination” by
the N.K.V.D. had “confessed”
their guilt, had their fingernails torn
off. Moscow Radio will proclaim
this a lie, stating that the accused
had, in a fit of remorse for their
guilt, chewed them away themselves.
Dec.: The President of the Fruit
and Vegetable Growers’ Association
will blame the rain we’ve had for
the prevailing high cost of green
vegetables. The Santa Clauses’ Union
will demand a Christmas loading of
“sweat money” or, alternatively, air-
conditioned outfits and special iced
beards. A Sydney street which has
taken 17 months to repair will not be
ripped up by a different authority
for replacement of pipes for another
three weeks. A radio-comedian will
not only coin an original gag, but
will refrain from laughing at it. A
Central European migrant will be
assumed to be dumb, but this error
will be rectified when it is found his
arms are too sunburned to move.
BO.
Reserved.
Her lips are thin and sullen and
her nose is like a beak,
And grim determination’s
plainly graven on her
chin.
Her manner’s unrelenting; never
condescends to speak
A word or two of greeting or
to soften in a grin.
She treats appeals and blandish-
ments with studied un-
concern ;
In fact, she’s so discourteous
that few are game to try.
But she’ll do me —while other
codgers chafe and wait
their turn
To get my foaming schooner
I have but to catch her
eye.
P.O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line..
Politics in Westralia
I am a Liberal supporter, but, while I
agree in the main with The Bulletin’s
analysis of the Federal-election results
(B. 14/12/’49), I must point out one
error in your comment on “safe” Labor
seats.
The two in Westralia are Fremantle
and Kalgoorlie. Your comment reads
“Every one of these 31 seats is industri-
ally under the domination of the big Com-
munist unions—miners, wharflaborers,
seamen, metal-trade workers, transport
and/or building workers.” The mining
unions of Kalgoorlie are members of the
A.W.U., and are very strongly anti-
Communist, During the coal strike a
Communist speaker sent from the East
to dnml up support for the strikers was
refused a hearing by the goldminers of
Kalgoorlie and Boulder.
The municipal councils of Kalgoorlie
and Boulder both denied the Use of their
town halls to Communist speakers in
the recent election, and no known Com-
munist cap hope to win a position in any
union, road board or council. There
is no doubt that the Kalgoorlie seat is
a safe Labor seat, but the type of Labor
is the old-fashioned variety, built up by
men like [W. M. Hughes in the Eastern
States and the late Philip Collier in the
West. Industrially, the mining industry
at Kalgoorlie can bear comparison with
any big Industry in Australia, being a
combination of skilled management by
the salaried technicians of the big com-
panies, and sane union policy by the 5000
miners employed. At no time has any
Communjst activity received more than
amused contempt from the mass of the
people.
I have less personal knowledge of Fre-
mantle, but I consider that the elected
representative, Kim Beazley, is definitely
not the type of candidate who would
appeal to a Communist-dominated elec-
torate. He has- never belonged to any of
the uni oils listed in your article, but only
to the Sjate School Teachers’ Union of
W.A., a [non-political organisation.
I makej no apology for writing at length
in defence of my own State, as I consider
that State politics in W.A. fulfils all the,
requirement laid down in your second
leader oa the same page, “Standards of
Public Life.” In this State the conduct
of political affairs has been maintained at
a very high level for years, and for this
we owe much to our Governor, Sir James
Mitchell, a former Liberal Premier, and
the late Philip Collier, a Labor Premier,
I trust that the hopes expressed in your
second leader will be realised, and that
the Federal House will become a legisla-
tive arena where logical debate, and not
personal recrimination, will be the normal
procedure.— Ronald G. Moore, B.A.
(W.A.).
Cost of Living
As he has admitted, one of the most
urgent problems facing Prime Minister
Menzies is the steadily rising cost of
living. Already many price-rises have
been forecast for the New Year, due in
the main, say retailers, to the effects of
currency devaluation.
One of the P.M.’s first acts in office
was to cushion the blow from wheat
and butter rises by providing subsidies,
but it is out of the question that he should
apply that policy to all other primary and
manufactured goods.
The spiral must be halted quickly, and
surely the quickest way would be for
the Government to follow New Zealand’s
lead and bring the Australian pound up
to par with sterling. The effect would be
to chop, down the income from primary
products sold in the United Kingdom,
but with export prices at their present
high level that is scarcely an argument
against revaluation, especially when
Britain could do with a little generosity
just now.
On the other hand, imports from ster-
ling areas would be cheaper, including
the agricultural machinery needed so
urgently by Australian farmers, and the
reduction would be reflected in imported
foods, clothing, building materials and
scores of other commodities that affect
living costs.
A further alleviation, long overdue, is
a reduction of the high excise on tobacco
and beer. • Both things enter into the cost
of living of nearly all Australian families,
whether officialdom likes it or not. In
some families both husband and wife
smoke, and most working men like their
nightly pot. Matches, too, are a taxed
item that knocks a hole in the housewife’s
budget.
If, at this stage of post-war prosperity,
living costs can be reduced and production
increased, there might be some promise
of a Golden Age; if costs continue to
spiral—and they surely will without some
immediate and effective action—we can
look forward to a crash. The situation
requires a bold and courageous approach,
and if the P.M. tackles it he will have
done his country a service and secured the
support of the people who are trying to
scrape along with non-inflated incomes
in the mess Chifley left behind.— Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Television
With election of the Liberal Govern-
ment the question of television is
due for consideration. The last Govern-
ment intended to restrict it to stations
controlled by that Government, though
many felt that private enterprise should
be allowed to develop it. >
As competition usually results in
quality-production at a reasonable cost,
there might, on the face of it, be every-
thing to be said for the latter view. In
present-day commercial radio, however,
the standard aimed at is so low that an
uncritical public taste is debased still
further. Where the appeal is not directed
at those in the mental age-group of 12
years or thereabouts, we have the “some-
thing for nothing” approach of the “quiz”
and “jackpot” sessions. In such
circumstances the depths to which broad-
cast entertainment could sink with the in-
troduction of television beats the imagina-
tion.
With the control of television by a re-
liable authority this prospect could be
avoided and programmes of a reasonably
high standard, presented. That it is
possible to combine entertainment with
good taste is proved by the popularity of
the 8.8. C. programmes, not only with
listeners in the United Kingdom but with
many people overseas. One of the most
definite dislikes of new arrivals from
England is the appalling quality of our
commercial-radio programmes.
The new Government is, I imagine,
capable of producing a man well suited
to the job of safeguarding television from
those who would make it just another
advertising medium. Otherwise the future
will see a further degradation of public
taste. — Seahawk (Q.).
Home Prices
He is a clever seller who can judge to
a nicety when the crest of the wave has
been reached and choose that precise
moment to quit his property, be it
mining shares, real-estate or anything
else. Too often sellers hang on too long
and end by being dumped. Farmers,
in the days before compulsory wheat
pools, were notorious in that regard. The
decision to get that extra penny a bushel,
instead of meeting the market immedi-
ately the crop was harvested, often
resulted in substantial loss.
A somewhat similar position must soon
arise in the market for house property,
particularly with houses of the older
type. Mass psychology will, sooner or
later, assert itself; it must be remem-
bered that practically everything has its
origin in a thought. Go back to the
closing of the Government Savings Bank
of N. S. Wales for a classic example. A
whispering campaign put the idea into
depositors’ heads that their money was
not safe, and although they had no im-
mediate use for the cash they joined
the queues and thus closed their own
bank, which, by ordinary banking stand-
ards, was quite solvent and sound.
Apply the same rule of conduct to
property-owners and you get a wave of
sellers with prospective buyers hanging
back until they judge that bottom has
been reached. It only wants a few
“shrewdies” to announce that they have
quit their properties because they think
that peak has been reached to start
others selling, and once that movement
gets into its stride the boom-balloon com-
mences to deflate. And it’s surprising
how quickly the air can eject itself.
Boom conditions certainly obtain
today, but auctioneers (around Melbourne
at any rate) are finding it not quite so
easy to get the fantastic prices of a few
months ago—a hissing of air is
discernible. The commendable intention
of the new Federal Government to restore
the purchasing-power of the £A will
also contribute to the view that now is
the time to get out.
It seems likely, therefore (and it’s
not wishful thinking), that a fall
in the price of house property may be
brought about not so much by a fall in
actual building costs as by our old friend
“mass psychology.” It has happened
before and can easily happen again.—
Ceg (Vic.).
Trams 1
I sense a slight note of contempt in
the references to Commissioner Bell, of
Melbourne Transport, as the man with
a “bias” in favor of trams —a suggestion
that Bell is a stick-in-the-mud who refuses
to move with the times. Bell, though,
didn’t use trams because he liked the sight
or sound of them, but because his experi-
ence^ —and he has plenty of that
—has shown trams to be the more
efficient vehicle. Every move he
made in Melbourne was based on
the soundest economic and technical prin-
ciples, which is possibly why Melbourne’s
transport is as good as that of Sydney
is bad.
Bell used buses, but he ran them where
their particular qualities could be used
to the best advantage. He ran them in
Bourke-street, where the intensive service
wore them out in eight years against
the normal 25 which was the economic
life of a tram. Bell put it up to his
customers. He could replace the buses
and keep on doing so every eight years
or he could revert to trams, which would
give them a more dependable and faster
service and would, in addition, save some-
thing like £47,000 a year. The customers
plumped for trams by an overwhelming
majority.
If that sort of action shows “bias,” it’s
a great pity more of the controllers of
our public utilities are not afflicted with
the same disease. Transporticus
(Singapore).
Education
“A.8.C.” suggests (B. 14/12/’49) that
there is cause for wonder in the fact
that Tudor England produced far more
great intellectuals than we today, in spite
of our compulsory education and a later
school-leaving age. I share his amaze-
ment, but can’t agree that the school-
leaving age has much to do with it.
The great intellectuals of Tudor England
were almost all university-trained men.
Harvey, Bacon, More, Sidney, Spenser,
Marlowe and, later, Milton, all were
men highly educated at England’s great
universities. Shakspeare, of course, is the
notable exception. A review of other
countries and other ages would strengthen
the conviction that the odds against any
non-university man becoming “great” in
any field are very long. Australia’s best
poets as well as her scientists have been,
and are today, university-trained men.
My own disappointment is that our
universities have not produced more great
men and women. Tudor England’s popu-
lation , was not as large as Australia’s
today, and it is likely we “turn out” a far
greater number of graduates annually.
But we can’t turn these men into great
men of letters or scientists by the con-
ferring of degrees. Listen to the con-
versation of university students and you
will find much of it is concerned with
examination results or prospects.
What we lack —and what Tudor Eng-
land had in abundant measure—is a
zestful spirit of youth and patriotism, a
keen curiosity about the past, a fulness
of living in the present, and a relish in
planning for the future.— Kageel (Q.).
When Bags Stop
Reports that India will not import any
foodstuffs after 1951 have serious implica-
tions for Australian wheatgrowers.
It is not so much that the Indian market
will be closed for our wheat, but the
question of where the jute we use will
come from.
In order to be self-sufficient in food
India will have to use every available
acre of arable land, and that means the
land now under flax will soon be under
cereals. If, in a year or so, India sends
Australia no more cornsacks, then wheat-
farmers will be forced to develop a
system of bulk-handling that does away
with bags.
Some system of complete mechanical
handling from farm to silo will have to
be devised. (Canada and the United States
have solved this by running a fleet of
bulk trucks into the paddocks that load
direct from the headers and take the
wheat to, the railhead.) As well, we
will have to equip silos with a crane that
can upend the bulk motor-trucks so
the wheat can slide straight into the
hoppers. As an alternative, large steel
boxes to hold about 50 bushels could be
used, these boxes to be transported to
the sidings on flat lorries.
Australian wheatfarmers have a couple
of years to solve the problem of harvest-
ing without bags, and a test bulk-handling
scheme should be tried out next harvest.
—He-Ne (N.S.W).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 50
Across.
I—Plainest1 —Plainest place where red birds
live. (9)
s—River articles from both sides of
the Channel. (5)
B—Score a single before reaching
the century—or the third century
alphabet of the Teutons. (5)
10— America’s ruling party lets 500
come back with a piper’s fol-
lowers. (9)
11— Last mermen (anagram). (10)
12— Spread the seed, but hers become
farrow. (3)
15— Where is up in erupt? (5)
16 — German city let it stand by the
vessel. (7)
18— Bashful. (3)
19— Disorderly massacre with a miss-
ing feature of same. (7)
20— A profit encore. (5)
21— England v. Australia. (4)
22 Recover your skill, Reginald,
and a peach will follow. (6, 4)
24 —Toadied to Edward after his
accident with a steamroller. (9)
27 Sounds as if the cunning leave
the Irish town. (5)
28— You blokes in Arabia. (5)
29 R.A.F. wallet hidden in Niagara,
for instance. (9)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1 — The grain that Ireland hired out
of a feature of Victoria’s coast-
line. (6, 5)
2 The helpers and Roy Rene turned
in the hair. (11)
3 Finish. (3)
4 The lanes where he-cats assemble
for lobster livers. (9)
5 Fasten the ringlet. (4)
6 Beverage. (3)
7 German river measures for
printers. (3)
9 —Talks lightly of 100 top-gear
salesmen. (8)
12— Omit Canaan’s misplaced place
in California. (5, 6)
13— Lamb on arrow (anagram). (11)
14 — Convicts at touches of corrup-
tion. (8)
16 — Look after the councillor swal-
lowed by 12 across to frighten
birds. (9)
17 — Father of kittens. (3)
23 — Food, overturned, to knock one
into a shocked stupor. (4)
24 — Go for your life from this six-
footer. (3)
25 — The objective shows one in the
morning. (3)
26 Dorothy has a spot. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 49.


f
I
-7
i .
s§?
Q
£
A
JP
V'
SSfe
you build
or buy a borne
consult Tks
MIX.
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or :
Representative.
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
I 79a St. George’s
Terrace,
HOBART:
M.L.C. Building,
Liverpool & Murray Sts.,
Hobart.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)s
M.L.C. Building, Lambton
Quay.
