

The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 —No. 3667
Wednesday, May 24, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
VIfARWICK CASTLE, the largest and
most impressive of the old English
baronial castles, stands on a hill over-
looking the placid waters of the River
Avon. The exterior, with its embattled
walls, is an imposing example of four-
teenth-century fortification, and its
interior is a magnificent seventeenth-
century mansion.
In the year 915 Ethelfleda, the daughter
of King Alfred the Great, built a fortress
here against the invading Danes, and a
mound within the castle grounds bears
her name. At the beginning of the
twelfth century King Henry I conferred
the custody of the stronghold upon Henry
de Newburgh, a Norman, whom he
created Earl of Warwick. In 1264 the
castle was captured and almost destroyed
by John Gifford, Governor of Kenilworth
Castle, for De Montfort. Soon afterwards
the site of the castle and the Earldom
of Warwick passed to the Beauchamp
family, by whom it was rebuilt. Henry
of Agincourt was entertained here by
Richard Beauchamp.
In the Great Hall, Piers Gaveston, the
unworthy favourite of Edward II (1307-
1327), was tried and condemned to death.
One of those who tried him was Guy de
Beauchamp, who was contemptuously
referred to by Gaveston as “the black
dog of Arden.”
The castle, as it exists today, dates
from about 1330, but was not completed
until the end of the fourteenth century.
In 1449 the earldom passed to Richard
Neville, whose power was so great that
he was known as “the King-maker.”
Edward IV visited Warwick Castle twice,
first as a prisoner in 1459 and secondly
m 1471 with a powerful army which was
later instrumental in overthrowing the
‘ King-maker” at the Battle of Barnet.
As well as works of art, the priceless
treasures displayed in the castle include
a magnificent white marble Grecian vase
over five feet tall, circular in shape and
large enough to contain 163 gallons. It
was recovered from a lake at Tivoli,
where it was believed to have been
thrown to save it from the Goths when
they invaded Rome.
WARWICK'S MANSION RESTS SECURELY WITHIN ITS STURDY WALLS
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
dfs
ililWifll
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin”
if y Name
My Address
S.B. 250 .AGE
The Red Page
ELIOT'S NEW PLAY.
“And now,” said T. S. Eliot, in his
recent presidential address to the Poets’
Theatre Guild, “I have written a play in
verse with no chorus whatever.” Mr.
Eliot might almost have added “and with
no verse whatever” ; but that is a state-
ment to be made with reservations.
The play was The Cocktail Party, now
published by Faber. Set in contemporary
London, with people of the middle-class,
it is a story of amorous complications
which are ironed-out in the third Act by,
apparently, two angels and an archangel;
the last of whom, in his mortal capacity
a psychoanalyst, speaks some excellent dry
verse in a tone very much like T. S.
Eliot’s:
They may remember
The vision they have had, but they cease
to regret it,
Maintain themselves by the common routine,
Learn to avoid excessive expectation.
Become tolerant of themselves and others,
Giving and taking, in the usual actions
What there is to give and take. They do
not repine;
Are contented with the morning that
separates
And with the evening that brings together
For casual talk before the fire
Two people who know they do not under-
stand each other,
Breeding children whom they do not under-
stand
And who will never understand them....
It is a good life. Though you will not
know how good
Till you come to the end.
When The Cocktail Party, which has
been enjoying a successful season in New
York, was first performed at the Edin-
burgh Festival last year, Ivor Brown re-
ported in “Britain Today,” “I have rarely
known such complete division of opinion
as it caused. This piece, which is certain
to be widely seen before long, was greeted
by some as a masterpiece and others as
a muddle.” Mr. Brown thought it was
a muddle.
He went on to write an exasperated
review in which he applied to Mr.
Eliot’s female angel—in private life
a Mrs. Shuttlethwaite —the adjectives
“gossiping” and “mischievous”; while
the male angel—a Mr. Alexander
MacColgie Gibbs, an amusing char-
acter with a passion for cooking
outlandish and uneatable dishes —
was “unpleasant,” and the archangel,
Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, was “intoler-
ably cruel” and “detestably cool” . . ,
this on the occasion when he turns an
amorous young lady into a saint and
sends her off to the improbable island
of Kinkanja to be crucified by savages
and eaten by ants.
There is something to be said for Mr.
Brown’s exasperation. It is certainly dis-
couraging to come upon Marlowe’s ring-
ing and extravagant lament for Zeno-
crate in Tamburlaine the Great:
Singe these fair plains, and make them
seem as black
As is the island where the Furies mask,
Compassed with Lethe, Styx, and Phlegethon,
Because my dear Zenocrate is dead!
And here the picture of Zenocrate,
To show her beauty which the world
admir’d;
Sweet picture of divine Zenocrate
turned into the outcry of a Mr. Peter
Quilpe for Celia, the young lady who has
been eaten by ants:
And here I am, making a secondrate film!
But I thought it was going to lead to
something better,
And that seemed' possible, while Celia was
alive.
I wanted it, believed in it, for Celia.
And, of I wanted to do something
for Celia —’
But what mattered was, that Celia was alive.
And now it’s worthless. Celia’s not alive . . .
It is equally disconcerting to find Mr.
Eliot’s Celia, in the days when she is
merely the mistress of a barrister named
Edward Chamberlayne and the betrayer
of Peter Quilpe, suspecting that Sir Henry,
an unidentified guest at a London cock-
tail party in 1949, is the Devil in person.
Above all it is distressing, for anyone
who agrees with that wise and wicked
old man, I. B. Yeats, the father of W. B.
Yeats, that the theatre is not the place
for moral instruction, to be beguiled into
The Cocktail Party, labelled “a comedy,”
by a first act .which is a shrewd and
mildly amusing comedy of manners, like
a rather thin exercise in the style of Noel
Coward . , . and then to find, towards
the end of Act 2, that the psychoanalyst
is an archangel and that the play has
become not exactly a sermon, but sus-
piciously edifying.
The basis of traditional comedy, from
Wycherley to Coward, is, after all, a
reversal of popular morality; you tell
the audience the dreadful truths that
people like to be naughty and that
naughtiness is fun, and the audience is
thereby shocked, amused and secretly
delighted. Even Bernard Shaw, who does
not know very much about human
relationships, has always done his best at
least to be politically shocking.
Mr. Eliot, though he allows Celia to
say that she is not ashamed of having
been immoral, sends the erring Mr.
Chamberlayne home to be a good boy;
sends the erring Mrs. Chamberlayne home
to be a good girl; sends the erring Peter
Quilpe off to California to be a gooc
film-writer, and sends the erring Celia of;
to Kinkanja to be eaten ; and, really, in
a comedy, though the term may be
broadly defined, this is not playing quite
fair.
But exasperation, however much one
may sympathise with Mr. Brown, is never
a useful state of mind in which to analyse
a work of art. It does not lead to critical
lucidity. It leads Mr. Brown, in fact,
into saying that he did not understand
The Cocktail Party :
My own impression was that of a failure
to be sufficiently lucid and definite
Mr. Eliot never makes it plain who and
what this Unidentified Guest really is. His
associates are the mischievous old woman
and the unpleasant young man, and together
the three are spoken of as “Guardians,”
a term which is not defined. As far as I
could discover, the Guardians, who are, as
I said, a most unlikeable trio, are the
voices of righteousness, if not of God.
As to what all this meant, opinions were
at variance,
Mr. Brown may have been affected
here by the poet’s general reputation for
obscurity. He was certainly affected by
an interview Mr. Eliot gave the “Glas-
gow Herald” after the first night, in which
he “maintained that works of art need
not have a concrete meaning ; they should
provide material from which people are
to derive what meaning they please,”
Mr. Brown says, with increased exaspera-
tion, that this statement “implies'a com-
plete betrayal of the artist’s function.”
So it might, if it means what it seems
to mean; but perhaps Mr. Eliot would
derive quite another meaning from it,
or no meaning at all ... It is one of
the poet’s favorite gags for stalling-off
interviewers who ask him the question, so
embarrassing to any artist, what does he
mean by what he has just clearly stated?
There seems, at any rate, no reason to
doubt that in The Cocktail Party Mr ;
Eliot means just what Mr. Brown,'
unable to believe his own eyes and ears,
suspects he does: that Julia Shuttle-
thwaite, Alexander MacColgie Gibbs and.
particularly. Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly
are the voices of God. He does not
mean, of course, that all psychoanalysts
are archangels ; but that it is possible
that, sometimes, the Divine wisdom may
operate through this secular priesthood ;
or at least that, for the purposes of this
play, such a proceeding should be re-
garded as possible.
All this, undoubtedly, is a little odd.
One may recollect, in Mr. Eliot’s defence,
that Ares, Athena and Aphrodite come
down to earth in the Greek plays and in
Homer and behave in an extremely human
manner; one may pause at the thought
that few of us have given any deep con-
sideration to the personalities of angels ;
yet it remains extraordinarily difficult to
believe that a superhuman being could
be named Julia Shuttlethwaite, while the
unfortunate MacColgie Gibbs seems to
be a blend of two popular brands of
toothpaste. And, however much one may
disagree with Mr. Brown’s assertion that
these two likeable and amusing people
are repellent, it remains impossible to
reconcile their foolish human antics in
the first act with their angelic status and
intelligence towards the end of the second.
But to find Mr. Eliot’s characters incon-
sistent is not the same thing as to find
his play incomprehensible.
However, it is clear that Mr. Brown
was dissatisfied ; and the present reviewer,
though not quite on the same grounds,
shares his dissatisfaction. The Cocktail
Party, indeed, in spite of its many inci-
dental merits, is, as a whole, weak;
first, as a play and, secondly, as a poetic
play.
The reasons for the first failure—
simply as a comedy for the stage—are that
essentially it is not a comedy but, if its
dramatic content were fulfilled, a tragedy ;
and that, because the dramatic content is
not adequately worked out, it does not
reach a climax.
One is not disputing here the general
definition of “comedy,” a term which
may be applied to any play which has
a happy ending—“ The Merchant of
Venice,” for example, which ends happily
for everybody except poor Shylock. But
Shylock is a villain and deserves his
punishment, which, in any case, is not
that of death. Mr. Eliot’s heroine,
who seems just a nice, sensitive
girl, is crucified and eaten by
ants; and the poet cannot turn this
appalling fate into comedy by making it
take place thousands of miles offstage
and relating it, as it were, between two
bites of a sandwich at a cocktail party.
Nor, dramatically and humanly speak-
ing, can he convince the audience, on
religious grounds, that this is a happy
ending. It is as if one tried to make a
light-hearted comedy out of the martyr-
dom of Joan of Arc.
By the end of Act 1, which is gently
amusing, it is established that Celia has
flirted with Peter Quilpe and has had an
affair with Edward Chamberlayne ; Mrs
Chamberlayne has had an affair with
Quilpe and has left her husband ; Mr,
Chamberlayne drops Celia, and his wife
comes back to him. So, not very strongly,
you have some dramatic movement into
Act 2 —to see what these people make of
the situation. At the end of Act 2, when
everybody, in a state of nervous prostra-
tion, has visited the psychoanalyst, it is
explained to the Chamberlaynes that they
are both utterly unlovable people and that
they had better go home and make the
best of each other; while Celia, not very
plausibly, is sent off to Sir Henry
Harcourt-Reilly’s mysterious “sana-
torium” to become a missionary.
We have, then, to take us into Act 3,
some mild curiosity as to how the
Chamberlaynes will get along; and, since
Celia’s situation is distinctly unusual,
quite a strong curiosity as to the sana-
torium. But the Chamberlaynes merely
collapse into a sentimental domesticity
which one can hardly credit; nothing is
shown of the sanatorium; and Celia,
crucified at long distance between one
little joke and the next, is never seen
again on stage. Dramatically, this is
extremely disappointing.
Poetically, the play has its patches of
merit. Sir Henry is given some fine
lines; and the whole play, however flat
the dialogue may appear, is animated b>
that nervous jazz-rhythm of contemporary
speech which Eliot first exploited in
“Sweeney Agonistes” and the clue to
which, oddly, he found in the “parallell-
ism” (or repetition) of the Hebrew poetry
in the Bible: —■
Celia. And how will you manage while
she is away?
Edward. I really don’t know. I may go
away myself.
Celia. Go away yourself!
Julia. Have you an aunt too?
Edward. No, I haven’t any aunt. But I
might go away.
It is possible that this simple device,
where the poetry' lies not in the words
but in the rhythm, may be Eliot’s most
important contribution to the renascence
of the poetic drama. Obviously, as Mr.
Eliot began to do in “Sweeney Agonistes,”
it could be developed into songs, recita-
tives and a quick interchange of dialogue,
catching the general rhythm of modern
speech.
But, as it is used here, the rhythm is
insufficient to redeem the general flatness,
and one doubts whether it could be
effectively employed except for the pur-
poses of satire or for a limited recitative
type of drama; and, if it came into
general practice, the verse play might
quickly become stylised and monotonous.
Mr, Eliot has yet to make the more
widely liberating discovery that every
individual on earth speaks in a different
rhythm and that, theoretically, there are
as many kinds of poetic rhythms to be
used as there are men and women. He
will never arrive at that discovery until
he goes more deeply into the dramatist’s
fundamental problem, the creation of
individual character.
Apart from the patches of merit —the
exploration of rhythm, the flashes of wit,
the touches of genuine characterisation,
the moments of deep thought and the
speeches given to Sir Henry in which, as
in the passage about old age in the Four
Quartets, Mr. Eliot describes a human
situation with a finality reminiscent of the
“inspired platitude” of such Shakspearian
summaries as the “Seven Ages of Man” —
the virtues of The Cocktail Party seem to
the present reviewer chiefly negative and
sacrificial. Mr. Eliot has set out, as in
The Family Reunion, to do the impos-
sible ; and, once again, he has proved
that it can’t be done.
According to his statement to the Poets’
Theatre Guild his aim in this play was,
first, to “get away from the chorus” —
which was distinctly a step forward, for
a chorus can never be truly dramatic,
only a kind of incidental music to help
(or hinder) the drama —and, secondly:
I only want to write plays of contem-
porary life. For me, at least, a play set in
the past, or in some fictitious place or
S’ W< TW be an . evasi «n Of the im
lu . T Here > again, I wonln 6
thatl am concerned with mv „ reillln d yn
problem. And here, again ! ° Wn Person®
i f,n i hls wa y any mo ® a “eed I®,
drama. But I think ;/ J.f e than nJ
establish itself again, Iffr thr?^ 3 is '
years, ~ h as got to hundr,
with what appears to be the ml Can de
tory material; a plot of re &a
people, such as the men and n > 0 «i
know, in the usual clothes Sat men v
today, m the same perplexities^ ey We:
and misunderstandings that S Confl k
acquaintances get involved L JL and oi
no hnes that are not relevant to l Utterir
hon, the mood, and the drastic
Mr. Eliot might appear to I
fly in the face of the wholes!?'"*
poetic drama here, for at
masters of tragedy, from P., • 6
Shakspeare, have gone to to
their subjects. And yet as thf St for
poets have shown, from Artoi v sat “ r ‘c
s. Gilbert, comempo^ 1 •>
successfully be used for verse Z 3ll
and one suspects that U S c ft edies i
difficulty of discovering and w 9y
full truth about the events of'?'” 8 the
own time (who knows te i
about Hitler? who can be su! ??
mind is free from prejudice on^ 15
subject? who could feel a
m such a case, from official or Soffit
that sends fc !?
dramatists to historical themes. Wlc
If Mr. Eliot argued that historical
could no longer be of topical
the reply would be, of course S
Macbeth is a play about Hitler; human
nature does not change down the cento'
and men of any period, clearly and m
foundly depicted, will have interest and
sigm. usance for any generation. But that
It x l°\ r the P° mt at issue—-which is one
that Mr. Eliot does not mention- the
doctrine of the “excellent action,” wh ch
Matthew Arnold took over from Aristotle
and which both these critics thought of
fundamental importance for the poetic
drama.
This person [to excite pity and terror
m a tragedy], said Aristotle, “should be
someone of high fame and flourishing
prosperity” ; by which he meant that the
poetic drama, like poetry itself, should
always be something more than life; or
should represent life at its utmost inten-
sity. It is so hard for nice-minded
nicely-behaved Englishmen in a London
drawing-room to represent life at its
utmost intensity; harder still for such
people to acquire the mythological stature
of the kings of Greece and the kings of
England with whose fates the masters of
dramatic art have concerned themselves.
If the fate of kings no longer interests
Europe, other significant figures will have
to be found; but they will not be
nonentities in a drawing-room.
As The Cocktail Party is classified as
a comedy, the necessity for an “excellent
action” in tragedy is not wholly relevant;
but the play reminds us that comedy also,
in its own way, requires its “excellent
action.” .•••;
Shakspeare made poetry out of his
comedies by the use of a romantic setting,
historical or fanciful; and this is the
method used by Christopher Fry, who,
recently, appears to have brought about
that revival of the poetic drama which
Mr. Eliot has so much hoped for and
which he first set moving with Murder
in the Cathedral. The alternative method,
suitable for satire, is that practised by
Aristophanes and (if only he had been
more virile) W. S. Gilbert: where every-
day affairs are indeed the theme but where
every possible device of song, chorus an
spirited versification is used to lift tne
affair beyond the ordinary.
Mr. Eliot told the Poets’ Theatre
Guild he felt that “poetic drama must
try the most daring thing, and surren
any momentary advantage that may
got from making up with nice P°
what is lacking in dramatic q* ’
also that, to set a basic rhythm
could rise to poetry when requir A i.
was prepared to write verse . J
“isolated from the rest, could
quite as well in prose.” Trying
in the play, he has indeed laced l
the crucial problems of the conte P ~
dramatist —the same problem, ess
as Browning faced in his dramat
logues—for neither an imitation 0 f
bethan language nor the pr ■
Wilde and Flecker will suffice i
establish poetry on the stage a . Jj v
force. One must look sympathy
therefore, at Mr. Eliot s flat a i or i e ss
verse ; but it remains flat an a
Obviously what he requires is,
stronger dramatic quality, w . a jd,
automatically evoke a “nicer
secondly, the “excellent ac woU ld.
would make it nicer still... o per
in fact, lift it into poetry.
subject, if he can manage a c sa y,
theme, is not Celia Coplestone W*
Cardinal Mindszenty. S-
S 5)
{“Red Page” continued on P a S e


p
(13-
I
i
..-T-
-:
WM
1
m
m
:
m
85/3
m
m
am
• .■<!
1 i J
63/9
:: .
£6/1/
MHMWi
Si :;*■■:
s m
m
m
mm
:
I
I '*
■mm
: ~ ■•
••!. !-•-
- «
. :■ ■•■:>■
... . , , ~. ■
......
Whether you’re going to Leura or Loiidon
Travel with the Best
■ mi *
, ..
Leather Suit Ceases, attractive and durable, smooth finished
genuine cowhide. English locks, cloth lining, inside packing
straps. Sue 24in.. £5/13/1); 26in.. £6/4/-; 28in„ £6/L>
r«yi3/-
"TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING"
Genuine hide Suitcase. Extra wide and deep. Safety locks,,
check lining. 26in, £9/15/-, 28in. £lO/6/-, 30in. £ll
Soft leather Overnight Bag. Strong slide fastener, outside
/ip pocket. Brown, Fawn, Tan. 16in. x 91-in. x 6|in. 63/9
Travel Bag. Top grain hide, steel frame. Brown, Fawn,
Blue, Black, Tan, £5/6/3. Tan or Brown crocodile grain,
£6/1/6
Brush wool Travel Rugs, fringed ends. 72in. x 60in. 85/3
Genuine hide lightweight Travel Bag. Slide fastener. 20in.
In Fawn, Fawn croc, grain or Brown croc, grain. £5/16/3
English ‘Tsovac” Vacuum Flask available in Green, Blue
and Red. Two-pint size, 19/6. Also available. Refills, 13/-.
ONV HORDERNS* TRAVEL GOODS -GROOM
: ...i. . ; . : A i ! ! ' : : :
rDNEY
' V.


The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
Let mbs prow* it on pour farm...
■ $
FOR THE
>
CRAWLER
,
25/33 H.P. 32/40 H.P.
TRACTOR
m
- “ v
Before making any decisions about a new tractor ...see your nearest
Loyd distributor ...ask him to arrange a Loyd demonstration under
your own conditions ...on your own farm. Let us say right here , such
a demonstration places you under no obligation whatsoever.
The Loyd is an all-weather, all-the-year-
round tractor. Mud, sand, clay, under-
growth, roots or saplings make no differ-
ence to its broad tracks. Maximum speed
of 7 m.p.fa. . . . ample power to do every
job under the worst conditions... economy
of fuel as low as three quarters of a gallon
of Diesel fuel per hour . . . the Loyd
Crawler is the ideal tractor for the
Australian farmer.
Every class of broadacre farming;
orchard work, breaking new country, cane
farming, logging, dozing, grading, scrap
ing, loading, back-filling, excavating,
winching or road building, the hoy
Crawler will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
The Loyd will outpull any other tractor of
equivalent horsepower!
See or write to your nearest Loyd Distributor.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 82a Parramatta Rd., Camperdown.
QUEENSLAND: Norton Tootill Pty. Ltd., 112 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Power Handling (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 61 Gawler Place, Adetai
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: John Chambers & Son Ltd., Branches throughout New Zealan •
Loyd Sales and Service available throughout Australasia. 5 Terrace, Perth*
COMMONWEALTH FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. Georges e
Values
By "COLM"
yi MUSTY cobweb of a
AJ man, he taught us history.
I He didn’t throw chalk, he
didn’t crack jokes. He
invariably marked our term re-
ports with his wistful “May Im-
prove.”
The period bell would go, one
master would depart, there would
be a moment or two of uproar,
and then a lad near the window
on the hall side would cry “The
Morgue.” Silence, and his en-
trance.
He never looked up as he came
in. Straight to his table, place
his textbook in the middle, dust
the chair with his handkerchief,
sit, and begin to talk. He had
a voice like a silkworm, and
we’d gradually doze off and then
the period bell would yell and
bring us upright with a jolt.
He’d stand up, close his book,
and, mentioning the essay for
homework, move out the door
and along to his next batch of
demons.
As the year passed we found
him less inert than we’d thought.
For a while he went right up
in our opinion when a couple of
the lads, seeing him pass through
the gates as he always did at
one o’clock —we thought for a
stroll followed at a safe
distance, saw him enter the
saloon at The Oaks, and at
twenty-past one emerge again
wiping his mouth with the back
of his hand. We certainly sat up
and took notice that afternoon,
and ever after he carried a
little bit of prestige that he didn’t
even know about.
Again, it was learned that the
Morgue was not as others.
Smithy, the Head, Old Horace,
Jock the Chemist, La Pomme —
they all came to the school by
tram or bus.
The Morgue rode an over-
head-valve Harley-Davidson with
no cut-out. We didn’t find
out about that for months. Up
he went another peg.
THE afternoon came when
Morgue was to discuss with
us the papers we had turned in
for the, mid-year exams. He was
a fair while coming, and when
he did there was an odd light in
his eyes, for once glaring straight
at us, but not angrily. He
dropped the papers on the table
and then he started.
“If I don’t ever achieve any-
thing else in life, I wish this
afternoon to try to correct
something. Your sense of values.
For as I see it in your papers
you are, all of you, wrong about
a most important point. I’m not
talking history now.
“There was a question in the
test which asked; ‘Whom do you
consider the most important
single figure covered in this
year’s work?’ That left it very
open. You could discuss some-
one who, in your minds, was a
great man. You could trace the
events which followed his actions
and their effect on history. And
you did it; some of you very
• well.
“Forget the paper now and
think for a moment why you
chose the subjects you did—why
every one of you chose a soldier,
w'hy none of you chose a man
who worked for peace.
“I admit that the effects of
your champions and their wars
shaped history, and that history
teems with them, but what of
the others? Saint Francis, or
the great writers and painters, or
the curers, like Pasteur and
Lister. Don’t they deserve a
mention? Are the men who
really merit our memory the
warriors and the tyrants, or are
they the people with imagination
who tried to undo or veil the
damage, and to clean up the
rubble?
“Every one of you chose a
man of battle ; I think you were
wrong, but they were your
opinions. What caused you to
form them? If. it was my teach-
ing, then forget everything I’ve
ever said. But listen to me now.
Those who have created war
should be struck off our memory,
for only when we have ceased
to regard them as champions will
we be able to look about at
peace. You, the young ones,
must get a proper sense of
values about this thing. It is im-
portant . .
Here was Morgue, so strong
and completely genuine in his
convictions that they ring in my
ears today. I can see his face
gradually losing its fire, returning
to normal, grimacing as he
handed back our papers and
discussed their lesser points.
The final exat
end of the yea 5
goodbye to Morgjc ■ -
off in the world outside.
Y ? ARS . later > one Anzac Dav
1 1 again, standing?’
the crowd watching the nm
sion. The old M^ Ue Pr S
changed a lot; he was
mustier and he had a W9l ? d ’
stick. My gaze wandered h mg '
to his chest. On the right-h°a?S
side were two civilian decora
hons, high ones, but dirty, fa?
mg and faded. We knew
thing of them at school Or S
those that contrasted with them
on the left-hand aide,
served under cellophane aid ~
fresh and colorful as the day he
got them: a couple of ordinary
general - service ribbons f ftP
1914-18. lor


The Bulletin
'VoT 71—No. 3667
Wednesday, May 24, 1950
RUNNING AMUCK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
GERMANY.
Highly important moves towards the re-
admission of Germany (which term for
the present means Western Germany)
into the comity of nations —that is, the
Western Union and the Atlantic Pact—
are now taking shape as the result of
decisions by the Western Allies, Britain,
United States and France. These moves
are going forward under both political
and economic reconstruction. The pace
is quickening because of the obvious
acceptance by the Western Powers of
sharper antagonism from Soviet Russia
under “the cold war.”
Mr, Churchill summed up the situation
in a speech in the House of Com-
mons at the end of March —a speech
which reads like the cue to the French
Government’s offer to Western Germany
for a settlement of the Ruhr and Saar
questions, and to the German Chancellor,'
Dr. Adenauer, for his response. Mr.
Churchill said on the main point:
We cannot seek unity and restoration of
Europe without the aid of Germany
There can Ire no hope for a united Europe
without Germany, and no hope for Ger-
many except within a free and united
Europe. We should do all in our power to
encourage and promote a Franco-German
reconciliation as an approach to unity or
even, perhaps in some form, to union
I said at Zurich four years ago that it
would be the proud duty of France to
stretch forth her hand and lead Germany
back into the European family France
and Britain, both sorely distressed, can
continue together, and, thus joined, have
superior power to raise Germany, even
more shattered, to an equal *rank and lasting
association with them These three, for-
getting ancient feuds and the tragedies of
the past, can make the core or nucleus on
which all other civilised democracies of
Europe, bond or free, can one day rally
and continue.
These passages are based upon some-
thing more than emotional appeal for
European unity in the abstract. Partly
Mr. Churchill was setting out in lan-
guage more persuasive to English ears
the urgency proclaimed in warnings by
President Truman and his Secretary of
State of the mounting threat of “real
aggression” from “Communist imperial-
ism,” and the necessity, as Mr. Acheson
said, for “speedier'mobilisation of the
free world.” But Mr. Churchill’s call for
a bolder British effort, on a course which
he admitted provoked keen questioning,
was founded on an appreciation of events
late last, year—‘steps taken by the Allies
to restore German independence, from
which there can be no turning back;
After close inter-Allied consultation the
rowers High Commissioners in Bonn
signed with the West German Chancellor
on November 24 last an agreement giving
Germany permission to build ocean-going
ships (within certain tonnage limitation)
and removed from the demolition list, “in
the light of assurances given by . the
[German] Federal Government,” a number
ot synthetic oil and rubber plants and steel-
works.
Under this agreement the Powers also
sought participation by Germany in inter-
national organisations “to which German
experience and, support can contribute to
the general welfare,” and approved the
gradual re-establishment of German con-
sular representation abroad.
Following thereon the German Govern-
ment on December 1 applied for member-
Ruhr thC International Authority of the
«f G fk ma ?, y r, h^ been Emitted a member
°; E ; EC - (administering Marshall
Aid) m October, and expressed a desire for
admission to the Council of Europe (the
Strasbourg- body) as an associate member.
On December 15 the German Government
signed an agreement with U.S.A. to adhere
to the same conditions in the O.EEC
SL L er countries drawing benefits from
dechiJt ar t Sh »fi Al ? plan > and expressly
ah Sari nf determination to eradicate
fnsSfon f Nazism from German life and
tntnlh^to 8 - and to P reven t revival of
totalitarianism in any form ” This asree
™L”V a £ fied H by .. ,he Bo "“ Bunding
the t1m»? 26, and c 9 vers a period until
Statute in C ar^ eS H t 0 rev * ew the Occupation
statute’ on the rda * nce Wlth Article 9 of tha t
suuuie, on the autumn of 1950 ”
arSe° m on th a e if ? gre ® m ents three matters
all ° f which the British Gov-
marie t onsiders that the pace is being
fast - Those matters were;
( i' Th® control of the Ruhr.
p mphasis bein g P ut °n the
ing status, and' o'* 0 '* “ * b ° dy ° f increas '
(3) By implication, some form of
German participation in the Western
combined defence plans.
The march towards the goal indi-
cated has begun. Through its Foreign
Minister the French Government’s
offer to Germany concerning the
Ruhr and the Saar —the offer of
an amalgamation in one pool of
all Franco-German heavy industry, in-
cluding the French Lorraine iron-mines
also has been accepted by Dr,
Adenauer; and, though the British Gov-
ernment caught its breath with surprise
(or so Ministers conveyed), the proposal
is a natural consequence of everything
that preceded it. There is no other way
to end, so far as statesmanship can, the
Franco-German blood-feud of centuries
than to neutralise, as between those
nations, the source of war munitions ; nor
is there any better means of assuring
permanent international control of the
economic lifeblood of a Western Euro-
pean Union.
Mr. Churchill’s speech to the Commons
carried a reference to this point:
At the same time as I was speaking on
the defence debate (in February], General
de Gaulle, representing the most powerful
force that could be ranged on the wrong
side, made a statement. Speaking of Dr.
Adenauer’s proposal for an economic union
between France and Germany, General de
Gaulle said: "Why should not the Rhine
become a street where Europeans meet,
rather than a ditch dividing hostile camps?”
If Germany is to be taken on trust, there
is patently no other solution.
As for No 2 of the debatable points,
Dr. Adenauer has been holding out for a
delegation of full-membership status to
the Council of Europe. Considerations
such as the desire to see how the Ger-
mans shape there have prevailed to limit
the German title to “associate member”
for the next meeting, and that limitation
WHY MALAYA MATTERS.
Rage 24.
Dr. Adenauer has reluctantly accepted.
But the Attlee Government’s estimation
of the weight to be given to the Council’s
representations still lags behind that of
Continental members.
Much nearer to the knuckle of the
whole fateful debate is point (3) —the
question of German participation in the
Western defence scheme. Obviously, in
the event of Russian aggression, the Ruhr
—which, of course, like Berlin, lies east
of the Rhine —would have to be defended.
It is the supreme arsenal of Western
Europe’s means of self-defence. Besides,
Dr. Adenauer asks the Powers—“lf it
is a Russian overrunning of Europe we
are talking about —and what else is the
menace? —is Western Germany to be sub-
merged without resistance? What, under
your plans, should our people do?”
Everybody knows that the West Ger-
mans would resist such invasion, and that
their resistance would be supported by
the Powers. Mr. Churchill faced this
question frankly during the February de-
fence debate in the House of. Commons,
and, being later charged with favoring
German rearmament, he said in his
speech on March 28:
I picked my words carefully, and I do
not wish to modify them. I said nothing
about rearmament of Germany or about
re-creating the German Army; but I see
no reason why the Germans should not aid
in the defence of their own country and
of Western Europe, or why British, Ameri-
can, French and German soldiers should
not stand in line together on honorable
terms of comradeship as part of a com-
bined system of defence.
Especially if that should become inevit-
able.
Early in December last Dr. Adenauer
was interviewed by a correspondent of
the Cleveland “Plain Dealer” and
promptly corrected the published com-
ments attributed to him with this state-
ment : - .
Germans would not serve in a foreign
army as recruits. There can be no question
of [forming] a German Army. The most
that can be considered would be the ques-
tion of a German contingent within the
framework of a European Army.
From the conference of 12 nations of
the Atlantic Pact it was announced from
London last week (“Daily Mail” report)
that the Western defence forces will be
organised in three groups—Britain to con-
centrate on “a great anti-submarine fleet
and the largest force of jet-fighters in
the world,” America to provide a long-
range bomber force and heavier naval
ships, and “France and the Continental
countries to provide the armies, with
American equipment.” That does not
exclude Germany.
For the rest, the Big Three Foreign
Ministers’ declaration at the conclusion
of their meetings affirmed (1) that as long
as the Russian policy of dividing Ger-
many lasts there can be no formal peace
treaty, for they Will not conclude peace
with only a portion of Germany (that
entirely satisfies Dr. Adenauer too); (2)
that progress towards re-admitting Ger-
many into the community of free peoples,
“liberated from all controls,” shall be as
rapid as possible, and that depends upon
the efforts of the Germans themselves ;
and (3) that in the meantime “the occu-
pation regime must be retained in accord-
ance with the common interests of Ger-
many and of Europe.” This last is con-
strued by Reuter’s diplomatic observer
as implying “a security guarantee for
West Germany within the Atlantic Pact
mechanism.”
Mr. Churchill deserves the last word on
the causes of what Australian Ministers
in Parliament ' describe as “receding
prospects of peace”:
I think it_ probable that the Soviet fears
the friendship of the West even more than
they do our hostility. The Soviet regime
and the lives of its rulers might be
imperilled by allowing free, easy and
friendly intermingling with the outer world.
'That hits the nail fairly on the h^d.
Socialism in N. S. Wales.
In the dying days of what rational N. S.
Wales electors hope will be his last
session in control of the State Parlia-
ment, Mr. McGirr introduced measures
to create transport and electricity com-
missions which seem to fit in neatly with
his party’s plan, made in 1944, for the
socialisation of N. S. Wales in 10 years.
These bills are as complete a bid for
socialisation as Mr. Chifiey’s bank-
nationalisation bill, and they are certainly
measures which should not have been
bludgeoned through Parliament in its
final hours, a few weeks before they
could have been submitted to the people
for a mandate. This was especially so
seeing that the leaders of the Opposition
have made it plain that, if returned to
office, they will throw the whole of the
plan, along with much more of the
present Government’s totalitarian legisla-
tion, into the dust-bin.
The transport body which Mr. McGirr
has invented to serve a State with a
population of 3,000,000, whose railway
system is bankrupt, is acclaimed “one of
the largest transport organisations in the
world the largest in the British
Empire.” Its head will be Mr. R. Winsor,
a trade-union-inoculated executive, who
has been filling Sydney trams and buses
with nursery-level pictures of animals
and birds, urging the public that
“Honesty is the best policy, pay your
fare.” Mr. Winsor has nevertheless so
far failed to attain the objective of this
device, which was to help put the tram-
ways and road transport on a paying
basis, and for this he blames rising costs.
He is now to be promoted to a salary
of £5500 a year and to become transport
tsar of N. S. Wales with a staff of 85,000
to begin with, and control over all main
roads, railway freight services, maritime
services (including ports, port facilities
and . ferry services), taxis, motor-vehicle
and drivers’ licences —in fact, everything
which appertains to travel.
The Commissioner for Railways and all
other departmental heads will become
subordinate to Mr. Winsor, but will sit
under him on a commission, very much
like the public-service advisory committee
of Mr. Chifley’s Commonwealth Bank;
and there will be three part-time members
of the commission.
One of these is Mr. F. A, Manning, a
defeated “Labor” candidate of the last
Federal elections, an ardent would-be
bank-nationaliser, who purports to
“represent rural industries,” according to
Mr. McGirr. Yet he was defeated by
a Country-party candidate at the Federal
poll last year. Another is Mr. C. A.
Butler, a game little flyer, who supposedly
“represents commerce.” His appointment
is said to be by virtue of the fact that Mr.
McGirr proposes to venture into the air
with a State airline to compete with
private companies and, if possible, push
them out of business.
Lastly there is Mr. J. A. Ferguson,
State secretary of the A.R.U., represent-
ing transport employees. Mr. Ferguson
is chief branch official of a union which
affiliated itself to the Red International
in Moscow in 1931,, and which has a
Communist Federal president and has
had other Communist officers.
Mr. Ferguson, who is an ex-Com-
munist, took an active part in
pushing the 10-year socialisation plan of
1944 through the A.L.P. conference. He
represents a union which after the war
issued a blueprint for the establishment
of a Socialist State in printed form:
'Hie Australian Council of the Australian
Railway Union believes firmly and sincerely
that the present social system has outlived
its usefulness and is no longer capable of
providing for the economic and social needs
of the community. We believe that the
needs of the present day demand a
complete change from capitalism to social-
ism. We say that if it is passible to feed,
clothe, house and equip, with the costly
apparattis of war, Australians as soldiers,
it is equally possible to treat them similarly
as citizens, replacing the equipment of war
fW • Cqu,pmcnt of neacp
that if it is possible for the /e say
Government to organise the mi ea'ih
r4£e C Z™S!\™
social life of the •*
ment the people according tr. S °*u as A 0 la-
ment s view of the nation's* n Si ?overn-
purposes, then it is P m. .n need f °r war
these to be done for
wealth Government for o? mm ° n -
In other words, the union
Mr. Ferguson is all for a em P'°ys
totalitarian State “regimented a mpletely
to the Government’s view” and o CCordin B
by regulation. It can be taken l 8 ° Verned
that for all pracUcal
posed by his legislation, Mr ’mcc"'
■s at one with tlrs v ewp4„t < ii rr
Transport Commisv ,n will hav. , Hls
plete control over very wheel th.t ,° m ’
and thus over e ry pom d „f r" ' urns
primary prodm whkhTsglL° 0d ° r
to determine .mether it be carnet b !
where and at what price
dominating every movement S ' J™”
beings down to the inmates „f U ™u n
humblest jalopy. that be
and flies eSnoX
Wmsor s peremptory methods and everv
person in the community to his kinder!
§a ?h n p C J Juratlons and regulations
The Electricity Commission will have
as tight a control on bulk production of
electricity throughout the State as th
Transport Commission will have ove
transport. It will take over all publicly-
owned power stations, including that of
the County Council in Sydney, unde
the control of Mr. Conde (£5OOO pa)
and will negotiate to acquire the private
ones, which obviously will pretty soon find
themselves crushed if they do not see
the writing on the wall.
~I vl r . -M cGirr has certainly not passed
his bills with the intention of developing
the countryside, in which there are only
31 electorates, while he himself proposes
to try to remain in control of Parliament
by grace of 63 disgracefully jerry-
mandered seats in the city and industrial
areas. Indeed, the first task Mr. Winsor
sets out is the completion of the expen-
sive city underground railway in Sydney,
while all the north of the State starves
for access to convenient ports on its own
adjacent coast.
All in all, the two interlocking plans
are a great step towards the 10-year
socialisation scheme which was on the
books of the A.L.P. in 1944 and which
the official organ of the party, the
“Standard Weekly,” then described as a
plan to “confront the power of .the
moneybags with a mighty State combine
of credit institutions, factories, farms,
transport and co-operative distribution
that will ensure the victory of the
socialistic tendencies of our economic
life.”
These two schemes almost realise the
Socialist totalitarian objective.
A Destroyer Is Born.
A beautiful new brute of a ship, square-
tailed, slice-bowed and all grace and guts
between, she curtsied her nose to the
first deep-sea swell off Sydney’s Middle
Harbor, sniffed it, liked it, and drank
deep, almost to her flairs. The next, on
the turn out, caught her bilges and lifted
her on a graceful roll that wiped the truck
of her, stumpy, latticed-aluminium fore-
mast in a tentative arc across the weep-
ing sky. Then she was round, facing the
waiting grey troughs of tumbling brine
which the men aboard who built her, an
her brand-new naval crew, meant her t
master. Her captain, seawise, swaying
easily beside his compass, feeling her wi
sympathetic understanding, spoke to
first lieutenant. He picked up a m
phone. “Ship is about to work up to tun
power. Hands are warned to keep o
the upper-deck.” . • e
The captain bent to the J OIC ®S.
which ran like a nerve to the
house, and through it to the eng! * ,
deep in her vitals; here a bell ra g
a pointer jerked peremptorily
ahead.” She coughed brown smoke> f rn
her funnel-mouth, which whippedlmstan y
to shreds in the wind,and : s g
the feel of her power. The
of the engine-room fans cr iQtO
to a hungry roar, sucking cold
her hot iron throat. Deep d
the hum of turbines an
turned a large wheel. The h p rotTl
to a drumming scream of powcu
her boilers, through the e . n 8 m f n .-i driven
head, where pressured jets nc j the
flame wrapped and wreat ! e£ j to spin
tubes, 50,000 horsepower strained
her huge clover-leaves of ph° s P xbeir
at 120 revolutions per mmu • ing
thrashing grip sent a smother 01
white from her tail. lltv __i3o, 1 40,
The rev.-counter stepped P on-
-200. She was plunging i back
coming combers and tossing


head in white sheets of driven
,r " er ‘ c | e ar over the bridge. Now and
> big one would catch her down,
: , 4C > t ns of steel bucketed through
1 " >en wall. Then she lifted, up,
almost forefoot-clear; the wave
*‘f her bilges, passing the point
;■ ajancc; her stem lifted and she
Ued down as though she’d stamped
her 'forefoot on something solid. She
seemed to stagger in mid-flight before
the strength of her engines regained her
pace and drove her on over the ridged
l5 minutes and her rev.-
counter* showed 300—30 knots into a
force-4 sea and half a gale blowing.
lt W as “ail-hands-grab-hold” now, sliding,
clinging and bracing as she pitched in
frenzied purpose up and through and
over, the bridge swept continuously by
gusts of spray. Watching the bucking
bows, one remembered that in such a sea
British destroyer Glowworm took on the
German cruiser Hipper, and fought her
with her open guns, and rammed her
towering enemy fair amidships. Here
the heavy-breeched twin 4.5 s were com-
pletely enclosed in gas-tight turrets.
Only a few seasoned uniforms were
on the bridge now. The captain, who
had not moved from his voice-pipe,
ordered: “Half-ahead together. Starb’d
ten.” The thrashing astern died to a
mere heap of white; she nosed her bow
round, confident now, disregarded the few
final slaps, and in a minute or two was
riding easily with wind and waves astern.
In that savage hour’s run head-on into
breaking seas at full-power, she had
twisted and forced and felt herself. Now
she was a ship.
Hands appeared on her quarter-deck,
working swiftly round the halyards on
her ensign-staff. The captain spoke; a
whistle shrilled. All hands stood to
attention. The Red Ensign, emblem of
dockyard control and shoreside respon-
sibility, fluttered to her wet steel decks.
In its place, whipping and curling, rose
the White Ensign, the stem-wind blowing
its colorful red-white-and-blue forward
towards her superstructure in proud bene-
diction. Tobruk, now H.M.A.S., accepted
destroyer of the Australian Fleet, headed
home to base.
MACNELL.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Onus and Anguish.
Mr. Menzies having wisely listened to
representations about the need for certain
technical amendments in the anti-Com-
munist Bill —especially the securing of a
warrant from a magistrate before the
searching of premises, and the provision
for appeals to a Supreme Court of a
State as well as to the High Court —the
main debate in Parliament and among
the public has been limited to the clause
concerning “onus of proof.”
It has been made clear to everybody
that the Socialists, in demanding that the
onus should be on the Commonwealth,
in reality, trying to wreck the bill.
We are dealing with the safety and
defence of the realm,” said the Prime
Minister, “not the platitudes of a Motor
Act. With an enemy movement you
cannot play around as though it were a
ounday-school class.” His amendment
to the vital clause is an improvement in
drafting on the original. The provision
that the declaration as unlawful of an
organisation, and the “declaration” of an
individual, shall be prima facie evidence
against that body or person does not
conflict in principle with the procedure
m other special cases, as Dr, Evatt well
nows. The whole purpose is to force
e f ecdared person, on appeal to the
nrt, to go into the witness-box and
omit to cross-examination. The onus is
n the Communist to rebut such prima
u° le *y idence f° r reasons of State which
f n Menzies has thoroughly explained
r , e benefit of all to whom they were
i 1 al ready obvious. Similarly, the onus
°n the Government—as in all uses of
ecutive authority— to use its powers
fin equity and commonsense.
a u '“f Public is nothing like so disturbed
* j is point as “Labor” is trying to
*** The “Labor” argument—if it
thi /. be called argument—amounts to
bill ’ j * 11 a ßP rov es the recitals to the
anH a !n agrees . that the Communist party
bm should be outlawed,
miln . , at known and self-proclaimed Com-
mnists—jigains 1 whom the late “Labor”
vv ; th ernm ent itself proceeded last year
shall Cmer B enc Y legislation of its own—
charo deem ed innocent of the
guiihT be* n S Communist unless proved
“1 7’ „ The affectation is that the
bill ° r movemen t is shocked by the
\ n ace of statements by
muient union executives that 90 per
cent, of the Australian workers approve
the banning of the Communist party!
The Government is determined both
that these wreckers shall be out-
lawed and that the “Labor” party
shall be made to face up
to its own political hypocrisy of years
past. What dismays the “Labor” Opposi-
tion is not so much the onus of proof
on the Communist, as the onus upon itself
to prove its bona fides to the public. It
knows that outright resistance to this
legislation would lead to another general
election and to a “Labor” debacle on
that field. All the blather about “funda-
mental principles of British justice” is
but an attempt to harmonise two incom-
patible objectives— to rally a “united
front” against the bill, and yet not to
risk a double-dissolution by rejecting it
in the Senate.
The special A.C.T.U. congress, unable
to bring itself to a straightforward deci-
sion, has resolved, “in view of the need
for Labor unity,” to “approve the Labor
amendments to the bill”—that is to say,
the bill with the “Labor” amendments—
so long as the “Labor” party insists on
the vital amendment, the one completely
stultifying the bill, which the Government
will not accept. No consultant of the
Delphian oracle ever received more of
a riddle by way of answer. Presumably
the “Labor” majority in the Senate is now
supposed to defy the Government “in
view of the need for ‘Labor’ unity,” and
so split the “Labor” ranks wide open.
The president of the Melbourne Trades
Hall told the congress he was “opposec
to the bill but believes ‘Labor’ shoulc
not sacrifice its Senate majority ta oppose
it.” There cannot be many “Labor’
Senators who differ from him in that.
As for the political party’s writhing
before the prospect of having to make
its choice, all Dr. Evatt’s draft amend-
ments have done is to show just how
kindly “Labor,” while in power, would
have dealt with the Communist menace,
and just why Mr. Chifley always -insisted
that any anti-Communist legislation
would be “futile.” Is it any wonder that
Moscow treated these people, while they
were in office, with derision?
The Bureaucrat Persists.
Freedom, which shrieked when Kosciusko
fell, would find a good deal to scream
about if it cared to wander through the
Queensland South Coast district some
morning. There it would find inspectors
of the Queensland Transport Commis-
sion chasing farmers along bush roads,
prying into loads on trucks, threatening
fines and various penalties, and generally
harrying the victims of a law which, in
other days, wouldn’t have been tolerated
for a moment.
This is the State Transport Facilities
Act of 1946, which, as Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” put it, “forbids a farmer to truck
any fruit or vegetables, except certain
highly-perishable kinds, more than 25
miles,” It also “forbids him to carry any
fertiliser, stock feeds or other farm-
equipment more than 15 miles.” Breaches
can cost the victim a first fine of up to
£5O and from £2O to £lOO for a second
offence.
A farmer can, of course, obtain a
“permit” to carry such goods, but it costs
money, and he has to answer a lot of
questions about himself and his work
and promise to be a good boy and not go
bringing home a can of oil or a packet of
matches for his neighbor. A lot of farmers
seem to think that, being respectable
citizens, they should be entitled to load
their own produce into their own trucks
and carry it over their own roads (for
the upkeep and maintenance of which
they pay 10yd. a gallon petrol-tax) to
market; and that if they want a bag of
manure or chaff or bran or a new coulter
they are entitled to buy it in town, chuck
it in the empty truck and take it home;
all without having to seek and pay for
the permission of some Government
clerk.
Despife the victory against Socialism
last December, bureaucratic tyranny of
the kind outlined is still rife in “free and
enlightened” Australia. Transport-
strangulation is a State matter. From
time to time some firm or indi-
vidual challenges these legalised inter-
ferences with the rights of the indi-
vidual in the High Court, but a great
many—too many—are forced to put up
with them for lack of money or support.
Though prevalent enough in the big
cities, it is in the country districts, and
particularly in border districts where two
State laws often operate, that their in-
justice and harshness become starkly
apparent.
One of the last acts of the McGirr
Government in N. S. Wales was the set-
ting-up of a grand “Transport Co-ordi-
nation Commission.” If, after the coming
election, the thing remains, existing re-
strictions on private truck- and car-
owners are almost certain to be multi-
plied.
Maorilcmd Subsidies Go.
Mr. Holland, Prime Minister of New
Zealand, has taken the bull by the horns
within the past few days in regard to the
financial burden of subsidies and too-low
railway and telephone charges (B.
17/ 5/ ’5O), placing the burden more
directly where it belongs and terminating
the fraud perpetuated by Socialism of
illusory “lower prices” recouped through
taxation.
Suburban passenger fares on the rail-
ways have gone up 15 p.c. as from May
15; parcels, luggage and mails up to 300
miles, 12} p.c.; and other freights up
to 16-]- P- c - Refreshment-room charges
also have been increased, but the public
can scarcely complain, since there has
been only one increase previously since
before the war, and the railways last year
were a charge on taxation to the extent
of about £4,000,000, while total Govern-
ment expenditure in the final two years
under Socialism rose by a total of about
£30,000,000, leaving out of considera-
tion the new universal military training
scheme and other items which are likely
to add a further £10,000,000 to
£12,000,000 to this year’s Estimates, now
under preparation.
Subsidies which have been reduced
include those on butter (the price of which
is to be 2s. a pound), tea, bread (which
will increase in price from to 7}d. a
21b. loaf), flour, eggs and milk (which is
to be sold at Bd. a quart). The coal sub-
sidy is abolished, and the wool subsidy
will go at the end of the season, the
total saving amounting to about
£12,000,000 a year out of a total of about
£17,000,000. The effect is estimated to
be a rise of 4 p.c. in the cost-of-living
index, which will be taken into account
in fixing wage rates and in increasing
social security benefits.
Under the subsidy scheme bread
actually cost 9d. per 21b. loaf, but was
sold at s£d. Maoriland bought wheat
from Australia at 16s. Id. a bushel and
sold it to millers for 4s. 9d. Milk cost
37d. a gallon and was sold at 26d., leav-
ing £2,400,000 to be paid for out of
taxation; and butter called for subsidies
of £2,400,000 also, to make up the differ-
ence between a price of Is. 6d. and a cost
of 2s. 4d.
The new Government faced the
alternative of finding the money by one
of three methods —by manufacturing
paper-money after the Socialist fashion,
by more taxation or by increases of prices.
It has chosen the last pay-as-you-go
method as being the most sensible and
decisive.
Foreign Ant-pests.
“Myrmecobius,” Sydney, wants to get in
| a £. °* Mister McGag or any other
N.S.W. Cabinet Minister:
Now that the N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
has informed the Press that residents of North
Auburn are being disturbed by Argentine ants—
indomyrmex humilis, so called because they are
bnght-hued, there are mobs of them, and they
are low to the ground—North Auburn is now
aware that such ants officially exist in their
midst.
Before Mister McGag makes a bid for the
electors’ attention on a cognate insect-infesta-
tion m this State, I hereby notify the public
that there exists here, in numbers of plague-
dimensions, another ant, the Moscow ant, of
a bright red color, about as big as the domestic
white-ant, but infinitely more troublesome. It
will eat int 9 all industries, and is just as destruc-
tive in politics, especially “Labor” politics, and
in the unions. Among its distinctive features
is its jargon of Marx-Engels-Leninism, which
means anything you like, so long as it incites
sufficient violence and disruption—a jargon which
some people have confused with philosophic
uplift and Christian principles. These ants live
on a diet of fellow-travellers, who, through an
inferiority complex or a disposition towards
martyrdom, are given over to the sin which
the medieval Church listed as accidia.
After eating whatever value anyone puts back
into the pound, this Moscow ant crawls into
bed with the “Labor” party and attacks it in
its sleep, just as the Argentine ant does with
the householders in North Auburn. The first
and natural impression among Auburnites, that
the invaders were merely fleas picked up in
the rolling-stock of the N.S.W.G.R., did not
survive close examination. Similar disillusion-
ment has come to the “Labor” party, which
had supposed the fever set up by the Moscow
ant to be no more than some occupational
disease inherent in any industry after its being
“organised.”
Mister McGag is expected to add to his
announcement of the Moscow ants’ prevalence
that there is no need for panic, and, further,
that his Ministerial statement on the matter
should be taken not so much as an indication
of his belief in some imminent menace as a
sign of his desire at election-time to impress
the public that he is knowledgeable and alert
with respect to anything that affects the com-
munity, and that he will spare no effort to
deal with this evil (if it is one), or any other,
as soon as he has any energy or cash to expend.
In conclusion, Mister McGag, following the
line of his colleague on Argentine ants, is
expected to say that there is nothing new in
this visitation; that the Moscow ants have
long been known in other States of Australia;
that they were bound to come here sooner or
later; and that they have not increased in those
other States over a number of years and have
not proved difficult to control. He is not
expected to make any save slighting reference
to the banded anteater now getting ready for
action in Canberra.
An Overdue Debt.
Among the unfinished business which th
McGirrs left to their successors in N.S.W
is the matter of compensation to lanc-
holders whose lands were resumed fo
soldier-settlement. Under the Common
wealth-States scheme, payments wer
fixed at 1942 values, and, though a lo
of promises have been made about read-
justment, and a High Court decision ha
made the agreement invalid because i
was ultra vires that section of the Com
monwealth Constitution regarding “jus
terms” for acquired property, those whose
lands were so acquired have, so far, go
nothing more.
An example of the absurdity of 1942
values came up in the closing days of the
Sydney Parliament, when a bill to
“acquire” Ghoolendaadi, about 37,500
acres, between Gunnedah and Boggabri
was pushed through. Thirty soldier-settlers
are to be put on farms ranging abou;
1300 acres each, to grow wheat, woo
and mutton, the soil needing no super
and capable of growing wheat on short
fallow. Natural carrying-capacity is esti-
mated at four sheep to five acres, wheat-
yield about 17 bushels an acre, both low
estimates. What a mad rush there’d be if
such land was offered for sale at from
£4 15s. to £6 Is. 9d. an acre! Yet that is
the 1942 valuation, and that, plus the value
of any improvements made since 1942,
is all the owners can count on until a
new Commonwealth-States agreement is
reached and compensatory readjustments
of price paid. This applies, presumably,
to all other land acquired for soldier-
settlement throughout the Commonwealth
since the war.
Nobody seems to know why this pal-
pable injustice hasn’t been righted long
ago. If any blame is to be laid it
appears that all the Governments must
accept it. Early in the scheme N.S.W.
Minister for Lands Sheahan ran into
delay and muddle largely caused by the
mulishness of conflicting departmental
officials in Canberra and the States, who
seemed to be incapable of agreeing
on values, living areas and other things,
and all his efforts to untangle the mess
failed.
Despite this, soldier-settlement pro-
ceeded, perhaps not at the desired speed
but certainly on lines that are a decided
improvement on those followed after the
First World War. New settlers lucky
enough to get a block—thousands are
still waiting ; many have given up, having
seen their deferred pay vanish and the
years creeping by—got a flying start in
{Continued on next page.)
"THE BULLETIN," NINEPENCE.
With next week’s issue “The Bulletin” goes up in price from
sixpence to ninepence, and the annual subscription rate from
265. to 365.
For more than seventy years, except for two short periods, “The
Bulletin” has sold al sixpence. The present unavoidable increase
in price is regretted. All costs of newspaper production and distri-
bution have risen steeply over the past five years, with the price
of paper multiplied five times since shortly before the war.
As in the past, “The Bulletin” will publish no cheap syndicated
material. It will continue to be produced solely by Australian
journalists, authors, poets and artists.


M
m.
wm
CRAVENA
—tor your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’s & 2t’s j
T
" i
A
6 745
CARRERAS LTD.—OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
most instances with the nm °f
seasons and the high prices for lan p
dl But the former owners of the acquired
land and those whose land 1S .
acquired are still in the blue regard ng
their compensatory payments, ■
longer they wait the f reat f sav) 1955
of having to accept values ./ or / fn r 1948-
whieh may be well below thos ®
50. Administrators of estates wagl J
for some action, the whole hna^aa 1
ness of the properties
in a state of suspended anl .^ atl °"' d w hat
Irrespective of party poht pas t,
has occurred in the ,Common-
common justice demands th of a
wealth and States make t tt a nd
basis of agreement an urgen n t 0
while they’re at it some attemplt 8^
be made in the way of ad those
to compensate m some g the
who have been waihng for years
Government to do the fa
POLITICAL POINTS
This week the Government will bring
in its bill for a referendum on national-
isation ; its purpose will be to provide
that no industry or undertaking can be
nationalised by a Federal Government
unless it has first been approved by the
people by means of a referendum.
“Labor” seems certain to oppose the bill.
While in office it was keen on referen-
dums, but all its proposals in that
direction were designed to increase the
powers of the Commonwealth. This
measure proposes to reduce the powers of
the central Government and to increase
those of the people.
Ward doesn’t change much and doesn’t
learn much. Ten years ago he was sup-
porting “Hands Off Russia” resolutions
and opposing the war-time National
Security Bill. Now, although “not here
to put up an advocacy for the Soviet,
he is describing the Anti-Red Bill as
“the most odious, objectionable and
dangerous legislation ever introduced in
Australia.” He professed a fear that
National Security Regulations would be
used “as a means of smashing Australian
democracy” ; he claims that the present
bill is designed “to smash the Labor
movement so that it will not be able to
resist the rapidly-rising Fascist menace.
Whenever anyone mentions the threat of
Ward can be relied upon to
-o ■ r . h (Terences to “the Fascist
become almost a reflex
a ,i■ i :ly enough, exactly the
- v:* react icr n be obtained by prod-
dmg a genuine "ommunist.
■.rouble with the platoon or so of
S 'iiversity professors, readers,
er. n. vho adorned the leader-page of
S \i. Herald” vith explanations of how
{-,<■ anti-Commo :l offends their humane
>elings, is tha ; ey have paid no atten-
. the recitals of the bill. In older
i is ip b- suspected, they studied
jauena without the postulates.
Cramer, Liberal M.H.R. for Bennelong,
threw down a twisty one in the debate on
the Anti-Red bill when he accused the
A.L.P. of hypocrisy in its attitude to the
onus-of-proof clause. He reminded
members that quite recently the New
South Wales executive of the A.L.P. had
“declared” four State members without
telling them details of the charges against
them.
All four “declared” members retain the
support of their electoral councils-; last
week North Sydney electoral council,
whose charter had been withdrawn by the
executive, hpld a meeting at which it de-
clared* that J. L. Geraghty was still the
“selected and endorsed candidate” for the
State election. The executive replied that
the meeting had no standing, as the
council’s charter had been withdrawn. To
this the chairman of the meeting retorted
that the central executive was an un-
constitutional body, as under the rules of
the A.L.P. no member of Parliament
could be a member of the executive —that
body is simply dripping with Legislative
Councillors. Geraghty, like the other
three “declared” members, will contest
his seat as an unofficial “Labor”
candidate.
McGirr allowed yet another week to
pass without announcing the date of the
N. S. Wales election. By Sunday even
his own supporters had got tired of wait-
ing. His own electorate was plastered with
“Vote McGirr (1)” signs. Billstickers
elsewhere were still waiting for the go-
ahead signal. ,
Ignoring Premier McGirr’s shilly-
shallying about the N.S.W. election date,
Country-party leader Bruxner delivered
his policy speech at Inverell on Monday
night. There was nothing sensational in
it, which is as it should be, for N.S.W.
country electors are looking for nothing
more than some sensible legislation-
being heartily tired of “Labor” sensa-
tionalism in the form of Press gags,
filching of country seats, appointment of
highly-paid commissioners to do what
the Government is paid to do, and the
whole McGirr box-and-dice generally.
Bruxner promised that his party, in coali-
tion with the Liberals, would:
Support the Menzies anti-Communist
move by cleaning Communists out of State
jobs;, hold a N.S.W. referendum on new
States—pending new States, to restore
country electoral seats and give greater free-
dom and more money to local-government
bodies; go in for more country develop-
ment, particularly of secondary industries;
attack the housing muddle; get more
schools into the country and establish Uni-
versity Colleges in Riverina and the Central
West; work for repeal of the latest McGirr
transport Act, which sets up a bunch of
highly-paid commissioners; urge the Federal
Government to make more petrol-tax
money available for road works; decen-
tralise hospital administration; review and
revise land-settlement laws and the system
of titles.
A fair programme for a party coming
back to power after nine years on the
“outer.” What it really amounts to is a
clean-up of nine years’ muddle.
Just something tor the record. First
pay-outs on the three-quid-a-week-gets-
you-eight Federal Members’ pensions
scheme were approved last week. Bene-
ficiaries: Messrs. Barnard, Brennan,
Conelan, Dedman, McLeod, Scullin and
Scully. One- and two-termers who got
hard-luck payments of £4OO back for the
£156 they had paid in Hadley,
Lang, Langtry, Lemmon, Sheehy,
Williams and Mrs. Blackburn. Maxie
Falstein, who is below the age the Act
apparently regards as the appropriate
retiring age for politicians, is reported
to have decided to take the cash in hand
—£2oo0 —and waive his right to £8 a week
at 45. Two thousand pounds will buy a
lot of watches, even after Customs-duty
has been added to the prime cost.
Chief features of the Earle Page
National Health Scheme as explained to
the British Commonwealth Medical Con-
gress in Brisbane are that the emphasis
is on health rather than on medicine and
that, while it involves the Government
in the payment of a large proportion of
the cost of sickness, it maintains in the
recipient a sense of individual responsi-
bility instead of encouraging him to lean
on the ’State. Medical benefits are to be
in the form oTa Commonwealth subsidy,
provided as far as possible through volun-
tary organisations such as friendly
societies, lodges, hospital-benefit societies
and the like. The purpose of this is to
keep Government interference and the
cost of Government administration down
to a minimum and to keep alive the
spirit of self-help. Other features of the
plan are improvement of nutrition; free
provision, on a doctor’s prescription, of
life-saving and disease-preventing drugs ;
a national health education campaign;
contributions towards hospital costs and
maintenance. Special provision will be
made for pensioners, unemployed and
other necessitous cases.
A Sydney columnist is willing to bet
we’ve seen the last of Ernie Thornton,
Communist boss of the Federated Iron-
workers, until recently the biggest Red
racket in the country. A Melbourne
paper says Thornton has “vanished” from
Britain and that, like Clancy of the Over-
flow, we “don’t know where he are.”
Thornton left ostensibly to attend a
Communist gathering in Budapest.
Whether he’s the first of the rats to clear
out or not, decent unionists agree that
if he never comes back it will be far too
soon for them.
The South-east Asia Conference
reached its decisions only after an ex-
penditure of midnight oil and much hoarse
argument. It decided that “in pursuance
of the objectives of the Colombo con-
ference” it should approve an immediate
programme which involves the expendi-
ture of £8,000,000, of which Australia and
Britain will find two-thirds, to organise
technical assistance between the Govern-
ments, based on the establishment of a
co-ordination bureau in Co.lombo and
provision for the training of the technical
experts of the backward countries of the
S.-E. Asia area. This is to be supple-
mented by the granting of £15,000,000 in
credits over six years. On the last day
of the conference the weeping wife of
an Australian airman who had been shot
in the back without provocation by a
soldier of one of the largest beneficiaries
under the scheme, Indonesia, returned
from her husband’s deathbed to report
that the murderer was unlikely to be
severely punished, since shooting a Euro-
pean was no longer looked on as a very
serious offence in Djakata.
Quick to take advantage of the tjalk
about Australia helping the Asiatic
countries, India hopped in with a hint
that wheat at 16s. Id. bulk and 17s.
bagged was a bit hot. The 17s. is above
the International Wheat Agreement price,
which is 16s. 4d. maximum. Commerce
Minister McEwen, asked what he might
do about the Indian complaint, replied
that his Government meant to leave
wheat-selling to the Australian Wheat
Board as far as possible. That’s a refresh-
ing change from the policy of the Chifley-
Pollard wheat-dealers.
Brisbane City Council will reach the
end of the financial year on June 30 with
£1 million-worth of planned civic im-
provements still unfinished. Reasons:
Lack of steel and iron, piping, cement,
electrical goods, machinery and plant.
Reason for all that: Lack of coal.
Special A.C.T.U. congress in Mel-
bourne has voted by 220 to 125 against a
24-hours’ stoppage of work in protest
against the Arbitration Court’s refusal of
an interim increase in the basic wage.
Not one of the executive who resisted the
motion mentioned that early in the hear-
ing the Court found it necessary to re-
quire from the A.C.T.U. explicit assur-
ances against any such strike and that
the A.C.T.U. —with none too good a
grace—gave those assurances on behalf
of its constituent unions.
A Queensland agricultural officer says
that Asiam-type tea of a quality good
enough'for blending has been grown and
harvested at an experiment-farm in the
sugar country. They had yet, he; added,
to find out whether it could be drunk by
itself and whether it could be grown
economically. It would probably go down
all right if blended with Bundaberg rum ;
after a cup or two there’d be no worry
about the cost.
Opposition by “Labor” Senators to
Government measures is only to be ex-
pected ; it is the function of the Oppo-
sition to oppose. “Labor” has the
numbers in the Senate and it has every
right to speak out against Government
bills and to use its majority to throw
them back to the Representatives. But
when opposition becomes mere obstruc-
tion it is a different matter. Last Friday’s
fiasco, when the Senate sitting lapsed for
want of a quorum while a score of
“Labor” members stood outside in the
lobbies, suggests that the party is carry-
ing its belief in the “right to w •
Parliamentary proceedines «r. T! ;0
paid £l5OO a year to carry c , ° r; a
of the Chamber, not to stag- - \*; y> '
strikes. * 1 tauon
During the Babel over Onm
“Labor” member for Reid, ha\ ’
fate of “Australia First” victim
in point; but the freest “Labor”
out was little A 1 Fraser’s acknowS
ment of Marx as father
“Labor” nationalisation platform When
Fadden tried to make the same point in,
speech °n Chifley's Bank Nationalist
Act, he was steam-rollered by then
Speaker Rosevear’s ruling that he ml
out-of-order and must stick to the subject
under discussion. It must have hurt the
impartial heart of Rosie to see Fraser
getting away with it. cr
A Back-to-the-States movement seems
to be breaking out among “Labor’s”
defeated Canberra men. Hadley had an
unsuccessful stab at a Queensland
Assembly seat and Barnard won a seat in
Tasmania a couple of weeks ago as did
Dr. Gaha, though the Doc. ’ wasn’t
defeated—he retired, and Liberal Townley
won Denison from the party selected to
succeed him. Now Breen, one of the
1946 casualties, has been endorsed as
“Labor” candidate for Mudgee in place
of sitting member W. F. Dunn, who is
calling it a day after nearly 40 years in
the Macquarie-street talking-shop.
Competition is reported to be keen
along the Molonglo in the contest for
the Presidency of the Senate which will
be decided when the new House comes in
in July, The two champions are Gordon
Brown, the present incumbent, and
Senator J. I. Armstrong, the favorite of
the Chifley stable. The decision will not,
of course, be made in the Senate, but
in the “Labor” caucus, and at present
Senator Armstrong is the favorite. With
a publican in the Chair and Senator
“Fixer” Ashley as leader of the Opposi-
tion majority the atmosphere of the new
Upper Chamber should certainly be
“homey” to most “Labor” members.
With the N. S. Wales State election
campaign due to op,en at any moment
and the Sydney blackout season already
in full swing, the appointment ’of the
Electricity Commission seems a trifle ill-
timed. When “Labor” lost by-elections in
Kogarah and Concord one of the
“reasons” advanced for the defeats was
that Liberals on the County Council had
wangled the blackouts in order to pre-
judice the people against the Government.
Ward even repeated the story at Canberra
The excuse won’t be available at the
general election ; distribution of b'
outs will be the responsibility of the
Commission.


# V
V
THE BOLTER.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Nunk”: An off-and-on critic of this-
and-that, I have never been able to rid
myself of a feeling of grateful obligation
to entrepreneurs who send me Press-
tickets to circuses, theatres, picture-shows
and concerts; and when 1 have no one
with me to take the second seat which is
part of the rigid critical protocol, I often
hand it back at the office ; then they can
sell it or give it away—there is nothing so
annoying to a house-manager as a gap in
the good seats in a full house. Alas, full
of conscious virtue, I approached the
ticket-office on a recent first-night; “I
won’t be using one of my Press-tickets,”
I said, and put it down. The girl hesi-
tated, and I had to say it again. “You
could take it over to the booking-office,”
she said at last; “they may give you
something for it.” Probably it was a
reasonable enough assumption from a
box-office view of human nature ; but in
future I think it will be safer to stick
to my two seats and brave the house-
manager’s frowns.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The greatest achievement of
the Australian war-time censorship has
been revealed by ex-US. Naval officer
Basil Heatter in his novel, The Dim View.
It concerns the hushing-up of the street-
fighting in Melbourne in 1942 between
the American marines and the Australian
Seventh Divvy just back from the Middle
East. As Mr. Heatter feelingly
describes it, the marines had been sent
back to Melbourne to recuperate and
they got a fine welcome; every marine
was fixed up with a girl. When the
Aussies arrived they didn’t like it and
word was sent out—No marines in the
street with women, or in the pubs or
anywhere in town —and they meant it.
“They were big, bronzed killers, every
pne of them,” and every marine went back
to his quarters and got his bayonet and
dress-belt with the big buckle. The two
outfits met in the centre of the toWn
after dark, some carrying torches; you
could see the firelight from the torches
“flickering through the back-alleys.”
When all was over the town was a
shambles ; 30 or 40 dead and a couple of
hundred wounded and nobody could say
who won. I remember the occasion quite
well and can tell more about it. The
entire population was kept indoors until
the shambles was cleaned up by the City
Council garbage collectors. The garbage-
men were compelled to dig their own
graves and were then shot, the firing-party
being under solemn oath to commit
hara-kiri after they had performed the
execution. That’s why there was nobody
left to tell the tale —except Mr. Heatter
and myself.
* * * ♦
“Bo”; Sydney is a city of the very
temporary official police “blitz.” Some-
one will suddenly wake up to the fact that
citizens indulge in haphazard walking in
city streets, and the newest blitz against
jay-walkers is on. Many will be
cautioned, a few even fined, and in a
week or so the whole thing is apatheti-
cally forgotten and the citizen may again
drift across the busy street obliquely or
cross an intersection against the traffic
while the point-duty man regards him in-
dulgently. The blitz against the drunken
driver is usually ushered in with a fan-
fare of trumpets and is soon gone with
the wind. Some potential killers are
netted, but they may face the Bench in
the happy knowledge that they’re in little
danger of going to clink, Sydney’s Bench
being celebrated for its kind-heartedness
to the cove who soaks up six schooners
before scorching on his way. The latest
blitz is against those who drive on high-
ways carelessly and negligently, with the
accent particularly on the truck-driver
who hogs the road. Betting is 10 to 1
on that rigor mortis will set in on that
blitz before the ink on this is dry.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Although we of the First
A.I.F. were (and are) proud of being
volunteers, some of its members were
inclined to be derisive when the word
was overstressed. I recall a special parade
of our lot on the occasion of a visit of a
French general. A brasshat who was
showing them round made a vainglorious
speech that “These men are all volun-
teers, not only for the war, but for any
dangerous operation. If a call for volun-
teers is made practically every man will
respond.” We in the ranks could hardly
control our sniggers. The A.I.F. method
of gathering the heroes was almost a
formula, running like “Five volunteers
are wanted from this platoon for a fight-
ing patrol tonight—you’ll do, and you,
and you, and you and you.” There were
occasional protests. My friend Gillie
objected on one occasion: “Hey, sarge,
can’t you pick on someone else? That’s
"I find flying-saucers a bit expensive—give me a good iron frying-pan .”
the fourth time I’ve had to volunteer this
month.” But he went just the same. To-
wards the end of the war an order was
made that all men who had won decora-
tions were to wear their ribbons. The
order was largely disobeyed. The deco-
rated ones reckoned that the idea was to
pick out the “volunteers” more easily.
Although the average Digger was pre-
pared to do any job he !had to, he
reckoned being a volunteer too often
was tempting Providence.
* * * *
“Kelms”: For the second time this
year the first prize in Westralia’s lottery
has gone to Canada. I’ll correct that.
The winning ticket went to Canada. The
difference doesn’t become apparent until
the winner tries to collect the prize, when
he finds that the money can’t be sent out
of Australia. The best the winner can
do is to invest it in Australia and collect
the interest, and while that may be an
appreciable addition to his income it
hardly seems an incentive to “invest” in
a lottery ticket. Quite a number or
tickets in this and other Australian lot-
teries are sold outside Australia. Appar-
ently the buyers don’t know the full score,
and the officials who run the raffles don’t
enlighten them.
* * * *
“The Missus” ; Rummaging about one
wet day the kids unearthed a queer
object. Like a rubber rolling-pin, but
covered all over with little concave pads
similar to the suction disks on the ten-
tacles of an octopus, it jogged my memory
back 22 years to recognise Aunt Maude’s
“Reducing Roller.” Advertisements said
that, used on any part of the body, its
gentle action would “break down and
disperse globules of unwanted fat.” The
principle seemed sound, and Aunt Maude
bought one. However, there was either
too much of Aunt Maude or else she
couldn’t be bothered rolling long enough
or hard enough. The roller soon dis-
appeared. Ten years later, older but
otherwise unchanged, she was still trying ;
this time the miracle-worker was a patent
corselette of thick pink rubber perforated
all over with quarter-inch holes. It
worked “by simple friction from the
wearer’s natural movements, no extra
exercise” —a sound idea, appealing greatly
to our lazy aunt. Alas, one vefy hot day
that too, too solid flesh expanded to fill
all the perforations firmly. Desperate
appeals to an hilarious family ended when
someone pushed Aunt Maude and corsel-
ette under a cold shower to shrink. Four
years later w* gave the garment to an
“old rubber” drive. I WO nde L
missed the roller. er we
* * *
“Plynew”; A Maoriland C ni!k
mine found yet another use er of
(B. 15/3/’5O). He had always
knock off the bees in wild hfves?/ to
morning when he was roused u one
shindy in his fowlhouse and ent the
time to see a stoat disannearfn! ° ut in
rat-hole with Fido on his tail it o IDt ° a
to him to try its effectiveness on the
blood-sucker. Sprinkling sulphur on a
shovel of embers, he held the smoking
mass to the opening and puffed the fumes
into the hole. After a few moments even
his own head was in a whirl, but just as
he leaned over for another puff the stoat
jammed its snout into his face. There
was no slashing of razor-sharp teeth.
Like a man well plastered, the stoat
slithered down the bank and staggered
about until the dog jumped in to give it
the fatal toss over the shoulder.
* * * ♦
“K.R.”: “Fairfs” touching account of
the paralysed ex-Diggcr and his means
of communicating (B. 10/5/’5O) remind
me of the similarly afflicted M. Noirtier,
in Monte Cristo. This old boy could
only move his eyes, and he said Yes or
No by winking or blinking. For further
speech his interlocutor would recite the
alphabet to get the first two letters of
each word, and then run a finger through
the dictionary till the required word was
reached. Such a method may have been
fairly speedy with a small dictionary, but
I shudder to think of the time it would
take with the latest Webster and its up-
wards-of-600,000 words.
“Pat”: For me life was temporarily
brightened by the classic humor of
Arthur Rank’s “Kind Hearts and
Coronets.” Not so did it affect the tw
females who preceded me down the stairs.
Bitterly they agreed that the British neve
get any real “bang” into their dra ■
Hollywood now! Hollywood could hav
made a really good film out of all
murders. ' #
“Harold Hardupp”: As he had asked
through his friend (who explamed.
der Eengleesh spik more belt
about “Under-street,” when he move
to alight from the tram H)$
before Hunter-street I interposed,
friend interceded: “Df/^ e %° v or
geds ;he works here. UnjgjSt vill
him to see a mans far dista • » \
see him tomorrow in the ne * orroW ”
suppose the poor chap found , | t
simpler than “Wednesday
that way and pronounced NeW
it must be one of the trials
Australians. *
“Percy Pawnticket”: My *£
Toughen is looking for a new fit |fl
though he is 82, he rec accoun t
somewhere. He was on when the
in a business that faded found
breath of war touched i • ern nloym ent
the clerical job m P«™‘ e retired »
from which he has now em ploy er3-
has no grouch
but he reckons that they * ff3 s
sighted not to notice that w ot
still more accurate than
the young fellows. He Some one haj
joy his start in the job. clerk) and
told him the firm wanted stra igh
when he applied he was h - ne *
away. When terms tt j e bursts
employer apologised their
hilarity that had punctuatea Mr
view. “I couldnt help J e _ tbpU gh
Toughen,” he said. * tQ slli{ you
we have altered the te askiog for.
it was a junior cleric
BOB AND ONUS,
(To some, unknown Sov.th Amerir n tune.)
“The so-ciii ‘Onus’ clause In the Ani i d Bill
has been "■atkuaicd by Mr. Ohifley and i)r. Evatt,
v>uo used and passed similar legislation when in
office.. The bill has caused much legal discussion in
.the Press.”
Bob was trackin’ double with a glamorous dame,
Her hair was black, her nails were sharp, and
Onus was her name.
Ben Chifley used to know 1 and jealously he
cried,
“Oi, oi, son,
She’s poison!” ?
But bravely Bob replied;
1 want my Onus I
Without my Onus
I’d be glum as a new Mum without her Bonus;
Though temp’ramental,
And none too gentle,
She’s the spouse I need to rouse about the
house I”
Ben was only human; he was very much hurt;
He took his jealous feelings to a lawyer called
Bert;
The lawyer waved his spectacles, and gave them
a wipe—
“She spurned your love,
So now we’ll prove
She’s of a Certain Type:
"We don’t like Onus!
Bob can’t have Onus —
It’s because of certain flaws the girl has shown
us —
She puts rude questions
And makes suggestions
To all and some who roam about the home!”
Bob was feeling sorrowful, in no small degree,
Until he got a letter from a Sydney K.C. —
“Don’t let them put you off her; no matter
what they say,
She’s as nice a doll
As any moll
In her exotic way:
“You take your Onus! '
Without your Onus,
You’ll be cranky as a Yankee without dough-
nuts
She won’t grieve you —
She’ll relieve you
Of the pests that now infest you as your guests!”
Bert and Ben, they muttered, making hardly a
sound:
“We’ll be polite to Onus while her friends are
around,
But when they’re separated, and she’s in Another
Place,
We’ll knock her about
And throw her out”
But Bob said, “In that case
“ I’ll still want Onus!
I’ll still want Onus!
She’s my Fate! The Nation will condone us!
So if you put her
In the gutter,
Other faces may be gracing Other Places!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Becks”: With the eager alertness of
a London bird-watcher, looking for the
first cuckoo, I have been keeping a sharp
lookout for a sign of the buyers’ market
which everyone seems to think is due to
arrive at any moment. On a George-
street footpath I saw it today—a tailor
in shirtsleeves, with a roll of suit
material under his wing, inviting a cus-
tomer to feel the texture. It almost
looked as if he really wanted the bloke’s
order. Any day now I expect to see* the
ready-to-wear men standing in the door-
way of their shops waiting to drag in
the unwary passer-by to try on their suits.
But it’s probably too much to expect a
return to the days when they used to
chuck in an extra pair of strides.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The Melbourne
Olympic Games committee, still worried
over its selection of a sports-ground, de-
veloped a fresh headache with the cabled
announcement that the International Con-
gress in Copenhagen had chosen the
last week in October and the first week
in November, 1956, as the date for the
frenzy. The last Saturday in October is
Derby Day at Flemington, and the first
Tuesday in November is Australia’s Holy
Day, when even the Fleet finds it neces-
But it says we've got to leave the flat as We found it.”
Count in ha - V . e business at Port Phillip,
inflnv nf Wltb there will be an
and thp.w ,^ stlmated 45,000 Olympians
invasSn f °j lo L wers to add .to the Cup
to en n ’ and there aren’t enough hotels
Reasrmc for one > let alone both,
desire nf r C lvatul g the selectors was the
f or Chr- , turopean sportsmen to be home
°f norm Stmas and the presumed inability
lian I Xf fn athletes to stand the Austra-
At anv l^ 0 * 61 " the date were later-
y rate, if there are any Laplanders
in the ensemble they- shouldn’t need to be
acclimatised to Melbourne in October.
They 11 feel quite at home, but the
swimmers and the yachtsmen will be defi-
nitely out of season. Perhaps Melbourne
will agree to the 1956 Cup being run in
Sydney.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In the Middle East
and New Guinea Bill had been reckoned
the unit s safest driver ; he could take risks
necessary risks —with the best of them,
but could he drive! Civvy life is different,
as he found out last month. The trip
that brought him to the Traffic Court
commenced at Fremantle, where he’d been
loading timber at the wharf. Inex-
perienced in that particular line of load-
ing, he’d gauged the weight on his truck
by the tension on the springs. It wasn’t
until he pulled away that he discovered
that the back of the truck had been
resting on the stack and the load was
now lifting the front wheels off the road.
A couple of chaps wanting a lift up to
Perth obligingly sat on the front mud-
guards, and he picked up a couple more
passengers on the way, but his steering
was, still a little uncertain. Approaching
Perth, where he reckoned it wasn’t safe
to take risks, he prevailed on a particu-
larly stout pedestrian to occupy a position
well forrard on the bonnet. They seemed.
Bill said, a particularly merry little party
as they drove through town, and they
were almost at their destination when
the accident occurred. It seems that the
fat bloke, to make himself comfortable,
had draped a bag over the radiator, and
this, by preventing the passage of air,
had the effect of heating the engine. It
wasn’t the fat bloke taking off like a
startled faun that caused the accident.
It was the steam which blew the cup off
the radiator and obscured Bill’s vision.
Bill said it could have happened to any-
one, but the Beak made it a fiver.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: Isn’t it rather irrational
to ask “Why should Sydneysiders bother
to go to their own museum” (B.
26/4/’50)? After all, museums are built,
equipped and maintained for the public’s
cost-free education and entertainment; a
visitor is surely not honoring the estab-
lishment by entering its doors. Perhaps,
contrasted with the limitless space of city
shop-windows, a museum display may
appear “dull, overcrowded and badly
arranged,” but I submit that people most
interested in museums go to see the ex-
hibits, not the arrangement; nor do I
think there would be many seconders
for the motion to scrap 80 per cent, of the
collections. Where Sydney’s Austra-
lian Museum has set out to present a tab-
leau of natural history there is a different
approach entirely. The scene depicting
the platypus in its environment: reeds
bending in the running water, bank cut
away to show the burrow and galleries,
platypuses swimming, kingfisher on the
bush above the water —that is a gem that
no windowdresser could hope, to achieve.
And if the same exhibit were jammed in
a stuffy sideshow tent at the Royal Agri-
cultural Show thousands of Sydneysiders
would cheerfully pay their one-and-
elevenpences to see it. I agree that “If
the Museum had large shop-windows
dressed by experienced windowdressers,
they would excite attention and help to
entice more spectators into the museum,”
but 10 or* 20 thousand quid seems a lot
of money to spend because people are
too apathetic to step through an open
door.
“Clooter”; You meet them in queues
at football-ground turnstiles, picture-show
windows or any place where it’s neces-
sary to form a line to get in or out.
Mostly they’re male, but an occasional
female of the type appears—usually given
to what was once politely called embon-
point—and is usually more noticeable
than the male. They have developed the
rather acrobatic feat of being able to
lean forward from the hips and rest the
whole weight of their torsos on the back
and shoulders, and sometimes the neck,
of the person in front. The victim shrugs,
heaves, wriggles and sidesteps, but the
weight clings as did the Old Man of the
Sea to Sinbad. Even when the sufferer
jerks free, looks round and glares, he is
met with a blank stare, and the weight
promptly comes on again when he faces
about. Once, believe it or not, I tried
the stratagem of pretending to collapse
at the knees and went down, but by some
“A darnned clever idea, Weatherspoon, but what's the good of it?"
trick of levitation the weight remained
suspended and when I arose it met me
half-way. I have the blueprint for a small
gadget which can be fixed between the
shoulderblades. When weight comes
upon it enough asphyxiating gas to drop
a horse shoots out. A few orders now
would help'finance production.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Sam”: The term “Hun” as applied to
one of Germanic race had an earlier
origin than World War I (B. 10/5/’5O).
Thomas Campbell in his poem “Hohen-
linden” has the lines:
Where furious Frank and fiery Hun
Shout in their sulphurous canopy.
By the latter terms *he dubbed the
Austrian opponents of the French.
* * * *
“Zake”: The rus in urbe dweller who
hopes that the commerciaKtimber value
of the huge tree he injudiciously allowed
to remain in his front garden will offset
the cost of removing it (usually around
£25) when it has to come down because
it is on the site of the new proposed
garage or its branches are becoming
dangerous has a rude shock coming to
him. One thing the suburban sawmill
won’t look at is a tree, no matter how
straight and true and big the trunk,
which has had the audacity to grow in
civilised parts. Their reason, and a sound
one ; too much danger of nails or bolts
having been driven into the tree, perhaps
years ago, with the bark having grown
over it. What such an object would do
to the circular-saw, and to those operat-
ing it, makes such a tree a bad risk. The
home-builder is wise who makes a
thorough and prior survey of his trees
before the foundations go in.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; An artistic fraud indirectly
gave us Hobbema’s “The Old Oak,”
recently acquired for the Melbourne
National Gallery by the Felton Bequest
at a cost of £10,500. Painted by the
Dutch master in 1662, it disappeared from
public view for 170 years. Then a Dutch
art society held a landscape competition'
and a young up-and-coming artist nearly
won the first prize—but his picture was
too good. The judges couldn’t under-
stand why a young man who had hitherto
shown soi little promise should come out
with a landscape comparable with the
great masters. He was closely questioned
and finally confessed that he had copied
a picture he had seen in a country house
in the district. One of the judges pricked
up his ears, paid an informal call on the
old gentleman who owned the picture,
recognised it as a Hobbema and bought
it for a few florins.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Australians singing when
they’re happy (B. 3/5/’50)? Struck a
bloke in a Perth bar once who said he
was happy, and he was singing. He sang
with his head thrown back, his mouth
wide open and his throat-muscles corded
—until my mate stood on tip-toe and
placed a tobacco-tin between his teeth.
I never found out what happened to that
bloke, but I doubt if he still sings when
he’s happy.
NO MYSTERY.
»It is useless for police to use big men in vice-
„d work. I have * seen them in night-clubs
■n evening dress, and they could be picked instantly.
They didn’t exactly toy with their food, either.”
You’ll find them one night at Banano s.
The next they’ll' be dining at “Clive’s,”
Unconscious that any “galah” knows
Who’s wielding the forks and the knives.
To melodramatic disguises
They’re not condescending to stoop.
There are never redundant, surmises,
You can bet that the management wise is
Those are cops Japping soup.
Society’s graces they’ve mastered,
They’re nothing if not debonair,
Not theirs to get merrily “plastered,”
But still the enjoyment is fair.
The boiled shirt to them is a symbol,
At fox-trot and rhumba they’re “tops,”
At waltzing they’re neat and they’re nimble,
Withal it’s a mint to a thimble
They’ll be taken for cops.
It surely can’t be that they bellow
An order to “Pull over there!”
To the waiter who “crosses the yellow”
While speeding with plates round a chair.
They’re never observed to be glancing
With stern disapproval at tips
Or getting around while they’re dancing
With something petite and entrancing,
With batons at hips.
How, then, you may ask, do the patrons—
Old ewes masquerading as lambs,
The “tired”, businessmen, the young matrons —
So easily pick them as shams?
To him who’s at all perspicacious
Their real profession ne’er stumps,
He but takes in their chasses so spacious.
Their appetites keen and voracious,
The size of their pumps.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
W. E. Fitz Henry writes:
My old and esteemed friend “Bellerive” has
taken me to task for a few errors that crept
into my Red Page story (B. 10/5 / ’5O) of his
life and appreciation of his writing. • The gist
of “Bellerive’s” complaints is: (1) “My
mother was not a musician but a devoted, good
mother and a Great needle woman.” (2)
“Tischler is not my name. My lawful name
is Joseph Tishler inscribed on my dead parent’s
Graves; also on my vacination paper when I
was a nipper.” (3) "I never looked after
elephants but was once the hind legs of a
mechanical elephant in a pantomime.” (4)
“Photos on the wall of my little den are rela-
tives who served in World War 2. My nephew
who served in World War 1 is well alive in
London 'with his children.” (5) “I never did
visit a Morgue in my born life.” Responsibility
for the mistakes, except the second, must be
charged against a friend in the newspaper game
who supplied me with much of the biographical
material on which I based the article. Since
he, unlike some other newspaper friends, has
been a strict teetotaler for as long as I can
remember, I had every trust in him. Apparently
on this occasion he allowed his imagination to
run riot. As to “Bellerive’s” real name, t have
before me a 1912 Red Page article written by
him and signed “Yours truly, Joe Tischler.”
Maybe it was a printer’s error, but then, if
“Bellerive” has at times spelt his name differ-
ently he is in good company. So did Shak-
speare and many another genius. If I have,
as “Bellerive” suggests, “chronicled” him “as
a pantaloon standing on he’s head,” I hasten
to assure that that was not my intention. A
sincere admirer of the “Answers to Correspon-
dents” bard, I merely sought to make widely
known news of his* forthcoming book, which
should receive an enthusiastic and deserved
welcome.
“W. Stone”: As well as being a poet,
“Bellerive” (B. 10/5/’5O) is also a play-
wright of some distinction —possibly the
only one to have had a three-act play
published on the Red Page. This
appeared in the Christmas number, 1913,
under the title “A Brother’s Revenge.”
The action, spread over 10 years and a
little more than a column of print, is a
masterpiece of compression and is
limited to four characters: Mr. Richard
Mills, the father; his two sons—Charles
(the villain) and Clyde (the hero); Mary,
An House Maid. From Clyde’s opening
words “I’ll take no more bullying from
you” and Charles’s reply, “Father has
left me in sole charge of the store. And
’tis part of my duty to see that you and
the other men in his employ render your
Service satisfactory,” the drama is on.
Clyde threatens to thrash his brother
Charles, and the father dramatically inter-
venes to save a broken vase. Charles
convinces the father that Clyde is a thief
or worse, and Clyde is banished. Ten
years pass, during which time the father
dies, leaving his wealth to Charles. Clyde
returns ( from Victoria and New Zealand
incapacitated with a broken knee and
unkempt, unshaven and unfinancial. He
is at last recognised by Charles, who thanks
God for all that has happened, and in a
harrowing speech brings down the cur-
tain with a dramatic and conciliatory
“I’ll make amends. I’ll make amends.”
It is to be hoped that the Bread and
Cheese Club can prevail upon “Bellerive”
to allow full publication in the proposed
anthology, as “all rights were reserved”
when the drama was first published.


ABORIGINALITIES
THE BIRDS.
To build, to sing, to fly, our arts are three,
Where we excel your proud humanity,
Little and weak and flighty though we be.
Build? Why, the finch makes with his feeble
bill
His house of moss, a miracle of skill,
Better than fifty hefty navvies will.
Sing? Well, we’ve heard your shrill sopranos
squall,
Your tenors croon and your big basses bawl,
And look, my friends, we just despise them all!
Fly? Without machines how can you fly?
On costly steel and oil you must rely
And if your engine fails you, you must die,
While we at ease inhabit all between
Earth’s purple flooring and the blue serene
And you can keep your million-pound machine.
N z Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Three great motor-
trucks, each loaded with sheep, pulled
into the siding. Out of the cabin of the
first sprang a kelpie, which ran a few
circles, wiped its mouth on a tyre, in-
vestigated a post or two, then retired to
a bush and flopped down, head on fore-
paws, and watched the ensuing proceed-
ings. The trucking-yards weren’t used.
Each motor-truck was backed into a rail
truck, a light ramp was attached and
the sheep loaded straight from truck to
truck. Like the dog, I watched all this,
for it was new to one who had swallowed
acres of dust and shed oceans of sweat
pushing jumbucks through trucking-
yards. “Seems to me,” I remarked to
the boss driver, “you only carry the dog
for company.” He looked at the kelpie.
“Aw, it ain’t that,” he replied, “though
Rowley is a good mate. But I used t’
be a horse-and-van drover a few years
ago, and when I got into this motor-truck
game I couldn’t make out what was
wrong till I suddenly woke up that it
didn’t seem right t’ be handlin’ sheep
without a dawg about.” The dog sat up
and turned his wistful brown eyes on
us, then restlessly towards the loaded
sheep and the unused yards. “It would
be kinder,” I said, “if you gave him to
a farmer who’s got sheep and got a
terrier or something for yourself.” The
driver frowned, tried to get my meaning,
then gave it up and turned away. Appar-
ently he’d never -learned that a kelpie
with no work to' do is like a woman with
nothing to talk about.
* * ♦ ♦
“Lower Tops’!”: It’s not I but “Stur-
mer” who is astray in reference to the
Cape Barren Islanders (B. 3/5/’5O).
Admittedly I overlooked inverted commas
when referring to half-castes, since the
“Well, Well. Just the dead spit of her old man."
last four died early this century and the
word is still loosely applied to the
islanders today who are octoroons, etc.
I did not, however, say all the islanders
were descendants 'of the extinct Tas-
manian race. But I claim they mostly
were, though a few “New Holland gins”
were also the consorts of Strait sealers.
But from where does “S.” get his South
American, East Indies and South Sea
Island women? They were never in the
strait, though an odd Tahitian and Cape
de Verde male were. Around 1800 a
privateer or two from Port Jackson did
nefariously recondition in the Kent Group
a prize captured off Chile, but by 1803 the
Sydney and other sealing schooners were
compelled to abandon the Bass Strait
islands to a lawless band of ex-convicts
and sailors who, in the opening decades
of last century, were absolute pirates.
Few whalers —except of the Captain
Murrell type—ever touched at Cape
Barren, for those tide-whipped, reef-
strewn waters around Preservation were
not whaling grounds. Much of the Strait
history has, in fragments and in docu-
ments, been written, and there are reli-
able men still living whose fathers knew
Jimmy Munro, the uncrowned king of
Cape Barren Island in the 1840’s, and
his contemporaries.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: If the tree had been very
tall and close to the road there would
have been less merit in the kookaburra’s
performance. But the dead stump was
barely Bft. from the ground and fully
40yds. back from the fence. Like a
feathered bomb Jack© launched himself
from his perch, skimmed the top of the
wire, shot across the road and dived beak-
first into the paspalum at the side of the
water-table. For a second there was a
flurry of wings in the long, dead grass,
then the bird sped back. But by this
time my brakeless bike was bolting with
me down the incline, Kooka was a bit
too excited to notice we were coming;
I could see he was flying across our
path, but there was nothing I could do
—except hope it wouldn’t turn out a
draw. It didn’t. Jacko won, but his
wing-tips missed my glasses by 2ft. Even
as I was gasping I saw the victim in his
beak: a mouse, and its tail was jerking
frenziedly. Having seen hawks dive from
great heights to catch a diminutive
creature on the ground, I can understand
the expression “An eye like a hawk,” but
the hawk is generally above his victim
and has an unobstructed downward
vision. A bird that can see a mouse in
long grass, at a low angle, from a range
of nearly 60yds. must surely have sight
as perfect.
* * * *
“M.S.”: The new stock-inspector was
in the office when the phone-call came
from old Charlie out on Fifty-mile creek.
“Lumpy-jawed cow,” reported Charlie.
“And I’d like you to inspect her as soon
as you can.” “Right,” agreed the other.
“I’ll get out there tomorrow week.”
Charlie protested at the delay, argued for
10 minutes and was finally forced to
accept the other’s arrangement. The fol-
lowing week he was on hand when the
inspector’s car arrived. “Glad you’ve
come to shoot her,” he told the stock
bloke. “Bad case of lumpy-jaw, and I
won’t get anything for her unless you
shoot her yourself, will 1? Well have
to walk.” He led the way across the
paddock, paused at the edge of a bad
bog skirting a creek, and looked round
the scenery. “Ah, yes, there she is, over
there,” he announced, pointing to an
animal lying on the further side of the
bog. “You’d better shoot her from here.
Good easy shot, that. Then I’ll go over
later and skin her.” “But I can’t destroy
her without looking her over first,” de-
clared the inspector. “I’ll have to go
closer.” “You’d better not,” warned old
Charlie urgently. “She’s wild, that thing.
You shoot from here.” Ignoring the
advice, the inspector picked a track round
the bog, stared at the animal, then walked
in close. The beast’s head was propped
on a forked stick. She had been dead
about two days.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Drive from Sydney to
Melbourne round the coast and you’ll
pass through some pretty well-defined bird
territories; logrunners, bellbirds, gang-
gangs, black cockatoos and the white-
backed maggie will'all come within your
range if and where you know where to
look and listen. Come back by water, and
“Coo-coo in nesh—thash what y'are.”
much the same thing happens amongst
the seabirds. Daybreak west of the Pro-
montory finds the wandering albatross
already weaving astern, with the Pacific
gull standing in closer to the ship and
first to dive on to any scraps tossed over-
board. Rounding the southern comer the
silver gulls join the others, but these are
shore birds and don’t stay long—by the
time you’ve swung towards the north-
east they’ve returned to their cliffs and
beaches. On the long run to Gabo, out of
sight of land, black forms flick low over
the water, keeping well clear of the ship
and skimming in the manner which gives
them their name —shearwaters (mutton-
birds if you prefer it); probably those
whose colony stretches down the slopes
of Cape Wollamai, farther back. To-
wards evening the Pacific gulls seem
reluctant to come farther north, and next
morning they’ve gone ; the big albatross is
much rarer now, but a smaller chap, the
black-browed, is becoming more common.
Off Jervis Bay skuas come out —appropri-
ate, this; there’s a seaplane of this name
and carrier Sydney is blinking Morse as
we pass —whilst standing close in to Pt.
Perpendicular the silver gulls swarm out
again, as they do also off the Five Islands
near Kembla, our track past both points
lying within their three-mile limit. The
skuas, dark fowl with varied light mark-
ings, follow us to Sydney; just a trivial
jaunt for them, for they go back to the
Arctic to breed. Mother Carey’s chickens
are likely to flick past you anywhere ; like
Willie Wagtails along the road.
* ♦ * *
“Uramao”: The recent discovery after
50 years’ seclusion of the flightless
native New Zealand bird the notornis
(Maori takahe ) by Dr. G. Orbell has
stimulated him to fresh efforts to discover
other birds that have been regarded as
extinct. He has just returned to Inver-
cargill after another foraging expedition
in the remote parts of Fiordland with the
information that he has located a pair of
laughing owls, natives of the soil, last
seen 43 years ago. The doctor refuses to
disclose the locality lest the birds be dis-
turbed, as were the notornis by the
curious. Dr. Orbell was able to get as
close as 30 yards to one of these rare and
shy night-fliers.
* * * *
“Zake”: Why the prejudice against
the wooden stirrup such as the Mexican
uses? The steel one, by attracting light-
ning, has caused more than one horse-
man’s death. Anyway, those who have
used them claim they are more comfort-
able on long rides, less wearing on boots
and are easier to slip in an emergency.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Strangely enough, some
blokes live in cattle country for years
without getting the hang of cutting-out
cattle. They knock up one nag after an-
other as they twist and turn through the
mob, flogging a beast to the outskirts,
then passing him on to the next deter-
mined horseman. Such was the pro-
cedure the other day when I collected
a few beasts from the first moh L .
m from the bush. “I’U pok- Vm to arr we
you," yelled a youth in a cowbov'k®
My nag s used to it.” Followed hat>
galloping and turning, with both u 1 of
and beast feeling the strain rathS &
before the job was through An\ dly
later I met the second mob of r° Ur
head. “A dozen kay steersV'^ 0 ™ 8 !»
sort of kid. “Rig M-oh, you
separated, when me V Joe pass •<*J®
A whistle sent an old dog to the LT’
bunch the mob, then they^J?' o
went to work. “Right” called s
spotting a kay-branded steer. Edging^’
against the beast’s flank, he waited for
his mate to range in on the other side.
The wedged steer was then walked quietly
and deliberately out of the mob and
passed over. With the lead and tail dogs
turning in the stragglers, and an old
bloke watching the far side, all the wanted
steers were wedged out, the stockwhips
being used only to flick a quiet passage
through the sea of beef. “Right-oh,”
said the quiet kid, from a horse little
more than warm from the job; then a
nod, a whistle, and the rest of the 800
Hereford? resumed their journey.
* * * *
“Bo”: The boss and the new hand had
the posts of the fence up and the holes
bored, and it was just on lunch-hour when
they were ready to go ahead with putting
the wire through. The boss had scouted
around and then cursefully turned to the
hand. “I’ve fergotten to bring the damned
strainer,” he said. “You can nick back
to the house for it while I put the billyon
for the tea. It won’t take you long.” The
hand, who had only been up horn the
city a few days, seemed a bit diffident.
“Well, if you can do without it, I can,
he said after a pause. “After all, there
wouldn’t be that much with only a cup-
ful of tea, and I suppose a man coma
drink it through his closed teeth and spit
out the leaves.”
He He ♦ *
“Kelms”: “R.HG.’s” puzzlement at
the behavior of the bees which cong
gated where the water-bag had ,
when they found it (B. 26/4 / 50) m V
explained by the fact that one
very like another. When that bag; was
first located by the scouts ’ jj ret / rne d
several, from different hives th y .
to their hives with the news. T
gave details, including the exact di stan
and location of the find, and that
ma.ion was made avmlabte
worker m the hive. The be w hen
in time and were cbtaimng w (hat
the bag was removed bag,
water with the locality, not woU ld
cause their normal source have
be Mother Earth. R f H . ‘ hac j removed
thought them stupid if he whic h they
a wet bag from a soak at y
were drinking and ent T . b ees which
from the soak thereby. b ag had
arrived after the removal ot m
reached the spot to which y a
directed, and, after pi P hive to
area, probably return t he scouts,
have some hard words • ar ound the
The constant str eam
spot indicated merely a , not a»
of disappointed searchers, affival g. BJ
unceasing vigil by th® t 0 a hive that
different when bees retitf nd the
been shifted. They’ll bw* 0 be , and,
spot where the entran be en shift
although the hive may there till t >
only a few feet, th y sb oW 111
drop. I’U admit they dont s g
intelligence, but what use n
brains? They’re members
State.


“Solitude”: “Why didn’t y’ tell us y’
was goin’ inter town?” Seventyfiver faced
Sandy with an aggrieved air. “Y’ could’ve
brought us some bread. Now I’ll have
?ro m meselff’ “Yair? Well, y’ can
post these letters,” announced Sandy.
*‘l got talking and forgot to post ’em.”
“What! Y’ rode fourteen miles, then
frgot . . • Cripes, a bloke oughtn’t t’
take ’em for y’.” Seventyfiver was still
grumbling about Sandy’s behavior when
he hit town., “He’s a silly flamin’ cow,”
he told Bill Watson. “F’rgot! Aw,
come ’n’ ’ave a drink, Bill.” They entered
the pub and found Bob the dogger. “Did
y’ hear?” greeted Bob. “Caught a dingo
’smorniti’ in the scrub behind Plan-
ning’s.” “Be’ind Planning’s!” Seventyfiver
accepted the announcement with a gasp.
“But Sol sez there ain’t no dingoes left,
that side. Bet me five bob on it only
last week.” Gleefully concerned with the
news, he shouted three times in succes-
sion without knowing it, then insisted on
seeing the dingo-skin. All the way home
he planned his verbal campaign against a
mug who might be persuaded to increase
his five-bob wager; then, spotting me
coming in from the busfi, he slipped off
at the hut, reined his dial down to its
best poker expression, and waited. “Been
into.town, have you?” I asked, as I
swung down. “What did you go in for?”
“Had to, Sol,” he drawled. “Clean out
o’ tucker; an’ I . . . Starve the ruddy
snakes,” he howled suddenly, banging his
hat on the step, “I’ve frgot the flamin’
bread!”
# * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: During the last
decade or so the swan population of
Victoria has increased so that the big
black birds now breed in inland swamps
where formerly they were never seen.
At Connewarre Lakes, near Geelong, the
flock of countless thousands over the
past few years have succeeded, pulling
up the aquatic grass by the roots, in deep-
ening the lake from 3ft. to 6ft., and
in ruining the bream and mullet feeding-
grounds. Up till 40 years ago people
about Connewarre —it’s abo, for “home
of the black swan” —shot the swans
for Melbourne markets at Is. Cd. a head.
With the passing of the fowlers and
Binghi these giant water-birds look
like multiplying still further and playing
havoc with the aquatic plant-life in the
Cabbage Garden.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I said (B. 3/5/’5O),
apropos ground swells on the ocean floor,
that “no lugger captain will ignore the
warning when his diver suggests they
should up-stick and run for it.” Once
a captain did ignore the warning and —
stop me if I’ve told you this before —in
doing so gave a name to the willy-willies
that play hell with the nor’-west pearling
fleets. Bob—l forget his surname for
the moment—was operating a boat some
distance from the mother-ship. It was
his first trip, and, getting on to a good
Patch of shell, he wouldn’t have left it
j kingdom come, much less for a
yellow-skinned diver. His crew knew the
danger, and tried to tell him. “Kookye,
«ob! ” they urged. “Kookye! Kookye! ”
Hurry! Hurry!), pointing to the dead
calm sea and the leaden-hued horizon.
Lock-eyed Bob be blowed,” Bob re-
orted. “You get down below and get
ore shell.” When lie finally sensed the
anger it was too late, and he learned a
ot clinging, with his crew, to the up-
rned boat, until the mother-ship rescued
f e ™- As they were hauled aboard one
RoK i« nat * ve ? grinned at him. “Kookye,
D • he said slyly. Bob saw it then.
0 that’s your flamin’ cock-eyed bob,”
K farmed. They’ve been “cock-eyed
bobs” ever since.
tt * % *
mfwu ts Mate”: We’d been about a
. nth on the loose in Melbourne, and
Sa i . ou f roo m at the Cosmopolitan Mat
thm’ j we ’re down t’ our last ten
a t s . ana fluid. Reckon we better catch
ioh ai \x;u Ut here tomorrow an’ get a
for 9’* t 6 y* rec kon we ought t’ head
I pondered. “There’ll be early
shearin’ on the Queensland bolder,” I
suggested. “Too far,” he said. “Well,
there might be a bit o’ tail-end cannin’ in
the Goulburn Valley?” “Too many
girls.” Silence. “How about up the
river?” “No, too many frosts.” An-
other silence. “Gippsland?” “Don’t be
silly.” “Well, there’s that big road job
out near Horsham?” “Too much mud.”
“Well, what d’ you reckon?” He lit his
“Somethin' about you seems to attract him, Bert .”
cigarette. “We’ll jump the train t’
Rutherglen an’ get across the river inter
that Berrigan country. They’ll be lookin’
for footballers there an’ ready t’ find jobs
for ’em.” “Whyinell,” I said, “didn’t
y’ say so in the first place?” “Aw,
well,” he answered, “it’s up t’ you t’ have
a say where we’ll go now an’ then.”
* * * *
“Heresone”: With our erratic and
rather badly-defined seasons, not only
birds but plants and other wild life are
apt to get a bit mixed (B. 3/ 5/ ’5O). A
few years ago a pair of swallows spent
a mild winter here, nesting in the kitchen
of an unoccupied cottage. By the time
their less industrious fellows returned in
the spring they had raised three broods.
At present the yellow-box, turnip-weed
and bluebells are blooming freely. The
first two normally flower in August-
September, and supply nectar and pollen
respectively to the bees when they first
emerge from their winter torpor; the
bluebell should be later still. Perhaps
the long wet spell we have endured has
something to do with it.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Anyone in the Council
suffer from any -itis that brings a yelp
when a joint is called upon to function
fully? Prescription for relief,is hereby
offered freely and without obligation;
but the equipment for treatment will cost
about a quid. Buy a scythe. Last year,
on a job that gave me little outdoor exer-
cise when away and no time for it when
home, the right shoulder stiffened till I
could, bowl, with an effort, but couldn’t
throw far enough to scare a serenading
“Make up your mind —medium or short around the ears ?”
cat. Senility seemed to be coming at
the gallop, and a physiotherapist opined
that after Christmas he would get to
work on the joint and probably restore
its use. But after Christmas I moved
to a new abode, the first glimpse of which
resolved the fate of my future off-duty
activities. Paspalum. I bought a
scythe. A skill once acquired is
rarely lost; as nippers we used to take
the ancient weapon and sweep down a
bag of greenstuff for the cows, and at the
age of 14 I cut and bound our entire
crop (two whole acres), so the right action
was still there. Can’t imagine anything
more gentle for the restoration of that
shoulder; the weight of the scythe took
the joint easily back, a little further as
the stiffness eased, till I was taking a
full swathe without the sign of a twinge.
Now, after three months of battle with
the grass, I only think of the pain when
somebody else mentions theirs,
* * * *
“Kelms”: Winning Pool isn’t the only
spot that can give Marble Bar a run for
it (B. 3/5/’5O). When the machinery
was being installed at the tantalite mine
at Wadgina, the gang laying the cement
foundations checked the temperature
readings from Marble Bar—not far
distant —with those recorded on the
thermometer hanging alongside the water-
bag. Our readings were higher every day.
After we’d had 16 days running with a
temperature of 123 degrees and a mini-
mum of 112 degrees at midnight, some-
one removed the thermometer—reckoned
it was making the water hot. The next
day the instrument blew its head off, and
without official evidence we couldn’t
claim a record. But if there’s ever any-
thing worth while attaching to the title
—like a trip abroad, or the choice of a
chaperone—l’ll nominate Wadginat And
I’ll even try to live in the place long
enough to prove it.
**. * #
“Rooster”: Danger of the world
“overbalancing” by the excessive weight
at the polar ice-caps (B. 3/5/’5O) is
remote. Nor is there sufficient evidence
to support the theory that such a catas-
trophe ever took place in terrestrial
evolution. “Kelms” forgets that, although
there is evidence at both poles which
points to a “previous state of vegeta-
tion,” there is absolutely no evidence in
equatorial regions to show that it was
ever ice-bound. Time and again through
geological seons the great ice-barriers have
advanced and retreated, and each occa-
sion is indelibly marked on the coast-
lines and river-valleys of the land-masses
encroached upon. These terraces, mark-
ing the fluctuations of rising and falling
sea-levels, are not indicative of an over-
balancing world. They do indicate, how-
ever, that certain countries were once
entirely submerged ; the flooding of the
Mediterranean may have been one of
the major consequences. But it’s only a
mere 20,000 years since the last ice sheet
retreated from the northern temperate
latitudes, and it’s still retreating. Doubt-
less in a few hundred thousand years’
time there will be another ice advance.
* * * *
“S.A.R.”: These blokes taking the
knock from sulphur tB. 17/5/’5O) remind
me that in my youth I shovelled the stuff
at transhipping stations in South Aus-
tralia. We covered our eyes with goggles
and worked in clouds of the yellow dust.
It always gave us a cold because it
opened up the pores of the skin; if
you don’t believe that, put a pinch of
sulphur in your shoes and wear them all
day and see how you can brush sulphur
from your hair at night. In other parts
I’ve used burning sulphur on dried fruits
and for fumigating rabbits and suffered
no other ill-effects than smarting eyes.
Working with carbon disulphide on
rabbits always meant a splitting headache,
* * ♦ m
“L.A.P.”; By declaring the wedgetail
to be “vermin” the Victorian “Govern-
ment Gazette” has grouped the king of
Australian bird-life and the world’s largest
eagle with sparrows and dingoes. You
may now blaze away at him whenever
you like. The good that Audax does is
buried with his bones, but the evil lives
after him. He is now going to pay
dearly for the occasional lamb taken. To
the rabbits, this is the best news since they
heard about the last strike at the wire-
netting works.
* * * ♦
“Loulalo”: Maybe the barracoota
I’ve caught and eaten at various places
along the Victorian coast are different from
those “The Pirate” (B. 3/5/’5O) refers to
as scalybacks. My brand of ’couta is
one fish that we never have to scale.
It has a smooth, iridescent silvery skin,
nature not having equipped it with the
usual piscatorial overcoat. Are there two
species?
=l= * ♦ *
“E.”: The garage boss was threshing
around in the throes of building altera-
tions. “Gripes, I don’t know,” he
worried to Dad Parslow. “I’ve got to
have all this wall here cleared away ready
for the builders in two days’ time, and
I’ve got so much on hand I can’t get on
to it. Can’t spare the mechanic, either.
Don’t know anybody I could get to help,
do you?” “Well, I’m not very busy me-
self just now,” informed Dad. “I’ll come
for a couple o’ days.” On the next two
mornings Dad arrived at the garage and
put in his eight hours, and at the pre-
scribed time the job was finished. “What
about payment, Mr. Parslow?” the
garage boss asked, as Dad was leaving.
“What do I owe you?” “Aw, just the
usual,”, came the old bloke’s reply. “I’m
easy. Say y’ take twelve quid off me bill
for car repairs then, that’ll do me.”
“Twelve pounds! Oh, break it down,”
gasped the garage boss. “It was only two
days’ work. How do you make out
twelve pounds?” “Well, that’s what you
said, ain’t it?” scowled Dad. “Ten bob
an hour f’r a man’s time. Besides, there
was me assistant workin’ with me part o’
the time, y’ know, an’ y’ don’t get nags
f’r nothin’ these days. Yair, an’ then
don’t f’rget I live eight miles out, so that’s
sixteen miles a day travellin’. When y’
came out t’ fix me car it was a bob a
mile y’ charged me, wasn’t it?”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; A Corrigin (W.A.)
man reckons you can be stiff. When the
drought broke his house-tanks received
the first drop of water they’d held for
months, and he was outside sniffing the
fresh, saturated-earthy smell when he
heard the storm coming. He beat it to
the house, but the storm unroofed it to
get at him. He dashed outside to see
where the roof was landing and saw the
water gushing from the tanks through
holes made by the hailstones.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”; It was peddled over the
air-waves as dinkum by a national
authority—the story of a snake that
swallowed a rabbit on one side of a
netting fence, crawled through till
stopped by the bulge in his tummy, and
managed to scoff another on the other
side. Joe was thus held securely, unable
either to advance or retreat, until he
died. I have heard the yarn before in
various guises, but never at first-hand, nor
with any worth-while evidence to support
it. Usually it is eggs the snake puts
away and traps himself in the wire of the
fowl-run. That a snake, with only a few
feet at most to work with through a
fence, could capture a helpless egg is
more credible than that, thus tethered,
he could catch an active rabbit; still, the
yarn is much thinner than the snake. Any
wriggler that puts away sufficient tucker
to make him lose his streamlined figure
usually crawls away to cover to sleep it
off —he never pokes about wire fences
looking for a second course.
METAMORPHOSIS.
r become a tree with eyes, as still
As rtie straight, peeled saplings burning through
, c£rn b white flame. The golden honeyeaters
upsidc-down in blossoms, the little fly-
FHft C thei I r e fans before me unconcerned
scarlet robins dart their restless fires
From twig to twig, and I look into their bright
r shed my clothes like the shredded bark
become aTa white flame in this dark gully
cnrinSng out of the bracken and maidenhair
bright; I would stand so long
S my roots should feel down through the
My armf reach up till they caught the last gold
N ow 18 tinting the highest leaves; no longer
restless,
n..f ro oted content in the one place forever:
No change but the slow march of the turning
A nd y S S ’mighty pageant of the night-wheeling
stars.
S.A. * *
NANCY CATO.


The W.ECAT COLUMN
Australian Guarantee Corporation
f Dividends s
Ist 2nd Re-
June 30, Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ &
1939 .. 84,079 6 10 46,884 76,331
1940 . . 71,874 6 10 46,884 101,320
1941 .. 61,223 6 8 38,708 123,835
1942 .. 43,166 6 8 38,707 128,244
From tax provision, etc., £16,000 .. 144,244
1943 .. 36,366 6 7 34,619 145,991
1944 . . 31,474 6 6 30,530 146,935
1945 .. 39/644 6 7 34,619 151,960
1946 . . 46,244 i 6 7 34,619 163,587
1947 . . 50,174 6 7 34,619 179,142
1948 . . 89,840 6 7 43,457 225,525
Share premiums (net), £42,075 .. 267,600
Added to contingencies res., £7686.. 275,286
1949 .. 166,058 6 5 7 83,869 357,476
One of the two biggest hire-purchase
financiers in the land, Australian Guaran-
tee Corporation is also the latest of that
genus to approach shareholders for extra
capital. The procedure followed in this
case makes an interesting comparison
with its big contemporary, Industrial
Acceptance Corporation.
All these financiers have been facing a
problem as to the best way of raising
new funds. Their requirements are unpre-
cedentedly great because of the price-
level and the big turnovers in cars and
furniture. Temporary accommodation
from the banks has already been stretched
past the limit; on the other hand, the
history of hire-purchase points a warning
that to raise all the funds needed in boom-
time by permanent share issues may leave
a business overcapitalised when trade
recedes.
Industrial Acceptance has chosen to
get most of its new funds through a
mammoth issue of short-term debentures,
some of which will be repayable on
three months’ notice (B. 29/3/’5O). In
the new set-up this company (whose
advances to clients were approaching
£7'i million in December) will have £4
million of debentures geared to £2|
million shareholder funds.
In the case of the A.G.C., however,
not only is all the extra money being
provided by shareholders (at par), but
capital will be augmented by a bonus
issue as well. The bonus handout of
ordinaries is on a one-for-six basis; the
cash issue will follow in the ratio of one-
for-two, and in addition there are to be
250,000 new 5 p.c. prefs. Altogether, paid
capital will advance from the present
£1,335,636 to £2,137,660. The board has
expressed still further confidence as to
prospects by announcing that this current
year’s ordinary div. will total “at least
9 p.c.” (as against last term’s 7 p.c.), and
that “on present trading conditions” that
rate should be maintained in future. On
the sharemarket, anticipations of benefits
had raised the price of the A.G.C. 17s.
ords. from 28s. 6d. to 345. 6d. before the
board’s announcement, and there has
been no revision since the terms came
out.
The proposed bonus issue partly
restores the £72,148 of ord. capital that
was lopped away in 1934, when A.G.C.
cancelled 3s. from each share to wipe off
bad debts after the slump. Formed in
Sydney in 1925, the co. had rapidly
extended inter-State and built up a big
clientele, especially amongst car-buyers,
but had to draw in its horns sharply in
1931 when it repaid the original pref.
capital. War interrupted the steady pro-
gress made during the late ’thirties, and
by June, 1946, the amount of hire-
purchase on the books was only £776,000.
Since then the advance has been very
rapid:
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Preference .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £400,000
Ordinary .. 408,844 408,844 935,636
Reserves .. ~ 170,640 214,880 351,450
P. and 1. balance 8,502 2,999 6,026
Bank overdraft ~ 1,107,518 2,170,675 2,598,130
Creditors .. 61,049 111,608 470,676
Tax provision .. 36,075 59,806 95,326
Final dividends .. 20,442 25,192 48,175
Hire-purchase and
other advances,
less hiring
charges in sus-
pense .. .. 1,862,279 3,042,563 4,529,223
Shares in sub-
sidiary cos. .. 50,770 50,770 321,385
Owed by subsids. 54,202
Cash .. .. 421 471 409
Furniture, fittings 200 200 200
A new subsidiary taken over last term
by a share-exchange was Traders’
Finance Corporation, which also is a
specialist in car finance. Together, the
advances of parent and subsidiary
exceeded £7 million last June, and their
bank overdrafts approached £4 million.
The parent had funded a £1,486,660
(nearly 50 p.c.) rise in its own business
by using bank money, other credits and
extra shareholder funds in about equal
proportions.
Profits jumped correspondingly last
term, the net £166,058 being £76,218
more than in 1948, after allowing £89,000
for tax (up £34,000). After meeting pref.
dividends, that represented nearly 17 p.c,
on average ordinary capital, as against
14.9 and 8 p.c. in the two previous years.
Leaving the div. at 7 p.c. enabled the
board to pass half the net profit into
reserves.
To pay 9 p.c. in a full year on the new
ord. capital while maintaining pref. divi-
dends will require a total of £167,884,
or little more than was earned in 1948-
49. On this basis the current market of
345. 6d. for the ords. (equal to 275. 6d.
ex-rights) offers a yield of 5.5 p.c., which
is noticeably higher than the return
from Industrial Acceptance based on last
dividend. On consolidated figures each
A.G.C. ord. has 235. 4d. asset backing a
share, allowing for the new issues.
The first prefs. (now backed 12 times
by net assets) yield 4.6 p.c. at 265. each.
The seconds (backed six times) offer the
same yield at 21s. 6d. (ex-rights).
City Mutual Life
Writ- Increase
ten Total
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ £
1942.. 1,509,888 636,190 261,342 7,761 1
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 f
714,596
1943,. 1,586,207 663,209 218,235 8,321 (
Keserved for contingencies, £75,000 )
696,192
1944.. 1,712,023 697,274 233,745 15,411 ]
To staff fund, £5000.. .. .. !•
Reserved for contingencies, £19,357 J
766,117
1945.. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 39,931]
To general reserve, £50,000 .. }•
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. ..I
840,273
Profit, sale property, £36,248 .. 1
Interest from previous years, £71,571 }■
1946.. 1,964,122 796,221 297,730 40,783 J
931,607
Profit, sale property, £226,278 .. \
1947.. 2,118,921 772,338 376,574 54,763 (
1,182,782
Profit sale property, £41,780 .. 1
Interest from previous years, £38,662 1
1948.. 2,253,523 828,257 367,438 120,950 f
To contingency reserve, £lO,OOO .. J
1,104,654
From tax reserve, £28,000 .. ..1
Profit, sale property, £8252 .. \
1949.. 2,482,342 880,922 386,055 20,604 J
1,152,497
Appreciation of the service rendered to
the community by sound assurance
offices has never stood higher than at
present. City Mutual’s seventy-first annual
report—presented in the attractive style,
freed from the language of the shop,
which this society introduced a couple of
years ago—shows that an uncommonly
large proportion of new business came
the company’s way during 1949. Not
only was the £7,055,940 assured under
new policies a record, but the rate of
growth was even stronger than in 1948.
A good slice of the new business was in
group assurance. As usual, it was all
ordinary; the society has never written
industrial contracts nor extended outside
Australia. Neither has it overstretched
on the costs side in pursuing more busi-
ness ; as a percentage of net premiums,
last year’s expense rate was pared down
from 18.1 to 17.8 despite all the growth,
so helping to offset the decline in the rate
of interest earnings which constitutes the
main headache for this and other life
offices.
The new business written was greater
by £1,134,816, or 19.2 p.c., than in 1948.
Average value of the 10,084 new policies
was a shade under £7OO, compared with
previous £628, and with £375 ten years
ago.
The surplus available to policyholders
contracted for the second time last year,
the reduction being £91,162 despite bigger
premium income and an absolute rise of
£37,836 in interest, dividends and rents.
As in 1948, the reduced surplus resulted
mainly from the absence of special non-
recurring revenue items that prevailed
two years ago—sales of assets were down
£33,528 on 1948 and interest picked up
from previous terms was down £38,662;
Income— 1948. 1949.
Premiums, etc. .. £1,655,167 £1,846,150
Interest, divs., etc. .. 598,356 636,192
Surplus sale assets ~ 41,780 8,252
Interest previous yrs. .. 38,662 ■ —
Total .. .. £2,333,965 £2,490,594
Outgo and Charges—
Paid to policyholders.. 828,257 . 880,922
Expenses* .. .. 374,388 404,503
Increased actuarial liability 690,362 855,373
Total .. £1,893,007 £2,140,798
Surplus' 440,958 349,796
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
A big increase in actuarial liability is
associated with the scale and nature of
new business, the general basis of mor-
tality calculation being unchanged. The
society is no doubt encountering the
public’s general trend towards endow-
ment policies and away from whole-life.
The surplus permitted a repetition of
reversionary bonuses on the same scale
as in 1947 and 1948, absorbing £336,806:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Surplus earned .. £549,844 £440,958 £349,796
Brought forward .. 20,854 24,357 34,293
Total surplus .. £570,698 £465,315 £384,089
Bonuses to policy-
holders .. .. 285,063 307,022 336,806
To staff fund.. .. 35,000 14,000 2,156
To reserves .. .. 200,000 12,000
To write down assets.. 26,278 100,000
To contingency reserve 10,000
To carry forward .. 24,357 34,293 35,127
Additions to reserves, both visible and
other, were on a more modest scale, but
besides the £12,000 transferred from the
surplus, another £28,000 was brought to
light from tax provision, representing ex-
cessive allowances in the past. Alto-
gether, visible reserves of £775,127 are
now flanking the assurance fund of
£17,276,285.
Assurance fund is the amount needed
to meet claims as they arise, allowing for
future premium receipts and an average
net interest return of 2\ p.c. Last year
the net effective rate of interest earned
on mean assurance funds was £3 9s. Bd.,
after deducting taxes, or Is. 4d. less than
in 1948. While the margin is still com-
fortable and the rate of decline in effec-
tive interest is slowing up, the board
is giving special attention to the need
for taking up sound investments that
offer a reasonable return.
At present the investment portfolio
continues to be dominated by Common-
wealth stock, from which the average re-
turn may be expected to fall, if anything,
as older securities mature in the immedi-
ate future: —
1948. p.c. 1949. p.c.
Com’wlth stock £12,174,891 70.0 £12,889,891 69.5
Lcl-govt. stock. . 209,545 1.2 252,989 1.4
Shares and debs. 1,115,652 6.4 1,215,323 6.5
Mortgages . . 1,712,412 9.8 2,018,916 11.0
Loans on policies 748,641 4.3 726,605 3.9
Book debts, etc. 255,992 1.5 262,983 1.4
Cash, etc. .. 204,140 1.2 212,360 1.1
Properties .. 973,690 '5.6 968,393 5.2
Total ..£17,894,963 £18,547,460
The latest ratio of £69.5 Commonwealth
stock for every £ll of mortgages con-
trasts with a proportion of £23 stock to
£32 mortgages that existed in 1939. In
the last two years mortgages have been on
the rise again, but this process is likely to
be very gradual. Company shares are a
field in which the board has moved with
great prudence; there could be scope for
further development, if so desired. As it
is the assets are a very solid lot.
Warburton, Frank!, Ltd. (Sydney)
, — I—Dividends 1 —Dividends ~
June 80, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1930 ~ 5,111 6 6 4,500 23,440
1937 .. 8,558 7 7 7,000 24,998
1938 . . 11,089 8 8 8,000 28,087
1939 .. 11,113 8 8 9,467 29,733
1940 .. 11,963 8 8 11,963 29,733
1941 .. 12,000 8 8 12,000 29,733
1942 . . 12,000 8 8 12,000 29,733
1943 . . 12,000 8 8 12,000 29,733
1944 .. 14,119 8 8 12,000 31,852
1945 . . 14,909 8 8 12,000 34,761
1946 .. 17,913 8 8 12,000 40,674
1947 . . 21,320 10 10 15,000 46,994
1948 .. 29,905 12| 12i 21,042 55,857
1949 .. 59,465 17i 17i 30,625 84,097
There was a remarkable jump in the last
profit of this 43-year-old distributor, con-
tractor and maker of electrical and
engineering products, and Stock Ex-
change prices for the scrip have been
stimulated. Until three years ago. War-
burton, Franki had been a steady eight-
percenter for a long time. Whilst the
current term promises to repeat last
year’s success, the abnormal market con-
ditions existing at present have to be dis-
counted. A pleasing feature of the last
accounts was the big addition to reserves
from undistributed profits—almost as
big as the \l\ p.c. dividend itself.
All departments seem to have contri-
buted to last year’s record turnover of
£2,000,000 (taking in business of the Mel-
bourne and Brisbane associate com-
panies). Strong demand continues for
“Frigidaire” commercial and industrial
refrigeration units, which the company
has been installing for the best part of
30 years under contract from General
Motors. For even longer than that War-
burton, Franki have been agents for
Phillips lamps—nowadays including in-
candescent and fluorescent types as well
as Phillips radio-players. Other
agencies are for domestic appliances,
Crompton cables, engines, motors and
tools.
The main stores, works and repair
shops are housed in the four-storeyed
freehold property in Kent-street, Sydney.
Two well-placed selling-branches are at
Newcastle and Wollongong (besides the
inter-State associations), whilst a North
Sydney factory is turning out switch-
board and house meters, time switches
and other electrical lines.
Last year’s net profit, declared after a
liberal tax provision of £40,000 (double
1948), was twice the previous year’s, and
represented 32 p.c. on average capital:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Profit before tax and
depreciation .. .. N.A. £54,667 £104,330
Less —•
Depreciation .. .. £4,032 4,762 4,865
Tax provision .. N.A. 20,000 40,000
Net profit .. .. 21,320 29,905 59,465
P.c. to total capital
employed .. .. 14.2 18.2 32
Dividend contributions from the two
associated companies would account for
no more than £7OOO of the net profit.
Successful as the Melbourne company is,
most of its profits are being ploughed
into reserves, and its influence on the
parent’s earnings has so far been small.
Shareholdings in the Melbourne co. in-
creased by £25,359 last term when the
parent kept its 53 p.c. interest by taking
up 17,796 new shares at a premium of
Bs. 6d. For balance-sheet purposes, this
subscription was financed bv tb*
own retained profits for tt Parent ’ s
Similarly, an increase of £2fi oir. year-
overdraft reduced ordinary cS* bank
corresponding amount: dltors by a
Paid capital— IQ .»
SS* :: ‘- 41 is««a.a.
Bank overdraft " ! ,0 i° a 20,000
°Tab. , )° w - F " ni ‘ 56,5,8 BJS
Other creditors'. aid 6,732 « e „
provisions for tax and
contingencies o«
Staff benefit funds .. B };J}J 127,16 2 100)067
Freehold properties . 07 ,’ uu 3,000
Plant, machinery (at 7,440 48,2 3 l 64,0 96
Less depreciation i! IJ'IJJ 98,136 09,434
« , , —! d0,G86 41,651
Net fixed assets .. 50,754 T~—
Shares in W., Franki ’ 25 91,979
(Melb.) ~ 17 ■ > 7qp _ „
Shares in W., Franki ’ 6 17,796 43,155
(BriB ° • * • • 15,000 15 000
Stocks work in progress 136,080 187 47s 17 !'° 00
86*883 J B9
CaSh ’ ’236 126 ’£ 146,8 03
Indicative of strong turnover were th!
rise of outside debtors (including hre
purchase) by £19,040 and a fall inJSSt
(£8184). All told, Warburton, Franki’s
current assets (with shareholdings) ex
ceeded liabilities by £383,557 at last
balance-date—an improvement of £43 non
over the twelvemonth. 43,000
Last sale price of 595. for the ordinary
shares compares with 325. 6d. three years
ago and 19s. 6d. just before the war At
the latest price the yield is 5.9 p.c on last
year’s 17* p.c. dividend, which included a
5 p.c. bonus; or 4.3 p.c. from the basic
dividend rate of 12* p.c. Net tangible
asset backing is 30s. Bd. a share.
The last dividend should be within the
company’s reach again this term, subject
to power supplies, and the range of
interests is wider than ever before to take
advantage of industrial development.
This type of business is„ of course, highly
susceptible to changes in the economic
climate.
The happily-placed holders of War-
burton, Franki’s fully participating pref.
shares seldom come to market.
Selfridges (N.Z.), Ltd.
Jan. 31, Loss. Dividends. Deficit
£ p.c. £ £
1939 .. 11,010 Nil 10,662
Profit.
1940 .. 1,886 Nil 8,778
1941 .. 5,642 . Nil 3,134
1942 .. 3,564 Nil -}3O
Loss.
1943 . . 1,868 Nil 1,438
Nominal
Profit. Reserves,
1944 .. 3,883 14 2,375 20
1945 . . 8,083 11 2,877 076
1946 . . 2,838 14 2,377 1,137
1947 .. 5,137 24 3,904 2,810
19 4 8 . . 5,35 1 2 4 3,965 3,690
1949 .. 4,281 24 3,964 4,013
Above reserves are subject to intangible assets
( £53,756).
Subject to the approval of Selfridges
(A’sia) shareholders at this week’s meet-
ing, a controlling interest in this subsidiary
will pass to G. I. Coles and Co. as a
corollary of the big merger ; and the two
stores now operated by the subsidiary at
Wellington and Auckland will form the
nuclei around which Coles can crystallise
any ambitions for expansion on the ot er
side of the Tasman. Such ambitions
rank second, no doubt, to Coles s pro
gramme for development in A us ra l
but the recent link-up between Wwb
worths and Macduffs in Maonla
prove a challenge and a spur
action. Private investors canstiliP {
ticipate directly in the for
Selfridges (N.Z.); in unofficial WW
upon Sydney ’Change the . st jji
shares have firmed lately, thong
well below par. { an
This company carries the Scar
unhappy infancy, and it lgs _
relevant to the ar S u “ e " t p J
Self ridges merger which b. • • i(j .
opened last week in Sydney. 0 f the
lane was himself the first char a j ed
parent Selfridges, and m 1937 he mm
the setting-up of b
another in W.A. A ais, P in 2 year,
between directors in the appointed
When the shareholders,
a special committee to on the
row, received a cntic al ] P they called
organisation’s financial h > an d
on Mr. Midlahe’s board to
elected another team coning
of new faces. At tha s i u mped 00
company’s £1 stores By March this
’Change to about 10s. 435-> and
year the price had rec°v e pro posals
as an upshot of the merg J eqUlVa-
shareholders are now
lent of 115 s. » beard waS
The incoming . Se \ f g 3 d 9 S abo ut this
especially worried m rre( j a £l^7
subsidiary, which ha . besides
trade deficit in 15 eXpe l*es.
establishment and P m heaV iiy ov
Both shops were Bald t 0 ° b i e financial
stocked, leaving the co. un w sto cb
to clear stores from recent
position was rectifie ,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
r 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents byt
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
T rustee”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C,
(Chairman) ;
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. AHMYTAOE. Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
■
m
m
Si
m
mt
GUARANTEED, never to fade or shrink
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO MYRA ANNIE RIGGERS formerly of
No. 51 Surrey Street Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that KARL HENRICK RIGGERS
has filed a Petition for Divorce (No. 594
of 1950) on the ground of Desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for S years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion If you wish to
defend you may enter an Appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 31st July 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney .—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
til
7'
r
A
a
Wintm
'//
murnii
a
V'
A
W/yyyyz
'//
S LAG
11 !
/
ft 'll
mm'
A
X/XX,
'A
«L
WS S S S'
s n
7~Z
8.1. Slagwoool is the modem insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. SFagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particular* call, write or phone . • •
ifdlD) M #
Insulation
PTT.I
LTD. I
Phones: SYDNEY. BXSSS4: MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE 83604 : 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Ccn. 7257: 8.1. (W,A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
For Colds and ’Flu
WOLFE'S
<zJbumabc
SCHNAPPS
HOT WITH
LEMON AT
BEDTIME
At the first sign of a
cold, have a Wolfe’s Schnapps
WOLFES
mmm
hot with lemon just before going to bed.
It is a warming, heartening drink, and a
stimulant of special value in helping to
ward off winter ills. For over 100 years,
Wolfe’s Schnapps has been known and
appreciated by both men and women as
unique and distinctive in character from
any other liquor.
the co. has been left carrying
large cash balances which could
not be used for expansion be-
cause of “restrictive controls” in
N.Z.:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. 158,701 158,712 158,712
Forfeited shares 60 60
P. &1. balance 5,273 7,660 7,977
Creditors & tax 21,419 20,266 19,816
Leasehold
property ~ 20,524 18,985 17,445
Plant .. . . 10,076 9,535 8,752
Stock in trade.. 40,131 44,763 37,015
Debtors . . 6,462 5,941 5,484
Cash, bonds . . 55,444 53,718 62,113
Intangible assets 53,756 53,756 53,756
With so much idle assets, profits
have only been sufficient to pay
a 2j p.c. dividend. Funds are
already there if Coles wishes to
back them and find employment
for them.
Most of the capital is in con-
tributing shares, each paid to
16s. (N.Z.). At the last Sydney
price of 13s. (Aust.) the yield is
3.7 p.c., allowing for the present
exchange premium on the 2j
p.c. dividend paid in N.Z.
currency. Net tangible backing
is about 10s, 6d, (Aust.).
New Occidental’s Writ
All goldminers, whether of
orthodox or Pitt-street variety,
have a more wakeful air since
Thursday last when New Occi-
dental filed a claim in the High
Court for £430,000 against the
Commonwealth Bank; but little
inclination was shown last week
for speculation on the outcome.
It is a test-case affecting the
whole industry. The co.’s first
claim is within the terms of the
1945 Banking Act, which pro-
vides that the central bank will
pay its fixed price for any gold
received, or, at the producer’s
option, a price decided at law
through an action for compen-
sation. The £430,000 claimed is
for gold delivered by New
Occidental between December,
1946, and May, 1950, which
amounts to 112,3060 z., and for
which the bank has already paid
standard price ; the extra £4 an
ounce thus claimed is well inside
the margin between the official
and unofficial world prices pre-
vailing over the period. The
marginal character of New Occi-
dental’s mining operations at
Cobar (N.S.W.) under existing
costs and prices, makes any extra
income a vital factor. The co.
is also challenging the validity
of Section 31 of the Act, which
prohibits the export of Austra-
lian gold without the bank’s
permission.
New Occidental paid scrip
had firmed to ss. 3d. before the
writ, compared with 4s. 3d. six
weeks ago. Opening shots in
the co.’s three-year drilling cam-
paign have been on the Glad-
stone ore-body, where an inter-
section is reported at 1070 ft.,
averaging o.2dwt. gold and 3.68
p.c. copper per ton over a width
of 17ft. Main drilling is now
starting in the Chesney and Occi-
dental bodies.
Base-metal Shares
Of the Barrier group, B.H.
South has been strongest over
the five months since Christmas
(up 25.), Norths the weakest
(down 4s. 3d.), while New B.H.
and Consolidated Zinc, after
intermittent weakness, are back
on the December levels. Norths
was lower still until the report
about the northern ore-body
early this month. The board
says that boring of the diamond
drill from the 2600 ft. level in
section 48 has encountered ore
990 ft. below the level. As this
position is 1200 ft. north of that
in section 36 where ore was
already reported, it is thought
to be the upper portion of the
northwards-continuing ore-body
and to indicate a substantially
longer life for the mipe than the
15 years proved so far.
New Broken Hill, the promis-
ing offshoot of Zinc Corpora-
tion which expects to reach full-
scale production about five
years hence, has announced a
profit of £8384,014 (up £79,385)
for the year ended December
31, 1949, and the final Is, (sterl-
ing) dividend makes the year’s
distribution Is. 6d. as against
the previous Is. Local share-
market reaction was to mark up
the ss. scrip by Is. 9d. to 335.
Consolidated Zinc has an-
nounced in advance of the full
accounts that, taking in a full
12 months’ results of Zinc Corp.
and the other subsidiaries, com-
bined net profit from its incor-
poration in February, 1949, to
the end of the calendar year was
£83,304,846. That closely tallies
with the adjusted prospectus
figure of £3,301,216 given for
the term ended June 30, 1948,
and dividends are unchanged,
The first accounts of this giant
industrial and mining concern
are awaited with interest,
Each of the big Tasmanian
metal cos. has been enjoying a
stronger sharemarket. Mt.
Lyell, at 255. 9d., has touched
its highest point this year, despite
the waiving of an interim divi-
dend again and despite the un-
happy smelting performance last
quarter that was caused by short-
age of coke. The market appears
to have taken kindly to the news
that Mt. Lyell has eased its
financial tightness with a loan
from National Mutual Life
rather than by an approach to
shareholders. Terms and dura-
tion of the £750,000 lodn haven’t
been disclosed,
Thanks to the strong world
market in zinc, Electrolytic Zinc
ords. at 82s. 6d. last week were
about 4s. higher than at Christ-
mas, and the prefs. have stayed
almost level since the ruling on
their rights.


mm
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now i*
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Si YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SK#
h
Mr. Executor can relax
Although retired, Mr. Executor soon
other people’s affairs was an exacting j
i found that looking sfter
Job. Very wisely he decided
to share unsought responsibilities with Burns Philp Trust ora
Limited. This Company’s officers are thoroughly conversan
the management of estates. Beneficiaries are protecte at
turn. A senior trust officer will be glad to answer your t 5 S —.
If you are unable to call, write for the booklet, Han s
Never Leave the Wheel.”
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Le«
......... . • « • fPOBETtsv. c D Overton, F.F.I.A*
BURNS PHILP TRUST
MANAGER: L S. Parker
COMPANY LIMITED
/m _ ... m A npn.t**
‘‘Executor, Trustee, Agent’
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901
dsf
Business. Rollery. etc.
Extremely Buoyant
Buoyant receipts for most
Australian primary products
continue, and the publication
of figures for wool sales to the
end of April—£23l million, an
increase of £74 million over the
corresponding figure for last year
—gives some indication of the
effect of devaluation of the
pound last September. Other
export values may not have been
quite so much affected, but the
general trend has been higher
than in 1948-49.
Import costs in many cases
have risen as much, or more.
Where competition from the
dollar area is noticeably absent,
as with newsprint, import costs
have been of a steeper order
than has been the case with wool
prices. In any event devalua-
tion has caused a general increase
in raw-material prices among
all the sterling countries.
A great flow of overseas
money has been coming to Aus-
tralia from exports and from
the inward flow of capital. The
country areas, in a money sense,
are prosperous, and there has
been a corresponding stimula-
tion to business turnover, more
especially concerns dealing with
farm machinery and equipment,
other engineering products,
motor-vehicles, household furni-
ture and house - furnishings,
building materials and construc-
tion equipment. The clothing
trade, though active, is perhaps
not responding quite so much to
the recent stimulus. Higher
prices, of course, are of them-
selves creating bigger business
turnovers. Woolbrokers, though
as a body they handle no more
wool than in 1939, now see their
turnovers four to five times as
high as they were 10 years ago.
Though their operating costs are
up, their profits have also
increased.
Not all businesses have shown
a corresponding improvement in
profits. Most of them have their
profit-margins restricted by price-
control. And profit-ratios of
representative companies, in rela-
tion to their capital, are very
little higher than they were in
1939. This is particularly so in
the case of big key industries.
There is much that is un-
healthy and undesirable in the
present economic buoyancy. It
is all the result of underproduc-
tion, costs inflation and the
partial segregation of the sterling
area from the vigorous produc-
tivity of the U.S.A., where com-
modity prices at present are on
a downtrend. But any future
Government credit policy is
almost bound to be based on the
principle of maximum employ-
ment, if not “full employment,”
and this will tend to prevent
much in the way of a return to
lower levels of costs. And, under
price-control, selling-prices are
based on costs. Even when
price-control is abandoned costs
of the most efficient producers
in industry will tend to set the
standard of selling-prices.
Partly because of the buoyant
export prices, but in a large
measure because of the general
inflation in all values, Australian
sharemarkets remain strong.
Last week, after a recovery from
the speculative reaction of a
little earlier, there was a general
steadiness in the market tone,
even though little of a spectacu-
lar nature happened. One or
two stocks, such as Linoleum
Holdings and Rex Investments
(a Sydney “unlisted”), made
smart upward movements, and
C.S.R. was down fairly heavily
because of market disappoint-
ment over terms of the issue;
ibut 8.H.P., A.C.1., Tooth and
most other leaders showed little
fluctuation.
It has been a rising market,
on the whole, since late last year.
And, all things considered, a
strong tone is likely to continue.
Chief snags in the future are
high costs and the low yields
available from most first-class
stocks. Though their asset-value,
on a replacement basis, has in-
creased enormously, many big
concerns have not, so far, been
able to share in the prevailing
monetary prosperity because of
price-control, heavy operating
costs and fuel and labor short-
age.
But the sharemarket is justi-
fied in hoping that this will be
a passing phase, and that
eventually returns in keeping
with asset values and business
efficiency will be available to
shareholders, and that the pro-
prietary side of industry will
receive its fair share of the
inflated national income which
so far it has palpably failed to
do.
There is also a vast job ahead
of Australian industry, especially
the construction section of it.
Little headway has been made
with the arrears of the war years,
and, helped by immigration, our
population has increased by a
million since war started in
1939.
Representative Australian in-
dustrial share prices have risen
about 50 p.c,, on the average,
since the end of 1938.
Wana
“Lemon”; An airborne pas-
senger, flying over the coastal
portion of the Delta division in
Papua, will see at first glance
nothing but an unbroken ex-
panse of sago-palm swamp over
which watercourses wriggle
here, there and everywhere.
Looking more carefully, how-
ever, he will observe occasional
patches differing slightly in color
from the rest of the area. What
he notes are oases in reverse —
little areas whose height above
the perennial waters may be
measured in inches, but enough
to allow of cultivation in some
degree of dryness and of the
building of shelters.
The existence of these patches
may be due merely to an accu-
mulation of silt caught up by
anchored driftwood, but now
and then they owe their origin
to the worn-down remnant of a
geological structure.
That is the reason that Wana
is now in the limelight.
In 1940 a party of geologists
and geophysicists, working knee-
deep in mud and being able to
progress only by cutting their
way through almost every foot
of the reeking jungle, made a
reconnaissance gravity - meter
survey, and the gravity anomalies
which they detected pointed to
the existence of a buried fold.
Before any detailed work could
be accomplished, however, the
war put a stop to all field opera-
tions, and it was only recently
that confirmatory gravity and
seismic surveys were under-
taken.
A year ago Wana was just
another small area of “dry”
ground, not more than a foot
above the high-water level of
the surrounding swamp. Today
—thanks to the indications of a
structure which, possibly, may be
oil-bearing—the locality has
been cleared of jungle and
drained.
A wharf and a light railway
have been constructed for bring-
ing equipment and supplies to
the location chosen for sinking
the bore. Twenty mosquito-
proof houses, a mess and a club
and a hospital have been built
to accommodate, in comfort
undreamt of by the pioneers,
the white staff numbering 30,
and 10 large huts and a hospital
are provided for 150 native
laborers. In addition, offices,
workshops, an electric-power
station and a geological labora-
tory have been erected. The
cost of building this settlement
has been £23,000, and this does
not include the purchase price
of the contained equipment,
which is £lO,OOO,
Drilling was commenced on
May 6, using a National “50,”
diesel-driven rig and surmounted
by a 140 ft. steel derrick. The
outfit is capable of reaching a
depth of 6000 ft. and better. With
the essential ancillary equipment,
its purchase price, evefi for a
co. so well placed in the buyers’
market as Australasian
Petroleum, was £250,000, and it
is to be anticipated that the co.
will expend a sum not far short
of £500,000 in all on this loca-
tion by the time the well has
been drilled to the maximum
depth requisite. Australasian
Petroleum is now operating in
five localities in Papua, and is
actually drilling on two sites —
Hohoro and Upoia—in addition
to Wana. It is its,intention, in
all cases, whether the results be
favorable or not, to test each
site to the full capacity of the
equipment.
The Wana location is of
especial interest for two reasons,
the first being that it is the most
westerly of the Papuan well sites
tested up to the present. The
second is that this is the first
well in Papua to be located on
purely geophysical evidence.
Last week dealings commenced
in Thirlwell and McKenzie
rights, which opened at ss. each.
There are 150,000 new shares
being offered, one for two. The
shares may be paid up in full on
application, or in four quarterly
instalments of ss. each. The co.
paid a run of 8 p.c. divs., then
6 p.c. last year, with this year’s
interim 6 p.c. It is busily estab-
lishing itself in the expanding
Port Kembla (N.S.W.) area
a constructional enoirL- 5
firm, and it appears to be build 8
mg its foundations firmly
has a number of “
imerests in the district, aft
Which seem promising. 0 ‘ tK
basis of 255. each the onS he
yield £4 16s. per cent „n a 6 "' S
attractive.* “ d ‘ he £uture '4
* * *
E. C. Bruce Midlane, signing
as foundation chairman 0 f
directory (five years), Selfridges
(A/asia), Ltd., Selfridges (N 7 \
Ltd., Selfridges (W.A.), Ltd'”
last week paid for an “onen
letter” in the advertising columns
?t f tn yd r y ;?f raid ”
c ,1- j hareholders m the parent
Selfridges concern. The weighty
P - ar u of u the “ letter ” occupied
eight inches of double column •
it went into “history,” including
the time when Mr. Midlane was
displaced on the board; but its
essence was: “Insist on an inde-
pendent investigation by compe-
tent and experienced men whose
integrity is undoubted before
giving the suggested absorption
any further consideration.” But
Selfridges’ shareholders look as
if they are going to “take the
cash in hand and waive the
rest.” Five G. J. Coles shares
for one of their own, and Coles
scrip above 235. last week: they
wouldn’t have dreamt of it in
1938.
* * * *
New Zealand’s largest biscuit-
factory project, to cost £150,000,
has been launched by a 45-year-
old Auckland co., Bycroft, Ltd.,
leader in the biscuit industry,
which seems determined to stave
off all challenges in its field. For
three years the co. was kept
waiting on the doorstep for a
permit, but purchase of manu-
facturing plant from Britain was
pushed ahead, so no time should
be lost in getting into produc-
tion when the premises are up.
Bycrofts claim this factory, with
80,000 square feet of floor space,
to be extended later, will be the
most up-to-the-minute in the
south Pacific. The co.’s profit in
its latest term (to March 31) hit
a peak of £21,046, following
capitalisation of £50,000 by a
bonus issue from reserves last
year, which lifted capital to
£200,000. Divs., unchanged at
8 p.c., taking £16,000, are well
within earning capacity. The £1
shares have climbed Bs. 6d. to
60s. since the bonus, and are
nearly halfway back to the pre-
bonus peak of 70s.


dsf
dsf
dfds
_ a (if/)
wuuv kjy uuc VJI juiigiauu o
oldest pen makers and pre-
serves the character of your
hand under all circum-
stances. A “Swan” pen is
a joy to own and a joy
to use. You are right for
life with a “Swan.”
SWAN
PENS
37/3 to 88/9 from all
jewellers, stationers
and storea
MABIE, TODD & GO.
(AUST.) m. LTD., SYDNEY
4/120
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO KENNETH RODNEY RANGER for-
merly of Speers Point N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that EUNICE MERLE RANGER
has filed a Petition No. 4237 of 1949 for
divorce on the ground, of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and that she is asking that
the Court exercise its discretion in her
favour and grant her a divorce notwith-
standing her having committed adultery
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 20th day
of July 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
A Perfect Shave in under 3 minutes
WITH
9 R
TIMES WITNESSED BY INDEPENDENT OBSERVERS
Here are actual photographs illustrating the remarkable
speed and efficiency of the revolutionary new electric shaver,
Philishave. They were taken at a demonstration in Sydney
in the presence of a number of independent witnesses,
including Mr. F. P. Buckley and Mr. C. E. Woolven, Secretary
and Assistant Secretary, respectively, of the Hairdressers’
Union, who vouch for the accuracy of the times recorded.
The demonstrator had been a regular Philishave user for
some time.
6 30 SECONDS
Shaving swiftly and smoothly.
No need to take off cgat, collar
or fie—as the beard is whisked
off all bristles are caught and
held in the special hair-trap.
• 1 MINUTE
m
U
v 'x
Right cheek and part of chin
completely shaved. The angu-
lafed slots In shaving head
pick up every hair—regardless
of its direction of growth .
• MINUTES
Now on to the other cheek.
PhiUshave's " grip - moulded "
body fits snugly into the hand-
shaver can be used at any
angle and in any direction.
• 2 MINUTES
m
Over the fop Up. The six-
bladed rotary cutter revolving
at over 3,000 r.p.m. whisks away
stubble In a flash ... smoothly
, . . without drag or irritation.
• 2\ MINUTES
Underneath chin and round fhe
jaw. Phtlishaves rotary action
and easy manoeuvrability make
shaving as quick and simple here
as on the cheek.
• 2 MINS. 43 SECONDS
o**
m
Shave completed. All that
remains to be done is twist the
cover of the hair-trap, blow out
the hairs, and return shaver to
the zippered leather case.
PHILIPS
Throughout the world
this symbol guides
the choice of millions
f.
u
★ Price £7/5/6 complete with sip -
pered leather case. Available from
most leading radio retailers and
department stores .
ELECTRIC SHAVER
A PRODUCT OF PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
First Moves in Maoriland
(Airmail from Auckland.)
vr ew Zealand’s overgrown
tax load of £2,500,000 weekly is
by £250,000 under the
UAlland Government’s frontal
S on subsidies. This 10 p.c.
Son is the big blow at
budgetary inflation promised by
the Nationalists when they
knocked out the Socialists. In-
stead of waiting for the August
Budget, Holland and Co. got in
earlv within six weeks of the
opening of Maoriland's financial
V e ar Most of the savings are
on food and groceries, but coal,
wool railway-fares and freights
and ’phone charges are included
for good measure.
The sting for Maorilanders is
the rise in prices and the cost of
living which has made many of
them take a rueful view of the
changes while waiting for
benefits to come on the rebound,
which will take time. Increases
on main food lines are: Butter,
raised 6d. to 2s. a pound ; tea
up Is. 9d. to 6s. 3d. a pound;
bread up 2d. a two-pound loaf ;
flour up Hd. a pound; eggs up
4d. a dozen ; and milk up to Bd.
a quart all the year round.
M.L.’s retail price-index is
lifted 4 p.c, to lop £l2 million
off the £l7 million subsidy bill,
and therefore off taxes. Price-
control has been jettisoned over
a wide front under pressure of
the subsidy-cuts and higher
freights, because control
couldn’t cope with wholesale
price-revision which stared it in
the face.
To help workers and others to
swallow the pill the Arbitration
Court was called on to hatch out
a cost-of-living bonus,
pensioners were assured of
larger social-security benefits,
and farmers were told they’d get
higher payouts. It didn’t look
like a retreat from inflation to
Maorilanders on the economic
borderline, and many others had
doubts as well, even if they ad-
mitted it was the boldest stroke
yet for “free enterprise.” Jump-
ing over-the-counter prices came
as a shock to housewives, who
hadn’t realised the head of the
family had paid the difference in
a roundabout way for years past
to keep prices pegged down.
They didn’t relish the medicine
as a remedy for financial drift,
money-spinning and Socialist
economic laxity, and the Gov-
ernment had no easy task on
hand to sell them the idea that
it would all turn out well in the
long run.
It is clear there’s a testing-time
ahead for New Zealand during
the transition from inflation to
sound money. Cutting of sub-
sidies is only the first move to
start a chain of effects aimed to
give the pound a blood-trans-
fusion ; purchasing-power must
be restrained and production
gingered-up. How it will all
pan out can’t be foreseen yet.
Hard work will be needed to
clear production bottlenecks, get
the upper hand dn costs,
conquer shortages and generally
make prices fully competitive
again. In the meantime Maori-
landers who have been barely
making ends meet will feel the
squeeze most. Probably it’s as
stiff a course of anti-inflationary
measures as the Dominion can
stand at this stage. Mr. Holland
has gone as far as he could, or
dared, to consolidate prosperity
before running into squalls
which might be round the
corner. He wants to get his feet
on firm ground before easing
the tax load. Probably some re-
lief in that quarter will come
next. He’ll do all Maorilanders
a real service if he stops the
economic rot in the first round.
M.L.’s docile-looking kiwi
(national symbol) has been a
wayward bird lately, with a dis-
position to stray off the straight
path into inflationary byways,
and this dangerous tendency
must be curbed. New Zealand
has to work its way out of the
production depression into
which it has drifted during its
inflationary fling. Under-supply
of goods and services, staff
shortages, excessive business
overheads and low average
performance of labor under the
40-hour, five-day week are all
symptoms of the malady.
Against these weaknesses N.Z.
has youth, a sound heart and a
will to do better if properly led.
To reinforce its strength an
immigration policy to admit
10,000 yearly is in the planning
stage and should be operating
within a year. By taking the
situation in hand in time, it
should be possible to turn the
tide in the right direction before
external knocks are felt.
Blair Athol Coal
“W’gabba”: Everybody knows
that the voluminous report of
Powell-Duffryn, Ltd., on Queens-
land coal helped to settle the
proposal of Electric Supply
Corporation (Overseas), Ltd., to
develop the Blair Athol coalfield
on a 3,000,000-tons output
annually. The London-Cardiff
firm of technical advisers
pointedly referred to the im-
probability of finding a market
for the full output. Yet we are
practically 2,000,000 tons short
of the tonnage required annually
for industry in Australia at this
moment, and may be 3,000,000
tons short by 1952, for the Aus-
tralian demand alone, apart from
the export trade that could be
d e v e 1 o p*e d in near-Pacific
regions.
Thus Power and Traction
Finance Co., Ltd., dropped the
bundle back on the Queensland
“Labor” Government as associ-
ates of the Overseas Corporation
a few months after the Powell-
Duffryn Co. report was tabled
in Parliament. This company,
which has been so paternally
treated by Mr. Hanlon, is now
established in Brisbane, and is
still advising the Mines Depart-
ment on the development of
Queensland’s coalfields. Thus
the State is now initiating an
expensive drilling programme on
the Ipswich field, though it is
doubtful whether any opencut
mining on a useful scale can
be obtained there.
But Blair Athol is unique as
an opencutting, proposition with
its seam, now known to have a
maximum thickness of 105 ft. of
black coal almost without a
band of dirt and superior in non-
clinkering qualities to perhaps
all other Australian coals. Its
only fault is its geographical
location. When T. J. Hirst came
to Australia in 1947 its reserves
were officially quoted as just
over 200,000,000 tons. These
were Reid’s figures, and were
based on an average thickness
of 60ft., because there was
insufficient evidence to assume
a greater thickness, though it
was foreshadowed as deeper
bores were put down. The large
amount of drilling done since
then by the Mines Department
and the Overseas Corporation
has now greatly increased known
reserves, and estimates of
320,000,000 tons seem conserva-
tive.
This basin of coal, in which
the ratio of overburden to coal
never touches 2:1 and in which
there are 300,000,000 tons at
least of non-clinkering and non-
caking coal (with a heating value
of 11,500 to 12,000 British ther-
mal units), is perhaps worth
more to Australia for the pro-
duction of power than the
Snowy River scheme.
t
The Holden car hasn’t, so far,
brought General Motors-Hol-
den’s much profit, consolidated
net earnings for 1949 being 31 p.c.
lower than in 1948. The decline
is said by the directors to be the
result of high initial costs of the
first year’s production of the
Holden, Turnover of all kinds
•rose by £4.3 million to £21.8
million, an increase of 25 p.c.,
whereas 40 p.c. was expected.
Efficiency and output were set
back by last year’s coal strike,
shortage of labor and raw
materials, and target output of
80 Holdens a day was not
reached until early this year. By
the end of March nearly 12,000
of these cars had been delivered.
Production might have to be
increased, the directors think.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE
SUPREME COURT - OP~NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO YVONNE J?SEPH S INE N BURTONf
to WILLIAM CHARLES FACEY both
Taunton Street Blakch urstCo-respoi BTO }J
NOTICE that DOUGLAS LEON PALMt■ { ,
has filed a Petition No. 3iJ 6 ot h on the
Divorce from YVONNE JOSEIUIL . H CHARLES
ground of her adultery with WHuLIA } wlthou t
FACEY and on the ground + of her clese upffar d9
just cause or excuse for , t^ re rl you may ente J
If you or either, of you wish to defend Court
an appearance m the Divorce Offlo and obtain
King Street Sydney by the {rom g E.
a copy of the petition w,t b°“* street, Sydney-
COOK & SON, Solicitors, 14 Spn g
__j. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women’s Letters
From Sydney
One time this was a quiet, perhaps a
slightly introspective country. We grew
wheat and wool, and made friends as
best we could with our neighbor, the
world. But he always seemed a good
way from our doorstep. Now our
neighbor —every one of him —is right
across our doorstep. We probably have
as many ambassadors, consuls and com-
missioners as there are countries of the
world living right amongst us. And they
all seem pretty nice people —at any rate
let us speak for the ladies, their wives.
Minister for External Affairs Percy
Spender and his wife must be acquiring
quite a library of foreign dictionaries.
They’ll need them, especially if there are
going to be many more Commonwealth
Conferences. The South-east Asian one
got off to a good start socially with the
Spenders’ outsize reception starred with
diplomats, judges, consuls and Govern-
ment nabobs. That was in the Australia.
There was also quite a good show in the
Minister’s own home at Edgecliff. This
was official. It must be a lovely feeling
to live up to a name like Spender when
you are giving parties.
The United Kingdom delegates gave a
splash-up cocktail-party to other dele-
gates in the Australia. Lord Macdonald
received the guests. Lord Mayor O’Dea
was host at a sherry party to the dele-
gates in the Town Hall. But he did not
wear his Indian Chief headdress. The
Minister Plenipotentiary for the Philip-
pines a*id Mrs. Regala entertained at their
Darling Point home in honor of the dele-
gates. There were official lunches, and
the American-Australian Ex-Servicemen
treated the visitors at the Pickwick Club.
KirribilU feels a special pride in the
honor that has come to Mrs. Mary Teni-
son Woods, for this brilliant Australian
is a resident of the Point. Appointed
Chief of the Status of Women Section of
the Human Rights Division of the United
Nations, she leaves Sydney at the end of
June to take up her appointment at Lake
Success. Mrs. Woods was the first woman
to graduate in law at the Adelaide Uni-
versity, and she was the first woman to
be called to the Bar in South Australia.
Since then she has had a distinguished
career. Child welfare reform is her
special interest.
Forty-four young women Bachelors of
Science, seven Masters of Science and a
Doctor of Science received their degrees
at Sydney University last week. There
are jobs waiting for all of them as
dietitians, teachers in high schools, demon-
strators at the University, and as re-
search workers in industrial firms. Ger-
maine Joplin was awarded one of the
two Doctorates of Science. The world
should be safe for mere humans (or may-
be, as the trend goes, unsafe). Sydney’s
output alone in Science graduates was
262.
The Pnina Salzman concert proved
that fur-trappers are in the money. There
has been no bigger or better display of
mink or other lush furs in the Town Hall.
Pnina herself was all youth and charm
in tea-rose pink marquisette over taffeta.
The bodice was very trig, and finished
off at the shoulderline with a soft fichu
of the marquisette. There were three
bands of pale-blue on the taffeta skirt.
Before the concert and in the interval
J. C. Williamsons’ Eric Wahlquist, who
goes off this week to travel in England
and the U.S. on the business of the Firm,
held practically a levee. Nigel Hawkins,
who designed the sets of the S.U.D.S.
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” presenta-
tion, was an applauder.
This afternoon, May 24, members of
the Overseas League and the Victoria
League are holding Empire Day celebra-
tions in Federation House, Phillip-street.
The Governor of N.S.W. will be of the
company, and the reception is expected
to be one of the largest and most repre-
sentative held for some years. Sir Angus
Gillan, representative of the British
Council in Australia, will give the Empire
address. The Army, Navy and Air Force
will be well represented.
Last Monday in the Art Gallery of
David Jones’s, the head of which firm,
Charles Lloyd Jones, was his lifelong
friend, the complete Sydney Ure Smith
expressed himself. In this exhibition,
memorial to his work for art in ,this
land, Mr. Smith is shown as painter,
etcher, publisher. Australia has produced
no better etcher than Sydney Ure Smith,
and there on display is the press on
|Which he printed his widely-known works.
The press, incidentally, had belonged to
Hop” of The Bulletin, Another of
the artist’s old friends, Bob Menzies,
Prime Minister of Australia, came from
Canberra to declare the show open. Sales
in this exhibition will be the foundation
of a Sydney Ure Smith Memorial Fund
which will be used for the purchase of
Australian works of art.
On her way here from Maoriland is
Constance Morice, well-known Welling-
tonian and a granddaughter of Richard
Seddon. . In Sydney, Tusculum, Potts
Point, will be her headquarters. Miss
Morice is very active in social-welfare
affairs, and is, among other things, a
member of the Wellington Hospital Board
—-the only other woman member is her
aunt, Mrs. Knox Gilmer, one of the
Dominion’s leaders in all women’s move-
ments. Miss Morice is bringing greet-
ings to Sydney friends from Violet Roche,
now organising secretary for Enzed of
Dr. Barnardo’s Homes.
This is a Norton Trevaire photograph of
Mrs. J. M. Gordon, of Windella, Burren,
newly-elected president of the Country
Women’s Association of N.S.W.
A benign and benevolent Buddha bids
guests welcome to the Sunday-night
supper-party in aid of the Golden Fleece
Kindergarten. The organisers* of this
unusual entertainment are Mrs. W. H.
Oong and Dr. N. Lee. Lovers of Chinese
food are proffered a menu of chicken
asparagus soup, spring rolls, sweet and
sour pork, braised prawns and other
Chinese delicacies, China tea will, of
course, conclude the repast. After supper
there will be dancing. President of the
committee is Mrs. C. T. Lorenz. Half
of Sydney’s workers for good causes are
named on the committee, the vice-
presidents of which are Mrs, W. J.
Anderson, Mrs. J. Brash, Mrs. H. Fitz-
patrick, Mrs. F. A. Paton. The Nankin
Cafe is the appointed place.
This afternoon at three o’clock the
Australian Art Society will open its 25th
annual exhibition. Dorothy Helmrich
will make the opening address in the
Galleries of the Department of Education.
There’s quite a bit of reflective argu-
ment going on among women over Taylor
Caldwell’s latest book, Let Love Come
Last. It certainly gives the K.O. to the
idea of family loyalties. It deals with
the complete (or almost complete) absence
of brotherly love in the home life of an
American family in the latter part of the
nineteenth and the early part of the
twentieth century. Though the story is
absorbing, there is bitterness in the core
of it. There is no clan spirit about these
Prescotts. They don’t use arsenic on one
another, but they sound just as poisonous.
But in a country clamorous for popula-
tion, the fear of propagating such a breed
could be a bit shattering to the spinster
and bachelor on matrimony bent.
When Dorothy Friend and her brother
David pack up the last of the treasures
in their Sydney home and start life anew
in their roomy cottage at Bundanoon,
they will be leaving a lot of old Sydney
history behind them. Their house, named
Moreton after the birthplace of the first
W. S. Friend’s English bride, is a
rambling two-storied place of charm and
a reminder of the spacious days. It was
built in the midst of spreading grounds,
now spreading lawns, and flowers and
fruit-trees, by W. S. Friend, founder of
the wholesale hardware firm that still
bears his name. That was 110 years ago,
and there have always been members
of the Friend family beneath its hospit-
able roof. The lawns stretching down
to Hen and Chicken Bay, two miles in
from the Parramatta River, were the scene
of many garden-parties in the ’nineties,
and several generations of young Friends
and their companions have danced in the
large ballroom overlooking the river.
The Friend family gives up possession of
the old home because the Government
has taken over the property. Dorothy,
who has been the hon. treasurer of the
N.S.W. Women’s Hockey Association for
a number of years, will be farewelled at
C.E.N.E.F. by the Hockey Association
on the 13th of next month.
From Melbourne
Pnina Salzman, poised and imperturb-
able, opened her season at the Town Hall
last Saturday night in a programme which
included the Cesar Franck Prelude,
Chorale and Fugue and three Chopin
works. The pianist’s gown was a master-
piece of clever designing; into the white
chiffon skirt were inserted panels of black
lace. White chiffon under black lace
formed the bodice, which was finished
with a yoke and short sleeves of black
tulle. Mrs. John Tait covered her black
gown with a sable coat. Mrs. Frank
Tail’s black gown had silver bead em-
broidery. Cecil Tait wore a black chiffon
gown flounced from waist to hem. Mrs.
T. Allan McKay’s crepes were powder-
blue. Mrs. Claude Kingston rustled
black and gold striped taffetas under
silver-foxes. Alice-blue was faintly dis-
cernible under Thelma Naunton’s full-
length ermine coat. Hilda Corbett’s
blue-fox cape was worn over a bead-
embroidered gown. A little white feather
cap topped Mrs. Margaret Saker’s black
wool crepe jacket-suit. Black satin
fashioned the full skirt and page-boy
jacket worn by Mavis Hotmer.
Helen Wessells, charming and vivacious
American, flew into Melbourne on a
whirlwind visit which lasted five days.
Many friends she made while she was
director of the U.S. Information Library
here were invited to a late-afternoon
party at the Lyceum Club hostessed by
her successor, Geraldine LeMay. Mrs.
Wessells will spend the next three and a
half months changing from one aircraft
into another, and she will also cross the
Khyber Pass in a jeep. She bears a most
imposing title: Acting Chief of the
Library Section of the International
Libraries and Institutes Division of the
Informational Programme of the U.S,
Department of State. The hostess
received in a pretty rainbow-silk frock
cut on slim lines and a black velvet
beret. The guest-of-honor wore a bal-
lerina frock of self-patterned smoky-grey
taffeta and a large black velvet hat. Mrs.
Desmond Wenzel teamed a grey suit and
a white hat embellished with multi-toned
taffeta ribbon. Mrs. Felix St. Hill’s
alpaca coat was beige, her velvet beret
garnet-red. Mrs. Maurice Belz had black
aigrettes adorning the small black hat
she wore with her black jacket-suit.
Mrs. John Masters is wearing a Mitzi
Lorenz hat from the P.L. and B. parade
in this Gordon de Lisle photo. It is in
a soft shade of green straw and trimmed
with matching silk flowers and veiling.
A sought-after mannequin, Gwenda is
married to well-known radio-announcer
John Masters. She leaves for England
on June 5, where she hopes to gain more
experience in her work.
Madame Mitzi Lorenz, of London,
proved her adage that “pounds are
limited but taste is not” when her mid-
season and summer collection of hats
was shown at P.L. and B. s Flinders-lane
showroom. Not one model was more
than £4 10s. Madame Lorenz is in
London; nevertheless she “opened” the
parade and described in detail every hat
the mannequins wore —Madame had
made the recordings in London. The
basic beret has been twisted and deco-
rated in masterly fashion to make a
chapeau of taste and beauty. Many of
the models had a classical line, framing
and hugging the face, with trimmings of
taffeta ribbons, flowers and feathers and
finished with veiling, dyed to match the
hat. Madame prefers soft pastel tonines
Winter-white is also a favorite, and there
is a place in the collection for delicate
greys and natural colors, particularly i n
straws. Lime-green will be popular for
summer straws, with misty-blue and pale-
lilac also in favor. For winter-whites with
the navy, black and brown feather-mount
is the thing. Italian, Swiss and crinkle
straws are used extensively, and the pastel
for spring and summer is to be seen in
summerweight fur felts. In a weddino
group there is a delicate grey cloche
bonnet of Italian straw, its only
trimming a large pink cabbage-rose
for the bride’s mother; for the
bridesmaid a head-hugging cloche
in natural straw with a red rose slashing
back the fluted brim. A suggestion for
the bride’s going-away hat was a natural
straw cloche, with a rounded brim and
trimmed at one side with a delicately-
shaded tea-rose.
For the opening of her exhibition of
paintings at the Athenaeum Gallery—fot
this Dr. K. Weiner made neat speech—
Margaret Joske carried a little velvet muff
to match the black-velvet, gold-studded
snood she wore with her black-wool cape
jacket-suit. Among those who admired
the pictures were Sir Frederick Hay and
his lady ; she in a brown bird’s-eye tweed
suit and feather-trimmed cinnamon-
brown felt hat. The artist’s sister Joan
was attractive in a mustard-toned wool
suit and matching hat. Mrs. F. M.
Trotter, who is managing the exhibition,
had violets to light up the grey of suit
and hat. Mrs. H. Joachim Myer was
trim in a junior navy suit and a beige
felt which had pale-beige taffeta trim-
ming.
The recently-announced engagement of
Mrs. Beryl Riggall to Hubert, youngest
son of the late Dr. Julian Smith and Mrs.
Smith of East Melbourne, was received
with great pleasure by the president of
the War Widows’ Guild, Mrs. G. Vasey,
and fellow-workers in the guild. Mrs.
Riggall is the widow of Lieutenant W.
Riggall, who was the late Major-General
Vasey’s aide-de-camp. Mrs. Riggall has
been honorary secretary of the War
Widows’ Guild since its inception, and
is one of its most energetic workers,
Franquin the Hypnotist came to the
Princess to turn gentle maidens into
battling prize-fighters, ordinary young
men into romantic film actors and
violinists, and to so enrage one of his
subjects by making a noise like a serenad-
ing cat that she plucked off a shoe and
hurled it into the audience, missing a
well-known society matron by inches.
These uproarious doings attracted a big
first-night audience, among whom were
the Connelly lady, Dr. and Mrs. Frank
Mulcahy, Mrs. Olive Thring, Mr, and
Mrs. Arthur Prince —she in shimmering
ice-blue satins —Mrs. Neil Rogers, in
black and a small aigrette-trimmed
theatre-hat, Mrs. Hylton Dale, Mrs. Sam
Wells, Mrs. Don Decker and Mrs. Der-
mott Connelly,
Although it was a bleak day with fog
hovering round, M.oonee Valley race-
course on Saturday was bright with color.
A striking white alpaca coat with a hood
faced with wine-toned corduroy velvet
made Mrs. Bill Payne a cynosure. Her
sister, Mrs. Les Sangster, added to the
day’s glitter with a bright green frock,
dyed-ermine coat and a green felt hat
which had lime-green feather-trimming.
Mrs. Reg Vail’s junior navy coat had a
collar and pockets of grey Persian-lamb,
her matching junior navy hat had a bright
green feather mount. Mrs. Tom Blarney
chose a grey-and-navy check for her suit-
ing ; the jacket featured the new bloused
back. Her hat was a navy and white
bowler. Mrs. Frank Gillespie’s brown
lamb coat was worn over a beige suit,
her brown hat had orange quills. Mrs.
John Matthias’s striped suit was in blue
and brown; brown feathers trimmed h
matching hat. Sables set off Mrs-
Fowler’s jacket-suit. A smoky-blue smi
and a matching hat comprised Mrs. H. •
Mermagan’s contribution to smartnes •
Mrs. Keith Campbell was m sage-green.
Mrs. Bill Lienhop wore a red frock und
her pale-grey coat.. Mrs. Norman
Robinson combined ink-blue suit .
winter-white hat. Mrs. W. S. Cox
suit had for company a winter-whi
hat pierced with black quills.


PERSONAL ITEMS
It is typical of David Lyon McLarty
that he gives himself three lines in Who's
Who; but they cover him well enough.
The M.I.E.S. (Scotland) and M.I.E. (Aus-
tralia) embrace an apprenticeship in a
shipyard at Greenock, which grew to the
assistant works-managership of a Glasgow
shipbuilding firm and extended to
deputy boss of the Shanghai Dock and
Engineering Co.; the local initials stem
from His landing here in 1925, with two
years at Cockatoo Island, builders of our
latest destroyer, Tobruk. After that he
bossed Monson and Brearly in New-
castle, and later, Robison Brothers, the
big Melbourne shipbuilders and engineers.
When the State dockyard shifted to New-
castle in 1941 McLarty took over, and
built some fine ships for the R.A.N.,
among them frigate Condamine, who
proved her worth a couple of years back
towing an oil-lighter as heavy as herself
from Darwin to Fremantle, most of the
way on the edge of a cyclone. A dour
six-feet-odd, as broad as his name,
McLarty’s been elected to the Electricity
Commission which the N.S.W. Govern-
ment has just got off its chest.
Robert Nicholson McCulloch, principal
of Roseworthy Agricultural College (out
of Adelaide), last week added Doctor of
Agricultural Science to his Oxford B.Sc.
Awarded for his thesis on control of that
New Guinea Diggers’ nightmare scrub
typhus, the doctorate signifies three years
of solid work as O.C. of the A.l.F.’s
Mobile Entomological Section, in those
parts where the typhus was most preva-
lent. From his probings McCulloch dis-
covered and developed his anti-mite fluid,
absorbed by numerous smitten Diggers.
As well, while president of the Australian
Institute of Agricultural Science in 1941,
McCulloch did graziers good service by
his researches into sheep blowflies and
other insect pests. An Old Fortian,
graduate of Sydney University, where he
was prominent in Uni. rowing circles, he
went to Oxford as Rhodes Scholar for
1926, and, from 1946 till he shifted south
to Roseworthy, was lecturer-in-charge of
entomology at his alma mater. Now 46,
he still pulls a powerful oar.
Waitaki Boys’ High School, Maoriland,
made famous by the late Frank Milner,
has a new head in Malcolm Leadbetter,
M.A., as well as his scholastic attain-
ments a Rugbyite and track athlete nomi-
nated for the Olympic Games team in
1928—insufficient funds precluded his in-
clusion. One of two M.L. officers
selected to go to New Guinea, he was
attached to the Australian forces in the
final stages of the attack on the Owen
Stanleys. Later, lieutenant-colonel, he
linked with the U.S. Army under Lieut.-
Colonel L. Morris, at Guadalcanal,
“Macnell” inspects a distinguished
shipmate:
Wherever John Augustine Collins now steams
on his lawful occasions the one-balled flag of a
vice-admiral will whip above him —and not a
man in the Fleet will grudge him it. [The
Bulletin echoes the Fleet’s good wishes; for
long it has advocated the promotion of Aus-
tralians to flag-rank in the Australian squadron.]
d H a x? f most battle-wise seamen in the
KA.N., an easy-to-serve fellow with a school-
boy grin never far below the surface of his
weather-darkened dial, Collins was born near
salt water at Deloraine (Tas.), son of a doctor,
brother of author Dale. He learnt his prac-
bcal navigation in an exacting school —the
War I Grand Fleet —and his gunnery (in which
he specialised and topped his class) at that
t i .mater of British naval turreteers, Whale
Island. As executive officer of cruiser Sydney
in her first two years of life, with ’tween-decks
ms main province, he learnt her innards back-
wards, and was a moral for her command when
she landed practice ammo and stocked-up with
yellow-nosed semi-armor-piercing. When her
name, and his, rang through the world’s navies
with Bartolomeo Colleoni’s sinking in 1940, it
was not so much the result of that one action
as it was of years of patiently-acquired gunnery
and seamanship skill, brilliantly applied to a
tew hours’ fighting. Collins led his jnen
through Sydney in February, 1941, and enjoyed
the march like a schoolboy on holidays; after-
wards, he enjoyed the speeches as much as a
tour-hour watch in an Arctic blow. The contrast
provides the index to his character. An impor-
shore-post in Singapore took him from his
old bridge when she fought her last engagement,
but he was soon afloat again, commodore
commanding British naval forces under the
Allied S.-W. Pacific command —the first Aus-
tralian to go higher than captain. In 1944, on
October 21 (the day of Trafalgar), Collins was
wearing his pendant in cruiser Australia, then
bombarding off Leyte. A Kamikaze bore in,
smashed itself into the foremast and slewed
across the bridge, trailing a curtain of high-
octane juice. A bomb exploded the lot in a
searing wrap of flame which killed the captain,
navigator, four officers and 26 men. Collins
was cruelly burnt. He convalesced in Fremantle,
returned to command of the Australian Squaxl-
rpn, and was Australia’s naval representative
at the surrender in Tokyo Bay. A very likeable,
, r *> still-bouncy 51, known universally (and
unofficially) as “John,” Collins is Australia’s
first commodore, rear-admiral, Chief of Naval
btaff. First Naval-Member and now, first V/A.
onolties take note.
Shifting north from the S. Australian
Directorship of Civil Aviation to a like
post in the Territory, R. Kingsland has
top-flight experience in his sphere. One-
time manager of Sydney’s Kingsford
Smith airport, he flew with T.A.A. for
six months to get experience of the
nation’s airline routes. He’d done a bit
of air work before that —fighting with
the famed 10 Squadron of Sunderlands
from England in the late war, and, later,
commanding 11 Squadron and the Rath-
mines (N.S.W.) R.A.A.F. station. Back
home towards the end, group-captain,
he held down three directorates —training,
intelligence and organisation and staff-
duties at R.A.A.F. headquarters. At 33,
he is the youngest C.A. director in that
body’s history.
Brian Maegraith, Professor of Tropical
Medicine at Liverpool (Eng.), arrives in
Sydney on July 25. He leaves for Can-
berra on the 28th —this his first time
home since he went abroad as Rhodes
Scholar in 1930.
When a salvage call from a stricken
ship goes out it’s a fairly safe bet
Captain John William Herd’s on the
answering end. Salving ships has been
his particular bread-and-butter for the
past eight years, when he became Queens-
land’s salvage officer and member of the
Commonwealth Marine Salvage Board.
Going straight from Brisbane Grammar
into sail, he had his extra master’s ticket
at 30, was at sea throughout the Kaiser’s
war, and came ashore to marine-surveying
in 1929. When the Japs got to work on
Allied shipping round New Guinea, so
did Herd, lifting and saving at Oro Bay
under bombing, and, a brilliant job,
salving undamaged 98 per cent, of a
Liberty ship’s £3-million war-equipment
cargo. Biggest lift under his management
was the better part of the bullion from
the mined Niagara, million in gold.
At time of writing he is standing-by the
Marietta Dal, broken in two on the saw-
edged back of Smith Rock, off Cape
Moreton. If saving was possible. Herd
would bring her in.
An effervescent personality with an
impish smile, Fred Lane is rarely seen
in the repose here depicted by Dubois.
Half a century ago Fred was a world
swimming champion, and old-timers still
talk and write about his watery deeds.
At 19 he defeated England’s best swim-
mers, established several records, and, in
1902, with Read and Cavill, he revisited
England ; the team almost daily estab-
lished times till then thought impossible.
The first man to swim 100 yards in 60
seconds. Lane was born in historic
Miller’s Point in 1880, and got his first
ducking when, a nipper of four, he fell
from a wharf. Apart from swimming,
Lane excelled in other aquatic sports—
as an oarsman in college, club and inter-
FRED LANE, swimming-collector.
State crews and as a yachtsman on Syd-
ney Harbor. In 1903 he founded the
printing firm of Smith and Lane, and was
in business until retirement 10 years ago.
For 25 years he has been an enthusiastic
collector of Norman Lindsay items in all
media, and has a fine library of auto-
biographed books written or illustrated
by Australia’s best-known artist. An-
other hobby is the collecting of small
silver and bronze models and miniature
books. His home at Mona Vale (N.S.W.),
built single-handed by him, is a rendez-
vous for Sydney writers and artists, many
of whom Fred helped along in their
struggling days.
Tom McMahon, oldest living Bulletin
identity, with the paper 48 years, and for
long its secretary and accountant, notched
90 last Friday and is amazingly fit and
alert for his years. Son of an Irishman
from Co. Clare, Tom was born at the
rear of his father’s farrier’s shop in
George-street, Sydney, about opposite
where Dymock’s Book Arcade now
stands. Educated at Marist Brothers’
school in Harrington-street on Church
Hill, he must be one of the school’s
oldest ex-pupils. In 1880 he joined The
Bulletin — then at 107 Castlereagh-
street —when it was one week old. His
job as junior clerk involved keeping the
boosts, looking after the cash, sweeping
floors, canvassing advertisements, distri-
buting copies on publishing day, and
TOM McMAHON, oldest BULLETINEER.
helping to turn the flywheel of a cranky
printing machine when its engine broke
down. Except for a brief break when
he looked after the Tamworth (N.S.W.)
“Observer” for John Haynes, Tom was
with The Bulletin until his retirement
in 1928. He can recall all the paper’s
giants of the past, and, when Prior called
to wish him a happy birthday, chuckled
over the antics of such irresponsibles as
Harry Cargill (“The Dipsomaniac”) and
Theodore Argles (“Harold Grey”), Re-
membered also was the incomparable Ina
Wildman, who wrote • the “Woman’s
Letter” in the ’eighties and ’nineties as
“Sappho Smith.” Said Tom: “She was a
brilliant and lovely little woman.” As
custodian of the cash Tom signed count-
less “Thank Heavens, That’s Paid”
cheques, and listened to thousands of
hard-luck stories from hard-up contribu-
tors, who all regretted his retirement, for
Tom was a generous soul. “I remember,”
remarked Tom, “the first big advertising
contract we got. Archibald, Haynes and
I celebrated the occasion in rum.”
Australian Mercantile Land’s new
assistant g.m. for Australia, Alan May
Murdoch, hasn’t much more to learn of
his firm. He joined it in 1912, and has
been there ever since, managing the
Sydney office from 1937. Before that he
looked after Brisbane interests, except for
the four years when the Kaiser claimed
his attention. He won the M.C.
From an old schoolfellow:
Major-General Eric Clive Pegus Plant, who
has passed on at 60, had been a soldier
since he was 13, when he joined the Brisbane
Grammar School cadets, following in the steps
of his father, Lieutenant-Colonel C. F. Plant,
an early mining pioneer of Queensland on
Charters Towers and one of the first prospectors
of the Mt. Morgan field. Eric’s eldest brother
Reg served with the sth Light Horse in World
War .1 (twice wounded), after being attached
for special training to the 10th Hussars in India.
A second brother, Harold (“Gum”), was a
doctor just through his courses when he enlisted
in 1914. He was killed at Pozieres, November
11, 1916, and the Harold Plant Memorial Medal
at his old school commemorates his name. Both
Harold and Major-General Eric Plant (“Ike”),
who was commissioned in the old Moreton
Regiment—later 9th Battalion, A.1.F., with
which he went abroad as adjutant—were great
rifle-shots. Eric was a member of the
school team which won the Earl of Meath’s
Empire Cup against the schools of the Empire
in 1903—the youngest member to shoot in the
competition—and Harold shot the following
year. Eric was commissioned in the permanent
forces in 1912, and in War I served
through everything from Gallipoli, where he
led the farthest-flung patrol, to the end. He
was G. 5.0.2 with 4th Division and G. 5.0.2,
4th Army. At one stage he commanded the
49th Battalion. He won a D.S.O. and Bar,
an 0.8. E. and C. de Guerre, and was men-
tioned in dispatches six times. After the war
he graduated at Camberley, served in many
important staff positions and was O.C. Dun-
troon when World War II broke out. He
commanded an infantry brigade in the Middle
East, serving in Libya and Syria, and was one
of the six senior officers brought home on the
outbreak of the Japanese War to reorganise
Australian defence against invasion. He was
G.O.C. Western Command in 1942, of Victorian
Lines of Communication (1943), and of Eastern
Command until 1946. A quiet, courteous,
soldierly man, more the cut of a British than
an Australian officer, he was as game as a
meat-ant and full of enthusiasm for a profession
which was his whole life. He was an aide-de-
camp to the King.
“CeeBo”: Apparently American
comedian Joe E, Brown arrived in Sydney
this time under somewhat different cir-
cumstances (B. 17/5/’5O). When a col-
league and I went to see him during a
war-time visit to Sydney—he was touring
American military camps—we found the
little man almost hidden behind a rank
of outsize U.S. Marines, each with what
my colleague called “a ruddy great can-
non” on each hip (they were huge .45
automatics in holsters with thigh-thongs).
It seemed to me that Joe E. had a job
to preserve the facial solemnity necessary
for one with such an escort, and I said
to my colleague, “Wonder what those
guards would do if a man shoved through
’em?” He grabbed my arm convulsively.
“Don’t you!’’ he almost yelled. “They
look too flamin’ trigger-happy for mine.”
Behind this appalling array of U.S. might,
however, Brown proved to be “the friend-
liest fellow imaginable.”
There is no better-known clerical figure
in Ballarat and parts adjacent than the
Venerable Joseph Best, archdeacon of
the city for the past 24 years. Schooled
there, and, in 1915, vicar of its St. John’s,
he came back as Rural Dean of Ballarat
North in 1919, having spent part of the
in-between with the 39th Battalion in
France and Belgium and part with the
11th Light Horse in Palestine and Syria.
At the cease-fire he was Senior Chaplain
of the Australian Mounted Division. He
spare-times with fishing, geology and
chess, has written two books (one with
the interesting title of Big Business in
Religion ), and retired, exactly 70, a few
days ago.
Few Australian rifle-shots have notched
more bulls than Major W. H. Hackfath,
recently appointed secretary of the
N.R.A. in Westralia. A hefty permanent
soldier, he scored his first bull as a school
cadet in 1899 and in subsequent years
tied for the N.R.A. (Great Britain)) King’s
Prize in 1923, won the King’s Prize at
Swanbourne (W.A.) in 1929 and the King’s
Medal for the best shot in the Australian
Military Forces at Long Bay in 1930 and
again in 1932. Hackfath joined the Per-
manent Forces, sergeant-major, in 1914
and went up to commissioned rank
shortly before Hitler hit out. With
retiring age reached in 1946, he took over
the job of Supervisor of Rifle Clubs,
Western Command; for many years past
he had been Chief Range Officer in W.A.
Another score was the D.C.M. while with
the 11th Battalion at Passchendaele.
Into the Silence:
In Johannesburg, at 59, Albert George Hard,
Australian Trade Commissioner in S. Africa.
In 35 years’ trade-commissioning he’d seen
plenty of the world, from Japan and India
to the U.S. and England. In War II he had
the handling of Australian food parcels in
England, and last month organised his country’s
exhibition at the Rand Easter Show. He was
due to retire this year.
In Wellington (M.L.j, at 77, knight Michael
Myers, Chief Justice from 1929 to 1946. Ad-
mitted to the Bar in 1897, he figured in many
notable cases and argued six before the Privy
Council, all of which he won. In 1945 he
represented M.L, on the U.N. Committee of
Jurists and at the San Francisco Conference.
He married an Adelaide woman.
In Perth, at 76, Arthur John Lee, Boer War
veteran, 10th Light Horseman and one of the
West’s finest horsemen. On Gallipoli he caught
a bayonet in his thigh in the savagery at Hill 60,
but was mounted again in time to help hound
Abdul out of the Sinai desert into Palestine
and win the D.C.M. On less-warlike occasions
he was an amateur steeplechase- and flat-race-
rider in S. Australia and on the West’s gold-
fields before becoming clerk of the course for
the W.A. Turf Club.
In Brisbane, at 52, C. R. O. Byrne, one of
the northern State’s best railway administrators.
For the past year, stationed in Toowoomba
on the Downs, he controlled the whole of the
Railway Department’s south-western division.
At 53, in Melbourne, Major Cyril French,
known well to Melbourne and Sydney radio
and advertising men. In War I an A.I.F.
gunner who later took-off into the A.F.C. to
become a fighter-pilot, in the second he was a
staff-officer with Southern Command.
In Adelaide, at 74, David John Gilbert,
veteran pressman who served on Sydney
“Herald” and' “D.T.” before founding News,
Ltd., in Adelaide, and, shifting to Perth,
managing the “Daily News.” As Comptroller
of Repatriation after War I he drafted the
Diggers’ repat. scheme.
At Murray Bridge (S.A.), at 58, Waldermar
Pfeiffer, in his day one of Australia’s best
oars, and member of the Murray Bridge crew,
known wherever rowlocks creak. In 1913 his
crew won the Australian championships; he
represented S. Australia in all States, and was
with the Murray Bridge crew that won the
King’s Cup four times in six attempts. In
1924 he went with the Bridge eight to Paris
for the Olympic Games.
At 82, in Ballarat, Alfred James Pittard,
chairman of the local Water Commission, one-
time mayor and M.L.C. for Ballarat province
for 18 years prior to his retirement. He was
the father of Alan G. Pittard, M.P.
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 82, James Louis
Salmond, architect of many churches, public
buildings and banks in Otago. One of his
biggest works was designing the Grand Pacific
Hotel at Fiji. A native of North Shields, he
came out at seven with his father, Dr. William
Salmond, professor of mental and moral
philosophy at Otago University.


[?]
FROM the top of the ridge the road
ran away down, so bad as to be
almost indistinguishable from the
lichened granite ..that littered the
slope. Angers stood and tried to follow
it with his eyes before he sent his aching
feet on what might prove to be a wild-
goose chase ; in that way his gaze rather
crept upon the figure half-day down the
rise, and he looked twice before he con-
gratulated himself on having found some-
one who might at least direct him out
of the impasse in which he found him-
self.
For hours he had been driving around
aimlessly over the endless network of
mountain roads, red-dirt tracks and rutted
gravel byways that seemed only to
enmesh him more and more securely the
further he went among the wild gullies
and soaring, wind-swept slopes of these
everlasting hills. Where Kiandra, his
original destination, might now be, he
plished in a hurry, nor without consider-
able noise from displaced stones, heavy
breathing and muttered curses, he did
not look up until Angers was only a few
yards away.
Then he turned slowly, leaning on the
bar with which he had been sinking a
post-hole. Angers was surprised to find
him not as old as he had appeared from
behind, bent over the hole, his thin
shoulders crouched inside the heavy grey
flannel from which his brown, corded
arms protruded thin and brittle-looking
with whip-cord muscles rippling and
jumping as he worked the heavy bar. A
raffish felt hat that might once have been
grey, the silk band frayed and sleazy, sat
well back on his forehead, hardly shading
the pale blue eyes that foundered in an
interminable claypan of criss-crossing
wrinkles and almost disappeared as he
peered up at the newcomer, taking a
soiled bandanna handkerchief from his
i t W OU better have tea with us,” the
t thin man said eventually, without
glancing around at Angers. “Where was
you goin’?”
“Kiandra.”
“Kiandra? Holy smoke, you’re a long
way out o’ your course. You must’ve
been having quite a ride?”
Angers laughed.
“Most of the afternoon, I’m afraid —
took a wrong turn just outside Cooma
and then another, and here I am. It’s
lucky I stumbled across you!”
“Yeah. You’re nearer Cooma now’n
you are Kiandra, if it that —
you come into our place on a bit of a
track that hasn’t been used for years.
Gawd only knows how you found it.” He
extended his hand. “Anyway, my name’s
Fermanagh,”
“And mine’s Angers.” Angers clasped
the extended hand ; it was rough, hard
and warm against his palm, but it did
not grip his fingers. “Jim Angers, and
thanks for your invite—l’d’ve had a cold
night of it otherwise!”
Fermanagh, grunted and pointed up the
slope.
“You skip up an’ get your bus,” he
said. “Bring her over an’ we’ll ride down
to my place. Track’s rough, but she’ll
have to come over some time.”
Angers strode away up the slope, and
when he nursed the ca’r over the ridge
a few minutes later, and down among the
loose granite, Fermanagh had gathered
his tools in a heap alongside the un-
finished hole and stood ready to get into
the car. Angers nodded at the bar and
shovel.
“You want to put those in?” he offered.
“Don’t be afraid of marking the up-
holstery ! ”
The other laughed shortly, his eyes
disappearing again among the wrinkles
at and clung to the slow-moving vehicle
“Go on —get inside or I’ll break your
damned necks!”
The surge gradually abated, stood for
a while regarding the visitor from be-
hind, and then retreated inside the house •
as they walked away from the car which
they left parked on the sward alongside
a rutty gravel track, Fermanagh laughed.
“I suppose you’re wondering where that
mob come from, eh?”
Angers started. It was just what he
was wondering. “ Well, yes,” he admitted.
“Grandchildren, eh?”
“Grandchildren, my foot. Every
mother’s son of ’era’s mine!”
They came to the steps leading to a
rickety porch and a beautiful little
Border Collie bitch launched herself at
him from the ground and landed against
his chest, avidly licking at his leathery
cheeks.
“Ah, Jessie!” He petted her for a
moment and then dropped her gently to
the ground, where she danced happily at
his heels.
“Married twice,” he continued, and
picked up a ragged toddler of two or
three from the steps, “I got three married,
but they live in another district. This’s
me last, I reckon.” He squeezed the baby
and nuzzled its leg against his neck. “But
come on in—you’ll meet them soon
enough.”
THE scene inside the house reminded
Angers of nothing so much as one
of the social gatherings that used to take
, place in the parish hall of the small
country town where he spent his youth.
But that such a large and motley gather-
ing could all belong to the same family,
and own, if not the same mother, then
the same father, seemed impracticable.
All the life of the house seemed to be
STATION HOMESTEAD
WITH BOATING
By T.A.G. HUNGERFORD
had not the faintest idea. One doubtful
turn, followed by another that put the
seal on the error and led to a dozen more,
had bamboozled him so that in the end
he just kept oh going in the hope that
accident would let him out of the maze
or that he would meet someone who
might direct him.
It was stark country, almost frighten-
ing to one more at home in the well-
populated caverns and windowed slopes
of George- and Pitt-streets. For a while
the frowning bluffs and the deep, whisper-
ing valleys had enchanted him ; the far
views of wooded slopes and pale blue
distance were a rare experience, and
Angers revelled in it wholeheartedly until
gradually he became'aware of something
else that was only the silence, but seemed
in time to become a tangible thing that
sat like a stone gargoyle on his shoulder.
Creeping in low gear across a ford in
the bottom of a shadowed gorge where
the water winked in handfuls of flung
jewels over the golden gravel, he was
shocked to find himself pinned under
the oblique, golden-eyed regard of five
silent sheep whose presence on the other
bank he had never suspected; and, when
rounding a shoulder of granite that jutted
out clean into the higher air of a wide
valley, he disturbed three brumbies which
disappeared over a ridge on the echo of
a shrill neigh and the metallic clatter of
unshod hooves on the rocks, the hair on
the back of his neck prickled a primeval
warning as up and down his twentieth-
century spine the nerves of his cave-
wellmg ancestors twanged their distrust
or the quiet and the distance and the
strange secret inhabitants of these im-
mense lonelinesses.
“ H ! t_ Hellci ’ down there! ” he cried
* /out, beginning to pick his wav
cautiously down the slope to the silent
haThri'T J he maD ’ Soever he was!
although th aCk A toWards An B ers > and
although the descent was not accom-
hip-pocket to wipe it slowly across his
beaded forehead,
“ ’Day,” he said, without warmth or
interest, stowing the handkerchief away
and taking out instead a battered, shiny
tin. “Been warm!” He hung a flimsy
paper lightly on his lip and extracted
tobacco for a smoke, unravelling it gently
with his calloused finger-tips from the
plug in the tin before offering it, as though
on second thought, to Angers, who shook
his head.
“No, thanks—don’t use it.” He
gestured down the slope in the direction
taken almost invisibly by the track. “You
live hereabouts?”
“Yair, over the ridge, there —can’t see
the place from here, though. Why?—
you lookin’ for someone?” The sun-
dried lips pursed strongly /around the
cigarette and a blue flower of smoke
bloomed on the air between the two men.
“Well, not exactly,” Angers admitted
with a wry grin, “although I don’t mind
saying that I’m glad to see you. I’m
lost.”
“Lost?” The other’s eyebrows climbed
the rungs across his forehead. “You not
on foot, are you?”
“No, I left my car on the other side
of the ridge, down there.” Angers jerked
his head back in the direction he had
come. “Petrol was getting a bit low and
I thought I’d have a gander before I
came on up. Track was getting a bit
rough, too, and hard to follow.”
The other nodded without comment
and looked away down the hillside.
Shadows were lengthening, crawling
across the grassy slopes and deepening the
scarlet patches where the winds and rains
of the winter denuded the thin top-soil.
Magpies and mudlarks called from hill-
top to hill-top across the gullies, their
notes clear and bell-like, and an almost
imperceptible chill seeped into the air.
Angers shivered slightly..
that spread on his brown skin like cracks
widening in shattered glass.
“No bother. No one around here
within miles!” he said, and for no
accountable reason, other than the silence
and the vastness and the creeping shadows.
Angers shivered again, the flesh of his
shoulders crawling under his thin shirt.
THE house, as Fermanagh promised,
was not far away, over the second
rise from where Angers had met him. It
crouched in a small depression, backed
by a shearing granite bluff, a long, low
structure of slab and shingle that appeared
to have been added to from time to time
wherever an extra room could be tacked
on most easily according to the dictates
of necessity or desire. Already, since it
was rapidly darkening, there was a row
of yellow light shining from the windows
of what appeared to be a room of con-
siderable size, and around it drifted the
homely noise of many dogs and children.
As they neared it, rattling and bump-
ipg down the darkening slope in a way
that transformed Angers’s entire con-
sciousness into one vast rear-axle, he
became steadily aware of the urgent hush-
hush of running water. Between them
and the house, brawling below a level
patch of natural grass, was a mountain
stream which they forded close to the
ramshackle building.
“Run her straight through, Angers,”
Fermanagh advised. “There’s a track to
the main road on the other side of the
house—it’s about seven miles away;
she’ll* be safe enough there, I guess, and
besides, leave her here, and my bloody
herd’ll pull her to pieces on you.”
As they passed the house turmoil
broke out inside and a torrent of dogs
and children of ail sizes poured out the
front door in a squealing, barking, yakki-
ing horde and surrounded the car.
“Down! Get inside! Get away!”
Fermanagh shouted, swiping vigorously
at dogs and children alike as they jumped
centred around a long trestle table where
the family had gathered, except for the
restless sifting movement of dogs in and
out, under the table and across the floor,
in a'large, low room, blackened by smoke
and unlined except for layer upon layer
of illustrated papers that covered the
walls, with here and there a colored sup-
plement outlined in plain white paper
for ornament. The- floor was bare, and
scrubbed to a startling cleanness, the
windows uncurtained and most of the
wall at the far end taken up by an open
fireplace and a kitchen range of heroic
proportions where a good-looking, big,
dark woman presided over a variety ot
pots and pans of heavy black iron, a
skillet in her hand.
The rest of the family, and a second
woman who obviously could not, from
her age and appearance, be Fermanagh s
daughter, or hardly even a maiden sister,
watched the visitor as in a quick an
astounded survey his eyes swept over
them and counted thirteen.
“This’s the Missus,” Fermanagh volun-
teered, indicating the woman by the stove.
“Mister Angers, Mirry —he’s having te
with us. He lost himself on the way to
Kiandra.” .
He walked across to the woman and
she presented her cheek to his lip ß > J*
he did so, a soft voice spoke out ot tn
shadows beside the range, and, looKii s
around the end of the fireplace, Ang
saw an old woman sitting in a wheelcna •
Incredibly old, with iron-grey hair drags
relentlessly back from a mottled I
head into a tiny bun on her wtner
neck, her eyes sunken and hooded,)
overhanging folds of skin, her thin a i >
tiny and dry in the voluminous bia»
silk of her sleeves, shifting restlessly
the padded arms of her chair.
“Kiandra!” she said softly, and some-
thing, some quality of sadness and tor's
in her thin, brittle voice endowed the
word with all the lonely grandeur oi umi


less Space and windswept plains close to
the sky. “I remember it, Harry—the
Chinamen and the diggers. And the
gold! Ah, who’s going to Kiandra?”
6 Fermanagh looked quickly at Angers.
“My mother,” he said softly, and signi-
ficantly touched his eyes. He leaned over
the shrunken figure in the chair. “Our
visitor, Mum. Mister Angers; he’s go-
ing to Kiandra later on.”
Angers watched, fascinated ; the small
withered head nodded and the fleshless
lips muttered, but no words came. Fer-
managh’s wife turned to the stove.
“I’m just going to dish up. Mister
Angers— you like a sluice> before tea?
Harry, you haven’t introduced Mister
Angers to Louise! Then take him out
and have a wash —it’s almost on the table.
Go on!”
FERMANAGH left his mother’s side
and gestured to the table. Angers,
turning, beheld the tall elderly woman
who, when he came in, had been seated
beside the trestle, surrounded by bicker-
ing children. Now she stood and bowed
awkwardly, disengaging the clutching
hand of a youngster from the folds of
her tweed skirt as she did so. Somehow,
he found it hard to fit her into the room,
the smoke-blackened ceiling, the brawling
children and the quiet, suspicious adoles-
cents around the table, the dogs and the
grimy, newspapered walls. Looking at
her, he felt a'strong and unaccountable
tug at his consciousness.
She was thin and straight with a long
slender neck that carried her small head
proudly enough until her eyes met his,
then it seemed to. become ungoverned,
letting her head 101 l and sag in a travesty
of coquettishness. An apologetic half-
smile chased across her thin features,
leaving her mouth turned up at the
corners but an anxious shadow clouding
her wide, grey eyes. One fine, slender
hand smoothed unconsciously at her
greying hair while the other toyed aim-
lessly with the large, old-fashioned cameo
that fixed a white lace handkerchief at
the bosom of her blouse.
“My cousin, Miss Brinkwater,” Fer-
managh said slowly, a curious grin settling
on his thin mouth. “Mister Angers,
Louise.” He turned again to Angers,
“Miss Brinkwater’s governess to the kids.”
Angers stifled a sudden desire to laugh ;
the stilted introduction in the midst of
the noisy squalor of the teeming living-
room, the woman’s distant air of reserve
and of not belonging, then the formal
word “governess” made the whole thing
seem unreal, almost theatrical. Governess
to this tribe! A governess pursued a
quiet tenor of books and music with well-
behaved children in large sunny rooms—
what this mob wanted was not a governess
but a drover, spurs and all. Looking at
them he felt that their hands would be
more at home setting rabbit-traps and
snares for the possums he could hear
rampaging in the ceiling than fiddling
with books.
He bowed, controlling his twitching
lips, and she murmured something con-
ventional in a light, tired voice. But
through all the noise and the strangeness
he felt again the curious impact of appeal,
almost of desperation, that flowed from
her. A momentary silence settled on the
room; the children were all still, looking
shyly, brazenly, indifferently at the new-
comer. Fermanagh and his wife stood side
by side at the stove, saying nothing, and
the middle-aged woman, having met
Angers’s eyes fully, dropped her own and
flushed.
A silence so complete that when three
red dogs crept through the door and
walked towards the table, their toenails
clicked loudly on the uncovered floor,
“CEEL better, Mister Angers?” the
* dark woman inquired as the two
men returned from the porch, where they
washed in icy water straight from the
river. “Harry’U set you down at the
table.”
“Thank you very much, Mrs. Fer-
managh.”
“You’re welcome, I’m sure!” The
woman made the conventional rejoinder
easily enough, but again Angers had the
feeling that he was there only because
hospitality was the convention of the
region, and not because they wanted him
there or, in the normal way of these
secluded farmhouses, they might be glad
°f the company of an outsider.
“Louise,” Fermanagh’s wife said
briskly, breaking into his half-formed
thoughts, “wheel Mum up, will you, and
we’ll start.”
“Yes, Louise, dear, wheel me up.” The
old lady’s voice was overlaid with
querulousness, “Don’t ever leave me,
Louise. She mustn’t ever go, Harry.”
She lifted her sightless face to the pale
golden light of the lamps and turned it
to one after the other of the people
around her appealingly.
“Shh!” Fermanagh admonished her
with more sharpness, Angers thought.
than the simple request warranted. “You
know she won’t go—don’t worry about
it.”
“Chase them kids away, Mister
Angers,” Mrs. Fermanagh commanded
briskly. “Don’t let them worry the life
out of you.” She pulled and slapped at
three of the youngest who hung like in-
quisitive puppies around the visitor, and
gradually, almost miraculously, the moil-
ing crew settled down at the table.
Angers watched them as they ate. The
line of demarcation between the two
families was definite —eight of them, the
elder group, of whom the oldest might
have been twenty-three or -four, were
fair, with blue eyes and a uniformly
heavy, sullen expression. The boys were
broad, even the youngest of them showr
ing promise of being big men, with
heavy, muscled shoulders and corded
arms ; the girls were well-built, one only
just out of her teens, straining at the
confines of her cheap cotton frock. They
addressed themselves stolidly to their
meal, sometimes pursuing a muttered con-
versation, occasionally shooting veiled
glances to the head of the table where
Angers sat.
The younger family were all dark and
wiry, gamin children with pipe-stem legs
and arms of incredible vitality, dancing,
bright eyes and darting, restless tongues
that contributed a lot of the conversa-
tion and just about all of the noise tha£.
circulated the table, and were continually
reprimanded and checked by their mother
and the pale governess and each other.
They laughed and skirmished, sharing
one another’s food and throwing scraps
to the dogs that circled the table at what
seemed to be an agreed distance fighting
for the titbits ; one of the boys had the
Border Collie bitch, Jessie, lodged be-
tween his knees and was feeding her
direct from his plate with surreptitious
glances at the visitor and ecstatic
wriggling of his shoulders, his antics
eagerly watched and commented on by
the remainder.
CONVERSATION was desultory
amongst the adults; Angers, after
driving all day in the unaccustomed keen
air of the mountains, had worked up a
prodigious appetite and appreciated the
piled platter of boiled mutton and pota-
toes which Fermanagh’s dark wife slid
on to the oilcloth in front of him. The
governess ate silently and sparingly, care-
fully separating the lean meat from the
fat, mincing her food minutely and chew-
ing with mouth primly closed. Fer-
managh and his wife ate for strength to
sustain the brood they had amassed be-
tween them, and the old lady, like an
ivory figurine beneath the yellow light
of a hanging lamp, pursued her food
around her plate with a spoon and
mumbled over it with toothless jaws.
The meal was soon over. Meal-times
at that house. Angers reflected with
secret amusement, were obviously for
the purpose of eating and not, as in the
circle in which he moved, primarily for
the exchange of gossip and the clinching
of business deals. The young people left
the table as soon as they had finished,
singly and in groups, and when only one
or two lingered Fermanagh pushed his
plate away and leaned back in his chair
to roll himself a cigarette.
“You got business in Kiandra?” he de-
manded suddenly. “I w’s wondering;
seems a bit early for the snow.”
A NGERS was taken by surprise by the
■'""V question, but didn’t show it.
“No,” he answered evenly. “No busi-
ness—just having a look around. I’m a
writer, and I thought I might turn up
something interesting.”
The other laughed shortly. “You’re a
bit late—about seventy years or so. The
old lady here, she c’d tell you a few tales.
She w’s married there, what, seventy
years ago or more . . . Eh, Mum,
seventy-odd years, wasn’t it?”
Angers looked at the old woman. She
made no sound, but her head nodded
gently and a thin, sad smile crept across
her parchment cheeks as though the
secret mind were following pathways im-
measurably old, each of which led to the
grave of someone with whom she had
shared the roaring gold-rush days—hus-
band, lovers, children who, old men and
women themselves, had long since died.
God. she must be getting on for a hun-
dred, he thought,
“Her and the old man took a bullock-
team up in the rush, you know. Made a
fair pile sellin’ butter and flour to the
diggers,” Fermanagh volunteered. “Where
you from?”
Once again the quick question and
the unabashed curiosity disconcerted
Angers.
“Queensland,” he said abruptly, not
embroidering the information.
“Ah, Queensland.” The governess
looked at him, smiling softly. “Queens-
land in June, July, August—just like the
south of France.”
“You’ve travelled in France, Miss
Brinkwater?”
“Ah, yes, most of the Continent, ex-
cept Russia.” A shade of animation
crept into her voice. “South America,
too, and Canada, but not the United
States. I was going there after I saw
Australia, but I—put it off .. . for a
few years, anyway.”
“And are you going soon?” Angers
asked with a smile. “You’d better, you
know, if you want to get in before the
next war.”
“I don’t know,” the governess said un-
certainly, and the animation drained out
of her voice and face. “Perhaps”
FERMANAGH dropped the front legs
* of his chair and flicked his cigarette
butt over his shoulder into the open fire-
place.
“She’ll never go now,” he said, grin-
ning derisively at the governess. “Got to
like Australia too much, eh, Louise?
Better for you, too, than these namby-
pamby French joints, specially when they
start droppin’ atom-bombs around.”
He pulled his watch out of his pocket
and looked at the visitor.
“Well, mister, I don’t want to bustle
you, but if you’re goin’ to make Cooma
in time to get a doss somewhere and get
into it before too late you’d better be
shovin’ off. If you like to wait until me
and the missus settle the old lady in I’ll
see you away.”
“Thanks, I will.” Angers stood as
Fermanagh’s wife rose. “And thanks
again, Mrs. Fermanagh, for the dinner.”
“No frills,” the dark woman replied
crisply. “Plain and wholesome, but
you’re welcome to it. Not like the tucker
in the south of France, I bet.”
Angers, glancing at the governess from
the corner of his eye, saw the color come
and go in her pale cheeks. Fermanagh
bent over his mother, “Say good-night
to Mister Angers, Mum,” he com-
manded.
The old lady raised her face and put
out a questing hand. Angers took it
gently; it was dry and light and brittle,
like crumpled brown-paper. “Good-
night, Mrs. Fermanagh,” he said.
The wrinkled lips moved, but he could
not hear what she answered. The door
closed behind Fermanagh and his wife,
pushing the chair between them, and for
a moment Angers and the governess stood
side by side. The air was charged with
some unaccountable urgency that turned
his eyes to look at her.
“Mister Angers,” she whispered, her
voice strained and low, “forgive me, but
I must talk with you. I need your help.”
A NGERS felt no great surprise. He
*'■ looked briefly towards the veranda
and she walked before him. It was still
and slightly cold outside, and his eyes
sought the river where its quicksilver
ribbon cut the flat and disappeared
amongst the dark ridges.
“It’s pretty, isn’t it?” she said in a
forced conversational tone. “Of course,
there isn’t much water in it at present,
but I like it best that way. When it’s up
and running strongly it’s —it’s . .
Angers looked at her intently.
“What’s the matter, Miss Brinkwater?”
The woman contained herself with an
obvious effort. “I can’t get away from
this place, Mister Angers,” she whis-
pered. “They won’t let me go. That
man, Mister Fermanagh, isn’t my cousin
at all —he’s no relation. You must be-
lieve me.”
“But, Miss Brinkwater!” Angers was
incredulous more than disbelieving.
"W&rit let you go ? Good lord, this
isn’t Russia or some place , . .”
She said nothing for a moment, her
lips working and her thin hand plucking
at the cameo on her blouse ; when she
spoke again her voice was shaken, but
there was no trace of hysteria in it.
“When I came to Australia, Mister
Angers, it was only for a trip—a work-
ing trip, you understand. I had previ-
ously worked my way in most countries
of the world, as I told you at dinner. I
stayed in Brisbane and Sydney some
months and liked it so much that I de-
cided to stay here for a year or so. I
o Continued on page 32.)
VARIOUS VERSE
BEFORE SUNRISE.
Safe on an old seat with a hole in it
I can look north and east, and watch
the dawn emerge,
a cold-and perfect statement inscribed
on pallid steel
in black and gold, no sentiment or soul
in it
to make me think o r feel
more than This is true” and, sleepily,
“This is large."
North sky, east sky is bell-clear, healed
of the latter stars,
imminently blue like the smoke that
slides downhill
from my cabin chimney above, where
a young fire
bites into old wood as the flame stirs
as the light spills to fill
the valley from the mountain’s new-lit
pyre
of green and red, waking high off in
the west.
This is the moment for all day’s birds
to sing shrill,
none hearing another in the ecstasy of
hunger
after so long a night; and I like best
the robin’s silvery wheel
twice turned, then still. Would that it
sounded longer.
I see him seated safe on a slant post
with an old hole in it; his crimson cap
and crimson breast
brilliantly cold, his white and black
neat as a word,
his eyes too bright for thought. I
like him most,
daybreak’s eternal bird
whosfc small swift song is of all the
loveliest.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
THE PLOUGHMAN.
Where the mountains shadow Helidon
and the wind
Like a mountain spirit shapes beauty to
desire,
The climbing farmer will stop his
plough and say:
“This is for ever a strange country. We
Who are bred to it must grow as
strange, and our dreams
Are magic tenures over us. The farmer.
Like the poet and the sailor, is the giant
will
Pre-created and bound, born before
The body spoke, before the sun was
found
To be the day or the moon the night or
blood
The artery to prompt the limb when the
will
Said ‘Do’ and the heart said ‘Learn,
because you must learn.’
And we remain, the urgent slaves, the
ploughmen,
Continuous wills walking upon the
earth.”
The cool skies breathe mist on the sun,
and a bird
Leaps singing from a mulberry tree; its
song •
Is a legend on the ploughman’s cheek.
He fingers
His face and the beauty of the bird
enters
With a shadow of wings the brown
fields of his eyes.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
I BREATHED INTO THE ASH.
I breathed into the ash,
I called upon the Are:
the hidden sleeping flower
to waken and aspire.
1 fed, with sheltering hand,
brush of the dead tea-tree
as incense rose between
the gums above the sea.
I breathe upon and bare,
at flesh’s, fibre’s cost,
the spirit's coal unless
it darken and be lost,
be lost and never raise
its frankincense uncurled,
its clear flame from the ash
the ruin of the world.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
THE PERFECT RHYME.
The perfect rhyme in life is breath—
Between two lovers breathing love
Or singers lifting song above
The mortal height of death.
Between the words that singers sing.
It is the interval when blood
I? summoned by the heart to bring
Soul, body, mind and let the flood
Of life pour out its will.
But in that interval
When beauty’s flag is love unfurled,
When lovers breathe and say no word,
The rhythm of the breath is heard
Breathing another world.
QUEENSLAND. JOHN HENDERSON.


e FINE HOTEL
A hotel certainly one of Sydney’*
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
Bustle, you 'are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Ut
s.
j
nei
Thone BVvf 1361 (10 line*)
C D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
J^s
Relieve
. NASAL
SORENESS dye to colds
Don't suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, applv Cuticura
Oinintent to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cats, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 535
faticurfi
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBK DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27d), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
mmmo&id
aa %it
0f
/i-wrvi
dsf
BM
SPARKPLUGS
WORMS
fAvomm
m
\
W\N
TRADE MARK
factories: felthah, ehg.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAIL
COARD
Ca^h/
PROTECTA i
sunl-Righted*
TILL
*s
Suitable for eeery type of "gu.ojlj belli,
all Sale*. Credit., lull druid
pleasing 1» appearance. Send ■
and literature to .
IACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty L
JAC SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
OUtrihuliHi Age*i»~~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH -
IV C penfold » 1 Co. P‘»
Norman Bro*. W
V.rdon*Bb»-^
dsf
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
O Engineers’ Machine Tools.
Electric Tools • Wqodworkin
m Circular and Band Saws. 1
Saw Renairs.
MU W* l
0 portable
e Machines.
• AU type*
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the
who will quote you P« ce
POISON IN THE FURROW
out of Emmie’s
\ A / hearing, propped against
yy the garden fence, chew-
ing and discarding blades
of grass, sat Sam and Moss,
Sam was a man of few emo-
tions, few words and little action.
He did feel, however, that some
action was necessary when Mr.
Jack Todd had twice driven his
wife Emmie home from her
trapping in his jeep. What’s
more, he had suggested that she
go shares with him in his poison
furrow, which he proposed to
lay the following week, or at
least Emmie was to lay it with
apples and strychnine provided
by Mr. Todd. Then they were
to share all the profits from the
skins.
Emmie was away from home
far too much with her trapping.
How was he to know what was
happening when he was away
carrying out his duties as mail-
man! Sam angrily plucked
another blade of grass. “These
wimmen wantin’ a bit of excite-
ment and extry money!”
Moss was indignant, too.
Sam’s troubles were now his.
Hadn’t Emmie nearly married
him instead of Sam? “Bringing
her home in a jeep, what next?
Him with his bulldozer and trac-
tor and cattle bulging with
fat!” Moss’s voice was shrill.
“The way he orders Em about! ”
And the part that hurt them both
most was that Em didn’t seem
to mind.
THEY agreed that something
must be done about it.
“We could set fire to ’is
bridge. ’E wouldn’t be able t’
get in or out then f’r some
time/’
“No,” said Moss, eyeing two
red steers grazing peacefully on
the opposite side of the Marshes.
“We’re no fence-cuttin’ bridge-
burners. That don’t do us no
good!”
For some time they sat
silently brooding and peeling the
bark off the garden fence.
“Old Todd’s just about et out
by rabbits,” remarked Moss.
“She’ll make a bit o’ dough
outer that furrow; not to be
sneezed at, Sam?”
“Don’t like it. Todd can keep
his blasted rabbits.”
Moss smiled to himself. He
loved a spot of trouble. “Now,
don’t you say nothin’ to Em.
Push ’er off willin’ like at day-
break. Give ’er a cup of ’ot
tea. Then clean the pickle-cask
out.”
Sam grunted uneasily and
pulled another strip of bark off
the garden fence as Moss
explained his plan.
“It’ll take her and Todd three
hours to skin all they catch.
Most likely she’ll even have t’
show ’im how t’ skin a rabbit.”
Moss hawked and spat con-
temptuously.
Sam scowled. He didn’t like
the idea of willingly pushing
Emmie oft. She’d think he was
barmy. But he did like Moss’s
plan for settling Todd.
TACK TODD, ESQ., filled
with progress and zest for
opening up new country, had
selected a large area of Crown
land for himself. His boundary
ran through an expanse of mud
and bog called The Father of
Marshes, which separated his
land from Sam and Emmie’s
small holding.
He knew all his neighbors
resented him, but didn’t doubt
his own ability to overcome that.
Make friends with these rabbit-
trapping cocky-farmers, show
them a thing or two and so
avoid a burnt haystack or cut
wires in your boundary-fences.
He was not a bad sort of bloke ;
his ideas were all right.
When driving his jeep over
his selection for the first time
he had seen Emmie. To him
she was an odd sight, with a
string of rabbits threaded on a
wire bobbing around her waist,
a baby tucked in a sugarbag
slung on her hip, a kangaroo,
cross-legged, tied to the end of
her trap-hoe and dangling over
her shoulder.
Slight and brown and feeding
the baby as she daintily picked
her way between the snags and
fallen timber. She laughed up
at him shyly as she parted her
string of rabbits and climbed
into his jeep.
He liked her small oval face
and her firm, pink skin shining
through the slit in the back of
Sam’s old coat,
THE dawn breeze was
saturated with the powerful
blend of sassafras and tea-tree
blossoms. A snipe feeding in
the mud on the edge of the
Marshes clicked a warning to his
mate and they whirred across
to the other side, where the two
red steers, hock-deep in fog-
grass, browsed contentedly.
Still silvered with frost, the
dead rabbits strung along the
clothesline rattled a hollow
melody. Even the smell
of the Marshes was good to
Emmie. She sang gently to her-
self as she set out on the two-
mile walk to Mr. Todd’s poison
furrow.
It took Sam and Moss a good
hour’s tramp around the
northern side of the Marshes to
reach the two red steers. It
took them even longer to drive
them back into Sam’s yard.
Time would not permit the
slaughtering of both beasts, and,
anyway, half a steer would more
than fill Sam’s pickle-cask. They
decided to keep one beast for
two weeks, and, if discovered, to
declare they knew nothing about
him—he must have lost his mate
and strayed. So Moss fixed
No. 1 while Sam drove
No. 2 into the valley and
across the creek. He joined him
up with Strawberry and her last
year’s calf and left them con-
veniently cut off from the house
by a clump of tea-trees.
“As well as narkin’ that Todd,
beef’ll be a bit of a change from
’roos an’ bunnies,” remarked
Moss as he pressed the steer’s
hide into the fire. Sam said
nothing, and, cutting up the head,
threw pieces to the dogs.
Moss thought he would be on
his way before Emmie came
home. Let Sam account for the
full pickle-cask. He took his
share of beef and left Sam
struggling to give the two
children some breakfast,
ALL pleased with their morn-
ing’s achievements, Mr.
Todd and Emmie from the jeep
and Moss from his box-cart
exchanged minor pleasantries as
they passed on the road.
“What luck?” inquired Moss.
“Four hundred and twenty
rabbits, ten possums, six ’coots
and three native cats,” replied
Emmie proudly.
“We must exterminate this
pest. Mrs. Creese has practically
done all the work,” laughed Mr.
Todd, giving Emmie a. playful
slap on the back. “I’m taking
her home for some breakfast.”
Emmie, unaccustomed to
acknowledgment and credit,
beamed.
Mrs. Creese indeed! Why,
even the parson didn’t * call
Emmie that. Moss nodded to-
wards the chaffbag on the floor
of his cart. “Just been over to
get some dorg’s meat from
Sam,” he explained. “The kids
are O.K. Sam’s given them their
grub.”
SO successful was the plan
that the following week Mr.
Todd and Emmie laid another
furrow. This time Mr. Todd
not only called for Emmie, but
kept her away all day skinning
and pegging-out their catch and
giving her mjore hearty meals.
Mr. Todd made no mention
of the missing steers. Sam’s
resentment grew, fanned by
Moss’s lewd mirth. It was that
jeep that annoyed him most of
all, and he’d had the kids.
Bawling and fighting around him
all day, they were Emmie’s job.
Pity he’d asked Moss’s advice.
Emmie, too, she was as bad.
Accepting the full pickle-cask
without as much as one ques-
tion. A present from Moss!
He knew she didn’t believe him.
But why couldn’t she say so?
It was about time Moss came
over to fix that second steer,
too.
Emmie, intoxicated by her
diversions, thought nothing of it
when Sam agreed readily to her
helping Mr. Todd with a third
furrow. Nor was she suspicious
when Sam, with an unusual burst
of energy, said he was “goin’
possuming,” and disappeared for
the night. She went to bed early
to be ready for the gathering-
up of the third furrow the next
morning. When Mr. Todd failed
to pick her up in his jeep and
also failed to turn up at the
furrow, Emmie was not only put
out, but she was thoroughly
alarmed,
Sam had had a busy night.
First- he had let down the slip-
rails and driven the red steer,
Strawberry and the calf through
the creek, out the gate, into the
Marshes, through the gate again,
across the tea-tree fiats and back
into his yard, leaving a multitude
of cattle tracks on the near-by
ground.
Then he had slaughtered the
steer, filled up the pickle-cask
with one half and hung the other
half in a chaffbag at the top of
a gum-tree. Next he had set off
towards Todd’s farm armed with
a bottle of kerosene and a pair
of wire-cutters.
By the time Emmie gathered
up all the catch she was tired,
indignant and hungry. These
men, they were all the same,
and Todd was no different from
any other! Promising you this
and that! Hadn’t she taught
him how to lay a furrow, to gut
and skin a rabbit? Done nearly
all the work herself and then,
just when he was needed most,
he didn’t turn up at all!
MOSS, knowing of the third
furrow, went over to see
Sam, whom he found still asleep.
“About that steer?” said Moss,
shaking him.
“Corn!” said Sam.
“What!”
“Yep. Slip-rails down!”
“He wouldn’t go far.”
“Has—can’t find ’im. Looked
for hours.”
Sam, picking his trousers up
from the floor, put them on and
led the way outside. He pointed
out the cattle tracks. “Strayin’
cattle musta took ’im off.”
“Funny they didn’t take Straw-
berry and her calf.”
“They did,” assured Sam.
“Found ’er out on the
mountain.”
Moss looked at the tracks
doubtfully. “They’re pretty
fresh. We’d better follow them.”
Emmie had just cooked an
appetising meal of roast-beef
and potatoes when Sam and
Moss arrived home exhausted,
having combed the foothills for
further cattle tracks all day.
Emmie inquired: “What red
steer?”
Sam looked a bit sheepish.
It was Moss who explained
that it was another one he was
sharing with Sam.
“Some cove musta pinched
him from us,” put in Sam.
“Perhaps the same stinkin’
cove who burnt Todd’s bridge.”
“Burnt Mr. Todd’s bridge'
When?” Emmie sharply asked
“Larst night,” said Moss de-
liberately looking at Sam. “And
cut all the wires in ’is front
fence!” 1
Sam reached for the blackened
billy on the hob and slowly
poured himself a mug of stewed
tea.
“That’ll keep ’im busy f’r some
time. Yes, Mrs. Creese, y ou ’H
’ave all the rabbits t’ skin and
lug ’ome y’self. There won't be
no smart guy now to ’elp y ou
It’ll take him a month to build
a new bridge.”
C MMIE, her face shining
J —' with admiration, looked
across at Sam,
“ ’Ere, let me make you a
fresh billy of tea.”
It was wonderful what Sam
would do for her when roused.
“Sam’ll help with the skins,
won’t y’, Sam?”
Sam grunted his assent, and
Emmie, beaming happily, pulled
a large portion of freshly-corned
beef out of the cask and handed
it to Moss.
“I’m sorry about y’r steer get-
ting away on y’, Moss. It’ll be
a bit of a loss. We’ve still got
some left from the last one y’
killed. Take a piece of that!”
she said graciously, ,


SOCIAL WRITER WANTED
Woman social writer required
for leading Sydney weekly
newspaper. Apply, stating
qualifications, etc., to “Chief-
of-Staff,” Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Bern 18 20—
i till going tfrong.
d
fds
fds
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOfLANDi LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.I2SB.ia
ED
HOME
CAR
LAUNCH
You can't ever disregard
the risk of fire...
There’s no sure way to prevent
fire . . , hat you can be prepared
for it with a "Simplex” Fire
Extinguisher.
In itself, the "Simplex” does
a highly efficient one-man-opera-
ted job of fire fighting. Keep
it always in a handy position .. .
its powerful stream of extin-
guisher liquid is sudden death
to incipient fires.
Your Insurance Company al-
lows you a rebate on fire rates
for buildings and property ’'Sim-
plex” equipped.
Wormald Brothers experts
will advise you on the correct
type of "Simplex” Extinguisher
to give you the best protection
against the risk of fire.
All ‘'Simplex” Fire Exinguishers are manufactured of copper
and designed to comply with Australian Standard Specifications.
Approved by all interested authorities and supplied to the Navy,
Army, Air Force and Commonwealth and State Governments.
8?
m
■
• • I ■■■
L # t
X
ff
HERS
Product of WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
Wormald Brothers [East) Ltd.—Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Townsville
Wormald Brothers (South) Ltd.—Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
Wormald Brothers (N.Z.) Ltd*-—Wellinaton, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
SUNDRY SHOWS
S. Ure Smith.
The Bulletin went to a Press
preview of the Sydney Ure Smith
memorial exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, and
probably by the time Mr. Men-
zies got there to open it the
artists who were dashing about
with saws and hammers had
all been tidied away and the
mysterious purpose to be served
by the balls of knitting-wool
attached to a placard and shoot-
ing out rays like signals from
Mars or thought-streams between
woolly-minded Piddingtons had
been made clear.
But it wasn’t inappropriate, all
the same, to find the exhibition
in such a state of eruption.
Sydney Ure Smith had been
associated with working artists
all his life ; and so much artistic
frenzy, not only in his own
honor, but also to “inaugurate a
Sydney Ure Smith Memorial
Fund to be used for the purchase
of contemporary works for all
the National Art Galleries in
Australia,” would undoubtedly
have pleased him.
He might most of all have
been pleased by the paintings by
new and long-established Aus-
tralian artists keeping company
with his own work; by, say,
George Lawrence’s rugged,
powerful landscape “The Road
to the Lake” —for there was
shown the movement of Austra-
lian art thrusting into the future
—and by Hans Heysen’s radiant
watercolor “In the Flinders
Range,” which demonstrated
that Australian art didn’t begin
last week. For that was Sydney
Ure Smith’s significance in Aus-
tralian art: he supported and
fostered the movement of a con-
tinuing tradition.
Some pictures bought from
Sydney Ure Smith’s private col-
lection and presented to the
N. S. Wales National Gallery by
the Society of Artists to form a
special Society of Artists’
Memorial are a similarly pleas-
ing mixture of new and old.
There is a still-life of tomatoes
by Basil Schoukhaeff, an oil-
sketch of a nude by George
Lambert, one of Margaret Pres-
ton’s richly-decorative wildflower
studies and Dobell’s “Sleeping
Greek.”
There is another Dobell among
the paintings donated for sale
for the general memorial fund —
a landscape, presumably recent,
in the romantic style Dobell
occasionally employs and which
reminds one, strangely, of
Fragonard, Also noticeable in
this section are Elaine Haxton’s
“Pittwater,” Lloyd Rees’s “Sum-
mer,” and the paintings by
Arthur Murch, Arnold Shore,
Nora Heysen, Roland Wakelin
and Enid Cambridge. It is an
admirable little exhibition on its
own, with leading members of
all the leading societies partici-
pating.
Even in the confusion of the
Friday before the opening it was
evident that the total exhibition
would very fairly represent—in
a dramatic array—all aspects of
Sydney Ure Smith’s work: his
own spirited little caricatures
and black-and-white portrait-
sketches, which are so lively that
one wishes he had done more in
this field ; his graceful etchings;
his watercolor drawings which,
though their artistic effect was
limited, were always excellent in
draughtsmanship, pleasing in
color and invaluable as a record
of historic buildings. And along
with these there is a parade of
his books —not as spectacular as
the recent exhibition held by the
Mitchell Library, but enough to
indicate his outstanding import-
ance as the publisher of Aus-
tralian art.
Oddities.
Justin O’Brien’s paintings at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
thrust the observer into almost
the same dilemma as do the
sonnets of William Baylebridge:
an art is a copy of an
antique model how is one to
determine how much native
quality and native feeling—other
than a response to the antique
model —there may be in it?
Baylebridge modelled himself
principally on Shakspeare, and
T. Inglis Moore has said of his
verse, “In truth its native timbre
emerges somewhat muffled
through his Shakspearian loud-
speaker.” Justin O’Brien’s paint-
ings, with their sad, wooden
figures, their heavily floating
angels and their arbitrary land-
scapes bristling with churches,
come from Byzantine art ; its
mannerisms, though the twentieth
century has widely adopted
them, are as remote from us as
Cimabue.
In an abstract and decorative
way O’Brien’s personal varia-
tion on his chosen conventions
is clear enough: his blue
women and vermilion youths
(even if people, and horses, tend
to take on these strange hues in
other contemporary paintings)
may reasonably be called his
own. The colors are striking,
but, like a rainbow, rather
obvious.
It is more important to try to
ascertain what emotional quality,
if any, underlies the conventions
and colors. This remains so
elusive that the pictures, as a
whole, seem mere curiosities,
oddities, without life or force.
There is certainly no human
feeling in the stylised figures,
and surely a modern religious
feeling would express itself in
different terms from what Orpen
called “the frigid ceremonial
ideals” of the Byzantine artists.
Colin Horsley.
The grand at Sydney Con.
had a few jangles emerging from
its innards early in Colin Hors-
ley’s recital; by the time he
had wound the proceedings up
with Prokofiev’s Third Sonata
the instrument must have been
almost a stretcher-case for the
tuner. Not that this implied
inartistic hammering—far from
it. But the young New Zea-
lander is a pianist with purpose
and vigor. When he sees a
double F he goes to it with a
will, as should be. And at top
speed, as in this not-so-attractive
work and in the Stravinsky
Study which preceded, it, his
tone was always crisp, his runs
free of blurredness.
He started off with the
Mozart B Flat Sonata, K 333,
a charming little work of deli-
cate shadings, the very aristoc-
racy of non-emotionalism. The
pianist allowed himself no lati-
tude with such high-bred fare.
But he did achieve an ethereal
quality in the lovely andante.
With the first notes of the
Brahms Variations on the cele-
brated' violin-caprice of Paganini
(First Book), the vigor which
had been so tightly controlled
in the Mozart came into its own.
Every change of fancy and of
rhythm in this exacting and
dynamic music was followed,
and exploited with intelligence
and imagination, with ihe
climaxes neatly rounded off,
Debussy’s “Reflections in the
Water,” now in danger of wear-
ing thin, gave the impression of
impressionism gone wrong in
the early stages, though later it
was more authoritative.
Six Preludes by the contem-
porary Englishman Lennox
Berkeley proved to be of varied
merit, the Ist, 3rd and 4th
being the most attractive. A
Scherzo by the same composer
far outclassed the Preludes.
More sober in tempo than the
traditional scherzo, it is of high-
class craftsmanship, and was
played excellently. A brace of
Rachmaninoff Preludes brought
from Mr. Horsley zestful play-
ing which had in it the touch
of romanticism which doesn’t
conspicuously invest his work.
With no exaggerated manner-
isms, he played the entire pro-
gramme as though he thor-
oughly enjoyed every minute of
it—a bright change from the
lugubriety which too many
executants adopt immediately
they fling their “tails” back
over the stool.
Maugham’s “Home and
Beauty,” staged by the Kuringai
Theatre Guild at Killara, is an
amusing lightweight written 30
years ago. Victoria (Naida Red-
shaw), a spoiled darling, is con-
fronted with the delightful prob-
lem of how to manage and
reconcile a pair of husbands.
William (Peter Richards), her
first victim, presumed killed in
the 1914-18 war, returns to his
Westminster establishment to
discover Victoria married to
Frederick (Douglas McKellar)
and still the same selfish beauty
as when he went soldiering.
Both young men feel that life
would be more serene were they
uncoupled from the pampered
young woman. The Guild
players, showing a trifle more
polish than usual, squeeze all
the fun they can out of the
Comedy, although the clowning
of the two male principals was
a little overdone. Naida Red-
shaw showed the makings of an
accomplished comedienne.


Matchless performance!
That's why more tons are hauled and
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
A right tyre for each job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres —each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
RIB ALL SERVICE HI-M.LER ALL*-WEATHER AIRWHEEI
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
-—to give maximum performance. Get the
world s finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
good/Vear
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
———- ItAJA-lt,
Legal Notice.
MARY CATHERINE O’FLAHERTY also
known as CATHERINE and also as MARY
KATE O’FLAHERTY, deceased (daughter
of MARTIN O’FLAHERTY and MARY
O’FLAHERTY BORN BUTLER). Pur-
suant to a Decretal Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity dated
the 6th day of August 1948 and made in
Suit (No. 390 of 1948) entitled “IN
THE MATTER OF THE ESTATE OF
MARY CATHERINE O’FLAHERTY
LATE OF PADDINGTON IN THE STATE
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, SPINSTER,
DECEASED Between the Public Trustee,
Plaintiff, and Harold Glynn Massey, Kevin
Joseph McNamara and Constance Smith,
Defendants” WHEREBY the following-
enquiry was directed namely that it be
referred to the Master in Equity to en-
quire as to who were the statutory next-
of-kin of the abovenamed Mary Catherine
O’Plaherty deceased living at the date of
her death and whether any of such next-
of-kin have since died and if so who are
their respective legal personal representa-
tives NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
all persons claiming to be entitled under
the said enquiry are to, send by post pre-
paid to the Public Trustee, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Aus-
tralia, so as to reach him on or before
the Twenty-fourth day of 4 U K US * ; *950
their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity on application otherwise
orders. Claimants are to attend person-
ally or by Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales, on
Monday the Fourth day of September,
1950, at 11 a.m. being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims. A
Claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claim
the name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notices to the
Claimant can be sent. Claimants from
outside New South Wales are advised to
send claims by two successive mails.
Dated 18th May. 1950.—HILL THOMSON
& SULLIVAN, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
s/Me/ivo/
fj//ftre mm
Blue Gillette
Every man owes it to himself to use the method
which gives him the cleanest, close shave
possible. When you have used a Blue Gillette
Blade for some time you realise it is not only
the most efficient, but the most economical blade
you can buy.
• SO DURABLE —each
blade gives you extra shaves.
' • SO SHARP — the y stroke
your beard away.
• SO have
made the world clean shaven.
f
dsf
dsf
6 for 1/8
10 for 3/4
20 for 6/8
(In plastic dispense
‘Good mornings ’ begin with
Gillette
B/lW
Why Malaya
Matters
By M. H. Ellis
D URING the debates at the
South-east Asian Confer-
ence in Sydney little has
been said about Malaya.
The vocal members, who are not
necessarily the most solid, com-
monsense and knowledgeable
ones, prefer to discuss broader
fields and vaster schemes than
could be centred round the two
little queerly-gpverned sections
of the British Commonwealth
which mean so much to us.
The so-called “Spender plan”
has concern with Malaya
only incidentally.' Its basis is an
ambition to give such economic
aid to the’ countries of South-
east Asia that they will eschew
Communism.
But the bulk of the other
countries concerned in the con-
ference realise, for one thing, that
if economic aid and support
could destroy Communism it
should be stone-dead in Aus-
tralia, the United States and
Canada. They also realise that
though Australia may invent the
plans, other people will have to
pay for them. All these bril-
liant schemes for economic aid
presume that the main price of
their long-term development will
come out of the pockets of John
Bull and Uncle Sam and a few
other favored nations which are
inheritors of the white man’s
burden, even though Australia
may set an example with a
couple of millions in the begin-
ning to establish a principle.
Now, having so far done
little but talk, the Australian
External Affairs Department’s
attitude towards South-east Asia
sits firmly on a proposal to pro-
vide immediately £8,000,000 —
to finance speedy aid for em-
barrassed South-east Asian coun-
tries, particularly Indo-China,
Indonesia, Malaya and Burma.
Britain, with considerable com-
monsense, balked at a dubious
plan and was there accused of
having “bogged down the con-
ference” and of showing a typi-
cally narrow Treasury approach.
But apparently the only support
which Mr. Spender had came
from his co-inventor of the plan,
Ceylon, and Pakistan, the sup-
port of the latter country being
somewhat strange lin view
of the fact that its new High
Commissioner to Australia, Mr.
Aroon, announced in an inter-
view at Singapore on May 15
that “there was no reason to fear
that Communism would advance
on Asia through Pakistan” and
that “in our country very little
Communism exists to welcome
it.”
Canada adopted a non-com-
mittal attitude; so did India.
Maoriland sensibly said that it
cannot afford cash payments,
much less apparently the long-
term plan which was designed to
follow under which further
money would be provided to
establish new industries and help
develop agriculture and immi-
gration.
However, having made urgency
his whole point, Mr. Spender,
rather than accept defeat, has
compromised on a scheme under
which Australia and Britain, to
begin a six-year £23,000,000 plan
of gifts and credits, over a
period and India, Pakistan,
Canada, Ceylon and New Zea-
land will produce a further
£2,500,000 to set up a technical
centre in Ceylon and send
“experts” in industry, agricul-
ture and health to “under-
developed” South - east Asian
countries, where, no doubt, they
will be well shot over. About
300 Asiatic “experts” are to
study abroad. Nobody has
shown enthusiasm for the plan
outside Canberra and Colombo,
which is to gain by the present
of a freely-spending central ad-
ministration ; and nobody seems
to have asked what use U.N.O.
is if it cannot be approached to
give the sort of service now
envisioned and which it is
heavily subsidised to give.
The idea of Australia con-
tributing technical aid to industry
in these countries when it so far
refuses to face realities in
Malaya is absurd.
Erom our point of view
Malaya matters more than all
the rest put together. If Com-
munism attempts to sweep down
through Indo-China, as it already
is preparing to do, nothing will
stop it except military interven-
tion by the great Powers of the
Atlantic Pact. The same is true
of Siam and Malaya, though the
eyes of the Spender school turn
more often to Indonesia. It is
idle and absurd to take the
stand that it is primarily and
solely Britain’s concern and that
of the Malay people. The loss
of Malaya would be the first
slash of the knife being used to
cut u§ off from Europe. It
would provide the stepping-
stone from which Indonesia and
Borneo, with their oil and other
valuable products, would be
invaded peacefully or otherwise,
and it would sever our present
air-links and see the dragging
westward of the Soviet net which
has swept right round the north
of continental Asia and down
the east coast to Malaya. It is
in process of being closed upon
the whole of the foolish peoples
who cried for freedom for India,
Burma and other adjacent coun-
tries, along with the removal of
the only basic guarantee of
security which those countries
possessed—the British Navy,
Army and Air Force. These may
have been weak, but they at
least were a focal-point for
organisation of defence, which
no longer exists in a way to be
of any use.
What Malaya Is
Malaya is a little country, or,
rather, several little countries. It
is roughly twice the.size of Tas-
mania, half the size of Victoria
and slightly smaller than South
Island, New Zealand.
The idea that it is conquered
British territory is rubbish.
Singapore was a muddy island
full of pirates which was de-
veloped almost entirely under
British protection and only
because of British protection. In
the 20 years after 1874 various
sultanates on the mainland of
the little peninsula asked the
protection of Great Britain and
got it. The protection was
against the inflowing tide of
Chinese immigration.
In the ’nineties four of the
States agreed to federate and
develop a common military
force, and from 1909 onwards
there was a Federal Council
which made laws dealing with
native affairs. Some of the
States, such as Johore, remained
unfederated, but accepted ad-
vice and protection from the
British Crown. Eventually a
Malayan Union was formed in
1946 at a British-Malayan con-
ference, but the system did not
work very satisfactorily, and
from February, 1948, the
Federation of Malaya as a whole
has been in existence. The nine
native States of the peninsula
are embodied in it, along with
the ancient British settlements of
Penang, which was ceded by the
Sultan of Kedah to the East
India Company in 1786, and
Malacca, which has been per-
manently British since 1826.
The delegated power of the
King and the sultans is vested
in a legislative council of 65
members, of which 50 are un-
official, and which has power to
legislate in matters concerning
the Federation as a whole. Each
State is governed locally by its
ruler and a council of State.
Defence is the concern of the
King and his High Commis-
sioner, as are external relations.
The rulers of the sultanates
accept the High Commissioner’s
advice on all matters of govern-
ment excepting those dealing with
Malay custom and the Moslem
religion. Any Malay or other
resident may obtain Federal
citizen nationality by obtaining
a certificate from the High Com-
missioner’s office.
Singapore is a separate colony
with a separate Government.
The British Government
locates a Commissioner-General
for South-east Asia at Singa-
pore. He is Mr. Malcolm Mac-
Dpnald, who last week was in
Sydney and who has held office
since January, 1946; his writ
runs not only in the Malayan
Federation and Singapore, but
in Sarawak, North Borneo and
Brunei. Singapore administers
the Cocos Islands and Christmas
Island, which is supposedly to
be the eventual goal of rockets
from the Australian “rocket
project” when it has reached its
maximum range.
According to the 1947 figures,
there were 2,395,000 Malays on
the Malay Peninsula, 1,880,000
Chinese, 533,900 Indians and
some pther races. In Singapore
there are 116,000 Malays,
728,000 Chinese, 72,000 Indians
and 9000 Europeans, Though
there was a great outcry in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere for an
appeal to the patriotism of the
Malayan.people by handing over
their country to them and remov-
ing the “whisky-swilling” Euro-
peans, nobody ever mentioned
casting out the Chinese who for


all
now flies you to.
\
¥&
Tokyo *
Iwakuni
Manila
Darwin
Sydney
Increasing the scope of its service to
Australian air transport, Qantas Empire Airways
announces that civilian passengers can now fly
from Sydney to Tokyo and from Sydney to
Manila.
Modern Skymasters provide comfortable air
travel—with full steward service and first-class
food served in the air.
Fly to Japan in 2\ days.
For full details consult your travel agent.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
„ Australia’s International Airline
QJIA
You will be
Proud of your ,
Son’s Future .
As a Naval Officer, your son will hold a position
of which you will be proud. When he enters
the Royal Australian Naval College at
Flinders Naval Depot, Victoria, as a Cadet-
Midshipman, at the age of 13, he will com-
mence four years of valuable schooling
before proceeding overseas to consolidate
the foundation for his future
career in the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy.
h
/5555,
S ' J
Intelligent, healthy boys who become 13 years of age during 1930, are eligible for
entry to the R.A.N. as Cadet-Midshipmen. They must be the sons of British subjects
by birth or naturalisation and of pure European descent. After an educational and
medical examination, they will appear before an interviewing committee, and the
selected applicants will enter the Royal Australian Naval College, at Flinders Naval
Depot, Victoria, at the end of January, 1951. They ydll undergo four years’ educational
training to matriculation standard at the Naval College before going overseas for
experience and further training with the Royal Navy. On return they are appointed
to ships of H.M.A. Fleet.
All particulars can be obtained from the Naval Recruiting Office In your
capital city. Victorian enquiries should be made direct to the Secretary, De-
partment of the Navy, Navy Office,
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY
¥
APPLICATIONS FOR CADET-MIDSHIPMEN, 13-YEAR-OLD CUSS OF ENTRY, SHOULD REACH
THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY. NAVY OFFICE. MELBOURNE, NOT UTER
THAN 15th JUNE, 1950.
RANV.28.83.05
centuries have formed an unruly
predatory element in the
Malayan community, growing
immensely in later years under
the lure of British-imposed
security. They have always been
unmanageable. They have done
little or nothing for the develop-
ment of Malaya in a cultural
sense. Their loyalties are to China
whatever its Government, since
they are, in the main, traders.
They have not increased through
their own development of local
industry but through the de-
velopment of industry by Euro-
peans, upon whose expansions of
production they have battened.
And they have always been at war
with the rajahs on a bandit basis.
The Real Communist Prob-
lem
They are a separate and self-
contained community with their
own schools and their own social
life, and they are the mass in
which the Chinese Communist
squatter and Communist agent
hides. For that matter, since the
Chinese, clandestinely or other-
wise, is always compelled to sup-
port the Chinese Government in
power or forfeit his right to
trade with China and thus his
wealth and livelihood, it can be
taken that nearly all Chinese in
Malaya are the indirect or
direct servants of the Peking
Government.
If Communism had to live on
the support of Malays it would
give little worry to the Govern-
ment. It was the Chinese-
following plans of Moscow’s
organiser Borodin who, in
1927-28, brought Communism
southward to Malaya and Indo-
nesia, where it fomented the
rebellions which were the seed
from which the Soekarno agita-
tors and the independence
movement grew. The East
Indies movement was eventually
placed in the hands of the
Australian Communist party, of
which the A.C.T.U. became the
agent. Only the vigilance of
the Bruce Government prevented
Sydney becoming the main
organising centre for South-east
Asian rebellion. Today the
centre is in China, and it is the
infiltration of agents from there
and the impact of their teaching
on the hordes of Chinese and
Tamils displaced by the Jap
invasion, and known as squatters,
who are the real Malayan prob-
lem today. Our own problem is
the linkage of these people with
Chinese Communists further
south, including New Guinea.
The Importance of Rubber
Malaya is vital to the British
Commonwealth and the United
States as the world’s greatest
producer of rubber, the industry
having virtually recovered from
war-time depression under
Japanese rule and reached pre-
war levels of production. It
produces now half the world’s
natural rubber, or about 700,000
tons, while capture of it by the
Communists would bring them
within a few miles of the fringes
of the next-greatest rubber-
grower in the world—lndonesia
—which turns off another
460.000 tons.
With Malaya and Indonesia
in its hands. Communism would
hold three - quarters of the
world’s natural rubber capacity ;
and even though synthetic rub-
ber output has been growing, it
is still far from making up even
half of the total rubber supply,
while quality of synthetic rub-
ber has not yet reached that of
the natural tree product.
Malaya produces also a very
large proportion of the world’s
tin-ore —a matter of about
40.000 tons a year, despite mur-
ders and harrying by the Com-
munist insurgents around the
mining fields.
These material phases of
Malayan life, however, are unim-
portant beside two factors. The
first is the effect which the sur-
render to Communism of Malaya
would have on the reputations
of the European nations in Asia
generally and upon the Indians
and Burmese in particular in
their general outlook. The
second is the effect which con-
quest of Malaya would have
upon the strategic situation of
the Western Powers in the de-
fence of civilisation against the
onslaught of the U.S.S.R. and
its satellites.
The Strategic Aspect
The effect of Chinese infiltra-
tion to the point of conquest of
Malaya would be devastating. It
would close the China Seas to
all ships coming from Suez on
which the Chinese Communists
did not look with favor. It
would establish surveillance of
all traffic from Suez through the
Indian Ocean, whether by sea
or air, to Australia, It would
put Russian military aircraft
into the skies above Indonesia
and within reach of Australia.
Singapore, as a Communist base,
would certainly become a great
submarine centre for the
Russians and their satellites,
supplied and manned from the
Siberian side.
The capture of Malaya, in-
deed, which must be preceded
by the capture of Siam and Indo-
Ghina, would, without doubt,
lead to the drawing-down of a
second Iron Curtain over the
East. It would then need only
a move a few hundred miles
westward to Ceylon from Singa-
pore and southward from the
Caucasus to Suez and the cur-
tains would cease merely ta be
curtains. Asia would be tightly
enclosed in an impenetrable
iron box, north, south, east and
west, and all Australia’s routes
of communication save that
across the Pacific would be in
Communist hands or under direct
Communist threat.
Dangers and the U. 5.
This is well recognised by the
Atlantic Powers, whose Foreign
Ministers are holding, along
with their military services, a
series of conferences in Europe
on a more realistic basis than
that in Sydney. The most
serious point in the background
of these conferences from a
South-east Asian point of view
lies in the disinclination of the
United States to give help except
to sovereign and stable Govern-
ments, of which the only ex-
amples it apparently can recog-
nise are Japan, India, Pakistan
and Ceylon. Malaya and Indo-
China being colonial do not
appeal strongly to Uncle Sam as
centres into which adequate aid
should be poured, though an
undertaking has been given that
at least some substantial aid can
be expected to help stem the
advance of the Chinese Com-
munists into Indo-China, this
having apparently been dictated
by Chinese excursions in the
direction of Formosa and the
Philippines.
So far American adventures
in aid to Asia have not been
encouraging. The Philippines,
which have had nearly
£750,000,000 Australian from
American funds since the end of
the war, despite the fact that the
Australian External Affairs De-
partment sees them as a great
and stable nation and U.N.O.
chose their president as its head
in succession to Dr. Evatt, lives
on the edge of chaos. The U.S.
adventure in South Korea has
resulted only in disaster and
humiliation and loss of face for
the Americans, and the results of
tutelage in Persia have not been
encouraging.
Much of American opinion is
coming round to the view of
Canada, which seems to favor the
development of the North
Atlantic Pact into the basis for
the formation of what is de-
scribed as “an economic Com-
monwealth of the West,” which
would turn its back on South-
east Asia and its fringes and put
its money on a compact system
centring round the Atlantic
Ocean in Western Europe and
North America but involving
also far-flung European coloni-
sations such as Australia and
Maoriland.
A Pre-war Phase
This makes the situation of
Malaya the more grim. South-
east Asia, in its eastern corner,
is going through the same kind
of phase as preceded World War
II in Europe. Siam and Indo-
China and Malaya are threatened,
and have no defence save half
a dozen poorly-armed Siamese
divisions, a division or so of
British troops and a few thou-
sand French and Moroccans.
Burma, which, with Indo-China,
is the key to the difference be-
tween famine and reasonable
plenty (by Oriental standards)
in East Asia, is plunged still in
indeterminate civil war.
Next fighting season, some-
where at the approach of cool
weather in the south of China,
will surely see bigger infiltrations,
if not actual aggression. The
only thing which could possibly
stop it would be an open declara-
tion by a group of Powers of
sufficient strength to enforce
their threats that Communism
has reached the limit of the
southward drive. But all Western
civilisation, unless it diverts its
resources for a world war im-
mediately, is not powerful
enough to ensure the success of
a policy oT warning.
Meanwhile, Malaya to us is the
most crucial area. Every re-
source of the British Common-
wealth should be applied to
cleansing Malaya of its fifth-
column, or, if that cannot be
done in view of its peculiar cir-
cumstances, to putting it in a
state of powerful defence.
Among the white nations it is
our concern most of all.
For once the situation gets out
of hand in Malaya and the
British are forced to leave, armed
Russian Communism and the
danger of war and invasion will
sit grinning on our doorstep.


How much
ds
time will your
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an, amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
Ihe Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate.' It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
TRUST ESTATES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
' F. H, Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.RA.C.I
J. R. Faviell. F, B. Fleming,
Manager: N, L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: C. N. P. Whittle.
Sub Manager: S. U. White,
Secretary: F. R. Garland.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Steimrt.
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
, pr.ai.t*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ANTI-RED BILL.
Oddly enough (though plenty
of precedents could be found),
practically all the overseas com-
ment on the Menzies Govern-
ment’s Anti-Red Bill that found
its way into cables was of the
adverse variety.
As one effect of that, a Labor
opponent of the bill in the Can-
berra debate was misled into
declaiming that all the British
Press comment was against the
measure. He was told in effect:
“Ah, but you’ve only read what
was in the cables! ”
A good deal of the other sort
was published overseas. Here,
as an example, is an extract from
a fairly extensive analysis of the
bill by a London “Time and
Tide” writer, dealing particularly
with the outlawing of the party:
“This cuts right across tradi-
tions which the English-speaking
world was the first to evolve
and which it has for so long
cherished. Englishmen here and
abroad do not like the idea of
suppressing a party’s legal exist-
ence because they dislike its
views. Their attitude is that
embodied in the phrase attri-
buted to Voltaire: ‘Sir, I dis-
agree with every word you say,
but I would fight to the death
for your right to say it.’ I must
say that that is my own
emotional reaction. And on the
whole the tradition has served us
well. It is better to defeat an
idea in open argument than to
try to suppress it —better to make
converts than make convicts.
“But increasingly I doubt
whether in the conditions created
by Cqmmunism in the modern
world the old tradition can stand
without qualification. The tradi-
tion works well where everybody
accepts the premises of political
democracy government by
majority vote, the right of the
Opposition to oppose, a free
Press and platform—and the rest.
But what relation is there be-
tween those premises and the
conditions of the modern world?
Here is the world divided into
two hostile camps, with one
camp doing its best to disrupt
the econbmy of the other. Com-
munist parties are not political
parties in the sense that the Con-
servative, the Liberal and the
Labor party are political parties.
They are conspiracies to wreck
society from within, under orders
from the enemy without.
“In the conditions of the last
war we did not leave Hitler’s
spies and agents free to wander
where they would and sabotage
where they could. We put them
away where they could do no
harm —and that is a good deal
more than Mr. Menzies proposes
as a defensive measure in a war
just as real and twice as danger-
ous as the war against Hitler.
He proposes that the State should
not go on giving a Communist
fifth-column full facilities to
bring about the destruction of
the State. He cannot stop any-
one holding Communist views
and is too sensible to try to do
so; but he proposes to ban
organised Communist activity
directed to sabotaging the coun-
try in the interests of a foreign
and implacably hostile Power.
“For myself,” the “Time and
Tide” writer concluded, “I think
that the test here will have to
be not the theoretical test of the
armchair philosopher but the
practical one of results. I depre-
cate the idea of suppressing any
minority, but I deprecate still
more the idea of the minority
suppressing and destroying the
rest of us ; and it is this issue
which the Communist pro-
gramme, strategy and tactics
pose in the modern world. It is
possible to dislike intensely hav-
ing the choice thrust on us, but
it is impossible to avoid the
choice.”
France and Germany.
In the course of an exception-
ally interesting special article in
“Manchester Guardian,” analys-
ing, from the French viewpoint,
but with singular detachment,
France’s peculiar position in the
Wester n-Defence set - up,
Bertrand de Jouvenel contends
that “It is for France a vital in-
terest that European defence
should be organised in Germany,
and obviously with a German
contribution.”
In fact, he declares this to be
France’s one chance of avoiding
a repetition of 1940. It is, how-
ever, a case of what is vital to
France being opposed, if not
made impossible, by the force of
French national feelings, in them-
selves natural enough and easy
to explain.
Asking why it is that France
(up to the recent French plan for
the integrating of Germany’s and-
France’s coal and steel produc-
tion) had continued to make
difficulties about Western Ger-
many’s entrance in the Stras-
bourg organisation (European
Union), and flares up whenever
rearmament of the Germans
even within a European Army
is mentioned, the French writer
answers: —
“On the morrow of 1870 the
Germans became to us [France]
an hereditary enemy: French
history was rewritten in terms of
constant enmity between Gauls
and Germans. This fury was, of
course, chiefly due to humilia-
tion. The victory of 1918 erased
Sedan and there was from 1924
onwards increasing goodwill,
which unfortunately was taken
advantage of by Hitler. *
“Quite naturally defeat and
the occupation aroused national
pride, but there was no hatred
until the methods of the Ges-
tapo and the fate of deportees
came to be known. Such prac-
tices have left a deep impression
in French memories. The
generations which had ceased to
believe in Prussian brutality
came to believe, by generalisa-
tion, in German fiendishness.”
How, he asks, can we expect
the present French feeling
against Germany, for which
there are such strong reasons, to
die down easily?
“Such feeling,” he goes on, “is
a major fact. And French poli-
ticians are careful not to fly in
the face of this feeling. They
remember that French statesmen
who attempted any rapproche-
ment with Germany have always
fared badly. Moreover, they feel
that any such policy would give
Communists the great advantage
of monopolising the position of
Clemenceau, Foch and Mandel,
the traditional position of
French patriotism ever since
1870.
“Thus the country which most
needs the addition of Western
Germany to the team of West-
ern defence is also most averse
from it. Dislike finds reasons for
‘WESTERN
Police
FORCE
RECRUITS
WANTED
—London “Daily Mail.”
“BUT WE’VE ONLY JUST TAKEN A COSH
FROM HIM!”
distrust: in its eyes the assur-
ances of the German Govern-
ment are belied by the plotting
of an inevitable underground.
Nor is it perceived that it largely
depends updn our [France’s]
backing whether the liberal
forces in Germany retain the
upper hand. If we are bound to
welcome Western Germany
back some day as an equal
associate, it would seem sensible
to do so as a reward and pre-
mium to friendly democratic
leaders .and not wait till we have
discredited them and have to
bribe nationalists who may then
blackmail us.
“French public opinion is apt
to think of Western Germany as
a sinner who cannot be lightly
pardoned, „ not as a force we
need on our side —that of the
West and of liberty. It is an ex-
tremely delicate job to win public
opinion to the latter point of
view. And Mr. Churchill has
seen the situation very clearly
when he emphasised that a close
Anglo-French association would
alone give France enough self-
confidence to enter into some
form of association with Ger-
many.”
War-strengths Today.
On the axiom “Know your
enemy,” there has been recently
a general reassessing of Russian
war strength in the American
Press, with a glance at what the
West could put up. “Life,”
“Time,” “Newsweek” and “New
York Times” have all had a go
at it, and their findings have
been very much alike.
“Life” has put the Red Army
at 2,600,000 men, organised into
125 infantry and airborne divi-
sions and 30 armored divisions.
“Newsweek” puts the total at
only a little less, but spreads it
over a greater number of divi-
sions. “Life” declares: “The
Red Army could inside two
months start at least 100 divi-
sions rolling across Europe.”
Also joining the assessors,
“Manchester Guardian” men-
tions that estimates of the Soviet
air strength vary around the
figures of 15,000-17,000 aircraft
in first-line units, or something
like twice the strength of the
U.S. Air Force.
“That,” the British paper
comments, “leaves the Soviet
Navy ; in other words, the sub-
marines, which number over 200
and include a high proportion of
the latest, most dangerous type.
It is a stern array which only a
very frightened, very rich or very
belligerent Government would
afford.
“There is little reason to dis-
pute the American estimates of
Russian sea- or air-power, though
one may wonder whether a
nation so backward in these
fields in 1945 can become a
world-beater in a hurry. The
army figures are possibly mis-
leading. To us, a division means
not only 16,000-odd divisional
troops, a large com-
ponent of corps and army troops
to give them teeth and nails. If
in fact the Red Army’s strength
is 2,500,000, it may be no
stronger than 50 divisions, as we
understand the term, less a good
many hundred thousands for
anti-aircraft and internal security
duties.” 3
To meet this massive Soviet
threat,” says “Time,” “the West
could not put more than 15
divisions in the field if R uss j a
attacked next month,” and nos
sibly 20 by 1952. “The Atlantic
Allies, ’ announces “Newsweek ’’
“muster only 25 of their 40
divisions in Europe: two and a
half American (including the
armored constabulary, equiva-
lent to one and a half divisions)
two British, five French, eight
Italian, about two each for Bel-
gium and the Netherlands, one
and a half Norwegian, one
Danish and one Portuguese.”
A “New York Times” special
correspondent in London has re-
ported that the 12 members of
the Atlantic Pact have between
them about 22 divisions “of
varying strength and effective-
ness” in Western Europe, not
more than 12 of which could go
into action. “This last figure ”
states the “Manchester
Guardian,” “does not materially
differ from that which most
British commentators would
advance.”
One day, the “New York
Times” has further stated, the
French promise to provide no
fewer than 24 divisions for
Atlantic-Pact defence, Britain six,
the Netherlands possibly four,
Belgium three. More may fol-
low later, but for 18 months to
come “the effective defence
forces of Western Europe will
remain about 12 to 15 divisions.'’
In addition, there is, of course,
a considerable amount of West-
ern air, sea and other strength
which is not included in these
assessments, but of which the
Kremlin is well aware. This in-
cludes, as the “Manchester
Guardian” points out, the atomic
bomb, which the United States
alone possesses in quantity.
“There are some who see in it
the effective counter in peace and
in war to the Russian prepon-
derance in land forces and to
whatever atomic bombs the
Russians may make in the next
few years.”
In further reference a London
correspondent of “New York
Times” states that although no
effective fighting force will exist
in Western Europe for probably
two years more a good deal has
at least been planned. He
quotes the Western military
chiefs as believing there will be
no war at least before 1952. By
then it is planned that all stand-
ing formations in Western
Europe will be initially supplied
with United States equipment,
military production on the Con-
tinent will have been expanded
and common operational pro-
cedures for ground, air and naval
forces will have been developed.
“Distinct defence sectors,” the
correspondent reports, “have
been assigned under The Hague
defence plan to each of the
Atlantic-Pact countries in Europe
along the broad line running
generally from Lubeckr on the
Baltic to Trieste on the Adriatic.”
A stronger line along the
Rhine also has been mapped out,
the assumption being that West-
ern European forces must hold
any advance for 60 to 90 days


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
i
I
I
I
300
Candle
Power
Order Now: —for Winter!
Here’s a safe, reliable Lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting: Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to ope-
rate, this famous British
KEROSENE Pressure - type
Eamp Is moderately priced at
86 1-
CAMPING APPLIANCES,
Brandts stock pressure-pattern
Stoves, Hurricane Lamps, Wick
Stoves, etc. All spare parts
supplied.
Mail orders by return mail.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. -Phone: M 4651.
vVcw ft
«ss
-,■■■"
VlfSSsf
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VL
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
QtUt/lfa
suopion
TILLEY LAMPS
WATCH FOR—
“HAPPY” MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.,
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING !!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
until sufficient U.S. troops could
be flown or ferried into pre-
determined positions.
“For this holding period plans
naturally have been laid to bring
the full weight of Allied air-
power against the enemy: the
United States Air Force through
strategic and atomic bombing,
an d Western European Air
Forces, under Air Chief Marshal
Sir James Robb, through tactical
and interdiction bombing. Naval
anti-submarine convoying and
minesweeping plans also have
been concerted.”
Also, “within the allotted
defence sectors, preliminary work
has been done on defining the
lines of communication, deter-
mining the base ports and plan-
ning troop and supply depots,
rail and truck heads, hospitals
and other logistic needs.”
Priestley on Russia.
Not even the most bemused
of the Australian Fellowship of
Writers have blithered more
sentimentally on the Russian
theme than I. B. Priestley. Hence,
there may be more somersaults
pending, Priestley having at
least vaguely begun to doubt.
Taken to task by a Russian
writer for not hewing more
closely to the party line, he
agreed that the Soviet Union
does not want war and that the
Russian people are horrified at
the thought of it; adding, how-
ever : —
“But it is not obvious to me
that your [Russia’s] leaders
genuinely desire what is the
opposite of war, a real peace, a
world community of people
living their own life without con-
stant interference from other
peoples, all open and friendly,
enjoying whatever can contri-
bute to a world civilisation, or,
alternatively, they are not free
from the hysterical fear that is
now so common in America.
The nations seem to be going
round and round in the dark like
idiot children frightening each
other For this the Kremlin
must take its share of responsi-
bility.”
He doesn’t say what he
reckons would be a fair share.
Peace Offensive.
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorially points a danger of the
current Soviet - ordered and
Communist - conducted “peace
offensive,” including sUch mani-
festations as “peace congresses”
of the kind that
recently, with comic-gaitered
garnishing, entertained Aus-
tralia : —
“A most dangerous conse-
quence of constantly falsifying
what has happened and is hap-
pening in the world is that in
time the falsification comes, to
be believed” (i.e., by the falsi-
fiers themselves).
“We know that this occurred
in the case of the Nazis, and
there is no reason why their
Russian imitators should not be
similarly afflicted. As all their
organs of propaganda rave about
Anglo - American preparations
for war; as their stooges in the
Czechoslovak National Assembly
and other such satellite dummy
legislatures, at ‘peace’ congresses
and other such ideologically regi-
mented gatherings, pass parrot
resolutions, they come to believe
that a powerful section of free
public opinion veritably accepts
their ludicrous distortions of fact
and intention.
“On their side of the Iron
Curtain, though there are many
signs of restlessness and discon-
tent, conformity can be en-
forced. They should realise that
in the free world, apart from
an insignificant handful of dis-
credited fellow-travellers, no one
doubts that the only impedi-
ment to the peace and disarma-
ment which are universally de-
sired is the unbridled appetite
for power of Russia’s present
masters.”
In short, the “peace offensive”
is so much thin camouflage for
the real moves and motives of the
country accurately described in
the Western Foreign Ministers’
ominous denunciation as “the
sole militaristic and aggressive
Power in th» world.”
Dragnet Digest.
Some Disguise! —As reported by
London “Times,” Lord Vansittart
mentioned in a speech that on
Easter Day a disguised Communist
had got into a pulpit in Paris and
shouted “God is dead!” The Com-
munist, said the noble Lord, was
“disguised as an American.”
* * * *
J. Bull’s “Shipwreck Philosophy.” —
“After making every allowance for
the special disabilities under which
Britain labors as a direct result of
the war,” a London “Daily Tele-
graph” correspondent reports, “many
Americans are more than ever con-
vinced that the disparity between the
degree of prosperity in the two coun-
tries must be due to some fault in
the British approach.” The corres-
pondent quotes leading Republican
John Foster Dulles as questioning in
his recent book whether a “ship-
wreck” philosophy will ever get the
British Ship of State off the rocks.
* * * *
Photos, Vivid and Artistic. —A
London “Spectator” correspondent
reporting from Italy: “Editors abroad
requiring vivid, not to say artistic,
photographs of landless peasants
marching behind a red flag to seize
uncultivated land may apply without
obligation to a certain address in
Rome, a stone’s throw from the
balcony from which the Dictator
addressed the crowds in days gone
by. The photographs offered are for
the foreign Press only. No one who
knows the South would be taken in
by the noble-looking young men with
Roman features, clad in sports
jackets, or by the ‘peasants’ wearing
leggings of expensive leather, who
march behind a red flag, in statuesque
close-up, though curiously unaware
of the camera.”
* * * *
Ex-“Times.” —A statement made by
Lord Vansittart in the House of
Lords might partly explain some of
the “Times’s” former sentimental
pro-Russian outlook, which latterly
seems to have been rather reluctantly
changed. Lord Vansittart referred to
one Ralph Parker, “a well-known
Communist,” as formerly “the
‘Times’ correspondent in Moscow,
and now correspondent of the ‘Daily
Worker,’ ” the London Communist
sheet.
* * * *
Menzies and Malaya.— The state-
ment by Mr. Menzies, that if Britain
asked Australia for help in Malaya
it would not be refused, had a
general enthusiastic reception in the
British Press. The “Daily Mail” (as
an example) declared that the offer
transformed the possibilities of Im-
perial defence: “From it may well
spring a scheme under which our
outposts are largely garrisoned by
Dominion and Colonial troops while
British units are brought back to
help defend the heart and centre of
Western civilisation.” One thing is
certain, it added; “Britain cannot
now hold strategic positions and fight
little wars all over the world and at
the same time make the military con-
tribution to Western Union which her
allies expect.” If the bulk of Britain’s
divisions scattered over North Africa,
the Middle East and Asia could be
released from those duties “the pic-
ture in Europe would be much
brighter.”
* * * *
India-Pakistan Truce. —Whether or
not events will finally justify it, a
good deal of optimism has been
engendered by the temporary agree-
ment between India and Pakistan to
keep peace and protect minorities
while U.N.O.’s Australian mediator
tries to settle the Kashmir trouble.
As a typical U.S. example, a writer
in N. Y. “Herald Tribune”: “So
much has been said about what the
West could or should do for, with,
and about Asia that we forget what
Asia can do about itself and for us.
Yet the agreement which was reached
recently by Nehru and Liaquat for
India and Pakistan is, I think we may
say, the first great demonstration of
high statesmanship by the new inde-
pendent Powers of Asia.” As a
British example, London “Observer”
hailed as a promising step “the
acceptance by both sides of the Aus-
tralian High Court Judge Sir Owen
Dixon as mediator,” adding; “More
important than the speed with which
further definite agreements are
reached is ■ the spirit in which the
negotiations for these agreements are
carried on. If the spirit of the agree-
ment can be extended to Kashmir,
India and Pakistan may yet become
twin pillars of stability and progress
for the emerging, new Asia.”


SINGLE-HANDED AUTOMATIC MODEL
THAT WILL APPEAL TO MILLIONS
Biromatic has all the quality and reliability of other
members of the Biro family—plus something else.
The ball-point is hidden. It appears when you press
gently on the top until you hear it click. Press firmly
and it clicks back. Biromatic is available in two
different and attractive cases. Rolled gold, 55/-.
Rhodium plated, 42/-. Refills, 2/11,
your automatic choice . . .
BL
Hiromatic
OTHER MEMBERS OF THE BIRO FAMILY
* S}SnT?S^ R 7~ red ’ ¥ ue » hlack or green ink. 6/-.
* vww E^?T" for pocket or handbag. . . . 15/-.
* FURO s^ amlin ed, full size pen. 34/6.
* tilKO de LUXE—the presentation pen... £6/10/-.
— world-wide Biro refill service.
BIRO a pen for your thoughts
133153-~3lDec, 1943 t/m
THIS |
'Biro
IS NEWS!
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEOROE ALBERT STORHEIM late
of 22 Stephen Street Balmain.—TAKE
NOTICE that LYELL JUNE STORHEIM
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 631
of 1949 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 26th of July 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from McOAW, MORAY & JOHNSON,
Solicitors, 75-77 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
S?fe.
N
c
/'/
on J^
Olympic
airntfe
V
TYRES
/00Z ' ifasAra/ian ... C6a/fffitbf?S of rfe R o^
OT 35.16. W
A PRODUCT OF THE
OLYMPIC
TYRE 4 RUBBER
CO. i T{K
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Unusual figures like mine seem
to be overlooked.” —Correspondent
in women’s paper.
Instead of being looked over.
4* 4* 4*
“Gas may be saved if the meter is
always turned off when cooking.”
— Women’s paper.
And you won’t waste any
dough, either.
4* 4* 4*
“Every large shop has its staff of
detectives to guard against pilferers.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
It is known as counter-
espionage.
“Mae West, announcing she would
shortly appear on television, said: ‘lt
will keep‘Dad at home at least once
a week.’ ”
But we bet he won’t get a
look-in,
4* 4* 4*
“Songs written by a king will be
featured in a new Broadway revue.”
He’ll collect the royalties,
4* 4*
Paradox.
If greying hair is tinted back
To youthful jet some nark
Will notice. You may dye it
black.
But cannot keep it dark.
B. B.
4* 4* 4*
“It is much pleasanter to be a
Father Christmas than a Scrooge.”
—Sir Stafford Cripps.
But under a Socialist regime
how can John Bull start stock-
ing up?
Shape of Things to Come.
“I want to get out b.efore my brain
sets to a jel.”— Retiring vice-chan-
cellor of Melbourne University, 59-
year-old Sir John Medley.
When middle-age comes creeping
on
And youth’s spontaneous wit has
gone
It’s sometimes hard to keep
wisecracking,
For erstwhile zest is rather
lacking.
But let it not be said of me
That I would hang on doggedly
To swell the ranks' of staid
old-timers
And bar the way to ydanger
rhymers.
For rather let me lay aside
My pen and somnolently bide
With prawns in comfort in a
boat
To muse and watch a bobbing
float
When I acquire a rotund belly
And find my brain set like a
jelly—
Such is the prospect I behold
When I retire before I mould.
D.H.E.
Short-circuited.
“Girl receives electric shock while
being kissed.” — News item.
Since Eve and Adam met that
slimy asp
Which guiled the keys of Heaven
from their grasp.
Nary a one of us but had to
grapple
One way or other, over Adam’s
apple.
No wonder poets, saints and
sinners all
Date human troubles from that
thumping Fall.
Yet centuries of flat-out concen-
tration
On the old theme of Man’s De-
valuation
Never produced—until I came
long
This variation to the Old Sweet
Song:
Whether we talk in terms of asp
or amp,
Lovelight is just a word for
trouble-lamp.
HERCO.
Our Super-service Dept.
My dog bit a man who was
pasting a Communist - propa-
ganda pamphlet on the telegraph-
pole outside our house, and he
has threatened to sue me for
damages. What would you
advise ? — 1299.
If the dog hasn’t already begun
to froth at the mouth and run
around in circles give him a cup-
ful of strong salt and water.
Should this emetic not act,
read to the dog some of Eddie
Ward’s remarks on the Anti-Red
Bill, particularly those relating
to the greater necessity for sup-
pressing the Fascists. If this
doesn’t make the hound puke
“Get him a straw , can't y;?”
up the poison you’d better start
digging a hole in your backyard.
* * * *
A beautiful and shapely blonde
artist’s model whom I recently
met has asked me to give an
address to a meeting of her
fellow-models. I was consider-
ing two subjects: ( 1 ) The im-
pact of increased labor charges
on the national economy and
(2) The incidence of back-
wardation in Stock Exchange
dealings. What would you ad-
vise as the most suitable ?
13882.
We’ll make a deal. Give us
the blonde’s address and we’ll
give you yours.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Noticing some dozens of cases
of bottled beer being delivered
from the brewery to a hotel, I
entered the bottle department
shortly afterwards and demanded
to be sold two at the fixed price.
I was informed there was none
available, though I knew none
could possibly have been sold
in the time. I understand the
public have certain rights. What
is my position ? — 9425.
All wrong. Your position was
at the back door of the pub,
not the front. Had you offered
4s. a bottle you could have
filled a chaffbag.
* * * *
My nextdoor neighbor’s fowls
keep flying over the dividing
fence and scratch up my seed-
lings. I have warned him, as
you previously advised me to,
to make his fowls desist from
the practice, but this has
brought no results. Should I
get in touch with my lawyer ?
1234.
You could, but before doing
so why not try giving the fowls a
wring?
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Could I tune my own piano ?
It is in such bad condition that
some of the notes are missing
altogether. If I can, explain the
procedure. — 397B.
Certainly you can. First
remove the front, sides and back,
being careful to leave the top in
place, though it is best to open
this slightly so as to allow you
to hear your own tuning much
clearer, Next take out any
empties, discarded olives and
cigarette-butts and other party
adjuncts which have been
tangling up the works. Before
starting on the tuning burnish
each wire up with goanna-fat and
shellgrit, lubricating afterwards
with asbestos-oil.
Now get a loan of a canary
which is able to whistle
accurately the tonic scale, with
a middle C at perfect concert-
pitch. It is a simple matter, with
the canary whistling the note, to
adjust the tension of the string
until the struck note and the
canary are in unison. Unless
you are able to pick up any
spare notes at, say, a pawn-
broker’s, you may find difficulty
in replacing the missing notes,
though it is possible that you
could get in touch with some
other amateur tuner who, after
tuning, finds he has several notes
over, included in which may be
those you need.
* * * *
My shoes squeak so loudly they
have become an embarrassment
wherever I go. Is there anything
I can do about them ? — 3712.
Yes. Make a present of them
to Jimmy McGirr immediately
after the coming N.S.W. elec
They’ll suit him perfectly.
I am always terribly se u
conscious when eating spaghetti
in a restaurant. What is the best
way to eat it without embarra «
ment 7—Blol. 55
Lower the face until it k
within one thirty-second 0 f an
inch of the mess on the plate
open it to full capacity and in-
hale lustily, first closing the nose
When you have inhaled enough
spaghetti to fill the cavity close
the teeth and trim off outside
the mouth with a cut-throat
razor (a restaurant knife is abso-
lutely useless), taking care not
to slice the lips. Swallow, lower
face and keep repeating until
spaghetti has all gone.
* * * *
My Spanish onions appear to
be wilting. Is there any remedv ?
—3090. 3 '
They respond with astonish-
ing rapidity to the playing of a
recorded description of a Barce-
lona bullfight, if you can obtain
one.
BO.
Not Even a Worm....
“Father will wash up, but not
make beds, a research into family
behavior has discovered.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
If father takes to washing dishes
It’s not because he likes the
job —
In fact, I’ll stake my only bob
He does it much against his
wishes.
And yet, though starting from
his wedding,
He’ll tackle greasy plates and
knives,
He claims it is a job for wives
To juggle sheets and heavy
bedding.
Is it because he fears that
mother.
Appreciative of the way
He tosses mattresses, will say
That one good turn deserves
another ?
BERT.


VACANT POSSESSION
7-9 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
About 250 yards Farmers Ltd.
11,800 ft. well-lighted floor space.
Land 38ft. Sin. x 127 ft.
Substantial 3-storey Building with
Cart Dock. Splendid Advertising and
Selling Outlet.
AUCTION 6th JUNE,
1950
L. J. HOOKER Pty., Limited,
In conjunction with
ROBERT HARLEY & SONS
CUTS.// AND SCRATCHES
BUSTERS
y
n
VUi
C *7
mm
m
m
SAFE!
mm
m
7/
Accidents do happen, so be prepared
with Elastoplast, the firm, flexible elastic
plaster! It’s specially handy for cuts and
bruises that are hard to bandage. Flesh-
coloured Elastoplast is inconspicuous and
stays clean . . . Wound on a handy metal
spool, it is 1" wide by 1 yd, long (stretching
to l|/2 yds.).
FRO M ALL CHEMISTS
Llastoplast
J TRADE MARK
e-l-a-s-t-i-c adhesive plaster
First Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available.
MADE in ENGLAND 8/ T. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., HULL
* tt/itt
a
A?/,
9
h
Z
0
V
I
V
Ufa
BY appointment
TOBACCONISTS TO
MB MAJESTY TUB IUNO
tins of 20
wo 10
in
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do*
=>/• SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In the annals of the British Turf
1881 is noted as the, “American year,”
for, in that year, two trans-Atlantic
visitors cleaned up pretty well every-
thing about the shop, including, most
important of all, The Derby. Foxhall
won the Cesarewitch and Cambridge-
shire double, as well as several other
English races, and, in France, the
Grand Prize of Paris, worth, even
that far back, the tidy sum of £6374
to the winner. At the same time
another American colt in Iroquois
won the Derby, to say nothing of the
Newmarket Stakes, the Burwell Stakes,
Prince of Wales’s Stakes, St. James’s
Palace Stakes, St. Leger and the New-
market Derby. Since then American
visitors have had little success in the
English Derby, and certainly none
in the past 40 years or so, but general
opinion over t’other side is very
strong that it’s Amerigi’s turn this
year. Next Saturday will provide the
answer,
The supposed good thing is Prince
Simon, who seems certain to start one
of the hottest Derby favorites on
record—a fortnight before the race
he was at a price shorter than 2 to 1.
Prince Simon is owned by William
Woodward, who is a leading light of
the American turf and has, as well,
won a host of important English races,
including a St. Leger. Like his
predecessor Iroquois, Prince Simon
won the Newmarket Stakes and was
narrowly beaten in the Two Thousand
Guineas. If Prince Simon can follow
in Iroquois’s footsteps by taking the
Derby he will win about three times
the £5925 bagged by Iroquois, the
1950 Derby being the richest on
record, but, to do so, Prince Simon
will have to beat about twice as many
other good colts. There were 16
runners in Iroquois’s year; this time
there are 36 final acceptors, including,
of course, a strong representation of
the French horses, who have been so
very successful in England over recent
years.
Australian riders will be well rep-
resented in the Derby field, although,
rather surprisingly, J. Thompson had
not been engaged at time of writing.
However, Togo Johnstone will be on
Galcador, Edgar Britt on Rising
Flame and T. F. Burn on Babu’s
Pet, while Scobie Breasley will be
steering Telegram the Second, who is
conceded a fair chance. Gordon
Richards, who recently rode his
4000th winner, but still hasn’t cracked
the Derby, will be having yet another
try, and has chosen Napoleon Bona-
parte, who was not in the betting until
Richards took the mount.
Speaking of Gordon Richards, his
4000 winners is, of course, a record
that has never been approached by
any other jockey. And riding, as he
is, as well as ever at 46, Richards
may yet hit the 5000 mark. He has
taken only four years for his last
1000, passing Sam Heapy’s previous
record of 3000 winners in 1946.
Among Richards’s other records is that
of riding 12 consecutive winners,
which he did over three days’ racing
in October, 1933; Gordon rode the
last winner one day, all six winners
the next day, and the first five winners
the following day. In addition,
Richards has knocked up sequences
of eight, seven and six winners (one
of each), has ridden five in a row a
dozen times, four 32 times and has
performed the comparatively humble
hat-trick on 112 occasions.
* * * *
The matter of the Flemington
steeplechase fences has developed
into a major issue in Melbourne.
Opinion seems to be divided into two
principal schools of (thought. Some
maintain that there’s nothing wrong
with the fences but that the horses
ar,en’t being properly schooled. Others
declare that the class of jumpers has
deteriorated considerably, and that the
best thing to do is to bring the fences
down to within the capacity of such
jumpers as are in action. On the side-
lines, and making much of the whole
business, are those who would like
to see the game banned altogether.
Last week the manager of the
Victorian Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals inspected the
fences and recommended several
modifications. It seems unfortunate,
in any aspect of racing, to have to
admit that quality is declining and
to alter conditions to suit such a
deterioration, but possibly it’s the
best thing to be done in this case.
Judging from the number of bad
spills at Flemington in recent weeks
there was nothing surer than that
somebody would have been killed
sooner or later with the fences as
they were.
Saturday’s Lindsay Gordon Steeple
at Moonee Valley supported the
notion that the present jumpers are
not much chop. The Valley fences
are not considered near so stiff as at
Flemington, but nevertheless three
horses came down. From a Grand
National viewpoint favorite Benarca’s
victory was a pretty good effort, but
he may have been lucky that' well-
fancied Finentigue fell. Finentigue
had been going very boldly and
comfortably in front to set up a
handsome lead, and Benarca seemed
too far back to have a show until
Finentigue took one awkwardly and
fell. This left only Marsula ahead
of Benarca, who settled down to the
job, overhauled Marsula, and went
on to an easy win. Bronze Laddie
was impressive in coming from a
long way back to beat Marsula for
second money.
The first leg of the jumping double,
the Ardmillan Hurdle, went to Rebel
Regis, second favorite at threes and
coming into National considerations
by winning pretty easily under a top-
weight plaster of 10.12. Rebel Regis
jumped very well, and clocked the
fastish time of 3.51 for the two miles
and a furlong. If he can get the
extra distance of the National, Rebel
Regis should run well, and he has
a Flemington win to his credit. A
well-beaten second in the Ardmillan
was Faiz Effendi, who had done much
of the pacemaking, while Rossfield
made up a lot of ground to finish
third.
Possibly the most brilliant winner
on the flat on Saturday was the
Hellespont filly Weka (R. Hutchinson)
taking the second Puckle Handicap
for two-year-olds. Just as onlookers
were resigned to seeing either Chateau
Prince or the 50-to-l chance Sun
Fury as the winner, the favorite
Weka simply flashed on to the scene
to not only win, but do so with more
than a length to spare from Chateau
Prince. The first division of the
Puckle saw another filly and another
favorite do the trick when Miss
Suzanne (J. Purtell) got up well ahead
of Trailway and Wessex.
* * * *
Saturday’s well-attended Randwick
meeting was an eminently satisfactory
one for Sydney Tattersall’s Club
which had the fixture, but was rather
less palatable for punters, who saw
only one favorite successful on the
day.
The one successful favorite was
High Spirits, ridden a splendid race
by G. Moore to take the principal
event, the James Barnes Plate of 10
furlongs. Always holding a handy
position, and finishing on strongly.
High Spirits defeated the little-fancied
pair Erpingham and Jenval. High
Spirits’s win in this particular event
had an interesting association for his
owner, A.J.C. committeeman B. H.
Crowley. Hilarious, the dam of High
Spirits (who is by High Caste), gave
Crowley his first" Randwick winner
when she scored in the same event
in 1939. Since then, of course,
Crowley has won many a good event
at headquarters with his champion
mare Flight.
The Flying Handicap saw Heroic
Sovereign at last return to form, and
he will, of course, now be taken north
for another crack at the Doomben
Ten Thousand. However, Heroic
Sovereign won the Flying only by the
skin of his teeth; another few strides
would have seen Blue Flag a good
winner. Finishing all over the others,
the grey failed by only a neck.
Other events at Randwick saw
Traveller (G. Podmore) take the
Novice (10f.), Poitiers (R. Selkrig)
the Two-year-old Handicap (7f.),
Putoko (N. Sellwood) the Juvenile
Stakes for fillies and Beau China (W.
Fellows) the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap. Rounding off a
generally glorious day for the books
the ancient Arrowsmith (G. Mark-
wort) won the Welter, starting at
66 to 1.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies): Regal
Gold, 1; Joy Star, 2; Magic Maze,
3. Two-year-old Maiden (colts and
geldings): Old Jamaica, 1; Don Hua,
2; Aerofoil, 3. Ashbury Mixed:
Auburn River, 1; Matinee, 2; Susan,
3. Burwood Mixed: Erpingham, 1;
Traveller, 2; Gold Trace, 3. Flying:
Deep Sea, 1; Blue Flag, 2; Darelle,
3. May Handicap: Lordly, 1; Air
Flare, 2; Yamboon, 3. Welter:
Tamasha, 1; Admetus, 2; Messenger,
3.
* * * *
The cricket match between Cam-
bridge University and the West Indies
tourists in England last week must
have been a treat for those who like
to see the runs coming fast and
furious —a sight with which Australian
cricket fans have become increasingly
unfamiliar. At the end of the three-
day match, which ended in a draw,
1324 runs had been scored and only
seven wickets had fallen. Cambridge
declared with 594 on the board and
four wickets down. When the show
finished the West Indians had lost
three for 730, the highest score yet
made by a West Indies side in Eng-
land. Weekes and Worrell put up a
partnership of 350, Weekes finishing-
up with 304 not out, which should
give his average a tidy lift,
* * * *
St. Kilda discovered on Saturday
that “nothing succeeds like success”
in football as in other things. For a
generation the wooden spooners of
the V.F.L., the club has brought out
a young, fast team this year and
opened the season with three quick
victories over Hawthorn, Footscray
and South Melbourne. Then came a
dogged two-points win over North,
and the result was a record crowd
of some 40,000-odd to see the Saints
play Carlton. The Saints had stage-
fright in the first term, were down
two goals at the change, steadied in
the second, got the lead, and held it
to win by 10.14 to 8.7. The great
crowd cheered them all the way. The
win makes five in a row, and the
Vic. Railways are thinking of running
special trains to Geelong next Satur-
day, when the Saints go to meet a
good team which is always hard to
beat on its own ground. In the other
V.F.L. games Essendon was un-
troubled to beat Richmond, 17.8-
10.18; Collingwood staggered in by
a point at Geelong, 12.8-10.19; North
shaded South, 14.12-14,9; Melbourne
beat Footscray, 16-9-13.11; and Fitz-
roy belted Hawthorn, 19.15-4.24.
* * ♦ *
Last Saturday’s R.U. matches saw
the defeat of Easts by University,
which now leaves Gordon the only
undefeated team in the competition.
But Gordon can be thankful that
they did not suffer the same fate as
Easts. In their match against the
youthful Drumnloyne team they
managed to scrape in by the barest
of margins, 8-6. It would be absurd
to say that Gordon were lucky to
win. But it was little credit to a
premiership-winning side, who gained
possession from the majority of
scrums and a fair share from lineouts,
that they were able to score only
one try —and that an individual effort
—against defence which, although
determined, could only be classed as
puerile. Repeatedly two Drummoyrte
players went into the one tackle, and
thereby created an overlap which
Gordon players either did not realise
or did not know how to take advan-
tage of. Reason for Gordon’s ineffec-
tive display against such mediocre
opposition was that in Drummoyne
they struck a team which had no con-
ception of back-line attack—in fact,
the ball never got past the five-eight.
Gordon were thus deprived of the
source from which most of their tries
come, viz., errors which they force
opposing backs into by close defence.
Unable to score in this manner, they
were forced to make their own attack,
and their efforts in this line were
somewhat worse than poor. In other
matches St. George beat Randwick,
Norths beat Parramatta and Manly
beat Eastwood.
* * * *
Whether it is their own fault, or,
as seems more probable, the fault of
the Stadium people who control the
game, leading Australian pugs today
don’t fight nearly often enough. It
seems to be a case of win a title
(if you’re lucky enough to eventually
get the title-holder into the ring), then
sit back and bask in the glory. Latest
example, Australian lightweight cham-
pion Jack Hassen, beaten on points
in Sydney last week by Mexican Babe
Ortiz. Hassen hadn’t had a fight for
eight months, entered the ring a
10-to-l-on favorite, and fought like
a man who hadn’t had a fight in
eight months. Hassen has always
shown that his notions of defence are
about on par with those of a comic-
opera general, but he had won fights
by being able to take it, and at the
same time dish out a sight more than
he was taking. Against Ortiz his
defence was, if anything, weaker than
usual, and, apart from dazing Ortiz
once in the second round, his punch-
ing seemed ineffective. Ortiz scored
freely and frequently, and won com-
fortably.


SPRAY SECTIONS NOW IN
£
NOW! IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
ON ALL ALUMINIUM ORDERS
cost®
.Qk*noH
OHt
CO*
Ot
viwdwi
gM' oW
irw
RA
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sections to buy and
to move aroundl Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
ALUMINIUM MAINS AND SECTIONS
Lightweight, durable spray sections and 24 ft. mains, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mains and sections.
»uSSSmh D " ,,AINB0W " MAKES
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124
Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria: C. BEAUMONT,
64 K^?.^U Me J bo . urn . e - MU 5271 • South Australia: RALPH
24 Light Sq ” Adelaide * ’Phone: C 1065.
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on bail and socket prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
f
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
minimum obstruction in
both outlet and main.
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
> with vegetation.
dsf
M Phenovis 99 Worm Remedy
Mlichinytime it
Lo* fi * e!
/<//
y/M
/X'/
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
''o/V/O/,
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
dsf
dsf
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-m»l
DON'S WORRT. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
New Scouring Method.
“C.S.”: New methods of
scouring wool which might im-
prove the efficiency of the opera-
tion were outlined by Dr,
Harold P. Lundgren, of the
Western Regional Research
Laboratory, Albany (Cal.), who
gave details of how scouring by
suint salts could be made sig-
nificantly more effective when
small, controlled amounts of
alcohol were added. Alcohol
with suint, it was found, not
only produces higher efficiency
in the removal of wool grease,
but it also acts to break down
the wool-grease emulsions, thus
permitting easier recovery of the
grease.
It was announced that the first
complete analysis of wool grease
was now in progress at Wynd-
moor (Pa.). The basic con-
stituents of the grease were being
determined and separated. When
the constituents were known
accurately it was hoped that
some would be found which had
a stable market at a price which
would pay a large part of the
recovery costs. Among grease
products now in use are protec-
tive coatings for precision instru-
ments, lanolin (a basic ingredi-
ent in some cosmetics), lotions
and medical ointments and
cholesterol.
Healthy Dairy Cattle.
“Darbalara”; At the Inter-
national Veterinary Congress in
London discussions on eradica-
tion and control of disease in
dairy cattle held much of inter-
est to Australians. While Austra-
lian conditions differ in many
ways and we lack sufficient quali-
fied vets to do the work with
the intensity with which it is
done abroad, our climate gives
us a great advantage against dis-
ease.
During the past five years Fin-
land has operated a State-con-
trolled scheme to beat con-
tagious abortion, which has
cleaned up 3000 herds. Today no
fewer than 8000 Finnish herds
are free from infection. The
use of Strain 19 was advocated
unanimously. British delegates
instanced a five-year experiment
which cleared seven herds of
c, ab. by vaccinating all non-
pregnant animals and thereafter
vaccinating all calves at the age
of six months. Before starting
treatment, the average state of
infection of these herds was 42
per cent.
Interchange of information on
mastitis brought out some useful
points. New techniques in U.S.A.
are detecting abnormalities in
milk and enabling mastitis to be
diagnosed and treated before the
usual udder symptoms become
visible. As early treatment is
more than half the battle, the im-
portance of this discovery can-
not be overestimated. It is also
suggested that high milk yields
and insufficient rest for the udder
between lactations make cows
more prone to infection. There
was general agreement that mas-
titis can be controlled by strict
dairy hygiene and good milking.
With regard to treatment, there
is nothing better so far than the
injection of penicillin into the
udder by the teat canal.
bovine t.b. discussions brought
to light a variety of approaches
to its control. One point in
common was agreement that all
t.b. diagnosis centred on the
i accurate use of tuberculin. Sta-
tistics on the work accomplished
in Denmark are of paramount in-
terest to Australia, where much
has to be done in this regard.
Fifteen years ago, 70 to 90 per
cent, of Danish herds were in-
fected with t.b. to the extent of
fds
\
<%>
fds
"Get going—and no stopping for a feed on the Way."
30 to 40 per cent, of the cattle.
As a result of close co-operation
between State veterinary author-
ities, private practitioners and
co-operative dairies, by 1948 t.b.
had been reduced until 99 p.c.
of the herds were free from the
disease. In Finland, bovine t.b.
has been completely eradicated.
In Holland, t.b. testing of, all
cattle is compulsory, and in one
province it has been reduced
from 35 to 2 per cent.
Success of herd schemes in
Great Britain is illustrated by
figures quoted. Tubercle-free
cattle totalled 895,000 in 1931.
By 1948 the number had prac-
tically doubled —1,704,000. In
Australia the shortage of quali-
fied vets, has held up large-scale
operations in attacking these
three highly-important diseases,
but the position is improving.
Co-operative dairies are now
assisting by providing a veteri-
nary service to their members,
and a genefal linking-up of these
schemes could result in disease-
free districts which eventually
would cover individual States
and finally the Commonwealth,
including beef cattle as well.
Other countries have shown that
it can be done. With higher
general standards of dairy hy-
giene and the education of
farmers in their individual im-
portance and responsibility in
the project it can be done here,
too.
Wheat Problem.
“W.C.Q.”: Poor-quality bread
throughout Queensland is
blamed on to mottling, a fault
in wheat believed to be caused
by nitrogen deficiency. There
is a lower protein and gluten
content in mottled wheat, and
flour milled from it makes poor-
quality bread and pastry.
The trouble has appeared in
areas where wheat has been
grown for long periods without
any nitrogenous fertiliser. It is
known that poor soil generally
means low gluten content in the
wheat.
It may be argued that plough-
ing-in of wheat stubble returns
nitrogen to the soil, but depart-
mental experts point out that th*
rotting process utilises soil nitn
gen, tfius robbing the crop tk.
consider that the stubble woul
be better left to rot on the su,
face. Rotted slowly by th
weather, the stubble mu u
would put nitrogen into the soi
without removing any.
Queensland Master’ Bakers’
Association wants a permanent
Wheat Research Institute, and
seeks a levy on master bakers
wheatgrowers and millers to set’
the £B3OO annually needed to
help the Government conduct
investigation of wheat problems.
Corriedales for Japan.
“Dick Turpin”: The J aps will
get their first Australian stud
sheep since the war when the
Hindustan reaches Yokohama
She has on board 530 Corrib
dales from leading Australian
studs.
There was a regular trade in
Corriedales before the war, and
the Japs imported about 7000
sheep from Australia every year
Today there are 300,000 of the
breed in Japan, but the lack of
new blood has caused them to
deteriorate and the wool to thin
out. This shipment of rams and
. stud ewes is intended to right
1 the position.
The sheep cargo was insured
for more than £20,000. Their
wool will be woven into cloth
by primitive home methods and
used only for domestic consump-
tion. Past experience has shown
that the breed thrives in Japan
only when there is a regular
influx of new blood, a safeguard
for Australian breeders.
The Poddy Pig.
“Myrrhee”: Until it’s four
weeks old give it whole-cream
cow’s milk warmed to blood-
heat ; six meals daily for the
first week, reducing gradually
until at three weeks the stray is
receiving three feeds a day in
addition to a trough meal of a
dry cereal mixture (four parts of
cereals to one part of meat-
meal) at the rate of {lb. daily
for each week of the pig’s age.
After the fourth week add
separated milk in small but
gradually - increasing quantities
to the whole-milk until, at eight
weeks, the pig is receiving
separated milk only. Use a
shallow dish rather than bottle
and teat and keep it clean. Con-
tact with uncontaminated soil
and a daily feed of greenstuff are
essential. If the pig can’t run on
a pasture throw a shovelful of
clean soil into the pen each day
and give plenty of greenstuff.
Manuring Tomatoes.
“Rooster”: In recent times
the vexed problem of artificial
versus natural manures in ferti-
lising soil for tomatoes has more
or less resolved itself. Well
decomposed stable manure can
be applied safely to any soil.
The same cannot be said of arti-
ficial fertilisers; some soils
simply don’t respond so well to


If larger
wool sales
are your
target...
m
INVEST IN
HADDON RIG SIRES!
Bigger cheques are not won by wishing. That is why
shrewd stud breeders and woolgrowers continue to invest
m Haddon Rig Blood. In the last two years, buyers have
paid £54,510 for Haddon Rig Sires at the Sydney Ram
Sales. Their enterprise brings really worthwhile rewards
m the shape of more wool per head and more pence per
pound.
68 years of skilled and systematic line breeding have
produced these renowned Haddon Rig Rams. Massive and
plain bodied, they run true to type, producing a fleece
that satisfies the most exacting judges dense, even,
possessing good colour and softness. Robust constitutions,,
remarkable adaptability, and the ability to increase
lambing percentages are additional advantages.
, At the 1949 Sydney Ram Sales, Haddon Rig Blood was
m great demand. Six Haddon Rig Special Stud Rams
averaged 1,275 guineas per head. 116 strong, the team
from Australia’s premier Merino Stud realised £27,468
convincing proof of the pastoral industry’s eagerness to
enrich its flocks with Haddon Rig Blood.
Make certain of the extra return per head which
Haddon Rig Sires can bring. If you are unable to
visit Haddon Rig, Malcolm McLeod or Frank Laird
will select rams for you •
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
Your next move
m
•Ul
for better prices, consign
A.M.L.&F. specialists handle your
wool skilfully from its arrival in
store to the fall of the hammer——
with greater returns and less worry
for you! There’s a network *of
Branches thronghont the pastoral
areas—consult the A.M.L.&F.
man a| your nearest Branch
and get the best cheque possible
in any season!
87 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
t
your dip
to
mt.
Ine. In England, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches:— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Oarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Oooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dglby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & 00. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Kortimburra.
FAT
LAMBS
marked with
ELASTRATOR
bring
HIGHER PRICES
Lambs marked with ELASTRATOR
mother up quicker and experience
no setback in growth. They are
ready for market earlier and show
a bloom lacking in lambs set back by
older methods of marking. This
season, improve your fat iambs by
marking with ELASTRATOR.
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
for Bloodless, Safe, Humane
CASTRATION & TAILING
' OF
LAMBS & CALVES
From station suppliers, woolbrokers, chemists
and stores. Instrument, £5/5/-; Antiseptic
Latex Rings , 25/- per box of 500 (Capital
City Prices.)
Distributed in Victoria, Southern
Eiverina and Tasmania by
D. G. OFFICER PTY., LTD.,
SO William Street, Melbourne, and
123 a Charles Street, Launceston.
Distributed in Queensland by
TAYLORS ELLIOTTS PTY.,
LTD.,
Bri sba ne—Rockh ampton—T ownsville.
Distributed in West Australia by
DAVID GRAY & CO., LTD..
2-10 Railway Parade, West Perth.
Distributed in N.S.W. by
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORA-
TORIES, ELLIOTTS & AUST.
DRUG PTY. LTD.,
35 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Distributed in South Australia by
BENNETT & FISHER, LTD.,
4 Currie St., Adelaide, and Branches.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY., LTD. EL. 4
em, and their indiscriminate
,‘ se on these particular soils
) U ld easily halve a normal
unato-crop yield.
Applications of Bcwt. to 12cwt.
per acre of 2:2:1 mixture (two
of super., two of sulphate of
ammonia and one of potash)
might give good results on soils
well supplied with organic
matter, but where this is deficient
humus must be included in the
form of cover-crops or supplied
from other sources. Cover-
cropping is the logical alternative
to stable-manuring.
A common fault with artificial
fertilisers is that they are not
applied deeply enough, and often
not early enough. Most ferti-
lisers should be applied at least
three weeks before planting and
placed deeply enough to be
within the root zone of the
plants.
As a general rule the follow-
ing mixture gives good results
on most soils: Six parts of
superphosphate, four parts
blood - and - bone or abattoir
manure and one part of potash.
Use a double handful of this
mixture for each six or eight
plants at least three weeks be-
fore planting-time. The propor-
tions may be interchanged to
suit the type of soil; in cases
where the potash content of the
soil is high there is no need to
apply it.
Tackling the Brigalow.
“Agric”: T, Eley, Sherwood
Glen, The Gums (Q.), had to
beat brigalow suckers on 1500
acres of good sheep country or
walk off. Spraying with ilb. of
pentoxide to a gallon of water
proved almost 100 per cent, effec-
tive, especially on suckers under
12 miles, but it was hard to get
men to work with the arsenic
spray, and the transport of water
to rough country was another
difficulty. Eley therefore de-
cided to subdivide and let the
sheep assist on restricted areas,
which was a great improvement,
but the time taken in subdivid-
ing left little time for cutting or
poisoning, quite apart from the
unpleasant work of using arsenic.
Hearing of the rolling of
mallee in Victoria, he decided to
try it on brigalow and see if the
sheep could cope with the re-
growth. He made a roller from
a gum log about 9ft. long and
2ft. in diameter, with a heavy
brigalow frame round it. Angle-
steel was used for cutters on the
tread, fastened in a staggered
position, which gave the roller
a sideways action. This assisted
in cutting the stems into short
lengths and shortened the dry-
ing period. A crawler-tractqr
hauled the roller and was fitted
with a strong bumper-bar in
front and a hood over the driver
for protection against falling
timber. In very dense brigalow
about one acre an hour was
treated, and in the lighter timber
about four acres an hour.
Where regrowth beat the
sheep a fire was put through
before the suckers were many
inches high. Sheep would often
leave good feed in favor of
young suckers about a couple
of inches above the ground, and'
would even scratch the ground
away to get a closer bite. In
drought-time suckers were rolled
and burnt, and the young
shoots made good feed, thereby
making the brigalow an asset.
After 11 years’ experimentation
with the rolling of suckers, Eley
is satisfied that, with the assist-
ance of sheep, brigalow can be
beaten. Eley has also found
that rolling, burning and plough-
ing tea-tree country with tandem-
disk harrows and sowing
Sudan-grass seed afterwards can
be very successful.
Preserving a Tank.
“Horseless H.”: As good a
way as any to preserve an iron
tank against mineralised water
is to coat the inside with coal-
tar and wood ashes.
If it is new let it carry water
for a few weeks to remove the
high gloss from the galvanising.
Then clean it out and coat the
inside with warm coal-tar, and
on this wet surface sprinkle
finely-sieved wood ashes. Treat
two or three times in this way
then give the surface a finishing
coat of tar.
Hints for the Farm.
“Slim Jim”: Four years ago
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Langdon,
of Taunton, England, decided to
cross a Rhode Island Red hen
with a turkey—result, the
“chuggie.” The breeders have
nine such birds and believe they
may be on to something, for the
chuggie tastes like turkey but re-
tails at the price of chicken.
“Peggy”; When putting in a
new axe-handle, rasp it down
and fit it properly. Select a well-
tapered hardwood wedge, and,
before hammering in, paint the
wedge, the groove and inside tKe
axe-head with ordinary shearing-
disk glue. Belt the wedge home
securely and allow to dry.
“Wilco”: Don’t store petrol
for any length of time. Stored
petrol turns sticky and will clog
the parts of motor engines. When
my car has stood idle for a
month or two (in the wet N.Q.
season) I always drain off the
stale petrol and replace it with
fresh before I attempt to start.
“Sarina”: During wet seasons
bush roads often become so
rutted as to represent a big job
when the time comes to repair.
In lightly-timbered country it is
easier to make a new track paral-
leling the old than to fill in the
ruts. When the new road has
become well worn-down, the old
road,'under grasses, has filled in
and lost most of its ruts, and
may be used again.
“Rooster”: This mixture makes
a good all-round spray for
vegetables: Dilute lime-sulphur
at one gallon to 100 gallons of
water, and add 21b. of dispersible
sulphur mixed to a thin cream
with a little water. Finally add
fluid ounces (17 tablespoon-
fuls) of E 605 or D.D.T., accord-
ing to directions on container.
Don’t apply if the fruit is three-
parts matured.
“M.”: Woolly aphis can be
combated with a red-oil spray,
15 of water to one of red-oil,
applied to the trees during dor-
mancy. Because of the waxy
covering surrounding the aphis
colonies a high-pressure spray is
necessary to penetrate the
clusters.
“Big Billy”: Vic. Department
of Agriculture experts believe
farmers on the black soils of
western and central Wimmera
should more widely adopt use of
zinc sulphate to increase wheat
yields. Only 51b. to ipib. per
acre, they point out, is required,
and as the mineral costs 3d. a
pound only a small increase in
yield is needed to warrant its use,
particularly as there is a con-
siderable residual value and zinc
need not be applied more tlian
once every two or three times
the land is sown.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
m
ilil
Util
iHH
111
IWU
11
111
mi
a~y
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with' first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 9/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
I
m
m
c.'-
msm
O J
m
r
m
&sSSsss&:
m*
7 x
4 • -•-:
u o
m
»■ >
■ ■. '\
i
« I
:
m
"fa cornea :
k elms!
iSsSsn m
n
Says
TOMMY
While you shave with Ingrams you feel the sooth-
ing coolness that keeps your face feeling fine for
hours after. Ingrams is grand! it gives you the
smoothest shave ever. And there are at least 120
cool comfortable shaves in every jar. 2/- a jar
from your chemist.
Jngmmt
BMT 14
SHAVING CREAM
| The Product of Bristol Myers Pty„ Limited.
"am jjaKg-iwji
ivwlA
pjvyjyrsui
4 , <
Silliß
The
‘‘WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Established 1898
Contractors to Govmment, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 7
OSUUJVAv
f -v mtn> .. .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEIT, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPH IC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTTPI
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
A
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
INVITATION
You, too, may now enjoy the
service which for twenty years ha
earned the praise and patronag
of busy men and women all over
the world. It enables them
select from the ceaseless flood m
new books of all kinds those
volumes which are likely to 9
lasting pleasure. The unique pn
leges of membership are now
made available for the fast
in Australia. No members P
fee, no extra charges, m fact, J
can purchase books at a sub
tial saving on current prices.
SEND FOR
specimen copy of
The Bookman and
brochure giving
full particulars of
the Book Society
membership. These
will be sent free
without obligation.
w
The Book Society Ltd*.
283 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
APPLICATION FORM
To: The Book Society Ltd.,
283 Latrobe St., Melbourne,
Vic. or
Please send me, without
obligation, a s P e £™ e , n lir f giving fa ll
Bookman and a brochure g xte
particulars of membership
Book Society.
NAME
(Block letters, please!
ADDRESS 4
saw an advertisement in the
paper offering a position on a
station homestead. Riding, boat-
ing, tennis, it said, and a small
family. It appealed to me.”
“Then why didn’t you .take
it?” Angers demanded, and the
woman laughed, the sound laced
with bitterness.
“I did. This was it.”
SHE, gestured behind her, and
then out to the river. “The
station homestead and the boat-
ing. There are a couple of old
hacks down in the paddock, and
the children mark out a tennis-
court on the grass sometimes
and play across a piece of rope.
The riding and the tennis” —she
shrugged wearily.
“But you needn’t have stayed
—you could have left immedi-
ately surely.”
She shrugged again. “They’d
not been married long—Mirry,
Mrs. Fermanagh, was about to
have her first child, his first, that
is. I said I’d stay for six months
or so until she was over the
worst of it. Then the war broke
out”
“The war? Good God!”
Angers ejaculated in soft amaze-
ment. “How long’ve you been
here?”
“Since then,” she said tone-
lessly, as though repeating a
well-learned lesson. “I came
here in July, thirty-nine. The
tenth of July.’
“Over ten years. D’you mean
to tell me that you haven’t been
able to get away in all that
time?”
“I didn’t want to at first while
the war was on. I couldn’t get
home, and here was as good as
anywhere. But now that I want
to go they won’t let me.”
“What’s to stop you?” Angers
demanded irritably. Subcon-
sciously he realised that this
woman’s problem was about to
become his own, and subcon-
sciously he resented it. “You
could ring a taxi from Cooma.”
“There’s no phone,”
“Then write!”
“He takes the mail in.”
“Well, God Almighty, couldn’t
you walk?”
She shrugged wearily. “It’s a
long way—l tried it once,
though; left all my beautiful
things and just took a small case,
but someone saw me down the
road and he came after me on a
horse. He threatened to make a
scene in Cooma if I got there.
Said he’d tell people that I’d . . .
that I was ... I came back.”
HER voice had sunk to a
broken whisper, and now the
sound of it dripped away and no
noise came from the sprawling
house behind them; the open
door was like a leaning ear that
listened avidly at their backs.
“Well, what do you want me
to do?” Angers demanded at
length.
“Take me away,” she answered
simply but desperately. “Hide
me and your luggage in your
car and just drive out —please.
I’ll go mad if I stay here any
longer.”
“But there’s no need for all
this damned secrecy!” Angers
frowned angrily in the dark,
“Just say you’re coming with me
and come.”
“Oh, no!” The governess
clutched his arm convulsively.
“Not that —don’t say anything
to him. He’d do something to
stop me. No —please don’t say
anything.”
She was almost distraught,
and Angers did what he had
known all along that he would
do.
“All right, all right,” he said,
patting her hand. “You can
come with me if you want to.”
He looked out at the river,
relieved that it had been said.
“But what about your packing
—l’ll be leaving in a matter of
minutes, I think,”
“Everything is packed except
for a small case”
“You’d better hurry, then,”
Angers interrupted her. “Put
your bags in the boot of my car
and walk on down the road. I’ll
tell them you’ve gone to bed or
something,”
The woman stood in the dark
for a moment without speaking,
and before he knew what she
was about bent quickly and
pressed an impassioned kiss on
the back of his hand. As she
hurried off into the darkness he
wiped it convulsively across the
seat of his trousers with a
grimace of distaste.
FERMANAGH joined him a
I few minutes later. “Where’s
Louise?” he asked, looking
around the veranda.
“She went to her room,”
Angers lied. It went against his
grain to lie to this man who had
shown him hospitality, but he
went on: “She had a headache,
or something. She asked to be
pyriKed ”
“Uh —that reminds me.” Fer-
managh dismissed the matter of
the governess with a shrug. “The
missus said goodbye—she’s busy
with the kids. Well, we’ll go,
eh?”
They walked slowly to the
car and when they reached it he
pointed down the moonlit road.
“Straight ahead,” he said,
“Keep on this track six or seven
miles maybe until you hit the
main road, then it’s an hour or
two to Cooma, depends how you
travel. Mind the bends.”
Angers held out his hand.
“Thanks,” he said. “And good-
bye.”
The other touched the out-
stretched hand briefly with his
own and looked at him search-
ingly. “On second thoughts,”
he said slowly, “there’s a tricky
bit of a bend just down the track
a piece and I think I’ll ride with
you that far and see you round
it.”
“No, no,” Angers said quickly.
“It’s not necessary so long as I
know it’s there. I couldn’t let
you come, thank you all the
same.”
Fermanagh’s thin mouth
twisted in a grin, almost a sneer.
“No, I didn’t think you could,”
he said. “We better take Louise’s
luggage out here an’ I’ll ride with
you till we catch her up and I’ll
walk back with her.”
HE laughed at Angers’s
staring incredulity. “We
don’t get many visitors, but she
puts that damned tale over ’em
all!” He touched the side of
his head briefly, much as he had
touched his eyes to indicate his
mother’s blindness, and shrugged.
“Not much, but enough to be a
bloody nuisance at times.”
Angers felt the blood pound
into his face, “I’m sorry, Fer-
managh,” he said in half-angry
confusion. “I thought . , .”
“Don’t worry about apolo-
gisin’. All her talk about France
—she’s never been outside New
South Wales.”
He walked around to the rear
of the car and pulled two large
cases out of the boot.
“Perhaps I’d’ve done the same
thing myself a few years ago—
and shp’d’ve needed to be a bit
younger, too.”
He laughed and the blood
pounded into Angers’s face
again.
NEITHER spoke as they
lurched down the corru-
gated road. Thick bush on each
side made a tunnel of gold in
the darkness at the end of which,
after a wlyle. Angers saw a pale
shape bobbing like a silver
plane caught in the golden pencil
of a searchlight.
It was the governess, running
stumblingly on the rough gravel;
as the car drew closer to her
she stepped to the side of the
road and waited for it to stop,
her lips parted and her pale face
flushed.
Fermanagh opened the door
and got out, and when she saw
him her hand flew to her breast
and her face puckered like a
child’s, crying, but no tears
came. He clucked at her and
shook his head.
“When you goin’ to learn,
Louise? Now get back to the
house and I’ll come on behind.
Go on!”
The woman shot one agonised
glance at Angers, put her
clenched hand against her lips
and turned away, stumbling,
almost running, back along the
road to the house in the hollow ;
when she had gone twenty yards
she stopped and stood still,
staring at the car.
Angers had not stepped out,
and no word passed between the
two men, Fermanagh standing
silent on the side of the track ;
but as he let the clutch out and
gathered speed, chattering over
the corrugations, a harsh laugh,
all the menace of loneliness in
the still, strange places and the
wind-borne neigh of brumbies
chased him through the dust and
darkness that soon obliterated
the two figures, the man and the
woman, standing on the moonlit
road.


mm
17 JEWELLED
I SWISS MASTERPIECES
| with the
i non-magnetlc
i escapement
1
iv'
z?
m \
3S,
Mb!
Pi#
Mr/yM
WATCHES
Founded 1852
VILLIERT * SUISSE
LWS
“Mu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL 'has .been proved and
tested by over 100,000 usem since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL" comes to you in a sopar-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4. 6, 8 cylinders. 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. CaDU write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C-O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please ’ forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL,
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
•147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 725#.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLAPPER” Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture tha4 is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write; MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
n
%
m
(T'S fOOfSAU
That works up the /muscle
And gives a man plenty of dash;
It’s kick, it’s scrum, and its bustle.
And a general looking for lash.
In the good old hunt for the
leather.
If a cold you should have to
endure.
You will soon pull yourself
together
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
“ESSAYS and STUDIES”
by
W. A. OSBORNE
Twenty-two essays of outstanding interest on such
subjects as Diocletian’s Fixing; Chess,
Voltaire and Marat; and Poison Gas. Price 10/6
(Post Free 10/10|).
Available NOW from all good Booksellers or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING
COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Authors are asked to mark their name and address
clearly on all MSS submitted.
'AhiilfS
\&mmi
w.X.osnofOit
\
\
— %
:>
V
r.
t£T
>O-*
IP
'I
H'
TOOTH'S O. I
Brewed and bottied by
Tooth & Co. Limited.
Brewers of good beer since 1835.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of What Butterfly Is
That ?— 4835.
To buy copy of When It Was
Dark by Guy Thorne. —4838.
Words of bush verse describing a
station-owner drafting sheep with a
hopeless lot of helpers, which has the
refrain “If only I had Old Bill
here.”—4B37.
To buy copy of Kinghorn’s Snakes
of Australia. —4836.
Supplies of Yerba mat£. —4839.
To buy Australian Literature, 2 vols.,
by Prof. E. Morris Miller.—4B4o.
Information Sought.
List of published books written by
Will Lawson?
Verse: The Red West Road (1904),
Between the Lights (1906), Stokin’
(1908) Three Kings (1914), Bush
Verse (1943), Bill the Whaler (1944),
Bush Ballads (1944). Fiction: The
Laughing Buccaneer (1934), When
Cobb and Co. Was King (1935), Old
Man Murray (1936), Harpoon Ahoy!
(1937), In Ben Boyd’s Day (1939),
Bound for Callao (1939), Reel
Morgan Rides (1940), Black Diamonds
(1944) The Lady of the Heather
(1945) Forbidden Gold (1945), Paddle-
wheels Away (1948), Galloping
Wheels— with T. Hickey (1948),
Moira of Green Hills (1950), Mary
Smith's Hotel (1950). History and
travel; Steam in the South Pacific
(1909) Across Marble Mountains
(1918), The Wonderful West Coast
(1918), From Picton Sound to Christ-
church (1919), Marlborough the
Golden (1920), Taranaki (1922), Bay
of Plenty (1922), Pacific Steamers
(1927), Blue-gum Clippers (1950).
Biography: My Henry Lawson —with
Bertha Lawson (1943).
* * * ♦ '
Machinery on N.S.W. rural hold-
ings ?
Figures are for 1948. Milking-
machines (number of stands), 29,921;
shearing machines (number of stands),
45,700; single-furrow ploughs (mould-
board or disk), 50,806; multiple-
furrow ploughs (mouldboard or disk),
40,803 ; tandem-disk cultivators, 5885;
other disk cultivators, 12,143; spring-
tooth cultivators, 16,573; rigid-tine
cultivators, 9465; harrows (number
of leaves), 156,774; rotary hoes, 4786;
scarifiers, 30,013 ; all other cultivators,
3415; fertiliser distributors, 6572;
grain drills (all types), 25,427; maize
. planters, 10,834; headers, strippers
and harvesters, 16,984; reapers and
binders, 13,902; mowers, 18,407;
hay rakes, 14,839; hay presses and
balers, 3711; chaffcutters, 25,850;
spraying plants, 3910; potato dig-
gers, 858; motor-trucks, utilities and
lorries, 31,259; tractors (wheeled
types), 18,659; tractors (crawler or
track types), 1599; stationary engines,
48,662.
♦ * * *
List of larrikin pushes that existed
in Melbourne 50 years ago ?
A writer in The Bulletin of July
14, 1900, recorded the following:
Ivanhoes, Red Roses, Flying Angels,
Eastern Road Push, Montague
Dingoes, Montague Flying Squadron,
City Road Flying Squadron, City
Road Bug Hunters, Bouveroo Push
of Carlton, Fitzroy Murderers and
Richmond Dirty 'Dozen.
* * * * .
Who wrote poem beginning “I like
the native names, as Parramatta," and
can you quote it ?
J. D. Lang, in 1824. It runs as
follows:
I like the native names, as Parramatta,
And Illawarra and Woolloomooloo,
Nandowra, Woogarora, Bulkomatta,
Tomah, Toongabbie, Mittagong, Meroo;
Buekobble, Cumleroy and Coolangatta,
The Warragumby, Bargo, Burradoo;
Cookbundoon, Carrabaiga, Wingecarribee,
The Wollondilly, Yurumbon, Bungar-
ribee.
* * * *
Some information about the two-
way frequency-modulation wireless-
communication system used by the
N.S.W. Dept, of Road Transport and
Tramways in Sydney • for regulating
traffic ?
A central control room is located
at the head office of the Department,
and is in constant two-way communi-
cation with traffic inspectors patrolling
the tram and omnibus routes in six
district patrol trucks. Reports by
them of collisions, derailments, defec-
tive trams or omnibuses, traffic blocks
and other occurrences of a special
nature are transmitted to the central
control room and immediately relayed
to the district inspectors with instruc-
tions for dealing with the emergencies.
The system has also proved to be
very effective in supervising special
traffic, such as at the Easter Show,
races and football on Saturday after-
noons, holiday traffic and omnibus
services operating in lieu of trams at
weekends.
What was the reason for the great
I excess of males over females in the
early years in N. S. Wales, and why
is it that the proportion of males and
females is now almost equal?
The development of the colony was
first stimulated by the “gold rushes,”
and later depended on the pastoral
and mining industries. This, com-
bined with remoteness from the Old
World, led to far greater immigration
of men than of women. In later
years the predominance of males
among immigrants tended to increase
the disparity between the sexes. On
the other hand, the higher rate of
mortality among males rendered the
natural increase of females the
greater, despite the excess of male
over female births. As a consequence,
the excess of males diminished, and
the diminution was hastened by the
wars of 1914-18 and 1939-45.
* * * *
How to repair a cattle-trough which
shows signs of rust?
Best method of renewing is to
concrete right through with a Hin.
layer. Mix a batch, three parts sand,
two of stone-dust and one of cement
—make the cement a good one. Use
two layers of wire-netting as rein-
forcement. Slurry the concrete well
behind the wire to form a key; a
brush finish is all that’s necessary.
Troughs so treated will last for years.
sfc * * *
How to cut glass?
Lay a piece of felt or flannel
material on the work-bench and place
a wooden straight-edge along the cut-
ting line. Hold glass-cutter firmly
and run along line, using an even
pressure. Move glass over so that
line is level with edge of bench.
Gently tap along the underneath of
line. Then, with slight pressure down-
wards, glass will break clean.
I Brief Answers.
E.G.: Advise your friend to call
at the Information Dept., National
Bank of Australasia, 7 Lothbury-street,
London, and ask to be shown cata-
logues issued by Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Sydney G.G.; Creosote is
recommended as a white-ant deterrent
in soil surrounding foundation piers.
Creosote is cheap, and it is considered
that sodium arsenite has no particular
advantage over it. However, if you
have termite shields applied to the
piers, soil poisoning is unnecessary.
The treatment of roofing timbers is
not advised, as it would be of doubt-
ful value in termite prevention.
Treatment to the foundation piers
would be of more value in the
absence of termite shields... .W.A.:
The Thomson River (Q.) was named
by Edmund B. Kennedy in 1847,
after Sir Edward Deas Thomson, the
Colonial Secretary of New South
Wales G.J.K.: The presence of
slaters inside a weatherboard house
indicates that the house is not being
•kept in an essentially clean condition.
They do no harm to human beings.
M.D.: Ordinary indian ink can
be made to “take” on glass or similar
smooth surfaces by the addition of
a small solution of “waterglass”
(sodium silicate). Use about one-fifth
volume to the four-fifths of ink....
R.F.8.: We know of no way in which
you can remove cement from the
blades of your concrete-mixer other
than by chipping it off... ,H.H.:
Scrub thoroughly in hot soapy water
containing a little washing-soda,
using a hard brush, but avoid scratch-
ing the bright side of the shell.
Allow to drain and dry after rinsing
in clean water, then begin to polish
with a woollen cloth and a mixture
of the finest emery powder and raw
linseed or other mild oil. Finish with
a chamois leather E.J.P.: The
capital cost of the Trans-Australian
Railway at June 30, 1949, was
£10,354,615... .S.M.: Should not be
washed unless very very dirty, and
then only in hot suds applied with a
cloth, the gloves not being dipped;
dry with a clean dry cloth. A safer
way is to clean them with a woollen
rag dipped in a good white shoe-
cream. Rub until they come clean,
then finish off with a silk cloth. Soft
soap, sold in tins, is also a good
cleanser; apply as above.,. .F.H.G.:
The third cricket Test between Eng-
land and Australia will be played in
Sydney between January 5-11, 1951.
A.B.M.: The reference on the
outside of the film-container probably
refers to the dimensions of the pic-
ture area in millimetres, and in this
case the camera would accept the
same film as is used in other standard
makes of 35mm.-film cameras such
as Kodak Retina, Kodak 35 and
Leica. There is a possibility that the
film may have to be loaded into a
special type of cassette, and this
point could be cleared up if the film-
container in the camera could be
examined by a photographic-supply
house.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. mill be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
K.M.: The mountains loom in very
poor grammar, and are shrouded in
dreadful metre FJ.F.: The usual
brawl-in-the-bar yarn N.S.: Can-
not work up any rapturous interest
in verse written to Queen Victoria
by your grandmother F.8.F.;
Very rugged verse and a yarn that
fails in the telling W.S.J.: They
appear to be school exercises
R.L.8.: One daring sentence: “From
time immemorial it has been recog-
nised that the unexpected often
happens” R.P.S.: A sound like
an ungreased wheelbarrow is all the
music we can find in it... .A.H.G.:
Violence is a poor substitute for sin-
cerity C.T.: It is a rather tired
old train that has puffed its way
through print too often W.W.:
Whatever gave you the impression that
we would print stories “copied from
old English magazines”?... .C.W.N.:
It dawdles too long on the track.
.... Bellerive: We must go there
some day:
, ...G.K.S.: It only says in rather
commonplace verse that you are sorry
that your love has found another
boy-friend E.G.: “Lured by Lucre”
has no lure for us... .P.D.S.: An
old, old yarn told in a tedious fashion.
. ...K.C.: By using 50 words instead
of one, you contrive to make a dull
story infinitely dreary A.A.: When
eight out of 24 lines consist only of
the words “O cockatoo” it is surely
up to the bird to look pleasant.
F.C.: The “land of might-have-
been” is buried 40ft. deep under similar
verses S.F.A.: You’re the sort of
wandering writer that takes a thirsty
man round three blocks to get to a
pub across the road... .D. 8.: Throw
those stilts away and walk through
your story naturally R.W.R.:
Amazing how you can write so many
words without saying anything....
0.P.: The story is not worth a
cracker, but the statement that “all
that glitters is not gold, but very
often tin” is interesting... .M.M.:
It’s a ponderous mass of words
woven about a story that is not worth
six lines T.H.A.; You can’t tell a
story by merely throwing words and
fragments of words into ink. Study
the game before you play it
C.8.M.: Those ants are old friends
of ours R.S.E.: The hunting-
hound, the cider-press, the falling
leaves and acorns and the play of
the squirrel are not marked features
of the Australian autumn. Won’t
your poetic eye see anything less than
12,000 miles distant?... .G.A.L.: No
use for sapless, snapless rhyme
W.M.F.: What does it say that has
not been said the same way before?
D.H.M.: A glance at the paper
will show you the sort of stuff The
Bulletin wants W.P.C.: “Terse,
epigrammatical, original, piquant and
in harmony with The Bulletin style”
it may be; but what is it about?
....P.C.: You won’t write readable
verse if you persist in taking the
first rhyme that comes handy and
hauling it in by the hair.. .-.V.5.:
But while following “the rigid laws
of life,” consider also the rigid law
of language that a verb doesn’t
become a noun because it is required
to fit into the syllables of a line
P.R.: Thin as a cat’s whiskers..,.
Not_ for us.
Bitter cold in winter,
From sleet and snow.
At the foot of the alps
Lies wild Omeo;
With timbered summits.
And winding roads,
Substantial building and
Old-fashioned abodes.
In summer sunlight
And winter snow,
A picturesque district
Is wild Omeo. v


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4JJ. per line; all others 21<L per line.
Jubilee Year
There are to be great to-do’s in 1951,
when the jubilee year of toe Australian
Commonwealth is to be celebrated in
song and dance. The N.S.W. town of
Tenterfield has a great chance, because
it was there that Parkes put life into toe
Federal movement. It is a jubilee in
which Australians rightly can take both
pride and interest, because it is the
jubilee of their nationhood.
But there are other ways that a jubilee
of this kind can be underlined, apart
from speeches and festivals, sports gather-
ings, religious occasions and the like.
Dull though it sounds, perhaps there could
be no better way of showing a true under-
standing of what federation has meant in
the Australian story than by taking posi-
tive steps towards that review of the
present constitutional position between
the Commonwealth and toe States which
is so badly needed.
If the first 50 years of Federation
prove anything on the constitutional level,
it is that the Commonwealth Parliament
of itself is incapable of far-reaching con-
stitutional reform —not incapable in the
technical sense, but in the more pervasive
sense of personal, sectional and party
obstructions.
Nor can the States do much in toe
same connection —the clamor for new
States, heard with indifferent ears in
N.S.W. and Queensland legislatures or
answered with vague platitudes, in itself
illustrates this. The only other practicable
approach is through the people them-
selves, and that means an elected con-
vention with orders to review the entire
constitutional set-up in relation to the
true freedoms, the true safeguards, and
the true needs of responsible government
as we see them today.
Nor will toe celebrations wholly dissi-
pate the inner knowledge that, despite the
many grand achievements in the national
there are dreary and dangerous
debits.
That in a lush land and with all the
impetus of a strong nationalism the popu-
lation should have not much more than
doubled in toe first 50 Federal years, and
even then only with two strong migration
movements, in itself belongs to the
chronicles of wasted time for which the
second half of the century may yet call
a grim accounting. That nothing seems
' to have prevented the growth of swollen
capitals at the cruel cost of a half-
forgotten countryside is a thing which
the speechmakers of 1951 are more likely
to forget than remember.
If we could only break through the
dreary party-fronts to the spirit which
the jubilee will so powerfully recall many
of these wrongs could be put to rights
soon enough. There is ample time be-
tween now and the end of the year to
organise a national convention, which
could carry on its task in sympathetic
harmony with the festivities surrounding
it, but at the same time stand in the
most serious mood at the half-way mark
of the twentieth-century, rebuilding the
future out of the past. — Dee (N.S.W.).
The Anti-Communist Bill
Appreciation of Mr. Chifley’s speech
on the “onus of proof” in the bill might
have been better had not some people
remembered the Australia First move-
ment and what it got from the Govern-
ment of which Curtin was P.M., Chifley
Treasurer and Dr. Evatt Attorney-
General.
These people, entirely innocent —as was
later proved to a red-faced Government —
were summarily arrested without warrant
and imprisoned without charge or trial;
one, a fine ex-soldier, to die during the
subsequent inquiry, Mr. Chifley wasn’t
heard theh on “vital principles” of justice.
The fact is, those “vital principles” have
long since been completely undermined,
and it is the rankest hypocrisy for Chifley
and his mob to hold forth about them, as
not only did they throw them overboard,
but made matters criminally worse by
loud-mouthed comment in the House at
the time, by brutally and unfairly con-
demning the wretched victims by public
announcement to the whole country be-
fore a vestige of real evidence had been
produced.
[To have the same characters now posing
as champions of the very principles they
so blatantly desecrated is too much, —
R. H. G. (W.A.).
The two mam controversial clauses of
the projected legislation must be ana-
thema to all possessed of a desire for
justice and impartiality, and failing their
elimination or amendment the coming
months may witness unprecedented tur-
moil.
This will play right into the hands of
the Corns, who are banking on it to
further their aims for revolutionary
success.
Unless wise counsel prevails, the pro-
posed legislation may prove inimical
to the best interests of this country. It
may turn out to be a case of “out of the
frying-pan into the fire.” — Democrat
(Vic.).
It should not be forgotten that none
of the so-called rights of the individual
is absolute, even under normal peace-
time conditions. As an example, we have
in Queensland “The Vagrants Gaming
and Other Offences Act,” Section 25 of
which provides a penalty of £25 or six
months’ jail for any person in possession
of goods suspected of having been stolen
and who is unable to account to the satis-
“ Don't tell me you're going to make me late for the hairdresser, constable!"
faction of the court how he came by
them. This and corresponding legislation
in all Australian States has been in force
for many years, and its effect is obviously
to throw the burden of proof of inno-
cence on the accused person. Thus this
legislation Ijas at least been connived at
and no doubt approved of by transient
Labor Governments over the years, since
in all cases it still remains on the Statute
Books. s
An intending thief takes fine care that
he has no audience to witness his wrong-
doing. Hence it is wellnigh impossible
(outside an outright confession of guilt)
by direct evidence to sheet home the
offence to any particular person. If
thieves are to be brought to justice then
the law must of necessity make some in-
roads into the right of the individual to
be presumed innocent.
The law being thus universally applied
in normal peace-time conditions regard-
less of the political regime, is it so out-
rageous that Mr. Menzies should intro-
duce a bill directed against an organisa-
tion so adept in the art of secret intrigue,
subterfuge and deceit? The surreptitious
thief and the disrupter pursuing his
clandestine intrigue both merit the same
sort of legal treatment in order to be
effectively dealt with. There can be no
half-measures. —P. T. Lux (Q.).
The Commos must be smashed, and
quickly, and it is certain that only the
most ruthless methods have any chance
of success. The onus is really on the
critics to suggest a workable alternative
to the clauses they dislike. But there is a
way out of the dilemma, and that is the
safeguard of a really alert, intelligent
and informed public opinion. We are so
accustomed to leaving everything to poli-
ticians that we have forgotten how com-
pletely public opinion can dominate them,
if we are determined enough to have it
so. Zola and Clemenceau labored for
years to arouse and sustain a public de-
mand for a retrial of Dreyfus. At last
they were rewarded and justice was done.
That it was so tardy was not their fault,
but due only to the mental inertness of
those they addressed.
In our own country the injustice of the
Australia First internments would have
been largely avoided had we taken more
interest in the case sooner. The moral
is plain: let us all get behind Menzies in
his crusade, and at the same time watch
carefully and critically the administration
of the Act, ready to raise an effective
outcry as soon as anyone attempts to use
it against any but foreign-inspired traitors.
That is how democracy has grown.
Democracy is not the electing to Parlia-
ment of a number of men and leaving
•them to their own devices for three years
or so ; in a sense they do that even in
Russia. It is the taking, by every citizen,
of an intelligent, active and continuous
interest in the affairs of his country.—
Magnoon (Q.).
Milk and Honey
I challenge that statement by M. H.
Ellis (B. 12/4/’50): “There can be no
doubt of the magnetic effect of capitals,
even though they are centred in regions
like that which surrounds Sydney, about
as barren as any in the State.” Immedi-
ately to the west of Sydney is the fertile
and highly-productive Hawkesbury Valley
and to the north and south of Sydney
are the Gosford and Camden districts.
As soon as one leaves Parramatta one
is in very good grazing country and some
agriculture and fruitgrowing. From Gos-
ford right through the Windsor, Rich-
mond, Kurrajong, Penrith, Camden,
Campbelltown area is the largest fruit-
growing district in the State. Its 20,000
acres of orchards and its many thousands
of acres devoted to peas, beans, potatoes,
cauliflowers, etc., make it the largest con-
triouting area in the State in fresh fruits
and vegetables to the Sydney and Wollon-
gong markets.
The number of dairyfarms and their
production in both produce and money
would astonish the critics who regard the
Hawkesbury as merely Sydney’s neglig-
ible hinterland, and so also would the
grazing industry which is carried on in
many districts around Blacktown, Parra-
matta, St. Mary’s and to near Windsor
and other areas. A recent visitor to our
district who knows this State well said
to me, “If the Hawkesbury Valley were
on the north coast or on the south coast
it would be famous.” —F. L. D. (N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Employment Service
The Commonwealth Employment
Service seems to be going along very
quietly, though for years the Liberal
party has lost no opportunity to be
sarcastic about it. There may be justifica-
tion for a small labor bureau to arrange
for the employment of immigrants, but
there is none for the retention of the
C.E.S.
The “Service” was originally the old
“Manpower Department,” which no one
remembers with any particular affection.
If the Liberals do not abolish it they
should be brought before the stewards for
a “reversal of form.” —D. O. M. (Vic.).
Who Uses the Bricks?
Like most Australians I’m happy, pros-
perous and contented —except that my
husband and I have to live miles apart
because we are unable to obtain accom-
modation together, despite every effort.
Building materials are in such short supply
that it is impossible to build a reason-
ably-sized house.
Why is there a shortage of building
materials? Where are the materials go-
ing? Well, here are some of my own
observations:
I.—Several railway-ramps are under
construction, each requiring hund
thousands of bricks. Much less sc'
concrete could be used.
2. A surprisingly large amc
bricks and timber is used in the construe
tion of migrant camps. As Australia
must populate or perish, there can he
no objection to this; although lee!
luxurious accommodation could be pro-
3. Telephone-exchanges at Penrith ana
Pymble, which use brand-new bricks bv
the thousands. That may or mav not ul
justified; but why must both
have brick fences several feet high?
4. -So-called animal-lovers build
glorious stalls for horses and other
ammals, provided with hot and cold water
and other mod. cons. Are these peonle
really animal-lovers or human-haters?
5. Australia will conduct the 1956
Olympic Games. This will mean housine
for some of the 3000 competitors and
quarter of a million spectators. Can we
afford to do this? We
Doubtless there are other misuses of
materials apart from those I have men-
tioned, but if our new Government looks
into the matter there might yet be a
hope for every Australian, new or old
securing the right to own a home of his
own.— Mrs. C. F. (N.S.W.).
Car-owners
“Backyard” (B. 8/3/’5O) compiles an
interesting list of financial sources from
which the modern car-buyer obtains the
purchase price. As he says, “The ultimate
conclusion is that a person needs some
unusual financial circumstances before he
can buy a car.” However, although men-
tioning the chap who makes his pile out
of the misfortunes of others—through
the demand exceeding the supply—
he omits to link him with his own clan,
the benevolent' souls who sell cars, new
and old.
Our local dealer has to keep up appear-
ances with a brand-new Hudson of only
about a block and a half in length. With
rising costs placing the elusive limousine
ever so much further away from the
hungry mouth of my empty garage it is
perhaps with a faint touch of envy that
I view these participants of “unusual
financial circumstances.” —E. (N.S.W.).
New Australians and Our Culture
That immeasurable benefits of Euro-
pean culture are being brought to this
country by New Australians (B. 10/5/’5O)
is a prevalent notion. They were even
mentioned by no less a person than John
Medley, Vice-Chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, and it could be
so, since mass immigrations of the past
have brought immeasurable benefits of
culture to other countries. Instances are
the bringing of Roman culture to ancient
Britain, of Norman architecture to Saxon
England, of Hellenistic art to India and
China by Alexander the Great’s invasion,
of science and mathematics to benighted
Europe via the Moorish conquest of
Spain, and so forth and so on—in fact,
history is littered with examples. As
regards the present instance, however, I
would like to ask John Medley and these
others what culture unknown to old Aus-
tralians a New Australian could bring to
this country.
I was motoring a recently-arrived N.A.
round Melbourne —an architect with a
European reputation—and he said that
what this country needed was a new
architectural aesthetic. Then he showe
me some photos of the houses, naonu-'
ments and public institutions he had bm
in Europe, and I had to laugh. They
could have been taken in Canberra o
Adelaide. I’ve seen dozens of shows oy
migrant painters and I’ll eat my ha j
their authors haven’t been to PJ ec ‘ s ®;
the same sort of art school, read the s
art magazines and tumbled into the
art fashions as their opposite nu ®~
Australia. They were wearing either me
Picasso hat or the Matisse hat or
other headdress just as well or m
own boys and girls, and where the
any real worth in their pictures
be more than equalled by a Jorg
a Dobell. t
All the New Australians I hav f i
have been very worthy, attractiv,
gent, cultivated, well-educated pe<
bit too complacent some of the a
being the inheritors of European
but up to date I haven t ® e !
have made me feel as an and
must have felt when he met
Of course there might be SOI^ fl<! 8 seen
amongst the migrants who a
further than the rest of ud
Socrates, a Phidias, a Galileo
—but if so he hasn’t let himself
here yet, and if he did it is m e
that he would be recognised ;
than they were. —F. S. (V IC *J-


Novel, More or Less.
W novels have anything new in
i; they seem to sell better if they
an’t; but there are readers for whom
/ slight change in the pattern is wel-
ne. as in There’s No Home, by
Alexander Baron (Cape), which gives a
new flavor to illicit love-making by being
set in Catania, Sicily, in August, 1943.
A company of British infantry marches
into the newly-captured town, and is
given quarters and a few weeks’ rest from
the fighting. The women of the town,
whose husbands are away with Musso-
lini’s armies, take up with the British
soldiers; a soldier deserts after trying to
shoot another soldier through whose
drunkenness the first soldier’s brother has
crashed from a rickety balcony; but
mainly the story is of Sergeant Craddock
with a wife in England and Graziella with
a husband in Italy, and how, when the
company marches out again, they have
to tear themselves apart. For to Graziella,
Craddock has become as a husband, and
she has blistered her feet walking many
miles to and from her uncle’s farm to
get food for a party she gave him, and,
altogether, it is a fine and sensitive love-
story, made pitiful by the knowledge that
the men who marched in must march out
again.
The novelty of The Draper of Edge-
cumbe, by Anne Meredith (Faber), is in
its tone; Trollope might have done it;
she has gone back to 1875 not only for
her people, but also for her style. Thus
the handsome master-draper, who speaks
amusingly to his wife and amusedly to
his daughters, and falls in love with a
beautiful girl of nineteen who has come
to serve behind his counters, gains some-
thing of the perfection of legend: he is
everything a draper of those times ought
to have been; and the high point of the
book, the rage of his wife, and her
passive endeavor to have him hanged for
murder, share in this perfection, as
though the essence of melodrama, the
days of melodrama, and the style of
melodrama had been extracted and put
up in an exquisite scent-bottle.
And how much more economical, this
simple essential extract, than the full-size
—the “Family”—jar into which all
literate Frenchmen seem to be busily
engaged in pouring the past! Rene
Behaine, according to the introduction to
his Day of Glory (Allen and Unwin), is
as worthy of consideration as Proust;
“One might say of him that he has made
himself the novelist, not of vague and
uncertain destinies, but of human destiny
■•• • ” Day of Glory is the third English
translation from the History of a Society,
fire first book of which was published in
France in 1904. Behaine finished writing
Day of Glory in 1938 ; and this part of
the work brings the reader up to the
beginning of the First World War.
A young writer and his wife, living
with his grandmother, await the death of
an old lady, who is attended by his father
and his mother, in the hope that the old
lady will leave him some money. The
writer has a book published, the
old lady dies, the father hangs on to her
money, and to evade conscription the
Young man escapes into Switzerland. Not
to have read the previous books makes
D ay of Glory seem formless ; but the
people are well done, notably the thrust-
mg young publisher, and the grand-
mother in a rage:—
Her arms crossed, and the towel still
oanglmg from one hand, she came up to
Michel and stared at him fixedly, like a
non-tamer trying to intimidate a lion, or an
asylum-attendant facing a dangerous lunatic.
As she had taken off her cap when she had
begun to make her toilet, her head, with
its sparse hair, seemed much smaller than
usual. Anger had suddenly brought out
the dark rings under her eyes and darkened
the intense blue of the eyes themselves,
which, unchanged by time, still retained the
.vacant purity one sees in summer skies, or
the eyes of young children. The temples
were hollow, the closed lips sunken, and
the line of the jaw, deprived of artificial
support, showed unnaturally shrunken
beneath the soft, flabby, wrinkled skin.
She did not look at all as she had looked
yesterday, as she would look again in
another hour or two; her face was almost
the ultimate face which death would one day
briefly reveal; to complete the resemblance
it needed only the curved shutter of the
eyelid, covering with its fallen membrane,
and finally sealing in death, the convex
focus of light, sunk in the rigid socket as
under the stretched skin of a glove and
assuming the unexpected, final, globular
form of a ball immobilised. Now, pre-
cisely because of the air of serenity which
she was trying to assume, without realising
that her features could no longer obey her,
she had such a frightful expression that
Michel quite unconsciously flung out an
arm to ward off the horrible vision before
him, as if his bare hand could thrust this
spectre back to the hell from which it had
come. \_ '
It would be hard to find anything
new in Rene Behaine’s book except that
the reviewer has not previously heard of
him ; and so, allowing the excellence of
such prose-portraiture as has been
quoted, one makes up for the lack of
novelty with The Dreams, by Anna
Sebastian (Cape), which has enough
novelty for two books, or maybe six.
For if it has occurred to Eugene O’Neill
that people’s private reflections do not
coincide with their public speech, it has
occurred to Miss Sebastian what a lark
it would be if people’s private dreams
were to get off on the loose with one
another. Thus she has taken the dreams,
or private fantasies, of a group of people
in a London pub and substituted them
for their normal speech and action; a
girl meets a young man for the first
time:
Dorothy walked up to Tobias.
“At home,” she said to him, “I’ve got a
silk blouse. It is blue with gold embroidery.
I didn’t put it on today.”
Tobias looked at her....
Dorothy said: “At home I’ve got a black
satin skirt. I didn’t put it on today. I
thought it might get spoilt”....
Tobias burst out laughing. “At home, at
home, at home!” he cried,
“Yes, at home,” said Dorothy with
determination... .“I go and buy my clothes
secretly. No one knows I’ve got them. I
lock them away so that no one can see
them.”
Tobias takes Dorothy walking through
the city ; they go into empty houses to
which Tobias has a magic key, and in
each house Tobias, the poet, creates a
new life with words for the girl. Some
of the others go off to a flat, presided
over by a beautiful old charwoman grand-
mother ; her daughter and her grand-
daughter act most unsuitably with two
of the men from the pub ; her two twin
sons, both mutes, stage a fight for the
pleasure of their mother, and then go to
bed, where they talk with their hands in
their sleep.
The next day Tobias wakes at noon,
and, under the impression that he has
killed his bank-clerk brother, go'es from
place to place arranging his funeral; nor
must one forget the magnificent scene
where the handsome Italian waiter
Robert, who has lain the night with the
old charwoman’s granddaughter, thun-
ders upon the pub doOr in the early
morning, making an accompaniment to
the sodden dreams of John, the pub
rouseabout. He is watched by a decayed
commercial-traveller who has taken
refuge in a garage:—
Behind Mr. Bentley were the black cars.
They stood there, brooding and silent,
strange animals. Some faced each other,
their snouts almost touching, ready to
pounce any moment
It is a book in which dreams and
drunkenness combine to make poetry ;
beautiful,, sad and funny by turns ; it
would be hard to read it and not reflect
that by some such method as Miss Sebas-
tian’s the world’s great fantasies have
filtered through the minds of many
people and many nations.
Port and Portugal,
One rarely thinks of Portugal as a
country of magnificent buildings, but
Ann Bridge and Susan Lowndes in their
The Selective Traveller in Portugal
(Evans Brothers) have found much to
write about and to illustrate ; it stands
to reason that the Portuguese, once the
world’s greatest sea-Power, should have
put much of their loot into public build-
ings ; and as this beautifully-produced
book shows, they built rich and strange ;
gorgeous interiors like that of the Madre
de Deus at Lisbon, wonderfully intricate
stone-work, in fine columns spraying out
to fluted arches, as in the Jeronimos at
Belem, and columns of twisted stone in
the Jesus Church at Setubal—this last
most emphasising the rope-motif which
the authors find in Portuguese
architecture, one of the most arresting
bits gf architecture one could wish to see.
For the world’s architecture flows by
like the daily papers, and the genuinely
wonderful and surprising things are rare ;
and it is so with travels—unless one is
one of the ninety per cent, of average
readers who are interested in such things,
countries pass indifferently by the vacant
mind: here are the peasants getting the
corn off the cobs, singing their peculiar
songs of love and the changing seasons,
so different in Hungary and Omaha from
those in Scotland and Brittany ; and so
similar ; here are the churches, the streets,
the dwellings and the public gardens, all
similar in being different; here are the
mountains and rivers standing and flow-
ing as no other mountains and rivers
stand and flow . . . Perhaps this book has
got into the wrong hands.
However, Portugal means port and
Madeira ; there are a few pages on these
subjects. “Port is produced by more
complicated and elaborate methods than
any wine in the world” ; its grapes are
still crushed by the feet of men wearing
“very short and saucy flowered cotton-
pants in pale-blue or pink” because
“man’s foot, and man’s foot alone” will
crush the skin of the grape which gives
the wine the proper color and flavor,
without crushing the pips, releasing their
t&nnin, and embittering the wine.
The sweetness of the fermenting grapes
is checked at around seven degrees of
sweetness by grape-brandy; but now we
come to Madeira, which, it seems, was
known to the Elizabethans, along with
sherry and Canary wine, as “sack” ; after
the crushed grapes have been brought
down narrow paths in goatskins to the
elaborate tiled and chromium-plated wine-
houses of Funchal, the fermented wine is
heated for weeks and months at from 100
to 1 160 degrees Fahrenheit; then up to 10
per cent, of alcohol is added, and the
wine is set aside to mature: —
Wines a hundred years old may, by the
lucky, be drunk in Madeira, and are as
bland, as delicate and virile at once as
vintage ports, which can rarely be drunk
with satisfaction after forty years.
Which reminds the reviewer of his
omission from remarks on Francis Toye’s
autobiography (B. 29/3/’50) of Toye’s re-
searches all over Europe, in 1938, for
“two dozen bottles of the finest spirits
procurable.” This follows his remarks on
brandy: —•
The French law about brandy is such
that the contents of any cask that has never
been allowed to dry out completely and is
refilled from time to time may continue
to be designated by the year of origin.
Hence the “Napoleon” brandies and all the
fantastic dates....
Thus, “as managing director of a
restaurant such as Boulestin,” with “ex-
ceptional facilities”; —
After months of search for a product
all of one year and free from caramel, I
at last, as a great favor, was able to get
four bottles, originating in the Chapon Fin
at Bordeaux, of a brandy admittedly not
of the highest class, but genuine in every
particular. And of what year does the
reader think it was? 1895! If he himself
goes ahuntxng for a similar article he will
be lucky to find anything previous to
1910....
To return to our book on Portugal; it
has six sectional pull-out maps, an index,
and an appendix of information about
visas, currency, banks, night-clubs, hotels,
tea-rooms, cinemas, golf-courses, ski-ing
and fishing; also some “Useful
Addresses” which turn out, somewhat dis-
appointingly, to be those of embassies,
consuls and hospitals.
Murray of Papua.
Dear Red Page,
After reading your very interesting
review (B. 12/4/’50) of Lewis Lett’s Sir
Hubert Murray of Papua, I thought
you might be intrigued, as I was, to learn
that if the N.S.W. Government had not
very shabbily reduced my grandfather’s
salary by nearly half when he was. taking
a well-earned holiday in England, Sir
Hubert Murray would' never have
governed Papua, or any other country, nor
would Professor Gilbert Murray ever
have translated Euripides,
This startling information came to me
through my grandmother’s diary for
1860. She was the second wife of Sir
Alfred Stephen, Chief Justice and
Lieutenant-Governor of N.S.W. for 30
years and member of the Legislative
Council. When he was about to go off on
leave he was entertained at a dinner which
was “a most respectable assemblage, and
said to be in all respects the most success-
ful dinner of the kind ever given in this
colony.” So says the diary, and Sir
Alfred departed with all the preparations
and excitement that- attended such a
voyage nearly 100 years ago. This was
February 14, 1860.
On April 5 Lady Stephen read in the
morning paper of the Assembly’s drastic
reduction of the family’s sole source of
income, which must have been a tremen-
dous shock ; but the stepmother of seven
children and mother of nine of her own
was not the woman to succumb to shocks.
“I wrote to Mr, Savigny to take away
Ernest,” writes Grandma, Ernest being
the last of the eight sons at boarding-
school, “and to Miss Edwards to termin-
ate our arrangement.” Miss Edwards was
the beloved and accomplished governess
of the four • young daughters being
educated at home.
On April 26 we read that “Mr. Murray
sent to say that he wished to engage Miss
Edwards” (to be governess to his little
motherless daughter) ; and on May 3,
with the honor due to a most valued
friend, “Nelly and I, with the twins and
Agnes escorted Miss Edwards to her
new home at Mr. [Terence Aubrey]
Murray’s.” The following year they were
married, to become the parents of two
illustrious sons.
My grandmother’s diary, which she kept
from 1848 until a few days before her
death in 1886, has so much of interest
in it, and that large family included such
odd characters (as the Sitwell family did)
that I long to make a book of it. But
even if one finds a publisher in Australia
one still may find neither reviewers nor
buyers, and I cannot make the time for
what would be a long and difficult, though
delightful, task, without some reasonable
likelihood of success.
RUTH M, BEDFORD.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 70
Across.
I- with a fish. (4)
3—Swift wrote a journal to this girl
Put in a tin by the governor of
the castle to throw a measure
with one. (9)
Building material —for Eskimos.
9—These deliyeries don’t break boys
P/hy'ug with revolutionary toys.
Uj 8)
'2—Loitering boy upset by dis-
honesty. (8)
ll Irritate the east between one
number and its double. (3)
A blase lass I disturbed among
Points that can be attacked. (11)
'-High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
‘J-EulenspiegeL (3)
renorming a warlike act with a
sepulchre upsetting Roy Rene and
2 a prosby. (4, 7)
anc l nerv y people always
21 | et 4 hls Dickens hero. (3)
acific Island vehicle I rook in
25—Th nfuSIOn - (8)
he sun came up against the ear
Morgan 0 ®!) 0 Speaker ‘ (3 ’ 8)
(CRYPTIC type.)
27 — Such a blissful engagement is
obviously a misery to one of the
tennis-players. (4-5)
28- English wicketkeeper like me
inside. (4)
Down. *
1 — Mr. Fadden and his followers in
the Federal Parliament and a
hazard against which motorists
protect themselves. (5, 5,4)
2 This makes sewers crafty un-
necessarily. (10)
4 Rubbish dumps sometimes found
under plates. (4)
5 Birds show there’s nothing up
with fishing equipment. (7)
6 A hideout in Arabia. (4)
7 Remain part of the rigging. (4)
10— Write a label on this figure. (8)
11 — South Carolina letter and a
description of its shape lives in
a lodging-house as sources of
cricket information. (7, 6)
14 — Suit Paraguay tea wh’o plays for
the same team. (8)
15 — Fairy sound before you take a
thousand with a large abdominal
membrane. (10)
19 —Fat Gilb'ertian feminist turned up
to strike an attitude. (7)
22 French battlefield takes nothing
from an elephant’s tusk. (4)
23 A lot of voice. (4)
24 — Mistakenly gave a bright star. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 69.


rr
i
i
<f- ;#
m
V
I mm
mmm
& * *
itVafltVl
S .V:
mmmm
m
V..
■Si
%
in*
p a
4 • V
■I
- '■ “ ' * r ■ ': : : v y '■ ■'" ■ 1,, " , r".: J ' -■"
V
" -
■5: : iN ; :-:'
X-/
Hi
■<t'- SH I
y : ; ; ;*-X-: : :
SS^BBBSSBB
:•
sm
mm
i *MS lip up
■ ' 'F w
i r •- && '
jjgagPßi
■; l f,? -';
I
m
'
mrw
v r\ 4Pp >
y #l ■
s '
• I I
i
ipi
.. : W.:;:- , ’’ ;
1
fds
fd
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a
mark of quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is
the symbol of the Radio Age, representing the
knowledge gained from research and engineering
over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the
A.W.A. laboratories, which have advanced radio in
the home, on the highways, at sea, and in the air.
As one of Australia’s key industrial organisations,
A.W.A. recognises the value of scientific research
and its important role in peace and security.
iSTING AND RECORDING.
Producing a Play at A.W.A. Studios.
9 Driver of
Modulated
ten-,
ed
with
vehicle
hon
Radio-
A.W.A. Frequency
Equipment answering
• A.W.A. Air-Mile V.H.F. Trans-
ceiver and Inter-Communica-
tion Unit for light aircraft.
SOT*
%
A.W.A. manufactures: Broadcasting stations, broadcasting studio equipment, communication transmitters
and receivers, mobile radio equipment, marine transmitters and receivers, direction finders, automatic alarm
apparatus, radar, air navigation beacons and distance measuring equipment, instrument landing systems,
«
aeradio stations, telephone terminal equipment, micro-wave links, radio programme recordings, military
communication equipment, transmitting and receiving radio valves, broadcast receivers, etc.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
