

The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3685
Wednesday, September 27, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE TOWER OF LONDON, IN TURN CITADEL, PALACE AND PRISON
THE Tower of London has stood for almost nine hundred years, and of
all the ancient buildings in England’s capital this medieval fortress stands
supreme The earliest part, the White Tower or Keep, was commenced by
William the Conqueror in 1078—-the architect being Gundulf, a monk from
Normandy who also built Rochester Castle. The Tower stands beside the
River Thames on the site of a Roman fortification, fragments of which still
exist today. Jve k j ngs xhe Tower grew until it covered an area of
thirteen acres. It consists of an inner ward and wall flanked by fhirteen
towers and an outer ward with six towers and three bastions. The, moat,
which formerly surrounded the fortification, has been drained and filled up
to maK n^ emhag 5 * walls' of the massive Keep vary between twelve and
thirteen feet in thickness and are ninety feet high; if they could speak, would
recaK the pagcantry of kings, the music and laughter of the Court and the
tears of unfortunate captives whose fate it was to die on the headsman’s
block. Through the gate beneath the Byward Tower many figures famous in
English history walked to their deaths on Tower Hill, and within its walls, on
Tower Green, were executed Anne Boleyn and Katharine Howard, two of
Henry VIITs six wives, and the unfortunate Lady Jane Grey, who, on the
morning of her own execution in 1554, saw the headless body of her husband,
Lord Dudley, carried back on a cart from Tower Hill.
The Bloody Tower, with its ancient portcullis, is so called because it is
reputed to be the scene of the secret murder of the two young princes, sons
of Edward IV, by their ambitious uncle the Duke of Gloucester, Among
those imprisoned in the fortress were Elizabeth (afterwards Queen), Guy
Fawkes and Sir Walter Raleigh. During the two World Wars, several spies
met their just reward within the Tower walls. Beside the Bloody Tower is
the Wakefield Tower, an Aladdin’s cave which contains the magnificent
Crown Jewels.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL
ADELAIDE alsq CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
D
fit HOT*fF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin, ,,
Uy Name
My Address
S.B. 260 AQB
The Red Page
CAROLINE CHISHOLM.
A reputation can become so formid-
able in tradition that a book like
Margaret Kiddle’s Caroline Chisholm
(Melbourne University Press), which de-
fines and limits a reputation precisely,
has a slight effect of debunking.
Immigration to Australia would have
continued without Mrs. Chisholm’s inter-
position. At a time when 500,000 immi-
grated into Australia, she helped bring
out some 5000 more skilled families in
more comfort; she found virtuous
employment for some thousands of immi-
grant girls who might have drabbed
around Sydney ; she rode with cavalcades
of immigrant families inland to settle
them in employment or on farms of their
own—in all, some 11,000 people ; she
publicised and popularised emigration in
England, secured considerable ameliora-
tion in the Government’s method of ship-
ping immigrants and of treating them
when they got here; she took the part of
the small farmers and the working people
against the squatters; altogether, hers was
the much-needed Touch of a Woman’s
Hand; and such as consider, with
Marvell, that
Two Paradises were in one
To live in Paradise alone,
have Mrs. Chisholm to blame, who con-
spired for the infiltration of a great many
Eves to destroy the peace of mind of a
great many Adams in the Australian
Eden of the middle-1800’s.
The wonder is that so much was done
with so little money. A Northampton
farmer’s daughter, born in 1808, Caroline
Jones married at the age of 22 Captain
Archibald Chisholm of the East India
Company’s army, spent six years at
Madras, then accompanied her husband
on sick-leave to Australia, where she
arrived in 1838, aged 30. Her husband
was recalled in 1840 to the Chinese
Opium War, but retired in 1845 on a
pension of probably £292 a year, his
commission having possibly been bougjit-
out for £lOOO cash. “For the next ten
years,” this £292 pension and the £lOOO,
either invested or drawn-upon, “was the
financial basis on which he and his wife
lived” —and these were the years of Mrs.
Chisholm’s greatest activity, during which
she steadily refused to accept payment
for her philanthropic services.
In Madras, Mrs. Chisholm had formed
a little school to teach soldiers’ daughters
how to be good wives and to keep them
out of mischief; and on her husband’s
departure for the Opium War she began
to care for homeless girl-immigrants to
Australia, many of whom were to be
found cowering in fear and hunger in
parks and caves around Sydney; she
sheltered as many as nine at a time at
her home at Windsor. This led her to
think of establishing a “home” ; she wrote
to ithe Governor’s wife, and then, con-
quering what seems to have been a con-
siderable social reluctance, and only after
two of her friends had refused to go,
she visited the Sydney “Herald” office.
The “Herald” waited upon Govern-
ment sanction ; Governor Gipps, put to
considerable siege, upon hearing that the
home would cost him nothing, and sur-
prised that such a “poised, charming
young woman” should be given to good
works, agreed, and it was announced that
a Female Immigrants’ Home would be
established in part of the old wooden
Immigration Barracks in Bent-street,
Sydney, near the present Government
Printing Office.
A storeroom, fourteen feet square,
having been cleared for her, Mrs.
Chisholm decided to sleep in it. As soon
as the light was put, rats scurried about
the room ; she lighted two candles, sat
on the bed, and three rats dropped from
the roof to her shoulders on their way to
the floor. Her way of dealing with the
rats shows us a resolute woman, and
above all a woman. She put slices of
bread in the middle of the room, observ-
ing “at one time thirteen and never less
than seven” rats around the dish all the
night.
, The following night I gave them a
similar treat, with the addition of arsenic,
and, in this manner, passed my first four
nights in the home.
She knocked four more rooms into one
dormitory capable of sleeping 94 women.
She brought them in from the Rocks
district and Hyde Park; she circularised
the country districts to find them work ;
she put them in drays and went with them
from farm to farm; she founded
branches and depots at Parramatta, Port
Macquarie, Moreton Bay, Wollongong,
Maitland, Scone, Liverpool, Campbell-
town, Goulburn, Yass and Bong Bong.
The “Herald” publicised her need for
drays, etc. During the first year, she re-
claimed 76 prostitutes, helped or found
jobs for 1400 women and founded her
depots ; and this was done on £156 of
subscriptions, of which £154 was spent
and £2 was carried forward.
By 1843 Mrs. Chisholm was dabbling
more ambitiously with the idea of settling
families on the land, going with 23
families to leases near Wollongong. She
had been there three weeks before;
With the help of three men who accom-
panied her she had half an acre cleared in
readiness for her settlers.,..
But Miss Kiddle opines that in this she
encountered some opposition from the
unofficial rulers of the country, the
squatters, who wanted servants, but not
more smallholders. Later Mrs. Chisholm
was to find more and more difficulty in
that quarter.
Another difficulty she had already en-
countered was opposition to her religion.
On or just before her marriage she had
become a Catholic, like her husband. In
spite of this, she had gained the support
of the Church of England authorities for
her home and depots, also that of Dr
John Dunmore Lang, who in 1843 had
supported in the Legislative Council a
plan of hers to travel throughout New
South Wales and collect the voluntary
statements of settlers ; accounts of their
life in the colony which would give Eng-
land a true picture of Australian condi-
tions, counteracting the over bright
prospectuses of British bounty agents,
and also the alarming reports of the
current New South Wales depression.
But when" Mrs. Chisholm was about to
leave the colony in 1846, the notice taken
of her, the testimonial plate, the number
of people she had escorted inland —11,000
was her own evidence to the House of
Lords—and an article in the Roman
Catholic “Chronicle,” in which Mrs.
Chisholm was praised and the immigra-
tion schemes of Dr. Lang were criticised,
altered Dr. Lang’s opinion. Fiercely
nationalist, uncompromisingly Presby-
terian; anxious to populate New South
Wales with Presbyterian Scots, he attri-
buted similar motives to Mrs. Chisholm,
in whose large importation of Irish girls,
refugees from the Irish famine, he saw a
menace to his Scotsmen. He wrote in-
dignantly to the “Herald,” and though
politely and firmly answered by Mrs.
Chisholm, his by-no-means ineffectual
protests pursued her to London.
Mrs. Chisholm’s business in London
was to propagandise for Australian
colonisation, to improve conditions on
emigrant ships, and to get Government
help to seek out children abandoned by
emigrants—because of some twist in the
contract for assisted emigrants, many of
them had left their small children behind
them rather than forgo the voyage.
The Chisholms, with their four
children, one bora after their arrival,
lived in the poorer quarters of London
so that they could be more immediately
available to wishful emigrants. It was at
their home in Islington that Dickens
visited them, and had his grandeur some-
what subdued by the inruptions of the
clamorous family; he used the scene,
exactly observed, in Bleak House. Miss
Kiddle makes no bones about the
parallels between Mrs. Chisholm and
Dickens’s “Mrs. Jellyby,” who organised
to establish on the Upper Niger “a model
farm as a centre of beneficent Christian
civilisation” while, at home, she neglected
her own family. But, says Miss Kiddle,
(a) Mrs. Chisholm never neglected her
family, and ( b ) great authors never build
a character from one person only, so
therefore (c) the better traits in “Mrs.
Jellyby” derived from Caroline Chisholm,
while the worse derived from some other
woman.
Dickens took Mrs. Chisholm up, wrote
about her and rewrote her articles in his
“Household Words” magazine; she
made her way about Government depart-
ments ; she and her husband answered
240 letters a day ; she wrote pamphlets ;
and by 1850 she had founded her Family
Colonisation Loan Society “to relieve
the distressed and help the poorer class
of people to emigrate.” It was to work
somewhat on the lines of a building
society; the emigrants were to pay in so
much at regular intervals ; the lucky ones
would be shipped immediately on the
moneys paid by all—the catch was that
on arrival the emigrants were to go on
paying, and here Mrs. Chisholm’s know-
ledge of human nature was found faulty,
and on this the scheme was ultimately
wrecked.
But it worked long enough, for some
six years, to enable Mrs. Chisholm to
show that emigrants could be sent out in
cabins, a separate one to each family, with
bunks that folded by day, better food,
competent surgeons and protection from
larrikinism —she supervised all these
details herself, down to detecting a child
with measles and withdrawing its family
just as the boat was about to sail.
Mrs, Chisholm returned to Australia in
1854. Her husband had preceded her to
establish and work far into the night on
the agencies of the society. She was
feted at Port Phillip, then at the height
of the Victorian gold boom, and was
voted £5OOO by the Victorian Parlia-
ment in recognition of her colonising
labors, conditional upon another £2500
being raised by private subscription. The
vote was opposed by John Pascoe Fawk-
ner, mainly on sectarian motives, although
others asked why Victoria should vote so
much to a woman whose work had been
for New South Wales. The Treasury
paid the £5OOO in 1855, though there is
no record of the £2500 public subscrip-
tion being handed over.
Mrs. Chisholm travelled the rough
tracks to the goldfields ; characteristically,
?t occurred to her that what was needed
was a series of shelters along the tracks
so that miners’ families might join them
on the diggings: “Chisholm’s Shake-
downs” on the Castlemaine route “during
the next fifty years became a part of the
life of the people”—and rightly bore her
name, since, according to Miss Kiddle,
she is thought to have spent most of her
Government grant on their upkeep.
At any rate, having, around the time
of the Eureka Stockade, taken part in the
movement to free Victorian lands from
the squatters for the use of smallholders,
Caroline Chisholm broke down in 1857.
For a time she stayed at Kyneton (Vic-
toria), where her two elder sons had a
store. From Kyneton she came to Syd-
ney, where she was found in need in
June, 1858, and again in May, 1859 :
111 as she is, she is endeavoring to
support herself by giving lessons in English
to China Men, at Is. 6d. per lesson, and
also by working for the confectioners.
They have three young children at home,
and have pawned a medal given her by
his Holiness (the Pope) to get bread for
them.
Later she recovered, gave some lec-
tures, established a school for girls at
Newtown (1862), moved it to Tempe,
closed it in 1864 and returned to Eng-
land in 1866. By 187.1 she was bedridden
at Highgate in “a dingy room,” from
which, after five years, she was removed
to lodgings at Fulham which had the
advantage of a window from which she
could see the sky ; and there she died,
March 25, 1877, aged 68.
Miss Kiddle has written with fine
clarity, compressing an immense amount
of facts and figures into readability ;
factual rather than interpretative; every
page tells us something.
Novels of Politics.
There came into ray hands during the
war the huge manuscript of a novel
which, though it has never been pub-
lished, I still think was one of the most
powerful things written in Australia. It
was an exposure of Labor politics from
the gutter to its highest circles.
What the writer’s own politics were I
don’t know ; he could have been a Com-
munist ; he could have been a Liberal; he
could have been, simply, a disillusioned
Labor man ; but he seemed to know his
subject through and through, he was en-
raged with the corruption that he thought
he had found, and his book would have
made a sensation. It still would.
It probably didn’t have any lasting
qualities. It was too closely tied-up to
contemporary politics; the hero, an
honest workingman eternally betrayed by
his leaders, behaved like an imbecile and
had no existence as a personality, only as
a symbol. I remember, vaguely, two
powerful portraits, one of a Premier and
the other of a tycoon of the booze and
betting interests, but they were rather
crudely done and had hardly the inner
vitality and outward color to become per-
manent characters in fiction.
Yet, for a book of the day, among the
ordinary run of lightweight fiction, it was
outstanding; and it was extremely in-
teresting as the first example I had seen in
Australia —apart from the much lighter
efforts of Leonard Mann’s A Murder in
Sydney and The Go-Getter —of what the
Americans call the “muck-raker” novel:
the school of Upton Sinclair, Dreiser,
John Dos Passes and—though he is really
too much alive, too genuinely an artist to
be put in this company—Sinclair Lewis.
I mention this manuscript because the
first thing one must say about Frank J.
Hardy’s Power Without Glory (printed
in Melbourne by the Realist Printing and
Publishing Cos.) is that the claims made
for it on the dust-jacket are excessive:
Power Without Glory steps out so surely
in anew direction for an Australian novel,
Frank Hardy handles so confidently a
wider canvas of the Australian scene than
has yet been attempted, that this novel may
well change the course of Australian
literature.
The novel does indeed handle an enor-
mous canvas and step out in anew direc-
tion for an Australian novel, but it does
not do this alone. Besides the manuscript
I have mentioned there are at least two
other novels of the same kind by different
writers awaiting publication. One is a
novel of the financial world by Dal
Stivens which, under the title of The En-
trepreneur, took third prize in one of the
“S. M. Herald” competitions and is now
said to be in the hands of an English
publisher. The other is Brian James’s
Spencer Button, to be published by Angus
and Robertson in October.
I haven’t read Dal Stivens’s novel; he
told me once that he had modelled him-
self on Fielding—presumably Jonathan
Wild the Great. People who have read
it tell me it is a tremendous advance on
the slight, tight short-stories with which
he made his reputation. I did read
Spencer Button in manuscript. It is
closer to Sinclair Lewis than to
Upton Sinclair, rather weak in its
central character but strongly framed
with satire and lit with sparkling comedy.
It deals with schoolteaching from the in-
side and leads into New South Wales
politics during the Lang period. It
should stand a good chance of becoming
a best-seller and, with its humor, its
beautifully rounded minor characters and
Brian James’s excellent short-stories be-
hind it, it is much more likely to endure
as a work of literature than iis Power
Without Glory.
Knowing of these other big, sprawling,
sociological novels, one could not agree
that Power Without Glory is alone in
setting anew direction for the Australian
novel; but it does, certainly, take its
place as one of a group of novels which
are initiating anew trend. Most of the
city novels we have had — Foveaux and
Ride On, Stranger, The h arp in the South
and even the immortal Jonah —are in the
nature of tentative explorations, skim-
ming over the surface of city life or deal-
ing with an isolated segment. These new
novels try to take in the whole pattern
and to expose the secret clockwork of
money and power by which it moves.
So far as it goes, the new development
—if indeed it can so be described —is
warmly to be welcomed; even in so con-
troversial a novel as Power Without
Glory, to the extent that it can be re-
garded as a work of literature as distinct
from political propaganda. It is time
Australian fiction grew up ; time it turned
to the big cities where so much of the
wealth and the power of the country lies
concentrated.
But the muck-raker novel, as such, is
of no literary value. It is only valuable
insofar as it reveals human character
moving in a dramatic action.
It is not because he exposed the York-
shire schools that Dickens is great, but
because he created Wackford Squeers ; it
is not because he exposed the disgraceful
state of debtors’ prisons, but because he
created old Dorrit. It is not because he
showed the evil results of the Paris
lotteries that Balzac is great, but because
be created Madame Descoings and that
immortal scoundrel Philippe. And it is
not the political, financial or sporting
scandals of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane we want our novelists to tell
us about, but the men who take part in
the scandals.
Mr. Hardy, who says he hopes to fol-
low in Balzac’s footsteps, has at least
assembled all the materials for a
Balzacian novel: a youth from the Mel-
bourne slums coming up through the
sporting world to great power behind the
scenes in finance and politics, involving
in his career hundreds of people from all
the capital cities, moving in all grades of
society.
In a few scenes, as when the “hero”
is betrayed, he attains to a harsh
and ugly force; and from its multi-
plicity of incident and character the novel
gathers weight and breadth. Yet it never
really gets past the stage of raw material,
and in the end it becomes tedious. The
style is cumbrous ; the dialogue flat and
unnatural; the psychology is coarse,
(Continued on inside back cover.)


It's early, but . . ,
/ %
This Christmas
Give Jewellery...
that flatters the face and fascinates the eye!
We've selected a range of jewellery
especially for the people who enjoy the
comfort of easy, leisurely shopping.
Christmas is less than thirteen weeks away .•. ,
choose from this range of jewellery
and your present-giving worries will be over.
Photo right: 9ct. Stone-set Pendant on 9ct. silver-lined Chain.
Various coloured stones. Price, £2/11/6.
Photo right: 9ct. Silver-lined Stone-set Bracelet. Stones are
available in various colours and are priced at 48/-.
scs
jm
v ilia
' :
il .
f.....'
s
7
ii
lliiill
&
, jph
*
Mm
-j
f.
> i
W 8 • .<
' '
ill
. .-
. i yMA 4
' :
"Gaytime" Pearls and Earrings to match
Pearls in presentation case. Single-row ;
£3/15/-; two-row, £6/10/-; three-row,
£B/5/-. Matching Earrings 18/6 pair.
A. "Temprex" 17-jewel Swiss Watch.
Ladies' 9 carat Yellow Gold Swiss
Lever Wrist Watch on a solid 9 carat
link band. In presentation case. £lB.
B. "Hartford" 15-jewel Swiss Watch.
Nickel chromium stainless steel,
£B/10/-. Band, 7/6 extra. All watches
carry our famous service guarantee.
(cm
Wmm
mmmm
NSte3«i
Ye
Hand-carved Cameo
Brooch set in 9 carat
low Gold. In attractive
presentation case. Price, £-1 1/16/
Above: Sterling Silver
Key Chain
with metal' fittings. 35/-.
SI. ft
A
Sfr V
"TRUTH®IN ADVERTISING"'
Anthony Horderns 1
■
SHHi
Wmm
mm
IS
m i
*• ■
■ ■
**v
H
From left: Gent's Gold-filled Swiss Lever Wrist Watch,
This attractive watch has a stainless steel back. Price, £7/15/6.
Gent's "Felca" Stainless Steel Swiss Lever Wrist Watch.
Damp- and rust-proof, sweep centre second hand. Famous Incabloc
balance. £ll/15/-. All watches carry our famous service guarantee.
m
sm
i
1
m
»P
m
m
{
I
i \
From left: Goldoid Cigarette Case, British made, £2/12/-. 9 carat Silver-lined Sleeve Links, 24/-
pr. Solid 9 carat Gold Sleeve Links, £2/12/6. 9 carat Silver-lined "Mayfair'' Arm Bands, 25/- pr.
ANTHONY HORDERNS' JEWELLERY DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET, TELEPHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE TALE of a TOE
JOHN
FOUN TAIN
<< O ND what do you think of
h\ Queensland, Mr. Robertson? I
I I mean honestly. Without pre-
judice.”
Mrs. Cole spears a portion of
boiled fish and guides it into her pome-
granate mouth, masticates it with refine-
ment, and then makes a grimace, as
though rejecting it, which so startles Mr.
Robertson that he drops his fork with a
mild clatter on the white plate with Hook
and Sinker Hotel, Quondonga, Q., em-
blazoned in blue. Mrs. Cole murmurs
“That fish! Really!” in her soft, sweet
voice which can yet suggest capitals and
exclamation-marks and all sorts of hidden
dramatic forces.
Seeing Mrs. Cole engaged, Mr. Robert-
son does not reply to her question
immediately, but attacks his fish with a
slightly diminished gusto. And Mrs. Cole
rehearses a conversation with Mrs. Doyle
—“But, Jenny, really, that fish at lunch-
time ; there’s a way of cooking fish, after
all.” “I know, Phoebe, I know. But you
can’t get cooks nowadays ; you just can’t.
And” Mrs. Cole can see her friend
gathering herself together; patting her
iron-grey waves with a jewelled hand,
giving her a penetrating 100k —“it wasn’t
as bad as all that!”
“No sauce!” Mrs. Cole may wail; but
she knows it is no use, once Jenny takes
that stand. The metamorphosis from
Jenny her friend into Mrs. Doyle,
hereditary proprietress of the Hook and
Sinker. Any more of what Jenny is
pleased to call “her nonsense,” and Mrs.
Doyle will say, very gently: “If you don’t
like it here, dear, you can always go. I
shall quite understand.”
Mrs. Cole shrugs, confessing defeat.
And, after all, decides to eat the abomin-
able fish. But she promises herself that
when she distributes largesse next
Christmas there will be nothing for that
miserable cook.
Mrs. Cole wears real pearls, wound
twice and then looped, around her long
slim neck. She fingers them now,
absently, looking from Mr. to Mrs.
Robertson with large, brown, slightly pro-
truding eyes. Relict of a western grazier,
Mrs. Cole lives at the Hook and Sinker
from apathy, really, she says; and be-
cause she likes Mrs. Doyle, She is tall
and slim and elegant—rather like a
gazelle—and scarcely looks the shadowy
middle-age she has confessed to Mrs.
Robertson when Mr. Robertson went out
to get the drinks —two beers and a
shandy.
MR. ROBERTSON and Mrs. Cole
drink the beer. Mrs. Robertson,
from time to time, sips her shandy. The
three of them are sitting at a small table
in the comer of the blonde-oak dining-
room, near the window. Through the
window, a palm-tree sketched darkly
against it, the sky is very blue, as though
it has been given an extra coat of paint:
and meeting it in a haze, like the smoke
of solar fires, is the broad blue surge of
the sea.
Mr. Robertson is dressed in the tropical
suit he bought in Brisbane, with the nylon
shirt and maroon tie. He is tall and
stringy and dark, tight of lip and long of
jaw, with lean blue cheeks and a crooked
nose that doesn’t quite suit his general
air of worn sobriety. He is a little thin
on top, too, which gives his white fore-
head a certain intellectual distinction. He
wears a gold watch on his bony, blackly
hairy wrist, and a fountain-pen and pro-
pelling pencil in front of the three neat
pyramids of red-and-white linen in his
top pocket. His eyes of burnt-brown have
the pleased but drugged expression of a
captive recently released from some
gloomy, city dungeon, where he has been
kept on a diet of balance-sheets and
ledgers.
His wife wears white, which suits her
rosy, cheerful face and her fine sandy
hair. Mrs. Robertson is short, and is get-
ting stout, but she wears good humor
like an armor. Sunny-blue good humor
shines under her fair eyelashes, and her
firm lips always wear a little smile, which
has the fascination of quaintness. When
she smiles outright she shows splendid
teeth and her blue eyes widen and
sparkle. She has a habit of kicking her
shoes off under the table. Mr. and Mrs.
Robertson have come to Quondonga, via
Brisbane, from down south, for a
holiday. A sort of second honeymoon.
“Mr. Robertson,” Mrs. Cole appeals.
“What do you think . . . ?”
Honestly? Without prejudice? Mr.
Robertson has a great reputation for
honesty, and prides himself on his lack
of prejudice. But he is conscious of the
interested inclined plane of the girl’s face
at the next table, the listening red ears
of the stout fellow in a pepper-and-salt
sports-coat beside her. He steals a glance
at Mrs. Cole’s dreamy eyes, the slim neck
hung with wealth. Price of a house hung
there, if he knows anything of jewellery
—which he doesn’t: Mrs. Cole’s pearls
are w’orth several houses, or a modest
block of flats.
A damn’ fine-looking woman, thinks
Mr. Robertson, with a flash of unorigin-
ality. Although—his burnt-brown eyes
flicker at the strong young honey-colored
arm of the girl at the next table ; dimpled
chin cupped in slim fingers, fair hair
sleek, all eyes for that fellow in the
sports-coat—and Mr. Robertson sighs.
For his .part he likes ’em young.
THERE is no great harm in Mr.
Robertson’s roving eye —apart from
the subtle evil-doing of the spirit. No
maiden, this fifteen years, has been better
or worse for that fitful gleam in the tired
brown, accompanied by a sudden,
comical, upward jerk of the shaggy black
eyebrows. Mr. Robertson has never been
unfaithful to his wife, in the precise
physical sense stressed indelicately in
courts of law. In fact, he loves her,
sincerely and thankfully. Rut Mr.
Robertson is a philanderer, taking his
pleasure with girls in trams and buses,
trains, planes and ferries; in the homes
of his friends and in the street. On
beaches, restaurants and even in church.
Affairs of the imagination in which he is
master of harems of pretty faces and slim
nubile forms, acres of white and sun-
tanned feminine flesh, whole regiments
of silk stockings and dimpled knees: of
which Mrs. Robertson knows nothing.
But he loves his wife. Given a serious
choice, he wouldn’t exchange her for any
half-dozen young things with bold eyes
and cheeky grace and rather empty
laughter. Not permanently. And his in-
fidelities of the imagination never last
long—about five minutes usually; per-
haps ten. Then, sated with fantasy, and
obscurely scared —for even in daydreams
effect follows cause with frightful logic;
and the secret Mr. Robertson finds him-
self embroiled in dreadful scandals -he
returns gratefully to the calm and refresh-
ing reality of his wife, as to a summer
garden after a hot-house. With some
small conversational offering, usually.
After staring raptly at the sultry dark
air-hostess in the Convair —“Look, dear,
there’s Goff’s Harbor!” Pulling back the
curtain and pointing through a break in
the clouds.
The Robertsons are 1 happier now than
when they married, flushed with youth
and both exalted and bewildered by big
ideas. They have made their bargain
with life, and are content. Still . . . Mr.
Robertson sometimes toys wickedly with
the idea of going for a holiday by him-
self some time. Somewhere a long way
away, a considerable distance away,
where no one can possibly know him.
Mr. Robertson is a great believer in the
heart not grieving over matters not
brought too contemptuously to the notice
of the eye.
MRS. COLE is Shaking her pearls at
him. She must be answered. What
does he think of Queensland, eh? Well,
he can soon tell her that. But red ears
are flourishing behind him. He isn’t
going to be trapped into saying anything
reckless. So he says “Actually.”
“Yes, Mr. Robertson?” Mrs. Cole’s
eyes of a sophisticated gazelle slide
round flatteringly. The sleek-haired girl
reclines on an elbow and frankly stares;
he has spoken a little loudly, perhaps,
Mary sips her shandy, her fair eyelashes
lowered.
“Actually,” says Mr. Robertson, mak-
ing a fine, judicious, unctuous sound of
it. “Ha! Actually, we haven’t seen much
of it. Only Brisbane. When we were in
Brisbane—Brisbane is very unlike
Sydney.” His tone is faintly accusing.
“A country town!”
The fellow in the sports-coat has swung
round, skidding his chair on the polished
floor. His face is broad, pink, strongly
masculine, and has been closely-shaved
and severely scrubbed. One broad white
hand clutches the tablecloth, as though
to save himself from falling, and his grey
eyes bulge and glare, to a degree of
fanaticism. His voise is loud and clear
and definite,
“Don’t be so mealy-mouthed about it,
Mr. Whatever-your-name-is. Brisbane
is a damn’ country town. Like this, only
worse. Thank God I’m going south next
year j>.
“Let me introduce Mr Murchison,”
Mrs. Cole says. “Mr. Murchison—Mr.
and Mrs Robertson”
Mr. Murchison heaves himself up and
bows. Crashes down again and grants.
“And Miss Penyard,” says Mrs. Cole,
motioning towards the blonde girl, whose
bored face convulses in a smile which
flickers and flies out the window. “Mr,
.and Mrs. Robertson only arrived today,
Lynette,” says Mrs. Cole gaily.
“Re-allv?”
Miss Penyard raises her pencilled eye-
brows and plays with a dessertspoon.
Mr. Robertson feels a bit silly standing
up so he sits down.
“From Sydney?” asks Mr. Murchison,
Mr. Robertson nods. “Why come to this
hell-hole?” grunts Mr. Murchison
rhetorically, turning his broad pepper-
and-salt back. Miss Penyard screams
with girlish laughter.
“Funny chap,” Mr. Robertson
murmurs. ,
“Mr. Murchison. From the bank.”
Mrs. Cole’s beautiful eyes glow con-
fidentially. She leans over the table and
hisses like a friendly snake. “He’s been
drinking. Saturday afternoon, you know
—he’s blind every weekend. You
wouldn’t think so, seeing him like this,
but he’s very well connected. Brother
of A. J. Murchison, you know, of Bucka-
whingi Downs.”
“Bucka . , . ?” says Mr. Robertson
blankly,
“Buckawhingi Downs. Quite well-
known, you know.”
“We don’t know much about Queens-
land.”
“But, Mr. Robertson! Buckawhingi
Downs is one of our historic properties.
The Murchisons—the A. J. Murchisons,
that is, not Ted—are very nice people.”
“Indeed,” says Mr. Robertson dryly;
he fancies there is too much reproof in
Mrs. Cole’s voice. He is uneasy, too, be-
cause her voice has imperceptibly risen
to its natural strength, although she
doesn’t seem to be aware of it.
“We know very few Queensland
people,” Mrs. Robertson says apolo-
getically.
“Oh!”
MR. ROBERTSON takes out his large
packet of Craven A’s, and offers
them to his wife, who takes one. “Mrs.
Cole?” “No, thank you, Mr. Robertson
—they are too hard to get.” “Aw, come
on.” “No —really. I can get plenty —
Mrs. Doyle always puts some away for
me —but they are scarce in town.” Mr.
Robertson slowly withdraws the packet.
They are hard to get. He lights Mary’s
cigarette, and is about to light his own
when he notices that Mrs. Cole has
mysteriously produced one; it hangs
there, poised between her full lips, re-
proachfully. “Sorry.” Mr. Robertson
inhales, and feels better. “Talking of
Brisbane ...”
“It’s very nice,” says Mrs. Robertson
quickly.
“We were only there a short time,”
Mr. Robertson adds, taking his cue.
Mr. Robertson looks out the window,
at the sea. The great blue sheet of it,
shining in the sun. Gulls wheeling and
a white sail dipping. Mr. Robertson
dreams of fishing.
“Wait till you get to Quondonga, boy,”
his hearty Brisbane acquaintance said —
one thing about them in Brisbane, they
were friendly. “Fishing? Loads of it.
Little place it is—off the beaten track,
although it was busy enough during the
war. The Americans used to go there.
The Hook and Sinker’s the best pub.
Wonderful woman Mrs. Doyle. She
never sold blackmarket stuff to the
Yanks, Old family business —that sort
of thing. That’s what I admire—prin-
ciple, Tell you what I’ll do—you can
use my name. Here, I’ll write it down.
Joe Smith. Just say Joe Smith sent you.”
Mrs. Doyle was not wonderfully
enthusiastic when Mr. Robertson men-
tioned Joe Smith: merely saying “Oh,
yes, Mr. Smith. He was here last year,”
and giving them a keen look. She booked
them in, though, and dropped no hint
that the jovial Mr. Smith had departed
owing her money. In the course of her
business life Mrs. Doyle has encountered
a number of Joe Smiths, and has de-
veloped a philosophy concerning them.
On the whole Mrs. Doyle thinks well of
human nature, but she never leans on,, it
too heavily.
FROM the dining-room the beach is
like a slender new moon, the blue
sea on the hollow side, a dark cloud of
bush, broken by stars of corrugated-iron
roofs, brushing the hump. The sea comes
riding in on high rollers, washing the
beach, crashing against the exposed shore
to climb a hundred rough gold stairs;
falling back to the shiny dark rocks and
the undertow, to froth and boil.
“I must say,” says Mrs. Robertson, “I
like the trams. Like little silver
bullets ...”
“I went to school in Brisbane,” says
Mrs. Cole. “Worked there, too, before I
was married. But X like the north. You
must go north, Mrs. Robertson. Really,
it’s a must. Mackay, Townsville,
T.I ... ”
“Of course I like dear old Sydney,”
Mrs. Robertson says sentimentally.
“But the weather has been shocking . . .”
“You’ll find it very nice here,” Mrs.
Cole assures her.
“It’s delightful—after Sydney. So
(i Continued on page 21.)


The Bulletin
Vdl. 71—No. 3685
Wednesday, September 27, 1950
AggSSSuo
TIME HE WAS TOLD THE FACTS OF LIFE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2321; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WE MUST PREPARE.
The last war was grimly driven to
the point of absolute victory and domina-
tion of the aggressor nations in the hope
that the experiences of the two terrible
periods which the world has endured in
a generation could not be repeated.
Now, within five years, the likelihood
seems to be that at almost any moment
one of the nations which gave most lip-
service to the cause of permanent peace
may embark on a cynical campaign of
open war, being already involved in
operations which are almost the same
as full-scale war against its peaceful
neighbors and erstwhile friends through-
out the world.
The significance of the familiar pattern
of gallantry and sacrifice being woven in
Korea, where Australians are already
fighting on land, on the sea and in the air,
was brought home to Australians im-
mediately after the event by Mr.
Menzies’s series of eloquent broadcasts
on defence.
The present situation so far as Aus-
tralia is affected is without parallel.
Even when the Japanese peril developed
in 1941 the danger was not so intimately
threatening. There was at least assurance
that we had some trained force which
could be brought home within a matter
of weeks, and that the enemy had chosen
a time to strike into Australian waters
when the British situation was changing
over from defence to offence, when
Germany had its hands full, and
when the United States was nearly
geared for war, into which it was entering,
a fresh giant which could prepare and
arm itself and the civilised world from
out of a plenitude of resources without
fear of its war factories being under
attack.
Then it was impossible to conceive that
Japanese shipping would stay the course
or that the might of the British and
American navies would be so whittled
away that they could not command the
seas and their communication-lines. It
was also then impossible to conceive a
situation in which there could be any
marked division of will or purpose in
implementing the defence of this country,
or that for one moment any differences
could exist among industrial and other
leaders about the need to stave off
conquest.
This time, if the war comes, the situa-
tion will be vastly different. Apart from
the fact that since 1945 defence has been
allowed to run to seed by Socialist Gov-
ernments wedded to the idea that the
class-war is the only one which matters,
the British Commonwealth as a united
entity has been broken up. Ideas about
the potency of United Nations action,
propagated by theorists like Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Percy Spender, have done much
to sap patriotism and love of country. It
has become the fashion to inculcate into
young people the idea that there is some-
thing shabby about patriotic fervor.
There is a tendency to teach that no
ideal is worth the holding unless its world
acceptance can be guaranteed by the
adherence to it of a mob of seething and
noisy little countries which are unable to
guarantee their own internal peace and
democracy, much less that of the world.
The British Navy can no longer look
after our communications. The United
Kingdom is a nation divided by Socialist
muddling and confiscation and class-
oppression. The R.A.F. has been
allowed to go to pieces. Some of
those parts of the Dominions which
have been thrown away in Asia by the
Attlees may be on the other side when it
comes to a world showdown on Com-
munism, Pan-Asia having become, with
the encouragement of theorists like
Stafford Cripps, their overriding and
fanatically-held interest in world politics.
The United States, so generous in our
defence in the last war, is no longer able
to pick and choose the direction of its
warlike operations. It will have to con-
centrate, in major crisis, the whole of its
externally available weight where the
blow falls, which will almost certainly be
in Western Europe.
Its task will be made the harder
since the new race of Socialist politicians
in Britain and parties to the ancient
feuds of the Continent are still dinging
to the principle which Russia, in par-
ticular, was most insistent on enforcing
on world opinion with a view to having
only enfeebled democracies to deal with
when Moscow’s essay in totalitarian
world conquest came —the principle that
civilisation had better die than that
Germany and Japan should be allowed to
return to the comity of nations, and arm
to a degree which would make them
assets in common defence. Messrs. Bevin
and Spender—the latter at least in rela-
tion to Japan—seem to be two leading
advocates of this policy, neither of them
apparently having considered the forces
which would be needed to keep these
potentially powerful nations disarmed.
The alternative is that they add their
strength and resources to those of the
enemy, either willingly or under duress.
‘Added to these disturbing conditions
the world is faced not with centralised
attack only, but by a dispersed series of
aggressive operations which, as Mr.
Menzies has forcibly pointed out, are
designed to prevent a general assembly of
national armies at the crucial defence
point, the tendency being naturally to
think in terms of local defence. It is also
faced with the certainty that when war
comes the home front, even at points
distant *from vital battlefields, will be
honeycombed with traitorous fifth-
columns which have been built up by 30
years of disciplined and cunning under-
ground organisation planned and de-
veloped by our potential enemy.
It is obvious that the effort called for
in the event of the threat at present loom-
ing becoming reality will have to be in-
finitely more swift and infinitely more
complete than ever before, so that it can
provide both for local defence in any
emergency, no matter what its magnitude,
and an expeditionary force which can
be sent at once to the aid of those who
are carrying the brunt of the main battles
of the world wherever they may be
developed.
The danger is both real and urgent.
The position calls on us, as the Prime
Minister pointed out in his speech, to
liquidate the era of “wishful thinking”
and “let’s pretend,” and to face with
“plain thinking and plain talk and clear
action” the “deadliest and subtlest”
threat to civilisation which the modern
world has ever seen. Unfortunately there
is no choice in the matter. The Com-
monwealth needs “the greatest effort in
defence preparation, and the most realistic
approach to the nature of the threatened
war ever undertaken here in time of
peace.”
Not only must all personal and selfish
considerations be sacrificed to what the
Government decides to be necessary, but
public opinion must police Parlia-
mentary and governmental action to see
that no political considerations interfere
with the swift and smooth institution of
maximum measures of military pre-
caution.
"Labor" in the Toils.
Whether this 19th Parliament, meeting
in Canberra today for what is normally
the Budget session, will survive for more
than a month or so depends on treatment
by the “Labor” majority in the Senate
of the Communist-party Dissolution Bill
which the Government will immediately
resubmit as an urgent measure.
Probabilities are that celebration of the
50th anniversary of the Commonwealth
next May will be directed from a new
20th Parliament with both Houses fresh
entirely from the electors. If Mr. Chifley
has his way “Labor,” operating
a majority from a 1946 rump in the
Senate, will reject the bill which is the
core of the Gpvernment’s whole plan to
speed-up industrial production, and so
make a double-dissolution certain. If so,
the “Labor” decision will be taken with
full knowledge that the party is fatally
split over this issue, and will reveal that
split beyond all disguise to the country.
The development, however, is but the cul-
mination of a long-standing rift within
the party which can no longer be
disguised.
The truth is that when the A.L.P.,
under pressure from its pro-Communist
elements in high places, adopted the
socialisation objective—the “Red Objec-
tive” —in 1921, it by that act proclaimed
itself a party of opposition in Australian
politics for as long as it would take
“Labor” to reach that revolutionary goal.
Mr. Calwell, whose recent rebellion high-
lights the immediate disturbance in the
party, bore witness to this truth in his
speech in Sydney Domain two years
ago, when he said, believing then
the revolution was under way, that
“Labor” was scrambling eggs which
could never be unscrambled. All those
fanatics for the socialisation cause who
proclaimed in 1948 that “Labor” would
keep power for decades were swayed by
the same idea —and valid enough it was,
too —namely, that the establishment of
the “Red Objective” as the fundamental
system of administration would produce
a revolutionary change in the Australian
system of government, installing “Labor”
as the permanent ruling party and rele-
gating die other parties, representing the
old system of “capitalist” private enter-
prise, to the wilderness of permanent
opposition, if not entirely destroying them
on the Soviet precedent.
It is important to appreciate the con-
sequences, intended or not, of the fasten-
ing of the “Red Objective” on the
“Labor” party. The end which its
authors set out to work for, and the
means to that end, coincided neatly with
the Communists’ conspiracy to develop
their own brand of revolution; and the
result was to make the new “Labor”
party and the Communist party allies on
the road for as long as “Labor” followed
it.
For most of 30 years this alliance and
the domestic wrangles it produced within
“the movement” have bedevilled every
“Labor” effort to emerge from the
Opposition in the national Parliament or
to retain a hold on office during brief
changes of fortune at such times as some
Government formed of the (majority)
conservative elements in our society had
outlived its popularity. Rarely in all
those 30 years did “Labor” conduct
itself, in or out of power, but as a party
bent on exploiting its opposition to the
Parliamentary system that faced it.
However “Labor” might disguise its feel-
ings, the socialisation objective really had
taken hold of its political leadership. Its
leaders looked to the trade-union
organisations for their instructions and
the support of their political authority.
The Communists, quite unable to get any
support for candidates at political elec-
tions, concentrated on gaining control by
fair means or foul of the unions and of
union elections, to the dismay and con-
fusion of any “Labor” politician able to
do his own thinking.
The elections of 1946, when “Labor”
under Mr. Chifley won a majority in
both Federal Houses for the first time
since the fateful year 1921, landed the
party at its crossroads. Henceforth it had
no excuses for inaction on the “Red
Objective” before its mixed and lusty fol-
lowing. Its back-room boys had pre-
pared a programme for “Socialisation in
three years,” and Mr. Chifley had to go
to it.
The record of the 18th Parliament
(1946-49), in which his personal disposi-
tion appeared to conform completely
with his instructions, was one of incessant
strain put upon the Constitution, the
traditional system of Parliamentary gov-
ernment and the tolerances of our poli-
tical way-of-life, as a consequence of
Mr. Chifley’s attempts to bring socialisa-
tion into being. Resisted by popular
revulsion throughout the country and
finally defeated in the highest courts in
his legislative approach to this end (his
Act to destroy the banks), Mr. Chifley
essayed an alternative line of action by
seeking centralised control of all prices
and charges, whereby any private enter-
prise could be price-controlled out of
business. Every setback he suffered was
marked by a wave of Communist-ordered
strikes, being the Reds’ roars of protest
originally against the institutions which
Mr. Chifley was unsuccessfully assaulting
and finally against the “Labor” party
itself, especially when “Labor” spokes-
men started watering down the “Red
Objective” as being meat too strong for
the electors.
“Labor” knows now, or should know,
that it can choose between the Socialist
revolutionary aim and a career as alterna-
tive governing party under our estab-
lished system, but that it can’t have both.
The present crisis is the culmination of
its long years of double-dealing, of
accepting the Communists’ help towards
the “Red Objective” and disowning them
when the electors showed alarm. From
these tactics the only gainers have been
the Communists; For them the socialisa-
tion objective is a half-way house.
Thus the Menzies bill to outlaw the
Communist party has not so much
divided “Labor” as exposed and deepened
a rift of long standing. How far “Labor”
has gone along the false track is shown
by its seeming inability to turn back,
though it has had months in which to
reverse its decision, and a first-class
excuse with the development of Soviet-
Communist aggression against U.N.O.
and against Australia’s friends in the
Pacific. The bill, too, was amended last
session to meet reasonable objections to
the procedure originally proposed for
“declaring” a person and for pursuing
the charge against him. But Mr. Chifley
remains adamant for rejection by die
Senate of the bill in any workable form.
Resistance to this party line which has
developed in the Victorian AX.P., headed
by Mr. Cal well and supported by the
Melbourne Trades Hall and by “Rightist”
elements in Sydney and Adelaide Trades
Halls, has only hardened in him a charac-
teristic obstinacy.
There are people who suggest, like
Dr. Evatt, that the issue for the elections
can be switched—-that the vote could
turn on “not the Communist bill but the
grocery bill.” That may sound impres-
sive to the more volatile among the
electors till somebody reminds them that
the only certain casualty in a “Labor”
victory would be the anti-Communist
Bill, that first and foremost and all the
time the socialisation objective is still the
“Labor” goal, and that a vote for
“Labor” against Menzies would be a vote
for the Communists, for indifference to
a Red Asia, and for no real army of our
own.
Growing Their Own.
With that penchant for pulling off blood-
less revolutions which has distinguished
them for the past 300 years, the English
have performed another. It seems typical
of them that a vicar should have begun it,
and that a vicarage should be the revolu-
tionary headquarters. At Tilty, in Essex,
in 1947, there began an era of home-
grown and home-made tobacco which
has swept through the country and
forced the British Treasury to concede
to the revolutionaries the right to grow
their own free of excise duty.
An “act of God” lit the flame. A
strong gale in the 1947 spring blew out the
east window and damaged the tower of
the little church at Tilty. The vicar, who’d
grown a little tobacco in South America,
had nothing to offer subscribers to a
fund to restore the church, and somewhat
diffidently suggested that if any of them
felt that tobacco and cigarettes were too
dear he could give a few tips on how to
grow and roll their own.
• Tobacco and cigarettes in England are
dear. For the English cigarettes, which
cost Australians 2s. 9d. for 20, the English
pay 3s. 6d. Almost before the vicar
knew where he was the postbag from the
village was coming in stuffed with letters
from all over the country, and within a
year he was writing in his church maga-
zine :
Sufficient Nicotiana tobacum could be
grown in this country in all sorts of odd
places to make us independent of imports
without affecting food production. In the
17th century it was a staple British
industry. Thirty-one English counties have
grown it, competing successfully with Vir-
ginian plantations. In the face of riot and
bloodshed the masters of colonial policy
and investment stamped it out of our green
and pleasant land.
Pointing out that tobacco had been
grown successfully in England in
Shakspeare’s time, and that £l5O million
in “hard currency” each year was “going
up in smoke,” the vicar suggested the
formation of an Amateur Tobacco-
growers’ Association for “the encourage-
ment of home cultivation, the exchange
of information and mutual protection of
amateur producers.” Within a fortnight
A.T.G.A. had 700 members. A meeting
was held in London:
We were not only strangers, but law-
breakers clerks, clergy, bus-drivers,
colonels, civil servants —a mixed bag!
By our second meeting the matter had been
raised in the Commons and we had been
granted the excise concession. We were
respectable. So respectable that the
“Times” gave us a column.
A.T.G.A, became National A.T.G.A.
Clubs were formed. In the first issue of
“The Smoker” in November last, a maga-
zine devoted to N.A.T.G.A. matters, in-
cluding hints on growing, curing, blend-
ing and all the rest of it, no fewer than
42 clubs published reports, including one
in Eire which wrote, “As home-growing
is now forbidden in this country our
movement goes underground.”
President of N.A.T.G.A. is Rev. Hugh
S. Cuthbertson, Tilty Vicarage, near
Dunmow, Essex. The Royal Horticul-
tural Society has granted affiliation. At
first ignored or jeered at by the daily
Press, N.A.T.G.A, is now haunted by re-
porters and cameramen, advertisements
of seedsmen and equipment-makers litter
the Press, “Punch” has cartooned the
home-growers, they’ve been on the air
and on television. A Cambridge under-
grad. has written an ode. And across the
Channel home-growing clubs are spring-
ing up throughout Europe,
The vicar certainly started something
when he found his church window blown
out that morning. Here in Australia,
where thousands of suburban and towns-
people find vegetables almost beyond
price—as the English found tobacco
there is a straight tip from all this. Vege-
tables can be grown in even the small
backyard much more easily than
tobacco.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The New Defence Scheme.
The Prime Minister’s broadcasts on
defence were not so much remarkable for
any startling increases in the defence
forces as for a determination to face a
difficult and dangerous situation.
The essential differences between the
old scheme and the new are the lengthen-
ing of the period of citizen service and
the obligation which will fall upon every
trainee, whether in the permanent forces
or in the Citizen Army, to serve wherever
he is needed in the world. Because of the
limitations of the Defence Act this
cannot be applied to compulsory train-
ing.
The proposals for the Navy are much
on the scale of the 1947 scheme save for
the new emphasis on anti-submarine
measures. We already have one aircraft-
carrier with two air-groups in service,
and it is proposed that the second ship
of the class will be in service in 1952 —
five years after its purchase was decided
on. There are nine Tribal and other
destroyers, and four more (one nearly
finished) are slowly and expensively tak-
ing shape. The Tribals are to .be
modernised, and five of the others are to
be turned into anti-submarine frigates.
When the ships still in the yards are
complete the Government will begin to
build modern anti-submarine frigates
which are, in effect, large, fast destroyers
with special equipment and armament.
Also, when manpower is available, many
ships now idle will again go into com-
mission. Mr. Menzies says that the
country will agree that all this is “formid-
able.” It is not, in terms of material
and ships, nearly so formidable as the
efforts of 1911-14, when the country had
only five-eighths its present population.
In fact, in the light of the presence of an
estimated 150 or so Russian submarines
in the Pacific and of the huge fleets of
small but useful vessels in Asian bands,
the effort is painfully weak. But it is
about all that can be done under the
handicap of a legacy of crippling costs
(and phony full-employment) produced
as an aftermath of Mr. Chifley’s carefree
and extravagant reign and ballooning
overseas prices.
For the destroyer of today (2000 tons)
the country pays very nearly as much
as it would have paid for a 30,000-ton
battle-cruiser in 1918. And with the loaf
and stoppages which go on it takes about
three times as long as in the era of
World War I, when processes were rela-
tively rudimentary compared with today.
Furthermore, pay scales have so far
risen even from 1939 that an A.B. in
Australia’s new Navy will receive a wage
equal to that of a lieutenant on the eve
of World War 11, and a chief petty-officer
almost the pay of the executive com-
mander of a battleship.
The same applies in the new Army, in
which a senior warrant-officer’s pay has
risen in a decade to lieutenant-colonel’s
level, with a reduction in peace-time
work-output due to the importation into
the forces of crowds of civilians. Private’s
pay has reached a 1939 captain’s level.
In the Army there is to be reorganisa-
tion to provide for two brigade-groups—
the existing one is almost empty of men
for all practical purposes, calling for an
increase of 8000 men, presumably in addi-
tion to those needed to fill present
vacancies. Two brigade-groups on a war-
footing call for the services of over
20.000 men in the “slice” of general
operations, though these standards of
strength are not reached in peace-time.
The Citizen Forces, in which about
18.000 are at present enlisted, will in-
crease in numbers from 30,000 to 50,000
men, in addition to the 13,500-21,000
compulsory trainees whose scheme is ex-
pected to come into operation on May 1
next.
Despite the fact that Mr. Menzies says
“the system we are introducing is
parallel with that in Britain, organised
under the advice of Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery,” the fact remains that in Britain
compulsory servicemen form the bulk
of the forces instead of the tail-end of
them. The Territorials, or voluntary
trainees, are enlisted mainly for anti-
aircraft and local defence, and form only
a small section of the whole, and the term
of service for compulsory men is now two
years, against the Australian proposal for
98 days in one year and a couple of sub-
sequent camps in the Army and 124 days’
compulsory primary training in the Navy.
Mr. Menzies, at the time of writing,
had still to talk about air de-
fence. The scheme so far outlined
falls short indeed of British standards,
but it is a great improvement on
the old one, and provides a workable
nucleus for swift expansion. It should
have the full support of the country with-
out prejudice to the necessity to do more.
Gags and Safeguards.
After Opposition-leader Chifley had
gone back to Canberra from his pre-
sessional look-see into the minds of his
alleged followers in Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, Mr. D. Lovegrove, secretary of
the Victorian branch of the A.L.P.,
attacked the rejuvenated “Argus” for re-
porting that Mr. Chifley “had instructed
Victorian Right-wing ‘Labor’ members
not to issue any statement on their atti-
tude to the Communist-party Dissolution
Bill.” Mr. Lovegrove described the re-
port as “a malicious fabrication, appa-
rently part of some political intrigue
directed against Victorian members of the
Federal Parliamentary Labor party be-
cause of their attitude to the Communist-
party Dissolution Bill.”
On the same day he told the Press of
a letter written by P. J. Kennelly, Federal
secretary of the A.L.P., to members of
the Federal executive, which said;
I suggest that all Victorian members be
advised that any public statement on the
question, which is at present sub judice,
is not in the best interests of solidarity
of the party I have conferred with Mr.
Chifley on this matter, and he agreed with
my suggestion that Federal executive should
write to all Victorian members asking them
not to take any action
The letter asked for replies “by urgent
wire.” Next move was a telegram from
Lovegrove to Chifley, A.L.P. branches
in other States and the president of the
Federal executive:
Executive officers Victorian branch Labor
party keenly resent Federal secretary’s
action taken to silence Victorian Federal
Parliamentarians on evidence of newspaper
report since proved fabrication. Please
advise your Federal executive delegates
accordingly.
This second reference to fabrication
related to an earlier “Argus” report that
seven Victorian “Labor” members in-
tended to make a joint statement on their
attitude to the anti-Red bill. The
“Argus’s” retort to Lovegrove was a
statement that the facts in dispute were
supplied by its industrial roundsman,
who, until joining its staff, had been editor
of the A.L.P. paper, the “Labor Call.” It
further claimed that Mr. Kennelly, -in
writing to Federal executive members,
had enclosed a cutting of the report,
and had said: “From information I have
received, the Press cutting is authentic.”
The Victorian A.L.P. executive on Friday
censured Kennelly for his action.
Whether or not the seven members in-
tended making a joint statement, there is
no disputing that most of them had
already made individual statements urging
the acceptance of the bill in its present
form. It is also not disputed that the
Victorian State executive has told its
delegates on the Federal executive to
oppose a double-dissolution on the issue ;
nor can it be denied that Victorian
“Right”-wing “Labor” members have
been asked (or told) to keep their mouths
shut. Whether the request (or order)
emanated from Chifley and was approved
by Kennelly or was suggested by Ken-
nelly and approved by Chifley is a minor
matter alongside the obvious fact that
both gentlemen are scared stiff at the
effect the cleavage may have upon the
partly.
At least one Victorian member refused
to be obliging (or obedient). Mr. Keon,
M.H.R. for Yarra, urged that the bill
should be passed as a defence measure, “if
for no other reason.” He said that the
“attempt to suppress free discussion
flouted the party’s rules and must fail.”
He added:
The bill, as it now stood, safeguarded all
but the Communist saboteur who was not
prepared to deny on oath his membership
of the party.
Quite so ; and the effect of the “Labor”
Senate amendments would be to safe-
guard the Communist saboteur! Is it any
wonder that “Labor” members who are
really sincere in their opposition to Com-
munism are alarmed at the attitude of
their “leaders”?
Radio and Cricket.
The row over broadcasting the Tests
reached what the newspapers call “high
levels” with the report that Mr. Chifley
will ask Messrs. Menzies and Anthony
to “ensure” that they will be broadcast;
the gentleman being allegedly concerned
about country people being denied radio-
descriptions of the games. Mr. Anthony
is “believed” to be on the side of the
cricket authorities, who want more
money from the broadcasting-stations.
Boiled down, it seems that the cricket
people want some of the cash they know
commercial radio will make out of cricket
broadcasts. They welcome broadcasts of
Sheffield Shield cricket, when crowds are
small, because of their publicity value,
though they make no demands on the
newspapers, who also do well out of
cricket Tests. Since broadcasting
increases rather than diminishes Test
crowds the cricket people are apparently
getting in early on television, which
could easily reduce crowds at all sporting
fixtures if it becomes universal.
It seems certain that the Tests will be
broadcast (a Government could possibly
lose an election over a thing like this), and
when the row is finished it would please
everybody if cricket and radio heads got
together and did something about wiping
out the worst features of it —not the least
being the dreary reminiscing of old-
timers in between overs, and the over-
dramatising of “chances” which aren’t,
“bumpers” which are merely fast balls,
and of “star” batsmen generally.
Wharf-loafing.
The “rolling strike” on the wharves de-
signed by the Comintern as part of the
cold-war against the democracies has
rolled on from the French ports receiving
American rearmament materials, through
the dockers’ strikes in Britain and the
attempts to freeze the east- and west-
coast shipping in U.S.A., on to the
renowned idling-ground of ships on the
N.Z. and Australian coasts.
New Zealand ports were recently laid
idle again till the Government moved last
week to declare a state of emergency, and
the Communists called off the strike. A
few weeks ago Communist Elliott’s Sea-
men’s Union in Australia tried the same
stunt, but as soon as the Federal
Attorney-General hauled out the Crimes
Act that strike withered in the bud. Last
week Communist Healy’s waterside union
closed the port of Sydney once more
for two days and a weekend over sus-
pension of some insubordinate working
gangs ; but as a stage back-cloth for the
struggle going on in Goulburn-street to
decide the local A.L.P.’s attitude on the
anti-Communist bill the stoppage was a
mistake, and the local aspirants for
Moscow’s hero-medal found escape
through the automatic termination of the
suspensions. Claims for double-attend-
ance money and wharfies’ pensions after
60 await another occasion.
Simultaneously the relationship be-
tween go-slow on Australian wharves and
the cost of living was illustrated by a
rise of 10 per cent, in freights carried by
all ships (overseas or inter-State) on the
Australian coast —“the worst coast in the
world.” The increase is the direct result
of higher trading costs caused by the
slower and slower turn-round of ships in
Australian ports, resulting as a rule in
overseas ships having either to leave
cargoes behind or sacrifice charter
schedules elsewhere, and coastal ships
having frequently to carry cargoes back
to their port of origin because of some
union dispute in the port of destination.
To drive home the point it was announced
that the freight increases now imposed
would be rescinded as soon as better
port-working of ships permitted.
Senator McLeay, Minister for Ship-
ping, set out like, a St. George to slay
this dragon soon after the Menzies
Cabinet was formed. He made a tour of
Australian ports to prepare a policy of
action. Nothing happened. Now
Minister Holt (Labor and National
Service) has held a conference of all
interests, which has appointed a steering
committee, and if that doesn’t bring
about a quicker turn-round of ships the
Government, he says, will “review legisla-
tion affecting waterside engagements.”
“Research Service’s” commercial inves-
tigation in Sydney published the latest
review of the familiar facts more than
three months ago. The slowness and in-
efficiency of port-work in this country is
such as to point to deliberate default by
the union. Features:
Restricted entry by the union of addi-
tional members and screened applicants in
accordance with the policy of its Com-
munist bosses.
Union refusal to countenance night shifts.
Asserting of job-control and go-slow
tactics by means of arbitrary union rules
for the working, non-working and excess
payment of gangs—rules calculated to allow
the least amount of cargo-shifting in the
maximum of time, and to cause constant
trouble over rostering and “senseless divi-
sion of labor.”
" Standard gangs are too large and inter-
fere with efficiency.
Discipline is so lax as to be a byword
on the waterfront, the result partly of gross
overpayment for all work.
Inadequate mechanical equipment and •
inefficient use—even banning of the use—
of what there is.
Congestion of bond stores and wharf,
sheds through limited working hours of
land-transport to and from the wharves.
The Commonwealth Government and
its predecessors at Canberra have known
all about this cold-war on the wharves,
and the pillage that accompanies it, for
years past. It is not fact-finding that is
wanted, but a clean-up of the whole dis-
graceful slackness which union-control
of the wharves has made the rule of so-
called work on the waterfront, where the
methods of operation make Australia
contemptible among traders everywhere
in the world.
Iron-curtain Buttons.
The Australian Button Industry Associa-
tion . has written to The Bulletin
pointing out that present Customs tariffs
in relation to imported buttons are
obsolete and outmoded by reason of the
revolutionary changes in the Australian
plastic industry which could not have
been considered when the present Tariff
Board schedule was established. The
industry, it is claimed, is gravely
threatened by the present loopholes in
the existing tariff scale, especially so far
as the “dumping” here of Czechoslo-
vakian buttons is concerned.
Other claims are that the present com-
bined productive capacity of the Aus-
tralian manufacturers exceeds consider-
ably Australian button requirements, both
with regard to quantity and variety.
About 1500 workers are directly em-
ployed.
Oddly, raw materials from which goods
are made are all dutiable at higher rates
than that which prevails on the goods
which compete with the lines produced
in Australia. For example, washing but-
tons in Australia are principally made
from urea and phenol formaldehyde. The
duty rate in this case is 30 per cent.
British preferential and 45 per cent,
foreign. Glass buttons, which are their
direct competitor, come in from Czecho-
slovakia at a rate of per cent.
It is certainly remarkable that, at this
stage, buttons should be coming from
behind the Iron Curtain under a most-
favored-nation tariff schedule.
Wine Standards.
From Kenneth T. Hardy, chairman of
the Australian Wine Board:
Whilst agreeing with “Vino del Pais”
(B. 16/8/ ’5O) concerning the charm of
ordering a wine of a certain year in the
knowledge that it will be somewhat
superior to that of another year, I believe
that this is the connoisseur’s preroga-
tive, and I would suggest that most con-
noisseurs have located a special supplier
who is able and willing to meet this
requirement.
In dealing, however, with the general
body of wine-drinkers, most wine-makers
prefer to offer, through blending, con-
sistently good table- and dessert-wines
year by year. In any case, the compara-
tive lack of variations in the Australian
climate does not produce the very ex-
treme differences which result from the
uncertain European climate, and there-
fore the necessity for classification and
the consequent wide variations in prices
between “vintage” and “non-vintage”
wines which characterises European
types does not become apparent in the
case of Australian wines.
The advance made by South African
wines in Great Britain against Australian
wines is positively not due to any lack
of quality of Australian wines. It re-
sulted from two outstanding factors, of
which the first was that in the immedi-
ate post-war years, when the British
Board of Trade permitted more generous
importations of wine, Australian wine
stocks were particularly low and ship-
ping facilities were difficult. This caused
a drift to South Africa, where stocks
were plentiful and shipping was more
readily available. The second factor was
that South Africa had in particular very
adequate stocks of sherry, which was the
class of wine most sought after from
Empire suppliers.
Unfortunately, when a reasonable
volume of Australian wines did reach
Great Britain, the impact of the extor-
tionate duties began to be felt because
of the declining purchasing-power of the
British public, and consumption of all
wines fell steeply.
Regarding his criticism of a bottle of
Australian burgundy which he bought in
London in 1948, I believe emphatically
that the wines now being shipped from
Australia are not inferior to those
shipped in pre-war days. Rather do I
believe that they have improved because
of the development of technical skill by
our winemakers. Further, I would point
out that every shipment of wine from
Australia is inspected “blindfold” by one
of a panel of experts appointed by the
Australian Wine Board to establish that
it will not bring any discredit to Aus-
tralian wines, and these experts under-
take their responsibilities very conscien-
tiously. Certainly there has been no
approval of low-grade wines with the
object of underselling competitors,
I can only suggest that “Vino del
Pais” and his friend had a bottle which
had suffered some damage after bottling
(possibly because of bad storage); other-
wise it could not have deserved the poor
opinion they expressed.


7
k
a*
They satisfy In every way.
CRAVENA
m
m
jjlL
SBavzH#
154
CARRERAS
LIMITED - OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
The primary object of the Federal
session which begins in Canberra today
is to decide whether it is to be the last
session of the present Parliament; the
decision rests with the “Labor”-con-
trolled Senate, which means basically
with caucus. When that body last dis-
cussed the party’s stand on the anti-Red
bill a double-dissolution was merely a
distant prospect; members now have
Menzies’s assurance that it is an immedi-
ate certainty if the bill is rejected or “not
passed.” New factors since the last dis-
cussion are the Korean war, a hardening
in attitude towards Communism in
Britain and America and a growing rift
in “Labor’s” own ranks. An old factor
which remains is the knowledge in the
minds of “Labor” Senators that, through
an electoral system of their own party’s
devising, at least six of them must lose
their seats if an election is held. And the
worrying part of it is that until the
acceptances are out no one can be
sure he is not among the six.
Churchill’s censure motion having
failed, the Attlee Government remains in
power in Britain with, it claims, full
authority to go ahead with socialisation
of the steel industry and all that that
implies. What it implies in the minds of
the Socialists is shown by the comment
of F. S. Cocks, member for Braxtowe, at
the time the bill was first introduced in
the Commons:
When the Government has nationalised
steel they will have broken the back of
capitalist control in the country and, after
that, whatever party is in power, we shall
be a Socialist State.
The new Steel Corporation takes over
almost immediately. Unless its members
are very superstitious they will ignore the
coincidence that the day the cen&ire
motion was defeated saw the publication
of the annual accounts of the socialised
British Transport Commission, showing
a loss for the year of £20,800,000.
Attlee’s escape was a narrow one —306
to 300 —but by rights it should have been
closer still, Clement Davies’s Liberals
voted with the Conservatives, but two of
their number managed to be absent at
the last moment. The story is that they
were against steel-nationalisation, but
didn’t consider the Government should
be sent to the country on that issue at
the present time.
While the Socialists in Britain would
feel safer if they could add a dozen more
members to their present majority there’s
a man in New South Wales who would
think himself lucky if he had Attlee’s
present lead of six over all other parties.
The best he can muster is a shaky one.
During the Address-in-Reply debate
the N. S. Wales Opposition caught the
McGirr party on the wrong foot and
pushed through an amendment regretting
the omission from the Governor’s speech
of any reference to legislative action to
curb Communism. The Government
later nullified the amendment by adroit
Parliamentary tactics and gained a tech-
nical victory, but the incident gave it a
foretaste of what it can expect any time
its Whip relaxes his vigilance. On a
subsequent no-confidence motion the
McGirrs survived by one vote; the un-
endorsed Laborites, Geraghty and
Seiffert, voted with the Government.
N. S. Wales Prices Minister Finnan
became somewhat mixed last Thursday.
At first he accused stockowners of being
greedy and withholding stock from
markets, thus causing high meat prices.
Then he said prices were high because of
“machinations and other things” at
Homebush abattoirs. Next he demanded
that the Australian consumer be “pro-
tected” against very serious overseas
prices. About then, suddenly aware that
he’d blamed pretty well everybody and
had only the McGirr Government’s new
railway freight rises left, he closed up.
Finnan talks about the “greedy”
owners outback because of the inflated
market-price of meat v There was noth-
ing greedy, of course/about Finnan and
his political mates when they raised their
own Parliamentary screws and voted
themselves a fat life-pension on a super-
annuation scheme subsidised by the tax-
payers. 1
It remained for S. E. Wilson, boss of
a big Sydney retail store, to do a bit of
straight and sensible talking in comment-
ing to “S. M. Herald” on the proposed
wool-export tax. Condemning it as a
sectional tax, he pointed out that many
things other than wool were responsible
for inflation and would have to be
corrected:
Many restrictions, special impositions,
disguised forms of profit-control and
penalties for efficiency have sadly damaged
our productive capacity and lamentably
retarded our post-war recovery, but few
voices have been raised in protest... .No
single act will result in a successful attack
on inflation, whether it be revaluation,
wool-tax or any other panacea If we
are not sensible about it someone is likely
to be hurt. It may be you, it may be me;
but one ventures to suggest that it is more
likely to be both of us.
To which it may be added that, in regard
to the “restrictions,” a great many voices
Were raised in protest last December,
which was the essential reason why the
Menzies Government was elected. It
mustn’t be allowed to forget it.
When the Lib.-C.P. Opposition in the
Victorian Legislative Council gave notice
of a private-member’s bill to ban the
Communist party, Premier McDonald
described the move as a political stunt
designed to embarrass the Government.
Why should it embarrass the Govern-
ment? McDonald used to be all in favor
of banning the Reds —two years ago he
broke with Hollway’s Liberals because he
thought they weren’t being tough enough
with the tribe. His real embarrassment
is that as “leader” of a minority Govern-
ment which holds office by the grace of
“Labor” he cannot move far without the
consent of Cain and Co., and it appears
that Victorian “Labor,” while apparently
in favor of dropping further opposition
to the Federal bill, does not really want
the Comrades banned. Still, it is rather
refreshing to find that after the events
of the past 12 months McDonald still
possesses the capacity to feel embar-
rassed.
Main purpose of the proposed bill is
to complement the Menzies legislation
and expel Communists from the Vic-
torian public service. On Thursday
Liberal-member Oldham asked in the
Victorian Assembly whether any persons
at present employed by the Education
Department were named in the report of
the royal commission on the Communist
party. Mr. Hyland in his reply mentioned
three teachers; a fourth had retired
through ill-health a few months ago.
The McDonald-Cains in Victoria seem
to be in something like the frame of
mind in which Gloucester, according to
Shakspeare, found Henry VI:
Suspicion always haunts the guilty man;
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
A wink from the Hollway eye or a grunt
from the Hollway benches throws them
into a fret. During a debate on a Rural
Wages Board bill a Hollway man named
Fraser impishly moved an amendment to
compel rural workers to work 56 instead
of 40 hours. Instead of seeing the joke,
Cain wrathfully demanded a division “to
prove L.C.P. sincerity,” and everybody,
including the mover, voted against the
amendment. Whereupon Cain arose
pompously and hurled nasty words at the
Hollway man, and Hyland (of Mc-
Donald’s Country party) accused Hollway
of dishonoring a promise to give the bill a
“speedy passage.” To which Hollway
replied that it would have been passed
already had not the “Government” taken
the silly amendment seriously.
Compulsory direction of labor has not
altogether vanished from “Labor” think-
ing. During the debate on the Rural
Wprkers Bill in the Melbourne talking-
shop “Labor”-leader Cain, expressing
alarm at the drift to the cities, said that
if farmers were to maintain production
“labor might have to directed to farms,
as it was during the war.” If Cain really
wants to start a back-to-the-land move-
ment he has it in his power to send the
Twelve Farmers of Spring-street back
there for a start.
Advertisement in a Riverina paper:
UNITED NATIONS CIRCUS.
SHOWING THE FOLLOWING TOWNS.
Culcairn —Thursday, Sept. 14. Henty—
Friday, Sept. 15, The Rock—Saturday,
Sept. 16. Holbrook—Monday, Sept. 18.
Tallangatta —Tuesday, Sept. 19. Beech-
worth —Wednesday, Sept. 20,
This, of course, is only a branch outfit.
The main show is at Flushing Meadows,
New York, and the clowning of the
Russian stars is too obvious to be
amusing.
Dudley Turner, president of the Liberal
Country League of South Australia,
recently gave a salutary rebuke to party
members with wrong ideas on the re-
sponsibilities of members of Parliament.
He said that his executive was sometimes
asked to “discipline” Parliamentary
members who had temporarily fallen
from grace with some section of L.C.L.
members. His comment was:
Once elected to Parliament a member be-
comes the servant of the people and not of
the L.C.L.
That is a principle the Government should
always bear in mind- Its predecessor
had a tendency to act as though its re-
sponsibility was to “Labor” supporters
first, last and all the time.
Minister for the Interior Mcßride,
foreshadowing the granting of develop-
ment leases in the Northern Territory,
said that it was the object of the Federal
Government to encourage people to “put
their shoulders to development” instead
of depending too much on the Govern-
ment. The tendency to depend on the
Government is not peculiar to Terri-
torians; too many Australians have
fallen into the habit of looking for Gov-
ernment assistance every time an un-
familiar situation arises. Leaning on the
Government really means leaning on
one’s neighbors. What this country needs
is fewer of the-Guv’ment-oughter-do-
something-about-it types and more of the
breed that prefers to do something for
itself,
A Swedish professor named Haggqvist
has produced an “outsize” rabbit by
treating its mother with colchicine, a
vegetable extract. The bunny will be
half as big again as its parents. That
professor had better keep away from this
country.
“S. M. Herald” put up a pretty good
effort with its flood-relief fund, which is
to close next Saturday after having got
in nearly £120,000, making, with the
Sydney Lord Mayor’s appeal, a total of
nearly £190,000, of which £175,000 had
been distributed to flood victims on the
central and north coasts, the inland
north-, central- and far-west last week.
In most cases grants were made to
appropriate councils, who distributed the
money through local committees. It was
money freely given in a good cause, and
givers and organisers deserve praise.
Coal lost through irresponsible stop-
pages in N.S.W. collieries for the second
week of September (latest statistics),
43,140 tons. Instance at Hebburn No. 2
colliery:
Resumed 11th. Strike 12th over the
bathhouse. Resumed 13th. Strike 14th.
Men are conveyed to the colliery by bus.
Owing to heavy rains portion of the road-
way on the usual route had been washed
away and the road closed, the bus being
diverted to another route on which there is
a small bridge where, for safety reasons,
the bus-driver requested the men to get off
and walk across while he took the empty
bus over the bridge. This the men refused
to do, and held a meeting, deciding to go
home and demand immediate repair of the
road on the usual route. Resumed 15th.
Minister McLeay has been having dis-
cussions in Sydney on “problems affect-
ing coal production.” One of them seems
to be that the miners have too much
money for too little work.
In attaching the name of the Swedish
capital to the phony peace-appeal
which they styled the “Stockholm reso-
lution” the Communists hoped to give
an air of respectability to their propa-
ganda. Two months ago the Swedish
Prime Minister, Tage Erlander, said:
It is with feelings of disgust that we in
Sweden witness the brandishing of the name
of our capital in international Communist
propaganda. This so-called “Stockholm
peace appeal” has, of course, no more
connection with Stockholm than similar
earlier appeals emanating from so-called
“peace conferences” in Paris and New York
had with democratic opinion in France and
the United States.
The stunt may have served the purpose
of its promoters, but it seems to have re-
bounded on the Swedish Corns. In muni-
cipal elections last week they lost two-
thirds of their 92 seats.
How news does travel! Last week’s
report that the North Koreans “have
begun peace overtures” was gathered by
Australian Associated! Press in Tokyo,
which had it from a paper in Rome,
which had it from “unofficial Indian
circles” in London, which said it came
from New Delhi, which believed that
India and China were the natural peace-
makers.
Invited by Melbourne “Age” to
comment on the celebration of the United
Nations’ birthday on October 24, Mr.
Monk, of the A.C.T.U., got this off:
While subscribing to U.N., I think it
has a very great responsibility to see that
nations are not faced with decisions of a
military character that would involve inter-
ference with the affairs of nations in other
parts of the world. I refer specifically to
the movement in Asia for political freedom.
Korea is a mere incident in the scheme of
things.
In the Monk scheme of things, which
must be unique.
A record for a quotation, both as
regards time and word-length, is claimed
for Emil Nulsen, Minister for Justice in
the last Westralian “Labor” Government.
During the debate on the Address-in-
Reply in the W.A. Legislative Assembly,
he spent over an hour reading a report
on the availability of iron pyrites in the
Esperance area. He explained that
farmers interested in the matter could
not read the report anywhere except in
Hansard, and the only way to get it
published there was to read it in the
House—Standing Orders of the W.A.
Assembly have no provisions for a report
to be handed to Hansard reporters.
Nulsen has a reputation for doing the
unusual in debate. On one occasion he
called the Upper House a “gerontocracy, ’
and had members on both sides of the
Assembly turning up dictionaries to dis-
cover that he meant “government by
old men.”


_ O' _
THE BIRD THAT TALKED.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
W ITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Cauboy”: During 25 years as a dra-
matic critic I have received approximately
10 tons of theatrical propaganda of
various descriptions. The first example
of irony, conscious or unconscious,
lobbed on my desk the other morning in
the shape of a letter from the Drama
Guild of Melbourne. Inter alia, it said:
Continuing our unsuccessful policy of
presenting classics, we will stage Ferenc
Molnar’s “The Play’s the Thing” in
October, featuring Mr. Wynn Roberts and
Miss Bunny Brooke.
Or was it a case of what “Punch” called
“commercial candor”?
* * ♦ ♦
“Treenail”: One little item “Lower
Tops’l” missed in his story of the
Offley’s voyage to Heard Island in 1858
was that Captain Robinson took his wife
and two children with him in the barque.
When the Offley returned to Hobart 18
months later the family had increased to
three, the youngest, James Kerguelen
Robinson, being named after the island
on which he was born. It is rather
ironic to reflect that “Kerguelen Jim,”
born on an island of snowclad peaks
and incessant rains, was to die of thirst in
the Central Australian Desert, looking
for Lasseter’s reef.
» * * ♦
“Zake”: Let those who still cling to
the belief that chivalry and courtly grace
have not yet been completely ousted by
the modem age rejoice in their faith. By
chalked messages on the wall of a fac-
tory which abuts our outer-suburban
railway I have followed the progress of
romance. At first, shyly, young love
addressed his heart to “J.,” and, senti-
mentalist that I am, I visualised the lady
of his choice demurely signifying by a
briefly-fluttered dainty wisp of cambric
her approval of his suggestion that she
accompany him to “Flicks at Burwood,
7.45 p.m.” Apparently emboldened by
the success of his suit, Romeo at last
proclaimed to the world that his lady’s
name was June, and soon his fond mes-
sages bore the epilogue of a transfixed
heart. The path of true love, it seemed.
“Missed the bus? It just missed ME!”
was less rocky than legend hath it. I
followed their romance from the zoo to
National Park, from dances to beaches.
Then this week love’s deathless token was
missing from the end of the message,
wjhich was simple and' to the point:
“0.K., J.—l’ve had you.”
* * * *
“J.T.”: Mention of E. J. Munro’s 400-
mile trip up the Sepik River in 1925 (B.
6/9/’5O) recalls an earlier expedition of
which X was a member, probably the first
Australian expedition to the headwaters
of that great river, though an old Ger-
man Mauser rifle and water-bottle found
in the roof of a native hut suggested that
the Germans had been there even earlier.
Leaving Rabaul early in 1919 in the
Sumatra, we sailed much further than
400 miles up the river, then the ship’s
steam-pinnace went on until it could go
no further —the mighty Sepik having be-
come a rivulet scarcely 75 yards wide.
The native villages were exceptionally
neat and clean, and the giant canoes, not
outrigger type, were made from logs
hollowed out by fire ; they were decorated
with shells and were something to be
admired. Our two machine-guns pro-
vided a treasure for these isolated people
—the bright cartridge-cases were in such
demand that the natives hung about,
catching them hot from the breech. I
feel sure the Japs must have come across
these nose and ear decorations during
the war—and wondered.
* * * *
“Billy S.”: On the way home the other
Saturday morning I noticed old Bert
mowing his front lawn —giving it all he
had ; his energy made me shiver. “Clean-
ing up the place so you can go off to
bowls with a clear conscience?” I asked
him. He stopped, mopped his brow and
said “Given up bowls.” This seemed un-
believable to me; he had been one of
the keenest addicts in the district. “Too
expensive,” he added. “Have the fees
gone up?” I queried. ‘'‘No,” he
answered. “I can manage the fees all
right, and the few bob for drinks, but I
was always having to throw in to buy a
wreath for somebody.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Strip”: “Clooter’s” par. about the
transparent lady (B. 23/8/’5O) reminds
me of an incident half a century ago when
I was studying artistic anatomy. In my
lodgings I was busy on a life-size sketch
of the human form deprived of its skin
to show the muscles and tendons. My
landlady ordered me to keep the easel
covered when not in use, as the nude
truth might hurt the sensitivities of her
two young daughters. Next day the lady
confided that she had borrowed a surgical
book containing a model of the -male
torso from which the internal organs
could be removed in layers. She had
unpacked the “trunk” but could not re-
place the contents in their proper order.
Would I oblige? The indelicate opera-
tion was carried out, with the mother and
both girls looking over my shoulder, and
the family spent the evening pulling the
paper cadaver apart and putting it to-
gether again like a jigsaw puzzle. But
my sketch was still taboo.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: The trade-name of
those old-time beer-bottles with the cone-
shaped recess in the bottom (B. 23/8/’5O)
was “chams,” named thus since the first
few million of them came to Australia
filled with “bubbly.” Legend has it that
the shape arose from the practice of
European wine-merchants placing a cone-
shaped vessel underneath a skin of wine,
thus giving it, in the eyes of a possible
buyer, the illusion of an abounding ful-
ness. The same trick was followed when
wine came to be sold in bottles, an illu-
sion of largeness being created. More
reasonable is the suggestion that the cone
gave additional strength to the bottle
just where it was needed. High pres-
sures were often generated in bottles of
champagne; no flat-bottomed, modern
beer-bottle could have stood the strain.
* * * ♦
“H.A.L.”: During the war-time
rubber-shortage bales of crude rubber
began to drift ashore on the Australian
coast —part of the cargo of a ship sunk
by enemy action. Some schoolboys
holidaying on a lonely part of the S.A.
coast found a number of bales; they
slung one on a pole, carried it over the
sandhills and paid a carrier to take it
to the nearest port where there was a
Customs officer. They meant to go back
for the rest, but when they were rewarded
with the magnificent sum of 10s. for
handing over £2O-worth of raw rubber —
reduced to 4s. after the carrier had been
paid—they decided to let the rest of the
bales stay there. Similar stupidity-
meanness was exhibited by the Victorian
Government official who thought a
couple of kiddies should be rewarded
with a few pounds for handing over a
treasure-trove of 83 sovereigns; fortun-
ately the Victorian Premier overrode that
decision and paid the youngsters the full
value. Britain takes a. more generous
attitude; anyone who finds long-hidden
valuables in the Old Country, and who
complies with the laws regarding treasure-
trove by reporting the find at once, is paid
a very substantial reward, based upon the
appraised value of the find. As a result,
priceless art and archaeological treasures
in the form of Roman and Saxon orna-
ments and utensils of gold and silver are
not melted down for the value of the
metal in them; they go to enrich the
national collection and the finder receives
far more than the value of the metal.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Next year Sydney’s Cen-
tennial Park should be the scene of cele-
brations to mark the jubilee of the Com-
monwealth. A railed-in obelisk on what
is known as the soccer-ground marks the
spot where the first Governor-General
was sworn-in and Australia was declared
a Commonwealth. It is a six-sided
column, each side bearing the name of
one of the States and the date it became
a self-governing colony, but there is
nothing to indicate the real significance
of the monument. It seems extra-
ordinary that a suitable inscription has
not been placed on this monument. Per-
haps something could be done about it
before next year.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Pontius Penwiper”: A daily had a
story of a chain-smoker who gets through
120 fags a day. A pretty solid faggist
myself, I dispose of about 40 coffin-
nails a day, but I smoke each to the final
butt; many chain-smokers do not. I once
interviewed a Minister of the N.S.W.
State Government; a little later publicity
was given to his renunciation of fags
after an illness, the statement being made
then that he
got through
70 gaspers a
day. At the
start of the
interview h e
handed me a
cigarette and
lighted one
himself. Leav-
ing that burn-
ing on an ash-
tray, he walked
to the mantel-
piece and
talked from there, lighting another fag
which he left smoking on another tray
when he strode to the bookcase to show
me an authority for something he had
said. He -lighted another there. As he
said goodbye to me at the door he offered
me his case again and Jielped himself
once more, though at that time five other
fags, neglected, were sending little wreaths
of smoke into the air in various quarters
of the room. That chap did not need to
break himself off chain-smoking; he
really wanted a cure for a nervous habit
of merely lighting cigarettes.
“ That’s in case he jibs at the altar.”
NEW LURKS.
“Federal Parliament meets today, and in N. S.
Wales the McQirr ‘Labor* Government, which: forced
the 40-hour week, is coping with administrative de-
mands for a 25 per cent, increase in transport fares
and freights.”
Two old Australian con. men
Were walking in the Strand,
And one said, “Ah, there, Sammy—
Back from Van Diemen’s Land?
Did you canvass in Australia
That matter we deplored,
Why the Australian magsmen
No longer come abroad?”
“Yes, Tom, I did,” said Sammy,
“And made a little sense;
It may, of course, be merely
A strange coincidence,
But in the past half-century,
The record clearly shows
Australia’s magsmen dwindled
As her Labor party rose.”
“Well, really, that’s too bad,” said Tom;
“I see what you suggest—
The virtuous Labor Governments
Have had The Game suppressed.”
“They’re good, all right,” said Sammy,
“But that is hardly it —
A new technique has been evolved —
The Game has gone legit.
“They studied Mass Production—
That’s more than we have done —
They trim a million suckers now
Instead of just the one;
They wiped the damning evidence
Of one of our old tricks
By selling them a Golden Age
Instead of gilded bricks.
“They said, ‘Produce more articles
By working less and less;
If prices rise, we’ll raise them more
With further wage-increase;
Next we’ll assure the worker
That every pound’s well-spent
By cutting down its value
By twenty-five per cent.’
“Well, Tom, as you’ll imagine,
The suckers thought it grand,
For suckers worship epigrams
They do not understand.
Such as, ‘Shut out the Commos
By opening the door,’
Or, ‘The poor will vote for Labor
While Labor keeps them poor.’ ”
“I know all that,” said Thomas;
“The upshot’s clear as day;
But tell me, in the payoff,
What was their getaway?”
“The payoff’s come,” said Sammy,
“But they don’t want to fade;
They feel that soon the suckers
Will rally to their aid,
“In Sydney and Canberra
They’re battling point by point,
And rather than go quietly
They swear they’ll wreck the joint:
‘Damn you, you turncoat suckers!’
Their victims hear them shout,
‘We got you in this filthy mess—
Trust us to get you outl’ ”
“Good luck to them!” said Thomas,
“It’s such an open go,
I wonder you don’t join them —
It’s in your line, you know.”
“It would be good experience,”
Said Sammy; “I agree,
But I’m only a London magsman—
They’re far too slick for me!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Billy S.”: Kero.-tins (B. 13/9/’50)?
Blackouts in Sydney have brought back
the oil-lamp and kerosene-stove, and one
result as far as the kids in our street are
concerned has been a remarkable feast
of easy wickets.
A couple of four-
gallon kero.-tins
balanced one on
top of the other
make a wicket
that even little
Lord Fauntleroy
couldn’t miss. I
fear it is going to
have a marked
effect on the old
game in a few
years. The crop
of bowlers just
coming on won’t be in the event when
they graduate to real stumps. Out of
•my window the other day I watched a
game in progress; the fielding side bad
even dispensed with a wicketkeeper.
* * * *
“Blue P,”; Whatever else they may
have lost, the English retain their capacity
for restraint. Gerald Carnegy, 76, retired
Indian Army colonel, took his dogs for
a walk at Hatherleigh (Devon) and re-
turned home to be greeted with a charge
of shot in the left arm. As he put it when
giving evidence against a man accused of
attempted murder, “As I made for the
kitchen a second charge struck the door
by my head. I wondered what the deuce
was going on.” Pardonable curiosity,
what!
4s 4s # 4?
“Clooter”; A first-class argument
seems to have broken out as to which
Australian city should be the site for the
playing of a tennis tournament next year
for a trophy called the Davis Cup.
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide all
have “claims for consideration,” and
there’s not a little backbiting and wounded
dignity about it. I suppose it’s a great
thing for Australia to have won this
Davis Cup, but somehow I become a
trifle sick of the tennis tripe that swamps
the papers and radio while the “battle” is
on, and for the life of me I can’t be
worried about the state of Sedgwich’s
little toe or Bromgregor’s toothache, nor
do I give two hoots whether they play
the game in Sydney or Bangerang North.
In fact, it mightn’t be a bad idea if some
quiet and isolated spot 72 miles north of
Broken Hill were selected, players and
umpires sent there, all other persons
barred and the nation compelled to get
on with its business while the matter was
decided. But there —I’m past tennis, which
never did attract me, and though I potter
about a golf-course now and then and
occasionally spend an hour watching
youths struggle on a football-field, my
real idea of sport these days is seeing
how long I can keep a pound-note intact.
So far the record is 42 hours from receipt
to cashing.
95* * * *
“Bo”; Most public authorities have
private morgues in which are parked, for
varying periods, according to the extent
of the boner pulled, “dead” material, the
result of mistakes in ordering stuff made
alike by those of exalted or lowly degree.
In the department from which I once
prised a crust the star exhibit —it was
there for years, and, for all I know, may
still be in cold-storage—was a monument
to the folly of one whom the practical
coves call a “catalogue” man. Pitch-
“ Don't hold it so tight!"
forked into the job, he thought he knew
everything because of his intensive study
of his tool-catalogue, so when he ordered
an 18in. screwdriver, old Bob, the prac-
tical man, protested that it was wrong.
The know-all theorist wouldn’t listen,
and insisted that Bob order it. It had to
be specially made, and proved quite a
costly item. When it came the trump hit
the roof. The" tool was an enormous
thing, 27in. long, which nobody could be
induced to use. He wanted to know what
the so-and-so Bob had been doing order-
ing the wrong thing. Then he had to
listen, and was told—he later confirmed it
from the manufacturers that an
“eighteen-inch screwdriver” meant that
the blade only was that size, not the
overall measurement be had assumed.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: An English professor
told the British Association the other day
that Christopher Columbus falsified his
ship’s log because he had been beaten to
America by five years by a Portuguese
explorer named Dualmoa. The greatness
of Columbus doesn’t lie in his being the
first discoverer of the western world;
anybody might have done that, and the
Portuguese explorer Dualmoa, if he ever
existed, may have drifted out of his
course or have been blown on to the
American continent. Columbus’s great-
ness is in the fact that he had the
imagination to run counter to conven-
tional opinion and the courage to back
his fancy. Columbus had reason for
believing the world was round, but when
authority was confronted with that pro-
position it laughed and asked him why,
if that were so, the water on the under-
“ Thanks , landlord; these blackouts ARE a nuisance, aren't they?"
side of the globe didn’t fall off it. He
passed that off with a joke because,
Newton not yet having propounded the
Law of Gravity, he didn’t know the
answer himself—he only knew that it
didn’t fall off because he had already
sailed in latitudes where it should have
done so. What must have been his feel-
ings when be started off with his crew of
cut-throats and jailbirds? His crew was
firmly convinced that he was steering
them towards a frightful oceanic water-
fall, and he wasn’t quite sure they might
not be right. If he did rig his log the
more likely reason is that he did so to
deceive his men into thinking they were
still close to home, and therefore not in
such imminent danger of plunging
suddenly over the edge of the world.
* * * *
“Caballer”: “Spokeshave” misses the
point about the decline of English
cricket (B. 6/9/’5O). Weather, pitches,
light and coaching all mean little com-
pared with the fact that county cricket,
the only type that touring teams meet, is
played from Monday morning until
Saturday night. Crack players belonging
to strong London clubs are never invited
to play for Surrey or Middlesex. They
have jobs to do, and unless they have
private incomes or are willing to go as
pros they are out as far as full-time
cricket is concerned. Independent
incomes are few nowadays, and although
a Dominion player with a made reputa-
tion may do well as a pro. the youthful
Englishman has to go through years of
programme-selling and cleaning boots for
the first eleven, with the risk of finding
that he has not made the grade, and has
no trade or profession to fall back on.
As long as full-time, all-the-week
matches continue the English Test teams
will be chosen from a small group which
can no longer hope to compete with the
full strength of Australia.
* * * *
“Fairf”; Wentworthville (N.S.W.) is
pardonably proud of the remarkable
history of “old St. Andrew’s.” The kirk
originally stood in Church-street, Parra-
matta —nearly five miles away from its
present location. Although a Thomas
Orr was the initial contractor, it is be-
lieved that the masonry was yet another
one of Lennox’s jobs. Some unaccount-
able delay held up the work, so that the
imposing tower was not completed until
1849 —nine years after the building was
commenced. In 1927 the church was sold
for demolition, a builder buying it with
the intention of using the stone for
foundations. Then it was that a few
stout spirits in Wentworthville, blessed
with a commendable sense of architec-
tural, historical and spiritual values, set
out to buy the building back. The
builder was generous enough to sell at
cost price; demolition was carried out
by voluntary workers, and each stone was
carefully removed and stacked. A con-
tractor was engaged to re-erect the church
at Wentworthville, and the building has
been a local landmark ever since. Next
month Presbyterians in the parish intend
to hold a “back-to-St. Andrew’s” festival
as part of their centenary celebrations.
Hi % sfc #
“Lord Luvus”: After all the hulla-
baloo Melbourne Zoo is still without its
deadly red-eyed taipan. The first was
released to the clicking of Press photo-
graphers’ camera-shutters, but dropped
out of its bag stone-dead. A second was
flown down from Queensland and
emerged from confinement full of battle ;
it turned out to be a mulga. The third,
the reptile which killed Keith Budden,
and which was milked at the Museum,
has since expired. It probably died of
boredom at the prospect of an infinitude
of Melbourne Sundays. A rubber cast
taken before its death will join Phar Lap
at the Museum.
* * ♦ ♦
“Kelms”: Reported reappearance of
the Loch Ness monster robs the Italians
of their only naval victory of the war —
in 1941 their Propaganda Ministry re-
ported that their Air Force, on a bomb-
ing mission over Scotland, saw and
bombed, in Loch Ness, a huge serpent-
like animal which promptly turned over
and sank. Perhaps it has resurrected
itself in response to Attlee’s appeal to
all true Britons to join in the dollar-
drive. It should earn plenty. For years
after it was first seen in 1933 it attracted
thousands of tourists, and at the height
of its fame it was “seen” by an average
of 50 persons a day, some of them quite
sober. A schoolmaster watched it for 10
minutes at
about 700
yards;, a
doctor saw it
leaping down
the lake; a
“respected
local citizen”
saw a row of
knobs about
40ft. long and
followed them
along the lake
for a quarter
of a mile.
Loch Ness is
22 miles long
by two miles wide and 750 ft. deep—
quite big enough to hide a creature shy
enough to remain under water during
daylight. The monster apparently isn’t
entirely aquatic. It has been reported
bounding across a meadow with a lamb
in its mouth, and a big-game hunter,
sent by the “Daily Mail” to investigate
it, found its “spoor” at the lake’s edge.
Lieut-Commander Gould, R.N. (Ret.),
was sent by the “Times” to prove or dis-
prove its authenticity. He didn’t see the
monster, but he found so many people
who had that he returned convinced that
it existed.
* * * *
“Sixenate”; Probably the most
astonished judge in N.S.W; was one who,
about to sentence a man with an arm-
long list of offences, received a request
from the prisoner that his term should
be served in Bathurst jail. Why? “I’ve
been in every jail in Australia, y’r Honor,
except Bathurst,” said the old lag. “I’d
like to be able to say I’d been there, too,
before I finish.” His Honor was a sport.
He said he would recommend that the
sentence should be served as desired.
* * * ♦
“Torridon”: Dangerous cargoes (B.
7/6/’50)? A schooner once arrived in an
English port carrying a cargo of
Carrara marble from Italy, The hatch
was removed, and the first man to go
down the ladder into the hold gave a
gasp, released his grip and fell on to the
blocks of marble. Thinking that he had
suffered a seizure of some kind, one of
his mates went down with a rope so he
could be hauled up, only to collapse in
the same way. A third man went down
with a wet handkerchief tied over his
mouth and nose—and then there were
three bodies lying in the hold. After
that somebody lowered a lighted lantern,
which went out as suddenly as if it had
been plunged into water. Nobody else
went into the hold until a diver was
brought along who went down in diving-
dress to fasten lines around the bodies.
An investigation showed that carboys of
acid had been loaded as part of the cargo,
one had broken coming across the Bay
of Biscay, and the action of its contents
on the marble had filled the hold with
carbon-dioxide gas. Ignorance of simple
chemistry on the part of those who put
the acid into the same hold cost the lives
of three wharfies.
INCOMPLETE WORK.
“Your stars this week are well aspeeted, but on
Tuesday you should avoid risks of infection and matri-
monial disagreements.” Astrological note •
Ye simple-minded ones who think some star,
Twinkling afar, „ , ,
That speeds along on its allotted course .
Unchanged, unchanging,
Was by Predestination aions ago
Created so
That some day it would influence, perforce,
Your life’s arranging;
Or that conjunction in the “inverted bowl,”
As on they roll.
Of other worlds, which, possibly, than ours
May well be greater, ...
Was organised with this sole end in view:
’Twas that, for you
They’d constitute, of good or evil powers,
A designator,
Be of good cheer! Your natal period’s bright;
It’s quite all right
For you to climb sheer cliffs a nest to rob
(Though ’t looks precarious),
Or totter round a vat of boiling fat —
Provided that .
Old faithful Leo’s up there on the job,
Or Sagittarius.
•
The astral orbs which cast upon your life
Content or strife
Have also (what amazing foresight, this,
What calculation!)
Made certain that their messages to you
Will filter through
By having earthly scribes, who never miss
With interpretation.
Did Capricorn your destiny promote
You’d be a goat
To kiss a girl who had a heavy cold—
You’d risk infection.
Should Taurus, though, to you be bountiful,
Rate it as bull.
Forget the wogs; the lass you may enfold.
You’ve got protection!
One valued tip the prescient stars give out;
Don’t risk a bout
Of wifely ire on this especial day—
It could be vi’lent. .
But as to how, when Jill gets quite annoyed,
Jack may avoid .
The superheated words that flick and nay,
The stars are silent.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Purnong”: Fearing an attack of the
’flu, old Jim asked his 20-mile-distant
neighbor to get him a packet of aspirin-
tablets from the township. The parcel
was to be left on a boundary-fence-
strainer beside the inter-station track.
But when Jim
visited the
agreed-on depot
there remained
only a scrap of
paper fluttering
from a twist of
tie - wire, and
evidence that
Kelly had been
there. Local
opinion favors
two theories:
that patent-
medicine addic-
tion is now a
truly national
habit; and that the contemporary ’flu-
wog is so virulent that even the crows
are afraid of it. Old Jim, however, has
decided to get a batch of sulpha-tablets
from the doctor. “If them aspirins are
too weak to stonker a bird,” he argues,
“they’re no flamin’ good agin’ the ’flu.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”; In a note on Will H.
Ogilvie (B. 20/9/’5O) “Fitz” says he com-
posed “the whole of ‘Fair Girls and Gray
Horses’ under a gum-tree on the stock-
route between Forbes and Bogan *Gate
in the intervals of getting up to fling sticks
and stones at refractory ewes which would
not camp.” I hope he means the verse
and not the book of that name, for that
stock-route is only about 30 miles long,
and if Ogilvie was composing a book of
verses he must have been loafing on the
route, which prompts the question as to
what the stock-inspector was doing. Near
Gunningbland are —or were —the Nelun-
galoo caves, in which Ben Hall was sup-
posed to have hidden with his gang, loot
and horses. When we explored them it
was hard enough for a light man to get
down sideways through the rift in the
rocks, and H. K. Nock, M.H.R. for
Riverina at the time, was so worried
about the foul air in the narrow space
that he blew it in, or threatened to do so,
the holes being on his land. Ogilvie’s
sheep would have swung round the turn
there after passing Wynola. In after-
years that country was invaded by eager
South Australians, who put it under
wheat. To the west from his gum-tree
Ogilvie would have seen some low hills,
four different ones of which were pointed
out to me by four different authorities
as the one on which Ben Hall was
ambushed. I wrote some verse myself
under a tree on the turn-off to .Parkes
and tried to sell it to the Gunningbland
storekeeper for tucker, but he coldly
indicated the woodheap and suggested
that the ring of axe on box-log would be
music to his ears. I fled madly across-
country to Ootha.
“Vet”: Wally was swallowing a quick
cup of tea and admiring his freshly-
turned paddock when Sam rounded the
hut. “Can’t beat machines for doing your
work,” he remarked as he handed Sam
a cup. “Paddock looks decent, doesn’t
she?” “Yair.” ‘‘Ever get that motor
you were thinking about, Sam?” “Yair.”
“You did, eh? Gripes, I tjet you find it
handy,” Wally went on, “Man can do
all his farm-work with a machine like
that, nowadays, and it’s lots quicker than
horses, isn’t it?” “Yair.” “And not
much dearer,” Wally persisted. “No run-
ning costs when you’re not using it,
whereas nags have to be fed all the year,
work or no work. Bloke doesn’t need a
nag, and can sell all his draughts when
he buys a machine.” “Aw, I dunno.”
“ ’Course he can,” argued Wally.
“Machines’ll plough, sow, harvest, pull
stumps for clearing, cart fence-posts or
anything else you want. Only wasting
money keeping a horse, I tell you,”
“Yair?” Sam mooched back to the road,
picked up the reins and straightened old
Bess in the chains that were hooked to
the front of his motor-vehicle. “I better
be gettin’ on,” he called back. “It’s a
pretty long way into town from my place,
an’ I can never find a mechanic that'll
spare the time t’ come out.”
* #■ * *
“Eurimburra”: Flying from the
swamp to the river they come over every
morning about sunrise, their long necks
out like witches’ broomsticks, and often
so low that you can hear the individual
threshing of each pair of wings. Their
formations, too, would be perfect if it
wasn’t for the occasional mug that never
seems to be able to keep out of the
slipstream of the bloke immediately
ahead, and flies wide to drag the tailers
with him in a wavering arc. The last
rough count put them around 400, which
surprised me, for the swamp had been
well drained and I didn’t think it held
enough water to float a mob of that size,
so I made a few casual inquiries. Old
Bill up the top end was the culprit. He’d
grown tired of exchanging good buffalo
and water-couch for the hard wiry blue
variety the drains had presented him with
and had filled in the gutters. The swans
showed their appreciation of this partial
return to natural conditions by descend-
ing on him in such numbers that they’re
eating him out. The old cove swears a
swan can eat as much as a “blanky
bullick,” but as the big birds are virtually
under the eye of a fauna-loving John
Hop he daren’t do- anything more drastic
than drag his 20-stone down to the water
each morning and shoo ’em away; hence
his pre-brekker trek over my joint. How
many swans to the acre can you run on
an f.a.q. swamp, anyway?
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: An unusual com-
plaint has come down from W.A.’s Lower
Murchison, where they grow early
tomatoes in the sub-tropic clime and
irrigate them even in late winter, Tto
“I've got a beau-ti-ful f-e-e-ling everything's going my Way”
plants are being damaged by dragon-
flies, which are laying their eggs in them,
It is thought that the insects which
normally lay their eggs on aquatic plants
have been misled by the irrigation
channels between the rows. Seems to be
just another case of instinct Being inferior
to intelligence.
“Dear sir”
The owners had sent
Harold up from home to leam sheep-
farming, and the boss found it quite a full
sideline looking for the right groove to fit
him into. With frosty evenings coming
along, we were busy getting the year’s
year’s supply of bacon slaughtered, and
Harold was carefully instructed by the
boss how to make the brine. The salt
was in a wooden cask in the woolshed,
also a cauldron to boil the water. The
pigs hanging up in a picturesque row,
there remained only to go home to tea
and inspect the brine-making on the way.
Harold had the fire going nicely, but
instead of the iron cauldron standing on
the fire-dogs, the wooden cask full of
water stood in its place. Harold offered
what seemed to him the obvious explana-
tion of departure from instructions: that
as the amount of salt left in the cask was
about the right quantity it was simpler to
add water than to remove the salt from
the cask, and, of course, there could be
no danger of the cask burning with all
that water in it.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Nobody likes the old
magpie more than myself, but he has a
few entries on the debit side. In the
Western District of Victoria during the
recent winter drought—it was the worst
on record, though rains came two weeks
ago—the black-and-white carollers were
as bad as the crows in dealing with the
deserted lambs and carrion. Again, at a
Casterton homestead this month I
watched two willy-wagtails rear their
brood in a cypress until one dawn the
flycatchers were fiercely dive-bombing
the magpies with their helicoptic-like
flight. And no wonder! The big birds
had ripped the waggies’ nest to pieces and
one was carrying off a dead fledgling. I’m
told those garden-residing ’pies have
been doing a similar act for years, but
—cannibals as they are —they always wait
until the wagtails have hatched out their
youngsters.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When it became
evident that the wild-ducks were nesting
in the small island of stunted tea-trees
not far in from the edge of the swamp
the keen observers in the house began
devising protective measures. Notices
erected around the borders of the 10-
acre property were considered effective
against unscrupulous pot-hunters, but the
question of the English setter was more
involved. Born and bred a hunter, all
the wildlife in and around the swamp
was hers by right of inheritance. She
had never been known to catch any of
the hundreds of birds which played tag
with her, and even to the pigeons she was
just a blundering joke, but she had been
known to take eggs, and it was thought
that nesting ducks and their young would
prove easy game for her. Until the nest-
ing operations were well under way the
birds —three ducks and a drake —prac-
tically ignored her wild flounderings, but
family responsibilities brought a change
of tactics. Thereafter it was common to
see Penny charging through the water in
pursuit of a “wounded” bird which
gradually drew her into the deeper water
away from the tea-trees. The first brood
appeared—four brown and yellow balls
of fluff that literally ran upon the surface
of the water when alarmed —and I doubt
if the setter even saw them. Somehow
they contrived to keep the island between
them and her, or to remain hidden while
she splashed through within feet of them.
Since then two other broods have
appeared. Two of the first brood are
still with us, lighter in color and only
slightly smaller than their parents. The
latest brood is eight-strong and, after a
week of joyous life, has suffered no
casualties. But a new danger has
appeared- A pair of whistling eagles
circle the swamp. They’re big birds, with
a 30in. wing-span, dark-brown with light
bands on tody near base of tail and on
wings. Against them the broken-wing
trick is useless, and the mother duck,
knowing it, shepherds her brood into the
shelter of the tea-trees. She won’t save
them all because nature, having produced
the eagle, will see that it, too, survives;
but I am adamant in my refusal to defend
the ducks with my rifle. Nature estab-
lishes her own balance. Nevertheless, the
rifle may well be the ducklings’ second
line of defence. It is kept for the in-
evitable pot-hunter who sees nothing
wrong in invading my property to shoot
a sitting bird, but who curses horribly
when a rifle-shot disturbs the birds and
puts them in the air beyond the range of
his scatter-shot.
THE SWAGMAN.
It may be the swagman is rarer
Round Barringun, Byrock and Bourke
Than in days when that lonely wayfarer
Made walking the whole of his work.
Has he now found relief from his worries
And laid down the load of his pack
By cadging a lift on the lorries
That hum to the Border and back?
And there does he sit by the driver,
A sultan of all he surveys,
A proud and contented survivor
Of pinched and penurious days?
In the novel position assigned him,
From cares that beset him exempt,
When horsemen are lagging behind him
Does he treat them with silent contempt?
Is it clear to the passing beholder
He is done with the fretting of flies
That circled in clouds on his shoulder
And bedded themselves in his eyes;
That his swag is now lying beside him
Instead of impressing its weight.
That none on the road can outride him—
This fellow so favored by Fate?
For now his long journeys are easy,
And all of his troubles sidetracked,
And anyone watching him sees he
Is fully awake to the fact,
Though the power he employs not his own is
He knows it’s a power to trust;
When the squatter whips up with his ponies
The swagman can give ’em his dust!
He may travel a little bit faster,
And reach rather sooner his beer,
But to me it would seem a disaster
If he and bis type disappear;
I know that his forebears were tougher,
And slowly their memory dies,
And I think I would miss the old buffer
Who walked in a flicker of flies.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


.
$
f
Although a
start has been
made on the
Snowy River
Scheme, and there
are plans to
harness the Clarence and Burdekin
Rivers to produce large quantities of
electric power, plus many schemes to
link these projected hydros with existing
coal- and oil-burning generators to
provide greater flexibility of reticulation,
it will still be many many years before
the more remote country areas will be
able to say good-bye to home-lighting
plants and batteries for their electric
power requirements- So that there is
little alternative to the battery operated
radio on many thousands of farms
throughout Australia in the meantime.
Perhaps we should not refer to it as
an “alternative” but rather as a substitute,
because viewed from every angle the
country listener with a modern dry
battery operated receiver is not deprived
of anything worthwhile that is enjoyed by
his fellow country or city listener who
plugs his radio into a power point.
Last month we spoke about the latest
in portables—the Mullard Portable —and
its many advantages, and we think we
could follow this up with something
about trans-portable battery operated
receivers, with particular reference to the
Milliard Type MBS 1105. By trans-
portable we mean a neatly housed dual-
wave receiver, deriving its power from
dry batteries in contrast to the older
console or “reach down to the floor” type
of receiver, and which can be conveniently
moved from one room to another or on
to the verandah without very much bother
or derangement of furniture. Certainly a
bit heavier than the true portable, but this
is accounted for by the larger batteries
which, under ordinary circumstances, need
•replacement once in nine months.
The ability to receive stations all over
the world operating on short waves is
quite a point with this receiver, but it is
even more important to be able to listen
to Commonwealth programmes on short
wave, when broadcasting on a medium
wave band is unintelligible on account of
fading and/or atmospheric disturbances.
The coverage provided by short wave
stations in the Commonwealth has
recently been augmented by the erection
of a special short wave transmitter at
Liverpool, New South Wales, to improve
reception, particularly in the areas Nowra
to Moruya. So when looking round for a
receiver for the farm make sure it is of
the dual-wave type so that you have an
“extra barrel” to your listening.
The Mullard MBS 1105 is housed in a
highly polished bakelite cabinet, totally
enclosed, and, of course, mouse proof
(which is important) and proof against
white ants or borers.
It is difficult to give you any better
picture of this receiver in words, but if
you would care to drop a note to Box
2118, G.P.O., Sydney, we will send you a
photograph and more specific details.
The same type of receiver is exported
from the Mullard English factories to the
most remote parts of the British Empire,
everywhere giving lasting satisfaction to
people otherwise cut off from the goings-
on of the world.—advt.
“Wonk”: Andy was scowling at his
freshly-saddled nag when Bill came
along. “That’s the brute that pitches,
isn’t it?” greeted Bill. “Y’ cured him
yet?” “No.” “Y’ going to get on?”
“ ’Course I’m going to get on,” snorted
the hag’s owner. “Only . . . ’struth, the
ground gets
further away
and harder
every day,”
“Trouble is y’
don’t handle
him ri g h t,”
said Bill, with
the superior
knowledge of
the amateur
horseman. “Y*
want to send
him hell - f’r -
leather up the
steepest hill y’
can find soon’s
you get on.
Don’t let up
on the pace,
and at the top
he’ll be too tired to pitch. Want a steep
hill, though. What about that’n there?
It’s near standing on edge.” Andy de-
cided to try it. With a waddy flailing his
rump, the nag dug his toes in, plunged,
scrambled and slithered on the steep
boulder-strewn hillside, “Keep him
going, that’s right,” yelled Bill lustily.
“There, didn’t I tell y’?” They were
three parts of the way up when the nag
suddenly propped, swung sideways and
humped himself in a mighty effort. His
rider hit the ground 30ft. below. Latest
news of Andy comes from the bush-
nurse, who reports that the greatest aid
to his progress is the patient’s urge to
find Bill and tell him something.
* * * *
“E.”: Strange the different technique
fellows use in educating horses. Believe
in a velvet glove over the iron fist myself,
while admitting occasions when stem
measures are necessary, but the bloke I
watched recently was strongly opposed to
such methods. He has gained himself a
State-wide reputation, and has broken
all types of horses for the police-force
and other institutions, and what he didn’t
do to that colt isn’t worth mentioning.
I stared as he used the whip, jerked the
sore mouth unmercifully and hit the
animal over the ears. “Always show a
horse who’s boss,” he told me easily.
“Let him know from the jump he can’t
get away with anything.” Trying to lead
the youngster through a high gateway,
it balked, snorted with fear and refused
to go. Calmly the cove whistled a heel-
ing dog he’d borrowed for just such a
contingency, and the steed was put back
and forth through the gateway till it
learned that its objections were useless.
No, don’t like his methods myself, but
looking over his well-behaved conquests
I’m forced to admit that he certainly gets
results.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Villefair”: I am afflicted with a
moronic mentality where horticulture is
concerned. It is not that I dislike flowers ;
I just don’t see ’em. So very often I’ve
been trapped when visiting. The proud
gardener skilfully leads the conversation
into the right channels, then shoots at
me: “Did you notice my calceolarias as
you came in?” Floundering like a fish
I stutter some banal praise and pray that
he won’t ask me to describe a calceolaria,
because I’ve obviously walked past an
array of them without seeing ’em; nor
would I know a calceolaria if I fell over
it. With native flowers, however, it is
an entirely different story. Wattle and
flowering-gums will attract my attention
immediately. I never fail to see the blue
sarsaparilla blossom as the vine twines
up a bush or spreads across a patch of
gravel. A carpet of primroses between
the olive-green of the trees in a citrus
orchard is a delight to my eye. And so
on. Recently I was driven through the
National Park (N.S.W.). Never had I
seen such a glorious profusion of native
flora—natural beauty without pampering
or interference from man. I was still
burbling about it when we reached our
destination. My host endured me for
some time before asking the inevitable
question: “What do you think of my
daffodils?” I was on my way to the
door to have a look when my good spouse
stopped me with wifely tact: “Not out
there, fathead. On the table.” For 10
minutes I’d been talking around ’em,
over ’em and through ’em —and saw
those flowers only as an irritating barrier
to clear vision.
a|e jfg j|c
“Legree”: Tell “Salmon Gums” (B.
30/8/’5O) that the ridgepole is the only
safe and sane place for a hurricane-
lamp; but you want to hang it with a
stirrup'-leather or saddle-strap. The strap
“ and one for the pot.”
—which can be slid along the pole to any
position—allows you to regulate the
height of the lamp until you not only
dodge the cast shadow, but get the best
possible illumination on your reading-
matter.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We penetrated north-
west N.S.W. early one summer, and be-
tween Gunnedah and Barney’s Spring
ran into an enthusiast. “Greatest bit o’
country in the world,” he burbled.
“Look at the wheat y’ve seen; fence-
high, forty-bushel crops everywhere.”
He swept a hand grandly towards the
ocean of wheat that flanked both sides
of the road, “Wonderful, wonderful.
Nothing like it!” Mat looked at me, at
the wheat and at the enthusiast, “Yair,”
he drawled, “she must ha’ bin a great bit
o’ country oncel” “Once!” yipped the
enthusiast. “Once! Whadda y’ mean!
Why, once it was nothin’ but big pad-
docks full o’ sheep. It” “That’s
what I mean,” Mat cut in. “A man could
go straight through it then. Now, with
the whole flamin’ place cut up into these
little wheat-gardens a bloke’s blocked
every way he turns an’ has t’ keep going
round corners to get anywhere—it’s just
like the flamin’ city. Come on, mate, let’s
get over the line an’ make f’r outback,
where a man can go a mile without havin’
to walk four t’ do it.”
* * ♦ *
“Chuck”: Woolly was bewailing his
lack of shearers when Ted strolled up.
“Don’t know why I always have this
trouble,” growled Woolly. “Seem to
spend weeks every season running round
the country looking for men.” “You
want to treat ’em better,” said Ted, “so
they’ll come back. Look at those of
mine now,” he pointed out. “Been com-
ing to my shed for four years, just be-
cause I treat ’em well.” “Well, mine
have good accommodation,” scowled
Woolly, “and they get award rates.”
“Yair, but you’ve got to give ’em extras
nowadays,” argued Ted. “Mine get the
use of ray utility and I shout ’em a few
bottles every night. Yair, it pays all
right. Bloke won’t get men if he doesn’t
do something special for them. Now look
here,” he went on, “you drop word round
town about all the extras you’re willing to
give your shearers and they’ll turn up—
you’ll see.” Woolly didn’t like the idea,
but after a bit more persuasion decided
to take Ted’s advice. He dropped word
in the likely places about special rates
and free beer and went home to wait
results. Shearing-date drew near. “There,
I told the silly cow he’d be all right,”
Ted said to Barney as he noted Woolly
mustering for his start. “Just depends
how y’ go about things, I say.” “Eh?
Yair,” agreed Barney absently. “But,
what I come for was this message from
yT shearers —said t’ tell you they couldn’t
come this year; they’re workin’ f’r
Woolly! ”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bo”: “I got a coupler sulphur-crested
white cockatoos,” said Steve. “They ain’t
much good as talkers, but y’ never see
their like for tryin’ to give a man a hand,
I’d kept a couple o’ the pups from that
last litter Millie had, and one day I de-
cided to dock their tails. I’d done one of
’em, and had just gone inside for
somethin’ when I hears a hell of a row
goin’ on outside —a pup shriekin’ blue
murder an’ a cocky screechin’ its head
off. I rushes out, an’ there’s one cockatoo
tuggin’ at the end of the long tail o’ the
pup I hadn’t done, while the other one’s
got a grip on the tyke’s tail about an
inch or so from the butt an’ he’s swingin’
round and round on it, usin’ his beak
as a circular-saw!”
“Solitude”: Several times during the
past few days Seventyfiver had let fly a
curse and grabbed his back, and now as
he swung the axe he again stopped and
straightened carefully. “What’s the
matter with your back?” I inquired be-
latedly. “Cricked it or somethin’ when
I jumped over a sixty-foot drop,” he
said. “Sixty-feet! Aw, don’t be mad.
What did you jump over for?” “How’d
I know,” he returned indifferently.
“Didn’t know
I wus goin’ t’
do it till it
was too late.
Anyway, it was
your flamin’
cookin’ made
me do it.”
“Eh?” “That
heavy blasted
damper y’
made a couple
o’ days ago,”
he explained,
using the axe
again very
gingerly. “When we run out o’ grub—
remember? An’ we had t’ eat the thing
’ot when we come in from work.”
“Hell,” I defended, “it wasn’t that bad.”
“No? Well, I was climbin’ round rocky
precipices all night after it,” he scowled
accusingly. “An’ I fell down about six
o’ the damn’ things. The sixty-footer was
the worst. Landed on the middle o’ me
back on a blasted rock so ’ard it woke
me up, an’, cripes, X bin half-crippled
with it ever since.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bass”: I can unflerstand evolution —
up to a point. I can realise that, say,
rabbits which are destined to spend their
lives in frozen latitudes will develop the
ability to become white in winter, because
the lighter colors will live longer and
their progeny must eventually pre-
dominate. After the lapse of a few
thousand or million years the faculty of
changing color to suit the seasonal sur-
roundings will have become part and
parcel of the breed —that is simple and
logical. So is the process by which un-
used organs—the redundant fingers and
toes of the hooved animals and man’s dis-
carded tail —are reduced or obliterated,
and other features modified. This could
all be accomplished by a process of
natural selection and elimination. It is
the positive features of evolution that
baffle me. The bee visits the flower, and
performs for it the vital function of pollen-
isation, because the flower has provided
honey for it. But how did this mutual
arrangement originate? Did the bee first
go to the flower hoping to satisfy its
hunger, and did the flower then decide
to encourage the bee, having profited by
its action? Or did the flower first pro-
duce honey in the hope that it would
prove attractive to some winged insect
of whose tastes it must have been com-
pletely ignorant? In either case, how did
the flower go about providing the entice-
ment? How did it produce the organs
which produced the nectar? In my
orchard are growing a variety of fruit-
trees, all drawing sustenance from the
same soil, each converting the minerals
in that soil to its own particular type of
leaf, flower and fruit. Each provides a
fruit which will be desirable to some bird
or animal which, by discarding the stone
or seed, will assist in the propagation
and dissemination of its species. Ignor-
ing the special faculties involved in the
manufacture of different fruits from an
identical collection of chemicals, how did
each type of tree decide on the flavor of
its fruit? By what intelligence did it
know that its fruit would find favor with
some animal? Was there a conscious
striving? Is there an intelligence quite
unrelated to brain and knowledge?
Somewhere in the ancestry of all life is
there something greater than evolution?
And is that something Creation?
COCKATIEL.
In seed-time, when star-thistles gild
The worn red paddocks with their formal grace,
When the wood-swallows build,
And the blue space
Above the cobalt mural range
Is shimmering clear into eternity,
When watercourses change
Earth to green sea,
Then cockatiel will come
With song called in their brilliant flight. Then
on . . .
Out ot their past they come,
Sing, and are gone.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


IT**.
1M
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E'.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman) j
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.J
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
That Perplexing Problem!
how will mu Estate be administered ?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Will, you
obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 71 years’ specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be safe-
guarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
F
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends — N
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’4O 278,925 60,000 10.7 = 172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4= 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3= 162,000 21,554 449,794
Special reserve disappears, £25,000 .. 424,794
’43 254,069 60,000 7.5 = 165,000 28,569 453,363
Patent rights reduced, £1027 .. 454,390
’44 257,487 60,000 7.8= 162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 258,775 60,000 7.3= 162,000 86,775 526,652
*46 227,312 60,000 7.3= 162,000 5,812 531,964
Debenture exes., £28,510 .. .. 503,454
’47 269,889 60,000 7.3= 162,000 47,889 551,343
Contingencies res. disclosed, £140,000 691,343
Less new patents, £11,346 .. .. 679,997
’4B 283,763 60,000 7.3= 162,000 61,763 741,760
Share premiums, £104,000 .. .. 845,760
*49 259,147 60,000 7.3 = 177,000 22,147 867,907
Premium on shares, £208,000 .. 1,075,907
1 ’5O 360,861 60,000 7.3 = 232,000 68,861 1,144,768
From its five mills —Maryvale, Mel-
bourne, Fairfield and Broadford (Vic.)
and Botany (N.S.W.) —this big and effi-
cient industrial organisation supplies Aus-
tralia with most of its paper-board and
kraft requirements, which have grown
apace since war ended. And the.manage-
ment lost no time in seizing the new
opportunities offered. To help finance
expansion of the undertaking over the
last five years no less than £4,560,000 of
fresh share (£1,248,000), share-premium
(£312,000) and debenture (£3,000,000)
money has been gathered, and £1,361,752
has been added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. Local demand, now
about 190,000 tons p.a., is expected to
reach 300,000 tons p.a. by the end of
1955, and the co. plans to increase its
own annual production capacity from a
current 135,000 tons to 250,000 tons over
the same period.
Issued capital at June 30 was £5,280,000
—£1,000,000 of it carries a cumulative 6
p.c.—of which £832,000 was still to come
in. In front of that is £3,250,000 of
debentures (costing a shade under 4 p.c.),
of which £250,000 was still to come.
Direct public interest is confined to the
prefs. and debentures. The ords., in
which the equity lies, are all held by Aus-
tralasian Paper and Pulp, whose shares
are listed on ’Change.
For the five years to 1940 A.P.M. sent
along a trifle over 10 p.c. p.a., enabling
A.P. and P. to pay an all-round 8 p.c. on
its capital. Since then the operating co. has
paid a steady 7.3 p.c., and the holding
co. a regular 6 p.c, on its ord. capital.
And, until the operating co.’s programme
of expansion is completed, better need
not be expected.
However, benefits to those on the hold-
ing co.’s register have come by way of
new share-issues, last of which was an-
nounced since the close of accounts. To
enable it to take up a further 4,554,106
new £1 ords. in the operating co. at a
premium of 2s. 6d. each, A.P. and P.
offered those on its own register a like
number of its own £1 ords. at a similar
premium. The money is wanted 2s. 6d. (in-
cluding 6d. premium) on Oct. 16, and the
balance in quarterly lots of ss. beginning
at end of March, 1951. When fully paid
the issue will raise A.P.M.’s paid capital to
£9,834,106, and the total on A.P. and P.’s
register to £9,107,515. Subject to any
major change in economic conditions,
each co. expects to maintain current rates
of distribution.
Despite the nation-wide coal strike
early in the term, as well as power short-
ages and industrial troubles, the operat-
ing co.’s output increased, and it was able
to sell 133,040 tons (up 6000 tons) of
boargl and paper, thanks to improvements
in machine capacity and technical effi-
ciency. So, despite an all-round increase
in costs, the board was able to write net
earnings £101,714 stronger at £360,861.
The improvement was due partly to
“heavy writing-down” of stocks (amount
not stated) at the close of accounts in
1949 to offset the fall in price of imported
pulp. Profit was written after allowing
£424,792 (up £4612) for depreciation and
£339,600 (up £144,400) for taxation —of
the extra tax allowance £150,000 was in
respect of anticipated deferred assess-
ments. The £360,861 of profit covered the
pref. div. (£60,000) and 9.4 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 8.2, 10.1,
9.5, 7.6 and 9 p.c. back to 1945. The
year’s profit and debenture interest com-
bined (total £467,002) was equal to 5.8
p.c. on average debenture and share
capital and reserves combined. The de-
bentures are therefore earning more than
their keep. It is a heartening performance
considering that about £1,500,000 of new
share-money, etc., was not fully produc-
tive when the books closed.
The continued growth of the big under-
taking, and how it has been financed, are
seen in the following comparison of bal-
ance-sheet figures:—
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital—, £ £ £ £
Pref. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Ord. .. 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,616,000 3,448,000
Debentures 2,250,000 2,250,000 2,500,000 8,000,000
Mortgages 32,468 60,598 140,392 183,694
Loans, etc. 203,056 221,278 764,336 363,827
Other cr’tors 384,813 454,182 448,612 1,078,589
Tax reserve 240,951 440,896 297,771 403,349
Final divs. 111,000 111,000 126,000 152,000
Freehold and
plant .. 2,315,864 2,881,407 3,972,823 6,164,243
Shares other
cos. .. 115,344 199,212 250,855 275,074
Stock . . 1,615,3§0 2,857,726 3,036,066 2,490,509
Book debts 1,022,789 1,506,673 1,467,802 1,810,724
Cash, etc... 2,071,973 85,983 33,709 36,676
To meet the , year’s net additions of
£2,191,420 to fixed assets and £342,922
to book-debts the co. gathered an extra
£1,540,000 of share (£832,000), premium
(£208,000) and debenture (£500,000)
moneys and added £272,771 net to the
current debt, etc. To help see the big
programme of expansion, which includes
erection of a new mill at Petrie, about
17 miles north of Brisbane, to com-
pletion, new and uncalled share, pre-
mium and debenture moneys totalling
£6,413,369 are due by the end of 1951.
At 28s. 9d. A.P. and P.’s f.-p. pound
ords. return 4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Rights to the new issue recently sold at
3s. 2d.; making total cost per share (when
fully paid) 255. Bd., at which figure the
return is 4.7 p.c. on the same div. basis.
The holding co.’s 8 p.c. participating
prefs. at 395. 9d. yield 4 p.c., and so do
the operating co.’s 6 per cents, at 30s.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
June Profit.* Dividend. Reives, serves.
30, £ £ £ £
1941.. 25,956 8 p.c. = 9,935 16,021 167,273
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 142,273
1942.. 35,529 8 p.c. = 9,935 25,594 167,867
1943.. 38,498 8 „ „ 9,935 28,563 196,430
To staff fund. £3044 193,386
1944.. 23,496 8 p.c. = 9,935 13,561 206,947
1945.. 20,402 8 „ „ 9,935 10,467 217,414
1946.. 17,998 10 „ „ 12,419 5,579 222,993
Profit sale investments, £2298 .. 226,291
1947.. 24,396 10 p.c. = 12,419 11,977 237,268
1948.. 32,879 10 „ „ 12,419 20,460 257,728
To staff fund, £2300 255,428
1949.. 44,143 12J p.c. == 15,524 28,619 284,047
To staff fund, £4119 .. .. .. 279,928
1950.. 48,465 12J p.c. = 15,524 32,941 312,869
To staff fund, £929 .. .. .. 311,940
Goodwill written off, £l7BB .. .. 310,152
* Includes additions to depreciation reserve, etc.
(now £70,000).
Prospects for shareholders in this 62-
year-old and stoutly-ribbed heavy-
engineering business look brighter than
they have ever dpne. Only once (in 1919)
during the last 43 years have those on the
register failed to receive a div. For the
13 years to 1920 the average was 7 p.c.,
followed by averages of 9.5 p.c., 6.1 p.c.
and 9.5 p.c. for the three succeeding de-
cades to the close of last accounts. There
were then reserves of £310,512 —includ-
ing £70,000 earmarked for depreciation,
some or all of which might be genuine
profit—to support and assist the £124,193
of share capital, which has remained un-
changed since 1916, when £41,389 of
bonus scrip was scattered.
The management has always kept
abreast of the times, switching produc-
tion with changes in the character of
demand. In the early days the emphasis
was on mining machinery; later it
changed to sugar-mill equipment and
locomotives —some of the locos turned
out early in this century are still in
service. Also, steel bridges, cranes,
boilers, dredges, crude-oil engines and
heavy castings have figured prominently
in turnover at one time or another. Dur-
ing the war the co. was engaged mainly
in shipbuilding and construction of
marine engines and heavy ordnance
equipment. Since then there has been a
strong and growing demand, which seems
likely to strengthen in the years ahead,
for locos, sugar machinery, structural
steel and general engineering lines.
The growth in turnover, curbed by
availability of raw materials and skilled
labor, has more than kept pace with the
advance m costs. Shareholders have
joined in the prosperity, and, of recent
years, more has been put by than has
been distributed. Last term Cameron’s
old-established engineering business at
Mackay (Q.) was bought at an unstated
figure. After writing off £5OOO for de-
preciation (same as previous term) and
allowing £20,000 (down £3000) for taxa-
tion and contingencies, the net result
advanced by £4322, reaching £48,465,
equal to 39 p.c. on capital as against
35.3, 26.4, 19.6 and 14.4 p.c. back to 1946.
The div. was kept at p.c., £l7BB paid
for goodwill of the Cameron business was
written off and £5OOO (included with
profit in the table) was sent to the de-
preciation reserve.
Balance-sheet figures reflect purchase
of the business referred to, continued ex-
pansion and a healthy financial position:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Overdraft .. 51,315 93,478
Sundry cred’rs.* 67,497 75,780 77,539 76,780
Staff fund .. 5,000 7,000 10,000 10,000
Final div. .. 12,419 12,419 15,524 15,524
Freehold,
plant, etc... 147,343 149,746 156,461 197,686
Stock .. 63,816 54,404 63,174 103,123
Work in process 77,678 107,565 76,030 117,992
Book debts .. 10,695 84,488 76,976 80,253
Investments
and cash .. 146,145 129,413 134,045 180,573
• Includes provision for taxation and contingencies.
To help meet net additions of £41,235 to
fixed assets, £39,949 to stocks and £46,962
to work in progress the co. went to its
bankers for £93,478. The large holding of
investments and cash (mainly Govern-
ment securities) was drawn upon for only
£3472 net. The contraction in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£236,159) was
£11,003.
Presently shareholders are to be offered
49,676 new £1 ords., two for five, at par.
That will lift paid capital to £173,869,
on which 12} p.c. will call for less than
half the profit shown last term. For the
pound ords., which rose from 455. 6d. a
year ago to 61s. in July last, sellers
recently asked 755. with buyers standing
off at 675. At the middle figure of 71s.
the net price, after exercising the rights,
is 565.* 10d., giving a return of 4.4 p*c. on
a 12} p.c. distribution. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover is 555.-Bd., nearly
half of which is represented by surplus
liquids.
Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd.
To Re- Defl-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. cit.*
& £> £» £
1940 .. 3,270 Nil 3,270 5,191
1941 .. 7,828 8 p.c. = 5,493 2,335 2,856
1942 .. 9,435 9 „ „ 7,290 2,145 711
1943 .. 10,500 10 „ „ 8,100 2,400 1,689
1944 .. 10,141 10 „ „ 8,100 2,041 3,730
1945 .. 9,968 10 „ „ 8,100 1,868 5,698
19.46 .. 10,182 10 „ „ 8,100 2,082 7,680
1947 .. 10,164 10 „ „ 8,100 2,064 9,744
Unexplained addition, £3Ol .. .. 10,045
1948 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,100 2,037 12,082
Unexplained addition, £2BO .. .. 12,362
1949 .. 10,817 10 p.c. = 8,606 2,211 14,573
Assets revaluation reserve, £28,699 .. 43,272
Reserves capitalised, £28,569 .. .. 14,703
Profit sale assets, £lO,lOO .. .. 24,803
From inner reserves, £3250 .. .. 28,053
1950 .. 11,040 10 p.c. = 8,606 2,434 30,487
♦After deducting intangibles (now £1000).
This little 12-year-old, which was set on
its feet by managing-director R. G.
Treacy (he used to be a director of Brad-
ford Cotton Mills), has given a very good
account of itself, thanks partly to pro-
pitious circumstances. The factory at
Marrickville (N.S.W.) is equipped with
modem automatic looms —this means
much so far as costs are concerned —
which can turn off cotton-canvas, ducks,
drills, jeans, gaberdines, twill and cotton
furnishings. Buying- and selling-prices
have been controlled all along the line,
and since the war the story has been one
of an overflowing order-book, chief
bottlenecks being shortages of yam and
skilled labor.
After providing for depreciation and
taxation, profits haven’t varied much
either side of 12} p.c. on capital
over the last eight years. During
this period shareholders have had a steady
10 p.c., sweetened with a cash issue of
20,250 new £1 ords. at par in 1948 and
with £28,569 of bonus scrip last term. The
gift was provided by writing up the book-
value of land and buildings by»£28,699,
following an independent revaluation.
During the year the Government re-
sumed part of other land held by the
co., and the rest was sold. The combined
profit on the two transactions was
£lO,lOO, which was tossed into a capital-
reserve account, and £3250 was trans-
ferred from a buildings depreciation to
general reserve. All told, the lay-by was
lifted from £14,573 to £30,487 in excess
of intangibles (£1000) over the twelve-
month.
After allowing a liberal £5OOO (up £400)
for depreciation and setting aside £5422
(up £2016) for the taxgatherer, declared
profit (£11,040, up £223) was 12.8 p.c. on
average capital employed. On capital as
it now stands 10 p.c. will call for only
£423 more profit than was claimed last
term. The outlook for the business is
bright enough, subject, of course, to
what happens in connection with wage
and other costs over which the manage-
ment has no control. Appreciation of the
Australian pound would cheapen the cost
of the co.’s yarn as well as the cost of
manufactured cotton goods from over-
seas.
More plant, now on order from over-
seas, is expected to be installed during the
current term ; and there is £15,187 of
capital still at call:
' 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £Bl,OOO £Bl,OOO £86,063 £114,632
Creditors, etc.* 12,676 21,173 33,322 16,707
Freeholds, etc. 19,566 24,666 25,696 55,100
Plant, etc. .. 26,291 21,841 21,547 19,488
Stocks . . 36,348 43,279 74,617 42,173
Debtors ~ 6,259 28,499 16,381 19,217
Cash, etc. .. 19,006 20 20 30,151
Intangibles .. 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s growth of £28,509 in capital
and of £29,464 in freeholds, etc., reflects
the bonus issue and revaluation already
referred to. The sharp drop of £32,444
in stock and increase of £30,131 in cash,
etc., are interrelated, and suggest that
yarn from overseas is now in easier sup-
ply.
At 395. 6d. the f.-p. pound ords. yield
5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Including
uncalled capital, net tangible cover is
245. Bd.
Brooklands Accessories, Ltd. (Melb.)
Brooklands Accessories and Subsidiary.
f— Dividends N
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. r —Ord. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1942 .. 5,536 1750 8 ‘ 3,600 7,025
1943 ~ 7,959 1750 10 4,500 8,734
1944 . . 10,501 1750 10 4,500 12,985
1945 . . 10,842 1750 10 4,500 17,577
1946 .. 13,409 1750 10 4,500 24,736
Goodwill increased, £BOOO .. .. 16,736
1947 .. 13,405 1750 12J 8,715 19,676
From tax provision, £11,814 .. 31,490
1948 . . 34,456 1750 12i 8,716 55,480
Share premiums, £22,087 .. ..1
Unexplained addtn. to res., £14,264 I
From tax provisions, £2006 .. .. j
Net intangibles of new subsids., £5605 J
88,232
1949 .. 42,037 1750 12i 11,871 116,648
Share premiums, £13,121 .. .. 129,769
Surplus sale ♦assets, £lool'.. .. 130,770
1950 .. 49,510 1750 15 14,245 164,275
♦After deducting intangibles (now £20,632).
Formed as a subsidiary of Allied Motor
Interests in 1923, the business was con-
verted from a proprietary to a public co.
in 1938, when £25,000 of 7 p.c. pref.
capital was gathered. Shareholders have


NOW OPEN
and closing on or before 14th October, 1950
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
£1,000,000
LOAN «. 69
£3.5.0
PER CENT PER ANNUM
GUARANTEED BY THE
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
An Authorised Trustee Investment
in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania
• ISSUED AT PAR
• CURRENCY 13 YEARS
• INTEREST MAY BE CREDITED TO YOUR
CURRENT OR SAVINGS DANK ACCOUNT
AND IS PAID HALF-YEARLY
• AN EASY-TO-SELL, GILT-EDGED SECURITY
Your interest begins immediately your application
is lodged, and is payable free of exchange in terms
of the prospectus. Subscriptions are free of
exchange and payable by instalments if desired.
£5O is the minimum subscription.
EARL Y INVESTMENT ADVISED
Ask for a prospectus and application forms
at any office of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, the Sydney Water Board, or from
members of recognised Australian Stock
Exchanges.
Lean underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne.
VVBBA-50
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents arid
Trade Marks.— Advt.
The Machinery
People
■JI
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES-Jn Divorce.
TO IVAN KINGSTON EIDGWAY late of
Narrabcen. —TAKE NOTICE that VERA
ALBERTA RIDGWAY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2894 of 1950 on the
ground of desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 11/12/’5O
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from GEOFFREY DYSON
BONAMY, Solicitor, of 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
Public Notices.
AUSTRALIAN ESSENTIAL OILS LTD.—
Application has been made to the Com-
pany for the issue of a duplicate Deben-
ture to replace Debenture No. 17 issued
by the Company in the name of W. R.
and I. G. Swales, declared to have been
lost. Notice is hereby given that if
within twenty-one days from the date of
the application hereof no claim or repre-
sentation in respect of the original Deben-
ture is made to the Directors, it is their
intention to issue a duplicate thereof to
W. R. and I. G. Swales. —B. URQUHART,
Secretary.
AUSTRALIAN ESSENTIAL OILS LTD.—
Application has been made to the Com-
pany for the issue of duplicate Debentures
to replace Debentures No. 24 and 25 issued
by the Company in the name of Stella
Swales, declared to have been lost. Notice
is hereby given that if within twenty-one
days from the date of the application
hereof no claim or representation in re-
spect of the original Debentures is made
to the Directors, it is their intention to
issue duplicates thereof to Mrs. S. Smith
(nee Swales).—B. URQUHART, Secre-
tary.
National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
APPLICATION having been made to the
Directors of this Company to issue to
HAZEL ALICE BOWMAN, of “Strowan,”
Jerry’s Plains, in the State of New South
Wales, and GEORGE RATCLIFFE HER-
FORD, of Grenfell, In the State afore-
said, the said Executors of the Will of
WALTER ALEXANDER BOWMAN, late
of “Strowan,” Jerry’s Plains aforesaid.
Grazier deceased, the registered holder of
Sixty One Pound Shares fully paid
numbered from 1609121 to 1609180 in-
clusive, and Two hundred and ninety-six
One Pound Shares paid to twelve and six-
pence numbered from 3679561 to 3679856
inclusive upon the statement that the
original share certificates have been lost.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that if
after 21 days from the publication hereof
no claim or representation in respect of
the original certificates is made to the
Directors, it is their intention to issue
duplicates thereof. DATED at Sydney
this 18th day of September, 1950.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, as at 30lh June, 1950
LIABILITIES. £
Central Banking Business—
Capital ... .. 4,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .—. 1,423,372
General Banking Division —
Capital 4,000,000
Reserve Fund .. 957,760
Rural Credits Department—
Capital 2,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 564,542
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital .. .. .. 3,553,781
Reserve Fund .. .. 171,077
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital .. „ .... 4,000,000
Reserve Fund . . . . 502,418
Special Reserve —Premium
on gold sold
Notes on issue
Deposits—
Special accounts of trad-
ing banks
Other deposits of trading
banks
Other deposits, bills pay-
able and other liabilities
(including provision for
contingencies) ..
21,172,950
4,754,954
231,270,374
439,970,000
30,840,766
353,018,152
Total .. £1,081,027,196
ASSETS.
Gold and balances held
abroad (including money
at short call)
Australian notes and coin
Cheques and bills of other
banks
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (including
Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other Govern-
ments, and of local
and semi-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remit-
tances in transit
Bank premises, at cost less
amounts written off
Loans, advances, etc. (after
deducting provision for
debts considered bad or
doubtful): —
Central Bank
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment
Industrial Finance Depart-
ment
Other assets
Total .. £l,
£
536,035,108
7,451,637
11,346,027
293,018,071
69,232,651
22,480,888
1,268,667
41,309,011
56,027,470
14,787,987
3,893,865
21,690,840
2,484,974
,081,027,196
Note. —Inter-departmental accounts totalling £18,995,194 have been offset.
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1950. Cr«
£
Central Banking Business —
To National Debt Sinking
Fund 485,211
To Commonwealth Bank
Reserve Fund .. .. 242,605
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account .. 242,605
Note Issue Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account .. 150,000
To Commonwealth Treas-
ury 4,182,849
General Banking Division—
To National Debt Sinking
Fund .. .. .. 217,925
To General Banking Divi-
sion Reserve Fund .. 217,926
fexiRAL Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 47,656
To Rural Credits Develop-
ment Fund .. .. 47,656
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 41,398
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance
Dept. Reserve Fund .. 250,282
Total .. .. £6,126,113
By Profits for year ended
30th June, 1950 (after
making provision for con-
tingencies)
Central Banking Business
Note Issue Department..
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment
Industrial Finance De-
partment _
970,421
4,332,849
435,851
95,312
41,398
250,282
Totax.
£6,126,113
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by
the several Offices of the Bank, Is true and correct.
(Sgd.) L. J. BOOLING, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) P. W. CUNNINGHAM, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 24th August, 1950
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1950
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ Balances and
Accrued Interest
Other liabilities (including
provision for contingen-
cies)
£
6,298,860
480,295,056
14,157,825
Totai. „
- £500,751,741
ASSETS. £
Australian Notes and Coin 676,130
Cash Balances and Money
at Short Call .. .. 49,864,737
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including Com-
monwealth Treasury Bills) 393,466,440
Securities of other Govern-
ments and of Local and
Semi-governmental auth-
orities .. .. 35,616,832
Bank Premises, at cost less
amounts written off .. 1,288,091
Other Assets .. 19,849,511
TOTAt .. .. £500,751,741
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1950. Cr.
To National Debt Sinking £
Fund 436,353
To Savings Bank Reserve
Fund _ 436,354
Total ~ _ £872,707
By Profits for year ended £
30th June, 1950, after
provision for payments
amounting to £619,752
due to State Authorities
under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agree-
ments (and after making
provision for contingencies) 872,707
Total .. .. £872,707
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by
the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) t. J. BOOLING, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) F. W. CUNNINGHAM, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 24th August, 1950
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by th*
Auditor-General fos the Commonwealth (M*. a. Q. Joyce).
had a very satisfactory experi-
ence since, especially during the
last four years.
The co. holds a wide range of
well-known agencies for, and
does a large business in, motor-
vehicle replacement parts, acces-
sories, garage equipment, etc.,
throughout Victoria and at Syd-
ney (N.S.W.). A subsidiary,
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty.,
formed when the electrical auto-
motive division of Gibson Battle
was taken over in 1946, handles
the Lucas electrical equipment
with which many makes of
British vehicles are fitted. •
Progress, steady during the
war years, has been rapid since,
turnover bounding along with
the • boom in the motor trade
and great increase in sales of
British-made vehicles. Paid capi-
tal advanced from £70,000 in
1946 to £146,209 at the close of
last accounts by new ord. share-
issues, which brought with them
£35,208 of share premiums.
Though the premiums took some
of the gilt off the gingerbread,
the new issues were in the
nature of premiums to share-
holders because of the price at
which the scrip stood in the
market. A steady 8 p.c. div. was
paid for the five years to 1942,
followed by four lots of 10 p.c.,
three of \l\ p.c. and then 15
p.c. last term. And more has
been put by than was dis-
tributed ; reserves (after deduct-
ing intangibles) advanced from
£1487 in 1938 to £164,275 at
April 30 last.
With the help of new branches,
at Swan Hill (where a small
auto-replacement business was
taken over in 1949) and at Gee-
long turnover continued to ex-
pand last term. After allowing
an additional £5172 for depre-
ciation (£10,758) and an extra
£2593 for taxation (£33,500),
combined profit of parent and
subsidiary was £7464 stronger at
£49,501. That covered the pref.
div. and a juicy 50.2 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against
42.4, 47 and 25.9 p.c. back to
1946.
The last £26,242 of new capi-
tal, which brought with it
£13,121 of share premiums, was
gathered just before the close of
accounts. The money, together
with surplus earnings and an
extra £87,633 from outsiders,
went mainly into stocks (up
£75,080), book debts (up £76,898)
and freeholds (up £15,500):
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital. . £94,725 £119,967 £146,209
Creditors .. 101,400 57,536 145,169
Tax provision 36,183 30,915 33,600
Final div. .. 6,105 7,998 10,372
Freeholds .. 17,000 26,788 42,288
Leaseholds .. 17,535 17,055 16,574
Plant and
fittings . . 13,846 15,694 22,261
Stocks .. 186,162 161,038 236,118
Debtors .. 109,111 104,912 181,810
Cash ’ . . 244 7,148 * 483
There was an improvement of
£52,721 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£229,370).
To help finance still further
expansion of the business, those
on the ord. register at September
29 are to be offered 60,604 new
£1 ords., one for two, at a
premium of 10s. each, and a
further 2500 ords. are to be
offered to employees, also at a
premium of 10s. each. That will
lift paid capital to £209,313, on
which the pref. div. and 15 p.c.
to the ords. will call for
£29,396, or £20,114 less profit
than was claimed last term.
In the market the ords. ad-
vanced from 595. in July to
70s. 6d. last week. At the higher
figure the net price, after exer-
cising the rights, is 575. 4d., giv-
ing a return of 5.2 p.c. on a 15
p.c, div, basis. The rights will
thus have a theoretical value of
265. 4d. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is 41s. 3d.
New Occidental Gold Mines
The rise in prices of gold and
copper has given a fresh lease
of life and new ambitions to
this co., which owns three mines
at Cobar (N.S.W.) and is the
biggest gold-copper producer in
the State. The immediate result
has been a jump in declared
profit from £11,684 in 1949 to
£96,096 in 1950 (year ended
June 4in each case). Last term
the result on working account
was New Occidental a profit of
£175,347 (up £55,370) and Ches-
ney a profit of £11,178, com-
pared with a loss of £43,194 in
1949. Retreatment of tailings,
which began about a month
before the books closed, turned
in a working profit of £586.
Total working profit was thus
£187,111, of which general exes.,
etc,, took £40,497 and £50,518
was written off expenditure
charged to development at the
Npw Cobar up to May, 1948,
when production there ceased.
In the previous term £44,272
spent on geological exploration
from 1944 to 1949 was written
off out of the year’s earnings.
During the year £50,625 of 10
p.c. pref. money was returned
at a premium of 10 p.c., plus
accrued div., total £60,750. The
ords. got 6d. a share (10 p.c.) on
August 28. Last previous dis-
tribution was 10 p.c. in May,
1946.
Here are treatment and re-
covery figures, etc.:
New Occidental.
Ore Head Re-
Mllled, Value, covery, Working
Tons. Dwt. p.c. Costs.
1948* 125,350 6.19 89.1 48s. sd.
1949 f 102,158 7.99 92.3 565. 9d.
1950 f 92,399 7.18 91.74 58s. 7d.
Chbsnbt.
Ore f— Head Value— N
Milled, Gold, Copper, Working
Tons. Dwt. p.c. Costs.
1948* 37,429 2.35 2.16 665. 2d.
1949 f 51,012 1.14 1.70 665. sd.
1950 f 51,829 1.41 1.72 575. Id.
* Eighteen months. t Twelve months.
Shortage of labor and delays at
the mill, owing to heavy rains,
were mainly responsible for the
smaller throughput from the
New Occidental. Despite this,
and a 12i p.c, lift in wage-rates
and the up-trend of prices for
materials, etc., there was a rise
of only 2s. lOd. per ton in
mining, development and treat-
ment costs. At the Chesney
there was a drop of 9s. 4d. a ton
in unit working costs, due ap-
parently to smaller outlay on
development.
Subject to the availability of
labor, and consequently better
tonnage from the New Occi-
dental, and with a full year’s
benefit from treatment of dump
materials, and with the local
buying-price for electrolytic
copper at £AI9S per ton (£AIBO
a year ago), prospects of a better
showing at next balance are
encouraging. Costs, still on the
up-grade, will have a steadying
influence, of course.
At June 4 ore reserves above
No. 14 level in New Occidental
were put at 178,600 tons averag-
ing 7.2dwt. gold, and above No.
8 level in the Chesney at 120,152
tons averaging 12dwt. gold and
1.8 p.c. copper.
Interest now centres mainly
in the big drilling programme
to test downward continuation
of the ore-bodies in the New
Occidental, Chesney and New
Cobar. The campaign is expected
to take about three years to com-
plete, and to cost around
£lOO,OOO. If it is successful,
development and construction
are to follow over the next four
or five years, the final stage of
large-scale mining and treatment
being reached eight or nine years
hence. The crucial question is
whether the ore-bodies and pay-
values both live at depth. Geolo-
gist H. J. C. Conolly and others
say it is fair to claim that they
do. The first drill-hole on the
Gladstone lode has intersected
an ore-body at 1070 ft. with a
true width of 17ft., assaying
o.2dwt. gold and 3.68 p.c.
copper.
When the books closed the
co. had £257,826 in bullion.
Government securities, debtors’
balances and cash to meet out-
side liabilities of £74,936, of
which £28,333 represented ad-
vances from the Government.
Paid capital is £435,194 in ss.
ord. shares, and there is £121,681
at call on 1,215,000 of them.
The market wisely prefers to
await further results of the
development programme, and
prices the f.-p. shares at 3s. lOd.
and the 35.-paid contribs. at
2s. 6d.


f . •**. "• * C
.{
/.i
U
ii
A good word
for everybody -
Does your Will include
this important clause?
Your Will should include a
clause that gives your Trustee
power not only to retain shares
already held—but also power to
purchase or take up and hold
shares in companies.
At present, under the laws of
the State of New South Wales,
Trustees’ powers are very limited
and unless a Will expressly per-
mits, a Trustee is not allowed
to take advantage of the excellent
range of investments covered by shares in leading com-
panies.
In appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Trustee, there is no need to place any limitation
on the power of investment. The Board, except in cases
of new shares, issued by virtue of shares already held in
an Estate, limits such investments to a portfolio of those
companies having sound capital structure and a reputation
for good management, as well as a record of good divi-
dends.
Make a point of reviewing your Will with special
attention to this clause. At the same time, consider the
advantages of appointing Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor.
♦ ♦ ♦
There is a helpful and, informative booklet on the
subject of Wills and the administration of Estates
“Your Executor and Trustee?’. ’Phone B 0377, or write
for a copy to-day.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £70,000,000.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director,
A. G. ARMYTAGE, 'Manager,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
omasa AT WAaaA WAOOA. TAMWOBTH and ORANGE
ry-sjL-c
|Ff
PEIfiEBI
st ms:
nsisrc
jjjjjjj
\\\
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Australian Economy
The governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank, Dr. H. G.
Coombs, reporting on the Aus-
tralian economy for the year to
June 30 last, says that within
Australia the emphasis has
been on population-growth and
general expansion of activity—
with the volume of money in-
creasing and strong inflationary
pressures showing out in rising
prices and costs. Developments
abroad continue to be dominated
largely by the general shortage
of dollars, although there has
been significant improvement
since the devaluation of sterling
and other currencies in Septem-
ber, 1949.
Higher levels continue to be reached
in production, employment, building
and construction and other invest-
ment, as well as in overseas trade and
in incomes generally. The full
development of the economy, how-
ever, is still being impeded by short-
ages of labor, capital equipment and
some basic materials.
Employment of Migrants
The level of employment rose at
much the same rate as in 1948-49,
and by June, 1950, was the highest
on record. The increase was spread
throughout industry, with factories
obtaining the largest share, followed
by the building and construction
group.
Nearly all of the increase was made
possible by the influx of migrants,
which has been growing steadily.
During the calendar year 1948
approximately 48,500 migrants en-
tered the Commonwealth; in 1949
the number ’rose to approximately
149,000, and, in 1950, is expected to
reach about 200,000. A little more
than half of these migrants are avail-
able fpr employment, the remainder
being the dependent members of
migrant families.
The population-increase, however,
imposes heavy additional demands on
industry and services, and, despite
the rise in the labor force, the general
shortage of labor has persisted.
Unemployment is negligible, and un-
filled vacancies are numerous and
widely spread through industry.
Fuel and Steel Shortage
The pressure of demand has been
so intensified by the growing indus-
trialisation and the population-increase
that the expanded supplies of fuel and
power are still far from adequate for
the needs of the community.
The output of iron and steel, like
the output of fuel and power, is still
unable to satisfy demand, but should
continue to grow as the industry
benefits from more manpower and
fuel and from the installation of
additional equipment.
Building materials and fittings and
household appliances were generally
more plentiful than in the previous
year, but the annual output of bricks
has still not reached the pre-war
level.
Supply of some types of consumer
goods has overtaken the backlog of
demand. To some extent this indi-
cates a lack of balance in the develop-
ment of the economy in that surpluses
of some consumer goods are being
produced while the output of fuel and
power and of basic materials remains
inadequate. It is due partly, how-
ever, to the growth of imports.
Investment
Both public and private investment
increased, during the year. Many
plans for investment expenditure
remained unfulfilled, partly because
of' dollar difficulties and delayed
delivery from other overseas sources
of equipment, but partly, also, because
plans generally tended to run beyond
the supplies of labor and materials
available.
The value of new capital. expendi-
ture by private firms on buildings and
equipment was over 10 p.c. greater
than in the previous year.
Government and semi-government
expenditure on capital works and ser-
vices rose even morjySsignificantly,
reaching almost twice tne amount for
the previous year. Much of the
increase has been in respect of hous-
ing and basic developmental works,
including power production.
Building and * Construction
There were substantial additions to
the number employed in this group
of industries —especially migrants—
and with a greater output of most
building materials the rate of new
building and construction generally
increased. Much progress was made
in house-building, although unsatisfied
demands remain high. Large orders
are being placed overseas for pre-
fabricated houses and building
materials.
Incomes
Money incomes exceeded greatly
the already high level of 1948-49.
The exceptionally high prices for wool
sold for export represented a major
factor.
Indications are that profits of com-
panies of most types were greater
than in the previous year. There
appears, however, to • have been an
(VEUPBffr
t&r
“Even if you HAVE one leg in on your Cup double we
can't accept it as collateral.”
increasing tendency to plough back
profits to finance plans for expansion
and to meet the need for a larger
amount of working capital in the
face of rising costs.
Wages and salaries also rose during
the year. The average weekly earn-
ings of employees increased by about
12 p.c.
Prices and Costs
The upward trend of prices and
costs continued to be a matter of
concern. Retail prices and wage-rates
increased at about the same rate as
in 1948-49, but wholesale prices rose
much more steeply. While part of
the increase in prices was directly or
indirectly attributable to higher prices
for imports and exportable products,
most of it appears to have been due
to the continued pressure of internal
demand on domestic production
operating largely through increased
pressure for, and willingness to
grant, wage increases. This pressure
was aggravated by the high level of
rural incomes, the pressure of invest-
ment spending and the inflow of
capital.
In the first ten months of the year
the price-level of imported basic
materials rose by about 19 p.c., com-
pared with a total increase of less
than 2 p.c. in 1948-49. This increase
was due partly to the currency
devaluation of September, 1949, partly
to economic conditions in the supply-
ing countries and, to a limited extent,
to the dollar shortage, which in some
cases had made it impracticable to
buy in the cheapest market.
International Comparisons
The significant feature which
emerges from international compari-
sons of price-movements is that
during the year Australian prices
increased more rapidly than prices in
most other countries. In the last two
years Australian wholesale prices have
increased by about 29 p.c. and retail
prices by 20 p.c., while prices in
U.S.A. and New Zealand have fallen
or remained fairly constant and, in
the United Kingdom, wholesale prices
have risen by only 15 p.c. and retail
prices by 6 p.c.
If the increase in Australian prices
continues, with prices in other coun-
tries remaining constant, or rising less
rapidly, it will become increasingly
difficult for Australian goods to com-
pete in price with overseas products,
both in Australia and overseas.
At the same time, the elimination
of margins by which some overseas
prices have exceeded local prices will
tend to have a steadying influence on
the rising price level through the
impact on industries subject to com-
petition from imports, and will per-
haps make it easier for basic-material
and investment-goods industries to
obtain the labor needed.
The Volume of Money
The volume of liquid funds in the
hands of the public increased from
£1779 million in June, 1949, to
£2060 million in June, 1950. The
largest change occurred in deposits
of the puhhe with trading banks,
which increased by £217 million in
1949-50.
There was a rise also in the rate of
growth—the volume of money having
increased by 16 p.c. compared with
10 p.c. in 1948-49 and 6 p.c. in
1947-48. This is the more striking
since in comparable countries the
volume of money is relatively con-
stant or increasing only slowly. In
both the U.S>- and the United King-
dom liquid funds of the public are
showing little increase, and although
in Canada and New Zealand the rate
of growth is higher it is still much
below the Australian rate.
The general effect of increases in
prices for wool, wheat, metals, etc.,
is shown by the movement in our
export-price index from 309 in the
June quarter, 1949, to 451 in the June
quarter, 1950 —an increase of 46 p.c.
over the year.
The second major factor which has
contributed to our strong balance-of-
payments position has been the un-
precedented rate of flow of overseas
capital into Australia. A very large
proportion of this capital has come
from the United Kingdom, and much
of it has been invested permanently
in Australian industries. Estimates
are difficult in this field, but it would
appear that over the past four years
something in the viemity of £AISO
million has been received for genuine
capital investment out of a total
movement approximating £A4SO mil-
lion.
Devaluation
When sterling was devalued in
September, 1949, the sterling area’s
gold and dollar reserves were at their
lowest ebb of $1340 million, Since
then the position has so improved
that at the end of June, 1950, the
figure had reached $2422 million.
This improvement is, however,
attributable to a large extent to more
severe dollar import restrictions and
to factors which represent simply a
reversal of the special forces accen-
tuating the drain in 1949. It is still
too early to assess the degree to
which the basic causes of the lack of
equilibrium in international trade and
payments have been and will be
affected by devaluation. However,
trade amongst non-dollar countries is
reaching higher levels, and there are
already signs that the improvement
devaluation has brought in the com-
petitive position of such countries in
relation to dollar sources of supply
will reduce considerably their deficits
with the dollar area.
It would appear, however, that the
results devaluation has so far achieved
in increasing the dollar earnings of
the sterling area do not warrant any
measure of complacency. The volume
of dollar export sales increased, but,
largely because of the considerable
decreases which, except for some
primary commodities like wool, oc-
curred in the dollars earned per unit,
total sterling-area dollar earnings
have not yet shown any great rise.
In general, devaluation has added
to Australian inflationary pressures,
but to'an extent difficult to measure.
It has been a long wait for
benefits from Australasian Paper
and Pulp, Before the war the
div. was ordinarily 8 p.c. Now
it is 6 p.c. But it has
been a period of great ex-
pansion, with benefits deferred.
Capital of A.P. and P. is
now in the process of being
doubled by the issue of 4,554,106
new £1 ords. at a premium of
2s. 6d. each, the money to be
used to take up a like number
of ords. in the operating co.,
Australian Paper Manufacturers.
For long-term holding and as a
protection against inflation the
rights (3s. Bd. last week, repre-
senting 265. 2d. fully-paid) are
an interesting proposition. The
industry is an essential one.


t&Wtce
SWSS
a:
ikm
wo*
SIMM
V (
Cr
The service given by
the Bank of Australasia
is appreciated by the
Bank’s customers and is,
of course, freely available
to you. The nearest Branch
Manager will welcome your calling, and will
gladly explain our services and facilities.
Established 1835
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
... -
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand and in London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established JBlB
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, Genera] Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
/
aJjt'wai*
%£eA*l‘”“* t9 ° ne
W 4
mu
V'
A
///
WBM
~'/y////////,
ms
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Siagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulars call, write or phono • • •
D
tB.UC2Ij
8.1.
F
PTT.j
LTD. I
Phones: SYDNEY. 8X5584: MELBOURNE, MUISO6
BRISBANE 83604: B.i. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257; 8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
SPECIALLY DESIGNED .
for the
west pocket
S ft
€
1
5$
y
\
or file
dainty handbag
Biroette is slim and elegant in appearance with its
attractive cases in grey, blue, maroon and black.
Biroette gives true Biro service and provides a handv
* ,
means of writing at any time or place
Biroette has already made thousands
of writing friends since its recent
introduction. Your Biro dealer
will be delighted to demonstrate
the Biroette and to supply you
with refills.
Price IS/-
Refiils 2/3
nJutelte
Ƒ
a pen planned for convenience
Pat. No*. 112073, 8 Dec., 1945 —133x63,31 Dec., 1943*
i4/M
Mainguard (Aust.), Ltd.
Registered in Sydney on Sep-
tember 7 with an authorised
capital of £5,000,000, Main-
guard (Australia), Ltd., is mak-
ing an issue of £1,000,000 in ss.
shares. Of this lot 2,400,000
shares were subscribed by the
directors and associates, and
1,400,000 were taken firm by
the underwriters, Ernest L.
Davis and Co., of Sydney, and
inter-State associates. The rea-
son for the ss. par value of the
shares is to give small investors
every opportunity of taking an
interest, the prospectus states.
The co. proposes to act as an
issuing house, “specialising in
the raising of new capital for
industry and for local authori-
ties and for both private and
public corporations,” and as
financial agents and advisers.
Chairman of the board is Sir
Alfred Davidson, formerly
general manager of the Bank of
New South Wales. Managing-
director and deputy-chairman is
Paul Cullen (who is also manag-
ing-director of Australian Fixed
Trusts and Grocery and General
Merchants, and director of
several other public companies).
Other directors are Roger
Randerson, formerly with the
’Wales and Sydney “Herald”;
Allen Taylor Anderson, com-
pany director ; and J. E. Cassidy,
K.C.
The prospectus says:
The revenue of the company will
be derived in the early stages from
dividends and interest on investments
and discounts on acceptances, and
these alone should ensure a reason-
able return on capital invested. How-
ever, the main profit-earning oppor-
tunities will come from fees and
underwriting commissions in respect
of the services to be performed by the
company, especially in respect of
flotations, amalgamations and mergers
arranged. These should be consider-
able and provide a source of revenue
which, with dividends, interest and
discounts, should enable a handsome
profit to be earned.
It is the intention of Mainguard,
in addition to its underwriting
and investment activities, to help
arrange banking and hire-pur-
chase finance for industrial pro-
jects, arrange contacts between
overseas and Australian firms
and to assist overseas com-
panies who wish to become
established in Australia.
The present is an opportune
time for a flotation such as
Mainguard. A great deal of in-
vestment and industrial activity
appears to lie ahead of Aus-
tralia. There will be, however,
some competition in the under-
writing field apart from the big
underwriting brokers who are
members of Melbourne ’Change.
There is at least one corpora-
tion, with London connections,
now operating from Melbourne.
Profit-earning capacity of
Mainguard will depend chiefly
on management. If it can
render the services and financial
assistance that industry requires
there should be considerable
opportunities for profit over the
next few years at least. Long-
term profit-earning will depend
in particular on managerial skill
and foresight and upon the
ability to discern the first signs
of change in general economic
trends.
All other considerations being
favorable, the income-earning
stage should be reached more
rapidly than in the case of
manufacturing concerns which
have to import plant from over-
seas and construct buildings
with materials and labor that
are in short supply.
The flotation is free from any
loading in the way of vendors’
consideration, and brokerage
(2id. a share) is restricted to the
1,600,000 shares which have
been underwritten. Preliminary
ex penses are estimated at
£20,000 and initial working
capital £980,000.
Income-earners
In the post-war prosperity
race New Zealand farmers have
left other income groups stand-
ing. Looking back, they weren’t
so badly fleeced under the
Socialists as they said, and now
there’s a Government with a
strongly rural leaning they
should do even better —that is,
as long as the export tide keeps
flowing. Companies, which
were their nearest rivals a
decade ago, are streets behind
today, and haven’t much pros-
pect of making up the leeway
against labor bottlenecks and
other handicaps that have been
a drag on them for years past.
The only group besides farmers
to gain much ground since the
war is that of salary- and wage-
earners, but while they’ve
gathered in an extra 30 p.c.
farmers have doubled their
figures.
It is plain that the farmers
are the real supporters of Maori-
land’s 10 - year - old Welfare
State, and that it must stand or
fall with them. Any weakness
on the rural front would send a
shiver down the spines of the
growing army of State bene-
ficiaries and pensioners, and the
Holland Government won’t be
happy until it consolidates the
position by giving a strong push
to farm production. The
Socialists seemed happy to let
rising prices take care of export
interests, even if in some direc-
tions output slipped back, and
that just can’t be allowed to go
on. The Nationalist Govern-
ment is determined that it won’t.
N.Z. incomes in millions of
pounds are:
March 31. 1939. 1944. 1948. *1950.
Salaries and
wages .. 11l 140 210 253
Armed
forces’
pay .. 1 58 6 5
Social-
security
ben e fi t s
and pen-
sions .. 8 16 38 43
Rental-
value of
owner-
occupied
homes .. 6 8 10 H
Professional 5 11 13
Commerce 9 24 27
Farming ~ 25 60 84
Changes in
stabili s a-
tion bal-
ances .. -2 +l2 +8
Interest,
rent, etc. 15 16 16
Other 2 5 7
Company
income .20 37 53 53
Total pri-
vate in-
come (be-
fore tax) 200 333 446 518
* Provisional.
Companies on both sides of
the Tasman are in much the
same fix for staff, which governs
output, but so far Maoriland is
doing little about this. There’s
only a tiny trickle of new
settlers arriving, while Australia
has an inflow of tens of
thousands, and M.L. business
heads think it will be several
years before they feel real re-
lief.
Immigration is the only hope,
but it will be at least a year be-
fore New Zealand can work up
to its target of 15,000 migrants
yearly, and a year or two after
that before their weight is felt
much. In the meantime some
Government departments, indus-
tries and institutions are work-
ing on a shoestring. Skilled, ex-
perienced men and women are
desperately needed. The State
railways, one of the biggest em-
ploying organisations in the
country, is crying out for several
thousand men immediately, but
has Buckley’s chance of finding
them.
Locomotives are in such a
bad way, through lack of main-
tenance staff, that speeds have
had to be reduced, on a “safety-
first” basis, regardless of time-
tables. This is an aspect of
prosperity that hasn’t attracted
much attention until lately, but
now there’s a more realistic atti-
tude, except in most strongly-
organised labor groups, which
still won’t admit any relation-
ship between work and wages.
This minority would hold the
country up to ransom if it
could, and short of this will
squeeze it to the utmost for its
own gain.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
A very orchidaceous week this, with
blue ones at the Air Force Ball and red
ones at the Red Cross Flower Festival.
The Medical Ball also produced a record
number of rare blooms.
Eleven chirpy little debs made their
graceful sidewise curtsey to the
Governor-General at the Lady Mayoress’s
Ball. Their bouquets were the prettiest
ever, pink and white hyacinths with
narcissi, the matron-of-honor, Mrs. W. K.
Tapp, including also a couple of pale
orchids. The stage of the Town Hall
was completely covered with flowers,
leaving room only for the orchestra to
repose among the blossom. In front of
the stage azaleas were massed around a
floodlit fountain. Amethyst was a
popular color in the official party, being
worn by both the Lady Mayoress and
Mrs. J, McGirr. Betty McKell’s floral
chiffon was swathed with a huge cyclamen
sash. A rare French brocade, cream with
silver lilies, set off Mrs. C. M. Guiney’s
hair and sparkling blue eyes. The
Countess Pietrasanta Sauvaigue wore white
chiffon lushly embroidered with scintil-
lating gunmetal beads. Among the debs,
who were partnered by young officers
from Artillery, Engineers and Signals,
June Read’s dress was especially eye-
catching. Embossed organdie over palest
pink, it had a demure bodice with sleeves
and Peter Pan collar, the wide-sweeping
skirt being sprinkled with flowers hand-
made from the same pink-lined material.
The debutantes were conspicuously self-
possessed, not a trembling bouquet
among them.
Cocktail-party with a difference was
given at the Hotel Australia for the
winners of the Mobil Quest, when the
guests were treated to songs by the
finalists. First-place in the quest (there
were 11,000 contestants) was Joan Suther-
land, who has given concerts in many
country towns in N.S.W. and Victoria.
Her teacher for four years was Aida
Summers, who now lives at Tamworth.
The only other girl in the finals was
Maureen Boyce, from Melbourne.
Married just one year, Maureen sets off
for England shortly with her husband,
tenor John Tilbrook. Mrs. T. R. Bell,
who received the guests with her husband,
wore black with a pretty hat of heaven-
blue. Noted also were Mrs. A. W.
Morphy’s cute red hat, Mrs. Frank
Finnan’s super-droopy navy one, and the
dramatic glasses worn by Margaret
Finnan to match her red beret.
The presentation of debs to Air-
Marshal R. Williams at the Air Force
Ball was a neatly spectacular affair. The
Air Force types who partnered the girls
(32 in all and pretty as a snowdrift) also
took part in the tableau after the waltz,
forming the letters R.A.A.F. There was
wide variety in the debs’ dresses, one of
the most fetching being worn with a little
organdie cape. Kay Thorneley’s lace dress
had long sleeves—very stately. Barbara
Clark needed no wings to float in her
tulle caught up with daisies. Pamela
Luck wore the only ballerina-length dress
•—organdie with a Medici collar, high,
wide and handsome to frame her
vivacious face. Pamela’s papa, Squadron-
Leader' Victor Luck, who was also enter-
taining in honor of his wife’s birthday,
brought off the hat-trick wiffi a prize for
his table, cleverly decorated as a
glamorised p.-0.-w. camp. First-prize
in this department went to matron-of-
honor Mrs, R. J. Kelly, charming in
patina-green crinkle taffeta. President of
the association, Group-Captain John
Waddy, and Mrs. Waddy were the chief
welcomers to the party. Mrs. W. J.
Duncan wore the luscious Chinese coat
she brought back from the East.
The following night the Troc. had
several hundred doctors in the house
when the Medical Ball was held amid
great joy and jollity. The dressing was
enough to make one as green-eyed as
the butterfly on Mrs. Tom Bateman’s
dress. This butterfly, with its cabuchon
eyes and gold-beaded wings against the
daffodil lace of the dress, had the Bate-
man youngsters enraptured before the
ball, although Edmund thought its shape
wasn’t true to nature. Professor Dew
did the honors, quite happy about the
caricature of him that was one of the
chief decorations. The fourth-year med.
students have apparently studied hard at
square-dancing —their exhibition was full
of elan. Betty Larke, who organised the
dance, changed from her dirndl later to
a nylon dress, honey-green like a
cymbidium orchid. It would be too
hard to choose among the many really
beautiful dresses worn. The younger-set
present included Judith Greenaway, in a
short metal-green dress with a high collar
and a bare back. Jan Crossing looked
lovely in white guipure lace and
marquisette. Everyone,, as some cynic
remarked, was dressed to kill.
Having drawn to himself a permanent
Virgil Girl, artist Virgil Reilly had his
new wife, Anne, meet a group of his
friends at a King’s Cross hostelry last
week. They included war correspondents
(Virgil was with the British and American
navies in the Pacific), naval men, doctors
and a couple from Canada. As for the
bride, she is best described by saying that
she’s her husband’s model.
The photogenic Muriel Steinbeck plays
Portia in the current “Merchant of
Venice” at St. James’s Hall. This part is
one of Miss Steinbeck’s earliest loves, and
she gives to it an unusual quality,
emphasising the vigor of Portia in the
Court scene and her aristocratic quality
in the earlier parts. The dresses she wears
in the play are rich and rare. Muriel
Steinbeck is very well-known on stage,
radio and films (she was Lady Kingsford
Smith in the film on the life of the great
Australian airman). This Shakspearian
season by the John Alden Company is a
boon to Sydney theatregoers. Soon the
seldom-seen “Measure for Measure”
will be shown and then the great tragedy
“King Lear,” with John Alden as Lear.
Montgomery Dunn photo.
Thousands of people flocked to the
Red Cross Flower Festival, held in the
Domain this week all in blue, unclouded
weather. The most striking flowers were,
curiously enough, those which receive
the most care and those which receive the
least. The orchids were breathtaking,
translucent, confident, exact in their
beauty, but the wildflowers from all parts
of Australia excited the imagination just
as much. The prize-winning cattleya
orchid, shown by L. Sasso, was an
ethereal thing, its delicate color scarcely
tinging the exquisite petals. The wild-
flower display from Gosford could have
held one entranced for a whole after-
noon.
There were many unusual varieties
shown, all marked with their botanic
names, which are hard to remember by
one who knows wildflowers only by such
names as “bacon-and-eggs” and “old-
man’s-beard.” The sharp yet sweet scent
of these flowers was intoxicating, at any
rate to an Australian. No doubt the
heather flown from Scotland would pro-
duce the same effect on some stern wild
Caledonian. For the rest of the festival
the interior decorations were interesting
(including a mad one called “the naked
and the dead”), the daffodils and sweet-
pea in the competitive section were dis-
appointing, and the Devonshire garden,
arranged by Mrs. Allan Williams, of
Werrington, was as pretty and fresh as
the Mrs. Miniver who should have been
walking in it.
Gilbert and Sullivan is in the air, with
“lolanthe” coming to the Empire
on Friday, the Rev. T. A. Walsh
addressing the English-Speaking Union
on the subject, and Mrs. Carty Salmon’s
book Stories of the Savoy Operas just
about ready to spring from the publisher’s
hands. Rev, Father Walsh told the audi-
ence at the E.-S.U. that Gilbert lost favor
completely with Queen Victoria after he
produced “lolanthe,” in which he made
fun of the English peerage. Thereafter
he was never mentioned at Court, and
when a command performance of one of
the operas was given at Windsor for the
Queen his name was omitted from the
silk programme which was printed. He
was a meticulous producer, insisting that
every gesture, intonation and interpreta-
tion be precisely as he ordained it. This
is why G. and S. productions always
follow such conventional lines. What we
see at the Empire today reproduces
Gilbert’s stage-managership of 70 years
agOr Mrs. Carty Salmon’s book was
written some years ago, and is now being
republished with additions. It should be
excellent for children who are just being
introduced to Gilbert and Sullivan, and
will probably be used as a textbook in the
high schools.
From Melbourne
The simple, clean-edged fashions that
are coming in for ’teen-agers were
beautifully expressed in the Mam’selle
fashion-parade held at George’s. Frocks
to be worn at any time, even dancing
frocks, are shorter than last summer
styles. The three-purpose frock was
admirably featured in blue linen
fashioned with a wide flared skirt and a
halter neckline of heavy blue guipure
lace; motifs of this lace were also scat-
tered over the skirt. This outfit combines
beach-, town- and semi-informal evening-
frock, and they involve the minimum
of juggling of the separate items.
Pastel-toned sheers, organdies and un-
usual striped satins made afternoon
frocks and evening gowns; less
conventional (but which should prove
popular) was a tunic-frock of black linen
carrying straw motifs appliqued around
the hem and on the skirt. Highlight of
the parade was an exhibition of the
American square-dance. Participants
wore frocks of cotton, gingham or seer-
sucker which had bouffant skirts, with a
wide front panel simulating an apron,
and off-the-shoulder bodices finished with
wide bertha frills.
Rhoda Taylor, formerly public-rela-
tions officer with the women’s group
of the Australian-American Association,
was guest-of-honor at an afternoon-tea
party at Scott’s Hotel. Rhoda, who will
marry next month, wore a steel-grey
tailored frock and rust-toned felt cloche
hat. Her successor, Mrs. T. R. Spensley,
added a pastel-pink, wide-brimmed hat
to her black tailored suit. Mrs. Donald
Campbell, who made the presentation to
the guest-of-honor, was in black jacket-
suit and a beige hat. Mrs. Charles
Norton’s ensemble was in cinnamon-
brown tonings. Geraldine le May
sported a tiny black velvet cap with her
black frock. Mrs. Pat Hamilton offset
her azure-blue suit with a pale-cyclamen
straw hat. Mrs. Ted Doyle’s beige outfit
carried a matching hat.
Lola Sweeney has the coveted ingenue
role of Bella in J.C.W.’s new show,
“Worm’s Eye View,” which opens at the
Comedy next Saturday. This will be the
Sydney-born actress’s first appearance in
Melbourne. Lola first faced the foot-
lights as one of the children in “White
Horse Inn,” having learned to dance from
Jennie Brenan and Alic.e Parkes. Then
she became the ingenue of Sydney’s
Minerva, playing in “Pride and Pre-
judice,” “The Giaconda Smile” and in
“Dream Girl” with June Clyde. Photo
by John Hearder (Sydney).
Joan Cain, daughter of the ex-Premier
and Mrs. Cain, designed the hats shown
at Menzies’s in aid of the Naval
Memorial Chapel funds. The mannequins
were Bambi Shmith, Pam Holland,
Evelyn Wallace Mitchell, Marjorie Spry
and Carol Griffith. Hostesses were Mrs.
H J. Buchanan, wife of Commodore
Buchanan, and Mrs. Wallace Mitchell.
Mrs. Buchanan’s ensemble was in dusty-
pink angora. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell was
in black, with a small white cxochet cap
finished with tiny white feathers. Co-
helpers were Mesdames Eric Cottrell and
Royden Honeyman. Mrs. Ken Luke’s
wide-brimmed hat was of flamingo-pink
velvet, ruched underneath in matching
chiffon, one large chou of chiffon being
used for trimming. Mrs. Bill Mc-
Dermott’s black Persian-lamb coat had
for company a small black hat finished
with turquoise-blue feathers. Mrs.
Norman Lynch wore a mink coat and
plume-adorned small black hat. Mrs. S.
Aarons, who is organising a card-party
at Chevron for the Naval Memorial
Chapel funds, covered her black frock
with a dyed-ermine coat. Mrs. Edward
Campbell’s suit was junior-navy, her felt
hat pale-pink. Margot Cornaga’s grey
tent-coat had a shawl collar of black-
and-white-check taffeta.
The hats were large and small and
made in all types of straw, felt and gros-
grain. A brown polished straw-boater
was banded with brown-and-white
ribbon, and on the brim sprigs of white
lilac were featured. A smart little hat
for the young.girl was a white pique
with a tiny brim; trimming comprised
hand-embroidered initials in green. A
large Leghorn hat had a trail of red carna-
tions starting high on the crown and
finishing on the edge of the brim. A
wide-brimmed pale-lilac straw hat was
caught up at the back with matching
roses. The boater was the most
popular hat shown, and was seen in all
sizes from the tiny brim to one almost of
cartwheel size. In all cases it was worn
straight on the head, and trimming in-
cluded ribbons, flowers and the spotted
face-veil.
Swjsglo is a type of jersey new to
this country. The yarn is made in Eng-
land from Australian wool; it is dyed in
Scotland and comes to St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.) to be knitted into cloth. This
jersey is guaranteed not to stretch or sag.
As well as the basic shades, there are
diagonal stripes and fine checks. This
was the highlight of a recent fashion-
show. Suits range from the semi-tailored,
with firm extended shoulders and long
jackets, to casual styles with smart boleros
and box-jackets. One lovely frock was
made with a semi-flared skirt, tight-
fitting bodice in a charming Juniper-
green. The popular touch of white was
expressed in the double collar and large
white cuffs. One smart suit in the new
creamy-brown shade had pockets and
collar of black Persian-lamb. The fabric
was seen to perfection in frocks for after-
noon wear. In one slim black frock,
with a high Medici collar, gold buttons
gave diagonal fastenings on the bodice
and skirt. The color combinations in
stripes were most effective. There was a
soft muted shade called burn-blue, and it
combined with lime, rose and powder-
blue. Pink and grey were also allied to
make smart stripes and checks. These
color combinations in stripes and checks
gave the illusion of tweed.
Lady Brookes, back home after seeing
with her husband Wimbledon and the
Davis Cup matches, found the food situ-
ation in* England better than it was when
she was there two years ago. While in
London she visited the Elizabeth Garrett
Anderson Hospital, the first in the Empire
to be staffed and run by women, and
watched Princess Marie Louise distribute
parcels of food sent from the Queen
Victoria Hospital, of which Lady Brookes
is president. While in New York she
visited the New York Infirmary, which is
also run entirely by women and which
has a splendidly-equipped radiology de-
partment. Lady Brookes says women in
Hollywood still go hatless, and skirts,
like hair, are shorter.
Daffodils, sweet-peas and ferns trans-
formed the staff-corps mess at Victoria
Barracks headuarters for the At Home
given by the president. Col. P. E. Grant,
and committee. There were more than
200 guests at the party. Mrs. Grant
assisted her husband receive the guests
in a gown of black French crepe; her
hat was a draped crown of dusty-pink
grosgrain on an upturned brim of sea-
green velour. With Major-General W.
Bridgeford was his wife? who added to
her black broderie Anglaise frock a
winter-white hat which carried large
French-silk roses in blue and pink tonings.
Mrs. L, E. Beavis, wife of Col. Beavis,
contrasted her black ensemble with a
small hat, in which ciel-blue velvet ribbon
was featured. Col. E. G. McNamara was
accompanied by his wife, whose frock
was of black taffeta and her Juliet cap
of black felt.
St. Catherine’s Parents’ Association
garnered funds for the school with a
dinner-dance at Claridge’s, organised by
Peter Andrews ; Mesdames Bill Gluth and
Allen Durand sold leis. Among the
dancers were Mrs. Leo Guest, in daisy-
scattered black tulle; Mrs. Mel Jeffries,
wearing a frothy white tulle skirt and red
velvet top; Mrs. Geoff Cohen, her gown
of grey satin brocade; Mrs. Jim Camp-
bell, in soft blue and silver tulle; Mrs.
Constance Day, Chartreuse her satin
gown; and Mrs. C. Newton, midnight-
blue taffetas her choice. The dinner-
dance was a curtain-raiser to the fair
which the Parents’ Association will hold
early next month in the grounds of St.
Catherine’s School, Toorak.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
EY
0
0
br/I
PERSONAL ITEMS
Edward Herbert Hudson, Victoria’s
newest Supreme Court judge, indicated
his calibre early by carrying off the
Supreme Court Judges’ prize in 1921. At
40 ho was a leader of the Equity Bar,
and, in 1942, was picked by Air Minister
Drakeford to be Judge-Advocate-General
to the vastly-expanding R.A.A.F., With
rank of group-captain. His job there was
to examine all proceedings of courts-
martial with a view to eliminating errors
in law and procedure and possible mis-
carriages of justice. Talking silk in 1939,
he left the Air Force in 1946 to build up
one of the largest practices in Melbourne,
in between captaining the Riversdale Golf
Club and a cunning trout-rod. His son,
Dr. Brian Hudson, took final honors in
medicine and surgery at Melbourne Uni-
versity with him to England, where he’s
now post-graduating.
“S.”: Since by some freak of circum-
stances I have followed in Lachie
McDonald’s footsteps for 20 years I shall
walk very warily if any trucks of Koreans
come hurtling down George-street; for
that’s what Lachie, with some other war
correspondents in a jeep on the Kimpo
airport road, has lately been bumping up
against, injuring his head and leg. My
first memory of him goes back to the box-
ing championships at New Plymouth
Boys’ High School in New Zealand,
where I can still see him, blind with fury
and gore, battering some rash opponent
who had banged him on the nose. He
was just ahead of me at the Hawera
office of the Taranaki “Daily News” ;
then, after Melbourne “Star” faded out,
I met him again freelancing in Melbourne
—I think he was doing radio-advertising
for some boot people, and he got me a
job as a yachting reporter, assuring me
that my total ignorance of yachting was
no handicap ; which, in fact, it wasn’t.
He was one jump ahead of me on to the
staff of The Bulletin —he was the Mel-
bourne rep. for a while' and also did
“The Long White Cloud” page of New
Zealand pars we used to run —and then he
became Australian correspondent for
London “Daily Mail” ; a job which has
kept him chasing big and little wars in
the Pacific ever since.
“Fitz”: One of the Australian U.N.O. fifth-
session delegation at Lake Success, Bishop Eris
O’Brien is a prelate of broad versatility and
diverse culture, who has labored in more fields
than falls to the lot of most men. Appointed,
in 1948, Roman Catholic Auxiliary Bishop to
Cardinal Gilroy, he is known by fellow-priests,
intimates and parishioners as a sympathetic,
tireless and plain-speaking pastor with a capacity
to orientate himself to the outlook and require-
ments of the endless cross-section of people in
whose interests he labors. He has a command-
ing appearance and great charm of manner;
as a preacher he speaks with simplicity .and
intelligence, but also with warmth and affection.
Born r ss years ago, at Condobolin (N.S.W.),
and educated at St. Aloysius’ College, North
Sydney, and St. Patrick’s College, Manly, Bishop
O’Brien was ordained in 1918 and was parish
priest at Neutral Bay when he was elevated
to the bishopric. Formerly he was professor
at Ecclesiastical Colleges of Sydney, Doctor of
Social and Political Science at Louvain Univer-
sity, Belgium, and lecturer in modern history
at St. John’s College, Sydney University. First
and foremost a priest, he has outside his
ministry achieved high distinction in the literary
and academic world. One of Australia’s leading
historians, he and The Bulletin’s Malcolm
Ellis are the only two Australians who are
Fellows of both the Royal Australian Historical
Society and the Royal Historical Society. When
it reviewed his The Foundation of Australia
(1937) The Bulletin said that “he can now
be regarded as a worthy successor to the late
Professor G. A. Wood,” and went on to say
that, like Wood, he had “the same
indefatigable pursuance of the fact to its
origin; the same measured evaluation of related
facts; the same judicial appraisal of probable
motive.” Bishop O’Brien has the same strong
affection for Governor Macquarie as has Ellis,
and has frequently indicated it on paper. When
Ellis’s life of Macquarie saw print two years
ago The Bulietin commissioned Bishop
* O’Brien to review the book. His other publica-
tions include Foundation of Catholicism in
Australia (1922), Dawn of Catholicism in Aus-
tralia (1928) and The Hostage (1928), a miracle-
play in three acts. He has ahead a study of
Cardinal Moran, research for which has been
completed, but writing prevented so far by
pressure of other duties.
New second-chief of N.S.W. Country
party, Roy Vincent has represented
Raleigh (N.S.W.) in the Assembly for
the past 28 years. Born at Uralla 58
years ago, he’s been C.P. Whip and
secretary, and, for nine years from 1932,
Minister for Mines and Forests. He
fishes.
Sir Herbert Gepp, whose work in con-
nection with Australian Paper Manufac-
turers has been recently mentioned in
The Bulletin, made his most important
contribution to the Australian economy
during 1916-26 as general manager of
the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia,
which, when he became chairman of the.
Development and Migration Commission
in 1926, was producing 125 tons of high-
grade zinc daily. It is now turning out
about 250 tons daily.
“J.J.H.” farewells a sheepman:
Passed on in Boston (U.S.), Fred J. Graham,
one of the most unassuming figures in Aus-
tralian pastoral life, yet one of its best-known
and best-liked identities. Thirty years ago he
took over the management of Bongongo, and
completed the transformation of wild, scrubby
hill-country up above Coolac and Tumut, com-
menced by his father at the end of last century,
into one of the show properties of -N.S.W.
Today the pastures of Bongongo stretch from
the high hills behind" Canberra to the Murrum-
bidgee near famous Darbalara and carry 30,000
sheep and one of the largest Aberdeen-Angus
herds in Australia. As a judge of cattle —
particularly fats —Fred built up a reputation
throughout Australia and had officiated at every
big show in the country. Until the onset of
his first and last illness he gave much of his
time to public life as a councillor of the
Graziers’ Association, member of the central
executive of the P.P. Boards and chairman of
Gundagai Board for many years, besides a
lifetime association with the Aberdeen Angus
Society and countless other activities. In spite
of the rough nature of the country he kept
Bongongo free of rabbits, and “rabbit-farmers’ ”
excuses cut little ice with him. A number of
our modern vaccines and animal-health remedies
stem from work carried out by pioneer
veterinarians on Bongongo.
Mcßeath drew this genial dial while its
owner, Percy Page, in company with 86-
odd thousand other enthusiasts, was pre-
paring for the culminating clash of Mel-
bourne’s two top League teams last
Saturday. For years one of the leading
figures on the organising side of the game,
Page originated the system bearing his
name which controls the playing of finals
and is now used just about universally
by football organisations throughout the
Commonwealth. A 3rd Division sig. in
FOOTBALL.
War I, Page collected M.M- before return-
ing to the secretaryship of the Richmond
Tigers, a post he held for seven years;
then, secretary of the Melbourne Demons
till 1941, when War II claimed his
attention. After four years with the
R.A.A.F. h§ came out squadron-leader.
Life-member of the Melbourne and Rich-
mond clubs, and of the Victorian Foot-
ball League, his business activities in-
clude directorship of at least three pros-
perous concerns, and, naturally, writing
for Melbourne sheets about his game.
Victorian-gone-Queenslander, George
Healy, here presented, Brisbane’s fire-
brigade chief. The youngest of his breed
in Australia, Healy’s most important War
II job was to visit all his State’s coastal
cities for the Defence Department,
organising fire-fighting to handle possible
air and sea bombardments. His reports,
models of clarity, will be the basis of
future fire-protection should the need
arise. He plays with fire out of office, too
: —hailing from Victoria, he naturally
follows the southern brand of football, is
president of the code in Queensland, and
FIRE.
is battling hard lo breach and enter the
Rugby stronghold with his Aussie Rules,
helped in his efforts by first-class debat-
ing qualities, which he whets on Brisbane
debating rostrums. He bowls as well, and
is a member of the council of the
Queensland Bowling Association.
“Macnell”: Shifting from command of
Britain’s Reserve Fleet to command of
the very-much-on-the-active-list Far East
Station flotillas, Vice-Admiral Guy
Russell, D. 5.0., R.N. At Gallipoli and
Jutland in the Kaiser’s bid, Russell later
saw service on most of his Navy’s far-
flung stations, from the Black Sea to East
Africa and China, and when Hitler broke
loose was in command of the aptly-
named H.M.S. Protector, a queer-bowed
3000-tonner whose laborious job was to
lay a barrage of anti-submarine and
torpedo-nets round the Fleet she was pro-
tecting. When the Fleet moved on, Pro-
tector reaped what she’d sowed and
followed it. His next command was some-
what different —Sin. cruiser Cumberland,
the 32-knotter who waited outside the
Plate for the Graf Spec. Then, battleship
Nelson, and, finally, the vast Duke of
York, her harsh beauty sheathed at the
waterline with 16in. armor-plate and
mounting 10 14in. high-velocity guns.
These teeth Russell sank with a six-mile
bite into the German Scharnhbrst in the
North' Sea in 1944. He had a spot of
shore-time in War 11, Chief of Staff to
Lord Gort at Gibraltar and Malta, and
was boss of the famed 2nd Cruiser
Squadron for a year till 1949. In the
East he relieves Admiral Sir Patrick
(“Daddy”) Brind.
J, N. Greenland, an Old Anzac and
managing-director of the N.Z. Union
Steamship Co. in Wellington, retires at
the end of the month. There is very little
be doesn’t know about his co., hav-
ing joined it in 1902 and served therein
ever since, with a break on Gallipoli and
in Palestine with the Wellington Mounted
Rifles, which ended with invaliding home.
Assistant g.-m. in 1936, it took him six
months to reach the managership. Well-
and widely-known in Tasman shipping
circles, he’s been managing-director for
five years* and has worked particularly
hard for the Union. M. B. Miller, also
Old Anzac, with 42 years in the company,
takes the bridge.
South Australia’s new R.S.L. secretary,
F. U. Hall, has earned’ his badge. In
War I he had over four years in the
Middle East and France with the
A.A.M.C., sergeant; in the next war
four years overseas with the R.A.A.F.,
flight-lieutenant. When not secretarying
he’s an inspector with the railways’
accounts branch.
An institution almost as solid as Mel-
bourne Show itself is Louis Monod.
This is his 19th year as secretary of the
vast organisation, and it finds him as im-
perturbable as ever. The reason being
that, as the avalanche of goats, dogs,
palominos, Clydesdales, shorthorns and
giant mangelwurzels pours in, he has been
thinking about it ever since the last Show
and is probably already thinking about
the next one. If there’s a show question
to which he doesn’t know the answer it
can’t be found in books. The improve-
ment of British breeds of dairy-cattle,
sheep and draughts has always been his
ruling passion since he left a firm of
timber-merchants to join the R.A.S. as a
junior clerk in 1912. As well as running
the Show he has sponsored scores of out-
side organisations and is secretary of 12
Victorian branches and the same number
of societies for improving the breed of
dogs, pigs and horses, edits the Shorthorn
Stud Book, and in collaboration with Lt.-
Colonel Ewen T. Campbell has com-
posed the Draught Horse Stud Book of
Australia. He is 58. His wife looks after
the Country Women’s Associations.
“C.R.C.”: Gone to his last mustering,
Westralia’s great cattleman, Michael
Patrick Durack, in whose 85 years was
enacted the saga of north Australian
cattle-raising, from long overland drives
through unmapped country to the era of
air-borne beef. Durack started over-
landing as a two-year-old with his mother
in a covered wagon from Goulburn
(N.S.W.) to join his father on what is
now Thylungra station, in the Cooper’s
Creek country. West Queensland —last
May Durack sold one of his properties,
Argyle station, to an English syndicate
for £260,000. With Thylungra stocked,
the Durack brothers started with 4000
head in 1882 to stock land at the head
of the Ord River in the east Kimberleys.
They arrived two years and eight months
later with more than half their cattle.
From then on it was constant droving,
probing, opening new land. Durack
drove the first draft of bullocks from
Argyle to Wyndham; in 1891 another
first-draft of 160 through country un-
crossed by white men to Fountain Head,
then a siding on the Darwin-Pine Creek
railway ; and, in 1893, the first draft west
to Derby for shipment to Fremantle. In
1917 the cattleman had a shot at poli-
tics, was elected M.L.A. for Kimberley,
tried again in 1921, was cured and re-
turned to his pastures. White-haired,
white-bearded, lean arid hawk-nosed and
a fine horseman right to the end, he was
the father of Mary and Elizabeth Durack,
the writers and illustrators of Binghi
books. One of them, Allabout, was pub-
lished by The Bulletin and hailed as a
classic by “S. M. Herald.”
Into the Silence: —■
In Dunedin (M.L.), the Rev. W. A. Stevely,
a Scot who studied in Glasgow and gained a
diploma of education at Melbourne University
for his work among youth. He left St.
George’s, East St. Kilda, 20 years ago for
First Church, Dunedin, one of the most
important Presbyterian conventicles in M.L.
In Melbourne, at 87, Edward Elliott Roberts,
for 15 years general-secretary of the Country
party. Mayor of Essendon (Vic.) and president
of the Australian Natives’ Association at the
time of Federation. , _ _ , ,
In Auckland (M.L.), at 94, J. G. Garland,
one-time Legislative Councillor and an authority
on bird-life, particularly of the godwits and
their epic annual flight from Maonland to
Siberia. A native of Shropshire (Eng.), he
landed in M.L. in 1860, took on farming, and
later land-valuating, in Auckland.
In Canberra, at 84, Lt.-Colonel John Thomas
Goodwin, one-time Commonwealth Surveyor-
General, whose pegs were laid out on many
extensive surveys in Victoria and Westraha,
Probably as much responsible as any man tor
Canberra’s growth, he was officer-m-charge ot
the Territory’s administration for nine years
from 1916, and became chairman of the Can-
berra Advisory Council in 1936.
At 76, in Melbourne, William John Proctor,
for 30 years managing-director of Dunlop
Rubber and nephew of the company’s founder.
One of Victoria’s earliest motorists, he was
an avid cyclist as well, and founded the
Warrnambool-Melbourne bike-race.
In Maoriland, two mayors—Mayor Hanan
of Timaru and Abraham Wachner of Inver-
cargill. Hanan had something of the Yankee
booster in the way he placed the South Canter-
bury capital on the map; a brother represents
Invercargill in the Representatives. Wachner,
born in Sydney 58 years ago, belonged to St.
George’s Regiment of that city, and was at
Gallipoli with Maoriland’s forces in the held
ambulance, where he was wounded. He had
been Invercargill’s First Citizen for eight years.


A.D. KAY
Writes a Memoir
I LEFT Sydney for England on May 9,
1933, and returned to Australia on
May 9, 1949; 16 years away from
my native land exactly to the date, if
not the day.
Before leaving Australia I had been an
Independent member for North Shore
in the State Parliament. That was in
1925.
My campaign for Parliament was a
whirlwind one. I hadn’t much time, so
I had to make it spectacular and lively
from the start to the finish.
My campaign-director complained that
I talked no politics and gave no policy.
I replied “Time is too short. What I
have to do is to get the electors asking
‘Who is Kay?’ ‘Where is Kay?’ ‘What
is Kay?’ ‘What does he stand for?’ By
the time they find out I’ll be in.”
So it proved. I was swept into Par-
liament on a wave of interest in a novel
candidate and campaign, which did not
subside into calm reflection till well after
the poll was declared.
The Bulletin of that time, in fore-
casting and commenting on the cam-
paign, said that “Kay will be swept into
Macquarie-street on a flood of talk.”
“Country Life,” reviewing the election
and mentioning the fact that another
candidate, with myself, had also been
elected for the constituency (which re-
turned five members), said any constitu-
ency which returned either of us was
pretty hopeless, but a constituency that
returned both of us, as North Shore had
done, was beyond redemption. It went
on to explain, in vivid phraseology, that
I had ably and capably “put Kay over,”
which, it asserted, was the only issue I
had any knowledge of.
I entered an Assembly almost equally
divided, and I was consequently more
important than I should have been. Each
side depended on my vote, which, I trust,
I gave impartially and according to my
convictions. The system then prevailing
for the N. S. Wales elections was propor-
tional-representation, and under it the
Independent candidate has a much better
chance than in the system of single seats
which ordinarily applies.
John T. Lang was Premier, and times
were hectic —I was the subject of much
controversy, as my vote counted in a
vital sense. I was not aware when I gave
it to the Government on Sir George
Fuller’s motion of censure that I
determined my successor should I resign
or die. Otherwise I would not have
voted as I did.
Under proportional - representation
there were no by-elections: any vacancy
caused by death, resignation, etc., of a
member was filled by the party for which
the late member voted on a censure
motion. As I had voted for Lang on
such a division, my successor had to be
a member of the Labor party. As I have
said, I was not aware of this when I gave
my vote.
In the course of the session the Par-
liament reverted to the system of the
single seats, and I knew my chances of
re-election would be pretty slender when
the next election came round. I was at
that time, and had been previously for
some considerable period, conducting a
nation-wide campaign against the I.W.W.
movement, a dangerous and extreme
body of doctrinaires.
Domain Meetings
Our main meeting against them was
held in Sydney Domain, although we also
spoke in Martin-place (before the Ceno-
taph was there) and in Macquarie-
place. The Domain, however, was the
great centre of public assembly every
Sunday afternoon, and our crowd grew
from the initial gathering of a few faith-
ful followers and many interjectors to
a great concourse of citizens, numbering
three or four thousand every Sunday,
and the interrupters reduced to a nucleus,
which we nurtured and preserved as the
salt which provided the savor to the
main matter of our exhortations.
We urged the importance of the indi-
vidual, the value of private enterprise as
against too much, and at times any,
State interference. We preached suc-
cess, not failure ; co-operation, not class-
war. The interjections, questions and
answers, however, were the main attrac-
tion for the crowd on a Sunday after-
noon, which desired to be amused, and.
If to be informed, required the infor-
mation without a heavy hand.
The result of our efforts in the
Domain was to relegate the I.W.W. meet-
ings, which once held pre-eminence, to
gatherings of faithful followers number-
ing no more than a dozen or so.
I was, let me repeat, concerned about
my political future owing to the change
in the system of voting, and I had re-
solved on a certain course when Lang,
the Premier, unexpectedly offered me a
seat on the Metropolitan Meat Industry
Board (then in the course of reconstruc-
tion) at a salary of £l5OO a year—with
income tax then about a shilling in the
pound.
This was indeed a temptation in the
wilderness, a way out, security for five
years at least (the term of the appoint-
ment). I twice refused the offer, and
finally accepted.
Then political Hades was let loose. I
was the subject of cartoon, caption and
columns of unflattering reference to my-
self, as well as personal denunciation
from all platforms. I wondered at the
storm, though I weathered it.
The Meat Board
The reason of the outcry was not that
I accepted the offer but that my accept-
ance, requiring my resignation from Par-
liament; had created a vacancy which
was filled by a member of the Govern-
ment party through my vote on the cen-
sure motion mentioned previously. I was
charged from all angles with having
plotted and planned to bring about this
very result, when, as a matter of fact,
to say the worst of me, I had only been
a fool to myself by resigning from Par-
liament and interrupting a career which,
in the light of the wisdom after the event,
would have been useful publicly and
beneficial personally. However, I was
a necessary member of the Meat Board
under the able chairmanship of Mr,
Cramsie, with the valuable experience
and assistance of my colleague, Mr.
Osborne.
But I was not allowed to last long in
helping to give the public good meat. I
was made an election issue, and “Re-
move Kay from the Meat Board!” was
the main battle-cry of the party under
Mr. Bavin. The electors endorsed his
policy by a great majority, and I knew
my hour was at hand.
At the first term of the new Parlia-
ment a bill was introduced to “Remove
Alick Dudley Kay, Esq., from his office
as member of the Metropolitan Meat
Industry Board,” etc. It was done, and
without compensation. The word
“Esquire,” however, is interesting, for by
its incorporation in an official document
I am the only person legally entitled to
use the word after my name. The
Press at the time called attention to the
fact* and suggested a coat-of-arms,
though not too flatteringly,
I petitioned the King against my re-
moval from office —a breach of contract
by the State. I was, I believe, the first
individual who had ever petitioned the
Monarch for redress, and officialdom had
to accept my arrangements as to how
the petition was to be presented. It was
done by myself personally giving it to
the then Governor, Sir Dudley de Chair,
who came down specially from Sutton
Forest to receive if. The simple cere-
mony brought quite an array of Press
and cameramen.
The King officially “turned me down”
in a letter I received from the Dominions
Secretary which stated that “on the ad-
vice of his Ministers the Sovereign had
not been pleased to move in the matter.”
I was sorry for this, but accepted the
position. I could do no other, and the
King could do no wrong.
After my removal Lang said:
“When I return to power I’ll put you back
on the board.” He kept his word when
he came back to office. But, the Stevdns
Government succeeding him, it recon-
stituted the control of the meat industry,
gave all members of the board compensa-
tion and left me free to go to England,
which I had long planned to do.
The Trip to England
The ship I sailed on in May, 1933, was
the Baradine, going via Suez, We formed
a Parliament on board and created the
“State of Baradine,” with the captain , as
Governor. The Parliament was opened
and closed every evening by “his Ex-
cellency” in full uniform, with short-
sword at side (not drawn), and had its
Prime Minister and Cabinet, Leader of
the Opposition, Speaker and other
officials. Members consisted of all the
passengers, who either listened to, or took
part in, the debate on the subject before
the “House.”
My first sight of England was Ply-
mouth Hoe, standing against the skyline,
and on it some sheep grazing, all per-
fectly still in the clear, bright morning
air and looking just like a picture-post-
card.
As we drew nearer and the outlines
became clearer I felt as if I were coming
home (although I had never been there
in my life before), and a feeling of home-
sickness momentarily affected me. I
wondered at it, for I had never been
given to sentiment; I looked at my fel-
low-passengers in the bow of the ship
with me and noticed that some had tears
in their eyes. They were coming home
to what they knew and belonged to. I,
too, felt that X was contacting a sort
of familiar past, a past of which I was
not consciously aware, but a past which
somehow was mine, and of which I was
a product. I could only explain it by
realising that this land was the source
and centre of the life and liberty which
British people enjoyed, and which had
blessed many other parts of the world as
well.
I did not land at Plymouth, but went
round with the ship to King George V
Dock, and then by train to London and
Liverpool-street station. Getting a taxi
to Russell-square I gave the driver the
astounding tip, then, of half a crown. It
was ordinarily sixpence; that was, of
course, in 1933 of blessed memory.
The hotel I stopped at was comfort-
able, and, in the light of today’s charges,
cheap, at 7s. 6d. bed and breakfast.
London
On my first morning in London I
caught a bus to Buckingham Palace to
see the changing of the Guard. It was a
A “Bulletin” writer in the issue of May
31, 1950, said: “A. D. Kay, the queer
fellow who became an M.L.A. and after,
wards chairman k>( the. Meat Board,
said once to a hectoring Sydney Domain
crowd, 'You always want a revolution
after a bad day at the races.’ ” The
article on this page is by the same A. D.
Kay, who, after a stormy political
career in N. S. Wales, left Australia and
stayed away for 16 years.
colorful and thrilling pageant. Only a
pageant, a show, I momentarily thought,
but something more, I realised, as are
all the other pageants and ceremonies
which are now normally a part of the
British way of life. The changing of the
Guard was a link in the chain of Empire.
I felt always at home wherever I went
in London. I relaxed in spirit to an
ancient past, connected without a break
to the animated present, and I felt a
continuity and permanence of per-
sonality which was very balancing and
satisfying. The past and the present had
met in me in London, and the future
was already becoming the past as the
days went on. Only in London did I get
that sense of timelessness and that
eternity of the present. I believe every-
one in Britain has a personality similar
to that which I experienced for the first
time, but they are not aware of it, as they
are the normal product of their circum-
stances and environment, whereas I, a
stranger, was conscious of it and became
part of it for the first time, arriving, as
I did, from a country young in history.
I believe the reason that the British
people were able to adjust themselves so
heroically and enduringly to World War
IPs dire circumstance was that they were
the normal product of a very strenuous
existence. Like the oak-tree, they were
strengthened by the storm.
When I first got to England I thought
of the idea of going to Russia. I called
on the Russian Ambassador, then Mr.
Maisky. I saw only his attache, an able
and handsome-looking Russian —dark,
flashing eyes and most polite. I expressed
my desire to visit Russia in order that I
might tell Australians what my impres-
sions were. He said there was nothing
to stop me going to Russia, but I could
not go under Russian Government spon-
soring or expense.
He added that I could go via “In-
tourist,” a Soviet travel-agency with
offices in London ; before I left he asked
me how Communism in Australia was
getting on. As the year then was 1933, I
was able to inform him truly that, in
effect, it was getting nowhere. The Aus-
tralians, I said, were individualists who
did not like being organised and arranged,
but wanted to develop their powers of
mind and body and valued and appreci-
ated the prizes of successful ability and
endeavor. He nodded politely. That was
in 1933. Ido not think I could report
so favorably about some of our Aus-
tralians’ ideals and efforts today.
I did not go to Russia. I went to the
travel-agency “Intourist” and I ascer-
tained, after inquiry, that it would be
only the usual round of visiting show-
places, and would be especially arranged
so that we would see only what the
Russians wanted us to see.
Getting a Job
I went, after that, to Mr. Ramsay Mac-
Donald, then Britain’s Prime Minister,
at 10 Downing-street. He was a very dis-
tinguished-looking man, courteous and
polite as he listened to my plan of tour-
ing Great Britain lecturing on Australia
and the Empire under official blessing,
if not on behalf, of the Government. I
told him I thought it would popularise
his Government (then somewhat shaky)
if I, as an Australian, spoke of the
greatness of Britain and incidentally its
Government of the day, which was his
Administration. With a twinkle in his
eye and with his strong Scotch brogue
he said: “It’s a grand idea, man, and
you have our full blessing, but no more.”
As the blessing would not pay even ex-
penses, much less return any profit on
the tour, I did not go.
I did, however, go all over England
on behalf of the circulation department
of a prominent London newspaper, which
took me into parts of England into which
I would not have ordinarily gone. I used
to go to a town or city like Norwich, per-
haps, or Gloucester, or away down to
Plymouth, put up at an inn or hotel and
get the best bed and breakfast then in
England for five shillings at the outside.
It was a breakfast: bacon and eggs,
pots of tea or coffee, toast and marma-
lade, plenty of butter and sugar. They
were the days before the war, when liv-
ing was cheap and good. I didn’t take
the buses from the town or city where I
stayed to the surrounding villages, as I
preferred to hire a bicycle instead for a
shilling a day. This allowed me to en-
joy the countryside leisurely on the best
cycling roads in the world.
One would go through villages dating
back to Norman times, and part of them
even to Saxon and Roman periods, where
evidence in stone, castle or church would
show the march of time. The feeling I
got as I went through the countryside
with its ordered hedges, its perfect roads
and age-old houses was that of continuity
in life.
I was once staying in Bury St. Ed-
munds, and I was awakened every morn-
ing by the bell from the old abbey tower,
the abbey at which, we were told, King
John stopped on his way to sign Magna
Carta. I also visited the site where he
was alleged to have signed the famous
Charter at Runnymede.
I also saw, while working near Hun-
stanton, in East Anglia, members of a
syndicate formed for the purpose of re-
covering the jewels and money which
King John allegedly lost in The Wash.
History records that he* threw away hj?
monetary burden to make easier his
escape from his pursuers. Certain pieces
of jewellery and precious stones have
been found, but locals say—and said to
me —that jewels, etc., were put there
in order to get subscriptions for the
syndicate.
The "Appeasement" Period
Lloyd George was forming an
organisation to combat appeasement at
home and aggression abroad by arousing
public opinion. His idea was to form
Councils of Action in each constituency
(termed “division” in England) to influ-
ence each sitting M.P.
I was appointed to take charge of the
Yorkshire area, with Bradford as head-
quarters.
I myself got signatures from the Arch-
bishop of York (then Dr. Temple) and
the Bishop of London (then Dr. Win-
nington Ingram, who invited me to Ful-
ham Palace, his London residence, to
(i Continued on page 32.)


warm. What a nice Town Hall they have
in Brisbane, Mrs. Cole.”
“City Hall,” Mrs. Cole corrects her.
“Yes, it is rather magnificent, isn’t it?
It cost a million pounds, I believe. Will
you be staying in Queensland long, Mrs.
Robertson?”
“That,” says Mrs. Robertson, “depends
on Brian. He needs a really good holi-
day—l had to practically drag him
away . , .”
Mrs. Cole nods sympathetically. “I
know . , .” They exchange a smile of
superior understanding.
Spray flashes against the blue sky, and
through the other window Mr. Robertson
can see a church spire, palm-trees and
the red-and-yellow sign “Art Gray,
Garage.”
“That poor eagle,” says Mrs. Robert-
son. “In the cage, Mrs. Cole, in the
Gardens. Such a small cage. Of course,
it isn’t for always. There is a sign on
the cage ‘temporary cage only.’ ”
“I was in Brisbane six months ago,”
Mrs. Cole says, “and that sign was on
the cage.”
“That’s cruel!” Mrs. Robertson is
indignant.
“Rum,” says Mr. Robertson suddenly.
“They seem to drink a lot of mm in
Queensland, Mrs. Cole.”
“Beer, too,” says Mrs. Cole archly,
and Mr. Robertson is inspired to go and
get some more.
“Let me do it, Mr. Robertson,” says
Mrs. Cole, fishing in her handkerchief
poeket.
“No-mio — couldn’t hear of it —could
we, Mary?”
“No, indeed,” says Mrs. Robertson,
who is beginning to like Mrs. Cole. “Run
along now, Brian, and don’t forget—a
light shandy.”
“Right you are,” says Mr. Robertson
gaily.
WHEN Mr. Robertson comes back
with the two beers and a shandy on
a wet tray he can tell by the way the two
heads, the fair and the brown, are bent
over the table and the sudden silence
that falls on the two women as he
approaches that they have been talking
confidentially. He feels a quick irritation.
“Here they are,” he says cheerfully,
dumping the tray on the table.
The two women drink in companion-
able silence, while Mr. Robertson looks
round the room; from the red ears of
Mr. Murchison to the haughty profile of
Miss Lynette Penyard. Rosemary the
waitress comes flip-flop, clump across
the roflap in her loose sandals. A broad
white mrehead has Rosemary, a strong
black arch of eyebrows, a noble Roman
nose and a small moustache. She is
carrying their sweets.
“At last!” says Mrs. Cole bitterly.
“When you’ve been here a little time,
Mrs. Robertson, you’ll discover that the
men at the end table always get served
first.” But she says it softly, and avoids
Rosemary’s fierce dark eye.
“Poor Mrs. Doyle,” says Mrs, Cole,
dipping her spoon in the custard. “She
has terrible trouble with the staff. This
isn’t bad today. The cook is a vindictive
woman —a real Tartar. I’m sure she
gives me the worst serves on purpose.
Then there’s Billy Bailey—have you met
Billy Bailey, Mr. Robertson?” Mrs.
Cole gives a little laugh.
“San’t say I have,” says Mr. Robert-
son.
“The groom,” says Mrs. Cole, “Poor
fellow, ' He came here ten years ago—
my husband and I had that cottage over
on the point then. Used to come down
for a few weeks in the summer —three
months usually. Stan loved fishing.”
“Ha! ” says Mr. Robertson, pricking up
his ears. “Fishing, eh?”
“Such a change,” says Mrs. Cole,
“after mutton. Poor fellow —Billy Bailey,
you know —he’s really no one’s enemy
but his own. And he does look after the
hot water. But he’s always drunk. A
bit queer, too. Well, really queer. He
came here and liked the place so much
that he stayed on —as a useful—after he’d
spent all his money. He really did spend
it, too. Parties galore. Now a lot of
people who helped him drink his money
aren’t keen on knowing him—hotel use-
ful, you understand.” Mrs. Cole sighs
and plays with her pearls. “Well, it’s
the way of the world.”
“Remind me to go to the bank on
Monday, dear,” Mr. Robertson says in
the sudden silence. To his wife’s glance
of inquiry he says “I think we might stay
for a time.”
“I’m delighted to hear it, Mr. Robert-
son,” says Mrs. Cole. “Really, you know
—I feel I can talk to you and Mrs.
Robertson. Most of the people here are
very ordinary.” Mr. Robertson feels like
bowing. But he is uneasily conscious that
Mrs. Cole’s low, sweet voice has a thril-
ling power of penetration. He fancies he
sees a few glances exchanged at one of
the tables.
“At any rate —ha-ha—you have an
extraordinary useful.”
“Poor Billy. You know, Mr. Robert-
son, Billy is a perfect gentleman—
although he is queer—what I mean to
say is, despite everything, he always
stands up when I come into a room and
raises his hat. But, then, he is well-
connected. What I always say is breed-
ing counts —doesn’t it? —even when
they’re queer.”
“My word,” says Mr, Robertson
solemnly. He believes in breeding. His
father had gout,
“You know,” prattles Mrs. Cole, mak-
ing beautiful arabesques with her pearls.
“it is very nice here—isn’t it? What I
mean to say is, it grows on you. It really
does. Despite everything. Of course
Jenny—Mrs. Doyle, you know —can’t
see to everything now she is on her own.
The Hook and Sinker catered for a very
nice class of people once. Now —you
know” The pearls swing in: a sort
of ballet of disdain. And Mr. Robert-
son, although he fears being com-
promised, cannot but admire her
patrician carelessness. “All sorts. Really.”
She nods at Mr. Murchison’s broad
pepper-and-salt back. “Ted —Stinker I
call him —we hate each other, you know.
Really. He’s as bad as the rest—despite
his advantages. And that Art Gray from
the garage. Sitting over there” —she
nods, but Mr. Robertson doesn’t dare
look. “Uncouth.”
MR. ROBERTSON is terrified. “I’m
sure we’ll like it,” he says loudly.
“I’m looking forward to doing some
fishing.”
“Yes,” says Mrs. Cole, “The men
here are always fishing. They go out
loaded with grog and never catch any
fish. Escapism. Of course Jenny has
trouble with the staff. And then she
never eats in here, but in the family
dining-room, and then she doesn’t eat the
same meals as us. What I say is—how
can she know ?”
“The meals seem quite good,” says
Mr. Robertson seriously. “For the price
they compare very favorably with any-
thing in Sydney or Brisbane. Very
favorably.”
“They’re good,” says Mrs. Robertson
calmly.
Mrs. Cole is delighted. “Do you think
so —really? Very favorably. I’ll tell
Mrs. Doyle. She’ll be pleased.”
“I think,” says Mr. Robertson, weigh-
ing his words, “Quondonga is a very
pleasant place. Very. I prefer it to Bris-
bane for a holiday.”
“Of course we didn’t see much of
Brisbane, Brian,” says Mrs. Robertson.
“No,” says Mr. Robertson, “That’s
true,”
“Perhaps,” says Mrs. Cole, “it’s com-
ing from one big city to another that
makes the difference. Perhaps if you had
come from the country to Brisbane it
would have been quite different.”
“That’s about it,” says Mr. Robertson.
“We didn’t see much of Brisbane,”
says Mrs. Robertson. “Brian had a cold.
What we did notice was the small traffic
policemen.”
“Not as efficient as our cops,” says
Mr. Robertson stoutly. “Perhaps they
haven’t the practice.”
“They watch the traffic,” says Mrs.
Robertson.
“Sool it on to you,” says Mr. Robert-
son.
“Oh!” says Mrs. Cole a bit coldly.
“They’re very, polite, though,” says
Mrs. Robertson. “Remember how nice
that young fellow was in Queen-street
when you crossed against the lights,
Brian?” Mr. Robertson can’t remember
it.
“Have you taken a ticket in our
Golden Casket?” asks Mrs. Cole.
Mrs. Robertson gives her a sly look.
“Dozens. F went to a fortune-teller,
too —Brian doesn’t approve of them —and
she told me to buy a ticket in the Casket.
I didn’t win anything, though.”
“Madness!” says Mr. Robertson. He
was glad to get Mary out of Brisbane, he
says, before lotteries and fortune-tellers
ruined her.
“You know, Mrs. Cole” Mrs.
Robertson is half-laughing, half-diffident.
Mr, Robertson stares at her, “What I was
really curious about —it sounds terrible —
these red places. What do you call them
—red lights.”
Mrs. Cole plays yo-yo with her pearls
and looks at Mrs. Robertson thought-
fully. “Red-light places? Oh, yes. They
are in Brisbane.”
“They are everywhere,” says Mr.
Robertson, strongly disapproving.
“But they’re legal, aren’t they?” Mrs.
Robertson says, “Licensed or some-
thing? No one seems to want to talk
about them —and yet they do, if you
know what I mean.”
“Yes. Of course, Mrs. Robertson, I
think they are necessary evils —don’t
you? What I mean to say is, they pro-
tect good women.”
Mrs. Robertson giggles, but Mrs.
Cole takes no offence. Indeed, she
smiles. Mr. Robertson looks solemn. “I
used to work in Brisbane —before I was
married,” Mrs. Cole says. “And there
were quite a few of those places near the
office. I used to see the girls standing out
in the sun.”
“What are they like?” Mrs. Robert-
son wants to know.
“Just like us.”
Mr. Robertson blinks. Mrs. Robert-
son giggles, Mrs. Cole lights a cigarette
and blows smoke through her nostrils.
She smiles vaguely.
“What I mean to say is, they don’t
look any different. Although—you know
—there is always something. What I
mean to say is, they smoke in the street.
Or something like that.”
Mr. Robertson coughs and says he’ll
get some more beer.
“What a dreadful life,” says Mrs.
Robertson.
“Yes, isn’t it? You know, I really was
shocked, once, when I was working at
this place in South Brisbane. I was com-
ing back from lunch and just ahead of
me were two well-dressed men, middle-
aged men. I could hear them talking.
Disgusting. I heard every word. It
seems they went to these places every
lunch-hour. Lunch-time! ”
“Horrible!”
“I suppose,” says Mr. Robertson,
“they didn’t go out at night.”
Mrs. Cole’s soft and prominent eyes
inspect him. “Yes. So you see, they had
their alibis —aren’t some men disgust-
ing?”
Mr. Robertson agrees, but he feels a
bit uncomfortable.
“Are there many of these places?”
Mrs. Robertson asks, with a kind of
sociological zeal.
“Really,” says Mrs. Cole, “I don’t
know. You’ll have to ask Mr. Murchi-
son.”
There is an appalled silence, in which
Mr. Murchison turns his pink face and
glares murderously.
“What I mean to say,” continues Mrs.
Cole smoothly, “is Mr. Murchison has
been in the bank there for years, in
different parts of Brisbane. And then
men seem to hear all these things—don’t
they?”
Mr. Murchison pushes his chair in with
a squeak and marches out, very red in
the face. “He drinks,” murmurs Mrs.
Cole with deadly sweetness, “Such a
pity.”
Rosemary comes and begins to collect
the plates with a great clatter. “Shall we
go?” says Mrs. Cole, smiling.
UPSTAIRS they pass a man with a
pale, haunted face and a black
moustache, who drops his pail of ashes
to raise a bandless grey-felt hat elabor-
ately. The ashes spill on the carpet, but
he doesn’t seem to mind.
“Billy Bailey, I presume,” says Mr.
Robertson in the bedroom.
“I think I’ll have a nap,” says Mrs.
Robertson, kicking off her shoes. She
pulls the white frock over her head and
wraps on the blue satin dressing-gown
she never wears at home. “What are you
going to do?”
“1 think I’ll take a look around,” Mr.
Robertson says, sitting on the edge of the
bed and eyeing the suitcases with their
air-line markings. “See a bit of the
town.”
Mrs. Robertson smothers a yawn. “Fd
better finish unpacking,” she says briskly.
“What do you think of Mrs. Cole?”
Mr. Robertson rubs his blue chin.
“She scared me —the way she talked about
people. They’re all thick as thieves in
these little places. We can’t get involved
in their fights.”
“She’s lonely,” says Mrs. Robertson
simply. “I’d better run round now and
look at her foot.”
“Her foot?”
“Her toe. It’s very sore, she says.
Didn’t you notice her limping as we
came out of the dining-room?”
Mr. Robertson didn’t. He was watch-
ing the plump sunburnt calves of Miss
Lynette Penyard.
“Ha!”
“I won’t be long, dear. Then we might
go for a stroll.”
“Good-oh.”
“Bother!” says Mrs. Robertson. “I’d
beter get dressed again, I suppose. That
girl sitting at the next table is rather
pretty, don’t you think, Brian?”
“Eh? Oh, that girl. Yes, I suppose she
is, rather. Don’t be too long with Mrs,
Watsis. We might have a couple of beers
before we go out.”
“I won’t be long. That’s the worst of
telling anyone you’ve been a nurse. They
want you to do things,”
MR. ROBERTSON walks up and
down in the empty bedroom. He
starts to unpack his own things and
crumples things up so much he thinks
better of it, and pushes them back, shut-
ting the lid. He sits down on the bed
and reads the “Courier-Mail” and is be-
wildered by the unfamiliar names of
country towns. He looks at his watch
and sees that Mary has been away for
twenty minutes.
“Sorry,” says Mary a little breathlessly
when 'she comes in. “It’s really quite
nasty. Infected. I’m going to ring the
doctor.”
“Is there such a desperate hurry?”
“No. Not really. But it will set her
mind at rest.”
Strolling along under the trees, by the
dusty park, Mary is inattentive to her
husband’s talk of fishing. Mr. Robertson
is nettled. “I don’t believe you’ve heard
a word I’ve been saying! ”
“Sorry. But what’s the time? I
promised Mrs. Cole I’d be there when
the doctor came.”
“What damned rubbish!”
Mrs. Robertson smiles. J T suppose it
is—but there you are! ”
“It’s four o’clock.”
“Oh. Well, we’ll have to go back.”
“You old fusspot.” Mr. Robertson
says it indulgently. He links arms as
they walk back through the hot after-
noon, under the crisscross shadows of
the trees. That soft maternal side of
Mary, thinks Mr. Robertson—anyone can
take advantage of it. A pity, perhaps,
they have no children. A young Brian
Robertson to carry on the modest fame
of the business. Feeling sad, but happy,
too, Mr. Robertson points out a banyan-
tree to his wife. “Look, Mary—they have
them in India! Remember the letters I
wrote home . . . ” Mr. Robertson looks
down at the bobbed fair hair of his wife
fondly. A great little woman. A good
thing they cafhe for this holiday, after
all. Working hard all the time, one could
neglect the business of living.
The doctor comes at half-past four.
He is a busy man, quite young, and he
says the toenail will have to come off.
Tomorrow morning. Mrs. Cole mustn’t
eat any breakfast.
“Oh, doctor,” wails Mrs. Cole. ■ “Are
you going to give me chloroform?”
The doctor’s eyes twinkle. “A whiff,
perhaps. Well, till tomorrow, then.”
The doctor and Mrs. Robertson
whisper mysteriously in the corridor.
“A general anaesthetic,” says Mrs.
Robertson, telling Mr. Robertson about
it after tea. “Seems a bit unusual. But
I don’t blame him. She’d kick up a
terrible fuss. I said I’d pop round and
say goodnight to her. She asked you,
too —are you coming?”
“No! ” says Mr. Robertson firmly. He
looks at his watch. “Don’t be too long.
We’re going to the pictures, you know.”
A funny thing, thinks Mr. Robertson,
only a few weeks ago and their roles were
reversed. Then it was Mary who was
always wanting him to go out, he who
pleaded tiredness or work. This holiday
must be doing him good.
AT breakfast Mary is half-way
through her pawpaw when she cocks
her head to one side. “I believe that’s
the doctor now;” she says, and flies. Mr.
Robertson decides she must have preter-
natural powers of hearing, since he has
heard nothing unusual.
Mr. Robertson moons around most of
the morning, reads the Sunday papers,
and has a bit of a yarn with Mr.
Murchison, who is moderately sober.
They talk about politics, and Mr. Robert-
son decides that Mr. Murchison is a very
sensible fellow, whose views perfectly
coincide with his own. Once or twice
he glimpses Mary, a flying short figure
in white, in the hall. But she is too busy
to talk to him. Mr. Robertson gets fed-
up and goes for a walk after a solitary
lunch. Mary has hers upstairs with Mrs.
Cole.
When he comes back Mary is sitting
in the bedroom. “How did it go ?” Mr.
Robertson raises a quizzical shaggy eye-
brow.
“Fine!” Mary’s blue eyes smile. She
is amused at herself. “She’s a real baby,
; Brian. Doctor gave her a whiff. And
do you know, she wanted me to get her
(Continued on next page.)


a drink of gin. ‘Certainly not,’ I said,
very professionally. Oh, terribly stern —
I’d almost forgotten how. But it didn’t
do a bit of good. A friend of hers —a
Mrs. Bolt-Brown —has been sneaking
drinks up to her. She’s very lachrymose
now.”
Mr. Robertson smiles agreeably. He
decides not to say anything about his
dismal afternoon.
“That Mr. Murchison,” Mrs. Robert-
son says pugnaciously, “is a bit of a pig.
He stopped me in the corridor and said
‘How’s the patient?’ I said ‘Not very
well,’ and he said ‘Don’t give me that!’
and walked away. I felt such a fool.
That Penyard girl was there, too,
giggling.”
“Did he, eh?” Mr. Robertson strokes
his jaw. Rude to Mary, eh? The damned
clods.
“I think he was drunk,” Mrs. Robert-
son says, tossing her head. “That
Penyard girl is just a silly little thing.”
In his heart Mr. Robertson agrees. He
hates Miss Penyard, beautiful legs and
all, and feels inclined to punch Mr.
Murchison on the nose. By jove! Mr.
Robertson rubs his crooked nose. He
didn’t get that for nothing. Mr.
Murchison had better look out.
Mr. Robertson goes to the bathroom
especially to stop outside Mr. Murchison’s
open door and glare at him. But Mr.
Murchison doesn’t heed him. Mr.
Murchison is standing with his back to
him, in singlet and bare feet, drinking
rum out of a medicine-glass.
THERE is trouble about Mrs. Cole's
tray at dinner that night. Rosemary
folds her immense arms over her vast
bosom, lowers her black brow, juts her
full red lip. “ I’m not taking the tray up
those stairs.”
“I’ll take it up,” says Mrs. Robertson.
The cook, lean and brown and sardonic,
carves the joint.
“More fool you.”
Finally Rosemary sets the tray.
“The stairs are a nuisance,” says Mrs.
Robertson, back in the dining-room, a
little out of breath. “But the girls won’t
take trays up. And I don’t like to see
Mrs. Doyle do it—she has a bad heart.”
Mr. Robertson merely nods.
The night is hot, so the Robertsons go
for a walk, down by the tossing shadows
and moonlit sparkle of the sea.
In her bedroom, Mrs. Cole entertains
her friends with her toe. It is propped
up there on a cushion, on the end of the
bed, in a glory of white bandages. On
the other pillow, her face nearly as white,
rests Mrs. Cole’s small shapely head, the
brown hair loose and damp, a mournful
droop in the full mouth, the short upper-
lip trembling a little, smudges of shadow
under the gazelle eye. Phoebe doesn’t
look at all well: Mrs. Bolt-Brown says
so ; Miss Hamilton, a lively spinster, says
so, but tells her to be brave, dear, Mrs.
Doyle, in the armchair of honor, says
nothing, but looks at her friend gravely
and anxiously with kind grey eyes. Mrs.
Doyle knows Phoebe is “nervy,” and
shakes her head when Mrs. Bolt-Brown
suggests a gin might “buck her up.”
Into this scene of decent melancholy a
male enters, without knocking, but
heralded by thunderous trampling noises,
bumps, as of a heavy body striking walls,
and a scrap of song, which makes Mrs.
Bolt-Brown look at Miss Hamilton, and
Mrs. Doyle purse her lips. Fumbling at
the door, and then it flies open to reveal
Mr. Murchison.
“Ha!” says Mr. Murchison, very red
of face. “And how’s the patient?” His
loud voice fills the room, and in the
deathly silence that succeeds it Mrs.
Cole’s alarm-clock ticks like mad.
Mr. Murchison grips a bottle half-full
of Bundaberg rum in one big hand. He
is coatless and collarless and his short
fair hair is tousled. .He gently sways. At
last his fierce grey glare focuses on Miss
Hamilton. “Doreen eh? HowTe
things, Doreen? Well, how’s the patient
—what’s up with her, anyway?”
Mrs. Bolt-Brown is all eyes. Mrs.
Doyle turns and says something to her in
a low voice. Miss Hamilton says, in a
tremulous voice; “She’s had her toenail
off.”
"Toenail!” cries Mr. Murchison in a
terrible voice, “Why, with all the fuss
I thought she had her leg off!” He
advances a few paces, and bows with
gravity to Mrs. Doyle, spilling a little
rum on the green rug. “Beg pardon, Mrs.
Doyle, f’r this intrusion, but I thought
she was dead.” He turns, and the ladies
see that his shirt-tail is hanging out. “I’ve
been misinformed,” mumbles Mr.
Murchison, and lumbers away.
While Mrs. Doyle is pressing a wet
handkerchief to Mrs. Cole’s white fore-
head, saying “Never mind, dear, just
ignore him,” they hear his robust voice
echoing down the corridor “Dead. Dead.
Thought she was dead,” followed by
weird laughter.
<i A ND that’s not all,” says Mrs.
Robertson, telling Mr. Robertson
about it at breakfast. “He came back
later, Mrs. Cole says, and said something
terrible. He said ‘lsn’t she dead yet?’
Of course no one answered him. Then
he said T just came to give a hand to lav
her out.’ ”
“The brute!” says Mr. Robertson,
glaring at Mr. Murchison’s stolid back.
“Poor Mrs. Cole—she’s terribly upset.
After all, Brian, a general anaesthetic is a
nasty experience. Even if a toenail isn’t
anything very much.”
“My word!” Mr. Robertson is so
indignant he can hardly eat his cereal.
He glares at Mr. Murchison’s back again.
Then, slowly, and in a lower tone, so
that Mr. Murchison wouldn’t hear him;
“But we don’t want to get mixed up in
these local rows, do we?”
“Then, according to Mrs. Cole, he said
‘X wish she was dead,’ and marched off.”
Mr. Robertson shakes his head in
disgust.
“While I think of it, dear,” Mrs.
Robertson says, “will you run down to
the chemists and get this prescription
made up for Mrs. Cole?”
Mr. Robertson goes quite eagerly.
That much, at least, he thinks, is due to
the injured lady.
“I wonder what Mrs. Doyle thinks?”
Mr. Robertson says to Mrs. Robertson,
later in the morning, when she has taken
Mrs, Cole’s moming-tea up to her, and
they are drinking their own on the sunny
veranda overlooking the bay. The affair
of the night before is preying on Mr.
Robertson’s mind. He feels chivalrously
wounded, as though Mr. Murchison, by
his dastardly conduct, has somehow
implicated the male sex.
“She’s disgusted, I’m sure,” says Mrs.
Robertson. “Although, you know, she
wouldn’t say anything to anyone. But I
bet she has something to say to
Murchison.”
“Probably tackled him this morning,”
Mr. Robertson says with pleasure.
BUT Mrs. Doyle is a wise woman.
She realises that a saturation period
for remorse is desirable. So she waits
till Tuesday. On Tuesday morning Mr.
Murchison, burly and neat in his double-
breasted grey suit, clean-shaven and clear
of eye, is rushing to work when Mrs.
Doyle intercepts him at the top of the
stairs.
“Mr. Murchison!”
Mr. Murchison’s darkly-polished brown
shoes halt on the shiny linoleum. His
clear, strong sensible voice—the voice
of a rising banker answers her
courteously; “Yes, Mrs. Doyle?”
“Mr. Murchison, I was very surprised
at your conduct the other night, in Mrs.
Cole’s room. Of course, I realise you
had been drinking ...”
“That had nothing to do with it, Mrs.
Doyle.”
Mrs. Doyle considers. “No. I suppose
not What you said was inexcusable—
ungentlemanly—whether you were drunk
or sober,”
“No, that’s not what I meant, Mrs.
Doyle.” Grey eye stares at grey eye
sternly. “I said I wished Mrs. Cole was
dead. I meant it. I’m sober now, and I
say it again. I wish she was dead. Good
morning.” And Mr. Murchison clatters
down the stairs.
This is too much even for Mrs. Doyle’s
formidable reticence. She goes round and
tells Mrs. Cole about it. Mrs. Robertson
is there, dressing the toe, and the three of
them exclaim and are indignant about
Mr. Murchison’s obdurate barbarity. Mrs.
Robertson tells Mr. Robertson, and he is
indignant, too.
Somehow the whole tale leaks out, and
staff and guests split into factions. “Rose-
mary is on Mrs. Cole’s side,” Mrs.
Robertson reports to Mr. Robertson, in
the privacy of their bedroom. “But she
won’t wait on her, she says. She says she
wouldn’t mind if she was really sick, but
she’s just loafing. Cook is for Murchison.
Says he gives her a good tip every
Christmas, and Mrs. Cole is always com-
plaining about the food. Billy Bailey
says Mrs. Cole is a lovely woman, and
he’d like to cut Murchison’s throat.”
“I was having a drink in the bar with
one or two of the chaps here,” Mr.
Robertson volunteered. “And feelings
are mixed—very mixed. What worries
me is that we get drawn into it —expected
to take sides. Not, mind you, that I don’t
condemn what Murchison did —most
strongly. But I must say the fellow was
most affable down at the bank. Impres-
sive, too. Y’ know, he was telling me
about this Bank Officers’ Association.
Says a lot of jokers changed their poli-
tical views overnight when nationalisa-
tion became an issue. Now that, Mary,
to my mind, is most significant. A
pointer, perhaps, to the elections.”
Mrs. Robertson looks at him queerly.
Mr. Robertson looks away, “Don’t think
I approve of him, Mary,” he says shame-
facedly. “Not at all. Only ...”
Mrs. Robertson gets up. “I’ll have to
get her tea,” she says briskly.
“How long,” demands Mr. Robertson
in exasperation, “is this to go on?” He
is addressing the open door.
THAT night, in bed, Mrs. Robertson
tells Mr. Robertson that she is going
to get Mrs. Cole up in the morning. “It
isn’t good for her,” she whispers. “She
will imagine she’s terribly ill. She just
adores it, you know —all the fuss, and
visitors. She likes big bandages, too.”
“I must do some fishing,” says Mr.
Robertson drowsily.
They have just dropped off to sleep
when they are aroused by a fearful
screaming. Mr. Robertson runs out in
his pyjamas. Mrs. Robertson grabs her
satin gown and follows him. Crumpled
figures and wild heads are peering out of
doorways all along the corridor. Mr.
Robertson glimpses Miss Lynette Pen-
yard’s wide blue eyes and splendid brown
body starting out of flimsy blue pyjamas
before he sees a limping figure coming
round the corner, wailing and wringing
her hands.
“My pearls! My pearls! Oh, my
beautiful pearls!”
Mrs. Robertson runs to succor her, and
Mrs. Cole sobs on her shoulder. “Just
what happened?” asks Mr. Robertson in
a commonsense manner.
Mrs. Cole raises tragic eyes and a
tear-stained face. Her hair is in pins.
“My pearls—a man—l was lying there
with my eyes closed and I heard the door
open. I th-thought it was Mrs. Robertson
come to tuck me in. But it was a man,
and he t-took my beautiful pearls!”
“Did you see him?” It is Mr.
Murchison’s voice, clear, sharp, definite.
Mrs. Cole’s eyes widen. “N-no. But
he smelt of rum. Horribly.”
Everyone looks at Mr. Murchison, who
indubitably smells of rum. Mr.
Murchison stares at Mrs. Cole, his grey
eyes narrowed. “Rum show,” Art Gray
says, and laughs, somewhat jarringly.
“You’d better get her to bed, Mrs.
Robertson,” Mr, Murchison says quietly.
“I’ll ring the police.”
NTOBODY gets much sleep that night.
1 The sergeant of police is a long time
coming, and after he goes, promising to
come back in the morning, splinters of
light show under a half-dozen bedroom
doors. Mrs. Robertson, who is persona
grata in the kitchen now, goes down and
makes some tea. She gives Mrs. Cole a
cup, and a half-grain of phenobarb. to
settle her down. Now she and Mr.
Robertson sit on the bed in their own
room, drinking tea.
“She was hysterical, Brian. She’s had
an awful fright. Says she tried to chase
the thief only—of course—her toe! ”
Mrs. Robertson smiles palely. “But she’s
terribly worried. I had no idea what
the pearls were worth. Do you know,
Brian ...” Mrs. Robertson mentions
the price and Mr. Robertson whistles.
“The woman’s a fool —carrying that
much round her neck. Where were they,
by the way? Of course they’re insured?”
“Yes. But not for that amount. She
found it hard keeping the premiums up.
She’s not terribly well off, it seems, except
for the pearls. Oh, on the dressing-table.
She thinks Murchison did it. Brian, you
don’t think he did —do you?”
Mr. Robertson shakes his head, “No.
He’s not the type. What I can’t under-
stand, though—you say she’s not well
off? —keeping ’em. You’d think she’d
sell them —invest the money.”
Mrs. Robertson’s eyes are dreamy.
“She loves them. And they’re lovely—
no, I think I can understand that. Only,”
her blue eyes widen in sudden panic, she
grips Mr. Robertson’s bony hand. “I’ve
been in and out of that room. Oh, Brian,
you don’t think they think X took them —
do you?”
“Hell!” Mr. Robertson is startled. He
jumps up and lights a cigarette, smokes it
furiously. He strides up and down on
nervous bare feet. “No. They couldn’t
think that. It’s awkward, though.
Damned awkward. We’re strangers.
This,” he declaims, wagging a long,
black-haired finger, “comes of poking
your nose in other people’s business.
Helping lame dogs. Lame bitches.”
“I know,” wails Mrs. Robertson, hold-
ing her head. “Oh, stop it, Brian. There’s
no need to make it worse.”
Mr. Robertson stops. “Well, we’ll
worry about it in the morning.”
IN the morning Mr. and Mrs. Robertson
both fancy they are being looked at
queerly. If Mr. Murchison has similar
fancies, he gives no sign, eating his break-
fast heartily, pink and solid and impas-
sive. Of Mrs. Cole there is no sign, and
Mrs, Robertson hasn’t the heart to go
up and ask after her. Anyway, as she
tells Mr. Robertson, her toe is almost
better. Mrs. Robertson does ask Rose-
mary if she will look in on Mrs. Cole,
and Rosemary, with that common willing-
ness to inspect the scene of a crime which
animates most people, says she will.
There is no sign, either, of the sergeant
of police. Mr. and Mrs. Robertson hang
round the dreadfully quiet lounge and,
finally, when the bar opens, Mr. Robert-
son goes and buys a beer and a shandy.
They sit drinking it quietly, and neither
of them notices Mrs. Doyle come in.
“Good morning,” says Mrs. Doyle
pleasantly, and they both start. “Good
{Continued on page 32.)
VARIOUS VERSE
THE DEVIL’S COACHHORSE.
“Under the sandstone cliff
Glowing with summer sun
Lift my cold rock and laugh;
Yet where your mind is dark
Aa the hollow under a stone”
That furious beetle said,
“Long shall I stand on my head
Half demon and half a joke
Like a mad question-mark.”
And like a spark of orange
Crackling in what cold mind?—
Waved the black face of rage
(O a most fraudulent beetle I)
Painted upon his behind;
And while that passion shook him
His prudent front legs took him
Little by little by little
Away from the field of battle.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
RAIN FORESTS.
Where the forests crowd the air, and
blue skies
Are only a window here and there, the
elk-
And staghorns in profusion grow; each
massive bulk
A trophy mounted, unseen huntsman’s
prize.
And there the hare’s-foot ferns; and
crow’s-nest . . J size
Of a roc’s nest, rather, if the roc did
build I
Would you believe the forests are so
filled
With such eccentric flora? I have found
Potato-orchids, spud-like buds; and
wild
Saliva, where, not on profaned bare
ground,
But on a twig, the rare spit-insects riled
Me to suspect some lout unclean—all
these:
And earth-stars; snake’s-bread sprout-
ing like red ears;
And bells; and ferns; root-buttresses;
and tiers
Of white beech-orchids in the flowerless
trees;
Have filled me with confusions, doubts,
that please.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
WINTER ROUND.
The ewe grazes a hill of stones
And the early wind has teeth of frost
To pick each shadow to the bones
But the ewe grazes a hill of stones
Like Saturn with his spinning moons
For the lambs come leaping from the
dust
Though the ewe grazes a hill of stones
And the early wind has teeth of frost.
O the lambs leaping from the earth
Spin like galaxies round the ewe
Who takes the narrow way to death
But the lambs leaping from the earth
Are the stepping-stones of birth
And shape the unchanging world
anew:
O lambs leaping from the earth
To spin like galaxies round the ewe.
The ewe grazes a hill of stones
And the early wind has teeth of frost
But lambs are leaping from the earth
And spin like galaxies round the ewe.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


KIIV mom SAFE!
SANDERS
4K&FILES
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted into a
period book of reference at
the end of each month —o»
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DitirtbrnUng Agt»ti~
BTDNMY
MCLBOdItNI .
AUCLAIuc J -
5 J
W C- P.al.ld A Cm. rtj. Ltd.
. Norrata Bros Ptj. Ltd.
dVerdva A H«iu Ltd.
(KttAcl Cm. IAuM
S>S«V;
a-i-’-.a
rn«c» and far-
ther inform* tloa
upon application
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERB acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAB BE KB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27N). 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FLANAGAN formerly of
North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY BERNADINE FLANAGAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3283 of
1950 on the grounds of Desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you desire to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 11th of December 1950 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
JOHN BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. >_ ’ "
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALISTER GRAHAM WEEKES for-
merly of Newtown. —TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA ESTHER WEEKES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3178 of 1950
on the grounds of Desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you desire to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
11th of December 1950 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
JOHN BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
mP€mmd l
w
m. :>
&
$
X:
- •• \’ —* n *»SBt'
5n
xs
M
>r
\\ < v ; 4'>X>-- >XWX
<SK
v-*
X
X'
X'
XV-,.
£V -<
\ -
c«x
/y
I
XJN >
rr
g£sL-
■l
II i
* I
i 1 *
Jf
.xV/
r*
o
\
BSHi«
H
> ji
O)
a
y
oc
- )
<c
X
/£h*\V*C: y^O^rz.
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Out of 110 Years.
If any one artist stands out
among the 137 paintings and
sculptures exhibited as “110
Years of Australian Art” at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney, to mark the firm’s 110th
year, it is George Lambert: a
slashing still-life from Dr, W
O. Paul’s collection, a hot sunny
landscape and a vigorous hunt-
ing scene lent by Mr. Norman
Schureck and a fine, sensitive
portrait of Miss Thea Proctor,
all of which, though you could
find more dramatic and
weightier work at the N. S.
Wales National Gallery, make
a pretty fair epitome of Lam-
bert’s versatility and dash.
But Lambert, though unques-
tionably the most exciting
portrait-painter this country has
produced William Dobell,
represented here by the lively
“Scotty” Allen, has miles to go
before he has equalled Lambert’s
achievement —weighs no heavier
in the general scale of Australian
art than Gruner, Streeton, Nor-
man Lindsay, Hans Heysen, if
he weighs as much, and so an
exhibition in which he stands
head and shoulders above the
rest cannot truly represent 110
years of Australian art.
Perhaps Gruner and Tom
Roberts —the Streetons are all
sound pieces, but not his best —
are represented quite as satisfac-
torily as Lambert: the present
commentator happens to be
familiar with the exquisite
Gruner seascape and his “Morn-
ing in Devon” from Mr. C. A.
Shepherd’s collection, and so
misses in these lovely works the
shock of delighted surprise that
comes from the less familiar
Lamberts. And the best of the
Tom Roberts paintings, “Grey
Lady” from the N. S. Wales
Gallery and “Red Hill” from
Mr. Schureck, also happen to be
familiar.
But there are obvious gaps in
the selection. There is, for in-
stance, only one Longstaff;
there is nothing that shows Max
Meldrum’s full powers ; there is
only one Norman Lindsay, a
glorious dreamy watercolor of
ships and sirens from Dr. Paul’s
collection, quite enough to show
Norman Lindsay’s supreme
powers in this medium but giv-
ing no indication of the variety
of media in which he has
worked; the Rupert Bunnys
are uninteresting; the two post-
card-size Hilders are amazingly
inadequate; and Hans Heysen,
too, has done infinitely better
watercolors than the example
shown. And then, apart from
the artists who are unsatisfac-
torily represented, there are
scores who deserve a place and
are not represented at all.
The truth is, of course, that
you can’t possibly hope to repre-
sent 110 years of Australian art
by 137 paintings. Lloyd Rees,
who made the selection, admits
this in his foreword to the cata-
logue. All you can really do is
to make sure that none of the
major painters is omitted, and
then, since the selection must
still be inadequate, hang up a
lot of interesting paintings
which, very roughly, represent
the history of art in this
country.
Since Lloyd Rees has done
that there is not much point in
criticising his selection: except
that the watercolorists, who
have done some of Australia’s
most distinguished work, are
poorly represented on the
whole; and some late arrivals,
such as James Gleason and Sid-
ney Nolan, who are only in-
teresting in small doses, occupy
some acres of space that could
have been filled to much better
advantage.
Works that stand out, apart
from those already mentioned,
are the paintings by Julian Ash-
ton, Hugh Ramsay, J. Muir
Auld, James Quinn, Walter
Withers, Penleigh Boyd, Mar-
garet Preston, Lloyd Rees,
Arthur Murch and Lance Solo-
mon, and the sculptures by Hoff
and Daphne Mayo.
Mosman Medley.
The municipality of Mosman,
N. S. Wales, encourages art by
offering an annual prize of 50
guineas for an oil landscape and
25 guineas for a watercolor, and
the current results may be in-
spected round the corridor from
the Truby King baby clinic in
the Mosman Town Hall.
They are, as is natural, a little
discouraging. The best artists
don’t usually send into competi-
tions of this kind because it does
not always add to their prestige
to win them, while there is
always the alarming prospect of
not winning. So you have,
crowded in four tiers from the
floor to the ceiling, dozens of
pictures mostly so amateurish
that it is a distinct relief to steal
away down the corridor again
and inspect the Truby King
babies.
But at least such competitions
give the unknown artist a chance
to come up and be seen ; and so
there is, for example, Hilda
Craig’s “Sun Dream.” This is a
modest little watercolor of no
particular importance, yet it
makes a pleasantly lyrical state-
ment about a boat among man-
groves in warm light, and the
technique is clear and decisive.
There are both life and technical.
quality, too, though one seems
to have seen something very like
it before in Adam Sochacki’s
“Bushfire.”
The prizes went to Guy
Warren’s “Valley of the Albert,”
a cubist landscape which, like
all of its kind, has the rather
empty charm of a harlequin’s
costume, and to Jean Isher-
wood’s harsh watercolor of
“Trees, Palm Beach.”
Some other paintings that
speak up for themselves out of
the general confusion are by A.
Rydge, H. Edgecombe, H. K.
Cook, Jean Derrin, R. H. Mop-
pett and Elsie Dangerfield. The
connoisseur of contemporary
styles may note some extra-
ordinarily close imitations of
Drysdale, Herman and Albert
Namatjira.
Mahler's
"Resurrection."
Otto Klemperer’s Sydney
concerts have been marked by
an ever-increasing popularity,
and the reason isn’t far to seek.
Primarily, he is bent on giving
the public great music. A
serious, even severe-looking
man, who unbends slightly only
when the night’s work is behind
him, he has not yet failed to get
from his orchestral forces the
best that is in them, and that
with what seems great ease. Last
week, when he conducted the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra in
Gustav Mahler’s 2nd Symphony
(“T h e Resurrection”) and
Haydn’s Symphony No. 101,
that best was very good by any
standard.
The Mahler was magnificent.
Starting off quietly, with some
questioning restlessness quickly
asserting itself, tne first move-
ment develops into a soul-
struggle, music of shattering im-
pact and dramatic intensity.
Mahler titled this movement
“Celebration of the Dead.” It be-
comes a strongly-voiced protest
against what seems to the com-
poser the futility of human
suffering, and the dubious pros-
pects of what may be for man
after death. The “Why are we
here?” theme has given rise to
much of the world’s most pro-
found music, but it is doubtful
if it has ever been expressed
with greater power or greater
contrapuntal invention than in
this first movement.
The second section affords
relief from the unremitting
strength of the opening with folk-
music of rare buoyancy and
charm, a flow of restful lyricism,
and the composer carried the
mood oVer into the third move-
ment, a scherzo of an unusual
pastoral-like quality.
In the fourth movement
Mahler introduced the human
voice, differing from Beethoven’s
Ninth in that he added an extra
movement, to allow the contralto
—last week she was Florence
Taylor—to sing the verses from
Knctben Wunderhorn against
music of visionary beauty. As
in the Beethoven, the last move-
ment is choral, with contralto and
soprano (Valda Bagnall). Both
soloists and the Hurlstone
Choral Society did this splendid
music full justice, and the surg-
ing climax was a memorable
one.
The Haydn work was redolent
of 18th-century grace, with fine
work by all the string sections
in the slow movement, where
the simulated ticking of the clock
from which the symphony takes
its title is tossed from one lower-
string group to another, pizzi-
cato, while the high strings
weave through it the delightful
melody. A lilting joyousness in-
vested the Finale.
"The Shining Hour."
Dropping in at Melbourne
National Theatre in the mis-
taken expectation of seeing
ballet in progress, present com-
mentator was astounded to see,
instead of silent motion, emotion
verbally expressed by half a
dozen stationary actors. They
were all members of the Linden
family, dwelling in an Eliza-
bethan farmhouse in Yorkshire.
Time: the present day or near
it.
The Linden family is com-
posed of Judy Linden, married
and in love with David
Linden, who is in love with
M a r i e 11 a Linden, who is
married to but not in love with
Henry Linden, a sort of Prodi-
gal Son who has returned from
the Middle East with his beauti-
ful young wife, and is, likeknost
husbands, sublimely unaware of
the chaos she is creating in the
household.
The play was admirably done
by Erica Hawker, Gloria Pass-
more, Ralph Broome, Donald
Symons and Betty Rechter, par-
ticularly the last-named, who
played Mariella with an intensity
of feeling which was nearly
equalled by Donald Symons as
her lover. Edward Purcell, of
the Coburg branch of the
National Theatre Movement,
was responsible for an excellent
production, but gave a singu-
larly colorless performance as
Henry Linden.
Benjamin's Chamber
Music.
The four Musica Viva string
players—Robert Pikler, Edward
Cochman, Theo Salzman and
Richard Goldner combined
with Arthur Benjamin in varied
groupings in Sydney Town Hall
recital of the latter’s chamber
works which covered the com-
poser’s earlier and maturer
styles.
A Sonatina for violin and
piano, of 1924 vintage, pointed
the facility and some of the
harmonic boldness which were
later to become even more pro-
nounced in the composer’s work.
This was played by Benjamin
and Cochman. Another Sona-
tina, for ’cello, with Salzman
at that instrument, was charged
in parts with the nervous energy
which is another attribute of
Benjamin’s art. The Viola
Sonata (Robert Pikler) wes
pleasant enough, but not toudjr and
with the distinctive writing
which marked the Pastoral Fan-
tasy String Quartet —here the
balance was skilfully held be-
tween the four instruments, and
the basic material was of higher
quality.
Muriel Luyk sang several of
the composer’s songs with deli-
cate artistry and animation —one
of the best of these was “Wind’s
Work,” descriptive writing of
some strength. Finally the com-
poser joined with Maureen Jones
in duo-piano interpretation of
some of his volatile Jamaican
pieces.
Having in a masterly way
overcome most of the acoustical
difficulties of the Melbourne
Town Hall, the Robert Masters
quartet showed at its final con-
cert that it was, in fact, a worthy
successor to the Boyd Neil
strings. In a work by the Hun-
garian Zoltan Kodaly the instru-
ments were reduced to violin
and ’cello, yet with these two
Robert Masters hnd Muriel
Taylor achieved an extraordinary
volume and variety of texture.
The piece did not seem to have
any connection of ideas rqnning
through it, but it contained
every problem imaginable for
players, and they were solved
with unerring accuracy and ease.
The disappointingly small audi-
ence was lost in the Town Hall,
but would have filled the
Assembly Hall, where the music
would have had a better pas-
sage.


weu/J-iis
Elastopte-'
nil nr erease can
No water, oil or grease can
get through or under the new
plastic Waterproof Elasto-
plast Dressings. Waterproof
Elastoplast keeps cuts and
injuries safely dry and clean,
and its medicated pad assists
healing. These new elastic
dressings stretch sympathet-
ically with skin movement.
Ask at your Chemist.
*B^
8^
Elastic adhesive.
Does not ruck up. catch"
or fray.
Always washes clean.
ii
I
isss
V::-'
FABRIC ELASTOPIASt
is still available for those who
do not require protection
against liquids. These well-
known dressings keep cuts and
abrasions clean, and aid
healing.
NOW... 2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST...
Fabric and Waterproof ei/ho
Ptodur.H of
J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., Hull, England
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
»■ *s
pz
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAUCER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
THE SERVICE MAN
Korea—and After.
“Ek Dum”: Unless they can
bring in sufficient forces in time
—they cannot have them, apart
from transport, unless Chinese or
Siberian troops become involved
—the North Korean armies in
the south are doomed, and there
is little hope for them any-
where.
General MacArthur’s plan is
a simple one. He is tearing the
North Korean armies in strips.
Having arrived at his beach-
head a few miles from the South
Korean capital, Seoul, he began
to expand it and consolidate.
His force, quickly in possession
of Inchon, Seoul’s port, and,
within the week, of Kimpo air-
field, began to expand, and
Seoul itself was invested by
troops pushing across the Han
River, particularly to the north-
west, so as to cut off the capi-
tal from the sea and sever its
main road-and-rail communica-
tion with the sources of arma-
ment and reinforcement across
the border 35 miles or so away.
At the same time other forces
began to push along the main
road south-eastward, while the
Americans, British and South
Koreans in the erstwhile “de-
fence-box” of the south-east
began to advance rapidly to
meet them and to strike out in
all directions on the northern
side. Their advances showed that
the retreats which had been so
gloomily received by the Press
less than a fortnight ago
amounted to the motions of put-
ting the enemy’s neck on the
block in a posture most con-
venient to apply the axe to him.
The front expanded northward
with rapidity along the eastern
coastal road to Yongdok, in-
land up the eastern branch of
the peninsula railway well to
the north of the latitude of Tae-
jon and the Kum River of fate-
ful memory.
“Kessel und Kettel ,,
To the south-west the enemy
was pushed back across the
Nakt o n g River, engulfing
Sangju, directly to the west of
Taeju after Waegwan had
fallen.
The northern line as it existed
a few days before having com-
pletely disappeared, a further
curving drive was thrown out
in the north to join with the
Sangju column and envelop the
large Communist forces north-
west of Waegwan.
Both this thrust towards
Sangju and the conjoint, one
further south aimed at Kum-
chon were making for the cen-
tral#road to Seoul to link along
it and surround the enemy to
the east of them—the old Ger-
man “Kessel und Kettel” tactics
over again.
The march of the Marines
from the Seoul area past Suwon
was directed to joining with
these two southern forces, cut-
ting off the North Koreans in
the south entirely from their
bases. The gap to be bridged was
less than 60 miles on Sept. 25.
There was a third operation
linked with these two. A South
Korean and U.S. force landed
at Samchok on the east coast
had already cut the coastal road
and railway and secured con-
trol of the end of a road which
crosses the peninsula south of
the Han River to Seoul.
At the end of the week the
beginnings of expansion were to
be seen in that beachhead, and
it looked as if the northward
drive of the “.defence-box”
troops beyond Andong would
meet the landing detachments
from Samchok before long and
corral still another large slice of
retreating Communists on the
east coast. There was a still
further pincer beginning across
the whole of the far south
Over the weekend U.S. troops
were looking down on Seoul’s
centre from all its dominating
suburban hills, and the south
was full of shell-fire, bombs,
fire-bombs and ground move-
ment.
Communists Fight Hard
The Communists were not giv-
ing way easily. They were still
not outnumbered, and still not
without supplies and armament,
but they were dominated in
materiel, outclassed in fire-
power, and the command of the
sea and air were both completely
in the hands of the United
Nations forces, which gave par-
ticular displays of their capacity
in the flying-in of troops to
Kimpo airfield outside Seoul
after it had been neatly recon-
ditioned to their purposes and in
the size of the armadas which
they assembled for their land-
ings at the several ports of
entry.
With fresh troops, including
British and 9 Australians, who
may be in action very soon,
their advance agents being
already in frontal areas, the
day of the North Koreans is
finished, and though a grim fight
was expected to complete the
conquest of the South Korean
capital the result seems to be a
foregone conclusion. A few
days from now the North Korean
war will have developed into a
—perhaps still major—mopping-
up operation.
Americans Bomb British
One sad incident marred last
week’s fighting. U.S. aircraft
called on to give support to the
Argyll and Sutherland High-
landers, who had crossed the
Naktong River in the Waegwan-
sector drive, plastered them with
fire-bombs and shot them up with
m.g. fire, with the result that the
North Koreans were able, tem-
porarily, to overrun their posi-
tion.
This is not an abnormal inci-
dent. The Americans seem to
be remarkably unable to cure
themselves of the habit of
shooting up their own and other
friendly forces. A U.S, fighter
squadron which was cleaned up
in the Philippine landings, a
Swiss city 20 miles from their
genuine target, a few hundred
South Korean allies —it is all the
same to them, after which they
come home bubbling with en-
thusiasm at the pin-point
accuracy of their shooting or
“blasting.”
At times the South Koreans
have almost been brought to the
point of rebellion during the
present operations by the manner
in which they have been fired
on by their protective allies.
In this instance the Argylls
suffered more than 50 casualties,
and the resulting sensation may
do something to cure the
Americans of their strange ten-
dency towards the destruction of
their support and allies. They
are not, of course, unique in
mistaking their friends for their
enemies—that sort of thing hap-
pens in every army in every
war. But they do it much
oftener than other armies in a
manner which belies their pride
in their modernistic efficiency.
The Broad Pattern
There seems little risk that
the North Koreans will be
rescued from their fate by their
Russian friends. Having caused
the Americans loss of thousands
of lives and immense expense
and having produced disturb-
ance, fear and dissension round
the world, the Russian Foreign
Minister, Mr. Vyshinsky, and his
satellites are to be observed,
reasonable and even jovial, at
Lake Success among the repre-
sentatives of those whom they
set out to murder on the largest
feasible scale without the trouble
of soiling their own hands.
They are pretending to put out
peace-feelers while at the same
time encouraging the conviction
among the usual gullible crowd
of editors that their defeat in
North Korea would be “the
biggest blow to Soviet power
since the end of the war.” That
is pure rubbish, since the Korean
affair is only one small part of
a huge world plan of disruption
and the issue of the conflict was
a foregone conclusion from the
first.
All that seems likely to hap-
pen is that, having compelled the
Americans and their allies to
organise for large-scale war in
Korea, the Russians will create
another disturbance in some
other area, hoping by a long
chain of such events to tire the
world of the effort of saving
small countries, and at the same
time sapping the resources of
the Western World and dis-
tracting it from the vital task of
preparing for defence against
Russian attack.
Already, as North Korean
fortunes wane, the Indo-Ghina
front has begun to blaze and the
French are preparing to meet
full-scale attack by the Vietminh
forces of Moscow’s local agent,
Ho Chi-minh.
The Russians Laughed
and Laughed.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Menzies’s
statements on defence come at
a time when the Korean situa-
tion is approaching a crisis along
with situations in U.N.O.
U.N.O. is debating the ques-
tion whether troops will cross
the 38th Parallel, the North
Korean border, but it seems in-
evitable that if the operations
are pushed to a logical conclu-
sion, especially on the precedents
of Germany and Japan, U.N.O.
must now firmly establish its
authority and carry out its
Korean policy.
The basis of that policy is that
Korea is one country, not two.
This follows, apart from any
political considerations, upon
its economic - geographical
nature, which is very similar to
that of Germany, where the
east is agricultural and provides
food and much of the west is
primarily industrial and provides
fuel and metals, both sections
being naturally interdependent.
In Korea the north is indus-
trialised, the south agricultural,
and U.N.O. recognises no divi-
sion between the two. It recog-
nises the South Korean Govern-
ment as the official Government
of the whole of Korea, largely
because it holds two-thirds of
the people of the whole country.
The north has, on the other
hand, refused to recognise the
South Korean Government or
the democratic system of gov-
ernment. It claims its right to
govern the whole peninsula and
that it has held clandestine and
illegal elections throughout the
south in defiance of U.N.O. It
has been guilty of brutal aggres-
sion without warning, the arms
for its venture having been pro-
vided by a greedy foreign
Power. It has pursued its ag-
gression in the face of the moral
and physical resistance of the
world. It has caused the loss of
tens of thousands of innocent
lives and untold misery.
It is impossible to conceive
that U.N.O. can merely push
the ruffians who have done all
this back to their starting-point,
allowing them then to begin all
over again with the aid of Mos-
cow and Peking, of which they
are the tools. If that course is
followed U.N.O. need never
again attempt to exert its
authority in Asia because it will
be laughed at. Neither need the
United States or the British
Commonwealth. The only logi-
cal and effective conclusion to
the war will be the complete
liquidation of the authority of
the North Korean Government,
the liquidation of its armed
forces, the punishment of its
leaders, the firm establishment
of the Government of Dr.
Rhee in authority over the
whole of Korea and the holding
of Korea - wide elections as
soon as possible to allow the
people to express their will.
Russia’s Responsibility
Furthermore, it seems ines-
capable that if U.N.O. wishes to
continue to live it must examine
the sources from which the
North Koreans obtained their
arms, and if it is found that
they were supplied by Russia,
then Russia must be expelled for
gross and deliberate subversion
of the principles of the U.N.O.
charter and for aiding and abet-
ting the crime which U.N.O.
exists mainly to prevent. The
real test of U.N.O. is whether it
is strong enough to do this. And
if it isn’t it must break up or
degenerate into an ever more
ridiculous farce than it is at
present, with its recently-elected
Persian Assembly president,
who comes from a country
whose standards are among the


When ji * j«
in S'gclne'g
Stay at Pleasant Point Piper,
Sydney’s exclusive district close
to Famous Beaches, Rose Bay
Golf Club, Yachting, Tennis,
Buses, etc.
We cater for a limited number oi
Discriminating Guests. Spacious
High Ceilinged Rooms, Attrac-
tively Furnished with Every
Comfort and quiet Privacy.
Delicious Breakfasts are Served
in your Rooms from 7.30 a.m.
as you desire. Newly established.
Fully Recommended by all
Banks.
For Reservations and Par-
ticulars write Management,
Room 5, Floor 1, 44 Castle-
reagh St. Phone BW 3807,
FM 2017.
Ex-Naval Men
Wanted
tor 2 Years'
Service
in the R.A.N.
In view of the present inter-
national situation, ex-naval
men, particularly ex-chief
petty officers and ex-petty
officers of the Seaman
Branch, are invited to re-
enter for TWO YEARS’
SERVICE in the Permanent
Naval Forces.
ME LIMIT FOR RE-ENTRY
41 YEARS
•
Applicants must not have
been outside the Service for
more than five years and
must have held confirmed
Able rate or above.
Men re-entering for TWO
YEARS will not become
contributors to the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefits
Fund, but will receive a
gratuity of £2O per annum,
payable on completion of a
two years’ engagement, or if
later, on discharge, supple-
mented pro rata for each
additional completed month
of service. This payment
will not be in the nature of
Deferred Pay computed on a
daily basis.
For full details apply:
The Naval Recruiting Officer
in your Capital City.
D
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT»OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN CLEMENT McDONALD late of
Walcha.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE
ELLA MCDONALD has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 630 of 1945 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse and is asking
for the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1399 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 27th day of November 1950
and obtain a copy of the Petition free of
charge from JOHN D. NORTON, Solicitor,
393 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO RONALD WILLIAM BOXALL late of
Kings Cross. —TAKE NOTICE that
YVONNE BERYL BOXALL has pursuant
to Part 111 of the Matrimonial Causes
Act (Federal) 1945 filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3238 of 1950 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 27th
day of November 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney,— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Attention All Woolgrowers
FORMATION OF CAMPAIGN
COMMITTEE
k
All woolgrowers are invited to attend
AN IMPORTANT MEETING
to be held at
THE WOOL EXCHANGE
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3
at 2.30 p.m.'
The objects of the meeting are:—
1. To request the Commonwealth Government to amend
recently passed legislation so as to make it mandatory to
hold a compulsory referendum of growers under the
control of the Commonwealth Electoral Office, before
any scheme for the marketing of wool is brought into
* being;
2. To form a Campaign Committee in support of such
request to elect officers and to take such other action as
may be deemed necessary or desirable;
3. To protest against any proposal to levy a sectional tax
on producers of wool or meat.
In view of the vital importance to the pastoral industry of the
matters to be discussed it is urged that all who can possibly
attend the meeting should do so.
Make the Demonstration Worthy of the Industry
J. P. Abbott
C. M. Williams
W. R. Scilley
C. A. Sinclair
R. J, Doolin
E. I. Body
B. Cole
Mac. Falkiner
H. K. Nock
Mrs. Bertha Mac Smith
W. J. Fraser
R. V. Hole
Convenors
“33 MILES...
1 gallon of petrol”
“...I have now had a Holden car for three months and have
travelled 6,000 miles. From the first time I drove it I found
it was extremely light on petrol, but was amazed recently
when I tested it out. My Mail Run is a distance of thirty
three miles and I have to call at thirty mail boxes and I did
the trip on one gallon petrol . . .”
Fred Cooper, Mail Contractor, Yeoval, N.S.W,
Holden is your best buy
because it gives you...
OVERALL ECONOMY
... in petrol oil and maintenance.
BIG CAR COMFORT
... leg and elbow room for five or six.
LIVELY PERFORMANCE
. . . fast-stepping h.p. engine.
STREAMLINED-STYLISH
Holden has good looks that will last.
jf “A/r Chief’ ” Radios are specially designed
for Holden. Air Chief 5-valve with a
6-inch speaker, or Air Chief 6-valve with
an 8-inch speaker.
Jf Convenient hire purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. General
Motor’s own finance company.
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
List Price £750 plus sales tax
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia. 2780C/H
lowest in Western Asia and
from a Government, about as
democratic and moral as Ai
Capone, which at the moment is
fighting Russian-organised rebel-
lion in its heart.
The whole absurdity of the
conception of U.N.O. —product
of muddled brains like those of
Dr. Evatt —is shown by the pro-
posal at present before the
Assembly for the creation of a
U.N.O. army and by the sudden
mirth of Russian delegates at
Lake Success and their readiness
to discuss the question of end-
ing the Korean war —which, of
course, would mean ending it
south of the North Korean
border, leaving the bandits un-
scathed and acknowledged
masters of the North.
A “Peace Patrol”
The army proposal has come
before the Assembly in the form
of a resolution from the Ameri-
can delegation for a programme
to combat aggression anywhere
in the world.
This envisages a scheme under
which each U.N.O. country
would set aside, inside its armed
forces, a U.N.O. patrol unit
specially equipped and trained
for prompt service under the
U.N.O. flag. To assist in
organisation, training and equip-
ping of the unit it was proposed
that a U.N.O. military adviser
should be appointed—at present
U.N.O. major nations hold
U.N.O.’s military command in
rotation, so that while Russia
has been supplying the North
Koreans and Chinese and Indo-
Chinese with arms to fight other
members of U.N.O. it has been
entitled at intervals to hold
technical military control over
U.N.O.’s military branch.
It is no wonder that the
Russians are reported to be in
a jovial mood at Lake Success.
They must be bursting their sides
laughing at the vision of a
U.N.O. army with Russian,
Czech, Polish, Hungarian, Bul-
garian and other Communist
components being ordered to
check Russian aggression or to
fight Communist China to pre-
vent it overrunning Formosa or
Indo-China ; or, again, to rescue
the Persian president of U.N.O.
from the Kurdish rebels whom
the Russian radio-stations in
Azerbaijan have been exhorting
to capture and hang along
with his fellow-Ministers. They
are no doubt put in splendid
spirits at the prospect of the de-
bate on the selection of a mili-
tary leader. And their private
laughter must be uproarious at
the admission by Mr. Acheson
that the formulation of the
peace-patrol plan has been
prompted by the need to counter
“the new imperialism * directed
by leaders of the Soviet Union,”
who are planning “to bring
about collapse of the non-
Soviet world,” for which pur-
pose Moscow had “built up
armies far beyond any require-
ment of defence.”
Russia’s Naive Schemes
Suppressing their mirth, M.
Vyshinsky apd his colleagues
brought forward counter-pro-
posals. The first item in them
called on the world to ban the
atom-bomb even against an
aggressor who could not be
otherwise beaten off ; also to ban
“other weapons of mass destruc-
tion,” which can be taken as an
admission that Russia knows the
rest of the world to be ahead in
the atom and bombing spheres.
The second Russian proposal
was that the major Powers
should conclude a pact to
strengthen peace—a very water-
tight series of them, including
U.N.O. charter, already exists,
but every one of them has been
cynically broken by Moscow,
sometimes directly after they
were signed.
Thirdly, the Russians propose
that the U.S., Britain, France,
China and the Soviet Union
should reduce their armed forces
during 1950 by one-third. This
would leave Western Europe
with perhaps a dozen weak divi-
sions and Russia and its satellites
with something like 250 divi-
sions. It would be tantamount
to giving Russia the unques-
tioned right to dominate the
world.
Mr. Vyshinsky solemnly
assured the Assembly that the
Soviet Union was “consistent in
its struggle against all warlike
adventures and threats to peace
and security.”
And then he hurried out to
help mystify correspondents
with the spectacle of members
of the Russian delegation laugh-
ing and laughing, like a lady
once popular in story, instead
of presenting to the world their
usual aspect of gunmanlike
frostiness.
Gen. MacArthur’s Example
It fell to Mr. Spender—a new
vice-president in the Persian
garden of Lake Success —to
pledge full support for the
American proposal, which is
tantamount to creating an army
whose general staff conferences
are to be attended by the enemy
and with whose forces in the
field the enemy’s legions march.
Possibly, to secure the ad-
hesion of some treacherous or
frightened countries along
Russia’s borders and delude
them into thinking they are a
power in world councils,
muddled politicians who have
re-created themselves overnight
as statesmen and diplomats
think it is necessary to keep the
U.N.O. farce going, but the
civilised world would be
stronger if it followed the honest
example of General MacArthur,
who hoisted the U.S. flag instead
of the U.N.O. flag when he
went ashore in. the Inchon land-
ings.
For all effective purposes
U.N.O. is Western Europe and
its Dominions and colonies and
the United States. And it
should be stripped of its hangers-
on, many of which are now only
a liabflity, and thus form a
closely-organised citadel with no
weak outposts, or possible
traitors, or double-dealers. It
should also be stripped of its
enemies.


f'
V .
it
m
&
V
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
F
D
FD
Time too is flying!
When you have to count the
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world—including those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company. Ltd.
F
DFDF
DF
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBBEPBE” Melbourne
073/9512
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPEAN DISUNITY.
»
London “Observer,” edi-
torially reviewing the latest
meeting of the Council of
Europe Assembly at Strasbourg,
finds in that body two quite
separate groupings, with a dis-
tinct difference of aim, not
merely of method.
It goes on ( > give the follow-
ing clear analysis of the general
set-up and the main points of
disunity:
“The French, the Germans,
the Italians and to a somewhat
lesser extent the Belgians and
the Dutch are out for something
quite different from the aims of
the British and Scandinavians.
“The latter do, of course,
realise fully the practical need
for far closer European co-
operation in economics and de-
fence, and are quite willing to
become ‘mixed up together’ with
their neighbors to the extent re-
quired by European security
and prosperity in present condi-
tions ; but they do not want to
lose their national identity and
separateness. When all is said
and done, they want to remain
what they are —British, Danish,
Norwegian and Swedish. They
are ready for neighborly co-
operation, friendship and give-
and-take ; but they do not want
to lose the whole basis of their
corporate feeling ; and when it
is put to them that they ought
to want this they instinctively
recoil.
‘‘But this is exactly what the
French, Germans, Italians and
Benelux people do want, and for
which they feel a profound and
urgent need. The discussions
about the Schurnan Plan —and
in particular the French reac-
tion to the British Conservative
counter-proposals [which were
as much concerned with retain-
ing complete national sovereignty
as were the Attlee Socialists’
plans]—have made this plain be-
yond a doubt. For these Conti-
nental nations the immediate
economic and defensive needs
which force them into co-opera-
tion are almost subordinate to
the urgent psychological need
for, a new centre of loyalty, a
new collective nationality and
Statehood. While we are
anxious to preserve our national
identity they are longing to shed
theirs and acquire a wider one,
“There are good reasons for
this profound difference. For
the British and Scandinavians
their nationhood signifies a safe
and stable home, enjoyed
through centuries of undisturbed
continuity; to the French, Ger-
'BRITAIN IS NOT JUST A SMALL „ ,
CROWDED ISLAND OFF THE WESTERN
COAST OF CONTINENTAL EUROPE'
-PROM THE LABOUR PARTY STATEMENT
dPUAu „
GONE TO ANY LENGTH
NORTH
ATLANTIC
OCEAN
OF MAPS AND MEN.
London “News Chronicle.”
mans and Italians it has, during
the last 150 years, brought re-
peated upheavals, tragic civil
strife and forced changes of
loyalty. Moreover, their direct
experience of the last war was
far more searching than ours;
while our national self-reliance
was confirmed during the war
years, theirs was broken. In the
depth of their souls they feel
that they can never recover it as
Frenchmen, Germans or Italians,
but only as Europeans.”
By way of tentative proposals
for a solution, the editorial sug-
gests that a way out may be for
Britain to allow, indeed help, its
Continental allies to federate
with each other as they may
wish and continue to co-operate
with their new union as good
neighbors.
Today’s Truman.
“One of the most extra-
ordinary developments of re-
cent years in America has been
the growth of Mr. Truman into
his office.”
Thus Denis W. Brogan, in the
course of a London “Sunday
Times” article-assessment of the
U.S. President as the test of
office has proved him. “Few of
the startled spectators of his
inauguration as President,” says
Brogan, “could have foreseen
what terrible decisions he would
have to take or with what resili-
ence and firmness he would take
them.”
A further passage in the
assessment could perhaps be of
value in the Kremlin, unless Joe
and Co. still prefer to be mis-
led by the belittling version of
Truman served up a year or two
back by a Russian journalist and
given world-wide publication.
Truman has (writes Brogan)
been “at least as bold a re-
former as F.D.R., and in some
fields, like that of race dis-
crimination, much bolder.
“He has defied powerful in-
terests like the oil companies,
and he has protected his office
and his subordinates from the
effects of synthetic panic in the
Congress.
“And it is of great moment
that this should be so. For if it
is true that the U.S.S.R. is much
more likely to stumble into war
than to make it, it is of the
greatest importance that its
rulers should realise that they
are dealing with a man who
doesn’t scare and who doesn’t
like being tricked.”
“Guilty Men.”
The democratic process after
wars appears to be to disarm
in haste by sheer force of popu-
lar insistence, and then in due
course turn round and pelt as
handy scapegoats the elected
agents in the process.
The second stage is now in
full swing in both America and
Britain, and some of the flung
stones have rather sharp edges.
As a typical example, a staff
writer in N, Y. “Herald Tribune”
takes his scapegoats wholesale
(incidentally, however, giving a
fair enough picture of what the
process has led to in the U.S.):
“Whoever scuttled the Ameri-
can Navy is responsible for to-
day’s debacle, having deprived
the Navy of its status as a ‘fleet
in being,’ recognised for cen-
turies as a fundamental prin-
ciple of national strategy. Those
responsible for this mistake in
judgment should be relieved of
office —civilian or military.
“Whoever took away from
the United States Army its own
airplane units capable of operat-
ing always with ground troops
—compelling the Army to rely
instead on the intermittent help
of bombers or inadequate tacti-
cal units furnished by a United
States Air Force primarily and
rightly concerned with long-
range strategic bombing—should
be relieved of office, whether
civilian or military. For to send
a ground army into action to-
day without its own air artillery
is like sending infantry into
action without ground artillery.
“Whoever fostered the idea
that land armies of the United
States could fight nowadays
without armored divisions of
tanks in sufficient numbers
should be relieved of office —
civilian or military.
“Whoever sold Congress the
idea that America would not
need overseas bases —floating or
fixed with adequate forces
maintained constantly in areas
of potential trouble distant from
our shores should be exposed
to view now.
“Politeness, personal friend-
ships or sensitivity, partisanship,
are criminal excuses if they
stand in the way of punishment
of the blunderers. No other
course will satisfy the mothers
of the men who are dying in
Korea nor the mothers of the
many more young men about to
die as a consequence of these
mistakes.”
Scapegoat No. 1 took the
knock on September 12, when
U.S. Defence Secretary Louis
Johnson was replaced by
General Marshall. It must be
said that Johnson had been a
very willing agent in the demo-
cratic process of downing arms.
Pruned Schuman.
Further details of Schuman
Plan developments as shaped in
the recent conferences on it
have been given by London
“Economist,” indicating, among
other things, “some retreat from
the simplicity of the original
proposal for a High Authority
independent of political control,
but not nearly as much reheat
as would be necessary to ap-
pease the original critics of that
proposal, especially the British
Government.”
On one issue there has been
firm insistence —no one Govern-
ment is to have a veto over what
the High Authority can do
within its territory. Yet it has
been recognised that the High
Authority cannot be utterly un-
controlled; hence the follow-
ing complex set-up:
“There are to be no less than
four main organisations: the
High Authority itself, of six to
nine members named collectively
by all the Governments on a
basis of individual qualities
without national representation ;
a Common Assembly of dele-
gates from the national Parlia-
ments, whose main duty will be
to consider the annual report of
the High Authority, with power
to impeach the whole Authority
but not to interfere with its de-
cisions ; a Council of Ministers,
with no powers of general con-
trol over the High Authority


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
O&mottd
j&vnce
vm
//
7 %*£
owL
y
rr
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream
Metal Parts
jts
to so*'
TILLEY!
.
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS (300 CANDLE POWER)
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L. 106 “THE QUEEN” 2li" High
T.L 136 “THE PRINCESS” 164" High
TILLEY.* LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
~T!e wit!
the. -ijappy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer’s Representatives T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
but with powers (as yet ill-
defined) to make recommenda-
tions on certain specific issues;
and finally a Court of Justice,
whose duty, in principle, will be
to see that the High Authority
conforms to the letter of the
treaty, but which may well find
itself straying from defined
legalities into the more disput-
able ground of economic ex-
pediency and commercial judg-
ment.”
As the “Economist” reason-
ably concludes, to picture how
such a structure would actually
work in practice would strain
the most versatile imagination,
so much depending on defini-
tions and personalities. Whether
that will be the final structure is
still in doubt, the treaty having
still to go (probably next month)
to the various Governments for
ratification. One or other, if not
the lot of them, almost certainly
will seek modifications, though
not, says “Manchester
Guardian,” to any really crip-
pling extent.
The “Guardian” sees the con-
ferences as having revealed that
Britain’s aloofness from the plan
is not a matter of misunderstand-
ing, or bad luck, or Labor
prejudice: but of a basic differ-
ence in situations,
“When it has come to the
point Mr. Churchill has been
as chary of committing himself
as Mr. Attlee. He knows as
well as the trade-union leaders
that potentially the pool could
be a dangerous threat to the
standard of living of the workers.
Today it is only a threat. But
even the risk is unacceptable,
and neither party would dare
take it,”
Britain or no Britain, “the
success of the plan, which to-
day seems fairly probable,
would give a considerable im-
petus to the movement to federa-
tion in Continental Western
Europe that has been so ob-
viously frustrated in the Council
of Europe and elsewhere.
Federation in almost any form
is the overriding aim of French
policy at the moment, and the
Bonn Government is doing all it
can to encourage the French
initiative. The hope is at once
to incorporate and to neutralise
Germany in Western Europe
and to create a new loyalty
above the discredited national-
isms that have brought nothing
but disappointment to their de-
votees in the last 30 years.”
U.S. Population.
Latest census figures, officially
given out by U. S. Secretary of
Commerce Charles Sawyer, show
the total population of con-
tinental U.S. as approximately
150,500,000, representing an in-
crease of almost 19 million over
the 1940 total, the largest
numerical gain in population for
any decade in American history.
The figures show that the
population of the U.S. approxi-
mately doubled during the past
50 years. In 1900 the census
totalled 75,995,575 persons.
California has now moved
from the fifth most populous
State in 1940 to second place in
1950, with a total of 10,472,348.
New York remains the most
heavily-populated State, with
14,743,110 persons. Pennsylvania
is third with 10,436,965, Illinois
fourth with 8,696,490 and Ohio
fifth with 7,901,791.
The census found that the
three Pacific Coast States, Cali-
fornia, Oregon and Washington,
accounted for approximately one-
fourth of the nation’s entire in-
crease in population. California,
the most rapidly-growing single
State of the whole U.S., in-
creased its population during the
decade by about 51.6 per cent.
Immigration, the census report
says, was only a minor factor in
the increase.
Liquidated Comrades.
In a London “Times” featured
article a correspondent reports
that in Bulgaria, after the hang-
ing last December of Com-
munist - party secretary - general
Kostov, “the purges in the Com-
munist leadership assumed
enormous proportions.”
The liquidated have included
Cabinet Ministers, central com-
mittee members, former partisan
leaders —all, of course, of the
“party,” and all struck down
with a ruthlessness and cruelty
surpassing even the ferocity of
the Communist terror tactics in
1947 and 1948, when the liquida-
tion of the “leaders of the
bourgeoisie” was in full swing.
Not more than one-third of the
“glorious Dimitrov Central Com-
mittee” has survived the purge,
adds the “Times” man. In the
new Communist Cabinet formed
by the present Prime Minister,
Vaiko Chervenkov, only two
Ministers are “old - guard”
Communists. During the first
six months of this year 92,000
Communists were expelled from
the party (out. of a total of
400,000). Most of these were
provincial party secretaries and
party functionaries, Communists
of long standing, appointed by
Kostov; and the majority of
them, having been proclaimed
“enemies of the people,” may be
presumed either to have been
killed or imprisoned.
Of the present 47,000 party
functionaries 42,000 are new
party members.
A Good Risk.
Responsible London comment
on the Menzies dollar loan has
emphasised the good-risk aspect.
Thus, the “Economist”:
“It is certain that the [lnter-
national, or World] Bank has
made no loan with less mis-
givings or fuss. Australia, with
some £4OO million of accumu
lated sterling funds, with a larg
(though dwindling) active bal-
ance on current account, am
with an undisputed right of re
course to the sterling area's
rising dollar reserves, is clearly a
very good credit risk.”
Similarly, the “Financial
Times”:
“Since the time when it realised
two or three years ago that e
continuation of the practice of
granting ‘relief-type’ loans would
rapidly exhaust its resources, the
World Bank has adopted a very
cautious attitude towards all
applications for new advances.
In most cases it has insisted upon
a prolonged investigation of the
economic circumstances of the
country applying for assistance
before approving a loan, as well
as a careful examination of the
development plans for which the
money was actually required. It
says much, therefore, for Aus-
tralia’s credit standing that she
has been granted a loan of no
less than $lOO million within a
few weeks of submitting her first
application to the bank.”
The “Economist,” however,
has some doubts on another
aspect: —
“Whether the development
programme that this loan will
assist is wisely timed from Aus-
tralia’s own point of view is
more open to doubt. In a recent
article in the ‘Financial Times,’
Sir Douglas Copland, the doyen
of Australian economists, de-
clared that ‘Australia has not yet
solved the problem of limiting
the level of Government expendi-
ture in boom periods’ since the
‘Australian temperament is not
altogether well suited to defla-
tion.’ If this means that the
Dominion is temperamentally
obliged to buy capital equipment
at the very moment when the
price of that equipment is likely
to be soaring to a peak, then
hopes that a sound economic
basis will be laid to the develop-
ment of its underpopulated areas
are likely to be disappointed.
Mr. Menzies reveals that plans
for their development are very
far-flung indeed.”
Dragnet Digest.
Work. —Sorrowful remark credited
by “Manchester Guardian” to Chinese
Communist Labor Minister Li Li-san:
“Labor is now respected. But it has
hot become a really delightful occu-
pation.”
* * * *
“Peace" Pledge. —A whole Scan-
dinavian football team had to request
that its assorted signatures be erased
from the Communist-hawked “peace”
petition. The chaps thought they
were signing the usual autographs.
By London “Daily Mail” report
there’s been another slight error. One
of the signatures bagged in Britain
was Compton Mackenzie’s. The
author explains: “It was all a mis-
take. I had two forms on my desk,
and signed this peace pledge by
mistake.”
$ )|t $ s|e
Czech Cinema. —As reported on in
Edinburgh “Scotsman” by a special
correspondent recently m Prague:
“Prices of entertainment are low,
especially in cinemas, but, unfor-
tunately—from the Government’s
point of view—it is the few Western
films which draw the crowds and the
annlame Ouite bad French and
m^ m ‘
are ostentatiously
applauded, while the best Russian
ones—and the standard of Soviet films
C
ta thf comttyside. Efforts
have recently been made to step up
cinema attendances by offering a free
seat to anyone who will brmg five
° ers * * * *
invasion of Britain.— Going by the
current tourist invasion of Britain it
u ll lo °L as F
a few months away will have to be
revised upwards. London “Times”
reports the July foreign tourist
1{) nt ‘ mor ’ tban tbe
average pre-war figure for the month
and 12 per cent more than for July
year To ttat has to be adgd
rLm" n wca°th coumrS making
the total about 110,000.
* * * ♦
Troops for Korea— Britain 3 con-
“ When
our commitments in Maiaya and
Hong Kong are considered, the dis-
patch of this force represents a for-
midabie British effort. And as
viewed a London “Spectator”
writer: What does strike me as
painfully characteristic of the standard
of leadership which the British are
getting from their present rulers is
that it should take us two months to
mobilise a diminutive expeditionary
force of one weak brigade group.
* *
European Army.— On the sugges-
tion for a European army which Mr.
Churchill made at Strasbourg, London
“Economist” makes its own sugges-
tions, among them that a Supreme
Commander should be appointed and
that each of the Governments should
place at his disposal, as they placed
under General Eisenhower’s com-
mand, as many fighting formations
as they could: “This conception fits
in with the eminently reasonable
desire of the French Government to
see more American and British divi-
sions stationed in Europe. The most
urgent need of the moment, indeed,
is that the defence forces of the
'Western nations should be regrouped
in fighting formations.” Contending
that the U.S. and Canada “should
now become full partners,” it adds:
“If this entailed the appointment of
an American general to succeed Lord
Montgomery, then (without any dis-
respect to the Field-Marshal) so much
the better.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
U.S. Commitments. From an
article, “A French View of Korea,”
by Bertrand de Jouvenal in London
“Time and Tide”: “It seems plain
that if the drive in other places is as
energetic and the local reaction as
ineffective as in Korea, an intolerable
strain will be placed upon, American
forces. The United States cannot,
without peril to themselves —and to
the West, of which they are the
main prop—go on meeting successive
or simultaneous challenges at various
points of the globe chosen by their
opponents until American forces are
so over-extended as to be unable to
oppose the main push. So we must
reconsider the doctrine of interven-
tion.” Typical of much comment on
that side of the world, this leaves
questionable whether the same would
be said about any challenge in
Europe.
♦ ♦ * *
Japs and S.-E. Asia. —A diplomatic
correspondent in London “Nineteenth
Century” looks round the Asian
fringe: “If South-east Asia came
under Communist control, Japan
would be a lonely outpost, with all
the countries round her Communist.
The Soviet East, China and South-
east Asia are all underdeveloped
industrially; and they could offer to
a Communist Japan enormous
potentialities, both economically and
psychologically. For the accession of
Japan to the Communist bloc would
tip the scales in Asia decisively in its
favor, and perhaps in time the scales
of the world. What the West could
offer, once South-east Asia was gone,
would be so exiguous and so psycho-
logically frustrating by comparison
that the majority of Japanese might
find themselves driven to make an
accommodation with the Communist
world; and the integration of Japan
ihto the Communist system would
inexorably follow.”


British
TO
D
F
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
Fly in comfort, on one ticket all
the way . . . from Sydney to
London or any country en route,
via the colourful East ... or on,
across the globe, to other con-
tinents. Speedbird services
operate to 51 countries.
Pressurised aircraft. Compli-
mentary meals and refreshments.
No tips, no extras to pay.
Book from Sydney to Indonesia . far
EAST • HONG KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON
INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA • ITALY
GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO
U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA • BERMUDA
TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOll
D
Fir ■ t o A C
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin or
from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
AI4/AU
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments I
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Even tough old faces like his
m.
feel almost os young as hers
m
%
mms
9
VVy
S'
after a cool, cool Ingram Shave
mm.
1
« &
8e
%
Soothing os a cool, white
hand and quick as a
minute . . . that's wonder-
ful, latherful Ingram's!
Helps condition your skin for the blade while it wilts your
wiry whiskers. Cools burning nicks and stings while you
shave. And . . . leaves your face cool as a morning in
May! Treat your face to Ingram’s tomorrow! Get a jar
of Ingram's today at the nearest chemist.
COMBINES ITS OWN FACE LOTION
1620
A product
of
Bristol
Myers
Jngra
SHAVING C
y.n
Ingram's
Shaving
Cream
for Cool Shww and
Comfortable faces
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
THE No. I Drink
for wise men
“General MacArthur is remaining
indefinitely in Korea to run what may
be the war’s climatic campaign.”
Does Inigo Jones know?
•i* 4*
“If one of our kiddies calls out in
the night for water, my husband
bawls them out and goes to sleep
again, swearing horribly.”
And, presumably, the kiddies
then dry up.
“What has become of Sydney’s
war-time ‘sugar-daddies’?”
—“New Idea.”
Melting glances have proved
their downfall.
•h
“Australia cannot attain greatness
until she has overcome her ‘industrial
sickness.’ ” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
For too many years she was
under the care of the wrong
Doctor.
4* 4* . 4*
Natural Selection.
“It’s a job with a future,” the
manager gushed.
The weary youth drawled, as
he cast
A glance at the exit, “It ought to
be rushed —
But I’m seeking a job with a
past.”
B. B.
Well Leathered.
“ ‘You can almost knock our
horses down and they still keep
going,’ says a prominent jockey.”
They can take punishment all
right;
They’re hardier than hunters.
In fact, they’re almost ( though
not quite)
As hardy as our punters!
P.M.
■h
“Found, spectacles and case. Owner
can have same by ringing.”
— Suburban ' paper.
If he can see his way clear to
dial.
“I would call a happy family no
less of an achievement than a sonnet.”
—Melbourne “Herald."
Both must be run on the right
lines.
Where Women Hold Sway.
“The present-day hip-swinger is a
menace to pedestrians on Sydney’s
narrow footpaths.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
What traveller to warm exotic
climes
Has not been stirred by dancing
girls, at times
When luscious lips
Are smiling in a dark, provoking
face
And flimsy skirts are swinging to
the grace
Of swaying hips?
Some wanderers, forgetting
hearth and home.
Yield to the spell, and henceforth
cease to roam
Until too late.
Gripped by nostalgia for days of
old
When charms exotic lose their
power to hold.
They curse their fate.
But here, with dangers of a
sterner sort
Encounters with the gentle sex
are fraught.
And those who scoff
At risks on Sydney’s narrow
pavement strip
May find the owner of a swaying
hip
Will bump them off.
D.H.E.
Convincing Explanations.
“When a Russian-made sub-machine
gun, captured by U.S. troops in
Korea, was passed around for inspec-
tion by other delegates to U.N.
Security Council by the U.S.’s Warren
Austin, the Soviet delegate, Jacob
Malik, stepped out of the room before
it reached him. Later he said he
had walked out only because a
French translation was being made,
and he couldn’t understand French.”
Explaining why, despite strong
recommendations by his Minister
for Transport and departmental
experts that the most suitable
route of the Eastern Suburbs
railway would be one that in-
volved the demolition of John
Wren’s bloodhouse shack, he and
his Cabinet had still failed to
come to a decision on the matter
after some years of cogitation,
the N.S.W. “Labor” Premier
said: “The sole reason we have
deferred making the vital decision
is the serious shortage of pota-
toes and dolls’ eyes.
“Labor’s political enemies,
lacking the fearlessness that has
always been so conspicuous a
feature of our administration.
profess not to be able to see the
impact which this particular
combination of shortages has
had on the serious rabbit menace
in the western division, which it
is our bounden duty as Govern-
ment to bring under quick con-
trol.
“When this is taken in con-
junction with the overseas news
—of vital interest to the State’s
economy—that the Bay of Fundy
has had enormously high tides.
“Another toast, gentlemen ...”
that the seaweed crop has un-
accountably failed this year in
the Sargasso Sea, that pretzels
are going out of favor in the
American middle-west and that
since the opening of the bull-
fighting season in Barcelona at
least, four picadors have been
punctured, it will readily be
seen, except by those anti-Labor
reactionaries who don’t want to
see, that my Cabinet has had
every reasonable ground to
approach with caution the ques-
tion of the sacrifice of Sydney
Stadium to make room for the
proposed railway,”
Asked to explain his great
reluctance, since it has been
established conclusively that
Soviet - engineered Communist
aggression was alone responsible
for the Korean war, to elucidate
further on his long-held accept-
ance of Communists as “harm-
less political philosophers,” the
Bathurst Burr leisurely stoked
up his pipe before replying.
“Y’ see, it’s like this,” he
drawled at last, in those beauti-
fully-modulated and mellifluous
tones that are justly celebrated
throughout the nation, and
which keep millions of listeners
fascinatedly glued to their radios
whenever he’s on the Parliamen-
tary air, “I hadn’t read it meself,
but me attention was drawn to
it by a Zionorable member, one
of me own party, of course—l
wouldn’t get the information
from the other side, of course —
that our crocodile-hunters in the
north are havin’ a partic’ly bad
season because the crocodiles are
spending most of their time sub-
merged to get relief from the
sandy blight they’ve been suffer-
ing from. Another thing—l
didn’t read it meself, tyut me
attention has been drawn to it —
the reason why production is not
as high as it should be is, not
because of a lack of willingness
to work by the workers, but
because they are being frustrated
by the knowledge that they’re
bein’ exploited by the beer-
barons, Another thing, an’ this’ll
explain me alleged reluctance
more than anything, bandicoots
are causing a lot o’ trouble in
suburban gardens.”
Pleading not guilty to a charge
of breaking and entering, Bill
Bulletedd, after Crown evidence
at Quarter Sessions had estab-
lished that he had been arrested
at 1 a.m, after having climbed
through a broken factory-
window with housebreaking
implements in his possession,
made a statement from the dock.
“Yerroner,” he said, “I got a
honest explanation for bein’
there. It’s this way: A cobber
o’ mine’s a poultry-cleaner at
the markets, see? Well, one
mornin’ at work he trips over
his hip an’ ricks his bushel-an’-
peck, see? This meant he'
couldn’t turn round quick, an’
that led to a blue with his strife,
’cause he’d busted the Oscar on
bets that she’d give him to git
the kid’s boots from the boot-
maker’s, so he hits the sherbet,
an’ because o’ that he misses out
on his issue o’ smokes.”
Asked by the transport authori-
ties to give cause why his licence
shouldn’t be withdrawn, in view
of a proved complaint by a pas-
senger that he had made a three-
mile-detour trip when the point-
to-point distance was less than
half a mile, Joe Shrudy, a taxi-
driver, replied: “My reasons for
taking the longer journey were
quite logical. Just after I’d put
the flag down I heard one of my
bootlaces snap, and a mile fur-
ther on I happened to feel my
chin and realised I needed a
shave. I hope this explanation
is satisfactory.”
Bo.
Hounded Down.
“Justin Roulet, of Paris, was fined
5000 francs (£A6) for biting a
neighbor’s cocker spaniel because he
did not like its unsanitary habits.”
Let’s conjure up the scene in
court
If dogs could possibly be taught
To speak and battle for the right
To spend their days and nights
of leisure
Deriving homely canine pleasure
Exempt from any human bite.
A hound might then arise and
claim
That such a man as sought to
maim
A dog on good example bent.
Not prowling round or idly
drifting.
But set in habits quite uplifting,
Was moved by murderous intent.
Whereas defendant would en-
large
On arguments to beat the charge
Put forward by the dog or pup
And claim that, being fully
posted
Of pastintes by the plaintiff
boasted.
He merely cleaned the latter up.
BERT.


Vi-.
fiezfatmance
FD
Fill a Sparklets Syphon with
water, “charge” it with a
Sparklets Bulb—and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty ‘soda* is yours!
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
of new Standard and Streamline
models, or write for Illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
MOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
SPARKLETS
SYPHONS
SPARKLETS LTD., LONDON N. 18
F
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticora Soap* . It
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the
trio-Cuticm
Ointment ai
cum Powder.
DF
D
Public Notice.
I, WALTER-WEENER FRANZ BERN-
TTABTr OREYE, of German nationality,
born at Mllnstcr, Westfalen, resident 10
years in Australia, now residing at Bun-
deena, via Oronulla, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
OithiemMp Act, 1948.
a
e
0
7.
r:
1
V
4
t-
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction 9 you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges 9
Old Bond Street , London —in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
F
In
tins of 20
3/-
BT AFPOINTMENT
TOBACCDMISn TO
a majesty the km
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First event of the S.T.C, pro-
gramme at Rosehill on Saturday was
a Three- and Four-year-old Handicap
over 74 furlongs. In winning this, the
Royal Step mare Garden Party (S.
Cassidy) clocked course-record time
of 1 324. The last race of the day
was a Welter over the same journey
and time of 1.38 J was good enough
to see Salamanca (D. Munro) the
winner This considerable difference
in times was due to a dirty trick
played by the weather, which, shortly
before the last race, produced, literally
out of the blue, a brief but torrential
downpour to the utter discomfort of
racegoers, who had turned up attired
to suit the warm, sunny day previously
in evidence.
For the most part, only the presence
of several fancied Metrop. candidates
lent a touch of class to what was a
poorish meeting for this time of year.
Connections of nearly all the more
prominent Epsom and Derby pros-
B considered that a fortnight’s
from racing would be more
beneficial than to give their noddies
another run a week before their prin-
cipal missions. Two exceptions to
this, however, were the importation
Donegal, who was given a final run
in the Flying to fit him for the
Epsom, and the Victorian colt Alister,
who was given a chance to familiarise
himself with Sydney conditions by
running in the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap.
Donegal won the Flying hand-
somely by nearly three lengths from
the outsider Meteor with Heroic
Sovereign a moderate third. As
Donegal carried 9.1 compared with
his Epsom weight of 9.2, it was a
more impressive performance than his
effort in winning with 8.6 the previ-
ous week; he may yet confirm the
notion expressed here some time back
that imported horses might account
for one or more of the major handi-
caps this spring. Donegal was ridden
by the stable jockey N, Sellwood, but
Sellwood is booked for the Kelso-
trained Persist in the Epsom.
Alister’s performance in finishing
second to Garden Party in the Three-
and Four-year-old had all the appear-
ance of a good Derby trial. Un-
familiar with the starting-boxes, the
colt lost a lot of ground at the start
and was among the tailenders in the
field of 18 for the first three or four
furlongs. However, when he eventu-
ally did get cracking, he made up ms
ground to such purpose that he was
finally beaten only a head by the year-
older Garden Party, to whom he was
conceding 61b.
A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger winner
Playboy (G. Moore) showed himself
as good as ever with a comfortable
win in the w.f.a. Hill Stakes (»i
furlongs). At time of writing it was
not certain if he is to contest the
Epsom. If he does he is certainly
good enough to give a fair account
of himself, but surely it would seern
that the Melbourne Cup is the logical
spring mission of this proved stayer,
particularly since he has been
scratched from the Metrop. With a
view to the Metrop., Sir Falcon
pleased his admirers by finishing a
good third behind Playboy and Ben-
volo.
Other Metrop. candidates contested
the 12-furlongs September Handicap,
and, winning this brilliantly under a
plaster of 9.5, Snowstream (W. Cook)
rather obliterated the hopes of most
of those who finished behind him.
After doing all the pacemaking, Blue
Danube hung on pretty well for
second money and Red Loch finished
a fair third, but, really, the most im-
pressive of the also-rans was Hurry
Up. Looking bigger and more solid
than he has m the past, Snowstream
has probably never been better than
he is this time up. He drops to the
very handy weight of 8.11 in the
Metrop.
Having seen, over the past few
weeks, all that is to be seen of rele-
vant form and pointers to spring pros-
pects, there remains only the trifling
matter of trying to assess, coirelate
and interpret file same. As is in-
evitable, the major events of the
spring meeting are open affairs —there
are dozens with chances. But one
thing that might be predicted with
some confidence is that it will be a
very successful meeting for progeny of
Midstream. And in particular there
will be further confirmation (if such
is needed) of the wisdom of the late
Percy Miller’s pet breeding theory —
Midstream with Magpie mares.
Although the prospects of such fine
stayers as Sir Falcon, Hurry Up,
Carapooe and Silver Buzz must be
highly respected, the Metrop., in
present writer’s opinion, lies between
Snowstream and Delta —both sons of
Midstream out of Magpie mares. It
is difficult to choose between these
two; both have all the credentials and
have done everything expected of them
in their preparations. However,
Snowstream has a distinct pull in the
weights, particularly in relation to the
w.f.a. scale. In the Metrop. Snow-
stream has 8.11 and Delta 8.13. At
w.f.a. over the Metrop. distance, five-
year-old Snowstream would carry 9.5
and four-year-old Delta 9st., so that
from this viewpoint Snowstream has
an advantage of 71b. Unfortunately,
as this went to press, some doubts
had been raised concerning Snow-
stream, who suffered a leg injury on
Saturday. However, if he takes his
place in the field, he should be fit
to win.
Similarly, to our mind, the Derby
lies between True Course and Care-
less, both the get of Midstream. The
Victorian filly True Course also is out
of a Magpie mare; Careless is from
the French mare Grumeti. Careless
has proved himself the best of the
Sydney three-year-olds this spring.
True Course has not had a prelimin-
ary run in Sydney, so there is no
common ground on which to base a
comparison. But recalling True
Course’s efforts in winning the Sires’
Produce and Champagne Stakes in
the autumn, and recalling that fillies
finished first, second and third in both
those races, it seems highly probable
that True Course will add to the very
small number of fillies who have won
the AJ.C. Derby. Alister and Kar-
angi may be the best of the re-
mainder.
The Epsom is as open as they
come. Space does not permit a com-
parative analysis of the many chances,
but those who appeal most to this
page are Persist, Rim Boy, Achilles,
Crag Son, Denali, Dynamite and
Donegal; and we fancy them in that
order.
♦ • ♦ •
For its September meeting at Caul-
field on Saturday, the Melbourne
Racing Club had to contend with the
solid opposition offered by the foot-
ball Grand Final, but nevertheless the
horses drew a pretty fair crowd. With
the racing spotlight focused on
Sydney at the moment, principal in-
terest in the Melbourne racing lay in
trying to spot at long range Caulfield
and Melbourne Cup prospects. In
this line, the best efforts noted were
those of King Comedy in winning the
Hillcrest Handicap over the Caulfield
Cup journey, and Trumps in taking
the mile Heroic Handicap.
The Powerscourt six-year-old King
Comedy impressed in winning over a
mile at Moonee Valley recently and
considerably enhanced that good im-
pression by his first-class win on
Saturday. R. Hutchinson rode King
Comedy in a manner that suggested
he had no doubt as to the outcome
at any stage of the race. With two
furlongs to go Sun Frolic, who bad
been running along second or third
most of the trip, moved up to take
the lead and Kang Comedy followed
him through. Kang Comedy chal-
lenged in the straight, and, while Sun
Frolic fought on well, King Comedy
soon gained the upper hand and won
by a half-length, Milford taking third
money.
The St. Magnus six-year-old
Trumps (H. McCloud) also made it
two in a row when he tackled a good
class field in the Heroic Handicap and
mmm
beat them pointless. Trumps won
with a couple of lengths in hand from
Lepidus, who was followed at a
similar interval by the outsider Gay
Donna, then Comedy Prince and
Derrymore. The spring mission for
Trumps is the Caulfield Cup, in which
he has the comfortable weight of 7.11.
Other winners in a not conspicu-
ously successful day for punters were
Fern Peak (G. Newton) taking the
Lonsdale Stakes for three-year-old
fillies; King Richard (W. Fellows)
downing the colts in the Latrobe
Stakes; Savoy (S. Ralph) accounting
for the Flinders Highweight; and
Regular Port (W. Williamson) and
Glenvue (S. Ralph) collecting divi-
sions of the Ellendale Handicap.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Trial Stakes; Fellowship, 1;
Dinanda, 2; Smog, 3. Breeders’
Plate: Highlea, 1; Channel Rip, 2;
Niccoorangi, 3, A.J.C. Derby: True
Course, 1; Careless, 2; Alister, 3.
Epsom: Persist, 1; Rim Boy, 2;
Achilles, 3. Colin Stephen Stakes:
Playboy, 1; Benvolo, 2, Sir Falcon, 3.
Squatters’ Handicap: Saville Row, 1;
His Nibs, 2; Karachi, 3. Kensington
Handicap: Auburn River, 1; Silver-
jax, 2; High Brow, 3.
For Monday:—
Gimcrack Stakes: Gilmara, 1;
Stream Veil, 2; Undercurrent, 3.
Metropolitan Handicap (in the
absence of Snowstream): Delta, 1;
Carapooe, 2; Hurry Up, 3.
* * * *
In a book entitled English Sport,
published in London in 1903, one con-
tributor bewailed the fact that “Eng-
land has been the pioneer in sculling
as in most other forms of racing sport,
and for many years carried all before
her; but the long-continued successes
of scullers from America, and espe-
cially from our own colonies, have
had a most depressing effect upon our
local talent.”
The uncouth colonial talent, it
appears, continues to depress. The
world’s professional sculling title is
simply an Australian monopoly, and,
defending his Philadelphia Gold Cup
on the Schuylkill River, Philadelphia
(U.S.A.), on Saturday, Sydney gen-
darme Mervyn Wood proved that he
is still by a long stretch the world’s
best amateur. Merv won the cup, a
perpetual world-title trophy, automati-
cally when he won the Diamond Sculls
and Olympic title in London in 1948.
Challenging for the pot on Saturday
were the American John Kelly and
the Englishman Tony Rowe, the latter
of whom Wood beat in both the
Olympic and Empire Games titles,
they finished in that order with the
margins two lengths and a lengtn.
* ♦ ♦ *
Essendon was too good for North
Melbourne in the V.F.L. final, winning
their second successive premiership by
13.14 to 7.12. The day was wet ana
windy, but that didn’t stop 86,Uw
from jamming M.C.G., and it would
have been more only the Vic. healtn
authorities ordered the gates close
at 12.40 p.m., more than two hours
before the game started. The Dons
began with polished football, beating
North to the ball in the air and on
the ground, and Reynolds (captain!
played as a loose man for two goou
goals. The Dons led 7.3-4.0 at first
change and thereafter were never
headed. They followed the old and
proved system —long kicks down the
centre and a forward line like quick-
silver. The game was hard, with
knocks plentiful, and the umpire had
a job to keep things quiet. The
second quarter was fast, furious and
rugged, and so even that Essendon got
only three points and North 1.5. The
third started in rain; North switched
men all over the field but couldn’t
hold Essendon in the air, and the
Dons’ backs swamped the North for-
wards. Only dogged North play kept
the Dons’ lead to 20 points at the last
change. Tempers frayed in the last,
but Essendon retained their polish,
scored 3.3 to three points and bagged
the title. It took 25 years for North
Melbourne to reach a final, and just
90 minutes of ragged play and bad
tempers to ruin its chance.
Essendon’s 1950 premiership in the
V.F.L. crowned R. Reynolds’s 17
years with the team, the last few as
captain. At 35 he has played his
last big game, though on Saturday he
showed how a veteran with a bit of
speed and a coed head plus some
weight can still be an asset.
♦ * * ♦
After experimenting with other
nights for a period as a result of fre-
quent clashing with night-trotting fix-
tures, Leichhardt Stadium last week
reverted to Thursday night for its
boxing fixture. Main event was a fair-
ish bout between the greatly improved
Ken Bailey (10.6) and Novocastrian
George Kapeen (10.6 i). Consistently
beating Bailey in a battle of straight
lefts Kapeen won the first few rounds,
but Bailey then hit his stride and pro-
ceeded to dish out such mayhem that
the ref. called a halt in the ninth
round. Bailey on a t.k.o.


DF
COUNTRY
HOMES!
D
QUIRK’S
VACUUM CLEANERS
Here's an up-to-date Vacuum Cleaner that can
be operated from your own lighting plant—a
wonderful boon to the country housewife!
Operates on 32, 50, 110 and 240 volts. Quirk's
Vacuum Cleaner is well designed and built to
do a thorough cleaning Job, taking up the dirt
with powerful easy suction from all your carpets, floors, curtains,
etc. Complete with modern attachments for cleaning.
AND FLOOR POLISHERS
Choose a Quirk's Floor Polisher and Scrubber and eliminate the
backbreaking work of hand polishing and scrubbing. It can be
operated from your lighting plant on 32, 50, HO or 240 volts.
Solidly made, this three-brush polisher will stand up to continuous
hard work and is easily converted for scrubbing purposes.
QUIRK S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY ’Phone M 3114
mxm
mm
mm
THE
EASIEST
way to
CASTRATE
CALVES!
EUSIMTOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELIO
"HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM"
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry,
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, the
Apiary and General Farm Activity.
PRICE ONE SHILLING
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
New Era for Vets.
“Bungaree”: Until quite re-
cently Australia had fewer
veterinaries than any other
country in proportion to stock
population. For many years the
veterinary profession was un-
attractive. Stockowners loosely
accepted stock losses, and a vet.,
on graduation, was limited to
the choice of a departmental job
as stock- or meat-inspector, or
in research work, or else in pri-
vate practice in a big city. The
latter usually meant attending
to cats and dogs and, for a few
specialists, racehorses and
bloodstock. The only qualified
vet. to be found in the country
was the stock-inspector or dis-
trict veterinary officer.
The farmer called in the
stock - inspector when things
went wrong, expected and
usually got free advice and
assistance. Districts were often
larger than one man could cope
with ; there was a lot of paper
work to tie him to the office,
and when an outbreak of disease
threatened it was more than a
full-time job. Again, the inspec-
tor had to be a policeman on
notifiable diseases, and there was
considerable reluctance in
calling him in where there was
a possible risk of quarantine or
compulsory slaughter of
diseased animals. By-and-large
the average Australian farmer
and grazier was not “vet-
conscious.”
Fortunately the position is
improving, and will continue to
improve. In the first place,
veterinary schools in universi-
ties have been extended and en-
larged and are turning out an
increasing number of graduates.
The outlook for the young vet.
has improved considerably, due
largely to a tremendous increase
in “vet-consciousness” fostered
by various educative projects
such as extension work, field-
days, films and the ever-growing
interest of modern breeders in
coping with disease by new
drugs and insecticides and tech-
niques.
Private practice in the coun-
try now offers better prospects
than departmental or research
work. As a result, the ranks of
stock-inspectors have thinned so
that only about half the coun-
try districts are staffed. This is
due also to the fact that depart-
mental salaries have not kept
pace with rising costs, and have
no present hope of attracting
graduates.
When a sheep was worth only
10s. and a cow a few pounds
the average stockowner reckoned
it was cheaper to let them die
rather than call in a vet. At
today’s stock values the reverse
is the case ; in fact, it would pay
many large properties to have a
qualified vet. as a permanent
member of the staff. Several
large stud properties realised
this even before stock rose to
their present astronomical prices,
and the experiment was so suc-
cessful that it is likely to endure.
The greatest advance has been
made in the dairying districts.
Of all animals the cow is most
subject to diseases that affect its
capacity to produce milk and
progeny. Mastitis is widespread ;
so are milk-fever, t.b. and con-
tagious abortion. More and more
farmers are looking to the vet.
to keep their herds healthy.
Control of Skeleton-weed.
“He-Ne”: Experiments by
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture reveal that skeleton-weed
increased on a cultivation plot
but remained practically static
on pasture plots. Agronomist
A. Pearson, who conducted the
experiment, explained that the
cheek or cultivation plot had no
pasture mixture sown on it, but
the pasture plots had lucerne at
61b. an acre, early-strain sub.-
clover at 61b. an acre and Wim-
mera rye-grass at 21b., plus mid-
season sub. at 61b. an acre. The
skeleton was practically elimi-
nated on the lucerne plots, and
the infestation was at least con-
trolled on the sub.-clover and
sub.-clover-rye-grass plots. Pear-
son said the tests confirm the
opinion that skeleton-weed in
the southern N.S.W. wheat dis-
tricts can be controlled, and
probably reduced, by the plant-
ing of a suitable pasture on
infested paddocks.-
Herefords in the North.
“Oxo”: Australian Stock-
breeders, Ltd., owners of a
chain of properties in North
Queensland carrying about
80,000 Herefords, believe that
the Hereford stands up to the
ticky, buffalo-fly infested areas
as well as any pure or cross-
breed.
The company bought five
stud bulls at Brisbane Show for
its Lyndhurst property, Eina-
sleigh, where bulls are bred for
Carpentaria Downs, Magoura
“Call yourself a referee? Do something !”
and Forest Home. Lyndhurst
runs about 3000 pure - bred
breeders. The use of good-
quality sires is considered
essential to attain the objective
of turning off quality carcasses
of about 6501 b.
Manager E. C. Boyland says
that although ticks and buffalo-
flies are bad and many people
are talking about the merits of
Zebu blood, his farm has no
need to depart from the Here-
ford, which is a popular beef
animal in the north. There is
a good market for herd-bulls
among neighboring -beef-pro-
ducers.
Footrot in Cattle.
“Agric”: Improved methods
of treatment have relieved live-
stock owners of a lot of worry.
The old method of treating from
the outside by bathing and
fomenting was long and tedious,
painful to the cow and rarely
successful. By treatment with
the sulpha-drugs these, on injec-
tion, are absorbed into the sys-
tem and conveyed to the foot,
where they come into direct con-
tact with the micro-organisms
which cause footrot. Often the
results are spectacular.
The most convenient method
of injection for farm use is the
hypodermic syringe, injecting
under the skin. Treatment with
sulpha-drugs is not cheap, hence
attention should always be given
to prevention of infection —ad-
mittedly a difficult matter under
continuous wet conditions. Much
could, however, be done by im-
proving the drainage of yards
and concreting as much of the
area as possible. Narrow con-
crete pathways leading to and
from yards for about 150 ft. safe-
guard cows to Some extent and
prevent gateways from becom-
ing boggy.
Dairy Utensils.
“Myrr”: Cloth- or brush-
cleaning alone won’t remove in-
visible bacteria, which succumb
to nothing less than boiling
water or live steam. Cleaning
methods advocated by R. T.
McKenzie, Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture dairy expert,
are first to free utensils of milk
solids and dirt by rinsing in cold
or lukewarm water (boiling
water used on milky utensils
causes the albumen in the milk
to stick to the tinware, giving it
a scaly, mottled appearance).
Then scrub in boiling-hot water
to which has been added a little
washing-soda to emulsify the
grease. The final rinse is in
boiling water, or, better still,
place the utensil over a jet of
live steam for two or three
minutes. Never use a cloth to
dry. Store in a clean place safe
from dust and flies.
Apple Rootstocks.
“Myrrhee”: For years most
Victorian orchardists have used
nothing else but Northern Spy
as a rootstock, and it has its
advantages. It’s resistant to
woolly aphis and it crops early,
but of late years it has come to
be looked on as one of the rea-
sons for Victoria’s low aver-
age yield of apples per acre. At
the Government horticultural
research station at Scoresby 20
acres of apples will be raised on
the famous East Mailing root-
stocks and on more recent stocks
specially bred in England for
aphis resistance. When the trial
is fully planted out in the course
of the next two years it will
make one of the most compre-
hensive apple-rootstock tests in
the world.
The New Sprays Are Good.
“Pat Ater”: Sprays and dust-
controls are not only winning
but making the job. a lot easier.
Where once we needed differing
specifics to beat thrips, aphis,
cabbage-moth, white - butterfly,
bean-fly and codlin-moth the
lot can be tackled now with
D.D.T. in a simple solution.
True, use of D.D.T. has to be
eased as cabbages, cauliflowers
and sprouts come into heart or
curd, but then so had arsenate
of lead, the old antidote to cab-
bage-moth. And it’s no use
moaning over the white-butter-
fly grub being an additional pest.
It and the moth can be killed
at one spraying. They work to-
gether, Derris-dust will do for
them in the later stages within
four weeks of use in the pot.
Forty years ago in Queens-
land nobody much used to worry
about fruit-fly, and there were
backyard orchards in hundreds
which harbored its maggots.
Everywhere rotten peaches and
guavas used to lie on the ground
perpetuating the pest. Perhaps
we’re paying the price of that
negligence today. Now even
along the eastern coastline late
stone-fruits and citrus can be
grown and harvested if the
grower is ardent enough to regu-
larly splash a nicotine-D.D.T.
bait - spray mixture (D.D.T.
emulsion 20 per cent., two tea-
spoons ; nicotine sulphate, Black
Leaf 40, one teaspoon; sugar
40z.; water four pints).
The same bait-spray can be
used on tomatoes, and it will
help materially to keep spotted-
wilt in check on early crops.
Tomatoes have become the
problem-crops of later years,
and need constant attention.
The tomato-mite, which silvers
and stunts foliage, needs lime-
sulphur (1 in 100) or sulphur-
dust to beat it. Prevention is
best.
Same simple remedy controls
red - spider, that übiquitous
under-leaf summer pest of beans
and dahlias. Once it was a
problem till sulphur proved
effective. It pays every grower
of vegetables to keep a sulphur-
bag on hand to check mildew of
cucumbers and melons as well as
red-spider. D.D.T. is ineffective
against the last-named.
Another problem arises when
thrips, pumpkin-beetle or 28-
spotted ladybirds tackle the


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
£
<
ts?
6«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL -will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 27/9/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
Public Notice.
TO CHARLES GARDINER ROBERTSON,
formerly of Riverton, but later of Napier,
New Zealand, and any child or remoter
issue of his, and any person claiming
through any of them respectively.—PUß-
SUANT to an Order made by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are required
to send in your claim to share in the
estate of WILLIAM EDWARD ROBERT-
SON, late of Hastings, in New Zealand,
Exchange 'Operator, so as to be received
by the undersigned by the 81st day of
December, 1950, failing which such estate
will be distributed disregarding your
claim.—THE SOLICITOR, Public Trust
Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED SYDNEY PERRY late of
103 Fisher Street Fullarton in the State
of South Australia but formerly of 66
Gerrard Street Cremorne in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN MARGARET PERRY filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3377 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 29th
November 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MACART-
NEY ABBOTT & CO., Solicitors, 7 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Bsdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
£l3/4/0
F
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered, with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece. Several
models to choose
from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
DF
D
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
« HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
SPRAY SECTIONS NOW IN
NOW! IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
ON AllL ALUMINIUM ORDERS
F
&ss'
m
*m
U
:
\kbvb
OHt
CB»
BN
SpRM
VlOß*
hbo>n
a t\oh
\rR' g
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sections to buy and
to move around I Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
ALUMINIUM MAINS AND SECTIONS
Lightweight, durable spray sections and 24 ft. mains, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mains and sections.
SPRAY IRRIGATION IS BEST. AND "RAINBOW" MAICES
THE BEST SPRAY IRRIGATION!
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 'PHONE BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124
Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria; C. BEAUMONT,
64 King St., Melbourne—MU 5271. South Australia: RALPH
CURRY, 24 Light Sq., Adelaide. 'Phone: C 1065.
60/88.8A
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on ball and socket prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
minimum obstruction in
both outlet and main.
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
with vegetation.
DF
pumpkin family of squash,
cucumbers and melons.
Ordinary - strength D.D.T.
often burns the leaves, particu-
larly of cucumbers. So H.E.T.P.,
or hexone, comes into the fray.
But it must be used immediately
it’s mixed, and its effect is not
lasting.
Gammexane can be used as
an all-round insecticide instead
of D.D.T. Chlordane, which
we can’t get in quantity from
America (because of dollars)
kills many pests, and in tests
on grasshopper fields its lethal
effect was proved to last long
enough to kill succeeding on-
coming swarms. Although slow-
acting, it was almost 100 per
cent, effective.
Of the newer insecticides,
parathion is so deadly to
humans that only experts should
try to handle it, and then with
safeguards such as pure rubber
gloves and a face-veil. It can
be absorbed through the skin.
Parathion kills red-spider, cod-
lin-moth and most other pests,
but is harmless against the use-
ful parasite of woolly-aphis.
That’s why science persists with
it, adding the note of caution to
amateurs. One drop is enough
to kill an adult, but, then, many
of our older-day poison-sprays
were pretty deadly if you were
careless enough to drink them.
E 605, in the same organic
phosphate group as parathion,
is also deadly, but it opens great
possibilities of control of one of
our most insidious plant-
destroyers, nematodes, or eel-
worm. Commercial- and home-
growers of chrysanthemums will
appreciate its value.
In the field of hormones,
harmless as they are, the sky
might be, the limit. They’re very
selective and finely adjusted.
But 245 T at last has proved a
blackberry destroyer. And 24D
will do for most weeds in lawns
and cereal crops.
Ringing a Bull.
“Jaygee”: The best age to
ring a bull is at about a year to
15 months old. The most suit-
able instrument to punch a hole
is a special bull-punch, which
resembles a pair of pliers with a
special head, one arm of which
is a punch, and the other piece
has a round hole in it. The
punch presses the nasal cartilage
into the hole and cuts it out.
A butcher’s-steel with the end
pointed and sharpened a little
can be used to force a hole.
This method is quite effective
and causes little bleeding. The
usual-size ring is either 2-£in.
or 3in., depending on the bull’s
breed.
When punching the hole care
must be taken not to punch it
too far back. This is a com-
mon mistake, and it is subse-
quently awkward to use a rope
or chain with the ring, there
being insufficient space between
the ring and the outer part of
the nostrils. The usual-size
punch used is 7/16in.
To the Last Rabbit.
“Beau Forte”; When rabbits
are scarce the landowner should
make an all-out effort to get the
last few. A few rabbits left
quickly increase, and the costly
process of eradication begins
over again.
Watch for breeding places.
Those small new burrows that
can easily be dug out usually
contain the average litter of five
kittens at breeding-time. Those
five kittens can multiply into
hundreds in a year. But before
digging-out a trap should be
tried. By attending the trap at
night it is not unusual to catch
the buck and doe before the
litter is bora.
Watch large burrows that
have been previously treated,
and if any show signs of work-
ing act immediately. A whiff of
fumigant could destroy many
litters. When breeding is taking
place in a big burrow it can
usually be detected by a little
of the dry grass and fur that the
rabbit takes in for the nest being
left at the entrance or by the
small droppings left by the kit-
tens when they become old
enough to play around the
burrow.
Although trapping is not a
sole means of eradication when
rabbits are plentiful it can play
a big part in getting the last
rabbit. In tussocky or bush
country where dogs, digging-out
or ferrets yield no results when
rabbits are scarce a few can
often be caught with traps. Any
place showing signs of a rabbit
being about a few fresh
scratches or a few fresh drop-
pings on an old dunghill—is
worth a trap.
Pasture Furrows.
“Pac”: In B. 19/7/’5O “W.
Court” said to start from the
bottom of the hill. If he got
any rain before the top furrow
is put in all his work would be
in vain, because the run-off will
hit the last furrow done, per-
haps halfway up the hill, over-
flow and so, carry on right
through all the furrows to the
bottom. If he started from the
top of the hill there would be
no run-off from the work done
and no damage done.
Pasture-furrowing is a won-
derful innovation, but “W.
Court” will find less trouble
from overtopping if he spaced
his furrows every two vertical
feet instead of every 10 lineal
feet. Call them contour furrows,
make them contour furrows and
he won’t go far wrong.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: New pastures must
be treated carefully until well
established. Apply a bag of
super, per acre for the first four
years, and don’t graze for the
first year. Mow the first spring
after sowing; stock lightly the
following autumn and keep
stock off during winter. After
good growth the spring follow-
ing it should then produce good
feed in any season.
“Sundowner”: To make
greenhide leather, steep hide in
solution of bicarbonate potash
(5 p.c.) and sulphuric acid (2
p.c.). Remove after thoroughly
soaking and spread out flat to
drain. Immerse in a solution of
p.c. hyposulphite of soda and
2| p.c. sulphuric acid. When the
reducing bath has become ab-
sorbed leather should be a pale
green and resist boiling without
going hard or curling up. The
leather can be water-proofed by
impregnation with paraffin wax.
Keep wax at as low a tempera-
ture as possible while leather is
immersed.
“M.”: Counselling farmers
to push on with their fodder-
conservation programmes,
George Moss, Victorian Minister
for Agriculture, himself a
farmer, said that a series of
good seasons had created a false
sense of confidence in the future,
with the result that fodder re-
serves had fallen to a danger-
ously low level. Prospects of a
heavy" spring growth in most
parts of Victoria were good, said
Moss, and prompt closing of
some paddocks against stock
would provide plenty of good
cutting. Elaborate equipment
or silos weren’t necessary, and
probably the best long-term con-
servation of silage could be made
by storing it in pits.
“C.A.A.”: To guard against
leaf-drop following zinc spray-
ing of citrus-trees S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture advises a
follow-up of zinc sulphate-limil
spray made up of 51b. of com-
mercial zinc sulphate, of
limil and lOOgal. of water.
“Moya”; Making good bees-
wax depends mainly upon sedi-
mentation. Plenty of rain-
water is essential. Hard water
causes a spongy sediment which
is very hard to clear away.
Greenish tints in wax are
caused by overheating. Clean
vessels should be used, as rust
and chemicals are harmful to the
wax. Beeswax melts at 144 deg.
F. The purest wax from wild
honey is melted by the sun
through sacking as straining
proceeds.
“Rooster”; When growing a
paddock of maize for supple-
mentary stock-feed miss three
or four rows so that you have
a sheltered “lane.” Here you
can later plant pumpkins and
melons. By the time the vines
are fruiting the maize will
protect them from hot winds.
Fertilise with stable manure and
a little fowl manure in the pro-
portion of about four to one.
“Big Billy”: Pullet or blue-
comb disease of poultry will
respond to change of diet. Sub-
stitute wet mash, feeding night
and morning, and 5 p.c. molasses.
Also put 2 p.c. molasses in the
drinking water.
“My”: Cucumbers will pro-
duce the highest yield per plant
of any of the cucurbits. They’re
best grown in clusters of two or
three plants, with the main vines
cut back to encourage laterals.
Of the small apple varieties the
white-skinned Crystal Clear is
one of the best, while among the
green sorts Boston and Chicago
Pickling take beating. Both will
produce salad fruits up to 7in. ;
long and 2jin. thick. For
pickling, harvest the fruits when
they’re 2in, to 3in. long and
while the remains of the floral
petals are still on the flower scar.
Yield is largely dependent on
frequent picking.


morning, Mrs. Doyle.” Mr.
Robertson stands up awkwardly.
He clears his throat, “Any
news?”
“No, no news. Phoebe is very
upset.” Mrs. Doyle compresses
her lips. Mr. Robertson can see
she is thinking of the good name
of the hotel. “A dreadful
business. Personally, I think —
oh, excuse me. Someone to see
me.” They look up and see a
dark, plump man with curly
black hair approaching. “Mr.
Scarlatti,” murmurs . Mrs.
Doyle. “From the wine saloon.”
Mr. Scarlatti has a strong
Australian accent. “ ’Mornin’,
Mrs. Doyle,” he says briskly.
“Any of y’r guests lost
anythin’?”
Mrs, Doyle can only nod. Mr.
Scarlatti dives his hand in his
pocket and holds an uneven
string of wealth coiled in his
damp palm. “Then I reckon
these’d be them,” he says,
evidently enjoying the sensation.
“That Billy Bailey brought ’em
in to me, soon as I opened.
Wanted a bottle of wine for ’em.
Said he found ’em. Likely yarn,
but I took ’em —told him to
clear off or I’d tell the sergeant.”
Mrs. Doyle appears slightly
dazed. She takes the pearls and
says “Thank you, Mr. Scarlatti.
They belong to Mrs. Cole, you
know.” Mrs. Doyle weighs the
pearls in her hand. “That
wretch! These are quite valu-
able, Mr. Scarlatti. There will
probably be a reward.”
Mr, Scarlatti grins, showing
strong white teeth. “Yair. I
reckoned they’d be worth a few
bottles of plonk. Ho!” The
humor of the situation appeals
to Mr. Scarlatti. He winks at
Mr. Robertson’s long face.
“Worth a good few bottles of
bombo, eh? Ha-ha!”
“Thank you, Mr. Scarlatti,”
says Mrs. Doyle, “I’ll take these
up to Mrs. Cole now. She’ll get
in touch with you.”
“Tell her she can have a
couple of dozen brown muscat
for them sparklers any time she
likes,” Mr. Scarlatti calls after
her. “Ha-ha!”
<i NTOT that I thought for a
IN moment Ted took them,”
Mrs. Cole says, radiant, but
limping, her arm hooked
familiarly in Mrs. Robertson’s.
“But I was so upset —you under-
stand, don’t you? After all I’d
gone through—the toe and
everything. This is the first
morning I’ve been up since that
dreadful night—although it all
seems silly now.”
“Won’t you have a drink, Mrs.
Cole?” says Mr. Robertson.
“We’re off today, you know. We
get the coach at half-past two.”
“Oh, I’m sorry to hear that,
Mr Robertson. Really, I am.
And Mrs. Robertson—you’ve
been so good to me. Really.
What I mean to say is, I do
appreciate it.”
“Don’t be silly,” says Mrs,
Robertson gently.
“I’ll get the drinks,” says Mr.
Robertson.
Mr. Robertson and Mrs. Cole
drink their beer. Mrs. Robert-
son sips her shandy. “What’s
going to happen about the
groom—Billy Bailey?” Mr.
Robertson wants to know.
Mrs. Cole sighs, “The wretch.
But really, you know, he’s an
unfortunate. Mrs. Doyle is dis-
missing him —it wouldn’t be safe
to keep him. But of course I’m
not prosecuting him. After
all , . . ” Mrs. Cole’s slender
fingers play with the pearls.
“You know,” Mrs. Cole says,
“there is something nice about
that Billy Bailey—poor devil.
He apologised to me. You
know, Mrs. Robertson, he always
stands up when I come into the
room. Breeding tells —doesn’t
it?”
“Cigarette, Mrs. Cole?”
“Thank you, Mr. Robertson.
You know, when you come to
think of it, it was rather funny,
wasn’t it? That wretch trying
to sell my beautiful pearls —for
a bottle of wine!”
“A lot of people wouldn’t
think it was funny, Mrs. Cole.”
“No. I suppose not. Did you
do any fishing, Mr. Robertson?”
“No,” Mr. Robertson says
glumly. “Things seemed to
happen.” Down the gum-and-
palm-lined street he can see the
smudge of blue that is the sea.
Mrs. Cole laughs. “Yes. They
did seem to —rather —didn’t
they? I’m so sorry you’re going.
What do you think of Queens-
land —really?”
“It’s very nice,” says Mrs.
Robertson, “but we’ll be pleased
to get home. How is your toe,
Mrs. Cole?”
“It’s healing nicely—thanks to
you,” says Mrs. Cole graciously.
“You know, I do wish you were
going tomorrow. We could have
a party tonight. Only”—making
a wry face —“I’m not very
popular with Jenny just now.”
“With Mrs. Doyle? Why?”
“Well, you see, last night Ted
—Mr, Murchison, you know —
was in my room—he brought a
bottle of rum round —and we
were laughing and giggling ...”
>fR. MURCHISON?” says
ivi Mrs. Robertson faintly.
“Yes, Oh, you are thinking of
what he said? But that was all
a mistake. Ted explained it all
last night. You see, he really
did think I had had a serious
operation. He came round to
see if there was anything he
could do. Then, when he heard
it was only my toe” —Mrs. Cole
laughs her tinkling laugh and
plays with her pearls —“the
contrast was so great, you see.”
“I see,” says Mr. Robertson
dryly.
“He said,” says Mrs. Cole, her
large eyes shining with merri-
ment, “that when he was in the
Army he had a toenail off, and
they made him go on a twenty-
mile route-march straight after.
Would that be right, Mr.
Robertson?”
“Probably,” says Mr. Robert-
son gravely.
“So you see,” says Mrs. Cole,
tossing her pearls with abandon,
“we are all good friends again.
And to think I was going to
report him! Only I’m not
popular with Jenny. She
knocked, she says, but we were
kicking up such a din we didn’t
hear her. Ted had taken my
slipper off to look at the toe,
and when Mrs. Doyle came in
he was pouring rum into it. To
drink its health, he said. The
health of the toe. Jenny didn’t
say a word. She just went out
again, closing the door —oh, so
quietly.”
Mrs. Cole inhales and blows
a neat smoke-ring. “Jenny came
back later and said ‘Phoebe, I’m
surprised at you. Really sur-
prised. After what he said to
find you—drinking and —romp-
ing ... ’”
“What did you say?” Mrs.
Robertson’s blue eyes are twink-
ling.
“Oh, I explained it was all a
mistake. But Jenny was very
obstinate. She said —you know
the quiet way she talks —‘Do
you realise, Phoebe, I nearly
asked that man to leave over
you?’ So I said ‘Jenny, did you
believe he meant it when he said
he wished I was dead?’ She said
‘Yes, I did.’ So I said ‘Jenny,
you’re supposed to be my friend.
Why didn't you ask |Mm to
leave?”’
UPSTAIRS, amid the strapped
luggage, Mrs. Robertson is
still laughing. Mr. Robertson is
irritated. “For goodness sake,
Mary, stop that cackling. This
could have been serious. I hope
you realise you’ve been a damn’
fool, getting mixed up in the
whole business.”
Mrs. Robertson stares. “I’ve
been a fool?”
“Yes. A bloody fool. A fine
holiday,” Mr. Robertson says
bitterly, “this has turned out to
be. No fishing. And you run-
ning errands and getting mixed
up in other people’s business.”
“Listen to me, Brian Robert-
son” Mr. Robertson shrugs
insultingly. Mrs. Robertson
stamps her stockinged foot.
“No! Listen! It’s you who are
the fool —an old fool. How do
you think I like it, you staring
at women’s legs all the time
girls’ legs—girls young enough
to be your daughters-^you—you
old monkey!”
Mr. Robertson is dismayed,
His jaw drops. He feels a shock,
and then pain as Mrs. Robertson
spears his secret sin and holds it
flopping like a ridiculous fish in
the clear daylight. “But, Mary
. . .” he says weakly,
“But nothing. At your age,
In front of people. Gaping.
Oh, it’s —it’s humiliating!” Mrs.
Robertson is almost sobbing.
The pain rends Mr. Robert-
son. It stabs again, and he cries
out in distress.
“Dramatics!” says Mrs.
Robertson coldly, with curling
Hell /” shouts
Mr. Robertson, hopping oddly,
“It’s gout! In my toeX"
lunch to discuss the reasons
for his signing - up, and
also to hear about Australia).
Another of our members was
Dr. Blunt, Bishop of Bradford,
who had such strong opinions
about Edward VIII and Mrs.
Simpson. Many said that Dr.
Lang, Archbishop of Canter-
bury, was the inspiration for
Dr. Blunt’s remarks.
I remember, incidentally, the
night the King gave his farewell
broadcast on the eve of his leav-
ing England. Never was there a
sadder or more disappointed
nation, for their regard for the
late Sovereign was profound and
personal.
Lloyd George’s Council of
Action later allied itself with
groups of Liberals, Liberal-Con-
servatives, Radicals and Com-
munists to form a “Popular
Front” to act on behalf of Re-
publican Spain and against the
growing aggression of Hitler and
Mussolini, as well as to put
some ginger into the Chamber-
lain Government’s policy in
dealing with the world situation.
Sir Stafford Cripps and
Aneurin Bevan were members,
as well as many othbrs, A
“peace ballot” secured 11,000,000
signatures. I had been put in
charge of London, and I took
what was called the “Anthony
Eden Ballot,” resulting in an
overwhelming popular vote for
the then Foreign Secretary and
his policy of imposing sanctions
against Mussolini as distinct
from the Prime Minister’s policy
of appeasement.
Yet when Mr. Chamberlain
flew over to Hitler and returned
with his signed paper, “Peace
in our time,” there was no more
popular man in Britain. Cham-
berlain was sincere, but unfor-
tunately believed in Hitler’s
word. Britain did, however, get
a year’s grace and a little more
time to prepare, for the inevi-
table.
War
When war broke out and the
first siren sounded on a Sunday
morning (a false-alarm, by the
way) the end of the way of life
as Britain knew it seemed to
have come. Yet it did go on
adjusting itself to terrible and
tragic events, on to the victory
which, as one stayed longer
in Britain, seemed at last pos-
sible, though at first unbeliev-
able.
Everyone was called to some
kind of service, I was put in
the Home Guard, also fire-
watching at night, and later sent
to the Ministry of Information
to go round Britain to help
maintain the morale of the
people, which, in my opinion,
was better than my own.
Of course the bombs, day and
night, took toll of life and build-
ings and interrupted everything
for a while till repairs or alter-
nate arrangements were made,
such as diversion of traffic or
substitution of post-offices, rail-
way or business activities, but
still life and life’s needs and
arrangements proceeded, adjust-
ing themselves as calmly (out-
wardly, anyhow) as if the war
was a normal condition of exist-
ence.
I think that in ©very human
being there is a capacity and
ability to adjust himself to any
situation or condition. I know,
personally, in London after the
initial adjustment I began to ex-
pect the regular nightly bombing
from six p.m. to six a.m. And
when we had a night (which we
did occasionally) free from raids
we took some time to adjust
ourselves to that!
After the bombers came the
pilotless planes called “doodle-
bugs.” These came day and
night, and you immediately fell
flat when their engine stopped
if you sensed or saw they were
fairly near. After them came
the rockets; you never heard
them until they fell. They were
always in the sky somewhere
and some time. You simply for-
got them until you were shaken
by an explosion or heard the
dull, distant boom and saw the
red glare of the explosion.
Many people were killed and
injured, perhaps having after-
noon-tea, at church, in picture-
shows, shops, stores, on escala-
tors, trams, buses, theatres—
everywhere all the time
stations ablaze, bus and bus-
queues simply disappearing and
other buses coming and other
queues forming. Day and night
and day and night: there was
no let-up, yet life persisted in its
ordinary activity and arrange-
ment, the war potential was
being built up, the enemy held
and even thwarted.
The people saw every day the
preparations for defence and for
the victory they felt would be
theirs, saw all the assembling of
ships, the aggregation of troops
and the disposition of air-
power, yet never was a word
spoken one to another, even to
neighbor or to relative; all in-
stinctively felt “it wasn’t done.”
One felt self-imposed responsi-
bility that neither by thought,
word nor deed would the enemy
find his cause strengthened by
any citizen of Britain.
At last victory came, the last
bomb fell, the enemy overcome,
and Britain battered yet vic-
torious. The feeling in England
was-one of relief and gratitude.
The streams of life resumed
their ordinary flow and purpose,
almost as if war had never been,
except for the ruins and the
tragic personal toll. The adjust-
ment to peace conditions, out-
wardly, was almost immediate.
I took up lecturing on Aus-
tralia, and went again into
various parts of the British Isles.
I spoke to audiences in colleges
at Cambridge and Oxford, to
400 Rotary Clubs, to the Army,
Navy, youth clubs, public meet-
ings in halls and in the open air
at the Marble Arch, at Hyde
Park Corner.
Most of the meetings I
addressed were indoor. I had
very little, if any, interjection or
interruption, mainly polite
attention, and approval, if given,
expressed by “Hear, hears” or
applause. The audiences were
very attentive, keen on getting
information and with an acute
sense of humor. All were eager
to hear anything about Aus-
tralia, and always was gratitude
expressed for the Common-
wealth’s war effort and the in-
estimable value and help of the
food-parcels.
Hyde Park Spouters
One Sunday afternoon I was
listening to the speakers at the
Marble Arch, Hyde Park, when
I heard a violent and abusive
attack on the Royal family, who
were referred to individually and
as an institution of the
Monarchy. X was amazed. But
the audience was unmoved, and
a policeman stood by seemingly
unconcerned.
I had never heard anything
like it before, and I went up to
the guardian of the law and said
“Did you hear what that fellow
said about the King and the
Royal family?” “Yes,” he re-
plied ; “he’s here every Sunday.
We take no notice of him. The
King’s on his throne and he’s
on a soap-box. What does it
matter?” X thought it was a
great tribute to Britain —that it
was possibly the only country
in the world where such utter-
ances did not matter.
With one speaker denouncing
the King and another upholding
the cause of Ireland, another
that of Communism, and various
meetings dealing with religous
beliefs and others with politics,
it was a change to come to a
gathering of about 30 men and
women listening attentively to a
speaker dealing somewhat
monotonously and laboriously
with the evolution of man. The
audience gave no evidence of
anything except complete ac-
quiescence for about 20 minutes.
Then a comment from one of
them —“Knock off now, you are
due back at the cemetery”—
broke up the meeting for the
day.
The English winter is a severe
test of one’s stamina, and if you
can endure 16 of them, as I had
to —well, you will never die of
cold.
I had only intended to stay a
year in Britain. I stayed 16. I
went everywhere and saw nearly
everybody of note. I became
temporarily an Englishman. I
absorbed the life of the people
and the personality of the indi-
vidual. It was an interesting and
valuable experience. I saw my
native land from afar. I saw
her in perspective, and I saw
her whole as from a distance,
and thereby clearly, as to what
she was and what she could be
in the years to come.
Home Again
She looked to me like the
Promised Land, as most migrants
think of her, and I saw her
rightly and wholly for the first
time of my life. I wanted to
get back, and tell my fellow-
Australians of how the Old
World regarded Australia and
how we Australians should ap-
preciate being in a country
where every man is a king politi-
cally and where there is room
for individual achievement and
expression.
I have returned to do this, and
my wonder when I got here was
that mainly the opposite idea of
the importance of individual
prevailed—that is, the view that
the State would provide, con-
trol, develop and deliver. The
individual has a tendency to be
absorbed in the mass, to become
subject to organised authority
and be dependent not on himself
(or herself), but on whatever is
arranged and organised.
This is fatal in a young coun-
try like Australia, where indi-
viduality is the natural attribute
of the citizen and where there is
room for expression of ability
and the application of talent and
energy. It (individuality) is also
the natural counter to Com-
munism, which seeks to suppress
the man into the mob and re-
turn humanity to the herd, all
against evolution and Divi'ne
purpose, doomed certainly to
ultimate failure, but, in its fall,
to bring us all down, too, if we
sell our birthright for so-called
material wellbeing at the price
of our national and individual
souls.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
dsuuuncAx
»v prtna A :
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.Ltd.
jm Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SIDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYFS
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS •
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s *ood.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEFT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 71, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
It s the Ford-designed. Ford-built. Ford-qualitv
(^engine
powered by the
famous.efficient,
long lasting...
W 7
and with
Ford-truck-ratioed
back axle and
gear box
Further details of the
3 THAMES MODELS
G.V.W. 8.624 lbs.
(nom. 30 cwt.) 128" wJj. *
11' x 7* tray.
Tyres: 7.00 * 20 x 10 ply.
• • •
G.V.W. 9.800 lbs.
(nom. 2 ion) 128" w.b.
11' x 7' tray.
Tyres: 6.50 x 20 x 6 ply.
• • •
G.V.W. 16.500 lbs.
(nom. 41 ion).
Two wheelbases:
128" for 11' x 7' tray.
157" for 14' 6" x 7' tray.
Tyres: 7.50 x 20 x 10 ply.
(Duals on rear).
THEY'RE TERRIFIC WORKERS these English-
engineered Ford Thames Trucks—3o cwt.,
2 Tons and 4| Tons. Powered with the World
famous Ford V 8 truck engine they give stout-
hearted. long-life performances.
Semi-forward control allows greater pay-load
space, ease of manoeuvrability, and provides
a cool, comfortable, convenient cab for driver
and passengers.
Among the many robust truck-engineered
features are Full Floating Rear Axle and
Straddle Mounted Driving Pinion to cope with
peak loads under difficult driving conditions;
Powerful Hydraulically Operated Brakes that
are self-energising on all four wheels, and have
a lined area of 273.6 square inches; Cushion
Drive Clutch which is centrifugally assisted to
transmit full engine power. At left are further
details of the three Thames models.
rariS-27
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor
or
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. M VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG, VIC.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copies of With Swag and
Billy by Tomkins and Hamlet and
While Rome Burns by Alexander
Woollcott.—49l4.
Words of poem describing a game
of two-up played between a World
War I Digger and King George V.—
4916.
To buy copy of Australian Nur-
sery Rhymes, reprinted from The
Bulletin.— 49ls.
Bulletin staff man wants to rent
flat or cottage, suitable four adults,
Sydney suburb. —4917.
Information Sought.
Details concerning the French rope-
walker known as Blondin ?
Charles Blondin was born at St.
Omer, France, in 1824. His real name
was Jean Francois Grandet. His
professional career began at the age
of 5 years, when his talents earned
for him the title of “The Little
Wonder.” Trained at Lyons, he
devoted his talents to rope-walking,
and on his successful attempt to cross
Niagara Falls on a rope 1100 ft. long
and 160 ft. above the water achieved
instantaneous popularity. He per-
formed the same feat many times,
varying it with different accompani-
ments, among which were those of
carrying a man across on his back,
performing blindfold, wheeling a
barrow, and on stilts. He died in
London in 1907.
* * * *
What was McNaughton’s case in
English criminal law ?
A celebrated case which established
the test of irresponsibility for a
criminal offence on the grounds of
insanity. The case was decided in
1843 and lay down the doctrine that,
to establish a defence on the ground
of insanity, it must be clearly proved
that, at the time of the committing
of t|ie act, the party accused was
laboring under such a defect of
reasoning, from disease of the mind,
as not to know the nature and the
quality of the act he was doing, or,
if he did know it, he did not know
he was doing what was wrong.
Thus, the question of knowledge
of right or wrong, instead of being
put generally and indefinitely, is put
in reference to the particular act at
the particular time of committing it.
The defect of the rule is that it
seems to imply that the mind may be
partially diseased, whereas many
pathologists hold that if the mind is
diseased it is wholly diseased,
* * * *
Some particulars about the Com-
monwealth Marine War Risks Insur-
ance Board?
Constituted under National Security
Regulations in February, 1941, it
ceased to underwrite insurance risks
in September, 1946. It was em-
powered to provide insurance against
war risks in respect of Australian
ships, British or Allied ships in
Australian waters, liabilities of ship-
owners to crews arising out of cap-
ture or detention by the enemy, per-
sonal effects of seamen, cargoes of
certain goods specified by order of
the Federal Treasurer, and goods
transported by sea from one
Australian port to another. Receipts
of the board to June 30, 1948,
totalled £7,523,494, including net
premiums £7,520,899, and payments
amounted to £2,847,218, comprising
claims £2,713,884 and administration
£133,334. The cash balance held at
June 30, 1948, was £4,676,276, which
is subject to payment of outstanding
claims estimated at £20,000. An
appropriation of £4,500,000 was made
in 1948-49 for payment of war gratui-
ties.
* * ♦ *
What is a clinometer?
An instrument used by surveyors,
geologists, etc., for measuring the dip
or angle of inclination of surfaces.
In its simplest forms it consists of a
graduated arc and a plummet. When
the instrument is held level the
plummet points to zero, but when it
is held at an inclination it shows the
number of degrees in which the upper
surface of the clinometer differs from
the horizontal. The most usual form
of clinometer, however, is that which
is combined with a pocket-compass,
as it is generally necessary to know
the direction of the slope as well as
its amount.
* * * *
Particulars of a legal case of mis-
taken identity known as the Beck
case?
In April, 1904 a man named Adolf
Beck was identified by several women
and an ex-policeman as a certain man
named Smith, who had previously
been imprisoned for fraud. He was
tried and convicted of attempting to
defraud these women again. While
undergoing penal servitude he dis-
covered that Smith was a Jew, and
by personal marks he was at length
able to prove his innocence. He was
pardoned and offered a sum of money
for his imprisonment. Smith was
arrested, and Beck died in poverty
in 1909. This case was largely instru-
mental in bringing about the estab-
lishment in England of the court of
criminal appeal. Full particulars are
given in a book Perversion of Justice
as Exhibited in the Beck Case (1905)
by J. Kemster.
* * * *
What taxation is levied in Norfolk
Island ?
There is no income tax. For the
purposes of carrying out public works,
including the maintenance of roads,
every male person between the ages
of 21 and 55 who has been a resident
for six months is required to pay an
amount calculated at the rate of 6s.
per day for not less than nine or
more than 15 days in each year, or,
in lieu of that’payment, to perform
labor when called upon for not
exceeding 15 days in each year.
* * * *
Some details about Henry Miller,
an American writer, and a list of his
more important writings?
An American novelist and short-
story writer, he was born in 1891,
and was for a number of years a
resident of France. His work, often
compared to surrealist painting, is
marked chiefly by iconoclasra, fan-
tastic wit and a semi-mystical
emphasis on sex. Among his books
are Tropic of Cancer (1935), Black
Spring (1939), Scenario (1937), No
Money, and How It Gets That Way
(1938) Max and the White Phago-
cytes (1938), Tropic of Capricorn
(1939) The Cosmological Eye (1939),
The World of Sex (1940), The Colos-
sus of Maroussi (1941) and The
Wisdom of the Heart (1941). During
World War II Miller took refuge in
the U.S. The result of a “lugubrious
trip” across the country was The Air-
conditioned Nightmare (1946).
* * ♦ *
Respective duties of (1) N.S.W.
Attorney-General and (2) N.S.W.
Minister of Justice?
(1) The Attorney-General, who is
the legal adviser of the Government,
is charged with the conduct of busi-
ness relating to the higher courts
(such as Supreme and District Courts),
the offices of the Crown Solicitor,
Crown Prosecutors, Clerk of the
Peace, Parliamentary draftsmen and
court reporters, as well as statute
law consolidation and certain Acts,
including the Crimes Act, the Poor
Prisoners’ Defence Act, the Poor
Persons’ Legal Remedies Act and the
Legal Assistance Act. Furthermore,
he advises Ministers on questions on
which his legal opinion is required,
initiates and defends proceedings by
and against the State and determines
whether a bill should be found in
cases of indictable offences. (2) The
Minister of Justice supervises the
working of the magistrates’ courts,
of jails and penal establishments, also
the operations of the various offices
connected with the Supreme and
District Courts. He administers Acts
of Parliament relating to justices,
juries, coroners, prisons and prisoners,
landlords and tenants, inebriates, real
property, land titles, registration of
firms, companies and deeds, births,
deaths and marriages and licensed
trades and callings.
* * * *
Why are iron and other metals
corrugated, and how is the corruga-
tion carried out ?
In order that their rigidity and
power to resist buckling may be
increased. It is done by pairs of
ridged rollers, through which the
metal is passed. Its most extensive
use probably is in galvanised iron,
i.e., zinc-plated iron, for roofs of
buddings. The principle is of great
value mechanically, as, for example,
in flues of boilers, where the corruga-
tion adds to the strength and increases
the heating surface.
Brief Answers.
S.M.: Particulars of the short-story
competition being conducted by the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) branch of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers are
obtainable from the secretary, Miss
J. Rochester, 39 Tyrrell-street, New-
castle (N.S.W.) L.A.: “The Cot-
ter’s Saturday Night” is a poem by
Robert Burns famous for its descrip-
tion of Scottish peasant life....
T.H.M.The Incorporated Poetry
Society, 33 Portman-square, London,
W.l W. 8.: “Gibbon’s Stamp
Monthly,” 391 Strand, W.C.2; “Phila-
telic Magazine,” 445 Strand, W.C.2;
“Stamp Collecting,” 27 Maiden-lane,
Strand, W.C.2; “Stamp Lover,” 30
Dunstan-road, N.W.11; and “The
Stamp Magazine,” 24 Store-street,
W.C. I—all London.... C.P.: Utili-
tarianism is the ethical doctrine that
actions are right in proportion to
their usefulness or as they tend to
promote happiness; the doctrine that
the end and criterion of public action
is “the greatest happiness of the
greatest number” C.H.A.: Wil-
liam Michael Rossetti, a brother of
Dante Gabriel Rossetti, was an art
critic, author, one of the original
members of the Pre-Raphaelites and
editor of the “Germ.” He wrote a
translation of Dante, a Life of Keats
and memoirs of both his brother and
his sister Christina... .S.T.: New
Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., 67 York-
street, Sydney; Bulolo Gold Dredg-
ing, Ltd., Shell House, Carrington-
street, Sydney; Guinea Gold, N-L.,
Brookman Buildings, Grenfell-street,
Adelaide; Placer Development, Ltd.,
Shell House, Carrington-street, Syd-
ney... .K.LJ.: Most of the Tongan
Islands are of coral formation, but
some are volcanic, notably Tofua,
Kao and Niaufoou D.R.; An
inebriate convicted of an offence of
which drunkenness is a factor, or, in
certain cases, a contributing cause,
may be required in N.S.W. to enter
into recognisances for a period of not
less than 12 months, and during this
period he must report periodically to
the police; or he may be placed in a
State institution.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
D.H.T.: You are so tough with
the character you despise that we end
up by sympathising with him
H.W.: Sorry, but even on a second
reading those Maoris don’t seem to
be alive... .T. 8.: The bit about the
soap might make a-paragraph
A.F.: De Maupassant did it quite as
well (“The Anniversary Gift”), but
“The Grinning Doorman” would not
let us into the secret... .G.M.H.:
Your story, like Granpop’s box,
ended in nothing J.R.H.: “The
Phone Call” has been reversed to
you A.M.: “You Can’t See by
Looking” is too brilliant for u 5....
R.W.: After “Ten Minutes to Mid-
night” we slept P.M.P.: Only an
anecdote... .M.W.: We bolted and
barred our doors against “The Man
from Tibooburra” E.M.C.: The
point of the story must have got lost
on the way P.A.S.: Faint sense
of humor, but no story-telling ability.
....C.L.; Returning it tied up with
black crape... .K.A.: “When dare-
devil Dick took his first leap” he
landed, unfortunately, in the w.p.b.
... .N.W.8.: The wild waves have
washed up few stranger objects than
your eccentric beachcomber.. . .T.R.:
Consigned “Scrap Iron” to the
melting-pot... .R.McW.: Can’t some-
thing be done about the language of
that charlady?... .J.S.: You’ll need
better powder than that to blast your
way into these pages... .P. 8.: You
appear to place words on paper with-
out any previous thought J.H.8.:
It gave us a good laugh—ss years ago.
R.L.A.: Not the kind that causes
us to di|) into the cashbox F.H.:
That antique rears its hoary head at
least once a month... .H.8.W.: We
don’t doubt that it was dashed off in
30 minutes, but that’s no qualifica-
tion for entry into our pages... •
E.S.F.; “I’ve pulled this to pieces
several times.” You might have put
it together again before you sent it
to us J.G.R.: Still trying to work
out who was the sleuth, who was the
murderer and who was his victim.
Bellerive; Ring down the cur-
tain; —
G.T.: It’s no use turning in
yarns written in faint pencil on
colored notepaper That
gaunt gum has been standing on the
hilltop like a sentinel for years and
years and years N.L.S.: Has the
outstanding quality of being the worst
yarn we’ve seen for two years....
A.M.H.; We know, we know—he
rode the outlaw, stoushed the station
bully, proved to be a duke’s son, and
so married the squatter’s daughter.
W.M.W.: Contains some shrewd
thrusts, but the ingredients are rather
heavy T.L.: Fair, but don’t think
even the missing last page could turn
it in your favor H.BJ.: They’d
probably earn him good marks in the
classroom, but they’re no use beyond
that W.T.F.: Next time you
think of a yarn like that forget it
immediately... .K.D.: We always
have to repress a shudder at the part
where “the dense, drenched under-
growth slowly parted, and from it
peered a face, whether of brute or
human would have been difficult at
first glance to determine.”
THE DYING ACTOR.
Wasted and old was
The former great star
Who’d shone on the
Stage in cities afar.
A player who’d achieved
A household name
In leading roles of
Wide world fame.
A dream, he did sigh,
And all was o’er;
He calmly passed on
To the far evermore.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Taxation and the P.S.
The report from Canberra that taxation
will not be reduced has kiboshed any
hopes raised in that direction by the
recent change of Government.
Only the foolish would grudge the
Government whatever money it needs for
defence purposes, but defence is only
partly responsible for the size of this
year’s Budget. Government departments
are still swollen with unnecessary public
servants ; indeed, their numbers have in-
creased—according to Minister for
Labor and National Service Harold Holt
—since the Menzies Government took
over, despite election promises that cuts
would be made.
Bureaucrats of all descriptions who
popped into overnight power during the
Chifley regime are still there and are
likely to remain, because Ministers who
control departments like them to be as
extensive as possible. True, there have
been some cuts, but in most cases those
retrenched have merely been transferred
to another branch of the service.
Calwell’s ridiculously large propaganda
machine, for instance, has been whittled
down, but public-relations men and
photographers who clung to his skirts
during the war and after have -nearly
all gone to other departments.
The Commonwealth Employment
Service—surely unnecessary when the
R.S.L. and other ex-service organisations
conduct similar free services, and
employers spend thousands of pounds
annually advertising their requirements
in the Press —is still functioning and
keeping a regular army of hangers-on in
unnecessary employment throughout
Australia.
By the same token, one of Evatt’s
babies, the Legal Aid Bureau for Ex-
Servicemen, is duplicating work done by
veterans’ organisations and maintaining
a large payroll in the process.
It is not surprising that taxation cannot
be reduced, especially when high public-
service salaries are subject to a cost-of-
living adjustment that jumps periodically
with the basic-wage. Nor is it surprising
that the labor shortage is as bad as ever
when the public services. State and
Federal, keep these people in employ-
ment and grab their yearly quota of
novices from the schools.
During the election-campaign Liberal-
and Country-party candidates spoke
glibly of what their Government would
do to restore value to the pound, and to
stamp out the spirit of bureaucracy and
Socialism which had made such unhappy
progress during “Labor’s” term of office.
There is no doubt that if the second
problem were tackled first —and a good
beginning would be the closing of every
unnecessary department, and the absorp-
tion of manpower thus released by private
enterprise—much would have been done
towards solving the first.
The public should not be so apathetic
as to allow these election promises to be
brushed aside, nor to permit the country’s
very urgent defence needs to be used as a
lever to keep unrelated jobs going.—
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Rents
I may have failed to distinguish be-
tween owner and sub-letting tenant (B.
13/9/’5O), but would rents for single
rooms be any cheaper if owners had full
control over their own places, as they
should?
Transfer of control will not change the
present housing shortage; it will remain,
and two or more families will have to *go
on sharing homes. Will the landlord
clamoring for a greater rent from his
main tenant insist on his sub-tenant pay-
ing less than he has been accustomed to
pay? Not likely. The high rent de-
manded for all sorts of flats (“from
cellars to attics” though many be) is proof
that the landlord will be as grasping as
any sub-letting occupier.
Cost of services and replacements has
certainly increased; and so have the
excuses of landlords for not doing even
necessary repairs—lack of material,
inability to get tradesmen. There’s
enough evidence that these excuses are
often made.
But here is probably the best argu-
ment against higher rents. Most houses
occupied by tenants were not put up at
present exorbitant building costs; they
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
were built much more cheaply. Surely
that gives the tenant a very good case for
the keeping of rents just as they are. —
K. R. (N.S.W.).
The landlord v. tenant controversy
(B. 13/9/’5O) is a hardy perennial, but
in the present discussions neither side has
mentioned a most important factor. The
pegging of rents at the 1939 level may
be most unfair to the property-owner, but
is he any the worse off for that? The
values of house properties are not pegged
at the 1939 level; during the past 10 years
they have gone up by nearly 300 per cent.
In spite of his low rents in terms of
present-day money values, the landlord is
far better off financially because of the'
enormous increase in the capital value of
his properties.
Here is a typical case from the books
of an estate-agent who collects the rents
from some houses and two shops, owned
by a man who bought them between 1930
and 1937. The average price paid for
the houses was just under £lOOO ; for the
shops—both with dwellings attached —
a trifle over £2OOO a piece. Today each
shop would bring £6OOO if sold by auction
and the houses would average £2900.
The original investment was £12,280;
today it is worth £35,200.
Admitted, as one disgruntled landlord
said to that estate-agent, this great
increase in capital value is all right in its
“Dear old pals, jolly old pals, always together in all kinds of weather."
way, but he couldn’t carve a chunk off
a house and live on it in the meantime,
Anyone who talks like that, however,
wants to have it both ways. The agent
advised him to sell just one of his houses
to the tenant who was clamoring to buy
it and to live on the money for the next
five years; or he could also sell the lot,
invest the money in gilt-edged stock and
enjoy a good income for the rest of his
days. But landlords don’t usually think
like that.
The time to pity the poor landlord was
back in the dark days' of the depression—
then he did have something to complain
about. Today he has seen his properties
increase in value as probably no other
investment has done, and if he isn’t
satisfied with a rise of nearly 300 per
cent, in value in 10 years, what in the
name of fortune would please him? —
H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
7—7—
Wharfies and Unionism
The wharfies’ reluctance to admit new
members does not come from a desire to
maintain a high standard of skill within
the union, but from the economic aim:
to keep the supply less than the demand,
That, of course, gives them the greater
bargaining-power.
It is this attitude of the unions that
has brought them into such low repute
today. A union should be as jealous of
its members’ workmanship and conduct
as it is of their pay and working condi-
tions. We never hear of any effort being
made to maintain or improve the worker’s
skill, nor do we hear of disciplinary
action being taken against the worker for
shoddy workmanship or unethical con-
duct. Rather, we find unions trying to
reduce output and standards to those of
the inefficient and slowest worker. The
cry is “If you do more and better work
than Jones, he will have to improve or be
sacked and we can’t let that happen.”
The 8.M.A., accused by the Labor rags
of being the world’s strongest union, does
insist upon the highest standard of
conduct from its members, and takes
drastic action if that is not forthcoming.
Let us have exclusiveness within the
union by all means, but make it de-
pendent only on the skill of the pro-
spective member.—R. W. (N.S.W.).
Motor-vehicle Taxation
According to figures issued by the
Federal Chamber of Australian Indus-
tries, motor-vehicle owners pay an
average total annual tax of nearly £4O
for each vehicle, which gives them the
dubious honor of being in the most
highly-taxed section of the community.
There are slightly more than a million
vehicles on the roads in Australia, and
those imported in 194£ were taxed
£5,000,000 in tariff duties. The sales tax
seems to me to be the most rapacious, as
it is assessed on factory-price, plus pack-
ing and transport to ship, plus freight and
insurance, plus wharfage and tariff, plus
selling charges this end.
On new vehicles alone the Common-
wealth collected over £8,000,000 last year.
The States loom up in the field with
registration - fees and driving - licence
charges ; from these sources the chamber
estimates over £10,000,000 will be
extracted.
Having bought their vehicles, registered
them and passed their driving tests, car-
owners then unite together in a mighty
effort and pay into Federal revenue the
huge sum of £17,000,000 in petrol taxa-
tion, besides other six-figure sums in
tariff-charges on oils and rubber.
The petrol tax was specifically levied in
part for the purpose of road-building,
Some of our roads are called highways,
and I know now, after reading the
chamber’s report, why Dick Turpin was
called a highwayman.— Perseverando
(W.A.).
——
Assurance and Texes
I suppose the community can be
divided, roughly, into two classes—those
who look ahead and, by contributing to
pension and life-assurance schemes, make
some effort to avoid being an ultimate
charge on the country; and, second,
those who live from day to day with
little thought for the future, spending
all they get and relying on their fellow-
citizens to maintain them at the end of
the journey.
Lately, the second class may have been
able to put up some sort of an argument
to justify their attitude that we all now
contribute at a flat rate to the so-called
social-service filnd. With those saving
people who are in the first class, however,
there is a growing feeling of resentment
that they should be forced to pay the
social-service contribution as well as the
payments which they make to their own
voluntary or compulsory assurance or
pension schemas. That resentment is
heightened when they read the annual
report of the particular life-assurance
society or company in which they happen
to be policyholders.
I have before me the last annual report
of one such society which is a purely
mutual concern. In its last financial year
this society paid £507,229 in income and
land taxes, £50,352 in payroll tax and
£20,904 in licence fees and stamp duty,
The staggering total of £578,485 is the
result, and, be it remembered, that is all
paid by thrifty people who are endeavor-
ing to avoid being a charge on their
country. Provision is made for taxation
next year of £845,000.
I don’t know whether there is any
significance in the fact, but 40,063 policies
were discontinued during the year in the
way of surrenders, forfeitures and for
other reasons, the amount of assurances
involved thereby totalling: £13,559,778.
Doubtless all the other life companies
fared the same way. The amazing thing
about it all is that the total of new
assurances with this society was the
largest amount completed in any one year
of its history.
It may be that some of the older policy-
holders are waking-up to the fact that
rapacious Governments are making goats
of them. The new ones have yet to
realise the fact. It’s a great pity, as pro-
vision by way of life-assurance, with a
society such as the one being discussed,
is a thing to be admired and encouraged
instead of being so vigorously dis-
couraged by taxation.— Ceo (Vic.),
Adelaide Show
Every year in every sphere it grows
bigger and better. This year the usual
week was extended to a nine-days’
wonder, converting the city of culture
into a city of agriculture. The annual
event is an Olympiad of primary produc-
tion in which the real competitors are
the beasts of the field, the fowls of the
air and the fruits of the soil. The
champions can be described only in
superlatives.
The result is a dazzling display of what
can be achieved when art, industry and
science are inspired by the competitive
urge, the profit motive and pride of place
to feed and clothe the multitude at home
and abroad. It is quite obvious that if
the present exhibitors were regimented in
their labors and handicapped by dargs
and quotas to reduce their output to a
dead-level of f.a.q. there would be no
shows in the future and the whole world
would be poorer.
Imagine what would happen if the
husbandmen indulged in rolling-strikes,
refused to work more than 40 hours per
week, banned the mechanisation of
implements, ostracised any farmer who
tossed more sheaves or ploughed more
furrows than his neighbors. There would
be shortages of all the things most neces-
sary to the body, and a depression that
would affect every citizen from the State
Treasurer to the purveyors of balloons
and fairy-floss.
Our elected riders are loudly telling
us that our national safety depends on
greater production. The Adelaide Show
proves that the necessary patriotic effort
can best be made, and is already being
made, by men who are free to use their
brains and Brawn according to their
ambition and ability, and for the safety
and prosperity of Australia as a whole. —
Townie (S.A.).
Rice
A first-class row seems imminent over
Australian rice. For years the public has
believed that the entire Australian crop
was being distributed to needy Asiatics
and Pacific Islanders, but the fact that
every Chinese restaurant in the country
has been able to supply rice to Europeans,
at a price, rather interfered with that
illusion. Now a Burmese exporter’s offer
to sell us as much as we want has de-
stroyed it completely.
Housewives have every right to be
annoyed. Before the war Australia ex-
ported no rice at all, and could compete
with neither the quality nor price of the
Burmese product. Indeed, the local crop
enjoyed a substantial protection at the
consumers’ expense. Eastern markets
where Australian rice is now being sold
can never become permanent. There is
no argument, therefore, that by depriving
ourselves of the grain we are building
up valuable overseas markets.
The truth seems to be that the present
export market is more lucrative than the
home market. The quantity of dee grown
in Australia has been increased by sow-
ings in the Tullakool-Wakool area, and
prices of rice-farms have reached an un-
believable level.
If the industry had to rely on the home
market alone it might find itself in an
uncomfortable position. The acreage
sown has been increased, but the public
have been deprived of rice for so long
that many have lost their taste for it, or
have found satisfactory substitutes.
Some growers fully appreciate the
danger, and would have been happier to
receive the lower return from the home
market to ensure its continuity. It has
apparently been decided that Australians
themselves will get a portion of the
crop which has just been stripped; per-
haps it will need a good public-relations
campaign to sell it to them. D. T.
(N.S.W.).


on
NO HOME IS COMPLETE WITHOUT
THE NEW CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Then- is nothing like it in existence today. It is a completely new work, in plan, in method,
and in treatment of recent scientific facts, principles and discoveries. It embraces the
wonderful progress made in many fields of knowledge since the war. The new Chambers’s
Encyclopaedia covers, as never before, every aspect of human life and activity.
JOHN ©’LONDON’S WEEKLY: “I know a
number of encyclopaedias. I know none that I
like so much. The illustrations seem to me so
good that I am tempted to call them magnificent.
Here is an account rendered of knowledge as
knowledge stands in the middle of this perturbed
and exciting 20th century.”
To GEORGE NEWNES (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD..
Third Floor, 119 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W
Please send me free descriptive folder and press re-
views of the New CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA
NAME (Mr., Mrs., Miss)
ADDRESS ...
8.9.50 .... '.
RAY ROBINSON’S NEW CRICKET . .
From the
Boundary
Price 14s. 9d.
Obtainable at all Booksellers.
Far above the ordinary run of cricket books is
Ray Robinson’s FROM THE BOUNDARY,
Appearance of another book by this author has
been eagerly awaited ever since his “Between
Wickets” ran into five editions.
FROM THE BOUNDARY is an up-to-date
sequel to “Between Wickets,” telling, of to-day’s
cricket heroes in the same entertaining yet
pointed style. English critics acknowledge that
nobody reflects the heat of battle in Test cricket
as vividly as Robinson.
Profusely Illustrated with S 3 Action Photographs.
COLLINS
TWO THINGS TO REMEMBER
ABOUT YOUR HOLIDAY
1. Good Books
add sc
to a good holiday I And an
date knowledge will enable
take along with you those
you’ll enjoy more.
j much
up-to~
you to
books
2 . it's eosy to acquire that
knowledge of books if you read
Dymock’s Catalogue of New and
Recent Books every month. It’s full
of interesting reviews of the latest
and best.
to have your name
List now,
DYMOCK'S
124
BOOK, ARCADE LTD.
Theme: BL 361.1.
A NNO UN CEMENT —
4 THE GOLDEN ASS”'
BY LUCIUS APULEIUS
Translated by ROBERT GRAVES
THE PENGUIN EDITION- of this .title - selling at Two Shillings will be available for sale.-early
November, 1960. Owing to the tremendous public interest in this new translation we are
accepting orders at once. The first edition has sold out in England, and there will not be a
reprint until next year. When remitting, kindly add 6d. for postage, etc.
A Limited edition, bound in full Vellum will be published later in the year—enquiries invited.
Write for free, stock list of all Penguins and Pe.Haa.ns.
THE PENGUIN BOOKSHOP
10 HOSKING. PLACE (off 86 Pitt Street) , SYDNEY. BW 7318
BIOGRAPHY AND POEMS
CAROLINE CHISHOLM, by Margaret Kiddle
The first full biography of Australia’s greatest woman pioneer. Illus-
trated from contemporary engravings. 21/- (post !od.)
POEMS by James Devaney
A personal selection of the poet’s whole range of writing from his
earliest to his most recent work. 10/6 (post 7d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The New 1945-1950 entirely revised and reillustrated
EVERYMAN’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA
INDISPENSABLE IN YOUR HOME —INVALUABLE TO
YOUR CHILDREN
8 500 000 words in TWELVE volumes 2,500 photograph and line illustrations.
BY FAR THE LOWEST PRICED ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ITS SCALE.
; 18/9 net per vol. (plus 1/- per vol. postage).
Send for prospectus or order your set now (first eight volumes now available—balance
by end of year, supplied as issued) by writing to;
MOORE'S BOOKSHOP
IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT
PTY.. LTD.
264 Pitt St., Sydney
rule-of-thumb stuff ; the leading character
is an assemblage of incidents and informa-
tion rather than a human being; no
minor character emerges from the
general bleak squalor as a portrait in the
round; and, above all, that quality of de-
light in the spectacle of life, which alone
can make the greatest art, is altogether
lacking. Power Without Glory remains
a big effort, but it is not a really good
novel.
The book is, of course, enjoying a
succes de scandale at the moment be-
cause a lot of Australian politicians are
named in it and people think they can
identify others.
D. S.
Cousin Jacks .
It was the general belief of the swarm
of Tres, Pols and Pens who came out
from Cornwall round about 90 years ago,
and descended upon the Moonta district
of South Australia, that they had gone
there to mine copper, and, being
conscientious fellows, mine copper they
did, oblivious to the fact that their real
function in life was to provide raw
material for the humorous drawings of
Oswald Pryor, grandson of one of their
number.
There is a legend that the tar-
brush beard beloved of Cousin Jack
miners was copied by their remote
ancestors from the ancient Phoenicians
who came to Cornwall to trade for tin.
If there is any truth in the theory it
should also be extended to account for
the same style of chin-decoration affected
by the billygoats which, on the authority
of Pryor, infest the mining districts in
numbers approximately equal to those of
fhe Cornishmen.
Full investigation might reveal whether
the Cousin Jacks copied the beard from
the Phoenicians, and were in turn
plagiarised by the goats or whether the
opposite was the case. The third alterna-
tive-independent evolution —may be dis-
missed as altogether too unlikely for
serious consideration.
Archeologists, anthropologists and
others interested will find all the neces-
sary evidence in Cornish Pasty (Argonaut
Book Shop, Adelaide), a collection of
Oswald Pryor cartoons, most of which
first appeared in The Bulletin.
Reviewed Briefly,
Trade Unions in the New Society •
Harold J. Laski (Allen and Unwin).
Once known by the Attlee gang as “The
Brain,” the professor gave in America in
1949 the Sydney Hillman Lectures upon
which these essays are based, putting
forward the rather faded viewpoints: that
(1) Socialism should go quietly, for fear
of the public waking-up and stopping it,
(2) Communists should be left alone for
fear of their getting annoyed, and (3)
the old, Eddie Wardian outcry that “the
judges” are agen the worker,
* * * *
Switzerland: Andre Siegfried (Cape).
Hardly more than animated statistics- -
no mountains, no yodelling, no art, no
literature, no life—but, in a statistical
way, it gives a clear and compact account
of the country which speaks four lan-
guages and doesn’t have revolutions,
which is always being threatened with in-
vasion but manages to stay neutral--
partly because everybody has to do
military training: “At 32 an ordinary
Swiss soldier has given 50 yveeks of his
life to military service, a lieutenant 100
weeks and a captain rather more than
three years—and which is today a sort of
statistical paradise; “Houses are being
built everywhere... .People make plans,
put money to one side, count on the
stability of price levels. Truly it is a
world we no longer know.”
* * * #
A Doctor Digresses: Kenneth Walker
(Cape; Australasian Publishing Cos.;.
Although he is a surgeon Dr. Walker isn’t
so keen on cutting you up as on exploring
your mind to see whether you didn’t
think up your duodenal ulcer to give
yourself something to think about and
whether, perhaps, you could think it away
again. Psychology takes him to
philosophy, where he quarrels with the
“dogmatic materialism” of Bertrand
Russell and agrees with A. P. Mathews
that “there must be psychic elements in
every electron... .a psychic element in all
matter, both living and lifeless, since
matter is the same in the two forms.” He
is equally interesting on how dogs listen
to music as on the probability that there
is a degree of “consciousness” in other
areas of the body besides the brain, this
becoming clearer when you are asleep, so
that possibly the stuff your dreams are
made of is what your toes are thinking.
It makes a pleasant, rambling, rather thin
sort of book, liberal, thoughtful and in-
telligible.
* sje sjt *
The Supreme Identity : Alan W. Watts
(Faber). A search for truth by a meta-
physician who, writing from a Christian
standpoint, believes that “the time has
come for Christians to take the spiritual
traditions of Asia seriously, to recognise
that their presence among us is nothing
less than providential, to understand and
come to terms with them. This does not
call for any doctrinal alteration of
Christianity because.... the Vedanta,
Buddhism and Taoism are not religions in
the strict sense, and cannot be regarded
as competing with Christianity.” He sees
the finite world as an incarnation of the
infinite and believes that evil, though
validly separated from good in a finite
world, is, in the ultimate reality, “a
shadow harmonising with light” ; which
; was presumably the thought behind
Arnold Wall’s poem in which he said this
• would be a dull world without the snake.
Laughing It Off.
Besides being a short-story writer and
a talented explorer of aborigines, Alan
Marshall is what is known as a humorist,
i.e., a person who writes short pieces
masquerading as his private life and has
them published in six papers.
Having them published at all, these
days, shows that one is a fine humorist
persuading a publisher to print the col-
lected pieces with illustrations, bound
into a book, is a sign of immense
capacity; nor would one boggle at such
a description of Mr. Marshall’s Bumping
Into Friends, illustrated by Vane Lindesay
(F. W. Cheshire) —in their small way these
essays show immense capacity: they
make the reader laugh, notably where
they remind one of something that hap-
pened to him.
In fact, they all seem to remind one
of something, as witness their titles,
“Smell Anything Burning?” ; “Wot, No
Pudding?”; “I’ve Given Up Smoking”;
“While You Are on Your Feet” (run
down and post this letter); “I Didn’t
Touch It Last,” There are also horrifying
indictments of Joke-Repeaters, people
who ride in buses, Noisy-Risers, friends
who take one for a ride, Handy Men and
Last-to-Leavers. There is instruction upon
“How to Talk to Babies,” and how to
make an introduction ; there is an ex-
planation of “The Secret of My Charm,”
and a confession of “My Secret Vice”—
of drawing beards on women. The illus-
trations are relevant but irreverent.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 88
Across.
I—Darling snake doctor upset this
temporary flooring and lodging
for Donald. (9)
6—Fissure the derisive joke century
with an instrument of torture. (5)
8— Fuss 1950 years ago. (3)
9 Snake and a table sweetener upset
a savory plant. (9)
10—Where stray animals may be found
with dough, weight, pummel. (5)
12—Roofing haircut and beaches
induce scratching. (8)
14—Georgia’s black often boils the
kettle. (3-3)
I' Decree as in a small ukulele. (5)
Jo—Equipment for a human’s chew-
ing. (5)
9 ~fs)hiP Cayenne not in the fi nish -
is Havelock? (5)
-n i , s festival is more Oriental? (6)
u « undre d aQ d Miss Gardner of
7s v °ij ood can a kind of song. (8)
sudden jerking movement from
* n y churl. (5)
27—Italian patriot fish with the hair-
less among eyes. (9)
29 Auditioner’s organ. (.3) .
30— Funny man turned about a bet. (5)
31 — Star has one with fifty pence east
to prohibit one. (9)
Down.
1— Child actor in Hollywood and
clergymen imitate some of the
cldck’s sound in a good way.
(4/9)
2 Like copper cup and the much
more prevalent ring by us. (11)
3 Dipsomaniacs and some lawyers
feel called to this musical unit. (3)
4 Totals of a horse about the
entrances. (10)
5 Haste of punctuation. (4)
6 Police some humor of a type of
butter. (5)
7 Island group off North Aus-
tralia. (3)
11 —Resolution to discourage 1001
over the country. (13)
13 —My parent’s sister is 80 per cent,
of this underfleshed character in
“Richard II.” (5)
15—Dance of the hearty flour-man.
1 married water-supply
and father to anger coppers.
(4-6)
18—Spinster has a mass. (5)
22—Anaesthetic is confused there. (5)
24—A King and a location of the
Taj Mahal. (4)
26—A tatter. (3)
28 —One-twentieth of 10 across
Menzies. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 87.


p - . ■
■
Hi
,> ■
. . •-, ......«vv 'Art.v.v •;-Av.-.« ■•■■• •:■• :• v < •■••.• •• »;*w :-■■■■ ■■■■■ .•
i
iii mm
■
4 ",
m.
m
mm
■
m
i
ii
HP?
.
f
■
a
s
i ‘ >
m
ji
ns
ft!?
U
ill
Vv --.
-
"^1
ill
- /
..
■
■
&
Crusader Cloth
is
.
r
■■
'• t
--
’■
