

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3678
Wednesday, August 9, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CXETER, the ancient county town of
Devon, situated on the high eastern
bank of the River Exe, has been inhabited
for as long as recorded time. The
ancient Britons built its first defences,
and, although they were conquered by
the Romans, the Saxons and the Danes,
they lived there until they were banished
to Cornwall in the tenth century.
Although the citizens took part, in
every rebellion and civil war and suffered
from recurrent plagues, these troubles did
not prevent the city from growing rich,
and this heritage of the past is still to be
seen in many of its streets. The outstand-
ing architectural feature of the city is the
magnificent Cathedral which has been
the spiritual home of thirty generations
of Devon folk. It occupies the site of a
Saxon monastic church founded by
Athelstan in 932, which was rebuilt by
Knut in 1017, and thirty-three years later
this building became the Cathedral, and
Edward the Confessor enthroned Leofric
as first Bishop of Exeter.
At the beginning of the twelfth century
the Cathedral was rebuilt by Bishop
Warelwast, and the massive Norman
towers date from this period, but the rest
of the Cathedral was built mainly between
1280 and 1394. Other notable features of
the Cathedral are the elaborate West
Front, with its three rows of canopied
niches containing figures of angels, kings,
knights and saints; and its beautiful
nave, three hundred feet in length, which
has a roof weighing 5000 tons supported
by clustered columns of Purbeck marble.
As a link with the past, curfew is still
rung at close of day from the north
tower—a custom which originated in
Norman times when William the
Conqueror found it necessary to prevent
Possible conspiracy by confining the
citizens to their homes in the evening.
During the Second World War the
Cathedral was extensively damaged in
two enemy air attacks, and it will
bo many years before restoration is
completed.
CROWNING GLORY OF ANCIENT EXETER IS ITS HISTORIEO CATHEDRAL
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
f
d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ....
My Address
S.B. 150 AGE
The Red Page
"YOU'RE NEXT. SIR."
A yellow band round the cover of a
book saying:
“Much humor, I shall certainly buy a
copy of this book.” —Neville Cardus
should raise one’s expectations, and the
revelation inside the dust-cover that
Victor Clingan is a Sydney barber and
that Mirror on the Wall (Stratford Press,
Sydney) is about “his early experiences
in Sydney barber-shops” should increase
one’s hope. Then, on page 35, we become
certain:
S. Elliot Napier, a leader-writer and
book-reviewer on the “Sydney Morning
Herald” suggested that a series of
essays based upon my barber-shop ex-
periences might make a readable book. As
a measure of his friendship he tackled the
first few chapters when they were written,
seemed to like them, and encouraged me
to complete the opus.
And worthily Mr. Clingan repaid this
friendly gesture:
When my old friend became ill 1 visited
him several times a week to attend to his
tonsorial needs, and before leaving would
draw up my chair for a talk about books
and writers....
Thus welcomed, thus encouraged, what
a book it must be! How much some
Sydney barbers could tell us of the dark
secrets of their profession—chair-hiring,
tied-shops, under-the-counter cigarettes,
whether the barber is entitled to a free
haircut, different kinds of barbers and
their methods, and ghostly matters in-
volving bits of paper with names written
on them and wrapped round a dollar or
half a dollar;
What pipes, what timbrels, what wild
S.P.!
So we read on, with mounting excite-
ment—it will begin at the next chapter ;
but we arrive at the end of the book
feeling that we might have got it all for
2s. 3d. and a haircut into the bargain.
Barbers, as H. L. Mencken shrewdly
observed, share with portrait-painters the
ability to talk about something else while
they are working (which explains the
preponderance of art-theories over works
of art); and no doubt it is this condition-
ing which enables Mr. Clingan to men-
tion, almost everything but the matters in
which he is expert; work (other people's),
play, music, holidays, books—perhaps he
is like Sid, who had artistic leanings, and
was apprenticed to a butcher-
He was most enthusiastic about it, and
spoke very highly of its more absorbing
features, particularly its great variety. He
mentioned just as one instance the astound-
ing number of ways there are of tying up
corned-bcef.
The artistic streak which I had suspected
somewhere in Sid began to show itself
when, after a time, He was given the job
of dressing the butcher’s window. The
special display he gave on Fridays could
be described only as magnificent
He is now a married man with a small
family, and 1 suspect that tying up
comed-bcef has long since lost its charm.
In truth, Sid has confessed to me that his
occupation bores him almost to death.
And no doubt the ways of cutting hair
lose their charm, and barbering has
changed little since the days of Sir John
Suckling:—-
I am a barber and, I’d have you know,
A shaver, too, sometimes no mad one
though:
The reason why you see me now thus bare
Is ’cause I always trade against the hair.
But yet I keep a state; who comes to me,
Whosoe’er he is, he must uncovered be.
When I’m at work, I’m bound to find
discourse,
To no great purpose, of great .Sweden’s
force.
Of Witel, and the Bourse, and what ’twill
cost
To get that back which was this summer
lost.
So fall to praising of his Lordship’s hair:
Ne’er so deformed, I swear ’tis sans com-
pare.
I tell him that the King’s doth sit no fuller,
And yet his is not half so good a colour;
Then reach a pleasing glass, that’s made to
lie,
Like to its master, most notoriously;
And if he must his mistress see that day,
I with a powder send him straight away.
But let it not he thought that Mr.
Ciingan’s discourse is “to no great pur-
pose”: when it is upon his customers, it
is very good indeed: a crowd of curious
characters walk through his pages ; the
“philosophers” who spent all their time
in the shop arguing, and never seemed to
go to work; Red, who was a dealer in
rubbish:
Another time his basket contained only
crayfish, which seemed to be in fair con-
dition, but had a strong smell of disinfec-
tant about them.... When any fish at the
market are condemned as unfit for sale
they are dumped and disinfectant poured
over them. With fine business acumen
Red had retrieved these outcast crayfish,
and, after washing off as much disinfectant
as possible, was able to offer them at very
competitive prices.
Also Billy the tailor, who regularly got
drunk and once spent his session in the
chair muttering “Fifteen today,” over and
over again; Jack the milkman, who fell
from a balcony on to some spikes which
did not more than suspend him Isy his
waistcoat; Fred, who got drunk on
Saturday afternoons and recited Keats
in the barber-shop until his wife came to
take him home; Dick, who played a tin-
whistle, and celebrated his son’s progress
towards the boxing championship, victory
by victory, upon this instrument ; the
musical customer who had Mr. Clingan
home to hear Mozart’s G Minor
Symphony:
By sitting almost on top of the machine,
and concentrating intensely, we were able
to some extent to ignore the wheezing of
the motor and the scratching of the needle.
When a man has worn the G Minor
Symphony almost smooth with repetition
....he is a real enthusiast, and a fellow
after my own heart.
Mr. Clingan has a keen ear for
musicians—a policeman who plays the
flute, a motor mechanic who practises
Liszt; but a woman fish-and-chip shop
proprietor who praised a record about
“some newsboy selling papers in the
snow” brought down his wrath upon her
head, and his study of a local dance-hall
on a Saturday night (with the piece about
the boxing match in the suburban hall,
the best two scenes in the book) reeks
with disapproval.
Mention should also be made of Miss
Elite, who kept the whole saloon waiting
while she unwound “dozens of differently
shaped, colored and textured pieces of
material” from her hair, and “The Pro-
fessor,” who never stopped talking ; just
went on and on and on; and that in his
enumeration of the great books he has
read, Mr. Clingan mentions Louis Stone’s
Jonah :—
A book which, because of its fidelity to
truth, remains firmly in my memory is
Jonah, by Louis Stone, I know that this
book is real, because for some years I
had a shop among the people and the
scenes which are so vividly described in it.
I can’t forget Ada and Jonah’s wedding-
feast ; the guests standing around the table,
on which a dozen bottles of ale stood
“like ninepins,” awaiting the coming of
Joey the pieman with his pies and green
peas Unusually for a book of this kind
the dialogue is perfect, absolutely natural.
In these days when we have seen The
Harp in the South assessed above Louis
Stone’s masterpiece, these are consoling
words.
How Goes the Universe?
From time to time one likes to take a
look at a scientific book to see how the
universe is getting along; and since Mr.
Gerald Heard’s Is God Evident? (Faber)
is largely a collection of scientific
curiosities and is not, thank Heaven,
unduly pious, it is a very pleasant book
to look at.
One likes to be reminded, for instance,
that the sun is now technically known
as an Orange Dwarf; as D. H. Lawrence
said about the quantum theory, these
notions help to make the universe seem
more alive, “like a goose.” And even if
Mr. Heard thinks the rest of the universe
is untenanted —which always seems to the
present philosopher an incredible waste
of space; and liable to the dire charge
of anthropomorphism—how heartening
it is to be assured that we may at least
have neighbors on Mars; and that these
“super - superfine creatures,” having
evolved with the changing climate, may
surpass our feeble race as much as the
men of the future on this changing earth
may surpass us: —
As our climate changes and becomes
more austere, may we not be called to
make a higher creative adaptation? So,
looking back from their fine desert, those
ultimate men will consider our climate and
physique as we consider the swamps and the
bulk and the brainlessness of the dinosaurs.
To them, to live in our present bodies,
with their overmassive stumpy legs and
bulging torso filled with a writhing coil of
intestines, would seem like being put for
life in the stocks and stuck fast in a
manure heap.
One may, of course, dimly recall hav-
ing seen, long ago, perhaps in a dream,
legs that were not so “stumpy” ... yet
who could object to evolving, steadily
and gracefully, up his spinal column, as
Mr. Heard thinks we may all be doing?
And certainly, even though Mr. Heard is
distressed at the potentialities of the
atomic bomb, his optimism is a cheering
and welcome counterblast to the final
gloomy prophecies of H. G. Wells.
Mr. Heard, to put him in a nutshell—
where indeed he puts the universe, for he
says it may have expanded from “a single
photon of energy”: which seems more
or less to explain a perfectly inexplicable
poem of Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s entitled
“The Face of the Waters”—Mr. Heard,
to keep him in his nutshell, sets out,
basically, to reverse the materialism ot
the nineteenth-century scientists and to
show that, instead of making the universe
less wonderful and mysterious, science
has made it infinitely more so: and that
all these wonders may, in what he terms
“natural theology,” demonstrate the
existence of a Supreme Being.
Everything mysterious and wonderful,
then, is to his purpose: whether it is the
fact that, above the cold of the strato-
sphere, there is “a belt in which the tem-
perature is no less than that of boiling
water,” in which meteors burn and where,
as Mr. Heard points out, inter-planetary
voyagers must beware of being boiled ;
or the fact that atoms as individuals,
though the mass may obey the Iron
Laws, seem to have free-will or, at least,
behave unpredictably; or that ants are
reputed never to weep; or that Dr. J. B.
Rhine, with his invaluable packs of
playing-cards, has discovered some re-
markable things about telepathy ; or,
very importantly for Mr. Heard’s line of
argument, that sheep have hands- —that is
to say, vestigial traces of fingers shown
in X-ray photographs of the embryo
lamb.
But here, alas, one must part company
with the, philosopher. Mr. Heard does
not like the idea of anything being
“punished” eternally ; and if lions, hippo-
potami, dogs and cats and sheep have to
continue being lions, hippopotami, dogs
and cats and sheep, never acquiring souls,
never becoming men, then they have, in
a sense, been “punished.” All forms of
life, Mr. Heard seems to say, once had,
like the atom, free-will; but the animals,
so to speak, got themselves into an evolu-
tionary groove, and can’t get out of it:
and if they can’t get out, then they are
punished for ever. But then, recalls Mr.
Heard, sheep have vestigial hands; so
have dogs: is it possible, he asks him-
self, that when animals are tamed they
may be redeemed from their eternal
doom? —
Already it has been noted with what
striving effort the highly-trained dog
attempts to use his paw as a hand. He
knows already how a door opens and that
it needs fingers properly to turn the handle-
knob. Who can say that the striving will
not, once more, out of the digit buds,
resprout the fingers of the hand, still hinted
in the womb?
Well. Well. But even if he turns dogs
and sheep into human beings, surely Mr.
Heard is going to have great difficulty
with, say, goldfish?
Poet and Peasant
All one knew of Ronald Duncan before
opening his book, The Mongrel and
Other Poems (Faber), was that in Eng-
land, just before the war, he was running
a little literary magazine called the
“Townsman,” partial to Ezra Pound,
filled with the drawings of Gaudier-
Brzeska, and offering to review
unpublished books as a guide to pub-
lishers—well, the debt to “Ez” (sic) is
obvious; two canzones, laid-out just like
Ezra’s, open the book ; and at the back
there are translations from early French
songs, and even a study in “English,
Seventh Century,” to rival Pound’s
“Seafarer.”
But the Provencal songs do not re-
produce the madness-in-the-blood of
their originals; and then there is the
“Carol”:
He was as gentle
In repose
As dew in April
Lies in the rose
which is derived from
He came all so still
Where his mother was
As dew in April
That falleth on the grass.
One might well ask what is intended by
this stultification of one of the most deft
movements in all English poetry. Again,
in the title-piece, “The Mongrel,” is to
be found the later T. S. Eliot. Take the
first lines of each section:
Does the terror of the tiger’s tooth
Tear through a horse’s dream?,...
What is our fife but a slow remember-
ing?
The present is where we are. But where
are we?....
One grows a little weary of these
abstract questions our poets are all ask-
ing us, and for that reason is inclined to
admire a nice clear piece of narrative
like “A Short History of Texas,” whose
poetry is negligible (although it goes, as
the fancy takes Mr. Duncan, in Dante’s
terza rima), and is broken into here and
there by newspaper headlines in capitals,
songs and one slab of solid prose. One
might also remark a simple thing like
“The Miller’s Lament,” which is so little
“After Dunbar” that it constitutes almost
a personal style for Mr. Duncan; but
best of all one would say are the two
“Practical Ballads,” the one on building
a pig-sty, the other on spreading pig-
dung for the barley (Mr. Duncan is also
a farmer, and author of Journal of a
Husbandman and Home-Made Home).—
The site: choose a dry site.
Avoid building against a bank.
Leaning a building to a bank may save
putting up a wall,
But dampness will seep through,
You’ll see your mortar sweat,
You’ll be feeding to keep your pig warm,
This way she’ll not fatten, profitably;
You may get roast out of it, but no
bacon
Mr. Duncan is also a verse dramatist;
his play “This Way to the Tomb” has
been acclaimed as “the most interesting
since ‘Murder in the Cathedral,’” by
none less than Stephen Spender; and
this book includes some verse additions
he made to a play of Cocteau’s, “The
Eagle Has Two Heads,” for a London
performance; and “Mea Culpa,” a
libretto for an oratorio to be composed
by Benjamin Britten ; it is dedicated to
an “unknown child whose hand lay like
a glove on the floor” of a bombed
house:
Bass (Air).
I am wading up to the neck
In the blood of my own black heart,
It is hailing human eyes
Which are filling the gutter •
With the fixed stare of sorrow.
A surrealist oratorio wouldn’t be such
a bad idea, at that. In short, there seems
some hope for Mr. Duncan, but he hasn’t
arrived yet.
R. McC.
Reviewed Briefly.
Cobbett’s Rural Rides, abridged and
edited by S. E. Buckley, has been added
to Harrap’s Holbom Library.
* * * *
Portrait of Lincoln Cathedral: G. H.
Cook (Phoenix). One of the “English
Cathedrals” series with the usual excel-
lent photographs and historical and archi-
tectural notes.
* * * ♦
The Proper Study of Mankind: Stuart
Chase (Phoenix House). The application
of social science to such problems as race
prejudice, labor, education, unemploy-
ment, war and peace. The human being
always seems about as human in these
books as a problem in geometry, and Mr.
Chase’s style is packed tight and hard
with tables and statistics; but the study
is highly recommended by Julian Huxley.
jje * ♦ ♦
Additions to Cape’s admirable
Traveller’s Library are Hemingway’s
To Have and Have Not, Selections from
the Notebooks of Samuel Butler, William
Plomer’s Double Lives and Call No Man
Happy, by Andre Maurois. Also
from Cape is ' The Essential Samuel
Butler, containing extracts from the
Notebooks, Erewhon, The Way of All
Flesh and others of Butler’s 16 books.
Introduction by G. D. H, Cole.
* * * *
The Players’ Library : Catalogue of the
library of the British Drama League
(Faber). An immense and comprehensive
volume listing and briefly describing the
Library’s 70,000 plays. Both titles and
authors are indexed so that anyone can
readily find his way about among the
profusion of the world’s dramatic litera-
ture —or the great part of it that has got
itself into the English language—and the
scope of the compilation, from Aischylus
to Afford, is staggering. Some other
Australians included are George Landen
Dann, Sumner Locke-Elliott, Dymphna
Cusack, Louis Esson, Vance Palmer and
Leslie Rees. Omissions —probably not
available in print—are Jack Lindsay and
Louis Stone.
* * * «
The Faber Gallery continues to pro-
duce its excellent slim volumes, with their
fine color-plates, their scholarly intro-
ductions and their clear typography and,
occasionally, with unfamiliar reproduc-
tions : such as the sumptuous purple
portrait of Cardinal Ippolito de’ Medici in
the Titian number —as James Laver
points out in his footnote, this portrait
is still in the Pitti and “is therefore one
of the least travelled of the master’s paint-
ings.” Another recent addition is Impres-
sionist Paintings, with an introduction by
Elizabeth Rothenstein and reproductions
not only from the most-publicised Im-
pressionists such as Manet, Monet, Degas
and Toulouse-Lautrec, but also from
artists one meets more often as names
than in color-plates—Berthe Morisot’s
exquisite portrait of a woman with a
teacup, and a beach-scene from the
“father” of Impressionism, Eugene
Boudin, some of whose beautiful little
seascapes, from the collection of Mr.
Norman Schureck, were recently exhi-
bited in Sydney. An art-book of larger
proportions is a reprint of the Hyperion
Press Gauguin (Heinemann) with John
Rewald’s introduction; there are 16
color-plates and 160 black-and-white re-
productions.


-TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Horderns
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES’ WALK
fd
FROM TOWN HALL STATION
f
Wmm
Lm h'7
* '<
m
*
<■
mmmmm
x: :; - v
■
i
1 I
K
'SUJ
g"-' :
m.
m
m
>
I
■ :
V
ii
m
m
m
£k
§
m
m
' - :
:
At right .
Fay refield smartly styled with
plain or bound edge brims,
satin lined. In Blues, Greys
or Browns. Priced at 35/-.
At left.
Henderson Royal Standard
quality. Latest style with
smart bound edge brim.
Colours of Light Grey, Mid
Grey, Blue, Fawn, Light and
Dark Brown. Priced at 35/-.
ROYAL CRBST
f
Above left.
Ward’s English Hats of
high grade fur felt. Brim
wide, satin lined,
hight or Medium Grey,
Blue Grey Slate, Fawn or
Brown. Priced at 48/6.
Below left.
Henderson Riverina Hat
designed for the country
man. Pure' fur felt, 3in.
brim. Colours of Steel
Grey or Fawn, Price, 28/-.
there 9 s always a smart head
under a MEDIUM WEIGHT Hut
North, South, East, West, wherever smart people are
congregating this Spring, you see the newest of Henderson’s
innovations. A wide range of colours and styles
brings to the approaching season a welcome dash of gaiety.
Men's rib Half Hose, fancy
designs on Grey, Navy,
Maroon or Brown. Sizes
10 to 11|. Price, 7/9 pair.
Men’s Figured Ties in a
wide range of various de-
signs and colours. 11/6 ea.
X
1
• ...
' ■
if
r
ia.-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S HAT DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Outstanding Publishing
Event of the 20th. Century!
The first new encyclopedia on a great scale forover
twenty years —and it is British
■a
m
SB SSI
S
8 wmss&
m
,
■a*
70M.
i; « i
"B
.
■si
v- ; -
. : m
:■■■■■•
m
*
V:
H i
• ■ w..r
■
■ Steffi
Wmm
msm
■
r ••
...'■; •: '•■:■
M
■
15 Volumes
14,500,000 Words
Over 4,000 Illustrations
2,500 Eminent Contributors
iWCHAMBERSS
ENCYCLOPEDIA
m mm
3
..
HU
mm
Modern production and special paper
allow the new Chambers’s to occupy just
over two feet of your bookshelf space for
the whole fifteen volumes .
From the moment when publication of this great
new work was foreshadowed orders for the new
Chambers’s Encyclopaedia poured in from all
over the world. Australians can now acquire
a set of the first printing of this, the newest and
only completely up-to-date encyclopaedia at a
lower price (for cash or easy terms) than any
work remotely comparable.
A Work of World Standing and Authority
The new Chambers’s Encyclopaedia is a monument
to modern British Scholarship. There is nothing
like it in existence today. It is a completely new
work, in plan, in method, and in treatment of
recent scientific facts, principles and discoveries.
It embraces the wonderful progress made in many
fields of knowledge since the war. It is an ac-
cepted authority on such subjects as the atom
bomb, newly discovered drugs and therapies, up-
to-date economic statistics and theories, or aero-
nautical development. The new Chambers’s En-
cyclopedia covers, as never before, every aspect
of human life and activity. Its maps alone
constitute an authoritative, up-to-date atlas of
world-wide scope containing 96 geographical and
20 historical maps in full colour, specially pre-
pared and printed by Bartholomew’s of Edinburgh.
It presents and interprets the events and ideas of
5,000 years of human history, covers the whole
field of religion, theology, history, the physical
and social sciences, art, economics, industry, law,
education and sport. Distinguished specialists
have supplied the most recent and comprehensive
statistics. No progressive business house, pro-
fessional man or woman or man on the land can
afford to be without this master work.
Magnificent Colour Plates on Fine Art Paper
No words can adequately convey the beauty and
technical excellence of the 56 colour plates, 550
half-tone plates and 3,500 drawings interspersed
throughout the volumes. They are exquisite in
execution and form an integral part of the en-
cyclopaedic information. In such subjects as
painting and the applied arts, (lacquer, pottery,
stained glass, textiles), the botanical and zoo-
logical drawings, the illustrations present an
unequalled pictorial reference library.
Some of the Distinguished Contributors
Here are just a few of the 2,500 authorities each of
whom has crystallised in his contribution to the
new Chambers’s Encyclopaedia the results of a
lifetime of study, research and specialised activity.
Sir Robert Watson Watt —Radar. Sir Geoffrey
De Havilland —Aircraft industry. Sir Robert
Bruce Lockhart —Churchill and other political
figures. General Sir Frederick A. Pile —Anti-
aircraft, Harold M. Abrahams —Athletic Sports.
Charles H. Best —Co-discoverer of Insulin with
Sir F. Banting. Russell C. Brock— Surgery of
the Heart (Blue Baby). Sir Ahvyn D. Crow
(Head of Technical Services) —Rocket projectiles.
Captain C. B. Falls (Professor of Military His-
tory, Oxford University). Rt. Hon. Lord Hankey
—lmperial Defence. Arnold L. Haskell Ballet.
Miss Marjorie Barnard Australian literature.
Michael Sadlier Book-collecting and biogra-
phies. E. M. W. Tillyard (Master of Jesus College,
Cambridge)—Shakespeare, Milton. Professor G.
D. H. Cole (Professor of Social and Political
Theory)—History of Prices and other Economic
Subjects.
What the British press has to say about the NEW Chambers’s
THE TIMES (which devoted a whole leading
article to the new publication) ! “To give
so much of new writing to the world; com-
bined with generous pictorial illustration, in
one instalment would be a remarkable
achievement at any time; only those who
have some inside experience of the innumer-
able obstacles and restrictions that have
hampered publishers and printers, not to
mention writers and researchers, since 1939
can appreciate what an altogether outstanding
victory has now been achieved.”
JOHN O'LONDOTS WEEKLY: "I know a
number of encyclopedias. I know none that
I like so much. The illustrations seem to
me so good that I am tempted to call them
magnificent. Here is an account rendered of
knowledge as knowledge stands in the middle
of this perturbed and exciting 20th century.”
SUNDAY TIMES. “Older branches of know-
ledge are brought up to the most exacting
modern standards , , . Modern topics elicit
admirable articles on Social insurance. Ad-
ministrative Law, the United Nations, Com-
bined Operations, Soviet Law, Child Welfare
and Old Age. Nothing one cou'd reasonably
search for has been overlooked.”
MANCHESTER GUARDIAN: “The progress
of many branches of knowledge towards a
synthesis has swept away many of the old-
style short articles, replacing them with
longer, more coherent accounts of whole
sciences or their major branches.”
THE OBSERVER: “ ‘Chambers’s’ will take its
rightful place in the great tradition of
British encyclopaedias, for it fills the needs
of the time for clarity and intelligibility.
Its publication is certainly an important
event In the history of post-war British
scholarship.”
THE ECONOMIST: "The articles which
deal with economic and related topics score
very high indeed . Particular mention is
due to the articles on Prices, on the National
Income, and on the National Debt, which are
models of what such things should be . . .
la the economic field at all events it can be
said without qualification that a new standard
of excellence has been set up.”
THE FINANCIAL TIMES: “The history and
duties of the Stock Exchange are admirably
expounded by Mr. W. T. King, editor of the
Banker. Economics is marked by a contribu-
tion full of original thought from Professor
Hayek, and the problems of International
Trade engage the sharp wits of Professot
Harrod.”
SEE THE NEW CHAMBERS’S BEFORE YOU ORDER ANY OTHER ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
CUT OUT AND POST
To get some idea of the outstanding wealth of information
in the new Chambers’s Encyclopaedia, post coupon to your
State distributor (see below).
Please send me (without obligation) full information on the
new Chambers’s Encyclopaedia and details of the various
methods of payment.
Mr.
M r». —*
Miss
Profession _
ADDRESS
STATE.. BNI
N.S.W. AND VIC.: George Newnes (Aust.) Ply. Ltd., 119 York St.,
Sydney. Q’LD., S.A., W.A., TAS.: Gordon and Gotch (A/asia) Ltd.,
262/4 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, 80 Currie Street, Adelaide, 21 Will iam
Street, Perth. 65 Cameron Street, Launceston.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3678
Wednesday, August 9, 1950
“YOU SAID IT, BOB!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
U.N.O.'S DILEMMA.
The Security Council of U.N.O. met
during last week to deal with Korea and
any other matters which might come
before it under the chairmanship of
Comrade Jacob Malik, with 10 other
delegates present. The Russians had
been absent from the conference since
January, and when they returned it was
only for the purpose of thwarting the
majority in the interest of an aggressor
of the class which U.N.O. supposedly
exists to deal with.
Comrade Malik opened the sitting with
an attempt to rule Nationalist China off
the Council as “not fit to represent the
Chinese nation”; but in this he was de-
feated by eight votes to three, the three
being Russia, Yugoslavia (whose head is
barred up in an Adriatic fortress sup-
posedly shivering in his shoes at the
danger of Russian attack) and the re-
public of India, which is ostensibly a
member of the British Commonwealth.
This seems to mean in Hindi thought
that it is glad to take advantage of every-
thing the British nations are prepared to
give, but that is primarily Asian, irrespec-
tive of whether being Asian also means
being a supporter of Communist policy.
Next, Mr, Malik put forward an
agenda of his own on which he gave
priority to the representation of the
Chinese Communist Government, in-
timating that he would use his veto to
ban the resolution of the United States
which condemned the North Koreans for
their continued defiance of U.N.O. Mr.
Malik, tongue in cheek, solemnly de-
clared that the Soviet Union, “consistent
with its policy of peace and its intention
to settle the Korean question in a peaceful
manner, welcomed the noble initiative
of the Prime Minister of India, Pandit
Nehru, in his mediation efforts.” And
then he accused the United States of
“applying every effort to widen the
theatre of aggression by dragging in as
many Governments as possible.”
At the moment Mr. Malik spoke the
North Koreans in hordes, and with com-
plete disregard for the laws of war in
respect of uniforms and military pro-
cedure as agreed upon by civilised
nations, were fiercely battering out-
numbered American and United
Nations—troops ordered into the field by
the Security Council, with weapons which
had been provided for them in abundance
by Russia, the lover of “peace.” At the
same time, too, the Chinese Communist
leader in Peking solemnly broadcast that
when Communist China had offered
military and naval aid to the North
Koreans they had refused it; actually
two Korean divisions had been fighting
in the Chinese Communist Army, and
had returned to North Korea in June
last, fully armed, to form the spearhead
of the drive against South Korea.
The importance of Mao’s announce-
ment, however, is its proof of Com-
munist China’s unfitness for admission to
U.N.O. and the Security Council, since
its offer of help to the North. Koreans
was in itself a deliberate act of aggression
in terms of U.N.O.’s charter, though even
if this proof were not presented openly
Communist China’s past record is suf-
ficient to keep it out of U.N.O. member-
ship.
All this cynical Communist showman-
ship and hypocrisy is typical of U.N.O.
Diplomatic recognition by an individual
country is purely a business arrangement,
and does not imply approval of the
policies of the nation. recognised. It
merely provides a basis for live-and-let-
live for the sake of peace and the mutual
safe conduct of nationals. Even Russia
had diplomatic representation in Ger-
many at a time when Moscow usually
referred to Hitler in public as a blood-
drunk gangster and prayed for his
immolation in the most painful manner
known to Russian culture. Recognition
by U.N.0., however, implies that the
comity of world nations recognises the
nation accepted as having common
ideals of peace and “democracy,” and
acceptance of membership implies readi-
ness on the part of the member to adhere
to U.N.O.’s policies and to share in
actions determined by its majorities.
It is quite impossible for the Com-
munist Chinese Government to do this.
Its leaders, as much as those of North
Korea, are bandits and aggressors. It is
not in China by the expressed' consent of
the Chinese, but by virtue of a huge
army equipped and munitioned with
Allied materiel captured by the Western
Allies in Manchuria and left in Russia’s
custody, Russia having promptly be-
trayed its trust in the most blatant manner
to further its plans of Communist world-
conquest.
It is idle to argue that Chiang
Kai-shek’s Government was not all that
could be desired in a Government. It
was at least Chinese, and not part of a
bloc which aimed at world domination
under a ruthless dictatorship.
There is little choice between the North
Korean and the Chinese Communists.
They stand virtually in the same relation-
ship to U.N.0., and if U.N.CT has any
self-respect left it must keep Communist
China out, and it must kick Russia out
if Russia does not conform. The Soviet
cannot continue to support North Korea
without violating every principle for
which U.N.O. stands, and at the same
time U.N.O. cannot expel Russia without
having that country lead out all its
obedient satellite provinces like Poland
and Czechoslovakia, Which would mean
that even if India and Yugoslavia and
their like did not follow suit, the only
condition which justifies U.N.O.’s
existence at all —that it should be a
world bond of peace, its members fully
obedient to its main principles and de-
cisions—would be finished. With Russia
and its satellites out there would be no
U.N.0.; the remainder would merely
become an anti-Communist alliance.
Mr. Spender has left for London this
week. He will be away until the end of
September, because he proposes to fill
Dr. Evatt’s chair at the U.N.O. General
Assembly. It was essential that he should
go, since this will be the most important
meeting of the Assembly ever held; but
it is to be hoped that he will try to look
and sound a little less like Dr. Evatt
than he has in his past wanderings, which
in pattern and variety are coming to
resemble so greatly those of the sage of
the Barton electorate. If Australia has
any real influence in U.N.O. it should be
used for its liquidation, since at present
U.N.O. is useful only to Russia, which
uses it as a well-lighted shop-window,
rented at its opponents’ expense, in which
to display policies of cunning falsity and
violence backed by U.N.O.’s collective
guarantees of good intention.
No further service can be rendered by
U.N.O. as it exists except to provide a
forum in which to prove the emptiness
of the delusion that “peace is indivisible.”
There has been little peace in the world
since the “United Nations” began to fight
each other about methods of providing
“peace.” The most peaceful and pros-
perous period for the British Empire in
all history was that during the Victorian
era, when conflicts were strictly localised
and isolation of quarrels was the fashion
with British statesmen who inherited the
tradition of Pitt,
War and Work.
Forty years ago Norman Angell pro-
duced a book. The Great Illusion, to
show that for 20th-century international
society war was not only unprofitable
but even impossible, if of any long
duration, without the bankruptcy of all
belligerents. Those were the days of
specifics to enable the British peoples to
“sleep soundly at nights.”
This comfortable creed was quickly
upset by two exhausting world wars
within the author’s own generation and
its successor. The civilised world receded
by so many distinct steps towards the
state of barbarism from which it had
struggled since the known world was first
developed for man’s exploitation of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The
Germany of Kaiser Wilhelm II didn’t
believe war was unprofitable, nor did
Hitler’s Germany or the military rulers
of Japan, nor does Soviet Russia today.
This Angell theory about the futility of
war to settle anything needs no recom-
mendation to pacific nations; but the
potential aggressor has not accepted it
yet, and he does not want peace pre-
cisely because the neighbor he might dis-
place and loot does want it.
As for the futility of war from the
financial aspect, the financiers have found
a way round that. Let a sufficient num-
ber of powerful interests be involved and
their alliance will assure a temporary
common pool of resources, however un-
pleasant the post-war adjustment among
members of that alliance as victors. Aus-
tralia has had two experiences of
financial exhaustion from unavoidable
participation in such alliances. World
War I was costly enough, fought in the
era of “eight hours’ work —eight hours’
play—and eight bob a day.” World War
II was fought at much
prices and off the gold standard. So tar
as the public knew, the “sinews of war
were produced satisfactorily by credit -
creating machinery. That device seemed
all fine and dandy at the time, though
we have not ascertained yet fust
what it will cost us in terms of reaction
upon our future, with Britain s enduring
impoverishment and loss of authority.
The post-war inflation is one manifesta-
tion of the price this community pays.
Now another menace threatens us
along with the rest of the world. How
do we fight a third world war if it comes
—on a 40-hour week and a £lO basic
wage? There will be no danger to full
employment,” but any kind of ‘ social
security” will depend entirely on some-
thing other than that. Inflation is begin-
ning to take the bit between its teeth
already. What will this inflation be like
if Soviet Russia forces another interna-
tional war to the knock-out? The unions
are already talking about military rates of
pay erected on the basic wage; and the
spectacle of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment —that is to say, the Australian pub-
lic —paying every unit of itself more and
more money every month or week or
hour (as inflation proceeds) for working
to save the country, in the fighting ser-
vices or in the mobilised civilian ser-
vices, is surely ludicrous in the extreme.
Still, it could be done, on precedent,
leaving the nasty, nagging, frustrating and
socially confusing remedy for afterwards.
But, assuming the actual provision of
“money,” however rapidly its value may
depreciate, to require no more than a
fine, bold, regardless expansion of present
Treasury methods, how does Australia
fight a world war, if it comes, on the
40-hour week and everybody’s giving as
little possible work for a day’s wages in
order not to do himself out of a job?
It has not come to fighting-war yet, but
it has come to preparing for that con-
tingency, Under “Labor’s” political
orientation the mass of trade-unionists
have already made it evident that they
decline to increase a notoriously low
man-hour output as a means of combat-
ing inflation. That the unions even want
the present inflation further boosted seems
clear from the claim to have the basic
wage raised at once to £lO a week in
one hit. Will they change this attitude
in the event of war —war being the most
active inflationary agent of all?
Apart from this reluctance (largely
speaking) in organised unions to give a
fair day’s work for the wages received,
Australia has not previously had to face
the prospect of a world war with the
additional disabilities:
An undersized working-week.
No reserves of coal.
Hideously congested wharves and sea-
ports.
Railway equipment and staffs well behind
requirements.
National road highways in Eastern Aus-
tralia grievously damaged by floods, a task
in reconditioning in present circumstances
requiring “years” and “many millions,”
according to experts.
The last-named affliction is a visitation
of Nature, but all the others are to be
traced directly to a deliberately reduced
man-hour working output which, if con-
tinued, will destroy this country. The
local Communist party has long worked
out that deduction in Soviet Russia’s
interests and has been acting upon it
assiduously.
Australia is, in truth, beset by
problems (as above outlined) akin to those
imposed by an initial disaster in a war
already commenced against her. If some
enemy’s surprise blow had destroyed coal
stocks, stopped up the principal ports by
sinking block-shipsi at their entrances,
damaged the steelworks by bombing a
third of the plant, and temporarily
knocked out land-communication centres,
our condition could not be much worse.
As it is, “Labor” cannot even recognise
the enemy. Even Mr. Chifley, who ought
to know better, says of the present
emergency that “although the A.L.P.
wholeheartedly supports U.N.0., it
does not want to be dragged into
every row that occurs in Asia.”
Mr. Calwell, another spokesman for
the party, refuses to be concerned in
any war in Europe. Yet another spokes-
man, the A.L.P.’s volatile N.S.W. presi-
dent, says “Labor” won’t countenance
participation in any war which helps “to
preserve American capitalism”—America,
which is the world’s only buttress today
against a Russian military walk-over.
The plain evidence is that the Soviet
military machine is on the march into
South-east Asia, and that, when it is once
arrived on the southern shores, Indonesia
offers the stepping-stones into Australia.
Would it be serious enough then to revise
the 40-hour week and the “darg” on out-
put? If so, and the turn to serious work
and action depends on the gravity of the
emergency, all that remains is to decide
where the line should be drawn, “Labor”
does not, it would seem, stand for any
“Brisbane line.” Where then?
Commonsense would suggest an
answer: Here and now. A beginning
might be made with recognition of the
justice of a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay, the only movement which will
give the 40-hour week a chance of sur-
vival anyway. To date union executives
have been so shy of accepting even “in-
centive” payments for greater man-hour
output that the A.C.T.U. proposes to put
aside any further debate on the subject
till September, 1951. What other means
exists of satisfying the demand— the
pressing necessity, now, in the Common-
wealth—for greater production must
baffle the wit of any citizen.
Of course, by September, 1951, there
may be operating an incentive far more
compelling and without any sugar-coated
conditions. “Labor” has already obliged
the Commonwealth to give valuable
hostages to fortune by its opposition to
the Government’s Anti-Communist Bill,
With, how many more artificial handicaps
does “Labor” suppose that Australia
should be burdened in face of the rising
threat to ourselves and all other freedom-
loving peoples?
Menzies on the Ball.
Mr. Menzies had the ball at his feet
during his short visits to Britain and the
United States, and made the most of it.
The appeal he made in London was
for a closer co-operation among members
of the British Commonwealth in foreign
policy and organisation of their fighting
services—as to policy, not automatic
concern in every negotiation by Britain
(for instance, in affairs of the Western
Union in Europe), but common accept-
ance of broad principles where the British
Commonwealth should stand as one, and
the military strength to assert those prin-
ciples. His line in London was to make
clear that, enthusiastic as Australia is,
and must be, to come to the closest
understanding with the United States for
common action in the Pacific, he was
approaching that objective as represent-
ing a member-State of the British
Commonwealth, with an influential
voice in the fashioning of a relation-
ship—in the Pacific, at any rate—
between the English-speaking democracies
no less firm and close than that to which
Mr. Churchill and the late President
Roosevelt, pledged themselves in 1942
with the Atlantic Charter.
Mr. Menzies disclosed to the British
Prime Minister and to Mr. Churchill the
views he was taking to Washington, in-
cluding his determination to offer ground
troops promptly in support of American
forces in Korea—a contingent necessarily
small if to be available without delay, but,
as the old proverb says, doubly valuable
if offered quickly. There can be little
doubt that the initiative taken by Aus-
tralia, and promptly followed by New
Zealand, must have swung British
Ministers away from their previous stand
that Britain had her “hands full in
Malaya.” The Anzac offer has become the
germ of a proposed British Common-
wealth division —or a combat force not
far short of it —to serve in Korea, not
to “support U.N.0.” in the cant phrase
so much as to demonstrate the vitality of
the only United Nations standing to the
principles in the original charter, namely,
the English-speaking peoples.
The Australian leader very clearly, but
without abuse of his temporary privi-
lege, conveyed these sentiments to his
American audiences —at the Press Club
luncheon, in the House of Representa-
tives and to the general public in his
radio broadcast. He was content, with
the role of the mouse towards the lion
of A3sop’s fable, but he deftly
enough aroused the enthusiasm of the
lion for the mouse’s service. Everyone
knew he was in America to seek dollar
assistance in order to speed up develop-
ment of Australian economic strength-
It was his part to inspire confidence that
such investment would be returned a
hundredfold in the strengthening ot
America’s natural ally in the Pacific-
And his prompt announcement of a Q
Australian combat force to j° lQ
General MacArthur’s command in Korea
has put Australia “ace-high” in United
States estimation.
There are half a dozen little matters
to be finalised between Washington and
Canberra, which Canberra (before this
Government’s time) has long neglected
on one excuse or another. It may be
assumed that Mr. Menzies has wiped that
slate clean. Under the threat of another
war he has taken the course which Mn
Churchill followed at the crisis of the
late war —that of hailing a merger of th
interests of the two peoples in this busi-
ness of assuring the free democratic way
of life, however far that niig n _
go under its own momentum, “ r °“,
on like the Mississippi. , . Let it roll.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Produce! Produce!"
It may be taken for granted that the
Soviet, which has assumed the initiative
j n a * variety of assaults on Western
communities and their civilisation (as
well as upon Asiatics), has not only aimed
at thinning-out available Western military
resources by creating “hot-spots” in
widely-separated parts of the globe, but
has also counted upon military prepara-
tion in the Western democracies impos-
ing a further burden on their already
strained economies.
The Soviet “cold war” of the past four
or five years has, in particular, added to
the damage done to the Australian
economy by the “hot war” against the
Axis Powers during 1939-45.' Largely
because of industrial demoralisation
planned by the Communist fifth-column
and aided by Socialist vote-buying and
appeasement of militant trade-unions, this
country’s basic industries have never been
allowed to recover their full pre-war
strength or tempo. And they certainly
have never managed to function so as
to repair the waste and damage done to
our economy during the critical years of
World War 11.
The evil cunning of Moscow is some-
thing all must be awakened to —even the
trade-union world should not be above
learning something of what is going on.
The trade-unions have been given great
power and liberty in Australia, but so
far they have been unready to accept
corresponding responsibility.
Clearly this is no time to tolerate a
trade-union policy of no coal reserves,
for instance. Not that even a million
tons more coal each year would provide
us with any “reserves.” But all Australians
who have, however passively, furthered
the “class-war” should, in the face of
Moscow’s obvious intentions of attack-
ing democracy internally as well as
externally, now really get down to work.
“Produce! Produce!” becomes not only
the slogan for combating inflation. It
is also the citizen’s 'war-cry against Soviet
aggression.
Free Pepples.
When he stood up to address the U.S.
House of Representatives Mr. Menzies
was offered a temptation to repeat Aus-
tralian “Labor” leaders’ line in early
1942 and bid for a closer American re-
lationship “without any pangs and inhi-
bitions” about ties with Britain.
Mr. Menzies did not fall for it. True,
he took full advantage of the sentiment
of the hour—the obvious enthusiasm
among the American Press and public
for his leadership in the move to provide
a British force for service under General
MacArthur in Korea. That was his duty
in the terms of his mission. Moreover,
Australia had taken the initiative in
offering instant aid on the hard-pressed
battlefield, with the commitment of an
R-A.A.F. fighter squadron.
But the further offer of an infantry
combat group was first discussed by Mr.
Menzies in London, not only because it
was fit and proper to open the proposal
there in canvassing the prospects of
general British participation but also be-
cause the troops immediately available
in Japan, though Australian, are still
nominally a British Commonwealth
Occupation Force.
Before he announced the early prepara-
tion of an Australian infantry contingent
and hinted at its being joined with other
similar contingents from Britain and
elsewhere in the Empire, Mr, Menzies
told his Congress audience that he spoke
not only as Australia’s leader but also as
a representative of the British Common-
wealth—“your greatest group associate
and friend in all things that matter in
this world.” On behalf of a numerically
small people he “could speak quite
Lankly to an enormous Power in the
spirit of brotherhood” —and (implicitly)
m the hope of continued mutual assist-
ance in time of trouble—but the call to
common agreement in the cause of free
peoples was, he made clear, much bigger.
The world needs the United States and
the British peoples. It needs every scrap
democratic strength that can be found
m it.”
This followed naturally on his earlier
less-formal exhortation at the
National Press Club function:
We have an enormous responsibility to
see that we work together, to see that there
is as much efficiency behind the total
forces of freedom as there is behind the
total forces of darkness.
I cannot understand why, for military
su PPh. Australia, the United States and
Britain should not get on to terms with
each other so that they are not duplicating
their efforts.
No base bargaining of Australia’s fight-
ing manpower in return for dollars,
whatever Mr. Chifley may pretend.
Back to Cut Lunches?
There was, of course, never any doubt as
to what the response would be to the
Federal Government’s call for volunteers
to serve in Korea ; the spirit which moved
young Australians to step forward for
service in the Sudan, in South Africa and
in the two World Wars is still there,
despite disillusioning events of the last
few years.
Even before the Acting-Prime Minister
announced Cabinet’s decision to send
troops, scores of young men had called
at Army headquarters in the capital cities
offering their services.. After the
announcement the numbers increased,
although it had been made clear that de-
tails of the force had not been worked
out and that the authorities were not
ready to enrol volunteers. By Saturday
1500 men had given in their names in
Sydney, a similar number in Melbourne,
and probably as many again in the rest of
Australia. Their names and addresses
had been taken and they had gone away
feeling that at least they were in on the
ground floor.
They were mistaken. When Army
Minister Francis announced that recruit-
ing would begin at 9 a.m. on Mon-
day, August 7, they were told they would
have to apply again. Said Mr. Francis:
“Pressure on recruiting staffs will not
permit of individual notices being sent
to these men, even though their addresses
have been recorded.”
To the Minister and his advisers this
may seem fair enough, but it is not the
sort of treatment most likely to encourage
volunteers. The number required for
the initial force is small. Surely the men
who offered to serve without waiting to
find out the conditions of service de-
served some preferential treatment? If
it was felt that the work involved in
addressing and posting a roneoed letter
to the volunteers would have occasioned
too high a percentage of nervous break-
downs among the recruiting staff, the co-
operation of the P.M.G.’s Department
might have been obtained and the appli-
cants reached by telegram. Neither ex-
pedient would have been necessary had
the recruiting staffs had the forethought
to issue identifying chits to the volun-
teers when they took their addresses.
Mr. Francis did not give details of the
“pressure” on recruiting staffs. It would
be interesting to know what caused the
pressure. It couldn’t have been enlist-
ments for the Regular Army or militia
(current enlistments average 20 a week);
it couldn’t have been enlistments for
Korea, because officially these didn’t start
till Monday. The Minister should check
up on the officer who gave him that
“pressure” story. To old hands it looks
as if it came from the same genius who
in 1939 thought up the famous orders
“Bring two cut lunches.”
War in the South.
From a foxhole in Swanston-street near
where the Town Hall Hotel exploded a
few weeks ago:
War? In Victoria we know all about it.
There’s an egg war and a fish war and a war
between the Murdoch Press and the reigning
Premier, another between John Wren’s Colling-
wood Football Club and the South Australian
Football League, to say nothing of the seasonal
football war, the one between the Bourke-street
rag-shops and the endless one between the
Liberals and the Country party.
The egg war, which has simmered for a year
or so, reached a new ferocity last week when
a bunch of organised hen-farmers bombarded
Agriculture Minister Moss for an inquiry into
the Egg Board, claiming that its inspectors were
using “Gestapo” methods, that it winked its eye
at breaches by “Big producers” and that the
“egg industry” was in “chaos” as a result. The
Minister accused the egg-growers of “factional
fighting,” and refused an inquiry, whereupon
the deputation withdrew, muttering in its
whiskers, and presumably will report to the
laying hens in due course. This Egg Board,
by the way, is headed by a gentleman who,
some time ago, coldly informed indignant house-
wives that, rises or falls in egg prices had nothing
to do with supply and demand, but were simply
decided upon by the board, and they could like
** The fish war, described by Chief Secretary
Dodgshun as “turmoil,” is over the price of
“sea-foods,” with some fish-merchants under-
cutting others and most of them charging too
much and saying they’re being held up in turn
by fishermen. Anyhow, the State Government
has issued an “ultimatum” quoted by one paper
as “Get cheap fish to the public or we shall
take over.” Some innocent people thought this
would be a good idea, assuming it meant that
the Parliament would recess and all the poli-
ticians and their staffs and departmental heads
and boards would head out into the Bay to
catch fish, what time the less seaworthy members
Spared to hawk the catch round the suburbs
P if didn’t mean that, of course, but simply that
a Fish Board would be set up, to join the
Fee Potato, Milk, Onion, Chicory and other
tods to% n trolW' **• 01-oatured
person tried to warn Melburnians that Sydney
had a Fish Board and that fish in Sydney was
twice as dear as in Melbourne, with a black-
market and large-scale “smuggling” of fish,
and Government fish inspectors going about at
night seizing trucks aitd disguising themselves
as oysters and spying on mysterious trawlers
and so forth; but he was quickly suppressed.
The Murdoch-McDonald war is over the
Town Hall Hotel explosion. There was a
Government inquiry into it, and a report was
given to the Premier, but he doesn’t “intend to
release it for publication at this stage.” The
Murdoch Press accuses both Mr. McDonald
arid his Chief Secretary of “suppression” for
the Government’s own ends.
Collingwood and Adelaide were conducting a
long-range bombardment over the body of a
young man who went to Adelaide and wants
to play football there but can’t unless John
Wren can persuade Collingwood to “clear him,
the young man having once booted a football
in Collingwood and being therefore a Colling-
wood national, with the same restrictions on his
movements, apparently, as a national of Prague,
Belgrade or Moscow. The other wars have
been long-standing ones, “cold” for the most
part, hotting up only on odd occasions.
Still, people in other States mustn’t imagine
that all is blood and battle in Victoria. A vital
agreement has been reached on “high leyelS ]
between official-Premier McDonald, unofficial-
Premier Cain and ex-Premier Hollway. With a
single united voice they have informed the
responsible authorities that the cricket Tests
should be broadcast. All is not lost
Anyhow, what is all this about Korea?
"Labor" for War Advice!
“Labor's” official journal on the subject
of the Menzies Government’s inability to
manage Australia’s interests in the Korea
struggle is highly entertaining reading. The
public is not only “restless,” it tells us,
because Mr. Menzies is still overseas in-
stead of here and meeting Parliament, but
because the Menzies Ministry has no
members of “great experience” in war
equal to those of the “Labor” Opposition.
This from the crowd which, having
succeeded the former Menzies Govern-
ment when World War II was one-third
through, took all the kudos for that Gov-
ernment’s arrangements and then did its
best to ruin the Army by decreeing that
no Australian conscript should serve in
the Allied cause outside the territorial
three-mile limit! When the enemy, natur-
ally enough, brought the war closer to
us, “Labor” howled in panic for 25
divisions from Britain to come and save
us. Then came the Militia Hopscotch
Biil. . ~ , .
This, too, from the crowd which to-
day, through one of its “experienced
war-managers or another, declares for
(1) “supporting” U.N.O. (a dead horse),
(2) no engagements in Europe, (3) no wars
in Asia, (4) no war to assist American
capitalists, (5) no war to assist British
“profiteers” in Malaya, (6) no dealing
with the enemy’s fifth-column here in
Australia except under trial by jury, on
which (as Mr. Wentworth, M.P., points
out) Communists may sit to give or
hinder a verdict. 4C „
Let any elector work out the advice
he might get from such a mob and decide
whether he, personally, would value it at
even the 1960 content of a Chifley quid
(supposing the Chifley Government had
remained in power till I 960).
The Prostrate City.
Australia's biggest,city was last week
reduced to getting electricity from a
couple of harbor tugs whose generators
were set going so that “juice ’ could be
fed into the starving city mams—starv-
ing to such an extent that an almost con-
tinuous series of blackouts prevailed.
A week earlier the city had been en-
during the tail-end of one of the most
remarkable and costly rainstorms of its
history. For upwards of three months
the rain had poured down steadily, wash-
ing away homes, roads, bridges, holding
up work, stopping coal supplies and
generally playing Old Harry with every-
thing. .
During the rain gas supplies were cut
and electricity failed. In the middle of
last week the early-spring sun shone and
was still shining at the weekend. During,
all the rainy period the people were told
bv their gas and electricity authorities
that it was the rain’s fault. When the
rain ceased the gas got shorter and the
electricity almost faded out altogether.
This time it was because of refusal or
gas employees to work overtime and be-
cause one or two electricity generators
were “undergoing repairs.” It was about
then that the tug engines were started up.
The people offered no comment; not
a voice of the million and a half roared
in protest. They’d been given the same
old reasons, the same old excuses, now
so moth-eaten that nobody expects any-
thing else. Yet there is a Minister who
assumes control of gas supplies, a Coal
Board supposed to see that the gasworks
get coal, an Electricity Authority set up
to see that light and power supplies are
maintained. None of them has suc-
ceeded ; all of them play second-fiddle
to “militant” (another term for “Com-
munist”) unions and a spineless “Labor”
State Government that is too scared to
say “Boo!” to a cheeky bus-conductor.
And until Sydney’s million rouse up
and throw the whole boiling overboard
and put men with guts into their Gov-
ernment they’ll go short of gas, light and
power. And they’ll be fed the same old
excuses. There is nothing more scanda-
lous and shocking on the face of the
earth than this city held down by incom-
petence, fright and mismanagement.
The Rabbits Can't Win.
“C.S.”: Some irresponsible person or
other has suggested that all Government
employees should wear a small badge
to identify them as such. Policemen,
postmen, trammies, railwayman and some
others are easily identified by their
uniforms when on duty, he says, but
there is no way of identifying a public
servant in mufti, and a very great number
of them wear it both on and off duty.
Wearing a badge, it is claimed, would
permit the ordinary person to know with
whom he was dealing and would save
public servants much embarrassment.
The unknown author of this suggestion
may be sincere; on the other hand he
may have some fell purpose in mind.
Superficially the idea has its points, but
closer examination reveals weaknesses.
For instance, one single badge would
lead to confusion, since there’d be no
way of distinguishing a Commonwealth
from a State servant, one State from
another, a railway clerk from a defence
clerk, an under-secretary from a depart-
mental head and so forth. In the matter
of Government boards, how would one
tell an Egg Board secretary from a Wheat
Board manager or a Peanut Board clerk
or a Meat Board officer or a Canary-
seed Board checker or a—but why go
on? It is obvious that separate and
distinct badges would have to be supplied
if the public servant was to be 'clearly
identified.
To do this it would be necessary to
set up a Department of Public Service
Badges, with branches in all States and
sub-branches in the cities and large towns.
Still, that would create employment for
many people in designing the badges,
filing the designs, making badges, filing
the stamps and dies, checking issue of
badges and filing the checks. There’d
have to be investigators to check traffick-
ing in badges, and they’d have to have
filing-clerks, and the consumption of
paper and J-nibs and morning and after-
noon tea would be enormous.
However, not to pursue the matter
further, the one impassable stumbling-
block is the fact that if all persons in
Government and quasi-Government em-
ployment in this country were compelled
to wear badges the few people left would
be so alarmed by the badge-wearers
hemming them in on every side that
they’d probably sell out and head for the
back of Alice Springs or somewhere and
hide. Then the only taxpayers left would
be the badge-wearers —and you couldn’t
have that. If this seems fantastic and
luridly imaginative, all you have to do
is tot up the increases in the numbers of
public servants each year, compare that
with the birth and immigration rates, and
it’s clear that within a generation or so,
badges or no badges, we’ll all be public
servants.
That Wheat Agreement.
When the Chifley crowd went to the
electors last December their candidates
got a rough reception in the N.S.W. wheat
electorates. These were originally four
—Hume, Riverina, Calare and Gwydir,
all but Calare held by Chifley men—but
became six in a multiplied House of
Representatives: Farrer, Hume, Riverina,
Calare, Lawson and Gwydir. “Labor
lost the lot and the election.
How much the International Wheat
Agreement had to do with it is prob-
lematical, but the fact is that ■ Labor
signed the agreement on Australia s behalf
and leaders of wheatgrower organisa-
tions in N.S.W. heartily condemned it.
So did pretty well everybody else who
took the trouble to examine it, the general
faults being that it was full of escape-
clauses and there were no legal penalties
for breaches, the particular weakness
from the grower point of view being
that it bound Australia, as an exporter,
to an arbitrary range of prices well below
the visible “free-wheat” prices.
H. K. Nock, of N.S.W. Farmers and
Settlers Association, put it this way:
In October [1949] the Australian Wheat
Board’s price for “free wheat remained
constant at 20s. a bushel... .In Chicago
the then quote for delivery seven months
ahead wa? 18s. (Aust currency) .
Thus the relative position of I.W.A. prices
to those in the “free market” since devalu-
ation hw not improved. While the maximum
(Continued overleaf.)


d
K
fL***
162
CARRERAS
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION
FOR QUALITY
I.W.A. price is 16s. Id. and the “free
market” price 205., farmers are losing 3s.
lid. a bushel. On an 80,000,000-bushel
export quota this would total over £lss
million.
That, though Mr. Nock didn’t say so,
is based on the assumption that there is a
“free market” somewhere capable of
absorbing 80,000,000 bushels. If there
is it is in the importing countries not
signatory to the 1.W.A., among them Ger-
many and Japan. It is alleged that some
importing countries who signed the agree-
ment are buying Australian wheat at
I.W.A. prices and selling it at a profit to
this “free market,” frequently to Aus-
tralia’s traditional wheat customers.
The thing is a constant worry to the
six N.S.W, “wheat members.” It shows
what sort of a mess Socialism can
make when it extends its notions into
the international trade field. The I.W.A.
was signed by a Commerce Department
official, and the growers were told of it
after Australia was committed. Neither
the growers nor the anti-Socialist Canberra
Government can do much more than bite
their nails until the I.W.A. expires in
1952, unless the Government is prepared
to break the agreement.
POLITICAL POINTS
To the Communist “Tribune” Aus-
tralia’s decision to send troops to Korea
means that
Menzies openly offered Australian youth
to help JU.S. aggression in Korea and any-
where else. He went brazenly on to ask,
in return, for dollars to build up Australia
as a war arsenal in the profit interests of
Big Business.
There is nothing surprising in the local
Comrades viewing events through
Moscow’s distorting spectacles, but what
kind of glasses was Chifley wearing when
he said this?:
An unfortunate impression was being
created that Australia’s support of U.N.
with ground troops for use in Korea was
being used as a bargaining lever to obtain
dollars.
The “Labor” leader did not say in what
circles, other than Communist, the “un-
fortunate impression” was current, but
he complained that the ground-force de-
cision was announced by the Prime
Minister in America 14 hours before the
Australian people were told. Acting
Prime Minister Fadden refuted this,
pointing out that he himself made the
announcement before Menzies reached
America.
Earlier, the president of the N.S.W.
branch of the A.L.P., J. A. Ferguson,
broadcasting in his official capacity, said
that the “Labor” party “did not want
Australian troops used to help preserve
American capitalism.” He urged that
Parliament should be called together
before troops were sent abroad. The
utterances of Chifley and Ferguson leally
mean that “Labor” does not know where
it stands on the Korean situation. The
Chifley Government based its foreign
policy on “wholehearted support of
U.N.0.,” in the fervent hope that whole-
hearted meant full-throated, and nothing
mopfe, At the same time it has always
been “Labor” policy to oppose sending
Australian troops abroad. The two
policies are now in conflict, and the con-
flict is not only between opposing factions
of Caucus, but also between opposing
ideas in the muddled heads of individual
leaders.
Further evidence of this lack of policy
is shown in the current issue of the
A.L.P, official newspaper in Sydney. Its
front page demands the calling-together
of Parliament to discuss Korea; it also
announces that the A.L.P. Federal
Advisory Committee will discuss the
subject on August 29.
Last week N.S.W. Premier McGirr
said he could not intervene in the Sydney
gas dispute, despite its being a local
matter, because the award governing the
union was a Federal one. A few days
later in Melbourne Conciliation Com-
missioner Galvin said he had no jurisdic-
tion to deal with a dispute originating
with the Federated Ironworkers Associa-
tion because, although the union was
under a Federal award, the dispute was
local and not “inter-State within the
meaning of the Act.” McGirr, despite
this ruling, has not offered to reconsider
intervention in the gas dispute.
With his biggest problem—whether to
knock down the Stadium to make way
for the Eastern Suburbs railway—still
unsolved despite a change in Transport
Ministers, there is a suggestion that
McGirr may go outside the State for a
solution. Does that mean an appeal to
John Wren?
[ A Queensland “Labor” member has
been discovered who has never been to
Canberra, never read anything of Can-
berra debates or heard them over the
air. Discussing a suggestion that the
Speaker in Queensland Parliament should
be placed above party politics and not
necessarily be unseated after elections, he
remarked that such a change “might be
favored in Canberra, where it is possible
to get away from party atmosphere.”
After being addressed by McPhillips,
Ernie Thornton’s stand-in. Ironworkers’
delegates at a Melbourne meeting passed
a resolution calling on the U.N. Security
Council “to allow the Koreans to settle
their differences in their own way.” That’s
how it was worded; what they really
meant was “to allow Uncle Joe to settle
their differences in his own way.”
External Affairs Minister Spender is
off on a trip to Britain and America.
He’ll attend a meeting of the British
Commonwealth Consultative Committee
on economic aid to Asia and will go to
Lake Success for the opening of U.N.
General Assembly in September. There
will also be brief visits to Rome, Geneva
and Paris. Those who suspect Spender
of having caught Doc. Evatt’s complaint
of itchy feet may be a little premature.
But if Percy starts collecting Press-
cuttings . . .
The British Coal Board has discovered
a new coalfield in Staffordshire with 200
million tons of first-class coal in it.
„Some evil-minded, anti-Socialist nark, re-
calling the £25 million peanut-growing
scheme in Africa, alleges that the first
shovelful will cost as much in pounds to
produce as there are tons of coal in the
field.
A taipan snake got itself into the news
by striking and killing its captor in
Queensland, being flown south to Mel-
bourne for its venom and allegedly having
a go at a scientist in the serum labora-
tories. It could have done better if it
had demanded to be taken south by
steamer; then the wharfies would have
demanded “danger money” and we could
have had another shipping hold-up.
There is no truth in the report that the
East Sydney Labor League has asked
Ward to give it an address, with up-to-
the-minute Korean, Polish and Czecho.
illustrations, on the assertion he beefed
out when a King’s Minister: “The
U.S.S.R. has made more progress in 25
years than any capitalist country” (mean-
ing the U.S.A., with, of course, Britain)
“has made in ten times that period.”
Douglas MacArthur, now, at 70, hitting
out gallantly at foes of the English-
speaking nations, and once more to have
fighting Australians under him, must
have ironical moments when he contem-
plates some of his many decora-
tions, particularly those from Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Hungary and
Rumania. But he can take pride in the
message he issued when he arrived in
Australia on March 17, 1942:
The President of the United States
ordered me to break through the Japanese
lines and proceed to Australia for the pur-
pose, as I understand it, of organising
American offence against Japan....l came
through, and I shall return.
Return he did, and with him a million
(or thereabouts) Americans who, from
first to last, landed in Queensland. And
Australia can never forget.
At least two sayings of our not-so-rude
forefathers were alike pertinent to their
own times and have been borne out re-
markably in this. “Scratch a Russian and
you find a Tartar” has been exemplified
with Oriental duplicity in all Communist
Russia’s dealings with the West. And
it has been demonstrated once more that
“the Turk is the only gentleman in the
Balkans.” On the Korean issue the
Balkans tribes of whom English writers
and politicians made pets —Bulgars, Serbs,
Rumanians and the rest —are more or less
hostile to the English-speaking nations,
along with those other northern Slav pets,
the Czechs, Slovaks and Poles. Moved
by the old friendship with England, the
Turk has pledged himself to send Mac-
Arthur reinforcements and is asking for
admission to the Atlantic partnership.
August is the month in which, 11 years
ago, the two old enemies Adolf and
Joseph signed a treaty of friendship and
alliance so that Ad. might fall on the
Poles and Joe on the Finns. Previously
“uneasy,” the British Ambassador con-
jectured, “lest Stalin might double-cross
him, as he subsequently double-crossed
us,” Hitler assured Sir Nevile Hender-
son in writing on August 25 that “Russia
and Germany would never again take
up arms against each other,” but within
18 months they had done that very thing,
and their leaders had become the
“Fascist beast” and “the Bolshevist
butcher” once more. In the long run
double-crossers never prosper.
Another August anniversary relevant
to present-day events: The Japanese
annexation of Korea was proclaimed on
August 29, 1910. The Japs treated the
conquered with vile cruelty, trying to
excuse it by asserting that they were a
mangy lot of barbarians.
Melbourne Harbor Trust has had a
record year, with profits getting up to-
wards the half-million. All Government
harbor authorities should be doing well
at present. Slow turn-round of ships
means increased receipts from harbor
dues and mounting wharfage and storage
revenue from cargo in congested sheds.
Go-slow on the wharves, although no
fault of the harbor authorities, brings
extra money into their coffers; ship-
owners and ultimately the public pay.
American Pressmen who questioned
Menzies on Australia’s attitude towards
Soekamo’s claim to Dutch New Guinea
were left in no doubt. The P.M. said:
Australia regards the integrity of New
Guinea as vital to Australia It will be a
great mistake for anybody to think that
Australia has no vital interest in the future
of Dutch New Guinea. We sincerely believe
we have as much right to be heard as any
other country.
Indonesia has a very weak case for dis-
possessing the Dutch of the western end
of New Guinea, but it is just as well to
let the American public know that
Holland and Indonesia are not the only
countries with an interest in the future of
the colony.
Dr. Dunning, an English lecturer,
dropped into Adelaide during a world
tour and said he was disappointed to find
that whereas Australia had increased its
population by only H million in 20
years, “the part of the world we fear
most” had increased it by 250 million.
Still, he must admit we’ve worked
wonders in increasing politicians and
Government employees.
A bill now before the New Zealand
Parliament ends the power of the
Treasurer to dictate policy to the Reserve
Bank. Control of the bank will be in the
hands of the governor and board. If the
Government at any time deems it neces-
sary to intervene in the public interest,
Parliamentary sanction will have to be
obtained.
Moscow propagandist Ilya Ehrenburg,
visiting Britain at the invitation of the
phony “Peace” Congress, remarked to
Labor M.P. Richard Crossman: “The
British and French are physically and
morally incapable of waging war. The
only difference is that Britain does not
know it.” Crossman has never shown
signs of being antagonistic to Moscow or
its teachings, but this was a bit too much
for him. He replied that Ribbentrop
made the same mistake. After the con-
versation had been publicised Ehrenburg
claimed he had been misreported. If the
quoted remark does not represent his real
appraisement of Britain and France it is
to be hoped he will have the courage to
tell Stalin.
Police don’t usually connive at break-
ing and entering premises, but they did
it when “moderate unionists smashed
their way into the Bendigo (Vic.) Trades
Hall with crowbars, jemmies and chisels.”
This was done after “militants” had re-
fused to hand over the keys. It seems
to suggest some awful power on the part
of unionists of any color if they can
damage property during their squabby
while the police are apparently powerless
to take a hand.
A Queensland paper reports a rush
from southern buyers to get hold of big
Queensland pastoral properties, and is a
little astonished by the “boom. 1 ’ Well,
nobody is likely to buy big outback
property in N. S. Wales while the McGirr
Government holds the right to seize it
on the Government’s own terms.
Secretary of the United Licensed
Victuallers’ Association has been com-
plaining in Melbourne against the Vic-
torian law which ordains that publicans
must provide accommodation for the
dead. The average person would be
happier to see them provide accommoda-
tion for the living.
If the developmental plan recently
drawn up by the Scottish Home Depart-
ment is followed, some of the thousands
of young Scots now contemplating
migration to Australia may turn to their
own north in search of new homes. There
seems at last to be a definite movement
afoot to arrest the drift from the High-
lands. In the next three years the North
of Scotland Hydroelectric Board pro-
poses to spend £22 million on construc-
tional and distribution schemes; land-
resettlement proposals involve a million
and a half acres, and the Forestry Com-
mission has a planting plan which will
employ permanently 7500 men —in addi-
tion, private owners will plant 50,000 acres
of timber.


UP A GUM-TREE.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Ceg”: Rude nudes (B. 12/7/’50)?
Forty years ago a goldfields bank man-
ager requisitioned his Perth office for
furniture for the corrugated-iron struc-
ture which served him as business- and
sleeping - quarters.
Included in his list
was the item “two
pictures.” Asked
what sort of pictures
he would like, he re-
plied, “Two chaste
studies in the nude.”
We scoured Perth
and sent him
(framed) two
sketches * from “La
Vie Partsienne.”
Later a snapshot of
his ranch came our
way; it showed the
art-lover, complete
with solar topee, standing at the door
of the bank while two young lubras, com-
pletely in the nude, sat on the step at
his feet.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Bo”: “A plague on both your
houses!” may well be the cry of Sydney
citizens as they listen to the barney that’s
been going on between their Electricity
Commissioner and the Sydney County
Council over the latter body’s alleged
pushing of the sales of electrical appli-
ances when, thanks mostly to Red
unionism, there are bigger blackouts than
ever, with these likely to continue for
years. Those with the least cause to grin
are the ones who invested in electric
kitchen-clocks. You can toast and iron
and vacuum-clean and heat water when
the juice comes on, but the clock that has
to be fooled around with practically every
day after the blackout has stopped it in
its tracks is not only a bugbear, but a
menace, a diabolical thing that invites
you to trust its fair face only to make
you miss trains and appointments, burn
the wife’s cake in the oven and play hell
generally in the home. They should have
about the same resale value at present as
a bowler hat
♦ ♦ • •
“Jasby”: Long ago I lost count of the
number of times I had heard the words
“The captain said it was the roughest
trip he’d ever made.” As a personal-
experience story it is challenged in popu-
larity only by “The dentist said it was
tiie worst tooth he’d ever pulled” and
“The doctor said he’d never seen such
an appendix.” Still, all three will have
to look to their laurels if the new one
I heard last week gets around. My
neighbor has a new car, and his wife,
while cruising out to do the weekend
shopping, struck her first puncture when
her near-side front-wheel picked up a
nail. She crawled the bus along to a
garage for repairs. Reporting the inci-
dent to her husband that night she pro-
claimed proudly, “The man at the service-
station said it was the flattest tyre he’d
ever seen.”
« * * *
“Pawang”: Switzerland has had its
mixed-baby case, too. The parents of
twin children, Victor and Pierre, were
watching a school procession when they
noticed walking behind their pair
another six-year-oldster named Eric.
Their own pair didn’t bear much resem-
blance to one another, but Eric was the
dead spit of Victor. It turned out that
“Any yellow paint? I've run short."
all three had been born in the same
hospital on the same day. Instead of
calling in the lawyers they went to the
authorities, who went to the scientists,
who took fingerprints, hair colors and
tooth arrangements which, in the case
of Eric and Victor, coincided; blood
tests had to be ruled out because Eric’s
soi-disant father was dead. Plastic
surgeon Sir Alexander Mclndoe was
called in and he made skin-grafts be-
tween the trio, Eric’s and Victor’s healed
rapidly without scarring, but those made
with Pierre shrivelled. Skin-grafts almost
never take between persons, but they
usually do between identical twins, just
as do grafts between trees of the same
family. The authorities then ordered that
Eric and Pierre be switched over, and,
although there was much sorrow among
the parents, there were no long-drawn-
out legal proceedings to exacerbate their
feelings. Sir Alexander is the New
Zealand surgeon whose brilliant work in
the war in giving hundreds of badly-
burned fliers new faces made him world-
famous.
* ♦ • *
“Waldie”: I approve the Common-
wealth Government’s action in sending
cruiser Australia to Heard Island at a
cost of upwards of £20,000 to rescue a
sick doctor, but it takes me back to 1909,
when Louis Bloomfield, head stockman
on Todmorden, west of Oodnadatta, was
badly gored by a bullock. The owner of
the station, Joe Breaden, drove the 70-odd
miles to Oodna in 24 hours, wired for a
special train to bring a doctor from
Quorn, and cheerfully paid £350 for it.
The South Australian Government added
a batch of cattle-trucks to the engine
and ambulance-car, but made no deduc-
tions. Louis Bloomfield’s life was saved,
mainly by the efforts of Mummy Kunoth,
who, long before the doctor could get
there, had stitched the wounds with
thread from a silk shirt. There was a
romance a few years later when Joe
Breaden gave the bride away at the
marriage of Louis to one of Mummy’s
daughters. Louis died the owner of
Love’s Creek station, and any puncher
who has mounted a prad with an “Isle
O’Man” brand on the near shoulder
knows the quality of horse bred at Love’s
Creek.
* * * *'
“Melbn”: Bertrand Russell, according
to Melbourne “Age,” took another
“peep” into the future in his second
lecture at the Wilson Hall. “Peep” is
r ather a mild word to describe the horrific
and apocalyptic vision the little man
painted of the great upheavals and vast
disasters which he held were not im-
probable within the next 10 years. Look-
ing as solemn as the impish expression
Nature has given him would permit,
Russell added that we all have to learn
to live with this possibility without
coming either hysterical or frivolous. As
an example of one or other of these
emotional reactions, I heard a woman
arguing fiercely with her male compamo
as they left the hail over Bertrand s pro-
nunciation of the word “fanatic. ®
had irritated her out of all proportion by
calling it "fan- a-tic,” and she was so out-
raged that she simply couldnt listen to
what he was saying. According to Funfc
and Wagnall, “fa-na/-ic” and /<™- a ; tlc
are both correct, though the Oxford
Dictionary accepts only the former.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Cauboy”: Not mentioned in “Bo’s”
note on Bach (B. 26/7/’5O) was that the
composer endured a spell in prison. After
nine years with Wilhelm Ernst, Duke of
Sachsen-Weimar, during which he poured
out a colossal amount of music as well
as being the Duke’s concert-master, he
asked for a release to take up a new
post at the court of Anhalt-Cothen. An-
other reason was a desire to escape from
the turmoil of court politics in which he
had to take one side or the other. The
duke refused, but the determined old boy
persisted, and the last month of his stay
was spent in jail for “obstinately demand-
ing his instant dismission,” His im-
prisonment, incidentally, gained him more
attention than had his music and he
became famous all over Germany, but
he eventually escaped to the protection
of Anhalt-Cothen to write more music.
• • * m
“Vingter”: In a just sociably-sozzled
state the consignment of New Australians
arriving at Brisbane Central station
(S SIR?
"I'm beginning to love it!”
showed signs of rapid readjustment to a
new environment. Cheerfully they filed
into the large bus provided for their
transportation to the migrant depot. On
arrival all filed out except one, who had
to be prised from his body-lock with
Morpheus by Red Tape’s minions. His
first semi-wakeful gesture was the silent
tendering of a pound-note, which was
smilingly declined, whereupon the rebuffed
tenderer lay down on the floor of the
bus, in unmistakable indication that he
expected official transport on the very last
stage of his journey. Asked by a busman
“What the hell do you think this i s ?->
the comatose individual replied, “a
bloody boob-wagon, of course, ’what
d’ you mug coppers think it is?”
Old Australian had succumbed en route
to the hospitality of the New Aussies
thereby becoming misconsigned. ’
* * * ♦
“5 G.R.”: Surely this notice in a
suburban shop doesn’t mean what it says?
“Bring your faded garments here and
have them dyed all colors/’
* * * *
“Chev”: An item in a Melbourne
paper: “Owing to a strike of the colliers
at Newcastle, coals are not procurable
here at any money. The last cargo was
sold here at 50s. a ton. They are worth
more than that in Sydney.” Except for
the plural being used instead of the
singular, the item could have appeared
today without exciting any comment, but
it appeared in the “Herald” of July 29,
1850. The editorial comment was even
more appropriate: “Good news, this, for
our own coal company. May their
search prove speedy and successful.”
* * * *
“T.J.D.”: An advertisement in Mel-
bourne newspapers seeks “tall, athletic
young men who have excellent school
records, initiative and qualities of leader-
ship” to train as executives with a retail-
store organisation. Galling as the adver-
tisement may be to the short and the
plump, the organisation has the findings
of modem psychology on its side, as
extensive American research has found
a small but definite correlation between
mental ability and tallness combined with
good physical development. Of course
the number of shorties at the top in
business, industry and the professions
is countless ; so is the number of tall,
athletic individuals with empty brain-
boxes. The co. would obviously have
more sense than to make inches and
athletic prowess more important than
school record and initiative. The adver-
tisement was probably dreamed up by
some small and portly publicity man who
really knows his job, and who has found
a new angle to today’s biggest problem:
how to attract staff.
« * • •
“Exdig”: “That’s the stuff to give the
troops!” seems to be regarded as whole-
hearted approval; my mind carries a
memory of a time when it was used as
bitter satire, making it an equivalent of
“bull.” It was in the black days of 1918
in France when the Aussies, after many
promises of a real spell out of line, found
themselves called time after time for a
return to action. On one such occasion
the heads were perturbed about how the
boys would take it, but a bright young
adjutant drafted an order which contrived
to mention that, after this stunt was done,
the spell would really arrive. It managed
to convey a hint that the Diggers would
then prepare for transfer to
sphere on virtual garrison duties. }* .
the stuff to give the troops,” saja
adjutant, well-pleased with hitnselt.
batman who had listened-in passed
news round. Next day the “orders w
read on parade. “That’s the stun.,
give the troops,” came a well-reh^a
chorus from the ranks.
AN IMPARTIAL VIEW.
“N. S. Wales president of the A.L.P., Mr. J. A.
Ferguson, said the Labor party supported U.N.O.,
but did not want Australian troops used ‘to help pre-
serve American capitalism.’ Though the Labor party
had declared its support of U.N.O. “we don’t want
our sense of obligation defined as weakness, entitling
the rest of the world to regard us as servile
colonials.,. ”
“The Party,” said J. Ferguson,
“It’s not here to be pul upon.
We hope, of course, it still may do no
Harm to be attached to UNO,
But we would rather never scrap at all
Than on behalf of Yankee capital.”
A horrible mistake was made
When Curtin shouted out for aid.
It sounded so undignified,
But poor John Curtin had no pride—
Perhaps, if he’d have thought of it, he
Might have appointed a committee.
Which, after close investigation
Into the complex Yankee nation,
Its morals, stand in previous wars,
Banks, budgets, businesses and bars.
Might then report on its behavior,
And whether fit to be our saviour.-
Instead, Yanks, careless of the crime
Of speeding-up or overtime,
Dumped on us shipment after shipment
Of capitalistic war equipment
And old, outmoded feudal bravery,
And helped us save ourselves from slavery.
So let them pay the penalty
Of forcing others to be free,
For now we’ve shaken off the Japs
We’re anything but servile chaps;
Nor let us offer vulgar thanks
To brawling capitalistic Yanks,
But rather let us, in the spirit
Of treating all things on their merit,
Teach them to know the wrong from right,
And lead them slowly towards the light;
Peace hath her victories, Milton said of yore.
No less renowned, when suitable, than war.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Clooter”: For many years I’ve be-
lieved Sydney to be Australia’s holiest
city in the sense that somebody’s always
digging holes in it. From Sutherland in
the south to Palm Beach in the north and
west to Parramatta, you could scarcely
travel a mile without running into a man
or gang of men delving in the earth.
They’d have dug their confounded holes
in the east, too, only there’s an ocean
there not amenable to jack-hammers and
shovels and totally indifferent to the
needs and squabbles of gas companies,
water-and-sewerage boards, telephone
men, underground railwaymen, electricity
men and all the other “authorities” whose
chief business seems to be to dig up
holes, fill them in, go somewhere and
find a hole that someone else has filled-
in and then dig another alongside it. As
long as I’ve known it the place has been
pitted with shafts, trenches and holes,
variously protected by rails, lanterns and
"I'd much rather listen to this at home —then I could switch it off."
stern notices, and whether the citizen
travels awheel or afoot he never knows
the moment he may vanish into the
bowels of the earth and be seen no m° re -
Well, Sydney ought to be satisfied now,
l°r it has acquired in the past couple of
hionths of excessive rain more holes in
streets and roads than the united
efforts of the official hole-diggers could
nave achieved in 20 years. The rain
found all those places where holes had
been made and filled-in, where cracks had
developed, where metals were badly re-
placed, and it rooted them out joyously
and opened up the ground of the city with
chasms, gullies and pot-holes beside
which the moon’s surface is as a billiard-
table. It ought to keep the hole-diggers
busy for the rest of their lives filling
them in.
* * * ♦
“Roscoe”: Don’t know how the
“general foreman on the Cheops job”
checked his right-angles (B. 26/7/’5O), but
I’ll bet he made a good thing out of the
job. I can’t prove it, but Kipling will
back me up. “The secret hid under
Cheops’ pyramid,” Rudyard opined, was
that the contractor did that builder out
of several millions. No doubt “rackets”
(building and otherwise) flourished even
before there were any pyramids, and
Kipling’s lines suggest they were not un-
known in his day. Many of our problems
are very old ones really, though we’re
positive they’re peculiar to the present.
Mention of Artemus Ward in the
same Bulletin recalls that the No. 1
point in his programme for a lecture-
tour during the American civil-war was:;
Artemus Ward is compelled to charge
1 dollar for reserved seats, because oats,
which two years ago cost 30 cents per
bushel, now cost 1 dollar; hay is also 1
dollar 75 cents per cwt., formerly 50 cents.
This may have been one of Artemus’s
“goaks”; but if he were at all serious
it’s mighty like what is now called infla-
tion.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Dee Vee”: I looked hard at the taxi-
driver when he named his fare. “The
Greeks had a word for it,” I said, and the
cabbie replied “Yes, and the Romans,
too.” Then he continued. “Back in those
days when you hired a vehicle they had
a hodometer,
or road-mea-
sure in the
back. It was
a tin - can
with a re-
volving cover
that held a
lot of pebbles, and every time a wheel
turned it made the cover turn, and that
made a pebble fall out into a trap under-
neath. At the end of your* trip you
counted the pebbles. Pebble in Latin is
calculus, so I calculated that you owe me
fifteen bob.” I paid up without further
argument. #
“Mark Heim”: “H.M.” (B. 6/7/*5O)
deplored the disuse of the word “dinkum.”
It is true that words disappear from
currency with remarkable swiftness, but
a recent rereading of the works of Skel-
ton, the early Tudor poet-laureate,
brought to my notice a few examples of
the opposite tendency. Words and
phrases endure. Skelton called Wolsey “a
mad coot” “So much hardy dardy and
so little manliness,” he wrote. There
you have our “lardy-dardy” over 500
years ago. Elsewhere he used the term
“not worth a bean.” Finally, I have
often been puzzled by the answer made
to overinquisitive children: “A wigwom
for a goose’s bridle.” I thought the word
must be the Red Indians’ “wigwam.
But as Skelton used it, it seems like a
trimming of some sort on a hat He
described Elinor Rummynge:
With a whym wham
Knit with a trim tram
Upon her brain pan
Like an Egyptian
Capped about.
“Brain-pan” is good. It also evidently
had staying power.
* * * *
“Zwig”: Hobart’s Theatre Royal-
now by special Act of Parliament the
property of the National Theatre and
Fine Arts Society of Tasmania—has had
an eventful history. Commenced in 1834,
“All right—if it's your birthday We'll throw you a party on board."
officially opened on March 8, 1837, with
a performance of Morton’s “Speed the
Plough,” played behind footlights burn-
ing sperm-oil to an audience which,
according to contemporary records, con-
sisted largely of “vulgar spirit- and beer-
drinking, oily-haired knaves” who
“pushed upon one without mercy.” To-
day a trifle unkempt, the old theatre
nevertheless preserves an air of grace
and charm which Lionel Lindsay, in an
etching for the old “Lone Hand,” cap-
tured as perhaps no other of the many
artists who depicted it have done. ,Shak-
speare, vaudeville, Ibsen, opera, panto-
mime, ballet, burlesque—there are few
forms of entertainment that have not
been presented at the Royal. From
“Hamlet” to “Hellzapoppin,” from gala
performances of “The Merry Widow” to
amateur concerts —it has, first and last,
been a theatre of the people. Its new
owners aim to keep it so.
£ jjj j|{ £
“Pip Tok”: It may have been Gov-
ernment policy not to send under-
twenties off to war (B. 26/7/’5O), but
that didn’t prevent plenty of ’em getting
away. In 1918, I met a young officer
wearing a Boer War ribbon; he had his
17th-birthday in the field in South Africa.
About the time of the 1918 Armistice, I
ran across a numerically-strong infantry
company, made up of lads under 21.
AIT had had front-line service before
Corps Headquarters pulled them out of
their original units and put them into this
company to provide working-parties
behind the lines. One lad turned 19 about
a week! before the Armistice ; three years
earlier he had been wounded on Gallipoli.
The company-commander was a cheery
young captain who had lost an arm in
1917, but had managed to soldier on in
France. ll would be interesting to know
how many Old Diggers put their ages
back to join the Second A.I.F. George
Gilmore, of Safety Bay (W.A.), who
sounds the bugle-calls in Perth on Anzac
Day, was a 15-year-old bugler when he
Went out with a draft to his regiment in
jtime to see the end of the Boer War, He
served with the King’s Royal Rifle Corps
in the Kaiser’s war and, although 52
when Hitler struck, he managed to get
jnto the Second A.I.F. and see active
service in the Middle East.
“Kelms”: In the Australian Army
more distinctive badges are to replace
what one reporter described as “the
singularly colorless color-patches,” That
description could only have been used by
someone who had never worn one. No
article of equipment was so valued or
inspired as much individual pride as did
the color-patch. There was something
about those quiet yet distinctive colors
that warmed the wearer’s heart; I’ll
warrant they were more easily distin-
guished than the glaring badges favored
by the Yanks and worn now by perma-
nent-Army men. You have to read the
new ones; with the old a glance sufficed.
* * * *
“Craiser”: That Manchester art
authorities could have been taken in by
a real cork stuck accidentally on to a
picture (B. 2/8/’5O) is not surprising in
view of the fact that Paris salons were
bulldozed again and again by conscious
absurdities of the same order. An artist
surrounded a bucket of whitewash with
a frame and got it into an exhibition, and
an Argentinian painter showed me a
blank sheet of paper and told me he was
going to send it to the Salon. When I
confessed I couldn’t see anything in
it he said: “Can’t you realise that it
represents a whole world of unexpressed
ideas!” The Melbourne art patron who,
after attending a modernist exhibition,
invited the artists to visit his house and
see his collection got a bit of his own
back. He had hung the walls of his
sitting-room with kerosene-tins.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Trebor”; Whoever was responsible
for the design of the safety-poster dis-
played in Sydney trams should give the
subject another thought. The poster
purports to show the right and wrong
way to step off a tram; a third picture
shows the victim being carted off in an
ambulance. The wrong method depicts
a passenger alighting wrong-foot-first
from the near-side of the vehicle while
a chap who alights from the offside is
acclaimed as the model for his fellows.
On the trams of many cities a barrier is
lowered to prevent exit on the offside,
and regulations provide penalties for those
who might be tempted to slip underneath.
But then, Sydney’s trams were always
different.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Spasebo”: “Gauboy” (B. 2/8/’5O)
left out the logical corollary to his story
of the teacher of the piano who could
trace his musical descent through various
teachers back to Haydn. Being able to
identify the friend he speaks of —a won-
derful teacher —and knowing that he
taught many students, some of whom have
attained to high distinction, I can add
that there must be scores and scores of
Australian pianists who, through him,
can trace their descent back to Haydn.
* * ♦ *
“C. 8.”; Resigned to its death by
artificial inundation, Tallangatta (Vic.),
which will disappear from the map when
the new Hume Weir is completed, is
riven by a fresh controversy. The town
is to be moved to Bolga, and Bolga’s old
residents want their historic name re-
tained ; the future newcomers want it to
become Tallangatta. Two alternatives
have been suggested which should satisfy
all parties —Tallangabolga and Bolgan-
gatta.
* * * * ,
“Billy S.”: The tram pulls up at the
Junction ; old Bert and I get out and walk
across the road. Bert is limping badly
and I say “Got a touch of the screws,
Bert?” “No,” he says. “Sprained your
ankle, then?” I query. “No,” he replies.
“The way you’re walking you’d think
you’d been hit by a tram,” I say. “Push-
bike,” he growls. “Right where we are
now.” And with that he strikes a match
and searches in the gutter. I ask what
he’s looking for, and he says “Two-bob.
Out goes the match
and he straightens
up and says “Too
much to expect it
to be still here.”
He goes on; “That
new moon did it,;
when I got off the
tram last night I;
saw the new moon,
just about the first
I’ve seen this year,
what with the
clouds and the rain, so as I cross the road
I keep my eye on the moon, fish in my
pocket for a two-bob bit, spit on & JV 1 - 11
it over a few times and, as I’m rubbing
it for luck on the seat of my pants, a
pushbike hits me and down I go in the
gutter. I get to my feet and walk home,
and as I’m going in the front gate I rea-
lise that when the bike hit me I must ve
dropped my two-bob.” “That’ll teach you
to be superstitious,” I say. Too right,
he says as he steps off the pavement to
dodge a ladder leaning up agamst an
overhead Neon sign.
WELCOME REAPPEARANCE.
with a Hollywood report that the
0 f roming back into fashion, a visiting British
cnV J e and stage personality, Mrs. Ina M. Allan, says
fat ' women can look just as glamorous as slim
JbJ long been understood-
Rather too long, be it said—
One authority alone the ukase issues
/That, of course, is Hollywpod
lust in case you’ve been misled)
As to how a woman may dispose her tissues,
chnnld she be allowed some curves?
Sd her weight be almost halved
Till her hipline gets the silhouette reptilian
while she scorns the mealtime serves
Su she has a look half-starved?
One pampered star will influence a million.
Every tendency has been
To the publicised belief .
That in angles there is something more
attractive —
Or at least, when on the screen.
So’the sinew beat the beef.
To get it off they had to be so active!
And the popular design
For Eve’s chassis came to be
Two arms like pipes (or, should we say, like
cables?),
A very scrawny line
’Twixt the shoulder and the knee
And tenuous pins like Dietrich s or like
Grable’s.
It was glamorous to be svelte,
And a feather' in her cap .
If she looked as though a breeze would send
her flying,
Or that if she quickly knelt
Then her knees would surely snap,
All of which, on man, has been acutely trying.
For although it may surprise
Many nabobs of the ‘nicks —
Perhaps ’twould profit them if they’d attend
it— . , .
Eve was cast in pleasing guise,
Not with edges sharp as bricks,
That the curve, indeed, lias much to recom-
mend it.
Now there’s nought to stop, it Seems,
Women who may tend to bulge
Here and there, and who are classed as
XOS-ers,
From realising dreams.
In which all of them indulge,
Of becoming quite the very smartest dressers.
Well, the curves are back at last
With the wheel of fashion’s whim,
A pronouncement that’s been greeted witn
some clamor,
For the curved one sorrow’s past*
It’s the turn now of the slim,
The plumpies will be flat-out now for glamor 1
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pip Tok”: A three-pound salmon,
dropped from the beak of a sea-eagle,
became wedged in the telephone-insulator
of the Gabo Island lighthouse, resulting
in the island’s telephone service being put
out of action until the fish was removed.
This unsureness of the sea-eagle in its
beakwork, plus its inability to retrieve
a dropped prey, has been known for ages.
The classic example involved the death
of /Eschylus, the ancient Greek dramatist,
who was the victim when an eagle
dropped a tortoise on to his bald head,
According to historians, the eagle thought
the dramatist’s bald head was a stone on
which the shell of the tortoise might be
broken in preparation for its meal. His-
torians are notoriously omniscient.
«r » J? . * „ * .
Laetitia : The invasion of Papua by
denizens of the territory which is now
Dutch New Guinea, as raised in The
Bulletin editorial of 19/7/’5O as a dis-
tinct possibility, took place in actuality
on more than one occasion during Sir
"Now, men , you're about to see action . . .”
William MacGregor’s administration of
British New Guinea in the ’nineties. The
invaders were the head-hunting Tugere
men from territory which the Dutch
colonial administration made no effort to
control. When the gunboat Merrie Eng-
land gave chase the war-like Tugere just
slipped back into Dutch waters, where
Sir William couldn’t follow without in-
ternational complications. But the
Tugere raided once too often —their
flotilla of war canoes became hopelessly
becalmed within British waters and right
under the guns of Merrie England. The
few craft which limped home were there-
after such ardent pacifists that the Tugere
never again ventured forth to raise the
dour Scot’s ire.
* ♦ * *
“Shamuseen”: Dismemberment of a
corpse has often been erroneously inter-
preted as an intention on the part of an
Australian aboriginal to eat the dead. In
nearly every case the dissection has been
a ritual, like the eating of a dead enemy’s
kidney-fat. Two of the few authentic
recorded cases of cannibalism for its
own sake occurred in N.Q. Frank Las-
celles Jardine, in his journal of his 1864
trip with 250 head of cattle from Port
Denison to Somerset, told how the party
found at the junction of the Einasleigh
River and Parallel Creek an abandoned
abo. camp-fire on which was roasting the
quartered body of a blackfellow. In 1872
Sub-Inspector Johnstone of the Native
Police, searching for survivors of the brig
Maria out of Sydney, found near Tam
o’ Shanter Point jettisoned dilly-bags con-
taining roasted portions of European
anatomy. A skull found near the aban-
doned bags was identified from the dental
work as that of Captain Stratman, the
master of the Maria, whose incredible
navigational shortcomings were respons-
ible for the loss of the craft and death
of more than half her complement of 75.
* * * *
“Blime”: Dill hadn’t been down to the
big shopping centre many times, but that
seemed hardly sufficient reason to spend
so much time staring at a wiridowful of
women’s very personal garments. I got
him away from the joint at feed-time, but
on our way back, hanged if he didn’t
catch on that same window once
more. “Aw, c’mon, Dill,” I said.
“But look at this,” he answered.
“Pretty expensive, I know, but just
the same it’s a flamin’ good idea.
Beats me why nobody ain’t designed
somethin’Tike that before.” “But you’ve
got no missus,” I growled, “You don’t
want one of those laCe petticoat things.”
“Eh? ’Course I don’t want the blasted
clo’es,” he exploded indignantly, “But
take a screw at the thing it’s can't
y’? Turns round an’ round sort o’ slow,
and it ain’t stopped once since I’ve seen
it.” “Yes, but”- “Cripes, she’s a
beaut, ain’t .she? ” he crowed. “I’m gonna
buy it. That little platform affair ’d be
just the thing f’r a bloke t’ sit on in front
o’ the fire this frosty weather! ”
* * & *
“Ta’alofo”: The Americans have gone
in for the tinning of unusual foods of
late years, canned rattlesnake-meat be-
ing one of them; I’m wondering why
they haven’t yet included one of the
world’s greatest delicacies, the palolo of
the South Pacific. In appearance these
resemble a greenish-brown and narrow
centipede nearly 2ft. long; all their life
except a few hours is spent in the holes
in the coral. Once a year, with wonder-
ful regularity on a night in October when
the moon is waning, the palolos surface
to mate ; natives can tell when this is go-
ing to happen by the peculiar odor which
comes from the reefs, though my own
nose wasn’t keen enough to detect it.
The rising of the palolos I saw occurred
about midnight; within a few minutes
the surface of the sea was covered to a
depth of a couple of inches with millions
of writhing bodies. Using nets made of
mosquito-netting on cane frames, we
helped the natives dip them up and dump
them into canoes; for two hours the fun
was fa& and furious, then the last of them
mated and sank to the bottom, leaving
the sea clear Once more. On the beach
the natives did them up in banana-leaf
wrappings and baked them in oven-pits;
I found them most palatable, with a flavor
midway between cooked oysters and
crayfish. If baked hard, they keep a
long time. One missionary’s wife showed
me some she had preserved in screw-top
jars; when opened, the contents were
quite as good as the fresh ones. The
Yank airman who helped to dispose of
“Someone else can measure 'em next stocktaking."
them said, “Boy, some of the wealthy
folks back home would pay anything for
chow like this.”
* * * *
“Bo”: The new hand was dead con-
fident he%could bring the redgum down
inside the fence and along the natural
slope of the ground, but a breeze which
sprang up just as the first creakings
announced its impending departure from
the perpendicular upset his careful calcu-
lations and the tree keeled over across
the fence and brought down the harness-
shed just on the other side. The rest of
the family and the hand were at dinner
that night when old man Carberry, who’d
been in town all day, got home. “Eh,
Dad,” burst out young Harry excitedly.
“Arthur flattened the harness-shed with
that tree you got him’to fell!” The
hand shuffled a bit, then looked at the
boss. “Flattened is an exaggeration,” he
said. “Why, you can still see under the
roof while you’re siltin’ on y’r haunches.”
* * * *
“H.H.”; Queer uses for old vehicles
(B. 5/ 7/ ’50)? Around Mansfield (Vic.)
drays and wagons are being bought for
10s. a time to put in the open paddocks
for cattle to scratch themselves on. These
days that’s barely firewood value.
* * * *
“North”: Don’t know about Kangaroo
Island having a “more equitable climate
and rainfall than Adelaide” (B. 5/7/’5O),
but I do know a mighty tough Scots-
Australian with a lifetime’s experience of
back-country station work behind him
who went down to the island 15 years
ago intending to take up land. He took
it up all right—in the mallee out from
Morgan, But although the island fright-
ened that by-no-means-timid settler away
it will undoubtedly be made into profit-
able land. The S.A. Government has a
habit of mass-clearing scrub lands where
soldier-settlements are required: work
which would break the heart of a bloke
on his own. And S.A.’s Waite Research
Institute has a fine record in devising
means of turning hungry light soils into
fertile farms,
* * * *
“Betcha”: It’s easy to mistake sounds
in the bush. I’ve heard squeaking trees
mistaken for birds, and a near-by tapping
branch taken to be a bloke wielding an
axe on a distant hillside, but the blue
ribbon goes to the cove I struck con-
versing with a calf. The bovine, caught
in a fence, was telling the world of his
troubles, but, seeing the lights of a
stationary car some distance up the road,
I left the animal to dwell on his mis-
demeanors while I investigated. Some
distance on, a bloke called from the
darkness ahead. “Whatcha say? Where
are you?” From behind, the calf replied.
“Seen anything of a loose nag, with a
saddle?” the bloke called again. In the
following silence came a long complaint
from the calf. “Eh? Well, drive ’im up
this way if you can,” advised the cove
in front. Then presently, “How’s he
going? Making this way? Eh? Whatcha
say?” “Is he quiet?” apparently bawled
the calf, because “ ’Course he’s quiet,”
came the reply. “Get on an’ ride ’im, but
don’t dig y’r toes in his ribs.” A minute
passed. “Are y’ on yet? Eh? Have
you got him? Eh? Hello, down there
I said, have y’ got him?” The calf re-
fused to contribute. The voice dropped
to a lower key. “Hey, Steve.” “Yair?”
came from the car. “There’s a bloke
down the road caught Dandy. We’ll drive
on down.” The car started, came on
slowly, and soon the headlights picked
me up, There followed a very jumbled
10 minutes; then the blokes departed
fully convinced I was half-barmy, and
only half-satisfied I didn’t have their
nag stowed away somewhere.
* ♦ « *
“Old-timer”: The general moisture
pervading N.S.W, and Queensland this
season reminds me of 1917, when the
Riverina, and especially the lower-Murray
part of it, went under water, and what
I’m wondering is whether or not this
season’s record floodings will be followed,
.as was 1917, by plagues. If my history
is sound the mice came first, sweeping up
from Victoria and somehow crossing the
swollen river until the place literally
crawled with them. They passed, and
the next invasion was water-hens, the
bends and paddocks full of them, so thick
that you could throw a rock, miss one
and hit the next. They fouled the grass
so that we had to feed the horses on
chaff though they stood to their fetlocks
in grass; they ran in hordes through the
streets of river towns and eventually
appeared in Adelaide. Meantime, in our
particular spot between Euston and
Mildura, thousands of snakes of all kinds
bobbed up until at one stage we were
killing 25 or so a day and only bothering
about those near the buildings. The
rabbits, though decimated by the floods,
multiplied so quickly in 1918 that we had
to kick ’em out of the road, and army
caterpillars were so thick on the roads
that bikes skidded all over the place.
Then World War I ended and the next
plague was herds of car-, player-piano-,
insurance- and suburban-land-salesmen,
whereupon the strongest of us rolled our
knots and headed out into the porcupine
in search of peace.
♦ * * ♦
“Horseless H.”: “Gravelsnatcher’s”
mention of the pawing propensities of
brumbies (B. 19/7/’5O) recalls that in the
dry season in the Cape York Peninsula
these
quadrupeds
dig for
water. One
October
out near
where the
Walsh
enters the
Mitchell I
saw a mob
of long-
maned
bays and
browns
e x cavating
in the dry,
sandy river-bed. First one began scratch-
ing like a giant dog, and as he moved
back, pulling the sand with his forelegs,
another equine burrower took up the
digging. One and all took turns until
the hole was 20ft. in diameter and about
Bft. deep. Up there in “the dry” those
brumby potholes every few miles along
the empty watercourses were the water-
ing places of marsupials and birds. One
wonders how they fared before the day
of the wild neddies. '
GENESIS.
In the beginning,” said the old man,
Brown bone fingers gathering wrinkles at his
throat—
“ln the beginning was nothing of this; only
the hill.
Nice to have a hill in such flat country.” .
Patting it with a glance he sees beneath the skin.
“But it was green—with cypress pine. I
remember
The night X camped here, the very first night,
full
Of their moaning and nagging: He hurts, He
hurts. Is the fire
Out? Fire out? And in the night, in the
dark night,
The dry wood on the ground, always a lot
Lying under cypress, snapped and walked like
a stranger . . ,
In the beginning, it was real pine country,
Growing close together and low to the ground,
But we cleared it away. That house”—
(Blue eyes in a wrinkled cypress face)
“That house belongs here. It was made of
cypress pine.
It burnt well, too: cheerful, with sparks flying:
You had to watch it. We had great fires the
first winters.
Everyone around them; the fire blazing and
the sparks
Shooting. In the sky the cold stars were like
sparks,
Not like diamonds at all: we could see them
go out.
Oh, it kept you warm. And it kept you fresh.
Now everyone lives in a little house, forgets
The pine and the sparks and the cold fresh air.
Somehow it was different in the beginning,”
He said, leaning back out of creation, with a
half-smile.
“In the beginning was only hill and fretful
pine.”
N.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


“Bogaduck”: In the S.A. district where
I live small dogs of the Australian
terrier type are popular. Watching, I
saw one that occasionally lifted one hind-
leg and went along on three for a time. I
thought an injury at some time had made
that limp a habit,
but soon noticed
that all those
small, hairy
breeds of dogs do
it. Most favor giv-
ing the near-side
hind-leg a spell;
the minority lift
the off-side one
for half a dozen steps, and a few give
each hind-leg a spell in turn. I’ve yet to
see a big dog do it.
* * • ♦
“Solitude”: It was breaking day as I
crunched through the frost to the shack
and found Seventyfiver smashing the ice
on the water-bucket with the heel of his
boot. “See the old man, Sol?” he in-
quired as he dribbled out enough water
for a wash. “We got t’ get them steers
from Lightnin’ Creek?” “Yes, and we
have to bring the cows off Baldy,” I told
him. “We can do whichever we like
first,” '“Yair?” He unhooked the frost-
stiffened towel, belted it against the
corner of the shack, then rubbed the ice
out of one end to dry his mug. “Well, I
reckon we oughter get the Baldy mob
first,” he decided. “Don’t you?” “Aw, X
dunno.” “Well, y’ know what Baldy was
like last year, Sol.” He paused to chip
the remains of last night’s tea out of the
billy and throw in some clean lumps of
water off the top of the bucket. “Snow
on the top an’ slippery as blazes on them
shady sides. Gripes, yair,” he urged, “we
oughter get them cows down off there
afore the cold weather comes.”
“B. A. Ker”: I wonder if “Old-
timer’s” neighbor realised what he was
letting himself in for when he allowed
the circus to camp on his place (B.
19/7/’50)? Every vegetable pe& that
animals can chew, carry or contract will
most surely spring, sprout and thrive
where the caravans have rested. There
will be weeds never before seen this side
of the Five-and-twenty Rivers or the boun-
dary of Black Stump. For season after
season the host will pause in his labors
“I can only give you the Blue Room
of eradication to wipe the sweat from
his brow and dream beautiful dreams of
the lion eating the ringmaster, or the
strong man getting the “screws.” He
will become like the young cocky who
Picked up with a frequent visitor to the
guest-house. When she suggested a hike
on Saturday was obliged to refuse:
f E be cutting Paddy’s lucerne all the
weekend.” A suggestion that it would
be nice” to go riding down the valley
received a regretful: “I’d like to, but I’ll
my work cut out getting rid of
turts desert-pea,” Reluctantly he
knocked-back an invitation to go on a
tourist-bus trip—he had to chop out
a lot of Patterson’s Curse. But when
he was unable to accompany the girl on
a photographing ramble because he would
be “too busy cutting out Saint John’s
wort,” the lass flew off the handle. “It
seems to me that you’re the mug round
here!” she declared. “Why can’t Saint
John go to a doctor? And all those other
spongers that you spend your weekends
working for—Patterson and Sturt and
Paddy—would they do it for you?”
♦ * * *
“Chips”; Read with interest “Hell-
dud’s” account of tea-tree (B. 19/7/’5O)
as a wood suitable for chip-carving. I
have done a good deal of that, but for
the past ten years have been unable to
get beech, the only suitable wood I’ve
handled for carving. Beech is beautifully
fine and soft and tools-up well. But I’m
still a bit puzzled, for if, as “H.” says, it
is impossible to drive a nail into lea-tree,
how can it be carved with a pocket-knife
or small chisel?
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: I was looking for Mat
in Echuca and somebody said he was
over in Moama, so I went over the bridge
and at the first pub heard a big row going
on. I’d just reached the veranda when
a large figure came hurtling from the bar,
fell in the dust, picked itself up, looked
at me and said, “G’day. Won’t be a
minute,” and rushed back into the bar.
He was my mate, so I rushed after him,
but met him as he was coming out again
and both of us fell in the dust “That’s
right,” he grunted. “Get in me ruddy
road.” He was up and on the way in
again before I got the dust out of my
mouth, so I rushed after him once more,
just managing to dodge a figure that
wasn’t Mat, and got inside. He was
struggling with three other blokes, and I
grabbed one of them and pulled him off.
Mat got a neck hold on another and
rammed a third up against the bar with his
fist and, in the pause ‘that followed, he
gasped at me: “Soon’s I clean this up I’ll
go you, y’ silly cow. If y’d turned up on
time ’stead o’ keepin’ me waitin’, me an’
these blokes wouldn’t ha’ got arguin’
about whether Dan Kelly got burnt at
Glenrowan!”
* * * *
“Craiser”: The sleuths of the Victorian
Fisheries and Games Department pricked
up their ears the other day when it was
reported that a bride at a recent wedding
wore osprey-feathers. Under a special
section of the Game Act anyone found
in possession of these is liable for a £5
fine, the plumage of the white egret being
rigidly protected. The birds appear at
nesting - time, and getting feathers
generally involves the end of a
prospective family. It turned out, how-
ever, that the headdress was decorated
with ostrich-feathers, obtained years ago
from a State farm when the big birds were
cultivated here.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Wippegong”: It’s Sunday, and I’m
gazing through the kitchen window at the
gloomy swamp that was the garden in
which I had intended to spend the day.
The chooks are huddled on their perches,
the dog curled in its kennel, the cow
humped up against the fence, the rain
drones on the roof —then into the bushes
outside dart half a dozen feathered
midgets that start fussing about as though
the day was normal. I’d begun to doubt
I’d ever seen land that was really dry,
but those zebra finches reminded me.
On the train to the Alice, by the sidings
that carry an overhead pipe for the locos
to use, there would be a little puddle
where the drips fell when the tap was
turned off. There wouldn’t be a bird
in sight when it was turned on, but as
soon as you moved away from the thing
the wee brown sprites came in and ringed
the refreshment. Wings held out from
palpitating bodies, mouths agape, they’d
dive for the drink; and you’d wonder
where they had the last one and when
they’d get the next. By any railside
garden that had a permanent pool they’d
be clustered around the edge and lining
the fence awaiting their turn; the coun-
try was full of them, and they all seemed
in good fettle. Down around the M.I.A.
they like to build in low bushes right out
in the swamps; here—N.S.W. coast —
they favor citrus-trees. Anyway, they’ve
“Why wheel it back empty?"
cheered me up, and I’m beginning to be-
lieve that I may yet see die day when
I’ll cease scraping the mud from my
boots and resume belting the dust from
my socks.
*■# ♦ ♦
“Rooster”: Visitors to the London
Exhibition next year will be able to con-
tact the moon by radio, and listen to the
flashback of the high-frequency waves
within 2isec. of sending out the signal.
A specially-designed cathode-ray tube will
record the progress, a supplementary tube
magnifying the echo. An Englishman,
Sir Edward Appleton, first suggested the
possibility in 1945. In the following year
the U.S. Signal Corps made the first con-
tact, with outdated equipment which made
it necessary to restrict experiments to
periods when the moon was nearest the
horizon. A similar Australian tryout
met with success only twice a year.
British scientists have achieved a major
triumph in that the radio-telescope now
being installed at the Exhibition’s Dome
of Discovery will be effective at any time,
under any conditions, whether the moon
is visible or not Moscow’s claim on
behalf of Professor Popoff for his prior
invention of this is expected any day,
* ♦ ♦ •
“Kelms”: I’m glad to read (B.
19/7/’5O) that tea-tree is recognised as
a valuable timber, although I find it hard
to accept “Helldud’s” statement that it’s
harder than raspberry-jam wood. That
wood is hard. Stiff, you might have
trouble driving a nail through a piece of
seasoned tea-tree. It’s tough and springy.
In my youth I assisted the owner of a
block to clear a few acres of paper-barks,
and since then they’ve been associated in
my mind with hard, slogging work. Since
they grow in swampy conditions, each
root was cut by an axe swung blindly
into a pool of black mud, which flew up
and filled eyes and singlet. My employer,
who felled tree for tree with me, squelched
through the mud in bare feet and seemed
pleased with its richness. Her husband —
yes, that’s right!—worked on the local
road board, and they planned to make a
garden out of the swamp. They did, too,
and from the proceeds of that they
eventually bought a wheatfarm. Don’t
quite know why, but I like the gnarled
old swamp-lovers, and one patch of
giants—a hundred or so, each with a
girth of 10ft. —near Pinjarrah (W.A.) I
hold to be one of the finest of arboreal
sights. Recently, when my neighbor re-
placed some burnt posts in my fence with
tea-tree I let them stay, from sentiment.
I’ve since found out that for fencing in
swamp ground tea-tree is unbeatable.
* * ♦ ♦
“M.S.”: Shifty Charlie was hanging
on the saleyard-fence when the local
agent breezed up. “Those ewes you’re
offering,” he mentioned, eyeing the pen ,
suspiciously. “Have they been dipped?”
“Gripes, what d’ y’ take me for?”
replied Charlie righteously. “Law says
they got t’ be dipped, don’t it?” "That’s
all right, old man, that’s all right,”
soothed the agent hastily. “Just making
sure. And they’re healthy, I s’pose?
Dosed regularly? Y* see, I want to put
in a word for them, that’s all. What
drench have they been having?”
“Er . . . er . . . what’s the name o’ that
there drench that’s good fr everything?”
Charlie inquired, “They do pretty good
after it, they tell me. Eh? Yair; that’s
it. Good ewes (hem. The gravel run
they been on’s wore their teeth a bit but
that’s nothin’.” The agent buzzed’ off.
As the auctioneer worked round to
Charlie’s pen the man with the book
again bore down on the owner. “Forgot
to ask you,” he said. “Are your ewes
joined or empty?” Charlie stroked his
chin thoughtfully. “Well, er . . . which
way are they sellin’ the best just now?”
he whispered. Ten minutes later Charlie’s
ewes were knocked down at a good figure.
“You always seem to get a good
price for your stock,” congratulated a
neighbor ranging up alongside. “How do
you do it?” “Be studyin’ the buyers,”
explained Chari with a superior gesture,
“I find it alwus pays t’ sell the sort o’
stock that people want.”
• * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: Never knew
151 b. of black swan could dive beneath
the surface and swim under water like a
duck until I saw one doing it recently in
Melbourne’s Botanical Gardens. At
times, too, he took a header off the bank
and completely submerged. I’ve chased
swans from the Warrego through to the
east coast of Tassie, and I’ve never known
one to dive before even to escape capture.
* ♦ * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In a broadcast talk
Crosby Morrison drew a comparison be-
tween the jumping ability of the horse
and the kangaroo, the horse winning on
all counts.
Apparently it
can jump
higher and
wider than
the ’roo has
been known
to jump, and
this will sur-
prise a lot of
people who
have mar-
velled at the
’roo’s sinews
while taking
those of the
horse for
granted.
Even allow-
ing, as the
lecturer did,
for the fact
that the ’roo
lifts its body
higher to
clear an obstacle, being unable to retract
its undercarriage, and haying his big-toe
trailing, the horse still wins. It has die
advantage of twice as many powerful
legs to assist at the take-off (if you think
the forelegs don’t count for much, con-
sider the impetus which a runner gams
from the slight push with his knuckles
at the start of a race). A point that may
have been overlooked is the fact tna
the horse is probably at the peak of his
career as a runner and a
largely to man’s influence on bis breed-
ing-while the ’roo may be well on the
.decline of his. Moreovcr isat the
’roo competing out of his class. Even
a big boomer isn’t in anywhere near the
same weight-group as a racehorw.
bloke I’d like to nominate against an
comers over the sticks or the wateHUnjP
is the ’roo’s 10ft. ancestor, who used to
roam these plains. Unfortunately hes
extinct.
THE LUTINE BELL.
I am the Lutine Bell, the voice of loss —
At Lloyd’s I keep the sea’s accounts with men.
Beside my rostrum here the ledger shows
The ways in which their debts are paid again;
The underwriters hang upon my lips,
For I, rung once, announce the death of ships.
Taken by fire that crouches in the hold
They pass, or silently in fogs, like ghosts,
Or in the towered violence of storms
Run shuddering aground on unlit coasts.
From stations round the world the signals come
Bringing the news of wreck and ruin home,
And I record the sailors’ debts discharged.
In my quiet anchorage are laid to rest
Reported missing, foundered with all hands —
The salt-worn weary ships that sailed unblest.
My voice reduces to one silver sound
All voyaging, the dreams of . lands unfound.
Though shipwright’s cunning, navigator’s skill.
Courage of flesh, the seaman’s strength all fail,
I am the guard of their defencelessness;
Stronghold beyond the sea’s grasp, I prevail.
Oh, I alone am greater than the sea,
Who, at the last, must give account to me.
N.s.w.
ALEC BOLTON.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South IVales
and Queensland.
Expert Handling of Your ESt d t G
may save much more than it costs
COMPLEXITIES of legal and taxation matters,
constantly changing values of investments, amend-
ments in legislation, details of Probate and Death
Duties, all call for specialised knowledge in Estate
Administration and Property Management—knowledge
that can be acquired only through many years of
experience.
The safety and security of your Estate are assured
when you appoint the long-established Union Trustee
Company as your Executor, Trustee, Manager or
Attorney.
Charges are moderate . . . service continuous and
comprehensive.
You are invited to call for a confidential interview—
or write for your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.,
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Life Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
From Accident Dept., £20,000 ..]
’39-3,769,186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 1
Superannuation Fund, £iooo ..I
1,654,504
’45..5,574,971 2,005,388 717,893 25,146]
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. 1
To Contingency Reserve, £60,000 .. I
2,741,544
’46.-6,242,619 2,229,635 883,201 23,821 |
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. 1
To Contingency Reserve, £70,000.. j
3,010,962
’47..7,106,720 2,375,197 1,00-7,659 40,545 )
Superannuation Fund, £ 25,000 .. t
3,657,320
'48..8,141,240 2,560,352 1,174,393 45,936 j
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 ..(
4,335,559
'49.-8,655,096 3,025,524 1,230,540 100,764 \
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 . ..)
4,273,268
Industrial Department.
Added Life
Dee., Income. Claims.' Expenses. Fund.
£ £ £ £
Added Guarantee Fund, £l9B
1939 .. 1,026,215 447,864 263,059
Written off, £3762
Superannuation Fund, £ 900
310,828
Added Guarantee Fund, £4212 ..'
1945 ..1,470,222 738,842 376,956
Written off, £5098 .. .. •
Superannuation Fund, £7OOO ..
To Contingency Reserve, £50,000..
296,538
1946 .. 1,541,158 749,335 426,579'
Written off, £2804 ..
Superannuation Fund, £BOOO
354,440
1947 .. 1,654,231 743,841 444,368'
Written off, £2768 .. .. ■
Superannuation Fund, £BOOO
455,254
1948 1,764,766 731,652 482,958'
Written off, £2712 .. ■
Superannuation Fund, £ 8000
539,434
1949 .. 1,891,969 794,570 508,817'
Written off, £4066 .. .. ■
Superannuation Fund, £BOOO
676,506
* Includes Contingency Funds, etc.
A policy with a sound and regular-
bonus-paying life office should be the
sheet-anchor of every man’s investments.
There is no substitute for the protection
it affords the holder and his dependants.
Protection to the full extent of the con-
tract is provided long before it is ever
paid for, while annual bonus additions
to the sum assured are a partial offset
against inflation, and the whole business
is a steadying and beneficial influence on
the social and economic structure.
Furthermore, the cos, provide for a wide
variety of needs and wants outside the
range of the bread-and-butter provisions
of social-security legislation.
The 76-year-old Colonial is one of
Australia’s five big mutual life offices.
It writes ordinary, industrial and accident
and sickness business throughout the
Commonwealth, New Zealand, South
Africa and Britain, and its latest accounts
disclose progress and soundness in all
sections of the undertaking. Total
amount of new business put on the books
last year was £699,564 stronger at
£37,399,514, of which 84.6 p.c. was ordi-
nary (£31,661,381, up £494,344) and the
balance industrial (£5,738,133, up
£205,220). The average amount per ordi-
nary policy was £1291 as against £6BB in
1943. Group assurance, a line the co.
pioneered, and inflation, etc., have helped
to push-up the figures.
In the three departments combined,
total income \yas £10,840,709 (up
£679,976). Claims —they were well within
actuarial expectation—took £3,897,063
and exes. £l, while £140,270 was
written off the book-value of sundry
assets, thus strengthening inner reserves,
and £35,000 was sent to the staff fund.
The £4,888,535 that remained was added
to the life and other funds, raising them
to £56,511,912, of which £47,290,109 (up
£4,273,268) belonged to the 0.D.,
£8,848,580 (up £576,506) to the I.D. and
£373,223 (up £38,761) to the accident
section. In addition there were contin-
gency and other reserves totalling
£1,048,861, which also belong to policy-
holders, there being no shareholders.
The surplus available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over actuarial
liabilities under policies) increased by
£196,760:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Surplus— £ £ £ £
Ordinary .. 868,019 937,t)18 1,026,231 .1,203,974
Industrial .. 135,685 117,443 126,180 136,564
Accident . . 68,373 66,492 79,457 88,090
Total .. 1,072,077 1,120,953 1,231,868 1,428,628
The amounts distributed as reversionary
bonuses were £1,044,437 ordinary and
£106,647 industrial, balances being carried
forward. Bonus rates were mostly at the
same satisfactory levels as for the previ-
ous year, and in some cases a bit better.
A tight hold was kept upon controll-
able outgoings. Excluding taxes, exes,
took 15.9 p.c. of net premiums in the
O.D. and 30,6 p.c. in the I.D. as against
15.8 p.c. and 30.9 p.c, respectively in 1948.
After deducting taxes, there was no
change worth mentioning in the net rate
of interest earned on the mean assurance
funds, namely £3 14s. 2d, p.c. The
margin between this figure and the valua-
tion rates of 3-2 i p.c. ordinary and 2\ p.c.
industrial augurs well for bonuses in the
future.
And so do shifts in the investment
portfolio:
1948. p.c. 1949. p.c.
Public securities
and debentures £81,364,238 57.8 £31,759,742 53.6
Mortgages .. 13,943,763 25.7 16,947,121 28.6
Freeholds, etc. . . 3,839,079 7.1 4,163,967 7.1
Loans on policies 1,940,601 3.6 2,173,757 8.7
Debtors, etc. .. 533,704 1.0 582,163 1.0
Cash and deposits 850,157 1.6 966,638 1.7
Co. shares . . 1,473,498 2.7 2,027,124 3.4
Other assets .. 281,144 0.5 512,280 0.9
£54,226,184 £59,232,782
To help offset the low return from Gov-
ernment securities (up £395,504), more
attention is now being given to mort-
gages (up £3,003,358) and shares in in-
dustrial undertakings (up £553,626).
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 12,685 8 p.c. = 11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. 12,332 8 „ „ 11,127 1,205 147,635
1942.. 32,007 8 „ „ 11,128 879 148,514
1948.. 22,423 8 „ „ 11,128 11,295 159,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
1945.. 38,140 8 „ „ 11,128 27,012 201,286
Taxation, £22,258 179,028
1946.. 39,806 16 p.c. = 22,254 17,552 196,580
1947.. 39,734 16 „ „ 22,265 17,479 214,059
1948.. 59,346 16 „ „ 22,255 37,091 251,150
1949.. 78,551 16 „ „ 22,265 56,296 307,446
1950.. 124,811 20 „ „ 27,818 96,993 404,439
Like others engaged in the assembly
and distribution of British-made motor
vehicles, this ably-handled and well-shod
undertaking is enjoying a run of
phenomenal prosperity. The co. holds
the Morris franchise for Queensland and
the Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales, as
well as refrigeration, radio and other
agencies. And it gathers some nice pick-
ings from the servicing of vehicles and
sales of parts, too.
By reducing American imports to a
trickle the dollar problem has given
British vehicles a much larger slice of the
Australian market than they have hitherto
enjoyed. Over three-quarters of the new
cars soM in Australia today are British
as against about 39 p.c. in 1938-39. This
and post-war inflation, good seasons, eco-
nomic expansion and steady improve-
ment in the flow of chassis —they have
come forward faster than bodies could
be made for them—have combined to
send the co.’s turnover and earnings up
with a rush.
Last term turnover, which had
nearly doubled in the previous year,
increased by over 25 p.c., reaching
£2,500,000-odd. The p. and 1. figures
responded in this way:
1946. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Gross profit.. £199,552 £308,265 £425,678 £570,352
Exes. . . 120,246 209,919 297,127 365,541
Tax provision 39,500 39,000 50,000 80,000
Net profit .. 39,806 59,346 78,551 124,811
Including an unspecified provision for
depreciation, exes, (up £68,414) took 64.1
p.c, of gross earnings (up £144,674) as
against 69.8 p.c. in the previous year.
After setting aside an extra £30,000 for
taxation, the declared net result was
£46,260 fatter at a record £124,811. That
was equal to 89.7 p.c. on capital compared
with 56.4, 42.6, 28.5, 28.6, 27.4 and 18.4
p.c. back to 1944. The cautious board
lifted the div. from 16 p.c. to 20 p.c.,
leaving 77.7 p.c. of the year’s net earn-
ings in the business, thus raising reserves
to nearly three times paid capital.
To carry an extra £285,767 of stocks
and add £117,876 to the blanket entry,
“book debts, investments, etc.,” the co,
went to its bankers for £145,486 and in-
creased the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £80,599:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £139,093 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Overdraft .. —•— 145,486
Creditors .. 73,093 147,402 115,826 196,425
Unearned
interest .. 10,086 10,148 11,594 15,166
Tax provision 52,817 54,484 67,647 97,728
Pinal div. . . 22,255 22,255 22,255 27,811
Freehold .. 67,095 67,095 67,095 79,895
Plant, etc. .. 2,184 4,359 5,442 6,086
Stocks .. 204,772 318,736 299,467 585,234
Book debts, in-
vestmentaiptc. 180,625 233,405 235,122 352,998
Cash, etc; .. 56,277 937 56,735 1,942
The growth of £12,800 in freeholds re-
flects purchase of the premises occupied
by the refrigeration-cabinet factory and
an adjoining property, which is to be
used for motor-vehicle assembly. The
net increase in working capital, or more
or less liquid surplus (£457,558), Was
£110,526. Fixed assets are known to be
worth a lot more than their book-value,
and stocks and debtors’ balances, etc., are
conservatively valued in the published
accounts. When the books closed there
was 12s. 7d. of outside money in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders.
How long present conditions will con-
tinue is anybody’s guess at the moment.
The immediate outlook is expansive,
and, with ominous war-clouds gathering
on the international horizon, inflation-
ary pressures might yet be strengthened
before they are checked.
The lift in the div. surprised the mar-
ket, which lengthened its bid for the
pound shares fron> 68s. 6d. to 755. fol-
lowing publication of the accounts,
Allowing for the div. (4s. a share), the
net price at 755, would be 715., giving a
return of 5.6 p.c, so long as the 20 p.c.
distribution continues. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 78s. 2d.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
r Dividends— , Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1943 .. 6,703 8 5 4,691 15,579
1944 . ... 7,616 8 5 4,691 18,504
Profit on sale of freehold, £145 . . 18,649
1945 .. 8,645 8 6 5,228 22,066
Recovered loss of subsidiary, £1539 23,605
Expenses of share issue, etc., £733 22,872
1946 .. 9,299 8 6 5,948 26,223
Expenses of share issue, £905 .. 25,318
1947 . . 12,951 8 6 7,742 30,527
Expenses of share issue, £1702 .. 28,825
1948 . . 30,267 8 9 14,124 44,968
1949 .. 41,523 8 10 17,953 68,538
* Subject to £4878 goodwill.
The position of shareholders in this
42-year-old never looked better. Head-
quarters is at Sydney, where the co. turns
out sheep-shearing and milking machines,
lighting and orchard-spray equipment and
petrol and diesel engines from a well-
equipped and modern factory at Rose-
bery. Of recent years the co. has also
become distributing agent for some well-
known domestic lines Electrolux
refrigerators, Hawkins pressure-cookers
and Beatty washing-machines. And some
new lines have just been added to the
list of agencies and manufactures, follow-
ing the managing-director’s return from
abroad.
It is only during the last four years
that the undertaking and its earning-
power have shown marked expansion.
For the first eight years after the public
became interested in 1920 divs. averaged
5.7 p.c. The next eight years were bleak
ones, during which shareholders went
hungry and 7s. 6d. a share (£23,610) was
slashed off their capital to write down
the book-value of assets and eliminate
the p. and I. debit. Since then the busi-
ness has never looked back. In 1938 Is.
a share of the lost capital was restored
by a bonus-scrip issue, and, excepting
1942, the ords. have had regular annual
distributions averaging 6.3 p.c. over the
last 14 years.
Since 1945 £105,719 of fresh ord.
capital has been gathered at par. How
this money, together with a lot more
from outsiders, has been employed the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows: •
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949
Paid capital £120,719 £120,719 £184,532 £184,532
Mortgages .. 21,620 38,933 38,802 70,000
Creditors, etc.* 73,313 132,773 154,488 269,487
Final div. .. 3,237 3,872 9,774 9,774
Freehold .. 48,088 72,605 76,337 85,799
Plant ■ • 40,206 44,899 50,871 55,404
Shares subsid. 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stock . . 92,641 137,569 182,795 285,211
Book debts .. 43,891 55,308 99,160 152,102
Cash .. .. 3,522 3,936
Goodwill .. 5,783' 4,878 4,878 4,878
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet last year’s net growths of
£102,416 in stocks and £52,492 in book
debts the board added £31,198 to mort-
gages and £114,999 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. That lifted the
amount of outside money in the business
to 265. lOd. for every pound belonging
to shareholders.
To ease the pressure and help pro-
vide additional factory equipment for
new lines which are expected to “add
considerably” to turnover, 127,626 new
12s. 6d. ords. were offered and taken at
par in May last. Paid capital has thus
become £264,298 in 25,000 £lB p.c. prefs.
and 382,878 ords. of. 12s. 6d. each. On
that lot the pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the
ords, will call for £25,930, or £15,593 less
profit than was claimed last term.
All-round expansion of turnover sent
the year’s gross earnings (£260,848) up
by £52,096. Including provision for
depreciation (£10,433, up £3530) and
taxation (£26,500, up £8500), exes.
(£219,325) gobbled £40,840 of the gain.
The net result was thus £11,256 stronger
at £41,523. The Queensland offshoot
(paid capital £15,000), which looks after
distribution in the northern State, netted
£4552, making combined net earnings
£46,075 (up £13,058). That covered the
parent’s pref, div. and 24.7 p.c. on the
ord. capital employed as against 23, 12.4
and 13.5 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. A point was added to the hand-
out, making it 10 p.c., of which 3 p.c.
was labelled bonus. On capital as it
now stands, the £46,075 of profit was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
18.4 p.c. on the total on the ord. register,
which gives the 10 p.c. distribution a
comfortable look, for the current term
at any rate.
The 12s. 6d. ords., which had dropped
to 14s. 9d. in the market during 1949, are
now priced at 21s. 3d., giving a return
of 5.9 p.c. on the basis of last year’s
distribution. The prefs. at 335. yield 5 p.c.
Including the new issue, net tangible
cover is £l3 2s. 4d. prefs. and 15s. lOd.
ords.
Automobile Fire and General (Melb.)
Bonus , Dividends \ j.
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 20 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1942 4,914 4500 500 20 p.c.= 9,500 116,204
1943 10,478 2861 500 20 „ „ 9,500 113,821
25 p.c.
1944 17,342 4157 625 25 „ ~ 11,875 685 114,506
1945 17,863 4354 625 25 „ „ 11,875 1,009 115,515
1946 20,664 4401 625 25 „ „ 11,875 3,763 119,278
5 p.c.
1947 14,538 125 5 „ „ 2,375 12,038 131,316
18 p.c.
1948 20,353 450 15 „ „ 7,125 12,778 144,094
Added investment reserve, etc., £2467 146,561
20 p.c.
1949 29,143 500 20 p.c.= 9,500 19,143 165,704
25 p.c.
1950 17,172 625 25 „ „ 11,875 4,672 170,376
Surplus shown before allowing for unexpired risks.
The board wrote the year’s profit at
£21,853 as against £14,457 for the previ-
ous term. The difference between these
figures and the surpluses shown in the
table (where the result of the co.’s trad-
ing is treated on a straight-out cash basis)
represent variations in the amount re-
served for unexpired risks—premiums
actually received but the risks in respect
of which were still current when the
books were ruled off. The broad effect


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
ah Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Ancestors
of an
Industry
oca
[□
[□
O
/£
B
f
• \rrrn*rt/t
w
John Glover revolutionized the commercial manu-
facture of sulphuric acid. Next to water, sulphuric acid is
the most important of all chemicals. Its use is so widespread
that the volume of its production is often taken as a
barometer of general industrial activity. In 1859 Glover
built the first of the “Glover Towers, now such a familiar
feature of the chemical works of Lancashire. He declined
to take out a patent for his invention and was always ready
to show visitors and even competitors how it worked. Born
at Wallsend, near Newcastle-on-Tyne, in 1817, John Glover
was apprenticed to a plumber, but studied chemistry at the
local Mechanics Institute to such effect, that he secured the
post of junior chemist at a Tyneside chemical works. There
he invented an improved method of manufacturing alum,
and at the age of twenty-five became manager of a works
making sulphuric acid, hydrochloric acid and magnesium
carbonate. While thus employed, he thought out and con-
structed the first of his towers. In 1861 he became a partner
in the Carville Chemical Works, where he remained until
his retirement in 1882. Hundreds of Glover
Towers, helping to make thousands of
tons of sulphuric acid, stand all over the
world as a monument to the inventive
genius of John Glover, British chemical
manufacturer.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■IL-64-14.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C-l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
TO
f
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdownr Sydney, N.S.W.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
As At Close Of Business On 30th June, 1950
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each ~ £3,000,000 0 0
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares fully paid in
cash to £lO per share .. £2,117,350 0 0
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid in
cash to 10s. per share .. 2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the
.. £4,117,350 0 0
Bank) ..
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the
2,000,000 0 0
business of the bank)
Final Dividends proposed payable August,
250,000 0 0
1950
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
142,347 0 0
140,943 17 10
Total Shareholders’ Funds £6,650,640 17 10
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies .. .. 128,940,870 8 8
Notes in Circulation .. .. 5,103 0 0
Balances due to Other Banks 1,928,159 15 10
£137,524,774 2 4
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obliga-
tions of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc.) .. .. . f 9,844,555 10 11
£147,369,329 13 3
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from other Banks
Treasury Bills —
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market value)—
Australian Government £1,639,671
Other Government 2,382,422
Local and Semi-Governmental Authori-
ties 228,652
,796,747 10 7
,456,843 17 8
209,326 17 8
6,750,000 0 0
1 2
2 10
5 4
Special Account with
Bills Receivable and
Stamps
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Remittances in Transit
250,745 9 4
,448,000 0 0
,681,817 4 9
31,450 5 11
£71,624,931 5 11
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
• provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) .. 64,021,185 12 5
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less
amounts written off) 1,878,657 4 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra
£137,524,774 2 4
9,844,555 10 11
£147,369,329 13 3
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
BOFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE TEAK ENDED
. 30th JUNE, 1960.
o Expenses-Head Office 603 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees, £4,143 15s. Od.)
Income. Land and Other Taxes .. • ■ ■■ • • •
’ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down
£2,423,413 12 10
378,817 15 9
334,795 13 5
£3,137,027 2 0
5y Discount and Interest earned net Exchange, Com-
missions and Other Income after deducting Invest
Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Accounts (oat of which
Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts
has been made)
£3,137,027 2 0
£3,137,027 2 0
Amounts written off Bank Premises
paid February, 1950 .. • • £142,347 0 0
Fin i9so PrOPOSed .. Payable ■ 142,347 0 0
£35,000 0 0
Balance carried forward
284,694 0 0
140,943 17 10
£460,637 17 10
Net Balance brought forward
Net Profit for the Year
£125,842 4 5
334,795 13 5
£460,637 17 10
By Balance
£140,943 17 10
I, PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM OOM•
imercial Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly ajd
the Reserve, the Exchange Adjustment Sheet
its are used in the business, and that t e P S best of my
Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to me
wledge and belief, true in every persons who are the Directors
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons
he Company at the date of Merchant,
citor. Melbourne; «yriNF Melbourne; VICTOR
bourne; WILLIAM SY DNBY RhAU, STANLEY THOMPSON
aE KIMPTON, Flour Miller, Meloourne, oj-xaxiaaaj
(YARDS, Shipping Director Melbourne. believing the same
And I make this solemn declaration | arliament
aa ZZAVT™™ m»K a false declaration punlßbable for
tne state of Victor* tbl, 27tn da, of duly,
x thousand nine hundred and fifty. p p Q (JORDON.
Before me—
H ‘ a Commissioner for taking Derations and
Affidavits under the R ® VI^ C^ U^TOR ~YULE KIMPTON, of
We, WILLIAM.JAMES BYRNE VICI« Kk Australla Limited,
bourne, being Directors of The Comme Balance Sheet is true
l^ s “rSb^fa^re P S S c. a S a Vir of .be business
the Company for the year. behalf q( the^Board^^
y.' y.' KIMPTON.
ed at Melbourne tbla 27tb day of July, H»0-
AUDITORS' » EPOB^ el6ournei 27ti l«
S Sh c a O r MMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
‘MoTIS™ bare audited
led 30th June, a true and correct view of the state of
' drawn up; and exhibits a n “ | t a te ment of Profit and Doss is
to us and as shown by
js of the Company. _ . fTune , 1950, duly audited by
London Office Return to the 3«tn ju , ug t b e Assets and
£s■?& IiSSIA taken’on !Se Certifies of the Managers
ESsr i u a , e s
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. FOOKBS.
HAROLD P. GLASS. (Australia).
of the “Wild Cat’s” treatment of
the accounts is to give profits a
m ore corpulent appearance than
officially exhibited during a
period of rising income, and a
less-prosperous air in time of
falling revenue.
It has been a very profitable
little concern from the start.
'jThe business has always con-
sisted largely of automobile
risks. F°r the 21 y ears to the
close of last accounts share-
holders have received divs. aver-
aging 17.8 p.c., and they can now
see reserves totalling £170,376
(including £75,824 earmarked
for unexpired risks) to support
and assist the £50,000 of paid
capital, of which £2500 carries
a cumulative 8 p.c. and ad-
vances with the ords. beyond
that rate.
Last term, gross premium in-
come reached a record £327,963.
But reinsurances (£137,535) were
heavier, leaving net premiums
£10,876 short of the previous
year’s figure:
Net Pre- Loss Exp.
Apr. miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
* * p.c* p.c*
’3B 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 35.9
’42’ 110,861 46,017 68,438 41.8 62.2
>46 112,208 48,455 51,942 43.2 46.3
’47 ’ 139,275 77,536 55,525 55.6 39.8
>4g’ 164,669 91,603 60,116 55.6 36.5
’49' ]201,304 105,193 73,043 52.2 36.3
’50.. 190,428 119,533 66,606 62.7 34.9
Losses (up £14,340) took an
extra £lO 10s. of each £lOO of
net premiums—an old contract
for reinsurance of now-unprofit-
able third-party risks had to be
renewed on less favorable terms.
So, despite a saving of 28s. p.c.
in the expense rate, the gross
underwriting surplus was £18,779
lighter at £4289. Interest, rents,
etc., turned in £12,907 (up
£6834). Allowing for a minor
reserve adjustment, the net result
from all sources was £17,172
(down £11,971), equal to 34.3
p.c. on capital. But the
customary 40 p.c. reserved for
unexpired risks (£75,824) was
£4654 less than the amount so
set aside at the previous balance,
thus making the amount avail-
able for distribution £21,826, or
43.6 p.c. on capital. Nothing
therefore had to be strained
when the div. was lifted from 20
p.c. to 25 p.c.
Both policyholders and share-
holders are well protected:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital ~ £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilitiesf .. 73,877 84,008 97,510
Tax reserve .. 5,962 10,930 13,685
Freehold .. 48,548 48,548 49,487
Furniture, etc... 4,193 3,862 6,271
Investments, etc. 189,750 217,889 224,139
Book debts .. 36,952 45,446 57,999
Cash, etc. .. 2,066 1,145 1,175
t Excluding provision for unexpired risks.
Of the investments, £105,947
represents shares in other cos.,
and Government securities
account for most of the balance.
Rebuilding of the back portion
of the co.’s premises is expected
to be complete before the close
of next accounts. The founda-
tions are for an eight-storied
building, but the present permit
allows of only three floors and
a basement.
The pound ords,, paid to 10s.
each, have had a fairly steady
market around 375. 9d, for the
last eight months. The return
at 375. 9d. is 6.6 p.c. on a 25 p.c.
div. basis, or 4 p.c. on an average
distribution of, say, 15 p.c. In-
cluding the reserve for unex-
pifed risks, net tangible cover is
445. lOd. The well-protected
prefs. are not listed on ’Change.
Base Metals
A notable and world-wide
economic development has been
the upsurge of base-metal and
nearly all other commodity
prices during the second quarter
of 1950 and since. The prime
causes have been revival of
American business activity and
growing expenditure on defence
account, including stockpiling,
together with a number of
special factors, all of which
have reacted on prices through-
out the sterling area. Among
other things, this suggests that
general economic developments,
and particularly developments in
America, have a more powerful
influence on prices than cur-
rency changes.
Since devaluation of sterling,
London prices for base metals
have kept in step with the New
York market, and have moved
in this way:
, Price per ton, gtg.- \
Lead. Zinc. Copper. Tin.
1949
Oct. .. £110.97 £82.92 £140.0 £750.00
1960
Jan. .. 98.50 86.93 158.0 600.20
Mar. .. 90.15 87.15 153.0 598.20
July 14 97.5 127.50 186.0 724.87
July 26 97.6 127.50 186.0 729.75
Naturally the positions of in-
dividual metals are not uniform.
In the case of lead the statistical
outlook is less tight than that
of other metals at the moment,
hence the markets for zinc and
copper have been more ebul-
lient. Recent stockpiling activity
has encouraged the belief that
supplies for industry would fall
short of commercial demands,
and this has accentuated buy-
ing by commercial users. As
for tin, production of which has
been running well ahead of com-
mercial consumption, heavy
buying on Russian account is
believed to have stimulated the
recent price rise. From March,
1950, to July 26 last increases
in London prices were lead 8.1
p.c., zinc 46.7 p.c., copper 21.5
p.c. and tin 21.9 p.c.
The crucial question for
holders of base-metal shares is
how long this boom in metal
prices will endure. No clear-
cut answer to the question can
be given at the moment. Much
depends upon international de-
velopments ; if present difficul-
ties can be peacefully resolved,
then experience shows that
periods of weakness and reces-
sion may easily occur in the
not-too-distant future.
Because of this fluid and un-
certain situation the sharemarket
reaction has been a mixed one,
as the following table shows:
r Last Sale \
Dec., June, Aug. 3,
1949. 1950. 1950.
Consolidated Zinc .. 32/3 33/7 34/9
North Broken Hill.. 84/3 76/ 80/9
Broken Hill South .. 48/3 48/3 52/-
Mount Isa .. .. 41'/9 38/3 40/
Mount Lyell .. 23/4 21/3* 22/2*
Mount Morgan .. 19/3 21/9 22/--
Electrolytic Zinc .. 77/ 72/6 78/3
Kuala Kampar .. 24/ 23/9 23/6
Ronpibon .. .. 26/ 24/ 27/—t
Southern Kinta .. 16/6 16/6 11/3
Tongkah Harbor .. 6/ 6/9 7/
*Ex rights new issue. + Buyer.
The position of the mines them-
selves, and questions relating to
labor, costs, output, assay value
of the pre and life of the
property must all be given due
weight when considering indi-
vidual cos. This is especially so
in the case of Malayan tin, where
the banditry problem is also a
factor to be reckoned with.


WHERE
CAcalatwA
MOVE
MERCHANDISE MOVES
•** op <- /V
•Us BsrT. '' nsi n\n „
SALES
Climb WHEN CUSTOMERS HIDE
ON OtU ESCALATORS
This Otis escalator installation at Boans Ltd.,
Perth, W.A., extends a pleasant invitation to
customers to see other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more.
Escalators promote inter-floor circulation,
provide ground-floor accessibility to lower-
ground or upper floors.
Put motion into your sales promotion plans
with Otis escalators—your local Otis office
will be glad to survey your store and give
you the facts.
'
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE: Myer Emporium
(S.A.J Ltd. 4
BRISBANE: McWhirters Ltd a 6
Melbourne; Myer Emporium Ltd. ... 12
„ Manton & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEY: Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd. 10
m David Jones Ltd. ....... 6
m Mark Foy’s Ltd 6
PERTH: Boons Ltd 6
STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
Established 1838
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOP*
dsinxrvAJv
g. m iTO v
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKBUL,” BRISBANE
Shave with
EM
RAZORS
fd
Business. Rollery. etc.
The Dollar Loan
It looks as though Mr.
Menzies may have a dollar loan
in the bag—sso million a year
for five years has been men-
tioned. He has made it quite
clear, however, that the prime
intention of the loan is to pro-
vide capital equipment for the
development of Australian basic
industries in order that arrears
of 'factory depreciation and
transport deterioration may be
overcome and the nation may be
tooled-up to provide scope for
the employment of some hun-
dreds of thousands of migrants
coming to Australia over the
next few years.
Australia is in urgent need of
much essential machinery, such
as electrical generators for
metropolitan and other power-
houses, tractors, heavy vehicles
and coalmining machinery, as
well as raw materials obtainable
only from dollar areas. There is
no doubt that our post-war de-
velopment has been retarded by
a lack of many of these things,
as well as by the facts that (1)
our war-time economic sacrifices,
per head, were greater than any
country on the English-speaking
side bar the United Kingdom,
and (2) the Socialist experiment
and Communism in the trade-
unions have both affected our
own efforts to recuperate.
Should the Korean flare-up
extend, of course, the flow of
United States money to Aus-
tralia in the ordinary way may
increase. Stockpiling in dollar
areas may bring about a much
greater demand for Australian
wool and other raw materials,
and the adverse dollar balance
now so monotonous a feature of
the Australian economy may
change.
It is interesting, perhaps, to re-
call our position under the
Lend - lease Agreement. As
Washington recorded the values,
aid given by the United States
to Australia was $l4OO million;
aid from Australia to the
United States, $9OO million. But
as The Bulletin pointed out at
the time, if our butter, meat,
services, clothing, etc., had been
taken into account at U.S. prices
it is likely that the United States
would have been in debt to us
and not our creditor. Australia
settled accounts by paying the
U.S.A. £8,380,000, and everyone
was perfectly satisfied.
Whatever happens, it looks as
though the dollar position is
going to be easier for Australia
in the near future. But, again
whatever happens, it is unlikely
that luxury imports from the
United States will be coming our
way. A loan of $5O million
a year would encourage no
extravagance. A number of im-
portant materials hitherto hard
to get may be more readily avail-
able, though, even if they are not
strictly capital equipment. The
fact that a loan is hoped to look
after essential heavy-machinery
items may make payment for
other items easier out of our
export income.
However, getting the maxi-
mum use from new industrial
equipment will depend a great
deal upon supplies of coal from
our own mines. We are only
half-dealing with the problem
unless we solve that part of it.
“Heavy” Shares Strong
Feeling the influence of the
swollen wool cheque and fore-
casts of a dollar loan, and re-
covering somewhat from its
attack of Korean jitters, the
Australian sharemarket last
week was generally active and
strong.
B.H.P. fully-paids kept round
recent levels (at 535.), but the
contribs. were noticeably firmer
at 475. 9d. just before the final
ss. call fell due for payment.
In Sydney the “heavy” indus-
trials were generally in demand,
Bradford Kendall, Thirlwell and
McKenzie, Hipsleys, Coote and
Jorgensen, Mort’s Dock, F.R.S.
Spring, Brose Valves, Tutt
Bryant and A.C.I. all showing
improvement. In Melbourne
Repco was strong, as were
"That will be four, nineteen and nine change."
Electronic Industries, McPher-
sons and Electricity Meter.
Gibson Battle (Sydney) ords.
were on offer at 28s. 6d., the
price at which the last sale took
place, and 2s. 6d. below the
year’s highest. At 28s. these
shares would return 5.3 p.c. on
a 1\ p.c. div. basis, and are
worth consideration. Results
for the past year should soon be
to hand.
“Value and the Pound”
“Student” (W. A.) writes:
“A.J.H ” (B. 19/7/’5O) asks
what was the effect of “action
on the currency” in Germany
after the First World War? Hans
Fallada, in his interesting novel
Wolf Among Wolves, wrote the
following passage which indi-
cates the effect on salary- and
wage-earners:
When we began it was summer,
almost a year has passed since then.
Once more it is green outside; it is
flowering, a harvest is approaching—
and everything is quite different. So
little has happened; a man came and
all was up with the senseless, the
contemptible, notes, the astronomical
figures. To begin with, people looked
at the new money in amazement.
There was only a “one” on it, or a
“two” or a “ten”; if there were
noughts behind the number, then it
was a very large note indeed. How
strange, when one had got used to
counting in millions and billions!
Coins came into circulation again—
real money. One was to calculate
not only in marks, but with groschen
—no, with pfennigs also. There
were men who, when they got their
wages, built little towers with the
money, playing with it. It seemed to
them as though they had returned
into childhood from a stormy, ruined
age; from the terribly-complicated
into the simple.
And out of these low numbers, out
of these coins and small notes, there
came a magic. People began to cal-
culate, and suddenly they perceived—
it tallies!
I earn Such-and-such a week, there-
fore I can spend so-and-so much —
see, it tallies! For years people had
been calculating—and it had never
tallied. They had calculated them-
selves out of their minds; in the
pockets of. those who had starved to
death had been found 1000-mark
notes: the poorest tramp on the high-
way had been a millionaire.
And now they all awdke from a
confused, torturing dream. They
stood still and looked around. Yes,
they could stand still and remember.
Money would not run away from
them now. Alarmed, they looked
one another in the familiar, yet
strange, faces. Was that you? they
ask hesitantly. Was that I? Already
those memories, still so near, were
beginning to dissolve away like a fog.
No, that wasn’t I, they declared.
And with new courage they set upon
their work; once more there was a
meaning in work and life —Oh, every-
thing has become very different!
As we are not suffering from
“galloping” inflation as Ger-
many was, perhaps the same
remedy is not applicable. But
we need to take steps to prevent
the present inflation from
“breaking into a gallop,” and,
if possible, to slow down its
present pace.
Balanced Government budgets
are important, and dollar loans,
provided resulting dollars are
used not for Government ex-
penditure but for private-enter-
prise outlay in importing
essential capital goods, would
help by using up current Aus-
tralian money to buy the dollars
to purchase the equipment
needed to produce more goods.
If the financing of the purchase
and building of homes and other
fixed capital expenditure could
be effected from existing money
rather than by way of bank ad-
vances it seems that a step to
arrest inflation would be taken.
Without a full knowledge of
the mechanics of central and
trading banking one cannot say
how far this is practicable, it
might be possible to place the
special trading-bank deposits
now with the Commonwealth
Bank under the control of the
trading banks to form the capi-
tal of mortgage corporations to
be lent on long-term mortgages
for home-building and property-
purchases. This would mean the
use of existing money, and new
money by way of overdrafts
would be used for current busi-
ness outlay and seasonal ad-
vances.
A potential munitioneer is
Bradford, Kendall (Sydney),
probably the best-equipped steel
foundry in Australia, It was
this foundry which cast the
bodies for Australia’s largest
tanks in World War If. Eventu-
ally Australia was “by-passed”
by other Allied tank-production,
but Bradford, Kendall had a
very active war-time record. It
was only within the past year or
so that the co. completed the ac-
quisition of a Government war-
time steel - foundry annexe.
World War 111 coming up or
not, Bradford, Kendall has a
very busy time ahead of it. At
14s. 6d. last week, the 10s. shares
yield £5 11s. per cent, on an
8 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Thirlwell and McKenzie, con-
structional engineering and other
activities, Port Kembla, is
another concern that should
have a full order-book for five
years at least. It is centred in
an expanding new industrial
area, and work should come
from far and near. No increase
is likely in the 6 p.c. div. for the
year which closed on June 30
(now ord. capital has been
raised recently), but prospects
for the current term are brighter,
especially if it is free from
major coal strikes. The share-
market last week bid up to
28s. 9d. for the old scrip.


K39a
THE “STERLING” ROUTE
TO ENGLAND
via the colourful East.
fd
SINGAPORE
CAIRO
ROME
on free conducted tours.
fd
JO
ALL THESE
EXTRAS AT
NO EXTRA
COST
f
*
r *arr of
jz
• Sight-seeing tours of Singapore,
Cairo and Rome included in
your fare.
• Modern transport, hotel accom-
modation and first class meals
at overnight stops.
• First-class steward and hostess
service—excellent meals served
hot in the air.
• No currency problems. Buy
what you wish on this “sterling”
route.
Luxurious air-conditioned Constella-
tions speed you to London in a mere
4 days .... or you can stop-over
wherever you wish—-no extra fare.
Regular services via Calcutta—
alternative route via Colombo and
Bombay. See your travel agent.
Q-E-A and B O A C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
In father’s footsteps
Many families have banked with us for generations,
and it’s always a special pleasure to us when one of
our customers brings a son or daughter along to open
his or her first account.
In some things, what was good enough for your
grandparents is not good enough for you. But we at
the “Wales” keep up-to-date and we think that you,
like your grandparents, will be happy to have us
look after your financial interests 4
for the best in banking service, consult and use
BANK OF '
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 18 17
(incorporated in new south wai.es with limited liabilitt)
ab6i 4D
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
;:w ; :
• '
v-.v.
v * s >*w- Jv;
:< 9*i
mfSSKSSX
r:
m
JSf Wf
i «
We have security—
our affairs are in good hands
The appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee will take a similar weight off your mind. Consult a
senior Burns Philp Trust officer. If you cannot call, write for
a copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel, a booklet
giving full details of extra protection.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P, T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor Trustee Attorney
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901
Box 543, G.P Oj
bpiia-M
London aiunail
From Herbert Holman
At first sight it may seem
rather odd that Europe’s new
playground is a country entirely
under military occupation and
shrouded, in part, by the unre-
mitting clamping-down of the
Iron Curtain. Yet it is this far-
away country, Austria, that
offers the best value in Con-
tinental holidays. Some 20,000
British tourists have made reser-
vations for the summer season,
and the number of Swedes,
Danes, Dutch, Belgians and
Swiss must be considerably
higher in proportion to their
population.
The reason is a simple one—
cheapness. Instead of file official
rate of exchange of 40
schillings to the £, the Austrian
Government offers 72. This
gives to that ailing veteran the
pound sterling a joyous burst
of youthful vigor which is per-
haps a greater tonic to the visitor
than the novelty of Alpine life
or the invigoration of mountain
air. Although this favorable
tourist-rate isn’t altogether what
it sounds to be —it’s comparable
to the trick of marking-up the
prices at a bargain sale before
knocking them down the
tourist gets excellent value for
his money, with hotels, scenery
and excursions much as he
would find them in Switzerland.
The effects of the impact of
the pound sterling upon very
hard and very soft currencies
were never more clearly con-
trasted than in the night train
from Basle to Boulogne, when
holiday-makers\ returning from
Switzerland joined those from
Austria. The first group were
down to the last penny of their
£'so allowance and mostly low
in spirit, while the others had
travellers’ cheques uncashed, a
variety of purchases and uni-
formly happy faces. One young
honeymoonef, whose second
week in Switzerland had been
one of enforced frugality, was
heard to say: “It’s degrading for
British people to feel so poor in
a foreign country.”
Certainly, many heads are
being shaken and questions
asked. Why, for instance, does
Britain, after emerging victorious
from the war, have fewer goods
in her shop-windows than the
neutral and conquered
countries? And why is her food
inferior both in quality and
range? Why do other nations,
not so blatantly committed to
the theories of the Welfare
State, appear to be getting on
very well? Is it because they
work harder?
Holiday Snapshots
A trainload of tourists, speed-
ing by special train through
France towards the Alps, is
hardly suitable for a Gallup
Poll as a fair “sample” of the
population. It is heavily
“weighted” by the yearly
regulars who stand out like
poppies in a field of corn. These
are mainly feminine, deter-
minedly forsworn to single
blessedness, rather aggressive in
their guide-book “know-how,”
and employing a load of
accessories to soften the rigors
of long-distance travel that
is as complex as a mystic
cult. Next, humbler in nature
and touchingly pitiable, are
the elderly widowers enter-
ing into another round of
the fight against loneliness.
Then the groups, supremely and
arrogantly detached, who last
year went to the Dolomites and
next year will “do” the Nor-
wegian fjords. The non-regulars
include the honeymooners, the
newly-rich, the thrifty who can
manage only one year in three,
and, of coursej you and me.
It is remarkable how styles in
travel have changed. The Grand
Tour of 1950 bears no com-
parison with the tradition that at
one time was the prerogative of
young men of wealth, station
and leisure. Now it is the motor-
coach, extravagantly long and
enormously powerful, which
whisks parties of 40-strong from
one end of Europe to the other
with one-night halts, short ex-
cursions and long hours of sitting
still. Such parties cling very
tightly to their own habits, some-
times with amusing repercus-
sions: the moment when a
coach - load of Scandinavian
matrons stopped singing hymns
and produced and lit large cigars
can’t easily be forgotten.
The popularity of Mayrhofen,
a resort at the back-o’-beyond of
the Tyrol, has a topical signi-
ficance. There are two parallel
approaches to the village—a
very bad road and a chugging
and clanking puffing-billy that
takes nearly two hours to cover
20 miles —and no other ways
out except packhorse trails and
two short tracks into the high
mountains. Yet the hotels are
full, chiefly with Belgians and
British who carefully and de-
liberately have chosen to “get as
far away from everything as
possible.” They think in terms
of strolls in the pine forests,
mountain walks and evenings of
Tyrolean song and dance,
eschewing newspapers and the
outside world.
There’ll be enough to think
about, they say, when they get
home.
Civic Afterthoughts
Salzburg owes its quaintness
to the peculiar situation of the
ancient town, a tiny preserve of
old-world dust and congestion
confined between the river and
the sheer cliff that links together
the flanking hills. Its claim to
world eminence depends upon
another, less indigenous, circum-
stance, and civic pride has been
prodigal with its testimonies to
the greatest of its sons. An
effulgent statue graces the centre
of a square bearing his name;
his birthplace is picked out with
large gold letters; the summer-
house where he composed his
last works has been specially
brought from Vienna; a noble
building, ornately and glossily
up-to-date, perpetuates his life’s
work ; and every year a festival
in his honor brings people from
all parts of the world.
Poor Mozart! He had no
love for Salzburg, and Salzburg
had less for him. But he was
born there and, long after his
death, his name sparked with the
radiant lustre of genius. So
monuments were erected to his
greatness and the city glowed
with the reflected glory of his
name.
Jo those who merely cherish
his works and who have lived
with him in his letters, the
wretched collection of relics in
the room of his birth is less
affecting than the haunting
shadows and chastening echoes.
The series of model sets for
“The Magic Flute” is less de-
serving of illumination than the
title-page of the first libretto,
which shows the author of that
work to be Emmanuel Schik-
aneder, flamboyant actor-
manager, with incidental music
by W. A. Mozart, a poor hack
of little consequence who had
no head for business.
The presence this year of two
infant prodigies of our own time
heightens the tragedy of his life.
Yehudi Menuhin is to play, and
a devoted admirer, Benjamin
Britten, is himself honored by
the performance of “pie Rape
of Lucrece” at the Festival. Both
these men are approaching the
age at which Mozart’s over-
taxed body began to wilt and
decay ; and they are still young
men. Which is only to say that
there is some enlightenment in
this widely-troubled age. At
least it has learned to treat the
highly-talented with that respect
which is due to inherent genius.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Victoria Division of the Australian
Association for the United Nations has
founded a fund to commemorate the
work of Jan Masaryk, first president of
the World Federation of United Nations
A centre in Geneva and international
scholarships will be endorsed. Tomorrow
night at Malvern Town Hall a memorial
ball will be held, proceeds of which will
go to the erecting of a plaque in Geneva
for the Czech patriot and statesman. A
pre-ball late-afternoon party given in the
U.N. clubrooms was attended by Mrs.
Gillam Hunt, president of the ball, Mes-
dames Ivor Warne Smith and Gordon
Robertson, and Margaret Coates, Cynthia
James, Norma Jenkins and Margareta
Weir.
Sixteen years ago Mrs. Mary Hewison
became organising secretary of the
Ministering Children’s League. 11l health
has now forced her resignation, and Amy
Cryan has been appointed to carry on
the work. Mary, as she is affectionately
known to all scribes, has given sterling
service to the league for 40 years, in
recognition of which she was awarded
the 0.8. E. The committee will entertain
her as guest-of-honor at the October
annual meeting, by which time the
league’s president, Mrs. Walter Carnegie,
will be back from England. The present
acting-president, Mrs. A. A. Taylor, is the
second generation in the league’s service
—her mother, Mrs. Robert Harper, was
president for 32 years. Mrs. Hewison is
at present visiting her daughter in
Sydney,
Gyorgy Sandor, the pianist who was
recommended to the A.B.C. by Otto
Klemperer, gave his final recital last
week in the Town Hall. In the audience
were the Con Charltons with their
daughter; Madame Stoicesco, in a short
mink jacket and black frock, was with
Beatrix Bennett, who had the same
sartorial scheme ; Rosemary Bassant, her
grey wool frock worn under a white lamb
coat, Ruth Price in a wool frock in
American-beauty tonings, Robin Wright
in grey frock and dyed-ermine jacket,
Margaret Kerrison, her pretty frock in
cerise tonings, and Shirley Davies, a
taupe-corded velvet frock and matching
coat her choice.
Yesterday Dale Collins was scheduled
to open the exhibition of pictures by
Marjorie McChesney Matthews at the
Book Club Library in Collins-street.
Most of the pictures have been done in
the historical old port of Williamstown,
where the artist has lived all her life.
Ships and the sea are in her blood. She
often sailed with her father on his yacht
Austral; her paternal grandfather sailed
many years in the service of the Hentys,
pioneers of Portland. Her favorite hobby
is gardening, and in the exhibition are
many flower-studies which were painted
in her own garden. This will be the
artist’s third exhibition.
When Jenny Loxton, only daughter of
the Walter Bassetts, of Armadale, was
married at St. John’s, Toorak, she wore
heavy white French brocade with a faint
pattern of oyster-pink and shadowy-blue
outlined in silver. Made on classical
lines, the bodice was tight-fitting, and the
full skirt fell gracefully into a long train.
The full-length tulle veil was mounted on
a circlet of orange-blossom, and she
carried a spray of pale-pink orchids. The
bride was attended by the bridegroom’s
cousin, Mrs. Maxwell Piggott. Her gown
of oyster-pink slipper-satin had a fitting
bodice, tiny Peter Pan collar and a full
skirt. Her bouquet was of pink orchids,
a shade deeper than the tone of her
gown. The ’groom, Patrick Templeton,
younger son of Sir Arthur Young,
Bt., M.P, and Lady Young, of Kensing-
ton, London, had Kingsley Rown, the
bride’s cousin, as best man. Reception
was held at the home of the bride’s
parents.
For weeks past enthusiastic University
drama students, in between' lectures,
have searched the city for remnants of
material and then made it up into
costumes designed by Alan Money, also
a drama student. These will be worn in
the University Conservatorium’s presen-
tation of “As You Like It.” Bette Rock-
man, who is looking after publicity,
vouches for the loveliness of the costumes.
Des Connor will be using his special
lighting at the Union Theatre, where from
August 12 to 16 the play will be staged.
Alan Money plays Orlando in this Eileen
O’Keefe production. Jan Mudge, second-
year drama student, is Rosalind, Tinia
Macarthur is Phoebe (she was last seen as
Ariel in “The Tempest”) and Gordon
Petrie is Jacques. All the proceeds go
to the Drama School for purchase of
equipment.
Two hundred guests danced at the
party Colonel and Mrs, Harry Cavanaugh
gave at the Delphic in honor of their son
Michael, who was celebrating his 21st
birthday. Mrs. Cavanaugh’s strapless
gown was of palest-green satin; the
matching bolero was heavily encrusted
with pink and crystal beads. Elizabeth
Burston’s gold self-striped full-skirted
satin gown had a matching tulle stole.
Betty Jackson’s black satin skirt was
topped with a white guipure lace bodice.
Patricia Schurman’s portrait gown of
hunting-green velvet had a deep square
neckline and a slightly-bustled skirt. Liz
McMeekin’s moire taffetas were ice-blue.
Sanda Anderson was in filmy white tulle.
An off-the-shoulder bodice with a bertha
collar highlighted the primrose taffeta
chosen by Priscilla Noall. Gillian
Forrester matched her white satin gown,
which had an apron skirt, with a stole.
Ethne Hartnett contrasted her lime-green
faille with a wide gold belt. Elizabeth
Hart’s mauve-and white striped taffeta
frock featured a bustle skirt. Misty-grey
tulle with a lace top in the same shade
was the choice of Betty Power. Rust-red
velvet was Elizabeth Ann Lane’s choice.
Tulips in cyclamen and green embellished
the black taffeta gown worn by Janet
Syme. Muffle Paterson wore sage-green
velvet; Joan Kinnear, ice-blue-and-grey-
striped satin.
Betty Duncan, one of the few Vic-
torians in the cast of “Dark of the Moon,”
has done all her acting in Sydney.
Blonde and vivacious, Betty was born in
Geelong. Doris Fitton, the producer of
the play, considers her one of the finest
character actresses in the country. Betty,
who has appeared in “Antigone,” “Vol-
pone” and “The Merry Wives of Wind-
sor,” is married to John Cameron, who
is stage-director of Sydney’s Independent
Theatre. Photo by Clarice Boyce.
Over afternoon-tea pt Menzies’ the
honorary secretary of the Children’s Wel-
fare Association, May Angliss—depu-
tising for her aunt, Lady Angliss,
who is president—talked of preliminary
arrangemepts for Wattle Day on August
18, when money is collected for work
among children. Mrs. E. M. Dye is
honorary treasurer of the Wattle Day
Appeal committee. Stalls will be set up
in the city streets and stocked by helpers,
while other women will sell buttons. For
the past seven years Lady Angliss has
been president, and Mrs. Dye and May
Angliss have been associated with the
Children’s Welfare Association for six
years. Last year over £7OOO was distri-
buted to children’s organisations, and this
year the committee hopes to do even
better. To date 81 organisations have
promised their help, and 30 street-stalls
have been arranged. Gifts of any kind
suitable for sale on the stalls will be
greatly appreciated, and country sympa-
thisers may send gifts by rail free of
charge. They should be addressed to the
Children’s Welfare Organisation, Mel-
bourne.
Mr. Justice O’Bryan introduced the 10
debutantes at the Sacre Cceur Ball to the'
president, Mrs. Frank Mulcahy, and
among them was his daughter Nanette.
The proceeds from the ball were for the
school’s Overseas Relief Fund. Mrs.
Frank Mulcahy wore pale-turquoise
satins. Mrs. Frank Bladen’s gown was
of Parma-violet tulle over blue taffeta,
Mrs. Fred Connaughton’s white organza
frock was coin-spotted in pale leaf-green.
Pat Whittam’s grey wool off-the-shoulder
gown sparkled with diamente. Elva Breen
was in pale-green and silver-striped
taffeta.
F T Sought plenty of. gaiety.
“I
westerlies to come, the Uttle toucn
spring cheered everybody up.
Thft nieht of the Opera Ball was as
merry as S all costume bal1 ! s Jj t^e
Mrs. y Tom Alexander, president of m
bafi committee, who received tbe o f
guests, looked romantic as Laura tr
“La Gioconda.” Vice-president Mrs
Walter Sunning was an eleganf Lou
from “Fledermaus. Mrs. C. T. Lore
chairman of the °P era cl ’ T esca ut
sumptuous costume as Manon Lescaui.
Sheila Helpmann was
Berri de Groome, whose Romeo
won first-prize. In . r of ßo ®w
petition from several other Rosinas
(“Barber of Seville”), Judith Capps of
Boori, Mendooran, was judged best-
dressed girl. Her escort Frank
Finder, was a dashing Vasco da Gama.
The Erik Langkers entertained a large
party. Their prize-winning table, uor-
roboree, had been decorated by son
Robert and by Faye Fell, who were
dressed as Mr. and Mistress Ford, from
“Falstaff.” The atmosphere was gay
throughout, and although the party wasn t
as mad as the Marx Brothers Night a
the Opera,” it was just as much fun.
This is Charmian Clift, who opened
an exhibition of work by Polish painter
Maximilian Feurring at David Jones’
Gallery last week. Wearing a cyclamen
orchid in the pocket of her blue suit, she
looked as vibrant as the paintings them-
selves. Charmian is well known as the
author, with her husband George John-
ston, of the prize-winning novel High
Valley. At present she is working on
what she describes as a psychological
study in horror and imagination. In
addition she is collaborating with her
husband on a new novel. The Piping Cry.
In between times she writes short-stories
and radio plays and opens art exhibi-
tions. But her main work is looking after
her family (she has two children) and
getting them ready to go to England at
the end of the year.
The N.S.W. Women’s Inter-Church
Council wants to establish a hostel for
girls who come to Sydney to work and
study. The £20,000 needed for this will
be raised quickly if country people open
up their hearts and cheque-books so that
the girls may be secure and happy while
they’re away from home. It is planned
to buy the beautiful Wybalena home at
Longueville and to make the hostel non-
sectarian. Donations, which are tax-free,
should be sent to Mrs. M. Watts, The
Wybalena Hostel Appeal, O’Brien House,
Dame Mary Gilmore and Mrs. E.
Curlewis (Ethel Turner) were present
when the Governor, Sir John Northcott,
officially opened Children’s Book Week’.
All the speakers stressed the importance
of drama clubs and craft-centres so that
reading would not become merely an end
in itself. Mrs. M. Matheson (Children’s
Library Movement), who welcomed the
guests, emphasised the need for play to
clear away fears and build character.
Whalers of the Midnight Sun, by Alan
Villiers, was chosen as the Children’s
Book of the Year for its vivid back-
ground and characterisation. Special
mention was made of “Ladybird Garden,”
written and illustrated for the under-eight
group by Dagma Dawson, who was only
11 years of age when she wrote it, A
list of books, specially selected and
graded for children of all ages, which
has been published by the Children’s
Book Council, is strongly recommended
to puzzled parents and benevolent aunts.
The copies, which cost 6d., may be
got from the Council, Box 3904, G P O
Sydney.
Why is it that people who go to first
nights of the drama treat it with so little
respect? Their chief fault is loitering
in the foyer until the curtain has risen
and then straggling in. The players, who
are keyed up on first nights, need to be
given confidence and attention, impoj.
sible when the audience is tiptoeing
round noisily. Other faults are the wear-
ing of decorative, obstructive hats and
the rattling of chocolate-papers. Music-
lovers are more polite—imagine anyone
eating sweets at a symphony concert!
There seems to be no reason why play,
goers should be less polite; yet at the
opening night of “La Parisienne” at the
Independent, the curtain-raiser, “A
Door Must Be Either Open Or Shut,”
was nearly. over before the audience
settled down.
With the spring meeting now visible to
the long-sighted, thoughts of new hats
become increasingly persistent. Here are
some points on the new spring styles from
Anne Collins’s preview of French original
models and reproductions;
Veils are varied and important. Some
peep over the brim, ending just below the
eyebrows. Some cover the face and tie
with a ribbon bow round the neck. Others
are trimmed with butterflies or birds, and
a short stiffened one is worn under wide
brim of a black hat. One, adapted from
Lili Dachd, forms the whole hat. Sprinkled
with diamente, it is designed to be worn at
weddings. The Mona Lisa veil fits tightly
over the face, and is put on before the hat.
Colors are black, white, navy, persimmon
are large mushrooms, small mush-
rooms, sailors, tiny bonnets (one like a
beehive) and the plateau, which is straight
at the front and sweeps out to points at the
side.
In a . special class is Gilbert Creel’s
“Flying Saucer,” which is not for the
many who want a hat to make them look
prettier.
The Consul-General for Switzerland
and Mrs. H. Hedinger entertained at a
delightful buffet luncheon to celebrate the
649th anniversary of the foundation of
their country. Elizabeth Northcott,
attended by Sheila Collett, was among the
guests, who included distinguished mem-
bers of the diplomatic and consular corps,
the judiciary, the Army and Navy,
politics, the arts, learning and the
sciences. In a dazzle of witty and
learned conversation one subject seemed
to keep recurring—Mrs. Hedinger’s
onion-and-bacon tart, a special Swiss dish
made with eggs, cream and savory herbs.
The mi lie feuilles, made by a Swiss
pastrycook, also came in for attention.
The decorations were unusual, the focal-
points being tall black iron candlesticks
decorated with the crests of the Swiss
cantons. Among the guests were Sir
Henry and Lady Moxham, Mr. Justice
Roper and Mrs. Roper, Lieutenant-
General and Mrs. T. H. Berryman, Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones, Mr. Justice
Nicholas and Mrs. Nicholas, Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. H. A. Showers, Mrs.
P. C. Spender, the Martin Mcllraths, Lady
Anderson, the Lord and Lady Mayoress,
the Roy Hendys and the Charles Waltons,
Schoolgirls Wendy Burrell, from
Griffith, and Patricia Gall, of Moree,
spent the weekend with Caroline Nihill
at the Lugarno home of “Caro’s” parents,
Dr, and Mrs. Robert Nihill. Wendy and
Caroline are headed for the University
next year, Patricia for the country life at
her parent’s home, Fairfield, Moree.
Flanked by four of the friendliest
demons ever seen. Lady Braddon was
more like a kindly St. Peter than anything
else when she welcomed guests at the
Dance of the Demons, sponsored by the
American-Australasian Ex-Servicemens
Memorial Club. Red devils decorated
the walls, a popcorn machine popped
vigorously, and the dressing was in-
formally attractive. It was noted that
two of the most striking dresses were
hand-made. Mrs. Hayward Veal wore a
white sheath dress on which she had
stencilled large Chinese characters in grey
and yellow. Caught up on one shoulder
and belted in silver kid, it was a classic.
The other dress, worn by Mrs. H. Plan.
began life in 1922 as what was known
as a “throwover” in those days. Black
net, it reached just below the knees an
was lushly embroidered with black
sequins. Mounted on black taffeta an
fitted at waist and neckline by Mrs- Plant,
its effect was electrifying. . f
As the sequinned and beaded tunics o
the dangerous ’twenties are making “
dramatic comeback, those careful Pf 0 ? 1
who have kept them may now bring
them out again (provided they’ve
the necessary slim figure also). ,
Gladys Lister, just returned from 1
Continent and the U.S., is one of ttios
satisfactory people who thorpugniy
enjoy everything they see and do.
was all in the day’s work for her to
at Buckingham Palace in the morning.
Iceland at lunch-time and among the IN
York skyscrapers by nightfall. M
work if you can get it. From R* ia
she has a wonderful memory of seems
group of icebergs floating, as she
scribed it, like a fleet of dream-ships-
England she left two books to be P,
lished by Collins, and in America
arranged for the sale of others..


%X ibt
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
d
XA 10.28
PERSONAL ITEMS
Melbourne-born Alan Villiers has up-
pick again on another sea adventure,
sailing in a Portuguese schooner from
Lisbon to fish cod off the Newfoundland
Banks where Kipling set his Captains
Courageous. Villiers’s life at sea began at
15; when he settled down —or thought
he had —on the Hobart “Mercury,” he
had already sailed before the mast in the
Rothesay Bay, the James Craig, the four-
masters Lawhill, Bellands and Herzogin
Cecilie and abaft the funnel in vaiious
steamers. After two years in London
with the Australian Newspaper Cable
Service, he shipped in a Finnish full-
rigged ship to film “Windjammer,” which
made his fame world-wide. Then he
bought the famous Parma and won the
Australian grain race in 1932, and again
in 1933 —the passage taking 83 days. The
next year he bought the Joseph Conrad
and sailed her 60,000 miles before his
interest shifted to Arab dhows—
magnificent sailers despite their queer rig.
War II found him commanding a little-
boat squadron in the Mediterranean ; he
got D.S.C. for his part in the Normandy
invasion. Now a custodian of Green-
wich National Maritime Museum, he gets
an annual draught of salt water by taking
boys to sea in a sailing ship for training.
Last week he won the N.S.W, Children’s
Book Council competition for the best
kids’ book of the year with his 16th,
Whalers of the Midnight Sun.
Standard-Vacuum Oil will need a good
man to replace Charles Kretsinger
Gamble, its retiring vice-president, who
owns to almost 35 years of bowser-
bargaining since, in 1916, he began selling
oil in Turkey, Syria and Greece. With
the A.E.F. in France in the first world
war, he’s been in Australia 23 years,
knows Australians well and will be
happily remembered b»y many of them.
He returns to California, where he was
born 61 years back.
There are few places in the world
where you won’t find an Australian
aviator making a high-altitude success.
Harold Gatty, D.F.C., who has been so
long mixed up with U.S. aviation that
Americans are inclined to class him, with
the gum-tree, as a national product, runs
a fleet of fishing-boats in Fiji, based on
his own lovely island. He is now con-
templating helping the homeland out of
its dollar shortage by sending one of his
craft to catch tuna off the Australian
coast for the U.S. market. The frozen
fish will be exported to California for
canning. One of the most-read writers on
the technical side of air-aviation in Uncle
Sam’s country, Gatty put a girdle round
the world in eight days with Wiley Post,
pioneered Pan - American Airways’
routes, headed the Pacific Allied Air
Forces’ air-transport in War II and wrote
The Raft Book, a system of navigation,
based on methods used by the Poly-
nesians, for use by men adrift at sea. In
his South Sea study he’s working on a
history of navigation. St. Virgil’s Col-
lege, Hobart, and the R.A.N. College
trained him.
An Australian-born scholar, Charles
Edward Weatherburn, who has been Pro-
fessor of Mathematics in Westralia’s Uni-
versity since *1929, will receive an
honorary Doctorate of Laws from Glas-
gow University . during its 500th anni-
versary celebrations next year. Born in
Sydney in 1884, Weatherburn took his
M.A. degree in 1906, won a travelling
scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge,
and came home to win his Doctor of
Science degree by examination, in 1916.
After that he lectured in maths and
natural science at Ormond College, Mel-
bourne, held the chair of maths at
University College, Christchurch (M.L.),
then moved to W.A. Tall and slim,
known to generations of students as
a serious, painstaking lecturer, he gets
away from maths with golf and motor-
ing.
On the passing of an Australian more
famous outside his country than in it:
The work of Dr. G. A. Waterhouse was
known throughout the world of entomology.
By profession a civil engineer and scientist, his
hobby was butterflies, and over 40 years he
assembled the finest collection the world has
known. It’s now in the Australian Museum,
Sydney, to which he presented it 15 years ago.
South Kensington, before the war, asked him to
come to London to classify its collection, which
began with specimens collected by Banks and
Flinders. Waterhouse, who left a wealth of
scientific writings dealing with his special sub-
ject, served on the executives of the N.S.W.
Naturalists’ Club (president, 1906-07) and the
Naturalists’ Society of N.S.W. (president, 1914-
15), the Linnean Society of N.S.W. (president,
1921-23), the Royal Zoological Society of New
South Wales (president, 1924-25), Australian and
New Zealand Association for the Advancement
of Science (hon. general treasurer, 1934-46;
president of zoology section, 1937), the Aus-
tralian National Research Council (member of
executive committee) and the Royal Society of
N.S.W. (hon. secretary, 1923-25). The Royal
Entomological Society of Londbn conferred on
him an honorary life fellowship. One of the
group responsible for building Science House,
Sydney, he was honorary entomologist of the
Australian Museum from 1919, an elective
trustee from 1926 till his resignation in 1947.
In 1943, when he suffered a serious illness,
followed by the loss of his son in action, he
gave up most of bis scientific interest, but in
his last years devoted himself to the reconstruc-
tion of his collection in the Australian Museum.
Throughout his career he was always generous
in encouraging and assisting students.
With the election of Tom Sten, the
44th Battalion of the First A.I.F. has
given a fourth State president to the
R.S.L. in Westralia. A hefty six-
footer who became a State-school teacher
before he interrupted his studies to swap
an undergraduate’s gown for an issue of •
khaki, Sten was commissioned in the field,
completed his Arts course after the war,
is now M.A., Principal of the Teachers’
Training College, and chairman of the
State’s Repatriation Education Board,
where he’s interested in helping rehab,
students into the teaching game.
Caught still for a moment in between
holding out a comparatively dry hand to
the flood-washed or deluged folk, of near-
by Lismore and Grafton, Richmond
Manyweathers, mayor since 1947 of
Casino on the N.S.W. North Coast.
As becomes the civic head of an up-and-
coming town, he has his fingers in many
public pies, with the vice-presidency' of
NORTH-COAST MAYOR.
the Federated Chambers of Commerce
of the North Coast and Tableland,
directorship of three co-operative build-
ing societies, Rotary membership and
(added this year) presidency of the local
R.S.L. He qualified for that chair
by joining the R.A.A.F. as an A.C.I and
ending with a commission, serving in be-
tween for three years in New Guinea and
through the Philippines campaign. When
the floods have drained he aims to get
back to his main interest —construction
of a £20,000 War Veterans home at near-
by seaside Ballina.
Prior’s sketch of Alan Browne has
captured the face-lightening grin which is
never far below surface on the dial of
the Metal Trades Employers’ Associa-
tion’s new president. Managing-director
of Babcock and Wilcox, Browne has been
with those boiler-builders almost since he
got out of triangular trousers. The
smallest boiler built in his time was one
for the Edie Creek goldfields in New
Guinea; it cost £2OOO and was flown
over the mountains in pieces. On a bit
bigger scale were the six produced for
the Lake Macquarie power-station—total
cost £2i million, steam generated per
hour about 670 tons. Almost completed,
and going into service early next year,
the giant quartet ordered for Sydney’s
White Bay power-plant, just under £2
million-worth which will inject an amp
BOILER-MAKER.
or two into the city’s juice supply. And
they’re guaranteed to burn the present-
day “fireproof” fuel. Some of the firm’s
boilers which for years generated high-
pressure steam in battlecruiser Australia’s
boiler-rooms are still on active service
in plants ashore. Browne succeeded
Harold Ferrier, and lives at Cremome.
Oil-painting (probably in a boiler-suit) is
his passion.
The dying wish of the lad who lost his life
capturing the deadly taipan flown from Cairns
to the National Museum in Melbourne was that
its venom should be investigated. Somebody
had to milk its* poison so that it could be
analysed for an antidote at the Commonwealth
Serum Laboratories. The first name that
occurred to Dr. Pescott, of the National Museum,
and Dr. Morgan, of the C.S.L., was that of David
Fleay, director of the Colin Mackenzie Sanc-
tuary at Healesville. There was no doubt about
the risk—only one person has ever recovered
from a bite of the three-quarter-inch fangs. It
had been put into a bag, enclosed in another bag
and then put into a box, but had got itself out
of the bags. Turned out on the floor and there
warmed by the radiators, it started striking
viciously. Fleay got a lucky hold with the
snake-stick and then grabbed with thumb and
forefinger and pointed the venomous nozzle at the
tiny rubber-covered phial held by Dr. Morgan,
while the snake wrapped its six-foot body round
one of Fleay’s legs. Its muscular strength, he said,
was enormous. While the half-teaspoonful of
whitish venom was dripping Fleay was getting
cramp from the concentrated pressure of his
two fingers. The most difficult part of the
operation is the release —a downward flick
of the stiff head and withdrawal of the fingers;
there was only the fraction of a second between
Fleay and death at that crucial moment. He
spent two sleepless nights—one before and one
after the risky performance.
Knowledge of more things than were
ever in a pilots’ pamphlet came ashore
when veteran Fremantle pilot Captain
J. E. Turner set course for the beach.
Hailing from Gravesend, where the men
of his family have been pilots for genera-
tions, he trod his first deck 50 years back
as a 15-year-old apprentice in the Thames
pilot-service, and in the next nine years
did his wheel-tricks in many ships, from
schooners to deep-sea tugs. Working his
passage to Singapore in 1909 as bosun
of a fishing-boat destined for barge-
tugging on the harbor (and nearly
wrecked off Cape Guardafui), he changed
on arrival to a “tide-waiter” (sea
slanguage for Customs officer afloat) off
the Taku Bar, near Tientsin, then piloted
along the Chinese coast, making his Fre-
mantle landfall on Christmas Day, 1912.
Part of his subsequent work with the
Westralian State Shipping Service in-
eluded a four-months’ command of the
Jap Katsura Maru, the only European
aboard, bossing a heterogeneous collec-
tion of Jap engineers and a crew of
Chinese, Indians and Malays. Back in
W.A., he was appointed Fremantle
pilot, and at retirement was senior pilot.
The first ship he brought through the
breakwater was the Danish motorship
Java; the last was the 28,000-tonner
Orcades. Before settling on the beach
he’ll ship back to the Old Dart to see his
mother, a hearty 91-year-old still living
at Gravesend.
From Le Pave, Castel, Guernsey
Island, for a round of Guernsey-cattle-
judging and visits to dairy districts of
Australia comes J. Carrington, whose
family have been breeding the golden
milkers on the Channel Isles for genera-
tions. Carrington comes here at the
invitation of the Australian Guernsey
Cattle Society, after 30 years of breeding
and judging, with a name familiar every-
where in Britain. A believer in herd-
recording and -testing, some of his star
cattle have been exported to the U.S.A.
and Australia. His first job in Australia
will be at Brisbane Royal Show this
month.
“King’s Pawn”: Doyen of Australian
chessplayers, F. K. Esiing passed his 90th
milestone on July 20, about the time
that the Australian Chess Federation de-
cided that the contest which he won in
1885 could be ranked, on evidence
supplied, as an Australian championship.
The contests have been regularised only
within recent years ; now they are held
every two years, the next one taking place
in Brisbane in December. Esiing was long
the recognised champion of Victoria ;
he still takes an interest in a practical
way—his cheque to aid the expansion
has been one of the first to arrive for
the international chess matches by radio.
Passed on at Sale, Victoria, at 97, early
Federal Parliamentarian George Henry
Wise, after 75 years at the Bar and 60 in
politics. Born on the Block, in Mel-
bourne, in 1853, he was schooled at
Scotch and graduated from Melbourne
University in 1874. He put- up his brass
plate in Sale and was six times its mayor.
A Victorian leader in the Federation
movement, he got into the Federal
House in 1906, became Assistant
Defence Minister under W. M. Hughes
and later P.M.G. The Australian
Natives’ Association was one of his
chief interests from its inception,
and he became chief president in
1892. An extraordinarily active man, he
practised his profession till last year,
when he retired through deafness.
Almost up till then he made periodic visits
to Melbourne to see his solicitor son in
Queen-street.
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 75, C. J. Westland.
Born in India, where his father was Minister
of Finance, he arrived in Maoriland in 1891
to farm at Cheviot and dabble in astronomy-
in 1915 becoming astronomer at the Hector
Observatory, Wellington. After War I service
overseas he returned to the acting-directorship
of Apia (Samoa) Observatory. He retired in
1930, but maintained his interest in astronomy
and seismology to the end.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Esther Collins, widow of
the late Surgeon-Captain M. J. Collins and
mother of Vice-Admiral John Collins, R.A.N.
Another of her sons is author Dale.
At Bunbury (W.A.), at 66, Charles Lionel
Clarke, one of the best-known farmers in the
south-west and one-time commissioner of the
old W.A. Agricultural Bank. While chairman
of directors he was the fence behind the big
South-West Co-op. Dairy Farmers’ Company,
but perhaps his greatest contribution to the
State’s primary production was the development
of potato-growing on his holding at Burekup.
At 86, the Rev. Principal G. W. Thatcher,
M.A. (Melb.), M.A. (Oxon.), B.D. (Edin.),
D.D. (Montreal). For 20 years warden of the
Camden Theological College, Sydney, he helped
institute the studies in Divinity at Sydney Uni-
versity. A great scholar in Eastern languages,
he was the author of several standard publica-
tions.
At 82, in Melbourne, Julius Grant, doyen
of Australian theatrical entrepreneurs. He and
Bert Bailey, after getting down to bedrock,
reblooded their fortunes by leasing Melbourne
King’s and producing “On Our Selection,” a
record-breaker. Later they brought out a string
of stars, including Irene Vanbrugh, Dion
Boucicault, Oscar Asche and Lily Bray ton.
Grant organised the rebuilding of the King’s
on its present site.


Ok TtateX' iU*\Lt9!
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of tbe Art.
Dewar’s famous "White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
“White label”
SfommiA SCOTCH 'WhiiAu
. v
1/t TtejteX,
'
AVVARIgp
S °MEDm.
■
5000 U
snk
Prize Mefol*
50 Gold
ana
Prize MeaoUf
BY APPOINTMENT
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR ft SONS. LTD
***** mussels ANTWERP CAIRO
White Label
A Fine Scotch Whiskv
OF RARE AGE
Dewar & Sons
DISTILLERS
Gotland
net contents t pint. tn. ois.
J. p^Wr ffi> mour oisniuß. matured and bkndm w sctrn^-«,
iuf*^
•* m
PULL BETTI*
n
ran
CHMII
df
WORLDS
FAvomm ,
V
trade mAR|{
FACTORIES: FELTH'AM, E* 6 ‘*
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR »
1ST CLASS GOODS
By
BERESFORD
LONROY
THE passengers began to
alight as the train slackened
speed about a mile from
the station. The engine
crew, who were accustomed to
the spectacle, grinned and waved.
People living along the line
looked up from their work but
they were not startled; some of
the housewives even went in-
doors to see what food could be
given away.
This was North Queensland in
the nineteen-thirties.
Since daylight men and more
men had risen from sleep to
stand in the low-sided trucks or
sit up on tarpaulins. They were
a sooty, wild-eyed, wild-haired
lot, but as they had travelled
unlawfully - on a goods train
without the ghost or memory of
a ticket among them, they had
no reason for complaint, nor did
they utter any. A few even
whistled as they tied up their
bedding; many who had come
from the far south and were see-
ing the tropical north for the
first time were silently excited,
gaping at the scenery and won-
dering what this almost fabulous
land had in store for them until
startled into activity by a pro-
longed screech from the whistle.
The driver and the fireman
looked back. “There they go!
About fifty or sixty. I’d say. I’ve
seen more.”
All along the train from both
sides, swags were being thrown
and men were jumping to roll
and slither down the embank-
ment. From the air they must
have resembled ants getting off
the back of a black serpent.
“Cripes!” exclaimed the fire-
man. “Look at that one —that’s
a girl I’ll lay a quid,”
His mate hung out of the
cabin.
“It’s a sheila, all right.” He
waved. “She’s game.”
The girl did not wave back.
But that was six hours after
the girl had climbed aboard the
train with her husband.
I T was nearly midnight when
1 Ann and John tossed their
swags into the empty truck and
hoisted themselves up. They lay
down until the train, which had
stopped to take in water, moved
on again. The whistle sent a
long warning note into the warm
Capricornian night, the engine
sighed, snorted twice and then
began to drag its long line of
trucks forward into the North.
The North! Ann and John
smiled at each other and got up
to stand swaying, hand-in-hand,
their noses to the wind, sniffing
coal-dust, bush scents and adven-
ture. Two thousand miles they
had come to see this great North,
and because they were young
and poor and hungry for ex-
perience, they even enjoyed their
way of getting there. It was
dirty, but never dull; it was ex-
hausting at times, but always it
was spiced with uncertainty.
There was the possibility of
being caught, and there was
danger when “jumping the
rattler on the fly,” which was
sometimes necessary.
The train bumped over points
and gathered speed, whistled
again, and Ann squeezed her
husband’s hand. “That sound
never fails to send a thrill up and
down my spine,” she said.
John looked into her eager,
sparkling eyes and laughed.
“You’re a glutton for discom-
fort, Ann. Some people would
think so, anyhow.”
The moon was rising. They
sat on the back of the truck and
did not speak for a long time
but listened to the rolling and
the clackety-clack of the wheels,
and they looked at the stars and
the dark mysterious land around
them, and at the light of the
engine and sparks from the
stack; and their thoughts and
fancies were very alike.
They could —and did —allow
themselves to imagine that they
were riding on the iron tail of
some mythical monster through
an alien continent and that there
was no shining permanent-way
before them but only an un-
explored wilderness in which
they might easily be lost or
destroyed. There was nothing in
all the world, they felt, other
than themselves and their puffing
fiery monster: the land around
them, with all it contained, was
as insensible of them as the sea
is of a ship.
A flying cinder stung John out
of his whimsies and he began to
think practically, or to wonder,
rather, what the future held, and
whether or not he and Ann
would settle in the North. It
was quite possible. Farming?
Fishing? Beachcombing? Well,
that was better than rotting in
the depression-ridden South!
He glanced at Ann when a lock
of her dark hair blew across his
face. A great girl. Most people
threw up their hands in horror
at the idea of taking a woman
on the track. They said it was
too hard a life, and probably
dangerous. Nasty characters
about, they said; you shouldn’t
risk it. Well, except for those
two last week, the blokes they’d
met on the track had been all
right. Most of them had been
friendly, helpful and courteous.
Yes, those two they met at
Mackay had been the exceptions.
Particularly the big one with the
fat, white face—Bert was his
name. Curly, with the freckles,
hadn’t been so bad —just a
hanger-on. But that Bert fel-
low —
I OHN took a tin from his
pocket, rolled two cigarettes,
lit them and handed one to Ann.
“Tired?” he asked, and was
startled by the flaring of a match
two trucks ahead of theirs. A
cigarette glowed. Then another
match was struck, and it stayed
alight long enough for both John
and Ann to see the face of the
man who was lighting the second
cigarette. It was a fat, brutish
and very white face.
“Bert and Curly,” said John.
“I’d hoped we’d seen the last of
them.”
“Thank heavens we didn t get
into their truck.”
“Yes. I wonder if they recog-
nised me when I lit up.”
“No, you turned your back
to the wind.”
“Yes, of course, I did. They
couldn’t —damn it! They’re
coming, Ann. They must have
seen us.”
Ann and John could see the
two men clearly now, for they
were standing up in what was
probably a half-filled truck and,
with their swags on their backs,
they were moving perilously
across the tarpaulin. The cigar-
ette points glowed and bobbed,
then suddenly ran and leaped
into the air.
“They’ve jumped! They’re
mad or drunk.”
Perhaps if the train had not
been slowly and steadily making
a grade at that time the men
would have been unable to
maintain their footing. As it
was, they jumped successfully
and ran across the almost-level
tarpaulin of the next truck, and
from there down into John’s and
Ann’s.
“Howdy! ” said Bert and flung
down his swag. “Don’t mind us
droppin’ in, I s’pose? We didn’t
come empty-handed, anyways.
Drag the bottle out. Curl, and
give the lady a nip.”
He leered winningly.
JOHN stared at him,
appalled, realising in an in-
stant that the situation was
worse than he had expected.
Bert was drunk. The fellow was
gross and bestial in his booze:
stupid, bull-necked, dangerous.
“No, I won’t have a drink,
thank you,” Ann said. Damn
them, she thought—why did they
have to come! She looked at
John and observed his uneasi-
ness.
“No drink! G’ on wiv yer!
What —after we risked our
val’able necks to bring yer one?”
Ann laughed almost naturally.
Perhaps it might be wise to
humor them. “AU right, just a
sip, then.”
“That’s more like it.”
Curly had taken a bottle from
his tucker-bag. He unscrewed
the cap and handed it to Ann.
She swallowed a mouthful,
shuddered and passed the bottle
on to John.
“What’s the matter? Can’t
take it, eh?” Bert jeered. “Too
much boot-polish in it? Aw,
she’s okay after the first Here,
’ave another go.”
“No more, thank you.”
“Aw, c’m on wiv yer.”
“No, really.”
Bert stared at her, shrugged,
drank deeply himself and passed
the bottle to Curly. “Woo-woo!
You could run a car on that
stuff,” he said, and swore
“Sorry, sorry, I was forgettin’.”
He thrust his hands into his
belt and stood with his legs wide
apart, grinning thickly and
swaying to the motion of the
train. It was going fast on the
down-grade now, and, when it
rocked around a curve Bert
staggered against the truck-side
and sat on the edge, near Ann.
“Woa! Steady there—drunks
aboard! ” He sang a few bars of
a song and then said: “Well, y er
ain’t very matey, are yer? Me,
I’m all fer the brotherhood of
man!” He swayed closer to
Ann, grinned at her and then
peered at John. “Make friends,
that’s my motto —share and share
alike —what’s yours is mine, and
what’s mine is yours, eh?”
THE implication was unmis-
takable, and John’s fingers
trembled round the cigarette he
was rolling. He was angry; but
he was also frightened. Ibis
Bert was big—perhaps three
stone heavier than himself: and
there was Curly to be reckoned
with, too.
“Well, not everything,” he
said, and then continued quickly,
conversationally: “Going far?”
“Far enough,” said Curly
rudely. He smiled —or imagined
that he smiled—at Ann. Tense
as she was she almost laughed
at the grimace.
“Now, if I’d a sort like you
to go with I wouldn’t care where
I went,” he added slyly,
Bert took the bottle again and
moved it towards Ann’s mouth.
She pushed it away.
“Uh-uh! No more, thank
you.”
“Aw, c’m on. Be in the
party.”
John had lit his cigarette and
he inhaled very deeply as though
with the smoke he hoped to draw
in time and sagacity —time to
think of words, cool, casual,
diplomatic words that might re-
strain without antagonising these
fellows. Subtlety! Subtlety!
The right phrase and manner to
divert and disarm. What to say,
what to do? It’s obvious what’s
coming, he thought: it sticks out
a mile. That drunken bull will
put his paws on Ann very soon
and then the brawl will be on
. . . And I’ll be knocked as cold
as a fish . . . and then . ..
“Well, just one more mouth-
ful, then,” he heard Ann say,
(i Continued on pnge 32)


ti
fontutueua
m
Fill a Spaffcfets Syphon with
charge” it* with a
Sparklets Bulb—and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty ‘soda’ is*yours!
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
Of new Standard and Streamline
models, or write for Illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
MOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
SPARKCET3
SYPHONS
is
SPARKLETS LTD., LONDON N. 18
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com*
don I Use Cuticura
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make aad keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder. _
529
tp regularly its
fd
ULI
f
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Estate of RICHARD COGAN Deceased.
THE undersigned ia Trustee of the Estate
of RICHARD COGAN, late of Bandon,
County Cork, Ireland, formerly of Lismore,-
N.S.W., died Bth March, 1008, aged 78.
His nephew, RICHARD COGAN. born
1859, if living on Bth March, 1908, would
be entitled to share. THEREFORE let
the said Richard Cogan or his. issue or
his legal personal representative TAKE
NOTICE that unless a claim by him or
them or any one of them is received by
the undersigned on or before 15th De-
cember, 1950, the undersigned will dis-
tribute the estate among the persons of
whose claims he then has notice.—P. J. P.
PULLEN, Public Trustee, 19 O’Connell
Street. Sydney, N.S.W. ■
MISSING RELATIVE.
DOLLING, Francis Thomas, formerly of
Merton, in the State .of Victoria, and
believed to have subsequently resided at'
Woodstock and Morwell in the said State,
and also to have visited various places in
New South Wales and South Australia.
WILL any person knowing the where-
abouts of the abovenamed FRANCIS
THOMAS DOLLING please communicate
with MAL. RYAN, LL.B., Solicitor, Mans-
field, Victoria?
This is
THE CAPTAIN AND THE CREW
Maybe he doesn’t look it, but the Captain is a greybeard as
far as flying’s concerned more than 10,000 hours! The
remainder of the crew have “flying whiskers”, too. Then
there are the two stewardesses ... cheerful, efficient, anticipa-
ting your every wish.
vm
PRESSURISED "EMPRESS" AIRLINERS
To FIJI • HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH 24-HOUR STOPOVER 4T HONOLULU
Luxurious, “Loungaire” full
length reclining chairs give more
seat space per passenger.
Special featherlight blanket
if you wish to take a nap.
SPECIAL
NEW DETACHABLE
TABLES FOR
EACH SEAT
NO DOLLARS
REQUIRED
Through fare in
Australian currency
FLY RELAXED ARRIVE REFRESHED
Food is delicious. Full course meals aloft
equal to those you’ll enjoy ashore. Snacks
between meals, bar service, too! Enjoy
the added comfort of sleeping ashore at
Fiji and Honolulu in modern hotels . . .
meals and accommodation ashore are in-
cluded in your ticket. 15 dollars
(U.S.) provided at Vancouver, Mon-
treal or New York for through pas-
sengers to or from V.K.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, or Union Steam Ship
Co. (General Agents), HU George Street,
Sydney, and 59 William Street, Mel-
bourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency*
JUKLINES
•THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited Incorporated in Canada
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Linden Tree."
This J. B. Priestley play, given
its first Australian presentation
by Melbourne Little Theatre,
concerns Professor Robert
Linden, a dear old history pro-
fessor who, at 65, is on the eve
of his retirement and is told to
go, but refuses because he
wants to continue his mild battle
against the forces of modern
education.
His family forgather for the
birthday celebration. One
daughter has become a Catholic
in order to marry into a French
family which owns a chateau;
she' defends religion. Another,
a Communist and a doctor, trots
out the materialist conception.
The eldest son has become a
financier on the blackmarket,
has made a fortune, and is a
cynical- upholder of the notion
that nothing is of any moment
in a world of atomic bombs and
so forth and one may as well
have a good time while the
going is good.
Nobody believes in the old
fellow, least of all his wife, who
threatens to walk out unless he
accepts his dismissal. They
argue their respective view-
points furiously for two days
and then disperse, leaving the old
gentleman bereft of everything
but an old housekeeper and his
youngest daughter, who stays
with him out of compassion.
There is something wrong
with the play, and it is strongly
suspected to be Mr. Priestley’s
somewhat sentimental approach
to the old professor, who is a
decent enough old fellow, but
certainly no hero. The play
lives most in the characters of
the children, which are sharply
observed, and were remarkably
well acted by. Bette Clark,
Dorothea Dixon, Elizabeth
Gibson and especially by John
Lee. Although Collins Hilton
did his excellent best with the
professor, he only made him into
a pathetic figure who has pre-
cisely the same values as his
sixes-and-sevens family.
* * $ *
Current programme at the
Independent Theatre, North
Sydney, is made up of a one-act
curtain-raiser, “A Door Must Be
Either Open or Shut,” and “La
Parisienne,” in three acts. The
first .consists of some light
Gallic conversational fencing
between Le Comte, who is play-
ing for a mistress, and La Mar-
quise, who is playing for a
husband; the second is an
equally slight trifle about a
handsome young matron who
manages her miscellaneous love
affairs skilfully enough to satisfy
herself and her lovers and to
wangle her husband a lucrative
post in the Treasury. Both
pieces are very thin veneers de-
pending more on the polish with
which they are performed than
on any great wit or substance.
The performances at the Inde-
pendent have a kind of frayed
desperation about them as the
payers Kevin Healy and
Nancy Hunt in the one-acter
and Laurel Mather, Marcel
Wattel, Ivor Bromley, Charles
Tingwell and June Atwill in the
other —all strive for the required
light, polished touch. Unfor-
tunately, though any one of them
looks capable of turning in a
good performance in other
spheres, none of them seems to
be particularly adept at the deli-
cate business of French-
polishing.
* ♦ * ♦
Brisbane Repertory Theatre
carried off “A Winter’s Tale”
very nicely. Production (by
Daphne Roemermann) and
lighting were most imaginative,
and, although Betty Ross, as
Hermione, did not achieve
pathos in the first act, she
touched excellence with her
beautiful performance in the
final “statue” scene. Acting
honors for the piece, however,
went to Dorothy Wheller’s
warm and human interpretation
of Paulina. lan Neil and
Joseph Holt, the estranged kings,
spoke with a good sense of
poetry, and the latter wore his
royal costumes with ease and
conviction. James Mathers, as
the younger shepherd, gave some
excellent clowning, but the
older shepherd, though convinc-
ing in appearance, spoke with a
voice that could have belonged
to the sexton of “Much Bind-
ing.”
Artbursts.
Hardy Wilson, whose extra-
ordinary exhibition entitled
“Kurrajong: Sit-Look-See” is at
David Jones’s Little Gallery,
Sydney, has long occupied a dis-
tinguished position in Australian
art as a recorder of old colonial
architecture, but his present
appearance is as a mystic, a
philosopher and a prophet. Be-
lieving that East and West must
unite if the world is not to perish
by the atomic-bomb, and that
Australia should admit “a
reasonable quota of creative
Chinese” to blend the arts of
East and West, he has invented
a mythical city named “Kurra-
jong” which illustrates the future
appearance of the hamlet of
Kurrajong, N.S.W. Thus we
have New South Wales pastures,
horses and trees, which Hardy
Wilson always draws admirably,
sprinkled with odd imaginary
pagodas; and we have arrange-
ment of turkeys and red bills in
an attempt to combine Chinese
and European styles; there are
also some atomic explosions.
The drawings, says the artist in
an accompanying pamphlet, are
to be reproduced in collotype,
deposited in the National
Library and presented to “the
city of Kurrajong when the
population of that future city
reaches 50,000 people.” Except
that one likes the turkeys and a
white cedar, the drawings are
generally too harsh and sombre
to represent either Hardy
Wilson’s or Chinese art at their
best, and the artist’s prophetic
and mystical feelings are much
more forcibly expressed in his
pamphlet.
* * ♦ *
The most interesting of Pro-
fessor Maximilian Feuerring’s
paintings at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney, are the set of
17 small scenes of carnival and
caffi life in gouache and Chinese
inks entitled. “The Women.” In
a typical gouache, such as “In
the Park” with its three willowy
ladies in a willowy setting or
“Nude” with the model in a
harmony of pink and blue
drapery, there is an effect of soft
pastel tones and an overall sug-
gestion of feminine grace and
sunlight like an echo from the
Impressionists; and in the
Chinese-ink paintings, such as
“Paris Cafe” and “Ballerinas,”
there is a brilliance of green and
red and a correspondingly
harder air of sophistication and
dissipation about the women :
altogether a typically Contin-
ental outlook. But the bulk of
the exhibition, consisting of
large, loose landscapes, sloppily
drawn and distantly pointillist in
style, is merely vague. The pro-
fessor, before coming to Aus-
tralia, served with the Polish
Army and, on his release from a
p.-o.-w. camp, was appointed to
the Chair of Arts at the Inter-
national U.N.R.R.A. University
at Munich.
Klemperer.
Music-lovers who, recalling
that the outstanding orchestral
concerts of last season were
those under the conducting of
Otto Klemperer, eagerly antici-
pated that the same musician’s
return visit would mean another
feast of fine-spun music, had
their hopes fully realised at his
first Sydney appearance in last
week’s subscription series, when
he gave the Beethoven Third and
Schumann Fourth symphonies.
This German conductor is un-
usual—there is no scowling at a
door left half-open, and no glar-
ing at anyone who dares to
cough as the baton is raised.
With no more than a perfunctory
bow to the audience,. of which
he seems only dimly aware, he
whirls around, and within four
seconds the orchestra is on its
way, and coughers and sneezers
and shufflers , can go hang.
Klemperer, who does all the
great classical symphonies with-
out a score and everything with-
out a baton, has a rare combina-
tion of gifts: he gets the maxi-
mum out of his orchestra with
a minimum of effort and fuss,
and he is one with the spirit of
the composer he is playing.
All the majesty and power that
Beethoven breathed into his
“Eroica” was given full play.
From the moment the ’cellos’
statement of the first subject was
followed by the horns, clarinets
and flutes in octaves —this beau-
tifully played—the symphony
went forward with never a drop
from the high level. The second
movement —the Funeral March
—brought out striking contrast
between the sad and lovely voice
of the oboe and the short out-
bursts of vehemence and im-
patience. Then hard upon the
heels of the threnody came the
vigor of the Scherzo, given a
pulsating quality by the massed
strings, the work being wound
up in a relentless blaze of
orchestral splendor.
The Schumann work was
rather more light-footed than
usual, with the third movement
of particular gaiety, and the
sentiment of the second move-
ment never allowed to become
mawkish. The syncopated
rhythms of the final section were
exhilaratingly done.
William Warfield was heard
in “0 Star of Eve” from Tann-
hauser,” a model of restrained
strength, and an aria from
Giordano’s “Andrea Chenier” in
which he needed all the power
of his resonant baritone to make
himself heard above an orchestra
that was allowed too much
weight.
Ema Berger’s Brisbane
concert was characterised by
uniform excellence in choice of
songs and presentation, and by
an impression of utter spon-
taneity. It would be hard to
decide whether the Mozart songs
or the brief Schubert ones could
claim pride of place for the
evening. On the other hand,
opera addicts are not likely to
hear such a glorious rendition
of Louise’s aria “Depuis le jour”
until Miss Berger chooses to re-
turn to our shores. Throughout
the entire programme and a
generous list of encores Miss
Berger was brilliantly accom-
panied by Henri Penn. „
Choral Festival.
The lively state of choral sing-
ing in N.S.W. was emphasised
at the two-night festival at Syd-
ney Con. under the aegis of the
Guild of Choirs. Some of these
organisations work under diffi-
culties imposed by frequent un-
avoidable changes of members,
as is the case with the Balmain
o Continued on page 35 .)


IBmI Ofd friends
are list friends I
*******
(fyn/zatUrri
Sco *<ilhis
h>
■**&.
The flame is-
(ffCallum's
The ujhiskt| ls_
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castiereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Facts.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness,
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Wed
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/
per lb. Loose.
It’s good.
Remember WINSTONS.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
The wied DUCKS
By
P.J.Cunningham
<< I I E L L ’ S
BELLS ! ”
I | ejaculated
Marty as he
stumbled into an
eroded gutter. “I’m
not as good in the
night as I was.” He
crossed the gully
gingerly, feeling with
his feet for broken
timber and pot-holes
as he worked around
the side of the hill
until he cleared the
white-box and reached
the clump of sheoaks
down on the flat. He rested his
gun against an oak-trunk,
squatted in the angle made by
two gnarled roots and rolled a
cigarette. He was sheltered
from the biting westerly that
whipped the swamp waters into
lapping insurgency among the
sedges, but the raw night air
made him blow on his hands and
puil his* coat-collar about his
neck.
“Will ye down and stop your
damned shivering and whin-
ing!” He spoke to Cleo, the re-
triever, as he felt for her and
smacked her quivering ribs.
“You’re always the same—ye
love the gun and the game to
thremblin’ ecstasy, the like o’
me with women, an’ good
whisky”; and he laughed and
pulled her long ears. She licked
his hand, smelt the gun, then
raised her head and snuffled at
the air with short hysterical
whinings, her back-legs quiver-
ing. , •
“Time enough, time enough,
for ten minutes or so yet, Cleo,”
he told her. “They’ll be in with
the first light, not before. Ye
ought to know that; but like
all females there’s no reasonin’
in ye, only impatience and
thremblin’ for what ye want.”
He huddled into his * shelter,
alert for the sounds and the
signs of the. approaching dawn.
Near at hand a rooster
c r v o we d, deep - toned and
domineering. From far away he
was answered by another more
shrill and piping; then, fainter
still, by another. The near-by
patriarch gave voice again, de-
fiantly ; to be answered from all
parts of the valley as Occupants
of the fowl-roosts awakened to
another day. A light showed in
a farmhouse away to the right,
then another up on the western
hills. The neighboring farmers
were stirring. A dog barked
somewhere, and from a dairy
came the blaring of hungry
calves and the agitated questing
mooing of their mothers. Mag-
pies began a chortling chorus
back in the white-box trees, now
silhouetted, a darker grey
against the luminous grey of the
eastern sky. Before him the
landscape was taking dim shape
—a great sea of mist flat-topped,
out of which loomed the clumps
of sheoaks, the tops of the dis-
tant tree-clad hills, and, here and
there in the breaks of the fog-
bank, patches of dark swamp-
water fringed with rushes and
reeds.
Startlingly clear, the angelus
bell sounded from the city
church, four miles away behind
the western hills. Marty crossed
himself hurriedly.
“God’s blessing on the day’s
work!” he muttered. “Any
ducks, Cleo? They should be
coming in now.”
ALMOST as he spoke the
/v bitch wheeled to the
timbered hill behind them, then
crouched, body low to the
ground, a whimpering in her
throat. Marty swung to her
movement with gun to shoulder.
A whirr of wings and they were
gone, to alight with splashings
far out in the mist-shfouded
swamp.
“Teal; too fast and too far,”
he muttered.
The retriever whined and
crouched again, and in the grow-
ing light Marty picked them up
coming in low and right oyer
him. Black duck! He held a
bead on them, too experienced
to shoot against the feather ;
but as they swerved away at his
movement he fi re d. Two
dropped out of the madly flee-
ing echelon and plopped into the
swamp, out of sight in the rushes.
One still flapped and splashed.
The bitch was crouched waiting,
in her eyes an agony of antici-
pation.
“Fetch ’em, Cleo,” and at the
word she was plunging through
the dark water and the en-
cumbering swamp growth, to re-
turn presently and lay a duck at
Lis feet. She shook herself and
plunged in again, her black
muzzle held high to pick up the
scent of the other. Plunges and
splashes told him she was on it,
and a lively duck to retrieve.
He could see nothing; so he
rolled a smoke and waited. His
shot had put up duck in flocks,
circling wildly. Some flew
directly over him; but nonchal-
antly he broke his gun and
ejected the remaining cartridge
as he watched the birds wheel-
ing and settling again.
A labored splashing and
rustling in the swamp-edges and
Cleo scrambled up the bank
with the duck in her mouth, its
wings still weakly flapping.
“Good old girl! You never
lose a one of ’em,” he said, pat-
ting her heaving ribs. “Now
we go home, eh, to the milking
and old Joe and the Mistress.”
The sun was shining now, on
the foliage of the high trees and
flushing the eastern slopes of the
Paterson Range and the foothills
with light. Before him stretched
the swamp to north and west, its
surface a pattern of colors —
dark-green of the rushes, light-
green of the swamp-couch,
brown and red of the sedges,
green-black of the oak clumps
and dark-blue water channels
snaking through the vegetation
like little lost rivers.
Away beyond the swamp’s
edge galvanised-iron sheds and
roofs of farm-houses glinted in
he morning light, grey-blue
moke from kitchen chimneys
spiralled up to the dispersing
mists and herds of cattle
crawled up from swamp pad-
docks over the hill slopes and
along the skyline in single file
to the milking yards. Some-
where a bull roared his protest
at this disturbance to the peace
of his domain, A milk-lcfrry
rattled along the farm road.
MARTY was in no hurry. The
gun was on his shoulder,
the ducks tied neck-to-neck
hanging from the barrel down
his back as he circled the
swamp’s edge in a generally
homeward direction; but his
eyes were taking in the lush
greens of the swamp and the
bird-life upon it, the farms and
the hills in the lights and
shadows of the morning, the
sharp bright beauty. His expres-
sion was intense, excited, his
whole being elated by what he
saw and felt. He stood once or
twice and snuffed the autumn
west wind coming keen and
strange - smelling across the
swamp. A flock of ibis rose,
heavily flapping from the flat
below the hill. He stood watch-
ing them descend gracefully and
in order, one by one, in the cul-
tivation paddock and stalk
through the lucerne searching
for caterpillars. Cleo walked at
his heel, stopping as he stopped ;
but never allowing her eyes or
senses to stray from the reality
of the ducks on his shoulder.
Now and again he leaned down
and patted her, as though wish-
ful she’d share his exhilaration.
Once, laughing, he slipped the
brace of duck to the ground for
her. She snuffled and nuzzled
among their feathers, her tail
beating ecstatically from side to
side.
“Ye snuffle them and smell
them,” he said with a whimsical
twisted smile, “an’ get such
quiverin’ joy of it as I get with
lookin’ on the beauty of the
world this great morning. It’-s
well for ye you’re a dog only—
though the best that’s ever been
—for you’re easy made happy;
and there’s no great sadness for
ye either, with no soul and no
sin in ye —not even when you’re
panting for the dog. You’re the
lucky one.”
He was lean and wiry, with
a lithe strength hinted at by his
movements. He had the swarthy
skin and the glittering brown
eyes of the gipsy; but he had
the impish expression and the
features of an older race —the
“little black Irishman” as such
are called —the Firbolg folk who
peopled Ireland before the dawn
of history and were on terms
most friendly with leprechaun
and banshee and the good folk
of the midnight hours. He/had
the irrepressible gaiety and the
melancholy brooding of his race,
with a gift for love-making and
romancing and no conscience at
all. But beauty stirred him
extraordinarily, and this morn-
ing there was a song about his
heart.
He came to a fence, tossed the
gun and the ducks over on to
the ground and vaulted across
neatly. The bitch pounced on
the ducks and stood with eyes
swivelling from one to another
for any sign of movement.
Marty took another look back
over the panorama of the valley,
then slung the ducks about
Cleo’s neck, shouldered his gun
and, whistling, made for the
farm-house looming through the
trees about the hill.
THE milking-yard was packed
with cows, and from the
bails came the sound of milk
being squirted into a bucket by
expert hands. Beyond the dairy
was a hay-shed whence came
the sound of horses snort-
ing and stamping around the
feed-bin. Fussy hens cackled
and clucked about the shed yard.
Marty stood his gun in the
dairy, carried the brace of duck
to the milking-yard and, with
impish grin, held them up to the
milker. • She was a woman in her
early forties —lean, worn and
withered almost; but her hot
brooding eyes, small piquant
features and pallid delicate skin
hinted of a beauty scarcely gone.
A great mass of greying dark
hair was plaited about her head,
which she carried always a little
sideways, as though listening or
musing, on a long, still-graceful
neck.
She emptied her bucket of
milk into a can, her thin-veined
brown hands steady-
ing the bucket and
the strainer as her
knee tilted the bucket
bottom ; all the time
her eyes on Marty
and his ducks, her
expression inscrut-
able, her mouth un-
smiling ; but she still
gazed on him as she
replaced her empty
bucket in the bail.
Marty hung the
ducks over the top
rail of the yard and
washed his hands at
the water-tap by the milk-cans.
He walked past her and picked
up his bucket, still with his
impish grin and an interrogatory
lift to his eyebrows as he tilted
his head in the direction of the
hay-shed.
She nodded once without
change of expression; but she
put her hand on his arm as he
brushed past her. Marty placed
his bucket and stool ready in
the bail without a glance at her
and rounded up his first cow,
whistling melodiously and with
an impudent air “Eileen
Alannah,”
THE gate leading from the
dairy was slammed open and
a man pushed through trucu-
lently, hay-fork on shoulder. He
was older than the others, gaunt
and heavy-footed, with a sour
toil-dulled expression. He had
a week’s growth of grey stubble,
grey coarse hair covering his
neck, and had an unwashed,
unkempt appearance.
“Out after the damned ducks
again and late for the milking,”
he growled. “Pity you and the
bitch don’t stay in the swamp.
The missus has five milked
already—she’d have eight done
if she kept at it instead of
standin’ moonin’ an lookin’
down the swamp paddock to see
if you’re cornin’.” He stood,
head lowered between shoulders,
feet apart, eyeing the woman and
thie man with suspicious little
red-rimmed eyes.
“The milk lorry is due in half
an hour and you haven’t pulled a
teat yet,” he added, peering into
the milk-cans.
Marty pinned his cow in the
bail, leg-roped her, pulled his
stool under her and commenced
milking, still whistling.
The man jabbed with his fork
at a cow that horned another
and then speared the fork over


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
{Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
fd
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
28-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
liiemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
' ? i ■
? v ;■
m
mmm
m
,
I a
- '
m s
i ■ H
-'V-v
H
. *VJ
■n
Wa
■I
S?*
ilii
;
..... : .K,
■
:ist»lSa
ii«S
m
THE ONLV THING TO
REPLACE l
Burm IT MORE—
n
LIFETIME
LEATHER
f
df
d
ON INITIAL COSTS
fd
ON MAINTENANCE
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
features:-
• "WET-FRAMED" STRETCHED
• UNIFORM QUALITY
• "DEEP WELD" ADHESIVE
• SUPERIOR CO-EFFICIENT
OF FRICTION
• LONG LIFE.
f
No belting has more proved, practical applications than
PIONEER BELTING, a name famous in Australia for 92
years.
Pioneer Belting often saves money on ' initial costs and
keeps 'saving it by providing continuous years of trouble-
free transmission.
The only replacement for Pioneer Belting is more Pioneer
Belting .
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE, Via
OTHER LUDOWICI LINES OF EQUIPMENT INCLUDE;— Rubber Belting, Conveyor and Elevator Belting Round Leather
Belting, Textile Leathers, Belting Accessories, Leather Packings, High-Speed Grinder Beits, V Belt Drives, Industrial
Clutches, Plain Bearings, Anti-Friction Bearings, Steel Shafting, Shafting Couplings, Shafting Hangers, Microid Bearing
Metals, Porous Bronze Bushes, Gears, Pulleys, Wall Brackets. Variable-Speed Drives, Ludowio Pivot Drives Fla-Seal Oil
Retainers, Composition Packings, Lutex Industrial Plastics, Industrial Gloves, Rubber Hose, Lemcol Trucks, Wheels, Castors,
etc., Perry Chain Drives.
the fence into a butt of hay. He
turned on Marty.
‘‘l’m sick of you and your
blasted whistlin’ an your duck-
shootin’ in the mornin’! Why
the hell can’t you go shootin’ in
your spare time?”
Marty chuckled as he pressed
his tousled head into the cow’s
flank and took a provocative
one-eyed view of his inter-
locutor.
“Spare time! What spare
time?”
His question and his amused
expression enraged the man,
“Your spare time in the even-
ings—when y’re pokin’ about the
blasted house washin’ up and
mendin’ a shelf that doesn’t need
mendin’ an’—an’ yappin’ with
the missus when she ought to be
darnin’ or somethin’.” , He spoke
to Marty but glared at the
woman.
“The ducks are gone in the
evenin’ with the settin’ sun,”
said Marty quietly and unsmil-
ing. He got up, released his cow
and emptied his bucket. Then
he dropped it and turned to the
man.
“It’s time I was leavin’, I’m
thinkin’,” he said. “Maybe you
don’t have need of me now the
summer’s ended; and I’m
thinkin’ you don’t like me.”
The woman caught her breath
and stopped milking, but Marty
went on.
“There’s many places I can
go, and there’s many things I
can do. It’s a fine big wonder-
ful world and me going along
the highways and not staying in
any one place where I’m not
wanted.”
L_l E washed his hands at the
* * tap and made to go out by
the gate, but the woman had
risen and stood before him.
“You’ll not go,” she said.
Her husband took a step to-
wards her, but uncertainly, until
his eye caught the ducks on the
fence.
“Let him go and take his
ducks, and his bitch, too,” he
said savagely.
But the woman’s attitude
halted both of them. She had
her milk-soiled hands on her
slender hips, and her expression
was enigmatic.
“If he goes who does the milk-
ing?” she asked. “If he goes
who helps you hackle the mil-
let? Who will pull and husk the
corn? Who will help you put
up the road fence? Do you
think I will? No? Then per-
haps you prefer I go too?” And
her smile for her husband was
the smile of the Mona Lisa —
grown older and harder.
The man looked at her open-
mouthed, then at Marty, his
slow mind frustrated, wrestling
with his jumbled thoughts. Marty
picked the ducks off the fence.
“Want these?” he said
pleasantly to the woman.
She took them from him, still
eyeing her baffled husband.
“I’ll roast them for to-
morrow’s dinner,” she said, and
stroked their iridescent neck-
feathers.
“Let’s get the blasted milking
done,” her husband muttered.
He turned, ran a cow in and got
to work on her, furtively watch-
ing the other two, who looked
at each other and made an un-
voiced but mutual decision.
They returned to their bails and
went on with the milking.
The woman left them to the
last few cows and went in to
cook the breakfast. They ran
the cans out to the road-stand,
washed out the bails, cleaned the
utensils and fed hay to the
cows, all without a word.
BREAKFAST was eaten in
silence. The woman tried to
catch Marty’s eyes; but he
appeared indifferent, the,impish
smile playing about his mouth
as he ate.
The man filled his pipe, stood
up and reached for his hat.
• “We’ll get on to the corn-
pulling today,” he gaid over his
shoulder.
Marty had risen and was
brushing his shock of hair at the
cracked mirror behind the
kitchen door.
“I’m going to town,” he said
gaily. “Today is Saturday.”
The man threw his hat on the
veranda floor and stood in the
doorway glaring.
“God’s truth! Have I got to
put up with this? You blasted
Irish loafer! Am I goin’ to feed
you an keep you an’ pay you
wages to spend in booze in the
town and come home drunk an’
puttin’ mad notions in the
missus’s head with your rantin’
an’ your poetry an’ your singin’
—while I do all the blasted work
about the place? Get out! Take
your money an’ go! Here ...”
He fumbled wildly in his pocket,
rushed into the bedroom and
returned with a roll of notes. He
tore off five.
“Here’s your money—more
than you’ve earned this fort-
night. Now get to hell!” He
jammed on his hat again and
stamped off to the harness-room
and his horses.
N/|ARTY counted the money,
IYI nodded his head with
raised eyebrows and comically-
pursed lips, then walked into a
back room. He returned
presently with a red handker-
chief knotted about his neck, his
coat buttoned, a cap jauntily
atop his untidy black hair and
a bundle of clothing under his
arm.
The woman was leaning
against the kitchen’s outer door.
“You’re not going, Marty!”
Her voice was calm and flat, her
mouth a thin line.
“And why wouldn’t I be
goin’?” he replied lightly.
“Haven’t I just been sacked?”
“You’re not going, Marty,”
she repeated quietly. “You
wouldn’t leave me here?”
He eyed her impudently,
“I’ve left many women.
There’s always women along the
road. Women an’ beauty an’
whisky. An’ summer nights
when the women seem beautiful,
or the whisky makes you think
them beautiful * an’ poetry an’
fine words come to you, an’
that’s the devil; but in the
morning it’s the cold clean
beauty of the hills an’ the sky,
an’ a man walks the road again.
Tis mornin’ now; an’ I’ll be
goin’.”
She made to put her hands on
him, but he stooped to tie a
bootlace,
“Do I mean nothing at all to
you, then?” she asked him.
“You did,” he said, “But
you’re that man’s out there. He
has need of you for the milking
and the corn-pulling—an’ he’ll
have need of you at nights no
doubt. You’d be little use to me
on the road, an’ it bitter winter
or scorchin’ summer; an’ I with
nothin’ but a bottle maybe, an’
likin’ that better.”
“I could cook for you,” she
said, leaping against the door
with her hands behind her.
“True; an’ you’re the great
cook. I’ll say that. There’s no
ducks like the ducks you bake
an’ no game better than the little
grilled quail you’d have for my
breakfast on a spring morning.”
“Don’t go—yet,” she said
more vehemently, and went
swiftly out to the shed.
Marty surveyed himself again
in the mirror, felt his chin and
got out his shaving kit.
HE was shaven and washed
when the woman returned,
her husband following grudg-
ingly and more slowly as he
cleaned his pipe with a straw.
She took up her position again
at the door, her husband peering
in at Martv from over her
shoulder
“y ou better stav with m till
the com'ffn Ihe miife
hackled, anyway,” he muttered.
“I can give you another five
shillings a week * but”—with a
sudden blaze—“vou’ll flamin’
well earn h.” Then move
quietly “You can have today
G ff; but be here tomorrow
mornin’ for the milkin’; an’ not
S o blasted sick that you can’t go
into the vard ” He stared
moodily then ft hfs
wife, lighted his pipe and
‘ rudged ° ff wi,h hiS team '
The woman still stood at the
door, unsmiling, without expres-
sion, as Marty put on his cap
agam, but her eyes were hot and
brooding,
“Must you go yet awhile?” she
asked in her flat voice as he
mad e to pass her.
fc *" g 0 ”° w ” he said
bottle °£ whisky inside me’an'
another in me norket for this
SanK nighL rll have poetly £or
rs“; ff a r^°ro e aj en ’" and
“I’ll have the ducks roasted
the way you like them,” she
called after him.
“Then I’ll be here an’ hungry
for the ducks,” he called gaily
at the road gate,
LJ E stepped Out for the town
1 A whistling “Dear Old Done-
gal,” but he broke it off to re-
mark to himself; “You’ll stay a
while longer here, Marty Mc-
Gowan; while there’s wild duck
in the swamp. They’re a fine
thing—the black duck—roasted
or an y wa y ”


FASTEST
to LON DON I
ONLY 3} DAYS*
via AMERICA
(NO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
day! at II a.m., arrive London
for breakfast on Tuesdayl No
problem* for through pas-
sengers—BCPA’s fare includes a
special dollar allowance for meal*
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-6,
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only 77 hn,
4S mins.
df
B C PA
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
d
fd
J Departures every Wednesday and
aturday. Full particulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office; 53 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
f
■CA.4l.ta
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
, JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD* SCOTCH I
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK. /
\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY, li
JW.W7B.W
THE SERVICE MAN
ON THE EDGE IN KOREA.
“Ek Dum”: The Korean
fighting ran very much accord-
ing to expectations during the
week. The Americans continued
to draw in their lines under
heavy pressure, but without any
permanent break-through by the
North Koreans.
By August 2 the defence-box
was bounded roughly by the
road from Yongdok to Ham-
chang on the north side (which
the S. Koreans were holding),
about 90 miles; on the west by
features mainly to the east of
the north-south road running
from Hamchang, via Kumchon
and Hypochon, to Chinju, which
city was in Korean hands. The
length of that side of the box
(direct line) was about 100 miles.
The southern and eastern sides
of the box were bounded by the
sea.
Hie enemy’s tactics were as
before. They were pressing for-
ward on the three main roads
from the west, but their chief
operation, as became more and
more evident each day, was to
tear the southern flank of the
defence from its foundations and
go careering along the south
coast by the shortest route to
Fusan.
Having taken Chinju on this
south road, they were, on August
2, driving hard for Masan,
which is only 40 miles from
Fusan, with die Americans re-
tiring in an orderly way. The
north-west corner of the box at
Hamchang (S. Korean front) was
being flattened rapidly. Towards
the centre of the line the Com-
munists were within less than 30
miles of the key city of Taegu,
but despite all this the position
was relatively satisfactory, and
the truth of General Mac-
Arthur’s statement that the
situation was “not critical” was
obvious from the nature of the
fighting oyer the previous three
days.
The Americans were shorten-
ing their lines to the point at
which they would have the least
possible front to defend. With
reinforcements in the offing and
the supply base at Fusan begin-
ning to swell with the materiel
which was being packed into it,
it was obvious that if they, with
their present thin divisions and
limited South Korean support,
could hold off a break-through
their chances would grow better
and better every day with a
shortening line until the point
was reached at which they would
stand and fight carrying on a
static war of attrition and keep-
ing their lines of communica-
tion as short as possible and the
enemy’s as long as possible until
the time came for an advance
northward.
Reinforcements Arrive
On July 31 part of the Second
U.S. Division landed and began
to move to the battle line at
once, and the next day the ad-
vance guard of the U.S. Marines
landed and followed them to-
wards the west.
These two divisions are armed
with the latest weapons and con-
tain a larger proportion of war-
experienced officers and a leaven
of seasoned troops.
With the knowledge that these
troops were coming, the Com-
munists redoubled their efforts
to break the southern hinge, but
the whole U.S. line drew back
over the Naktong River, which
flows down a valley almost due
north and south until a few
miles above Masan. It is at
some times of the year a turbu-
lent stream in parts and more
difficult of passage than some
of the shallower and more slug-
gish streams further north.
The southern end of the de-
fence line was now not much
more than 30 miles from Fusan,
and the North Korean Radio
was declaring that within 10 days
the fighting would be all over.
Another squeeze was given to
the present defence-box on
August 3, when the U.S. line
had been reduced 125 miles, ex-
cept in the north, where late in
the week there was fierce fight-
ing. This week it was the South
Koreans’ turn to own Yongdok.
Three desperate Communist
attacks on August 4 and 5 were
thrown back with casualties,
according to the official U.S.
estimate, numbering about
1200. The enemy had crossed
the Naktong in three places feel-
ing out U.S. and South Korean
strength, but appeared to be re-
forming for a mass attack to
decide the fate of the war. 4 On
August 6 they held one bridge-
head over the Naktong.
The United States forces lay,
on August 7, on the eve of a
great battle for which they had
prepared the ground. A zone a
dozen miles or more deep had
been cleared of villages and other
features which infiltrators might
make use of. It was denied to
civilians on pain of death. All
the southern sectors were held
by American troops in depth
with the South Koreans massed
in the north.
Not Necessarily Final
The United Nations’ present
line may not be their final one.
Though 125 miles of perimeter
does not sound much to hold
when you say it quickly, it is
a great deal under Korean con-
ditions for a force which at
present consists of fewer than five
short U.S. divisions mostly made
up of green and young troops
and one badly-mauled, plus the
South Koreans. There is likely
to be some further surrender of
land and, perhaps, even of
Taegu, and the fate of Fusan
will almost certainly be decided
in the coming fight, in which the
issue will be not whether ground
can be held but whether so much
damage can be done to the in-
vaders that they are rendered in-
capable of a decisive big smash
through the U.S. lines. So long
as the U.S. lines hold, even if
they move back, all is well.
Unless their resources are un-
limited the enemy should be
coming to the point at which,
out on the end of long lines of
communication, he is feeling the
pinch, more especially as the
United Nations air and sea
attacks have been stepped up.
The R.A.A.F. 77th Squadron
flew 550 missions one day late
in the week and B-29s were re-
ported to have “wiped out” the
four main munition plants of
North Korea. British, U.S. ships
and Australia’s Bataan have been
busy on shore targets all the
week and carrier-based aircraft
have been in action in the last
few days, another carrier of the
Essex class having been added
to the U.S. forces at sea.
There has been a notable
absence of enemy air activity.
The Communists apparently have
machines, some of which have
been destroyed by strafing during
the past few days, but they are
tied to airfields. One theory is
that they are being husbanded
for the final battle. But the
reason might lie in lack of fuel
or of pilots.
War Danger and
Weakness.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Fadden an-
nounced on August 2 that “as
an immediate contribution” the
Australian infantry component
of 8.C.0.F. will be built up to
“full war establishment” so that
it can be used at the earliest pos-
sible moment for operations.
The troops which will go to
Korea will be volunteers, and
the gaps left in the Japan force
will be filled by volunteers from
the Australian Regular Army.
It was stated that what was
contemplated in actual figures
was the sending of a battalion
of troops “as soon as possible.”
There was some talk of ex-
panding this to a brigade
group, but Ministerial imagina-
tion seems to have become
bogged at the idea. We had
two brigades in Singapore in the
last war.
On August 4, the 36th anni-
versary of the day when the
young men of an Australia with
half the population today be-
gan to fight for places in the re-
cruiting queues of World War I,
the “S. M. Herald” announced
that Mr. Francis had stated that
“a thousand civilians with full-
time Army experience” would
be enlisted for service abroad m
the present emergency on the
following basis: Queensland,
140; N.S.W., 400; Victoria,
270 ; South Australia, 90 ; Wes-
tern Australia, 70; and Tas-
mania, 30. The recruits are to
be between 20 and 40 to fill
Regular Army gaps.
The same day the Sydney
"Daily Telegraph” announced
that Mr. Menzies had said in
Washington that he expects to
send "perhaps 2000 to 3000
volunteers to Korea,” whither he
himself was reported to be going
to view the situation.
“Pressure on Staffs”
The Army department already
had been hastily receiving
and listing the names of volun-
teers who were willing to go to
Korea, but it appears that any
of these who still wish to be
among the 1000 who will be
asked to come forward will now
have to submit themselves again
for three-years’ service in any
part of the world. Mr. Francis
cannot accept the first offer
which they were patriotic
enough to make because "pres-
sure on recruiting staffs will not
permit of individual notices
being sent to these men, even
though their addresses have been
recorded.”
Pressure on recruiting staffs!
If the enlistment of a few hun-
dred volunteers brings the posi-
tion to this, what will it be like
if Mr, Francis is called on to
produce a few divisions for the
urgent defence of the country, as
it appears possible that he
may be in the next year or two?
The position of Australian de-
fence in general is shocking,
thanks to Mr. Chifley’s policy
of accepting his defence policy
meekly at the hands of the
hodge-podge of ex-Communists
and opportunists which calls it-
self the Federal Labor Party
Triennial Conference.
Mr. Fadden emphasised in his
statement that not only must
gaps in the Regular Army
caused by volunteers going to
Japan be filled, but that the de-
partment must "step up recruit-
ing to meet the numbers ap-
proved by the Government for
the permanent Naval, Army and
Air Forces as necessary for de-
fence preparations for both
short- and long-term dangers.
The existing deficiency is 13,000
men.” There is also need (he
said) to build up the Citizen
Forces by 29,000 on a volunteer
basis —which means nearly treb-
ling it. And so the Government
will “immediately intensify the
recruiting campaign to obtain
men for the forces in Japan, all
permanent forces and citizen
forces, as well as launching the
national system of defence”—
which involves inducting up
to 15,000 youths 18 years old
and upwards into training-
camps and depots next year.
If an enemy strikes in the
meantime it can’t be helped.
Total Defence “Needs”
In 1942, when Cabinet dis-
cussed the defence of Australia
with its military advisers, it was
told that if a large-scale military
invasion of this country were in-
tended by the Japanese 25 divi-
sions would be needed to make
sure of its being defended. The
Curtin Government told Mr.
Churchill that he must immedi-
ately provide them. Yet eight
years after these alarms and ex-
cursions there is endless fuss
among Ministers and the daily
Press about sending a single bat-
talion group away—much more
than was made about the
arrangements for the enlistment
of whole divisions in previous
wars.
A battalion group, which is all
that can be contemplated on
the basis of usage of a
maximum of 2000 to 3000 men
(and is more than the Regular
Army could provide effectively
at short notice), may not be able
to fight ih Korea as a separate
unit. It may have to be in-
tegrated with the Americans and
become accustomed to American
arms and methods, if it is to be
of real use and not a logistical
burden on the command.
It seems that what Australia
wants more than anything at the
moment are some young,
energetic Service Ministers with
a sense of reality and of the
dangers which beset us. Also
Ministers who will not pander
to the delusion that the Aus-
tralian-trained soldier must be
pampered and is incapable of
surviving under a bell-tent, and
that the time to begin building
submarine-chasers is when the
enemy is on the mat.
Submarine-chasers
Six of these vessels are to go
on the stocks. The accounts of
them make them sound like
battleships which will be at sea


wmm
r :::>*■»
&
iS:
}■■:»
mmmm
wy.
-? A. 4;
yJylJ'
•«SSS
CODMBE COTTAGE. VIC.
Coombe Cottage, at Cold-
stream, on the Healesville
Road, Victoria, was the
much-loved home of the
late Dame Nellie Melba. To
it she returned whenever
freedom from her musical
obligations made it possible.
The inscription on the
Coombe Cottage clock
tower, “East, West, Home's
Best,” certainly emphasises
her love of home.
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
796 D-7-50
The SUB
to ItqM
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
it lights ever if time
df
Divorce Notices.
uN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ik Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM SUMMERS late of
Croydon Park.—TAKE NOTICE that
CLARICE MAUD SUMMERS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2566 of 1948 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the Ist day of September 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WILLIAM J. SINCLAIR,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, No. 2 Bridge
Street. Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO EMANUEL SULLIVAN late of Bar-
caldine in the State of Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that HILDA CATLING SULLI-
VAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1805 of 1950 under Queensland
Law and the Federal Matrimonial Causes
Act on the ground of Desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
eighteenth day of October 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
MR. N. D. THOMAS, Solicitor, 51 Oastle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
To NELLIE EDNEY late of Haberfleld
near Sydney in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that the said
EDWARD JOSEPH HERBERT EDNEY
has filed a Petition No. 2034 of 1950 for
divorce on the grounds of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the twenty-
seventh day of September 1950 and you
may obtain a copy of the Petition free
of charge from MESSRS. LIONEL DARE
& REED, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
11c Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
fhe Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
M A RI NE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Director,: THOMAS A. MAONET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
R A MA W7tp ™ Oftatms®; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone; B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
m&m s
fmsM
m
m
i' > 1
fS»
... «
a
... ™
6% financial future, and that of my
family, is well cared for, with a margin
for safety, £OO/ Life Assurance sees to
that I What’s more. I’ve secured this pro-
tection for the lowest possible outlay. For,
thanks to healthy competition among Life
Assurance Offices, I enjoy the most
economical premium rates. $
This statement is echoed by the three million Australians who
own one or more Life, Assurance policies. They, like Mr. L. E.
Richards of Woodford, know that no other form of thrift offers
such returns... such complete security. Our free and indepen*
dent Life Assurance Offices offer the most economical terms
consistent with safety.
Australia's policyholders are doing far more than protecting
their own future, however. Because their savings are invested
in Public loans and works of national importance, they ar«
helping to develop the nation, bringing immediate benefits
to everybody.
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
BENEFIT EVERY AUSTRALIAN
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
HOW TO SAVE PETROL
AND IMPROVE ENGINE PERFORMANCE
To effect worth-while petrol
savings with new power to climb
steep hills in top gear; new
flexibility to throttle down in
traffic without “clutch-riding”;
new speed of which you never
dreamed your car capable; new
efficiency to give “smooth-as-
silk” operation and complete
combustion to prevent engine
wear, ordinarily caused by
hard carbon, you need a British
Electro-energiser! An ingenious
invention which is saving
money and trouble for many
motorists. Can be speedily in-
stalled WITHOUT TOOLS and
fits all internal combustion en-
gines except Ford V 8 and those
with magneto ignition.
THE AUSTRALIAN CON-
TROLLERS HAVE SET ASIDE
ONE THOUSAND FOR FREE
DISTRIBUTION ON ONE
CONDITION, T HE OBJEC-
TIVE BEING TO FURTHER
POPULARISE THIS VALU-
ABLE MOTOR AID.
If you wish to save petrol and
improve engine performance,
tear out this announcement,
attach name and address, and
post today. This will place you
under no obligation.
H. W. ROBINSON
Turramurra, N.S.W.
“ Bui.e/8/eo
next month, whereas they really
are frigate types on a destroyer
scale (2000 tons), each to cost
in Australian yards £2,000,000,
and to take—on the experience
with the Tobruk and other re-
cent vessels—as long to build as,
or longer to build than, any
battleship ever produced by the
Admiralty.
Somebody seems to need to
tell the Government and the
people of Australia that they
are facing a grave emer-
gency, and may shortly be fight-
ing for their very lives against
hordes which have no standards
except those of necessity, and no
knowledge of what leisure
means, and that if we are going
to provide effective defence for
the country our sense of sacrifice
will need to be developed a great
deal.
Britain Arms.
“Ek Dum”: The atmosphere
of the world underwent a more
than subtle change during the
week. With the days in which
the invasion of Formosa will be
possible shortening and with an
early autumn in prospect in
Europe, every nation seemed to
go from a condition of alert to
preparations with quick transi-
tion to action-stations.
There was intensified hate in
Moscow’s propaganda with its
suave confidence-man voice from
the Kremlin’s Radio assuring
the world that the American and
British Governments did not
want peace and that the “peoples
of the world must insist that
their preparations for war
against the peace-loving nations
of Eastern Europe and Asia be
halted” ... in other words that
preparations for defence against
Soviet Union aggression must
be sabotaged at any price. In
Eastern Germany the local
Russian armies, up to 25 divi-
sions, are finishing suspicious-
looking manoeuvres.
These actions have not been
lost with the Western Powers.
The continued threatening atti-
tude of Russia and Russian
satellite Powers in Europe and
of the Chinese Communists in
Asia has at last made it obvious
that to leave the Western world
unarmed in the coming year or
two would be tantamount to
suicide. Even the weary British,
with their complacent Socialist
Government, have been forced
to take the plunge.
President Truman asked all
Atlantic Union nations to give
details of their defence pro-
grammes by August 5, And on
the day before the 36th anni-
versary of the outbreak of World
War I, the British Government
announced a new £3,400,000,000
rearmament programme to be
carried out in the next three
years.
It falls barely short of actual
war-time spending and represents
10 per cent, of British national
income—in other words, virtually
the same sacrifice per head is be-
ing made as that of the United
States, though relatively in terms
of spending-power it is much
greater, and it makes Australia’s
£60,000,000 or so Australian
money look shabby. It means
that the British will go back to
shortages from which they
suffered for a decade as part of
their sacrifice in the last war
and from which they have just
escaped.
Motor-car manufacture will
be Curtailed in favor of tank-
building, Household amenities
will be replaced by military
electrical installations. Civilian
building, civilian transport,
manufacturing for peaceful pur-
poses will be curtailed.
World conditions are evidently
going to throw* a very much
added burden on Australia if
we live up to British and
American standards of prepara-
tion. And a first move towards
meeting the position might well
be a curtailment of so-called
social services and a freezing of
wages, the rises in which, absurd
in many cases, are mainly re-
sponsible for the soaring costs
of food and other essentials.
Mr. Spender, during the week,
said that we were “living on the
brink of a precipice and no one
would say what the next 12
months or even the next 12
weeks held.’’
A “Government spokesman”
declared that the Government
felt that'’ international relation-
ships were worsening and that
it felt that fighting might not
long be confined to Korea. And
Mr. Fadden went the length of
meeting Dr. Evatt to discuss
global defence because he
‘thinks it is above party politics.”
So long as he remembers that
Dr. Evatt has always held the
opposite view , the discussion
might be useful. Mr. Chifley,
In a snarling statement which
was all political manoeuvre,
showed clearly what his view
vas. With him only the class-
war seems to matter.


A Group of Experts to Manage
ft St
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will bo handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Companv
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For fuU letails, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.CJS,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming,
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Penuaaeat Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-2.5 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.27.19
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BOGUS “PEACE”
The Communists’ so-called
“world peace appeal,” concocted
some months ago at Stockholm
and being circulated for signa-
tures in the U.S. and elsewhere,
has been analysed by U.S. secre-
tary of State Acheson as seek-
ing to do two things:
(1) Promote the unenforceable
Soviet proposals concerning
atomic energy, ignoring the
effective control-plan approved
by the overwhelming majority of
United Nations and opposed
only by the Soviet Union and
four of its satellites; and (2)
centre attention on the use of
atomic weapons by branding as
a war-criminal the first nation
to use them, ignoring the aggres-
sion in other forms at present
being practised by the Com-
munists.
“The real crime against
humanity,” Acheson com-
mented, “is aggression, and, in
particular, the deliberate resort
to armed aggression in defiance
of the United Nations. The war-
criminals are the people who
sanction such action. The wea-
pons used are quite incidental to
the crime. Thus the Communists
throughout the world have given
the lie to the Stockholm propo-
sal in their support of North
Korean aggression.
“Just before the North
Korean armed forces launched
their unprovoked attack against
the republic of Korea,” he
added, “more than half the
population of North Korea was
reported to have signed the peti-
tion. This illustrates better than
anything else the basic hypocrisy
of the Communist ‘peace
appeal’.”
Yet, as “New York Times”
points out, though the entire
bogus “peace appeal” is such an
obvious and transparent attempt
to cover up the Soviet record of
aggression and similar attempt
to sabotage all efforts to ban
atomic weapons under genuinely
effective safeguards, the petition
is acquiring a considerable num-
ber of signatures in many coun-
tries :
“One reason for this, pointed
out by Lewis L. Strauss, until
recently a member of the Atomic
Energy Commission* is the
‘silliest of all atomic fallacies’—
the fallacy, namely, that if we
disaraiv'then the Soviets will be
under some irresistible moral
compulsion to do likewise,’ But
another and perhaps even more
potent reason is that, as in the
case of Hitler’s Mein Kampf,
few persons outside the Com-
munist leadership have read or
absorbed the Communist Mein
Kampf, as written by Lenin and
Stalin, These people therefore
do not fully comprehend Com-
munist aims or see through
Communist manoeuvres. For in
these turgid volumes anyone may
read that Moscow’s aim is a
Communist mastery of the
world, already one-third accom-
plished, and that in the pursuit
of its final goal the Kremlin
has not only repudiated as a
matter of doctrine all Western
standards of morality, but has
made a science of mendacity
and is using, in Lenin’s words,
‘any ruse, cunning, unlawful
method, evasion and concealment
of the truth’ to gain its ends.
“Even those unread in
Leninist - Stalinist ‘dialectics’
should have been made wary by
recent history, and by their own
previous experience. For the
latest Soviet manoeuvre merely
repeats the tactics which the
Communists found useful in the
past and which Hitler also tried
to adapt to his own purposes.
Instead of the ‘democratic front’
which the Soviets built up every-
where, after adoption of the
‘Trojan-horse’ strategy in the
’thirties, they are now attempt-
ing to build a ‘peace front’ or
an ‘anti-atomic front,’ to enlist
the support of trusting people.
Like Hitler, who constantly
shouted peace and concluded
innumerable ‘non - aggression
pacts’ to cover up his aggressive
aims, they likewise pay lip-
service to peace, while swallow-
ing one country after another,
and offer any pact that will tie
up their prospective victims
while leaving the Soviets them-
selves a free hand to break it.
“The record speaks for itself,
and explains why there is no
peace, and why the threat of
atomic warfare still hangs over
the heads of all of us. Immedi-
ately after the war, placing their
trust in paper agreements with
the Soviets, ranging from the
Atlantic Charter to Potsdam, the
Western Powers disarmed to the
point of helplessness and pressed
forward proposals for the aboli-
tion of atomic weapons as soon
as effective safeguards against
their secret production had been
agreed upon. Yet the Soviets
not only retained the largest
peace-time armies in history, but
also proceeded to expand their
armaments to the limit of their
capacity and to militarise, regi-
ment and put in uniform their
entire nation. Backed by this
military preponderance, they
broke every agreement they ever
made, whether in Europe or in
Asia, sabotaged every peace plan
that did not deliver the nations
involved into their hands and
expanded their slave empire to
one-third of the human race.
“They blocked, boycotted and
sabotaged the United Nations,
and, in particular, they repudi-
ated the only feasible plan for
control of atomic energy and
abolition of atomic weapons ad-
vanced thus far, and agreed
upon by all nations except Soviet
Russia and its satellites.
“Yet today the Soviets pose
as the champions of peace and
denounce as ‘warmongers’ in-
tiended victims who still have the
means and the courage to look to
their own defences. That, too,
was one of Hitler’s methods. It
failed. There is enough intelli-
gence and instinct for self-
preservation left in the West to
assure a like failure of this
method when used by the
Soviets.”
Tough Job in Korea.
Latest air-mails show that,
though there has been some
improvement in realism towards
Korea in British comment, the
attitude of leaving it to America
(already noted here) is still
sufficiently evident to be com-
mented on by, among others,
the “Observer” and the “Econo-
mist.”
Thus, the “Observer”:
“At present, the attitude of
quite a few people in this country
is curiously like that of Ameri-
can isolationists in the past. They
feel that the defence of Southern
— “L’Aurore,” France.
“AT YOUR SERVICE, GENERAL!”
Korea is not a British interest;
they doubt whether the Southern
Korean regime deserves support;
they resent being dragged into
what they are inclined to regard
as a display of American im-
perialism, even though it is
under the United Nations’ flag.
“These views,” the same paper
comments, “are all wide of the
mark. The essential question is
the old question that arose when
Mussolini invaded Abyssinia and
when Hitler marched on Vienna
and on Prague, Shall a local
act of aggression be left to take
its course, or shall it be regarded
as a challenge to that rule of law
which, if it is not defended
against minor infractions, will
quite certainly be broken even-
tually on a very much larger and
more dangerous scale?”
The “Economist” notes an
even worse aspect: “signs of
angry American reactions to the
‘criticism’ of America’s mili-
tary performance that is re-
ported to have appeared in
other countries, particularly in
Britain.” And, though the
“Economist” rises to the defence,
declaring that, in fact, “There
has been nothing but admiration
in Britain for the boldness of the
President’s move and nothing
but understanding for the in-
tense difficulty of mounting an
effective defence at a moment s
notice and some 5000 miles from
the home base,” it must be said
that quite enough has been
printed (not in British Commun-
ist papers only) to justify some
American resentment.
That, too, quite apart from
the fact of the U.S. having been
left to do the ground fighting
alone; on which, the “Econo-
mist,” seeing justice in American
criticism: “It is impossible for
the layman to speak with auth-
ority on such an issue, but the
existence of a garrison of 40,000
regular soldiers in Hong Kong,
relatively within reach of the
Korean battlefront, is bound to
raise questions which should be
conclusively answered in the in-
terests of Allied understanding.
One would have thought that
Anglo-American military rela-
tions and consultation were by
now such that joint —rather than
unilateral decision and an-
nouncement would have been
possible.”
There were a lot of promises
at U.N.0., but the U.S. was still
left to face alone, with “occu-
pation troops,” and few even of
them, the aggression in the
early stages. “The G.ls.
[“New York Times” reported at
that stage] were -up against a
strong foe. It is estimated the
North Koreans have thrown
into battle, or have in immediate
reserve, some fifteen small div-
isions, or 75,000 to 100,000 men.
Reserves in rear areas are
thought to include between
60,000 and 100,000 Koreans who
fought with the Chinese Com-
munists in Manchuria.
“The North Koreans are well
trained. Their morale is high.
Many have been battle-
toughened by campaigns in
China. Their arms, particularly
artillery and tanks, are power-
ful. Their chief offensive
weapon is the Russian medium
32-ton T 34 tank, mounting a
76 mm. <3in.) gun. Its speed and
low silhouette make it a diffi-
cult target; low ground pressure
and wide tracks give it
manoeuvrability in the muddy
Korean terrain; its armor is
sloped to make missiles glance
off. There were reports that still
larger tanks than the T 34, some
probably armed with 85 to
100 mm. guns, were among the
150 to 175 North Korean tanks
in action.
“The North Koreans fought
skilfully. They crossed the Han
River with hastily thrown-up
wooden spans. As the troops
advanced supplies and the build-
ing of supply bases followed
swiftly. The North Korean in-
fantry columns, with tank spear-
heads sometimes 40 strong that
quickly punched through de-
moralised South Koreans and the
first American outposts, thrust
forward in deep enveloping or
flanking drives in the classic
military pattern.”
General MacArthur had no
illusions. He spoke with a
soldier’s realism: “The Ameri-
can forces were confronted with
a resourceful Red commander
who skilfully applied frontal
pressure with an envelopment.”
The Americans called on to
face all that were thus described
by “New York Times”: “The
G.ls. who were rushed into the
forward fighting areas were fac-
ing fire for the first time. Be-
cause of the speed with which
they were sent into battle they
were thinly deployed. They had
no tanks.”
For “air-cover” over them,
“the chief plane available, the
FBO, was not built for the
ground-support job. It was de-
signed as a high-level intercep-
tor. Its range is short. Since
there are few airstrips in Korea
suitable for fighter bases—most
of them have earth runways that
become almost unusable in the
rainy season—the FBo’s had to
fly to their targets from Japanese
bases some 350 miles away. This
is about the limit of their opera-
tional range. That meant they
often had only a few minutes
over the battlefield.”
Soviet Soft Spot.
Asher Lee, whose The Soviet
Air Force has been very favor-
ably reviewed overseas, admits
in a “Nineteenth Century”
article that the Red Army’s
armored divisions and motorised
troops would be vastly superior
to any land forces that Western
Union or the Atlan tic-treaty
Powers could mobilise in the
next five years.
Therefore, wherever it is
planned to hold out in Western
Europe, this can only be done
if the Allied air force can slow
up the Red Army’s blitzkrieg:
“Mahan’s military dictum that
‘it behoves countries to see to it
that they are at least strong
enough to gain time’ fits the
Western Union situation per-
fectly. The only way for the
air forces to help the ground
troops gain time is by concen-
trating all forces on the job of
immobilising Red Army move-
ments by rail and road.
“The most competent air
leader to judge the wisdom of
this plan is undoubtedly Lord
Tedder. In World War II he
surprised both his opponents and
himself by the effective way his
air squadrons reduced the
enemy communication systems
to a shambles. In his Knowles
Lectures delivered at Cambridge


Immediate action needed by
holders of Commonwealth 4% Securities Issued
in August, 1931, Maturing in August, 1950, or
3f% Securities Issued in March, 1940, and
Maturing in August, 1950-56.
August 15
O
is the maturity
date of
your securities
Interest payments from the Commonwealth Securi-
ties identified above will cease on August 15, when
they mature. If you hold any of these Securities,
convert them at once into the Tenth Security Loan.
(Attention is directed specially to the fact that
the 3§% Securities issued in March, 1940, will
be redeemed on August 15, 1950, instead of
August 15, 1956, the Treasurer having exercised
his option in that regard. It is important to
note that the 3|% Securities due 1950-56 must
be converted now or redeemed.) The column on
the right gives you all the information you need.
Read these details now.
d
YOUR MATURING COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
INTO THE
Tenth Security Loan
NEW ISSUES available to cash Investors
Intended primarily to give holders of maturing Common-
wealth Securities the opportunity to renew their investment,
the Tenth Security Loan also provides for the acceptance of
new cash. It therefore gives Australia’s savers—everyone with
£lO or more available—the opportunity to share the many
advantages offered. The Tenth Security Loan closes next
Tuesday, August 15, so immediate application is advisable. See
column on right for full information about this Loan and how
to invest.
ALL YOU WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
These are the Issues which
mature on 15th August, 1950:
(1) 31% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in March, 1940. (It
should be specially noted that
the maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th August,
1950-56, but the Treasurer has
exercised his option to redeem
these Securities on 15th August,
1950, and they are now due for
redemption or conversion on
that date.)
(2) 4% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock Issued in August, 1931,
and maturing in August, 1950.
WHAT TO DO
If you have lodged with your
bank for safe custody more than
£lO worth of any of the Securi-
ties listed above, you should
have received a conversion
application form. If you have
not received such a form, check
the maturity dates of your
Securities in one of the follow-
ing ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your
possession: Look at them at
once and compare the rates and
maturity dates printed at the
top with those indicated above.
2. If you lodged your Bonds
with your bank for safe-keeping:
Most banks issue a receipt or
acknowledgment for Bonds left
with them for safe custody. If
you hold any such receipts,
compare the maturity dates
with those listed above.
3. If you cannot discover
maturity dates: Oc to your bank
to-day and ask whether ar y of
the Securities listed above are
held on your behalf.
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities
are about to mature ask your
bank or stockbroker for an
application form for conversion
into the Tenth Security Loan.
Pill in one form for each sdries
of Bonds or Stock maturing
and hand it back. That’s all. You
will then possess Tenth Security
Loan Bonds dr Inscribed Stock
of the same value as your
maturing Securities and interest
on your Securities will continue.
Interest on the new Securitie-
is payable each six months at
3J% per annum for 11-14 years
or at 2% per annum for three
years. (investment in 2%
Securities must be for £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
CASH
INVESTMENT
As well as those with maturing
Securities to convert, everyone
may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O, £lOO.
£5OO or £1,000) or Inscribed
Stock through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3i% per annum for
11-14 years or at 2% per annum
for three years. (Investment in
.2% Securities must be for £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There’s no better place
for your savings. Invest at once.
The Tenth Security Loan
closes on August 15.
IOSUO.IIIJO
•‘Best of a 11 ... .V
23rd June, 1950.
My memory has improved. 1
now pay more attention to detail,
which is a big thing in my work.
Best of all though, my wife says
I am far more considerate since
taking the Pelman Course.
—K.XI6, Mine Manager.
Increased Faith in Self
13th June, 1950.
I have gained definitely in memory,
observation, efficiency, increasing
my faith in myself, in having
better contact with other people,
and in a monetary way. Thank
you very much.
—H.3013, Draughtsman.
Headquarters
London.
Established
Melbourne,
1907.
w
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank, has
made arrangements to meet the
financial restrictions and enable
residents of New Zealand to enrol
for the Pelman Course of Training
without delay. Write in the first
instance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Professor of English
Literature, Cambridge, said: “Pelmanism has unity of
design: it has the root of the matter.” Dr. Maunque,
Professor of Neurology, Brussels, said: “Pelmanism—and
I admire it unreservedly—has in simple terms rendered the
doctrinal side of psychology accessible to everyone,”
There is a law, which is the “root of the matter, in
each of the qualities of observation, concentration, self-
confidence, will-power, initiative, social ease, and for eacn
of the several aspects of memory. Pelmanism explains
these laws and applies them to the pupil’s own condition.
“The Efficient Mind” is posted free on application
to the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 3vo
Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Write, call or telephone.
TO the Pelman Institute, 8 Gloucester House,
386 Flinders Fane, Melbourne. . ; ,
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mino.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
241......
University in 1947 he said: ‘lt
was considered that the enemy
would almost certainly be hold-
ing ample stocks of oil to meet
the immediate emergency ; attack
on the oil industry was not likely
to give the immediate assistance
required. It was therefore de-
cided that the primary target
system for the Allied strategic
bomber forces should be the
transportation system upon
which the enemy reinforcement
movements would depend.’
“Post-war analysis has shown
how successful this air strategy
was 'in the 1944 situation to
which it referred. To this writer
it seems perfectly tailored to
meet the current situation of the
Western Union planners until
well into the 1950’5.
“The weakness of the Soviet
Red Army’s huge ground re-
sources is that they must be
moved and supplied. They can-
not do this by air. They must
use road and rail communica-
tions known to us. Even Soviet
security cannot hide the rail and
road system of Europe. We can
plan most of our target-aiming
points in comfort and certainty
now.’’
A “Full” Debunk.
London “Economist” hits at
the claim of the Attlee (and
Chifley) Socialists that their
“planning” alone had kept up
full employment:
“It is simply not true that
planning and nationalisation
have maintained full employ-
ment in Britain in the last five
years. Full employment here —
as in France and Switzerland, or
Scandinavia or the Common-
wealth —has been maintained
partly by Marshall Aid, partly
by the level of post-war demand
and partly by the phenomenal
prosperity of the United States.
“What has done the trick has
not been the successful applica-
tion of Socialist principles in
Britain but the successful work-
ing of capitalism in America.
“In 1949 a mere five per cent,
fall in the level of American
business activity was enough to
bring Britain to the brink of
financial disaster. The real test
of planning as a means of
securing full employment will
occur when there is a real
falling-off of world demand for
Europe’s products.”
D.P. Remnants.
The International Refugee
Organisation’s hopes of resettling
in Australia and America all its
charges remaining in Western
Germany are not shared by Ger-
mans, reports a London “Sun-
day Times” writer.
Instead, the West Germans
“believe they will have to
shoulder indefinitely the responsi-
bility for the remaining displaced
persons, many of whom are
suffering from incurable diseases,
are disabled through war injury
or are otherwise incapable of
looking after themselves.
“Australia has been taking up
to 3000 a month for the past
year, and America now promises
to allow more in, but the supply
of suitable candidates is now
exhausted.
“One 1.R.0. official described
what is left in Germany as the
"Flying Saucers"
are REAL!
Flying saucers don’t come
from Russia or Mars, but they
DO exist. Without revealing
military secrets, that’s what
Henry J. Taylor, internation-
ally known journalist and
radio commentator, says in
August Reader’s Digest. Some
are guided, others are not.
They have no stream of light
or smoke, no sound. But
they’re all part of a great and
growing experiment. Read this
advance report of new weapons,
still secret, that will prove
wonderful news for the demo-
cratic nations of the world.
This stimulating article is
only one of 31 in August
Reader’s Digest. The world’s
greatest reading value at one
shilling and sixpence. At all
newsagents and bookstalls.
‘scrapings of the barrel,’ with
little hope of resettlement or em-
ployment. Added to this is the
fact that a number of those re-
maining D.Ps. are criminals who
have been released from jail
after serving sentences imposed
since the war.”
Dragnet Digest.
U.N.O. Reform. —One result of
Korea may well be an attempt to
reform U.N.O. against the possibility
of its again becoming imperative to
reach unity and to take action with-
out the assent of the Soviet Union
and its satellites. As “New York
Times” editorially comments; “It
goes without saying that if the Rus-
sians had not been hoist on their own
petard with the result of their boycott
[of U.N.O.] they could have, within
the framework of the United Nations
Charter, used the veto to block the
actions that were taken. This should,
at the least, make it plain that the
United Nations and the free people of
the world should not be placed in a
position in which they can be frus-
trated, stalemated and stultified by the
obduracy of the Communists.”
* * * ♦
Missing Ingredient. —ln all the
pother about the West’s defences
(Lord Vansittart points out in London
“Daily Mail”) no answer has yet
been provided to the important ques-
tion of the missing army divisions:
“None of the Western partners seems
able or willing to provide them, or
to suggest in practice exactly how
somebody else is to provide them.
Yet without the requisite manpower
the West cannot be defended. The
minimum required on our present
basis is some 40 divisions, and many
good judges believe that the Elbe
could not he held with less than 50.
The West is nowhere near the attain-
ment of anything approaching that
figure. Yet, theoretically, it should
not be beyond the resources of
350,000,000 people.”
♦ * ♦ •
Yugos Would Fight. —A “leading
intellectual of the Yugoslav Com-
munist party” (as quoted in a “Man-
chester Guardian” report from Bel-
grade): “If, in 1948, the Russians
had invaded Yugoslavia, the result
in our country would have been chaos
and bewilderment. If the Russians,
let us suppose, were to invade us
today, they would meet with some-
thing quite different. Most of our
people would fight, and fight fero-
ciously.”
* ♦ * *
Socialised Apples. —What happened
to the apples which Canada gifted to
Britain affords (as Edinburgh “Scots-
man” puts it) “an excellent illustra-
tion of the ‘capitalist’ instincts” of
Britain’s Socialist rulers: “The apples
were intended as a gift to the people
of Britain. In the House of Com-
mons, however, the Minister of Food
was obliged to disclose the fact that,
apart from a small quantity dis-
tributed free to schoolchildren, the
Government made a handsome
profit—estimated in the region of
£soo,ooo—by selling the apples to
traders.”
* * * »
Kremlin Eyes India. —“Christian
Science Monitor” Bombay correspon-
dent’s report; “Soviet Russia un-
doubtedly regards India as, in the
long run, an easy mark; in its size
and livflhg conditions it compares only
with Russia itself or with China, and
events in these countries may be
expected logically and in due time,
according to Kremlin reasoning, to
repeat themselves in India.”
* * * *
While the West Drifts ■ —Mr. Chur-
chill, in a recent speech at Plymouth:
“I have myself for some time past
believed that the worst chance for
the life of the free world was to
continue a policy of drift. At least
three precious years of the United
Nations have been wasted in floating
along from day to day, hoping, in
spite of ceaseless disappointments and
warnings, that all would come out
right if we hoped for the best and let
things take their course. But mean-
while the Communist menace and
aggression continue to spread through-
out the world. The 14 men in the
Kremlin —maybe there are 13: we
cannot tell: they drop out sometimes
—the 13 men are not drifting v.ith
events. They work on calculation
and design. They have a‘ policy the
aim of which we can see, but the
execution and timing of their ambition
for Communist world government we
cannot predict.”
* * * ♦
Democracies v. Corns. Further
comment by London “Times” on the
Menzies and other democratic moves
to defeat the Kremlin’s fifth-columns:
“However passionately the Commun-
ists may renounce force when it suits
them to do so, the actions and
speeches of their leaders, particularly
in France and Italy, show that they
are ready at a sign from the Kremlin
to instigate acts of sabotage or dis-
ruption against any Government in
the world. It is a first principle of
democratic theory and a rule of
commonsense that no man can claim
from the State rights which he is not
himself willing to concede to his
fellow-citizens. The Communists,
therefore, are in the ambiguous posi-
tion of demanding, as of right, the
privileges of citizenship from States
which they openly declare their inten-
tion of betraying. The democracies
need not have scruples about taking
measures against them when the need
arises.”


1 ft
MS
f ” \
i!';a-:
■■ ■
'w’s
mr< 5
;■
■
': • < " ■ ,
:. > "w
%' ...
'in
- A<?-"8«
■■V'-V'-
'
prices of
Biromatic
Biroette
& Biro Minor
refills ...
UP went the popularity of the
Biro family right from the start.
Now, because of this, and im-
proved production methods,
DOWN come the prices of
three refills—Biroette, Blro-
matic and Biro Minor.
BIROETTE, BIRO*
MATIC REFILLS
2/11 down to
2/»
BIRO MINOR
REFILLS
3/9 down to
2/11
Uir©
the ballpoint pen
WITHTHE WORLD
fd
13IAH3S 30IM
Pit. Bee. mm~Q P«c. 1943, 133163-31 Dec. 1943. .
LOOK YOUR BEST I
fdf
Viewed from the front, side or
back, your Akubra always looks
smart and stylish.
Choose the colour, size and shape
to suit you and you will un-
doubtedly look better dressed.
[YES, SIR! From any angle, Comfort
Style - Durability Superb Quality.
AKUBRA is ahead for all-round value..
AKUBRA
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress has
been voted the world’s most boring
book in a national literary poll.”
It landed readers in the
Slough of Despond.
*F *F *F
“Your boy-friend is definitely pull-
ing your leg when he says you have
eyes which talk.” —Sydney “D.T.”
Yet is this any stranger than
ears that ring?
•F *F *F
“V. G. Khlopin, the outstanding
Russian radium and radiology spe-
cialist, was the first Russian to carry
out ‘work on determination of the
geologic age of miners.’ ”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
Here the Coal Board relies on
birth-certificates when pehsion-
ing-off our stalactites.
“There is more humbug in an office
than anywhere else in the world.”
—English Works Minister Richard
Stokes.
The sweets of office, eh?
•I*
Crusty.
“Eating unshelled peanuts has been
banned in Essex theatres because it
ruined the audience’s appreciation of
love scenes.”
The love scene was beaut and
real tender, as, armed with a
large bag of unshelled peanuts
and a bottle of bombo, he
steered her to a secluded back-
stall seat and tenderly pressed
her little hand. But, crikey,
there was no answering
response!
As the scene changed to
wolves chasing the heroine
across a deserted ice-pack she
gave his overtures the quick-
freeze. Frustrated, he nervously
crammed his mouth full of un-
shelled peanuts. As, with a
violent flash-back, the scene
shifted to torrid tropics with
safari, sarongs, Scotch and
savoir-faire, he quickly slipped
an arm around and got a brush-
off. Things weren’t so hot. He
distraught. Took a
swig of bombo and munched
savagely. How could this be?
Had he lost his S.A.? Perhaps
he was not suitable for adults
only?
His breast heaving with
emotion and his mouth full of
peanuts, he pressed towards her
and pleadingly mumbled sweet
nothings in a deep, fruity, husky
voice he hardly recognised as
his own. But she only answered
“Nuts!”
Jonas Dill.
•I* •h
“The way you feed a husband has
a good deal to do with his attitude.”
—Cookery article.
If you want him to look proud
never make him eat humble-pie.
“Can anybody tell me why a small
child’s overcoat costs almost as much
as an adult’s overcoat?”
—Letter in women’s paper.
It’s absurd when you con-
sider how little goes into it.
4*
“A consignment of 500 pairs of
‘falsies’ has been sent to Tokyo for
the U.S. movie industry in the Far
East.”— Sydney “ Sunday Telegraph.”
These, no doubt, will be
diverted to the front.
*F 4*
“Choose these telescope fashions
for a trip abroad.”
—Advice in women’s magazine.
If you aim to be a far-seeing
traveller.
“Gerald, which is the station for ‘Music While
You Work ’?”
The bread-and-dripping addict
had his say:
“For gaining weight my diet’s
on its own.
This constant dripping does not
wear away —
But tends to add —a stone.”
B. B.
All Bunk.
“The double bed has almost gone
out of fashion. That is why there
are so many divorces.”
—Judge Thesiger.
When modern fashions brought
a rigid
Insistence on the twin-style bed
Propinquity’s removal led
To marital relations frigid.
For spouses seeking vindication
Pursuant on some falling-out.
Instead of calling off the bout
Just held a grouch in isolation ;
And then concluded by endors-
ing
Some plan to go divided ways
That put an end to married days
By separation or divorcing.
So, grooms-to-be, unless you
hanker
To sail on seas of wedded strife,
Use double bedsteads where the
wife
Fulfils the function of sheet-
anchor.
BERT.
If The “Mike” Gould Only
Chip In.
Ding . . . Dong . . . Ding . . ,
“Have you ladies ever stopped
to consider the advantages
offered by the Strangulo, the
corset with a career? This very
latest foundation-garment has a
five-way stretch and is self-
moulding, boneless, heat- and
cold-resistant. The fact that its
rubber base is reinforced with
boiler-packing and lined with
asbestos makes it positively fire-
proof, If a fire destroyed your
home while you were in it and
you were wearing a Strangulo
corset you could afford to laugh.
And do you realise that if, while
wearing one of these figure-
moulding foundations”
“Moulding is right, listeners ;
they turn you out looking like
a jelly!”
“you happened to be in a
powerhouse and leaned across a
busbar carrying sixty-six
thousand volts you would be
quite safe? You simply must
buy one, obtainable only from
Whisko’s, the store that
specialises in hardware and
underwear.”
“That all the claims made for
the Strangulo by its manufac-
turers are not exaggerated I can
personally vouch”-
“He looks as if he wears one,
too!”
“because the Strangulo
has made my own home the
happiest in our suburb ; the rea-
son is my wife is so contented
because she has been wearing
one for years with com-
plete”—
“You liar! You just said they
were a new line. Anyway, your
wife wears roll-ons —I heard
you say so to Auntie Shirley,
who peddles the times’ stuff.”
“Shut up, will you, do you
want to spike a man? Now,
don’t forget the name—
Strangulo. They have been
specially reduced as a conces-
sion to listeners of this station
to eighty-nine and eleven”
“From sixty-five and eleven.”
-“or only nineteen guineas
if you buy half a dozen. In all
sizes, and there are special ones
for left-handed women. Now,
here is Moanie Tartin to sing
for you”
“Howl, you mean.”
‘“My Baby Plucks Her
Eyebrows with the Pliers.’ ”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Now the time is six fifty--
seven and a quarter”
“How would you know —you
Moscowed your watch a few
weeks ago and you’re still wait-
ing for a winner to get it out of
hock.”
“and here are some pro-
gramme notes. After the news
there will be a talk on the life-
cycle of the hairy caterpillar by
Professor Chris Oils”- —-
“This’ll be a real hair-raiser
that’ll have everyone clinging
eosele-eved to their chairs.”
followed
ana this . 1 IO * lO '7 CU
by a brief discussion on the im-
T f . vorticism on
modernist art” ,
“Here’s where briefs are wel-
come, even in midwinter.”
the weU . knGW n sur-
realist painter Shingell
Shortt”
. “TheyTe teeing
for you tonight, listeners, you d
better nick olf to the pictures! ”
-—-“and at nine o’clock we
will give a special resume of the
Security Council’s deliberations
at Lake”
“Heaven spare us this !”
“Success. This will be fol-
lowed by a recording of Shos-
takovich’s Ninth Symphony.”.
“Whacko! Reach for the
chloroform, listeners!”
* # * ♦
“This is Two K. 0., and the
time, by courtesy of Spoopju
Products, is just eight o’clock.
Spoopju Products are the makers
of the famous wonder
remedy”
“The wonder is that anyone
ever buys a second bottle.”
guaranteed to
cure bronchitis, whooping,
cough, warts, asthma, tennis-
elbow, leprosy, barber’s-rash,
knock-knees or the hives, and
can also be used as a depilatory,
a mouthwash or for stubborn
cases of dandruff. If you get in-
fluenza” —
“Go to bed and save your
money!”
“a bottle of Broncho
mixed with one of rum will,
taken a cupful at a time, make
you feel better instantly. Get a
bottle today”
“One dose. I’d bet, and you’ll
be glad to use the rest on the
floor-joists to beat the white-
ants.”
“Now, in the interest of the
workers’ culture, your favorite
station has a rattling pro-
gramme” —
“Which would rattle anyone.”
“lined up for you. The
dog-racing notes will be followed
by a talk by the secretary of the
Racing Urgers’ Union on the
necessity for revival of the im-
portant mid-week racing in-
dustry, Then there’s a hillbilly
session, description of the
wrestling contest, some Spike
Jones numbers, followed by hot
rhythm from Count Craisie and
his boys. Then at ten o’clock
Dr. Evatt will speak interest-
ingly on his U.N.O. experi-
ences” —
“Interesting. Ha! Ha!”
“and he will be followed
by Mr. Arthur Calwell to
give”
* * * ♦
“Sorry, listeners, for that
shriek you just heard. It seemed
to come from the microphone.”
BO.


NOW! Dental Science Shows that
Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Better Than Any Other Way
of Preventing Tooth Decoy According to Reports
in Authoritative Dental Literature!
2 YEARS’ RESEARCH AT 5
AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES
—case histories of hundreds of
people who used Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating—shows
the Colgate way stops tooth decay
best! Better than any other home
method of oral hygiene known!
Yes, both clinical and X-ray
examinations showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay for
more people—than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
m
I
EVEN MORE IMPORTANT.
THERE WERE NO NEW CAVI-
TIES whatever for more
than 1 out of 3 who used Colgate
Dental Cream correctly! Not even
one new cavity in two full years!
No other dentifrice has proof of
such results! No dentifrice can
stop all tooth decay, or help
cavities already started. But the
Colgate way is the most effective
way yet known to help your
dentist prevent decay!
■
Get more for your money! FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE, ONLY 3/3
f ALWAYS USE
COLGATE'S TO CLEAN .
YOUR BREATH WHILEf
YOU CLEAN YOUR <
TEETH-AND HELP
STOP TOOTH DECAY!
jmm
m
Mo Other Toethposte or Powder
AMMONIATED OR NOT
Offer* Proof of Such Result* I
D4/160
BOWLS
A valuable book of
interest to all
bowlers—“ How To
Become a Champion” by R. T.
Harrison. Fully illustrated. Send for
your copy to “The Northern Daily
Leader,” Tam worth, N.S.W. 5/-
Posted.
m s
■
S®? \
y. V :
m m s
•V
wSsW^v*
If your car ran on eight tyres instead of four
and you drove 24 hours a day for 4 years you
wouldn’t pile up as much tyre mileage as Good-
year drivers have in testing Super-Cushion Tyres.
In over 8,000,000 miles of test driving they have
proved this bigger, softer tyre gives more mileage
than conventional tyres, and far more comfort.
Super-Cushions will fit your present wheels, so,
see your Goodyear Dealer.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
d
f
cushion
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother, Safer Ride . . •
Quicker Stops . . . Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car Economy-jj
all fhls and GREATER
MILEAGE. TOO!
MORE PEOPLE,
THE WORLD OVER,
RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES T
THAN OR ANY OTHER MAKE.
df
11l JI
tu-n
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Providing a fanfare opening for
the new season, instead of imparting
a flourishing farewell to the old, as it
had been originally scheduled to do,
the S.T.C. Cup meeting at Rosehill
seemed to offer a good omen. For the
first Saturday in ages the weather was
beautifully fine, although a trifle cool
and breezy, and, on the more prac-
tical side of proceedings, favorites
won five of the seven events, includ-
ing the Cup.
For one man present at Rosehill
the opening of the new season meant
much more than its being a universal
equine birthday. Handed a two-
years disqualification by the V.R.C.
in October, 1948, jockey D. Munro
was recently granted a small remission
of the sentence, and resumed riding
on Saturday. Even if Munro had
chosen to make his initial reappear-
ance on a three-legged billygoat his
mount would have been assured of
strong support, inspired either by
sentiment or imagined shrewdness.
As it was, Darby’s Cup mount was
the well-performed Anthelion, and
there was a rush to back him.
Anthelion started a close second-
favorite at fours. The warm favorite,
however, was Carapooe, and, well
ridden by N. McGrowdie, Carapooe
scored a very easy win from Saville
Row, with the recently disappointing
Lordly making up a good deal of
ground in toe straight to edge
Anthelion out of third place. The
minor sensation of the Cup was the
late withdrawal of the strongly-fancied
Chatspa, which left the doubles
bookies in possession of a pile of
dead money.
Although he is now a five-year-old,
Carapooe may be very much a horse
to watch closely in the spring. He
won his first race, a Mixed Stakes,
less than a year ago, but since then
he has improved rapidly, and has
shown all toe earmarks of a genuine
stayer. At his previous run before
winning the 12-furlongs S.T.C. Cup,
Carapooe ran a fine race to deadheat
for second, beaten a head, in the
Doomben Cup; Saturday’s race he
won by four lengths. In showing
improvement with age, Carapooe may
well be taking after his sire, the
imported John James, who, after per-
forming moderately as a two-year-old,
and poorly as a three-year-old, had
his best season at four, when he won
the Guildford Plate (13|f.), Kempton
Park Silver Jubilee Handicap (12f.)
and Great Yorkshire Handicap (14f.),
as well as being narrowly beaten,
under difficulties, in several other
staying tests. Carapooe carried 7.3
on Saturday; he is in the Metrop.
with 7.7 and in the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups with 7.6.
The S.T.C. winter double, initiated
in 1948, besides proving popular with
owners and trainers, has given punters
a wonderfully good run, and that can
be said of very few important handi-
caps. The six races, represented by
three runnings of the double, have
been won by five favorites and a
second-favorite. The one compara-
tive blemish in this rare record was
provided by last year’s Cup, in which
Foxzami, at 7 to 2, defeated 7-to-4
favorite Hurry Up by a head. As a
final note on the successes of San
Domenico and Carapooe in this year’s
winter double it is worth recalling
that last year’s winners, Denali and
Foxzami, went on in the spring to
win, respectively, the Epsom and the
Melbourne Cup.
The few days’ break of fine weather
had made little impression on the
track at Rosehill —it will need some-
thing closer to a few weeks’ good
conditions to dry out Sydney tracks
from their present waterlogged condi-
tion. In three races over the distance
at Rosehill, sprinters ran seven fur-
longs in times which would normally
be regarded as moderate for a mile.
The four-year-old Talking gelding
Humming Top (A. Ward) registered
the best effort by winning the first
Parramatta Mixed in 1.36 i. Star of
the South (R. Selkrig) found 1.38
good enough to win the second divi-
sion and Beau China (G. Weate)
clocked 1.36 i to just scrape home
ahead of Mirrigen and Dalston in the
Flying. The three other events at
Rosehill were won by hot favorites,
none of whom gave their supporters
the slightest anxiety. Quarter Deck
(N. Sellwood) won the Three-year-old
Quality by four lengths; Gene
Tunney (B. Killian) taking the
Auburn Mixed and Garden Party (N.
McGrowdie) winning the Welter each
had five lengths to spare.
* * * ♦
At Caulfield on Saturday, for the
running of the Australian Hurdle,
weather conditions were such as fol-
lowers of the game choose to refer
to almost affectionately as typical
’chasing weather. In other words,
cold, wet and bleak. Nevertheless
the hardy enthusiasts showed sincerity
in their beliefs by turning up in sur-
prising force.
A field of 15 lined up for the
Hurdle, with Tyrian a solid favorite
and Elastin, Hush Hush and Nelangie
the only others really in demand.
Nelangie was one of five runners who
failed to complete the course. Elastin
and Hush Hush ran only moderately
to finish fourth and fifth. Tyrian
gave his supporters something of a
run for their money; he was always
shaping promisingly, and raised hopes
when he made his effort in the
straight, but he died on his run, and,
at the finish, was a length and a half
short, and being safely held by the
25-to-l chance Enthean. Since, at his
previous recent starts, Enthean had
weakened and failed oyer shorter
trips, the hostile reception which the
crowd accorded his performance in
leading throughout the two miles, five
furlongs and 65 yards of the Aus-
tralian Hurdle was understandable,
however unjustified. Third money
went to Monte Cassino, a compara-
tively recent recruit from flat racing
who has shown improved form at
every outing.
Hailing from South Australia,
Enthean is a five-year-old bay gelding
by Denodys from Gan Gusur, and is
owned and trained by J. L. Mazzoletti.
His owner-trainer’s explanation of
Enthean’s apparent reversal of form
was that the gelding had been failing
simply because he was as fat as mud,
a condition, or lack thereof, which
was subsequently remedied by a diet
of sheer hard work. Carrying 10.6,
Enthean was ridden by R. Watts, who
had previously won the Australian
Hurdle on Isambard in 1943.
The jumping enthusiasts were re-
stored to good humor when favorite
The Feline turned in an outstandingly
good performance to win the Godfrey
Watson Steeple. With Ron Hall in
the saddle The Feline carried on the
very heavy track a steadier of 11.7;
next in the weights was Glenashley,
with 10.11, and the rest had under,
and most of them well under lOst.
The Feline always had the field com-
fortably covered, and won eventually
by *more than three lengths from
Tanakee and Henwood. The Feline
won the Australian Hurdle in 1947
and the Grand National Hurdle in
1948. A winner at three of his last
four starts, he seems just as good as
ever, and it wouldn’t surprise to see
him yet add another of the jumping
“classics” to his record.
As was the case in Sydney, where
N. Sellwood won the first race on
Saturday, J. Purtell, leading Mel-
bourne rider for the past season,
appropriately won the first race of
the new season. Purtell’s mount in
the first Elsternwick Stakes (7f.) was
the Manitoba filly Trust Me, who
won comfortably from Valley Girl
and Fern Peak. Margins in that race
were two lengths and three lengths,
but the second division had the crowd
right on their toes, with Alaminta
(J. Gilmore), Narda Felt and favorite
Mendl hitting the fine in a finish
which any judge would gratefully
leave to the camera. They were
sorted out into the order mentioned,
with the margins a half-head and a
head.
• • • • •
Another rattling tight finish was
furnished by the six-furlongs Moon-
dah Plate, with the two top riders,
Purtell and Williamson, fighting out
an almost purely personal duel.
Favorite Regal Scout was under
Purtell, while Williamson was on
Ailsa, and the favorite landed the
money by a short breath. Kintail
showed up as a promising third.
Other Caulfield winners were Mulatto
(A. Burton), downing favorite Mil-
ford in the 12-furlongs Balaclava
Stakes, and Golden Field (G. New-
ton) winning the Mornington Welter,
in which Siren Song’s second, whilst
rather distant, savored of a return
to winning form.
* * ♦ «
Sydney and Melbourne handicap-
pers put in an extremely busy
time a week or so back assessing
the hundreds of good, bad, indif-
ferent and, often, practically unknown
horses entered for the major spring
handicaps. Comic Court, of course,
provided a ready-made topweight for
all events; he has been given 9,10
for the Epsom, 9.7 for the Metrop.,
9.6 for the Caulfield Cup and 9.5
for the Melbourne Cup. About the
next most highly-rated all round is
the English importation Blue Mickie,
who made ms debut in Sydney
recently. The handsome son of Blue
Peter is fourth in the Epsom weights
with 9.5 (ahead of him The Groom,
9.7, and San Domenico, 9.6), third
in the Metrop. weights with 9.3,
Foxzami having 9.4, and second top-
weight in the two Cups receiving 21b.
from Comic Court in each. '
* * * *
In the off-season between first-
cuckoos-of-spring writers of letters to
the editor of London “Times” are at
their best on sporting matters. In
a recent “Times” Mr. E. Creagh
Kittson, of The Little Martins, Chip-
ping Campden, raises an interesting
point, though not one, perhaps, that
will be received with enthusiasm by
umpires, who have already quite
enough ticklish decisions to make:
“For a fielder at cover-point or
mid-on to field the ball smartly, throw
it in and hit the wicket is one of the
most brilliant things that can be seen
on the cricket field. Those who have
seen Bradman doing it are not likely
to forget it. It was done again the
other day by Rae, fielding at square-
leg, the victim being Simpson. The
score-card, however, reads ‘Simpson,
run out, 94.’ This, I protest, is not
a record of what happened; it should
read ‘Simpson, thrown out Rae, 94.’
When I played cricket many years
ago the expression ‘thrown out’ was
in common use. To throw a man
out is, in nine cases out of 10, a
more remarkable achievement than
either to catch him or to stump him.
I maintain, Sir, that it should be
recorded.”
* * ♦ ♦
The well-equipped Australian sport-
ing fan, already conversant with a
pretty fair range of odd phraseology,
is finding it increasingly necessary to
add 1 another language to his collec-
tion—the weird patois of baseball.
Actually, of course, baseball is a very
old-established sport in these parts,
but American servicemen here during
the war gave the sport a fresh
impetus, and it is enjoying quite a
boom. Baseball has become particu-
larly popular with cricketers, for
whom it offers a means of keeping in
condition and keeping the eye in
through the winter months. A swag
of inter-State and international
cricketers have taken to transferring
from the pitch to the diamond in the
off-season. Sydney baseball fans
have been treated to a regular bean-
feast over the past week or so with
the playing of the Australian cham-
pionships, in which N.S.W. came out
on top, going through the series,
undefeated and winding up the
festival on Sunday by playing a six-all
draw against the Rest of Australia.
* * * *
Rain cut down attendances at
V.F.L. matches on Saturday, only
about 70,000 turning out at all
grounds, the “match of the day”
between Richmond and Carlton
drawing barely half the expected
35,000. They missed nothing, for
the Tigers galloped all over the Blues
for a 14.20-9.16 win, and if they
can doyn Essendon next Saturday
they can make “the four,” which now
consists of Essendon, North Mel-
bourne, Melbourne and Geelong.
Essendon got a bad fright from its old
rival, Footscray. Footscray bolted away
to a five-goal lead at three-quarter
time, but could manage only a point,
while the Dons put on 5.4, in the last
term, and the Dons got there by
10.11 to 10.9. There was another
close go at South Melbourne, where
Fitzroy just staved off a “Sowth”
rally and won, 11.11-11.8. North Mel-
bourne made hacks of St. Kilda,
15.14-7.5, and Collingwood did the
same with Hawthorn, 16.21-2.8. At
Geelong the locals trailed Melbourne
to half-time, then turned on some
real football, and booted themselves
into “the four” by 13.14 to 9.12.
• * * *
“Pass-it” reviews a close match:*—
Although it didn’t manage to win,
the Queensland Rugby Union team
gave the N-S.W. boys a severe shaking
at North Sydney Oval last Satur-
day. Most experts had tipped a
walkover for the very strong N.S.W.
side, but the Queenslanders were not
overawed by their opponents’ repu-
tations, and, although down 0-9 at
half-time, fought back splendidly in
the second half to finish 17-19.
Whilst it would be a stretch of the
imagination to say that Queensland
was the better team, one could say
that, on the day’s play, Queensland
was unlucky to lose. N.S.W. lost its
opportunity in the first half, when,
with the assistance of a strong wind,
it managed to put on only nine
points. The score at this stage was
flattering to Queensland, for although
N.S.W. had scored only two tries
they had made the breach for several
others, and only failure to finish off
moves—due to faulty handling and
bad positioning—kept their score
low. However, as has been proved
so often before, the team that runs
with the wind in the first half must
put up 20 points on the board if
they are to be in a really safe posi-
tion to weather the second-half
attacks of their opponents. Playing
against the wind a team should play
defensive football, but, as N.S.W. did
not hold sufficient lead over their
opponents, they could not afford to
close the game up in the second half,
and were compelled to continue with
their attacking football. They fell into
many errors, which the Queenslanders
were quick to capitalise on, and only
a few split decisions to N.S.W. and
a brilliant individual burst by Blom-
ley, which resulted in a try, saved
them from defeat. Most disconcert-
ing feature of the match was the
failure of the highly-rated N.S.W.
pack to give clean, quick service to
the half. This phase of play will have
to be considerably improved if they
are to beat the British Isles team
next week.
* ♦ '* ♦
“Tom”: The relative popularity in
New Zealand of the Union and
League brands of Rugby was crush-
ingly demonstrated by the respective
attendance figures of the last Test
against the British Union and the
first Test against the English League
tourists, both matches being played
on the same day recently. Nearly
60,000 saw N.Z. beat the Union
side, 11-8; 10,000 saw the League
team beaten, 10-16.


STRONGER!
unbreakable
EUSTRATOR
(AHGD. TRADE MARK)
. RINGS
Tke GteenJ&m'"
for marking lambs & calves
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELS
FONDE
*
EN 1724
RMI4
V.8.0.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work<
v."
•v-v:
i m
mm
'
SXDQQDSBb
40z., Boz., 16rtz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general store**
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
New Branding-fluid.
“Foo”: For some years we
have always removed our brands
from the fleeces at shearing.
Our clip is always catalogued
as “All Brands Removed.”
Woolbrokers maintain that this
may mean an extra 2d. or 3d.
per lb. This practice may not
now be necessary.
N. A. Whiffen, wool-textile
liaison - officer of C.5.1.R.0.,
announces the development of
L.8.E., a new sheep-branding
fluid which will remain on the
sheep from shearing to shearing,
and yet scour out of the fleece
under ordinary commercial
scouring processes.. It consists
of lanolin, rosin, stearic acid
and tallow, emulsified with
ammonium stearate. On appli-
cation to the wool ammonia
volatilises and the emulsion is
lost, hence the brand resists rain.
It is emulsified again and re-
moved when scoured with hot
alkaline soap solutions.
To prepare, melt 261 b. of
lanolin, lOjlb. of gum rosin,
71b. of stearic acid and 3flb. of
tallow and mix at 230 deg. F.
Make a solution of 6jlb. of
ammonia (s.g. 0.88) in 17gal. of
cold water. Slowly pour the
molten mix into the solution
while stirring to make emulsion.
Then 31b. of toluene should be
stirred in to preserve it. One of
the following can then be added
for specific color: 51b. of black
lacquer, monolite scarlet R.N.S.,
or monastrol blue 8.5., weak.
Soil-fertility.
“Dick Turpin” : E. J. Break-
well, senior agronomy lecturer at
Sydney Uni., told the Agricul-
tural Bureau conference at
N.S.W. Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College that something
would have to be done about
“soil robbers” who masqueraded
as farmers if .Australia’s land
production was to keep pace
with its population.
Breakwell said the nitrogen
content of soil on the N.S.W,
slopes and central plains had
reached a critically low level. At
Curlewis, in the north-west
wheat belt, it had dropped by
nearly half after 30 years’ farm-
ing. Despite the use of super-
phosphate, advances in
machinery and farming tech-
niques and new wheat varieties
the State average wheat yield
had remained static since I§ls.
On the pastoral side, the western
division had supported 16 mil-
lion sheep before 1891, but
had carried no more than five
million since 1901.
Farmers will have to abandon
intense cropping if they are to
save crop-lands and sow nitro-
gen-replacing pastures such as
sub.-clover and the medics,
which had done much to restore
fertility in Riverina. Agrono-
mists are searching for a nitro-
gen-producing legume suited to
the north-west and the north
Coast.
Breakwell said soil-fertility ex-
periments were neglected be-
cause they are unspectacular and
have little appeal to politicians.
Laymen and some farmers
think of Australia as a country
of unbounded primary export
surpluses, and even look to
Northern Australia for future
expansion of these exports.
But if soil wastage continues
at its present rate Australia will
be unable to support a popula-
tion of 15 millions and main-
tain exports at 1939 levels in
1970. Whether any notice will
be taken of Breakwell in a
national sense remains to be
seen —my bet is that voices like
his will be still crying vainly
when the soil catastrophe is in
its final stages.
He Gave Them Eggs.
“Soc”; Although Australian
apiarists haven’t bothered their
heads about the revolutionary
many-queened hive, a bee-herder
in South Africa has completed
experiments the results of which
bid fair to be as arrestingly im-
portant as Langstroth’s mov-
able-frame invention back in
1852.
Using his multiple - queen
methods and with a team of ex-
perts looking on, the Pretorian
produced from his single colony
a ton of honey in one year.
This achievement can be com-
pared with the Australian bee-
man’s production, in a good sea-
son, of about six tins (less than
a sixth of a ton); his English
counterpart produces about
enough to sweeten a healthy
man’s. porridge, and even the
Yankee hustler’s record is
10001 b.
The secret is having the maxi-
mum number of adult bees at
the right time. At one stage of
the preliminary rounds six
queens were “cackling” in this
gargantuan colony. When a
queen is interested in her job
she sets down 2000 or more eggs
in 24 hours. If imagination will
let you see no fewer than six
queens hard at it over a build-
up period and 12,000 bees
emerging every day as a conse-
quence, you have a hazy idea of
how many worker bees left the
hive-entrance when the first buds
broke.
At the height of its career this
beehive was 16 supers high, with
three entrances. They needed a
strong ladder to get the lid off.
At sunset each evening four
members of Transvaal Bee-
keepers’ read the
takings for the day. The best
day’s work totalled 401 b. (two-
thirds of a tin). At the end of
the experiment three queens
were keeping worker strength up,
and a ton of honey (approxi-
mately 37 tins) was produced.
“Oh, come on, Strawb! I'm too tired to chase you tonight."
At present quotes this single
colony returned nearly £7O.
Feeding of artificial pollen,
stimulating with syrup when both
honey and pollen were not
available in the field, together
with expert manipulation, made
this colossal output from one
colony of bees possible. But
what has really knocked our
bee-men over is the recorded
fact that this South African
genius fed his bees on a regular
diet of raw hen-eggs.
An Orchard Diary.
“Big Billy”: As well as en-
suring a continuity of records it
is invaluable in a well-run estab-
lishment.
The habit of keeping it is soon
formed, but unless a diary is
kept up to date it loses its value.
On the other hand, its value is
enhanced the longer it is kept,
as comparisons can be made
with previous entries and previ-
ous experiences consulted.
Points to note are weather
observations, details of spray-
ing operations, dates of thinning,
cultivation, harvesting and
pruning. Perhaps spraying is
most important, as it is often
useful where foliage damage or
fruit russeting develops. Make
brief entries of mixture, start-
ing and finishing times, etc.
Entries will also give an idea
what these operations cost,
amount of materials used and
quantities required next season.
Record observations of dis-
eases and pests. Other points of
value are blossoming stages of
different varieties -and thinning
dates, with reference to fruit-
spacing and natural drop. Enter
notes of cultivation (as indicat-
ing how moisture conservation
and weed-control can be im-
proved). Manure - application
data are also valuable; it v
handy to know when lime wa
last applied, while it may alsc
be seen that certain manures o\
certain times of application give
better results.
Notes on cover crops may be
included, with reference to
manures and cultivation. Brief
notes may be made of harvesting
dates for each variety of fruit,
entries of color, size and general
condition of fruit at picking-
time, Also worth recording are
pruning dates and time spent
on the operation, details of
machinery maintenance costs,
and irrigation.
Mandarins in the North.
“W. Court”: Nobody farm-
ing on the central Queensland
coast should be without a few
mandarin-trees. ‘They make the
surroundings more attractive
and amply repay attention by
bearing heavy crops.
Thorney is one of the best
varieties for the home grower.
It is an early medium-sized
mandarin, being sweet-flavored
and fit for eating when just
changing color. It is golden
yellow when fully ripe, but
seems to be better flavored when
only partly ripe. Emperor
matures about the same time as
Thorney. It is yellowish-red.
.
very sweet. The tree is as hardy
as Thorney and a good bearer.
Scarlet is a much larger man-
fiarin, but it is stringy and lacks
the flavor of the other two. Glen
R e t rea t is a reliable and heavy
bearer. It is a good* show
var j et y without the skin puffi-
n£SS Scar i et can not be
eaten untd f u fi y r j pe w hen it
- s a r j cb red co j or
These varieties will stand a
, drought-
resistant * Thev do not How-
. ; « f •.
ever produce well-flavored fruit
on ironbark n ge
cou^ r y* Three ways by which
ff ua hty and quantity of fruit can
b e bettered: ( a ) Water the trees
if the spring months are dry,
(6) use oil sprays to destroy scale
parasites, (c) give trees a couple
of pounds each of sulphate of
ammonia or nitrate of soda
whilst fruit is developing.
Selecting Eggs.
“K.T.”: Although the hens
from which chicks are to be
hatched are usually carefully
chosen, it is necessary to be as
strict with the selection of the
eggs.
Long narrow eggs are not
v worth setting. Very few chicks
in this type get out of the shell,
most of them die before hatch-
ing and the others pip the wrong
end of the shell and die there.
Over-large eggs are not much
better. A larger percentage
hatch, but the chicks don’t
generally leave their prison till
near the end of the hatch, and
though they have size they are
not vigorous. Eggs under 2oz.
are also out.
The ideal egg is one from 2oz.
to 2ioz., and not more than a
week old. Eggs kept longer
hatch later, and chicks lack the
stamina of those coming from
fresh eggs. The ideal shape is
one reasonably well rounded at
both ends. Soft-shelled eggs, or
those with ridges in the shell,
which indicates a weakness,
should be discarded.
For breeders of Rhode Island
Reds preference should be given
the dark- or richly-colored eggs.
The first eggs a hen lays after
the moult are by far the best.
Noogoora-burr Poisons.
“Agric”:. Investigations by
Queensland Department of
Agriculture show that the
danger-period to stock from
noogoora burr is the first two
weeks of the plant’s growth while
the seed-leaves are present.
These two leaves contain the
poison which causes death.
The seedlings germinate in
warm weather about four to
nine days after rain, generally
in March and September. Last
year 19 herds were affected in
Gympie district of Queensland,
causing the loss of 112 cattle,
and at various periods cattle
have been lost in the Bundaberg,
Proserpine, Goomeri, Maleny
and MundubbCra districts.
Research at Glenfield (N.S.W.)
has shown that the lethal dose in
cattle was about 1.8 p.c. of body-
weight, or about 41b. for a
2241 b. calf. Two pounds will
kill a 1001 b. pig, but a consider-
ably higher percentage is re-
quired to kill sheep. The de-
partment advises that the best
preventive is to apply hormone
weed-killers to the burr until it
is eradicated. As each burr con-
tains two seeds, one of which
germinates in the first favorable
season and the other in a later
season, it is necessary to spray
each crop as it appears.
Greenstuff for Pigs.
“Myrrhee”: Unthriftiness, in-
fertility, still-births, unhealthy
skin conditions and other dis-
abilities can often be traced to


d
Wise
country wives
Aladdin-ise
Good fighting—cool, quick
cooking efficient heating:
Aladdin makes these city
comforts easily available for
country homes. Decide now
to "Aladdin-ise" your home
with these efficient, easy-to-
use Aladdin kerosene
fd
Home is
M6fet
ALADDIN
MANTLE LAMPS
Light at the touch
of a match —no
pumping, smoke or
odour. 75 candle
power. Your Aladdin
dealer has a full
range of styles. 1
f
f*--
d
WARMTH
WHERE ITS WANTED
ENGLISH ROOM-WARMER:
Designed on ah entirely new prin-
ciple, this modern central-heating
unit gives even-temperature heat-
ing at low cost. Burns lighting
kerosene. Heat is adjustable.
m
d
«L_»
M
w
fd
COOKS AND HEATS!
In winter it's a glowing radiator-
in summer an efficient cooker!
The Aladdin pressure - kerosene
Heater-Cooker is a dual-purpose
appliance you'll use all the year
round. Adjustable flame, detach-
able heat-reflector.
THERE ARE AUTHORISED ALADDIN
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL CITIES,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY TOWNS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
Ala (film
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALADDIN INDUSTRIES Pty.Ltd
BOURKE ST.. WATERLOO HS.W.
M/I4MB A.
1
DESIGN No. 6
New Beautiful Designs
FOR PROMPT DELIVERY
For your new Home, choose one of the new
Terra-Cotta Surrounds. They. are available to
suit open fireplaces, gas fires or Wonderheat
and Kosi stoves, in a delightful mottled cream-
buff ceramic glaze that is everlasting and will
not stain or discolour, and is easy to clean.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'Phone
MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney for
illustrated Booklet of designs.
[REPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
mmwnvm
Win ■*-»•■
4BoKHM mmmtmrmrbvtt****-
B^aiOSWWW*™*
3
M{
M|i?>
•9SH»
nonMMMnut>
<’m**mw.w**v* m
fiMniwiaua
mm
i
n4hi
VfMmrntJimamw*" 0
W***
HMfJlMhui ll 11 •*•
24 gauge RED ORB
Hfialvanized troiiH
■ STRONGER, limil
■ 'f> v. m.x.kz ■
cow
&
For up-to-date data sheets on
tanks and tank-making, write to-
day to the SERVICE DEPT., John
Lysaqht (Australia) Pty. Ltd., 33
Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Recent field and laboratory tests, extending over a
considerable period, have demonstrated that 24 gauge
RED ORB Galvanized Iron is particularly suited for tanx
making purposes, being readily curved, stronger and less
subject to damage in transit The zinc coating is.also
equal in every respect to the familiar 24 gauge bLUt
ORB Sheets and buyers are therefore invited to specify
24 gauge RED ORB Galvanized Iron when placing future
orders. Stocks of Galvanized Iron of all types are, of
course, still limited and orders can only be accepted
through official channels and on the regulation Gl form
available from all suppliers.
NOTE; The thinner 26 Gauge RED ORB Galvanised Iron Is NOT. however,
recommended for tank-making or wherever curving Is necessary.
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Md.
S/ONty. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE
L2Hr—«ZZ
a lack of greenstuff. Though it
shouldn’t be regarded as a sub-
stitute for grain or milk, green-
stuff does supply accessories de-
ficient in those foods.
Chief of these is vitamin A,
and pigs have the ability to store
this vitamin and other essential
nutrients in their bodies for a
considerable period, which often
deceives owners whose pigs
appear to be doing quite well
without greenstuff into the belief
that it’s unnecessary.
When, after a long period
without greenfeed, breeding and
growth become unsatisfactory,
few will believe shortage of
greenstuff to be the primary root
of the trouble and look for other
causes. Green pasture, forage
crops, green lucerne, clover or
meadow-hay are equally bene-
ficial, or, if these aren’t obtain-
able, use a fish-liver oil as a
substitute.
Hop-growing.
“He-Ne”: Hops, which 50 to
60 years ago used to be grown
successfully in N.S.W., are to
be cultivated again to help make
up the shortage caused by the
dollar position.
Recently special agronomist
W. M. Curteis inspected the
Tumbarumba, Batlow, Tumut
and upper Murray districts to
find suitable localities. He was
most impressed with the possi-
bilities of the soil and climate,
and experimental plots are to be
planted this season.
One surprise during Curteis’s
inspection was the discovery that
hops had been grown by old
Tumut and Tumbarumba settlers
60 years ago, and that some of
the old plants still existed.
Curteis regards that as good evi-
dence that hops can be grown
to advantage in N.S.W. The
wonder is they ever went out of
production.
Hints for the Farm.
“My”: Ringworm affects
cattle low in condition, especially
calves and yearlings. Treatment
f recommended in Victorian
“Journal of Agriculture” is first
clip hair closely round the parts,
soften scales with olive-oil and
remove them with warm, soapy
water to which a little washing-
soda has been added. Having
cleaned and dried the area apply
a 2% per cent, tincture of iodine
twice a dayomtil the bare patches
are covered with healthy hair.
The disease is contagious. Wash
out the treatment yard with a
lime-wash containing a half-pint
of carbolic acid to a gallon.
“Wilco”:' A common cause
of “dry-bible,” or impaction, in
cattle (B. 28/6/’5O) is a poor
water-supply. Cattle are often
reluctant to drink from muddy
swamps or pools, with the result
that the dry grass they are eating
causes a blockage. If possible,
drinking-water for cattle should
be pumped into troughs. A little
molasses given daily will help.
“Sarina”: Picking tomatoes
before they have reddened
doesn’t improve their flavor, but
does prevent losses from grubs.
It must be done when the toma-
toes are to be packed in cases
and railed a long distance. Fruit
should have stopped developing
and be of definite whitish aspect
on the lower surface. If the soil
is heavy with moisture after rain
the tomatoes also will be full of
water, and there should be no
hurry about harvesting them.
“.Bat”: The cheapest and
best spray for chicken-houses is
kerosene emulsion. To make it
cut up £lb. of soap and dissolve
it in a gallon of water. Add a
gallon of kerosene, gradually,
stirring all the time for 10
minutes after mixing. To this
stock solution add as required
eight gallons of soft water. The
proportions will be two of stock
to eight of water, but if a con-
veniently-sized drum is available
a large quantity can be kept
ready mixed. It is effective for
mites.
“Moira”: Tinned grass for
cows! Now when drought
threatens all the farmer will have
to do will be remove the patent
rubber-fitted lid from a boiler-
plated cylinder 25ft. long and
dish out the quick-frozen canned
paspalum. How the cans are
going to be loaded and trans-
ported is a problem. Still, it’s
said quick-frozen fodder in
sealed cylinders is being used in
Canada and the U.S.A., though
probably for stock on snow-
covered pastures.
“Bill C”: Stones don’t work
to the surface. If ploughing
brings them to the top it means
that erosion is removing the top-
soil from year to year. Plough-
ing across a slope instead of up
and down it won’t stop erosion
completely, but it will slow it
down.
“C.A.A.”: A survey in South
Australia may lead to wider use
of the multi-wall paper-bag as a
container of super. The bag is
already widely used to hold
cement, lime and plaster, and
firms in S.A., Victoria, N.S.W.,
Queensland and Tasmania use it
for super. Prices per ton in the
mainland States show a differ-
ence of 15s. in favor of the
paper-bag. Major advantage of
the paper-bag over jute is ease
of handling, as it weighs 941 b.
compared with 1881 b.
“Oro”: Wilson and Mc-
Douall’s Hereford bull Golf
Hill Resolute is the first in Aus-
tralia to be approved for use for
artificial insemination. At their
Calliope Hereford and Poll
Hereford stud the first experi-
ments proved sufficiently en-
couraging, and it is anticipated
that full use will be made of
this 10-year-old sire, who injured
his stifle some months ago.


fd
f
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
HI
ss:
X
< y
r. .
TOP —Side view of Babcock-Detroit
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab*
cock-Betrolt BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all Slates
”Tve tasted chocolate all over
the world - and I prefer
the not-so-sweet flavour
of Small’s Club Chocolate”
says
Internationally famous
Australian Baritone
Mr. Williams recently returned
to Australia after a most success-
ful three years in England. During
his stay, he sang at the London
and Edinburgh Festivals as well
as giving concert and opera per-
formances almost every day.
“After travelling in so many j
countries,” says Mr. Williams, |
“I’ve become almost a con- I
noisseur of chocolate. Choco-
late experts have told me that
the best chocolate breaks with the
cleanest snap. Well, Small’s Club
Chocolate breaks with the sharpest
snap I’ve ever heard.”
m
m
mmm
The louder the snap
the better
the chocolate!
0 1 1*
uma 11S make Great Chocolate
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
EFFECTING INSURANCES AT LLOYD S
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
And all other States
BW 2131
d
and he drew deeply again on his
cigarette.
John was aware of a very
special The train could
hardly fail to render the drunken
Bert and Curly more lawless and
reckless than they might have
been normally. The rushing air,
the rocking truck, the illicit
passage, must surely set on fire
the fumes of the cheap wine
they were guzzling. Besides, he
and Ann were themselves, in a
sense, wayward from society,
outside its protection and even
beyond its knowledge. Who
would suspect murder if the
bodies of two young train-
jumpers were found beside the
rails in the morning?
“Right-oh, right-oh, don’ sink
the blurry lot, chookie! Easy
Seen yer like yer drop o’ nellie,
eh?”
“I’m sorry. I didn’t mean”-’ —
“Thasallright, thasallright! ”
Bert laughed. “Have annuvver
suck.”
“Not just now, thanks.”
“Well, how about a little kiss?
Huh?”
BERT did not wait for an
answer: he flung his left
arm around Ann and fastened
his lips upon hers before she
could move. In an instant she
had recoiled. She wrenched her
face y away and instinctively
arched and twisted her body, so
that for a moment she was look-
ing down between the buffers
and couplings at the shining,
singing rails.
And then John struck. And
because he hit without time for
thought or fear, the blow was a
good one. It was a hard right
to the side of the jaw and, heavy
though he was, it sent Bert
staggering back. Then John was
himself punched. Curly! Pained
and stunned, John went back
and, in that split-second before
he was hit again, he thought:
“I’m going to be chopped to
pieces! ”
Another blow smashed into the
wrist he had flung up as a guard
and then he lunged wildly-
missed Curly’s chin and hit his
throat. But he had no time to
follow up tfie advantage, or even
appreciate the result, because in
the next instant he was knocked
to the floor of the truck by a
vicious slam-slam to the body
and head from Bert.
Rolling over, sick, weak and
frightened, he willed himselt
desperately to rise and fight as
he had never fought before. The
thought of defeat terrified him.
This was a fight that must not
be lost. ,
He rose and was staggered
from behind by a kick on the
spine, and as he pitched forwaid
towards Bert he flung up his
arms to save himself from the
king-hit. It did not come. John
heard, instead, a low bellow of
agony and he saw the thug
double up and reel sideways.
Ann had joined the fight. No
rules or decencies in this fight:
it was hit, kick and claw any-
how, anywhere!
Recovering his balance, he
wheeled about, evaded a punch
from Curly and hit him on the
wind —but not hard enough.
Curly came back with a smash
between the eyes and John saw
flashes of light as fine as fila-
ments. Blindly retaliating, he
hit, and was hit again. They
blundered together, wrestled,
stumbled, apart, and swung wild
“Stop it, Kath—but don't stop the engine!”
blows that hit or grazed or
missed entirely.
JOHN’S pummelled face was
almost insensitive to pain
now, but he could taste salty
blood in his mouth and his lungs
were like bellows in fire.
Bert again! John saw his wife
flung hard to the floor and, be-
fore he could dodge, a boot
driven by a powerful leg struck
between hip and ribs, impelling
him the length of the truck to
crash down against the end. His
head met iron and he was
stunned.
There was a blackness for a
time in which he saw nothing.
Then, when his vision began to
return, he stared in bewilder-
ment. It seemed to him that he
had been removed far from the
scene of action, and, although
his assailants were plain to see,
their figures were extraordinarily
small, as if miles away, or
looked at through the wrong end
of the telescope.
The delusion was gone in a
moment. The scene rushed upon
him. He saw Ann rise and fling
herself upon Bert, and he saw
her go down —fighting like a
demented cat —under the two of
them, A murderous fury surged
through him, revitalising his
limbs, blooding his eyes: and,
as he grasped the sides of the
truck, he felt so strong in his
terrible rage that he believed he
must carry all before him.
He shot forward as from a
catapult, came down with both
feet upon Curly’s back and, as
Bert straightened, caught the
latter’s throat in the crook of
his right arm. With the impetus
of his run and all his strength
he dragged the fat white face
over backwards and, together
they crashed into the front of
the truck. Together they rose
and sawed on the edge, their legs
kicking frantically.
John saw the rails below,
gleaming like surgical instru-
ments ; he spun himself away
a fid Bert’s legs kicked higher, his
hands clawed the air, his throat
emitted a croaking whimper . . .
and then he was gone. John
saw him grasp at the couplings
and buffers and vanish, as though
scooped up by a racing con-
veyor-belt.
There was a scream—cut
short and John lay there
across the edge, staring down
until the train roared over a
culvert.
Then he remembered Curly,
and, drawing himself back, he
hastily turned. Ann was upon
her feet and she swayed over
to stand beside him; and then
he perceived her cut-lipped and
swollen-eyed.
They looked at Curly, they
watched him rise. Holding to
the side of the truck to steady
himself, he stared at them. They
saw comprehension, anger, in-
decision, and, finally, defeat and
fear. Fear shook and sickened
him. Fear of attack, fear of
police. They saw him retch;
they saw him back away—very
slowly—as though frightened to
move. They saw him edge his
way into a corner and slide
slowly to the floor, to hide his
face and watch them from the
darkness.
They sat themselves then, and
hugged their quivering limbs.
Not a word was spoken. The
train rocked on through the
night, and in the engine-cabin
the driver yawned.
WHEN the sun came up the
engine crew talked of tea
and eggs and bed. In a truck
behind, two men and a girl still
stared at a memory of violence
and death.
The driver drew a screech
from the whistle and reduced
speed. He looked back along
the train.
“Up they come —heads on ’em
like mice!”
“All off if you don’t want to
have breakfast with the cops,
advised the fireman.
He sounded the whistle again
and grinned at the jumping,
rolling bodies. He saw the girl
and told his mate.
“It’s a sheila all right,” the
engineer agreed, and, after he
had waved twice, he added:
“Stuck-up piece. Must have
travelled first-class.”


fd
SEND FOR
ILL GSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
application
■' ■ . . 3,
DUPLICATOR
Ha* ail the finest features
cl hiqh-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National' Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing, Plans.
Music, etc.
BmiU entirety im Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
distributing Agents—
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd
MELBOURNE * Norman Bros. Ply Ltd.
ADELAIDE | Vardoo A Son* Ltd
PERTH 4 Docket Book Co. (Aosl.J
The AUSTRALIAN REGULAR ARMY
offers
ENLISTMENT WITH RANK
to Selected Ex-Army
W.O.’s and N.C.O.’S
Maximum age for enlistment, 43 years.
Study these advantages and act quickly:
- •
.# Salaries in accordance with rank,
• Initial engagement 6 years.
• Opportunities for re-engagement.
• £l2O gratuity on completion of 6 years service*
• £360 gratuity on completion of 12 years service.
• life pension at 40 or over, alter 20 years service.
f
Call and have a talk with the Officer-In-Charge at your nearest Army
Training Depot, or send this coupon to Army Command Headquarters
in your capital city for further details.
NAMB?,nimnn»i KAU1t.,.,.........,
ADDRESS
d
NCOV.U 14.70
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books by Arthur H. Davis
(“Steele Rudd”).—4BB9.
Back numbers of magazine “The
Performer.”—4B9o.
Copy of first edition only of The
Bulletin Story Book. —4894.
To buy copy of book of poems
In Hospital by William Ernest Hen-
ley.—4B93.
Collector of postcards and cigar-
ette-cards wants to get in touch with
other collectors of such items.—4891.
Text in English of Honore Mira-
beau’s famous remark expressing con-
tempt for the Duke of Orleans. —
4892.
Information Sought.
How to grow daffodils in pots?
Plant one, two or three bulbs in a
pot, according to the size, but never
overcrowded. The best potting com-
post is a mixture of some good garden
loam, silver sand and a little well-
decayed cow- or stable-manure, these
ingredients all being well mixed
together. Put a few pieces of broken
pot or some similar material in at
the bottom so as to ensure good
drainage. When the flowers are in
bloom give them an occasional appli-
cation of weak liquid cow-manure.
* * * ♦
What causes the Aurora Australis?
It is a phenomenon caused by elec-
trical discharges in the upper atmos-
phere around the south magnetic
pole. There is undoubtedly some con-
nection between sunspots and aurorae,
as at times of maximum sunspot
activity the aurora is more brilliant
and persistent. That the aurora is
due to magnetic influence is borne
out by the great disturbance it causes
in telegraph instruments and radio
transmission.
♦ * • ♦
How to make soap without caustic
soda?
Take 31b. lime, 61b. washing-soda,
lib. resin, 71b. fat free from salt, three
tablespoons borax, 12 quarts water.
Boil water, lime and soda for one
hour, let mixture stand all night.
Strain off in morning, add other
ingredients to ‘ liquid and boil three
hours, stirring constantly. Pour into
mould; when cold, cut into bars.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
(1) What were "pipes,” a form of
writing circulated freely in Sydney in
the early days? (2) Where could I
find full information regarding them
and see specimens?
(1) The name given to scurrilous
papers lampooning high-placed officials
or other well-known persons. The
word is a slang-term, and is the noun
of the verb “to pipe”; that is, to
watch a man and in some way
victimise hjm. The first pipes were
circulated in 1803 against Governor
King, whose efforts to prevent the
sale of rum met with much hostility.
(2) See article on subject in the
Australian Encyclopedia. The Mitchell
Library, Sydney, has a collection of
manuscripts and printed copies.
_•, • * *
Particulars concerning Yulgilbar
Castle on the Clarence River
C N.S.W.)?
Yulgilbar was built by Edward
Ogilvie, a pioneer squatter on the
Clarence River. The foundation-stone
was laid in 1859 and the building
completed in 1866. It was planned
by Ogilvie, who also superintended
the construction of the building.
Ogilvie had seen similar buildings
when on a tour of Spain and Por-
tugal. The stone used in building
Yulgilbar was serpentine and sand-
stone, all procured close at hand.
Ogilvie was the son of Captain
Ogilvie, who arrived here in 1825 and
obtained a grant of 2000 acres on the
Hunter, which he named “Merton,”
after his former home in Surrey.
Yulgilbar is said to mean the place
of platypuses, from Yulgil, a platypus,
and bar (or bah), a place. It xs an
aboriginal name.
• * ♦ *
How did the sugar industry originate
in Australia?
In 1823 Thomas Scott made 80 tons
of sugar at Port Macquarie (N.S.W.),
then a convict settlement two years
old. Interest lapsed, and not until
1847 were experiments resumed—in
the Brisbane Valley, Moreton Bay
district. M. Buhot was the first to
manufacture from Queensland-grown
cane, which he obtained from the
Brisbane Botanical Gardens. Louis
Hope put the industry on a com-
mercial basis. In 1863-64, in the
Moreton Bay district, he had 20 acres
under cane; he introduced kanaka
labor in 1864. That year the Queens-
land Acclimatisation Society began
importing new cane varieties, and
sugar companies were formed in Bris-
bane, Maryborough and at Mackay,
where John Spiller planted the first
cane. In 1865, 141 acres were under
cane. Louis Hope received a land
grant in 1867 for his work. In
Queensland by 1869, 5000 acres were
under cane and there were 28 mills.
Brief Answers.
F.T.F.: Write to an y of the fol-
lowing shipping companies in Sydney:
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd., Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd., Huddart Parker, Ltd.,
Mcllwraith McEacham, Ltd., Mel-
bourne Steamship Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Steamship Co., Ltd., and Union
Steamship Co. of New Zealand....
L. 8.: Boxing champions of Australia
(in this order —flyweight, bantam,
feather, light, welter, middle, light-
heavy and heavyweight) are; Amateur
—R. Gower, M. Barrett, A. Fisher,
W. Barber, W. Seewitz, D. Johnson,
J. Taylor and D. Cousins ; Profes-
sional—Mickey Hill, Ellic Bennett,
Bernie Grant, Jack Hassen, Kcv
Delaney, Dave Sands, Dave Sands and
Dave Sands....R.W.B.: Willis Island
lies 267 miles north-east of Towns-
ville, off the Queensland coast, and
about the same distance from Cairns.
It now owes its importance to the
meteorological wireless station which
was established there in 1922 by the
Australian Director of Navigation
for storm warning,... W.H.H.: The
Australian Institute of International
Affairs is an unofficial, non-political
body established in 1933 for the
scientific study of international affairs.
The secretary of its Commonwealth
Council is George Caiger, 369 George-
strcet, Sydney....L.M.: Rim Boy
was trained by Ray Cashman
A.V.M.: He was Prince of Wales and
Earl of Chester, Duke of Cornwall
and York, Duke of Rothsay, Prince
of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and Duke
of Saxony, Earl of Garrick and Inver-
ness, Baron of Renfrew and Killamey,
JLord of the Isles and Great Steward
of Scotland....E.D.: Cavalier lyrics
was a term applied to the lyrical
poetry of which there was a remark-
able outburst during the reign of
Charles I, and of which the Court
was the centre, though Robert Her-
rick, the chief of these lyrists, was
not a courtier. The principal other
Cavalier lyrists were Thomas Carcw,
Sir John Suckling and Richard Love-
lace J.S.S.: Royal Art Society of
N.S.W., 26 Hunter-street; Society of
Artists, 166 Phillip-street; Painter-
Etchers and Graphic Art Society of
Australia, 140 Elizabeth-street; Con-
temporary Art Society of Australia,
41 Rowe-street; Australian Water
Color Institute, 369 George-street—
all Sydney,,. .T.F.: Little is known
about George Hepplewhite, the
famous cabinet-maker, except that he
carried on his business in St. Giles,
Cripplegate, London. His work is dis-
tinguished bv a delicacy and grace
that replaced the greater massiveness
of Chippendale. He excelled espe-
cially in the design of chairs, and
made considerable use of painting and
inlay.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will he taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the M.S. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
C.J.8.: Well, we’ve heard about
Sydney and suburbs before... .J.R.:
Prisoners-of-war might still make
stories, but not news... .L.H.;
“Wouldn’t Dad be surprised to know
I have duplicated keys for every lock
at the bankl” That’s assuming too
much, even for a detective-story....
8.A.K.: Too long for a sketch; too
loose for a story... .L.P.: Commun-
ism is generally dealt with in editorial
articles.... 5.8.: Afraid Molly’s
kerosene lamp was the lamp that
failed... .R.R.: A quarrel over
division of two blue pearls, a girl
swimming out to the boat from no-
where, a struggle on an uninhabited
island ending with girl kissing boy—
it’s as improbable as a Dali.. •.
J.O’S.: You sure do load your Joe
with grief—and all so that a cop can
be kind to him... .G.F.S.: Neither
the assaulted woman nor the mis-
Sdged dog aroused our sympathy....
.W.: You make such a noise about
your two Maoris being in love that we
don’t believe It—that should come
out in what they do or say. You
should then go on to making the
point of your story clear —we missed
it completely.... K.W.M.: Well,
“After School” is quite a good little
sketch, but thin, very thin....H.8.:
The dialogue’s all wet....W.E.E.:
Not for us H. 8.: A bit old-
fashioned. .. .D.H.: We just don’t be-
lieve it... .G.F.S.: You still seem to
have a little faith in Father Christ-
mas and professional wrestlers; and
let us be the last to undeceive you.
... .Bellerive: An echo from the
past:—
....L.P.S.: It just shows you what
tricks a short-story writer can play
on himself... Would have
made a good yarn told in par. length.
~. .T.S.C.: No plot, no characterisa-
tion, no atmosphere—nothing but
a waste of words.,. .L.D.D.: So
she was smitten with the boarder?
We weren’t....PJ.B.: No wonder
you got lost; you wander off on
the smallest provocation... .H.M.C.:
Chief defect is that it springs rather
from a desire to be known as a writer
than from an urge to say something.
A RHYME OF BULLOCK DRAYS.
From Mansfield provisions
By old bullock drays
Were borne to Woodspoint
In the bygone days.
Slowly onward along a
Rough winding road
Would wend the bullocks
With a heavy load.
In dry and wet weather
After a wearisome trip
They’d weekly arrive in
The mining township.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Floods
Over 20 years ago I went to live in a
country town which had originally been
laid out on a big flat by a creek, so it
would be near a water-supply. Every few
years an old-man flood came down that
creek, and part of the town had water to
the door-sills.
A quarter of a mile away was a low
plateau, some 50ft. above flood-level. It
was part of the town common. I was
employed on the local newspaper and
advocated in its columns the gradual
shifting of the town to that plateau.
Then the fun began. Prominent citizens
who held heavy investments in property
on the low-lying land did all they could
to block the idea, but those who sought
sites for new homes were all in favor of
it. The home-owners won in the end,
and the best of the town now stands on
the plateau, far out of reach of any flood.
Since those days I’ve seen Australia
from the Kimberleys to Cape York, and
have been amazed at the sites chosen for
some towns and individual homes. High
ground is available near by; the district
is one where heavy rains are likely ; yet
people will put their homes in the
hollows. In some dairying and market-
gardening areas on rich alluvial flats the
homes have to be built there, but in
others there is no apparent reason for it.
A survey should be made of areas
lately inundated by floods, and, wherever
possible, all rebuilding should be done on
ground above flood-level. In some cases,
tight-fisted land-ownership can be an
obstacle, but it can be overcome by legis-
lation. In other cases, however, there is
no real obstacle to, such a transfer save
apathy.— Bogaduck (S.A.).
Employers and Strikers
Employers did not unite in Melbourne’s
marathon tram strike to prevent the
strikers getting other jobs (B. 21/6/’5O).
In fact, they fought against each other
to secure the temporary service of the
“trammies.”
Throughout the strike employers were
ringing up their “contacts” in the tram-
way industry to get the address of some
of the strikers and offer them casual
employment. A number even contacted
Communist Tram Union secretary O’Shea
asking him if he could get them some
labor. One employer went even further.
He had a small notice pasted up in the
union office offering the men £2 a day for
casual work at his factory.
Retired Tramways Board chairman
Hector Hercules Bell, a bitter opponent
of Communism, who was born and bred
in the Labor movement, openly attacked
the Melbourne Chamber of Manufac-
tures for allowing their members to
employ the strikers. They did not reply.
There were two lessons from the
strike: It taught the men that the days
of gaining wage-increases by striking had
passed; the bosses learned that employ-
ing strikers prolonged the dispute.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Houses—Quickly
In spite of the McGirr Government’s
smug outlook, many thousands of
people still need homes urgently. The
Commonwealth Government seems to
think that prefabs are the solution and
claims that thousands are available from
overseas, that they can be brought into
the country quickly and erected for
approximately the same cost as local pro-
duction.
Capital investments may be jeopardised
by introduction of new methods and
materials, and anything like that would
no doubt be resisted by all the powers of
the interested parties. But dwellings are
the most pressing need in Australia today,
and unless the building industry can
quickly get back to its pre-war standard
of six or eight weeks to build a home, and
as many of them as are required at prices
the homeless can afford, then established
methods must make way for something
better.
Today, people are interested in where
they are going to live today. The fact that
brick homes last 80 years or fibro homes
last 60 is no consolation to the family
living in a tent or in a single room —
which may have seen put the best part
of its 80 years anyhow. If they can be
bought easily, erected quickly and at a
The contributor placed first is paid
4 Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
cost in keeping with current costs of
brick and fibro construction, prefabs are
the undoubted answer.
After five years the building industry
has made no headway towards solving
the problem of the homeless. Current
methods and existing organisation
evidence no sign of coping with a
chaotic and tragic situation, and mere
ability to prevent the lag becoming
greater is not nearly good enough.
Is there any reason why Australia can-
not produce several hundred thousand
prefabs quickly to meet the banked-up
demand? Mass-production methods can
be applied to cottages as well as to wire-
less-sets and motor-cars. — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
The Civil Service
I’ve just read a statement from a
Cabinet Minister to the effect that the
civil service is still growing because the
public demand for “service” is increas-
ing. That’s logical. The demand
naturally increases as the supply
diminishes. I’m thinking at the moment
of the Westralian State Housing Com-
mission.
Last May I applied for a permit to
erect a veranda around three sides of my
cement-brick house —a necessity if the
house is to remain habitable for many
years. I stated that I had the necessary
“Our wines , madam, are the very music of the grape."
materials on hand and that I was not
using any controlled material.
A month or so later an inspector from
the commission inspected the job, com-
mented on the stack of new iron for the
roof and departed. Some weeks later I
was asked by the commission to “inti-
mate the source from which the new iron,
as seen by our inspector, was obtained.”
That iron is imported. Each sheet is
branded with the name of the English
firm that made it. It, or similar iron,
could have been bought from any of
several reputable firms, all of whom
openly advertise it. No permit is re-
quired for its purchase.
I advised the commission to that effect
and the explanation was accepted. That
was a week ago—nearly two months after
I first applied for permission to use
material which I had already bought and
which the commission had no objection
to my buying. I still haven’t got the per-
mit.—!. K. W. (W.A.).
Stockowners and Drovers
“Cumbee Hindere” (B. 5/7/’5O) recalls
that in earlier days stockowners “went out
of their way to make the lot of passing
drovers as hard as possible.” Has he for-
gotten there must be two sides to an
argument, or considered that landowners
over a whole country would scarcely
object to travelling stock without some
reason? And citing odd virtuous cases
proves nothing.
* Though now rearing a few of my own,
I’ve shifted a lot of stock in my time,
and probably “C.H.” knows as well as I
do that those large mobs of travelling
sheep did spread themselves considerably
over holdings through which they passed.
Thousands of sheep take a lot of feed,
and there wasn’t much to be found on a
prescribed narrow strip of track. A
drover’s big concern was his mob; he
must keep them going somehow. And,
with feed scarce, would any owner be
pleased to find that a travelling mob of
10,000- or 12,000-head had passed over
the area he had so carefully saved for
winter feed?
Waterholes 'were another cause ot
trouble. Admitted, travelling stock must
also drink, but in dry times, when a
bloke had for months husbanded the
small water-s.upply that with manage-
ment and luck might see his flock
through, it was nothing short of madden-
ing to have an outside bunch descend in
thousands, mop up three parts of it, and
pug the remainder into undrinkable mud.
“C.H.” also mentions the necessity of
engaging the “fighting” type of drover for
mobs of sheep with footrot, or those
carrying noxious burr in their wool.
Mate, since you are now a stockowner
yourself, I ask you honestly, would you
allow footrot sheep on your clean
property? As every owner knows, it
would almost undoubtedly mean heavy
losses, and maybe the end of an entire
carefully-built-up line.
I hold no brief for the pioneer land-
owners, and I’ll champion the cause of
any conscientious drover from the drop
of the hat, but to exhume one accusing
skeleton of a past fight and set it gibber-
ing on the grave of its opponent is
not just, nor does it do anything
towards solving the present droving
position.— Grazier (Vic.).
Subsidies
Subsidies may have economic justifica-
tion, but they seem to me to have the
familiar odor of vote-retainers clinging
to them. Surely they’re nothing more nor
less than a drug administered to a gullible
populace which is lulled into a sense of
false values while actually paying the full
cost of the subsidised article through pur-
chase price and heavy tax.
In any case, the retention of the tea
subsidy has one unfair angle which
doesn’t seem to occur to many people.
I’m a tea-toper myself, but I can’t help
feeling that ray favorite beverage
shouldn’t be partly paid for by people
who prefer coffee but have to pay full
price for it while at the same time fork-
ing out tax to help pay for my liquid
preference. It may be Government eco-
nomics, but it doesn’t smack of fair play.
—Una Auld (N.S.W.).
Wharflaboring
“Pongo” (B. 19/7/’5O) doesn’t state one
half of the anomalies that persist on the
wharves. Wharf-labor is—and always
has been, except in some isolated cases
in the Old Country—casual work. Casual
rates of pay are higher than the normal
to compensate for non-continuity of em-
ployment, yet “attendance money” to all
labor attending the pick-up has been
introduced. That means that men for
whom there is no work are paid simply
for presenting themselves. They can then
go off and turn to at something else if so
minded or spend the day in airy badinage
with their mates. Ship-owners and steve-
doring companies who have to pay the
attendance money naturally pass it on in
the form of increased freights and costs,
the public being the eventual sufferer.
Another case that seems to have
mostly escaped public notice is the
forming of the “co-operative” steve-
doring business in Melbourne. A small
vessel from Tasmania was the first ship
worked, and a 25 per cent, reduction in
discharging time was claimed, cheers
were given and boasts made, A 10
per cent, reduction in working time
would have been very fine —any man
works better when working for himself
—but a difference of 25 per cent, is a
pretty scathing comment on the way the
average lumper works, and has been
working for years past.
Actual malpractice on the job is rife,
especially in N. S. Wales. A gang will
leave a hatch and refuse to work on find-
ing a dead mouse under the dunnage
’tween-decks, instead of taking the thing
by the tail and dumping it. Yet the same
gang will take risks to save a minute at
knockoff time that would frighten the
devil. Let the smallest drop of rain fall
and the stevedores disappear as if by
magic—their troubles what becomes of
cargo left in the rain, though tarpaulins
are always handy! Usually the mate in
charge of the deck has to pull tarps about
if he wishes to save the owner’s property.
A late start, an elastic smoke-oh and an
early knock-off are the order of the day.
In justice it must be said that in the
past the stevie had a hard row to hoe,
with frequent unemployment and bad
conditions generally, but (and it’s a very
big but) that’s not the case today. The
feeling of resentment and determination
to do as little and as badly as possible
cannot be justified under modern condi-
tions. — Salt Horse Pom (Vic.).
Social Service and Charity
In asserting that social service is the
same thing as the charity of a few years
ago (B. 28/6/’5O), “H.W.” presumably
means that a person gets something for
nothing as an act of benevolence on the
part of the wealthier class. But we have
advanced from the days when, for
instance, unfortunate mental cases were
treated as criminals, when boys of 12
were hanged for offences of a trivial
nature, and when laborers on a few
shillings a week were expected to acknow-
ledge gratefully the cast-off clothes or
gifts from the charitably-disposed. Those
were the days when (as old burial
registers show) there was considerable
infant mortality, for one thing.
Social services today represent an
attempt to catch up with the under-
privileged, and to help overcome that
“fear of the future” which so many old
people used to feel. Social service is no
more a charity than is the money donated
by Parliament for the relief of flood or
fire victims.
As for its being “demoralising”—well,
I know one woman with a large bank
account who has no scruples about
charity when she goes along regularly to
collect her child endowment. “We all
pay; why shouldn’t I have this?” she
says. She is right in recognising social
service as a community effort for the
community welfare.
There probably are abuses connected
with the scheme, but that doesn’t mean
that the thing itself is unsound or un-
needed. Even in lodges or servicemen’s
organisations there are unworthy re-
cipients of benefits. — O’JpHNNO (Tas.).
Foxes
Municipalities do meet the cost of the
fox-skin bonus (B. 31/5/’5O). Five of
seven shires in this western district of
Victoria are making substantial pay-
ments. Another has placed the onus on
the State Government, contending that
all its foxes breed in State-owned and
-controlled! forest areas. In three months
of this year since the scheme has operated
more than £lOOO has been paid, repre-
senting nearly three times that number of
foxes. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
Iluka
If “Transporticus” (B. 14/6/’5O) wants
to see the justification for the deep-sea
port at Iluka, he has only to look some
450 miles further south. Sydney pro-
vides the answer —Sydney, with its over-
crowded streets, its overcrowded trams
and trams, its overcrowded wharves and
offices, t ,
The crowding of people, industries and
trade into one big city must be stopped.
Much of Sydney’s population must be
moved to other areas, but when we con-
sider ways and means we are faced wdn
a vicious circle. People will not move to
an area where there are no jobs; in-
dustry, which provides the jobs, will not
move unless there is ready access to
markets; access to markets requires
transport; and transport is not provided
unless there are people at the terminals.
The easiest part of that circle to attack
is the transport, and that is the plan tor
Iluka. .
The whole scheme is a large-scale
attempt to bring about decentralisation
in N. S. Wales. True, as “T.” says,
present population and production of tn
area do not justify the making of y
port, but, once the port is there, P°P u v*'
tion and production will move to in
area.— -Mullum (N.S.W.)-


Teachers’ College Choir and that of
Sydney Grammar School, though both
these have reached high standards under
expert conducting. Established choirs
such as the Police, North Sydney Choral,
Y.M.C.A. and others enjoy a distinct ad-
vantage in stable membership.
One of the pleasing features of the
latest festival was the splendid work of
the small ensembles. The best of these
was the Illawarra Choir, under Norman
Tonge, which sang with exceptional feel-
ing and precision a group from Dvorak’s
“Stabat Mater.” The wonder is that this
beautiful work, so rich in its rhythmic
quality, is not used more by choirs.
Another small choir which used its
limited power with commendable artistry
was the Lindfield A Capella, which con-
centrated on unaccompanied works by
16th- and 17th-century masters —here
again is an almost illimitable field which
has not been tilled enough. The Sydney
Male Singers showed snap in attack and
swelled into great volume in an exhilarat-
ing rendition of the Ra Ha chorus from
Alfred Hill’s “Hinemoa.” Another en-
semble which sang meritoriously was the
St. George Ladies’ Choir, at its best in
Smart’s “By Corailed Caves.”
TALKIES
“The Third Man."
“It ain’t what you do, it’s the way
that you do it” applies as much to film-
directing as to anything else -; but the
advice can be followed too far, as has
been shown by some of the best directors
—Ford, Hitchcock, Powell and Press-
burger, for instance —when, in their occa-
sional lapses, they have lost themselves
and their material in an orgy of style.
Carol Reed, who directed that superb
film “The Fallen Idol,” almost falls into
the trap in this carefully-made and
meticulously-acted thriller at Sydney
Regent.
Only “almost,” however, because one
of the unintended excitements of the pro-
duction is in watching how close Reed*
goes to the brink without falling over.
Take, for instance, the last scene where
the director is striving for a mixture of
suspense and melancholy futility. There
is a long avenue lined by lopped trees
with their dead leaves falling and twist-
ing in the wind ; in the foreground Joseph
Gotten waits by an old barrow and in
the distance Valli appears walking to-
wards him. She is a long way off, and
one watches her walking, and walking,
and walking, until on© feels that director
Reed must cat at any moment and
bring her 50 yards closer to the camera
in one jump. But he doesn’t; he makes
the audience watch her walk the whole
way and he gets away with it admirably.
But only just— : bnly by one step or half
a second.
So it is with the whole film —the photo-
graphic exploration of tumbled ruins and
of light and shade in deserted streets
and cobbled squares ; the echoing chase
through the city at night; the camera’s
search of the labyrinthine galleries and
passages of the Vienna sewers with the
rushing water and. voices whispering and
booming in perfect accompaniment to
the fearful confusion in the mind of the
fugitive; and the nervous, insistent twang-
ing of the accompanying zither music
by which the audience’s nerves are
plucked as effectively as the strings of
the instrument. But even though they
are all recognisable devices, each wrung
for the last drop of effect and each piled
one upon the other until it seems, fascin-
atingly, that they must collapse into no-
thing, they still, under Reed’s directing,
achieve their purpose of conveying the
shadowy, brittle atmosphere of the story.
The plot, from a novel by Graham
Greene, deals with a cheerful American,
a writer of hack westerns, who comes to
post-war Vienna on the invitation of an
old acquaintance of pre-war days. He
arrives just in time to attend the funeral
of his friend, who has been killed by a
car. His curiosity about the accident
grows into suspicion and leads him into
a maze of military police, racketeering
(in penicillin), murder and manhunts.
Along with the directing goes some
consistently good acting—mainly of the
professional variety from the English and
American actors, and of an artistic
quality from the Continental players who
are cast in the main supporting roles.
Orson Welles, in a few brief appearances
as a small-time fixer expanded to. a large-
scale racketeer, makes up for a lot of his
past stylised performances ; with his large
eyes, twitching mouth, puffy cheeks and
quick movements and gestures he gives
the character just the right glaze of con-
fidence and affability over the deeper
hints of cruelty and fear. Trevor
Howard’s major of military police and
Bernard Lee’s sergeant are two excellent
and deceptively casual performances;
Joseph Cotten’s puzzled, stubborn Ameri-
can looks like a mixture of f.a.q. acting
and good directing; and the dark, sad
mood of the beautiful Valli is a perfect
off-rhyme of tragedy for the violence and
cruelty which the film depicts.
"Canadian Pacific."
“Hiya, Stinker. Where y’ been?”
“The pitchers.”
“Wotcha see?”
“ ‘Canadian Pacific,’ at the Civic.”
“Is she any good?”
“Whacko ; she’s a beaut. All about
Randolph Scott building a railway
through the Rocky Mountains.”
“Any fighting?”
“Too right. Randy’s what they call a
trouble-shooter. Soon as he sees anyone
in camp tryin’ to make trouble he plugs
’em or smacks ’em down with his fists.
He’s plenty tough,”
“What sort of trouble?”
“Aw, you know. Blokes tryin’ to stop
the railroad going through because they
reckon it- won’t do the country any
good.”
“Whatta they do?”
“Cripes, just about everything. Tear
up the rails or blow 'em up so that some
of the trucks are derailed and kill a lot
of jokers. Then they pinch eight cases
of dynamite, but Randy gets it back and
is just stackin’ it on a truck when one
of the crooks fires a bullet into it and it
goes up like an atom-bomb and Randy
with it.”
“Gee. Does it kill ’im?”
“Don’t be silly. He’s tough. But he
has to go into hospital all the winter,
and while Vs away the crooks get to the
Indians an’ sool ’em on to the railroad
camp. Then they start a saloon in the
camp so that all the blokes’ll be too
drunk to fight when the Indians come.”
“Garn. The drunker my ol’ man gets
the better ’e fights.”
“Garn y’self. Y’r ol’ man couldn’t
fight pussy. Mine could beat ’im with-
out gettin’ drunk.”
“Ah, phooey. But tell us about the
pitcher.”
“Well, just when all these blokes are
gettin’ drunk in the saloon, and just when
all the Indians are heatin’ their drums
and doin’ war-dances in the mountains,
Randy gets back. ’E pulls the saloon
down, and is just getting the blokes back
to work when the Indians come. Randy
gets one every time ’e shoots, but there’s
too many of ’em, see, so ’e sneaks out
into the bush and gets the leader of the
crooks. At least ’e doesn’t kill ’im ; ’e
just wings ’im, an’ then a dirty big burn-
ing tree falls on the bloke and squashes
’im.”
“What happens then?”
“The Injuns still keep cornin’ an’
they’re just about to wipe out the camp
when another train come up with a lot
more blokes and guns. They’re too good
for the Indians, and they run like mad
back into the mountains and promise
never to touch the railroad again.”
“Aw, they musta been cissies. Any
mush in the film?”
“Yair. There’s two sheilas after
Randy. One’s a lady doctor who looks
after ’im when Vs crook, and tries to
stop ’im from usin’ guns and goin’ around
shootin’ people. But she’s a mug because
she can’t see that Vs gotta shoot people
before they shoot ’im. The other sheila’s
a French piece an’ she’s got more sense.
She spies on the crooks for ’im an’ warns
’im when the Indians are cornin’ an’ then
takes a rifle ’erself an’ ’elps to shoot
them.”
“Which one does Randy take?”
“Don’t be silly. The French one, o’
course.”
“What’s she like?”
“Hubba, hubba!”
“What d’ y’ mean?”
“Aw, be y’r age.”
"North West Stampede. 11
Further adventures in the Canadian
Rockies, this time with James Craig,
Joan Leslie, Jack Oakie, Chill Wills, an
Alsatian and a few hundred horses, in-
cluding an outlaw white stallion which
occasionally raids the ranch to retrieve
its mares whenever they happen to be
captured.
The ranch is owned by Mr. Craig’s
father, and when the old chap dies Mr.
Craig, who has been away for a few
years winning silver cups and whatnots in
rodeos, comes home to find Miss Leslie
managing the place. She loves the ranch
much more than she does Mr, Craig, and
when he proposes to sell it and go off in
quest of more silver cups, etc., she
threatens to slap a lien on the place for
her unpaid wages.
Mr. Craig’s ready cash being non-
existent, he heads for the nearest rodeo —
the “Calgary Stampede”—where he in-
tends to win enough dollars to pay Miss
Leslie and fire her ; but Miss Leslie heads
in the same direction and pips him at the
post by proving that she is just a shade
better at winning silver cups, prizemoney
and the like. Their rivalry continues for
the running-time of the film, during which
the pair of them go off after the white
stallion and Miss Leslie proves something
or other to Mr. Craig by bringing home
its favorite mare, so that the outlaw
follows peacefully behind right to the
ranchhouse door.
Nobody bursts into song or dance
during the piece, but there is always the
uncomfortable feeling that they are likely
to at any moment. (Sydney Victory.)
"Seal Island."
Walt Disney and co. went a long way
to make this item, and it’s worth going a
long way to see it. The film —not a car-
toon —was photographed in techni-
color on an island in the Bering
Sea, where the fur seals come in their
thousands every year to bear their pups
and mate again.
The old bulls arrive first, establish
beachheads and, with a good deal of bel-
lowing and jostling, select the sites for
their respective harems. About a month
later they become very restive and take
up vantage-points to watch for the arrival
of the cows ; with unusual punctuality for
their sex, the ladies come in their
thousands at the beginning of June and,
if such is possible, flounder daintily
ashore, to be claimed and fought over
and fiercely guarded by their lords.
With a fertility-rate that would send
any sheepfarmer into ecstasy, the pups
are born in their thousands, and play,
yap, feed and leam to swim in readiness
for the day when the whole herd takes to
the sea again.
The bachelors —male seals up to five
and six years—are confined to quarters
back from the beach, but are permitted
access to the water through clearly-
defined lanes —and heaven help ’em if they
place a flipper in any of the forbidden
territory! As he reaches strength and
maturity and tires of celibacy a bachelor
selects a harem and moves in to chal-
lenge the bull in possession. Sometimes
he loses, sometimes he wins. The intruder
shown in the film wins, and the old bull
retires, bloody and beaten, to soak his
gashes in the salt water and then take
up residence with the other bachelors.
The film shows Disney’s usual senti-
mental predilection for wee creatures by
dwelling overlong on the baby seals, but
it is a pardonable and charming lapse in
this case. It also has some beautiful
studies of exquisite wildflowers, reindeer,
foxes and assorted birds ranging from
lean cormorants to fat puffins colored
like tropical parrots.
One might also read into the film sup-
port for the theory that the monsters,
ghosts and other queer beasties of island
legends were really seals —any ancient
who stumbled through the fog on to an
old-man seal, with its long drooping
whiskers, its head back, mouth open and
giving out its hoarse bellow, would be
quite justified in reporting that he had
met, if not the devil himself, at least the
ghost of Uncle Willie. (Sydney Regent.)
"East Side, West Side."
This M.-G.-M. opus kicks off with the
conventional eternal-triangle motif, with
James Mason peddling his usual mental-
cruelty stock-in-trade, Barbara Stanwyck
as the wronged wife and Ava Gardner
the voluptuous siren. A quadrangle takes
shape with the addition of Van Heflin,
who nobly suppresses his own romantic
aspirations towards the wronged wife in
favor of being the family friend bent on
a reconciliation. A spot of homicide
makes it a triangle again, with the noble
one, an ex-cop and now a Federal agent-
CMm-author, swiftly sleuthing the killer
of the siren and thereby releasing the
husband from durance vile. The film
gets its chief entertainment-value from its
dialogue and the performances of Van
Heflin and Barbara Stanwyck.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 81
Across.
I—lt is valiant but there is nothing
with you and a bee between the
radical and the furniture. (11)
B—Noticing blubbering Desmond. (9)
12— The morning I leave a friend in
Spain. (5)
13— Eggs mean nothing to Virginia. (3)
14— Very sweet reversal of the United
States with Mr. Cooper. (6)
15— —Fish on a musical end-piece. (4)
16— The high-priest of Shiloh and the
cricket team are in the quintes-
sence. (6)
I?—Australian river to prohibit the
dove’s call. (6)
20— It is healthy about the horse to
drive a hard bargain. (6)
21- Marine creature to spoil nothing
in return. (6)
23 Trees go east with an English
railway system. (4)
24 Money to knock out Gregory. (6)
One American State or no par-
ticular one. (3)
Lamb follows 100, girl. (5)
28 —A word of advice like to provide
the first course in Italy. (9)
31 —Speechless located a boy? (11)
Down.
1 — Instrument of correction, a Euro-
pean, French gold, and a bird’s
foothold in 198 inches. (3, 4,2, 5)
2 Extreme softwood removed from
the porcine mammal. (3)
3 Purchase. (3)
4 Solicit alms or an artist with
aspiration might be mentioned by
a cussing Irishman. (8)
5 Dash two articles, one Spanish,
one English. (4)
6 Mother and I act in favor of the
inclinations of a girl who lived
from 1412 to 1431. (4, 2,7)
7 Drow ym no obeys the answer
when I break a pledge. (2, 4,
2,2, 4)
9 —Bridge, is the domicile rented out
for an egg dish? (6, 6)
10 — Relaxation about a b'ite. (7)
11 — The gloomy dean. (4)
18— Malicious witticism in an aero-
plane causes a nervous break-
down. (5, 2)
19 — Some plan in a redundant utter-
ance. (8)
22 —Reds and pinks felt badly and
departed. (4)
26 —Pass this innings. (4)
29 Yours truly takes to this Japanese
statesman. (3)
30— A couple of directions in the
beard of the corn. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 80.


n invitation
to the men of New South Wales
to inspect the new
®ejdu6e
Siamtf^a.
0. (S’ Suits
flour!
is the time —-
while they are still available
O Bvery DE LUXE Stamina Suit is Craftsman Tailored
J ■*
from 100% pure Australian Fleece Wool only
the famous Crusader Cloth is used guaranteed
never to fade or shrink.
# The sizes available at present are 3,4, 5,6, 4{ and
and the colourings are the latest popular shades
of grey and navy blue.
• And the Price while the stocks last
only £ll-17-9
O It may be some years before such value becomes
available again.
Obtainable only from leading
men’s wear stores
Wholesale Distributors: Hooper & HarriSOn Ptj. Ltd.
m
W?m
I
f k
mt:
1
:
i
*s
|:v
I '
•: ; :vx-
I
:• ..
m
:
m
mm
■
'
mm
n
mi
mm
m
m
m.
If
:
IF
*
ii
ill
r«
Ik
m
m
.
.".'A
m
'mSmt
m:< 0
f
im
mm
w
w
f
a wn*
lfesU '£<*
