

The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” 71-No. 3695
Wednesday, December 6, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
Melbourne “Herald” Photo •
COMIC COURT
Brown horse by Powerscourt-Witty Maid. Five years.
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1950
OWNERS: R. A., J. D. AND A. J. LEE (JUN.)
TRAINER: J. M. CUMMINGS
JOCKEY: PAT GLENNON
WEIGHT: 9st. 5lb. TIME: 3min. 19½sec. Australian record
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT S 8 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


l mi
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— --CUT HERE AND MAIL ———
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, tree and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.150) ..Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/-.)
Book lists on Mansfleldiana, Caxton Press, early and
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, Will Lawson
and others). Specialised fields for book hunting.
The Red Page
CHRISTOPHER FRY .
Christopher Fry, who has been
dominating London theatre since the
beginning of this year—in February he
had as many as three plays running at
once—is an unpretentious dramatist, in
the sense that whether his plays hit or
miss, you can be sure he will never be
heavily urgent about it. So nonchalant
is he that, in reading him, the awareness
dawns only very slowly that here is a
dramatist whose dialogue is the most
brilliant since Sean O’Casey.
So far Australians, apart from the few
who heard May Hollinworth’s players
read “The Lady’s Not For Burning” in
Sydney, have had no opportunity to judge
his work as theatre. One can only
imagine the delight Londoners must hate
experienced when Laurence Olivier played
and produced the most recent of Fry’s
works, “Venus Observed,” earlier this
year. Played against decor by Roger
Purse, whose designs are said to have
been the best of his career, what with
Fry’s enchanting verbal gift and Olivier’s
suave acting and production, the season
must have been memorable.
From this distance Fry’s appearance in
the theatre has something of the sudden-
ness and brilliance of a comet, but in
England he has been visible for a decade,
tracing his orbit through the little theatres
and various Festivals, before dimming
London’s footlights.
He was born in 1907, at Bristol, a city
where the name of Fry has been associ-
ated for over two centuries with confec-
tions more material than his own. He
is a scion of the famous chocolate house.
Educated at Bedford modern school, he
became an actor at Bath in 1927, in 1934
becoming acting manager of the Tun-
bridge Wells Repertory Players. In 1935
he wrote the lyrics and music for “She
Shall Have Music,” produced at the
Saville Theatre, London, in that year. He
married in 1936. In 1937 he wrote his
first verse-play, still unpublished and un-
performed—“ Siege.”
In the following year he attempted a
short play in the manner of T. S. Eliot
—“The Boy With the Cart,” which was
recently produced at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith. It is the thinnest affair about the
journey of a young Cuthman and his
mother, from Cornwall to Sussex, and the
building of a church at Steyning—a sort
of gentle pilgrims’ progress, not really
strong enough for professional acting.
Two pageant plays followed—“ Thursday’s
Child” and “The Tower,” performed re-
spectively at the Albert Hall and the
Tewkesbury Festival in 1939.
In 1940 Fry became director of the
Oxford Playhouse. During the war he
served with the Pioneer Corps. After the
war his “The Firstborn” was broadcast
by the 8.8. C., and later performed at
the Edinburgh Festival, 1948. Meantime
“A Phcenix Too Frequent” had been pro-
duced at the Mercury Theatre, London,
1946. “The Lady’s Not For Burning”
and “Thor With Angels” both reached
the stage in 1948, the latter at the Canter-
bury Festival. “Venus Observed” was
written in 1949. The last, four plays are
now available in print, published by
Oxford University Press.
It’s an almost incredible experience to
read a contemporary book, then turn to
the publisher’s blurb and find its praise
not excessive. This is certainly the re-
viewer’s experience with regard to “A
Phoenix.” “The rare combination of
poetry, paradox, wit, humor, intellectual
discourse and topicality makes ‘A Phoenix
Too Frequent’ one of the most absorbing
and entertaining plays of this century.”
It is all that. Laying the play down one
searches for parallels, almost incredul-
ously, recalling the early Shakspeare, the
mature Anatole France, the 17th-century
metaphysicals —and, of all things, Lang-
ley’s “Cage Me a Peacock.” Utterly un-
like Eliot as his natural style now is, Fry
has thoroughly mastered one of Eliot’s
wisest dicta, that true originality illumin-
ates tradition. It is this, rather than any
deliberate eclecticism in Fry’s writing, that
sends one involuntarily back to earlier
masters in an effort to orientate oneself
to “A Phoenix.”
The play’s title is drawn from Robert
Burton’s quotation of some lines by
Martial, in The Anatomy of Melancholy,
while the plot derives from the story told
by the scandalous rhymster Eumolpus,
in Petronius’s Satyricon, about the beauti-
ful Ephesian widow who decided to
starve to death in her deceased husband’s
tomb, and ended up celebrating her
nuptials there with a handsome young
soldier. Fry telescopes the action into
the time taken to play it—something
short of two hours—idealises the char-
acters, and supplies all the dialogue. The
situation is essentially comic ; what tragedy
there is cannot for a moment be taken at
its face-value. But such is the evocative
power of the poetry that a sort of wisdom
beyond both comedy and tragedy emerges.
By normal dramatic standards,
academic standards, all Fry’s plays are
lacking in fully motivated characterisa-
tion ; but it is doubtful whether he aims
at such. Certainly its lack does not de-
tract from the entertainment value of his
plays ; indeed it probably increases it, as
leaving the mind free from the trammels
of plot to luxuriate in the wealth of the
verbal beauties that are displayed.
Short of the famous Cyclops episode
in Joyce’s Ulysses, I doubt if any other
contemporary writing in English possesses
such a wealth of rhetorical device as page
after page of “A Phoenix” affords : puns,
metaphors beautifully mixed, metaphors
dazzling in their purity, bathos, circum-
locution, idiom, slang, striking epithets—
the list might be prolonged. In describ-
ing the effect upon her of one of Tegeus’s
love speeches, Dynamene describes aptly
enough the effect of Fry’s verse:
It lifts me and carries me. It may be wild
But it comes to me with a charm, like trust
indeed,
And eats out of my heart . . .
Here is the dialogue in which the lovers
declare themselves to each other. It
develops the technique of what, for want
of an adequate literary word, I call
fugato :
Tegeus:
Forgive me, a terrible thing has happened.
Shall I
Say it and perhaps destroy myself for you?
Forgive me first, or, more than that, forgive
Nature who winds her furtive streams all through
Our reason. Do you forgive me?
Dynamene :
I’ll forgive
Anything, if it’s the only way I can know
What you have to tell me,
Tegeus:
I felt us to be alone;
Here in a grave, separate from any life,
I and the only one of beauty, the only
Persuasive key to all my senses,
In spite of my having lain day after day
And pored upon the sepals, corolla, stamen,
and bracts
Of the yellow bog-iris. Then my body ventured
A step towards interrupting your perfection of
purpose
And my own renewed faith in human nature.
Would you have believed that possible?
Dynamene ;
I have never
Been greatly moved by the yellow bog-iris. Alas,
It’s as I said. This place is for none but the
spider,
Raven and worms, not for a living man.
Tegeus:
It has been a place of blessing for me. It will
always
Play in me, a fountain of confidence
When the world is arid. But I know it is true
I have to leave it, and though it withers my soul
I must let you make your journey.
Dynamene :
No.
Tegeus:
Not true?
Dynamene :
We can talk of something quite different.
Tegeus:
Yes, we can!
Oh, yes, we will! Is it your opinion
That no one believes who hasn’t learned to
doubt?
Or, another thing, if we persuade ourselves
To one particular Persuasion, become Sophist,
Stoic, Platonist, anything whatever,
Would you say that there must be areas of soul
Lying unproductive therefore, or dishonored
Or blind?
Dynamene :
No, I don’t know,
Tegeus:
No. It’s impossible
To tell. Dynamene, if only I had
Two cakes of pearl barley and hydromel
I could see you to Hades, leave you with your
husband
And come back to the world.
Dynamene :
Ambition, I suppose,
Is an appetite particular to man.
What is your definition?
Tegeus:
The desire to find
A reason for living.
Dynamene;
But then, suppose it leads
As often, one way or another, it does, to death.
Tegeus:
Then that may be life’s reason. Oh, but how
Could I bear to return, Dynamene? The earth’s
Daylight would be my grave if I had left you
In that unearthly night.
Dynamene :
O Chromis . . .
Tegeus:
Tell me,
What is your opinion of Progress? Does it,
for example,
Exist? Is there ever any progression without
retrogression?
Therefore is it not true that mankind
Can more justly be said increasingly to Gress?
As the material improves, the craftsmanship
deteriorates
And honor and virtue remain the same. I
love you.
Dynamene:.
Would you consider we go round and round?
Tegeus:
We concertina, I think; taking each time
A larger breath, so that the farther we go out
The farther we have to go in.
Dynamene :
There’ll come a time
When it will be unbearable to continue.
Tegeus:
Unbearable ...
True universality, this. At once
remote and intimate. With this rich
fugato Fry can contrast the treble air of
simpler lovers, as when, ini “The Lady’s
Not For Burning,” he offsets the full
counterpoint of the love speeches of his
principals, Thomas and Jennet, with the
lyrical love of Richard and Alizon:
Richard :
I think I may never speak steadily again.
What have 1 done or said to make it possible
That you should love me?
Alizon :
Everything I loved
Before has come to one meeting place in you
And you have gone out into everything 1 love.
Richard :
Happiness seems to be weeping in me, as
I suppose it should, being newly born.
Alizon ;
We must never leave each other now, or else
We should perplex the kindness of God.
Richard ;
The kindness
Of God in itself is not a little perplexing.
What shalTwe do?
Alizon :
We cleave to each other, Richard,
That is what is proper for us to do . . .
Somehow, at the end of this scene, one
is left murmuring that old medieval en-
chantment :
An bendy hap Iccabe yhent
Idiot from heven it is me sent
From alle wimmen my lov is lent
And iite on Alisoun....
“The Lady’s Not. For Burning” has a
medieval theme, the burning of a witch.
The fact that “the lady” turns out not
to have been a witch, after all, is purely
a matter of convenience. The same
would doubtless have happened to many
a poor body who endured auto da fe in
actuality, had she been lucky enough to
touch the hearts of lovers as innocent as
Richard and Alizon, or fallen to the
justice of one as mellow-drunk as Justice
Tappercoom of Cool Clary. It is the
ritual of the action that counts.
The play is a continual allegory.
Witches we have had before on our stage,
but none so English as Jennet Jourde-
mayne (despite her name), and none that
rejuvenates so remarkably the role of
Circe in Mediterranean myth. It is true
that while Circe was the death of her
lovers, Jennet is the life of hers. But
Fry has only reversed the hour-glass, the
sand still “crowds and.. . .combs to the
fall.” The would-be suicide Mendip
turns to life finally, but he dies into it;
Thomas :
Do you see those roofs and spires?
There sleep hypocrisy, porcous pomposity, greed,
Lust, vulgarity, cruelty, trickery, sham
And all possible nitwittery—are you suggesting
fifty
Years of that?
Jennet;"
I was only suggesting fifty years of me,
Thomas:
Girl, you haven’t changed the world.
Glimmer as you will, the world’s not changed.
Jennet:
Am I an inconvenience to you?
Thomas :
As inevitably as original sin.
For Thomas, love equates with death,
and death with life.
In “Thor With Angels” things are
carried a little further than in “The Lady.”
The ritual death becomes actual. Cymen,
a Jutish leader of about the year a.d. 596,
is blinded in battle by a mysterious light
and saves the life of a British slave who,
by all the rules of war, should have died.
Cymen is at a loss to justify his action
to his family, his followers or himself;
but he has a premonitiqn that the Briton
is a portent and he doggedly refuses to
kill him even when a counter-portent in
the likeness of a raid of wolves on his
flocks seems to announce his impending
doom by his gods.
Quite involuntarily, possessed by he
knows-not-what, he tumbles his altars to
the ground. At this dire crisis in his
affairs, when he has taken upon him the
dual identities of a Saul and an CEdipus
—as abandoned by his old gods, pushed
by them to his fate, and at the same time
led forward by some new power—a
message from his king, Ethelbert of Kent,
calls him to the witan to judge the
preaching of Saint Augustine, just landed
in Kent. Cymen returns converted to
Christianity, only to find that the Briton
whose life has become the symbol to
him of the new faith has been ritually
done to death by his followers, in their
efforts to placate the old gods.
Some idea of the quality of the
rhetoric put into the mouth of the pirate
Cymen, for that is what he is, profes-
sionally, may be gathered from the follow-
ing speech in which he curses the state of
possession in which he finds himself
Cymen :
Some ancient
Damp god of this dooming island, who spar
The fungus out of his mouth and caught me
napping.
I curse this kingdom, water, rock and soil!
J accuse and curse the creaking of its boughs
And the slaver on the mouth of its winds! It
makes
A fool of me! Too many voices rasp
Out of decaying rafters, out of every cave
And every hole in the yellow, sodden hills.
This is the golden future our fathers died for!
The gods look at it! Here’s the slice of fortune
They came to carve with their courage
When they pitched themselves on the narrow,
shuddering sea
To deal and duck death under the hanging
chalk.
Here we live, in our fathers’ mirage.
Cities, they’d heard oL great with columns,
Gay cities, where wealth was bulging the doors
And the floors were sagging with the weight of
gold.
The orchards rang with fruit, the hills moved
With grain like a lion’s mane, and wherever
A river sauntered the fish swam, and eels
Reeled in bright mud. Flocks were fair,
And cows like pendulous fountains of alabaster
Wept lowing over the land where silver skulked
Waiting for skill ; a land where summer days
Could call to one another across the night
Under the northern pole. So here we live
And choke in our fathers’ mirage. Dreams
they were,
As well we know; we live in the skull
Of the beautiful head which swam in the eyes
of our fathers.
Our ploughshares jag on the stumps of moon-
white villas.
And ipy brain swerves with the sudden sting
of one
Of the island gods, the down-and-out divinities
Moping, mildewed with immortality,
Cross-boned on weedy altars. I curse this land
That curses me!
The language of “Thor” is naturally
more robustious than Fry uses in other
?lays, as being suited to piratical Jutes,
here are, too, occasional archaic words
and a quality of incantation peculiar to
this English ancestral play, if we may call
it that. ', -
In “Venus Observed,” commissioned by
Olivier, Fry turns from the springtime
urgency of “The Lady” to the autumnal
mood in which the Duke of Aitair settles
into “a resignation of monogamy.”
Jennet-Circe is transformed into Perpetua-
Venus, and reawakens the ageing duke’s
heart, provokes .valry between him and
his son, and rouses the ire of the duke’s
old-flame Rosabel, until it sets the house
alight. The duke and Perpetua are very
nearly burnt alive. The flames are actual.
The play shows a developing sense of
dramatic action and a slight decrease in
the author’s characteristically rich and
surging eloquence.
To revert to a matter of importance,
however: in this reviewer’s opinion, to
judge any of Fry’s plays by the criteria
of realistic drama is entirely to miscon-
strue their import. Their entertainment
value is not in question. However the
plays are judged they remain great fun.
But they are profound as well as gay.
And this profundity, has to do with their
use of myth. Ever since Milton made his
last great effort to establish an indigenous
myth in English poetry, our poets have
aimed at a cross-fertilisation of the present
with the remote past. Until recently little
success attended their efforts. The Ossian
deities were uncomfortably cloudy and
damp; Wordsworth wrote without any
myth. Blake invented his own, which
nobody agrees on, Keats relied on the
flaxmanised Greeks. Tennyson and the
Pre-Raphaelites ransacked the second-
hand shops for picturesque lay-figures.
So far as drama is concerned, the
American Eugene O’Neill did something
towards a solution with his “Mourning
Becomes Electra” ; Yeats by such plays as
“The Resurrection,” and Eliot by “Family
Reunion” and, recently, by “The Cock-
tail Party.” In the novel the advance has
been much greater. One thinks, pre-
eminently, of those of Thomas Mann, and
then of The Aerodrome and the novels of
Jocelyn Brooke.
Anthropology has stimulated the whole
development, and the theories of Freud
and Jung. The savage worshipping his
totem and the civilised habitue of
Europe’s and America’s more exclusive
nightclubs are seen to be practising
similar rites. Moses leading the Children
of Israel is any modern father putting his
foot down ; the sons of (Edipus are the
members of any modern family dis-
membering their father’s estate. Aga-
memnon is the man-next-door. Fry’s con-
tribution to all this: his identification
of the Briton in “Thor” with Christ, Of
Jennet with Circe, and Perpetua with
Venus puts him plumb in the centre of
our poetic tradition. Whatever the defi-
ciencies of his plays from the realistic
(i Continued on inside back cover.)


yz
S- A
s
• -
*
r C- s »'>.
I
<*<7‘ ■ :■
jgSSbrU
£••:•. V;- .- . -<s^
7
c ’fA
> v.
/.-/
tv
i
&
Q>
$
'■ •■;• •
liii
I
rS
-/
<'S
?CT5u3
3
(/ V
0
na
l&r
x<
r \
V:
|4-~=p=S| p
S5-*
1*
*#i|p
Bed Settee and
Overlay, a practical
necessity for the modern
home. Fitted with a
woven wire mattress,
this sturdy settee is quickly
converted to a bed.
Finished in walnut
colour, it’s priced at
£7/8/9. Overlays in a
wide range of coverings
from £4/18/6 each.
To Enhance the Home, the Office or the Den . . .
Choose the Finest
In Modem Furniture
Brighten up your home or office with modern, functional furniture
specially designed for practical service and liveability. Illustrated here is but a selection
from our large range of modern furniture that will suit every room in your home.
. i 3 ,
m
"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
jtp
1
■
mm
mm
m
0
L
Roll Top Desk, single pedestal type, dimension
3ft. x 2ft. 6in., contains four drawers. In
figured walnut and natural maple colours.
Priced at £3l/19/9.
School Desk with lift-up lid that features a
pencil holder and inkwell hole. Dimensions
24in. x 17in., 30in. high. Finished in medium
pale colour. Priced at £5/19/6.
Bridge Chair features a sprung seat and a
padded swing back and attractively turned
legs finished in walnut colour. Priced from
£5/17/6, according to covering.
“D” Type Chair for comfort and ease features
a sprung upholstered seat and a half-circle
back. Screwed and bolted underframe. Priced
at only £4/4/- each.
Reading Chair has dell sprung seat and padded
back with comfortable head rest. Ample space
beside seat for books. From only £ll each.
According to covering chosen.
Tub Shaped Revolving Chair features tilting
action, and can be adjusted to all heights. Well
upholstered seat, finished in light or dark
colour. Priced at £9/3/6 each.
<C-
■'U-yi
\
m
m
*N. :
X.
- V-
W
H
OFFICE FURNITURE AND BEDDING—THIRD FLOOR—BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)


sr
-
r
8
A 3
Where ehe but..
to choose gifts now for all the family?
Picnic Case for Four, 95/-
Contains two 1-pint vacuum flasks with two screw-on
cups on each, salad box, four plates and sugar or
tea bottle. It’s smartly finished, strong and light.
Also picnic basket, fitted for six people, at £6/6/-.
Travel Alarms from 90/-
“Kohler” luminous alarm (illust.) in leather case, 90/-.
Swiss 15-jewelled “Relide,” £ll/3/6. “Smith’s”
7-jewelled in slide-fastened case from £5/16/6.
(Proud’s 12 months’ service guarantee with each clock)
m
i M
m
m
Manicure Sets from 28/6
English slide-fastening manicure case in light tan or
grey printed , hide, silk lined. Contains scissors,
tweezers and file among its seven useful pieces. Dozens
of others at 32/6, 39/6, 47/6, 59/6, 90/-, £6/2/9.
'CA
/
m
Mm
m
\
Petit Point Brushware. 11 gns.
This 4-piece Petit-point set with filigree handles is
one of a great many that qualify for favourite gifts —
large or small florals to choose from. Other
Petit-point sets in satin-lined boxes from £B/10/-.
Lighter Cases from 45/-
English “Falcon” case holds 15 cigarettes, lighter, 45/-
Gilt “Seigneur” (illustrated) holds 12 cigarettes, 63/-
“Barford,” 2 sizes: 12 cigarettes, 37/6; 18 cigs, 63/-
“Polo” lighter case holds 12 cigarettes and lighter, 63/-
Pipes and Pouches
(Above) Pouch-pipe carrier in navy or black kid,
with 9-ct. gold shield, 30/-. “Mayfair” crusted root
briar pipe, 17/6. (Below) “Juvena” slide-fastening
pouch of brown calf with 9-ct. shield and slot, 25/-.
Anne,
151-
f
“Elizabeth,”
32/6
Perfume Sprays from 15/-
From Paris, an exciting collection of many style-right
shapes and sizes—all gilt-finished with coloured
tasselled bulbs on the large ones (to 32/6) and netted
bulbs on the small ones (as illustrated from 15/-)
"Crackerjack" 21/-
This is Proud’s new, more efficient nutcracker that
automatically adjusts itself to crack nuts of all sizes
and stops before crushing the kernel. Especially
effective with brazil nuts. Chrome plated, gift boxed.
&
I'K
w
w
Compact Gifts from 17/6. 23/6
We illustrate “Pygmalion” globe-shaped gilt favourite
in engraved all-over design. Fitted with mirror,
powder sifter and puff, hand-in-hand with fashion
in a black drawstring bag. 23/6. Others from 17/6.
I muds
See how were kept Christmas prices down at Proud’s, corner of King and Pitt Streets, Sydney. Phone 8W2721. Mail orders to Box 1502, G.P.0., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3695
Wednesday, December 6, 1950
“And nearer fast and nearer
Doth the Red whirlwind come. .."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU597I.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
ON THE BRINK.
The Communist Chinese delegation to
U.N.O. went to Lake Success via Mos-
cow and Prague, touching-down only for
a moment in “imperialist” Britain before
crossing the Atlantic.
When it reached the United States,
troops of its nationality and from its
territory whom it says it cannot stop
from going to Korea because they have
been moved by “patriotic anger and the
threat to their beloved fatherland.
People’s China,” were engaged in what
Peking calls “driving the bestial im-
perialists [including some tired Aus-
tralians] into the sea.”
The miracle of the loaves and fishes
seems to have been a small thing beside
the accomplishments of these volunteer
patriots. They have reached the Yalu in
the dead of winter with remarkable
celerity, in some cases from districts
hundreds of miles away, presumably
carried on the wings of indignation and
fed by the robins en route. They have
miraculously found themselves decked out
in Chinese uniforms, equipped with a
Chinese-type commissariat, organised into
regular regiments, divisions and corps
with officers all ready and trained. They
have been provided with a plan of cam-
paign and armed to the teeth.
The Chinese Government which has
sent its delegates to U.N.O. and been
received into U.N.O.’s bosom denies that
it haa anything direct to do with this,
though the “volunteer” aircraft are opera-
ting from its territory and enemy bases
and dumps are in its territory ; though all
the troops which are now engaged in the
drive southward bear the marks of
Chinese regular soldiers, and their forma-
tions have in some cases been specifically
identified as integral parts of the Chinese
Communist Army.
Anybody who believes that Russia and
its satellites have not been working for
world war, carried on either piecemeal
nation by nation (which they would pre-
fer), or in a single Armageddon if neces-
sary, must be pretty innocent.
Yet U.N.O. and its constituent dele-
gates continue to play with the snake
which they know intends to swallow
them, bargaining with it and feeding it
with the very kind of diet which fattens
it, even sometimes through their clumsi-
ness, as in the case of General Mac-
Arthur’s statement about the defence of
Formosa, giving it material to justify its
actions, at least to the ignorant who
accept bare facts without troubling about
the background.
Only a miracle can avoid a spread of
the present conflict. U.N.O. is hope-
lessly divided. The United States policy
has become the plaything of domestic poli-
tics, and not always of only one kind of
politics. There are occasions when there
seem to be two separate directing authori-
ties, each going its own sweet way and
each as bullheaded as the other —Presi-
dent Truman at home and General Mac-
Arthur abroad. British opinion is veer-
ing away from the raw methods of both
Washington and the Security Council, and
is more united than the American
headquarters. Both the Government and
Mr. Churchill agree that North Korea is
a bad pretext for war and that every
effort should be made to satisfy any rea-
sonable guarantees which the Chinese
ask (even speciously) for security against
attack.
Time, as in 1938-39, is the most im-
portant commodity, even though those
who play for it face the risk of being
called “appeasers”—a word invented
in Moscow, and, strangely enough, most
hated by those who profess to have a
monopoly of the world’s love of peace.
History has not yet come sufficiently into
perspective to make it clear that if there
had been no Munich in 1938 there would
probably have been no Spitfires when it
came to fight the Battle of Britain, and
consequently, very likely, no Britain at
all afterwards, or only a devastated one
in chains.
It is good to see that British thought,
despite its Socialist content, is once more
turning to united Empire or Common-
wealth channels, based on a realisation
that common defence and a common
foreign policy would immensely
strengthen the British Commonwealth of
Nations and help to restore it to its old
security. The stumbling-block to the
realisation of this, is, of course, Socialism
at home with its content of parlor Pinks
and ex-Communists who infest the ranks
of the British Cabinet, and of “statesmen”
in Australia who accept the Com-
munist theory that Communism is
born of misery and poverty and adopt
all the busybodying plans of the
Evatts and their kind, oblivious of the
well-established home-truth that if you
wish ultimately to make an enemy of
somebody you should interfere with his
domestic welfare or lend him money.
The Australians and Canadians and
Maorilanders at the January conference
in London have a great chance to get
away from the policy of meddle which is
adding much to the dissensions of a
threatened Western world. But as far as
our people at home are concerned, it is
doubtful whether they have a proper
sense of reality. Everything attempted
in the name of defence in the past year
has been wrecked by the opposition of a
crowd which calls itself “Labor” and
which is becoming more and more
revealed as the agent of the Communist
bloc of unions. And the people have
put up with it.
Even in the present fairytale period of
inflation, in which the high life, judging
by columnists’ articles in the past few
weeks, has even extended to the fantastic
jails of N. S. Wales, there surely is a
body of public opinion capable of apprais-
ing the risk of maintaining in existence
an Opposition which refuses to deal with
an enemy in control of the fate of many
key defence industries, and which, in an
atmosphere like that of the present week,
with world war waiting over the crest
of the hill, is opposing recruiting for the
regular army and which sits down and
deliberately devises a political scheme to
delay, by a prolonged party “investiga-
tion,” the drilling of a few thousand
young compulsory trainees.
Anybody who has studied the proceed-
ings of “Labor” in the last few years
knows that this is pure sham. Defence
policy is decided, and has always been
decided, not in caucus but by an outside
junta responsible to State branches of the
party of which the core is Communist-
controlled.
It seems that the most urgent matter
of concern to Australia at the moment
is its internal situation. The Government
must assure itself that it has the complete
confidence of the country and then stamp
out interested opposition which affects
our safety, no matter where that opposi-
tion comes from —whether from those
trade-unions which put the “class-
war” first, or a puppet Opposition
which is little better for practical
purposes at the moment than a tool,
it is to be hoped completely unwitting, of
the enemy. Till that is done, we should
keep out of U.N.O.’s meddlings and cease
from interferences like those envisaged
by the so-called Ceylon (formerly
“Spender”) plan.
Test for Leadership.
Mr. Casey’s Ministry of National
Development has issued a long and
detailed schedule of public works planned
all over Australia —power projects, trans-
port extensions (railways, harbors and
roads), water-conservation schemes and
land-settlement —which would provide
enough work, and more, for a couple of
generations in this country laboring with
the single-minded devotion of ants. When
on top of this the Government expects to
maintain an unprecedented immigration
programme —itself a short-term burden
on current industrial output and housing
resources whatever the ultimate increase
in productive manpower —and an emer-
gency defence programme which must
make priority demands on labor and
materials in short supply, the compounded
strain on this community is easily to be
perceived.
Leaving aside the increasing threat of
a new world war, it is idle to ignore
among the informed public grave doubts
—such as those expressed by
the chairmen of two leading Australian
banks last week —on whether this
mammoth development effort is for the
present practical politics. This is not to
decry it or deny the desirability of the
works mentioned ; but so immense and
long-sustained a Governmental first
option upon available commodities and
labor, at a time of high and rising infla-
tion brought about by shortages of both
current civilian needs, plainly calls for
a thorough understanding by all Aus-
tralians of the general sacrifices entailed.
That understanding certainly is no-
where yet in evidence—not even, if might
reasonably be deduced, in Commonwealth
Ministers themselves. The Budget speech
did cast a courageous glance at the
mountainous bulk of the tasks set, but
the Treasurer’s Estimates accompanying
the presentation of the national accounts,
and the absorption of Parliament in
vote-catching details, dispose the public
to presume that Canberra can still dis-
pense “social benefits” like some manna
from Heaven and that there is no need
for our people, one and all, to tighten
their belts while they are invited primarily
to open their pockets for receipt of
largesse.
Over and above that general con-
sideration, these factors militating against
the Casey programme stand in full view
at the very outset:
That in a period of rapidly-increasing
inflation no cost estimates of the works
can be relied upon for even the smallest of
them.
That the “dark prospects” abroad of
another great war brewing must affect
the whole development effort, as Dr. Evatt
has said for “Labor” in endorsement of the
Prime Minister’s warnings.
That some radical spejcting-up of profit-
able employment ol immigrant labor,
including enlistment of young men for
military training, is essential.
That, above all, without unprecedented
increase in production of coal, steel and
cement —basically of coal —the working
energy of the country, already slowed
down, will be quite unequal to the extra-
ordinary additional effort contemplated.
In his speeches overseas four months
ago Mr. Menzies specified yet another
burden ; it was, in tact, the third in a
trilogy of such burdens. He said in
Ottawa on August 9:
In Australia, as well as in other countries,
democratic Governments face three huge
tasks:—
To prepare against and for war;
To bund up national economies with
strength and vigor;
To battle against inflation and en-
courage the thnrty in order to give them
a feeling of security.
Critics will spring up against any leader
who attempts these tasks. But we must
at our peril do all three. These things
must be done and shall be done.
Arrived home, he said there was no
escaping the need to increase defence pro-
visions against the possibility of a new
great war, and that “we cannot have
everything just as if no defence prepara-
tions were going on,”
It is going to have its effect on the
economy, on development and on the
prices level, because it will reduce the quan-
tities of civil goods available. This must
happen unless we are to have immeasur-
ably greater production than at any time
in the last five years.
Professor Copland has just delivered
another homily on the economic state of
the nation, in which he warns everybody
that the huge Government programme of
public works at the height of overfull
employment is itself a contributory cause
of the current inflation,, along also with
the new defence programme and the
boom-influx of immigrants. Mr. Menzies
has already in a form of words recognised
the truth of this statement; but it makes
hay, surely, of his original trilogy of
“great tasks to be undertaken.”
In September the Prime Minister an-
nounced that the Government would set
up a National Resources Board to advise
Cabinet on allocation of priorities in
essential materials. The revised Budget
cut departmental works programmes by
20 per cent., and the State Governments
are to be asked to make corresponding
cuts. These announcements did not carry
any reference to the Casey development
projects. Another move forecast by the
Prime Minister two months ago has yet
to be translated into action. That is the
summoning of a conference of represen-
tative employers, trade-union leaders and
other interests to formulate with the
Government “a special drive for produc-
tion.”
Recently Mr. Chifley said he viewed
the economic prospect with alarm and
that “no particular Government was to
blame.” It is obvious, and generally
accepted on the “Labor” side, that any
procedure to organise a national effort on
a compulsory basis (such as would
accompany pegging of prices and wages
and a return to rationing of civilian con-
sumer goods) would require legislation
for a state of emergency.
Outbreak of another “total” war
would compel such measures. Any
voluntary planned effort must be
endorsed by all parties and com-
munity interests, and would, as Mr.
Menzies has stressed, mean sacrifices all
round. If the Government’s development
and defence schemes fail, the failure will
have been brought about partly by
want of basic materials and by slow-time
work on the job, but largely also because
of what the Bank of N.S.W. president
rightly calls the overoptimism and the in-
difference of the public—an indifference
springing from complete absence of appre-
ciation of the need, the urgency and the
magnitude of the effort postulated by the
Government’s programme.
At this point it is impossible to avoid
comment on the disproportionate harm
done by such remarks as those of External
Affairs Minister Spender on his return
from abroad. He proceeded straight to
the A.B.C. microphone to express his
happiness to be back and his sentiments
of
how fortunate a people we are —free from
the miasma of fear that today hangs like
a pall over so much of the world.
Not untrue, but so ephemeral a condi-
tion that no Minister returned from the
wide area of that “miasma” overseas
ought to say such things without weigh-
ing them against the state of the popular
mind and the simultaneous and very con-
trary utterances of his Cabinet chief. On
the same day it was reported from
London that the British Government was
being forced through lack of dollars to
scrap its rearmament programme, and
Mr. Menzies had just been exhorting the
people that “we will pay too high a price
for our prosperity, while we have it,
if we allow it to lead us into a fool’s
paradise.”
The public must be awakened and made
alert before the Government can get its
response. If the issue is to be raised
above party politics there is, surely, only
one way to do it. That is the summoning
of a representative conference of all
Governments, parties and industrial
organisations to debate with utmost ex-
pedition a general and frank statement by
the Prime Minister circulated beforehand
to save waste of time in debate. From
such a conference Mr. Menzies should
obtain either nation-wide agreement on
the effort and common sacrifices neces-
sary for the salvation of Australia, or a
demonstration, in the event of failure,
of where opposition lies. The course to
be followed would then be for a general
election to decide.
A New City.
In the closing years of last century a
rather solemn-faced young man pushed
a bicycle round the Victorian Wimmera
and lower Mallee, trying to persuade the
wheatgrowers that he had a machine far
superior to Ridley’s stripper for harvest-
ing wheat. Next year Australia will wel-
come a new city as part of its Federa-
tion jubilee, a city that grew out of Hugh
V. McKay’s bike-ride.
We don’t hear nearly enough of our
McKays in this country. The men who
founded big industries are far too often
condemned as “exploiters” in the peculiar
lexicon of a national outlook confused
by “Labor” and Leftist politics and by
an innate national jealousy of any Aus-
tralian who, by his own efforts, lifts him-
self to eminence in any field. If he hap-
pens, as McKay did, to provide employ-
ment, careers, opportunities and homes
for many thousands, and to increase the
nation’s production and wealth, he seems
to be all the more suspect.
Not that it worried McKay. In his
lifetime he encountered plenty of
obstacles, human and otherwise, but he
was never diverted from his course. He
hasn’t lived to see the backward village
of Braybrook become the new City of
Sunshine, but the people who live there,
as well as the thousands who travel there
daily to work in factories and plants and
shops, schools and offices, will run into
memories of him on every hand. And
his name is known and respected through-
out the wheatfields of the world.
Sunshine was a bare, wind-swept spot
45 years ago when McKay chose it as a
place for his harvester works. Eleven
miles north of Melbourne, soon after
Braybrook got its new name of
Sunshine it was grimly celebrated
in Australian tragic history by a terrible
railway accident. North and west of it
lay the open Keilor Plains, and the Mari-
byrnong (or Saltwater) River curved
round it on the way to Footscray.
After World War I, by which time
the Sunshine harvester works covered 33
acres and employed upwards of 2000
people, industrial expansion in Melbourne
reached the area, and smaller factories
—pottery, bolts and nuts, paints,
furniture, explosives and so forth
—appeared and spread. World War II
hastened the process, and today the open
plains over which McKay looked in his
first years are now covered with fac-
tories and homes, lined with roads and
footpaths, served by buses, schools, hos-
pitals, sports-grounds —an asset worth
millions to the nation. And it is to be
a city in status under a bill brought down
in the Victorian Parliament last week.


PLAIN ENGLISH
War and Strategy.
The year 1950 is ending with a month
of the greatest anxiety seen since the
Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.
There is real cause for it, and it is little
consolation that the problem is largely the
result of the failure of those who sat in at
the finish of World War II to understand
Russian psychology and to take seriously
the intent of the Kremlin, about which
the Communists were quite open: to push
all Europeans out of Asia and to smother
Eastern Europe as a preliminary to a
world revolution of conquest.
The position now is one which needs to
be faced without regard to mere prestige
in small issues about which compromise
is possible. It will not be mended even
by the threats of the use of the atom-
bomb which President Truman has been
uttering, or by warnings to the Com-
munist Powers that what is happening in
Korea may be the beginnings of a world
war The ruthless inhabitants of the
Kremlin and the Peking Government
offices have no real worries about the
atom-bomb if used in China, though they
might have if they believed it could be
used over Moscow.
They know that they have an almost
illimitable weapon in Asian manpower,
and they, in their utterly heartless way,
do not care how much of this, military
or civilian, is killed off by modern
weapons, so long as there are still enough
reserves to win their war.
Death, as in Russia in the great famines
of the ’twenties and 'thirties, is their
friend, since, beyond a certain point at
which there are still enough to do the
work, the wiping-out of some superfluous
millions is a boon to them. It leaves
fewer mouths to feed, makes more
resources available for their population.
They are cold-blooded “realists” of ’ the
most callous kind to whom human life,
when it stands between them and their
purposes, is not worth considering.
The essence of the Korean position is
not important in its local sense. Whether
or not the Chinese or the Americans
dominate that distressful and poverty-
stricken country is of no consequence so
long as a peaceful settlement can be made
and the effects do not reach beyond
Korea. On whether such a settlement
can be made millions of human lives and
generations of misery and regression for
the world may be staked, and it is worth
a maximum effort.
The approach of the British, united as
usual in principle if not upon the methods
pursued by their lackadaisical and un-
realistic Government, is to be found in
Mr. Ernest Bevin’s words:
If the Chinese want to avoid a general
war, and show the slightest willingness to
co-operate, I am satisfied a peaceful solu-
tion can be found,
It is perhaps not so easy a problem for
the Americans, who are not inured to
attack from without as are the British, to
whom attempted invasion across the
Channel bulks smaller than the bombing
of Pearl Harbor, 2000-odd miles from
the American coast, or as far away as
London is from Istanbul. To Americans
Japan is the crucial question. They no
doubt feel, and have reason to do so,
that if they retreat on the Korea ques-
tion they sacrifice their prestige and hold
on Japan, and establish an axiom that
Russia becomes the controller of the
Western Pacific, and consequently of the
Indian Ocean area, which would be very
serious for Australia as well as for them.
At the same time the situation must be
looked at in the light of realities.
Western Europe is virtually without de-
fence. While all the theorists have
fiddled with their garrulous United
Nations, the protection of the West has
mouldered away. The same is true of
all the British Dominions and ex-
Dominions, some of which, including
Australia until recently, have swallowed
hook, line and sinker the Moscow propa-
ganda that the atomic weapon is the only
one which now matters, and that training
of manpower except in the technique of
diving into a shelter is sheer waste.
Time can be made our greatest ally
now, and every effort should be
used to gain time even if it means
temporary retirement. Any settlement
made now will not give permanent peace
or stop the Communists in their tracks on
the march to world conquest; but even
Wellington and Napoleon knew how to
fall back on occasion for refit in order to
retake what they sacrificed and to gain
more. Even if the cost is some
momentary sacrifice of prestige or
advantage, but does not involve vital
principles, the price will not be too high
if it gives time to bar the gates against
the main onrush which will have to be
faced sooner or later.
Dr. Evatt Plays It Low Down.
Dr. Evatt played party politics at its
lowest last week in his address on the
National Service Bill.
Not only does Dr. Evatt, from war-time
and post-war experience in high Cabinet
office—in the conduct of Australia’s inter-
national relationships, and from personal
participation in the “cold-war” struggle
against the enemies of this and other
democracies —know the truth, but only a
few days before his disgraceful exhibi-
tion on the National Service Bill debate he
declared himself very differently in a radio
broadcast.
On that occasion, after discussing the
domestic problems with high inflation, he
said:
In the meantime Australia faces a period
of acute crisis both internationally and
locally. Externally the drift towards a
third world war is apparent. That cat-
astrophe can be prevented, but only by
vigorous action through the United
Nations. Defence measures are essential,
but these will not of themselves prevent
war.
Probably they will not, at this late
hour, anyway. But they are, he admitted,
essential to meet war, and “the drift into
a third world war is apparent.”
Then a few days later, moving in Par-
liament a caucus amendment to delay
for months the bill to institute urgent
compulsory training—a motion which
elicited from Mr. Brisbane-line Ward, of
East Sydney, support on the grounds that
he “could not see any immediate pros-
pect of war”—Dr. Evatt played the hum-
bug. He said a “proper inquiry” would
find the Government’s proposal “inde-
fensible.” He said that the voluntary
system had demonstrably failed to attract
"WAR-TIME IN THE
A.B,C. NEWSROOM"—
page 42,
recruits, and in the next breath that
“Labor” regarded defence as being best
provided on a voluntary basis. Com-
pulsory training in excess of the ludicrous
14-days-a-year model of half a century
ago was, in his belief, unnecessary; let
real training wait till war comes, when
conscription for the Army and for in-
dustry would be general.
Dr. Evatt spent some nauseating
sentences expressing his belief that the
Government had frightened the young
manhood of Australia away from join-
ing the Citizen Forces because they might
have to fight outside Australia, preferring,
apparently, to let the enemy come to
Australia in his own good time and wage
the war inside our own boundaries. Then
—on the celebrated “Brisbane Line” pre-
sumably—the citizen army, he said,
would fight. With what prospects of
success, without prior training in the first
essentials. Dr. Evatt did not venture to
describe.
“Labor” has already done its best to
kill voluntary enlistment in the Army by
publicly refusing—as its leader did —to
support the movement because the terms
of enlistment included liability to serve
anywhere, like the Navy and the Air
Force. The subsequent poor response to
the recruiting campaign, of which Dr.
Evatt made a gibe at the Government, is
largely “Labor’s” doing. Dr. Evatt now
expresses for this once-great national
party its opposition to compulsory train-
ing also. His creed is that British and
American troops ought to leave their
shores at any call to save Australia, but
that no Australian should be compelled
to go abroad to help those friends in a
scrap or to “support U.N.0.” either.
What a leader —and what a mob to
lead!
Liquor Reform.
If the Bishop of Armidale (N.S.W.) can
persuade enough of the clergy and of the
prohibition advocates of the truth of his
statement that “prohibition will not solve
the liquor problem” he may start the
long-awaited move for liquor reform.
The prohibitionists are as great an
obstacle to that reform as the liquor
interests —perhaps a greater, since there
are not a few publicans who favor reform
(especially with regard to brewery
monopolies), but cannot ally themselves
with prohibition.
What the country needs is not pro-
hibition but temperance, and there is a
large number of Australians only waiting
a lead in this regard. Dr. Moyes said
“It is time churchmen found a way of
having this liquor trade directed and
controlled without the least disadvantage
to the community interest.”
All that is needed to bring that about
are a few amendments to the liquor Acts
and a strict enforcement of the law. The
recent sorry exhibition in the N.S.W.
Parliament, when all hands and the cook
sidestepped a chance to debate the exist-
ing liquor scandal in that State, illustrates
the hopelessness of reform under present
conditions.
The bishop’s advice was addressed to
the Anglican Synod in Sydney. It will be
a pity if it goes no further than that.
An organisation of citizens formed to
force reform of the whole nasty business,
if given the powerful support of religious
bodies, which should by now have
realised that prohibition is a washout,
would stir the legislatures; than whom
nothing is more responsive to the surge
of thousands of indignant voters.
Cantata for the Jubilee.
Ax the moment when a fierce debate was
going on in Australia about the propriety
of selecting Coleridge - Taylor's
“Hiawatha” as a cantata for the jubilee
celebrations next year, a good friend of
Australia, Dr. Thomas Wood a
“cobber” whose thoughts were never far
removed from these shores —died sud-
denly in England.
If there is no Australian piece of music
which will suit the occasion, it would be
a fitting compliment to select some item
from the distinguished works of the little
man who did so much to publicise this
country abroad, who visited it whenever
he could, and who was himself so
staunch an example of all the virtues
which make a pioneering country or a
race great.
Son of a sea-captain, handicapped by
sight so poor that even with thick glasses
he could see only by holding what he
read within an inch or two of his eyes, he
nevertheless became one of the greatest
of contemporary English musicians, a
writer of note whereyer English books
are read, and an editor of no mean order
—his edition of our own Robbery Under
A rms received the praise of critics
throughout the world.
He was born on November 25, 1892,
in Lancashire, and was rejected for active
service among the first volunteers in
1914, but served in the Admiralty in a
civil job throughout that war. He com-
manded the Home Guard of his village
in World War 11.
After 1918 he went to the Royal
College of Music under Stanford, and in
1920 took his M.A. and D.Mus. degrees
at Oxford. He had charge of music at
Tonbridge School for five years, during
which he produced the second volume
of the Oxford Song Book. He visited
Australia a few years later as an examiner
for the Associated Board of the Royal
Schools of Music, and the outcome was
his book. Cobbers, and his discovery of
“Waltzing Matilda,” which he did more
to popularise abroad than anybody else.
Late in World War II the British Govern-
ment sent him here again in H.M.S.
London on a goodwill mission, during
which he visited all Australian States and
received a warm welcome, returning to
England to advertise us some more.
He was a member of the 8.8. C. Central
Advisory Committee on Music, and a
member of the executive council of the
Arts Council and chairman of its music
panel. Nearly all his music was choral
and associated with great deeds or great
men, and much of it was written for the
Royal Navy or the Marines.
His great post - war cantata,
“Chanticleer,” which takes 45 minutes
and needs no instrumental support save
a pitch-pipe, would give great scope to
Australian voices, and serve the useful
purpose of promoting unaccompanied
singing in this country. It might well
suit the jubilee committee’s purpose ; or
possibly the work which he had recently
completed for male choir and brass
bands, commissioned from him by the
Festival of Britain Committee, would
serve.
If permission could be got to use either
of these, it would be an appropriate
gesture, and one which would recognise
the services and keep green the memory
of a man who liked this country and its
people so much that he almost became
one of us.
Petroleum.
“Petro”: In the oil industry 1950 has
witnessed the fall of record after record,
largely because most of its employees
work too hard to have leisure for strikes,
and are paid correspondingly.
For the first time in history the daily
production of crude petroleum has ex-
ceeded 10 million barrels —or about \\
million tons, roughly worth £1 per ton
at the well. One single field—Abqaiq,
in Arabia—is giving a controlled flow of
450,000 barrels a day, which beats the
previous record, held by East Texas,
U.S.A., by 50 per cent.
The new Arabian production will make
the Levantine coast of the Mediterranean
the world’s most important export centre
for petroleum within the next five years.
Pipelines—completed, under construction
and projected—will be capable of trans-
porting nearly a million and a quarter
barrels per day from the Middle East
fields to the Levantine coast, and this
traffic will fundamentally alter the eco-
nomics of the region.
In California the world’s deepest well
has been completed at a depth of
20,521 ft., or nearly four miles. Costs,
both for exploration and exploitation,
have rocketed. In U.S.A., where the work
is carried out with a maximum return,
the annual expenditure on oil explora-
tion is six times as great as it was 10
years ago, and now represents a third of
the value of the annual production, as
compared to a quarter of a decade back,
in spite of the fact that production has
nearly doubled over the same period.
"They Call it Peace."
“Sidesman”: I have always wondered
why Communist Russia makes such a
dead set on the churches, since church
leaders in English-speaking lands, waging
ostensibly perpetual war against atheism
and materialism, are so remarkably mild
in all their comments on the fountain-
head of both at the seat of Communist
power.
Look at the latest General Synod meet-
ings in Sydney of the C. of E. dioceses in
Australia. Leaving aside the refusal to
receive a motion blaming Communists
for current industrial disputes, and the
expressed views of one reverend gentle-
man from Adelaide that “Communists
are just as convinced by their religion as
you and I are of ours,” there was enough
in the debate urging churchmen to get
into the work of the “Australian Associa-
tion for the United Nations” to elicit
Moscow’s hearty approval.
It would almost seem that the churches
believe the Moscow propaganda that it is
the democracies who are plotting a new
world-war and not the Russian bloc in
Europe and Asia, and that it is the Com-
munists alone who are seeking peace and
a means to establish U.N.O.’s authority,
and not the democracies. Else why
does Synod leap at a motion from Sir
Robert Garran (lay member) advocating
that churchme,n should pep up the U.N.O.
Association in Australia to propagate
the U.N.O. Charter’s ideals? “Good-
will,” said Sir Robert, “is the only sound
basis for peace,” and added that every
country town in Australia ought to be
made an active centre to spread that senti-
ment. Why, in heaven’s name, not every
town in Russia? Is Australia supposed
by these Christian gentlemen to be mad
keen on launching a war of aggression?
So was the British power undermined
in the interval between the two world
wars under League of Nations’ propa-
ganda. It was always our people who
must disarm, must walk in sackcloth and
ashes in search of peace —never the real
aggressors, though these were in full sight
of everybody and enjoying the joke.
Or are the Churches capable of only
preaching to the converted? The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, on his recent visit,
took a vastly different view about Com-
munism. .
Wharfies and Apathy.
“Transporticus” (Singapore): I’m sick
and tired of reading about the mis-
behavior of the waterside workers, of
having them treated as reasoning, intelli-
gent individuals, responsive to exhorta-
tions. They’re nothing of the kind.
They’re an unthinking, irresponsible mob
no more accountable for their actions than
children, and until we grasp that fact
and act accordingly we’re going to get
precisely nowhere.
I’m equally tired of reading about lack
of discipline on the wharves when the
one thing the wharfie has is outstanding
discipline combined with loyalty to, high
regard for and, most important, fear of
his bosses. Our trouble lies in the fact
that the bosses in question are never the
people who pay the wages, but are the
union-leaders, which, in this case, means
the Communist party.
Your wharfie is, in effect, a handpicked,
highly-trained member of a private army,
an army which need never fire a shot but
can hold the country to ransom • any time
it feels like it, and, what is most im-
portant, can get away with it. You cant
blame the wharfie. In every country in
the world he is drawn from the poorest,
least intelligent section of the community.
You can’t expect him to think things out
for himself even if he was allowed to.
He sees his leaders omnipotent, treat-
ing with contempt the feeble efforts of
o Continued on next page.)


T
I
h
6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
- it
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR DUALITY
. ■ A
I
■NBH
lilliiiliil
m
m
i:
m
■m
m
Governments to control them. In ex-
change for his unquestioning obedience
they get him everything he asks for. They
get him rates of pay he couldn’t get with
a University degree. Imagine the com-
munity having to pay 13s. sd. an hour
for the poorest type of unskilled labor!
When it suits their book they allow him
to exercise power few kings possess. He
can tie up millions of pounds’-worth of
shipping on the most frivolous grounds,
and again he gets away with it. He
knows well that if anybody looked like
doing anything about it his leaders are
fully capable of calling up other similar
private armies and closing the whole
country down,
I’m not condemning the wharfie as an
individual, for the majority are ordinary
decent blokes who would do as good a
day’s work as the next man if they had
to, and the criminal types —the ones who
leave a sling of frozen meat swinging in
the sun when the whistle goes, who
broach cargo, who get Australia such a
rotten name among seafarers the world
over —are probably only a very small
minority. But the whole point of the
matter is that they are allowed to get
away with it. It’s no good blaming
Governments, for they are powerless to
act until they’re supported by public
opinion, and they’ll never get that sup-
port until the man in the street wakes up
to the fact that a 10 p.c. surcharge on
freights brought about by the actions of
one section of the community is not
hitting at the “hated master class,” but is
hitting him directly. And you’ll never
rouse public feeling to any sort of action
unless you can beat Australia’s greatest
curse—apathy.
POLITICAL POINTS
Following President Truman’s hint that
the atom-bomb might be used (though
only with his authority) before the
Korean war is over, Mr. Attlee has
hastened to Washington, accompanied by
the C.1.G.5., Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim, as if the bomb were after him. The
propelling force behind his sudden
departure was, however, the alarm of a
House of Commons which had just heard
that Britain might have to abandon its
£3,000,000,000 defence programme unless
more U.S. aid were guaranteed, leading
Mr. Eden to say that in such a situation
Mr. Churchill—76 during the week —
would have been half-way across the
Atlantic already, “probably piloting the
aircraft himself.” There is plenty of
room for urgent British-U.S. consultation,
since nearly everybody seems to recog-
nise that U.N.O. has failed. During the
week the United Kingdom and several
European countries have gone over its
head and given Communist China their
own assurances of peaceful intention.
Christmas calm has descended upon
most of the legislative chambers of Aus-
tralia, though the stately halls of Can-
berra are still enduring the frenzied
speechifying of Reps and Senators going
through the motions of doing 12 weeks’
work in one. McGirr’s talking-shop,
first to close, will be the last to open —
about next April.
“Labor’s” attitude on the National
Service Bill—in the Reps it tried un-
successfully to have it referred to a select
committee, and its Senate majority makes
it almost certain that this will be done—
is symptomatic of the caucus rift on this
issue. Some “Labor” members realise
the old anti-conscription has been out-
moded by the march of events and would
like 1 * to see the bill go through ; others
still think it an unpardonable sin to force
a man to learn to defend his country.
The select-committee idea is a stunt to
keep the party united until the Outside
Dozen tells ’em what to do.
Anderson, V.C., summed-up the
Opposition move rather well when he
described the amendment as “a shameful,
resentful stalling for time for political
purposes,” To him the idea of leaving
the training of men until they are actually
required is “a callous way of sentencing
them to unnecessary death.” Anderson,
Bostock, Kent-Hughes and a few more
returned men on the Government
benches feel the bill does not go far
enough; they advocate compulsory
service for Australia’s defence anywhere
in the world. So long as our defence
plans assume assistance from conscript
armies from Britain and America it is
impossible to produce a logical argument
against this stand.
E. J. Ward has two speeches, (1) How
the Banks Crushed the Workers in the
Depression and (2) The Brisbane Line
and How the Menzies Government Left
Australia Undefended in 1941. He
trotted out the second one as his contri-
bution to the debate on the National
Service Bill, adding as a postscript a
prophecy that if Australia was threatened
with invasion many of the members on
the Government side would get out of
the country by plane for a place of safety
overseas. One thing about Eddie, he’s
consistent; no one can accuse him of
trying to get out of Australia during
either of the two World Wars.
As near as can be ascertained from
their remarks in the Federal House, the
defence policy of the “Labor” members
is; The voluntary system has failed, let's
try the voluntary system.
It’s six months since the Queensland
State election, but the rumblings haven’t
died down yet. An Appeal Tribunal is
considering the claim of the Liberal can-
didate for the Bulimba seat, J. E. Hamil-
ton, that the poll in that electorate
should be declared void. Hamilton alleges
that certain votes which were allotted to
the successful candidate, R, G. Gardner
(Labor), should properly have been added
to his own score. Official figures were:
Gardner, 4024; Hamilton, 3982 ;
Marriott, 3266; informal, 138. First-
past-the-post is the rule in Queensland.
The tribunal ordered the appointment of
six enumerators, three to be nominated
by each party, to conduct a recount.
Hands off, China.
Hardly had the McGirr Government,
after a couple of years’ thought, decided
that the Sydney Eastern Suburbs railway
must go through Wren’s Stoush-house,
causing its demolition, than “railway
engineers” were reported to have pro-
duced a plan to rebuild the thing in a
corner of Centennial Park, the city’s
biggest open area. The Mayor of Rand-
wick comes in here;
If, as stated in “Sydney Morning Herald,”
it is not the Government’s responsibility to
find a new site, I should like to know
who prepared the unofficial plan. By whose
authority was it prepared and at whose
expense? Further, who is the “high
Government authority” quoted who either
has no name or lacks the moral courage
to make it public?
The mayor is not the only one who wants
to know.
John Wren is reported as saying anent
the Stadium decision that it will be very
difficult to find a site for a new stoush-
joint convenient to the city and that to
build one to seat 15,000 people would
cost between £300,000 and £400,000. One
thing is certain. If, and when, the new
stadium is built there will be a drastic
revision of the “free” list.
Balked in their hope for resumption
of midweek racing in Sydney, the repre-
sentatives of the “industry” are now try-
ing for 10- and 12-event programmes on
Saturdays. With free breakfasts?
A stranger wandering into the Vic-
torian Assembly during the closing days
of the session would have been excused
for thinking he was listening to the
Federal Parliament —“You’re a liar!”,
“Say that outside” and “Withdraw! ”
were being hurled about the House in
the best Canberra tradition. A possible
explanation is that some of the Spring-
street members are thinking of having a
stab at Federal seats come next election
and are getting into training.
According to the Communist
“Tribune,” Sydney wharfies returned to
work after their latest strike “determined
not to rest until they had won justice and
gained an extra £1 a week.” If the
wharfies are determined not to rest they
must be in earnest. Usually they’re pre-
pared to rest on any excuse, or, lacking
one, on none at all.
This salary-grab business is catching.
Victorian M.Ps. having voted themselves
rises in both Houses, Queensland’s
legislators, admitting for once that a good
idea may occasionally come from down
south, followed the example and bumped-
up their screws from £lO5O to £1375 p.a.
Assemblymen in the McGirr State have
been receiving £1375 for over three years,
and now that their Queensland colleagues
have caught up to them there’s talk of a
further grab. This, after a half-year in
which Parliament sat so infrequently
that it’s a wonder squatters didn’t take
possession of the premises.
Melbourne “Argus” reported an
attempt to oust Hollway from the leader-
ship of the L.C.P., saying the move had
been defeated by 22 votes to 17. The
Parliamentary secretary of the party
replied that this was not correct; no
vote had been taken on the leadership,
but because of untrue statements which
had been circulated about Hollway a vote
was taken on “whether the matter of
leadership should be voted on.” A sub-
stantial majority said “No.” The “Argus”
roundsman came back with an assertion
that a further ballot on the leadership
would be held this week.
“Runaway” Rowe of the A.E.U. hasn’t
been heard of for a long time, but he
bobbed-up last week to remark that no
court in Australia could dissolve the
A.E.U. He continued:
There are no dead-heats in this struggle.
We either win or lose. There is no reason
why we should lose this fight.
“This fight” is against a winding-up
order issued by the N. S. Wales Industrial
Court following upon the union’s failure
to pay a fine of £5OO for taking part in
an illegal strike. On Friday a deputation
from the union asked Premier McGirr to
annul the order. The Premier refused
to intervene.
Premier Hanlon left for London on
Friday to try to get last year’s agree-
ments on sugar finalised and to persuade
the Attlee Government to continue the
policy of equal treatment on prices to
all Empire producers. He goes with the
support of the Menzies Government,
being the best man for the job since he
put the agreement through last year.
Marble Bar (W.A.) is to disappear
from the railway map of Australia ; a
bill before the W.A. Parliament pro-
vides for the discontinuance of the ser-
vice from Port Hedland to the goldfield.
Residents are up in arms, and don’t ex-
pect the new road which is to replace the
line to give as good service, but figures
seem to justify the Government’s action.
Estimated cost of reconditioning the rail-
way is £lOO,OOO if wooden sleepers are
used, £250,000 with steel sleepers. Goods
traffic on the line is down to 3200 tons
a year.
Following the prevailing fashion, the
Victorian Government is raising tram
and train fares. Cabinet approved the
increase early last week, but decided it
would not be diplomatic to announce the
new fares right away. Quoth Mc-
Donald; “We can’t announce higher rail
fares while there is a rail strike.” Ap-
parently the idea is that when the trains
start running again the public will be so
grateful it will accept anything.
Senator Amour complained in the
Senate the other day that Canberra’s
citizens were “dull and listless” because
their sleep had been disturbed by noises
of a mock battle fought by Duntroon
cadets. Whereat a man from Bungendore
wanted to know how the deuce anybody
noticed any difference in the citizens.
When you’re governing with the help
of “Labor” you have to be tender with
the “sports.” In Victoria the McDonald
Government has raised the suburb of
Sunshine to the status of a city. Within
the area are two tin-hare tracks. In Vic-
toria betting is not allowed at athletic
or coursing meetings within a city; only
in towns and boroughs. So there is to be
a three-year exemption for dog and pro.
footraces in the new city. Nobody knows
what will happen when the three years
are up.
If the Sydney barbers succeed in put-
ting up the price of a haircut to 3s. there’ll
be a rush of shearers eager to join the
Hairdressers’ Union. Present rate for
taking the wool off a sheep is £5 a
hundred.
James Edward Fenton, dead in Mel-
bourne at 86, represented Maribyrnong in
the Federal Parliament from 1910 to 1932.
Minister for Trade and Customs in the
Scullin Government and Acting-Prime
Minister while his chief was in London
for the Imperial Conference in 1930, he
resigned from the A.L.P. the following
year to follow J. A. Lyons into the U.A.P.
He was Postmaster-General for a short
time in the first Lyons Ministry but lost
Maribyrnong to Drakeford in 1934 and
did not attempt a comeback. An earnest
man and a good Parliamentarian.
A leaving-certificate candidate in
N.S.W. has been excused by the examiners
for making Richard 111 cry, “A house, a
house! My kingdom for a house!”
From the report of the chairman of the
Czechoslovakian School Employees’
Union:
Today the schools are alive with joyful
noise even during the vacations. In some
schools the pupils assemble to search out
the nests of the American potato-bug. In
others, older pupils make ready to go on
harvest brigades. In others they practise
songs for the collective harvesting it is
as if there were no vacation.
No doubt it will all produce wild en-
thusiasm in Communist youth, but to the
average exploited capitalist-minded Aus-
tralian kid it sounds like the device of
the director of a Queensland mental
asylum who used to hold a race every
Saturday morning, first prize the right to
sweep all the drives, second to dig the
week’s potato supply.
“This island is almost made of coal
and surrounded by fish. Only an organis-
ing genius could produce a shortage of
coal and fish in Great Britain at the
same time.” The words are the words of
Aneurin Bevaa, spoken in 1945 when the
Socialist Government came to power.
Five years later three successive Socialist
Ministers have produced a shortage of
coal. The Socialists are now searching for
somebody to produce a shortage of fish.


JUST mp S eo-leJ
in rue House
WcTM 606 . *
fs
**Th'o masseurs from Sydney will start a
massage and rub-down service in Parliament j|
Jdousc, Canberra//
"Dr. C. Loftus Hills, a Hobart alderman, has
described t,hc basic-wage-eyner as a myth—
Hhe Flying Dutchman of the Arbitration Court*
—because he was nowhere to be found.’*
“Trams started running in Brisbane on Thursday-
following a proposal by Premier Hanlon that a
union member, a council official and a traffic police-
man ride on all trams after 8 p.m. for a week on
lines where timetable cuts had been made,**
\N
Vein serae ouci claims
Quick.' u;g
STAGS IAiAUKASOUT ST^lf<£
—• cnS u/Au«,A6<?ar,
At-t- (VAL-KAeoun "
\#v
, 6eULS ' ,N <JO 6, m
- po 6u& yeu - s '. 0 5TH R6Ar
* Vfi <*
“In Darwin aboriginal workers have
staged a one-day shrike.”
' Who pVou thihk you
Qodoeoos Qus&e / ?
“Queensland Parliamentarians are to give
themselves a Christmas-box in the form of a
£325 salary rise.”
G, Stanley, of Sydney City Council,
•aid he had not been invited to a civic reception
to film-star Maureen O'Hara, though he ‘very
mo?h Hiect that loyely lady.^V
“A member of the Brisbane Cricket Ground
has been rebuked by the secretary for wearing
shorts and no coat to a match against the
M.C.C.’:
NEWS-COMMENTARY.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Zake”: It is with almost fiendish glee
that I contemplate one aspect of the
threatened rise of haircuts to 3s. to which
Sydney barbers propose to help them-
selves. Normal practice among the
racketeers into whose hands that city has
long since passed is to arrange for the
particular commodity in which they deal
to disappear completely from their
shelves for some time before the price-
rise is coming up. How narked the
greedier tonsorialists must be to think that
haircuts can’t go “under the counter” —
that, bar shutting-up shop between the
decision to raise prices and the time fixed
to commence with them, they are com-
pelled to go on supplying haircuts «t the
lower price.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: At Sydney Technical
College during the recent exhibition of
science and research in the building-trade
several interesting documentary films
were screened. One dealt with pre-
fabrication as carried out by a big build-
ing firm in England. A rather poorly-
produced flick, it suffered badly from the
lack of a
musical score
and adequate
commentary ;
but it had
one bright
moment. A
workman
assisting his
mates to drag
a section
from a bench
very obvi-
ously pinched
hi s finger.
Perhaps i t
was as well
the film wasn’t a talkie and the man’s
back was toward the camera, but the
i sight of the poor bloke waving his injured
mitt in the air sent that serious-minded
group of spectators into fits. We may
1 claim that we are civilised and
enlightened, but there is still nothing so
uproariously funny as the sight of some
unfortunate cuss suffering a minor
injury!
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Ten years of Army life
have convinced me that no other type of
serviceman can get away with having
too much liquor as the sailor does.
Soldiers or airmen seen in the streets in
a drunken state evoke hostile looks and
unfavorable comment from civvies, but
an inebriated sailor is always greeted
with a tolerant smile and perhaps a few
good-natured comments.
* * * *
“Unicorn”: The happy though over-
worked young mother of a lusty little
family was showing a friend some snap-
shots. Four-year-old, greatly interested,
examined each one minutely, but couldn’t
be convinced that the “pretty lady” in
several of them was his mother. “But
Mummy, where’s the sink ?” he asked.
Yes, it’s true. Like most mothers, a dis-
proportionate part of her life is spent at
the kitchen-sink.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A young Melbourne
artist, showing a wealthy grazier round a
mixed exhibition, succeeded in steering
him to the vicinity of one of his own
pictures. “That’s a nice landscape,” said
the pastoralist, pointing to the vista of
valley, hills, streams and blue mountains.
“Who painted it?” “I did,” said the
artist. “Seem to know the place,” mused
the patron. “Where is it?” The artist
told him the location. “Why, yes, of
course I know it,” said the grazier, feel-
ing for his cheque-book. “Why, I own
it! I haven’t visited it for a long time
and I must say it’s very pleasant to see
it again. But I don’t remember those two
bluey-grey hills.” “That’s how I saw
it,” said the artist. “Good Heavens! ”
shouted the pastoralist. “That’s cotton-
weed. I’ll have to get rid of it immedi-
ately.” And forgetting all about art he
bolted for the exit, leaving the artist
ruefully reflecting that if he hadn’t been
so faithful to his first impression he might
have sold a picture,
* ♦ * ♦
“Clooter”: Up at Katoomba, on the
N.S.W. Blue Mountains, the golf club
recently staged a tournament which
attracted players from pretty well every-
where within 100 miles. On the second
day a blanket of fog hid the course and
the 350 or so contestants had to feel their
way through it as best they could.
Directions as to hitting and lie of balls,
as well as whereabouts of players, were
given by shouts and cries. By the after-
noon the course was entirely hidden from
the clubhouse, which is on an eminence.
“This one is specially reduced — it's from the
old austerity-period stock."
and out of the grey void floated the cries
and appeals of the lost and lonely. A
bright young thing from some Sydney
paper was at the clubhouse, interviewing
the weary and wet players as they came
in. She sighted a large, tired and dis-
gusted player coming from the 18th green
and, learning that he was the captain of
a prominent Sydney club, approached him
and said, “Mr. So-and-So, what are your
impressions of the Katoomba Gold Cup
carnival?” He looked at her, looked at
the hidden course, and said, “Chiefly fog.”
Then, licking his lips as he made for the
bar, he added, “But in a minute they’ll
be chiefly grog.” He was not reported.
* * * *
“Bo”: One of the most touching ex-
pressions of human faith to have been
uttered this century has come from the
Chief Bung in N.S.W. on the occasion
of his announcement that hotelkeepers
intended seeking increased prices for
beer, draught and bottled —the latter case
will bring sardonic grins all round!
Quoth he: “If we obtain the rise for beer
in the bars drinkers will have the satis-
faction of knowing that they are helping
to pay losses incurred in the back of the
house ; residential sections of hotels have
never paid for themselves.” I can
visualise those patrons who occupy their
leisure in the cultural pursuits of upend-
ing schooners and discussing prospects
at the dogs and trots proclaiming the
“All right—if you feel that Way GO home to your mother!"
sublime happiness with which they
ponder the fact that the extra £6O to
£BO a week which the increased charges
will rake in for the average Bung will
go towards liquidating (how beautiful
that word!) the awful loss of £5 or so a
week suffered by the residential section.
If you observe a drinker sobbing silently
into his suds you’ll know it’s just that
he’s overcome with emotion at the
thought that if he were getting his
favorite fruit, vegetable and scent any
cheaper poor Bung mightn’t know where
his next yacht was to come from.
* * * ♦
“Cauboy”: I hear that Picasso has
written a play as extraordinary as his
pictures; London critics found it com-
pletely meaningless. I hope the play-
wrights don’t get caught up in his influ-
ence as the painters have been. You
don’t have to look at a picture for three
hours to get its meaning.
Modern painting, it seems
to me, is like this. Nobody
gets irritated with a dic-
tionary. It is full of words
and definitions, and, gener-
ally speaking, we can’t dis-
agree with the definitions,
so we could read a dic-
tionary through from be-
ginning to end without
feeling any intense
emotion, either of pleasure
or displeasure. It is when
the words are used to make
sentences and (State pro-
positions that they annoy
us. If the sentences are
badly constructed or the
ideas expressed seem silly,
we get irritated. It is the
same with painting. A
mixture of patches of color
on a canvas, expressing
nothing, generally looks
pleasing, like an artist’s
palette after he has painted
a picture. It is when the
artist tries to express some-
thing that he irritates us —
if, so to speak, he puts
down sentences without verbs or predi-
cates without subjects. Picasso’s play is
apparently a long string of propositions
like “There are motor-cars in Cornwall,
there are no snakes in Ireland.”
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: “Bellerive” sur-
vives, but I fear the age of poesy has
gone; there is no replacement of the
small band who, many years ago, got a
mention in a “Red Page” article on
“Poets of the Kerb.” J. T. Collins was
the best-known; he had his effusions
printed on slips, and, selling them to the
crowds at Railway-square or at big
cricket and football matches, he must have
made much more than the earnings of
the recognised poets. “Red Harry, the
Lemon-man,” published his “poems” in
books which he sold from door to door.
He had had a try at the Commonwealth
Ode Competition, which was won by
George Essex Evans. Harry’s contribu-
tion began magnificently:
So she comes, led by her emus,
Drawn by bounding kangaroos;
On she comes, can any refuse
To dedicate to her his muse?
A modest footnote explained that “for
reasons best known to themselves, the
judges selected another poem.” Then
there were the “Publican-Poet,” Henry
Lang, and the “Poetic Barber,” who used
to soap a new topical verse of his own
composition on his window every morn-
ing and insisted on giving Henry Lawson,
as a fellow-craftsman, free shaves and
haircuts. They don’t seem to have left
any successors. Even the cranks who
scrawl slogans on fences don’t run to
rhyme.
♦ * * *
“Schoolie”; “Old Crab’s” par. about
the messenger’s encounter with the head-
teacher caused some reminiscing in our
staff-room. The boss took the prize.
“There was a strict rule at the high-
school that pupils
were not to whistle
in the corridors, so
the deputy took a
rather poor view
of the untidy youth
who slouched past
the office giving a
musical perform-
ance like the efforts
of an asthmatic
canary. The
offender was
collared, dragged
into the office and treated to two ‘cuts’
for whistling and two more for answering
back. The brief ceremony over, the
deputy went back to the morning mail,
and the telegram-boy rode like hell back
to the post-office to hand in his notice.”
♦ * * *
“N.P.L.”: After evidence had been
given in a Perth court that a man charged
with breaking and entering sample-rooms
in Fremantle had packed a selection of
goods in cornsacks and then carried them
to a waiting taxi, the taxi-driver, called
as a Crown witness, was asked, “Didn’t
you have any suspicion that the goods
were stolen goods?” He replied, “I didn’t
know it was ‘hot,’ I thought it came from
the wharf.”
« « « •
“Brolga”: Radio quiz shows should
allot special prizes for ingenious answers.
If they did I’m sure a whacking jackpot
would have gone to the woman member
of a studio audience for her confident
assertion that the initials of the Snowy
Mountains crowd —S.M.H.E.A. —stood
for “Sydney Morning Herald,” Early
Addition.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A 48-year-old inquest was re-
opened the other day in Melbourne by
City Coroner Burke over the body of
Frederick Louis Christian Lange, who was
found in scrub near his home in 1902
with a bullet-wound in his mouth. His
son was then 22 months old. The same
son applied to have the 1902 finding of
suicide quashed because it left a stigma
on the family. Part of the son’s plea was
that none of the usual motives for suicide
had been present. The Coroner found
that Lange died from a self-inflicted
wound, but that the evidence did not
enable him to say whether the wounds had
been wilfully or accidentally inflicted. So
the son’s long fight ended.
BLOOD.
"All they want is blood.”— Negro Joey Brown,
the day after referee Henneberry declared his fight
with Irvin Steen “no contest” because they “were
not doing their best,”
A boxer spends years of his life in the gym.
Enhancing his figure and keeping it slim;
He dances with shadows and gives them the
slip,
And many hours daily he learns how to skip:
A ballet might envy his lunge and retreat,
His beautiful body, his fluttering feet.
But the mob in the bleachers is horribly rude,
They all shout together, “We only want blood:
Blood! Blood ! B y old blood!
B y well give us some more b y
blood!”
The boxer will try, if he has any sense,
To master the noble old art of defence;
It’s more civilised to give gentle rebuffs
Than enter on bouts of depraved fisticuffs;
But should two practitioners be so alert,
Such adepts of science, that neither gets hurt,
The ignorant public responds with a crude
Display of mob feeling: “Blood! Give us more
blood:
Blood! Blood! More b y blood!
B y well give us some more b y blood! ”
If highly-paid wrestlers contrive with a wink
To sprawl on the mat in a pool of red ink,
The referee making a note of the fact
May also be mauled —as a part of the act;
But boxers who turn the ring into a stage
Arc greeted with catcalls and hisses of rage,
With “Why don’t you kiss ’im?” “Stop
chewin’ the cud!”
It’s uppercuts, not uplift—they only want blood;
Blood! Blood! Just b y blood!
The s aren’t happy without b y
blood.
However, their union is growing so fast
That boxers may seek arbitration at last,
And substitute law-courts for fistic displays,
Requesting Judge Someone to sit on the case:
“Such quarrels should not be so hard to com-
pose,”
His Honor will say, “without coming to blows.
But first I should like it to be understood,
When I give my decision, there’ll be no more
blood:
Blood! Blood! No b y blood!
No b y decision if more b y blood!”
The news of the peace brought to poor fighting-
men
Will gladden the hearts of McGirr and John
Wren;
Next year if the Stadium in Sydnev should
fall,
They won’t need a site for a new one at all;
But black-and-blue boxers will prove black is
white
According as legal promoters indict,
And racking right-crosses that tapped the red
flood
Will change to the Red Cross demanding more
blood:
“Blood! Blood! Save b y blood!
Visit the Red Cross and bank b y blood! ”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Ceg”: Victoria’s State Savings Bank
is urging people to save instead of spend.
One advertisement features Rodin s
“Thinker.” There he sits —doubtless
poring over his savings-bank balance
and looking very miserable about it. No
wonder, when he realises that for an
interest-rate of round about two per cent,
he watches the purchasing-power of his
savings deteriorate at a much faster rate.
It is surely appropriate that the “Thinker
has not a shirt to his back.
* * * *
“Quevec”: Mention of the ack-ack
defence on the Franconia (B. 18/10/’5O)
brings back an-
other memory of
that trip—the bag-
pipe band. No
matter where one
went, forward or
aft, stokehold or
mast - head, the
same old drone
went on day after
day for the whole
10 weeks of the
voyage. I sincerely
hope the members
of the band accounted for many of our
opponents when we eventually arrived in
the desert. They’d need to —to make up
for those of our own chaps who preferred
to jump overboard rather than be bag-
piped to insanity.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: When “Bass,” in his
dissertation on the Darwinian theory (B.
15/11/’5O), illustrated his argument by
“She really HUGS the curves!”
supposing his small toe to be unneces-
sary, I enjoyed a hearty laugh as I re-
called old Tom and his little toes. We
were discussing shoes, agreeing on how
hard it is to buy a pair that give complete
freedom to the toes. Old Tom came in
with “I wonder why we have little toes ;
I can’t see that they’re any use always
doubled back underneath your feet.”
“Mine aren’t doubled underneath my
feet,” I protested. Old Tom was sur-
prised. “Aren’t they?” I looked hard
at him, but no, he was dinkum.
* * * *
“Old Crab”: McGregor’s joke-block
of the young man asking Pa’s consent
(B. 8/11/ ’5O) brought to mind a schoolie
cobber who, years back, had to approach
his prospective father-in-law, a bullocky
known far and wide as much for his
vernacular variety as for his love of a
fight. When my mate approached him
the old boy was painting his wagon.
The cobber briefly outlined the position
and prepared for the worst, but Pa’s con-
tribution was a very sober “Well, if
you’re going to, you’re going to.” Later,
over a tankard, the bridegroom-elect ex-
ploded to me “And the old blank didn’t
even stop painting! ”
* * * *
“Kelms”: A bloke in Belgrade has
just got three months for spreading a
rumor that a gang of ghouls have been
killing children and boiling them down
for soap. That’s a rumor that will be
hard to scotch, A similar yarn circulated
during World War I. It claimed that
the Germans were short of fats and were
boiling down their dead to make up the
deficiency. There was no truth in it, but
a mate of mine reckoned he could trace
its source. In an advance, his party
captured a large underground kitchen
which had stopped a direct hit from a big
shell. It was a shambles, and in some of
the boilers they found mutilated soldiers,
hurled there by the blast. Apparently
someone mentioned this to a war corres-
pondent, who did the rest.
* ♦ * *
“R.M.”: What’s the motive behind the
craze some periodicals have for tagging
their stories with a “reading time” —
“27 minutes to read this” they label a
feature, as though they have evaluated to
a “t” their audience’s standard of literacy?,
Episodes of an evening paper’s serialised
thriller average 420 words, mostly of one
syllable. It takes, according to the title,
five minutes to scan these —equivalent to
12 solid hours for a very short novel.
Perhaps their trial reader runs a finger
along each line and moves his lips as
he goes.
* * * *
Ray Whiting: Germans as migrants?
There were plenty of SX numbers in the
A.I.F, possessing German names; they
were descendants of South Australian
settlers, and there were no better soldiers
or more loyal blokes in the Army. If
we’re to choose between Germans and
Italians I know who’ll get my vote. On
the morning after the big barrage at
Alamein a troop of Jerry guns paused on
the westward retreat to chuck a few back
at an isolated bunch of Aussies, Germans
and Italians on the skyline —the Jerries
and Ities having just been brought in as
prisoners. As sand, rock and steel burst
in the midst everyone flattened —well,
nearly everyone. One Digger, cocking
an admittedly windy eye around a truck-
wheel, saw the Ities clawing madly at the
sand in hysterical screaming frenzy with
the Jerries a few yards away standing
easy, smoking, and watching their allies’
performance with the most unutterable
contempt.
£ » • •
“Sackfair”: No need to go overseas
for unexpected angles on class-distinction
(B. 22/11/’5O). I was recently one of the
strugglers in a battle to board a work-
men’s train. In the process an elderly,
slightly-inebriated gent, had been jostled
by a younger, well-dressed chap —at least,
so the former bitterly informed the whole
carriage. The younger man ignored the
plaintive waif Louder grew the com-
plaint, vibrant with self-pity for poor old
blokes that “young’uns think they can
trample you under their feet.” The
trampler, leaning against a seat, kept his
eyes on his paper. The tirade became
personal, then insulting. But nothing per-
colated the reader’s defence—until the
plaintiff summed up with “All them collar-
and-tie office bludgers are the same;
they” He goi no further. The
collar-and-tie one surged through the
throng, grabbed him by the throat and
glared down into his eyes. “Listen, mug.”
The voice was like breaking glass. Tm
no office bludger, see? Tm a navvy, see?
And I’m dressed up ’cause you can’t
work in the rain and I’ve been to town,
see? Now shut up or I’ll shut you up.”
“ Hullo, mate —struck the jackpot?”
No shutting-up was required ; the old-
’un must have realised that there is such
a thing as going too far,
* * * *
“Blue P.”: It must be a long time since
any provincial newspaper has offered
prizes for literary competitions, and the old
“Ballarat Courier” has given a good lead
by offering £lOO in four prizes for short
stories in conjunction with the city’s Gold
Centenary Year programme. There
should be more of this; indeed, if the
Commonwealth Literary Fund means any-
thing at all it should be assisting country
journals to publish Australian authors.
The Ballarat contest limits the yarns to
2500 words and closes on December 31.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The archaeologist who
100 or 1000 years hence starts delving into
the ruins of Melbourne may find a
cultural deposit which will be more diffi-
cult to explain than Tut.’s tomb. A well-
known sculptor carves and models, carves
and models, and after a while is almost
completely surrounded by works of a
monumental nature. Few people in Mel-
bourne buy a sculpture, and periodically
the sculptor works himself into the posi-
tion where he can’t add another master-
piece to his collection and still find room
to swing his mallet. So he digs a big
hole in his backyard, tumbles all his busts
and portraits and Aphrodites into it and
starts all over again.
sp * ♦ *
“R.M.”: The retail business must have
felt a warm glow in its heart and pocket
when it saw how the square-dance mania
caught on at the instigation of a shrewd
department-store. It meant huge sales of
the special dresses, shoes, shirts, pants,
belts and tiddly bits that are apparently
a concomitant of dancing in squares. I
was about to indulge in a set when a
store advertised “lamps and lampshades
for square-dancing.” Well, if keeping up
with the square-dancing Joneses means
refurnishing the home I’m staying right
where I am with my circular waltz.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A witness in a Sydney
inquiry said he had signed no papers
“unless I was drunk,” and then went on
to admit that he often was drunk. A
sarcastic remark that he had paid the
inquiry a special compliment by coming
to it sober brought a laconic “They’re
not open yet”—they being, of course, the
pubs. Booze gets a lot of blame in the
courts for lost memories; but there was
one occasion when the practice was
reversed. A robust witness, who carried
on a big business, frankly stated his
drinking in case lots, and said he thought
nothing of knocking over two or three
bottles of Scotch a day. He had denied
signing a document, but, confronted by
a signature, admitted it was his. “I may
have been sober when I signed that,” he
admitted. “My wife had a way of hiding
my whisky at times; and when I’m sober
I forget what I’m doing.”
Hamfat : Smiths Weekly was, so
to speak, born in a pub. The Arcadia
Hotel was (and i is)one of Sydneysimost
extraordinary hostelnes; residential
quarters run from Pitt- o . ® ■
street, and part of the budding is_ an
arcade with shops and offices let for plain
business purposes. Joynton Smith owned
the hotel, and interested financially m
the new weekly, he gave it o ce sp
which soon spread all along the first-floor
balcony of the arcade, old tenants being
pushed out to make room for the growth.
Joynton Smith, publisher, was queerly
disturbed by the habit developed by the
rapidly-growing staff of sliding down the
stairs to drink the liquors sold by Joynton
Smith, publican. Special warnings that
such transgressions would be “viewed
seriously” were issued in Joynton’s
name ; but they were not very effective.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Out my way tile-manu-
facturers have not, as yet, demanded a
photograph of the job before delivering
a tile to the site (B. 8/11 / ’5O), but I don’t
doubt the word of “O’Yen.” I do, how-
ever, think that he is mistaken over the
reason for the strange demand. Any
experienced man could measure up a iob
and tell within a dozen tiles how many
would be required to cover it. The plan
would give him all the information
necessary for his calculations, and no firm
will book an order unless the plan is pro-
duced. It would be much more difficult
to find the required data from a photo-
graph. The camera distorts sizes and, of
course, a photo would bear no figures
and couldn’t; be scaled. I submit that the
photograph is required as evidence prov-
ing the roof is pitched and the guttering
fixed. Tile-manufacturers have long re-
fused to supply their products (cement and
concrete tiles excepted) until that very-
scarce galvanised iron product is in
position around the eaves.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The all-conquering rag-
shop is still sweeping its imperious way
through the cities. Being in that part of
the city, I decided to dine at what was
only recently reputed one of the fish
restaurants of Sydney. Halfway into the
premises I realised that the fish had
gone ; it was “latest models” that looked
at me from the window. Then I sought
another place I used to like ; but there
again the display of comestibles had been
replaced by women’s frocks. Even the
restaurant at Wynyard station, closed be-
cause it didn’t pay, has been replaced in
part by a frock business. We used to
marvel when the pubs, once the most
profitable of all businesses, retired from
many street-corners to make way for the
frock shops ; but today women, besides
being the handlers of the domestic purse,
are big earners in their own right. I
know girls who are getting more than
their moderately-well-paid brothers ; but
the little dears still have the tea-and-a-
bit-of-toast complex in regard to food
and regard clothes as the best purpose
for their money. They dine more sub-
stantially when they get the boy-friend to
take them to dinner, and they pool him,
if he is not careful, for one of the places
where the costly swank outweighs the
food value. No wonder the rag business
sweeps on.
NOT UNDERSTOOD.
“A spokesman for Sydney hairdressers, in seeking
to justny the rise in the price, of haircuts to 35.,
said that barbers had to be well dressed, have a
good general knowledge, be good conversationalists
and be intelligent.”
Customers must not suppose
That the gent, who wields the comb
And climbs their skulls with those electric
clippers
(Rendering them comatose),
Though upstairs may be his home,
Can work in shirtsleeves, open neck and
slippers.
No, he’s too genteel for that!
Why, he couldn’t even dream
Of cutting hair of wowsers or carousers
Except in neat cravat
And stiff collar, which he’ll team
With morning coat and striped and knife-edged
trousers.
Never harbor, too, the thought
As you step into the chair
That the cove who stuffs the tent-thing in your
collar
Hasn’t only, say, been taught
Just to prune off bits of hair —
He’s really quite an entertaining scholar.
He can discourse on Duchesne
And define a jillaroo.
Or discuss the Gloomy Dane. Perhaps the
urge’ll
Come upon him to explain
Einstein’s Theory to you,
Or he’ll sling at you selected slabs of Virgil.
In the knowledge he has gained
He can easily detect
That yo,ur follicles are fast becoming feeble.
He’ll pronounce you poorly maned,
That the wilt you may expect,
Like the flowers held in “Faust” by faithful
Siebel.
It is then he’ll cease to snip
And allow a free rein to
Another craft his genius has mastered.
I ffefer to salesmanship;
And within a trice or two
With costly goo he’ll have your fibre plastered.
It’s a shame to think that some
Will be whingeing quite a lot
When they have to cough up three-bob tor a
trimming, „
Seeing they might be giv’n the “drum
Of a cert that’s “in the pot,”
And from the books some cream they may oe
skimming.
Think of Snips, haggard and wan,
As the midnight globe he burns,
Studying equine form and pedigree unending,
Simply that he may pass on
Every secret that he learns
To his customers. It really is heart-rending!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Villefair”: This inflation business is
getting beyond all control—even hail-
stones have come under its influence now.
In my youth hailstones were compara-
tively small objects. Anything bigger
than a mothball was considered well
above f.a.q. Time passed, then news-
papers began to report “hailstones as big
as pigeons’-eggs.” More years came and
went, bringing bigger and better hail-
stones, with
ping-pong balls
the accepted
minimum
gauge. Such
mediocre sizes,
however,
couldn’t hope
t o compare
with the im-
proved hail-
stone a mis-
sile “as large
as a hen-egg.”
And still the
i n 11 a t i onary
trend keeps de-
veloping. Recently a storm passed over
Wilcannia (N.S.W.), and—l can’t believe
that my daily would exaggerate—hail-
stones the size of cricket-balls bombarded
the town. The position is becoming peril-
ous. Unless something is done to check
this form of inflation mysterious signs
will appear on walls and footpaths: “Ban
the hailstone! ” As I see it, there is only
one way to avert tragedy—devalue the
emu-egg.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Not really surprised
that Such’s batsman was able to clout
an aircraft with his “sixer” (B. 22/11 /’5O).
During the first M.C.C. match in Sydney
“ Y’re tinny , Herb—y on'y just came orf compo."
several came close enough to allow crew
and/or passengers to get a glimpse of
the game; a couple of Dakotas, a Sky-
master, a flying-boat (perilously low, with
Miller batcing), a neat little Miles Gemini
and the inevitable Tiger Moth or two.
Getting a better view, however, was a.
smaller craft; cinnamon colored main-
plane, creamy fuselage, variable rudder,
yellow under-carriage, dark band around
the nose—and a repertoire of aerobatics
that would make the bigger fellows look
silly. Gliding up-wind he’d catch sight
of something interesting below, apply
flaps, halt in mid-air, hover dead over
the same spot for a few moments, drop
to a lower level, repeat the trick, then
sideslip, open throttle and gain height
rapidly as the up-current by the Trumper
Stand gave him added lift. I suppose
the kestrel took some interest, but was
not so engrossed as we; once, when all
human eyes were on Simpson racing to
prevent a four, the little hawk was deep
in study of a yellowish patch of turf
quite close to the pounding fieldsman —
possibly the eager amateur was of less
interest to him than a burrowing beetle.
The humblest of the birds of prey, this
little chap is the prince of fliers; he can
hover—“tread air” —exactly over the one
spot, lower or raise himself without alter-
ing his lat. and long., and that on a calm
day or in the teeth of a gale. He is the
avian helicopter, minus the flurry.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: If what I saw on the
Blue Mountains last week is acceptable
evidence, the blokes who put up a swag
and take to the long track for the pure
love of it are not dead. He was near
Springwood, a man not more than 40,
well-built and obviously healthy. He
strode along under a fair-dinkum swag,
nose-bag over shoulder, billy in the left
hand. His pants and coat were ancient,
his hat bandless and shapeless, and his
boots grey and battered. He was bearded
and his eyes, bright and luminous, looked
with interest at the things about him.
The point is that, in these times, no man
carries a swag in search of yacca, and no
man walks while lorries, cars and semi-
trailers cram the roads. My guess is that
he walked the mountains because he was
fairly safe there ; in the wheat country
or the sheep realms he would have been
kidnapped and put to work at a tenner a
week and tucker. But it pleased my
ancient soul to see him, for while one
strong man walks the roads because he
likes it Australian freedom survives, the
bush still hath her lovers and the wail of
“social security” is vain in the land.
* * * «
“Eurimburra”: Jim’s plant had long
rusted into uselessness, so he asked Alec
to put in a crop of oats on the shares.
Alec agreed, provided Jim kept his stock
out of it. He knew Jim. It looked a
good crop when Alec came over to take
it off, and Jim asked him what he thought
it would cut. “Tell you after the first
time round,” said Alec, and turned horses
and binder into the oats. A couple of
hundred yards down Jim’s Hereford bull
rose from where he’d been lying and,
ignoring his usual place of entry, made a
bolt for a corner and tried to jump the
fence. He made a horrible mess of it,
smashed a post and galloped up a blind
gully trailing about 60yds. of wire.
Topping a rise, Alec surprised Jim’s three
milkers. Shedding what matronly dignity
they possessed, they careered madly for
a jumble of slack wires. It might have
been all right if Alec had stopped and
let them go quietly, but he kept on, and
old Maud, last, and frantic, fell into the
fence, twisted a couple of wires across her
neck and hung there, upside-down, till
Alec, swearing horribly, got a file from
the tool-box, cut her loose and kicked
her into an upright position and she gal-
loped off to join the others. Around the
next corner a rustling and bobbing
betrayed Jim’s mob of killers. Bunching
nicely, they raced ahead of the binder
for about 300yds. Jim, waiting at the
gate at the top end, let out several poddies
which had raced up through the middle
of the crop, and greeted his sharefarmer
with a cheerful “Well, what’s in ’er,
Alec?” “Everything bar a blanky tiger,”
came the sour reply.
* * * *
“Tom”: We also had a horse that
backed for a while (B. 8/11/ ’5O). He
took no notice of the whip when in that
mood, but there came a day when we kids
closed the big gate behind us and started
"That new soap-powder HAS brought the towels out rough.”
him off down the drive. Then he started
to reverse until the buggy finally came up
against the gate, behind which Dad
waited with a coil of rope. Unseen by
the horse he vaulted the gate into the
buggy seat. The first contact of that rope
with Dobbin’s rump made him realise
that the game was up, and he had us
down the drive and out on the highway
in record time. He was no bother after
that.
* * * *
“P.K.”; Can “Zake” (B. 8/11/’5O) ex-
plain why, in single-handed sawing, more
wood is cut on outward drive than on re-
turn pull? In half-a-lifetime of timber-
cutting I’ve had a wide assortment of
mates, including some of “Z.’s” one-way
artists —I admit they were of some
assistance, but if they took one, or both
hands off the saw it continued to work,
powered from my side of the log. The
most important thing in double-handed
work is a mate better than yourself.
Watch for the bloke who, standing or
kneeling, keeps his back straight, and only
bends when the saw-cut gets too low.
Straight back and the wide stance of the
old-time boxer give arms and shoulders
greatest control over the saw. If left-
handed, his Tacky Howe wears out on
left mid-rib area where hands and handle
brush at termination of return pull—left
elbow, then outward from body ready for
dead-straight return drive. By-pass the
joker who bends forward and holds the
saw well out from his body—little con-
trol there, and saw usually well out of
alignment. The pair who pull and push
cut faster and often beat a pinching cut.
Similarly, a racing-saw sharpened for
double-handed contests has practically no
set. Pace, drive and weight spread the
teeth just enough to carry the saw
through with minimum of cut and mostly
in fastest time.
* * * *
“3298”: Rusty Jurd lived on a
property left to him as his patrimony.
He had no stock of his own, but took
some in on agistment, the number re-
ceived being rarely the same when
counted out. When his windmill went
haywire Rusty got the local expert to
look it over. Ted climbed to the
platform, took a look round and said
“Stone the crows, Rusty, how do you
expect to keep stock in those paddocks?
Your gates are cockeyed, your sheds and
fences lop-sided.” Rusty looked up and
drawled : “Well, Ted, this place did me
grandfather for forty years and my old
man for twenty, and it’s done me
for six; surely it will do you for half an
hour or so.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Whatever the
animal described by “Betcha” (B.
l/10/’5O) may be, it is not a native cat.
The common native cat, once very
numerous in the hill country of N.S.W.
and Victoria, was little more than half
the weight of a “large domestic feline.”
Its sharply-pointed ears and long muzzle
differed entirely from the short, stubby
ears and short, rounded muzzle of the
wombat: the claws were small and weak,
rendering it unable to climb a straight
sapling or tree, and its feet bore no re-
semblance whatever to the powerful
excavating apparatus of the wombat. Its
color was light grey, with smooth white
spots, not “tufts.” In some specimens
the ground color was black instead of
the normal grey, the tail was well-furred,
and the same color as the body, which
was marked with white spots in the same
manner as the grey. 1 have u distinct
recollection of the sudden disappearance
of these handsome little animals. At that
time almost every hollow log sheltered a
single specimen or family. Then, for
some reason that has never been satis-
factorily explained, they were swept out
of existence within the course of a few
months.
* * * *
“Eureka”; The sun was just peeping
over the horizon when the new hand
finished his breakfast and made for the
potato paddock down by the creek. When
about half-way down to the paddock he
met old Wirewhiskers coming back to-
wards the house. “Just a minute,” the
old chap called out. “Sneak quietly round
the back way, will y’, and start diggin’
at the other end of the paddock. If
Dave sees you going down at this hour
of the day he’ll want to know why I
didn’t give him a half-holiday, too.”
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”; An Australorp belonging
to a Geraldton (W.A.) poultry-farmer has
produced
what might
be considered
a bird - life
equivalent of
Siamese
twins. It
laid what
appeared to
a perfectly-
shaped but
outsize egg,
in cir-
c u m f erence
and 54-in.
long. When the shell was broken an-
other perfectly-shaped egg, complete with
hard shell, yolk and albumen, was found
inside. Between the inner and outer
shells were also the usual yolk and
albumen.
* ♦ • ♦
“Bass”: The Westralian Christmas-tree
is beginning to bloom, and while its blaz-
ing orange glory is in the public eye I’d
like to nominate it as having the greatest
root-system and the greatest propensity
for suckering of any plant in Australia,
barring canes and vines. Even in open
company it wouldn’t be disgraced. It’s
a partial parasite—no plant possessing
green leaves, as this does, is wholly para-
sitic —and it starts life as a seed. That
seed will only germinate and grow when
it finds refuge in the root of a growing
tree, on which the young plant feeds until
it has established its own foliage. Even
then it only partially feeds itself, although
it develops a remarkable rooting system.
I once traced a Christmas-tree root for
30 yards without finding any decrease in
its girth—which was about six inches. At
intervals along those roots the tree
suckers, particularly where the root is
damaged, and that tree, in turn, sends
out its roots to form fresh colonies. In
a semicircle with a half-mile radius I
can see an almost continuous line of
these trees, and I have a suspicion that
the entire colony is linked together.
THE MULLOCK-HEAP.
Sitting on the mullock-heap,
Yellow, rust and grey,
Where the sides are no more steep,
Where they’ve thinned away.
Nodding every now and then,
Staring at the mounds.
Hearing echoes come again,
Old familiar sounds.
Hearing now the windlass wind,
Muffled pick below.
Talk again of some new find
Heard long years ago.
Crumbling mullock in the hand
With a miner’s touch,
Hands that such things understand,
Hands that know so much.
Sitting on the mullock-heap,
Pegging out the claim.
Recollections that go deep,
Place and time and name . . .
Shafts and reefs and tunnels dark,
Silent sounds that seep
By the candle’s sickly spark,
On the mullock-heap.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
0
0
“B. A. Ker”: Young Johnno never
told me a lie before ; perhaps he hasn’t
now, that’s why I don’t know whether
I should pat him on the head or take
action in the opposite direction. I saw
the young peewee myself; it had obvi-
ously left the nest prematurely and was
unable to fly up again. There was no-
thing extraordinary in the fact that the
parent birds
were feeding
the helpless
infant as it
stood
squawking on
the ground—
I’ve seen
other birds
do the same
thing. Pass-
ing the spot
about two
hours later I
noticed that
the youngster had gone. A stray fummy
was very much under suspicion—until I
happened to glance up. There, on a high
branch of the spotted-gum which held the
mud nest, the little bloke sat, a parent
on each side of him. Johnno vows he
saw the old birds do the air-lift. “He
stuck his wings out,” the boy maintains,
‘ and the old ’uns got hold of ’em in
their beaks, then they sort of run along
the ground and took off like a naero-
plane. And they carried him right up
to that branch.” I’d hate to accuse him
wrongly, but
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Old-timer” asks
(B. 15/11/’5O) what the deuce mountain
ducks were doing in the wheatbelt? Well,
it was the Westralian wheatbelt, and they
were nesting there. There’s nothing
strange in that. It’s their natural habitat.
Throughout the wheatbelt there’s hardly
a river worth the name, and mighty few
creeks, but there are lakes. A chain of
lakes stretches from near Perth, through
the wheatbelt and well into the gold-
fields desert. Around Perth they’re fresh,
in the country they’re mostly salt,
although an occasional fresh lake occurs,
without any apparent reason. The duck
usually nests in a hollow in a tall tree,
often a long way from water, and
frequently up to 30ft. from the ground.
It will occasionally choose a ground-nest
—once found one in a rabbit burrow —
but it prefers a tree. Although they’re not
good table-birds, they’ve been pretty well
shot out around the more settled areas,
so the most logical place to find them
now is the wheatbelt. Don’t know how
they compare with the Eastralian version,
so I’ll describe them. The female is black
head and upper neck, with a white collar
below the black. Below that again and
including the chest is chestnut; greyish
black on the back and tail, the latter
having a spot of green. White around
the eye and base of beak. The male is
much the same, but lacks the white
markings.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Late afternoon and the
pair of us on the banks of the Goulburn,
just out of Echuca, with lines in and
baked mussels on the hooks. The cod
hadn’t come on yet, and we decided to
improve the interval by sampling some
of the liquid refreshment we’d brought.
As Mat raised the bottle his line jumped ;
he grabbed it, lowering the bottle. The
line lay dead. He put the bottle down,
hauled in, rebaited and threw out. He
raised the bottle, again the line jumped ;
“I told you not to ask him for his autograph !”
he lowered the bottle, grabbed the line,
nothing. He raised the bottle, away went
the line ; he dropped the bottle this time
in his eagerness, but missed again. He
pulled the line in and let it lie on the
bank. Then he leisurely picked up the
bottle, drank deeply, sighed, drank again
and lay back. “Ain’t y’ tryin’ for him?”
I asked. “No,” Mat mumbled, going
the bottle again. “It’s only one o’ them
flamin’ wowser fish.” “Wowser fish?”
“Yair, bites every time he sees a man
havin’ a drink.”
* * * *
“The Missus”: When our old black
Orpington made a nest in the hollow of
a bag that someone had slung over the
wheel still attached to an old cart tipped
on its side I was curious to see how she
would get her chickens to earth from
about 4ft. above the ground. The day
that cheeping noises disclosed that the
chicks were emerging I hung around, but
the hen sat tight. Early next morning
I went to the old cart. Blackie was on
the ground and two chicks were with her.
As I watched, she clucked and gabbled
encouragingly and, at her calling, first
one and then another small ball of black
fluff came scrambling to the edge of the
“I'm giving you a CUT-THROAT for Christmas !”
nest and jumped unhesitatingly into space
to fall at her feet. There were 10
altogether.
* * * *
“Jubilee”: Bill rode in at tea-time and
told us that he’d killed a 9ft. wild boar
with his bare hands. We half-believed,
by bedtime, that perhaps we wouldn’t
be the mugs if we rode out in the morn-
ing to the back paddock with a tape-
measure to check up. The boar measured
9ft. lin. from snout to tail-tip. A
neighbor had shot at it some days before
with a shot-gun and blinded it. When
Bill’s sheep-dogs bailed the boar up Bill
got off his horse to see what was in the
little gutter of a watercourse. There was
a cabbage-tree with a good lean that he
was able to walk out on when he yelled
the dogs off and the boar came for the
voice. After an hour or so the novelty
of being treed wore off and Bill reviewed
his resources. The leaves of the cabbage-
tree make a good rope if you know how,
and Bill did. With a noose round his
neck it took a while to get the boar’s
front feet off the ground, but with the
tree-limbs to help with the slack during
its rushes Bill managed it and slowly
strangled his pig.
♦ * * •
“Bo”: For those who gloomily see a
decline in our sturdy democratic faith
that his master is as good as Jack I point
to an example of its working which I
couldn’t visualise being paralleled any-
where else on earth. A shearing con-
tractor at Nyngan (N.S.W.) had his
shearing-team complete, but was stood up
at the last minute by his rousie, so to
keep things moving he filled in in that
capacity himself. One of the shearers
was a learner, unable to shear more than
50. The boss could knock over his 200.
Fast also as rousie, it exasperated him
to see good shearing-time going west, so
he offered the learner £5 10s. a day for
his pen. As a rousie on that munificent
wage the learner gladly swapped jobs,
while the boss also made a good profit on
it.
♦ * * *
“Wonk”: Old Fred bought a coil of
wire-netting, paid cash, then, loading it
on to his ancient vehicle, set off back to
his bush block on Hungry Creek. About
It) days later he again entered the store.
“W’ant another coil o’ that wire-nettin’,
George,” he announced. Again he paid
for it. A fortnight went by before he re-
appeared “Got any more o’ that nettin
on hand?” he asked. “Only want one
coil. Here’s the cash.” When Fred came
in again the following week and asked for
netting the storeman explained there was
very little left. “Had a big shed of it
early,” he said, “but you’ll come in one
day soon and find there’s none left.’’
“Yair? Bloke won’t know whether t’
be glad or sorry,” drawled Fred wearily.
“Anyway, I’ll take one coil.” “Got much
more fencing to do?” queried the store-
owner. “Miles of it.” “Well, why don’t
you buy enough for the whole fence at
once and make sure of it?” “Buy the
lot!” Fred bridled indignantly. “Of
that flamin’ stuff! An’ at that price!
Gripes, George,” he complained, “it
takes me at least a week’s hard work
on the rabbits every time before I can
make up me mind t’ get one more blasted
coil! ”
% H* *
“Herbert Dawson”; It isn’t only
“small, hardy breeds of dogs” that hop
along carrying one hind-leg (B. 9/8/’5O).
Cattle-dogs—and they can be classed as
big dogs —make a habit of travelling on
three legs, and if “goathead” or “khaki-
weed” is about, on two legs, either
cornerwise or using the two legs on one
side by leaning over that way. I have
even seen a dog of mine trying to manage
with one leg on the ground, but, not being
a successful liar, I have to admit he was
not successful.
* * * *
“Horseless FI.”: For the most awkward
place in which to try to kill a snake I
nominate a lOOOgal. rainwater-tank. In one
on Tmara homestead, near Naracoorte
(S.A.), we found
a 3ft. tiger-snake.
Trying to hit it
through the nar-
row aperture
wasn’t exactly
s u c c e ssful —
mostly the stick
struck the water
and the snake had
no difficulty in
submerging for an
hour or so. Finally
the longtail had
to be hooked out
and killed on the
ground—in itself
a delicate operation wrought with plenty
of hazards.
* * * ♦
“En P,”: For a fine old Australian
gentleman of the real conservative school
I’ll nominate the bird that Cayley calls
the singing honey-eater {Meliphaga
virescens). Our slice of northern S.A. is
more remarkable for gibbers than for
shrubbery, but where you find an eligible
clump of bushes or a well-foliaged tree-
let, there you may expect to see a pair of
honey-eaters—and when you go back that
way six months later you may expect to
see ’em still. One pair own the half-
dozen boobyallahs that make our front
garden a landmark for miles; they live
and sing and feed and breed and play
follow-my-leader through the boobyallahs,
through the old creeper, in and out
through the cyclone wire and over and
under anything at all, at eye-baffling
speed—in the garden. Half a mile west
of the house is a small acacia swamp,
and always there you’ll find Ma and Pa
Honey-eater. Half a mile north-east of
the house, over the bare ridge, is a lone
wild-plum-tree by a watercourse. Go
there when you will and M. virescens,
lord of the manor, will come out to in-
vestigate you. A mile north of the plum-
tree is an isolated pile of great quartzite
boulders that give shelter to a few bullock-
bushes, two or three wild-plums and an
odd acacia species. This commanding
site also belongs to a pair of the flower-
robbers. And so, for mile on mile of
red and brown emptiness, wherever a tree
or a clump of bushes breaks the
monotony, there you’ll find the expected
birds. And the brisk cheerfulness of their
bold welcome becomes just as much a
boon as the trees themselves. Long may
they reign!
OUT FROM NOONKANBAH.
The coolibahs quiver,
The snakewood moans,
And bower-birds play
With Lin Bower’s bones
While the thunder rolls
In ominous tones,
Out from Noonkanbah.
When piccaninnies shriek
At a spectral sight
And dingoes howl
In the ghastly light
You’ll know that Lin Bower
Walks at night,
Out from Noonkanbah.
Away out there
Where horizons melt
There’s a pair of boots,
Some mildewed felt,
A few old buttons
And a sun-cracked belt—
Out from Noonkanbah.
In articulo mortis,
Ah forsook!
With a shovel of sand
And a leather-bound book
They buried him there
With the Chinese cook . . .
Out from Noonkanbah.
W.A.
WILO.


That Perplexing Problem I
how will my Estate he administered ?
fs
df
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*.
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager! W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS!
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman): John Cadwalladcr; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson.
M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; Thomas
B. Heller.
N.S.W. Manager! C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Comoany Ltd. Executor of your Will, yon
obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 72 years* specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be safe-
guarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
sd
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
££' £ £ £
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484,576
1944.. 406,068 242,227 99,221 64,620 2,549,196
1945.. 440,732 241,563 121,407 77,702 2,626,958
1946.. 475,014 230,846 139,306 104,862 2,731,820
Surplus from revalued Government)
securities, £60,618 .. .. j-
Other additions to reserves, £14,000 J
2,806,438
1947. . 482,267 192,959 116,480 172,828 2,979,266
Added to reserves, £12,800 .. 2,992,066
1948.. 509,258 193,880 113,587 201,841 3,193,907
Exchange fluctuation res., £11,733.. 3,205,640
Added tax reserve, £l2OO .. .. 3,206,840
1949.. 552,979 187,050 124,780 241,149 3,447,989
To exchange reserve, £9004 .. .. 3,456,993
Added tax reserve, £10,750 .. .. 3,467,743
1950.. 610,481 197,616 141,006 271,859 3,739,602
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1937-
40, £4500 ; 1941, £9000; 1942, £4500; 1943-46,
£9000; 1947, £13,500 ; 1948-50, £lB,OOO.
Having been put firmly on its financial
feet by Esmond Paul and the team he
gathered around him, the A.P.A. is now
making steady progress, and the outlook
for both policyholders and shareholders
is encouraging. The co. has not joined
in the hunt for industrial and group busi-
ness, and, all things considered, it doesn’t
appear to have missed much so far as
its own strength is concerned. Its ordi-
nary and accident contracts are written
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
about three-quarters of the life premiums
being gathered in the Commonwealth.
In the life section £1,202,784 (up
£77,719) of new business was put on the
books last term, and the average per
policy was £561 as against £519 for the
previous year. The increase in premium
income (£404,990) was £21,368, and in
net interest, rents, etc. (£111,967) £12,591,
making the growth in total income
(£516,957) £33,959. Claims (£172,273, up
£3087) were well within expectation. In-
cluding depreciation, etc., exes. (£99,404,
up £11,484) took 24.5 p.c. (up 1.6 p.c.)
of net premiums, the increase being due
to general inflationary pressures. Of the
£245,280 that remained, only £3648 was
transferred to shareholders’ account,
£lO,OOO was sent to the property reserve
(now £30,000) and £231,632 to the
statutory fund, raising it to £3,401,101. In
addition there is an exchange-fluctuation
account of £19,000 and a new-business
reserve of £9OOO, making total funds in
the life department £3,459,101 (up
£258,857), all of which belongs to policy-
holders.
Another encouraging feature was the
improvement of 3s. 7d. p.c. in the net
rate of interest earned on the mean fife
funds, namely £3 8s p.c. The rate used
in calculating actuarial liabilities under
policies is 2\ p.c.
After allowing for the transfer to the
property reserve, £58,181 (up £7923) was
distributed as bonuses among policy-
holders at slightly increased rates.
In the accident and general section, in
which shareholders are mainly interested,
the surplus (after allowing for unexpired
risks) was £36,302. The £3648 trans-
ferred from the life section lifted the
figure to £39,950 (up £4648), equal to
11.1 p.c. on capital as against 9.8 p.c.
and 8.4 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The div. was kept at 5 p.c. (£18,000),
making the average distribution over the
last eight years 3.6 p.c. At 28s, 6d.
(235. 9d. a year ago), the f.-p. £1 shares
return 3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. Net tangible cover is 38s. 6d.
per share.
The year’s improvement in the overall
net tangible position (both departments
combined) was £293,613:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£>££,£,
Public sec. 1,491,110 1,543,610 1,583,780 1,725,965
Mortgages.. 378,687 369,808 356,282 404,262
Loans on
policies, etc. 55,627 59,207 08,851 72,738
Book debts,
cash, etc. 208,438 155,035 150,682 154,897
Equipment. 2,825 4,450 5,967 8,882
Properties.. 740,165 737,558 738,558 697,786
Shares . . 578,689 815,645 1,045,461 1,213,702
Total .. 3,465,541 3,685,313 3,949,581 4,278,232
Creditors.. 112,775 113,406 123,592 160,630
Net tangibles 3,352,760 3,571,907 3,823,989 4,117,602
Assur. fund* 2,799,736 2,980,027 3,186,874 3,424,783
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
‘lncludes reserves for unexpired risks; 1947,
£19,200; 1948, £21,300; 1949, £17,405 ; 1950,
£23,682.
Government securities (up £142,185)
account for 40.3 p.c. and shareholdings
(up £168,241) for 28.3 p.c. of total assets.
Of the shareholdings £125,673 is in con-
trolled cos. and the balance mainly in in-
dustrial pref. and ord. stocks.
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
_ , Net . . To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1941. .809,036 12 p.c. = 741,919
1942. .703,438 12 „ „ 741,919}
Employees’ fund, £5OOO ..)
67,117 1,565,480
16,519 1,581,999
1943 . .789,041 12 p.c. = 741,919
1944. .839,623 13 „ „ 803,745
1945. .858,022 13 „ „ 803,745
47,122 1,629,121
35,878 1,664,999
54,277 1,719,276
1946. .862,956 13 „ „ 803,745 J
Employees’ fund, £10,000..$
49,211 1,768,487
1947. .884,516 13$ p.c. = 834,659 £
Employees’ fund, £10,000.,$
39,857 1,808,844
Conting’cies res. disclosed, £1,861,192 3,669,530
Unexplained addition, £358,770 .. 4,028,306
1948. .916,292 14$ p.c. = 896,485 1
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. J
9,807 4,038,113
1949. .043,160 15 p.c. = 927,399 1
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. j
5,761 4,043,874
1950. .968,808 15 p.c. = 927,399 1
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. ]
21,409 4,065.283
One of the most spectacular of recent
price-rises in the sharemarket was the
sharp leap of 30s. 9d., from £4 19s. 3d.
to £6 10s., in Tooth’s £1 shares on Oct.
25 last. The reason was rumors in the
byways of the market, the haunts of the
speculator, of a probable bonus-scrip
issue. On the following day the collapse
was just as spectacular, bids dropping back
to £5 25., when chairman R. J. Vicars
announced that the directors knew of no
reason for the sudden rise in price of
the co.’s shares, and that they had not
considered an issue of shares of any kind.
He added that “the co. maintains, and
will maintain, the strictest regard for the
interests of shareholders, and, as is its
custom, decisions of the board in such
matters will be immediately conveyed to
shareholders and the Stock Exchanges.”
And that is as it should be.
The scrip, which is one of the most
popular of industrial equities, had
recovered to £5 12s. last week, but
dropped to 965. following the bad news
from Korea. It settled at £5, giving an
immediate yield of 3 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis.
An attraction of the scrip is the co.’s
extensive holding in freeholds and plant,
which give the investor a feeling of pro-
tection against inflation. But the board
says it is not entirely happy about the
effect of inflation on provisions made for
depreciation and invested in Govern-
ment bonds. These funds nowadays have
not the plant-replacement value they had
at the time of their creation. This is a
problem common to all industry at
present. Tooth’s probably enjoy a
stronger position than most cos. in this
regard.
The co., which enjoys a lion’s share of
the trade in N. S. Wales, is one of the
most solidly-entrenched breweries in the
Commonwealth, financially and other-
wise. The improvement of £15,648 in
last term’s profit came from expanding
turnover, which more than took care of
the sharp rise in costs and kept plant em-
ployed to capacity:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings.* etc. Gross. Profit.
1944.. £2,601,172 £1,761,549 67.7 £839,623
1945.. 2,697,639 1,839,617 68.2 858,022
1946.. 2,746,212 1,883,256 68.6 862,956
1947.. 2,927,302 2,042,786 69.7 884,516
1948.. 2,997,865 2,081,573 69.4 916,292
1949.. 3,038,282 2,095,122 68.9 943,160
1950.. 3,112,224 2,153,416 69.2 958,808
* After providing for contingencies.
The £958,808 of profit was 15.5 p.c. on
the £6,182,657 of capital as against 15.2,
14.8, 14.3 and 13.9 p.c. back to 1946. The
div., which advanced by halting steps
from 12 p.c. in 1943 to 15 p.c. in 1949
remained at the higher figure, making the
average distribution over the last 48 years
approximately 101 p.c., and for the last
11 of them 14.1 p.c. On capital and
reserves combined the year’s profit was
9.3 p.c., which suggests, among other
things, that assets are conservatively
valued in the books, notwithstanding dis-
closure of £2,219,926 of inner reserves
a couple of years ago.
On the demand side the outlook for
the trade generally is a bright one. But
“the balancing point has now been passed,
and we can no longer expect the volume
of trade to absorb increasing costs, which
will be heavier than ever in the ensuing
year,” the chairman says. So, without a
lift in selling-prices (which are controlled),
net earnings are more likely to contract
than expand in the near future. The
Licensed Victuallers’ Association has
asked for an early lift in the selling-price
of beer to the public of |d. on a soz. glass.
Id. on a middy, schooner and pint, and
about 2d. on bottled stuff. The brewers
are also asking for an increase in the
bulk selling-price—Victorian brewers have
been granted lifts totalling sd. a gallon
over the last couple of years.
The co. has extended its storage space
for beer; but, until other bottlenecks are
overcome, this is not expected to materi-
ally increase production. Additions now
being made to the Irving-street brewery
should step-up output in time for next
summer’s trade. The co.’s big pro-
gramme of renovation and remodelling
of hotel properties, etc., still awaits labor
and materials. Meanwhile cash, etc. (up
£253,060 last term), is being accumulated
for the purpose, but while inflation con-
tinues this big accumulation of cash, etc., is
diminishing proportionately in real value ;
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Creditors . . .. 3,430,586 3,633,290 3,730,429
Employees’ fund.. 61,421 67,522 73,350
Workers’ comp’n.. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Freeholds and plant 7,981,228 7,762,835 7,583,802
Stocks . . . . 564,061 634,079 648,894
Debtors .. .. 943,334 1,001,397 1,036,931
Consols, cash, etc. 4,697,853 5,002,731 5,255,791
During the year £179,033 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets.
Foy & Gibson, Ltd. (Melbourne!
Consolidated Figures.
, Dividends^— N To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1946.. 149,926 6 6 93,000 56,926 365,087
1947.. 223,570 6 7 105,000 118,570 483,657
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 473,657
1948.. 278,653 6.5 8 124,500 154,153 627,810
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 617,810
Less reserve adjustments, £63,253.. 554,557
To special tax reserve, £32,000 .. 522,557
1949.. 268,240 6.5 8 132,000 136,240 658,797
Share premiums, £113,700 .. .. 772,497
Assets appreciation, £146,664 .. 919,161
From tax reserve, £32,000 .. .. 951,161
Add net adjustments, £49 .. .. 951,210
1950.. 286,408 6.5 8 146,213 140,195 1,091,405
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,081,406
* Subject to goodwill ( £50,000), and excludes
£412,499 excess par over cost inter-co. holdings.
Expansion and reorganisation are the
outstanding features of the latest
accounts of this 84-year-old retail-store
and woollen-manufacturing business, in
which the public became interested in
1946. To help finance recent growth
379.000 new £1 ords. were issued at 265.
each in January last, lifting paid capital
to £2,229,000 in 350,000 6 p.c. and
300.000 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,579,000
ords. The share premiums (£113,700)
were tossed into reserves, and so was the
£146,664 by which the book-value of
plant, etc., was written up before being
passed to two new subsidiaries —the
writing-up represented the excess of tax-
able value over book-value of equipment,
etc. No further revaluation of assets is
contemplated. Also £32,000 provisionally
earmarked for taxation in connection with
the wool averaging account at the previous
balance was written back to revenue.
Meanwhile, the business was split in
twain and passed to two new subsidiaries
(each with an issued capital of £1,000,000)
as from Feb. 1 last. Foy and Gibson
(Stores) Pty. took over the big shop in i
Bourke-street, Melbourne, and the stores
at Fitzroy and Prahran (Vic.) and at
Adelaide (S. Aus.). Eagley Mills Pty.
took the 50-year-old woollen- and
worsted-yarn spinning, weaving and knit-
ting plant at Collingswood (Vic.). The
parent thus became a holding co., whose
assets at June 30 comprised shares and
advances to subsidiaries (including F. and
G. Stores, which used to be O. Gilpin),
£2,621,010, shares in Foy and
Gibson (W.A.) £246,753, freeholds, etc.,
£1,221,565, and cash, etc., £5991. Includ-
ing a mortgage of £350,000, there was
£733,363 coming to outsiders.
Consolidated net earnings of the group
last term were £286,408 (up £18,168), or
enough to pay pref. divs. (£36,000) and
show 18.2 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 19.3, 20.8, 16.9 and 10.7 p.c. back
to 1946. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.,
leaving nearly as much as was distributed
to plough back into the business. Alto-
gether reserves benefited by £422,608
during the period, lifting them to
£1,081,405. That leaves out of the
reckoning £412,499 (mainly the excess of
par-value over cost of shares in the old
Gilpin business), the greater part of
which, the chairman says, can now be
fairly regarded in the nature of a reserve.
The improvement in the latest profit
figure came mainly from the mills. Net
earnings of the stores derived little benefit
from increased turnover. The Westralian
co., which is expanding by absorptions
and otherwise, again paid 9 p.c. from
profits equal to 17.8 p.c. on its average
ord. capital. No div. has yet been
received from F. and G. Stores, whose
trading result for the year to June 30 last
was “disappointing,” the profit being
£26,043 lighter at £24,234, which covered
its own pref. divs. (£19,000) and 0.9 p.c.
on its £566,430 of ord. capital.
The new share capital, etc., and an
extra £148,100 of mortgage money, went
mainly into stocks (up £430,035) and
plant (up £251,178, including the writing-
up already referred to), and reduction of
the trade debt (down £116,053);
Consolidated Figures.
„ . , 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital . . £1,817,842 £1,850,000 £2,229,000
Excess par over cost
inter-co. holdings 412,077 412,502 412,499
Outside interests.. 380,410 343,396 348 609
Mortgages . . 320,862 404,963 553,063
Overdrafts, creditors 834,955 1,155,937 1,039 884
Tax provision .. 194,661 287,251 136,857
Final divs. .. 71,750 87,500 95,675
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,688,743 1,695,533 1,714,252
Plant, etc. .. 282,166 298,715 549,893
Shares in F. and
Gibson (W.A.). . 246,853 246,853 246,853
Stocks • • • • 1,959,384 2,513,592 2,943,627
Debtors . . . . 342,857 355,268 389,810
Cash, etc. . . 12,565 6,099 10,010
Goodwill .. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Excluding shareholdings, the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,517,968) was £528,660
stronger than at the previous balance.
At the moment profit-earning prospects
are obscured by the inflation of prices
and costs and possible reintroduction of
some economic controls at home, and by
ominous developments abroad. How-
ever, the group is well handled, and can
expect to get its full share of trade
offering. The first prefs. at 285., the
seconds at 235. 6d. and the ords. at 375.
all yield 4.3 p.c. on the basis of last term’s
distributions. Excluding £412,499 already
mentioned, net tangible cover (book-
value) is £9 9s. 2d. firsts, £9 17s. 4d.
seconds and 335. Bd. ords.
United Provisions, Ltd.
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
t Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1944. .127,471 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 88,500 43,971 272,145
1945. .147,617 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 35,617 307,762
1946. .124,723 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 J
To staff funds, £4700 .. .. )
8,023 315.785
1947.. 78,360 8 p.c. 7 p.c.102,500 303,916
Staff fund, £2426 301,490
1948.. 62,009 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 298,999
To capital reserve, £19,852 .. .. 318,851
Currency profit, £19,186 .. .. 338,087
1949. .106,319 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 22,819 360,856
Unexpd. reduction reserves, £8123.. 357,733
1950.. 52,409 f 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 88,500 326,642
* Subject to intangibles, £642,302. f Subject to
revision.
This big ham- and bacon-curing, canned-
foods and smallgoods - manufacturing
organisation, which has been a disappoint-
ment to shareholders ever s’n'' 0 it


THE AUSTRALIAN
PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION LIMITED
{lncorporated in New South Wales)
Address of Deputy Chairman, Mr. Leslie J.
Thompson, to Shareholders at Thirty-ninth
Annual Meeting
It is with much pleasure that 1
move the adoption of the Balance
Sheet and Directors’ Report on the
accounts for the year, and, in doing
so, 1 am proud to point out to Share-
holders the satisfactory results despite
the difficult conditions associated with
the investment of funds to earn
profitable returns without undue risk
of capital.
NEW BUSINESS
The New Business written during
the year, less reassurances, amounted
to £1,202,784, yielding annual pre-
miums of £42,298 compared with
£1,125,065 and £39,657 respectively
for the previous year. In addition to
increased New Business there was an
improvement in the average amount
written per policy which for the year
worked out at £567 compared with
£523. The total premium income of
both Life and Accident Departments
showed an increase for the year of
£37,061.
It has been the aim of the Board to
concentrate on writing the most suit-
able type of new business rather than
achieving a large volume of all classes
of business which, in these rather
buoyant times, is offering. I mention
this because, in earlier years, the volume
of new business was much greater, but
due to rising costs and lower interest
returns without any increase in pre-
mium rates, it was considered prudent
to restrict new business to the types
involving less administrative costs.
INTEREST RATE
The effective rate of interest earned
on the Statutory Funds (including
reserves) was £3/8/- per cent, com-
pared with £3/4/7 per cent, for the
previous year. It is pleasing to report
to you that there has been a steady
and progressive improvement in this
rate during the last four years as
follows:
1947 ..£3 0 3 per cent.
1948 .. ..£3 2 5 per cent.
1949 .. .. £3 4 7 per cent.
1950 .. .. £3 8 0 per cent.
This important aspect of the Com-
pany’s operations has occupied the
greatest attention of the Board over
recent years because of the falling
tendency of interest rates and the
greater risks associated with infla-
tionary conditions.
I would remind you that the rates
I have quoted as being those earned
on the funds are arrived at after
allowing for Income Tax so that you
will appreciate the improvement com:
pared with Commonwealth Loan rate
of £3/2/6 per cent, subject to income
tax, or the statutory mortgage rate of
£4/10/- also lessened by income tax.
Your Board has therefore continued
its policy of prudent investment of a
substantial portion of its funds in
shares in Companies of high standing,
using its utmost discrimination in
order to avoid purchasing ordinary
shares at unduly high prices, and of
seeking Preference shares with ample
cover rather than high returns.
Whilst on this subject of interest
earnings, it is appropriate that I
should point out the falling return
from investments in office buildings,
residential flats and other properties
due to rent pegging, continually rising
management and replacement costs,
heavy land tax, and income tax with-
out allowance for depreciation of the
building itself. As an instance of
this, the return from a number of the
Company’s Freeholds representing the
major part of this investment, was
less than 2 per cent. —surely no en-
couragement to Life Assurance Com-
panies or Trustees of large Employees’
Superannuation Funds to invest their
funds in buildings to relieve the very
acute shortage.
EXPENSE RATE
Commissions and expenses for the
year were slightly heavier, absorbing
23.4 per cent, of the premium income
or 18.4 per cent, of the total income
(Compared with 22.3 per cent, or
17.7 per cent, respectively) which was
not unexpected in view of rising
costs generally.
MORTALITY RATE
EXPERIENCE
The mortality experience was again
favourable, death claims being 52 per
cent, of the expectancy as compared
with 61 per cent, last year.
ACTUARIAL VALUATION
In arriving at the surplus of £71,829
from the Life Assurance fund, the
actuarial valuation was made on the
same basis as has been in use for
some years past, i.e. net premium
using the O.M. mortality tables with
2\ per cent, interest. With declining
interest returns, the Board may have
to consider the adoption of a more
stringent basis, say 2i per cent., in
the near future.
SURPLUS LIFE DEPARTMENT
It will be seen from the Board’s
Report that it recommends appro-
priating this surplus from the Life
Assurance Fund by allocating £58,181
to Bonus to Policyholders, transfer-
ring £lO,OOO to Property and Invest-
ment Reserve and £3648 to Profit and
Loss Account. The amount of the
Bonus to Policyholders compares with
£50,258 allocated in 1949. It also
provides for an increase over last
year in the rate of bonus. The transfer
of £lO,OOO to Property and Investment
Reserve is in keeping with the Board’s
conservative policy of building up this
Reserve (which now amounts to
£30,000) against the risks of invest-
ment during the present inflationary
period.
PROFIT AND LOSS
Turning next to the General Fund
which concerns Shareholders more
particularly, it is pleasing to note
that the net earnings were again an
improvement at £36,302 compared
with £30,152 in 1949 and £24,387 in
1948. Adding the amount transferred
as profit from the Life Assurance
Fund, £3,648, and the balance brought
forward from last year, £1764, the
total sum available for appropriation
was £41,714. After careful considera-
tion, yoqr Board decided in favour of
strengthening the Reserves rather than
increasing the dividend. Consequently,
£20,000 was transferred to General
Reserve (which now stands at
£117,000), and £lB,OOO was provided
for a dividend at the same rate as
last year, viz. 5 per cent. The Balance
of £3,714 was carried forward.
ASSETS
Comparing the Association’s assets,
the following important variations will
be noted. Fixed assets have moved
from £744,525 to £706,668 (decrease
of £37,857) due mainly to various
sales of properties which were show-
ing small returns or reaching a state
when repairs would shortly be required
at excessive costs.
Loans have moved up from £425,133
to £477,000 (increase of £51,867),
Government Securities from £1,583,780
to £1,725,965 (increase of £142,185),
shares in Companies from £1,045,461
to £1,203,702 (increase of £158,241).
The following table shows the per-
centage of investment in the different
classes of assets and compares the
position with 1949.
1949. 1950.
Freeholds ..' .. 18.9 16.4
Loans on Mortgage,. 9 9.5
Loans on Policies .. 1.7 1.7
Government Securities 40.1 40.4
Shares in Companies 26.5 28.1
Other Investments .. .3
Other Assets (Outstand-
ing Premiums etc.) 3.8 3.6
100 100
DECADE OF PROGRESS
Before concluding this address I am
sure Shareholders will be interested to
have a comparison of figures to show
the remarkable progress which has
been made over the last decade in
both the Association’s financial
stability and its earning capacity. The
annual premium income has advanced
from £267,633 to £464,197, an increase
of £196,564; Income from Interest,
Rents dividends from £120,048 to
£146,284, an increase of £26,236;
while the surplus and profits have
improved from £61,716 to £108,131,
which is an increase of £46,415.
The Life Assurance Fund, in Sep-
tember, 1940, amounted to £2,485,144
while to-day it totals £3,401,101, an
increase of £915,957. This large
increase has been brought about by
increased business over the decade
and the adoption of a more conser-
vative basis of valuation, viz. 2| per
cent, net premium basis in place of a
3 per cent, net premium basis.
The Association’s free Reserves
have also moved upwards to give a
large increase. In 1940 they totalled
£108,611 —to-day they amount to
£230,618, an increase of £122,007.
The total assets in 1940 were
£3,100,157, while to-day at £4,278,232,
they show an increase of £1,178,075.
In recording this very satisfactory
rate of progress, 1 feel I should
express your, as well as the Board’s
deep appreciation of the loyal ser-
vices of the General Manager, Chief
Medical Officer, Actuary, Agency
Manager, Branch Managers, Sec-
retary, Accountant, heads of depart-
ments and indeed of all the staff
without exception who, during the
past 10 years with all the war diffi-
culties of manpower shortages, worked
long and arduously to meet the grow-
ing demands of the business.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
**‘ * «
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incirporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS!
O. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)-
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZBB
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
THE DISCOVERY
OF GOLD
Prior TO 1851 there appear to have been
many reports of gold discoveries in Australia;
but the impression exists that such reports were
often suppressed by the authorities because of the
fear that a “gold rush” would unduly excite and
disturb existing Australian settlements.
However, in the year 1851, the discovery of gold
in New South Wales by E. H. Hargraves was
officially recognised by the Governor of the colony
of New South Wales. Hargraves was presented
with a reward of £lO,OOO from the Government and
with a gold cup worth £5OO from the people of Sydney.
E. H. Hargraves
More than any other one factor,
gold stimulated the early develop-
ment of Australia and led to
the establishment of many of
the present branches of the Bank
of Australasia, which had been
incorporated by Royal Charter in 1835.
fs
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and in Condon.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
GBAIB-U
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Persons, etc.,
Insuring with any Insurance
Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
1949, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State ; are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property to such
insurance companies during the year 1950.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st Janu-
ary, 1951, subject to a penalty not exceed-
ing £1 per day for every day of default.
NOTE: Returns are required only of
the proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premium’s
Required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such
companies in respect of risks against fire
during the year ending 31st December,
1950 ; within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Firb District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other in-
surance companies contributing under the
said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1951 ; subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlercagh St., Sydney.
amalgamated the interests of
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones
in 1927, is one of the few traders
whose net earnings have not
been bumped up by current in-
flationary pressures. And it is
difficult to say exactly what the
future holds for the business in
the way of profits. The group,
largest of its kind in Australasia,
operates 11 factories in the Com-
monwealth and three in New
Zealand, and there are 13 ware-
houses scattered throughout both
countries. There has been no
lack of demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts, which have always been
of high quality, and have won
an export market. The trouble
lay, and still does, mainly in the
effects of competition on both
the buying and selling sides of
the trade. Not only are supplies,
and therefore prices, of pig and
other meats affected by seasonal
conditions, but operators in the
export market have kept bids
high. At the same time operat-
ing costs have continued to
climb, steeply of recent years be-
cause of inflation. Selling-prices
of the processed products
(largely controlled) have mostly
run a bad last in the race.
For shareholders five out of
the 11 years to 1938 were dry
ones, the average distribution for
the period being 2.7 p.c. The
average rate of distribution for
the dozen years to the close of
last accounts was 4.7 p.c., the
lowest being \\ p.c. in 1940 and
the highest 8 p.c. in 1945 and
1946.
Last term floods and other
seasonal factors affected the
supply of livestock, especially
pigs, and prices increased, while
disturbed conditions in Asia
affected the co.’s export trade,
and operating costs rose sharply.
A lift in controlled selling-prices
came too late to offset the effects
of this squeeze, and, after allow-
ing for depreciation (£38,998, up
£10,286) and taxation (£40,750,
down £21,688), there was a
sharp drop of £53,910 in the net
result. The £52,409 of profit
shown was the lowest for over a
decade ; it covered the pref. div.
(£360,000) and 1.7 p.c. on the
£950,000 of ord. capital as
against 7.4, 2.7, 5.7, 9.3- and
11.7 p.c. back to 1945. How-
ever, the board considered the
outlook good enough to repeat
the 5 p.c. div., though it called
for some £31,091 more profit
than was earned. The £326,642
of reserves is subject to £642,302
of intangibles, thus leaving
£315,660 (6s. Bd. per share) of
the ord. capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books.
During the year £180,586 was
added to the overdraft, mainly
to finance net additions of
£95,920 to stocks and £13,535
to the book-value of fixed assets:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1,400,000 1,400,000 1,400,000
Outside interest 1,035 1,432
Overdraft, etc. 400,702 531,857 712,443
Other
creditors.. 219,342 192,227 192,292
Suspense acct. 5,172 2,228 850
Final divs. 46,500 46,500 46,500
Freeholds . . 341,285 350,101 351,566
Plant, etc.. . 177,605 202,966 215,036
Stock . . 877,585 988,917 1,084,837
Debtors .. 348,373 398,292 399,551
Cash, etc... 32,179 21,476 36,108
Intangibles* 641,652 642,282 642,302
* Mainly difference between book-value
and par value of inter-co. shareholdings.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£568,511) was £67,360 less than
at the previous balance.'
At 14s. lid. (16s. 3d. a year
ago) the £1 ords. return 6.7 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 31s. yield 5.1 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 48s. 2d. prefs. and
13s. 4d. ords.
Harrietville (Tronoh), Ltd.,
whose big dredge is digging
auriferous wash in the Ovens
Valley (Vic.), handled more
ground for less gold last term,
when a loss of £14,044 showed
up as against a profit of £13,239
for the previous year: —
Year Treated, smelted
Ju^e ’ do y °- y° ld> Rev | nue - j( £ s-
1917’.. 1961.3 3182.7 46,791 28,486
ig4g 2285 6 7296-6 76)555 Pr0 4 i5
1949 1711.4 9856.6 106,960 13,298
MMJ> mMA 85 , 7 „ ffir
, , v . irdaee included
. nn . 8 , ;]i
1,083,000 c.y of barren ta.lmgs.
1,413,500 c.y. ot virgin
ground handled averaged 2.01 gi.,
which approximates bore
values. Mine costs were 11.62 d.
a yard. The trouble is that the
dredge set m at the wrong end
of the property, where an
undulating slate bottom and
irregular working faces have
interfered with maximum turn-
over, while tailings have had to
be redredged to get back into
virgin ground. The report
doesn’t sa y when the dredge is
llkel y to enter the better S round
downstream. At June 30 co.
he|d £24>971 m cashj etc „ to
meey . £ 1 1,529 coming to credi-
jors Stores figured at £35,115.
xhere is a loan of £235,000 from
the co.’s London associate on
which no interest has been
charged so far.


Thoroughly Aged
and Matured
13140
sdf
( .3
I
'w’S
£52
■a
TOWft HALL, PERTH. W.A.
The tower of the Town
Hall, Perth, teas designed
in the Tudor manner by
R. R. Jewell, the Colon -
ial architect, and J. Man •
ning, an officer of the
Royal Engineers
stationed in Western
Australia. The clock in
this tower was made by
Thwaites & Reid, and
first illuminated on the
evening of June 1, 1870,
when the Town Hall
was officially opened.
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
Business. Rollery. etc.
Sharemarket Check
Australian sharemarkets, fol-
lowing overseas trends, re-
acted fairly forcibly to the news
of the heavy Allied reverses in
Korea. On Thursday B.H.P. fell
as low as 575. in Sydney, closing
for the day at 58s. 6d. (down
2s. 3d. on quotes for Wednes-
day, and 3s. lower than the
record price this year). Tooth
scrip slumped 16s. (to 965.), then
recovered to £5. The market as
a whole was affected, Sydney, as
usual, leading the way, but with
Melbourne closely in step.
Repco opened at 755. in the
southern capital, dropped to
705., then recovered slightly to
70s. 9d. A.C.I. Was Is. 6d.
lower at 675. 3d.
The news from Korea and other
parts of the world was grim
enough. It happened also
that the chairman of Tooth and
Co. told shareholders on Wed-
nesday afternoon that “the in-
flation spiral was not only cut-
ting away the co.’s current profit-
margins, but was seriously de-
pleting its real reserves.” Funds
set aside over many years to
provide for necessary replace-
ment of buildings and plant,
and largely invested in Govern-
ment securities, now had only a
diminishing proportion of their
original value when assessed
against the needs for which they
were provided. This problem
has recently been aired at length
by the C.S.R. under the heading
of “capital erosion,” and has
been pointed out in these pages
for years past.
On Thursday another bear
point was made by the board of
Sargood Gardiner, which fore-
cast a cut in the div. unless some
of the “onerous conditions”
(mainly marginal price-control)
of the softgoods trade were
removed.
As stressed by The Bulletin
for some time past, snags in the
way of real progress by Aus-
tralian industry under present
boom conditions have been
price-control, tax policy, infla-
tion, low productivity by labor
forces and shortage of man-
power and materials, mainly
coal. Rising costs are part of
the self-same malady, and these
are soon going higher under
pressure of the £l-a-week basic-
wage rise.
One reason for the sharpness
of last Thursday’s fall on
’Change was the previous exces-
sive sharemarket speculation
which has accompanied the
general inflationary trend of the
times.
As during all periods of sus-
tained sharemarket buoyancy,
large numbers of speculators
have been drawn into the Stock
Exchange gamble during the last
four years. There has been a
large amount of seeming “profit”
to be won on almost any stock
over the past couple of years,
and more recently there has been
a flush of new issues and bonus
issues.
To start with, the bonus issues
came mainly from share-
premium reserves. Later they
began to flow from the writing-
up of buildings and plant, “to
bring assets more into line with
present-day values.” The objec-
tive here was generally to miti-
gate the effect of any system of
excess-profits tax based on the
percentage of earnings in rela-
tion to shareholders’ funds.
There is no guarantee that all
the companies concerned will be
able to maintain div.-rates on
the written-up capital, however
justifiable the writing-up may be
in the light of present-day valua-
tions.
In this atmosphere of new
issues jumping out from behind
almost every bush, sharemarket
prices recently touched record
levels. Inflation, high wool
prices, low interest rates and
London buying of Australian
investments under exceptionally
favorable taxation conditions, as
well as good long-term indus-
trial prospects, all joined forces
with an army of speculators to
push sharemarket prices to this
record point.
Investment yields fell to an
exceptionally low level in the
recent market upsurge. And
little regard was paid to the
probable impact of the £l-a-
week basic-wage rise and the
new award covering female
wage-rates. Nor was full ac-
count taken of the volume of
money that will later on be
taken from the private-enterprise
economy by the Federal Govern-
ment in record taxation collec-
tions.
Now the uptrend of several
months has been sharply
checked. It is on occasions like
this that speculators, often in-
experienced in sharemarket be-
havior, accentuate market trends
by panicky selling.
There is no need for any
panic. What needs to be done
is to appraise each stock on its
merits, including its immediate
and potential return to the
holder as an investor. If World
War 111 is coming there is no
reason to believe that share
values, ultimately, will fare
worse than money values. In
fact, all previous financial history
points to the contrary. More
war means more inflation.
Omati
“Lemon”: Island Explora-
tion, in which Oil Search holds
a 10 p.c. interest (B. 23/8/’5O),
announced last week that drilling
had commenced at Omati, in
Western Papua. This well is the
first to be suhk by the I.E. co.,
and is located in the extreme
south-eastern corner of the co.’s
Permit No. 2. The site is about
280 miles north-west of Port
Moresby and 28 miles from the
coast; it was chosen after a very
thorough geological and geo-
physical examination of the
region, and the choice was cer-
tainly not influenced by con-
siderations of easy approach or
working conditions, which are
so bad that they would have de-
terred any co. of limited
resources.
Tectonically, the position of
the new bore is of considerable
interest, as it is situated near the
point where the Gulf coastline
changes abruptly from a
northerly to an easterly
trend; this turn in the coast
probably possesses geological
implications, although the I.E.
co. has issued no statement on
this point. In technical
language, the site is on a “point
of vergation.” Such points are
the locale of prolific oilfields in
other parts of the world. Undue
stress should not, of course, be
placed on this fact, but it is, at
least, a favorable factor.
The camp and rig-area are
quite close to the Omati River,
in “pinnacle-limestone” country.
An idea of the broken nature
of the topography—which is
probably the most rugged ever
tested for oil in the islands—-is
given by the statement that the
elevation of the derrick-
foundations is 150 ft. above the
level of the near-by river, from
which a road of a mile in length
had to be constructed along the
edge of a limestone escarpment
for the purposes of access and
the transport of material. The
work on this road and on the
construction of the drilling
camp, workshops and ancillaries
has taken over a year of intense
effort, made more difficult by
the heavy rainfall, which exceeds
300 in. a year. ,
The drilling rig is a
“National 50,” which is rated,
very conservatively, by the
makers as designed to reach a
depth of 5000 ft. I.E. has already
announced that it is prepared to
"I Was Wondering if you could see your Way clear to give
me a rise, sir — I've just become engaged to your
daughter."
go down to 7000 ft., if necessary,,
and if the geological conditions
warrant. There is no doubt that
it can attain this depth unless
exceptionally difficult drilling
conditions are encountered ; the
same type of rig has already
bettered 9000 ft. in the Aus-
tralasian Petroleum well at
Wana.
“The Issue Before Us”
Addressing shareholders in
the National Bank of Australasia
at the annual meeting in Mel-
bourne, chairman H. D. Giddy,
in the course of his remarks,
said;
The fundamental question which
Australians must ask themselves and
decide upon at the half-way mark
of the century is: Are we going to
sacrifice to some extent satisfactions
in the short term to gain greater
national security and higher standards
of living in the long run?
If the nation answers this question
in the affirmative—as I am sure you
will agree it must —then the introduc-
tion of a measure of economic disci-
pline into the community is inevitable.
This has been forced upon us by the
fact that Australia has at no time
since 1945 reached a stable balance
between the supply of material
resources and labor and the demands
that are being made upon them.
Basically, it is this gap which is the
difficulty.
Choice of Methods Vital
There are two methods of approach
which could achieve the measure of
discipline necessary.
One method, the non-Socialist
method, would be to develop, through
leadership and unflagging attention
to public understanding based on
faith in the people, a full acceptance
of individual responsibilities, supple-
mented by Government policy and
steps —principally fiscal and monetary


Company Meeting
~ CURRENT AUSTRALIAN PROBLEMS
Bank President’s Views
In reviewing business developments during the past year at
the Ordinary General Meeting of the Bank of New South Wales,
the President, Mr. Martin Mcllrath, made the following points.
The Nature of Banking
Production in Australia is in the hands mainly of a host
of small producers, and is subject to great variations in
business and seasonal conditions. The banking structure
has developed accordingly along flexible, efficient, and com-
petitive lines. Within the bounds of national interest there
has been freedom to meet the legitimate needs of enterprise.
The President said, “We must beware lest the effort to
create a government monopoly in finance be replaced, owing
to lack of vigilance, by a tendency to substitute rigidity
for flexibility and to develop controls to the extent that
they affect efficiency and enterprise. We should not over-
look the fact that while competition is desirable, it should
be absolutely fair. In the present approach to existing
financial problems, there is a danger that the whole nature
of banking may be constricted, to th'e ultimate weakening
of the economic structure.’'
INFLATION
Australia’s present prob-
lems do not arise principally
out of high returns from
exports. In general, they
stem from over-optimism on
one hand and indifference
on the other.
There is a strong urge to
push on with the rapid de-
velopment of natural re-
sources without full realiza-
tion either* of the obstacles
or of the sacrifices entailed.
At the other extreme there
is a seeming indifference
to the efforts required to
achieve this objective. The
level of efficiency in industry
is restrained by conservatism
or irresponsibility of many
trade union leaders and by
lack of incentive to enter-
prise in management, and
often by excessive paternal-
ism on the part of the state.
Between these influences,
the desire for speedy de-
velopment and the lag in
execution, the economy has
become over-extended. This
is the basic reason for present
inflation.
DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMMES
In the circumstances, gov-
ernment investment pro-
grammes are excessive and
the scale of immigration is
adding to inflation. As a
general principle and as a
more practical proposition,
Australia for the time being
should concentrate not so
much on development pro-
jects which offer results in
the distant future, but on
those highly necessary tasks
of maintenance and restora-
tion of existing capital to its
maximum efficiency.
There is a vast amount of
work to be done in trans-
port, roads, farm improve-
ment, mechanization of
mines and factories which
will return greater produc-
tion in a shorter time than
many of the long-term pro-
jects now contemplated.
PRODUCTIVITY
There is also still need for
greater production at lower
cost. The supply of basic
materials and power are de-
ficient and are not expand-
ing at the necessary rate,
because of both an absolute
shortage of labour and the
continued prevalence of in-
dustrial disputes, which keep
existing capacity in a state
of under-employment.
Rising costs are also a
serious problem. In addition
to strikes, the shorter work-
ing week has added greatly
to costs not only directly
but perhaps just as much in-
directly through other ser-
vices like transport.
The effects of these trends
are not hard to assess. Aus-
tralia has lost many of the
advantages with which she
emerged from the war, and
increasing competition from
imports has been felt in the
Australian market.
Until trade union leaders
are willing to utilize the
edummies of mechanization
and renounce restrictive
practices, productivity will
remain unnecessarily low.
Throughout industry there
needs to blow a strong,
fresh wind of enterprise to
disperse fears that manifest
themselves in seeking gov-
ernment protection against
any diminution of security.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
{lncorporated in New South Wales with limited liability.)
a son
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
{lncorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB I 3 I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
9i ito/vU#!
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar's Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous "White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter. mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR>
c §€OTCH QlJkisky
AW
med
50 Gold
ut
Prize MeboU
50 Gold
on*
Prizr Medals
m
"White Label
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. ,
Dewar & Sons L-
DISTILLERS
i D i,,»iion Ofr i(f< P ERT H
““ Hou«t. HaijraarW. S.WI.
rn.n. NET CONTENTS / PINT. 6 FL. OZS. tlW iO
ABAWTEtfI WHOLLY DISTILLED. MATURED AND BLENDED IN iC
Gotland
in character —which would have the
effect of indirectly bending economic
behavior to the national objective of
guns and butter without inflation.
The other method of approach—the
Socialist method —would be to intro-
duce at once direct economic con-
trols—primarily physical in character
—and other measures, such as
nationalisation, designed to build up
once again an all-embracing structure
of centralised authority and rigid
bureaucratic determinations.
I make no apologies for urging that
the first method, that which 1 have
termed “non-Socialist,” is the one
that should be followed. For I am
convinced that the objective of
strengthening Australia while main-
taining standards of living and fight-
ing down the inflationary drift will
never be reached if, as the means for
doing so, the nation places its faith
in controls.
Such a negative and sterile approach
would be unworthy of Australians,
and could only have the most dele-
terious effect upon the efficiency of
our economy as a whole. For ex-
perience has shown that controls, and
the vast organisation of bureaucratic
machinery which, of necessity, goes
with them, clog and clutter up a
nation’s productive effort. Worse
still, they create for a time in the
mind of the individual the illusion
that their advent has lifted from his
own shoulders responsibility for con-
tributing to the successful operation
of the economy. To no small extent,
the prolongation of various controls
into the post-war years has been
responsible for twisting much national
effort into soft production, to the
severe detriment of the basic industries.
Attempt Less and Do More?
In a sense, Australia is at present
suffering from an embarrassment of
riches. The result is economic
indigestion arising from an unre-
strained attempt on the part of
industry, business and State enter-
prise to expand, and from an intense
overseas demand for our major export
commodities.
With respect to capital expenditure,
private business, individuals and
Governments are attempting to raise
their outlays to well beyond what the
resources available to the community
will stand without forcing up prices
and costs. In these circumstances, it
seems to me that for the present we
would do better to attempt somewhat
less on the capital expenditure side
and thereby get more done and com-
pleted in the long run. More atten-
tion ought to be paid to utilising to
the full productive units that are
completed and in existence as the
result of past capital investment,
rather than concentrating on the mul-
tiplication of units, unless it is clear
that these will bring rapidly an over-
all increase in output and not merely
add to the scramble for scarce
resources and labor.
Like victory in war or politics,
prosperity brings fresh obligations as
well as the right to celebrate. Now
is the time to seize the opportunity
presented to much of the community
by the current prosperous conditions
to consolidate against possible future
setbacks. For setbacks there will be
—some time.
Restraint now, management of
one’s affairs with an eye to the future,
avoidance of the excessive spending
which, naturally enough perhaps,
tends to accompany any new-found
prosperity, is a practical means of
fighting the inflationary drift avail-
able to every person, company or
public authority. No great end was
ever achieved without some sacrifices.
There is no magic wand which
Governments, private enterprise or
trade-unionism might wave and
thereby add strength to the economy
or suddenly eliminate the inflationary
drift. Courageous leadership, self-
discipline and personal exertions alone
will enable attainment of these goals.
Coal and Silt
“Abdul Assiz”: On trial, on
October 24, this new and
glittering drag-suction dredge
raised, from the floor of New-
castle Harbor in 131 minutes,
1400 tons of what had been rich
Hunter Valley soil. It dis-
charged the same amount in
11 minutes.
On a slightly optimistic esti-
mate, and allowing for travel-
ling and discharging time, but
not for “smoke-oh’s” and other
human frailties, it can be
assumed that the Richard Vowell
is capable of removing 100 tons
of silt a minute for four hours
in each working day. With the
now normal five-day week and
time off for routine mainten-
ance, the work can be carried
out, under optimum conditions,
for 200 days a year.
One hundred tons a minute
for four hours is 24,000 tons a
day, and this would amount, in
a 200 - working - day year, to
4,800,000 tons, or about double
the amount of slit being de-
posited in Newcastle Harbor
under normal conditions (as
near as available data will allow
of an estimate). Soundings,
taken before and after the 1949
flood, indicate that 550,000 tons
of silt was deposited, during the
flood period, in the shipping
channels alone, so that the
Richard Vowell, with a net with-
drawal of 12,000 tons a work-
ing day, will require 46 days, or
over nine working weeks, to re-
move the accumulation caused
by one heavy flood.
The Richard Vowell was ex-
pected to commence dredging
early in October, but the start
was delayed until November 8
through a strike at the State
Dockyard, engineered by the
cantankerous F.E.D.F.A.
Already, however, it would ap-
pear to be unable to meet New-
castle requirements, in spite of
the ballyhoo which accompanied
its construction and launching,
and the ancient bucket-dredge
Pluto has been brought out
of reserve to give a faltering
hand in restoring the steelworks-
wharf channel to a depth which
will allow of the passage of the
vital iron-ore ships, and, inci-
dentally, to justify the charge of
several hundred pounds which
the Public Works Department
draws for each weekend dredg-
ing.
As matters stand, the shipping
channels of Newcastle Harbor
are being kept open—but only
just— to light-loaded ships. There
is no factor of safety, and any
serious flood or further puni-
tive action by the Seamen’s
Union or the F.E.D.F.A. will
again disrupt the vital coal-and-
steel economy of the Common-
wealth.
This critical position was
aggravated by a strike, on quite
frivolous grounds, at all B.H.P.
collieries on November 22,
which involved a loss of 6000
tons for that day alone, with the
consequent reduction of steel
stocks available for shipment.
In addition, some ships are still
being held up by crew short-
ages, so that even the depleted
stocks are likely to remain on
shore, and the hand-to-mouth
existence which Australian in-
dustry has suffered so long and
so unnecessarily is likely to con-
tinue indefinitely.
It is a sad commentary that,
for the first time in history, Aus-
tralian coalies are making no
endeavor to build up stocks
which will carry industry halt-
ingly over the Christmas break,
demanded by the already much-
rested miners as essential to re-
sumption of any effort in the
New Year.
It is stated, unofficially, that
the Coal Board’s future ameni-
ties policy will be more closely
related to coal production, and
it is proposed to offer incentives
to mine workers to start off-the-
job amenities on their own. The
general feeling in Newcastle,
however, is that a more realistic
attitude towards increased coal
production would be achieved by
basing and controlling the
salaries of the board’s officials
on the tonnage figures for coal
made available to industry each
month.
N.Z. Forests
State and private forestry
enterprises in New Zealand are
making the first halting steps to-
wards a working partnership,
which has been needed for years
past to speed up harvesting of
Maoriland’s vast softwood
wealth, and a lot depends on the
team-effort.
David Henry, chairman of
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., the
big £7 million-odd co. which
has been pushing most for pro-
gress, said in his annual survey
that the State’s invitation to
private concerns to set up large
and varied types of pulp- and
paper-mills, together with saw-
mills, in the State’s 300,000-acre
pine-forest area at Murapara—
perhaps with Government aid—
was good news. All his co.
wanted was freedom to plan for
diversified production and a bal-
anc e d manufacturing pro-
gramme. This brightened up ex-
port prospects, which held the
key to the future of commercial
forestry for Maoriland.
Still in the throes of its £4|
million expansion, on a tide of
rising costs, the co. is keeping
its £526,289 unappropriated bal-
ance up its sleeve, and can’t
think about divs. yet.


■' >*•
LOW
W INITIAL
MAINTENANCE
COST
&
LOW
COST
::
M V M» $
Mr. Steele, of Melbourne,
praises the performance of
his Bradford . . .
“On occasions we have grossly over-
loaded our Bradford but it has always
stood the strain. Its hill climbing
ability is more in line with a 12 h.p.
type. The maintenance and running
costs are remarkably low.”
BRADFORD
8 h-p.. 10 cwt
van as
supplied to
Mr. I. H. Steele.
203 Swanston St..
Melbourne,
C.l. Victoria.
Call on your local representative and hear more
about the amazing performance of Bradford vehicles.
All are powered with the sturdy, horizontally-
opposed engine designed by Jowett, the exclusive
engineering principle which makes it possible to offer
you a | tonner with an economical 8 h.p. engine.
Bradford
VANS . STATION WAGGONS . TRUCKS
Made in Bradford. England, by JOWETT CARS LTD.
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., 134 New South Head Road,
Edgecliff. FM 2045.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward Street, Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorrifige Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30 / 6 / 50
Aggregate Assets: £137,022,000
Australian Currency
CURRENT ASSETS: (N. 8., Figures in thou-
sands, Australian currency)
£OOO
18,183
44,147
13,679
2,942
78,951
Advances and Other Assets 56,885
135,836
Deduct—
CURRENT LIABILITIES: £OOO
Deposits, etc, including Contin-
gencies Reserves 117,490
Commonwealth Bank Special
Deposits Account 7,000
Balances due to Other Banks 4,893
Provisions for Tax 617
Dividend Payable 138
130,138
5,698
Add— _
Premises 1,186
Shareholders' Funds—Australian Currency
(thousands) £6,884
PROFITS
Each £ 1 of gross profit for year to 30th June, 1950,
was used in this way;—
£ s. d.
All expenses of management, including
Salaries and Wages of Staff .. .. 0 13 8
Income and Other Taxes .. .. •• 0 4 3
Allocation to Officers’ Provident Fund . . 0 0 3
Dividends 0 1 4
Reserves 0 0 6
£lO 0
Cash, Bank Balances, etc
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia
Bills Receivable
Investments
E. G. WILSON,
General Manager in Australia.
OLD LOU'S
LANDFALL
by STANDBY
(R.S. PORTEOVS)
HUGE and menacing,
blacker than the sur-
rounding darkness, the
wave towered over them,
its tumbling crest threatening to
engulf them as it crashed down,
To Andy Bently, straining at the
heavy steering-oar, it seemed in-
credible that they could rise to
its summit, that this wall of
water would not topple forward
and bury them deep under its
foaming smother. But as the life-
boat had already climbed safely
to the top of hundreds of such
waves tonight it was only reason-
able to assume that she’d ride
this one out without shipping
more than an uncomfortable
amount of water.
Viewed from the deck of a
liner the wave would have
assumed its true proportions—
about twenty to twenty-five feet
enough to make things
uncomfortable certainly, but not
terrifying or dangerous. Here in
the open lifeboat it was both,
Terrifying because the darkness
of the night and the smallness
of the boat so greatly magnified
the wave’s height, dangerous be-
cause if she were to survive it
the lifeboat must meet it head-
on. If the sea-anchor carried
away, if their clumsy efforts with
the oars did not succeed in keep-
ing her straight, then the wave
would engulf them. Caught
broadside-on the boat would
probably be rolled over and
over, spilling her occupants as
she filled and sank.
Andy was well aware of that,
Since his early boyhood sailing
had been his one hobby. He’d
revelled in the thrill of beating
down the bay in an open boat;
he’d taken a fierce delight in the
way she buried her nose in green
water and flung the stinging
spray back over her shivering
crew. What did a ducking matter
when warm food and dry clothes
awaited them when they returned
home from a hard sailing?
But here there was no warm
food, no prospect of getting any
clothes other than the sodden
scanty garments they were wear-
ing.
Andy watched the lifeboat’s
bows lift as she began her
climb, watched them soar up-
wards until the boat seemed to
stand on end. Alongside him
old Lou Crombie groaned feebly.
It wasn’t that Lou feared the
lifeboat would somersault back-
wards. He almost wished she
would and in so doing put him
out of his misery. He’d heard
that drowning was a pleasant
death, and no one could call this
pleasant—this lurching climb to
the crest of each wave, a pause
there while foaming water
tumbled inboard and flying spray
stung him like whiplashes, then
the swift sickening drop into the
next trough. Sickening! At the
very thought of the coming drop
Lou’s stomach muscles con-
vulsed, his mouth opened and he
retched with a harsh tearing
sound that ended with a sobbing
groan. It achieved nothing.
Hours ago Lou’s stomach had
completely emptied itself. His
false-teeth were gone, spewed
into the trough left by some
gigantic wave, and he was
scarcely aware of their going.
Strange that he should be sea-
sick here in the open boat when
the stuffy atmosphere and hot,
oily smells of the worst engine-
room had never troubled him.
NOR was Lou the only
sufferer. As nearly as Andy
could judge in the darkness there
were about twenty men in the
lifeboat, and most of them were
seasick. He wondered why the
stomachs of these hardened sea-
men should revolt at the motion
while he, the youngest and most
inexperienced of them all, re-
mained physically unaffected.
His only conscious feeling was of
fear, fear that he would allow
the boat to swamp before an
officer from one of the other
boats came to relieve him of his
tremendous responsibility.
Next year—if he survived —
Andy would sit for his second-
mate’s ticket, but at present he
was listed on the ship’s articles
as “Andrew Bently, Apprentice.”
Next year—still supposing one
of these toppling waves didn’t
engulf him —he’d be twenty.
Unfortunately he didn’t look it.
The fair wavy hair, the round
boyish face and his lack of height
would all be a severe handicap
to him in this profession. When
he’d qualified and was applying
for a junior Officer’s berth ship-
owners would naturally pass him
over for a more mature-looking
applicant. They wouldn’t know
that his looks were deceptive and
that although short he was
tougher than most lads of his
age.
Nor was there any need to
look so far ahead. If there were
no other boats in sight when
daylight came his youthful looks
would be a very definite handi-
cap. He couldn’t hope to handle
this boatload of experienced sea-
men. So far they had carried
out all his suggestions without a
word of protest. They’d got the
sea-anchor over, manned oars to
ease the strain on it and kept
most of the water bailed out.
They’d obeyed him because
they realised how necessary all
these things were to keep the
boat afloat and preserve their
lives. Quite possibly in the
darkness and confusion of get-
ting the lifeboat away from their
sinking ship they hadn’t realised
who was giving the orders. At
first they were too dazed by the
swiftness of the disaster, too
shaken by the mysterious ex-
plosion to question anything;
now they were too seasick to
care.
Mr. Bates, the second mate,
should have been in charge. This
was his boat but Andy had seen
notbing of him after the second
thrust a sextant a cbart and
some books into ’ his arms and
told him t 0 stow tbem in tbe
boat Andy boped be was j n one
of tbe other boats tbougb in tbe
darkness and pouring rain it had
been i mposs i b i e to teb whether
of them had t safely
awa y
, * . • • , , ~ , }
h ° uldbe t ma *-
, *7 , 1 ?, e( -P m touc .
’ 7 su , en 7 7, a ! se ’
l ng 2 S ° U <L
, 8 ,° °7 g a 7°' ‘ towcc
ZtrJu? after-thwart was a
c ig in o se -igniting
distress signals. He knew ex-
actly where to put his hand on
the tin though it took him some
time to extract a flare a«d ignite
it
Starting without a word of
warning the fierce spluttering
glare came close to causing a
panic. The flare burned with a
fiery crimson brilliance, at first
blinding everyone, then showing
up every detail of the boat and
her crew in vivid red. It lit up
the surrounding sea and revealed
the next wave as a gigantic
crimson monster, a wall of fire
rushing to destroy them all. To
men who had just lost their ship
in a violent explosion it was un-
nerving.
Someone roared, “Put that
bloody thing out!”
wuh
.£. i ,
no qualified officer in the boat
he was in charge, and it wouldn t
do to let some scared seaman or
f, reman star npede him into doing
the wrong thing He held the
flare aloft and only when it gave
its last feeble splutter did he


CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
06
-----
o
:::
2*5
&
Midnight in Fiji—
noon in London
the BP Aviation Service gives unfailingly efficient
service At airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney, the BP green and
yellow symbol stands for speed and reliability. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are
amongst the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-1 ranian Oil Company, Ltd.
\ AViWWM/SERVICE^
me COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Addres* ‘•AIBBEPEP’MM,
SkW A
X
::
m
a Camera from
KODAK
f . J
nn
u #«i
I
BROWNIE REFLEX
CAMERA
(At Left): Reflex
viewfinder shows
picture in actual
size; time and instan-
taneous shutter;
modern push-button
release; 12 exp.,
If x l| ins. Price,
£4/1/-.
KODAK
(A/aiial PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States
SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE CAMERA
(Top Illustration): Econo-
mical and efficient:
Meniscus lens; time and
ilßtantaneous shutter; all-
metal body; black-grained
leatherette covering: 8 exp.,
x 3i ins. Price, £7/2/6.
SIX-20 BROWNIE
"C" CAMERA
(Centre Illustration): New
model box Brownie; Kodak
Meniscus lens; two large
viewfinders; time and in-
stantaneous shutter; all-
metal body; 8 exp., x
ins. Price, 46/3.
SIX-20 KODAK ~A H
CAMERA
(Lower Illustration):
Anastar f/6.3 lens, focusing
from 4 ft. to infinity; Dakon
shutter with two speeds
(1/25 and 1/50 sec.); time
and "bulb"; 8 exp., x
34 ins. Price, £l2/8/3.
RC2
Kodak Dealers {verywhere
toss it overboard. For several
minutes after his eyes again grew
accustomed to the darkness he
searched the surrounding sea.
Nothing, not even the pale gleam
of a star showed.
WHEN daylight came they
were alone in a desolate
waste of grey sea, their one ray
of hope a small patch of sky
showing through the clouds, their
one comfort the fact that it was
no longer necessary to use the
oars. Undoubtedly the sea had
moderated, for the boat now
rode to her sea-anchor without
any assistance. Most of the men,
after an anxious search of the
horizon, had slumped down on
the floorboards in an effort to
make themselves comfortable.
As well as being cold and sea-
sick they were already sore from
the cramped conditions and jerky
motions of the boat.
His earlier estimate had been
wrong, Andy saw. All told,
they numbered seventeen, a
mixed collection of seamen,
stewards, firemen and greasers.
Their clothing varied from
pyjamas to boiler suits, from
half-clad to fully-clothed. In
that respect Andy was the
luckiest of them all, for he was
wearing an oilskin over his
watch-keeping clothes.
Painfully old Lou dragged
himself to the seat. “Where are
we, young’un?” he asked, peer-
ing vaguely around. “Any sign
o’ th’ others?”
“Not a sign,” Andy told him.
He knew he could expect no
assistance from Lou. Without
his glasses the old fellow was as
blind as a bat, he had no know-
ledge of navigation and very
little control over the men in his
own department. Officially he
ranked as an officer —fourth
engineer to be exact —though
everyone knew he wasn’t a
qualified engineer. Firemen and
greasers treated him with amused
tolerance; everyone addressed
him as “Lou.” Forty seagoing
years spent in stokeholds and
enginerooms had given him a
rough practical knowledge of
marine engineering, two wars at
sea had given him more than his
share of lifeboat voyages, and
through it all he had retained his
broad Yorkshire accent and his
good humor.
He made a pathetic picture
now as he sat hunched up in the
lifeboat’s stern. Moisture
trickled from his grizzled eye-
brows and lodged in the grey
stubble on his cheeks ; one large
drop hung trembling from the
tip of his hawk-like nose. His
grease-stained boiler suit was
open at the neck, disclosing a
grey flannel shirt, and he was
wearing the only footwear any-
one had ever seen him in—a
pair of heavy Blucher boots with
steel toecaps and heelplates.
“Looks like we’ll ’ave to shift
for ourselves, lad,” he said,
brushing the drop of moisture
from his nose. The broad accent,
combined with the absence of
teeth, made him difficult to
understand. “Don’t suppose ye
managed to save a chart? ”
“I did,” Andy told him.
“Thanks to the second-mate
we’ve got a chart, sextant and
some books a Nautical
Almanac and some tables, I sup-
pose.”
“Get chart out, lad, and see
where nearest bit o’ land is.”
Andy bent down and pulled
the chart from beneath the
thwart. Like everything else in
the boat it was sodden, but it was
still legible.
Lou produced an old-
fashioned spectacle-case, perched
a pair of steel-rimmed spectacles
on the end of his nose and
peered closely.
“That pencil-mark shows the
ship’s noon position yesterday,”
Andy told him. “We’d be about
here now.” His finger indicated
a spot on the chart. With a strip
torn from the edge of the chart
he made a few rough measure-
ments. “The nearest inhabited
spot is Willis Island, nearly 600
miles away. If we missed that
we’d have to go on another
300 miles to the Queensland
coast.”
“These ’ere look closer to
me.” Lou’s gnarled old fore-
finger stabbed a group of islands
to the northward of New
Caledonia. “A durned sight
closer, I’d say.”
Patiently Andy explained that
as the islands lay directly to
windward it would be impossible
to reach them, however close
they were. Even the current
would be unfavorable. He
explained that they would
encounter only the sou’-east
trades in these waters, and was
amazed that a man who had
spent a lifetime at sea should
not know these things. It had
never occurred to him that
winds and currents were no
concern of the men in the
engine-room.
OLD LOU removed his cloth
fireman’s cap, disclosing a
completely bald dome. He
wrung the water from the cap,
replaced it and asked,
“Can ye navigate, lad?”
“Yes, I’m due to sit for
second-mate next year. But I
don’t know how accurate I’d be
with a sextant in these condi-
tions.” Andy’s gesture indicated
the lurching swoops of the life-
boat, the ragged wavetops and
the swaying horizon. To take a
sight from a comparatively
stable ship’s bridge was one
thing; to get even a moderately
accurate result in this lifeboat a
man would need experience and
confidence —two things Andy
was short of. Suddenly remem-
bering one essential he added.
“Besides, it’s impossible to fix a
position without a chronometer,
and we haven’t one.”
Lou went through the con-
vulsive motions of retching and
cursed feebly as the spasm
ended. “I was torpedoed once,
in the Atlantic,” he said. “Cast
adrift in the chief-officer’s boat.
He didn’t ’ave no chronometer,
but ’e took a shot with ’is
sextant every day, and knew
exactly where we were ; finished
up by puttin’ us ashore on the
French coast right on the very
spot ’e said ’e would.”
“He could find his latitude
every day,” Andy admitted.
“But he’d have to more or less
guess at his longitude. When
he got to the latitude of that
port he’d just have to keep on
sailing east till he hit the coast.”
“I dunno ’ow ’e done it. All I
know is ’e done it.” Lou
dropped his voice to a hoarse
whisper. “For all I know it
might ’ave been bluff, ’im
makin’ out ’e knew where we
were every day. But it worked.
It kept us all from feelin’ we
was lost in the middle of
nowhere; it kept us all ’appy,
that is, if a man could be ’appy
in a perishin’ lifeboat.”
He paused while another
spasm racked him. “That’s
what ye’ll ’ave to do, lad. As
{Continued on page 22.)


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign .. . \\
ft
a
/JL
YOUR WILL is a document that vitally affects the
welfare „of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
. . . specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet—' "Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
Permanent
Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E.,
M.B.ChM., F.RA.CS.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager:
F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary:
S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh Stewart.
PT.M.M
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET PLAN FLOP.
Now only a month or so from
its end, the current Soviet Five-
year Plan is analysed by a Lon-
don “Observer” writer as having
unmistakably come to grief in a
number of ways, most import-
antly in the fact that “Russia
seems to be as far away as ever
from a reasonable standard of
living.”
Urban workers, the writer re-
ports, are being fed a little
better, but only at the expense
of a drive against the peasants,
which, by amalgamating their
collectives into huge units, is
going much further towards
turning them into helots, or
Government serfs, than the col-
lectivisation itself,
“It is hard to see how the
steep production-rise, designed
to carry through until 1960, can
be maintained without some re-
laxation in the concentration on
heavy industry; and it is im-
possible to see how such a re-
laxation can be permitted so
long as the Kremlin pursues its
present international policies.”
Taking that as the positive
factual background, the writer
sets against it the current “peace
campaign” and sees more cause
for hope in this than most ob-
servers of Soviet acts have been
able to discern.
“Too often,” he says, “it is
assumed that the sole object [of
the “peace appeal”] is to cause
confusion, uncertainty and dis-
ruption in the West. This is cer-
tainly one of its aims, but a study
of the Soviet Press shows that its
primary concern is with the
mood of the Russian people. The
Russian people desperately need
a great many things; but more
than anything else they want
peace. Peace is the only thing
Stalin can easily give them, but
he is pretending that it is the
hardest thing of all to get, in the
belief that for its sake the people
will be ready to forgo other and
more urgent needs.
“The general line is that,
although the leaders of the West
are bent on war, they can, and
will, be thwarted by the vigilance
of Stalin, together with the over-
whelming will .to peace- of the
common people of the West-
provided the Russians them-
selves do their share by making
Russia strong, as a bastion of
peace. Thu§ the millions of sig-
natures [to the “peace” petition]
mean a great deal to the Rus-
sians. They give them heart in
their bitter task of working
themselves to the bone for a
future which seems to draw no
nearer.
“It is in this sense, and this
sense only, that the Russians are
now becoming united as never
since the war. It ipunity' in fear,
and we in the West should know
what that means. It is worth
taking very great pains to avoid
encouraging that unity and thus
helping to shore up a regime
which needs every prop it can
get.”
U.S. Korea Show.
In two long summing - up
articles on the Korean fighting,
London “Times’s” special corres-
pondent has given a striking pic-
ture of the Americans in action,
and particularly their methods
of warfare.
Apparently, the correspondent
says, unlimited resources made
possible the command respons-
ible for the Inchon landings,
“part of a superbly executed
operation which only the United
States could have carried out in
the time available.” But that
alone did not explain the effici-
ency ;
“A close-knit organisation,
communications with such re-
finements as mobile teleprinters,
a detailed knowledge of the
capabilities of every component
contribute, but perhaps the most
important factor is the ruthless-
ness of the command. Every-
thing, it seems, is expendable.
“To witness the manifesta-
tions of its efficiency becomes
humdrum: the constant depar-
ture of transport aircraft from
airfields in Japan and their
lumbering arrival at Kimpo be-
tween the take-off of fighter and
intruder aircraft was no more
exciting than a London under-
ground station during the rush
hour. In fact, there was a great
deal less unnecessary bustle.
“This clockwork regularity,
however, was attained only by
an acceptance of losses. Air-
craft crashed because they were
overloaded, o r insufficiently
maintained, or because of pilot
fatigue. Others only just reached
their destinations by jettisoning
the load. A correspondent of a
British newspaper survived one
passage only by pushing 5001 b.
bombs out of the door, thus in-
creasing the altitude of the air-
craft as it limped along a few
feet above the sea. One troop-
carrier plunged into the sea im-
mediately after take-off, but the
long waiting line of aircraft de-
parted on schedule. Personal
courage and fortitude as well as
technical ability were part of the
make-up of logistical command.
The most notable American con-
tribution to the United Nations
effort in Korea was this guaran-
tee of logistical supremacy.
Other nations could have re-
placed its troops in the field but
never have imitated its supply
system.”
France’s Weakness.
While many commentators
profess to have noticed an all-
round improvement in France
since Korea injected a dose of
realism there (and throughout
the West) most of them would
still agree with the “Manchester
Guardian” finding:
“It would be ostrich-like to
—Santiago (Chile) “Topaze.”
THE “ANGEL OF PEACE."
“I only ask you to sign your acceptance. Don’t you believe that now it is time to end
tyranny, slavery and the subjugation of peoples?"
pretend that France is today a
sure anti - Soviet force in
Europe.”
Apart altogether from the
Communist “enemy within,”
which in France, as in Italy, is
obviously a very dangerous ele-
ment of weakness, other rea-
sons for doubting French morale
are given by a London “Spec-
tator” Paris correspondent:
“France’s present weakness
has various causes, but without
any doubt the most important
single cause is that she was left
twice to shoulder the main
burden of the opening battle of
a world war.
“She succeeded on the first
occasion, but at the cost of
much heavier losses than any
other Western Power —18.2 per
cent, of the men between twenty
and forty - five as against
Germany’s 15.5 per cent, and
Britain’s 8.8 per cent. As a
result of the enemy’s initial
penetration she also suffered in-
tensive devastation of a belt
from the Channel to Switzerland
of which some ruins still persist.
About a quarter of her casualties
were suffered in the opening
months of the war, and must
therefore at one time have sub-
stantially exceeded the whole of
the British forces then in France.
“In the Second World War
France failed in her attempt to
stop the gap. The cost in lives
was much less than in the first,
but the French losses in the
whole war were still higher than
those of Britain. The devasta-
tions were more scattered but
greater than between 1914 and
1918. Above all France suf-
fered the moral consequences of
occupation and of having over
a million men in prisoner-of-war
camps for five years.”
Actually, France’s World War
II losses, though less in compari-
son with those of the earlier
war, were much worse than
most of us have probably
thought. As given in a recent
speech by the French President,
France’s losses in the later war
were, in fact, the highest of any
of the Western Allies —198,000
men killed on the battlefield;
9834 shot by German firing-
squads ; 30,000 members of the
Resistance killed in one way or
another; 50,000 civilians killed
in air bombardments; 104,000
political deportees who did not
return from concentration
camps and 90,000 labor de-
portees who also did not return.
No other explanation is
needed of either France’s
caution on German-restoration
plans or the somewhat pathetic
eagerness to see glimmers of
hope breaking through the Iron
Curtain in such phony devices as
the aggression - camouflaging
“peace plan” and the equally
suspect current move for a meet-
ing of the Foreign Ministers on
Germany. Such French reac-
tions are certainly understand-
able, in view of the terrible shak-
ing France has suffered from the
two wars, but, for the same rea-
son, so also are the doubts re-
garding France as a fighting ally.
Records by J. Bull.
What’s said of the generality
of old fighters—“ They never
come back” —certainly doesn’t
apply to J. Bull. Toughest old
battler of them all, he has not
only (in the same argot) staged
a real comeback, but lately he
has been smashing his own
notable-enough records.
The present year, for example,
is a record one for tourists. By
the end of it some 600,000
foreign visitors will liave
mooched around Britain in the
course of the twelve months,
leaving J.B. about £70,000,000
better off for their coming;
about 30 per cent, of that useful
bit of pocketmoney being in
American dollars.
Next year the Festival of
Britain is expected to draw at
least 700,000, bringing tourist
earnings up to £80,000,000 or
more. Visitors from America
are expected to exceed 200,000,
which will be another record.
But the results of J.B.’s own
personal efforts are the real mea-
sure of the comeback. Figures
given out by president of the
Board of Trade Wilson show
that United Kingdom exports in
October reached a new record
of some £202,200,000, topping
the £200,000,000 mark for the
first time. Moreover, this Octo-
ber total was £28,100,000 higher
than the average for the first
nine months of this year.
The provisional value of U.K.
exports to the U.S. in October
was £13,100,000 ($36,600,000
the highest figure yet achieved
in the export drive), compared
with an average of £10,900,000
($30,500,000 in the third quarter
of the year). In all, exports to
North America in October,
which were also a record, were
equal to $70,300,000, an increase
of $9,200,000 over the average
for the third quarter and
$24,400,000 more than the aver-
age for the first six months of
1950. i
Tito’s Police State.
A point that is glossed over
in wishful comments on Yugo-
slavia —that Tito’s land remains
“a one-party police State” —is
given full emphasis in the course
of a recent general survey by
London “Daily Telegraph’s” in-
dustrial correspondent, lately
back from Belgrade:
“The State still derives its
ideological inspiration from the
so-called Socialist Fatherland.
Resemblances to the Russian
pattern are sharper than the con-
trasts, In many aspects of life
Belgrade has much akin to Mos-
cow.
“Life is hard for the many and
easy for the few. There are wide
disparities in incomes and privi-
leges. Army officers, party
bosses and high-rank civil ser-
vants race through the streets in
motor-cars while professional
men, the dispossessed and
ordinary workers fight for stand-
ing room in dilapidated buses
and street-cars,
“The rationing system, which
often breaks down, is compli-
cated and designed to give plenty


Do what you want
and live longer
Do you eat foods you dis-
like, take icy showers you
dread, do things that are dis-
tasteful because they’re “good
for you l ’?
You may be doing yourself
more harm than good, says
Dr. Thurman Rice in Decem-
ber Reader’s Digest. This
noted authority tells why you
can wreck your life playing
things too safe —why doing
things you enjoy is about the
finest medicine you can take.
Read and enjoy December
Reader’s Digest today: 30
stimulating articles of last-
ing interest, condensed from
leading magazines, current
books. One shilling and six-
pence. All newsagents and
bookstalls.
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 6/12/’5O
BRISTOL. TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. ALA 7250
c/vlote Than,
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney's
leading hotels. tut different to
every otter in many ttlngs. Ihe
V/entworth. for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Anotter tting, too,
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
e~~)u it
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
A
a
u
6»
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
More Pleasure
V
M
from Motormq
vCJ>i .*:?{*'■
fsd
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Fool Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
&
w
//‘M
&
.-v> V
m
m
m
Wmr^
■
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia ;
MR. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C. 1.,
G.P.O. Box 71.
There’s a
to suit every pocket
s'-
3ft
re
GEM
I'9
lliiife
Whether you prefer the streamlined chrome
set, complete with stropper, or a less preten-
tious set, you are assured of the same keen
shave. The super-keen Gem blades of
surgical steel and the automatic shaving
angle of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with auto-
matic stropper, as illustrated above, complete
with 8 Gem Double Life Blades, in ivory
plastic gift case, 35/-,
9 Gem chromium-plated streamline model in
handsome case of ivory plastic with 5 Gem
Double Life Blades, 20/-.
9 Gem Razor with two Gem Double Life Blades
in serviceable bakelite case, 3/-.
9 Gem Razor, complete with 2 Gem Double Life
Blades, 1/6.
9 Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated, 10/-
each.
9 Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of sturdy,
surgical steel last longer, shave keener, 1/9.
Obtainable at all Stores, Jewellers, Tobacconists
and Chemists.
to certain groups and a mere
existence to others ; it is, in fact,
used punitively. The black-
market flourishes; the ‘free’
shops sell shoddy articles at un-
believably high prices.
“As in the Soviet Union,
there are elaborately - staged
trials, an outsize secret police
force and forced labor.”
Scared Pakistan.
“You cannot escape the im-
pression that Pakistan’s entire
structure is eaten by fear; not
the fashionable contemporary
fear of a country whose border
marches with Russia but fear of
her neighboring fellow-member
of the Commonwealth.”
So Rawle Knox, an expert on
affairs in that part of the world,
reports in the course of a Lon-
don “Observer” survey. Knox
finds a “general distrust” of
India’s professions of good faith
felt by “all Pakistanis from top
to bottom.” Senior Government
officials, “who know, and in the
past have worked with, their
opposite-numbers in India are
perfectly frank: they fear physi-
cal aggression by India.”
Knox refuses to accept that
India actually wants war; but:
“No persuasion has yet suc-
ceeded in calming the fears
which lead the Government of
Pakistan to maintain an army
equal in size to the entire pre-
war Indian Army, and deter-
mine her not to concede another
inch to India, whether in Kash-
mir or elsewhere.”
By way of averting what
would be a specially savage war
between Pakistan and India,
Knox suggested to Pakistani
Ministers and Government
officials that a British Common-
wealth guarantee of frontiers
might help to ease the tension;
he found considerable agree-
ment that it would:
“Neither India nor Pakistan
has at the moment much good
to say for the United Nations,
and the fact that this organisa-
tion is pledged to come to the
aid of either country in event of
aggression affords little solace.
But members of the Common-
wealth, if not exactly brothers,
are at least good acquaintances.”
Pending some such easing,
“Pakistan’s suspicions feed
further suspicions across the
border, and thus both countries
—though India to a lesser ex-
tent-find themselves living on
their nerves. It is not a way of
existence that leads to a ripe old
age.”
Dragnet Digest.
Molotov. Thumbnail biography
from British diplomat Sir Maurice
Peterson’s Both Sides of the Curtain ■
“This little buttoned-up man, whose
smile seldom extends to his eyes, is
essentially materialist and intolerant
in his outlook. Tenacious obstinacy
is his sole intellectual equipment.
For ten years and more he has been
Soviet Foreign Minister, and in that
time has committed nearly every
stupidity under the sun, from the
Ribbentrop treaty to the rejection of
the Byrnes treaty and of Marshall
Aid.”
« * * *
Germans’ Germany. From the
“Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”:
“During the last years the Western
Powers have given more than one
proof that their final aim is the
integration of Germany into the com-
munity of Western Europe as an
equal State. But these efforts are
always crossed by the desire to inter-
fere from the outside in Germany’s
most complicated economic and
political conditions. The general
German demand might be sum-
marised to the effect that in Germany
Germans should decide on German
affairs and that in all of Europe
some general supra-national organisa-
tion composed of representatives of
all countries should issue the top
directives.”
* * * *
U.S.-British Partnership. —New York
“Herald Tribune,” admitting that
there are bound to be British
criticisms of American policy, as well
as divergent aims on the part of the
two Governments, sees the partnership
as safe enough: “Even the staunchest
opponents of the Kremlin and the
firmest friends of America in Britain
are sometimes appalled at the vagaries
of politicians in the United States,
just as American spokesmen may
wring their hands over certain ten-
dencies in Britain. That is as it
should be. But the broad basis of
friendship and collaboration between
the two nations is firm and sound,
and cannot be disturbed by occasional
flurries of animosity, misunderstand-
ings or differences of opinion. The
British who have fought in Korea
are a better measure of Anglo-
American association than the out-
bursts of pink orators or yellow
journalists on either side of the
Atlantic.”
* * * *
Of Pots and Kettles. “Nova
Macedonia,” a leading organ of
Tito’s Government, steams across the
border stove: “Ilya Ehrenburg has
been the chief mouthpiece of Soviet
foreign-policy machinations. He re-
cently wrote in ‘Pravda’ that ‘the
leaders of the Soviet Union have
often spoken about their sincere
desire for peace. We have never
thought about imposing ideas on
others by force of arms.’ Only such
a type as Ilya Ehrenburg can write
in such a way without being
ashamed. If we examine everything
he has written, we come to the con-
clusion that he is the personification
of hypocrisy, unscrupulousness and
hot air.”
* * * *
London, Economic Barometer.
From an “Observer” article:
“London is proverbially the barometer
of world economy. Changes in the
world economic climate register first,
and most strongly, in Britain, and
most of the changes in our economic
fortunes have their cause abroad.
Whether we like this or not, there is
no getting away from it. We can
adjust ourselves to the economic
weather, but we cannot make the
weather.”
* * * *
J. Bull Does His Bit. —A New York
“Herald Tribune” defence of J. Bull
written by an American points out
that, in addition to Hong Kong and
Malaya (vital points in the anti-
communist front, to move major
forces from which to Korea would
have been “the height of insanity”),
“there are 175,000 British troops in
Germany and 35,000 troops in the
Middle East, most certainly trouble
spots where Russian aggression must
be guarded against. In all, seven-
eighths of British ground forces are
serving abroad.”
r * * *
Underrating Russia. —In an Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” insistence, it’s
more than time people got rid of the
idea that Russia is backward in mili-
tary science. “In the last war her
tanks were probably the best pro-
duced by any of the belligerents. She
has now the benefit of German tech-
nicians, especially in the construction
of guided missiles.” Quoting the
prophet, “Mr. Churchill said that if
M. Reynaud is right and the Russian
armies cannot be prevented from
reaching the Channel we ‘will be
subjected to a bombardment by
rocket-propelled and guided missiles
incomparably more severe than any-
thing we have endured or imagined,’ ”
it adds: “Mr. Churchill has Brought
a sense of realism into the situation
which was badly needed.”
* * * *
Glorified Goring.— Describing Ger-
man efforts to “rehabilitate fallen
leaders of the Nazi regime,” a
London “Times” correspondent states
that the main, though not the only,
offenders are the popular weekly
illustrated newspapers, which are
publishing more photographs or
Hitler, Goring and others. The
letterpress is cleverly camouflaged, but
the impression which it is intended
to convey is hardly in doubt.
Particular pains are being taken to
reinstate Goring, whose uniforms are
being reproduced in all thpir pristine
and exaggerated splendor.”


HERE
MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
rl
: ■:■ ■•
' ■. a:i
!■
■/
TWO OF £iX
POST.WAR DESIGN
OTIS ESCALATORS
INSTALLED AT
MARK FOY’S LTD,
SYDNEY.
★
New Installations
of Postwar Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE: Myer Emporium
Lid 4
BRISBANE: McPPhirters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE] Myer Emporium Ltd, ... 12
» M anion & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEYi Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd JO
„ David Jones Ltd 6
„ Mark Foy's Ltd 6
PHiTHi Boons Ltd 6
OtiA ESCALATORS MEAN
MORE TRAFFIC, MORE SAFES,
MORE PROFITS . . .
This Otis escalator installation at Mark Foy’s Ltd., Sydney,
makes shopping easier, more enjoyable, by extending an
attractive invitation to visit every department without effort
and without waiting.
Continuously moving escalators move merchandise because
they cater for people—people who are tired and weary,
people who are impatient, people who are lazy and people
in a genuine hurry.
People plus Otis escalators mean traffic—and traffic in a
store means sales. A survey of your store may provide you
with interesting facts.
m
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART . NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
m-
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
STATE
Under
GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
CUAKDX
PROTECTA V
5gW- StU RtgUtaiMii
TILL
fs
Suitable for every type of bnsincs* 11
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing Id appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
IACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Tiatrihutlnt Agenir
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
IDELAIDE
PERTH
W. C Penfold A Co. Ply. LM.
, Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
# Vardon A Sons Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. dAust.J
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in tbe
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
soon as this sea goes down
enough to get the sail up, ’ead
for that island. If ye ain’t
sure where ye are at any time
don’t tell nobody. Bluff it out
and look ’appy about it. Point
is, lad, ye mightn’t be a first-
class navigator, but ye’re the
only one ’ere as knows anythin’
about it. YeTe in charge o’
the boat, and so long as the men
think ye know your job ye
won’t ’ave no real trouble with
99
em.
The old fellow was silent for
a while as he stared over the
ragged collection of men
huddling together for warmth.
“Don’t you believe all this
’ere rot the papers print about
gallant seamen bein’ cheerful
and uncomplainin’ on long life-
boat trips,” he advised. “They’ll
growl and snarl at each other,
and they’ll curse ye and blame
ye every time the boat ships a
drop o’ water. Stands to reason,
don’t it? They’re only human
beings, and ye can’t expect ’em
to act like angels when they’re
cold and wet and starvin’ and
that thirsty they can’t spit, when
they got all the skin wore off
their behinds from tryin’ to sit
all day on a ’ard wet seat as
won’t keep still. But that don’t
mean they won’t obey orders.”
A curling wavetop slapped
against the gunwale, deluging
everyone in flying spray. A
storm of curses followed. “See
what I mean?” old Lou said. “It
comes natural. At a rough
guess ’ow long d’ye reckon it’ll
take us to get to this Willis
Island?”
“That depends on the weather,
of course. We should do it in
five or six days.”
“Well, that’s five or six days
o’ plain bloody ’ell, but ye’d
do better to call it six or seven.
I know these ’ere lifeboats; they
don’t go as fast as ye think they
do. Always somethin’ goin’
wrong, like the wind changin’ or
droppm’ altogether. If it ain’t
that it’s blowin’ so perishin’
’ard ye’ve got to take the sail
down.”
The old fellow was talking
from hard experience, Andy
knew. He’d been through all
this before, not once but several
times, and from every one of
those experiences he’d gathered
valuable knowledge. He was the
man who should be in charge
of the boat.
“You give the orders, Lou,”
Andy told him. “You take
charge and I’ll do my best to
navigate for you.”
“Me?” Lou’s grizzled eye-
brows shot up at the suggestion.
“Listen, young feller, if there’s
one thing more useless than any
other it’s an engineer in a life-
boat. By rights ’e didn’t ought
to be in one, let alone be takin’
charge. YeTe doin’ all right,
lad. Ye kept ’er afloat last
night, and if anyone can get us
all to a bit o’ dry land ye can.”
A NDY wasn’t at all sure of
** that. Willis Island was one
of a group of tiny coral islets,
low as all coral islets are, and
covered with stunted vegetation.
To arrive on their exact latitude
and maintain it until the islands
were sighted would call for skill
and a fair amount of good luck.
It would be easy to sail right
past the group in the dark or
even pass a few miles off it in
daylight without seeing it. If
luck favored them and they
reached the group they would
be safe, for Willis Island was a
weather station, manned by a
permanent staff, well supplied
with food and water and in
constant wireless touch with the
mainland. If, on the other hand.
they missed the island they
would be faced with another
three hundred miles to the
Queensland coast.
With the chart spread across
his knees, Andy plotted an
approximate course. The boat’s
speed and the amount of leeway
she would make would vary
from day to day, depending on
wind and sea, and to determine
either vital factor would call for
a mixture of calculation and
guesswork. He was thinking
how impossible the whole thing
was when Lou tapped him on
the knee.
One of the men, a fireman
named Banner, had removed the
bung from the water-breaker
and was lowering the dipper into
the cask.
“Ye’ll ’ave to put a stop to
that right away,” Lou whispered,
“Bring the water aft and ration
it out every day.”
The urgency of his tone made
Andy realise how precious every
drop of that water would be,
but it took the fireman’s next
move to spur him to decisive
action. Banner filled his mouth
with water, gargled loudly and
spat the water overside. It was
a thoughtless, foolish action,
selfish and typical of the man.
Andy knew him for a trouble-
maker, a man who went out of
his way to create friction and
never obeyed an order without
a snarl, a quarrelsome bully with
bad temper stamped on his
scowling face. All through the
night he had been seasick.
Quite probably he now had a
vile taste in his mouth, but then
so had nearly everyone else. It
was no excuse for wasting
water.
As he was about to raise the
dipper again Andy called
“Hold on there, Banner. Pour
that water back. We’ll have to
ration every drop of it.”
“Who says so? Who’s goin’
to stop me havin’ my whack?”
Banner’s ugly face expressed his
contempt as he again lifted the
dipper to his lips.
“You’ll get your shars,” Andy
told him. “The same as every-
one else gets.” He movec
forward supporting himself on
the gunwale against the wild
lurching of the boat. As ole
Lou had said, he must assert his
authority right away. It was
now or never. “We’ll move the
breaker aft,” he said, “and issue
a ration every day.” He was
close to it now, and only the
width of the breaker separated
him from Banner.
“Keep yer dirty paws off it,
sonny,” the fireman warned.
“Wot gave you the idea we’d
take orders from a kid?”
Andy ignored the taunt. He
didn’t intend to start a brawl
with a man of Banner’s size, but
he did intend to take possession
of the water-breaker. He bent
to free it from its lashings, and
was aware that Lou had moved
forward and was sitting on the
thwart beside him. Though it
was comforting to- know that he
wasn’t entirely alone he knew
the old fellow would be quite
useless if it did come to a brawl.
Banner snarled, “You asked
for it,” drew himself half-erect
and lashed out. Sensing the
attack Andy straightened up to
meet it just as Lou’s foot crashed
down. Banner was wearing
pyjamas. He was barefooted,
and the steel heel-plate of Lou’s
formidable clumsy boot caught
him across the toes, doubling
him up with pain and throwing
him completely off balance.
No one saw Lou’s swift move.
Every eye in the boat was fixed
on the two opponents, and all
any man saw was a sudden
swaying as Andy ducked under
a wild swipe and countered with
his right. It was not a par-
ticularly powerful blow. Had it
landed in a fair fight ashore it
would only have infuriated
Banner without in any way
impairing his fighting ability.
But this was far from being a
fair fight on solid land. For
one thing Lou had got in the
first blow —a shrewd, painful
one that caused Banner to lash
out blindly as he stumbled
forward. Even the lifeboat was
against the fireman, for the
sudden lift of her bows helped
to throw him against the lad’s
fist. As a boxing fan would
have put it, Banner hung him-
self on the end of a straight
right. The blow caught him on
the mouth, diverting his fall so
that instead of landing on top
of his opponent he crashed
face-downwards on the gunwale.
A NDY made his first and
only speech then. Shaking
from a mixture of excitement
and fear he felt he must get this
thing over and done with now.
Banner was out to it, bleeding
profusely and rolling sluggishly
to the movements of the boat.
“We’ve got to hang on to this
water,” Andy told the others.
“The nearest land we can make
for is Willis Island and it’ll take
us at least a week to reach it.
Someone might pick us up
before then, but we can’t count
on it. As soon as the sea goes
down enough weTl get the sail
set. The water and biscuits will
have to be moved aft, but you
can pick one of your own men
to make the daily issue. There’ll
be Lou and myself there all the
time as well as one seaman to
help with the steering, so that
ought to be fair enough.”
A seaman named Martin had
lifted Banner’s head across his
knee, and was mopping the
blood from his face with a wet
handkerchief.
“That’s fair enough, lad,” he
said. “It’s the only way to do
things if we’re goin’ to get out
of this alive.” He dipped the
blood-stained handkerchief over-
side and squeezed fresh seawater
over Banner’s face. “Strewth!”
he exclaimed admiringly. “You
made a mess of ’im.”
The fireman’s face certainly
was a mess. Andy’s fist may
have split his lip, but it had not
left the two front teeth dangling
by gory threads over the gashed
and swollen lips. That could
only have happened when his
mouth struck the sharp edge of
the gunwale.
With the help of another sea-
man they moved the water-
breaker aft and lashed it
securely. The two biscuit tanks
were also stowed aft. Banner
sat up and stared dazedly
around him. He ran his hand
over his swollen lips and jerked
the dangling teeth from their
threads.
“Who else joined in?” he
demanded of Martin.
“No one,” the seaman told
him with obvious relish. “There
was only two ’its in it, mate.
The lad ’it you and you ’it the
deck.” Martin had often felt
like taking a crack at Banner
himself, but he knew he’d be
no match for the big fireman.
Obviously Banner found the
statement hard to believe, for he
stared questioningly around his
shipmates. Receiving only nods
of confirmation he glared hate-
fully at the youthful figure aft.
“Righto, sonny,” he mumbled.
“Next time I’ll splatter yer teeth
all over the flamin’ ocean.”
Threatening though the words
were they lacked conviction.
For the time being there was no
fight left in Banner.
Andy sensed it and was even
able to smile. He was amazed
at his swift victory, and still
trying to puzzle out how it had
come about. Blood was welling
up around the toenails of
Banner’s right foot, he noticed.
He certainly hadn’t done that,
for the water-breaker had been
in between them. Vaguely now,
as he went back over those few
tense seconds he remembered
seeing Lou’s foot darting for-
ward. Lou’s foot! He looked
down at the heavy steel-shod
boots and said “Lou, I’ve an
idea you saved me from a hell
of a belting.”
“Me!” Lou’s lined old face
broke into a toothless grin.
“Don’t ye go draggin’ me into
this, lad. An old bloke like me


m
n
HORSE-POWER
and the
Standard of Livini
It is difficult for some people
to believe that the wages men earn
in industry depend, in the end, on
the supply of capital for research,
experiment, invention, discovery,
and the installation of machines to
translate the inventions and dis-
coveries into goods. Yet that is
what the world is learning.
In the long run, wages can be
raised only by increasing production
per worker. Efficient machines are
aids to that end when they are
worked efficiently.
It is now clear that the extra-
ordinary growth of the United States
has come with the increase of capital
invested in industry. In turn this
capital investment seems to be paral-
lel to the amount of horsepower
employed in industry. Only out of
this combination of factors, effi-
ciently employed, can come perma-
nently high wages. We delude
ourselves if we think otherwise.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1M34
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered) Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6k YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
1
wm
FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN 1951
MAY 3—SEPTEMBER 30
W
TIVMS
A
OF
The Calendar below shows the dates of the many Arts
Festivals which, with the exhibitions and other events
throughout the United Kingdom, make the Festival
programme the greatest ever planned.
» » MAY * *
jrd London Festival Sea-
son, two months of gaiety and
colour in the theatres, _ con-
cert-halls and art-galleries of
the capital (till June 30).
Stratford-upon-Avon
Shakespeare Festival, with
outstanding new productions
in the famous Memorial
Theatre (till October).
7th Belfast Festival, in-
cluding exhibitions of paint-
ings, books, architecture and
photography, symphony con-
certs and plays (till June 30).
aoth Bath Assembly, coin-
ciding with the Sheridan
Bi-Centenary, with' concerts,
opera, ballet, music in the
Abbey and a Gainsborough
Exhibition (till June 2).
37th —Perth Festival, cen-
tred around the contemporary
Scottish theatre movement
(till June 16).
» * JUNE * *•
jrd—York Festival, with
performances of medieval
miracle plays, music in the
Great Minster, and a Festival
Architectural Exhibition (till
June 17).
jtd—Bournemouth and Wessex
Festival, including sporting and
New Forest events as well as
Festival performances in the
theatres and concert halls of
Bournemouth (till June 17).
Bth Aldeburgh Festival,
based on the work of Ben-
jamin Britten and the English
Opera Group (till June 17).
17th —Inverness Festival,
the most northerly of the
Arts Festivals, presenting a
composite picture of Highland
life (till June 30).
xBth —Norwich Festival,
with music in the Cathedral,
plays in an Elizabethan-style
playhouse, and exhibitions of
the famous Norwich school
of painting (till June 30).
34th Dumfries Festival,
with concerts by the Scottish
National Orchestra and the
newly formed Festival Chorus,
ballet, and a ‘Burns night’
(till June 30).
* * JULY » *
2nd Cheltenham Festival of
British Contemporary Music,
with concerts by the Halle
Orchestra, ballet, opera and
chamber music (till July 14).
and Oxford Festival,
focused on 17th Century
England, with lectures _ and
performances of Milton,
Shakespeare and restoration
comedy (till July 16).
3rd —Llangollen International
Eisteddfod, where scores of
choirs meet for a world occasion
of choral music (till July B).J
xoth St. David’s Festival,
a programme of music, wor-
ship and ceremony in Wales’s
oldest Cathedral (till July 13).
16th — Brighton Regency
Festival, set in' and around
the fantastic Pavilion built by
George IV when Prince
Regent (till August 25).
18th Canterbury Festival, in
the ecclesiastical capital of
England, with a specially
written drama, music and
opera in the lovely Cathedral
(till August 10).
22nd Liverpool Festival of
Music, drama and art, present-
ing a various and many-sided
Festival programme set
against large-scale ceremony
and spectacle (till August 12).
30th Aberdeen Festival,
with orchestral and choral
concerts, painting exhibitions
and outstanding British films,
in Scotland’s third largest
city (till August 13).
30th —Cambridge Festival,
with symphony concerts in
College Courts; and con-
temporary and classical con-
certs and plays in the famous
University centre (till August
18).
* AUGUST *
6th —Llanrwst Royal National
Eisteddfod, the national festival
of Wales, devoted to song,
poetry and performances of
great choral works (till August
ID- . .
19th —Edinburgh International
Festival of Music and Drama,
one of the outstanding occa-
sions of the artistic world, now
held annually in the Scottish
capital (till September 8).
* SEPTEMBER *
and—Worcester Three Choirs
Festival, presented since the
18th Century by the combined
Cathedral choirs of Hereford,
Gloucester and Worcester (till
September 7). .
16th —Swansea Festival of
Music, staged in the magnifi-
cent concert hall and drawing
on the long tradition of Welsh
choral singing (till September
29).
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details Cs
don’t get mixed up in no
brawls.”
Nor could Andy draw an
admission from him. After
stoutly maintaining that the
whole credit for the victory was
Andy’s he declared that talking
only upset his stomach.
“If I only ’ad me powders,”
be lamented.
Lou’s powders had always
been a joke with his shipmates.
He took them before and after
all meals and at odd times in
between. “Chronic indigestion,”
he would explain. “Gives me
’ell, it do.”
Looking at his drawn grey
face Andy realised that the old
fellow was probably suffering
from something like gastric
ulcers. He was shivering with
cold, too, as the keen wind cut
through his sodden boiler suit.
In spite of his protests that the
sun would soon appear and dry
him out Andy insisted on hand-
ing over his oilskin, feeling
deeply ashamed that he hadn’t
thought of it before.
But, sick though he was, Lou
helped check the water in the
breaker and decide on the
amount each man should be
given daily. Half a pint, they
decided, would be a safe ration
—half a pint of water and two
biscuits per man. Andy was of
the opinion that the best time
for the daily issue would be
immediately after the noon-
sight had been worked out, but
old Lou shook his head. He
pointed out that a young
apprentice mightn’t work his
sight out with the speed of an
experienced officer, and that
thirsty men watching his every
move would magnify the time
he took and lose confidence in
his ability.
“And besides, lad,” he added,
“them starin’ at ye will most
likely fluster ye. Take your
sight and while ye’re figurin’ it
out we’ll issue the ration.
They’ll be too busy watchin’
every drop o’ water to notice
’ow long ye take.”
BECAUSE they saw no sun
that day they made the first
issue at noon by Andy’s watch
—the only one in the boat. The
water was measured out by the
assistant-steward and passed
carefully to each man in turn,
Andy being the last to get his
share. At 4 p.m. they stepped
the mast, got the sea-anchor
inboard and set sail. Though
the sea still ran uncomfortably
high , and there was enough
strength in the wind to force
them to reef the sail everyone
was pleased to be under way.
Due west was the course, but
they soon found it impossible
to keep close to it. The boat
yawed heavily, rising and falling
to a quartering sea with a wild
corkscrew motion. Occasionally
the crest of a following wave
tumbled inboard, arousing, as
old Lou had prophesied, a
chorus of half-hearted curses.
All hands were wet and cold ;
they were too dispirited to do
anything wholeheartedly, even
curse. An hour or two of sun-
light would have cheered them
up, but there was no sun-
light—only grey clouds over a
grey sea and occasional bursts
of flying spray as a wave broke
under their stern. As Able-
Seaman Martin remarked cheer-
fully, it looked as if they were
in for a dirty night at sea. At
any tirrffe it took a lot to dampen
Martin’s good humor, and today
the downfall of his enemy had
considerably brightened his
outlook.
He was right about the dirty
night. The boat compass proved
to be almost useless, and after
a hectic hour’s trial Andy gave
it up and steered by the feel of
the wind. His steering was
erratic, but it was far ahead of
the efforts of the seamen who
tried to relieve him. Without a
reliable compass they lost their
sense of direction, and on several
occasions almost swamped the
boat.
It meant another long,
anxious night for Andy, cling-
ing to the bucking tiller with
hands already blistered by the
heavy steering-oar, a night spent
glancing apprehensively at the
gleaming phosphorescence of
each big comber as it boiled up
astern, a night of fear that the
wind had changed, and that he
was sailing further and further
from his destination.
The sun broke through the
clouds next morning, and they
welcomed him almost as they
would have welcomed the sight
of a ship heading their way. As
the morning wore on and the
clouds drifted away they were
able to strip off their wet clothes
and feel the welcome warmth
soaking through their naked
bodies. Apdy, now able to
check his course, was relieved to
find that the wind had not
changed. And even better still,
with the help of the sun Martin
was able to relieve him and steer
a fairly accurate course.
At noon Andy got out the
sextant and took a shot for
latitude. He was painfully
conscious, as he vainly
endeavored to steady himself,
that every eye in the boat was
fixed on him. When he at last
sat down he felt he had failed
badly. It showed in his face and
showed even more when he
worked out the result,
“’Ow’s she doin’, lad?” Lou
asked cheerfully. “Must of put
up a record run last night, eh?”
“I don’t know,” Andy
admitted. “The result I got is
out to blazes. It’s not worth
taking into consideration. The
only thing we can do is make
a guess at a dead-reckoning.’
There was a definite atmos-
phere of gloom in the boat for
the rest of the day. Everyone
had heard Andy’s admission and
all felt helpless and lost. With-
out a competent navigator their
chances of hitting a small coral
island were slim indeed.
Banner snarled, “There
y’are. I tried to tell yer the
bloody kid was useless. Wot
else would yer expect?” And
though Martin told him to
“pull his head in” they all felt
that Banner’s sentiments were
uncomfortably near the truth.
Lou said nothing until the
men had settled down for the
night. Andy was back at the
tiller after five hours of restless
sleep, and it was possible to talk
without being overheard.
“Ye made a rare bad mess o’
things wi’ that sextant today,
lad,” the old fellow mumbled.
“I know, Lou. I’m damned
sorry, but you’ve no idea how
hard it was. I couldn’t even
keep my balance.” It was a
youthful plea for tolerance and
understanding, but Lou brushed
it aside.
“I don’t mean that, lad. Ye’re
forgettin’ what I told ye about
bluff. It don’t matter if ye
worked out our position as the
South Pole, there's no need to
tell everyone. All ye’ve got to
do is look ’appy and make out
we’ve done a good day’s 'run.
Point is, lad, ye’ve got to make
’em think someone in this damn
boat knows where ’e is or there’ll
be trouble, mark my words.”
NEXT day, at Lou’s sugges-
tion, two seamen held
Andy steady while he made his
observation. Their assistance,
coupled with the fact that the
sea had fallen to a moderate
swell, helped considerably. The
result fitted in with Andy’s dead-
reckoned position. Smiling
broadly, he announced that
they’d covered one hundred and
ninety miles since they set sail.
“Tomorrow,” he informed
them, “we’ll be over the half-
way mark.”
They weren’t. The wind
dropped during the night, and
the following morning saw them
completely becalmed, rolling to
an oily swell under a clear blue
sky. The heat grew intense as
the sun climbed higher; there
were frequent complaints of
thirst and several suggestions
that the daily water ration be
increased.
“Don’t take no notice,” Lou
whispered to Andy. “We’ll more
likely ’ave to cut it down if wind
don’t come,”
They got out the heavy oars
and rowed, but even with
frequent spells and changeovers
their efforts were half-hearted.
Viewed from above, the boat
must have resembled a great
tired beetle crawling painfully
(Continued on next page.)


FOROSON MAJOR
FARMS AUSTRALIA
in every type of job, in every type of soil
&
\m
«v<
ft
Jv
Read these reasons why Fordson Major
is Sales Leader among tractors
Because of their complete suitability and versatility in every kind of Australian
farming there are now over 22,000 Fordson Majors working throughout
the Commonwealth. Every day the preference for Fordson is growing
because only Fordson provides all these features :
I* Choice of Diesel or Kerosene power. 2* Wheeled or half track units.
3* Choice of gear ratios. “Special” ratios for work where soil conditions
and size of implements demand extra pounds pull at the drawbar. “Standard”
ratios for conditions where extra miles per hour and normal drawbar pull
are desirable.
4* Range of wheel and tyre equipment. 5* Lowest cost per horsepower.
6* Specialised Fordson Service available in districts all over the Common-
wealth.
Ratings by official Nebraska-type Tests
Diesel power : Rated 28 drawbar horse-
power—which is better than a 12 horse team.
In second gear at 1500 r.p.m. rated load
travelled at 3.5 m.p.h. when equipped with
special ratio gears and at 4.6 m.p.h. with
standard ratio gears. In both cases fuel
consumption was 1.79 gallons per hour.
Kerosene power: Rated 21.5 drawbar horse-
power— equal to a good 10 horse team.
With special ratio gears, in second gear and
at 1200 r.p.m. rated load handled at 2.88
m.p.h. and, with standard ratio gears, at
3.64 m.p.h. Fuel consumption at rate of
1.96 gallons per hour in both cases.
Advice from your local Fordson Dealer
Your Dealer will be glad to give you all details of the Fordson combination that is best
for your job. He will also arrange on your property, a demonstration under your
particular working conditions.
Wide choice of
models
Both Diesel and
Kerosene models are
available in Agri-
cultural or Row
Crop (each with
either rubber tyres
or steel wheels) and
Roadless (half-
tracked).
Half-Track
Equipment
Available for fitting
to both Diesel and
Kerosene models.
Virtually gives
farmer two tractors
in one and the
change-over is a
simple matter. Half-
tracks cut rolling
resistance to mini-
mum, give more
pounds pull at draw-
bar and lower fuel
consumption and
allow handling of
implements in soil
conditions unfav-
ourable for wheeled
tractors.
FM62-44
. ... . Enquire from your State Distributor:
lO.W.:—Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA;—MaIcoIm Moore Pty. Ltd.,
300 9‘y Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLANDBuzacott’s (Q’ld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie Street, Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA;—Lynas
Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay Street, Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG. VIC.
up a slippery slope, faltering and
sliding backwards just as it
reached the summit. In this
immensity of ocean there was no
sign of progress, nothing to
convince the rowers that they
had moved forward one single
mile since daybreak. The heat
at midday was unbearable, the
lukewarm water ration just
sufficient to irritate their thirsts.
All hands refused biscuits. As
Martin pointed out, between the
lot of them they couldn’t raise
enough spit to swallow one
mouthful,
“What I like about these life-
boats,” he added, “is the variety.
If a man ain’t freezin’ he’s
fryin’.”
It was useless for Andy to
pretend pleasure at their noon
position. The best progress he
could announce for the twenty-
four hours was thirty-five miles,
and even then he felt he was
being overoptimistic. More than
anything he was worried about
Lou. Having no teeth, the old
fellow could not chew the hard
ship’s-biscuits, and even when
they pounded one up and mixed
it to a gruel with half his water
ration his stomach revolted at
the mess, spewing it up almost
at once.
“It’s no good, lad,” he said
after the second attempt. “Just
waste o’ good water.” Although
he must have been suffering
agonies he made no complaint.
“I’ll be right as soon as I can
get somethin’ for me indiges-
tion,” he assured Andy.
With sunrise on the fourth
day they got a sou’-easterly
breeze. There was no force in
it, but it gave them steerage way
and soothed their sunburnt
skins.
Andy estimated their speed at
two to three knots, and had no
cause to increase his estimate
during the next three days. For
men in a cruising yacht with a
big sail spread and a good
supply of food and water it was
pleasant sailing weather, gliding
smoothly over a blue sea under
a cloudless blue sky. But to men
livir >g on a meagre ration of
biscuits and water in an open
boat ** was maddening. They
longed for a hard wind a half-
gale even, with tumbling seas
and lashing spray so long as it
carried them swiftly towards
food and drink
.° n the sixth day Andy’s noon-
sight gave him a lattitude of
16 degrees 13 minutes south, the
Tut *T
Y i
S'
Sc<Sg To S 3?
they should reach it late the fol-
lowing day. He didn’t announce
this, however. He’d made one
rash statement already and had
been proved wrong by a failing
wind - Much better to wait, and
cons ult Lou when they were
a l° ne -
He put the matter to Lou that
night, bending over the old
fellow as he lay with his head
pillowed on a lifebelt. “Do you
think I should tell them and
warn them to keep a sharp look-
out?” he asked.
“No,” Lou said. “Don’t say
nothin’ till ye ’ave to.”
a shadowy figure moved
aft and in the bright starlight
Andy recognised Peterson the
assistant - steward. Peterson
squatted beside them and whis-
nered
“I didn’t say anything when I
made the issue today, but the
water’s gettin’damn low.”
**
took alqutot
through the bung today. At a
r ° Ugh H ° De more
rOUni ' , „ .
Old Lou raised himself pain
full y on one elbow * , see
us out ” he announced. If ye
halve the ration tomorrow,”
His eyes were fixed on the
steward’s face and it was obvi-
ously an effort for him to talk,
“Andy just told me we’d raise
the island day after tomorrow.”
Amazed as he was at the state-
ment, Andy nodded. “Thanks
for keeping quiet about the
water, Peterson,” he said. “I
should have told you all about
our position today, but I didn’t
want to raise everyone’s hopes
so far ahead in case the wind
dropped again.” The lie came
easily and he spoke quite natur-
ally.
Peterson nodded. “I reckoned
we ought to be gettin’ somewhere
near it,” he said. “I didn’t see
any point in tellin’ ’em about
the water till they had to know.
What they don’t know won’t
hurt ’em.”
When he’d gone forward again
Andy whispered, “Lou, why did
you say that about raising the
island the day after tomorrow?”
“It’s a case o’ puttin’ it off
as long as we can.” Lou was
lying down again, talking in
short painful sentences. “Bit o’
bluff’s a good thing, lad, until
someone calls it. As soon as ye
put ’em on ’alf-ration tomorrow
they’ll figure ye’re lost. Ye’ll
’ave to tell ’em something defi-
nite then. Day after tomorrow
gives ye an extra day. We
ought to be sightin’ somethin’ by
then. Mainland maybe, if we’ve
missed the island. Point is, lad,
they’ll forget everythin’ else
once they sight land. Don’t
matter what land it is so long as
there’s water and tucker on it.”
THERE was no land in sight
next morning, nor was there
any sign of it when Andy took
his noon sight and announced the
cutting of the water ration.
Banner voiced the general
opinion when he said, “There
you are! That’s what comes of
lettin’ a kid take charge. We’re
lost. He’s got no flamin’ idea
where we are. If it ’ad been
left to us we’d ’ave ’eaded for
the coast of Australia instead of
muckin’ around the ocean look-
in’ for a flamin’ island Vs got
no ’ope of findin’.”
With the exception of old Lou,
Banner was probably suffering
more than any man in the boat.
His broken teeth and swollen
mouth made eating difficult and
painful. Knowing this, Andy
ignored his outburst and con-
centrated on his calculations.
The job finished, he swallowed
his half-ration of water and
made his announcement.
“I got perfect sights yesterday
and again today,” he told them,
striving to make his voice sound
confident. “We’ll sight land
tomorrow. I didn’t tell you be-
fore in case the wind dropped.
But it’s not likely to drop now;
in fact, it will probably freshen.”
He pointed to a few tiny clouds
drifting up from the sou’-east
“Those clouds mean wind.”
Banner looked at the faint
ruffle of the bow wave, an ever-
present reminder of their sluggish
pace. “They’d better,” he
growled threateningly. “And I’ll
tell you another thing, sonny.
If we don’t sight land tomorrow
you’ll go overboard for shark-
bait. That’ll be one water ration
we’ll save.”
Andy felt like telling him that
by ten minutes past twelve to-
morrow there would not be one
drop of water left to argue over,
but he refrained. Time enough
for that when all hands realised
that the breaker was being up-
ended to squeeze out the final
issue.
If the breeze freshened at all
that afternoon its increase was
not perceptible. They crawled
across the vast expanse of blue
ocean, the maddening slowness
of their progress emphasised by
fleecy clouds that drifted up,
cast a fleeting shade over the
boat and passed on. Those
clouds, everyone felt, were bowl-
ing steadily landwards while the
cursed boat lagged behind,
wallowing painfully over the
swells.
Sitting at the tiller that night
Andy felt the first definite in-
crease in the wind shortly after
eight o’clock. By nine o’clock
he could hear the lovely gurgle
of moving water around the
rudder and see the phosphor-
escent wake stretching out
astern. White caps were gleam-
ing all around him and the
tumbling bow wave danced out
to greet them. Bending over
Lou’s huddled form he said,
“She’s blowing up, Lou. We’re
bowling along in great style.”
(Continued on page 35.)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSHMJVAN , Y
mm. * A-f
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Pine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s pood.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane,
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years' practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27T), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Missing Friends.
JACK LOCKINGTON
(full name JOHN BOWEN LOCKINGTON)
fonnerly of 7 Norton Street, Sydney, son
of Teresa and late Fred Lockington, of
Melbourne, or ANY PERSON KNOWING
HIS WHEREABOUTS, please communi-
cate with GORDON RENNICK, Solicitor,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOULD' any person who can furnish in-
formation as to the whereabouts of
THOMAS EUDEY, the husband of JANET
EUDEY, nee CARLYLE, and their two
children WILLIAM and DELILA, who
were all last heard of In Victoria, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
WOULD LANCE REWA PAUL or BASIL
FREDERICK PAUL, formerly of New
Zealand, or anyone knowing their where-
abouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.
The best
safeguard of
I
Z±
4
La
is preparedness for
O
1
ci
We must snap out of the comfortable postwar idea that we as a nation can sit
down in our own corner and hope that by good behaviour and strict attention to
business we will be left to live our own life in peace.
Anybody wbo thinks we are living on a nice little island continent where nobody
will touch us is living in a lost world.
The dark forces of international communism are not only sinister, but active.
They have their world plans. They are quite content that we should take our
leisure in the sun and lead comparatively carefree lives so long as these things
induce us to believe that, while there is danger in South East Asia, and danger
in Western Europe, there is no danger for us.
If we are to survive, Australia must be ready, not a year after war begins, but
when it begins: on the day that it begins.
The time has come for ACTIONt
Every Australian of military age must face up to his responsibility to fight to defend
his country and his freedom by enlisting now in the Army, the Navy ,or the Air
Force.
Every worker must contribute to Australia's industrial strength by increasing his
individual production.
Every employer must plan for greater output of goods, while encouraging his staff
to enlist for service as sailors, soldiers or airmen.
The fate and future of Australia is in your hands
it's up to yvOU!
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books of verse by Will H.
Ogilvie,—4958.
Information Sought.
Some details about Henry Walter
Bates, the English naturalist and
explorer who wrote “The Natural-
ist on the Amazons” ?
He was bom at Leicester in 1825.
His father was a manufacturing
hosier, and the son entered his
father’s business, but in 1844 met
Alfred Russel Wallace, and in 1848
sailed with him in a trading vessel
to Para. They had practically no
money, but hoped to sell their
botanical and entomological collec-
tions when made. Bates was 11 years
in the country, made his way up the
Amazon for 1400 miles, and dis-
covered 8000 new species of insects.
In a paper which he read in the
Linnean Society on the insect fauna
of the Amazon Valley, he stated and
solved the problem of mimicry.
sj* *1*
What is meant by the term environ-
ment?
It is the term applied to all con-
ditions which are not part of the
individual self of a person and which
tend to alter each individual, thus
forming certain varieties and species.
The environment may be physical,
including such things as geographical
or chemical conditions, the latter
including the state of the air, the
conditions of food and many other
such influences. There is also a
social environment, showing the
influence of one individual upon
another. This leads also to the
establishment of new customs and
new institutions, thus bringing about a
new type of individual.
* * * *
Details about Ben Davies, the
Welsh tenor?
He was born at Pontardaw, near
Swansea, in 1858, and started life in
trade, then went to London to study
at the Royal Academy of Music.
He began by singing in Balfe’s “The
Bohemian Girl,” and took part in the
operas of Goring Thomas, Mackenzie
and Stanford. He sang in the long
run of Cellier’s “Dorothy” in Lon-
don and then in Sullivan’s “Ivanhoe”
at D’Oyly Carte’s English opera-
house. For some years he was a
member of the Carl Rosa company.
He sang in both English and Italian
operas, Leaving the stage he took to
oratorio and concert singing, and for
many years was the leading British
tenor. Those who were present at
the celebration of his 80th birth-
day will remember the perfect ease of
style with which he sang “Onaway!
Awake, Beloved!” He died in 1943.
* * * *
Who was Pasquin?
A cobbler of Rome, celebrated for
the gibes he hurled at every turn. He
lived at the corner of the Palazzo
Orsini, and at his death the mutilated
statue of a gladiator, which was
found under the pavement near his
stall, was put up on the same spot,
and received the name Pasquino. It
became customary to affix to this
statue satirical verses directed against
prominent personages, which were
hence called pasquinades. The satires
were for the most part epigrammatic
replies to some topical questions
affixed on the pediment of a statue
of Marforio, which stood near by.
* * * *
What is an agent-provocateur?
One employed, during political or
social conflicts, in the guise of an
adherent, to stir up compromising
action. The method was much in
vogue in Tsarist Russia when the
Government used agents-provocateurs
to foment risings for the express pur-
pose of having an excuse for sup-
pressing revolutionary movements.
They have also been used in other
countries in struggles between Govern-
ments and revolutionary movements.
Also, in labor disputes, their purpose
is to try to induce strikers to cbmmit
unlawful acts to provoke armed
clashes. In international politics they
have been used to provide pretexts
for interventions in wars by promo-
tion of disorder or bringing about
“incidents.”
* * j* *
What part do the yolk and the
albumen play in the birth of a
chicken ?
The growth of a chicken from a
fertile egg commences from the ger-
minal disk and the membranes pene-
trate and grow from the albumen.
Towards the later stages of incuba-
tion the yolk of the egg is absorbed
through the navel and provides a
complete food for the chicken until
about 48 hours after hatching. It
will be realised that the yolk plays
no part in the development of the
embryo; it merely supplies food for
the developing chick.
Brief Answers.
K.G.: (1) No. (2) Both minerals
are sulphides. (3) Selenium occurs
naturally as selenides, which are
associated with sulphides. It is
recovered principally in the manu-
facture of sulphuric acid. The metal
is translucent and red in thin
splinters by transmitted light. It is
soft and heavy R.N.P.: The
animal was probably the Tasmanian
form of Tachyglossus aculeatus. or
the echidna, as it is popularly called;
other vernacular names are “native
hedgehog,” “native porcunine” and
“spiny anteater” 5.8.: Everyman’s
Encyclopedia (12 volumes), published
by J. M. Dent and Sons. Ltd.,
Bedford-Street, London, W.C.2
P.G.: Write honorary secretary,
Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club,
980 High-street, Armadale (Vic.)
T.F.J.: Auckland Public Libraries,
1880-1950, by John Barr, published
by Library Committee, Auckland City
Council, Auckland, New Zealand.
. ...R.8.: When Gene Tunney re-
tired as unbeaten world’s heavyweight
champion, in 1928, the title was in
abeyance until Jack Sharkey and
Max Schmeling fought for it in New
York on June 21, 1930. Schmeling
was declared winner on a foul in
round four, and he reigned as cham-
pion until Sharkey outpointed him
over 15 rounds in New York on
June 21, 1932 R.H.: C. J. Dennis’s
“Australaise” was written in response
to a demand by The Bulletin’s
“Red Page” for an Australian
national anthem. It was printed in
The Bulletin, December 12, 1912.
R.P.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for Poultry Diseases
Leaflet No. 4, “Fowl Tick Fever and
Its Carriers” N.M.F.: The mark
suggests that the article belongs
probably to the late 19th century.
We are unable to trace the mark, but
Suhl, a town of Schleusingen, Prus-
sian Saxony, had potteries operating
in the First World War E.J.G.:
A Marriage Manual by Stone, obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney;
price, 15s. 9d R.S.C.: Both prints
have been reproduced often, and fre-
quently come on to the market.
They are worth about 21s. each.
W.B.H.: Australian Government
Today by Geoffrey Sawer, published
by Melbourne University Press, Mel-
bourne; price, 2s. 6d. T.A.E.:
Periodic current, as applied to radio,
is alternating current in which the
frequency is determined by the elec-
trical constants of the circuit in which
it flows A.J.8.: (1) Yes, the
League of Nations was officially and
formally dissolved. (2) The resolution
to dissolve was carried at Geneva
during the last general assembly of
the League between April 8 and 18,
1946, and the terms of the resolu-
tion were, in part, “From the day
following the close of the present
assembly (April 18, 1946) the League
of Nations shall cease to exist.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.D.S.: Glad to hear from you if
you will send us one-fifth as much
and make it of five times better
quality W.M.W.: Story starts off
like a flight of skyrockets and bursts
before the reader has thrown his head
back to look P.J.: Another
master mariner is captain of that
craft H.L.R.: If you wrote less
like a broken-legged spider escaping
from an inkpot, or got some friend
to type your scrawls, we would
respect you more... .L. 8.: You are
young. Go in peace S.E.: The
Religious Editor firmly declines to
o.k. that effusion G.R.: Please
give dying swagmen a rest. They
arrive at 252 George-street at the
rate of 100 per week N.T.F.:
Fact that on the 27th ult. a stranger
drank your beer has been duly noted,
and the remarks you addressed to
him, plus the comments of the
barmaid, have been inscribed on
the office archives... .J.D.M.: A
heavy-footed production A.W.F.:
Composition all right, but matter
scarcely of wide enough interest
S.C.A.: There are limitations to
what a short story will carry; a
railway accident, a murder, a rob-
bery, a person unjustly sentenced to
prison for life, a heroine, an adven-
turess, a forgery and a wedding is
somewhat too much of a good thing.
Bellerive: It’s even better than
“Three Blind Mice":
....R.8.N.: You set out determined
to cover several pages of foolscap
with leisurely rhyme. You did it.
C.S.H.: Pleasant, simple jingle
on one of the stock open-air subjects.
No print-value here... .W.O’M.: A
few good grains in it, but far too
much chaff for Bulletin use. Winnow
it to one-fourth the bulk and we’ll
be pleased to hear from you again.
B.D.: As rendered by you, it is
du11... .F.T.G.: On present form it
will be many years before you get
within even cooee of print....
P.A.M.: Go out and enjoy the “long
summer days”; don’t attempt to sing
about them K.C.: Dream on.
We yron’t disturb you by rushing
you into print... .B.B.: Too young
for anything but a kiddies’ page.
R.G.B.: It covers a great deal
of paper without being interesting.
....8.H.: You may be a patriot;
you are no poet... .K.D.: Your
article, so far as the office hand-
writing expert can judge, is exclusively
about something or other that
happened in Iceland. Let us have
something more local; and please
buy or borrow a typewriter.
THE MOUSE.
From a hole in the
Floor 'twill slyly peep
And softly emerge
The sly little thief.
'Twill scenteth for spoil,
In the style of the rat,
Till captured or scared
By a crafty cat.


announces a NiW
AIR^RCEL
POST
Use the new AIR PARCEL POST to send your
parcels overseas via regular Q.E.A. services.
Minimum weight 8 ozs—maximum 11 lbs. Avoid
weeks of delay. Safe, rapid delivery makes AIR
PARCEL POST ideal for those last-minute
Christmas parcels.
AUSTRALIA TO
For further information apply
at your nearest Post Office
Q'E’A
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
OGII
The importance oi
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation are two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
p
I'M
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds—investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to such a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
If you would have particulars of the services offered by the
Company, ring 80377 or write, and make an appointment.
A Senior Officer will be pleased to give the information you
desire
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE,
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES &
AGENT UNDER POWER OF
OTHERS, ADMINISTRATION ETC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £70,000.000.
DIRECTORS:
Hnn T A. J PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.. Chairman; B. B. KNOX;
ALLEN a LEWIS; lion, 3. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. a ARMYTAGB, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT JTAGGA WAGGA. TAMWORTH and ORANGE
a STIR OVER CISSIE
by STUART
MCDONALD
i i nT" HIS is where our
I passengers get off,” said
I Meekin.
“About time,” said
Tompkins. “Another hour on
this train and I’d be willing to
go through the killing-pens and
be knocked on the head.”
“Better not get among them
bullocks, Rufe,” retorted
Meekin. “The slaughterman
wouldn’t know you from a
Hereford with that great red
head of yours.”
“Huh!” snorted Rufe. “You
want to keep away from the
wood merchants.” He looked
up and down the lathy length
of Meekin. “You might get
mistaken for a dead tree.”
The long line of cattle-
wagons, animated by the puffing,
panting locomotive, started and
stopped. The truckers took the
pins from the doors, swung
open the top flaps, dropped the
bottom flaps with a double
crash. Still stiff and comatose,
from being packed together like
huge sardines, the bullocks were
slow to move at first, as though
doubting that there was now
any outside world for them.
The truckers and yarders set-
up a cannonade of sound.
“Hoo, hoo! Yah! Yah!” they
yelled from various vantage-
points at the sides and tops of
the trucks.
The bovine travellers, gal-
vanised into sluggish action by
this discordant barrage of noise,
emerged, but hesitantly, their
horns weaving, their hoofs slid-
ing and slipping on the wooden
flooring. They flinched from the
glare of the electric-lights
illuminating the ramp. But as
they felt the good earth beneath
them they took courage. They
smelt the ground, the dusty earth
that had been trodden bare of
all vestige of vegetation by a
myriad beeves before them. The
smell of trees and grass in far
paddocks came to them. They
lifted their heads and pulsed
their nostrils to the promise in
the breeze of a waterhole in the
distance. Then they went for-
ward, helter-skelter, down the
yard.
The ramp was wide enough to
unload a pair of wagons at a
time. Then the train was
shunted forward to unload
another two and the process was
repeated. As their number
grew, the cattle in the yard
milled into a compact but mov-
ing ring. Round and round
they milled as though they were
attracted by a revolving magnet
in the centre.
F OR the truckers this was the
end of a 300-mile journey.
For a night they would be free
from their cares as the
custodians of travelling cattle.
For a few hours they would
mingle with bipeds instead of
quadrupeds. There were a few
laggards amongst the bullocks,
however, and they lingered near
the ramp. But long Jim Meekin,
veteran among truckers, walked
up to the foremost, and, with
a slap of his slouch hat and a
yell, sent it on its way. He
bounded at the other beasts with
such a show of windmill-like
energy that they, too, took to
their heels and fled to the shelter
of the milling mob.
“You’ll be had-up for cruelty
to animals,” observed Rufe
Tompkins. “That’s if you don’t
get killed in the meantime;
attacking them like that.” He
said this with a grin on his round
red face. He held his battered
old hat in his hand, and his
coppery-hued hair reflected the
glare of the lights. It was this
flaming thatch which had earned
him the affectionate descriptive
nickname of Red Roof.
“A bullock from the back-
country is a very nervy beast,”
replied Meekin, with something
akin to sympathy for these
animals destined for the
slaughtering-pens, “But a man
on foot is a very peculiar thing
to a bullock. Out there a man’s
only part of a horse.”
‘1 feel like part of a train;
the hard part,” said Tompkins.
“I’ve had trucks and cattle. Let’s
get away from the smell of
them.”
“Share,” agreed Meekin.
“Let’s go and nudge a noggin
at Mother Mulligan’s. We
haven’t seen Mother and Cissie
for about six months.”
“We must go and have a
shower and brush - up,’’
Tompkins suggested. “I don’t
mind smelling of the great open
spaces, but I don’t want to be
too realistic.”
Meekin sniffed “Why don’t
you carry a Javender-satchel
with you, my dear Red Roof!”
“Lay off, you!” scowled
Tompkins.
“Never mind, Rufe. I know
how it is. You want to cut a
dash with the ladies. I’ll bet
Cissie has a smile for you at the
pub, and”—Meekin continued
with his banter—“l wouldn’t be
surprised to hear your engage-
ment announced at any time
now.”
But Rufe’s sense of humor
was not highly developed. The
edge of Meekin’s sarcasm was
blunted on him. “Yes,” he
replied, “you needpT be sur-
prised. I took her to the pictures
last year, you remember. She’s
a bonzer girl.”
Tompkins said this with a
pride and a possessiveness that
implied a binding tie between
him and the popular barmaid
and general-assistant to Mrs.
Mulligan at the Drovers’ Rest,
FOR several seasons Cissie
Mulrooney had reigned
behind the bar at the Drovers’
Rest and been accorded regal
honors by its habitues. A niece
of Mrs. Mulligan’s, she had be-
come the mainspring of the
establishment. No beauty, but
slim, and tall, and pale, with
jet-black hair, she was lilylike
and ladylike.
Bad language, uncouthness of
behavior, inevitable at times
among hard-bitten characters in
a bar-room, left Cissie unmoved,
or recoiled on the perpetrators.
A cosmopolitan crowd came and
went in this town that bloomed
for a season and then remained
quiescent for the other and
greater part of the year. There
were regulars whose behavior
could be predicted. Then there
were seasonal newcomers, who
did the unpredictable, and made
quite an obscene and blas-
phemous fuss about it.
Her cool politeness or sweet
concern at any demonstration of
anger or violence threw a sub-
duing spell over the most
boisterous barfly.
“I wish you luck,” said
Meekin. “It won’t hurt a young
fellow like you to settle down.
Cissie should make a good wife.
Why,” he continued, slapping
his friend on the back, “you and
her might take over the pub.”
“I dunno about that,” said
Tompkins, taking everything
seriously. “But I’ve been put-
ting a bit by. I’m shrinking
from the great open spaces. It’s
me for four walls and a soft
bed.”
“Gettin’ soft, eh! ” chaffed
Meekin. “What’s better than a
cattle truck? It’s got four
walls.”
“You can have that; this busi-
ness of travelling all through the
night as nurse to a mob of
cattle is making me sprout
horns and a tail.”
And so they talked as the
empty cattle train was shunted
into a siding. The early morn-
ing would see it on the move
again.
As they made their way across
the railway tracks, a passenger
train pulled in.
“The meatworks special! ”
said Rufe.
“The only difference between
us and the passenger trains,” de-
clared Meekin, “is that our
passengers can’t talk.”
Across the road, at the
Drovers’ Rest, Mrs. Mulligan
looked out the doorway, to see
what the passenger train had
brought.
“There they go ; heads on ’em
like Hereford bulls,” remarked
Meekin. This disparagement
was evoked by the steady stream
of men pouring from the station
gates. Practically all carried
some sort of baggage, a suit-
case, a gladstone bag, maybe
just a blanket rolled around some
personal gear. They had come
from various places and some
distances.
“Where do they all come
from?” asked Rufe.
“Where do flies go in the
winter-time?” retorted Long
Jim.
“I think they come here,” said
Rufe innocently,
MRS. MULLIGAN knew all
the travellers, at least those
who called at her tavern for
accommodation.
“You’ve come back to me,
you growlers,” she welcomed
them, “I feed you and keep you
for the season. Then when you
are all fattened up you get
purse-proud and off you go to
the big smoke. Where do you
fellows retire to in the summer?”
“Give us a break, Ma!” said
Snow White. Snow’s skin was
dark, but his name was White.
“We’ve got to go and earn
money to get out of debt, after
being wrung out at this hotel.”
“Shure, and it’s me that’s in
debt after feeding you hungry


FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
I Available at I
Anthony Horderns’
H
m
■
:#v
WBjJ
o:w;w;>;
xv^xg
ft
Rickers gin
A Sensible Christmas
Gift Suggestion
Save yourself shopping worries
. . . delight your friends.
Give Vickers Gin—easy to
get, sure to please, and so
“Christmassy,” especially
when you use attractive
gift wrappings.
makes your
Christmas entertaining
so much easier . . .
Here’s wishing you festivities in
the weeks ahead ! . . . and here’s telling you
how to make holiday entertaining as easy
and pleasant as it can be !
For the parties that you plan and the
good friends who “drop in,”
make Vickers Gin your
standby. With Vickers Gin,
and some minerals, fruit
juices and a few “etceteras,”
you can enjoy weeks of
happy, generous,
free-and-easy
hospitality.
You can make all kinds of mixed-in-
a-moment long drinks and cocktails.
The free Vickers Cocktail Book tells how.
Be sure the gin is the famous Vickers—
famous for 200 years unchallenged
for purity, flavour and consistent quality.
gh
Give a Vickers Cocktail
Book with each present
of Vickers Gin. We will
send you as many
copies as you need,
FREE. Write promptly to
The United Distillers Pty ,
Ltd., Box 759 G, Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
200 Years oj Tradition - 1750-1950
VG 38/44
wolves at enormous expense,”
shot back Mrs. Mulligan.
“You ought to be dripping
with diamonds,” said Billy
Mateer, “the money we lavish
on you during the season.”
“Uh-huh,” said Mrs. Mul-
ligan. “It’s dripping with drip-
ping only I’d be with you
fellows about.”
These exchanges over, every-
body felt happy. The bar-trade
briskened. The newcomers were
thirsty. Those who were not
financial were able to put it
down on the slate, for each,
barring accidents, would earn a
goodly cheque during the five
months’ killing season at the
R.oss Lake Works. The pay was
high, and double-time frequent.
“They’re like the birds that
go away one season and then
come back from nowhere,” said
Meekin. ‘'l’ve met them every-
where there’s a season. If it’s
not the sugar it’s the shearing;
if it’s not that it’s the meatworks
killing for the export trade.
TheyTe birds of passage. They
work by the seasons; make
their dough and keep moving.”
“Billy Mateer,” cried Rufe.
“How are you, old-timer?”
“I’m not so old,” replied Billy,
shaking hands. “If Methuselah
were living he’d tell you I am
just a youngster.”
Billy was indeed young in
heart; and with flowing yellow
moustaches and a crop of
yellow hair, he belied his early
sixties. He was good at any
time for half an hour’s chat on
his lifetime df working around
a continent.
“And if it isn’t Alan Dunne?”
exclaimed Billy. “Where have
you been all these months?”
The cheerful, rotund Alan
explained that he had been
company-promoting. “Yes,” he
said. “I floated a mine that was
washed ashore.”
“It’s a pity it didn’t blow you
up!” asserted Snow White.
Billy Mateer, not to be out-
done as raconteur, launched
into a story of wealth untold
when Charters Towers was
booming. He was so flush of
money during one of its
ephemeral booms, he said, that
he lit a cigar with a five-pound
note.
“He mistook it for a pak-a-pu
ticket,” explained Alan, who had
heard the story before.
This sally, while not at all
pleasing to Billy Mateer, cut
across the reminiscing and
romancing, and the conversa-
tion turned to the more practical
subjects of the comparative
merits of Mac’s beer from
Rockhampton, or the lighter-
colored fluid brewed at Cairns.
VER the road, not far away,
the meatworks were coming
to life. The furnaces glowed ;
the tall chimney-stacks gave off
streamers of pale smoke, men
moved here and there preparing
the plant for the morrow’s full-
time activities. For seven
months, from September to
April, it had lain dormant —a
handful of people only being
interested in its maintenance.
Tomorrow it would be a hive of
industry ; several hundred bul-
locks a day would disappear
through its killing-pens to fill
the cold stores with frozen car-
casses or to supply the beef for
countless tins of “bully.”
All over the inland north and
west of Queensland the drafts of
fat-cattle were setting out on
long journeys to distant rail-
heads, there to entrain for meat-
works on the coast.
“And here’s the man who
brings the cattle. Without him
we wouldn’t have any meat to
cut up,” said Billy Mateer, point-
ing to Jim Meekin. “Did you
bring plenty of good beeves this
time, Long Jim?” he asked.
“A good mob of Herefords,”
said Meekin.
“And I hope that all the beef
hasn’t been knocked off them
in the trucks,” declared Mateer.
“I believe they’re going to kill
about 400 a day.”
“Well ...” drawled Meekin.
“There should be enough to
occupy you boners and sheers.
This mob must have been pretty
good when they left the station
out towards the Gulf. But they
had to travel about 200 miles to
the railhead over a dry stock-
route. Then they got knocked
about in trucks for about two
days. You’ve got to search for
the prime beef that’s on ’em
after all that.”
Meanwhile the thoughts of
Rufe Tompkins, who was a
silent partner in the conversa-
tion, were of neither bullocks
nor beer. His eyes were alert
for signs of Cissie. He had had
a few trips as a trucker from the
far inland at the end of the
previous killing season. Most
of his working life he had been
a stockman out in the Gulf
country. Women were few and
far between in his environment.
Mrs. Mulligan was serving
behind the bar, assisted by one
of her sons. Any moment,
thought Rufe, Cissie would
make her appearance. His head
swivelled every now and then as
he darted glances toward the
parlor at the end of the bar or
through the hallway into the
dining-room.
His elbow was sharply jolted
by someone who brushed
clumsily against him in passing.
The beer slopped from his glass
and raq down his wrist. He
wheeled round and glared.
Of course it had to be
Muscles Miller. Muscles the
Masher. To Rufe he was a rival
in the field of love. Muscles, a
well-built fellow, fair and hand-
some, was addicted to physical-
culture exercises and muscle
admiration, hence his familiar
name.
Miller gave back the glare he
received. “I said I was sorry,
didn’t I!” he declared.
“I didn’t hear you ; you must
have left your teeth out,” re-
marked Rufe belligerently.
Miller was proud of his teeth
and didn’t like the implied sug-
gestion.
“All right, mug,” he abused,
but still half in jest. “You
want to make something of it?”
He winked at Meekin as he said
this.
“Yes!” said Rufe, putting his
glass back on the counter.
But the tall, treelike form of
Meekin came between them.
“Let it pass,” he said. “You’re
getting too fresh. Muscles.
Keep your strength for the bul-
locks tomorrow. We bring ’em
in alive. You kill ’em stone-
dead with your little butcher’s-
knife.”
“All right, bullock-bashers,”
said Miller, as he moved away.
But he turned and had a parting
fling. “Now, Red Roof, no
carrying on with the girls this
year. You cut in on everybody
with Cissie last year. You’re a
wolf, that’s what you are. A
man ought to warn her.”
RUFE, whose naturally rubi-
cund complexion was
already flushed from the effects
of several glasses of beer, went
redder. He remembered, too,
that Muscles had been a beau of
Cissie’s last year. He could
sense the hostility underlying
Miller’s joking. At least, he
sensed some hostility because
that was his mood. Muscles was
not really hostile to anybody—
he was “not a bad cobber,” as
Long Jim expressed it.
“Leave the lady’s name out
of this,” spluttered Rufe, feeling
that the whole bar-room was
taking notice of his embarrass-
ment.
“I never said a word against
Cissie,” stated Miller indig-
nantly, looking round nervously
to see if Cissie was behind the
bar.
“0f course you did,” asserted
Rufe, who looked round, too,
but without result. “She wiped
you last year ...”
Then Muscles told Red Roof
just what he really did think of
him in the field of gallantry.
Rufe was only fit to live with
a Mullingar Heifer. (What such
an animal is he did not define ;
but it apparently denotes a cow
which is anything but a lady, and
one from which a discriminating
bull would be distinctly averse.)
The fight proper started on the
grass at the side of the hotel.
The fighters were evenly
matched. Muscles was the more
stylish, but Red Roof bored in
to close quarters. The blood
began to flow. But no great
damage was done. Clean hits
were few > and far between. It
developed into a grappling.
(Continued on page 34.)


JfHahes 6n1%
40 SECONDS
wuftite
CHEQUE...
Paying accounts by cash means
standing in queues, waiting for
change, irritating delays, waste of
time.
Then why do it? It is so much
easier to pay by post.
It takes only 40 seconds to write a
Commonwealth Bank cheque. It is
the quick, modern, convenient method
of paying bills. It is safe, too, because
you can stop payment of a lost
cheque.
Paying hy cheque has other
advantages:
It gives evidence of payment if you
lose your receipt.
It adds to your prestige.
It shows you clearly what you have
spent and where.
It saves you keeping large sums of
money in the office or home.
Call in to-day and open a cheque
account at any branch of the
•
PAY
YOUR
ACCOUNTS
(By Qheque
ippgjo
pcfqjimuomoj)
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street. SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Enjoy
holiday
motoring
os.
kyearil
*
w/
' mb. -a
jit K'
I
*Wi
Sil
(mm
H)
UA>i
Mill
S
1
m?r-
with
GOODYEAR
TYRES
No car is safer than its tyres
and the condition of your tyres
can make or mar your holiday
outings. Protect your family,
yourself, your car with Goodyear
De Luxe Tyres—the tyres with
more built-in safety —more
built-in miles.
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
s
$
61.7/16
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Before the Party."
This play, written by Rodney
Ackland on a Somerset Maug-
ham short story, produced by
Winifred Hindle and presented
by the John Alden Company at
the St. James Hall, Sydney,
aims, by means of gentle irony,
to peel away the affectations and
hypocritical manners and trap-
pings of a smug little English
family in Surrey.
The way such things are
generally accomplished in drama
these days, of course, is to pre-
sent the group with an emerg-
ency of some sort and to ob-
serve their behavior in the face
of it. The group in this instance
consists of Aubrey Skinner, the
father, a pompous lawyer about
to go up for nomination for a
seat in Parliament and with a
habit of dealing with problems
by running away from them;
Blanche, his wife, a vague, airy
creature who tries to find com-
fort by believing in what she
likes and disbelieving what she
doesn’t; Kathleen, their eldest
daughter, a bitter, frustrated
young woman anxious to keep
everyone at her own level of
unhappiness; and Susan, the
youngest daughter, a healthy
youngster as yet unconfronted
with any major conflicts.
The emergency which con-
fronts them is presented by the
remaining daughter, Laura,
whom, in the interests of a good
match and family position, they
had married off a few years
earlier to a district commis-
sioner from the Gold Coast, a
man twice her age. The young
woman returns home after her
husband reportedly dies of
malaria, and nine months later
is about to marry an apparently
penniless young man whom the
family considers beneath its
standing. Then a rumor gets
around that Laura’s husband had
suicided, and, horrified by the
thoughts of a scandal, the family
blames her for bringing it on
them. She, with a kind of de-
fensive antagonism, plus resent-
ment of their hypocrisy and sel-
fish fears, turns on them and
reveals that the man to whom
they married her off was a pro-
digious drunkard who had made
her life wretched until, in a fit
of blind rage when she found
him lying on his bed in besotted
stupor, she had cut his throat
with a native knife.
The horrified family feels no
regret for any part it might have
had in the events leading to the
tragedy, nor does it show any
marked evidence of feeling for
the daughter and her tremendous
problem. Its sole concern is
what will happen if the scandal
gets out; the father sees his
Parliamentary career stillborn,
and upbraids his daughter for
even telling him about the busi-
ness ; the mother retreats into
her fancies and tries to convince
herself that the girl must have
experienced a blackout and that
the murder was actually done
by a native; the elder sister
finds a vicious satisfaction in
telling Laura that she can never
marry again with such an act on
her conscience, and that she
must immediately tell her young
man the whole story; and the
youngest sister plunges into a
welter of religious soul-search-
ing and doubts as to the bene-
ficence of the Deity.
Laura decides to oblige them
all by writing a letter to the
young man to find out what his
reactions will be to the facts of
her husband’s death and then
leaving the house and family
for good. She writes the letter
and goes for a walk, and while
she is out the family discovers
that the young man is in reality
the heir to a title, a castle and
other wealthy estates, and im-
mediately finds they have an un-
suspected affection and admira-
tion for him, and become
mightily concerned with the fear
that he will read the letter and
call off the marriage.
Obviously there is a good deal
of Maugham showing through
the play, just as there is a good
deal of obvious entertainment
to be had from the cynical un-
dressing of character—certainly
the audience at the St. James
showed every evidence of enjoy-
ing it immensely. The degree of
enjoyment to be had from un-
dressing, however, depends, as
sundry authorities have indi-
cated, on the degree of delicacy
with which it is carried out, and
playwright Ackland, producer
Winifred Hindle and most of the
cast are guilty of a little clum-
siness and of missing some of
the refinements.
The main trouble seems to be
that most of the characters are
stripped bare at the start, so that
all their smugness, hypocrisy
and selfishness are quite obvious,
and the audience is deprived of
the pleasures of anticipation and
discovery as the civilised frocks
and social petticoats are re-
moved. Miss Hindle and most
of her cast could improve the
production immensely—and lift
it from sarcasm and the comical
to fine irony and delightful
comedy by touching the
characters in the early stages
with more apparent normalcy,
kindliness and humanity and
then dissecting them gently,
though nonetheless relentlessly,
with a scalpel instead of a skin-
ning-knife. They might then
have something of the same de-
lightfully subtle revelation of
character and skilful shift of
sympathy which O. D. Bisset, the
late Jum Pendleton and Eleanor
Marina achieved so successfully
in Bisset’s excellent production
of Maugham’s “The Circle” a
while ago.
Still, none of that is to deny
that the Alden Company has
quite a successful and amusing
play on its hands; that Miss
Hindle’s production, on the
plane she sets it, makes plea-
santly unruffled entertainment;
and that the players rise eagerly
to their lines —a little too eagerly
in places. If Paul McNaughton,
for instance, could make a little
more of the virtues and be in
less of a rush to show the vices
of the father he would be more
credible. Similarly, Verity
Marina could improve an already
very good performance—acting
with both passion and intelli-
gence in it —by holding back for
a little while on the bitter frus-
tration and bitchiness of the
elder sister.
There are similar qualities of
thought and feeling in Madi
Hedd’s performance as Laura,
along with other well-planted
suggestions of burned - out
emotions, exhaustion and mis-
trust —quite the best perform-
ance in the play.
Aileen Britton as the mother,
a graceful, slightly hazy creature,
gives the role most of what it
needs and an extra touch of
charm; her one unconvincing
moment —trying to convince
herself that her daughter hadn’t
murdered her husband —being
more the fault of the author
than anyone. Nellie Lamport
makes a very determined job of
the determined old Nanny;
John Hoskin, as the young
heir, takes the whole calamity in
his stride a little too easily; and
Wendy Playfair, as the youngest
sister, is a pleasant, convincing
youngster until she is forced to
become the play’s voice of con-
science or something, an irritat-
ing voice which could have well
been stilled.
"Young Wives' Tale."
“Young Wives’ Tale,” a
comedy in three acts by Ronald
Jeans, was told, or retold, at the
Princess Theatre, Melbourne, by
the original cast which took it to
Victorian country centres.
It is an average comedy of
the kind of which the city
theatregoer, who, for his sins,
has had to frequent the com-
mercial theatre for a sufficient
number of years, has seen mil-
lions of examples. It posits a
real problem—that of young
married couples stuck by post-
war exigencies into an apart-
ment-house and desperately try-
ing to realise the traditional con-
ception that love is immutable
and exclusive and should last
for ever. The various couples
get into some frightful muddles,
which lead to fresh ones, and
nothing is resolved because there
is no way to resolve them within
the traditional conception.
John Lee, June Brunei, Char-
mian Jacka, June Jago, Valerie
Keast, Kevin Miles and Tony
Slocock play their parts crisply,
but the observation of the author
is of a commonplace order.
* * * *
After an excellent theatrical
flight with plays by Thornton
Wilder, Huxley, Shakspeare and
Shaw, Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre ended the year with a
sudden nosedive into a modern
Irish comedy, “Spring Meeting,”
by M. J. Farrell and John
Perry. No effort of producer
Ludovick Gordon could make
dramatic material of so dated a
plot, nor could the cast, includ-
ing such dependable players as
James Stevens and Diana Bell,
do much with the cardboard
characters and dialogue which
seemed hardly worth committing
to memory.
"The Messiah."
Vivian Peterson was conduc-
tor for the performance of the
Handel oratorio by the Hurl-
stone Choral Society with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra,
with Joan Sutherland, Evelyn
Hall, Ronald Dowd and Frank
Lisle as soloists.
The conductor, not, perhaps,
unnaturally, concentrated on the
choral aspect; but even an
orchestra as well disciplined as
Mr. Goossens’s forces needed a
tighter hand than was accorded
it. While his apparent faith in
the orchestra was undoubtedly
justified, a sterner approach
might have conjured a smoother
texture from it. Where he did
concentrate on the orchestra
alone —the Pastoral symphony—
the result was much better.
The solo singing was generally
sound, with the honors a shade
the feminine way. Evelyn Hall
used a beautifully rounded tone
and fine phrasing in “He Shall
Feed His Flock” and “He Was
Despised.” Joan Sutherland’s
soprano, dramatic in weight yet
splendidly pliant, was heard to
best advantage in “There Were
Shepherds Abiding” and “How
Beautiful Are the Feet.” Ronald
Dowd’s “Comfort Ye” set a
standard from which he didn’t
depart except for a fading tone
in “Thou Shalt Break Them,”


m
W
SUCCESS
k *%> ''
TCRY
Yes l “ The Bquitable ” can
offer a plan of assurance that
will make certain his secondary
education and business training,
and give him a good start in his
chosen profession or trade.
Your action now can take much
of the uncertainty from his life.
Call or write to “ The Equitable”
and discuss this urgent and
important matter.
L R. V. PERKINS, General Manager i
PRDBATtS> GENERAL
CO, LTD,
//eaSO/f/ce37/-373 Queen ft, Brisbane
WINCELLO HOUSE, ANOEI PLACE, SYDNEY
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ALL-BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR ,
WRITING i
ĥgk
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
For Sale.
35mm. Full Size
TALKIE PROJECTOR
Complete unit with films
Suitable for private home or Public
Hall. Further particulars apply, Mr.
T. Oldham, 65 Sandringham Street,
Sans Souci, N.S.W.
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM WOOLDRIDGE
formerly of Oatley.—TAKE NOTICE that
KITTY DOROTHEA WOOLDRIDGE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4019 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
7th February 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from E. H.
TEBBUTT & SONS, Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
No. 712 of 1927.
BETWEEN NATHAN REUBEN
SOLOSION Petitioner and ETHEL ANNIE
SOLOMON Respondent and LESLIE Q.
WATSON Co-Respondent.—TO NATHAN
REUBEN SOLOMON late of 103 Booth
Street Annandale New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that Application will be
made to the Divorce Court Elizabeth
Street Sydney on the 12th December 1950
at 10 a.m. on behalf of the Respondent
for an Order (1) shortening the time for
the making of the Decree Absolute for
Divorce and (2) the making absolute of
the Decree Nisi granted on the Bth May
1929. If you wish to be heard in opposi-
tion you should attend in person or by
your Counsel or Solicitor at the time and
place abovementioned. —J. FOO R D
HUGHES, Solicitor for Respondent, 133
Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CATHERINE ISABELLE DEVON late
of Wallsend.—TAKE NOTICE that
GEORGE CHARLES DEVON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3977 of 1950
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 6th February 1951 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. REID & REID, Solicitors,
61 King Street, Newcastle. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
See this Engineering
Victory!
sss
el
m
The “trim size” JAVELIN
WITH THE LARGE-CAR FEATURES
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 tecs.
Horizontally opposed
Fiat-lour 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen*
sion.
Steel Body.
A streamlined beauty with room
for up to 6 passengers and
luggage. A car that will give
you a smoother road-hugging
ride, 35 m.p.g. economy, and
amazing acceleration. You hart
to drive the Javelin over the
worst roads you know to fed
the miracle of its torsion bar
suspension and to enjoy real
shockless steering. Once tried
you’ll say “I’d rather go by
Javelin!”
it Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W. and A.0.T.: Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgeclifl
Phone: PB 8100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust,: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaida
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Qorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
t»4e a good ' £ovJk Mkest #<nc
IF YOU
SUFFER FROM
any ONE of these symptoms . . .
• Depressed and overtired • Unable to sleep
• Finding it bard to con-
centrate • Suffering from rheumatic
• Irritable and nervy and joint pains
THE ANSWER TO YOUR PROBLEM lies in these simple facts.
Thousands of men have regained their manly attributes —their
lost virility and vigour simply by knowing about . . .
NU-MAN
Read these UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS from people who have
PROVED
NU-MAN
W.P.W., Oawler, S.A. ( extract )
I wish to thank you for the wonder-
ful results of NU-MAN. My age is
63, before taking Nu-Man I was very
depressed and nervy, in fact, it was
too much trouble for me to serve
my customers. I felt I was just
working about my shop to save
funeral expenses. NU-MAN has
given me a new lease of life. I
feel 20 years younger. I can
honestly recommend NU-MAN to any
person my age who wants to feel
life is worth living again. (Dated
29th Aug., 1950.)
E.H., Eastwood , N.S.IF. (in full )
I am taking this opportunity to
write to you at the completion of
my first course of NU-MAN.
I am happy to inform you of the
results of this first course. It has
cured me of getting up repeatedly at
night. I do not tire as easily and
am able to concentrate on my work
a lot more easily. Even my wife has
nicknamed me “NU-MAN” and ad-
vises me to keep up the good work
by continuing with your treatment.
(Dated 9th Aug., 1950.)
■•aq tipy mui VI Whether you’re YOUNG, MIDDLE-AGED,
rUK mCIM UWIil • or ELDERLY, NU-MAN will restore you
to your former self. Get back that lost vitality—snap out of it with a
course of NU-MAN, the genuine, PROVEN treatment which contains
concentrated male, hormone in daily use by the medical profession through-
out the world.
NU-MAN is not just another tonic. , , ,
As you can see from the testimonials (just two from hundreds on our
files) NU-MAN does a real job for all men. NU-MAN contains no harmful
sedatives or stimulants —absolutely safe to take.
BE A REAL MAN AGAIN!
Send for details and trope
a sample of NU-MAN r
Please PRINT your name and address
clearly.
A. B. WARD & CO.
Dept. 81, Bo* 4134, G.P.0.,
i Sydney.
and Frank Lisle’s resonant bass-
baritone was a sturdy sheet-
anchor throughout. The choir
sang generally with good judg-
ment.
Musica Viva.
For its ninth subscription con-
cert at Sydney Con. this en-
semble opened the programme
with No. 3 of the last set of six
quartets which Haydn wrote in
C Major. This glorious work,
written when the composer was
at the pinnacle of his powers,
is a fascinating mixture of state-
liness and good humor. The
second movement, a set of four
variations on the Austrian Em-
peror hymn, and from which the
quartet gets its popular title, was
played with a broad sweep and
no little depth. The Minuet
bubbled along, and the final
movement, with its peculiar
early setting in the minor key,
was worked out with meticulous
care rather than abandon.
The Schubert Quartet in E
Flat Major, Op. 125, No. 1, was
the essence of amiability, the
adagio the most attractively
played.
In the atonal opening of his
Piano Trio in E Minor Shosta-
kovich showed sufficient con-
sideration for his audience’s ear-
drums by muting the strings; in
the allegro which followed he
sought, with some success, to
make up with rhythmic devices
of considerable vitality for the
melody which is lacking. And
so, alternating contrapuntal
cleverness with downright bore-
dom, the ensemble took it to
the end.
"Ruddigore."
Probably the most difficult of
all Gilsullivan from which to
get convincing effects —since it
contains less of the happy slap-
ping at the human race than was
Gilbert’s wont and since the
music has much less appeal
than have most of the others —
“Ruddigore” still offers scope
for exuberant acting.
That attribute wasn’t exactly
noticeable of the Sydney presen-
tation —with the honorable ex-
ception of Richard Walker,
whose work throughout the
series has been marked by a
verve and aplomb and a general
joyousness in the proceedings
which could well stand emula-
tion, Ivan Menzies was rather
more subdued than usual in his
dual role, though as the bad
baronet in the second act he
came to light with work more
in his true vein. Max Oldaker
sang pleasantly as Dauntless,
and Marjorie Eyre’s Mad Meg
was noteworthy.
In the second act the picture-
gallery scene of the ghosts of
departed Murgatroyd baronets
was soundly done. From the
first Sir Rupert, who
His leisure and his riches
He ruthlessly employed
In persecuting witches
to the 20th baronet, Sir Mervyn,
they looked what Gilbert said
of them.
* * * ♦
Although the orchestra under
Harry Hutchins’s baton tyran-
nised over him in places, 68-year-
old singer Peter Dawson made a
brave show at the last of the sea-
son’s concerts at the Town Hall,
Melbourne. The maker of a
million records gave plenty of
point to “Now Your Days of
Philandering Are Over,” from
Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro,”
and if “The Song of the Flea”
(Moussorgsky) didn’t have as
vigorous a bite as it once had,
the baritone showed that he had
lost nothing in sense of rhythm
and expression.
TALKIES
"The Blue Lamp.”
Sydney State is currently
offering this English film, which
seems intent on proving, in its
mainly unspectacular way, that
the London bobby, in his un-
spectacular way, has just as
tough and exciting a time as his
American counterpart.
Oddly, and despite its inten-
tion, the film is most convincing
in its spectacular exciting
moments —although possibly that
impression is due to the fact of
one having been so thoroughly
indoctrinated with the Ameri-
can version that a cop doesn’t
seem like a cop unless he packs
a small armory, thrashes most
crooks within an inch of their
lives with his bare hands and
even treats ladies in distress to a
going-over just to make sure
they’re dinkum. Still, in its
anxiety to make the bobby a
normal man, this film does make
him a little less than that—
almost an eccentric with a para-
mount interest in growing
begonias, choir - singing and
throwing darts, and secondary
interest in finding lost dogs,
looking after old ladies and giv-
ing lollies to children. And that
impression, one hopes in the
cause of law and order, is as
exaggerated as the Hollywood
portrait.
Something like normal
standards take over the film well
on in the running-time when
constable Jack Warner, with an
excellent mixture of fear and
calm, disciplined courage, steps
in front of a young hoodlum
with a gun. Those are the con-
stable’s last mortal feelings, and
thereafter, as Scotland Yard
moves in and the sedate English
police cars lift up their skirts to
show a surprising turn of speed,
the story takes on a distinct note
of probability and excitement.
If Warner seems a little too
occupied with begonias and
whatnot in the beginning of the
film, he does bring conviction
and tragedy to the essential
moment. The other players
mainly responsible for the enter-
tainment are Dirk Bogarde as
the vicious young criminal,
Patric Doonan as his only
slightly less savage partner, and
Peggy Evans as their scrawny,
terrified blonde companion.
"A Life of Her Own."
Although this Metro item,
sighted at Sydney St. James,
promises “90 intimate minutes
with a glamorous model,” its
main revelation is that such a
model would be best and safest
encountered in the broadest
light of day for the briefest
possible time.
Lana Turner plays the model.
Looking rather like a hothouse
peach, she is supposed to repre-
sent an apple from the country
whose natural unspoiled charms
make her a cert, in the modelling
business. As a starter in the
game she meets Ann Dvorak,
an ageing professional clothes-
horse, who, feeling her years and
the absence of contracts and
male attendants, strolls through
a tenth-story window, or slightly
higher. That, swears Miss
Turner, brushing off a wolf or
two, will never happen to her,
and shortly after falls most ab-
jectly for the owner of a copper-
mine, who is none other than
Ray Milland losing a sober
weekend or two in the big city.
Their blissful affair and life
in their comfortable apartment
is tempered by the knowledge
that Mr. Milland has a wife,
crippled in a car accident and
played with all the pathos of an
empty beer-bottle by Margaret
Phillips. It slowly dawns upon
the Turner and Mr. Milland
that their affair is wrong, a
thought which apparently causes
the Turner’s innards to turn over
from time to time and Mr. Mil-
land to make queer shapes with
his mouth and say “Why?
Why?” rather like a steamboat
•coming round the bend. This
odd behavior eventually wears
them down until stem morality
asserts itself, and the Turner
ambles along to see Mrs. Mil-
land with the intention of being
very honest about swiping her
husband but finishing up by say-
ing something slightly incoherent
about nothing in particular and
going on her lonely way to
goodness - knows - where. Mr.
Milland keeps his wife but loses
his Coppermine, evidently as a
kind of retribution for mucking
about with models.
The only character in the
piece who keeps out of trouble
is a “corporation lawyer,” a
fatherly old fossil who is friends
with everyone, and seems such a
safe, wealthy cop that it’s hard
to understand why the Turner
didn’t cotton on to him in the
first place. Louis Calhern plays
the part as though he were dash-
ing off five minutes’ homework.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Santa Claus has invaded the town again,
confident of his welcome, which, in spite
of the alleged toughness of the modern
kid, grows more rapturous every year.
There were about 700 little girls in blue
at the V.A.D. parade on Saturday, all
perfectly turned out. The barracks
parade-ground was vividly green to offset
the sky-blue of the uniforms, the Eastern
Command Band vividly scarlet and white
and gold. Seldom does one see so
decorative a parade. The Wilfrid John-
son Cup for general proficiency was
presented to the City Central detachment
by Sir Leslie Morshead, who also
presented the King’s Bar Brooches for
service over 12 or 17 years. The parade
was led by Mrs. Persia Porter, who looked
especially trig and dapper in her blue
uniform. It must have taken great self-
control for the girls to stand at attention
for so long. About seven keeled over,
which looked a lot, but is only one per
cent., after all. Being V.As. their com-
panions must have longed to break ranks
and rush to apply first-aid. Altogether
they made a very fine showing, justifying
Sir Leslie’s comment that the girl of today
is every bit as efficient as the girl of
yesterday, which is pretty high praise.
This is the season of fetes. Friday
saw the Red Cross fete in Martin-place
and the Eastern Command Fair at the
barracks. There were lots of games of
chance, but not enough things to buy.
Stallholders should concentrate on things
suitable for Christmas presents, and sell
them cheaply. This would ensure brisk
business at this time of the year.
Joy of Youth,, a new book by Ethel
Anderson (who is the widow of General
A. T. Anderson), will be on sale in Sydney
within the next few weeks. It is based
on the letters of the late Patrick Hore-
Ruthven, whose mother, Lady Gowne,
had saved every letter he wrote to her
from the time he was eight years old.
When he was on active service in Palestine
he asked Ethel Anderson to be his lit-
erary executor and to help his mother
make these letters into a book. He hoped
that, should he be killed, his writings
would help to educate his sons, Viscount
Ruthven and the Hon. Malise Hore-
Ruthven, so that all the profits of this
book Joy of Youth go to them. Lord
and Lady Gowrie have expressed their
pleasure at the reception the volume has
had in London. Hatchards sold out
within a few days, and the Times Book
Club says that the book is selling like hot
cakes. It tells of life at Eton and Cam-
bridge, of hunting, shooting, yachting on
the Astrea, and of the wonderful country-
house life in England before the war.
First of the Christmas parties was given
by the Australian-American Association
on November 29. The Royal Empire
Society rooms were beautifully decorated
with flowers and candles and Christmas-
trees. The table, which had been set by
Mrs. Donald Carroll, was eyed off very
keenly by many of the guests, who made
resolutions to have one just like it for
the children. The tablecloth of white
crepe paper with a green hem had pine-
fronds and red bows and bells sewn to it.
Pupils of Alice Prowse sang carols, in-
cluding the Australian carols which hail
the warmth and the Christmas-bush and
the -bells. Tom Alexander gave a talk
on Christmas in America, where prizes
are given for the best electrically-lit home,
because the electricity departments there
want to sell a lot of current —think of it!
Mrs. Alexander wore cool white broderie
Anglaise with a geranium sash. American
Consul Sanford Menter brought Mrs.
Menter, in red with a gingham blouse.
Mrs. Ted Scorfield’s dress was floral
chiffon. Chiffon was the choice also of
Mrs. Greg McGirr, its color violet.
Daughter Trixie wore tobacco-brown in
an off-shoulder style. Patricia Janes,
whose mother is treasurer of the associa-
tion, came in a youthful dress of green
net with velvet bands. In tie-silk were
Claureen Beckman and Gladys Stewart.
Wearing blue were Mrs. Norman Jenkyn
and Mrs. Robert Walder (who looks as
though she could be Maureen O’Hara’s
little sister). Presentations to Mrs.
Florence Taylor were made by Mrs.
Fergus George, whose short hairdo is a
miracle of perfection.
The year 1951 is upon us already as
New Year calendars begin to arrive. One
big one in the office shows a map of the
world with the British Empire prominently
red. England looks so tiny, like one of
those miniature grandmothers we see
sometimes, surrounded by sons so
enormous and grandchildren so many that
one marvels that she could have produced
them.
at the Victoria League’s party
Elizabeth Northcott made the presenta-
tio" to Miss Beulah Bolton, who has been
-retary since 1915, and who
with Clarice Mvl
r Nicholas received the guests wear-
jn g a beautiful black dress with an old-
WO rld ]ace collar round the deep ,
fiecolletage. Among those present were
M rs. Alan Foote in red chiffonj Mrs .
Arthur Chauvel, Lady Sheldon in navy
georgette, Mrs. H. A. Showers in
mo j re Q f a de ffcate orchid shade with
opalescent embroidery and Mrs. A. A.
Rankin j n g rey cre p e . Sheila Chaffey, a
member of the Younger Set, who also
j eaves f or London next year, wore
patterned seersucker. The guest-of-honor
wore black Miss Faithfull-Anderson
midmght . blue velvet<
, .
I* l6 r£ d-headed Irish beauties of fiction
are 30 twinkle-eyed, blarney-tongued, coy
charming ’ that this Letter went
alon g to meet Maureen O’Hara with some
misgiving. It needed only one firm,
warm handclasp from the film-star to
dispel all fears. Maureen, though she
smiles a lot, has serious eyes and manners
so perfect that they were rather startling
in this day and age. She has the
genuinely charming habit of looking
straight at the person she is introduced
to, of listening intently to what is said,
and of answering as fully as she can. Her
real name is Maureen Fitzsimons (with
one “m”), her sisters are four, her brothers
two, and her home-town Dublin. She
hopes to make a picture in Galway (Eire)
soon, for which Richard Llewellyn (author
of How Green Was My Valley ) is writing
the story and which John Ford will direct.
In the meantime she is delighted to be
able to see Australia, and especially the
country life here. Maureen’s skin is as
clear as a pearl, here eyes topaz, or green
or blue, her clothes so simple it would
take a real beauty to get away with them.
The Lord Mayor gave a reception for
Maureen O’Hara, to which all the invitees
came. There wasn’t a single “regret.”
The Lady Mayoress looked cool in grey
with a white hat. Mrs. Hope Gibson
wore a crepe dress as blue as her eyes.
Mrs. Nora Taplin’s grey hat was magni-
ficently and appropriately trimmed with
emerald-green. Mrs. Mel Lawton’s black-
and-white sailor hat was decorated with
little yellow lemons. Mrs. E. G. Whitlam
chose a white hat. So did Mrs. Alan
Barr, whose white silk dress with its
dashing grey pattern was very striking.
Mrs. Douglas Roy (daughter of Alderman
Carroll) came with her sisters, Dorothy
and Joan. Mrs. C. M. Guiney’s suit was
white with blue polka-dots. It was a
crowded gathering and very hot.
Maureen had been more or less mobbed
by the crowd outside and feted by the
crowd inside. When the Lord Mayor
had finished saying all the nice things
about her which everyone felt, her eyes
filled with tears and she couldn’t reply
for some minutes, so it seemed quite
natural for her to have a little quiet “cry”
on the nearest broad fatherly shoulder,
which happened to be the Lord Mayor’s.
After the reception she went out on to
the balcony and waved to the crowd,
quite like the pictures we see of royalty.
She said that she had never had so warm
a welcome anywhere in the world, and
having met Miss O’Hara this Letter
thinks she meant it.
The first meeting of the recently-
inaugurated Garden Club will be held at
the Conference Room (10th Floor), Rural
Bank, Martin-place, on Thursday,
December 7, at 11 a.m. It is expected
that in outlining the plans and objectives
of the club many interesting items will
come up for discussion.
Christmas-party invitations fall thick
and fast. On the eighth of the month
the United Service Institution of N.S.W.
will hold its party at the barracks, when
the president, Air Vice-Marshal Mc-
Cauley, and Mrs. McCauley will receive
the guests.
To have spent three crowded, exciting
months visiting England, Scotland,
France, Switzerland, Austria and Italy
was recently the good fortune of fashion-
buyer Miss Rua Neale, who made the
tour on behalf of her firm, Mark Foy’s
Ltd. Miss Neale says that the most
impressive fashions are to be seen in
Italy today, where beautiful accessories,
handbags, jewellery, shoes are being made
to American designs, and where designers
are making dresses for fashion-leaders
from all over the world. In Italy, too,
she saw the best-dressed men and women
in the world. At cocktail-parties it is con-
ventional for men to go coatless, but
wearing beautifully-made shirts of pure
silk. In Milan she saw one man wearing
a gabardine suit in shot tones of mauve,
grey, blue and pink. The Italian materials
are superior to the French, she says,
although the embroideries might not be
quite so exquisite. There is much use
made of brown and black, of lame with
astrakhan and of fur-linings for coats.
In London, where the fashion-shows
start at 9.30 a.m., she saw 10 shows in
two days. Here Digby Morton showed
the most wonderful suits, many combin-
ing black with navy. Norman Hartnell’s
rooms are in muted colors with crystal
chandeliers, and there is a large ship
made entirely of crystal in his entrance-
hall. The slim line is dominant in dresses,
while every fashion-house showed at
least one example of the new “trumpet-
line,” which is a sheath to the knees and
then flares out in pleats or flounces.
From Melbourne
White trumpet-lilies sent from Sydney
by Lady Latham decorated St. Mark’s,
Camberwell (where the bride’s grand-
father, the Rev. H. A. Brooksbank, was
the first vicar), when Elizabeth Brooks-
bank, elder daughter of Sir Owen and
Lady Dixon, of Upper Hawthorn, was
married. The bridal gown of ivory crepe
was cut on classical lines, and the
Limerick-lace veil, previously worn by
her mother, was held in place with a
circlet of orange-blossom. The bride
carried a bouquet of stephanotis and pale-
pink orchids. Her sister Anne was in
attendance, her gown being of eau-de-nil
crepe. A circlet of stephanotis was worn
in her hair and she carried a trail of tiny
water-lilies. The bridegroom, Peter
Wootton, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. W. Danby, of North Balwyn, had for
best man his brother John. Ushers at
the church were the bride’s brother
Edward and Eric Evans. Reception was
held at the home of the bride’s parents,
Yallambee, Upper Hawthorn.
Sir John Medley, who retires as vice-
chancellor of the University at the end
of the year, opened Allan Bernaldo’s
exhibition of watercolors at the
Athenaeum Gallery. Peg, the artist’s wife,
was decorative in a white-pleated linen
frock, with a rose-trimmed white straw
hat. In the crowded gallery were Mrs.
Les Sangster, in black; Mrs. Arthur
Crofts, who teamed a beige crepe pleated
skirt with a burgundy jacket and added
a small black hat; Mrs. M. Levin, who
had white beads trimming her black frock,
which was worn with a natural straw hat;
Mrs. Leith Crow, with unusual lime-
green trimming on her black frock worn
with a black upturned straw hat; Mrs.
Archie Crow in yellow-rose-printed black
frock and Leghorn hat; and Mrs. Fenton
Bowen, the black hat she wore with her
black frock being trimmed with water-
lilies.
The collection of Ecstasy creations
shown to presswomen begins and ends on
the promise of “No camouflage.”
Fashions for next season depend on the
figure, and the figure had better be good.
In this collection there is the feeling that
clothes touch every inch of the body
again, rather than cleave only at waist
and shoulders. In this desire for the new
slim silhouette the makers of Ecstasy
clothes have introduced the “oblique
line.” This is achieved in many ways. For
example, a black angora frock featured
diagonal tucks frojn neck to hem. A
black silk faille theatre ensemble was
highlighted by a series of deep, flat tucks,
radiating diagonally from the centre seam.
It had a halter neckline and a tiny
matching bolero. To a moss faille in the
new rich brown, a cross-over apron-
skirt gave the desired oblique
look and was further enhanced by
gold and peacock-green sequin
trimming on the pocket-flap. The new
figure must have a close waistline and a
smooth torso. With the silhouette
basically slim, the fullness is achieved by
side-drapes and the introduction of the
sheath line, finishing in the “trumpet
and the “petal” skirt. In this new
silhouette the frock is moulded to the
figure to just below the hips, where it
bursts forth into an inspired series of
fluted godets to form the “trumpet.” The
“petal” skirt has the same slim torso
effect, but the hem is cut into a collection
of large, flat petals, set close together and
edged with braid or faille. The oblique
look was achieved in a lovely parma-
violet lamb’s-wool frock by a wide, deep
shawl-collar buttoning over to the left.
Day frocks featured unusual pockets
and varied collars. Cape collars were
effective, and the pockets, also with the
oblique look, included the kangaroo, a
pocket which stretches round the hips
from front to back. In late-afternoon
frocks this pocket was filled in with hand-
made French flowers. Many of the
frocks featured the half-trumpet skirt.
Cut to this shape in front, there was a
low flare at the back. New' skirt-lines in-
clude the wrap-around and the slightly
barrel-shaped skirt. * The straight skirt
is broken with kick pleats and side slits,
and narrow aprons enfold the slim
sheath-skirt. The length of afternoon
skirts range from 14 to 16 inches from
the floor. The peacock hemline was seen
in cocktail- and evening-frocks. The
sheath-skirt, with the tight-fitting slim
line to below the knees and flaring out
to form the trumpet, was noted on
several lovely evening-gowns. Floating
panels are still news, and interesting varia-
tions were seen. One striking example
was a silk crepe gown in the new smoked-
pearl (a deep-grey with a greenish tint);
the skirt was, of course, slim, the cross-
over drapes of the bodice continued
under the belt to form a full, floating
panel on either side. Gowns for after-
dark also had floating panels allied
to the sheath skirt. One was a violet
brocade embroidered in matching rose ;
this had three floating panels, one at each
side and one at the back. Silk roses, which
exactly matched, were worn at the waist-
line. Sequins have been lavishly used. In
one of heavy slipper-satin in young
willow (a delicate grey-green) its floating
panel was lined with orchid-pink. The
two colors in wide bands formed the
strapless bodice which was heavily en-
crusted with gold sequins.
Included in the new range of colors
were black-rose (a warm color for
afternoon and evening), smoked-pearl,
sable and blue-mink, plumage (an autumn
navy), green-lacquer (rich autumn pastel),
demi-tasse (a flattering brown and black,
the latter the most important shade for
1951). Black on black was seen in the
use of black wool with its sombre tonings
lightened with the shimmer of black-
satin, faille and taffeta. Faille has a new
importance, and was seen in taffeta, moss
and satin finishes. Evening-gowns were
made of puckered nylon and nylon
organza. Coats feature the new slim
silhouette, and the tunic coat, to wear
over slim skirts, is a new feature of the
fashion scene.
R.K.O. Radio and Hoyt’s made a
solid contribution to the funds of St.
John Ambulance Brigade when they
gave at South Yarra Regent Theatre the
Australasian premiere of the Walt Disney
film “Cinderella.” The Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, Lady Brooks and their
daughter Jeanette were present to make
it a gala occasion. Lady Brooks’s ivory
satin gown had gold embroidery on the
bodice, the skirt being finished with a
bustle effect. Jeanette Brooks’s ice-blue
satin gown had the skirt draped to one
side, the bodice featuring shoestring
straps. The vice-regal party was received
by Colonel Arthur Sherwin, commissioner
of the brigade in Victoria, and Mrs. Sher-
win, who wore a black velvet dinner-gown.
One of the most cheerful spots
in town was the South Yarra Club,
when members threw open the doors for
Ladies’ Day. Club president C. E
Norman received commendable assist-
ance from about a dozen members, who
dressed in white aprons and tall chef caps
to carve the turkeys for dinner. Mrs.
Norman, in black cocktail suit and tulle
hat, helped receive the guests with Mrs.
E. Beacham, who added to her floral
frock a wide-brimmed black hat. Mrs.
Dick Newton’s classic grey tulle hat was
worn with a steel-grey taffeta frock
sprayed with tiny clusters of black
flowers. Mrs. Tim Jones wore a beige
chiffon pleated frock and wide-brimmed
white lace hat. Mrs. Maurice Nathan set
off her frock of French beige with an
off-the-face black hat. Mrs. Frank
O’Donell’s cocktail-frock was of grey-and-
black-check taffeta. Vera Pritchard wore
navy white-spotted chiffon over red
taffeta. Mrs. Frank Nicholls’s black
taffeta frock sported a sun top and was
worn with a large black picture hat.


A light and
mellow Port
ghj
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
New captain of frigate Shoalhaven
(lately of Korea), Commander Richard
Innes Peek, gunnery-specialist, had two
years directing Hobart’s six-inchers before
shifting to cruiser Australia, squadron
gunnery-jack and boss of her four Bin.
twins. The Leyte business brought him
0.8. E., and the following Lingayen
broadsides D.S.C. Lean, long, and, natur-
ally (being a gunner), straight, he led the
Australian naval contingent at the Victory
celebrations in London.
Canadian author Fred Marsh should
know his Australia and its people. In 12
months he’s travelled from Cape York
to Perth, visited most places in between,
talked to Idriess, Nevil Shute, Ernestine
Hill, mayors, politicians, sportsmen and
hundreds of other Australians, and
explored our customs, humors and idio-
syncrasies. He hails from near Victoria
(Br. Columbia), where he lives on an
island, and from where he and his wife
have taken in a fair-sized slice of the
globe. Angus and Robertson published
his Get What You Want in 1948, and
another book is about to hit the Canadian
stalls. A likeable cove, he puts a nice
spin on a yarn and a Sherlock Holmes
quality in his observations.
Taking up the Sane Democracy League
cudgel which the late Aubrey Barclay
had handled for 26 years against Com-
munism and Socialism, Benjamin Doig is
the league’s new secretary. One-time
colonel of artillery (rising from gunner
in the Artillery Survey Regiment in 1939
to chief of the inspection-staff at
Salisbury munitions-factory, Si Aus-
tralia), Doig was new-business supervisor
of M.L.C. Assurance. An Old Fortian,
he’s B.A. of Sydney University and son
of a police-inspector.
For “notable contributions to the
science and practice of engineering in
the Commonwealth,” William Hogarth
Nimmo, of Brisbane, Queensland Com-
missioner for Irrigation and Water-
Supply, gets this year’s Peter Nicol
Russell Memorial Medal. President last
year of the Institute of Engineers, which
awards the medal, Nimmo was born in
England, graduated Master of Civil
Engineering from Melbourne University,
and has been connected with major hydro-
electric and water-conservation schemes
for most of his very successful career.
Two of his big jobs are the Somerset
Dam (calculated to keep Brisbane watered
for many years to come) and the Cairn-
cross Dock. Genial and frosty-pated, he
mostly hobbies with his work, though
now and then he does some blasting of
golf-bunkers.
“G.H.G.” farewells a cobber:
Had any intimate friends of his been asked:
“Who do you think is dead?” Thomas Wood’s
name would have been the last to come to
mind. Only a few weeks ago he wrote to me:
"I have never felt so well or worked so well
full days, and not quite enough of them,
but there are no complaints.” Born in the North
Country, son of a ship’s master, Wood was
handicapped with one eye sightless and the
other only ten per cent, efficient. The future
his mother saw for him was that of a small
shopkeeper. Instead, he battled his way through
Oxford on short commons, took his M.A. and
degree of Doctor of Music, and embarked on
those crowded minutes of writing books and
music, travelling, lecturing and filling countless
notebooks in his insatiable thirst for informa-
tion about people and things. His music reflects
bis love of the sea, and of the earth of England
and her earthy folk —“Chanticleer,” a tale irom
Chaucer; “Dogwatch,” about ships and the
sea; “Over the Hills and Far Away”; “The
Rainbow,” his latest work, for men’s voices and
brass band, the poem by Christopher Hassall;
“Norwich Fair”; “St. George’s Day,” a march
for full orchestra and the bugles of the Royal
Marines —“It makes your hair stand straight
up. Other work to follow and being done, and
every sort of play going on as well. A full
life.” Full indeed. But never too full to heed
a friend. His letter of last month was an
immediate response to a request for help for
an Australian colleague. Had he lived, last
Tuesday would have been his 58th birthday.
But the years ran too quickly for him to grow
up, and he remained a youth, with youth s
seeing eye and boundless enthusiasms. Small
of stature but great of heart, with the simplicity
of true bigness and an infinite capacity for
work and enjoyment, he laid down his pen
when life offered “fun and games ahead and
no bleedin’ horror,” But —no complaints.
Elected president of the crew of blue-
water men sailing under the name of the
N.S.W. Shiplovers’ Society, marine knight
Ernest Geoffrey Brookes. He learnt his
bends and hitches in H.M. training-ship
Conway, sailed with the 8.1.5. N. Co. in
1909, commodored the company’s fleet
by 1944, saw the Kaiser’s war out at sea,
and in Hitler’s drove troopships through
the Mediterranean and Burmese inva-
sions. He swallowed the shackle in 1946.
“Morehead”: A 1948 Scorfield Bul-
letin joke-block has been chosen to
adorn this year’s Christmas-card of the
president of the Hertfordshire (Eng.)
County Bowling Association. The draw-
ing shows two bowlers ruefully gazing at
a luxuriant growth of cactus on their
bowling-green. Says one to the other:
“It’s no good, Hollis; we’ll have to get
another greenkeeper.” In his letter to
The Bulletin asking permission to re-
produce the sketch, the president of the
H.C.8.A., Sir Frederick Leggett, wrote of
the “pleasurable memories of the feel-
ings of kinship and friendship” aroused
by a visit to Britain of an Australian team
of bowlers against whom he played twice.
He also recalled a 1944 Frith cartoon in
which an irate Churchill was depicted
asking John Curtin “Who’s timid?” The
cartoon was based on an interjection
made by J. A. Beasley at an International
Labor Office conference at Philadelphia
accusing Britain of timidity in inspecting
working conditions in various countries.
It was Sir Frederick, a British delegate to
the conference, who said to Beasley,
“Timidity is a word we in Britain dislike.
Britain is not afraid to deal with prob-
lems.”
Forty-three years ago Martin
Christophersen, owner of the visage here
depicted by Lambart, left his native
Svendborg in Denmark to try his fortunes
in this part of the world. After a few
years in the South Sea islands with the
Pacific Phosphate Company he settled in
Australia, but on the outbreak of the
Kaiser’s war, he joined the A.I.F. and
went away with the Fifth M.T. Coy. At
the war’s end he came back to Australia,
went into business in Sydney and intro-
duced to the Australian public a confec-
tion of ice-cream and chocolate known as
the Eskimo Pie. Moving to Brisbane, he
formed a new companv which a couple
ESKIMO-PIEMAN.
of years later amalgamated with the
Peters interests, Chris becoming manag-
ing-director of the combined companies.
Six feet tall and a 14-stoner, Danish
Consul in Queensland, he was a
keen golfer till a weak ankle forced him
to give it up for bowls. Among the goods
and chattels he treasures most are the
two cups he won on Diggers’ Day at
Toowoomba Golf Club and a batch of
photographs he sold to “The Lone Hand”
back in 1909.
Vic. Premier McDonald incensed State
Liberals by appointing Jack Lienhop,
M.L.C., Agent-General, a job with a
salary of £2OOO, plus £2OOO exes., and
the certainty of a title on retirement.
Libs say it is a “nice reward for services
rendered,” Lienhop having voted for the
Government on contentious issues. Which
doesn’t necessarily mean that he hasn’t
qualifications for the London job. A
native of Bendigo, he has held the Bendigo
province seat in the Leg. Council since
his first election in 1937. He entered
Parliament as a member of the Country
party, but in 1949 resigned to join the
NEW AGENT-GENERAL.
Liberal and Country party (L.C.P.) on
its inception. Minister for Mines and
Electrical Undertakings in the Hollway
Government, he has been president of
the Bendigo Jockey Club since 1930.
“Dick Turpin”: Australian Shorthorn-
breeders are looking forward to next
year’s Sydney Show with greater interest
than usual. The judge of Shorthorns
and Poll Shorthorns will be Simon Chris-
topher Joseph Fraser, Brigadier Lord
Lovat, D. 5.0., M.C., Chief of the Clan
Fraser, 17th Baron Lovat and owner of
the famed 81-year-old Beaufort Short-
horn stud. Lord Lovat is regarded as the
world’s number one authority on Short-
horns, and cattle from his stud are in
demand all over the world. In the past
most have gone to the Argentine, but two
bulls have come out to Australian studs
this year, one to W. J. A. and F. J. Freud-
enstein’s Tyagong stud at Young, the
other to Frank Hood’s Kywanna stud,
Albury. With a distinguished record in
the last scrap, Lord Lovat will be welcome
to soldiers, especially transplanted Frasers,
as well as to beef-cattle enthusiasts. After
training commandos in Western Scotland
in 1939-40, he took part in the raid on the
Lofoten Islands in 1941, and led the raids
on Boulogne and Dieppe the following
year. He was badly wounded during the
Normandy landing. Since the war he has
been cattle-judging in the Argentine, and
investigating the stud-cattle market in
South America. Beauly, the home of
Lovat’s stud, is in Inverness-shire. As
well as 5000 acres of arable land it in-
cludes 35,000 acres of grazing country in
Glen Strathferrar,
C. Scott Fletcher, lately back on his
native strand for a snap visit, joined the
Studebaker people in Sydney, learnt the
motor business from the tyres up, went to
the parent corporation in America, and,
on its sales-staff, got to South Africa,
Japan and South America, ending as
sales-manager for America. With Pearl
Harbor, he became field-director for the
Committee of Economic Development, his
specialty creating jobs for returning
servicemen. A gifted public-speaker, he
organised committees of this great scheme
in scores of American cities. At the
cease-fire he accepted the presidency of
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Inc., with
headquarters in Chicago, handling educa-
tional films on a world-embracing scale.
H. J. Prater, who has trod many walks
of life and humped his swag along some
of ’em, is calling a halt at the end of
the year, after 25 years’ service as general-
secretary of farmers’ organisations in
Westralia. Born at Kooringa (S.A.), he
started as postal employee, gave that away
to go dam-sinking, following on with
work as a blacksmith’s striker, copper-
miner and smelter-hand. Wanting more
variety, he entered Westralia with his
swag in 1902, worked on the construction
of five pumping-stations for the Kalgoorlie
water scheme, returned east to mining at
Broken Hill and had a shot at farming
in the north of S. Australia before cross-
ing back to the West in 1909. Between
jobs he qualified as accountant. This
gave him a desk job with the Menzies
Consolidated Gold Mines in 1924 ; two
years later he was general-secretary of
the Primary Producers’ Association,
which used to provide the sinews of war
for Westralia’s Country party, and he re-
mained general-secretary when the P.P.A.
and the Wheatgrowers’ Union merged
into the present W.A. Farmers’ Union.
The strenuous years have left him still
a square-built man of active habit.
In his spare-time a serving brother of
the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, keen
bowler and fisherman and an optimistic
follower of trotting.
“X.S.”: A relative correction. Poet
Bertram Higgins, co-editor of the “Aus-
tralian Week End Review” (B.
25/10/’5O), is neither brother of writer
Nettie Palmer nor child of Justice
Higgins, nor related to either. Mrs.
Palmer is not the daughter but the niece
of Justice Higgins.
One of the greatest singers Australia
has produced, Horace Ernest Stevens, has
passed over at 74 in Melbourne. With
his white mane of hair, his indulgent
expression, his noble bulk and his dignity,
the older he grew the more he fitted the
role which helped to make him world-
famous—that of Elijah the prophet—
and until a few years ago his great bass
voice was still equal to it. Regarded as
one of the greatest English interpreters
of Wagner, he made his last appearance
in Melbourne when Ben Fuller, greatly
daring, put on “The Valkyrie” at the
Apollo.
Into the Silence;
In Fremantle, at 66, G. V. McCartney, a
popular public servant who for about half-a-
century had seen ships of all sizes and nations
come and go from Westralia. He joined the
W.A. Railway Department as a lad, and worked
on the Fremantle pier when trains ran to the
waterside and the Railway Department did the
work now done by the Fremantle Harbor Trust.
When the trust was formed he joined it, and
was its g.-m. when he retired about two years
ago.
In Perth, at 72, Edwin Percival Pretty,
mounted-infantryman in the Boer War and for
some lime in command of the A.I.F. camp at
Blackboy (W.A.) during the Kaiser’s war.
As an accountant in the Bank of N.S.W. he
signed hundreds of banknotes at Kalgoorlie in
the days when trading banks issued their own
notes. One-time president of the South African
and Imperial Veterans’ Association of Westralia,
he had latterly been company director and
shipping agent.
At 82, in Sydney, Alfred Coffey, an Irishman
who had been painting in Australia for over
half-a-century. He arrived from Limerick as a
boy, studied at the Sydney Royal Arts Society
and art-instructed at Sydney Tech, before reach-
ing the vice-presidency of the society. Four
paintings and 10 etchings hang in the Sydney
Art Gallery. The Commonwealth Government
recognised his ability by selecting him as Aus-
tralian representative at the International Art
Congress in Dresden in 1912.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 40, J. F. Baragwanath,
of the New Zealand “Herald” for 20 years,
representing it in the Press gallery in 1939-42.
Flight-Lieutenant in War 11, he crossed to
England in 1947 to write up for the M.L. Air
Force the trial flights of the Mosquito.
In Melbourne, at 97, William Oliver,
explorer, yachtsman and friend of Adam
Lindsay Gordon. Son of a pastoralist killed
by bushrangers, Oliver was born at Broad-
meadows station (S.A.), and managed the hrst
of his many stations at 19. He did his yachting
in a succession of four Hurricanes, and sailed
many matches in Victoria against Lord Brassey’s
Sunbeam. Later he took to exploration, and
covered as much of Australia’s outback as he
had of its ocean; measuring and charting by
air the Simpson Desert with Frank Neale,
proving its extension to the south-east. In
partnership with A. L. Gordon he broke-in
over 100 horses at 255. a head.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 74, Lt.-Colonel John
Matson, retired Indian Army officer. At the
Boer War with the N.Z. Mounteds, he accepted
a commission in the Staffordshire regiment,
joined up with it in India, and in War I was
on the North-west Frontier.


DOCTORS
STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
:
Mr?-.
m
im&SAMff
meor
me mi/
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
It’s been proved that Palmolive Lather
Shaving Cream gives smoother and more
comfortable shaves to 3 men out of every 4.
1251 men tried it ... 81% reported "Beards
easier to cut!” 76% said "Less razor pull!"
71% said "Closer shaves!” 80% . . . "Smooths
feeling skin!” You be the judge. Prove that
Palmolive Shaving Cream will give you, too,
smoother, more comfortable shaves.
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES * SALESMEN • LAWYERS
ONLY
USE
PBC/120
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
£6
||IV.
m
ISTA
T °U£y
special HOSPIT
s
f&XZ.'Vi' 1 «««•«.
T *uir. «*ott 4
cfr
**ei
°*A/i
oy
The Brandy
you’ll be
proud to
offer . ~
M.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
THE SERVICE MAN
DISASTER IN KOREA.
“Ek Dum”; The swiftness of
the transformation which has
taken place in the Korean situa-
tion is shown at once by a com-
parison of the papers for
November 25 with those of the
past weekend.
On November 25 the main
headings of the sober London
“Times” report of Korean events
read; “General MacArthur’s
Korean Offensive Gains of
Eight Miles on First Day.” The
report stated that “United
Nations forces attacked all along
their 60-mile front in the north-
west and met little opposition.”
The military correspondent of
the paper recorded that “the
offensive launched yesterday
morning in Korea has, in a
sense, a political as well as a
military significance. It indi-
cates General MacArthur’s con-
fidence in the ability of the
Eighth Army to reach the
frontier at all points.” He said
that “it seems also to put an end
to speculation about the possi-
bility of negotiation with the
Chinese on the basis of their
continuing to occupy a belt
south of the frontier.... General
MacArthur’s reported statement
that the attack, if successful,
should, for all practical pur-
poses, end the war and enable
prompt withdrawal of the
United States military forces
suggests that he has little doubt
on the subject.”
Gen. MacArthur’s Preview
Amid the outcry that de-
veloped against him within a few
days. General MacArthur
dismissed the idea that he had
been serious in this statement
and in his suggestion that when
the offensive ended the Ameri-
can troops could go home for
Christmas; but there was no
doubt about what he actually
believed on the basis of his
signed document issued on
November 24:
The United Nations’ massive com-
pression envelopment in North Korea
against the new Red Armies operating
there is now approaching its decisive
effort. The isolating components of
the pincer, our air forces of all
types, have in three weeks, in a
sustained attack of model co-
ordination and effectiveness, success-
fully interdicted enemy lines of sup-
port from the north, so that further
reinforcement therefrom has been
sharply curtailed and essential sup-
plies markedly limited. The western
sector of the pincer, with noteworthy
and effective naval support, has been
steadily advanced in a brilliant tactical
movement and has now reached a
commanding enveloping position,
cutting in two the northern reaches
of the enemy’s geographical potential.
This morning the western sector of
the pincer moved forward in a
general assault in an effort to com-
plete the compression and close the
vice. If successful this should for all
practical purposes end the war,
restore peace, enable the prompt with-
drawal of the United Nations military
forces, and permit the complete
assumption by the Korean people
and nation of full sovereignty and
international equality.
Half a Million Chinese
This was written in the face
of the persistent and, as it has
proved, true claim of Peking
Radio that 600,000 Chinese were
moving to the Korean border.
The utter deception of the
United States forces, which has
always had about the worst and
most credulous military intelli-
gence service in the world, was
proved by General MacArthur’s
statement on December 2, a
week later, in which he said that
“a state of undeclared war be-
tween Chinese Communists and
the United Nations now exists,”
that “the front echelon now en-
gaged in attack on our forces
comprises something more than
half of 500,000 men, with a rear
echelon of equal strength rapidly
moving up from Yalu River
bases, apart from the remnants
of the North Korean forces now
being rebuilt under Chinese
auspices which totalled still as
many more.”
These forces, he declared,
“overwhelmingly outnumbered
the Allies, whose numbers I
would not care to give.”
This devastating news made
such an impression on the Syd-
ney Press that it was admitted
to the front page of Australia’s
oldest newspaper, along with
“Dutch Mother Gets Custody of
Malayan Jungle Girl,” “Weather
Halts Test” and “A.J.C,
Stewards Say Swabs of Two
Horses Positive.”
The Attack Begins
Apart from General Mac-
Arthur’s appreciation of the
situation on November 24, the
manner in which the offensive
started with only a handful of
reserves showed all too clearly
the carefree manner in which
“What’ll I do with the pin, sir?"
the undertaking was entered
upon.
The attack began with seven
United States and South Korean
divisions deployed over the wes-
tern half of the narrowest part
of the North Korean Peninsula
on a line which lay between
Pakchon on the western coastal
road and rail to the Yalu River
border 60 miles away, and Tok-
chon, in the centre of the neck
of the Peninsula, a key road-and-
rail centre about 30 miles air-
line from Pakchon and about
90 miles from the Yalu.
In order of the forces read-
ing from the west, the United
States 24th Division, nearest the
coast, at 8 a.m. in bitter cold,
moved its tank column, which
went on for two days, little
molested, up the road to and
through Chongju, a big junction
60 miles from the border feeding
two roads and two railways to
the Yalu. Next the Ist Korean
Division drove towards Taechon
from Pakchon area, and
the 25th Division, still nearer
the centre of the neck of
the peninsula, went on un-
molested to within four
miles of Unsan, flanked on
its right by the 2nd Division,
which in turn had three South
Korean divisions operating on
the extreme right flank from
Tokchon into mountainous and
difficult country. The way had
been prepared by reconnaissance
which had found only enemy
patrols, and by intensive fire-
bombing.
Up to the end of the
second day the only area in
which firm enemy resistance had
been encountered was that of
the Ist South Koreans making
for Taechon, They bumped
suddenly into a Chinese regi-
ment and bounced back a mile
or so, but “had the situation in
control,” and the event did not
disturb the post-prandial confi-
dence of the staff at Seoul that
“barring further Chinese inter-
vention, the Allies would drive
through to the Yalu.” Nobody
seems to have worried much
about a Peking announcement
that “large forces of volun-
teers” had crossed the Yalu at
several points within the previ-
ous few days intent on driving
“the imperialist aggressors” into
the sea. In Tokyo a spokesman
of the U.S. Eighth Army said
the advance was “exceeding ex-
pectations.”
On November 26 —the day on
which Red China, following the
democratic example of the
Workers’ Only Fatherland,
banned strikes and lockouts as
a method of settling industrial
disputes—both the Ist South
Koreans facing Taechon and the
U.S. 25th Division further east
making for Unsan became con-
vinced that they had tapped the
main enemy line.
In the Unsan sector it was
estimated that there might be as
many as “20,000 of the enemy
entrenched.” The U.S. column
ran head-on into their defence
positions and immediately fell
back. Over to the east
the 2nd Division encoun-
tered a sudden burst of enemy
activity from forces north of
Kujang on the road to Huichon
which surged round a U.S. ad-
vance company. At the same
time the Communists made a
lightning-stroke southwards be-
tween the 2nd and 25th Divi-
sions and to penetrate to the
Chongchon River, which has
been a sort of American marker-
line.
Even this, however, did not
disturb the U.N.O. leadership.
That evening (Nov. 26) General
Almond, commanding on the so-
far-quiescent eastern flank up
towards the Russian border, re-
marked that “just as we are lick-
ing the Reds we will beat cold
weather and the terrain.” Thirty
“Leftist” British Labor members
celebrated the day with a motion
calling for a limit line to the U.S.
advance. Australian Peace
delegates in Moscow spent the
evening attending a concert by
the Alexandrov Red Banner
song-and-dance ensemble of the
Red Army somewhat queer
company for peace delegates.
Defence Hinge Broken
In proceedings so far the
United Nations had done one
thing. The Allied lines in North
Korea divided themselves into
two fronts anchored to Tok-
chon area in the centre of
the peninsula’s narrow northern
waist. It was vital to the
security of the north - east
part of the line from this
point towards the Russian border
that the hinge should be invul-
nerable, because the right half
of the line is in a comparatively
narrow strip of territory. An
enemy in force, if he could drive
down from the Yalu to the sea
near Hamchung, n.-n.-e. of
Tokchon, could cut off the
whole of the right wing of the
U.S. forces by land. And cer-
tainly there had been strong
Chinese-Korean forces within 30
miles or so of Hamhung. It is
a measure of the confidence of
the U.S. command in the utter
weakness of the Chinese that
they left this vital waist sector
with its difficult country to the
management of the South
Koreans working on the flank of
a line which became unhinged
from the east while in move-
ment and in a most difficult ter-
rain in which conditions for in-
filtration from the north were at
their best.
Chinese Hordes Arrive
It must have been evident
that if anything were to go
wrong in this region the whole
rear of the western offensive
would be threatened and the


Your savings are as
SAFE AS AUSTRALIA
INVEST THEM
TO LEND YOUR COUNTRY STRENGTH
The money you have accumulated by careful spending, regular saving and wise
Investment means SECURITY for you in the future —but only as long as Australia
remains secure.
Everything you can do to help make Australia safe will help also to make your
savings safe.
Australia’s economy must be strengthened to make possible the rapid completion of
many vital national tasks. You can help lend this strength by lending your money —
by investing every available penny of your savings in the Eleventh Security Loan or
by converting your maturing Securities into this new Loan.
4% Securities now due for Conversion.
All outstanding 4% Commonwealth Securities
originally due to mature between 1953 and
1961 will now be repayable on 2nd January,
1951, by exercise of the Treasurer’s option.
Interest payments will cease on that date. If
you hold any of these Securities, convert them
at once into the Eleventh Security Loan and
you will prevent any interruption to the income
they bring you. The column on the right
gives you all the information you need about
conversion. Read these details now.
For New Investors, Too.
Eleventh Security Loan Bonds are also
available to everyone with savings to invest.
For as little as £lO you can secure the
benefits of this Loan. Invested in this way,
your savings will be absolutely safe, will
earn regular interest and will be readily
available in case of emergency. The column
on the right of this announcement tells you
all you want to know about cash investment
in the Eleventh Security Loan. Read it now.
LEND STRENGTH TO AUSTRALIA
kfg
INVEST IN THE
ELEVENTH SECURITY LOAN
lISLI 1.l 15.1 if
All you want
to know about
CONVERSION of
4% Commonwealth
Securities
The Commonwealth Securities
which will be repayable on 2nd
January, 1951, are all the 4%
Commonwealth Bonds and In-
scribed Stock issued in August,
1931, now outstanding, and
expressed to be due to mature
on the following dates: —
15th July, 1953.
15th December, 1955.
15th November, 1957,
15th October, 1959.
15th September, 1961.
The Treasurer has exercised
his option to redeem these
Securities before the final dates
of their maturity, and they are
now due for redemption or
conversion on 2nd January,
1951.
If you hold 4% Inscribed
Stock, or own 4% Common-
wealth Bonds held in safe cus-
tody by your bank, you should
have received a letter from the
Treasurer telling you the new
date on which they will mature
and enclosing a conversion
application form which you are
advised to complete immediately
and return to your bank.
Whether or not you have re-
ceived such a letter, if you hold
any 4% Securities your holdings
are affected and will cease earn-
ing interest on 2nd January,
1951, unless they are converted.
Your bank or stockbroker
will, immediately on request
from you, arrange for conver-
sion of your holdings into the
Eleventh Security Loan. You
will then possess Eleventh
Security Loan Bonds or In-
scribed Stock of the same face
value as your maturing Securities
and interest on your Securities
will continue.
Interest on the new Securities
is payable each six months at
3£% per annum for 11-14 years
or at 2% per annum for three
years. (Investment in 2%
Securities must be for £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
Cash Investment
As well as those with matur-
ing Securities to convert, every-
one may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O,
£lOO, £5OO or £1,000) or Inscribed
Stock through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3J% per annum for
11-14 years or at 2% per annum
for three years. (Investment in
2% Securities must be for £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There’s no better place
for your savings. Invest at once.
The Eleventh Security Loan
I closes Thursday, 14th December.
drive there would be turned in-
stantly into a retreat for life,
while the eastern sector running
up the Sea of Japan towards
Russia would risk isolation. Yet
no precautions were taken, no
alerted reserves were seemingly
available when, in a day of driv-
ing snow, an overwhelming force
of Chinese, without artillery,
lightly equipped with automatic-
arms and small mortars, broke
into the eastern South Korean
sector on a front eight miles
wide and sent the remnants of
the advance back 14 miles be-
yond Tokchon, leaving the U.S.
2nd Division on the west with an
open flank just as the Chinese
opened a full offensive on a 22-
mile front from Unsan against
all the U.N.O. troops west of
that point.
The Americans hastened back
behind the Chongchon River,
certainly without heavy casual-
ties so far as has been reported,
though with great difficulty in
view of the apparently unlimited
numbers of the enemy and the
blockage of the roads at some
points by his guerrillas.
Resting troops, including the
Australians of the 27th Brigade,
were called out hurriedly and
pushed over the Chongchon.
Marines from the eastern
sector were sent in to attack the
flank of the Chinese advance
near Changjin, well up towards
the Yalu, but were soon stopped
in their tracks. They found
themselves up against a solid
wall of Chinese movement with
the immediate weight of a
quarter of a million men behind
it rolling on in waves, horse and
foot, against retreating four U.S.
divisions on the west and the
fast-fading Koreans, who be-
came exhausted with shooting
them. By November 29 the
enemy spearheads were 20 miles
south of the Chongchon River
towards the centre of the waist,
and it was now no longer a
question of when the Allies
would get to the Yalu, but of
how many of them would get
out of the trap made by the
hordes of Communists pouring
through the gap in the centre of
the peninsula and wheeling left
towards Pyongyang to get be-
hind the rear of the retreat.
The rest of the week was plain
disaster, which sent the whole
world into an atmosphere remi-
niscent of the beginning of
World War II in the Pacific. (At
this point the Australian “Labor”
party moved to defer con-
sideration of the Govern-
ment’s compulsory - training
scheme!) The British 27th
Brigade, thrown across the
Chongchon River, was brought
out without fighting in the rear
of the Turks, who had one of
their battalions surrounded and
fought their way out of three or
four gaps with a vigor which
showed that they have not lost
their old dash.
On November 30 the Chinese
were forced to pause, through
outrunning their communication
lines. But it was clear that the
respite was only temporary. On
the far north-east the Ist Marines
Division and two regiments of
the 7th Division were cut off
near the Changjin reservoir, in
an area in which they had been
sent to try to break the left flank
of the enemy’s advance. On the
west, troops, including the 27th
British Brigade and the Aus-
tralian Royals, endeavoring to
hold the Sinaju-Pyongyang-road,
could not know whether the
enemy was not behind them,
since the countryside was full of
guerrillas.
A New Offensive
When a new Chinese offensive
opened on December 1, it was
obvious that General Mac-
Arthur’s estimate of the enemy
manpower when the Allied drive
began only a week before —
120,000 Chinese and North
Koreans together in the west
and 60,000 in the east—had
been very inadequate.
The only bright spot as the
Communists began to fling their
attacks into the Hamhung sector
to cut communications com-
pletely between east and west
sectors was the return of the
2nd U.S. division, which fought
its way out of the swirl of the
centre of the peninsula, where it
had been temporarily engulfed by
the surging tides of the enemy
rushing down on each side of it
about 30 miles north of Sunchon.
The weekend saw the roads
north of the Sukshon-Sunchon
line covering Pyongyang clogged
with transport and reminiscent
to some Australians covering the
retreat from the hillsides of
the retreat in Greece. Further
north, fanning out in east and
west in white winter uniforms
the Chinese came on, driving in
front of them mobs of refugees
in the time-honored German
and Russian manner. Pyongyang
was under bombing by Com-
munist aircraft, despite U.S. air-
power.
It was quite clear that the city
was doomed and that on the
other side of the peninsula
coastal Wonsan must fall, the
whole eastern force of the
United States along the Japan
Sea then being cut off. By
Sunday scarcely a shot was being
fired as the Allies drew back
behind their retreating head-
quarters in a temperature which
became colder every minute and
in blinding snow in some parts.
The position had become worse
on the following day. Nothing
could save it permanently except
infinitely more men and re-
sources, which were not available.
In carefree, dogracing,
gambling - mad Sydney, so
divorced from all world realities,
that day a firm was advertising,
as a Christmas treat, “genuine
Russian caviare in loz. and 2oz.
jars at 9s. 6d. and 195.”


A weight off his mind
m
■r
M
"V
I
n
Retirement did not mean the end of this man’s business worries; he had
been saddled with the exacting duties of an executor. Very wisely, he
decided to transfer full responsibility to Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited, and so regained his right to a carefree life. #
You will do well to take similar advantage of the Company’s specialised
services BEFORE you retire. A senior trust officer will welcome your
enquiries. If you find it inconvenient to call, please write for the booklet,
“Hands That Never Leave The Wheel.”
D I RECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R, Overton. F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor Trustee Attorney
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 6901 Box 543, G-P-O*
Agencies at Albury, Bathurst, Goulburn, Orange and Wagga.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
TO JAMES McGREGOR BAILEY formerly
of No. 74 Molle Street Hobart in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a Notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of IDA JOAN
BAILEY of Hobart in Tasmania praying
for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said Petition and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto and
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid within forty days after
the date of this publication an Appear-
ance must be entered at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart. —J. R. REX, Principal
Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the above-
named JAMES McGREGOR BAILEY who
may see this advertisement are requested
to bring it to his notice.
IN~THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GWENDOLINE ALTHEA ZENA
KILROY late of Aberdeen Road Muswell-
brook.—TAKE NOTICE that JOSEPH
FRANCIS KILROY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2783 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 23rd January
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. ALISTER JOHN-
SON & MCDONALD, Solicitors, of 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall,
2 York Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY KATES;
Single Kooms—
From 9/6 per night
Doable Booms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
■'METROPOLE,"
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
X
- at
ir ifMiit'iii
I I
u
Jl- {'(«
•I
ill
B
111
H
■
M
•
.-■» • B
%r. #
JW W ■waA
THE "OKEH" FISHERMAN'S KNIFE
Made from high-grade carbon
steel, every blade individually
tempered and ground. Practically
indestructible, with interlocking
shield, tang and blade.
PRICE
10/6 each
mmmm
Every knife guaran-
teed. Leather sheath
1/9 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD. For all fishing supplies.
654 George Street, Sydney. M 6261
Catalogue post free on request.
"HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM"
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry,
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, the
Apiary and General Farm Activity.
PRICE ONE SHILLING
Published by The Bulletin
252 George Street, Sydney;
Newspaper Co. Pty., 14d.,
247 Collins St., Melbourne.
pummelling battle which went
on until both were exhausted.
They went into a final clinch
and fell to the ground, where
they were disentangled by the
onlookers and stood upon their
feet.
“Better give over, boys;
you’ve had enough,” said
Mateer.
Billy had been a pugilist of
some calibre in the youthful
days of his varied career ; and
if he said they’d had enough,
then they’d had it. Long Jim
Meekin concurred. And the
crowd, somewhat disappointed
that the fight had not gone
longer, began to break-up.
The two rivals, both gory
from bloody noses, but other-
wise unimpaired, shook hands
reluctantly.
“What would Cissie think of
you two now?” queried Meekin.
“Have a drink and forget.”
“What’s all this?” Mrs. Mul-
ligan, who had been manoeuvring
and clucking at the rear of the
spectators, was now allowed to
push through to face the con-
testants. “I won’t have such
goings-on,” she declared. “This
is a respectable hotel. Och!
Look at the blood,” she
crooned, averting her face, thus
paying due respect to what was
expected of her as a lady. This
concession to delicacy having
been made, she expressed her
more virile sentiments. “I
ought to knock your two heads
together, you hooligans, upset-
ting me bar-trade like this.”
“It’s all right. Mum, they’ve
just had an argument over
Cissie ; but they’ve finished it,”
Billy Mateer informed her.
“Argument! Over Cissie! ”
Mrs. Mulligan shrilled. “You
pair of gawks. Cissie got
married a month ago. She’s
gone to live at Brisbane.”
The two gory and misguided
knights-errant looked at her
with open mouths; and then at
each other. And then they
smiled, thinly, without humor at
first and then broadly. One or
two of the bystanders laughed.
Then everybody laughed. Men
slapped each other on the back
and shook with mirth. And the
wholesale merriment that
ensued brought record trade to
Mrs. Mulligan’s bar.
“ ’Tis quite a fine pipe-
opener to the killing season.
proper, so it is,” she confided to
Billy Mateer.
DAWN was dimming the
stars as the truckers made
their way to the train for the
return journey to the western
railhead. Over by the meat-
works there was a lowing of
beeves and a rustle of hooves as
the yarders brought along a draft
from the resting-paddock for
the first day’s killing. The cattle
bunched at the race leading to
the killing-pen; but weight of
numbers from behind squeezed
individual beasts from the mob,
one by one, until the race was
full. All was ready for the
opening of the season.
The truckers settled down in
their bunks and the train
snorted, puffed and began to
move.
Rufe soliloquised: “It’s no
wonder they say women are
queer cattle.”
“Well!” said Long Jim, point-
ing the stem of his pipe at the
red-thatphed one. “You know
what a bullock is going to do.
But once you get tangled up
with a woman! I tell you . . .
It’s a fair cow.”
GOOSE STEPS
By E. MARY
MEDLEY
THE members of the school
council sat for the last
meeting of the year round
the library-table. The
bishop presided, and a long
agenda confronted them. The
middle-aged and elderly men and
women —parents, old boys of the
school and local people of stand-
ing—looked unusually solemn.
The headmaster had recently
been appointed. There were dis-
turbing rumors that he had
“ideas.” A number of letters
had been received alleging de-
viations from tradition. It was
said that the boys had been
allowed to form an advisory
council and discuss matters of
discipline and organisation.
“No nonsense like that in my
day,” said the oldest of the Old
Boys. “We got told what to do
and damn well did it. Don’t be-
lieve in all this self-government
stuff; never did.”
There were other complaints.
The boys, all under fifteen,
roamed the countryside on “pro-
jects,” and though the school
museum benefited thereby, it
was not looked upon with favor.
“No wonder we were beaten
by St. Anthony’s. A boy is no
good unless he plays games, hard
and often,” said an athletic-
looking father, hunching his
enormous shoulders and leaning
heavily on the table.
The bishop, a peace-loving
man, let the discussion weave
back and forth across the table,
seeking for an opportunity to
steer the discussion into more
peaceful channels. But the worst
was to come. A letter was pro-
duced on notepaper that every-
one recognised. It was bright
blue, and the handwriting was
large and sprawling, covering all
four sides of the doubled sheet.
The faces round the table re-
gistered interest and alarm. The
writer was known locally as the
Duchess. She lived in the big
house down the road, a can-
tankerous old lady who had to
be conciliated by the school
authorities, as her park adjoined
the school-grounds, and it was
known that considerable benefits
would come to the school on her
death. If she did not alter her
will. The letter rambled along.
The gist of it was that the writer
had the gravest fears for the dis-
cipline of the school, as she had
distinctly seen a group of boys
behind the sports pavilion
practising a form of salute that
could only be associated with an
attitude of defiance to the forces
of law and order.
OMINOUS silence followed
the reading of this letter.
Then babel broke out, and the
meeting became completely out
of hand. In an effort to regain
control the bishop sent for the
sportsmaster, and persuaded the
council to accept his explanation,
that the uplifted right arms were
part of a javelin-throw and had
no political significance. The
meeting calmed down, though
there were still some rumblings,
and the business proceeded. At
the end of it the bishop intro-
duced a note of seasonal good
cheer.
“The festive season is
approaching, as you know, my
friends,” he said, “and as usual
the school-farm is able to pre-
sent each and every one of you
with some of the poultry which
the boys help to care for as part
of their rural education. The
geese, I understand, are specially
good this year.”
The school secretary attracted
the bishop’s attention and
whispered agitatedly. The
bishop turned again to the meet-
ing.
“At the moment, I regret to
say, the geese have strayed and
cannot be found. However, a
search is being made and we
must hope for a favorable out-
come. The meeting is closed and
tea will be served on the
veranda.”
The headmaster and staff
joined the group, and a pleasant
atmosphere took the place of the
tension of the council meeting.
The veranda was large and old,
the brick floor uneven with the
trampling of generations of rest-
less small feet. The school
paddocks sloped away from it
through the tall gum-trees down
to the creek, where frogs croaked
and smaller boys endlessly sailed
their home-made boats.
The bishop stood with his
hands clasped behind him, his
gaitered legs slightly apart, and
surveyed with pride the rolling
acres. The school was prosper-
ous, and such small ripples on
the smooth surface of its career
as had appeared at the meeting
could safely be ignored.
As he looked down to the
creek a procession of small
figures came into view. They
were five of the senior boys of
the school and each had one arm
raised with the fingers pointing
forward in a way that was all
too reminiscent of the subject of
the Duchess’s letter.
Blanching visibly, the
bishop turned to see
whether the other members
of the council had also observed
this ill-timed demonstration.
They had. They stood in a
row along the veranda, goggle-
eyed and furious. Just as the
storm was about to break the
head of the procession appeared
round the end of the veranda.
It was a small and very muddy
boy. He wore a dripping pair of
football shorts, and—quite
obviously—nothing else. In his
arms he carried a goose, its body
wrapped in a football jersey, the
head and neck completely en-
cased in one sleeve and sticking
straight up. The unfortunate
bird’s beak protruded through
the cuff of the sleeve as it
strained to express its feelings at
this insufferable indignity. The
five small boys staggered up to
the veranda and deposited their
burdens at the bishop’s feet,
neatly disrobing them by pulling
the jerseys over their heads.
The leader glanced at the
headmaster.
“They’d gone miles, sir, and
gave us trouble, but we got ’em,”
he said.
The five little boys pattered
off, leaving a trail of wet slime,
and disappeared in the direction
of the tuck-shop, every move-
ment of their bare shoulders ex-
pressing satisfaction at a job well
done.
THE FRIAR-BIRD.
Bracken, sand and bush. Barely a dozen thoughts
Creation scattered here. Oh, who thinks like this?
How wizened is his mind I Thicker than these nuts
Rinds is his skull. He can't hear the hiss
Of the mating snakes, where his danger lies;
Which, as his mind is blank, may, too, seal his eyes.
Here lives this world’s mystic, knows its hidden smile
Of the clean sands under unrevealing bush,
Thigh-deep seas of bracken, sameness of each mile.
Who would heed the friar-bird in the bottlebrush?
Who would ambush silence with such raucous clatter?
It is safer then for him to hear another chatter.
But who can speak to lonely bush, who can speak with
trees?
Only the friar-bird may call, speak like this.
Blady-grass would cut the throats, put dead men at ease,
When their tongues from talking grew black like his.
But the bush is listening still; it is worthwhile.
Here lives this world’s mystic, knows its hidden smile.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


&
m
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
hj
RELIEF
FROM THE
PAIN OF
RHEUMATISM
Dolcin has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic disorders
in America, Canada and England.
Now it is made available for you.
Dolcin Tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis. Pro-
longed relief is also given because
Dolcin contains substances which
improve the supply of blood and
oxygen to the affected tissues.
DOLCIN is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or any
other organ,
DOLCIN has been approred In
clinical tests and prescribed by
the Medical profession.
DOLCIN Is easy to take In Tablet
form.
DOLCIN h obtainable from your
Chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
relief from
CHOKING ASTHMA
Dr. Hair’s English Asthma
and Bronchitis medicine has
helped thousands of sufferers
to escape the agonies of
Asthma, Bronchitis, Catarrh
and Hay Fever. You, too, can
be free of those frequent
bouts of wheezing, coughing
and fighting for breath. Get
this famous English treat-
ment from your chemist or
write direct to George Ripley
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 228 Pitt
Street, Sydney. ha. 13
mi
BRANDAUERS
t
PENS
Every poinC
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER « CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENQ
vVAnu
z
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
H.M. KING GEORGE VI
queray Gordon tod Co. Ltd.
Quaty
<y*tC4rmJMx/b&Q&
Gordons
Stands Sup'&JM
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
4 *row** %
■
TOP —Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping:
grrate.
BOTTOM —Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detrolt BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - • REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
Lou mumbled something about
“Soon be there now.” Each day
he was becoming more difficult
to understand. His withered
cheeks had caved in around his
toothless gums, muffling the
words. He could no longer sit
up without assistance, though he
managed to grin at Andy’s con-
cern.
“Just a touch o’ rheumatics,
lad,” he said. “Old bones don’t
take too kindly to wet clothes
and ’ard planks.”
Midnight and a tumbling sea
of gleaming wave-tops, the only
sounds the hiss of water and the
occasional drumming of spray
flung high against the straining
sail. Running close-hauled the
lifeboat heeled over from the
wind, bucking and twisting as
she lifted to the mounting seas.
“Lou, there’s a black rain-
squall coming up.” Andy was
bending down and shaking the
old fellow urgently. “Do you
think we ought to get the sail
down and try to catch some
water in it?”
“No, lad. No.” Painfully
Lou forced the words out, mak-
ing sure they were understood.
“Ye’d never get salt out of it.
Take this.” He dragged aside
the oilskin that was covering
him. Andy started to protest,
but Lou pushed the oilskin away
with an irritable feeble gesture.
“Take it, lad,” he gasped. “Don’t
muck around. Must ’ave
water.”
Andy roused the three nearest
men and gave them the coat.
“As soon as the squall hits us
I’ll free off and run before the
wind,” he told them. “We
won’t get so much spray that
way. Let the first bit run off
to wash the salt out of it and
then hold it as high as you can.”
He watched the squall empty
itself, felt the lovely fresh water
streaming down his face and
tasted the sweet taste of it as
he ran his tongue over his lips.
The squall passed, leaving a
comforting bulge in the oilskin —
a full day’s ration for every
man, Andy guessed.
“Carefully,” he cautioned.
“Lower away carefully while I
get the bung out of the breaker.”
He reached forward, still keeping
one hand on the tiller. “Make a
fold in the end of the coat and
funnel it in gently.”
Gently; gently lest they spill
one precious drop, yet speedily
before a shower of salt spray
ruined it all.
Perhaps Andy’s steering was
to blame, perhaps the sudden
wild lurch of the boat was un-
controllable —the malicious hand
of fate. Whatever the cause one
man lost his balance and
knocked his mate sprawling
across the oilskin so that the
water gushed away to mingle
with the salt water sloshing
around in the bilges.
Andy replaced the bung and
stilled the flood of senseless,
hysterical abuse. “Oh, stow it,”
he said wearily. “It’s gone and
brawling won’t bring it back.”
He brought the boat back on
its course and carefully spread
the oilskin over old Lou. Old
Lou! Old Andy, too. No
longer was he a carefree young-
ster. He’d grown into an old
man in this cursed boat, suffering
one setback after another. And
worst of all, he’d failed miser-
ably. As Banner had said, he
was lost. In spite of his cer-
tainty about the last two noon
sights he must have sailed past
Willis Island without seeing it.
Certainly the mainland lay ahead,
but whether it was two hundred
or one hundred miles away he
had no means of telling. It
might even be closer. Before
daylight came to show him a
channel he might crash the boat
to matchwood on the jagged
coral edges of the Great Barrier
Reef. At least that would be
preferable to dying of thirst.
Never had Andy’s spirits been
so low.
As the night wore on he re-
covered from his depression. It
needed concentration to keep
the boat on her course and main-
tain a sharp lookout. Each time
the boat climbed to the top of a
big wave he searched the sway-
ing horizon. From the top of
any one of those waves he might
see the booming breakers of the
Barrier Reef; the distant loom
of the mainland mountains, even
the tiny speck of Willis Island —
or nothing. Nothing but this
vast dark circle of wind-tossed
ocean.
I N the early dawn he saw it
1 —the faintest blur, a minute
blob far out on his starboard
hand, too indefinite to be called
a speck of land yet certainly
something calling for careful in-
spection. Trembling with ex-
citement he waited for the next
big wave, and when it came he
forgot all caution and stood erect
on the thwart as the lifeboat
paused on the summit. He saw
it more clearly this time, clearly
enough to recognise it for the
top of a small islet. No moun-
tains behind it, no line of
breakers on the Great Barrier
to guard it —it could only be
Willis, the island he’d always
been aiming for.
His first instincts were to
shout the news aloud, but on
second thoughts he freed off the
sheet and swung the boat’s head
towards the speck. Lou must
be the first to hear the news. All
credit for this landfall was his,
for without his constant advice
it would have been impossible
to hold the men together. It
seemed a pity to disturb him
when he was sleeping so soundly,
huddled up with the oilskin
drawn over his head. Only when
he was sleeping was the old
fellow free from pain. But the
thrill of achievement would com-
pensate for everything.
Andy shook him lightly and
lifted the oilskin from his face.
“Lou, wake up, old chap.
We’ve done it! We’ve sighted
Willis!”
The elation in his voice gave
way to a stunned feeling of shock.
Although he’d never seen death
before he knew instantly that
Lou was dead. The grey stubble
of beard was no greyer than the
sunken old cheeks, the eyes
were staring straight ahead, peer-
ing from under the grizzled eye-
brows at some distant object.
Those eyes were seeing some-
thing and what they saw pleased
Lou, for his lips were smiling.
Old Lou, too, had made his
landfall. He’d struggled through
a sea of pain to reach it, but
that final landfall was a happy
one.
VERY gently Andy replaced
the oilskin, that poor shred
of comfort the old fellow had
insisted on giving to the common
cause. And all for nothing—for
a drop of water spilled in the
bilges, benefiting no one. If he’d
kept it over him, if he’d stayed
dry and warm for a few more
hours. Oh, what was the use
of thinking about “ifs”? From
the first miserable dawn Lou
had been the guiding hand, the
unacknowledged captain of the
boat. And Lou was dead.
Dimly Andy was aware that
the men were arousing them-
selves to a new day, Martin
was standing erect, supporting
himself with the mast as he
scanned the horizon. Suddenly
he waved his free arm wildly
and shouted,
“Land! Land ho! Dead
ahead!”
The others were crowding
around him, threatening to cap-
size the boat in their eagerness.
“It’s an island,” Martin
shouted. “Trees on it, and
houses, too. Willis Island, by
God! ” He swung aft. “Nice
work, skipper. Nice work.
Wake Lou up and tell him. Hey,
Lou! Wake up, old-timer, and
take a look at this. Best sight
you ever saw.”
Try as he would Andy
couldn’t share in the general en-
thusiasm. He felt no glow of
satisfaction, even at the subtle
flattery of that “skipper.”
“Yes,” he said quietly. “It’s
good to be sighting it. But don’t
disturb Lou. He knowSj”


TKOVBUFREi.
FIT
TO* WES AND
mis
'W4
I ,&$■
mm
h „'
JK.” ' <
m
\,
\ :
OT 43.16.50
/
mmmm.
I!
i<\
>*
ft PRODUCT Of THE OLYMPIC TYRE 4 RUBBER CO. LTD.
LOOK YOUR BEST
From*
w
Viewed from the front, side or
back, your Akubra always looks
smart and stylish.
Choose the colour, size and shape
to suit you and you will un-
doubtedly look better dressed.
YES, SIR! From any angle. Comfort —•
Style Durability Superb Quality.
AKUBRA is ahead for all-round value.
AKUBRA
kafa ofi QuaM/
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“To provide women with all the
pure silk they demand would mean
half the world devoting its time to
rearing silkworms.”
—“ World’s News.’ 1 '
And the better half to buying
the silk.
4* 4* 4*
“One often sees a middle-aged
woman done up like a fighting
Indian . ’’ —Adelaide ‘‘Advertiser-”
Still hoping to get a single
scalp for her belt.
4* 4*
“It is very strange the way potatoes
appear on the market in abundance
as soon as there is a price rise.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
At that stage both producers
and consumers dig deep.
“Besides shaving, a new British
razor makes tea and whistles ‘Oh,
What a Beautiful Morning.’ ”
But you can’t buy one for a
song.
4* 4* 4*
“Paris perfumer Lucien belong has
begun selling two new scents named
No. 6 and No. 7 in simple, squarish
bottles.” — Women’s magazine.
Just the thing for women who
are dressed to the nines.
4* 4* 4*
“Large choirs are apt to become
unwieldy.”— ‘‘New Idea.”
Even after a few bars.
A Good Build-up.
“A successful actress must have the
face of a Venus, the brains of a
Minerva, the grace of Terpsichore,
the memory of Macaulay, the figure
of Juno and the hide of a rhino-
ceros.” —Actress Ethel Barrymore.
A formidable list indeed
Of qualities a girl must have
And all of which she used to
need
In times gone by to win a name
Among a thousand aspirants
Or rise to heights of world-wide
fame.
But nowadays a memory
Like Lord Macaulay’s added to
A Juno’s shape and dignity
Or all the grace of Terpsichore
A ltd Aphrodite’s loveliness
Won't serve an actress any more
Unless in Press and neon signs
She has sufficient ballyhoo
To draw attention to her lines.
BERT.
Duty.
“Current fashions call for a girl
to hack off her hair, become as
haggard as possible and paint circles
under her eyes. No man would give
a second glance to these girls with
that spooky death-warmed-over look.”
— Women’s paper.
In accordance with previous
instructions, I proceeded, in
company with third-class proba-
tionary constable Dimwit, to 999
Coffin-lane, “This the haunted
house, Dimwit?” I asked, hitch-
ing my pants, trimming by bulls-
eye lantern and pushing forward
the safety-catch of my service
revolver. He answered in the
affirmative in his deep up-
country brogue and saluted with
trembling fingers.
“Follow me!” I snapped as I
set off at a brisk pace across the
gravelled drive and put my
shoulder to the front door.
There was the sound of splinter-
ing wood, and I looked round to
find Dimwit crumpled up with
a bashed head. It was then I
started to get suspicious of foul
play. I had been certain his head
was solid bone.
Just then a light went up, and
the ghost-like form of a beauti-
ful girl in transparent off-the-
shoulders negligee pushed open
the French windows, wafted a
plate of king-prawns and a bottle
of bombo, threw a haunting
"Hey, Sarge , don't you think it's time We had the brakes fixed?"
sort of warmed-over look and
beckoned me in. Drawing my
baton, I at once rushed in to
inspectre.
JONAS DILL.
“Merber attempted to open a
drawer when a hidden sprint set ott
a cunningly-conceived explosive trap.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror:”
He could not stay to see the
finish.
Simple Explanation.
“Spectacular King Farouk of Egypt
is always good ‘copy,’ and he can
always be relied upon to stimulate
the imagination of newspaper corres-
pondents.”—“World’s News.”
Monday, Cairo: According
to the foreign correspondent of
the Weeokee (Wis.) “Win-
nower” King Farouk’s adoption
of dark sunglasses, without
which he is never seen in public
these days, has a definite con-
nection with his recent visit to
the Wazir, when he went dis-
guised as a cooked-egg seller. It
is said the amorous monarch
had just sportively chucked a
pretty girl under the chin when
her boxer-fiance chucked a
right-cross, which hung a poly-
chromatic shanty on one of
Farouk’s lamps. On the advice
of his Minister for Affaires of
State, for political purposes
the King reluctantly consented
temporarily to cover up his bold
and roving eye.
Tuesday, Aziz: Leuters’ cor-
respondent reveals that Farouk,
who is also interested in scarab-
beetle racing, had been making
a close study of one of the blood-
stocjf beetles which race under
his colors, it having been reported
to him that one of the Wafdist
extremists had attempted to
nobble the favorite in the hope
that its defeat at the big Osiris
Festival at Heliopolis would
arouse a popular demonstration
against the King. Farouk in
his excitement had bent too
low over his racer, and the beetle
kicked up some sand into his
eye. The King’s eye became
infected, resulting in the neces-
sity for his permanently wearing
dark glasses.
Wednesday, Haifa: In a dis-
patch to the “Daily Wail,”
the famous correspondent
Hampden Cort says that he
learns on unimpeachable
authority that King Farouk,
whose uncanny ability to melt
unobtrusively into a crowd has
long raised the admiration of
palace officials, has lately
insisted on putting this gift
patriotically to the service of the
nation. He went so far as to
order that he be given dangerous
counter-espionage work. For
his duties he gamely selected
some of the best-known night-
clubs, where spies were likely to
congregate.
Thursday, Madrid: The
Iberian Newsagency renorts that
from a source which it is unable
to disclose it is learned that the
special dark glasses worn by
King Farouk constitute a
triumph for the great Egyptian
inventor. Professor Skruball
Pasha, who leapt into world
prominence with his brilliant dis-
covery that only one spar was
needed to persuade a camel to
move forward, as one half of
the animal couldn’t move off
without the other half’s auto-
matically following. The glasses
enable the King to deflect his
vision in such a way as to make
it possible for him to examine
Port Said postcards at an acute
angle while appearing to be
holding the attention of the
person to whom he is talking.
The King finds it extremely
helpful at State dinners, treaty
abrogations, important meetings
with Cabinet Ministers and
other like occasions.
Friday, Tel El Kebir: The
roving editor of the Houston
(Tex.) “Honk,” in a sensational
dispatch to his paper, says he
learns reliably that the King’s
use of dark glasses stems from
his attendance at recent Army
manoeuvres.
Fresh from its magnificent
fighting in Jerusalem, where it
covered itself with glory by set-
ting new retreat records, and
still flushed with the great
triumphs in the Western Desert
when it dared Rommel to chase
it down into the Sudan, the
Gyppo Army had been practis-
ing its favorite manoeuvre of the
“reversed advance,” in which it
proudly led the world. To the
terrible warcries of “Orengis,
verree good, verree sweet!” and
“Givit baksheesh!” the Army,
equipped with the new running-
shoes which gave the soldiers a
better spring off the sand, was
out to lower the record flight to
the Canal and the protection
there of the hated British.
Circles close to the Egyptian
High Command say that, after
he had finished discussing
military tactics, Farouk was
walking across to the mobile
nightclub he always takes with
him on military manoeuvres
when a sentry accidentally fired
a shot. As the entire Army lit
out in the general direction of
Capetown they knocked the
King over in their panic, and his
face was damaged. Hence the
dark glasses.
Saturday, Cairo: The foreign
correspondent of the Weeokee
(Wis.) “Winnower,” in a further
dispatch to his paper, says a
sensation has been caused by
the disclosure that the King is
using dark glasses because of
sun-glare.
BO.
Soul of Dough.
My first trip over Sydney Harbor
made
Me burst forth in a wild im-
passioned flow
Of lyric praise. The chap beside
me paid
No heed, and had no tribute to
bestow.
His mouth was full, and that
could have delayed
Articulate response—but even so
The fellow failed to lift a fleeting
eye
From his assault upon a cold
meat-pie.
BRIAN BUREAU.


The.
HofU*
CHAMPIONS
WIN ON- s
*r
:
X
TRADE
MARK
si»
CHampiOH
WO/tIDS F
FACTORIES; FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
mm
sm i
AH a HO 11 IMS
ONVZNIO
• \
9
h
/
0
¥
v
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
■» appointment
TOBACCONISTS TO
MS KAJESTT TM» UN*
*/■ SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bmsom Zd Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Punters whose optimism runs to a
fancy that they can pick their win-
ners two at a time will have a next
opportunity for disillusioning them-
selves when the Villiers-Summer Cup
double comes up at Randwick in
three weeks’ time. Charts, of course,
are already being issued, replete with
the customary constantly-changing
favorites and liberally bestrewn with
pit and snare.
Saturday’s Varroville Handicap at
Randwick was expected to throw
some light on Villiers prospects, and
duly did produce several promising
runs. The best efforts were those
of Field Boy, Veiled Art, Denali and
Even Flow.
With a bunch of noted fast-
beginners engaged in chopping at each
other for the lead, the pace was a
cracker all the way; they cut out the
six furlongs and 18 yards (with the
false rail in use) in 1.124. Though
close-pressed by several others,
Carriole managed to retain a narrow
lead for a fair part of the journey.
She had had enough, however, by
the time they reached the distance,
where Acquittal sped to the front and
for the nonce looked very much the
winner. Field Boy proved to be the
fly in the ointment; fourth, and wide
out when they had taken the turn,
the Nuffield gelding unleashed a
finishing burst which was simply not
to be withstood. Field Boy carried
on well with the job to beat
Acquittal by a half-length. After
being among the rear-brigade most of
the way Veiled Art really finished
better than any of them to gain third
place, three-parts of a length behind
Acquittal, while Denali and Even
Flow were also both doing their best
work at the finish.
Prior to Saturday Field Boy had
not raced for almost 12 months.
However, he had been doing excellent
track work, on the strength of which
he was this page’s selection for the
Varroville. Partly because of his
long absence from the scene, and
partly because he was ridden by a
comparatively little-known apprentice
in A. James, Field Boy drifted in
the betting, to start eventually at
14 to 1. Undoubtedly he will be
improved by the run, and should be
in prime condition by Villiers day,
but his ability to see out a mile m
good open company is somewhat m
doubt. Admittedly he did, last year,
win a mile event, but it was a mattei
of his barely lasting out to win by
a head in a field of just-moderate
fellow-three-year-olds. Still, he may
have developed stamina in the course
of his year’s spell, and he is reason-
ably in the Villiers with Bst.
Villiers weights of others who
showed up well in the Varroville are
Acquittal, Bst.; Veiled Art, 7.10 ;
Even Flow, 7.5; and Denali, 9.2.
On past form Acquittal could scarcely
be considered at a mile. Veiled Art
seems nicely treated for a past winner
of the Villiers—he scored last year
with 7st. With San Domenico (9.10)
an unlikely starter and Donegal (9.5)
weighted beyond his desserts, Denali
may start topweight in the Villiers
with his 9.2, and he could well be
equal to the job. To the added merit
of Denali’s run on Saturday it should
be noted that of the eight who
finished ahead of him (and not a
great deal ahead at that) six were
claiming apprentice allowances while
he carted his full 9.5. Field Boy
carried 7.9, Acquittal 8.1 and Veiled
Art 7.7.
Since returning to the saddle this
season after his spell of disqualifica-
tion jockey D. Munro has been
riding in splendid form, despite that
his solid weight considerably limits
his opportunities. With a card of
eight events on Saturday Munro had
only three mounts and rode two win-
ners and a second. His tally for the
season now is 134 wins from 70
mounts. Only N. Sellwood is ahead
of him on the premiership list, with
19 wins from 113 mounts. Munro
won the Strathfield Juvenile on the
Sun King colt Sol Rex and the Three-
year-old Handicap on Seasonal. His
other mount, Fresteem, finished well,
but was beaten three lengths by
School Belle (W. Cook) in the 12-
furlongs Novice.
* * * *
It is really curious to observe how
some owners will regularly gamble
an outlay of three and four thousand
guineas on the deceptive appearance
of an often mud-fat yearling but
never seem to think it worth while
taking the infinitely lesser risk of
paying as much, or less, for a “made”
horse. There seems to be a lesson
in the experiences of Melbourne
owner O. R. Porter. In the com-
paratively few years he has been an
owner Porter has enjoyed remarkable
success, largely as the result of a
policy of regularly buying proved, or
at least promising, horses in training.
Last week Porter paid a lump sum
of 7000 guineas for a collection of
four horses. They comprised a pair
of two-year-olds in Milesian and
Pimarendi, the very promising three-
year-old and Caulfield Guineas winner
Merry Scout and the older performer
Westralian. Surely a more promising
proposition than paying a like sum
for as many yearlings, which can
easily be done. Apart from the two
older horses, the pair of two-year-
olds had cost a total of 5300 guineas
as yearlings and have cost at least
another 1000 guineas since to bring
them to a preparedness for racing—
that apart from all the worry, risk
and uncertainty of breaking-in and
training a yearling.
At any rate Porter had not long
to wait for a return on his outlay.
Starting at 11 to 4, Merry Scout (W.
Williamson) made absurdly easy work
of winning the mile Braeside Handi-
cap at Caulfield on Saturday. Merry
Scout scored by five lengths from
Bolt Action, with El Tovar three
lengths further back third,
A further contribution to the cost
of Porter’s latest purchases was pro-
‘ vided by his four-year-old St. Magnus
gelding Prince o’ Fairies, who won
the 12-furlongs Noble Park Handicap.
Prince o’ Fairies, a full-brother to
the Caulfield Cup winner St. Fairy,
started a warm favorite for the Noble
Park Handicap, but Hutchinson had
to ride desperately to land the Prince
a mighty narrow winner from Job’s
Gully and Free Kick. On the debit
side of the ledger, however. Porter
must have done a packet when his
two-year-old Majestas missed out in
the second Clayton Stakes. Majestas
started at 6 to 4, but could finish
only fourth, the 66-to-l chance
Shoreham (S. Ralph) scoring an easy
victory over favorite Los Feliz and
Vauntful. Shoreham’s success com-
pensated the books for the grief they
had suffered earlier when odds-on
favorite Black Jet (E. Preston) won
the first division of the Clayton.
Prolonged experience of knocking
on and around the door was finally
rewarded when El Faloos (K.
Tresize), at 15 to 1, downed Waldorf
and Flying Mac in the Holyrood
Handicap (6f.). It was the best finish
of the day, with only half-head mar-
gins between the placegetters. Dum-
fries (D. Barclay) won the Harrisfield
Handicap (7f.) and favorite Beau Felt
(K. Denham) the Durham Hurdle.
♦ * * *
For Rosehill, before accept-
ances: —
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies):
Evangeline, 1; Sea Ruffle, 2; Belle
d’Amour, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(colts); Smuggler’s Hoard, 1; Prime
Mover, 2; Midtide, 3. Parramatta
Mixed: Miss Pacific, 1; Stelvio, 2;
Double Dutch. 3. Auburn Mixed:
School Belle, 1; Lord Nottava, 2;
Double Sea, 3, Festival Handicap:
Rim Boy, 1; Veiled Art, 2; Persist,
3. Rosehill Handicap: Carapooe, 1;
Great World, 2; Air Flare, 3.
Welter: Beau Sandy, 1; Silique, 2;
Sea Serpent, 3.
* * * *
Whatever the outcome of the first
Test, which was sub judice as this
went to the printer, one strongly
suspects that M.C.C. skipper Fred
Brown and his men have been indulg-
ing in a spot of very successful leg-
pulling.
Outstanding feature of the M.C.C.
v. Q’land match, which ended in a
draw, was the atrocious fielding of
the visitors; simple lollypop catches
were repeatedly grassed. The critics
promptly came in, hook, line and
sinker. It was reported that Brown
had asked the Australian Sid Barnes
to coach some of the M.C.C. players
in the art of taking a catch, and
there were photographs of the worthy
Sid going through all the motions of
so doing. Came then Friday, the
first day of the Test, and the visitors
proceeded to turn on as fine an
exhibition of keen, snappy, accurate
fielding as could be expected from
any international side. Barnes must
be a bobby-dazzler of a coach.
When Hassett won the toss (which
seems to be a mere matter of habit
with him) and naturally chose to
bat first on a perfect pitch, the crowd
of 13,000 settled back in anticipation
of a feast of run-getting. Instead,
they quickly found themselves wit-
nessing the almost forgotten spectacle
of an Australian XI well and truly
in hot water. The combination of
splendid fielding all round, brilliant
wicketkeeping by Godfrey Evans and
top-class bowling by, in particular,
Bedser and Bailey, had the Australians
really scratching for runs as their
wickets went like ninepins. Opener
Moroney went for a duck in the first
over, and soon a procession of rueful
batsmen began to rejoin him in the
pavilion. Neil Harvey (74) and
Lindwall (41) to some extent saved an
utter rout, but ere the day was done
Australia was all out 228.
Washbrook and Simpson, opening
for M.C.C., successfully appealed
against the light before a ball was
bowled, and so ended the first day.
During the night, traditional Brisbane
Test weather took a hand, and no
play was possible on Saturday.
The N.S.W. v. S.A. Sheffield Shield
match completed in Adelaide last
week was a prize example of the type
of cricket that kills interest in the
game. South Australia batted for
420 minutes to accumulate 439 runs.
Intent of making sure of a first-
innings lead, N.S.W. then took 694
minutes to achieve its object—a score
of 484. They might as well have
packed up at that stage, but South
Australia made 127 for the loss of
four wickets before the long-defunct
game was legally adjudged to have
expired. A depleted N.S.W. team
then moved on to grapple with
Westralia at Perth. N.S.W. had first
lash, and notched up 220. Westralia
fought back well to have lost eight
for 241 at stumps on Saturday.
• * * *
The delayed final of the N.S.W.
tennis championships last week saw
the American Larsen add Australian
champion Frank Sedgman’s scalp to
the impressive collection he has built
up. Since hitting these parts Larsen
has beaten each and eveiy member
of our victorious Davis Cup team.
Before the Australian championships
come round the Australians may have
found an answer to Mr. Larsen’s box
of tricks, but for the nonce he has
’em tied in knots, and, on the face
of it, looks a stumbling-block to our
chances of retaining the Cup. The
N.S.W. final opened with Sedgman
calmly and confidently blasting the
American off the court to take the
first set 6-3. From there on Larsen s
weird style worried Sedgman to the
point of utter frustration; Larsen
took the next three sets 6-3, 6-4, 6-2.
The Victorian championships occupy
the tennis limelight this week.
♦ * * ♦
Except for some minor bread-and-
butter events the pro. golf season is
over in this country. The visit of
Bobby Locke wasn’t what it was
expected to be (wet weather was
partly responsible) and chief interest
of the year was N. Von Nida’s down-
ing of Eric Cremin in the Australian
Open, making “the Von” the first to
win the Open three times. He won
it from “go to whoa.”
* * * *
Sydney boxing fans witnessed their
second “no fight” within a few days
when visiting American negroes Joe
Brown and Irvin Steen furnished a
bout at Sydney Stadium last week
which did not satisfy referee Bill
Henneberry. Henneberry walked out
on the affray in the 10th round.
Regardless of the rights or wrongs
of the decision in this case it is a
sorry comment on Australian boxing
that it should be necessary to match
two importations for a main-event
bout.
♦ * * •
With a string of 13 straight wins
behind him, N.S.W. featherweight
champion Ray Coleman (9.14) met
his Victorian counterpart Danny
Hirsch (8.13) at Leichhardt last week,
and it seemed for a while that
unlucky 13 was going to prove a
stumbling-block for Coleman. A
vicious right rocked the Sydney boy
in the second round, and, before he
could collect his wits, another corker
from the same quarter dropped him
to his knees. However, Coleman
managed to recover before further
damage was done, and fought back
well to make a very even contest. If
anything, at the finish, Coleman may
have been slightly ahead on points,
but the ref. acted wisely in declaring
a draw.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
mm.
m s
m
m
5 i
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
" LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ET C.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Clover and Wheat.
“Brian F.”: A paddock in our
Burra (S.A.) district was sown
heavily with Bacchus Marsh
sub.-clover and was well away
in May when a change of plan
made us decide to sow the pad-
dock with wheat for hay—
hoping for the best where the
clover was concerned. Our
sharefarmer —70 years in the
district —held up his hands in
horror because there had been
no fallow period. However, we
stocked heavily throughout May
and early June, then ploughed,
the surface being evenly covered
with sheep manure and re-
growth clover about 3in. high.
We used an old English extra-
long mouldboard plough, with
the result that the sod was
turned completely over. This
was left entirely undisturbed;
merely working the back of the
sod into a seed-bed with disk
harrows. The wheat was sown
very shallow in July at the rate
of 901 b. of Rapier seed and
1201 b. of super, per acre.
We got a four-ton hay crop
and all the clover necessary to
give an excellent stand from the
start of next season. All from
a paddock which has not been
able to grow a decent crop since
it was cleared 50 years ago.
The point is that the young
clover, combined with fresh
manure, when ploughed - in,
combined to make the best of
all composts and provided plant
food for the crop.
Crops, Pastures, Fertility.
“Rooster”: Rutherglen is in
the 20in. to 25in, Victorian rain-
fall belt, ideally suited to the
clover-lea system. Tests at
Rutherglen, which have been
going on for 38 years, show that
cereal yields decline despite fal-
lowing, unless given a spell with
pastures. Comparing sub.-
clover lea and volunteer pasture
lea, both as a pasture and a
means of restoring fertility to
land under cultivation for many
years, top honors go to the
former. Over four years clover
lea carried 2.2 dry sheep an acre,
compared with 1.6 sheep an acre
on volunteer pasture. Dry sheep
then made way for ewes with
IQO per cent, lambs at foot;
both pasture systems carried 2.5
ewes an acre. The lambs pro-
duced on the sub.-clover were
heavier by an average of 7.81 b.
frozen weight, and were superior
in quality.
After a lea period wheat
yields increased from 24.4
bushels an acre on regularly-
cropped land to 26.3 bushels fol-
lowing volunteer lea ; that figure
jumped to 31.2 bushels an acre
after sub.-clover lea.
It is clear that, over a period
of years, continuous cropping
for a few years after clover lea
is more productive than incor-
porating a winter fallow. Wheat
returns increase and re-estab-
lished clover pasture improves
carrying capacity and fertility.
In good conditions sub.-clover
strikes after the second crop.
Should there then be a poor
strike a third or fourth crop can
be. sown and 21b. to 31b. of
clover-seed distributed with the
last cereal crop.
Good rainfall is essential
where fallowing is not practised,
and Rutherglen has it. In other
areas, where annual rainfall is
perhaps less than 15in., fallow-
ing may be necessary to obtain
good crops. Finally, to practise
clover-lea farming on a large
scale without fallowing greater
tractor- or horse-strength is
needed to handle the peak cul-
tivation period in autumn.
A Mulesing Tip.
“Ngaduri”: If even one lamb
in the flock has been struck
don’t mules then. The opera-
tion can be done safely at any
time of the year provided the
lambs are absolutely free of fly
attacks ; bpt if the flies are there
and awake then mulesing will
be attended by all the trouble in
the world.
It is best to leave the flock
until they are better grown than
lambs normally are. For some
reason, when lambs are mulesed
the skin grows from the edges
of the cuts toward the middle ;
but as hoggets this skin-growth
is not so rapid, and the ultimate
size of the bare area will be
larger, making the operation
much more effective.
Young Pig Weights.
“A. Jay”: A pig’s weight at
four months old is usually 2\
times its weight at two months
old. Thus a 301 b. weaner would
weigh 751 b. at four months, a
401 b. weaner 1001 b. The rate of
gain is not usually as precise as
that, although it will usually be
found that, under similar con-
ditions, the heavier pigs at two
months old nearly always reach
bacon weight and are sold be-
fore their lighter weaner mates.
Another advantage of heavy
weaners is that they are generally
less susceptible to checks soon
after they are weaned.
Although the weights of pigs
at two months old vary enor-
mously, some weighing over
601 b., the average is less than
301 b. Differences in weights of
individual pigs are due to several
factors, most of which can be
controlled. Heavy weaner weights
are associated usually with big
sows and sound and well-
developed udders. Such sows
are well fed, so that they are in
good condition before they
farrow and are given as much
food as they can cat during their
lactation period. Despite full
feeding, sows that have litters of
eight or more pigs and are good
milkers generally lose condition
while suckling their young.
What will increase the weight
of pigs at weaning is the feeding
of suckers from a self-feeder
from the time they are three
weeks old. Hurdle off the self-
feeder so the suckers can eat
without interference from their
mother.
Home Remedies.
“Waverley”: Some which can
be made up on the farm: For
wounds and bruises make a
lotion from equal parts of kero-
sene and pure lard. It will re-
lieve pain and is certain death
to germs. A remedy for cow-
pox, chaps, sores and cuts is
boracic-acid and lard, loz. of
boracic-acid to 6oz. of lard.
Keep boracic lotion on hand
for bathing sore eyes or for
stopping bleeding. An alterna-
tive lotion can be made from
carbolic-acid and water (loz.
diluted in two pints). This is
good for washing out the cavi-
ties in strangles, after the
abscess has been opened and the
pus drained out. Another anti-
septic consists of 20 grains of
corrosive sublimate in a pint of
water. All these lotions are
dangerous poisons.
For festered wounds make
this dressing: Sugar of lead,
loz.; sulphate of zinc, loz. ;
glycerine, 30z.; carbolic-acid 2
“Why don't y' ask Santa Claus to bring y' a noo
dressin'-gown?"
drams; and water to make it up
to a pint. Open the wound, re-
lease pus and apply the lotion
freely after waging the wound,
thrice daily.
Weak solutions of iodine can
be safely used on surface
wounds. Where foreign matter
has entered apply a linseed
poultice and probe the wound
for splinters or fragments.
Victorian Herd Test.
“Mr.”: The greatest number
of dairy cows tested in one year
in Victoria —105,866 —last season
returned an average of 2521 b. of
butterfat. Rochester West Asso-
ciation, with a 3301 b. average
for its 1175 cows, was in leading
position, with Dumbalk North
No. 1 (3221 b. for 1141 cows) in
second place. Yinnar No. 1
(3171 b.), Korumburra No. 2
(3151 b.), Korumburra No. 4
(3081 b.) and Katandra West No.
1 (3081 b.) closely followed the
leaders, Swanpool No. 1 and
Tallangatta (3071 b. and 3051 b.)
led the north-eastern section and
Winchelsea (2951 b.) the Western
District.
The two leading herds (K.
McLean, Leongatha No. 2, and
A. Walker, Yinnar No, 1) had
respective yields of 5101 b. from
40 cows and 4581 b. from 49. A
total of 32,212 cows produced
more than 3001 b. of fat, and of
these 7273 bettered 4001 b.; 953,
5001 b.; 85, 6001 b. and seven,
7001 b. The leading cow, Beauty,
owned by the Gippslander W, E.
Dyke, Dumbalk No. 1, yielded
11,7831 b. of milk and 10861 b. of
butterfat, the highest yield ever
recorded in Victoria. Beauty
occupied leading place last year
with 9181 b. fat.
Denbigh Beatrice, K. Mc-
Lean, Leongatha No. 2, led the
four-year-olds (7351 b.); Tiger,
6701 b., J. McNicol, Tongala No.
2, headed the three-year olds ;
W. Vagg’s Bega, Yinnar No. 1,
took first place with 5741 b. of
fat in two-year-olds.
New Pasture Plants.
“Outback”: At Redland Bay,
near Brisbane, the C.5.1.R.0. is
testing about 150 species and
varieties of pasture plants and
legumes introduced from South
America. These include a num-
ber of species of paspalum, and
the pasture legumes include
species of stylosanthes and des-
modium. The plants were col-
lected by W. Hartley, senior
plant-introduction officer of the
C.5.1.R.0., who spent six months
in South America with an officer
of the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture collecting seeds and
plants of wild species of pea-
nuts, grasses and pasture
legumes. The seeds planted at
Redland Bay were only sown in
December, 1948, so it is too
early yet to say which of them
are likely to be suitable to
Queensland conditions.
Canefield Protection.
“Beroo”: To prevent erosion
sugarcane fields should be
covered with vegetation during
the wet season before planting
of the cane. Legumes are best
for this purpose, for they add
nitrogen to the soil as well, but
suitable varieties are rare.
Although experiment stations in
Queensland have tested hundreds
within recent years the only one
of promise so far for a short fal-
low is a cowpea called Reeve’s
Selection. It has the big ad-
vantage over the once-popular
Poona pea in that it does not
succumb to wilt as soon as the
wet season begins. Seed of
Reeve’s should be obtained only
from reliable sources, for it
resembles Poona seed very
closely, and they could easily be
confused.
How Weeds Are Spread.
“W.C.Q.”: Careless farming
promotes the spread of noxious
weeds. Many young men farm-
ing today have no idea of what
is good farm-land and what is
bad.
I have known young men here
in C.Q. to clear the worst pos-
sible land on their farms when
seeking to increase their crop
area. They found, after a crop
or two had been grown, that the
land was useless. They swore
at their hard luck and turned it
over to grazing.
But cultivation had settled the
native grasses, which had never
been very active thereabouts,
anyway. Weeds, germinated
from seeds spread by the stock,
took possession. It is no use
telling those chaps that their
ignorance of soil values gave
the weeds a chance. They say
the weeds would have come any-
how. Yet, for many years be-
fore they ploughed the land and
killed the grasses there was no
weed trouble, though stock
grazed there constantly.
Now It’s “Norghum.”
“Agric”: According to the
American “The Farmer” Norg-
hum will replace corn this year
on many areas in Dakota and
Western Minnesota. Norghum
is said to combine all the virtues
of the older varieties of grain
sorghum with many of its own.
It grows 36in. to 46in. high,
matures well ahead of frost, is
easily harvested, and in areas
where corn yielded only 15 to
20 bushels per acre, Norghum
yielded up to 50 bushels. It is
practically equal to corn in feed-
value.
Experiment showed that lambs
made better gains when corn
in their ration was substituted
by an equal quantity of norg-
hum, but trials have yet to show
the comparison in regard to
cattle. Although fed whole to
lambs, it is recommended that
the grain be ground for cattle
and pigs.
Like other sorghums, norg-
hum suffers after being beaten
down by hail, chewed down by
insects or retarded by drought,
but, unlike others, it can be de-
pended on to mature, dry out
and be in condition for harvest-
ing before the older varieties.
South Dakota State College,
Brookings, South Dakota
(U.S.A.), has solicited inquiries
from anyone interested in ob-
taining seed.
Salad Vegetables.
“InvereU”; Salad vegetables
are best when young and fresh,
so frequent sowings are neces-
sary. They should be grown
rapidly in a good, rich soil and
a well-prepared seed-bed.
Lettuce-seed should be sown
deep in rows 9in. to 12in.
apart. In cool weather lettuce
do best when transplanted, and
are usually set out 9in. to 12in.
apart. In hot, dry weather they
may be sown thinly in rows 12in.


tfrasaber
m
“V
(trusa
ICLQTI
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SEED SOWING • FERTILISING - PEST CONTROL-
bimh
VH
Do it by Air-griculture !
Do your seed sowing, fertilising and pest control by air.
It's speedy, it's economical. Scientifically designed equip-
ment assures correct poundage per acre and even distri-
bution. For iurtber details and name of nearest agent
writ® to
AIR-GRICULTURE
CONTROL LIMITED
Aerial Contractors
77 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: M 3347 TELEGRAMS: "AIRSPRAY" SYDNEY
r nenovis" Worm Remedy
M fichiny time i*
(f .*avis'o time!
/',//
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
m
fyuji
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-819J
For inflamed Ey?* and_ Eyelid;
SOLD EVEt.iWHBBE
H.A.Rose &. Co.Pty,LW.lOnnSt.Sydney
r
KIK
Esdoile's 2-Jx
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT. £l6/5/-
® Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
® Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
® Very long eye relief.
9 Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion —Eye relief 3|in.
to s|in. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 234 ft. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:
“Esdailson, ’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY
'■ Si
m
in all directions
with
QUIRK'S
OSCILLATING
ELECTRIC FAN
Operating direct from your lighting plant,
this fan directs a cooling breeze to every
corner of your room. Beautifully finished,
it is silent in operation and is supplied in
32, 50, 110 and 240 volt models. Speed
can be adjusted to suit requirements.
The following appliances, for city and country homes, are
available from Quirk's stocks: Lighting Fixtures, Radios
and Radiograms, Vacuum Cleaners, Floor Polishers, Wash-
ing Machines, Dish Washers, Fans, Kettles, Toasters,
Food and Drink Mixers, Irons, Sirens, Electric Razors.
CONTACT YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR SUPPLIES OR WRITE TO:
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 Castlereogh St., Sydney .. Phone M 3114
"\
m
S
W/s
Poff/mt
until summer is nearly orer*
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.LSLAGWOOL
Ho house, home, oft Ice or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless U Is Insulated preferably with BJ.
SLAGWOOL.
IF®
m
/
Kn
TELEPHONES: SYflNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, «38CM * ADELAIDE, C7257 • PERTH, L2107
apart and later thinned to 9in.
between the plants.
Radishes need little space, and
are ready to use four to six
weeks after sowing. To be mild,
tender and attractive they must
be sown quickly and have plenty
of moisture. Seed should be
sown thinly every three or four
weeks iin. deep in rows 12in.
apart in well-drained, free,
deeply-dug soil that contains
plenty of humus.
Spring - onions should be
sown |in- deep in rows 12in.
apart in a well-drained soil that
has been worked down to a fine,
firm condition.
Horse-radish is grown for its
pungent roots. It does best on a
deeply - worked, well - drained,
well-manured loam. No fresh
manure should be mixed with
the surface-soil, as this causes
the roots to fork. Roots should
be planted in a slanting position
with the thick end facing up-
ward and the top of the cutting
about 2in. below the top of the
soil.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: When running a
header-harvester with power
take-off see that all shields are
kept in place. Don’t adjust,
alter or oil the machine when in
operation or drive it on a hill-
side the steepness of which en-
dangers stability.
“Rooster”: Much hay is lost
on the outside of stacks, par-
ticularly roofs, through faulty
covering or failure to dry covers
after heavy rains. Covers should
be waterproof. Bag covers can
be artificially water-proofed with
cement coatings. If this is im-
practicable remove covers to
dry whenever they become
saturated. All stacks should be
covered well down over each of
the ends and sides and kept in
place by tying down to logs rest-
ing on the ground. Suspended
“weights” are apt to be affected
by strong winds, the cover slid-
ing out of position.
“Big Billy”: Keep potatoes
earthed-up to protect them from
moth. Late blight may be con-
trolled by frequent spraying with
Bordeaux mixture. If this is un-
available use a certified copper
oxychloride. Don’t leave mature
crops in the soil after the tops
have died.
“Pongo”: A screwdriver-bit
to use in a brace is indispensable
in a workshop. It is twice as
speedy as a shaft driver in in-
serting and removing screws, and
when it is found impossible to
remove a screw with the ordinary
driver the bit in a brace will
usually remove it.
“Billjim”: The drill for milk-
ing-machine care is to fill the
lubricators before milking, check
all air-admission holes, make
sure the relief-valve is working
properly and that the gauge
reads Min. to 15in.; oil the pul-
sator slides once a week and
check them for seating. Inspect
all bearings and drives and oil
the pulsator drive, check the re-
leaser, vacuum-tank and joints
for leaks, check for tightness of
inflations, dismantle the cups
every 14 days and soak infla-
tions and all tubes in boiling
caustic-soda solution for two
hours.
“Baroona”; If there is plenty
of water, plant lawn and hedge
in districts where dust-storms
are bad. They make all the dif-
ference between living in com-
fort and having a house that is
eternally dusty. The hedge keeps
out the worst of the wind-borne
sand and the lawn keeps the
dust down round the house.
“Loulalo”: A double - yolk
(B. 1/11/’5O) will hatch out
twins, but they rarely survive.
If perfectly formed they are
small and weak. Generally they
are deformed in some way and
usually are joined like Siamese
twins. I’ve seen more than one
pair with two bodies and four
legs, but only one head, and that
head having three eyes. To
knowingly set a double-yolk egg
is wasting the hen’s time.
“K.T.”: The eye of a good
laying hen or pullet should be
bright and alert. The eyes of
White Leghorns should be bright
red, not yellow or straw-colored,
though this can be excused if
found some months after the
birds have been laying. It is a
sign of heavy laying. Those that
show defective pupils should be
outed.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2id. per line.
Britain’s Recovery
Reporting in the Sydney Press a
London correspondent quoted the British
meat ration as two chops per week, sup-
plemented by one egg. In London last
year my ration was one chop a week and
one egg a fortnight. So, Britain has come
good and the Welfare State has proved
its worth! Rations have increased 100
per cent, in 12 months.
Across the Straits of Dover, 20-odd
miles away, the French are living like
fighting cocks, and meat, dairy produce,
fish, fruit and vegetables are in abundant
supply and available to all. Across the
Irish Sea, a short night’s journey, Eire
by-passes Britain and ships large numbers
of prime cattle to European markets
(particularly Belgium), selling to the
highest bidder. Here in Australia we
have eased off —officially—sending food
parcels to Britain. We’re told they don’t
need them now that they have two chops
and one egg a week.
It’s hard to believe that the people of
Britain, who proved their proud boast
during the Battle for Britain—“We can
take it”—are still taking it. But they
are —docilely, too. “Why?” I asked
myself many times. I asked it also of
dozens of British acquaintances, and the
answer was always much the same —
“We’re in a mess we know, but that’s
our business ; we’ll get out of it by our
own efforts.”
And out of their mess they have got.
Production figures have risen enormously.
The export trade is ever-expanding.
Britain’s pound is again becoming a
symbol of solidity, especially so now that
Britain is able to buy back some of the
gold she exported to the U.S.A.
Is all this amazing recovery due to
Government policy or the average
Briton’s faith in his Government? I
don’t think so. The main ingredients in
British strength are the indomitable spirit
of the people, a refusal to acknow-
ledge defeat and a determination of the
people who matter —the middle classes
and the industrialists who rose from
these classes—to take care of their
national honor.
These people were shocked by
Churchill’s dismissal from office in the
post-war elections, but they accepted the
situation. It dawned on me then that I
should not question their system of gov-
ernment. These were the people who
stood alone fighting Hitler, the people
who went through Dunkirk, the Battle
for Britain and the blitz. Surely they had
won the right to choose their own
Government.
lust why such a people have accepted
the dictates of Socialism and Socialistic
controls for five long years after the war
without a rebellion is hard to understand,
but I came away from Britain with the
impression that, whatever they do, what-
ever they seem to “take” so docilely, their
future is a great one. I was amazed at
the efficiency of their agriculture, im-
pressed by their industry, delighted with
the beauty of their island and enthralled
when I walked with history along
London’s streets. And I was deeply
touched by the hospitality shown me by
casual acquaintances, the welcome I got
in British homes, the intense eagerness
to make me feel at home —all because I
was from Australia, the first Dominion
to come to their aid.
I came away feeling that this was
truly a race to which I should be proud
to belong, glad to feel that my family
roots came out of such soil. —J. Henry
(N.S.W.).
Back to the Bush
Having decided to leave the big smoke
with its modern slavery called commis-
sion selling and help in big production
drives, I landed back among my old
friends, the wheat cockies, after 10 years’
absence.
Unchanged were the unlined iron hut,
earth floor, wheat-bag mat, dirty mattress
on rusty wire, leaky basin on upturned
case and water-tank 200yds. away. Un-
changed the contraptions of wire and
droppers that pass for gates, unchanged
the acres of shadeless paddocks simmering
peacefully in the heat haze until a machine
on its round sends another cloud of the
good earth into the air to settle who
knows where. Unchanged the cockies’
passion for new and expensive machines
and for making a cert of their deprecia-
tion by storing them in the open air.
But changed was the homestead, with
now-expensive suites in every room and
good tucker of crisp cool dishes from
the refrigerator. Changed, too, the wages,
now round the two-pounds-a-day mark
for harvest hands.
Gone, too, were the horses, making
for a later start, since a tractor needs
neither an hour for its breakfast nor a
grooming.
By and large the cocky hasn’t changed.
He’s still one-eyed, mean, politically un-
conscious, hard-working, the backbone of
the country —and I love him still. And
I recommend this “colonial experience”
to all who have the sense to feel
pleasantly tired and sunburned at the end
of the day and get paid for it and be
really well fed as well.— Mikyo (S.A.).
Sydney Harbor
In a transport-crazy city like Sydney the
neglect of the magnificent Harbor water-
ways remains a dark mystery. There are
ferry services, and some of them pay their
way, but their contribution to the trans-
port of Sydney crowds is fractional.
Another ferry service, that to Lane
Cove, is out of existence. Down the
years the ferry-fleet which operated out
from Circular Quay has been diminish-
ing. The Greyciiffe disaster perhaps
helped, but! ferries have found it increas-
ingly difficult to stand up to competition
from faster train, tram and bus services.
The company which ran the Lane Cove
service says it was not paying its way,
and that was obviously true; yet it
doesn’t answer the question of why it
wasn’t paying its way. Or the deeper
question, why isn’t a fast modern ferry
service built up, carrying large numbers
of passengers to many suburbs around the
Harbor?
The ferry business seems to have re-
mained static in the conception of 60
years ago. Routes have been cancelled ;
no new routes have been developed; the
same type of ferry is in use, some old
enough for a pension.
The Port Jackson company, which runs
to Manly, has within the one groove kept
pace with time, and runs a good service.
But only between Manly and the Quay,
when conceivably it could run a larger
service touching at many points around
the Harbor. Why not regular and fre-
“I've been putting a feW drops of vitamin D in the Watering-can .”
quent runs to Rose Bay, Nielsen Park,
Watson’s Bay, Clifton Gardens?
If Sydney transport were normal in
other directions, the claims of the Harbor
would not be so impelling. But traffic
chaos in Sydney has passed the nightmare
stage to become one of sheer desperation,
like the madness which compels the clos-
ing of King-street to trams.
Much of Sydney is contained in
Harborside suburbs. With the City
Railway soon to be depositing people in
mass at the Quay, it seems obviously the
time for a new deal on the Harbor. A
fleet of large, fast, modern ferries plying
up and down the long narrow run of
water, with feeder-bus services timed-in
at all wharfs, seems an entirely reason-
able proposition. So that the strain would
be eased on the crowds which must go
inland, away from the Harbor, the trans-
port-pattern could be so constructed that
Harborside people would be forced to
include the ferry in their journey. Regi-
mentation no doubt —but not worse
regimentation than the King-street affair.
Surely a scheme of this kind would be
a commercial proposition, even without
Governments; but just as surely the
Government could play its part. In effect,
Sydney has a broad smooth highway
practically deserted, because it is made
of water instead of bitumen, but other-
wise a highway in every sense of the
word. With all other highways choked,
with a terrible death-or-injury rate climb-
ing catastrophically, why is this old high-
way, which nothing can wear out, not
better used? — Dee (N.S.W.).
Local Government
Regarding the scrapping of local coun-
try authorities (B. 15/11 /’5O) and the
taking-over of their functions by the
Crown—which would appoint a managing
body assisted by an advisory committee
—the Tasmanian State Government has
been acting on that principle for a few
years in certain municipalities.
A “commission” appointed in such
cases consists of Government nominees,
who are usually local businessmen of
ability, with an officer from the Auditor-
General’s department to help keep tag
on the running of things. The com-
missioners receive a stated sum by way
of allowance, and the chairman of the
commission occupies the same social posi-
tion and status as the warden of the
municipality.
When the reason for continuance no
longer exists —e.g., if a financial mess
has been cleared up by the commission—
the Government is prepared to let the
council have another go if ratepayers
consent.
Apropos of councils generally, the
pioneer of them in Tasmania, and the
first rural municipality in Australia, is
Glamorgan, on the east coast. It came
into existence on January 23, 1860, after
the people of Great Swanport had applied
to the Governor to be constituted a muni-
cipality, in accordance with the provisions
of an Act passed a year or so before.
During the 90 years of its life the
municipality has had 13 council clerks
and a score of wardens (in Tasmania the
warden does the job of the shire presi-
dent). W. J. Lyne, afterwards Premier
of N. S. Wales and Minister for Home
Affairs in the first Federal Government,
was one of its council clerks. The
pioneer Amos family (who came out in
1821) has had representatives on
Glamorgan council seats since its first
meeting, a distinction also enjoyed by
the Cotton family. The present warden,
Angus Amos, is the third generation of
the family to hold that office, — Van
Diemen (Tas.).
Rice
Whoever has been responsible for the
sudden “reintroduction” of the rice
shortage hasn’t got the industry at head;.
One thing is certain —it isn’t going to do
the growers any good.
When H. Broadfoot, chief of the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture’s
Division of Horticulture, recently re-
turned from a tour of the East he said
Asiatics in Singapore regarded Australian
rice as too starchy for general consump-
tion ; they considered it as fit only to
make into rice-cakes.
On the other hand Burma offers to sell
us rice, so the story handed out to the
Sydney Press by a rice-millers’ spokes-
man that the home market must be cut
out again to supply Eastern and Pacific
Islands requirements just doesn’t make
sense.
There may be a good case for the
export of Australian rice to the islands,
and to Malaya, where they apparently
don’t want it; there is no case at all for
export to such places as Java, which
supports Red moves in Malaya or Indo-
China (itself an important pre-war rice
exporter) or Korea.
From what the millers’ man said it
appears that rice will be supplied to
Asiatics living in Australia, but not to
Australian housewives. This means what
it has meant all along—that all can eat
as much rice as they like provided
they are prepared to pay through the
nose for it at a Chinese restaurant.
Nor is it true that the supplies of rice
made available in grocers’ shops have
been rushed and bought up indiscrimin-
ately. The opposite has been the case.
The Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area,
where the bulk of Australian rice is
grown, was a closer-settlement undertak-
ing financed by the Australian people,
and it is wrong that its production should
have become the plaything of a close
group which has not only secured a com-
plete control of the milling but has pur-
chased large tracts of rice-producing
land to strengthen its monopoly.— Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Road Transport
The Victorian rail strike revealed an
odd discrepancy between road- and rail-
transport costs. There’s been a consider-
able increase in the traffic on the Eyre
Highway, and some big trucks are operat-
ing between Perth and Melbourne, The
trucks aren’t receiving the support you’d
expect from the Government, licences
being rather hard to get. The authorities
seem to think that normal traffic
must one day be resumed on the rail-
ways, so they grant licences for one
way at a time only. Thus a Melbourne
truck leaves with a cargo for Perth in the
knowledge that a licence for a return trip
may be refused. Back-loading is difficult,
anyway, since the cartage is normally to
the West, but even an empty trip back
doesn’t raise the freight cost prohibitively.
The trucks can still compete with the
railways.
I’ll grant that excessive traffic on the
Eyre Highway would soon result in huge
bills for road repairs, and that those costs
would mean higher licence fees. But
there’s no double-handling of truck
cargoes at each break-of-gauge, and the
administrative costs of small transport
fleets are lower. Where each man owns
the truck he drives, these costs are almost
nil. The driver-owner takes them in his
stride. — Bass (W.A.).
Housing Loans
The general secretary of the N. S. Wales
Association of Co-operative Building
Societies has indicated that he will
approach the N. S. Wales Premier with
a request that loan limits to home-builders
be increased.
At today’s building costs the limits
imposed by lending institutions are un-
real. The difficulties of prospective home-
owners who approach co-operative build-
ing societies are not removed by the
private system of land-sales control im-
posed and operated by the Registrar of
Co-operative Building Societies through
his advisory committee.
This system is operated on the basis
of costs of building averaged over the
whole metropolitan area every three
months, together with allowances for de-
partures from a standard specification.
Any contract which is submitted for
approval at an amount more than five
per cent, in excess of the answer arrived
at by the Registrar’s valuers is rejected
and no loan is granted. That it might
be the purchaser’s business how he
finances the remainder of his project does
not seem to have occurred to officialdom.
Desperate family-men, doing their
utmost to secure homes for their families,
are, in these days of hopelessness, not
concerned so much with saving a couple
of hundred pounds, as in acquiring their
own roofs. The Government cannot offer
them either homes or the prospect of
homes. It should not, therefore, either
directly or through any of its various
agencies, block their efforts to help them-
selves under the pretext of protecting
them against building-sharks.
If the Government feels that builders
are taking advantage of the accommoda-
tion shortage, it should overhaul the pro-
fession and weed out the unworthy ones.
The best protection that could be afforded,
however, is a speed-up in production, in
the output of essential materials and a
smashing of the transport bottlenecks
which add so much to the cost of each
dwelling.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).


Murder on the Roads
The murderous toll of the roads, not
only in Australia, but in every “civilised”
country, is a problem which has its roots
in modern civilisation itself; if anything
is to be done about it, the basic char-
acter of the disease must first be
diagnosed.
It is a commonplace observation that
the mechanisms of this modern age have
outstripped their human users. The age
of speed has developed in 50 years or
less —too quickly for the human organism
to adapt itself to it. Had human
beings been indpctrinated to this
mechanical speed more slowly, so that
something in the human make-up could
have kept pace with the machines men
were using, then men would have re-
mained masters of the machines they
created. But science moved too fast for
humanity; the chance of this parallel
evolution has gone.
And it’s such a poignantly worthless
thing, this tally of death and injury on
the roads. War, at least, with all its loss
and evil, offers some human significance,
if not human justification ; but the death
which flashes out of the darkness merely
because the person responsible wants to
reach his destination a few minutes earlier
is the most futile thing the mind can
conceive.
Education in the long run may over-
take the problem, but there will be long
and tragic casualty-lists before that can
happen—casualty-lists no less dire because
they run only to twos or threes or fours
in each day’s newspapers.
Lectures, fines, jails, exhortations,
pleadings, traffic rules and the like are
not going to give the answer —they have
been going on for a long time, but the
red tide along the roads of this country
rises inexorably year by year.
The remedy does not lie with the
human being; it lies in the use of the
instrument, the control of the machine.
Is society ready to impose this control?
First it must search its own heart. The
clamor for speed is rife throughout this
breakneck civilisation. Faster trains,
faster aeroplanes, faster cars, faster motor-
bikes, even faster horses and faster dogs,
are the symbols of this age. Do we want
all this speed at the price it demands?
The motor-car/cycle industry lives on
speed. It will not lightly surrender the
right to make cars that may hurtle faster
and faster on the nation’s roads, killing
and maiming as they go. Nor do I know
of any public man courageous enough to
stand up and demand a limitation on
speed. He would be laughed at as a
fool in the way of progress.
Yet the demand that the speed of the
machine should be matched to the
capacity of the user to control it is not
unreasonable; and, having regard to the
condition and character of our roads,
it needs to be matched also to the ability
of the roads to accommodate that speed.
Why, as a preliminary, should not the
speed of cars and cycles be mechanically
reduced to a level which leaves all parties
some kind of a chance if things go wrong?
Such a speed would not have to be so
slow, either.
In time a consciousness of the signifi-
cance and the danger of speed would
grow, while roads, traffic-controls and all
the rest of it would become adapted to
the new need. It would not be a block-
ing of progress, but a breathing-space
while society came to terms with its own
conscience.
Throughout all the mechanical,
scientific progress of the past half-century
the dominating thought has risen ever
more persistently—reaching its climax in
the atomic mankind has to
control its machines or perish by them.
Nearly 1000 Australians are perishing
each year by road-machines alone. —
Den (N.S.W.).
Land of Hope and Glory
As a toiler who escapes the rut of daily
routine and gets a few peeps into odd
corners of this workaday world, I
possibly see a little more of the oddities
of existence than the next bloke.
Take those I ran into during the last
week as an example. A pal who owned
a dwelling-house for a number of years
before he sold it received a letter from
the Taxation Department inquiring (a)
when he bought it, ( b ) the price, (c) when
he sold it, (d) the price, (e) what he did
with the money? He has hardly got his
breath back yet.
Another cove who is a licensed fisher-
man was coursed around all the back-
streets of suburban Sydney by Govern-
ment officials who were afraid he might
dispose of the lawful product of his toil
without affording the Government a
chance to clip him for a cut. The salary
of the fish-hounds and the cost of the
petrol they burned, to say nothing of the
wear and tear on their vehicle, hit the
taxpayers’ pocket very much harder than
would be recompensed by the commis-
sion on the sale of the fish.
In the suburb of Bankstown a dog
was killed by a truck. A ratepayer
phoned the council and asked that the
carcass be removed. It was removed that
day—by a large wagon driven by a
gentleman who was accompanied by two
other gentlemen each wielding a shovel.
Bankstown, incidentally, is reported to be
too broke to be able to afford to keep
open the gutters of roads extending more
than a few yards from the council
chambers and shopping area. This City
CTEVHEB
DKA
“ Don't wrap ’em up, Miss — I'll Wear ’em.”
of the Future—as it has been termed —is
14 miles from Sydney and unsewered.
Its council recently posted a notice in-
forming the ratepayers in part of its area
that, until further notice, they would be
required to make their own arrangements
for the disposal of night-soil. Since the
locality is almost entirely dependent
upon kerosene-lamps for illumination this
part of Sydney is back to conditions of
1850.
To top off the week another bloke
came into the office and moaned that his
subdivided property, situated on a main
road in a popular northern suburb,
serviced with gas, water, sewer and elec-
tricity, and all ready for the builder, has
been declared to be reserved as “Green
Belt” by the Cumberland County
Council Town Planning Scheme, and he
can do nothing about it.— Cave (N.S.W.).
Divine Right
I have lately received an aggressive
notice from the Milk Board reminding
me that my application for renewal of
registration must be lodged before
November 15 (six weeks before the old
one expires) “or registration may be re-
fused.”
That, on top of the judgment that
“ownership of the potatoes vests in the
board, perhaps from the time they are
formed, certainly from the time they are
harvested,” threw my thoughts back a
bit.
The British once executed a king for
insisting on Divine Right. Is the Divine
Right of boards to go for ever unchal-
lenged, even by the Liberal party?
And when is some eminent legal
authority going to list the freedoms we
have lost to boards, commissions, corpora-
tions, councils, commissars and the multi-
tude of other Pooh-Bahs? —W. T. L.
(N.S.W.).
Monorail
“Transporticus” (B. 15/11 /’5O) says
the German autobahnen were seldom
bombed, while the railways were bombed
continuously. From that reasoning it
seems that it would be far better that we
build the despised motor-road. The
reason we didn’t hit German autobahnen
was that automobiles were seldom seen
on them. There just weren’t the cars, and
the roa.ds were bare.
I haven’t seen “T.” advocating the
railway of the future —monorail, which
costs only a tenth of the present type
of track. The U.S.A. plans coast-to-coast
monorail on which gyrostabilised trains
will average very high speeds.
Trains running suspended from old-
type overhead monorail were successful
in Germany from 1900 to 1944, and did
80 m.p.h. without accident or casualty.
We could have modern monorail trains at
least linking the capital cities. The
advantages of high speeds, maximum
safety, no break-of-gauge and economy
of erection and maintenance are obvious.
—J. M. C. (S.A.).
Immigrants
“Y.N.” (B. 16/8/’5O) succinctly sup-
ports the argument against a weakening
of White Australia, but he also quotes dis-
turbing facts which are'militating against
immigration in general—the refusal of
Australians to work with aliens in their
professions and trades, or to permit aliens
to work out their own destiny in the way
they’ve been trained to do.
If Australia is to be kept white, that
prejudice will have to be broken down.
It is already in the discard in schools.
Children of “refugees,” pre-war arrivals,
have passed through our schools. Many
are now studying university courses and,
in another year or two, will be ready to
take their places among Australian pro-
fessionals. That is as it should be. These
youngsters deserve an opportunity, not
only by reason of their application and
brains, but also because they have com-
pletely accepted our way of life.
Among the post-war arrivals there are
many highly-qualified individuals. These
also must eventually merge themselves
into our society. But the restrictions
referred to by “Y.N.” are having the
serious effect —serious in the long view—
of compelling them to band together into
fraternal and cultural groups, the logical
outcome of which will be the establish-
ment of “colonies” based on nostalgic
memories of their homelands.
That is not what we want, but it is
happening, and we can’t blame the New
Australians if these colonies develop a
political bias. If we continue to ostracise
them, their loyalty to their homelands
will be placed first, either willingly or
under pressure. Remember Hitler’s
claim that a German-born owed
allegiance to Germany wherever he might
be?
Australians must remember that the
sole basis of the Whits Australia Policy
is the maintenance of our standards of
living and way of life. “Y.N.” is surely
not serious in his statement that “Aus-
tralians have been educated to believe
that they have an exclusive right to this
vast country because we saw it first.”
The greatest advance in Australia’s popu-
lation in the early days was made during
the gold-rush periods when our sturdy
British stock was watered down by an
admixture of adventurers from all over
the world. Ships of all nationalities lost
their crews, and seamen in every overseas
port fought for jobs on Australian-
bound ships with the fixed intention of
deserting on arrival.
Many thousands of the best of them
stayed on and became good Australians.
Today, hundreds of thousands of young
Europeans look towards Australia again
as the land of opportunity—which it is.
Only by encouraging them to become
Australians will we be able to survive as
a white nation.
We who look to America for aid in
the Pacific should remember that the
people of the U.S.A. are not a single
race. An American writer puts it this
way: “To be an American is a state
of mind.” We, too, must inculcate that
feeling in all our newcomers. They must
feel in their hearts that they are accepted
and are to become Australians, and that
being an Australian is something of
which they can be as proud as the native-
born. —J. H. Lawes (N.S.W.).
Darwin
Yet another Government attempt is on
to make Darwin the “Garden City of
the North.” Vacant blocks in the muni-
cipal area are all being cleared and
planted with lawns and flowering plants,
prizes are to be offered for the best
gardens in the town, and there is talk of
a “floral fete.”
It’s all very nice except for the fact
that these parks and gardens and lawns
will soak up a lot of water —after market-
gardeners and fruitgrowers about the area
have been warned that they will be on
a water ration. In fact, one market-
gardener was instructed to shut off
his supplies for at least two days a week,
and at the hottest and driest time of the
year.
Meanwhile, the Qantas rest-house at
Byerrima has water running all day long in
artificial creeks and streams crossed by
rustic bridges, swimming-pools and the
like —all drawn from the same source
that supplies the market-gardeners and
Darwin householders.
When the market-gardeners wanted to'
know where their water would come from
they were told to sink their own bores.
Even if labor were available it would cost
at least £2OOO to sink a bore and to instal
the necessary machinery.
While labor is wasted on parks and
gardens there is a bitterly-felt shortage of
houses because material and labor are
unobtainable, roads are degenerating into
potholes and washboard corrugations, and
gutters and drains are still wanting on
some of the principal streets. — Terri-
TORIAN (N.T.).
Hospital Finance
The deteriorating financial position of
public hospitals in Victoria is the serious
concern of committees of management
and the Hospitals and Charities Commis-
sion. The worsened state of affairs has
been brought about by the declared in-
ability of the State Government to pro-
vide increased finance to the commission
for disbursement to various institutions
largely dependent on it. This has meant
that, although expenditure has risen
steeply (mostly through increased costs
because of higher wages and services),
money available from the Government by
way of maintenance grants has not in-
creased commensurately.
In the case of one large base hospital
budgeted expenditure was up by thou-
sands of pounds while financial assistance
had increased by only £3OO. And that
after economies had been made beyond
which the management could not go
without impairing efficiency.
Some administrators believe that the
answer to the problem lies in restoration
of the means test for public patients.
The abolition of it was reckoned to have
deprived one institution of something like
£6OOO annually since 1946—0 r about the
amount of the present bank overdraft.
This hospital has given the lead in a
move to consult other institutions on the
matter and if a similar state of affairs
is found to exist (there is no reason to
suppose that it will not) a concerted
approach will be made to the commission
and the State Government to have means-
test legislation restored. — Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
Work
It is refreshing to hear statements from
Labor men that production must be
stepped up if the country is to emerge
from the economic morass into which it
has slipped. It is also good to hear
them pointing out that only by
production can any semblance of
order be restored, and that production is
best achieved from eo-operation of
capital and labor —workers and manage-
ment.
Our troubles are largely the outcome
of the class-hatred that has been engen-
dered by the unions over the last 20
years, and aggravated by many em-
ployers. The readiness on the part of the
workers to believe that they are the
worst-treated people in the world is an
ideal field for the international disrup-
tionists who have got this country by the
throat.
As a matter of fact, the workers were
never so well off as they were in the pre-
-1939 days, when homes were available
for all and the possession of a car was a
matter for the individual taste rather than
the pocket. Taxes were light in those
days, and the main difference in working
hours between then and now is that more
people then worked on Saturday
mornings.
Since the workers’ leaders commenced
the post-war campaign for shorter hours,
higher wages and “keep the boss short
of output,” workers’ conditions have
deteriorated until everyone is suffering
from chronic shortages, and life is more
of an existence than it has been for half
a century. People who doubt it should
ask themselves how often they can afford
ham or bacon or a choice cut of lamb
these days. What kind of a selection of
toys do the kids get at Christmas-time?
What was it like to be able to spend a
day at the beaches with the family
without saving up for a month to pay
the fares and feed-bill?
Our present conditions have come
about under “Labor” Governments
which have fostered the movement
whereby the workers have taken control
of industry away from the management,
and shortened the working hours and
rate of output. The obvious solution to
the problem is a rejection of industrial
anarchy and a return to the self-discipline
and honesty of endeavor upon which this
country was founded. — Villoc (N.S.W.).


£ NOONOJ °*
m
ONLY 3J DAYS*
via AMERICA
(NO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
day} at 11 a.m., arrive London
tor breakfast on Tuesday! No
Mollar problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA's fare includes a
special dollar allowance formeal*
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross’*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped OC-6.
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only 77 bn,
4S mins.
B CPA
jr lfefcV
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
t Departures every Wednesday and
Saturday. Full particulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: S 3 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
m
m
8CA.41.1t
WAR-TIME IN THE A.B.C. NEWS-ROOM
By M. F. DIXON (former head of the A.B.C. news department)
JT\ LTHOUGH war seemed
inevitable from 1938
| onwards, news of Hitler’s
order to the German
Army, on September 1, 1939, to
march against Poland, took the
Australian Government by sur-
prise. I recall well that
memorable Friday afternoon
being handed a flash from the
A.B.C.’s London news-room
giving the text of Hitler’s call
to arms. This is what it said:
According to Berlin radio, Hitler
this morning addressed a proclama-
tion to the German Army as follows:
“The Polish State has refused the
friendly offer addressed to them, and
has appealed to force of arms
instead. Germans in Poland have
been brutally persecuted in intolerable
frontier incidents. In order to end
this intolerable madness I have no
other choice than to answer force
with force. I know the German
soldiers will fight for the honor and
vital rights of the German people
with firm determination. I expect
every soldier to do bis duty, conscious
of the great traditions of the German
Army.”
Clearly this meant war ; and
while my secretary phoned the
programme department to
arrange an immediate broadcast
of the message, I telephoned the
chairman of the Commission
(Mr. W. J. Cleary), only to find
that the Postmaster-General
(Mr. Eric J. Harrison) was
speaking to him from Canberra.
Cleary telephoned me a few
minutes later to say that
Harrison was concerned at a
report he had received that the
A.B.C. had broadcast an
alarmist message to the effect
that Germany was about to
invade Poland. I told Cleary
that I had such a message on my
desk at that moment, but that it
was not alarmist and it had not
been broadcast, at least from
Sydney. J proposed, however, to
use it as soon as I could break
into the programme.
Cleary insisted that I stay my
hand, at the same time giving
me the background of his talk
with Harrison. Senator Foil, it
appeared, had telephoned
Harrison from Jervis Bay (where
Foil was holidaying) to ask on
what authority the A.B.C. had
broadcast a message a little
earlier to the effect that the
German Army was about to
march into Poland. Neither
Harrison nor any other member
of the Government knew any-
thing about the report, and,
according to Harrison, all were
frankly sceptical of its accuracy,
hence his direction to Cleary
that there must be no repetition
of the broadcast until the news
had been confirmed.
For the moment I was unable
to account for the broadcast
that Foil had heard ; then in a
flash I realised it had probably
originated in the A.B.C.’s Mel-
bourne studios. An emergency
telephone-call to the Melbourne
news-room confirmed this. It
appears that the P.M.G.’s
monitoring station at Mont
Park, near Melbourne, had inter-
cepted a short-wave broadcast
from the 8.8. C. giving the text
of Hitler’s call to his Army, and
had telephoned it to the A.B.C.’s
Melbourne news-room, which
had promptly broadcast it. The
programme-line was running
from Melbourne to all States at
the time, thus making a nation-
wide broadcast possible.
Reluctantly Melbourne
accepted Cleary’s instruction,
through me, that the broadcast
must not be repeated until
further notice; and although
the Sydney office of Australian
Associated Press confirmed
receipt of a similar message
from London, there was nothing
I could do to get it on the air
from Sydney until Cleary had
heard again from Harrison.
It was fully an hour before
Harrison telephoned again, and
even then Canberra had not
been officially advised that the
German Army was on the
march. Cleary was able to tell
him by that time that we had
received further messages to say
that the invasion of Poland had
begun, and that German planes
had bombed a number of Polish
towns.
The Minister, realising he
could not reasonably hold up
the release of the news any
longer, told Cleary we were free
to broadcast it if we thought fit.
I am able to say now that so
strongly did the news depart-
ment resent the Ministerial hold-
up that it had prepared and re-
leased a bulletin for broadcasting
before Canberra’s “all-clear”
signal was received.
The 7-o’clock bulletin that
night was devoted almost wholly
to war news. Professor S. H.
Roberts (now Vice-Chancellor
of Sydney University) sat in the
A.B.C. news-room at Market-
street preparing his commentary,
to follow the news, from the
flood of material which came
in between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. by
cable and short-wave broadcast.
Ken Brooke (who died in Cairns
a few months ago) helped me
prepare the news bulletin ; and
Peter Tanner, who had a fine
voice, read it calmly and authori-
tatively. Basil Kirke, A.B.C,
manager in New South Wales at
the time, listened to the broad-
cast with me in the news-room
and remarked that it was prob-
ably the most momentous
bulletin Tanner had ever read
or was ever likely to read. Peter
enlisted soon after the outbreak
of war in the Pacific and served
in New Guinea. However, he
became ill and died in hospital
some time after being discharged
from the Army.
The Comedy Harmonists, who
were touring Australia for the
A.B.C. at the time, gave a
concert in the Sydney Town
Hall that night and received
an enthusiastic reception.
Immediately after the concert
they were summoned to a con-
ference at Broadcast House
which lasted until well after
midnight and was not exactly
harmonious. The question that
had to be settled was whether
the tour should continue in view
of the fact that one or two
members of the combination
were Germans and another was
a Pole. It was obvious they
wouldn’t be a happy family
from then on ; but as the tour
was nearing its end, it was de-
cided to let it continue.
The national stations were
kept on the air all that
night (or at least until
5 o’clock next morning), when
there was an hour’s break
before Saturday’s transmission
began at 6 a.m. The early-
morning news staff took over
from us at five o’clock, and we
went home to snatch a few
hours’ rest before flying to Mel-
bourne, which became the
A.B.C.’s news headquarters for
the first three weeks of the war.
Early in May, 1940, a tall
weather-beaten man walked into
my office at the A.B.C. and said
his name was George Goodall.
He had been technical adviser
to the Philippines Government
for many years, and, upon re-
tirement a few weeks earlier,
had come to Australia. He
thought he could give a news-
broadcast on Pacific affairs that
would interest the Australian
people.
Goodall said he had lived in
the East for 28 years, and had
watched Japanese expansion to
the point where he felt some-
thing should be done about it.
When I asked him if he thought
there was likely to be war in the
Pacific, Goodall thumped the
desk and said I was about the
one-hundredth person who had
asked him “that damn-fool
question” since coming to Aus-
tralia. “I don’t think there’s
going to be war,” he said. “I
know there’s going to be war,
and the sooner the people of
Australia know it, too, the
better. That is why I’d like to
give a news-commentary to
wake them up.”
I commissioned Goodall to
write a news-commentary for
the following night, and was
well pleased with the script he
turned in. I warned him, how-
ever, that in view of the
“straight - from - the - shoulder”
terms in which he had written,
there might be some trouble
with the censor. Sure enough
the script came back next morn-
ing cut to pieces, no fewer than
44 out of 116 lines having been
deleted. Goodall was furious,
and quite properly, in my
opinion, refused to go on with
the broadcast. I joined him in
protest to the censor, but was
told ifi reply that the script was
too provocative and might well
cause offence to the Japanese
Government and people
Goodall took a copy of it
when he sailed for London a
few months later, and some time
after Japan struck in the Pacific
in December, 1941, it was pub-
lished in the London “Daily
Mail.” Next day a summary
appeared in the Sydney daily
papers, more than a year and a
half after Goodall had first
attempted to give his message to
the Australian people.
The resignation of Mr. W. J.
Cleary as chairman of the
A.B.C. was the biggest broad-
casting news of 1945. Cleary
had been appointed chairman of
the A.B.C. in 1934, and seemed
to be part and parcel of national
broadcasting. When Warren
Denning, who was in charge of
the A.B.C.’s Canberra news de-
partment at the time, telephoned
me one day in February of that
year to say the Postmaster-
General (Senator D. Cameron)
had received a letter of resigna-
tion from Cleary, I was rather
astounded. I had had a long talk
with Cleary a few days earlier,
and he had given no hint of his
intention to step down. How-
ever, Denning assured me the
report was correct; but he could
give no indication of the reason
behind it. Cleary’s letter to the
Minister simply said he wished
to resign, and would give his
reasons to the next meeting of
the Commission.
The afternoon papers carried
the story; and speculation
immediately became rife as to
why he had taken such a sudden
and unexpected step. By next
morning a section of the Press,
at least, claimed to know the
“inside” story —Cleary was tired
of the “stand-over” tactics of the
Parliamentary Committee on
Broadcasting. Cleary himself
refused to be drawn —he would
neither confirm nor deny the
newspaper speculation. It was
common knowledge that he had
had a few “brushes” with the
committee, but, even to a sensi-
tive man like Cleary, they were
hardly serious enough to justify
such a drastic step.
At a staff farewell in
Broadcast House a few weeks
later Cleary partially lifted the
lid off his mysterious resignation
when he said that, because he
was no longer able to rely on
the loyalty of some people from
whom he had a right to expect
loyalty, he felt it was time to get
out. A few people close to
Cleary professed to be able to
read into his cryptic remarks
the real reason for his resigna-
tion, but although a summary
of his statement appeared in the
Press next day Cleary still
refused to be drawn.
I was told afterwards on good
authority that not even the
Prime Minister of the day, John
Curtin, knew why Cleary left
the A.B.C. The story goes that
when the Postmaster-General
(Senator Don Cameron) showed
Cleary’s letter of resignation to
Mr. Curtin, Curtin suggested to
Cameron that he should ask
Cleary for his reasons. But with
true Scottish caution Cameron
merely accepted the resignation
and let it go at that. Had he
followed his leader’s advice,
Cleary might never have left the
A.B.C.
I still think Cleary’s resigna-
tion was a distinct loss to
national broadcasting. In my
opinion his resignation should
not have been accepted until
the Government had ascer-
tained the reason behind it, and
made a serious attempt to
remove the cause of his dis-
satisfaction.
The A.B.C. news department’s
biggest scoop of the war —the
sinking of H.M.S, Prince of
Wales and Repulse off Malaya
on December 10, 1941 —was also
its biggest headache.
First news of the disaster
reached us in an urgent cable
from the A.B.C.’s London offic<
a few minutes before the 7 p.m
news-broadcast was due to gc
on the air. This cable quotec
the text of a statement issuer
by Japanese Imperial head
quarters in Tokyo to the effeci
that the Japanese Air Force had
that day sunk the two British
warships in Malayan waters
The message gave the time and
other details of the sinking,
which somehow branded it as
authentic, and we made an
instantaneous decision to use il
as an “unconfirmed report” in
the 7-o’ciock bulletin.
Within two minutes of the
broadcast indignant listeners
began to telephone the news-
room demanding to know why
we were circulating Japanese
propaganda. Some of the calls
were diverted to Mr. Bearup,
who was acting general-manager
at the time, and others were
switched over to me. During
the next hour or so we both had
to endure more than a fair share
of criticism, in some cases
bordering on abuse.
In vain did we point out that
the censor had passed the story,
which had come from Japanese
Imperial headquarters, and was
not merely a “spokesman’s”
claim. The Japanese at that
early stage of the war had not
begun to issue the extravagant
propaganda which colored many
of their later claims.
Even a Sydney daily paper
which had monitored our
broadcast joined in the chorus
of demand as to why we had
struck a blow at public morale
by broadcasting such a “highly
improbable story.”
As luck would have it, not
another cable reached us for the
next two hours to throw any
further light on the matter. They
seemed to be the longest and
most uncomfortable two hours
I had ever experienced. To
make matters worse, the naval
authorities had heard our
broadcast, and, not having re-
ceived any direct advice of the
disaster, refused to believe it,
and insisted that we broadcast a
denial.' This denial was used for
the second time a few minutes
before we crossed to London for
the 9 p.m. 8.8. C. news, which
confirmed our story.
I was on the telephone trying
to appease a still angry listener
when, with one ear, I heard the
8.8. C. announcer express the
Admiralty’s regret at the loss of
the two magnificent ships as a
result of enemy action. The
8.8. C. announcement was based
on the same message from
Japanese Imperial headquarters
that we had used two hours
earlier.
In the meantime, the Naval
Board had been in touch with
the then Prime Minister, John
Curtin, who was in Melbourne,
and at the board’s urgent request
he had approved of the text of a
message to be broadcast
immediately after the 9-
o’clock 8.8. C. news, repudiating
the A.B.C.’s 7 p.m. broadcast.
The text of the message was as
follows:
In the national news at 7 o’clock
tonight there was a reference to a
report broadcast from Tokyo today
that the British battleship Prince of
Wales and another big warship,
Repulse, had been sunk in Malayan
waters by Japanese air-attacks. The
naval authorities in Australia have
since made it clear that there is no
confirmation of the claim made by
the Japanese in their report from
Tokyo to have sunk either the Prince
of Wales or Repulse or both. The
naval authorities want every Aus-
tralian, therefore, to regard the
Japanese claim as enemy propaganda.
Fortunately, the P.M.G.’s
pick-up station at Mont Park
was monitoring the 8.8.C.’s
9 p.m. news-broadcast, and,
immediately confirmation of the
sinkings was announced, tele-
phoned an official of the Prime
Minister’s Department in time
to prevent a broadcast of the
Naval Board’s statement. The
board’s face was red next day;
but not nearly as red as it would
have been had its authorita-
tively-phrased statement been
allowed to go on the ah*.


A CHRISTMAS PRESENT FOR CHILDREN
which will be remembered all the year round
•COLLINS MAGAZINE
FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
Intended for boys, and girls of 9-16 years of age, who enjoy reading. There
are stories, film reviews, puzzles, articles on how to make a variety of things,
keeping pets, camping and every subject of interest to wide-awake children.
Annual Subscription 30s. (including postage)
Obtainable through your bookseller or newsagent.
COAST TO COAST 1949-50,
selected by Nettie Palmer.
A richly-varied selection of the
year’s best Australian stories, featur-
ing new as well as established
writers. 10/6 (post Bd.)
AUSTRALIAN FICTION
THE BECKONING SHORE,
by E. V. Timms.
A dramatic and moving epic of life
in the penal colony of N.S.W. Third
great novel in a powerful Austra-
lian saga. 12/6 (post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dymock’s Christmas Catalogue
[rrn Your Christmas Gifts can be so much more thoughtful, so much
more carefully chosen, when you buy in the peace and quiet
of your own home ... in fact, it’s a pleasure to shop from our
Christmas Catalogue.
Send for your copy today free to any address and
LET DYMOCK’S CARE FOR ALL YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: BL 3611.
Available shortly from all booksellers
THE AGE OF ELEGANCE
1812-1822
By ARTHUR BRYANT
• Completing the trilogy begun with The Years of Endurance and Years of
• Covering the colourful Regency period which saw the final disposal of the
• Describing Wattle revolution the British had mastered in battle nearly
overwhelmed them in peace.
17s. 6d.
COLLINS
The Gift for Gardeners!
BRUNNING’S AUSTRALIAN GARDENER
New, 31st Edition: Completely Revised.
Right up-to-date with modern methods, new plants and varieties, garden layout, etc.
“BRUNNING” ensures successful cultivation of
FLOWERS. VEGETABLES, SHRUBS, FRUITS
Special chapters on Gardening Principles, Soil, Pests and Diseases, etc. Full index;
452 pages; 172 illustrations. Only 13/6d.
At all booksellers, or
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
TWO IDEAL GIFT BOOKS
The Woman’s Annual
Luxurious binding, lavishly illus-
trated, edited by Ursula Bloom, ex-
cellent stories and articles by leading
writers and an attractive new four
colour dust jacket of Princess Mar-
garet, 16/9
The Young Cricketer
The perfect book of cricket for
young and old enthusiasts. Articles
on all aspects of the game by leading
authorities, including Denis Comp-
ton, Cyril Washbrook, Geoffrey
Evans. First class illustrations. 15/-
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
Sole Australian Distributor: Joseph Waters,
Third Floor, Collins House, 360 Collins Street.
Room 90,
Melbourne.
point of view, or even from the actor’s—
and one cannot hazard an opinion on the
latter without having seen several stage
performances —he appears already to have
played a decisive role in one of the
most important literary experiments of
the century.
DONOVAN CLARKE.
The Australian Encyclopaedia
Most readers probably know by now
that Alec H. Chisholm is editing a new
edition of The Australian Encyclopaedia
for Angus and Robertson, to be published
Lord knows when, but you have to talk
with Mr. Chisholm for an hour or so
before you can realise what a colossal
task that is. Plans have been laid down
for a five- or six-volume encyclopaedia,
containing some 5000 entries and running
to about 4,000,000 words.
Mr. Chisholm was himself a contri-
butor to the 1925-26 Australian Encyclo-
pedia, which the new edition is to re-
place, writing, among other things,
articles on natural history, wild white
men and two-up. Besides that he has a
long list of books to his credit, the best
of them—except for an excellent one
on C. J. Dennis—on natural history.
Mr. Chisholm has a large number of
experts busy on contributions for the
new edition —such men as S. M- Wadham
(agriculture), H. G. Raggatt (minerals),
John Cumpston (Antarctica), R. Woolley
(astronomy), A. G. Nicholson, A.
Musgrave and K. McKeown (insects and
spiders), J. H. Willis (botany), F. A.
Bland (local-government), John Medley
(universities), F. T. Macartney (literature),
J. S. Macdonald (art), E. G. Bowen
(radar), A. J.' Metcalfe (public health),
G. S. Browne (education), C. Fenner
(meteorites), G. Belschner (sheep), J. K.
Taylor (soils), Ulrich Ellis (water-conser-
vation and hydroelectric works), and A.
Abbie and F. Fenner, who will deal re-
spectively with the physical charac-
teristics of white and black Australians.
It was thought by the late W- G.
Cousins, of Angus and Robertson, that at
least two-thirds of the material in the old
edition could be used again as it was
originally written. Mr. Chisholm will
think himself lucky to salvage 10 per cent.
Revision will not be limited to what
may be conveniently termed modern or
“open” articles ; it will be extended to
all “old” or apparently “closed” articles,
biographical, historical, geographical,
literary, scientific, artistic.
Completely new subjects will include
aviation, radio, television, rocket-range,
American impact on Australia, film-pro-
duction, ballet, influence of alien groups
on Australian life, motor-car manufac-
ture, censorship, history of the Press,
Channel country, cactoblastis, Aus-
tralia’s foreign relations, fur-farming,
New-States movements, Kimberley settle-
ment, Greycliffe disaster, aerial medical
services, soil-erosion, road-safety and
the British Commonwealth Occupation
Force. Virtually new subjects will include
a history of referenda, and the develop-
ment of commerce, sociology and educa-
tion
Many then-contemporary subjects were
overlooked and will be dealt with in the
new edition: Australian slang, axeman-
ship, British regiments in Australia, babes
in the bush (lost children), brumbies, buck-
jumping, bushcraft, bushfires, bush-
nursing, bushmen’s carnivals, co-operative
societies, water-divining, droughts, drov-
ing, drug-yielding plants, deserted mining
towns, floods, Gulf country, national
odes and songs, ostrich-farming, over-
landing, Pilliga scrub, Polwarth sheep,
river transport, rabbitskin industry,
shearing records, squatting, surfing, swag-
men, salvage and diving, wool-classing
and wool research and V.C.-winners.
In the old work there were only nine
entries devoted to sport. The new edition
will include nearly 40 entries, including
such items as archery, cockfighting, tug-
of-war, weightlifting, billiards, croquet,
badminton and polo.
Australian geography was almost com-
pletely neglected in the old encyclopaedia.
Geography in the new work will include
all cities, large towns and main features
from Wilson’s Promontory to the Owen
Stanley Range in New Guinea, from
Botany Bay to Houtman’s Abrolhos off
the west coast.
Mr. Chisholm still welcomes sugges-
tions for articles. This writer reeled off
to him a list a yard long only to be in-
formed that most of the subjects men-
tioned were being CQvered. A few sub-
jects which have occurred since are:
gambling, cartooning and cartoonists,
horse-breaking, the Australian accent,
seismology, mineral springs, circuses, a
separate article on prisons and peno-
logical methods. Mr. Chisholm might
also consider a complete and detailed
index to the whole work. The cross-
references in the old work are unsatis-
factory.
In spite of these failings in the old
encyclopaedia it was, of course—and still
is—a most valuable work. The main
trouble with it is simply that it is 25 years
out-of-date. It was originated by George
Robertson, of A. and R., 30 years ago.
Many years before, three Australian
encyclopaedias of a kind had been pub-
lished They were John Henniker
Heaton’s The Australian Dictionary of
Dates and Men of the Time (1879),
advertised as “a digested summary of
every branch of Australian history,” the
first Australian reference-book of any
importance, and a conscientious but
curious collection of hotchpotch in-
formation ; David Blair’s Cyclopedia of
Australasia (1881), which leaned heavily
on Heaton and added little to his work;
and Andrew Garran’s Picturesque Atlas
of Australasia (1886), a sumptuous pro-
duction of much greater value than has
generally been understood. All three
were hopelessly out-of-date at the time
when Robertson thought of his encyclo-
paedia.
Work began on the Robertson project
in 1912 under the editorship of Charles
H. Bertie, Sydney Municipal Librarian
and an authority on the early history of
Sydney. The outbreak of World War I
temporarily halted its progress. In 1917
work was resumed. Robertson appointed
Herbert J. Carter, a distinguished
entomologist and later president of the
Linnean Society of N. S. Wales, to
supervise the scientific contributions.
Carter was able to obtain the help of
the leading scientists of Australia, and
their articles formed a large and valuable
part of the publication.
Three years later Arthur W. Jose,
author of a history of Australia and other
historical works, who had just been
released from naval intelligence work,
undertook the general editorship. Jose
found that, owing partly to the lapse of
time, partly to the opening-up of fresh
sources of information, it became neces-
sary to rewrite much of the historical
and biographical matter.
The first of the two volumes appeared
in 1925, the second in 1926, but before
both reached the bookshops Robertson
had to finance and afterwards buy out the
firm which had been commissioned to
print the work. Also, Robertson had to
edit much of the work, Jose having left
for London before the first volume went
to press. The venture is said to have cost
more than £30,000. Its total sale was
16,000 sets, including reprints in 1927
and 1932.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 98
Across.
I—lntertwined like a net putting me
on the outhouse. (6)
3—Father patriot of the Swiss like
to strike a girl’s kneecaps. (8)
B—Small flashes of flame rest the
car in the steamer. (6)
10—Materia! uncollected by a rolling
stone deer and an American
playwright. (4, 4)
12—Young animal like chrysalides. (5)
14 — Nursery sheep take a false god
to a medical graduate. (3-4)
15— Fifty that is not to be accepted
as truth. (3)
16 — Ten nickels. (5, 5)
18—A flower for the lapel urges a
N.S.W. cricket all-rounder to
continue imitating a goat. (10)
20—Vowel matched against itself the
night before an original woman.
22—Smgle French one associated
with a parent and Edward. (7)
24 The things over there get stock-
ings after tea. (5) .
25 Dulling, he made a wager with a
six-footer. (8)
26—Make a disclosure about dead
calves. (6)
28 — Sousa’s compositions taken by a
titled Italian woman. (8)
29 Land condition of anything after
grinding might make a disorderly
dog run. (6)
Down.
1— Girl-skin named the letters
wrongly. (8)
2 Large deer. (3)
4 A five circle needs 100 with a
Victorian river. (5)
5 Mental seven in the act ot
enthralling. (11)
6 Base-metal Schnozzle? (4, 2, 3. 4j
7 Direction swell departed when
exploded when well displayed.
(3, 3)
9—Salad plant has a pianissimo fifty
and an old French com to bur-
den. (5-8) . .
11—German but the beginning ot
many Scottish place-names. (4)
13 —It provides a light marriage for
security. (6, 5)
17 —Red swallows a beautiful woman,
and participated in an insurrec-
tion. (8)
19—Betting rates duck prelates. (4J
21 —Mother to pretend to be the
Abigail who superseded the
Duchess of Marlborough in
Queen Anne’s favor. (6)
23—Barrel-like fish. (5)
27 —Some musicians play by this. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 97.


That
boy of
yours
TTE will carry on your name. You have
brought him up with affection and care,
and you want him to have the best possible start
for his career ... a position in the steel
industry.
He will keep that happy outlook as oppor-
tunities open up before him ... as the industry’s
Staff Training Scheme fits him for promotion.
Australia’s ever-developing steel industry has
big plans for the future, plans in which your
boy can take a successful and secure part. Give
him this chance.
There are vacancies available now for
technical trainees and trade apprentices to start
in 1951.
Call, write or phone The Broken Hill
Proprietary Go. Ltd, today for further details
at any of the offices or works at Melbourne,
Newcastle, Whyalla, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Perth,
Your local B.H.P. manager will be glad to
help your boy plan an interest-packed career as
an engineer, metallurgist, chemist or highly
skilled tradesman in the steel industry.
There’s a future for him in the steel industry
