

The Bulletin
he Bulletin,” VoL 71 —No. 3653
Wednesday, February 15,1950
Price 6dL
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
CAPITAL OF THE HIGHLANDS IS QUAINT OLD INVERNESS
INVERNESS is beautifully situated at the north-eastern end of the Great
jf u Much contains the Caledonian Canal. Through this ancient town
3ws the broad, swift-flowing River Ness, which carries the waters of Loch
ess over the eight miles separating that loch from the Beauly Firth. Inverness,
. . eobble streets and quaint old buildings, breathes the spirit of past
\hp j as Played a leading part in almost every important event in
t 0 p- S? ce s ’ xt h century, when St. Columba brought the Gospel
pat r»r Ictlstl tvmg Brude, whose capital was Inverness. This remained the
■Hp rmrtu succ^ ss l° n . of Pictish kings, and after them it continued to rule
*‘ipvpntVi n as * tae Ca tef town of the Mormaers of Ross and Moray in the
invpm M c Ce ,il ur t’ Maimed to be independent of Scottish kings. At
famo V?. Macbeth had his castle until it was destroyed by
present ing uncan ’ s avenger, who built anew castle on the
and cottl j s h War of Independence Inverness played a prominent part
Bruce rnit? 0 C a 1™ 25 by the English. It was here that Robert the
he destrnvpH Int Legions, and when he recaptured the town in 1307
yhe castle. In later reigns the town suffered from the savagery
of the Highlandmen, and was the scene of many assemblies called by the
kings in their attempts to control the wild fchieftains. After his release from
captivity in England, James I held a Parliament in Inverness when he came
to restore law and order in the Highlands.
It was to Inverness that Mary Queen of Scots came in 1562 to find the
gates of the castle closed against her—a gesture of defiance which cost the
Governor his life the following day when the castle surrendered. Owing to its
strategic importance, Inverness was the headquarters of Cromwell’s Govern-
ment in the Highlands, and he established a fortress here in 1652^-57.
During the Jacobite risings the town was occupied alternately by the
Jacobites (1715) and by the Hanoverians, and it was at Culloden Moor, five
miles distant, that the battle was fought which shattered the hopes of Bonnie
Prince Charlie.
Inverness Castle, as it appears today, was built in 1843 to serve as a
Court House and to provide administrative offices for the county. In front
of the castle is a statue of Flora Macdonald, whose name is associated with
the escape of Prince Charlie to France after many adventures in the
Highlands.
A PRODUCT OF THE
extra dry solero
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
ẃ
EIiSHJyIM
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
Uy Name
My Address
8.8. 250
.AOE.
The Red Page
BAKER OF THE NILE.
It is as though the Victorians had
decided to amuse us under the stage-
management of Lytton Strachey, in order
that, seen against the more sober back-
ground of a lost Empire, the accomplish-
ments of an age might seem more sur-
prising which could produce a man like
Samuel White Baker (1821-1893) and
overshadow him with Livingstone,
Gordon, Stanley and Burton.
He has been there all the time: in
Baker of the Nile (The Falcon Press)
Dorothy Middleton has done little more
than to put together his books of hunting,
travel and exploration; yet few in this
generation know even the name of this
man who discovered and named the
Albert Nyanza, the great lake at the head
of the Nile; who from adolescence pro-
pagandised for the substitution of rifles
for muskets; who shot elephants with a
rifle firing a half-pound shell and charged
with 12 drachms of powder; who an-
nexed the Nile Basin on behalf of the
Egyptian Government, and was pre-
decessor to General Gordon at Khartoum.
Or in an age which is proud of its
emancipated women, what are we to say
of Baker’s second wife, the golden-haired
Austro-Hungarian girl who, in her Vic-
torian mansion, laid it down that anyone
who trod on the wood of the staircase
instead of on the carpet must never be
invited again, but who accompanied her
husband on all his expeditions in unex-
plored country and among savage tribes,
and who, when her husband was sur-
rounded in a native village by thousands
of spear-shaking natives, went swiftly
about the housewifely business of laying
the table with all his rifles and ammuni-
tion, so that when, as seemed to her only
natural, her lord and master broke un-
armed through the hostile blacks, all 'his
weapons would be awaiting him?
Samuel Baker’s father inherited a plan-
tation in Jamaica, and, when the freeing
of slaves took the sweetness out of sugar,
he increased his fortune as a London
merchant and shipowner. Sam was
married-off young and shipped out to the
family holdings in Mauritius ; but Mauri-
tius being evidently not to his taste, he
established, with other members of his
family, a coffee plantation in Ceylon,
which became a valuable family asset
years later when it went over to tea-
growing. What time he did not spend in
planting during his eight years in Ceylon
he spent hunting. In those days hunting
was on the grand scale. Four men
killed 50 elephants in three weeks. Two
men killed seven in an afternoon. He
trained hunting-hounds to hold deer until
the huntsman could finish the quarry
with a knife, and on returning to Britain
shocked a Scottish gillie with a demon-
stration, using hounds which had been
trained to hold the deer at bay until the
huntsman shot it. “Weel,” said Sandy,
seeing the training of years vanish in an
afternoon, “you’ve just ruined the dogs
for ever, and there’ll be nae haudin’
them frae the deer now.”
Baker’s first wife died of typhus during
a hunting and climbing trip in the
Pyrenees. Still only 35, he travelled in
the Balkans and got a job as manager
of construction of a railway connecting
the Danube with the Black Sea. In his
travels he met a Hungarian girl 15 years
his junior and married her.
The construction job over, Baker turned
to a project which had been at the back
of his mind for some time. Speke the
explorer, a friend of his, had been sent
by the British Government to work up
from East Africa to the sources of the
Nile. In a previous trip with Burton
Speke had discovered the Victoria
Nyanza; there had been trouble with
Burton over it, and the discovery had
been questioned in England; so Speke
was going through to confirm his find.
Baker, disguising his exploratory zeal
from his friends, and, possibly, from him-
self, as a hunting holiday, thought it
might be a good idea to tvork down from
Egypt on the north, and meet the Speke-
Grant expedition half-way. In 1861 he
set out with his young wife up the Atbara,
explored the River Salaam and the Nile
watershed, and then, crossing to. the
Rahad and Dinder Rivers, went down
the Blue Nile to its junction with the
White Nile at Khartoum. In 1863 he set
out from Khartoum up the White Nile to
Gondokoro, where he met the Speke-
Grant expedition on their way in from
verifying Lake Victoria Nyanza.
The Victoria Nyanza discovery seemed
to be the final answer to the problem as to
why the Nile flowed so strongly in the
least likely seasons; and Baker was a
little disconsolate that there seemed no-
thing more for him to find. But Speke
told him of word he had had from the
natives of another big lake to the north-
west of Victoria Nyanza, and gave him all
the hints for finding it which he had
hot had time or provisions for following
himself; then he set out for England,
where he was to shoot himself acci-
dentally while an audience awaited his
arrival on the platform for an exciting
debate on the source of the Nile which
had been arranged between him and Sir
Richard Burton.
Baker set out eastward through the
Latuka district, then, turning south across
the Somerset Nile, he followed its curve,
and was guided to the Albert Nyanza
by horn-headed natives of the tribe of
the chief Kamrasi (whose suggestion that
Baker should leave his wife behind caused
considerable indignation). From
M’Bakovia, at the southern end of the
lake, where they arrived carrying Mrs.
Baker in a litter, insensible from sun-
stroke, they went by canoe, several times
drenched and swamped, and once deserted
by the local crews, to Magungo at the
north end, far enough to see the lake
discharging into the White Nile; then
they went east again along the Somerset
Nile, and back to Gondokoro.
For all of which Samuel White Baker
received the Royal Geographical Society’s
medal. In 1866 he was knighted, and
a few years later he was made a Fellow
of the Royal Society. In 1869 he was
in the suite of the Prince and Princess
of Wales when they visited Egypt; and
there the Viceroy of Egypt, Ismail Pasha,
offered him a Commissionership at
£IO,OOO a year to annex the southern
Nile lands to the Egyptian Empire, and
put down the slave trade in those districts.
The Khedive and the Egyptian officials
kept slaves, and the Egyptian Govern-
ment had a system of “leases” with
traders down-river which “bound the
lessees to abstain from slave-hunting,”
but “it was thoroughly understood that
they were to pay a good round sum per
annum punctually and that no questions
would be asked.” Nevertheless, Baker
began arrangements to go up the Nile
with:
A flotilla of ten steamers and 55 sailing
ships to carry stores and troops to Gon-
dokoro ; infantry, cavalry and artillery
totalled 1,700 officers and men; 15 Euro-
peans, including the Bakers and their per-
sonal staff Steel vessels were to be
carried in sections across the desert en route
for the Albert Nyanza, where they were to
be launched as the grand culmination of
the expedition.
When the Bakers arrived at Khartoum
the vessels and supplies which were to
have come up from Cairo were not there,
having left it too late in the year to
ascend the cataracts. Official obstruc-
tion, which was probably responsible for
most of the delays, continued in Khar-
toum. The Bakers put pressure on the
Governor, who eventually bought some
33 vessels of 50 or 60 tons, which Baker
and his men equipped and rigged. In
February, 1870, the expedition set out
on the 1450-mile voyage up-river to
Gondokoro.
The wonder is that Baker persisted
with this journey. The Nile was so
choked with vegetable matter and mud
as to seem like solid marsh “as impene-
trable as Egyptian indifference and cor-
ruption.” The boats had to be “towed,
lifted, pushed and poled” through “grass
as thick as cane-sugar, twenty or thirty
feet tall; and the tangled masses formed
huge rafts which had to be cut with
swords.” At one point “700 men cut
a channel of a mile and a half” through
marsh. Eventually Baker decided to
camp at the Sobat junction for a year,
hoping that the next season might give
him a more navigable river.
At this camp, “Tewfikeeyah,” Baker
trapped and liberated 150 slaves, where-
upon the slave women all selected
husbands from among Baker’s black
soldiery. In December the station was
dismantled, and the expedition set sail
again ; by March they left the marshes
and entered open water, and three weeks
later were at Gondokoro. On May 26,
1871, Baker raised an Egyptian flag in
the centre of a huge square of soldiers
and* inhabitants;, formally annexing the
country of Gondokoro to Egypt in the
name of the Khedive, calling the station
“Ismailia” after the prince he served.
Until the end of the year Baker re-
mained at Ismailia, pacifying the district
with punitive expeditions of which Miss
Middleton gives few particulars, but
which seem to have raised the eyebrows
of the London “Times.” In January,
1872, with 212 officers and men, he set
out for the Unyoro country, reaching
Masindi in April, and taking possession
of Unyoro in the name of the Khedive
in May. He settled down to build a
station, start a school and organise trade
in ivory, to be paid for in Manchester
goods.
In less than a month the Unyoro had
progressed so well in arithmetic as to
discern that an expeditionary force of 212
was no match for many thousands of
natives; a first demonstration was met
by the Baker force forming square and
Lady Baker’s essay in table-laying with
firearms. This was followed by a present
of poisoned cider from the native king,
which Baker and his wife countered with
emetics. On the morning of June 8,
Baker Pasha’s 51st birthday, the natives
attacked in earnest, with rifles. The ex-
peditionary force fired the straw village,
and the natives withdrew from their flam-
ing capital. Baker made an effort to hold
the fort he had built and come to terms
with the natives, but by June 13 it was
clear that he would have to get out.
The details of that retreat through long
grasses full of flying spears. Lady Baker
carrying a revolver and a blouseful of
ammunition, make exciting reading; but
for all that, and the exploits of Baker’s
crack corps, Abd-el-Kader and his Forty
Thieves, and the delights of chasing
rhinoceroses on horseback with drawn
swords, the idea being to hamstring them,
and Baker’s many drawings of dramatic
scenes from his experiences, one can only
refer the reader to Miss Middleton’s book.
But room should be made anywhere for
the story of the wild Arab lad Bacheet,
who knew no better than to take flies
out of tea with his fingers: —
“Now, my good fellow, Bacheet,” I
exclaimed, “you really must not put your
dirty fingers in the tea; you should take
them out with the teaspoon. Look here,”
and I performed the operation and safely
landed several flies that were still kicking.
“But mind, Bacheet,” I continued, “that
you wipe the teaspoon first, to be sure that
it is clean.” On the following morning
at breakfast we covered up our cups with
saucers to prevent accidents; but to qur
astonishment Bacheet, who was in waiting,
suddenly took a teaspoon from the table,
wiped it carefully with a corner of the
table-cloth, and stooping down beneath
the bed, most carefully saved from drown-
ing, with the teaspoon, several flies that
were in the last extremity within a vessel
by no means adapted for a spoon. Per-
fectly satisfied with the result, he carefully
rewiped the teaspoon upon the table-cloth,
and replaced it in its proper position.
We may wonder what Sir Samuel
Baker’s mid-Victorian readers thought of
that story, or we may conclude that mid-
Victorian readers were a little hardier
than we today give them credit for being.
A Book of the Surf.
Mrs. C, Bede Maxwell’s Surf (Angus
and Robertson) is undoubtedly a step in
the right direction; off the shore and out
into the breakers. It is absurd that we
have no surfing literature and that the
magnificent stories Mrs. Maxwell relates
have been left buried in Surf Club reports,
in newspaper files and, chiefly, in the
memories of surf-men.
Whether or not surfing is entitled to
precedence over cricket as Australia s
national sport, it is probable that we
have a cricketing literature simply be-
cause the tradition was long ago estab-
lished in England; and it is surely a fact
that, if participation in a sport is the real
test of its importance, surfing is an easy
winner. Sixty-eight thousand people, so
Mrs. Maxwell tells us, have surfed so
enthusiastically in the last 38 years that
they have had to be pulled out by life-
savers —and there cannot possibly have
been 68,000 people who have had to be
rescued from Larwood,
Some of the poets, fulfilling their time-
honored role as prophets and spokesmen
for the nation, have written verses of the
surf: Robert D. FitzGerald, Leonard
Mann, Nan McDonald, Charles Campbell
and, latterly, Judith Wright, whose
“Surfer” is quoted by Mrs. Maxwell; but
the life of the beaches hardly exists in
Australian prose. If a documentary book
was needed to direct the attention of
novelists and short-story writers to this
strangely-neglected territory, Mrs. Max-
well is a literary pioneer of some im-
portance.
Her book reflects, unfortunately, far
too much of the bewilderment of the ex-
plorer. Setting out to tell the history of
surfing and lifesaving in Australia, she is
faced with some thousands of miles of
beaches, with enormous quantities of
ocean, with hundreds of lifesavers and
■ with scores of examples of their gallantry,
and obviously she does not know quite
what to do with this vast mass of
material.
Whom should she mention? Whom can
she possibly omit without offem
Should she delve into the controve
about who invented the lifesaving
and how can she do so without
faction or the other rushing upon
like a dumper? What is she to do ab,
the annual reports of the various S
Clubs which, though necessarily they
as dull and stilted as all annual renort!
the world over, were supplied to her h
obliging secretaries and are
historic documents? Whut, : '
do about the carnival success
portant to the Surf Clubs, so v,
training of the lifesavers, s. ■
those who follow the game
most people follow cricl
racing, yet so,flat and br
out merely as statistics?: ■
South Curl Curl’s annu; , u b
of the 1946-47 season, giving y a ,
an up-to-date history of ,id :
strenuous seven years of c ip,
veals that Richie Roberts wc io !,.■
186 firsts, a figure exclusive t
semi-finals contested on oca
crews did not appear in th i
championships are numbert m i
victories, two senior Metropii <. ~: (i
State junior of 1944-45. This cert:: K ,
stitutes an all-time single bosfi .
These awkward and some
questions, which one car almost
Mrs. Maxwell asking hers 1 v
along, may be summed uj an
riding problem which all so-
must solve: should s
members of the Surf Club
Mrs. Maxwell, on the C.ok,
written for the Surf Club
cluttered with detail, and m the -i
be, a good fellow —instead of a
writer —she has made be
journalistic and painfully
times, as when she is disc iss-cg me )
aboriginal meanings of "M,
recording of Harald Ba
100 rescues from that bea.
“old hands, recalling this
can still be embroiled in i ~ net t
definitely in the surfmai a
object-irresistible-force’ bracket, it b
comes difficult to disentangle th *
from the horrid and comp ha..ed jan on.
Writers of Australian doc r
should really try hard no to s o\c;
whelmingly cheerful.
Yet Mrs. Maxwell ha obviou in-
tended to write for the p >lic is e
the Surf Clubs, and, in i rac ;i .
has succeeded. So much
her book, indeed, that oik ri g
to preface a review of it w>th t
of warning.
It is admirable not only
its waters but for its consci' ! 1
and completeness. One is am
how much there is to say aK
and how much is worth sa:
Maxwell opens with a cha
beginning of sea-bathing in tl
when pioneers dared the wr
law at Manly and other b
she has chapters on rescue
tation, on surf-boats, on “r*
and rescues from the rocks, c
surf carnivals, on surf-boarc
on the beach inspectors, on the
the lifesaving movement, on
of lifesavers in the war ; and
you have finished all this you fc
markably comprehensive pint
sport of surfing and the art o*
Each chapter is illustrated ’
graphs and, more important!
with outstanding dramas c<
Philip Daley, a blacksmith, sv
to rescue a girl at Manly li-
the rotten lifeline continue
behind him ; Kingsford Smi 1
boy, being fished out of
Bondi; Harald Baker fighti;
and theirs with three hystt
Coogee; lifesavers at Non i •
reviving a patient whom
pronounced dead; “Blac\
Bondi whdn 200 people, a!
cept five, were brought
swept off a sandbank; I
Dee Why in 1914, swimn.. i
with three lifelines joinec iu z?
to rescue two youths who
not being able to reach the
ally picked up by an r;
Taylor, and a Maroubra
worth, in a tiny skiff v : cl? 1
out and in through the 1 *
was a surf-boat with a ft
off the rocks at Bronte;
helped by Frank Beaurej r?
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor
victim away from a sh ‘
fantastic exploits with
surf-boards at Maroubra
day” carnival of 1948;
Meritorious Award for “tl
ever made at Maroubra
Adrian Curlewis keeping a
141 Surf Club men in Changi
Curlewis had been sent to
squad being trained to 9 ual Zr,
tificate standard in the prison
a stolen clothesline for tne
jungle mud for the surf.
{“Red Page” continued on P a %


"TRUTH
iIN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
Venetian Blinds to Order, in four weeks!
> ~~ ~
lESS
f -
t —- _
~a
3
\
m 1
m
m
Out
with the light—
with the rays that fade your furnishings
It’s not often you’ll find such service! Our fitters will measure your windows
in the Metropolitan Area only, all without obligation, we will then send quotation!
When you place your order with us, those blinds will be ready to be erected in
only four weeks after quotation has been accepted! Made of selected
Canadian Cedar, they can be painted any colour you desire.
Renovations also will be made, and they in only two weeks!
Kitsch "SunAire” all metal Venetian Blinds
S shaped flexible Metal Laths, Ivory enamelled exclude the glare
but allow for light, air. With neat concealed headmember, entire blind can
be slipped off bracket so easily for cleaning! Quotes gladly given!
TTITTTt
saw
n
fh
All moving parts arc
completely concealed,
and protected in a
beautiful metal head.
The graceful slats
in beautiful lustrous
finishes overlap com-
pletely when SunAire
Blinds are closed.
Verandah Pfafo
■- 2
HotSfait-'S
J *r n
SM-
m
Hi •
/ iT °y
Shf ior Clip
w
w
*«/
fee
V'f
’Bottom Holder
Notv available once more!
X l-All BlilldS and Stays
Strongly constructed of Pacific pine laths joined with
metal links, the “X-L-All” Blinds are easy to erect
with the special fittings provided. Close space blinds,
4ft. x 4ft. 6in., £5/0/6 to 10ft. x 12ft., £25/5/9.
Louvred, 4ft. x 4ft, 6in., £5/19/6 to 10ft. x 12ft.,
£26/2/3. Colours available are Green and Brown-
special colours are extra. Holdfast stays, 36/3 extra.
Instructions for fitting are enclosed with each blind.
shoppers
DIGEST
CANVAS DECK CHAIR
COVERS, 10/9
Made from strong
quality CreamjGreen
striped English duck,
Complete with cord.
HOLLAND BLINDS
PRICE, 16/6 EACH
In Nigger Brown only,
complete with all fittings,
3ft. x sft. 6 in-, 16/6.
CANVAS BLINDS
ALL TYPES
Experts will measure
for canvas Blinds in the
metropolitan area.
“Brella” is recommended
because it is waterproofed,
rotproofed, multi-coloured
one side, Plain
Green the other.
UMBRELLA TYPE
Highly suitable for
archways, etc.
Quote gladly given.
STRAIGHT DROP
For verandahs,
sleep-outs, etc.
WIRE DOORS
SIX DESIGNS
Available in stock sizes.
2 ft. 6 in. x 6 ft. Gin.,
2ft. Bin. x 6 ft. Sin.,
2ft. 10 in. x 6 ft. 10 in.
Prices range from
31/9 to 57/9 according
to gauze and type.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ VENETIAN BLINDS THIRD FLOOR* M&4OJL (DAY AND NIGHT); ROX 2712 C, G.P.O,
SYDNEY.


Muttie's MIRACLE
By E.O. Schlunke
HILDA KLEMM has a soft, round
face, troubled blue eyes and a voice
with emotional catches in it; but
none of these has the slightest
effect on the faithless speckled hen, who
has left her nest a week before the
chickens are due to hatch and joined the
group of brazen and shameless ones who
follow the rooster around all day. There
are no incubators on Riverina selections
in the year 1904, so Hilda is very much
at the speckled hen’s mercy.
She looks at the eggs and thinks of the
lovely little yellow chickens so soon to
emerge, and now being denied life ; she
looks again at the hen, so indifferent, un-
concerned and self-indulgent. Tears come
into her troubled blue eyes. It isn’t only
the loss of the twelve potential money-
makers by any means. The hen has
violated a fundamental and sacred law
that life should beget life. “Be fruitful
and multiply,” as the pastor says in
church; a rule she has never thought of
questioning, and which she is in the
process of carrying out, even though she
has been married only six months.
She gathers up her apron and places
the eggs in it, handling each with gentle
fingers. She takes them into the house
and puts them into a bootbox beside the
stove. Then she goes and tells her
mother,
OLD “Mutter” Schulz, as she is
generally called (not, in her case, be-
cause she is particularly old, but out of
compassion for her infirmity), is bedridden
with a kind of paralytic
neuritis, probably the result
of too much heavy work in
her younger days ; but she
looks as if she would work
just as hard again if she
had her youth and health
restored to her. She can
give no comfort to her
daughter.
“Once they start going
after the roosters, they’re
no good,” she says in tones
of weighty judgment that
seem to embrace not only
hens but females of other
species. “The only thing is to give
them to another broody hen,” she
suggests; but without hope, because she
knows that her daughter would have
thought of that.
Keeping the eggs beside the stove
wouldn’t be successful, either. She had
tried that more than once, getting up
three and four times during the night to
keep the fire going, but the eggs dried up
inside.
Hilda continues to nurse the eggs beside
the fire, feeling them for temperature and
fondling them. She makes several trips
to the fowl-house, but the speckled hen
is far from showing a change of heart,
j It is mid-aftemoon the last time she looks,
i and then die gives up hope. There are
tears in her eyes when she goes to turn
her mother over and make her bed. Then,
while she is doing this tri-daily service,
her eyes suddenly light up, and several
unshed tears are arrested on the brink.
“Muttie,” she says, using the affection-
ate diminutive of “mother,” and putting
a note of pleading in with her hope and
excitement, “You could hatch those
eggs!”
HER mother stares at her, but she
goes on, stumbling in her eagerness.
“You couldn’t break theip, because you
don’t move except when I turn, you over.
I’d wrap them in a piece of old blanket
and put them in that hollow place behind
the bend of your knees. You’d never
notice they were there.”
Mutter Schulz’s eyes grow big too,
thinking of what a triumph it would be to
save the eggs.
“But do you think they would come
out all right?” she asks.
“I’m sure,” says Hilda. “It’s so warm
in there, I felt it on my hand. Just like a
nest —that’s what gave me the idea.”
Then her eyes get their troubled look
again. “But there might be some
trouble when they’re hatching.”
“I’d hear them,” says Mutter, now the
eager one. “I sleep very light, so I’d
know even if they started in the night.
I’d call you.”
Hilda looks hopeful again, and deeply
thoughtful:
“Moving them about when I turn you
wouldn’t matter. I’ve seen hens turning
them over.”
They work out all the practical
details; then Hilda flies to
carry them out. It is only
when they are snugging the
eggs down that they see
how funny it is. The old
lady has such a laugh as she
hasn’t had since she went
to bed.
“Don’t tell Heinie,” she
pleads, suddenly overcome
by girlish modesty.
“He’d call you an old
ducky hen,” Hilda giggles.
“And he wouldn’t believe it would
work,” says her mother, already scornful
in her certainty.
“We’ll show him,” says Hilda.
\\ / HEN Hilda’s husband comes home
W it doesn’t take him long to suspect
that something very unusual is going on
in his house. The women make such an
exciting mystery of it that he even begins
to wonder if his baby isn’t going to be
suddenly produced, wrapped in a shawl.
He gets it out of them in the end, and
doesn’t he have tremendous
fun! He is just as sceptical
as they expected, and even
more fanciful in his teasing.
At tea-time he suddenly
rushes out, and brings in a
billy of chick-wheat for his
mother-in-law and calls out
to her “Chook, chook.”
Next day some neighbors
call in, and Mutter Schulz
is overcome with bashful-
ness lest they find out what
she has in her bed. She
looks so excited and alert
that they compliment her
warmly on her improvement. Then
Heinie comes in and tells the Schwartzes
her dreadful secret, despite her confusion
and entreaties. There are incredulous
cries:
“No! Not hatching eggs! Not
really! ”
'Have a look. Have a look,” says
Heinie, the notorious legpuller, while his
mother-in-law gives little shrieks of
modesty, though she’s beginning to giggle
because it’s so funny,
Then Heinie pulls back the blankets,
carefully really, though he pretends he’s
going to expose her to the world. The
Schwartzes can’t believe it even when they
see the eggs. They feel them with their
hands to see how warm they are, and they
suddenly believe it will be a success. But
they are still full of questions.
Why have her doing the hatching?
Who thought of it? Stares of mingled
surprise and admiration at Hilda, who
blushes and giggles and averts her head.
“She’s a great one, she is,” says
Schwartz. “Wouldn’t let an old hen beat
her.”
How they look admiringly at Mutter
Schulz!
“Not many people would take that
on,” says Schwartz. His eyes
.light up'. “You’ve found some-
thing useful you can do, even
if you have to stay in bed.”
And Mutter Schulz looks
quite pleased about that, but
a bit sad at the same time.
Then Heinie bursts in with
his tin of chick-wheat, and
what uproarious laughter he
gets with his going on!
“I expect they’ll be half-
chicken and half-human.”
The Schwartzes stay for
several hours, though they
have only called in on their
way home from town. Everyone tells
stories of famous and unusual incuba-
tions, but none is as fantastic as Hilda
Klemm getting Mutter Schulz to hatch
her hen-eggs.
THE next time visitors come (and
they come fairly often to see Mutter
Schulz, who can’t go out) they very soon
learn about the eggs, and they have all
the fun over again. Heinie now has quite
a line of patter, and people hold their
waists because it hurts to
laugh so much. They get
more and more visitors as
the news goes round, until
nearly everyone in the com-
munity has been there, felt
the eggs, laughed at Heinie’s
jokes, been amazed at
Hilda’s resource and daring,
and taken one side or the
other in the grand argu-
ment : “I say they will
hatch” or “I say they won’t.”
At church next Sunday all those who
live too far away now hear about it,
and nothing is lost in the telling. There
is so much argument and so much
laughter that the pastor demands to
know what it is all about. People are
suddenly stricken speechless. What if it
is a sin? There might be something in
the Old Testament against it! There are
such a lot of things forbidden the lay
people don’t know about. The pastor
gets extremely suspicious at the guilty
silence. He seizes on one of the meek
and mild and gets a conversative and
censored version of the story. But you
can’t hide much in a story about an old
bedridden woman trying to hatch a clutch
of eggs.
The pastor is just about staggered. He
wonders if they are having the audacity
to pull his leg. He thinks it over with
serious face, pulling at his beard. Then
suddenly he starts to laugh. They tell
him all the jokes they’ve been having,
and he becomes as boisterously amused
as any of them.
Then he pulls himself up, and they
all subside into seriousness. He turns
sternly on Heinie and says in his admon-
ishing voice:
“I hope that when the chickens arrive
you won’t expect me to baptise them.”
That seems to be the best of all the
jokes they’ve had. Some of the more
sedate look a bit scandalised, but they
laugh because it is the pastor’s joke. On
the outskirts of the group men are say-
ing to each other: “He said, ‘When the
chickens arrive, don’t expect me to bap-
tise them.’ ” And they bend backwards
and forwards with laughter, digging each
other in the ribs, cocking an eye at the
pastor and saying, “He’s a one, isn’t he?”
NEXT week at the Klemms’ place,
with the crisis drawing near, Heinie
is lucky if he gets his meals ydthin an
hour of their regular time
drop in and hold eggs up to the liJit S
against their ears, to tell if l
are still alive Things seem to
mg well and the “I say they w? Z '
agonists are getting excitedly triumph J
looks on their faces; getting 3
say “I told you so.” 8 rCady to
, Then, after all the excited waitirm
Mutter Schulz’s excited voice rinf
through the silent house at midnigh?
Hilda comes running out in her nightie
and throws back the blankets. P
I heard a peep’!” Mutter says again
and again m a high, thin voice.
“There’s one out,” Hilda shrieks. Then
loud as she can, “Heinie, there’s one
out!
Heinie comes blundering out in his
long flannel nightshirt, still incredulous
and trying in spite of his sleepiness to
think of some new tomfoolery.
Undoubtedly there is one out. Hilda
puts it in the bootbox which has been
ready for several days, lined with soft
rag. Heinie says to his mother-in-law
“Now you’ll have to go ‘clutch-clutch
clutch-clutch’ to call them.”
But the women don’t laugh very much
because they’re too excited. Presently
Heinie starts to yawn and says he’ll go
to bed. No one takes any notice of him,
so he goes. Hilda sits up all the rest
of the night and delivers ten
more babies. It is a great
triumph.
Mutter schulz keeps
them warm in the bootbox
overnight, but next morning
they spread a couple of bags
on the floor and make a little
fence near her bed so that she
can watch them. When she is
rolled on to her other side she
can listen to their “Pip-pip,
pip-pip.” Suddenly one
screams and Hilda is outside
and can’t hear either the
chicken or her mother.
WHEN Hilda comes in she is astounded
to find that her mother has rolled
over and reached out to save a chicken
that got its head caught in the wire-
netting. , . ,
Every day Mutter Schulz can do more,
she takes complete control of the
chickens in their little pen by her bedside,
and when they are put out m the sun-
shine she is taken out, too, and put i
a rocker. Next Sunday she goes to
church and walks with very htUeaas s .
ance. It is a wonderful day for her,
ẅ
The Children of the
Dream-time.
From "The Great South Land."
I am their watching of sunset over the
billa bongs,
dawn-flare in the mountains, in sandhill
solitude,
among the gibbers and beside the sea;
I am their listening to the leaf’s word
in the mulga country and the gum country,
to the wave’s sound
on the long, long coast of rock and cliff
and dune;
my ears ring
with the agony of unheard coo-ee in the
mountains;
my eyes mist at the late light’s going,
galah-hued, into deserted coastal cliff and
sand,
and at the parrot-flush of sunrise, flaunt-
ing
above the inland ranges . . .
The Land’s Forgotten People have re-
turned
to shatter my smug exterior of cities,
clutch on my heart with strong and gentle
fingers;
the Children of the Dream-time claim my
soul.
VICTORIA.
REX INGAMELLS.
The Makers.
The lyrebird by the damp track, frozen
In beauty at a sudden *? un J’
Melts in a moment to his chose
Green leaf-lost world, his danc g
Not with a plain bird’s simple f««;
For, loud above his
Thrills between brain and deUc.
The summoning bugle of his ar ■
His long-spurred feet elude
His bolder tongue prepares fo
So it may bring in triumph bade
The dark voice of an alien life.
The poet, bound in fir« P 3l H p ,
While clay falls cold on lo
And all his rich ifes
Flow out in molten, blind ec P
Feels mining deep, against his will
His powers that will not bid
Or pity, under ruin seek »t. rhym .
The words to mould that now
Such is their doom: Utde it
That bird, that man— their y t b en
The Midas touch that never
Purely to suffer or rejoice.
Song-making still must be tW^ 8 *
Immortal crown and pa .
(Andrea dreamed he might be t
A wall in the New Jerusalem)
None the less, fainting to long
Be sure sometimes with te y be
For place .nd A..
No more the singer, but th
N.S.W.
NAN [?]


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3653
Wednesday, February 15, 1950
PRODUCE
—OF
AUSTRALIA
PRODUCE
OP
PRODUCE
6p /
pr a
ŵ
Austr^
NOT IN THE RACE.
“There’ll be no Empire title for YOU unless you really get stuck into shifting that cargo, mate.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O ), Wellington.
WAGES AND WORK.
By courtesy of the Melbourne “Argus,”
which declares that it is “maintaining its
fairplay policy in presenting this article
by a leading unionist,” Mr. R. R.
Broadby, described as “a Labor-party
man for 20 years, and secretary of the
Australasian Council of Trades Unions,”
tells the country “what the trade-unions
want.”
It seems that the outstanding objective
of the A.C.T.U. is “an increased basic wage
which will maintain a family unit of five
people in accordance with modern living
standards and consistent with the produc-
tive capacity of the nation” ; for Mr.
Broadby had discovered that, in spite of
prevailing nominally high wage-rates and
full employment, “it is common know-
ledge that the housewife is finding it in-
creasingly difficult to make ends meet,”
This, of course, is true even in homes in
which family units of five are sometimes
pulling down up to £5O or £6O a week.
Mr. Broadby says that it would be idle
to ignore the shortage of capital goods
and the need for still- greater production,
though he tells us that “economists inform
us that productivity per man-hour has
risen approximately 11 per cent, between
1945 and 1948,” while “Labor’s share of
the national income has declined by over
4 per cent, since 1939” —specious
rubbish, especially so far as coalmining,
stevedoring and shipping are concerned.
If the innocent Mr. Broadby looks at
the building industry, where costs have
rocketed under the A.C.T.U.’s less-
work-for-more-pay policy, he will have
difficulty in not agreeing that the
whole dreadful position which exists to-
day, under which cottages are the price
of mansions, is due to go-slow and short-
ages caused by “Labor” disturbances led
by Communists in unions which are an
integral part of his A.QT.U.
In some cases it is impossible to get
cement without paying ss. a bag Mack-
market bonus, which is due in a large part
to the wicked Communist-led strikes of
last winter and to transport failures. And
building and the adequate provision both
of factories and houses is further retarded
and rendered the dearer —the cost, of
course, being of necessity passed on to
the wage-earner—by the fact that union
bodies like Mr. Broadby’s subscribe to
doctrines that workers should have it both
ways—have as much money as can be
squeezed out of the boss, and with it the
right to do as little work as they can
contrive, this policy logically resulting in
the reduction of the bricklaying effort of
the average tradesman from a steady 800
a day down to anything from 200 on-
wards, except on Government jobs, when
the rate is sometimes less.
But Mr. Broadby flies in the face of
these facts and says that “it is not
to be wondered at that workers are
sceptical when urged by spokesmen for
employers and Governments to work
harder and real wages will then rise.”
He adds that the future is “a challenge
to the Govempient which it will neglect
at its peril,” and that the “acceptance by
trade-union movement of conciliation
and arbitration as a general policy has far
greater significance for industrial peace
than is generally conceded.” . Actually
i? or si ves Attic more than lip-service
to the arbitration system.
Mr. Broadby mentions that since profits
are not controlled and manufacturers and
others pass increased wage costs on to “the
workers,” it is “natural
that the worker demands the highest price
he can procure—commensurate with his
bargaining strength-for the only com-
?uu lty ? e + u- as . to sellj his labor-power.”
Although this is probably true in terms
n , ature ? is [t Mso “natural”
that the worker side of industry should
consistently, under the organised entice-
ment of its leaders, give short weight as
is done in such businesses as coal pro-
duction, stevedoring and building?
Mr. Broadby consistently ignored the
real issues of today both in his statement
of the case and in his solution of (he
problem of peace in industry, the creation
of which, he says, lies in the establishment
of “some benevolent, qualified and
reliable national authority, empowered to
apportion national wealth in accordance
with recognised principles of justice to
all.” ’
There is today little natural discontent
in industry based on valid pretexts. Causes
of disturbances are on the’whole artificial,
and disputes are also in the main de-
veloped on grievances invented by the
leaders of organisations like the A.C.T.U.,
which followed its secretary’s mild
expostulation by calling meetings to
bully the Arbitration Court into hastening
the hearing of some of its claims.
It is rarely that a strike or dispute of
any kind is generated by the rank-and-
file in these days of full work and high
pay. Nearly every disturbance of the past
five years has arisen from the deliberate
planning by Communist leaders of unions
which invented the A.C.T.U., and which
in the main have built its policy ever
since its formation more than 20 years
ago. And the whole of that policy, on
the ugly basis of the class-war which
“Labor” and Mr. Broadby accepted from
its inventors, was, and is, primarily de-
signed by those who foisted it on the
Labor movement to bring about chaos
and ruin in the interests of a foreign
Power.
Mr. F. P. Buckley, M.L.C., at the last
conference of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. in
June, 1949, put forward a resolution
which was carried with “enthusiasm” and
which declared that “Labor” should
“anticipate the inspired attempts of the
Communist party to force political strikes
on the people these inspired attempts
to create discontent in industry which
could easily result” —this was when the
whole country was almost blacked-out!
“in the slowing-down and hampering of
production.” He added that “now is the
time for all ‘Labor’ people to combine
on a sustained campaign against Com-
munist intrigue, infiltration and inter-
ference with trade-union rights.”
But having said that, and delivered
further fulminations against Communism
and its deleterious and seditious opera-
tions, he added (and the conference
adopted) the proviso:
We state emphatically that the Labor
party has shown its capacity to deal with
the danger of Communism by open attack
more successfully than by imposition of a
ban which would drive the Communists
underground, or by the introduction of
legal measures which could interfere with
trade-union rights.
That resolution, like so many other
resolutions adopted by “Labor” confer-
ences and by the A.C.T.U. and somd of
its constituent parts, amounted to little
more than a motion to propagate the
slogan: “Hands off the Communists,”
The prime need of industry and the
country is not a viciously pyramiding
wage rate, which might bring chaos if
there were a world collapse of wool
prices, but a change of front in “Labor,”
which will never be able to break away
from the Communists until it divorces
itself from the policy of complete sociali-
sation which is inherent in Mr. Broadby’s
aspiration for a “benign authority” to
apportion the wealth of the country—an
authority which would only be benign in
“Labor’s” eyes if it consisted wholly of
trade-union panjandrums and their tools.
It is time that Australian unionists realised
that something for nothing is unobtain-
able in this world and that they can get
the full benefit of high wages only by
giving full measure for what they earn
and by supporting the Constitution.
Petrol Farce Over.
True to his specific election undertak-
ings, to his Government’s programme for
expanding production, and to general
expectations of the form his announce-
ment would take, Mr. Menzies last
Wednesday night declared petrol-rationing
in Australia abolished forthwith. With
it went his assurance, an added gratifica-
tion, that his action was to be interpreted
further as a sign that the new Govern-
ment would carry out resolutely the full
reform programme in industry for which
the people voted.
Petrol-rationing in the post-war period
was from first to last a Socialist measure
retained for its own sake long after the
emergency that required it. Petrol
is an essential fuel in Australian industry
and transport. The restrictions en-
couraged the continuation and growth of
a continent-wide* blackmarket where
petrol was always plentiful, Government
petrol-tickets were repeatedly stolen, and
around the blackmarket forgers inflated
a new form of currency, widely used.
Law-abiding people in the community
looked on with anger and disgust alike
at the responsible Government’s inability
to prevent this abuse and at the
lavish consumption of petrol, with-
out any rationing-tickets at all, by Minis-
ters of'all Governments and their hordes
of officials.
The revolt against petrol-rationing was
everywhere fanned by the High Court’s
judgment last year, to the point of open
contempt for the regulations governing
it. The High Court unanimously declared
the Chifley Government’s persistence in
this “control” under its “defence power”
to be a subterfuge for circumventing the
Constitution —one which, if approved,
would have permitted the Commonwealth
Parliament “to make laws on almost
every subject,” despite its constitutional
limitations. The industrial organisations
which challenged successfully the legality
of these regulations had announced their
formal initiation of similar proceedings
under Section 92 of the Federal Consti-
tution in protest against any further
rationing of petrol by State Governments
likewise.
These are the facts behind Mr.
Menzies’s announcement. Any attempt
to continue petrol-rationing would have
hamstrung revival of industry in this
country besides being obnoxious to the
electors’ decision. Legally it would have
been possible only if the Menzies Gov-
ernment could have carried a special
referendum to obtain the necessary power
from the same electors. Such a reference
would clearly have been rejected with con-
tempt, even if the new Government had
wished to submit it.
There has, of course, been difficulty in
bringing about the immediate restoration
of a free market. Petrol restrictions were
part of the complicated commitments
whereby the Socialist Governments in
Australia and in Britain pursued their
totalitarian courses in a co-operation
which verged steadily towards a partner-
ship in the political interests created.
Whatever undertakings Mr. Chifley’s
deputy, Mr. Dedman, made with Chan-
cellor Cripps in London last July, it
appeared that Australia’s deprivation was
to cover a period at least as long as the
remainder of the prospective term of
Marshall Aid payments to Britain. “Two
or three years,” Mr. Chifley said. Petrol
imports were to come down another 25
per cent, on even the previously rationed
import quota, regardless of the expansion
of industrial investment, the clamor for
higher production, and the active pursuit
by the Government of its policy of bring-
ing millions of more mouths by immigra-
tion into Australia.
True, Australia was not earning suffi-
cient dollars to pay for increased imports
from U.S.A. Under that fatal defect in
earning-power the Chifley Government
did nothing whatever to speed-up produc-
tion for export. The trade-unions which
dictated its devious courses would not
permit higher output for export. Even
Mr. Chifley knew what the end of his
restrictive policies must be, for, announc-
ing to Parliament last October his belated
decision to draw 20 million dollars from
the International Monetary Fund by way
of assisting imports, he saifl that
A full 25 per cent, saving in expenditure
on dollar imports will not be possible in
1949-50 because of the commitment repre-
sented by outstanding licences involv-
ing serious damage to our economy.
So that the cut in petrol imports was
going to inflict “serious damage on our
economy”—an economy already follow-
ing that of Socialist Britain into sheer in-
ability to earn dollar imports, even with
our fantastic receipts for exported wool
and wheat (and mountains of each pro-
duct).
“Labor’s” regime based its conception
of public administration upon scarcity of
goods. The Chifley Government might
have survived with the arrival of real
prosperity through full production of
consumer goods, but in that case the goal
to which it gave all its devotion —the
establishment of permanent centralised
control of distribution and prices at Can-
berra—must have been rejected. For
with ample supply of goods, rationing
could not exist, distribution could look
after itself, and prices of living com-
modities would find their own bottom
level with a rush. If Mr, Chifley offered
more than lip-service to the combating
of inflated values which his policy brought
about, then he was extraordinarily 4 in-
different to the complete absence of any
successful outcome of his efforts.
The conclusion inexorably enforced
upon observers is quite otherwise. The
Chifley Government did not desire full
production in the sense of enough to
satisfy home consumption and to
permit “virile competition” of our
exports in world markets. If it
had, Mr. Chifley would not have
persisted with petrol restrictions, and
he certainly would not have gone sour
when the High Court declared them
illegal, and have set about creating
conditions which would force a restora-
tion of rationing through sheer shortage
of locally available supplies. For on the
morrow, of the High Court’s decision Mr.
Chifley brought down legislation to create
a defence reserve of 50 million gallons
of petrol—in effect, commanding the oil
companies to withhold that amount from
distribution although his Defence
Minister currently declared that he did
not believe there would be any war for
another quarter-century. If it be argued
that the lessons of the coal strike made
necessary such a Government reserve
stock, it may be answered that the drain
on stocks caused by the coal strike was
(according to Government statements)
something just over five million gallons
Much more significant was the coinci-
dence that 50 million gallons was the
amount of extra petrol estimated as re-
quired to abolish rationing.
The Socialists’ reiterated “alibi” was
their duty to “help Britain.” This senti-
ment in the “Labor” party was as new as
its enthusiasm for as many immigrants as
ships (and aeroplanes) could bring, and
for drafting the military into the coalfields
to defeat the miners’ strike. The Aus-
tralian people have been helping Britain
individually in magnificent unanimity
with food parcels, and through their Gov-
ernment by rationing home consumption
of meat and butter in order to assure
supplies for Britain. What the Chifley
Socialists meant for party consumption
by “helping Britain” was the bolstering-
up of the Socialist Government there,
upon whose fate its own largely depended!
While Britain maintained petrol-rationing,
it was deemed by Australian Socialists
not only virtuous in themselves to main-
tain rationing also, but necessary in order
to avoid the casting of some reflection on
a brother-Socialist’s efficiency.
In Australia, though the people have
given their plain judgment upon this poli-
tical mountebankery, dollar difficulties-
common fq all countries embraced within
the “sterling pool”—persist, while the
British electors’ verdict on the socialisa-
tion experiment is undelivered. The
widespread belief is that American readi-
ness to facilitate the sterling area’s dollar-
earning capacity, even under conditions
of Britain’s huge dollar indebtedness,
awaits only the extinction of the Socialist
Government in Britain as in Australasia.
Socialism simply won’t work in com-
pany with the elementary freedoms which
British people so far have everywhere
refused to surrender.
Coal—and McGirr.
Australia is by nature a pleasant and
easy land to live in, and its people are
extremely tolerant politically. But there
is often a lack of appreciation of the
things essential to a decent and progres-
sive national existence.
Something that must be considered
from every angle, political and industrial,
is coal. And coal is especially a subject
for study by people of the State of New
South Wales. The mining of coal is only
possible in N. S. Wales by permission of
the Government of the State. Except
where the State has entered into a con-
tract or agreement with the Common-
wealth (as in the establishment of the
Joint Coal Board), the Federal Govern-
ment has no right to interfere in peace-
time with the mining of coal. Coalmining
in N. S. Wales, in fact, is at present to a
large extent subject to the administration
of the McGirr “Labor” Government, and
the industry is in the grip of Communist-
controlled “Labor”-unionism as well.
The Commonwealth Liberal Govern-
ment may be able to do a great deal,
through its powers of industrial arbitra-
tion and its security regulations, to
trade-unionism of Communism. But i
can only half-do the job of cleaning-up
the coalfields while the McGirr Govern
ment controls the N. S. Wales side o
things.
True, the Commonwealth Governme
has a say in the running of the indns r.
through the Joint Coal Board, But •
McGirr, a subscriber to “Lab°t
socialisation pledge, is a partner in
coal authority, and he has never sno
any active determination to enforce
cipline or stimulate production on
coalfields in the face of trade-u
defiance. , fl
For this reason the McGirr menace,
a return of desired productivity sn
not be underestimated. Though Mr.
Girr has turned the State Govern 111 ,
into a sort of socialised parish-pump>
sovereign powers of all the Stat „
respect of vital industrial activities
remain. State elections are therefore
of major importance. And one vita j
ahead of N. S. Wales electors is to
that the McGirr Government is tnr
out of office at the next election and
a Liberal Government pledged }°
policy of revitalised production 15
turned.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The End of McGag.
them They take no notice of anybody
but the nitwits of Marx House, but even
the nitwits who are not in jail soon will
be A collection of pathological exhibits!
If it is left to me into a concentration-
camp they will go!
Fuel Minister “Fixer” Ashley, from the
same rostrum; If the unions will not take
steps to get rid of the Communists some
inquiry by the Government and some action
are required so that we will not have a
repetition of what we have to put up with
in Australia today.
Social Services Minister McKenna: The
Miners’ Federation... .had better be pre-
pared for deregistration. When that hap-
pens it will be replaced with another
organisation which has some responsibility
to Australia and to the people living in it
1 shall be one of those who will recom-
mend to the Government to introduce com-
pulsory [union] voting and secret ballots.
A.C.T.U. secretary Monk (now presi-
dent) : The trade-union movement, through
the A-.C.T.U., will decide soon whether
individual unions have the right to declare
“black” anything which involves the whole
community. [This was after the A.C.T.U.
had taken five months to find out that the
Haligonian Duke’s cargo of coal had been
wrongly declared “black.”]
If the Socialist Opposition in Canberra
now follows the Communist lead in
opposing the Menzies Government’s pro-
posals, endorsed by the electors, for
drawing the wreckers’ teeth and freeing
certain unions from their domination, the
country will know exactly what that
opposition will be worth. It will be based
on nothing but resentment that another
Government should undertake what those
Socialists knew ought to be done, but
were themselves too scared or otherwise
indisposed to attempt.
Action on Toxotion.
The Fadden committee appointed to re-
view Commonwealth taxation comprises
accountants E. S. Spooner and J. A. L.
Gunn, of Sydney, S. B. Holder, of Mel-
bourne, and R. S. Turner, of Adelaide ;
Doctor-of-Laws J. P. Hannan, of Syd-
ney, who has specialised in taxation ; and
What will N.S.W. “Labor’s” Mister Mc-
Gag do now? His silly and intolerant
new elections law was aimed at
making a certainty first of the Con-
cord by-election last Saturday and next of
the general elections to follow later in the
year; He not only lost Concord by a
margin that must have been even more
bitter to him than his narrow defeat there
last year, but he nearly lost his party’s
supposedly > safe seat of Wollongong-
Kembla as well.
He can’t blame defeat this time on
“corrupt Liberal practices” over postal
votes —his charges on that point were
never supported by evidence, and
sounded really funny to those who re-
member the stories 20 years ago of how
the dead used to rise up in the cemeteries
to vote for “Labor” aldermen at local-
government elections. He.can't blame
the Press —though he still tries to —for
his law blacked-out all record of political
comment for 70 hours before the voting,
the period which he selected as proper
for the electors to make up their minds
undisturbed by “propaganda.”
So intense was Mister McGag’s anti-
newspaper complex that, taking Mr.
Chifley and Dr. Evatt with him for (as
he believed) added weight, he went into
Concord to deliver a vituperative blast
against the Press during the last hour be-
fore his law gagged it over the entire
State. For their part, the daily news-
papers, not without here and there some
sign of itching to defy this whingeing
caricature of a people’s representative,,
decided, like Hamlet, to
Let it work,
For ’tis the sport to see the engineer
Hoist with his own petard.
And hoist Mister McGag was. In the re-
sult his only excuse is that his crude legis-
lation “may not have been fully appreci-
ated by the electors of Concord.” On the
contrary, they appreciated it exceedingly
well, and—so far as comparative figures
are a guide—for each disfranchised
absent or sick voter (Mister McGag re-
garded them all as Liberals) a score of
“Labor” voters must have deserted this
pinchbeck Premier in his war on freedom
of expression.
The general elections for N.S.W. must
now appear to Mister McGag’s sick and
sorry party to be looming like a cyclone.
Concord is more than a defeat for them;
it is a portent. They chose it as a pointer
for their prospects, and now they know
what they are in for. What Mister Mc-
Gag’s caucus must be saying about him
as they severally and individually survey
the scene is something which no inhibi-
tion against freedom of expression is, in
the wording of this stupid law, “likely
to influence.” They will, like the mur-
dered Duncan’s vengeful son, be dis-
posed rather to “pour the sweet milk
of concord into hell” —of their own con-
cord, at any rate.
In other words, they may be expected
to put pressure upon this stupid leader
to repeal the reactionary clauses of a
statute so contemptible that by every pre-
cedent in a British democracy it asks
for open defiance. Repeal, even if ap-
proved by the author of the disaster, is
hardly likely to save them, or a sufficient
number of them ; but, since they are now
sentenced to political death anyway, there
is something to be said for dying clean.
"When the Devil Was Sick."
It would appear that Communist miners’
executives believe the public have for-
gotten events of last year’s coal strike.
Maybe some members of the late Chifley
Ministry also are making ready to trade
on the shortness of people’s memory. It
will be interesting to see political
Labor’s” response to the latest defiance
by the Communist bosses of the coal-
, fields:
We direct the attention of our members
to the obvious attempts being made to split
the Labor movement by extending the olive-
branch to the trade-union movement while
preparing.... for the development of the
announced plan to interfere in trade-union
affairs and ban the Communist party.
Members were asked in the same resolu-
tion to prepare for “continued resistance”
to any attempt at mechanical extraction
of pillar-coal or introduction of bonus
systems, among other possible actions
listed as “worsening our conditions.”
On July 31 last, when these same
wreckers ordered a general coal strike and
sent both Federal and N.S.W, “Labor”
Governments into a flat spin, this is how
certain vociferous members of the Chifley
Ministry, now on the Opposition benches,
declared publicly that their Government
would and ought to act:
Mr. Calwell, in the Domain, July 31:
Look at them [certain Communist inter-
jectors]—scum! We will use the Army on
them, the Navy on them, the Air Force on
a Deputy Tax-Commissioner, J. W. R.
Hughes (N.S.W.), They are to see what
can be done about making tax laws as
simple and intelligible as possible, simpli-
fying the making-out of returns, remov-
ing anomalies (heaven knows there’s
plenty of them) and recommending altera-
tions where necessary.
Mr. Fadden himself, it seems, favors
among other things an abolition of the re-
bate system and a return to the straight-
out deduction method. This last, for the
benefit of those too young to remember it,
simply took a taxpayer’s total deductions
from his income figure and then taxed
the remainder, instead of as now, where
the gross income is first taxed, and “re-
bates” allowed.
Another much-needed reform which may
come out of the committee’s work is the
removal of what Mr. Fadden calls the
“dis-incentives” from company taxation,
and, among them, of course, is payroll
tax. While they’re at it the committee
should look into sales-tax, which, under
some circumstances, actually makes goods
dearer and the profits from them greater
than the purveyor would wish. It sounds
silly, but it’s true enough.
The committee will probably have
under consideration a plan by the Vic-
torian Taxpayers’ Association aimed at
some of the things Mr. Fadden is aiming
at, one being anew scale which would
abolish decimal rates and allow the in-
come-earner to assess his own tax and
send it along with his return. The Vic-
torians believe their plan would save
thousands of man-hours in taxation
offices in issuing assessments and among
professional men in checking them and
cut out the unfair and confusing “pro-
visional” taxation.
It is reasonable to suppose that the
committee can do nothing less than im-
prove the present involved and costly sys-
tem, even if it doesn’t at once achieve
thoroughgoing reform. No sensible
ẁ
THE RIGHT SPIRIT!


T
Vi
m
98M
Craven 'A’ Quality means
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA'
The largest selling cork-tipped cigarette In
the world.
OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
xi::;
sss
V
Treasury-bill finance and “repudiation” in pub-
lic finance, along with consequential high-rate
borrowing in the United States, destroyed the
Queensland Legislative Council and recon-
structed the Lower House, which ultimately
ended in reducing the legislature in Queensland
from one of the most able and dignified in
Australia to something lower in dignity and
method than has ever been known elsewhere in
Australian Parliamentary life.
Yet such was his personality that all this was
later forgotten, and he was remembered only
as a “financial genius” in the Federal sphere-
one whose Fiduciary Issues Bill, opposed (in
“Labor” eyes) by a Mephistophelian Common-
wealth Bank board and a wicked Opposition,
had somehow saved Australia in the depres-
sion: which it didn’t, of course, it being a
measure of which every economist had thought,
though most of them without any enthusiasm
at the time Theodore sought to apply it.
His career in the Federal sphere— at the out-
set he was defeated on his own ground in Her-
bert (N.Q.) in 1925 by an unknown doctor,
Lew Nott, an adventure which would have
finished an ordinary politician—was marked by
the usual features. Winning the safe Dailey
(N.S.W.) seat, a Royal Commissioner, Mr. Jus-
tice Scholes, held that “financial benefit was
given (probably to the extent of £5000) to Mr,
Mahony in consideration of his resigning his
seat in Parliament in the interests of Mr.
Theodore,” Mr. Mahony himself having attri-
buted his sudden wealth to one of those mys-
terious racecourse coups which members of the
Labor party and their friends appear to be
vouchsafed by Providence in moments of diffi-
culty.
The Federal Government of Scullin crashed
on the issue of Theodore’s financial policy in
1931 so thoroughly that it was a decade before
it again had hope of regaining power, and
Theodore himself was defeated in his blue-
ribbon electorate by an out-of-work boot-trade
worker, recently on the dole, who had come
into prominence in the timber strike a couple
of years earlier and joined the Lang party—
Solomon Rosevear, to wit.
But nobody seemed to remember the Theo-
dore failures which rode on Scullin’s shoulders.
He himself retired to the shades of the capi-
talists, and presently, with Wren money in the
background, organised the Fiji mines and joined
in the organising of the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph,” both successes from the ppint of view
of the promoters, and both illumined by the
Theodore glamor, which made them appear much
larger than life. The Emperor mine, after 14
years, has done no better than to return to
outside investors slightly more than their
original capital. .
Finally he was invested by Curtin with the
job of running the Allied Works Council during
the war; a big job, and a curious one for a
man who had gone the length of organising,
with McCormack, the transformation ot
“Hansard” into an anti-conscription-campaign
pamphlet full of black type, to defeat the
censorship in the 1917 conscription campaign-
Its operations went smoothly (if expensively!,
save for one inquiry, which revealed unsus-
pected abilities in a wide range of sporting
talent. It was a big job, organised with Theo-
dore’s normal unruffled calm, but no bigge
than Blarney’s or Essington Lewis’s. Yet, as
usual with Theodore jobs, it became a, le S en “
in which the doer of it appeared as much larg
than reality as his fortune, which was declar
by some enthusiastic newspapers to raise nun
to the millionaire class. . t
By temperament Theodore was a throwoaa
to ancient Rome. His father was a Rumanian
of Roman stock, and the son had the appear-
ance of an Augustan Emperor ra * er ,;J a „
of an Australian Labor politician. He naa a
calm and unruffled mind above personalities,
was thoroughly well-read over a wide range.
subjects from mineralogy to folk-lore
writer remembers spending an evening wan n ,
at the time of a Cabinet crisis in 1923 dis
sing Grimm and Quiller-Couch. He could
very generous, and did not bear grudges ag
enemies or carry on vendettas, and he {
many personal merits which ran with g
ability and lucidity as a speaker. And i
was not as great a statesman or Australian
many whose deaths caused much less sensa »
he was at least one of the most outstanding
Australian politicians. Few realised how m
he was responsible for modern Labor teenmq
and policy.
POLITICAL POINTS
That the political gagging of the Press
is the most foolish act of Australia’s
most foolish, Premier is by now apparent
to even the dullest minds ; any day now
a glimmer of this truth may penetrate the
McGirr skull.
Saturday’s tjiree by-elections left the
relative numerical strength of parties in
the N. S. Wales Assembly unchanged;
the same cannot be said of the parties
chances in the coming general election.
If “Labor” had any optimism left when
the polling-booths opened it must
have vanished by the time counting ceased
on Saturday night. The party was quite
confident of regaining Concord, lost a
year ago by 17 votes; they felt that the
virtual abolition of postal-voting, the 70-
hour Press ban and the fact that there was
no Lang candidate to split the vote made
the seat a certainty for their man. To
clinch matters Chifley and Evatt were
prevailed upon to support McGirr at a
final rally just as the Press curtain came
down. The trio were apparently too
much for McDonald, the “Labor” man,
to carry ; when the numbers went up he
was well over 400 behind the Liberal
Adamson.
In explaining previous by-election de-
feats —Coogee, Kogarah and the first
Concord fight—McGirr had two stock
excuses: unfair Press criticism and
“rigged” postal votes. This time he
robbed himself of both these in advance,
but, being James McGirr, he was not
stuck for an excuse. Menzies, it appeared,
was the villain of the piece:
It is surely significant that on the day the
70-hours ban on pre-election comment and
propaganda became operative the Press
should have been able to announce the
discontinuance of petrol-rationing, a de-
cision by the Commonwealth Government
to pay a ss. endowment to a first child and
the possibility of a reduction in taxation.
At the same time even McGirr could
hardly fail to see that his electoral “re-
forms” had boomeranged on him. This
is how he put it:
The recent legislation passed by the
Government and applied to today’s by-
elections may not have been fully appreci-
ated by the electors in Concord.
There seems to be no doubt that the
motive inspiring the legislation was fully
appreciated by the electors.
Turning from his defeat in Concord
to his win' in Wollongong-Kembla the
N. S. Wales Premier could find scant
comfort. In that electorate, three years
ago deemed so safe a “Labor” seat that
the Liberals allowed W. Davies to hold it
without a fight, the “Labor” candidate
A. R. Powell was lucky to get home by
200-odd votes.
Up north in Armidale “Labor’s” hopes
of snatching a seat ’from the Country
party were not realised. D. H. Drum-
mond, now in Federal politics, had held
the seat since 1927, so it was reasonable
to assume that his majority of 1600 at
the last election included a Considerable
personal vote which might not be so solid
for the new C.P. candidates —there were
two of them Figures available on
Monday showed that J. E. Cahill had in-
creased the “Labor” vote, but unless there
is a big drift of preferences the seat
stays with the Country party ; D. Hughes
the new holder.
Leaving the gloom behind him for the
gloom ahead McGirr unburdened himself
to a “Sunday Sun” reporter on the
subject of the proposed referendum on
socialisation:
Electors can anticipate that this referen-
dum campaign, with all its accompanying
misrepresentations and parrot-cries of
“nationalisation” and “socialisation,” will
be held close to the State elections mid-
way in the year. There will be deliberate
endeavor to obscure strictly State issues.
Surely it will be easy enough to remedy
that? He doesn’t have to wait till “mid-
way in the year” for the State elections.
Hanlon, who has allegedly been intend-
ing to hold his elections on the same day
as McGirr, may now deem it is wiser to
get in first.
The ending of petrol-rationing seven
weeks after the Menzies Government
took office shows that it intends to honor
its election promises. It is clear that the
Attlee Government was several degrees
below lukewarm towards the decision, but
Priminister Menzies pointed out that even
under rationing the standard and scale of
petrol supplies lay at the discretion of the
Australian Government:
It was the Chifley Government, and not
the Attlee Government, which determined
the total amount of petrol to be made
available to the Australian people.
The Chifley attitude was that, if rationing
ceased, private motorists would indulge in
a wild orgy of petrol-intoxication;
Menzies entertains no such foolish fears,
and with petrol at 3s. a gallon there is
little reason why he should.
Menzies described his predecessor’s
stand on petrol as “misguided” and his
general dollar-policy as “unnecessarily
negative and restrictive”; the new
approach, the Prime Minister hopes, will
“in due course pay handsome dividends.”
This presumably means that there will be
no restriction for the sake of restricting,
and that where dollar expenditure will be
the means of earping more dollars accom-
modation will be forthcoming.
Unrationed petrol doesn’t mean the
desertion of Britain or the sterling area,
as “Labor” politicians, belatedly discover-
ing in their hearts a passionate love for
the Old Dart, asserted in their pre-election
speeches. Trade is a reciprocal affair,
and, as the P.M. said, it would be
strange if Britain’s export drive meant
the sending of scores of thousands of
motor-vehicles to Australia while sterling-
dollar policy made it impossible to get
enough petrol to run them.
Attlee’s Food Minister Strachey who,
in 1938, wrote What Are We to Do? and
is still trying to find out the answer,
spoke out of turn in saying that Aus-
tralia had done the wrong thing in
dropping petrol-rationing. He claimed
that the action was the result of pro-
mises made as an election bribe and said:
It means spending a lot more dollars, and
it is an extravagance for Australia and
Britain, who pool their dollar resources.
The clue to this outburst was that Strachey
was on the hustings; he gave himself
away by referring to the Menzies-Fadden
Government as a “Conservative” Gov-
ernment in the apparent hope that by
labelling it extravagant and careless of
the interests of the Commonwealth he
might similarly label his British Conser-
vative opponents. A Socialist talking
about extravagance!
“Sydney Morning Herald” seems to be
misinformed on petrol-rationing. In a
history of the business it says that in
February, 1942, the ration for “pleasure”
motoring was reduced to “about 16 miles
a month,” and adds that it was increased
to 30 miles a month in September, 1945.
The ration was never less than 60 miles a
month.
Communist impudence reached its
height last week with a demand on the
Lysaght people not to employ another
man unless they gave a job to a fellow
named Morgan. Morgan left the firm in
1939 to become a paid Ironworkers
Union official; now, apparently, he needs
a job. Does the demand mean that the
Communists expect a lot more of their
hirelings will be looking for jobs shortly?
“J. 8.,” defending Nelson, who stood
for the Northern Territory seat against
Blain, then a p.-0.-w. in a Jap. jail, in
1943 and beat him for the seat in 1949:
Jock Nelson is a returned serviceman who
served in the islands. Due to his being
associated with the land, Mr. Nelson had
to obtain a special release to join up. He
could have quite easily remained at home
without fear or slur.
The paragraph on the election (B.
18/1/’5O) did not make it clear that
Nelson was in the forces when he con-
tested the election in 1943.
Banana-growers are the latest to join
in the business of holding their
fruit off the market because there’s a
lot of it and it would have to be sold
cheaply. Their Sydney agent said they’d
plough a lot of bananas into the ground
rather than sell them at “unpayable
levels.” Banana-growers must have been
listening to the current wage-demand
policy of the A.CT.U.
The Australian Workers’ Union, which
is usually a fairly sensible outfit, has
allowed itself to be bulldozed or doped
into declaring bitter opposition to the
Federal Government’s plan to bring out
40,000 British migrants and provide them
with jobs until they can get on their feet.
The A.W.U. condemns the plan as “in-
dustrial conscription” (as though the
British were going to be forced to come!)
and an “injustice on free British subjects.”
Australia could use a quarter of a
million men at once without interfering
with anyone else’s job.
Last week a group of building-trade
unionsi decided to ask the Red-dominated
Building Workers’ Industrial Union to
discontinue its go-slow policy on the con-
struction of homes for New Australians.
Presumably the request will be made in a
politely-worded letter. A curt telegram
signed “Stalin” would probably be more
effective.
Undeterred by the Federal Govern-
ment’s refusal to part up with the cost of
abolishing the toll on Sydney Harbor
Bridge, the McGirr crowd is asking it to
pay part of the cost of the County of
Cumberland’s planning scheme, estimated
to amount to £15,000,000. Just why the
taxpayers of Marble Bar, Wilson’s
Promontory and Thursday Island should
be expected to contribute to the cost of
providing Sydney with a green—or any
other color —belt will possibly be ex-
plained by Mr. Cahill when he has a
moment to spare from his self-imposed
task of chasing washing-machines out of
householders’ kitchens.
Victoria has handed back price-control
in that State to the various marketing
boards. Premier Hollway remarking that
if there was “any sign of exploitation”
the Prices Branch would take over again.
Opposition-leader Cain accused the Gov-
ernment of “bowing to the dictates of the
Egg Board,” and a Chamber of Com-
merce member weighed in with “The only
way to avert sudden rises is to get rid
of State marketing boards as well.” The
last would certainly cut diown the con-
sumption of tea.
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council,
which approved the Communist-inspired
strike at the Shell petrol works, took a
very different view of the strike which
put 2KY off the air for more than a day.
Its verdict was that the technicians had
“deliberately sabotaged 2KY, an instru-
ment of the trade-union movement.”
Though N.S.W, by-electors may have
found it a little difficult to see or hear
Premier McGirr during his 70-hour Press
blackout last week, obviously they could
still smell him.
It remained for a N.S.W. “Quiz-kid”
to utter the final devastating comment on
the N.S.W. by-elections. The question
was “What sort of oil should politicians
have?” The answer was obvious to adult
minds as “tung oil” or perhaps “palm
oil,” but the juvenile mind went to the
heart of the matter. “Castor oil,” he
piped.


SINCE 1547
w
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
R. C. Townley is one of a pair who
have other claims to prominence besides
ownership of a chain of chemist-shops
ringing Hobart, and, in R.C.’s case,
being a central figure in the political up-
set in the Apple Isle. A.G., his brother,
was a naval lieutenant-commander in the
thick of the affair on Sydney Harbor,
when the Navy’s thorough and savage re-
action to Jap breaching of its boom
belted the life out of three midget-subs,
that hectic Sunday night of May 31, 1942.
R.C. left his chemist-shops to contest
the 1946 State election, topped the poll
in Denison, and did it again last time.
Now 45, with an alert nutcracker face
usually split by a grin, he had a fine war
record in the Middle East, New Guinea
and Borneo, and at the cease-fire was
Asst. Director-General of Medical
Services, ranking lieutenant-colonel.
Solid reasons for his poll success, and
possibly why the Libs offered him their
leadership, is his popularity as a business-
man, former prominence as cricketer and
footballer, and his strong stand for
Diggers and homeseekers.
Another member of the celebrated
“Terrible Ten” left the Victorian Force
when Inspector Percy William Lambell
retired the other day after 40 years’
chasing crooks, running down assassins
and suppressing Fitzroy pushes. He
helped to arrest Angus Murray after the
Glenferrie murder, and was in at the
nabbing of his accomplice, Richard
Buckley, seven years later; nailed
three counterfeiters who started the
biggest forged-note industry in Australia
at Black Rock; cleaned up the epidemic
of spieling that broke out on Melbourne
racecourses in 1917, and was one of the
special escort the C. 1.8. provided the
present King when he visited Australia.
Lambell had an amazing memory for
facts and details. Once at an inquest he
spoke without notes and never once re-
peated a word, hesitated for one or
corrected a date, a time or figure for two
hours forty minutes.
Up in Mackay Communist wharf-
lumpers have been told a few pithy home -
truths about themselves by a man who is
expert in his job—John Mulherin, now
the Stevedoring Industry' Board repre-
sentative, one-time mayor of Mackay,
for 23 years the harbor board’s repre-
sentative, and, during the late war, the
local liaison between American forces
using the harbor. It started when water-
siders struck over loading the Spaniard
Arraiz with 3000 tons of sugar for
Britain —then Mulherin, tall, gaunt and
fluent, advised the decent waterfront
element to kick comrade Roach back
where he came from. In 1933, then
mayor, Mulherin was expelled from the
A.L.P. for defying Labor’s day-labor
policy when he accepted tenders for the
town’s sewerage scheme. Now claiming
to be bound by no politics, the forthright
fellow makes one exception—a detesta-
tion of Communism.
Landed in Fremantle, where, 120 years
ago, his great-grandfather. Captain James
Stirling, dropped anchor in the Parmelia
with his colonists, Lord Rennell, who has
done a spot of exploring himself —in the
south Sahara between 1922-27, for which
the Royal Geographic Society awarded
him the Cuthbert Peake medal. Meeting
his first Australians in the Sinai-Palestine
country, where in 1917 he was a 22-year-
old staff man, the baron renewed
acquaintance in the later dust-up—then
major-general. Now partner in a London
firm of merchant-bankers, he spare-times
on his 500-acre estate in Hereford, breed-
ing, naturally, beef cattle. The only relic
he holds of his illustrious ancestor is a
faded photograph—all other MSS.,
records, etc., are with the R.G.S., of
which, in 1945, the new arrival was presi-
dent.
Shutting the door on his antique-shop
in Collins-street (Melbourne) and reopen-
ing it on a gallery for the exhibition of
all sorts of prints, drawings and paintings,
Joshua McClelland, whose stand for
25 years has been a rendezvous for
connoisseurs and art-collectors and for
people who want to know if a bit of Old
Colonial is genuine and the holes in it
from borer or shotgun bullets. Josh will
still be available, however, for advice
and valuation of private collections. He
has catalogued some of Australia’s most
important collections, and in his spare
time works on a comprehensive catalogue
of the vast National Gallery collection.
Ballarat is after him to put the expert’s
hallmark on the magnificent gift made to
its gallery from the estate of Alan Currie.
In Thomas Croudace, its new mine-
manager, Western Collieries (W.A.) gets
a practical expert who knows as many
miles of N.S.W.’s underground warrens
as any man in the State, In the game
25 years, 14 of them as colliery-manager,
he holds certificates as mine-surveyor
and instructor in mine-rescue work as
well as the normal managerial qualifica-
tions—at present he manages the Aber-
dare and Caledon collieries in N.S.W., the
prospecting and developing of the latter
open-cut being Croudace’s own particular
pigeon. Now a virile 44, he won his
present post from over 100 applicants
throughout the British Commonwealth.
The hypnotic profile here presented is
the sole and stage property of
“Franquin,” born Frank Quinn, the
Maorilander who last night fixed his first
mesmeric gaze on a Sydney audience at
the Empire. Son of Laurie Quinn, one-
time g.-m. for Fuller’s and J. C.
Williamson Picture Corporation in
Maoriland, Franquin turned early to
hypnotism, and travelled the world
studying human nature and psychological
reactions, which detailed application no
doubt accounts for the Press photos he
carries of queues forming at three a.m.
outside his theatres in conservative M.L.
towns like Invercargill and Palmerston
North. A natural humorist always alert
to turn a chance remark into a laugh, he
maintains his audience in a high pitch of
excitement and handles the show himself
—he has played in South Africa, Fiji,
Samoa and Honolulu. Representative
*
LAM BART
THE EYES HAVE IT.
cricketer and winner of several Army
boxing tournaments (sleep here induced
by a nifty right), he joined up at the recent
outbreak a private, and four and a half
years later was major, after organising
a coastwatching service through islands
of the South Pacific. His book, Open
Your Mind, lets its readers into his ex-
periences and gives some hints on the
practice of hypnotism.
Introducing a tough Australian:
It will be at once apparent that Bill Fisher,
limned by Dubois while a biting southerly
whipped around Bill’s boat-building establish-
ment on Sydney’s Parramatta River, has no
particular kinship with Cornel Wilde. To
limber up for the interview Bill cast himself at
a horizontal rope, up-ended, then slowly
lowered himself till he balanced with legs hori-
zontal —a feat usually performed only by Tiv.
acrobats. Doing that a few times each morn-
ing and punching a heavy bag for half an hour
a day keeps his 9st. 101 b. of whipcord and
SCULLS AND SINEWS.
muscle in perfect trim. Champion old-time
sculler and sire of champions, Bill celebrated
his 76th birthday a few months ago by rowing
to Manly and back —a jaunt of 25 miles. Two
years ago he won a challenge match against
Tom Hall, of Deewhy, in 14ft. skiffs, doing the
21 miles from Barrenjoey to Manly—and that’s
in the open sea —in five hours eight minutes in
a 45 m.p.h. mid-winter, gale. Shortly after that
he rowed from Manly to Parramatta (21 miles)
in three hours flat in an outrigger—the first man
to cross Sydney heads in one of those frail
shells of polished cedar. To detail all the races
he and his three sturdy sons have won would
fill a column; suffice to mention that Bill won
the Sydney Anniversary Regatta sculls four
times—a record —and competed in one race
against all his sons. Bill, Jr., his eldest, was
considered by world champion George Towns
the best miler Australia has produced. Max,
his second son, lowered Bobby Pearce’s three-
mile time by 55 seconds. Jack, the youngest,
was State professional champion. Natatorially
Bill was in near-championship class, and at 41
could still clock 66 seconds for the 100 yards.
He coached his three daughters into aquatic
honors and his eldest son into becoming
welterweight boxing champion of the Army.
Bill Fisher’s father and grandfather were cap-
tains in sail, the latter having his own fleet 91
“wooden walls” in Sydney back in 1838. Bill
and his sons build racing shells and other light
vessels of exquisite craftsmanship.
Still striding out solidly on his 84th
lap, Bob White, one of the few remaining
old-time comps who turned out news-
papers in the days before linotypes.
Learning the trade on the “Gippsland
Times,” he snatched type on Melbourne
“Herald” before crossing to the West at
the time Henry Lawson journeyed there.
Returning to Melbourne, after working
the first linotype on the “Morning
Herald,” now defunct, White had 34
years with the Government Printing
Office, retiring as foreman of the lino-
type-room. He recalls that the first line
from a lino. in the West was set by
Lady Forrest.
The measure of the esteem in which
leather-manufacturer Henry Zwar, prob-
ably Melbourne’s most consistent hospital
benefactor, is held is indicated by
awards presented him by the R.S.L. —
the Australian Certificate of Merit, the
Australian Gold Medal of Merit, the Vic-
torian Certificate of Merit and the
Limbless Soldiers’ Merit badge ; he is, as
well, life-governor of Royal Melbourne
and other hospitals, to which he has
given half a lifetime of service. A
century ago his parents were New Aus-
tralians. His father fought in the
revolution of Saxony in 1848 and the
British Government settled him at Broad-
ford as a British subject To celebrate
the centenary of* their arrival Zwar last
week handed the Lord Mayor £250 for
Melbourne hospitals.
Two Maorilanders recently landed
honors from the Old Country. A rare
award, the B.M.A.’s gold medal, goes to
Dr, J. P. S. Jamieson, of Nelson. It is
awarded to doctors considered to have
raised the standard of the medical pro-
fession, and Jamieson has been doing that
in M.L., where he was at one time
president of the 8.M.A., for donkey’s
years. Since 1877 only 27 such medals
have been awarded, and this is the first
occasion one has left the United Kingdom.
Another Maorilander, Peter McKellar,
formerly on the Otago University
philosophy and psychology staff, now
research-lecturer in social psychology at
St. Andrew’s, Scotland, has been awarded
a doctorate of philosophy of London
University.
Reached his majority as president of
the Victorian R.S.L., George Holland. In
the 21 years he has seen it grow from
small beginnings to one of the most
united and powerful organisations in the
country. World War I wasn’t a week old
when he joined up as a private;he
served with the Seventh Battalion on
Gallipoli! and France, and collected three
wounds and a Military Medal. Demobbed
in 1918, he started mobilising the peace-
time organisation as promptly as he had
joined the A.I.F.
“Cauboy”: Last year’s musical
marathon is likely to be surpassed in the
new year. Overseas conductors booked
by the A.B.C. include Sir John Barbirolli,
Otto Klemperer and Albert Coates.
Executants include soprano Erna Berger,
’cellist Edmund Kurtz, Arthur Benjamin,
the Australian-born pianist, composer and
conductor, Adelaide pianist Allison
Nelson, pianist Colin Horsley, of New
Zealand, and William Herbert, the
brilliant Melbourne tenor, who was one
of Dr, Floyd’s choirboys at St. Paul's
Cathedral. Coates, who will lead off the
procession in May, was born in Russia,
studied under Nikisch in Leipzig and now
conducts the London Symphony
Orchestra. His daughter Tamara plays
the cor anglais for the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra.
Into the Silence;
At her post on Palm Island (Q.), Florence
Beasley, missionary and first secretary of the
Q. Council of Inland Missions. With 22 years
of aboriginal-welfare to her credit before she
shifted to Palm Island, she was in the Territory
when the Japs bombed Darwin, and was one
of the two whites who brought the Pine Creek
natives safely to Adelaide. She had been five
years on Palm Island.
In Sydney, at 51, Lionel Lawson, for many
years one of Australia’s distinguished violinists,
and one-time leader of the A.B.C. Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra. Studying in Berlin two years
before World War I, he got out safely, returned
home and joined the R.F.C., in which he served
as lieutenant in the Middle East. Possessing
everything to rate him world-rank, he yet missed
that distinction, preferring probably the quieter
life of a tutorial capacity.
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 74, Dr. J. C. Brad-
shaw, one-time Christchurch Cathedral organist
and Professor of Music at Canterbury Univer-
sity College. A native of Lancashire, he gradu-
ated bachelor of music in 1898 and doctor of
music at 25. For nearly half a century
there were few big musical events in the Flat
City with which he was not connected.
In Fremantle, at 64, L. J. Goldie, than whom
few men knew more about pearls and their
hiding-places of! the north-west coast. Run-
ning a pearling fleet from Broome since 1912,
he was well equipped to take on Intelligence
duties in that area with the A.I.F. when the
Japs came in. Later he served with the Third
Corps in charge of a lugger convoy.
In London, at 83, General Sir George Kirk-
patrick, for four years from 1910 Inspector-
General of Australia’s Military Forces, for
most of his. life a soldier of the Kipling breed.
In South Africa at the turn of the century, he
later served in Canada, had, altogether, 14 years
in India (ending C.G.S.), left to command
British forces in China, and returned as G.D.C.
of all the King’s troops in western India.
In Melbourne. Reginald Farndon, director of
a large sporting-goods firm and two-war
Digger who left with the old 21st Battalion a
private and ended as its adjutant, in between col-
lecting M.C. and Bar for conspicuous bravery.
Staff-lieutenant in the next war, he helped to
establish the Balcombe and Darley traimng-
camps before going on overseas service. That
ended with incarceration in Changi.
I


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”: A good yarn was cabled
from America the other day. Bandits
held up a Detroit tavern, locked the pro-
prietor, his assistants and his customers
in the refrigerator and robbed the till.
They were a little surprised when the
police arrived and caught them in the
act. What they hadn’t taken the trouble
to find out was that after a similar ex-
perience a year ago the proprietor had
had a telephone installed in the fridge. In
Australia the bandits would have had
better luck; the tavern-keeper would
still be waiting for his phone. If through
knowing someone who knew someone he
had managed to get his phone the bandits
would in all probability be well away be-
fore he got through to the police-station.
If by accident he did get through in time
there’d be no cops available for the job ;
they’d all be down at the Feminist Club
or the Temperance Alliance looking for
Dugan and Mears.
$ * * ♦
“Pookie”: In America, a land of
notorious extremes, Ingrid Bergman’s un-
conventional baby seems to have pro-
voked strong comment from sundry
pulpits, lay and clerical. Simultaneously
with reports in the Sydney papers of these
fiery sayings a Bergman film was revived
at King’s Cross. Title: “Rage in
Heaven.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Some of the local firms who
make splash announcements in our sub-
urban rag achieve unusual effects at times.
One hardware-store ad. has in the same
bold type as the price for an electric
lawnmower the warning: “It’s not worth
it. Dad!” That, however, isn’t a tip-off
to the old man that he’s likely to be
fleeced if he invests in one. The clue to
the remark is found in lighter type in a
solicitous adjuration further down the
advertisement: “Eliminate hours of
back-breaking work and lengthen your
life.”
* * * *
“Bagot”: A Lawson stamp on a letter
sticking out of my pocket inspired my
ancient travelling companion to unburden
himself of a bitter regret he had borne for
years. When the poet came to Westralia
fifty-odd years ago my acquaintance was
invited to meet him, but when he
learned that the venue was the front
bar of a Perth pub he declined. “I was a
Band of Hope member in those days,”
he explained, “It shows what darned-fool
things a man will do for temperance ;
today I’d give all I have to be able to
say I’d had a drink with Henry.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: No one can be long, in
Sydney without running into the name of
Belmore; it is applied to a suburb, to parks,
streets and roads. Hadn’t thought much
about it until the other day, when we
motored along Belmore-road to Canter-
bury-road, thence via Milperra-road to
Liverpool. On the return journey we saw
a signpost marked Belmore-road and fol-
lowed it, only to become bushed some-
where in the wilds down near Lugarno
ferry. After we sorted ourselves out we
consulted a map, to find that there are
two Belmore-roads running roughly
parallel with each other and a mile or so
apart. “Who the dickens,” we demanded,
“is this Belmore?” The Australian
Encyclopaedia told us the Earl of Belmore
was Governor of N.S.W. from 1868 to
1872; somewhat cuttingly it remarked
that the “only two important events” of
his Governorship were the shooting of the
Duke of Edinburgh and the opening of
the first intercolonial exhibition in Prince
Alfred Park. That seems small justifica-
tion for splathering the man’s name all
over the place, to the confusion of
motorists.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The handyman is fast
losing his materials. First the basis of
all his metal-work went —the kerosene-
tin. The kerosene-case went with it auto-
matically. Built to hold two kero.-tins,
it was a handy thing in itself —just a nice
size for a canary-cage or ferret’s bed-
room ; in addition it contained useful
sizes of pine; two pieces of 9in. by lin.
and the balance of £in. stuff 20in. long.
But the handyman’s friend was the old-
time butter-box. There was no limit to
the scope provided by the 12in. squares
of |in, clean pine. The timber was easy
g@ro<§ni®!]S
II
“Why not have another try to settle this out of court ?”
to work and very durable —a knife-and-
fork drawer I made 27 years ago is still
going strong. It cost about 3d. —half a
butter-box. Women’s papers always
featured at least one butter-box in the
weekly Handy Hints, generally beginning
with: “Take a butter-box and two yards
of cretonne.” A ready-made fowl-nest,
bread-box, manger, mail-box, stool, meat-
safe and a hundred other things, its doom
was sealed when the sides became rough
three-ply. The next step was cardboard
sides on rough hardwood batten —and
farewell to an old and faithful friend.
* * *
“Uramao”: The imagination of a six-
year-old Auckland girl set a problem for
the police force. The little lass came
home with the letters “TE” branded on
her leg; she claimed that two boys had
branded the letters on her with a
branding-iron heated over a fire. The
boys denied the charge. Police subjected
the lass to gruelling cross-questioning, but
she stuck to her story. Scouting round
the neighborhood, however, the sleuths
discovered on the door of a copper boiler
in a neighbor’s place the imprint of the
manufacturer, “Mount Albert Concrete
Works.” Measurements showed that the
height of the “TE” brand on the girl’s
leg coincided with the distance from the
ground to the inscription. Despite the
refusal of the lass to confess to having
pressed her leg against the two last letters
of “concrete” the police consider the case
closed.
* * * *
“Findy”: “Isa Lei” wasn’t quite up to
date with his story of Adelaide’s un-
finished temple (B. 11/l/’5O). A buyer
has turned up; a short time ago the
property was bought by the Christian
Scientists, who intend to erect a church
there. Architects are at present prepar-
ing the plans, and it is possible that the
original foundations will be used, so that
to some extent the dream of the original
planner will be realised.
* * * *
“Dun Dhu”: Surf-clubs short of funds
ought to consider wool-raising as a means
of income. In the northernmost island of
the Orkneys, which form the northern-
most island-group of Scotland, there is a
small hardy breed of sheep which exists on
a diet of seaweed. Elsewhere sheep have
been observed feeding on seaweed, but
only as a variant or to supplement sparse
pasture. In North Ronaldshay, however,
the Orkney sheep live practically on sea-
weed all the year round, grazing outside
the fences that divide the small farms
from the sea ; in midwinter that bleak
spot provides the fattest sheep in all
Britain. The animals are vigorous and
healthy and show no symptoms of
nutritional deficiency. Australian golf-
clubs which run sheep as lawnmowers
have found them highly profitable at
recent wool prices, so maybe the surf-
clubs can get in on the good thing.
jjc
“W.P.T.”: Those neglected pioneers’
graves at Liverpool (B. 18/I/’5O) remind
me of St. John’s Cemetery, Parramatta
the oldest existing burial-ground in Aus-
tralia. It seems strange that, although
money is being spent on tablets to mark
Parramatta’s historic spots, nothing has
been done about the cemetery, which
contains the tombs of such historic figures
as some of the Blaxlands, Wentworths
David Lennox, Samuel Marsden, Baron
Alt and many others whose names have
become famous. Jt is impossible to get
near many of the tombstones for rank
weeds and grass.
* * * *
“Old Switchie”: Those charming youn»
telephone-girls of 1912 (B. 11/1/’5O)
could curtsey when occasion demanded,
but they knew their way about and spoke
truly when they assured the P.M.G. that
“they had too much sense to strike.”
They had no need to; they achieved
their ends by other and more effective
methods when genuine grievances were
officially ignored. Those lasses never did
anything wrong; but when “agin the
Guvmint” worked strictly to regulations
and reduced the service to chaos and their
superiors to a state of nervous prostra-
tion. The girls had plenty to whinge
about. Air-conditioning in telephone-
exchanges was unknown ; Sydney’s over-
crowded exchange was like a furnace in
summer, and girls frequently fainted at
the switchboard.
* * * *
“Metax”: Every time I wield the axe
to make the wood-heap logs fit the
family stove I envy the paper-maker. I
apply the axe to the laboriously turned
grindstone, and then, when the sharpening
is complete, I face the no-less energetic
task of applying the axe to the wood. In
the newsprint-mill the log is, applied
direct to the grindstone to cut it into
little bits to make paper, and there is no
axe to bother about at all. Can’t someone
invent a way of short-circuiting the
family axe by giving us a method of
cutting our firewood on the grindstone
direct?
* * * *
Snippets from The Bulletin’s 70th
Anniversary mail:
May I advance my claim to being
The Bulletin’s original reader? I bought a
copy of the first issue and have been a sub-
scriber on and off right up to your special
70th-year issue, on which let me congratulate
you.
“A.G.”: The first time I read The Bulletin
was back in the early ’eighties. I was waltzing
matilda from Western Victoria to the new-
found Broken Hill when a boundary-rider on
Avoca station, just out of Wentworth, gave me
a copy. I have been a constant reader ever
since. In the great trek from Southern Cross
(W.A.), when we followed Arthur Bayley to
Coolgardie in 1892, I had a copy in my swag,
and I think it was the first Bulletin on the
field.
“Edx”: Nearly 30 years ago my father
shifted camp from Perth to the Murchison
goldfields, and took over the house of his pre-
decessor at the mine; bare, but with one tenant
—an adolescent black-and-white cat. There was
only one possible name for that cat. In my
time I’ve seen droves of black-and-white cats,
black cats with white markings and white ones
with black, but I’ve not yet met another animal
so accurately resembling an artist’s creation as
the Tom who lived at our place for 15 years.
He was always “Souter” to us, but what beats
me is how Dave Souter managed to delineate
him yeairs before he was born.
“Abdul”: When I opened my 70-year-
pageant Bully I looked first to see if “Bellenve
had risen to the special occasion, and wa
highly delighted to find he had. Hoping again
hope, I then turned to “Smoke-oh” to see it my
favorite barmaid had returned with her shocKeu
expression at the barman’s snappy story. °
there was old “Colonel Damurize,” as usua.
with his pot of Pimm’s No. 1. Surely the om
brasshat could have stood down for one usu '
I know you cannot please everyone, but ev
if all others have forgotten the dame I can s
see her face with my eyes shut.
“C.J.A.”: My eldest brother always boasted
that he folded the first issues of The Bulle
for John Haynes when it was printed at
rear of 107 Castlereagh-street. The exact loca-
tion was St. George’s-place: a number °t sm
single-storied houses at the rear of the Acaoe ;
of Music theatre, now the site of the Emu
theatre. A lane marked the entrance, ana
one side was the Academy and on the o
Sharpe’s Hotel. All my brothers and siste
and myself were born in St. George s-V ;
My mother ran the fruit-shop on one sio
the Academy and Skinner a bookshop on
other, with his well-known sign Eooa
Worms.”
“N.K.”: I was a youngster of 13 serving
my apprenticeship on the “Mining News
Croydon, on the Gulf of Carpentaria,
read my first issue of The Bully. Tn .
markable literary merit of the paper S r Er at
my imagination even at that early a B e - 0 f
was 50 years ago. Croydon, now a skeie
its former greatness, was a prosperous, go
in those days. The arrival of The Bully eve j
Sunday by Cobb’s coach was one of the n g
lights of the week.
“M. 8.”: The- first process blocks used m
The Bulletin were made by Pattie l
sister-in-law of W. H. Traill. Now j
Fotheringhame, and aged 93, she su j,
cyanide poisoning and managed to run a
cal column and woman’s letter for The o . e
tin at the same time. Charles Snugg,
American process-engraver, came later.
THE WASHER-QUASHERS.
“N. S. Wales Minister for Local Government, Mr.
Cahill, has prohibited installation of washing-
machines in kitchens.”
The curse of the Sydneyite’s home was his
Cahill
When owner or renter
Had legal directions
To let his men enter
On current inspections;
But now that ban’s off, he still says with a
snarl,
“Though I can’t inspect heaters I’ll cling on
like lichen;
As a clean-living man
And a house-to-house visitor,
I’ll invent a new ban
And remain an inquisitor—
You can’t have a washing-machine in your
kitchen 1 ”
The method may lead to mistakes, it’s admitted,
Where Poppa’s best shirt
Is found casing a pie,
And Ma’s underskirt
Is served up as lamb’s fry,
And the steak proves a cardigan old Nanny
knitted
And John’s tennis flannels come out as boiled
mutton
And the large double-sheets
Are the best tripe we’ve et,
And Ma’s dress with the pleats
Makes a fine crepe suzette
And a fruit-stone turns out to be
Mike’s trouser-button: “"**
Perhaps Mr. Cahill may consider this waste;
In his own social set he
Might not care to stoop
To lace-edged spaghetti -
Or washing-soap soup—
But surely such things are a matter of taste!
So tell his whole gang, from McGirr down to
Finnan,
They can close the vast bag
Of their lunatic capers
With a puerile gag
On the daily newspapers—
But at least leave us free to wash our dirty
linen.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Flathead”: Two elderly ladies, one
with a touch of keen humor, the other
timid, share a table with a friend of mine*
at a Sydney boardinghouse. Recently,
when the city’s dailies were rivalling each
other with lists of crimes allegedly attri-
buted to the jail-breakers Dugan and
Mears, two young men came to the estab-
lishment and ate their meals at the next
table. My friend watched the timid lady
look up one evening as the other tapped
her arm, indicated the young men with a
nod of her head, and then, in the paper
she’d opened under cover of the table,
showed her partner a photograph of the
two escapees. “I think that’s who they
are,” she whispered. “One of them’s short,
the other tall, and their faces are just like
the picture here.” Then, stiff dead serious,
she went on with her dinner. My friend
watched the other lady rolling a piece of
bread between her fingers, heard her tea-
“Weak—no milk and very little sugar."
cup rattle as she picked it up, and saw a
pained expression come upon her face as
one of the young men leant across to-
wards her, and then saw it vanish as he
asked, G.P.S. accent, “Could I have the
sugar, please?”
* * * *
“Plop”: Cecil, my bulldog, snores
mightily ; his only near-rival is my mother-
in-law. One night both of them were under
my roof, or rather the roof of that half
of the house in which I live. My land-
lady lives in the other half, and she had
invited my wife and me in to meet a
couple of English guests. Cecil planted
himself just outside the dividing-door and
began to snore in a manner that de- 1
manded explanation to the visitors. They i
were keen to see him, so we opened the
dividing-door, inspected him and re-
turned. Time passed, and the snores re-
commenced and became unbearable.
Saying that I would put the dog out in
the yard so that we could get a bit of
peace, I went out again. .But the sounds
were coming from the spare bedroom;
Cecil was sitting up wide-awake, and
looked bewildered when he heard me say
as I gently closed the door, “The poor
bid fellow looks so peaceful it’d be a
shame to wake him.”
* * * ♦
“Spike”: As the train taking us home
from work moved into the rain the
windows of the carriage dropped until
only one remained open, that adjoining
the seat ahead of mine, and through
it the water poured back on us, but
left the man who sat beside it dry. The
bloke sitting next to me leaned forward
and asked if he would kindly close it;
he received a whiff of overproof and the
advice “Pull y’r head in. Scared of fresh
air, eh?” My neighbor pointed out that
no one liked fresh air better than he; it
was the wet stuff mixed with this lot he
didn’t fancy. No good. The man ahead
snorted his contempt and went to sleep.
I watched my neighbor. He folded his
newspaper in half, and holding it with
both hands bent it into half a cylinder
which he quietly held across in front of
me, about 6in. behind the neck of the
fresh-air fiend. It set up an air-current
which grabbed at the sleet and hurled it
forward. The man ahead woke, didn’t
notice the cause of the sudden deluge,
but immediately slammed the window
. shut.
ẁ
ẃ
ebbed. Being a man of manners
he didn’t hammer on the glass or, ]erk-
ing the door open, demand that the
premises be vacated promptly. No ; he
tooted his horn loudly. The truck-driver
emerged with blood in his eye, and got off
a few apt remarks about the ignorance of
fatherless people who “tooted a man” as
though they owned the vermilion phone.
Next day, riding my humble push-bike, I
signalled a right-hand turn. Immediately
a horn blared from behind: “Don’t you ;
don’t you—l’m coming through whether
you do or not!” I didn’t, and he did. It
was the truck-driver.
“Blue P.”: Among the flood stories
that came out of Glen Davis, the N.S.W.
shale-oil valley in the Blue Mountains
into which the Chifley Government
poured millions of tax-money, was the
inevitable one about a snake. Flood-
waters poured into a small home and with
them a 6ft. brown snake, with which the
owner’s dog promptly got into holts,
What with the water and general flurry,
man and dog escaped one way, the snake
another. Later, with a neighbor, the
"Would you please talk tough to my wife, sir?"
householder returned to his home and
they “found the snake sleeping in the
middle drawer of his wardrobe. Mr.
Beattie shot and killed the snake with a
12-gauge shotgun.” As one familiar with
the power of such a weapon I hope the
wardrobe wasn’t incapacitated by the
wound.
* * * ♦
“Pitt St.”: With that penchant for
sticking his nose into other people’s busi-
ness which distinguishes the modern
small-time authoritarian, the Sydney
Minister for Local Government has issued
a ukase banning the installation of
washing-machines in kitchens. The ban,
saith the gentleman, is “based on health
considerations”:
Certain types of totally-enclosed auto-
matic washing-machines eliminate the un-
pleasant features associated with the actual
washing of clothes in the ordinary copper
and tubs.
But the installation of the machines in
the kitchen would mean that dirty clothing
would have to be handled and possibly
would be kept in the kitchen before wash-
ing.
Well, well! If the house or flat hasn’t a
laundry anyhow, where on earth does the
Minister suppose the dirty clothes are
kept now?
* * * *
“Lofty”: An Adelaide paper splashed
the tale of a thirteen-year-old jockey win-
ning his first race at a mid-week meeting ;
“human interest” was added by a refer-
ence to the jockey’s twin brother’s
having had mental aberrations at school
at the time his brother must have been
crucifying some of the punters. Later
came the pay-off. The youngsters’
father was slugged £2 10s. for having
allowed his son to be absent from school.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Statistics showing
how the growth of smoking amongst
women was responsible for the cigarette
shortage in spite of increased production
gave my mind a flashback to a circular I
received about 40 years ago. It was con-
cerning an affair held to provide funds
for costs incurred in getting the first Shop
Assistants’ Award, and it ran “A Smoke-
Oh will be held In deference to the
ladies, who, it is hoped, will attend in
large numbers. Smoking Will Not Be
Permitted.” It was only a short circular,
but there was room for one more error:
“Intoxicated parsons will not be ad-
mitted.” I did not go ; a place where I
could not meet intoxicated parsons
.held no allure for me.
1 * * * *
“Pater”: “Bo” paints a touching
picture of mother and babe sharing their
evening ale (B. 28/12/’49). Mild uproar
occurred recently when some doctors here
and overseas supported that lady s idea
of giving the kid his little swig, and they
went even further, maintaining that even
during pregnancy a mild intake of alcohol
has no bad effects whatever The
damage, they claimed, comes when the
prospective mother is bibulous to the
extent of going off her tucker, a circum-
stance most harmful to the little bloke,
Taking it further, these medicos said that,
in the case of a naturally-fed nipper, a
spot or two for the mother when she felt
like something to buck her up was quite
safe, but they added that the mother
should pick the correct time for it, im-
mediately after feeding. From the
infant’s point of view, the alcohol would
not have “come on” in time for that
meal, and by his next feed it would have
“gone off” again.
* * * *
“X.S.”; All this pother about the effect
by films of violence on the child makes
me wonder as to the effect the blood-
curdling threats some parents habitually
use on their offspring. I heard a woman
tell her three-year-old son that if he didn’t
stop crying she would put him out of the
train, which was passing at high speed
across a viaduct over a dark gully. Even
at that age it is very unlikely the
youngster believed her. Bernard Shaw
says somewhere that if you tell a child
you will chop its head off, you must chop
its head off, and there is a lot of wisdom
in the dictum,
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Screwy business this.
I went into a shop to buy some screws,
and was told I could have them boxed or
loose —six dozen loose would cost me as
much as 12 dozen boxed. I wanted seven
dozen, so I bought five dozen more than
I required (boxed) and got them cheaper
than if I had bought the exact number
loose. “The loose ones are a nuisance,”
the counterhand informed me, “and we
have to count ’em out, too.”
* * * #
“0.W.”: During the war diving was
my line, so when I recently spotted a
diver’s workboat on the job near the
wharf, I stopped for a look-see. After a
while I noticed from the bubbles that the
diver had not moved for some time, so
I spoke to the man on the pump. “He’s
all right,” I was told as the pumper
knocked off pumping to roll a cigarette.
By the time he was ready to light it I
suggested he might give his man a little
more air. “Don’t worry,” he said. “Little
Willie don’t suck much.” The name
stirred a memory. “That wouldn’t be
Little Willie Deepdown*?” X asked. “Sure
thing,” he said. “D’ you know him?” I
knew him all right. He had been one of
my team during the war. “Why the hell
didn’t you tell me in the first place?
said the pumper. “That’s only his air-
line. Little Willie’s up at the pub having
a pint.” Sure enough, he was.
*****
“Channo”: “Pasquin’s” remarks (B.
18/1/’5O) about Sears and Roebuck’s
catalogue take me back to 1908 and my
first job, behind the ironmongery counter
of the Windsor Stores, Molong (N.S.W.).
Not much was expected of me till i
“learnt the stock,” but to the ajnazemen
of the boss this took about three day s
instead of three months, and secured me
a prompt rise in screw from ss. a wee
to 7s. 6d. What I have kept to myself
till now is the fact that Lassetter s cata-
logue, which always hung by a loop of
string in our lavatory, had taught me al
I knew about everything from adzes to
zinc-mesh.
THE SARTORIAL TOUCH.
w
*
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m cornin’ down
from way up in Glen limes, in Noo
South, one time,” said Mat, “Doin’ it
flash, too, ’cos I’m cashed up. I book
a sleeper at Glen Innes an’ the bloke tells
me I’ll have t’ pick up me berth at
Tamworth because the sleepers come
in from Barraba. It’s dark when
we hit Tamworth, so as soon as I
had a bit t’ eat I reckon I can do with
a bit o’ bunk an’ goes along t’ the con-
ductor an’ shows him me brief. He leads
me up the corridor an’ points to a cabin
an’ says, ‘There she is; hop in.’ I go
in an’ dump me bags an’ look round. Be
this time, o’ course, the rattler’s well on
the way, an’ strike me if I don’t sight
a young woman in the bottom berth,
lookin’ at me with her eyes slickin’ out
o’ her head. I get all mixed up an’ in
me excitement I grab the communication-
cord an’ jerk it an’ the train stops. Along
comes the conductor bloke an’ says,
‘Here, did you pull that cord?’ Too right,’
I says. ‘Look.’ An’ I point to the young
lady. Well, he soon sorts that out;
seems he give me the wrong number.
We leave her, an’ be that time the guard’s
there, kickin’ up hell’s delight. They go
crook at me a million an’ take me name
an’ address an’ the guard says, ‘You’ll
hear more about this. Don’t you know
y’ can only puli that cord in cases of
emergency?’ I got me back up be this
an’ I yells -right back at him; ‘Well,
ain’t it a ruddy emergency when a bloke
finds a tabby in his bunk?’ ” Mat fell
silent. “What did he say then?” I asked.
Mat looked at me. “Whatinell could he
say?” he demanded. ,
* * ♦ ♦
“Oomalas” (New Britain, T.N.G.):
Far up in the Bainino Mountains, where
all is peaceful and cold mountain streams
make music, one would think war had
never touched its loveliness; nevertheless
it was the scene of a savage and cold-
blooded massacre. The victims were
those friendly, happy people I knew for
so long. They seldom came to the coast,
and though they were not aware war had
“I'm bringing him up the tough way.”
come to New Britain, they knew by the
roaring of flights of strange planes, fol-
lowed byjoud “krumps,” that something
was amiss. Into a quiet mountain village
walked a Manus native who was known
to the Lululai and many others. Though
he wore the uniform of the dreaded
Kempei Tai, the friendly villagers were
not suspicious, saving one who had
worked with this Manus native on a
plantation and didn’t trust him. The
Manus man showed, concern at their lack
of shelter from bombs, which he told
them the planes dropped. The elders
asked his advice as to how to build
shelters. He instructed them how to dig
a hole large enough to hold all the
villagers; then trees were felled and
placed over the hole and earth heaped
on top. After it was finished it was
decided that next day everybody would
go into it and try it “for size.” That
night the suspicious one persuaded his
friend and wife to disappear into the
bush with himself and wife, and when the
village was sleeping they crept out and
hid in the forest near by. Next morning
they saw their friends and relations, who
would not be persuaded to run away,
enter the shelter. They saw the Manus
native near the entrance throw three
grenades into the packed
The butcher then left to report to his
employers, the Japs. And he still lives.
* * * *
“Solitude”: The saleyards of the one-
horse town edged miles of unfenced plain
that in turn joined the bush country. The
sale over, the first mob was moving off;
Seventyfiver had checked his count and
got his bunch together when they opened
the gates to box the remainder. Suddenly
the mountain-bred baldies got other ideas.
The excitement spread from one mob to
the next, there was a mad rush of cattle,
whips crashed, and followed a bedlam of
bellowing and yells as stock-nags thun-
dered in every direction. On the plain,
stockmen fought desperately, but in half
a dozen places the baldies broke into the
timber, and hard on their tails followed
the drovers in charge. The bush had long
since received the last free beast when
the owner of Seventyfiver’s mob strode
into the pub and found the old bloke
propping the bar, “Th-them cows o’
mine,” he stammered explosively, “You
took ’em out, y’ know. And you’re re-
sponsible for losses.” “Yair.” The old
bloke nodded agreeably. “Well, they’re
scattered all pver the flamin’ State,”
roared the newchum owner. “The other
drovers are out after their mobs, and I
bet they’ll be out all night.” “Yair,”
“Well?” the cove bawled. “Aren’t you
going to find my cows?” “Aw, they ain’t
lorst,” cheered the old bloke. “Them
cows knows where they are.” “But —
but, aren’t you going to bring them
back?” “Me? Cripes, they took
’emselves away, didn’t they?” Seventy-
fiver drained his glass. “Awright, let ’em
bring ’emselves back.” He strolled off
to bunk. The following morning he care-
fully checked the cows feeding round the
saleyards. “Righto, Sol,” he called. “All
back. Better let me get well away with
these idjits, though, before y’ let their
calves out o’ the yards there.”
* * *
“Bo”; The midday scene at Copper-
head presented a study in still-life, if
you excepted a lone hen scratching
lethargically and, hopelessly in the dusty
road outside the pub. Waves of heat
shimmered low over the roadway. Not
a leaf stirred in the willows lining the
river 100 yards away. Suddenly the
stillness was broken by a piercing scream ;
this even caused the only human visible,
a large hairy man recumbent on the pub
veranda with his hat over his face, almost
to think about removing it. However,
he sturdily rejected the temptation to be
curious, sighed heavily and shifted one
shoulder-blade to a less uncomfortable
position when a second cry, closer
this time, rent the stilly air. Cursing
the disturbance to hi§ slumbers the
hirsute one was just removing his cady
preparatory to considering coming to the
perpendicular when Milly, the publican’s
nine-year-old daughter, • rushed up.
“Quick!” she screamed. “Young Alfie’s
drowndin’—’e’s in the river!” The large
one glared at the girl. “’E can’t drown,”
he said. “There’s on’y two feet o’ water
in the river an’ Alfie must be at least
three feet—it’d on’y come up to his
chest and” “But he went right
under!” yelled the girl. The somnolent
"I’ll show the hussy!"
one got to his elbow and strove to con-
sider the position. “Well, somethin’s got
to be done, I s’pose,” he said. “An’ I
S’pose I’ll ’ave to go down an’ fish ’im
out. Go an’ git young Fred to saddle
me moke!”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: At a large Victorian
seaside town it has everyone bluffed how
an old codger catches a barrow-load of
salmon-trout in the river any night he
wishes, While the town anglers can hardly
hook a fish. Yet the shoal is so thick
you can’t put an oar down in the stream
between them. The old fellow, however,
operates only after everyone has retired.
Offsiding to hir| one night, I found that
all he does is simply cast a line with three
hooks lashed together into the water.
Then he rushes up the bank and jags the
scaley fellows ashore. He then cleans
the trout immediately to cover up evi-
dence and to keep the townsfolk guessing
what sort of decoy-bait he’s using.
* * * *
“S.E.”: Kelly was in the yard when the
kid from the back road dropped in with
a message and made to return by the
front gate. “Hey, why don’t y’ nip over
the back fence ’ere, sonny?” Kelly called
to him. “Y’ got a half-mile walk t’ get
over the creek that way.” The kid showed
reluctance, and Kelly woke up, “Aw,
cripes, y’ frightened o’ the geese, are y’?
They won’t hurt y’. All bluff, them things.
I’ll soon show y’ how t’ deal with ’em.”
The kid approached, and Kelly piloted
him resolutely to the edge of the danger-
zone. “Yair, I know they come at y’,”
he lectured the kid, “but just you take a
look at ’em. No spurs on them harm-
less splaw feet, no sharp beaks to bite,
nothin’ at all t’ hurt y’, see? Just fuss ’n’
noise, them things. Awright, now you
take this stick, an’ if they come ragin’,
just give ’em a good crack. That’ll stop
’em. An’ remember, never let nothin’
bluff y’.” The kid’s nervous steps had got
him half-across the yard when the geese
reached him with raised heads and
threatening squarks. He paused, remem-
bered the stick, and with the spirit of
desperation made a wild swipe at the lead-
ing goose, and connected. There was a
wild fluttering, the bird dropped, and lay
still. “Oh, cripes! Oh —er —cripes!”
Kelly was on the spot instantly. “Stone-
dead. I —er —er” He glanced wildly
towards the house, and snatched up the
goose. “Here, take it, kid. Quick, before
the missus sees it. They’re hers. Have
it f’r dinner. An’ —er —I think I’ll hop
over the fence, too, an’ walk the half-
mile round t’ the front garden so she
won’t know I been out here.”
* « « *
“B, A. Ker”; The hornet had killed or
paralysed a spider almost as heavy as
himself and was, when we saw him first,
carrying the victim and running back-
wards at incredible speed. Journey’s end
turned out to be a neatly-made hole in
the ground near Lanky’s mortarboard,
A second after the potential provender
was dragged out of sight the hornet was
out again and flying around Lank’s ears
The long bloke wasn’t happy about it;
he’d faced bombardments and barrages’
"but—“them things’ll sting you.” Twice
he made a hurried strategic withdrawal
from the insect’s inquisitive investigation,
After the second bloodless victory the
hornet returned to see if the spider
needed another k.0.-drop. It was a
tactical blunder. Lank promptly sealed
him in with a trowelful of “compo.” An
hour later Lanky stopped singing to him-
self —a vivid insect was spiralling around
him with obvious thoughts of revenge.
A neat hole alongside the little mound of
cement told how the escape had been
effected. Lanky back-pedalled promptly.
The avenger followed. At about knee-
high he paused to plan his attack—-and
then it was treachery took him from
behind. In the midst of unloading a
barrow-load of cement-mortar Wally had
a pot-shot with a shovelful. The weight
of the sloppy mixture, hurled with all
Wal’s strength behind it, would have sent
a man staggering. It bore the insect with
it for several feet, then dropped to the
ground—leaving a hornet still flying and
full of fight. There was nobody left to
fight! The victor descended to his cache.
That was his final mistake. A shovel
came down with a force that cracked the
handle, and the boss began to get a bit
done again.
* # ♦ ♦
“Sarina”: Gammexane has proved so
effective against the cane-grub that the
youth around Mackay (N.Q.) won’t be
paid anything for beetles or grubs m
future. The old way of fighting the pest
was for the kids to collect the beetles
on their feed-trees —figs and oaks—or
pick them up behind the plough. The
insects were worth about a shilling a
pound at the receiving depot, but some
smart kids soon had a racket going:
they soaked the cane-beetles in water to
make them heavier. It was the refusal
of the beetles to burn that aroused official-
dom’s suspicions.
♦ * ♦ •
“J.A.H.”: “Bughouse” (B. 25/l/’so)is
astray: the earth does not contain 70W
miles of molten matter. Study of the
records of earthquake shocks has shown
that the whole of the earth reacts to the
shocks as a solid body. The central core
consists, it is estimated, of an alloy 01
iron and nickel similar to certain meteor-
ites. Thus, earthquakes are not causes
by shrinkage of the earth’s crust, but b)
the lowering of the stability of the
along the continental shelves. The in-
stability reaches such a degree that relie
must be obtained, and so fracturing 0
the crust (earthquakes) and intense fol Q '
ing to form mountain-chains take pl ace ’
As to life being destroyed by earth co n ‘
vulsions, very few forms of life have bee
completely destroyed, and most of tnes
have disappeared owing to their inability
to change their mode of life wi
changing climatic conditions. The grf
reptiles so abundant in the Mesozoic t
were undoubtedly destroyed by their i'
ability to cope with the intense heat an
dryness at the end of the Cretaceous Ag •
There’s far greater chance of Man p
stroying himself than his destruction bei 8
brought about by earth-convulsions.
WHOSE COUNTRY?
How long have the cockatoos beaten, white
blossoms,
Among the green leaves; the galahs grey and
the parrots
Flitting like flame among the darker greens?
How long have the sheep nibbled at the green
shade,
The man waited, his arms gleaming sweat,
With his big-breathing horse beneath him and
shade pressing down? ,
How long?
Now the real master has taken his own,
Driven the green and wandering tribes away;
Left only wind-wood black essentials, bearing
Red leaves like tiny spears of fire and saying
This is his country: Fire walked here.
N.S.W.
RAYMOND MATHEW.


“Wonk”: There were 25,000 sheep,
200-odd blokes and as many dogs. The
sheep and blokes milled around the sale-
yards in disorderly order, while out on the
road the mongs waited under cars or
beside horses, their eyes turned anxiously
towards the maelstrom of dust and noise.
In the far yards Pete Witherslow inspected
a bunch of wethers. “Buy ’em, did y’,
Pete?” came a voice from the rails.
“Yair, and I’d like to get ’em out an’
started for home. Trouble is I never
brought a dog; but I reckon if I borrer
one t’ get ’em on to the road I’ll be
right.” He looked towards the mongs
and whistled. There was no movement.
He called? and whistled again, but all he
collected was the cocker from the pub.
“Gripes, you’re no flamin’ good,” he
snorted. “Hey, Dan, # get us a dog, will
y’?” Dan gave a low whistle, and in-
stantly a mong detached itself and raced
for the scene. Dan waved an arm at the
sheep and turned away. “Y’ll want one
to hold ’em in front,” remarked another
onlooker lazily. He too whistled, and
two shoring tykes were half-across the
road before they’d got their eyes open.
They put the sheep through the gate, dis-
covered their boss was missing, and left
again. As Dan reached the road
dozens of dogs sat up to watch.
There were dogs that took in his
sweating efforts interestedly, dogs that
looked sorrowful, pitying dogs, and dogs
that sneered openly. There were a few
lesser types which came across and got in
the way, and one that planted itself fair
in Dan’s path and yapped. Dan swore,
sweated and struggled valiantly down the
line of critics till he reached the turn in
the road and disappeared. Then, their
entertainment over, the army of first-class
sheep-workers slumped once more into
attitudes of patient whiting.
* * * *
“The Pirate”: The South Channel Fort,
a small grassy islet in Port Phillip Bay,
a few miles north of Sorrento, is a death-
trap these days for sea birds. Landing
there recently we found that hundreds
of birds, including stormy petrels or
“Mother Carey’s” chickens, had appar-
ently alighted in the old concrete gunpits
and ammunition magazines, the roofs of
which had fallen in. The fliers were
unable to take off again and rise above
"Blast these streamliners — they've taken all the fun out of booking 'em."
the steep walls. The pathetic part was
that the claws of some birds had been
worn away in their attempts to climb out.
This antiquated island fort, which is not
100 yards in diameter, was built last
century as a precaution against a Russian
invasion.
* * * ♦
“Kenwood”: Another victim to the
trap of “common names” is “B. A. Ker,”
who says “the Australian acacia owes its
nickname to the long flexible saplings
that sprouted from the running roots of
the acacia growing in abundance at
Blackwattle Bay, and which the early
settlers used for wattle-and-daub build-
ing” (B. 1/2/’5O). Here is J. H. Maiden,
one-time Government Botanist, N.S.W.,
referring to what he apologetically calls
the saW-leaved Callicoma (Callicoma
serratifolia ):
To the very early colonists it went by the
name of blackwattle, because its young
saplings were split for making the rough
wattle-and-daub houses of long ago. It
was, in fact, this particular tree that gave
the name Blackwattle Swamp to what is
now portion of Wentworth Park between
Sydney and Glebe. The name black-
wattle has, however, for many years been
given to an acacia—in fact, many acacias
are invariably known as wattles —so that to
call Callicoma blackwattle now would only
lead to confusion. Its favorite habitat is
lining the banks of creeks in gullies.
The acacia which Maiden calls Sydney
blackwattle is Acacia decurrens, which
does not produce flexible shoots from the
roots or anywhere else, and is not
normally found lining the banks of
creeks. It is an open forest tree, and
highly regarded for the high tannin con-
tent of the bark. I have seen a Callicoma
tree 30ft. high, with a trunk 6in. in
diameter, but in Sydney gullies it gener-
ally has a shrubby habit characterised by
the long thin shoots ideal for wattle-and-
daub work. It probably grew on the
banks of the Tank Stream.
* * * *
“Zake”; Old Ben had been called into
town on an urgent message to see a sick
relative. It was Tuesday, which was the
night he played euchre with Joe the
fencer. Lacking any implements for
writing, Ben, who didn’t have time to
contact Joe before he left, cast around
for a means of leaving a message that
couldn’t be missed. He achieved it by
scrawling “Back tomorrer” on the door
of his hut with a blunt stick dipped in
golden-syrup. The fact that the words
were scarcely visible after he’d finished
writing didn’t worry Ben —it was a hot
day, and even before he had made con-
cessions to civilisation by putting a shirt
and sox on and departing, about a thou-
sand flies had settled on the lettering and
imparted the necessary black which made
his message easily visible from yards
away,
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: One result of the
record wet spring in Victoria has been
the appearance of native slugs and snails
in numbers unknown before. On a pro-
perty at Sylvan recently the stumps of
stringybark which were cut down axe-
handle-high over three acres were black
in daylight hours with native slugs feed-
ing on the sap. Now, after frost and
thrips have damaged fruit crops at War-
randy te. and Wonga Park, in the Yarra
valley, snails have come along in an in-
vading force and have climbed the apricot-
and fig-trees for any fruit that appears.
Needless to say, the fruit crop on the
outskirts of Melbourne has been the worst
for years.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: In town with the rest,
I tripped over the store cellar-lid and
cracked my head. The doctor thought I
was all right but ordered me to bed at
the pub. That was about 1 p.m. About
3 p.m. Pocketknife, well under the
weather, wavered into the room, greeted
me with alcoholic sympathy, lay down
on the other bunk and started to tell me
a yarn about a mate of his. After about
20 minutes his voice faded and Pocket-
knife went into drunken slumber. About
5 p.m. I arose, well again, left Pocket-
knife to his rest and joined in the festivi-
ties. “Where’s Pocketknife?” they asked,
“He’s right,” I said. Well, what with
the drinks and tea and a euchre party and
dance in the local hall, it was getting on
for midnight when I got back to the
room. Pocketknife slept peacefully on,
none the worse for having missed the
doings and considerably better off in
pocket. I got ready for bunk and was
just about to turn in when he stirred,
HalW’ he said, sitting up, and eyeing
“wk ’ Y ° U - tun^ n ’ t * n ?‘” “Yair,” said I.
VVhat sa time?” “Aw, about midnight.”
He pondered this for a moment, then,
Cnpes, that late! I reckon a bloke
better get t’ bunk.” And he kicked off
bis boots and pants and got him to bed.
She s bin a good day, a good day,” he
muttered happily, as I blew out the light,
“He hates anyone to PUSH him in.”
“Wester”; My next holidays will be
spent in south-west Queensland, and I
shall go armed with a .32 Winchester —
no, on second thoughts it’ll be more
profitable to take a camera, for there are
numerous wild-life magazines which will
pay well for what I shall shoot. Don’t
try to dissuade me; who could read this
(B. 8/2/’5O) under the title “Bogged,”
and not be stirred;
It was early autumn and some weeks
after the heavy flooding in south-west
Queensland. As far as the eye could see
sheets of water lay still and glittering in
the hot sun. Ibex and wild duck were
plentiful.
A shot of the wild duck perching on
the horns of the ibex ought to get me
dollars from America.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Most cats will catch them-,
selves a rabbit when hungry, but this old
farm-tabby does it purely for sport.
Further, he disdains the easy method of
waiting above the burrow to grab the first
kitten that comes out. When dusk brings
the temperature to a less unreasonable
level Puss hies himself to the hole in the
road-fence, and there, planted low in the
long, dry grass, he pulls on all-comers.
He selects a position five or six yards
from the hole, lets the rabbit get well
inside, then makes a charge and grabs
Brer before he can get into
his stride. With a neck-hold
puss extracts some really de-
lightful squeals, and there fol-
lows a helluva tussle, with the
rabbit breaking loose only to
be hastily recaptured with
further high-pitched accom-
paniment. Last night one
chase covered all of 40 yards,
with puss flat-out. Usually
the full-grown rabbits eventu-
ally get away, to furnish
feline entertainment another
evening, but the half-grown ones
cop a fatal pinch. Tabby isn’t hungry,
and as soon as a catch stops kicking he
loses interest and goes in search of some-
thing more exciting, leaving still another
carcass to be collected for dog-feed. Yes,
handy sometimes ; but I bet I’ll never
get that cat to look at mice again.
m * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Those abos be-
ing married with a first-aid instruction-
book (B. 11/l/’5O) recalls a burial service
in a lonely mining township in the Cape
York Peninsula between the two world
wars. George, a fellow who had a bit
of a cattle-run, died and—as was the
custom of the country—it was left to his
best friend, a hard-seasoned, hard-living
and -swearing horse-coper, to bury him.
Accordingly he constructed a coffin of
packing-cases with the usual appellations:
“This case remains fhe property of the
So-and-So Brewery, etc.,” and he carted
the coffin eight miles to the mining camp,
where, in the bar of the little pub, every-
body was assembled and toasting the
deceased. When eventually the funeral
cortege arrived at the cemetery, where the
grave had been dynamited out of* the
rock, the horse-coper stood up and began
reading the burial service: “You mix the
currants and sugar and flour and
place in a hot oven.... ” Then somebody
protested that they were there to bury
him, not to cook him, while the h.c.
discovered he had inadvertently borrowed
a cookery-book instead of a prayer-book
from the publican’s wife. “All right,”
the horseman announced solemnly. ‘TH
go on from memory. Ashes to ashes,
dust to dust that’s all I know.” Then
he burst into tears and added, “He was
a decent-enough poor blankard while he
was alive! ” And after that brief testi-
monial they placed the old cattleman in
his last camping-ground.
* * * #
.. ~ TT ~ , ,
otop Me : He really was a hatter,
He’d been living at the otherwise deserted
home stead for five years, his nearest
being : 12 miles away. He em-
Phasised his hattiness by wearing some-
thing in the 10-gallon class that looked
like the titfers they wore on the May-
-flower; . H f, was wearing it when we
arnve , d m the morning and still had it
™ when we were all preparing (or bed
I ?. t , he r . oom - B >; lf™ig,his
sb undisturbed he was able to disrobe
i AICboL 1 l . L displacing the hat; that is, he
Bls P an ts ant | boots off and then
a nightshirt over the top of the
headgear. His next move was a puzzler
? c i°°k an apple-case froni the foot of
the bunk and put it at the head in place
°f th . e £ lllo . w ; he veiy carefully
P! a ?r d «>e hat Then he took a-flannel
“ s . h ' ca P £r ° m tbe . case d P ut ■* °" to P™’
‘ ect , hls bead - got into bed and shoved his
bead into the case, safe from draughts
£or another e, « ht hours °r so.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: Wherever Captain Cook
found them originally, the island pigs
and fowls (B. 11/1/’5O) are part of the
daily entertainment in the South Seas.
Perforce one gets used to the vociferous
clamor of natives to the rescue of the
P uakas for ever embroiled with native
dogs . Wandering clean and free and
ro oting in the orange groves, the old
Polynesian pig has none Q f the
ob j e ctionable smell of the pig con-
tod in a sly. d With perpetual
shorta f water and gram-food how-
ever > h® ia , s reverted to a long-legg ,
long-snouted type closely resembling the
ong.nal peccary, and he looks a very
melancholy animal. The native fowl, a
curly, grey-speckled type, like an animated
f ea ther-duster, is a law unto herself. She
sta i ks j n and ou t Q f the houses and lays
a ridiculous coconut-flavored egg just
wherever she pleases; on the white man’s
bed, on top of a chest-of-drawers, in an
ornamental bowl or even in a native’s
mop of hair. Nothing keeps the long-
legged, hysterical “hurricane hen” out ot
the houses. She gets herself shot and
goes over the fence on the wing, but back:
she comes to add her general perversity
to the white man’s burden. Yet, when
left on uninhabited islands, those fowls
take to the tree-tops and can only be
enticed to a feed with grated coconut,
and caught with a well-concealed gun.
TO A MOSQUITO IN A
LAMP-GLASS.
Within the Circle of my glassy Hell
I watch you writhe, and turn the flame that
sears;
Roast, vile Anopheles! Your thin, lost yell
Drifts in sweet cadence to my pointed ears.
You spent, with low-down swamp and fever-
hag. . .
A life of vampire-banqueting and sin,
Till from the Brink your tired wings failed to
drag .
Your blood-pumped belly, so you tottered in!
You should have lived a good life, mossie dear,
And listened to the preacher bee’s ,b'izz-buzz:
“My zun, deny yourzelf all joyzz down ’ere,
Cozz there’zz joyzz later on fer beezz like uzz!”
You make me Dante; nay, greater than he,
He visioned Hell, but I, with private spit,
Am verily the Devil, as I see
My Circle has a wick and fuel in it!
So roast, you little sinner; sad I ween,
The fact, today my Hell and Temper’s hot,
Had I but been in humor, death had been
The upper Circles of the Spray or Swat!
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


The WILDCAT COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.
c Divs. ■,
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1943. .186,208 14,400 10 p.c. = 117,984 272,260
Goodwill added, £903 271,357
Unexplained addition, £372 .. . . 271,729
1944. .208,663 14,400 10 p.c. = 117,984 348,008
Added intangibles, £53,482 .. .. 294,526
Unexplained reduction, £2382 .. 292,144
1945. .200,454 14,400 10 p.c. = 121,508 356,690
Net reserves new subsids., £17,469.. 374,159
Added intangibles, £82,432 .. .. 341,727
Debenture-issue expenses, £17,864 .. 323,863
1940. .236,866 14,400 10 p.c. •= 125,031 421,298
Share-premiums, £312,578 .. .. 733,876
Deficit of new subsidiary, £2954 .. 730,922
Added intangibles, £972 .. .. 729,950
1947. .326,578 14,400 12$ p.c. = 172,485 869,638
Profit sale shares, etc., £157,885 1
From tax provision, £30,000 j
Expenses, third-pref. issue, £51,252 J
1,006,271
1948. .374,340 14,400 12$ p.c. = 224,848 1,141,863
Added capital reserves, £398,326 .. 1,540,189
Less sundry adjustments, £27,091 .. 1,513,098
Added intangibles, £10,177 .. .. 1,502,921
6.4 p.c.
1949. 80,956 124 p.c. = 237,472 1,749,276
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
f After deducting goodwill, etc., now £169,543.
This is one of the largest and one of the
most rapidly-expanding wool and textile
organisations in Australasia. Profits come
mainly from the varied activities and in-
terests of the group in Australia, where
there are 32 subsidiaries —22 in Victoria,
seven in N.S.W., two in S. Aust. and one
in W.A. There are ’also two large sub-
sidiaries in New Zealand and a big
associated co. in S. Africa. Products
of the group include felt piece-goods,
footwear, carpets, dress cloths, knitted
goods, men’s suits, and wool-tops and
-yams, etc..
The improvement in last year’s net
earnings was the result of expanding
turnover, due partly to price rises and
partly to increased production and sales
following introduction of £1,260,000 of
4 p.c. pref, money in March, 1947 —it
takes time for new capital to develop full
earning-power. Purchase during the year
of David Galt Pty. (Vic.), manufacturer
of waddings, etc., helped, too. Demand
continued to run ahead of production
for felt; sales of footwear increased, fol-
lowing extension of manufacture to
country centres; new axminster looms
came into operation in the carpet-making
section, which already turns out wiltons ;
a new finishing plant was added to the
spinning and weaving section; and the
production of multi-fitting suits increased.
Wool, the basic raw material of the
group, is first treated by scouring, carbon-
ising, and top-making subsidiaries, which
are also dollar-earners in the export
market, Wool bought other than for use
by the manufacturing units of the group
is practically all held against firm con-
tracts. A special reserve of £160,000
(deducted from stocks in the accounts)
was set .up in 1948 to help cushion the
effect of any sharp drop in raw material
prices.
Of the two trans-Tasman sub-
sidiaries, Felt and Textiles (N.Z.) claimed
a profit of £60,383 (up £3471) after allow-
ing £30,100 (down £44,500) for taxation
and lowered its div. from 10 p.c, to 8 p.’c.
One of the co.’s factories was damaged
by fire, and special allowances covered
only part of the depreciation of stock
values owing to alteration of the exchange
rate. There was an unexplained reduc-
tion of over £25,000 in reserves. How-
ever, business is holding well, and new
carpet-making and wool-carbonising
plants have now reached profitable pro-
duction. Trading profit of Korma Tex-
tiles, a million-pound spinning and weav-
ing concern, at Auckland, in which a
controlling interest was bought a couple
of years ago, was £29,575 lower at
£63,588, of which the pref. div. took
£12,422. Of the remaining £51,166
(6.8 p.c. on ord. capital) all but £3627
was used as special depreciation to write
down the book-value of building and
plant. Here a lot of new plant, including
full-fashioned hosiery machines, only
recently came into production.
The S. African co., another million-
pound concern, in which this Australian
co. holds a 41.3 p.c. interest, is reported
to be making good progress after financial
reorganisation. Its figures are not in-
cluded in the consolidated accounts, be-
cause it is no longer a subsidiary.
After allowing £438,504 (up £109,684)
for depreciation and £520,490 (down
£40,184) for taxation, net earnings of
the group were £190,443 stronger at
£564,783. That covered a full year’s
pref. divs. and 26.3 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 20, 22.6, 17.8, 14.8,
16.4 and 14.4 p.c. back to 1943. That dis-
regards an unexplained reduction of
£27,091 net in reserves, which also
benefited by £398,326 net on account of
share premiums. Goodwill, etc., increased
by £10,177. The div., steady at 10 p.c.
for 10 years after the public became
interested in 1937, has been at 12£ p.c.
for the last three years.
The year’s net growth in total assets
was £2,491,397, financed mainly by an
issue, shortly before the close of accounts,
of 949,891 new £1 ords. at a premium
of 10s, each, and by the addition of
£370,567 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc.;
1941. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £1,183,786 £3,294,783 £4,349,674
Outside interests.. —■ 865,984 1,164,247
Debentures ~ 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 362,491 399,055
Overdraft .. 970,609 2,958,360 2,821,386
Sundry creditors, etc. 343,484 939,688 1,310,255
Tax provision .. 146,650 537,747 578,458
Inter-co. balance.. 4,127 176,195
Freeholds.. .. 351,136 1,520,340 2,204,058
Plant . . . . 573,219 1,834,466 2,648,902
Shares other cos... 25,882 472,297 457,957
Stock .. .. 1,313,211 5,184,144 5,894,271
Debtors .. .. 534,123 2,108,850 2,419,875
Cash, etc 25,445 29,485 3,418
Mortgage sinking fund 51,711 73,540
Inter-co. balance.. 19,508
Goodwill, etc. .. 223,170 159,366 169,543
Fixed assets increased by £1,498,154,
stocks by £710,127 and debtors’ balances
by £311,025. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£3,281,950) improved by
£686,538.
On capital as it now stands, last year’s
profit was enough to cover pref. divs. and
17.5 p.c. on ord. capital. At 48s. 9d. the
ords. return 5.2 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div.
basis. The third prefs. at 18s. Bd. and
the seconds at 295. yield 4.3 p.c. and
4.1 p.c. respectively. The well-protected
firsts seldom appear on ’Change. Net
tangible cover is £3O ss. lOd. seconds,
£4 13s. thirds, and 325. 3d. ords.
Kauri Timber Co.
To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 89,648 5 p.c. = 37,500 2,148 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO .. 187,922
1948.. 37,550 .5 p.c. = 37,500 50 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, £3938 .. 191,910
1944.. 38,015 5 p.c. = 37,500 515 192,425
Profit, sale of assets, £lBl . . 192,606
1945.. 38,599 5 p.c. = 37,500 1,090 193,705
Added intangibles, £4l ~ .. 193,664
Profit, sale of assets, £6608 .. 200,272
Accident ins. res. appears, £4585 204,867
1946.. 45,956 5 p.c. = 37,500 8,456 213,313
Kauri Timber & Subsidiaries.
Reserves, new subsidiary, £216 .. 240,151
Added intangibles, £139,392 ~ 100,759
1947.. 76,148 5 p.c. = 37,500 38,648
From outside interests, £14,774.. j
Reserves, new subsids., £28,652.. (
Added intangibles, £100,624 .. f
Reductions reserves, £3694 .. J
139,407
78,515
1948.. 133,408 6$ p.c. = 48,750 84,658 163,173
Net reserve adjustments, £15,505.. 178,678
Added intangibles, £101,174 .. 77,504
1949. .206,182 6$ p.c. = 48,750 157,432 534,936
There has been a hungry market for
timber ever since war ended, but short-
ages of labor and transport, and other
difficulties, made worse by go-slow and in-
dustrial hold-ups, have restricted mill out-
puts. The freehold and leasehold timber-
stands of this big organisation are in New
Zealand, Westralia, Tasmania and the
Solomon Islands, and the mills are
scattered throughout the Dominion and
Australian States, except N. S. Wales.
There are also boxmaking and plywood
plants in the Dominion and at Melbourne
and Brisbane.
Figures for the last three years, which
cover group earnings, are not strictly
comparable with earlier ones in the table,
which relate to the parent’s accounts only.
The leap of £72,774 in last year’s profit
reflects continued expansion, by absorp-
tion and otherwise, and favorable trading
conditions. In March, 1947, £400,000 of
4 p.c. debenture money was gathered and
i used to help buy the old-established
Adelaide business of Globe Timber Mills,
strengthen the fleet engaged in the Tas-
manian trade, erect new joinery works,
and quicken and cheapen logging by
further mechanisation. One result was
marked improvement in the 1948 profit
figure. Last term the co. bought (at un-
stated figures) half the share capital in
New Zealand Plywood (South Island),
Ltd., which has just erected a factory
at Christchurch, and all the ords; in
Circular Head Amalgamated Timbers
Pty,, at Stanley (Tas.), thus ensuring a
steady flow of hardwoods to the group’s
Melbourne and Adelaide markets. And
to help delivery along another steamer
was added to the fleet. Also, for the first
time since war intervened, logs are being
shipped from the Solomons, mainly for
conversion into plywood at Melbourne;
and a new mill now nearing completion
at Northwood (W.A.) will help relieve the
shortage of jarrah and karri in the
Eastern States.
After allowing for debenture interest
(£16,000), depreciation (£130,895, down
£19,039) and taxation (£252,773, up
£24,715), combined net earnings
(£206,182) reached 27.5 p.c. on the
£750,000 of capital as against 17.7 p.c.
and 10 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
That leaves out of the reckoning a net
addition to reserves of £15,505 resulting
from various adjustments. The cautious
board kept the div. at a moderate 6\ p.c.,
of which \\ p.c. is labelled bonus, and
the £157,432 that remained lifted reserves
£534,936 in excess of intangibles, to which
purchase of the two businesses already
referred to added £101,174. The intan-
gibles are mainly the difference between
par and book-value of shares in sub-
sidiaries.
To help meet a net growth of £713,248
in total assets, £350,000 of fresh pref.
capital was gathered and £144,906 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc.:
and Subsidiaries —
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £1,100,000
Outside interests .. 247,616 335,158
Debentures .. .. 400,000 400,000 400,000
Overdraft .. .. 443,101 482,818 472,142
Sundry creditors* .. 535,849 568,868 713,(74
Properties .. .. 436,075 449,657 550,617
Plant, etc 583,842 608,469 672,210
Stocks .. .. 884,580 1.002,819 1,147,046
Book debts .. .. 607,294 576,610 707,772
Shares in other cos... 62,957 44,253 106,550
Cash, etc 95,460 71,619 181,406
Intangibles .. .. ,251,638 349,362 450,436
* Includes provision for taxation.
Shortly before the close of last accounts
the old f.-p. 255. shares were converted
into pound units (five new for four
old), nominal capital was increased
from £750,000 to £2,000,000, and
500,000 new £1 5 p.c. prefs., re-
deemable between 1955 and 1968,
were issued to the A.M.P. Society.
The money was payable £350,000 in Aus-
tralian currency, which came in just be-
fore the books closed, and £150,000 in
New Zealand currency, since received,
making paid capital £1,250,000 in 500,000
prefs. and 750,000 ords. On that lot last
year’s profit was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 24.1 p.c. on ord. capital.
The ords. at 335. 3d. (375. a year ago,
when the market hoped that those already
on the register might be asked for more)
give an immediate return of 3.9 p.c., with
prospects. Cover is 245. lid. in net tan-
gibles. The prefs. are not listed.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends, Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1940 ..' 23,854 8.5 p.c. = 20,278 3,576 16,037
1941 .. 17,011 3.3 „ „ 8,111 "8,900 7,137
Reserves.
1942 .. 24,722 6.6 „ ~16,222 8,500 1,363
1943 .. 25,318 10 „ „ 24,334 9'84 2,347
1944 .. 14,800 3.3 „ „ 8,111 6,689 9,036
1945 .. 9,684 3.3 „ „ 8,111 1,573 10,609
1946 .. 24,912 6.6 „ „ 16,222 8,690 19,299
1947 .. 56,812 16.6 „ ~ 40,556 16,256 35,555
1948 . . 97,672 23.3 „ „ 56,779 40,893 76,448
Surplus sale assets, £27,162 .. 103,610
War-time disposals profit, £22,851.. 126,461
1949 .. 140,057 36.6 p.c. = 89,224 50,833 177,294
The last is easily the flushest of the 68
years that the co. has been a run-owner
outback in N. S. Wales and over the
border in Queensland. It was a happy
combination of good seasonal conditions
—for the third year in succession—and
the continued rise in the price of wool,
which has since reached phenomenal
figures, and the high prices received
for livestock that did the trick.
And, in addition to fat returns from
the year’s trading, there were wind-
fall profits (interlined in the table)
totalling £50,013, of which £22,851 was
the co.’s share of a first distribution of
1.0. profits on war-time wool disposals,
and £27,162 was the surplus on Tonde-
burine freeholds, which were resumed
by the Government.
Rainfall on the co.’s two old properties
was well above average:
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Thurulgoona* ... 7.74 6.81 17.83 13.03 19.25
Quantambonet .. 10.43 8.25 20.84 16.86 19.18
Teryawyniat .. 7.81
* Near Cunnamulla (Q.). t Near Brewarrina
(N.S.W.). t Near Menindee (N.S.W.).
Teryawynia, in a low-rainfall area, was
bought for £60,000 and comprises
279,627 acres of well-improved western
leases, expiring 1968-74, and has been
stocked with sheep from Tondeburine.
More sheep passed over the board
for a slightly lighter clip, which realised
an extra £18,528, the average price per
bale (up £8 12s. 2d.) being four-and-half
times the 1939 figure:— •
f Sheep -y
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 £56,951 £l6/2/6
1941.. 98,807 131,479 2894 50,259 17/7/10
1943.. 132,494 145,964 1*919 80,750 20/12/0
1945.. 65,51)3 70,914 2065 43,777 21/4/0
1946.. 80,362 63,781 2486 77,120 31/0/5
1947.. 72,126 93,157 2176 102,160 46/18/11
1948.. 82,839 116,564 2851 183,624 64/10/0
1949.. 86,551 105,217 2755 202,152 73/2/2
Earnings got a further lift from the sale
of surplus livestock (46,560 sheep as
against 9905 sheep in the previous term)
following resumption of Tondeburine.
Livestock realised £105,758 (up £76,658).
After allowing £106,000 (up £46,284) for
taxation and £6590 for depreciation, the
year’s profit was £140,057 (up £50,833),
or 57.5 p.c. on capital, compared with
40.1, 23.3, 10,2, 3.9 and 6 p.c. back to
1944. The distribution, which rose from
6.6 p.c. in 1946 to 16.6 p.c. and 23.3 p.c.
in the two following years, was lifted to
36.6 p.c., of which 30 p.c. was labelled
bonus. The £50,833 of the year’s profit
that remained raised reserves to £177,794,
whereas £19,612 of the capital was un-
represented by tangibles in the books ten
years ago.
For the first time in its history the co.
is faced with an embarrassment of
riches:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243 m
Liabilities .. 2,851 1,277 4,725 o’?;.
Tax reserve .. 24,00 0 33,100 60,000 109 713
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 180,350 162,599 210,808 imsi
Sheep, cattle, w
horses .. 25,841 31,670 40,065 sionn
Wool unsold.. 4,018 104 154
Cash, etc. .. 95,5 02 151,34 2 182,65 2 463,’806
When the banks closed, cash, etc., alone
was equal to 575. 2d. a share. For this and
other reasons a part-return of capital has
become a possibility.
With another good season well on the
way, and soaring wool prices still exerting
inflationary pressure on the whole
economy, prospects! of another fat show-
ing at next balance—though probably not
so bloated as the last —look bright
enough at the moment. Recent earnings,
however, cannot be taken as a reliable
guide to the less immediate future. The
big gamble is, as it always has been,
with seasons and prices, upon which
costs promise to press heavily later on.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1947 divs. averaging 6.8 p.c. were paid
from profits averaging 9.4 p.c. on
capital, and for the decade before that
divs. averaged 3.8 p.c. and profits 1.1 p.c.
Now another uncertain factor has been
introduced by recent legislation giving
the N. S. Wales Government power to
resume leases in the western division of
the State at any time, leaving lessees with
a holding equal to only two. living-areas,
plus tenant-rights in improvements. For
Squatting Investment this could mean a
perpetual lease of areas in N. S. Wales
sufficient to carry only 10,000 sheep.
At 53 s. (455. a year ago and 375,
12 months before that) the f.-p. 30s,
shares give an immediate return of 20 p.c,
on the basis of last year’s distribution, or
5.1 p.c. on an average distribution of
9 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value) is
51s, lOd. a share.
Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd. (Townsville)
r -‘ Dividends ,
Pref. To Be-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves,
£ £ £ £ £
1942.. 14,490 8,571 2$ p.c. = 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £lO,OOO .. 11,633
1943.. 30,586 8,571 5 p.c. = 11,607 10,407 22,040
From reserves re leases, £4 03 2 .. 18,008
1944.. 38,850 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,9 2 9 1 6,35 0 84,358
To staff fund, £5000.. .. •• 29,358
From bad-debts provision, £10,000.. 39,358
To reserves re leases, £6359 •• 45,717
1945.. 38,882 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,9 2 9 16,38 2 62,099
To staff fund, £llBO 60 ’ 919
From reserves re leases, £2282 .. 58,tw/
1946.. 85,693 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 13,193 71,830
From reserves re leases, £4077 • • 67,T00
65 p.c.
1947.. 45,039 9,285 6} p.c. = 15,0 9 0 2 0,66 4 88,417
To tax provision, £5500 .. •• “2,917
Share premiums, £24,500 ..
1948.. 43,573 9,285 6$ p.c. = 18,4 08 1 5,880 123,297
1949.. 47,170 9,285 6$ „ „ 23,052 14,833 138,130
This old - established N.Q. business
earned more profit last term, but there
was more capital to feed. So, after pay-
ing the pref. div., the ratio of remaining
profit to average ord. capital dropped to
10.7 p.c. t compared with 12.1, 15.4, 11.6
and 13 p.c. back to 1945. The div. was kept
at an all-round 6\ p.c., making the average
6.2 p.c. over the last half-dozen years.
During this period the scope ana
volume of business have expanded to a
greater extent than movement in the profit
figures alone suggests, and the co. has put
on more weight, is in better trim an-
the outlook for shareholders is brighter
than for a long time past. Trading now
covers a wide range of interests, rnos
profitable of which appears to be a string
of hotel properties, mostly freeholds, in
the thirsty area between Cairns an
Bowen. In the general merchandising
section, which includes dry-goods and is
strengthened by a controlling interest in
Hollimans (Townsville retailers), Jnj-
gains from increased sales failed to mate
the growth in exes, last term. An oi ■
established shipping agency and regions
agencies for a wide range of electrica
goods and for Ford motor-vehicles ais
contribute to the pool. The Ford agenc)
is handled t*y a subsidiary, Magneto
Motors, whose profits are reported on t
up-grade, thanks to a good fkw
English Ford products, with pickm?
from servicing and sale of parts. ,
The year’s turnover was a record, an
gross earnings (£279,386) moved up -
£41,523, of which the growth in gen £ [ a
exes. (£184,935) took £34,410. Ait £ r
allowing for depreciation (£10,785, P
£2020) and taxation (£36,500, up
the net result benefited by £3598, maki g
it £47,170. _
Major balance-sheet movements w
additions of £36,270 to fixed assets—
mainly on account of “further consoli
tion by ownership” of the co.’s nq
interests —of £34,817 to stocks and
£24,886 to book debts:
1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £375,000 £496,973 £4 "j’ o23
Mortgage .. —' -,-74416
Overdraft .. 26,157 134,507 138,090 ’.ji
Creditors & tax 153,571 179,646 249,300
Properties and S6O
plant .. 362,834 389,112 406,590 *4,^
Shares .. 20,570 19,939 19,939 J*' 7lo
Stocks .. 123,869 181,496 266,893
Book debts .. 169,747 198,818 343,640 g’554
Cash, etc. .. 4,098 8,080 8,291 ,’j
To meet the outlay £21,023 was r al


How Harmful
are Cigarettes?
Australians, in line with other
people, are feverishly smok-
ing more and more. What do
we know about the effect of
tobacco on our health? What,
for instance, does tobacco do
to your heart? Do cigarettes
affect your stomach and
digestion, encourage stomach
ulcers? Can smoking shorten
your life ... induce cancer?
February Reader’s Digest
brings you the latest facts
and figures about our smok-
ing habits.
Also in Reader’s Digest
How to captur£ life's greatest
values. Ever made a really
honest appraisal of yourself:
your talents, personality,
weaknesses? Know what you
want most out of life? Henry
J. Kaiser gives 4 simple, work-
able secrets for making a
greater success in your career
and achieving real happiness.
Russia takes a new line on
sex. a growing army of
orphans and illegitimate chil-
dren now creates a vexing
problem for Moscow planners.
Here’s how the Russians
(newly convinced that family
ties are vital to national wel-
fare) have switched their
“line” , . . may re-adopt
Western Ideas of morality.
My life with the Diorine quin-
tuplets. All 5 together weighed
under 10 lbs. Time after time
it seemed the end had come—
(how could you give an enema,
for Instance, to a mite whos.e
body Just fitted your hand!)
Fascinating story of their first
week . . . and how the Quints
later on broke old Dr. Dafoe’s
heart.
February issue is packed
with articles of lasting
interest, selected from
leading magazines and
current hooks, condensed
to save your time. For
instance:
• Oil Isn’t Going
to Run Short —lnside
story of ingenious
methods used to hunt
and conserve
precious petroleum.
• “Little Boy Lost”—
Book condensation of
the most moving novel
to appear in England
for years.
'—FEBRUARY ISSUE—
The above are only a few of
the many articles of lasting
interest in the February
Reader’s Digest.
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING
All Newsagents and Bookstalls
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Adyt.
BANK
or
AUSTRALASIA
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND AND IN LONDON
®FFERS the services of its Travel Departments with all
facilities for Travellers in Australia and abroad. The
Overseas Departments will also assist you with their ex-
perience on all aspects of overseas trade introductions and
enquiries, and all foreign exchange matters. Enquiries
will be welcomed at any Branch of the Bank.
AGENTS 0 CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
EST.
ẁ
1833
ẃ
Shapes by the Million-
with the MACNAMARA wire and
strip forming machines
m
mm pus
* ,,
■
v
M
H
§
•
e
or?
&op
n
ii
*
B ■
V
Clean modern lines, accessibility and fully automatic
operation are features of the Macnamara wire ana
strip forming machines.
A medium capacity M. 1. 7. machine can be supplied
for wire and strip forming or solely for wire forming.
It will produce a very large variety of forms up to
12in. in length and will feed continuously from coiled
stock. Maximum size of wire admitted is 3/1 •
dia., or l*in, wide by l/16in. thick for strip material.
Designed primarily for wire forming, the M. 1. 9.
model, will handle material |m. dia. with
B*in. at a rate of 9,000 feeds per hour. Light strip
forming may also be undertaken, with material up
iin. wide and 20 gauge thickness, an additional slide
being provided for piercing and crimping.
Full particulars available on request.
Collins Street, MELBOURNE. SI Bathurst Street, and 260 Kent SYDNEY
116 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE. 532 Murray Street, PERTH.
on mortgage, £36,326 was added
to the overdraft and £35,051 to
the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The slip in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£188,994)
was £32,440, owing to expendi-
ture on fixed assets.. It might
not be long before shareholders
are again asked to assist —last
new share-issue was 122,500 £1
ords, at a premium of 4s. each
in 1947.
The immediate outlook tor
business activity in N.Q. was
never better, and the long-term
prospects are encouraging, too.
Meanwhile the* price-fixing
authority is considering a more
equitable basis of determining
gross margins, whereby increased
cost will be integrated into the
price structure.
The £497,500 of capital is in
71,428 first and a like number
of second prefs. and 354,644
ords. The prefs. carry a cumu-
lative 6 p.c. and advance with
the ords. beyond that point. All
shares rank equally for surplus
assets. The firsts at 265. 6d.,
seconds at 265. and ords. at 255.
6d. return 4.5 p.c., 4.6 p.c. and
4.7 p.c. respectively on a 6} p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 255. 7d,
a share in net tangibles.
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging
This co.’s two properties in
Thailand aren’t back into pro-
duction yet. Reconditioning of
the harbor dredge at Bhuket is
hampered by slow delivery of
materials and shortage of labor.
The Ronpfbon machine remains
on a care-and-maintenance basis;
because the high costs of fuel
would make operation un-
economical.
For the year to June 30 last
the Bidor dredge (Malaya), which
got into commercial production
at the beginning of August, 1948,
turned over 1,142,000 c.y. for
357.38 tons of 76 p.c. to. (274.9
tons metallic tin), an average of
0.581 b. to. per yard. In addi-
tion 352.80 z. raw gold was re-
covered. The lot, together with
sundry income (£4925), brought
in £156,658. Including royalties
(£21,860), depreciation (£21,346),
emergency exes. (£4726) and
allowance for taxation (£3500),
exes, totalled £120,333, leaving
a profit of £36,325 (11.4 d. per
ss. share), of which £BOOO was
written off rehabilitation ex-
penditure, reducing that figure
to £139,188. The balance wiped
out a p. and 1, debit of £2551,
leaving £25,775 to carry forward.
All-in costs were equal to
£430 9s. Id. per ton metallic tin,
the London price of which was
steady at £5569 a ton from lune,
1948, until the Sept., 1949, cur-
rency devaluation, when the
figure shot up to £S7SO a ton.
Owing to the unsound statistical
position of the metal, there has
been a heavy fall in the price
since a free market was estab-
lished in London last November.
On February 7 London quotes
had dropped to £5599 15s. spot
and £SSB3 10s. forward. The
backwardation on forward metal
was thus £SI6 ss. a ton, com-
pared with £S9O a ton on Nov.
18, 1949, which suggests that
current prices are at a more
stable level.
Excess of world production
over consumption of tin is
reckoned by the International
Tin Study Group at about
32,000 tons for 1949 and 43,000
tons for 1950 and 1951. U.S.
Government stockpiling is ex-
pected to avert an unbalanced
position for a while, but all the
n gradients for international con-
trol of production are present,
and the Tin Study Group is ex-
pected to make appropriate sug-
gestions at its meeting in Paris
this month.
At March 31, 1941, co.’s ore
reserves and dredge capacities
were: —•
Dredge
Estimated Average Capacity,
Reserves, per c.y. p.a.
’OOO c.y. t.o. ’OOO c.y.
Bhuket .. 40,011 0.3171 b. 1,880-
Ronpibon .. 33,747 0.440 „ 1,335
Bidor .. .. 7,622 0.i10,, )
Bidor Extension 6,590 0.598 „ j
2,000
During enemy occupation the
outer harbor at Bhuket was
practically dredged out, and
some 100 tons t.o. was extracted
at Ronpibon. But new ground
has been added to old holdings
since, and until the properties are
reassessed it is difficult to say
exactly what ore reserves are at
the moment.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £168,952 and
current liabilities £17,606. In
addition there were Government
rehabilitation loans amounting
to £165,798 —Malaya £69,523,
Thailand £96,275. War-damage
claims have yet to be assessed
and settled. The ss. shares,
which rose to 10s. 9d. on Aus-
tralian ’Change in 1949, are now
priced at 6s. 6d.
Brisbane - controlled Raub
Australian G.M. Co. is getting
its mine and plant at Pahang
(Malaya) into ship-shape order
again—both were in a derelict
condition when taken over after
the Jap occupation. For the six
months to October 8, 1949, the
20-head of stamps crushed
13,544 tons ore for an average
recovery of 9.3dwt., which is
above run-of-mine grade. For
year to end March, 1949, 25,480
tons (mainly from the Raub
Hole) yielded 85950 z. fine gold,
an average of 6.75dwt. Toward
the close of 1949 the new mill
had been completed, more ore
was coming into the feed from
the Malacca section and sloping
in the Derrick sector, which had
been dewatered, was about to
begin. Throughput and costs
(265. lid. a ton last term) should
both benefit, and the rise in the
price of gold will put more
stiffening into earnings. Power
is likely to restrict mill activi-
ties until the new hydroelectric
plant at Sempam is installed,
and a lot of money has yet to
be spent on reconditioning other
sectors of the long line of
parallel lodes and upon develop-
ment and exploration, which have
already disclosed encouraging
results. In September last co.
had drawn £A287,521 on re-
habilitation account against a
total available of £A415,625.
War-damage claims have yet to
be settled. Paid capital is
£200,000 in f.-p. ss. shares, for
which sellers ask 9s. 3d. and
buyers ofier 7s. Co. was a regu-
lar dividend-payer before the
war, when it had 70 head of
stamps at work ; rates paid were
36.6 p.c. 1940, 20 p.c. 1941 and
15 p.c. 1942.
* * * *
Tennant Creek Gold, which
exercised its option over the Mt.
Samuel, Underlay and Southern
Cross leases at Tennant Creek
(Centralia) in June last, spent
£4768 on development for the
year to September 30, 1949. It
then had £2785 in the bank.
Little work has been done be-
low 100 ft. so far, and the re-
sults are not particularly promis-
ing. Values on this field are
patchy.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp.’s chairman,
Ellington Binns, says develop-
ments at Mt. Charlotte (W.A.)
indicated that the northern ore-
body alone would yield at least
70,000 tons of 3.65dwt. ore a
month, and that monthly extrac-
tion from the Porphyry property
should be about 12,000 tons,
averaging 4dwt.


Men Who Know Wine...
Know
is Best
m
M
m
ACUIHS TUI Nfllll
from stmn
You can book in Australia by 8.0.A.C. Speed-
bird services from Sydney linking with any one of five
other continents throughout the world.
Whatever your destination you can enjoy without
charge, expert time-saving help in planning a complete
trouble-free itinerary before you leave. You fly 111
comfort, without delay on one ticket all the way.
On 175,000 miles of routes to 51 countries, 8.0.A.C.
always “takes good care of you”.
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • WEST
INDIES • CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA • MIDDLE EA
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PA *
STAN • INDIA • AUSTRALIA • N Z • FAR EAST • JAP
8.0.A.e. TAKES GOO CARE OF YOU
FLY'BOH
All/AU
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sy
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Dartvin ( cner
in Australia) or from Booking Agents in till cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS A y S
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN
Business Rollery etc.
“Oil and the Small Man”
An advertisement of the
Department of Supply and
Development’s Bureau of
Mineral Resources appeared in
the Saturday and Sunday
editions of several Australian
papers 10 days ago. This an-
nounced vacancies for a drilling
superintendent, a head driller
and a drill assistant, all for
rotary oil-boring and scout-
boring projects in Australia and
the Territories. The positions
are temporary, and the salaries
offered range from £l2lB down
to £474.
It would thus appear that the
bureau contemplates entering
the oil game in earnest.
The combined salaries of the
three drillers alone will amount
to about £2700 a year—if com-
petent men can be obtained on
the terms offered. On the other
hand, if competent men are not
available, the salary charge will
fade into insignificance com-
pared with the cost which in-
competence will entail. In addi-
tion, there will be the salaries
of the various experts who make
up the modem oilfield team,
These salaries will be consider-
ably in excess of those offered
to the drillers if experienced oil
specialists are to be engaged,
particularly as the posts, like
those of the drillers sought, will
be temporary.
Where the candidates chosen
are Australian-born and -bred,
they wall have had to get their
specialist experience by several
years’ residence overseas, as Aus-
tralia offers no oilfield on which
to train them. On the other
hand, if they have been educated
and trained abroad it will take
them some time to acquire the
necessary knowledge of Aus-
tralian conditions and geology
before they can be considered as
really competent.
In neither case, owing to the
temporary nature of the appoint-
ments, is it likely that any great
benefit will accrue to the Com-
monwealth.
The bureau may, of course,
try to carry on with its existing
staff and facilities, in which case
it will suffer from almost the
same disabilities as small oil
companies entering the oil game.
Throughout the world,
wherever Governments have
gone into the oil business on
their own, the result has been
inefficiency, loss and often
failure, even when the collar-
work has been done by a major
oil company and the oilfield has
been taken over as a profitable
going concern.
That statement includes the
U.S.S.R., whose facilities for
obtaining forced specialist ser-
vices at little above the cost of
bare existence are phenomenal.
In the Australian case, the
existing Government, owing to
the short period which has
elapsed since it assumed office,
is probably implementing a deci-
sion made by its predecessor,
but it is none the less true that
now is the time to go thoroughly
into all the economic aspects of
such socialistic adventures in
this country.
Grocery & Gen. Merchants
Already this eight-months-
old amalgamation has become
an element to be reckoned with
in the N.S.W. grocery trade. It
embraces manufacturing, whole-
saling and retailing, and the
story of expansion doesn’t seem
to be finished • yet. Ashley
Buckingham, the chairman, who
has been a leading prophet of a
“new era” for chain-distribution,
is certainly putting his own pre-
cepts into practice.
On the retail side there must
‘ be about 90 stores under G. and
G. control. The merger in July
included the 36 shops of Bussell
Bros, and 24 of R. B. Crossihg-
ham Pty. (both mainly in
Sydney suburbs); and the 12
country shops of North Western
General Stores.
Crossingham’s had been a sub-
sidiary of D. Mitchell and Co.,
which also handed over big
“Hullo, constable—just going to have a nice hot bath."
wholesaling interests to G. and
G. Fourth member of the
merger was the Newcastle manu-
facturing and wholesale busi-
ness of David Cohen and Co.
Pty.
All the city stores are chang-
ing their names to G. and G.,
but the country ones keep their
old titles (as, is the case with
Burns Philp’s purchases). Since
July, G. and G. has adde|i the
three shops as well as the
grocery - distributing business
controlled by Dad’s Sales Pty.;
also the dairy and farm produce
business of Prescott Pty., with
city and country depots. It is
negotiating for others, and has
bought a site at Parramatta to
build a “super - market” on
American lines.
Whether the recent purchases
entailed any issues of G. and G.
capital as part-payment hasn’t
been mentioned. Present capital
is £1,055,461 (all but £lOO,OOO
being ordinary); and to pay the
dividend of “at least 6 p.c.”
which the board forecast at the
time of merging will involve
£62,000 a year. No combined
profit figures for comparison
(that is, including David
Cohen’s) are available for past
years. The sharemarket accepts
the board’s forecast, pricing the
ss. shares at 7s. 4d., to give a
4 p.c. yield from a 6 p.c. distri-
bution.
For shareholders in each of
the three merged public cos., the
present market represents a nice
capital appreciation. The old
pound shares of Bussell Bros,
and N. W. Stores were both
quoted around 30s. last June;
they .each exchanged for G, and
G. scrip with a nominal value of
30s. —or a present ’Change value
of 445. The scrip of D, Mitchell
and Co., which had a shaky
dividend record, exchanged only
on a pound-for-pound basis
with G. and G., but whereas the
market price was about 235,
before the merger, it is now
295. 4d.
Coal and Water-power
The proper development of
Australia’s coal resources be-
comes yearly a matter of more
extreme urgency. There is little
doubt at this stage of our history
that coalmining is being deliber-
ately sabotaged by Communists
in the interests of a foreign
Power. .Not that all the trouble
on the coalfields is a result of
Communist activities. Much of
it has its roots in past political
and industrial expediency, as
well as in the traditional diffi-
culty of getting coalminers to
look at national problems in a
responsible way.
Since the end of the war the
output of coal from N. S. Wales
fields, apart from opencut opera-
tions, has shown little or no in-
crease. The coalfields have been
the scene of interminable petty
stoppages as well as wanton
major hold-ups. Many of the
coal-owning companies have got
to the stage where they are afraid
to lay out any more capital in
mine development because they
fear that an increase in their
potential output will simply be a
signal for more stoppages by the
mining unions in order to restrict
coal production to the figure
desired by the Communist hier-
archy. The unions are at heart
opposed to mechanisation where
it might provide the country
with sufficient coal for all indus-
trial purposes.
The Menzies Government
appears to be fully aware of the
vital need for the development
of Australia’s coal resources.
Some people who are not vet
really awake to our industrial
dependence on coal may g raS n
it more forcibly when it I
realised that we have no known
petroleum resources of conse
quence and very little developed
water-power.
Maybe something will now
come of Dr. Earle Page’s plan
to exploit the water-power of th?
N. S. Wales North Coast. It
could easily serve a double pur-
pose of restraining floods like
those seen in the past two years
and providing hydroelectric
power at the same time. But
whatever is done in the way of
harnessing our rivers for power,
we can never hope to compete
with the other great continents in
the output of hydroelectricity.
Canada, with about 50 p.c.
more population than Australia,
generates at least 10 times &s


A POPULAR DOG
Bulldog
“MAIDA OF EVERLEIGH”
Champion bitch of Queensland
Bulldog Club for six years in
succession. Has to her credit 250
blue ribbons, 58 challenge certifi-
cates among many cups and sashes
for special awards.
■ .
ŵ
m
&
m
m
N777D-11.49
CHAMPION
ẁ
FINE CUT TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for fhe Pipe .
i
BS
§33
£/A
o
S '
Jl
==S*
A5004D
©©Ha©
The first gold discovery in Australia was in
1823 six years after the founding of the
Bank of New South Wales.
In 1851 gold was found near Bathurst,
Ballarat and Bendigo, and Australia was soon
in the grip of a chaotic "gold fever," many
early settlers abandoning their holdings for
the diggings. Much misery and hardship cul-
minated in the Eureka Stockade.
Nowadays, highly mechanized equipment
makes the gold mining both of the mainland
and of New Guinea and Papua one of the
nation's important industries and a valuable
earner of dollars.
The gold industry is another of the great
industries, the development of which has been
fostered by the "Wales."
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman),
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER,
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in all ’Country Centres
DOCTORS
STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
' ■ .
f
MORE
SUCCESSFUL MEN
USE PALMOLIVE
THAN ANY OTHER
SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t win her “by a whisker”
. . . it’s his smooth, clean-shaven
look! You, too, can have shaves
that look good and feel good
Palmolive Shaves! Palmolive
soothes your skin as you shave
faster , closer . • . without skin
sting! Get Palmolive the
shave cream of successful men!
ẃ
PS3/120
PRICE 1/8
BANKERS
SALESMEN • LAWYERS
much hydroelectricity. Here is
a computation, made by the U.S.
Department of the Interior, of
the developed and potential
water-power of the world as
estimated in 1947:
World Hydroelectric Capacity.
Capacity Potential
of Hydro-
Hydro- electric
electric Power
Plants, (based on
ordinary
minimum
1947. flow).
(’OOO,OOO h.p.)
North America .. 35.8 84.4
Canada .. .. 10.5 32.0
Mexico 6 8.5
Newfoundland .. .3 .6
United States .. 24.2 34.7
Other 2 8.6
South America .. 2.4 66.6
(Brazil) .. .. (1.5) (28.0)
Europe 34.9 67.9
Austria .. ..2.0 1.6
Finland 8 2.5
France .. ~6.1 6.0
Germany .. .. 2.6 2.0
United Kingdom. .5 .7
Italy 6.3 6.0
Norway .. .. 3.8 10.0
Spain 2.0 5.7
Sweden .. ..3.8 4.0
Switzerland ..3.7 3.6
U.S.S.R.* .. .. 1.9 14.0
Yugoslavia .. .3 4.0
Other 1.1 7.8
Africa .. .. .. ,4 273.9
Asia .. .. .. 12.1 150.6
China .. .. 22.0
Korea .. .. 1.8 3.0
French Indo-China 6.0
India, Pakistan
and Ceylon .. .8 39.0
Japan 8.6 7.2
Siam and Malaya 5.7
U.S.S.R.f 3 64.0
Other .... .. ,6 3.7
Oceania .. .. 1.2 20.2
World totals .. .. 86.9 663.6
* See also Asia,
f See also Europe.
Since that computation was
made there have been big in-
creases in the developed re-
sources of the U.SrA. and
Canada, and reports indicate
considerable activity in Soviet
Russia, which has a great water-
power potential. By contrast, it
will be seen that the actual
developed water-power of the
whole of Oceania, which in-
cludes New Zealand and New
Guinea as well as Australia, is
less than that of Austria, Nor-
way, Spain or Sweden.
The world’s growing utilisa-
tion of hydroelectric power since
1920 is graphically told in these
figures:
Developed World Hydro-
electric Capacity.
Percentage
Capacity Increase
(’OOO,OOO h.p.). over 1920.
1920 .. 23.0
1930 .. 46.0 100 p.c.
1938 .. 63.9 178 „
1947 .. 86.9 278 „
All of which'points to the fact
that, while we should do the best
we can with what water-power
we have —essential irrigation may
stand in the way of full utilisa-
tion of Australian rivers for such
a purpose—while our main
source of power for industrial
purposes remains the coalfields,
developed and undeveloped, we
should let nothing stand in the
way of their utilisation. And if
mechanisation is the answer to
the problem of inadequate coal
production, mechanisation we
must have, regardless of any
vested interest, be it “Capital”
or “Labor.”
Cola War?
To be favored with a regional
bottling-licence for Coca-Cola
drinks in the United States is
generally the passport to a
fortune. In Australia the drink
hasn’t caught on to the same
extent, but three years ago a
proprietary was set up in Sydney
with metropolitan distributing
rights, and seems to have been
getting along nicely.
One pointer that way is the
fact that the big rival drink,
Pepsi-Cola, is coming out in op-
position, In America, the com-
petition between these two is not
only a financial blessing to the
advertising world but a
source-book for students. Pepsi,
being the newcomer, applies the
high-pressure technique, whilst
Coca sticks to “institutional”
methods; the outcome is still
disputed.
It will be a public co., called
Consolidated Beverage, which
will handle the Pepsi-Cola fran-
chise in Sydney, taking over
from a syndicate that includes
N. B. Rydge, T. G. Murray,
M.L.C., E. T. Hamilton, W, T.
McGrath and E. R. Griffin.
Paid capital will be £150,000 to
start. All the £50,000 of pref.
scrip (5 p.c. cumulative) goes-to
a financial house. About one-
third of the ss. ordinaries is
reserved for the syndicate and
their nominees, and the balance
is underwritten by Sydney
brokers Charles H. Smith and
Co. It might pay the investor
to have a taste for the drink ;
at the well-publicised annual
meetings in U.S.A. shareholders
are encouraged to indulge them-
selves without limit.
Socialist Aftermath
There wasn’t much comfort
for Maorilanders in P.M.
Holland’s post-election probe
into N.Z.’s finances, after 14
years of Labor-Socialist money-
spinning and extravagance.
When he lifted the curtain,
taxpayers traders who’d
hoped he’d be'able to wave a
magic wand and put N.Z.
financially on its feet again in
no time saw in the middle of
the stage an estimated deficit of
£28,794,000 in the national
accounts for the year ending
March 31, and heavy overcom-
mitments for national works.
Labor-Socialists in their final
fling boosted public spending to
£2OO million for the year, and
conjured up £l4 million of new
credit from the Reserve Bank to
help out the overworked print-
ing press.
But for highly profitable ex-
port yields from dairy products,
meat and wool the day of
reckoning would have arrived
before the Labor-Socialists were
given their marching orders ; but
export buoyancy held and should
go a long way in helping the
country back to firm ground
again, while spending is reined
in. It won’t be an easy row to
hoe, but Mr. Holland is con-
fident he and his team can pull
through in'their term of three
years.
Here is the Labor-Socialist
trend as reflected in Reserve
Bank figures:
Sterling Ad-
Bank Exchange Invest- vances
Notes. Funds. merits. to State.
(Weekly average in thousands of pounds.)
1935.. 9,263 20,998 1,938
1936. . 10,718 20,811 2,026 1,290
1937.. 13,093 18,911 2,782 5,869
1938.. 14.073 13,689 2,862 8,175
1939.. 16,082 5,312 3,662 19,692
1940.. 19,291 11,121 3,029 25,228
1941.. 22,046 16,101 3,795 21,898
1942.. 25.764 22,468 4,190 29,927
1943.. 32.587 27,519 8,965 37,262
1944.. 37.453 33,720 11,509 37,621
1945.. 41.123 60,064 11,797 26,248-
1946.. 45.169 81,332 5,991 36,088
1947.. 47.682 85,300 4,576 29,667
1948.. 48,930 65,090* 10,496 36,880
Dec.,
1949.. 57.973 38,176 48,094 46,807
Jan.,
1950.. 55,261 40,960 48,658 59,715
* N.Z.’s exchange rate restored to sterling
parity, August 20, 1948.
Bank-notes were multiplied
six times over by the Labor-
Socialists. Exchange funds,
built up to £2l million as the big
depression lifted, nearly vanished
during the Socialists’ pre-war
fling, and in 1939, when N.Z.
was on the point of going broke
externally, trade was thrust in
the straitjacket of import-ration-
ing. War-time bulk export con-
tracts, rising world prices and
belt-tightening at home helped to
fill the purse again, but the post-
war spending spree cut the total
in half in three years while in-
flation fomped ahead in top
gear.
Cuts in public spending must
be part of the medicine to restore
M.L.’s over-inflated economy to
health and to pave the way for
tax concessions, lower costs and
prices. Side by side with this
tightening of purse-strings
Maorilanders must put their
shoulders to the wheel in a pro-
duction drive. M.L.’s Welfare
State wouldn’t have a long future
if industry stayed in the present
groove.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
8.0.A.C. chief Sir Miles Thomas and
Lady Thomas were the guests-of-honor at
a really super late-afternoon party in the
ballroom of the Australia last week. The
chairman and directors of Qantas were
hosts, and, with Mr. and Mrs. Hudson
Fysh, Sir Miles and Lady Thomas re-
ceived over 200 guests, and among the
murmured names were a long list of
those celebrated in aviation in Aus-
tralia. It was Lady Thomas’s birth-
day, and her husband’s gift was a
gold brooch set with rubies, but
this was not worn at the cocktail hour
because ‘it did not harmonise with her
soft brown-and-black-striped tie-silk
frock.
The home of these English visitors is
set in the Cotswolds, but on her birthday
for the past three years Lady Thomas
has had a date abroad. The last two
natal days she spent in Rhodesia, and the
wet-warm sultriness of Sydney enveloped
her birthday last week. A lunch-party
given by the wife of Sir Keith Smith at
the Pickwick Club, a jaunt to the Blue
Mountains arranged by Mrs. Hudson
Fysh and a dinner-party and dance at
Prince’s were other gaieties of the day.
Sir Miles and Lady Thomas will be
in Sydney for two days on their re-
turn from Melbourne and Maoriland.
Then they fly homeward to England, stop-
ping at Singapore, where their son, Lieut.
Michael Thomas, R.N., hopes to have a
meeting witn them.
The American-Australasian Ex-Service-
men deserved the success that their
Valentine’s Day dance, last night, proved
to be. The dance brought gaiety to the
Trocadero from eight o’clock till mid-
night, and St. Valentine himself could
certainly have found no fault with the
tickets sent out for the dance. On them
was the outline of a heart, and dreamily
inside that was the picture of a young
girl set in a locket. Somebody on
that ticket committee certainly had imagi-
nation. The women’s social committee
joined with the club committee in making
the evening a particularly happy one.
It really wasn’t a food-for-babies
lunch, for even the most froward baby
could hardly sit up to fruit cocktail
and cutlets, but the midday party at
Romano’s last week was a farewell offer-
ing by the committee of the Food for
Babies to Rita Fox and Janet Nowland,
both good workers in the cause. There
were clusters of roses for the guests-of-
honor, and roses on the table, and every
woman arrived with a package under the
arm. When Rita and Janet finally
climbed the stairs to Castlereagh-street
they were hung about with gifts planned
to add comfort to the voyage. One was a
folding line to put up and down in the
cabin in a jiffy. There were also two
soft-as-silk angora rugs.
Mrs, lan Jacoby, president of the'com-
mittee, presided at the lunch. She made a
speech full of friendliness and fun, and she
wore a silk frock of naiad-blues lightly
stencilled in white. The straw in her tiny
hat was a lagoon-green, and it was
bordered with small roses. Rita’s suit
was a trig affair in dark sapphire-blue,
and Janet’s frock was a zinnia-
brown. Fifty members of the committee
were present, among them Mrs. Ken
Pointing, her folded hat of white felt in
nice contrast to her black suit. Frank
McEacharn was the only man present and
looked as though he enjoyed every minute
of the party.
Sydney singer Dorothy Dorn, now in
New York, where she introduced herself
by recitals in Town Hall, sends news
of a dog style-show she helped to pro-
duce at the Hotel Pierre for the Christmas
seal drive of the New York Tuberculosis
and Health Association. In this, canine
styles were modelled by prize-winning
dogs, and Dorothy created most of the
dog styles. These included: White-tie
collars and torso-fitting sweaters, some in
angora, some in spangled sequins. One
lovely Afghan hound wore amiably a
coat of green trimmed with three rows of
fringe. For a first night at the .opera
there was a poodle lead of white ribbon
strewn with flowers.
Among the nonsense of diamond
collars, and beplumed hats, there was one
practical outfit, a red raincoat with a set
of four waterproofed leather boots. The
dogs, incidentally, were all of good
family, and their manners were perfect—
no mad tearing of each other’s raiment,
no wild romps about the green-carpeted
aisles. Clarence Harbison, a leader in
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, and aq “animal psychologist,”
was one of the narrators. Another was
Jhe much war-decorated Maorilander
Nola Luxford, who did such a fine job in
New York during the war years looking
after our soldiers and getting them a
headquarters of their own.
Dr. Eric Blashki, president of Sydney
Legacy, has sent out 5000 cards for the
Anniversary Luncheon at the Trocadero
on Thursday, February 23, Time for
assembling is 12.45. The day’s speaker
will be Major-General F. G. Galleghan,
D. 5.0., 0.8. E., E.D.
Until she married Tony Fagan last
Saturday morning the girl in this Noel
Rubie photograph was Jean Mary Cox,
8.A., of Sydney University. The change-
over was made in the church of the
Sacred Heart, Randwick, and the bride
wore a snow-white frock of marquisette—
something reminiscent of a Spanish por-
trait in its tiered skirt, richly appliqued in
white satin. Her veil was a mist of tulle,
and she wore a diamond pendant loaned
by the ’groom’s mother. Three pretty
young cousins of the bride were her
attendants. They wore billowy frocks of
white organza, long- and full-skirted, the
low-cut necklines finished with finely-
pleated shoulder-capes. Jean Mary is the
only child of the late Mr. and Mrs. E. F.
Cox, of Quobleigh, Taralga, and of
Randwick. Richard Tony is the youngest
child of the late Mr. R. M, Fagan and of
Mrs. Fagan of Sunnyridge, Mandurama.
Tony’s brother Bill was best man, and,
like the bridegroom, made touching and
witty speech.
There was a flash of scarlet in the re-
ceiving-line at the wedding reception in
the Carlton Hotel. It was the cloak
of Bishop Norton, of Bathurst, who
had launched still another Fagan enter-
prise on the sea of matrimony. Receiving
the guests were the bride’s aunt and uncle,
the Leo Maloneys of Randwick, Mrs.
Maloney’s frock a rich bronze and blue
satin brocade. Mrs. R. M. Fagan wore
a brown-spotted orchid on the lapel of
her trigly-fitting pale-buff ensemble. Her
handbag crusted with semi-precious
rubies was among tilings noted. So were
Mrs. John Woods’s white-osprey-trimmed
deep-blue hat and blue-and-white crepes.
Among a mountain of telegrams was
one: “If you want a quiet honeymoon
spend it with us. Nobody will find your
hideout. (Signed) Dugan and Mears.”
Bishop Norton doesn’t mind a jest against
the Hierarchy: He told of a Wodehouse
hero who, when the girl of his choice
consented to marry him, exclaimed:
“Good! Now all we have to do is to rope
in a couple of bishops!”
The Clarjc Bros. (Nathan and Bancroft),
of the famed English shoe firm, not only
don’t blow their horn much when they
travel —they don’t even pack a shoehorn
in their kit. Last week when the models
were stepping along the dinner-tables,
very steady on their pins indeed in spite
of the bacchante surroundings of
champagne bottles, displaying the
hundred and more designs the brothers
had brought to the trade, the girls
struggled from one set of footgear to
another with the aid of a rolled-up paper
or the end of a spoon. The dinner was at
the Wentworth. But there was no drink-
ing of champagne from a lady’s dancing-
slipper. How could you, anyway? The
darn things are heelless these nights.
Younger brother Nathan, who stopped
for a word in Martin-place last week, has
fair hair which gleamed straw-colored in
the one shaft of sunshine on a showery
wet day. He was a major in the English
Army in India. By now the two are in
Maoriland. The Clark shoe, it is claimed,
has been making the journey to this part
of the world for about 140 years.
The dress designer who created clothes
for Lupescu is now in Sydney. She
is Madame Listwan of Poland, and
during her stay in Rumania she gave
much of her /time to making stunning
frocks for the lady who is now the wife of
the ex-King of Rumania. Incidentally, she
repudiates the idea that Lupescu was
somewhat short and inclined to plump-
ness. Madame Listwan describes her
former client as tall, graceful, with
glorious red hair and the milk-white
skin that goes with such tresses. Madame
Lupescu always chose very simple clothes,
and her favorite shades were navy or
black. Always she played up her skin
and her hair.
From Melbourne
A dais flanked with flowering gums,
bowls of colorful flowers and a buffet-
table set with bowls of pink and white
water-lilies beautified the Town Hall re-
ception-rooms when the visiting Lord
Mayors and their wives were given a civic
reception. In the absence of Melbourne’s
Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney, who was
suddenly taken ill, the Lady Mayoress
greeted the guests. Mrs. Disney's unusual
frock of moss-green crepe had a basque
in front, giving it a jacket effect; her
green-and-hronze-shot grosgrain cap was
embellished with a plume in front. Mrs.
E. C. O’Dea, wife of Sydney’s Lord
Mayor, topped her black ensemble with a
powder-blue straw hat, the front brim
caught up into a bow effect. Mrs. R. O.
Harris, Hobart’s Lady Mayoress, wore a
tiny amethyst velour cloche with her sage-
green frock. Among the wives of civic
dignitaries of various metropolitan and
country centres were Mrs. H. Lyall, whose
grey tailored suit was worn with a maize
taffeta hat; Mrs. Bernard Evans, who
effectively combined lime-green and
London-tan in her ensemble; Mrs. P. S.
Robinson, her black silk frock teamed
with a pink-and-black straw hat; Mrs.
Ted Doyle, in green ensemble and
London-tan-and-green hat; Mrs. Alec
Hunter, whose black faille frock was
worn with a picture-hat of silk-spotted
tulle; Mrs. Charles Davidson in a beige
crepe frock and picture-hat of black velvet
and tulle ; and Mrs. H. Wootton, whose
aqua-blue grosgrain hat with its black
feather-trimming was worn with a black
frock and short matching jacket. *
Mary Elizabeth Fitzgerald, only
daughter of the Jim Fitzgeralds, of,
Toorak, is ticket-secretary for the Gala
Night of the Fashion Guild show for the -
Y.W.C.A. Educated at Mandeville Hall,
she is now at Invergowrie being trained
in good housekeeping.
Spectacular decorations, which include
fountain illumination and flowers, will
highlight the gala night of the Australian
Guild of Fashion Designers fair, which
will have its setting in the Exhibition
Building tomorrow night. Mrs. Jim
Fitzgerald presided at the meeting of the
committee arranging the gala night, pro-
ceeds of which will benefit Y.W.C.A.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, will
perform the opening ceremony, and his
wife and daughter will be present. Mrs,
Lionel Newton, Mrs, Alan Tate and Mrs.
Alan Roark have planned the decorations!
Among the youthful usherettes will be
Ann Roark, Ann Wilton, *Mary Lewis,
Dawn Orford and Mary Elizabeth Fitz-
gerald.
The newly-elected Senator Ivy Wedg-
wood will be a graceful addition to Can-
berra’s Upper House. At the afternoon-
party she gave in the Australian Liberal
Women’s Group clubrooms the Senator
pinned a spray of water-lily and del-
phinium in her blue and grey suit with
which she wore a del-blue blouse to
match her rose-trimmed grosgrain cloche
hat. _ The clubrooms were gay with
gladioli and delphiniums, and women
guests, who mostly wore flowered or
feathered hats with smart ensembles, were
members of the central committee of the
women’s section of the Liberal and
Country party, all of whom assisted in
the election campaign. Metropolitan vice-
president of the party, Mrs. (W
Couchman, was among those welcome
by the Senator, and other guests include
Jessie Sutherland and Norma Coll’
who are vice-presidents of the cental
committee, and Mrs. J. p, Haines th
organising secretary.
Margaret Holden made an impressive
debut in big music when she appeared
soloist in Beethoven’s “Emperor” concern
with the Victorian Symphony Orchestra
under Bernard Heinze at the Town H ill
The pianist wore a filmy georgette gown
in deep blush-pink tonings and matched
it with a bolero of brocaded satin In
the audience, wearing a formal gown of
black crepe under a fur coat, was Vera
Bradford, with whom Margaret studied
at the Melbourne University Conserva
torium. With the Victorian manager n f
the A.8.C., Con Charlton, was Mrs
Charlton and their two youngest children
Diana and Peter. Other music-lovers
present included Vi Dunn, Viva Holgate
Clarke, Elizabeth Lewis, whose floral silk
frock was worn under a navy-blue faille
coat, Jean Davies, in a smart black crepe
jacket-suit, and Lynette Walker, her silk
frock in muted tones featuring a pleated
skirt and Slightly plunging neckline.
After four and a half years in London
retiring Agent-General for this State’
knight Norman Martin, and his wife
arrived back home on the Himalaya
Lady Martin, who wore an English suit
of beige broadcloth, a large black shiny
off-the-face straw hat and shoes which
combined black suede, gold-studded
uppers and with heels of transparent
glass—these and the hat came from
Copenhagen—said that meat, fats and
dried fruits are the foods still most
needed in England today. Dressing in
England, in her opinion, has improved
since the lifting of restrictions; she pre-
ferred Rome to Paris, and thinks Italian
women are more smartly dressed than
Parisiennes.
White gladioli, Christmas-lilies and
white hydrangeas decorated the Mel-
bourne Grammar School Chapel when
Evelyn, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs,
Llerbert Parish, was married to Malcolm
Wallace Mitchell. A trained gown, in
which a filmy white tulle skirt was allied
to a long-waisted bodice of Chantilly lace
made with long-fitting sleeves and a high
roll collar, was worn by the bride with a
head-hugging Dutch bonnet of lace to
match her gown. , To this was attached a
long tulle veil, and she carried a bouquet
of pale-pink roses and stephanotis. Noelle
Smith and the bride’s small sister
Margaret were attendants; their gowns
were of palest-pink tulle and lace, made
on similar lines to the bride’s gown, and
were worn with tiny Dutch bonnets of
matching lace. They carried matching
pink lace bags to which were pinned
sprays of palest-pink and white water-
lilies. The bridegroom, who is the second
son of Mr. and Mrs. J. Wallace Mitchell,
had for best man Barry King.
A dinner-dance followed in the
Venetian Court of the Australia. Mrs.
Parish received her guests wearing a
bouffant gown •of black lace. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell covered her flowing black
gown with a hip-length jacket of black
moire taffeta in which was pinned two
purple orchids. Mrs. Jack Pierce,
Evelyn’s aunt, wore a midnight-blue*
taffeta gown and a small cloche cap or
black velvet. Mrs. Ivor Mclnnes’s bal-
lerina frock of black taffeta had a deep
portrait neckline. Mrs. Ken Luke’s white
satin gown with its short matching bolero
was patterned with green leaves. A white
chiffon gown with a beaded top was the
choice of Mrs. Norman Spry. Mrs.
Frank Watts’s short dinner gown of black
faille had the skirt cut on peg-top HhO s
and the bodice draped, Margaret Kerrs
silver-grey frock was on ballerina lines.
Pat Higgins’s frock was of rust-red shot-
taffeta. Betty Wallace Mitchell was m
a beaded blue crepe gown. Her sister,
Mrs. Dudley Gordon, wore a long-slee}c
dinner-gown of aqua-blue crepe romame.
Mrs. Alec Finlay’s gown of dove-gre.'
chiffon had a ruffled skirt and off-thc
shoulder bodice.
A chill, windy day at Flemingt° n
brought out a crop of two-piece suits.
One of the smartest seen was the Engl lsl
suit of mulberry tweed, with a hig
fitting jacket and wrapped skirt, worn r
Mrs. Ray Joseph with a plumed cap J
slate-blue grosgrain. Mrs. Hugh Sy® e
tunic-suit was of tomato-red wool, &
small hat of ciel-blue taffeta. Mrs. ~ e
Cohen was tailored in beige
with a matching hat to top it off. M-
Lionel Newton’s small blue-and-w ,
checked tweed suit had an unusu
double-pleated skirt; her off-the-face
was of winter-white felt. Mrs. J-
Guest’s junior navy tailored coat
worn with a small hat trimmed w«j
matching satin bows. Mrs. J.
added to her beige gaberdine sui-, 3 .
honey-gold straw hat. Yvonne Wnitwi
upturned hat of fine pink straw offset
dove-grey frock and matching stole.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
J.
0
AH
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
kuv morns urn
SANDERS
<%£«.FILES
Correspondence. Invoice!,
statements. etc., filed In the
"Sanders" can be securely
boand and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —os
any other period.
Price* and far-
ther information
hpea application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Dtitnbua*i Agent*—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE J
Min |
W G. Pcofold A Co. Ply. LUJ.
*. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
•i Vardon * Sons Ltd.
V OtfDt Bnk Co. (AulJ
Divorce Notices,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN PAXTON late of 2 French
Street Kogarah.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH LORRAINE PAXTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3674 of
1948 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the discretion of the Court If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th September 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ROBERT CANICE FREE-
MAN, Solicitor, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUQHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN NELLIE DOBELL late
of 21 Little West Street Darlinghurst.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN STEPHEN
DOBELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3505 of 1949 on the ground of your
desertion If you wish to defend this suit
you should enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street'
Sydney by the 17/4/’5O and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
OSBORNE MITCHELL ALLEN, Solicitor,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney. —(l.s.) J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
The name is«
c
The whisku ls_
ii
as
3
CO
I?
Pi
ut
iwiwwimiHiiN
S
'ff
r
7T
ẃ
Meeting
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
. /
occasion .
SUNDRY SHOWS
Victorian Symphony
Orchestra.
There was a touch of tension
on both sides at the concert with
which the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra, still without a per-
manent conductor and with
Bernard Heinze in the pulpit,
and with Margaret Holden as
solo pianist, opened its second
year at the Melbourne Town
Hall. During the opening chords
from the orchestra in the con-
certo —Beethoven’s “Emperor”—-
one imagined everybody feeling
the tension in the mind of the
girl about to begin, in a few
seconds, her career as a concert
pianist.
Then she started her first long
solo passage. One has heard
this played so often by the great
masters that they haven’t made
one aware that it has any tech-
nical difficulties whatsoever. It
may have been fantasy induced
by the spectacle of an untried
girl attempting such a gigantic
work, but one was acutely aware
of the technical difficulties
while Margaret Holden was
playing, though she didn’t seem
to make any mistakes until she
got near to the end of the second
movement. Trapped in that
musical maze during a long
ruminative section, not techni-
cally difficult, she evidently got
lost in the meanderings. The
audience held its breath, but the
ever-ready Heinze adroitly
passed her his copy of the score
until she found the place again
and the audience again breathed
freely. Her strong hands, her
vigorous, decisive movements
and gestures are some argument
for her future. It takes her to
America with a £5OO prize, dollar
exchange permitting.
The most distinguished event
of the evening was the “New
World” symphony of Dvorak.
Holidays are apt to make
orchestras rusty. This one
rubbed off the fungi in time to
go gay in the whirlwind scherzo
and deliver a great punch in
the furious finale.
Shivaram and Janaki.
The interesting thing about
Shivaram, the Indian temple-
dancer who is holding a return
season at Melbourne National
Theatre, is his demonstration of
how little forms matter to the
artist. The forms of this Indian
dancing couldn’t be more exotic.
The strange genuflections, the
angular gestures, the ripplings
of arms, thumbs and fingers, the
eye-dartings and head-shakings
and the canterings and struttings
have probably been stereotyped
for thousands of years and
picked up and passed on by
untold myriads of dancers.
Yet this lithe young fellow
with the superb yellow body and
the gorgeous vestments can make
you feel the terror of a hermit
interrupted in his contemplation
by a cobra, an elephant and a
tiger, the delight of a peacock
at the first sound of thunder
and sight of storm-clouds herald-
ing the arrival of the monsoon ;
and the various moods of King
Rugmangadan, of the green
face, who, wearying of the cares
of kingship, retires to the forest
and gets caught up in the
heavenly charms of the voluptu-'
ous Mohini, sent by Vishnu
to test him, and who, after
exacting a promise that he wifi,
obey her every wish, then de-
mands the life of the heir
apparent.
Janaki, who partners Shivaram
and who is said to be the first
Indian female dancer to appear
in Australia, is a typical Indian
woman, and you can almost see
her, with a coconut on her head,
walking fyome from the bazaar.
She is, in her way, as accom-
plished as Shivaram and gave
life to invocational dances from
the Madras district, Malabar and
Travancore, and to a lovely song
to Krishna.
Shivaram starts his exposition
by explaining, so to speak, the
grammar of his dance-art, an
extraordinarily complicated busi-
ness which includes so many
hand positions, so many com-
bined hand positions, so many
movements of eyes, eyelids, face
muscles, tongue, head, neck, etc.,
and combinations of the lot, all
going 90 to the dozen. It is
capable, according to the pro-
fessor, of translating even a sen-
tence into gesture-language, com-
plete with adjectives, preposi-
tions and conjunctions.
"H.M.S. Pinafore."
Sullivan and Gilbert went to
sea with so much mutual glee
that they pretty nearly touched
highwater-mark in this breezy
opus, and the crew manning the
ship, at present at Melbourne
His Majesty’s, pretty well touch
highwater-mark in their current
production. John Dean, as the
able-seaman who falls in love
with the captain’s daughter, has
a rugged countenance which acts
as a foil to the burlesque
roguishness of Helen Roberts,
and their voices blend as plea-
santly as Sullivan’s music with
Gilbert’s humor —there is some
really lovely music in the first
act.
Wilma Whitney, who takes
Evelyn Gardiner’s place on occa-
sion as the bumboat woman,
hasn’t that lady’s tonnage, either
vocally or physically, but she
sings with consideration. Ivan
Menzies ambles through the part
of Sir Joseph Porter, along with
his sisters, his cousins and his
aunts and makes his points with
his usual casualness, which some-
how or other gets across the
footlights.
“Cox and Box” makes its
customary unwarranted appear-
ance as the curtain-raiser.
Puffed Art
The extraordinary thing about
the five circulating exhibitions
from the Museum of Modern
Art, New York, at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney, is not the
w
"Amphytrion 38."
ẁ
for the\ Independent, the first
that should be noted is that it
is entertaining—a good night’s
light entertainment, bright, witty
and well-dressed and more than
meriting the full houses it has
been getting, the lively audiences
and the extra rather posh touch
of luxurious cars lined up for a
hundred yards or more outside
the theatre on both sides of the
road.
That much being established
—that the show is well worth
seeing—it may fairly be cpti-
cised, and there is even some-
thing commendatory in that.
Perfect shows, on the rare occa-
sions when they do turn up in
these parts, are naturally reason
for unqualified delight and the
most liberal recommendation;
at the other extreme are those
so ailing in every part that any
criticism of them seems like un-
necessary cruelty. Somewhere in
between is that healthy growth,
the production that sends you
away highly entertained, slightly
educated and with a comfortable
appreciation of its faults—plays
are, after all, supposed to run
close to life and there is, pos-
sibly, as there is with life, some-
thing more selfishly satisfying
in observing the variety that has
its faults and can carry them
than there is in the kind that is
above reproach.
. v A ,
Anyway, that is the general,
and satisfying, effect of Reg
Johnston s production. The
things particularly that carry it
are a beautifully mercurial Mer-
cury played by Alistair Roberts,
also responsible for the excellent
costumes in which the show is
dressed y Dinah Shearing as a
reasonable Alkmena, if not spec-
tacular at least a. passable reason
for Jupiter s irresistible desire to
spend a night with her; and
Marcel Wattel as the unfortu-
nate husband’s servant, follow-
mg a little too closely his highly
successful performance in “Man-
dragola,’ but still good.
Others who must take credit
for some of the carrying—since
they have to do a lot of it, any-
way—are Alan White, as Jupiter,
and Michael Pate, as Amphy-
trion, but where both of them
do well enough to sustain their
ends of the business, it is im-
possible not to feel that they
could do better. Pate turns his
role into such a light romantic
business that, even for a comedy
view of a Greek general off to
his war, there is too much of a
boy-scout-off-to-a-meeting touch
about it. White, as Jupiter,
despite, or possibly because of,
the merino decoration to his
skull and jaw, rarely touches the
power and dignity required in
an overlord of the gods; imper-
sonating Amphytrion, and
wounded in pride because’ Alk-
mena doesn’t consider the pre-
vious night anything out of the
ordinary in her life, he falls
from comedy to clowning, an
effect probably increased by the
fact that -his hair and headgear
combined to give the unfortunate
m t?, ress^ori a fisherman in a
soa ' wester -
Tber f u was also a suspicion to-
S'? f he , end of [ he play [hat
* S H een °[ h " ard * obert
illy or
f w ‘s e , b een ad^cted b Y * bat
a ?° r ' Actua ly % Jt f , would h^ e
, th mg for the
? f had been completely
T ‘ b 7 Morley, an ideal
eVQT ™ s u one T f:
pt t be VyoLd f b ? ( : aPed
Wh; „° h [ P® rsonate Amphytrion.
■ . ngsup an interesan S
p T ANARUS„ . -
bl f t l nd other ve ™ ons
play ttu * c °mmentator has
P i ayi ? B Jupiter
tin A p £ y 3 ipitel im P er "
8 . r iP > nOI 7k to f pa 7
1 dlB^ ty Wlth
t
“ J^ d pi ? de - f That fair
enough, calling for, apart from
a f a ] r stretch of acting, the co-
operation of the audience in be-
iieving that the person they see
as j up iter can only be seen as
Amphytrion by Alkmena. Oti
the other hand, the actor play-
ing Amphytrion has only that
to carry off.
it would be interesting to see
a switch made with t he actor
playing Jupiter appearing only
as that lordly personage, and the
ac tor playing Amphytrion play-
ing both that part and the part
Q f j up iter impersonating him.
It would shift the load of acting>
D f course, but the change would
permit a lot more latitude in the
selection of an actor for Jupiter
and leave him much freer to
make the most of it; it would
also, while calling for a good
deal more virtuosity from the
Amphytrion role, do away with
the need for asking the audience
to believe that Jupiter, without
beard and trappings, looks suffi-
ciently like Amphytrion to fool
his wife. That is a common
enough request the stage often
makes, and it is generally easily
met, but it would be better to
try getting around it.


The WILLOW of BREAM CREEK
by T.A.G. HUNEERFORD
IT was cool and overcast, the afternoon
we mashed Bream Creek, just ideal
for the job, but ideal, too, for a game
of football. There was a scratch game
on over the oval at the dog-park, but my
uncle didn’t believe in Sunday sport, and
we never even suggested it to him. He’d
stretch his conscience, though, to do a bit
of fishing on the Sabbath after he’d come
home from church in the morning and
lowered the big feed that my Aunt Fcebe
stayed home to rustle; he reckoned that
if we got a few boxes of bream to send
away on the night train to Sydney we’d
done a good job—fbr him, not the Lord
or us, because we didn’t get any extra
for working Sunday. After.tea, if the
mashing had been good, he’d praise the
Name in between hawking into the bunch
of gum tips in the dining-room fireplace
until I could have cut his damned
unctuous gullet.
You’ll gather that there wasn’t much
love lost between him and me, or him and
anyone. He was a big black hypocrite
who drove us like mules, and used any-
thing from quotations out of the Bible to
a clip under the lug that would have
floored a bullock to get the work out of
us. He had hot black eyes, and what
with his ragged black eyebrows and the
full moustache and beard that he wore,
he looked like a rogue bull glaring out of
a bush When he was angry, which was
most times. Aunt Fcebe was the only
person I ever knew had a kind word for
him, even to his own two sons, Aleck and
Willie, who hated him nearly as much as
I did.
I owed him for nothing except that he’d
raised me from when my own mother
had died and my old man lit put into the
backblocks and never came back, or
wrote. I might have owed him for the
gesture, but, holy smoke, he’d made on
the deal, what with me milking and cart-
ing wood and working around the place
until I was big enough to haul a net with-
out rupturing myself and involving him
in unnecessary expense with doctor’s
bills ; since I was fifteen, I was out on the
Lake nights and days with the men, storm
or fine, and made the trips down the
coast in salmon-time, and worked round
the clock in prawning-time catching and
packing. Odd times I fixed the meshes
where the sharks and big rays snarled and
tore them, pulled mangrove bark to tan
the nets, and) belted old lead sewer-piping
flat and thin for sinkers until my arms
damn’ near dropped off.
IWAS eighteen when I began to spark
Maid Warburton. She lived a few
blocks along the side of the hill, and her
old man’s land ran down, like ours did,
to a muddy bit of a creek where most of
the fishermen kellicked their boats. Years
ago, long before I was even born, I
suppose, there’d been a big argument and
talk of a law-suit between Uncle Seth and
Maid’s old man and the bad blood never
worked out —not out of Uncle, any rate,
although Jeff Warburton must have
swilled his out with grog in the years
since then. My uncle still hated Jeff’s
guts as hard as ever, and never lost a
chance to run him down and rub the dirt
in, especially as the old bloke was such
a tiger for the liquor. Uncle hated the
sight and smell of it and made certain
that we never got within coo-ee of it, even
on the dark sleety nights on the Lake
when your hands got stuck to the Moody
oars with hold, and all the other boats
carried bottles of rum in their lockers.
But there was something else to it be-
sides the lawsuit, and I only found it
out after I started tracking with Maid.
She told me that her mother had told her
that my uncle used to spark her until Jeff
Warburton came along with his laughing,
easy ways and song-singing and won her
away ; that was the real beginning of the
bad blood, and Maid said that before the
wedding my uncle had tried to kill Jeff
by running him down in a buggy. It was
a long time ago, and most people who
knew about it had died or forgotten it.
When Uncle Seth knew that I was
spasking Maid he acted-on as if I was
setting up to live in sin with some fancy
woman or other instead of just wanting
a girl and maybe later on a wife, like any
normal young feller; he roared and
raved until he had all of us nearly trip-
ping over our bottom lips, except Aunt
Fcebe, who just looked at him fond and
placid whatever he said or did. To shut
him up I stopped seeing Maid open in
the day-time, but it didn’t stop us nights
after he’d gone to bed, walking around
the grassy shores of the Lake, her hand
in mine, wondering at the stars and the
fresh wind from the paddocks sweet with
the soft noise of cowbells and sometimes
the sleepy baa-ing of sheep; many a
night I crept into the house in my sock
feet, still seeing the moon through the
willows down by Bream Creek and feel-
ing her kisses on my mouth. But it
seemed pretty hopeless. He’d never pay
me enough to get married on, and I knew
nothing but fishing.
THIS afternoon I spoke of, when we
» mashed Bream Creek, we were all sit-
ting in the dining-room after midday
dinner, overfull and hot, waiting for
Uncle Seth to tell us if we could go off
somewhere or hoe into some work on the
nets, when there was a knock on the
back door. Aunt Fcebe, who was darning
socks, didn’t get up but just sang out,
“Come in! ” and Mrs. Warburton walked
as far as the door and stopped.
She was a poor thing of a woman,
browbeaten and timid to the point where
she was afraid of her own voice half the
time, and she twisted her aprons into
ram’s-horns until, watching her, I could
have shaken her until her teeth fell out
of her poor silly head. We didn’t hear
her walk up the passage —she must have
tiptoed like a mouse, because a moment
after Aunt Fcebe called out she just
appeared in the doorway, wringing
nothing out of her apron as if her life
depended on it, and looking nervously
around the room with a smile that could
have been brushed off her face with a
moth’s wing.
“Sit down, Grace,” said Aunt Fcebe.
“What’s the matter?”
It was automatic to ask Mrs. Warbur-
ton what was the matter because nothing
other than trouble ever dragged her out
of her house, particularly to our place ;
and whenever local people saw her
around and about they began to specu-
late on what trouble she was in. It was
usually her old man, drunk in town and
kicking the inside out of the Greek’s.
“No, I won’t stop, thanks, Miz
Franklin,” she said, and her voice was
just like the rest of her, small and
trembling like the last drop of water that
hangs on the lip of a tap not knowing
whether to drop off or not —and about as
colorless. She shuffled her bare feet, and
looked at my uncle like I’ve seen a calf
look at me many a time just before I
pole-axed it.
“I jus’ come across to see if any of
you’d seen my . . . seen Jeff ; if you been
in town Friday or las’ night, you
might’ve? He went down Bream Creek
after lunch Friday an’ we never seen him
since. I thought you . . . Capt’n, or
maybe the boys, perhaps ...”
The local people called my uncle
Capt’n, I suppose because his grand-
father was a sea-captain. He wrecked
on the sand-bar at the Lake’s entrance and
set up fishing in one of the ship’s boats,
my uncle reckoned, and his son, and now
his grandson. Uncle Seth, was in it after
him. When Mrs. Warburton stopped
speaking, or rather, when her soft,
frightened voice just got so low that we
couldn’t hear it although we could see
her lips working. Uncle Seth hawked and
spat in the fireplace.
“No, we haven’t seen your husband.
Missus,” he said abruptly, and his hot
eyes burned practically through her. “If
we went into town, which we ain’t, having
a living to make, we wouldn’t go to the
same places as he’d be in, not being in
the habit of drinking ourselves and our
family into the poorhouse.”
The woman’s lips dropped apart and
her worn, skinny hand picked aimlessly
at the bosom of her dress. Aleck and
Will watched her with interest, but I had
my eyes on the old man, wondering how
it was someone hadn’t knocked his skull
in before this.
“You hitch up an’ drive in an’ ask
the police sergeant,” he went on, and
his full lips curled back from his teeth,
pulling his moustache aside like the
curtains of a stage, “an’ he’ll most likely
be able to put you on to your husband’s
tracks!”
He belched and settled into his chair
and just looked'at the poor woman until’
I thought she’d collapse on the mat, there
and then, but Aunt Fcebe put down her
darning and walked over to her.
“You just go home and stop worry,
ing,” she said crisply. “He’ll mos’ likely
be waiting for you in the house.” As she
spoke she edged Mrs. Warburton down
the passage and I found myself wonder-
ing who was the worst, her or my uncle,
for all her. soft ways. She never even
offered the poor woman a cup of tea.
ii \\f E’LL mash Bream Creek this
W afternoon,” my uncle said as Aunt
Fcebe walked back into the room, and I
saw Aleck’s face fall and Will stuck out
his bottom lip. The old man pulled out
a big old gun-metal watch and looked at
it. “Close on two. That damned silly
woman and her drunken sot of a
husband.”
“It must be, a worry,” my aunt said,
biting through a thread of wool on her
short white teeth. “Always wondering
when he’s likely to be home, and if
Well—well.”
“She knew what she was getting when
they married,” my uncle said harshly,
“Once a drunkard, always a drunkard,
It’s in the meat and bred in the bone,
and that lily-lipped brat of theirs won’t
be no exception. If it don’t come out in
the drink, then it will someways!”
"He looked full at me when he said that,
and, God help me, I never batted an
eyelid.
“You boys go and get your things on
an’ be down the creek in ten minutes.”
“Dad, I wanted to go” Aleck
began in his high, complaining voice, but
the old man cut him, off with a roar.
“I know where you was wanting to go,
but you’ll go mashing first!” A secret
sort of a smile flickered around the ends
of my aunt’s eyes, and I knew then what
she looked like —a well-served old cow
when the bull puts on a show of stamping
and roaring. “What d’ you think damn-
well keeps the roof over your head and
your backs warm an’ your bellies full?
Bagh!” He stood up with his head
thrown back and ran his big fingers
through his beard. “Now go get into
your things—no son of mine’ll go titty-
rattin’ around the dog-park on the
Sabbath!”
AS the boys trudged out of the room
looking just as black as they dared
and not a shade blacker. Aunt Fcebe
looked up placidly.
“Seth—you leave me that coat of yours
if you’re going mashing. You notice you
lost a button off the bottom? After all
these years! ”
My uncle looked down quickly, and
felt the ragged edge of the hole where
the button had been pulled, and his heavy
eyebrows came together in anger and
concern. For a moment he looked at it
absently. It was a heavy Mack jacket!
never remember seeing him without, with
big horn buttons he said had come off the
coat his grandfather was wearing the
night of the wreck.
“Damn! ” he said softly. “Now, where
the name of Judas d’ I lose that button.
He looked up and saw me watching hint-
“Go on, you, Mark! Get out and ge
your things on! Unless” —his lips curie
away from his teeth again—“y° u
to go lolly-lobbing around the dog-P arKi
too?” ,
I got up and walked out without a wor ■
Two o’clock. We’d be four hours m as ‘
ing Bream Creek; it’d be nearly darj
by the time we,come in, and then wha
ever we got had to be boxed and sea
away, and, even if we finished by cig j
I’d be too tired to—under my breatD)
cursed my uncle and bitterness crept up
in my throat like gall.
BREAM CREEK was a wandering
deep-water creek that ran back v
the lake between the flats iqto the huls- .
as far as the bridge it was deep ' w
cloudy brown water and steep red ha
that had been gouged out like bio -
wounds by the winter floods. The br
loved it, and you could always get a
boxes mashing. Every hundred yarn
so, sometimes closer, there’d be a -
old gum toppled into the water w
the bank had been washed out from u
it, and they got in amongst the bran Ld
underwater for protection, and to
on the weed that grew there.
Mashing, you’d row quietly up . fl
centre of the creek, and then g liae a[)£ j
alongside one of these fallen treeS
lay a weighted net around it fr° m


to bank, then stand off and mash the fop
of the water with long poles and poke
them in amongst the submerged
branches, rattling and twisting them to
make the fish dart out bang into the net.
You’d never miss getting half a dozen
or so from a tree. , , .
It being Sunday there was a lot or
people with rods fishing the creek after
bream, and you could understand they
didn’t’take too kindly to us disturbing,
the fish —rod-fishermen are funny that
way; they reckoned that mashing for fish
was as bad as dynamiting them. But it
was our living and only their sport, and
any day but Sunday I’d agree with Uncle
Seth as he stood in the bow of the rowing-
boat and sheered at them on the bank.
Some of them shouted abuse at us and
shook their fists, but they were the
strangers, people out of the town for a
day’s fresh air and sunshine, and a bit
of fishing; any of the locals shut up,
whatever they thought, because my uncle
was a bad man in a quarrel and never
forgot an injury.
ABOUT half-past three we had better
than two boxes flapping in the bottom
of the boat, I reckon, and we were well
up the creek about a quarter of a mile
higher than where old Jeff Warburton’s
land run down to it. Young Aleck
leaned out over the bow, looking ahead.
“This is it! ” he whispered softly, point-
ing to where a big old willow trailed its
long whips of leaves across the top of
the water. The bank around it was a
twisted mess of curling black roots so
that even the fiercest winter floods
couldn’t get at the soil to topple it, and
you could imagine the nooks and crannies
among them going right down into the
brown water for the bream to feed in,
and hide in—dozens of them blinking
and wagging their fins in the darkness.
Besides, the tangle of roots caught and
held all sorts of things to attract them
—banks of drifting weed, grass, and some-
times dead sheep from up the creek.
“This oughter fill a box for us! ”
Aleck said.
His eyes were shining, and I suppose
mine were, too —it’s a funny thing, no
matter how much you hated being there,
you couldn’t shake off the little excite-
ment of a good cast or a likely spot, and
I guess when I’m ninety I’ll still hold
my breath as the net snakes out of the
water, wet and brown and heavy, empty
for a while and then spangled all over
with fish, hanging and flapping by their
gills, silvered like jewels by lamplight
and sunlight and moonlight. It gets into
your blood, I suppose, like drink or col-
lecting pictures.
My uncle just stood staring straight
ahead and said, “No, we won’t cast
there.”
None of us understood him. We were
listening but it was just words, and we
didn’t understand. Will was rowing, and
he feathered the boat in towards the
willow so gently as you’d never see a
ripple or hear a sound, and Aleck, who
was in the bow, guided him by hand
signals over his shoulder. I was in the
waist with the net coiled loosely at my
feet, waiting to slip it silently over into
the brown water. None of us was making
a sound, holding our breath almost, and
all you could hear was the sound of
sheep across the flats and, far off, a
woman laughing—one of the fishers from
the town.
“I said we won’t cast here I ”
MY uncle roared the words, and we
all jumped as if "we’d been shot.
Will caught a crab and almost flopped
backwards into the silver pool of fish
in the bottom of the boat, and I just
looked at the old man with my mouth
open, the net dangling from my hands.
“Pull away, Will! ” he ordered, his lips
folding back from his teeth, but not in
a smile.
“But, Dad!” Aleck was peering over
the prow into the brown depths. “They’re
thick ! There must be a sheep caught, or
something. Crikey, they’re every where !
Hold on, Will, hold. We’ll get a box
here! ”
He turned around, his face flushed and
lively with excitement, and looked at his
father. Uncle Seth reached across me
and hit him hard with the flat of his
great hand across the cheek, and he reeled
against the gunnel, his hat slipping off
into the water and drifting away towards
the bank. A little fleck of blood showed
on the corner of his pale lips, and he let
out with a whimpering noise.
“Learn to do as you’re tbld, you bloody
galoot!” Uncle Seth said coldly. “Now’
pull those poles in or I’ll take the hide off
your useless back come we get home! ”
The mashing-poles, long, slender gum-
saplings trimmed of the leaves, had got
all awry in the boat during the scuffle.
“Will, pull out into the creek and make
for the blackberry bushes down by
Harvey’s!”
As the wake bubbled under our stern
and we drew away from the big willow,
he looked back and Aleck’s gaze and
mine followed his.
“That spot’s alive with wire,” he said.
“Old Warburton’s been tipping it in there
because he knows we mash it. I don’t
want my nets torn to shreds.”
When the war was on they’d dug
ditches all across the flats and spread
barbed-wire in case the Japs landed there
with tanks, and when it was all over
some ol the farmers just rolled it up and
dumped it in the creeks. The fishermen
who fished the creeks and the Lake were
mad about it, but they couldn’t do much,
and we were always getting our nets
snagged and ripped on it. But not at that
spot. It was thirty feet if it was an inch,
and we’d never snagged a net there yet,
so I couldn’t think why Uncle Seth got
so cagey about it. I had my mouth half-
opehed to say something about that when
he looked at me coldly.
“When you’re paying out your own
money for nets you can do what you
damn’ well like with them,” he said. “But
while you’re using mine you’ll do what
I say.” He looked at Aleck and then at
Will, and none of us said a word.
THE next day we spent down at the
creek caulking one of the boats and
mending nets. Uncle was in a good mood
for him because he got four boxes and
then some on Sunday, although it was
half-past eight when I got back from the
station after sending them to Sydney.
About four o’clock, while there was still
plenty of light for working and it was
still hot and sunny, he put away the
ball of twine he was mending with and
stood up,
“Knock off,” he said. “Clear this net
into the shed and we’ll call it a day. You,
Will, lay a fire under the copper and
we’ll tan that new net tomorrow.”
It seemed almost too good to be true.
My mind began automatically to juggle
with time, and I was thinking if I got a
shave and a sluice in before tea and got
in plenty of mornihg’s wood after we
milked the three cows, I could say that I
was going line-fishing with Steve Att-
water and spend hours and hours with
Maid down by Bream Creek, Usually
by the time I’d finished my chores and
had tea and everything it was dark and
it didn’t give much time for getting out.
We hurried through the work and jog-
trotted up the gentle grassy slope from
the creek to the house. Uncle had left
just before us, and as I crossed the back
veranda I heard my aunt say, “They
found Jeff War burton all right. In
Bream Creek, with the side of his head
hit in.”
“In the creek?” my uncle replied, and
there was a harsh timbre to his voice,
but no regret. You’d have thought that
death would have softened him a bit.
“Just where did they find him? Did they
say?,”
I TRIED to stop, but they’d seen me
* through the doorway, and I had to
walk on into the kitchen, so I did my
best to pretend I’d heard nothing of what
they were saying. Aunt Foebe just closed
her soft mouth and turned to the stove,
where tea was cooking.
“You’re off early this afternoon,
Mark,” she said evenly. “It’ll give you
time to get in a good stack of wood for
my washing tomorrow, instead of me
having to cut it myself, as usual. Don’t
dawdle, boy,”
That was a lie about her having to cut
the wood, and she usually brought it out
in front of visitors to make us boys look
silly, but I’d heard it that often that it
slid off my back.
“I’m going line-fishing with Steve to-
night,” I lied, to get my spoke in early.
“But I’ll have time before that, I guess.”
“You’ll make time,” my uncle said
sourly. “And be sure you strip the cows
properly, too; any damned thing’s good
enough for you boys lately.”
I walked over to the dresser and took
a fig off the platter there, and as I did
so my aunt turned around and picked
up my uncle’s coat from the settee under
the window where she’d been doing the
mending.
“Here, Seth,” she said, holding it out.
“Put this in the room —I couldn’t find
a button for it; you’ll have to see if
you can match it 'next time you’re in
town.”
The coat hung almost in front of my
face for a moment, and the jagged hole
where the button had been torn out just
jumped out and hit me like a fist between
the eyes, I felt Uncle’s hot gaze on me,
and something tore my eyes away from
the coat a split-second after I’d looked at
it, but in that second it felt as if I’d seen
the whole world laid out flat under a
blinding light, and our place and Jeff
Warburton’s and Bream Creek standing
out black and large above everything
else.
Uncle Seth took his coat and clumped
off into their bedroom, and I stood still
in the hot silent kitchen with the smell
of stewed rabbit in my nostrils and looked
down at the blood-red, mashed heart of
the fig in my hand. The side of his head
hit in. I knew then where they’d found
Maid’s old man, and what had happened
to him.
“Don’t stand there mooning, Mark, if
you want to go lining,” my aunt said
gently, and I never hated the softness
of her voice more. “Get out and get
the morning’s wood!”
‘‘Yes, Aunt,” 1 said cheerfully, but
once outside and down behind the sheds
I made a bee-line across the paddocks to
Bream Creek and then followed the yellow
clay path until I came to tfie big willow,
THAT night after tea, when the table
had been cleared and Aleck and Will
were in the kitchen doing the dishes, I
sat in the dining-room listening to the
wireless. Uncle Seth sat under the
standard-lamp looking at a paper and
Aunt Foebe had her mending-basket in
her lap as usual. It was almost breath-
lessly hot, and the thin music of the
radio didn’t drown out the clatter the
boys made with the dishes. My aunt
looked up.
“You’d better hurry if you’re going
lining, Mark,” she said. “It’s almost
dark now. Where you meeting Steve?”
“I’ve changed my mind,” I said. “I’m
not going fishing.”
“I thought you’d give it away,” my
uncle grunted, without looking up from
his paper. “Rather lie on your back and
read some damned useless trash,”
“No,” I said, and stood up. I spoke
calmly, somehow, but my hands in my
packet were wet in the palms. “I’m go-
ing over to see Maid Warburton. She’ll
be upset about her old man.”
For a moment neither of them cottoned
on to what I’d said, and I stood just out-
side the circle of light and watched them.
My aunt stopped darning, the needle
poised over a half-mended hole in one
of my socks ; she didn’t look up, but after
a moment Uncle Seth’s great shaggy
head jerked away from his paper like
something on a spring.
“You what?” he said, with a curious
soft harshness, “You’re going where?”
I was glad the light didn’t come up as
far as my face. “Over to see Maid!” I
repeated, holding my voice steady, God
only knows how.
My uncle’s eyes glowed almost red.
“Have you gone mad, you galoot?
Haven’t I told you time and again you’re
not to have anything to do with that
namby-pamby, white-skinned drunkard’s
brat?”
Cold water trickled down my spine
and I pulled my hand out of my pocket
and opened it in front of them, against
my thigh. In the palm the horn button
nestled, the one from Uncle’s coat, smooth
and glossy in the yellow light. My
breath seemed too big for my chest for
a moment, but when I spoke, I spoke
evenly, somehow.
“I found it down by the willow where
you wouldn’t let us mash yesterday after-
noon, Uncle. I got there just before you
did, I reckon.” I pointed to the rim of
yellow clay that just touched the uppers
of his black rubber boots. “The willow
where they found Jeff Warburton.”
YOU could have heard a cat walk on
feathers in that room; the rattle of
dishes from the kitchen and the thin
whine of the radio just made no impres-
sion on the silence. It was a solid thing
that seemed to encase the three of us like
glue, and for one awful moment I thought
I was going to burst out crying and give
them the button. Aunt Fcebe stopped
me. >
“That’s good! ” she said, and her voice
was thin and dry, like puddle-ice on the
roads, cold mornings. “Give me the
button, Mark, and I’U put it straight back
on your uncle’s coat.” She held out her
yellow hand, palm up, for me to drop
the button into.
“Just as well you mentioned about the
button being off Uncle’s coat,” I said and
ignored her hand ; it returned softly to
her lap, although now the fingers were
tightly curled. “I mightn’t’ve recognised
it, and I might’ve took it to the sergeant
in town. I was going to.” I walked
over to the door and stood with my hand
on the knob. “It all right for me to go
over and see Maid?”
I’ll bet my uncle’s face under his
whiskers was as white as frost, and his
eyes were like coals.
“If you want to,” he said, and it was
like every word was dragged out of a
sixty-foot well with an iron kellick tied
to it. “Don’t be too late home, though.
We got a lot of work to do tomorrow.”
I SLIPPED through the door and
1 closed it behind me, with my skin
crinkling on my back, and leaned against
it for a moment breathing hard and
listening for anything they might have to
say inside the room. It was still as the
grave.
I could see now that I’d have to watch
my uncle like a hawk or I’d finish up in
the Lake one dark night among the sharks
when we was pulling in the nets, or among
the roots of a willow on Bream Creek
with my head stove in, feeding bream like
Jeff Warburton. But I knew, too, that
I wouldn’t be working for him much
longer; there wasn’t a man over at
Maid’s place now, and her mother
wouldn’t mind me moving in. They had
two old boats that I’d be able to patch
up, and Uncle had all the money I needed
for new equipment.
I ran lightly across the veranda,
through the garden and vaulted over the
fence into the paddock. It was heavy
dusk now, and the air was full of flitter-
mice chasing the gnats. The Lake was
calm, the color of a mullet’s belly, touched
with crimson, and the willows were a
brown smudge along the banks of Bream
Creek. Underfoot the grass was long
and warm and damp; I was barefooted,
and as I ploughed through it dandelion-
heads clung between my toes. I fingered
the worn, smooth edge of the horn
button in my pocket and laughed, a
funny hot feeling flowing from my feet
up through my thighs and belly into my
chest in jumping waves that would have
burst me like a ripe squash if I hadn’t
shouted aloud to the darkness and the
new stars.
Paddocks away, I could see the light
shining out of Maid’s window.
The Long Girl.
Clancy kisses his dark lank wife,
His freckled children crowd the door;
He swings to the saddle and Conroy’s
sheep
Beneath the greening timber draw.
He whistles an old dog to the lead,
A roan kelpie to snarl the rear,
And he whistles a song to suit himself
As rose-hips dance on the winter brier.
They string along a drover’s mile
And dust is ringing from the shale
When lightning skins the bony ridge
And green as opal falls the hail.
And they string out a drover’s mile
When granite heights stand up on air;
The lightning lights on Hogan’s pub
And a long girl knitting behind the bar.
Oh what is the web you weave, girl?
What is the net you knit so thin
That blows with the lamp and your yellow
hair?”
A web to snare a drover in.
The winds are loose in the mountain sky
And tear the fleece from the fleeing storm.
1 ether your mare or ride on by—
Here s fire to wrap your body warm.”
His mare is hitched to the veranda rail;
In long green paddocks stray the sheep;
The dogs are barking in the hall,
And he has kissed her under-lip.
Oh see the color in my eye!
ollow the shaft; you may have your will.”
Ihe lightning seams the cliffs of sky;
He stands alone upon the hill.
Then good-bye to his dark lank wife
And good-bye to his children three;
vi man w K°’d muster Conroy’s sheep
Must count the hips on the brier tree.
For he rolled a swag of his saddlecloth
And called his kelpie dogs to heel
And fixed his eye on the glinting storm
And he has gone across the hill.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Of a Drawing by
Donald Friend.
Had they sneered at death
She and her lover?
Mocked the dry touch of his breath?
Now they are older
Standing separate, each alone
And, with his arm around her shoulder,
Between them leers the grinning skeleton.
Each seems unaware,
The solemn girl
Her flesh dinted where
An angular elljow presses;
They have not seen what it is divides them.
Have not started frantic guesses,
So *the grim grin derides them.
Her boy waits with his back
Half-turned from them,
His muscles relaxed and slack
As if a minute ago
He was young. Thus Time’s grotesque
Between the noisy summer and still snow
Cleaves the swift-running from the
statuesque.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


3 MUSTS
IN EVERY
home
Here are three B.G.E. Electric Home Helps—the most faithful,
hard-working servants you'll find anywhere. Quiet, efficient,'
good-looking, these are three servants you Just can't do
.without
ẁ
53.9.& ELECTRIC
toaster
Hof, crisp, golden toast In next
to no timel The B.S.E. Electric
Toaster, finished in easy-to-clean
chromium, turns the bread automatically when the
doors are opened.
Si.S£. ELECTRIC
JUG
Plug in, switch on, and, before you know
it, the water's boiling! The glazed
porcelain B.S.E. Electric Jug, with a 1\
pint capacity, saves you worlds of trouble.
ẃ
ẅ
33.9.5.
stream^ 60
IRON
With a heavy chromium finish
and comfortable baiceiite
w
ŵ
ELECTRIC
HOME HELPS
ẁ
Available from leading Electrical dealers.
(Sale Australian Repretenlatiws of
The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY . . NEWCASTLE . . MELBOURNE . . PERTH . „ 'HOBART
LAUNCESTON . * BRISBANE , . TOWNSVILLE . . ADELAIDE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Seriousfinancia
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
61 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
n*it
6:
baby
LOVES
to revel in the deUgb*'
ful cream-like lather w
Cuticora Soap. «
keeps his tenner*® 11
healthy and
(julsltely
and veJvßtv.
}ne of the fiunoos
xio-Coticura Soap,
Dintment and TaP
aim Powder-
ẃ
ẅ
w
The Mu**** 1
PeopU
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. M porttble
* Engineers’ Machine W
Electric Tools All type*
• Circular ■****»£
JETTISONED CARGO
(RS. PORTEOUS)
KEN BRECKNELL got his
big idea while he was still
in the Army. Being by
nature secretive he con-
fided in no one. After the war,
when he’d worked out all the
details, he’d need a partner with
a good sound boat. Time enough
to take that man into his con-
fidence when he was ready to
start. The obvious choice was
his Army cobber, Steve Howick
—big, reckless, happy-go-lucky
Steve, who was always talking of
his 50ft. ketch Remora and of
his pre-war life spent fishing,
turtle-hunting and diving for
trochus-shell along the Barrier
Reef. Steve was an adventurer,
a man who had always lived
dangerously, who was afraid of
nothing and regarded life, even
Army life, as one big joke. In
Ken’s opinion Steve was entirely
lacking in brains, a deficiency
that mattered little when the
senior partner had more than his
share.
In his own way Ken was also
an adventurer. Unlike Steve he
confined his adventuring to the
cities, pitting his wits against his
fellow-jnen. His ideas of honesty
were, to say the least, elastic.
He contended that in parting a
fool from his money he was
merely assisting the course of
nature. The knowledge that his
latest scheme was quite illegal
worried him not at all. Com-
pared with the tremendous
profits to be made the risks were
small. To him that was all that
mattered.
SIX months after his dis-
charge Ken turned up in the
port of Mackay, ready to put his
big scheme into operation. Steve
had drifted back to trochus-
fishing from that port and was
delighted to see his old Army
cobber. Grinning cheerfully he
listened to Ken’s proposition
that they should load the Remora
up with ex-Army equipment,
rifles and ammunition
and run it up to Borneo,
where it could be sold
at a fabulous profit.
Ken had already bought
the stuff and he wanted
Steve to supply the
transport for a share in
the profit.
Steve objected;—not,
it must be admitted, on
moral grounds, “The
Dutch Navy would cop
us as soon as we hit the first
port,” he pointed out.
“We won’t put in to any port,”
Ken told him. “I got it all
doped out. Remember that
time in Balik’ when we sneaked
off in the prau and went to the
village up a little creek?”
“Too right.” Steve’s weather-
beaten face broke into a de-
lighted grin. “There was a little
sheilah there with a dash of
Chinese in her. Liam, her name
was. Real good sort, too.”
Ken snorted impatiently.
Steve and his succession of
girls! They fell for him easily,
fell for his pleasantly ugly face
topped by a mop of dark un-
ruly hair, his swashbuckling
manner and the flashing grin
that lit him up. But women had
no appeal for Ken. As yet he
had seen no way of making
money out of them, and the
making of money was, to him,
the most important thing in life.
Nor was he the type to attract
women. A smallish man, sharp-
featured and colorless, he took
himself so seriously that his only
reaction to Steve’s ready laugh
was a tight-lipped, slightly
twisted smile.
He said now, with a note of
disgust in his voice: “I might’ve
known you’d only remember a
joint by the dames in it. Any-
how, while you were chasin’ this
one I was talkin’ business with
her old man, an old bloke called
Pablo Gomez. Remember him?”
“Can’t say I do.”
“No, you wouldn’t. That’s
why you’re always broke. This
old wog was headman of the
village. He’s got stacks of dough
and he’s in the market for the
sort of hardware I been buyin’
up.”
“What’s he want the stuff
for?”
“What do we care so long as
he’s got the chips to pay for it?”
Steve hitched up his ragged
shorts. “Righto,” he said.
“We’ll give ’er a go.” He
glanced -at his mate’s soft hands
and city clothes. “Know any-
thin’ about sailin’, Ken?”
“No,” Ken admitted. “But I
can leam, can’t I?” His tone
implied that if a man of Steve’s
limited intelligence could learn
seamanship there couldn’t be
much in it.
“You will before we sight
Balik’,” Steve prophesied. “She’s
1 a hell of a long haul.”
SITTING low in the water by
virtue of the deadweight in
her hold the Remora worked
her way up through the chain
of islands and reefs. Only when
he encountered a flat calm did
Steve use the engine. The
Remora sailed like a yacht, and
time meant nothing to her
owner. Their crawling pro-
gress brought endless protests
from Ken, who wanted to get
the voyage over, cash-in on the
cargo, and return to Australia,
where he could invest his profits
in some other scheme. More-
over, he was a poor sailor;
he was seasick in bad weather
and, even when it was calm, he
was very little help. On shore
he dominated the partnership,
jeering at Steve’s inability to
make money, talking airily of
thousands made without physical
effort. But now Steve was in
charge, completely assured and
in his element. He laughed at
Ken’s protests, and Ken was
usually too sick to argue.
They made their Borneo land-
fall in a flat calm, and as their
engine drove them steadily up
the Macassar Strait no breath of
air came to ruffle the deep blue
of thesseaa —a sea so calm that
the Remora seemed to be cutting
her way through an immense
sheet of blue silken cloth. Out
on the port hand lay the low,
almost featureless coast of
Borneo ; ahead, a distant cape
stretched seaward, losing itself
in the heat haze that shimmered
on the horizon. Nothing in all
that calm serenity to upset the
weakest stomach —nothing, that
is, except the Dutch sloop that
had been keeping them in sight
since sunrise.
“If she suspected us she’d stop
us and search us,” Ken reasoned
nervously. “She wouldn’t just
hang abound. Now, would
she?” His tone lacked convic-
tion. Obviously he wanted Steve
to agree with him, to reassure
him.
“I dunno.” Steve’s attitude
was far from reassuring. “You
got to admit he’s keepin’ a
darned good eye on us.”
Glancing nervously from the
sloop to his partner’s face Ken
snapped, “For God’s sake, don’t
stand there with that smug grin
on your ugly mug. Can’t you
think of some way of giving
him the slip?”
“We got no chance of puttin’
anythin’ over him till it gets
dark.”
“And what then?”
Steve shrugged his bare,
muscular shoulders. “Depends
on a lot of things,” he said.
“Mostly on the Dutchy,”
At sundown he swung the
Remora into a largd bay. They
passed a fish-trap, lines of half-
submerged bamboo stakes stand-
ing in a crazy pattern near the
mouth of a small creek. There
would be a village up that creek,
Steve knew, but he kept well
away from it. At the head of
the bay, where no fish-trap, creek
or sign of habitation broke the
line of mangroves along the
foreshore, he anchored in four
fathoms. If he was nervous he
gave no sign of it. Instead of
listening to Ken’s protests about
getting caught like rats in a trap
he went below and began to pre-
pare the evening meal.
I T was almost dark when the
' sloop arrived. She came to
a stop a little more than a mile
to seaward of the Remora and
almost directly opposite the fish-
trap. In the calm evening air
the two aboard the ketch could
hear the cable running out as
her anchor went down.
Grinning ruefully Steve said,
“Got us properly bottled up,
ain’t he?”
Ken shook his fist at the
anchored sloop. “Curse him,”
he growled. “And you, too,
Steve. What the hell did you
want to come into this bay for?”
“To get rid of the bloomin’
evidence.”
“How?”
“Dump it, as soon as it's dark
enough. Of course he might
send a boat across and catch us
in the act. We’ll have to chance
that.” . .
“You mean dump it in the
sea?”
“Where else would we dump
it? We’ll rig tackle and get to
work. We’ll be rid of the lot
well before daylight.”
Ken really flared up then.
“Listen, Steve,” he spluttered.
“D’ you know how much dough
I parted up for that stuff? More
than you ever earned in your
life. I’ve spent weeks on this
lousy boat of yours, carting it
over here, and if you think I’m
goin’ to dump it overboard now
you’ve got another think coming.
How do you know that Dutchy’s
wise to our game?”
“How do you know he ain’t?”
Steve countered. “Me, I’m not
takin’ any chances. This stuff
goes over tonight. But keep
your shirt on. That don’t mean
we’ve lost it. I’ll pick up some
shore marks in the momin’, and
in a week or two, when things
quieten down, we can come
back with a gang of boong
divers and pick it up. The
stuff’s in cases, packed in grease,
you reckon. A bit of salt water
won’t hurt it.”
It took him some time to con-
vince Ken that it would be a
simple matter to recover the
cargo.
T ONG before daylight the
I— Remora was riding. high in
the water with not one solitary
case in her hold. Steve delayed
his departure until after sun-
rise. He steamed out of the
bay, passing as close as possible
to the sloop and waving cheerily
to the men moving about her
decks.
“I don’t think that bloke sus-
pected us at all,” Ken said when
the sloop was some miles astern.
“We just got the breeze up be-
cause we saw a warship bangin’
around.”
“You could be right,” Steve


Handles BIG implements on BIG properties
Built from front to rear with the strength for the job
AVAILABLE IN TWO GEAR RATIOS
THE SPECIAL RATIO for soil conditions where tough going and the implements used demand
increased pounds pull at the drawbar.
THE STANDARD RATIO for use where soil conditions
and implements allow increased miles per hour and
where less pounds pull at the drawbar is necessary.
In official Nebraska—type tests, at rated load (75%
of maximum), and in second gear comparisons are as
follows: —
SPECIAL RATIO
Drawbar Pull lbs. M.P.H. Drawbar H.P.
3,000 3.5 28.4
STANDARD RATIO
Drawbar Pull lbs. M.P.H. Drawbar H.P.
2,300 4.6 28.3
FORDSOH
MAJOR
• FMDB4SA-27
Enquire from your State Distributors:
N.S.W.: —Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA: —MaIcoIm
Moore Pty. Ltd., 300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND: —Buzacott’s (Q’ld.)
Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: —Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie
St., Adelaide. WEST AUST.:— Lynas Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay St., Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRAIIA Pit. UP. (INC. IN VIC.). HOMEBUSH, NS W.
admitted It was as if, having
Hnmned the cargo, he saw no
further reason for discussing the
“
They saw no more of the
sloop that day. At three o’clock
Steve swung the Remora’ s head
shorewards. With her e g
throttled down she ei % er£ i
creek so narrow that, as the D-
- crept between me *
groves, branches scraped g
the sides, catching m me s y ,
snapping off and festooning the
rigging. The mangroves g
way to taller trees wh re g,
trailing vines looped
branch to branch, in place j -
ing overhead so that the
Remoras tall mainmast i
down great trailing clusters.
Gradual y the creek widened out.
Graceful palms lined t e ,
tall columns of slender beauty
that towered above the ta g
mass of ram forest and vine to
look down at t eir p
images on the dark, placid sur-
face of the creek. Monkeys
chattered in the tree-tops, bar-
mg their teeth at the intruders
before scampering off m p -
te alarm.
The Remora swung around a
bend and slowly the vfllage came
mto view Ken remembered
every detail of it now—the single
straggling row of palm-thatched
bnmS tbp fpw mkprahlp inde-
SIS!
smell ot cooking and coconut
I’m Lnipd
found the place ” Y
P 5
T HOE entire village, aroused
1 by the throbbing of the
Remora’s engine, turned out to
watch their arrival. Two canoes
put off from the shore, one
circling idly while the other came
alongside to allow a man to
climb to the Remora’s deck. He
was old, Steve saw, a frail-look-
ing old man dressed in a white
cotton singlet and a sarong of
red-and-white print. His nation-
ality and age would have puzzled
more experienced men than
Steve, for his skin was lighter
than a Malay’s and his eyes had
a. definite Oriental slant. His
face was an intricate network of
deeply-engraved wrinkles and
ms thin, bare arms hung like
S fnps of dried leather at his
swe. He shook Ken’s hand
gravely and, bowing to Steve,
said m excellent English:
ff you will give my men your
mes they will make your ship
a ! *° tae opposite bank. You
t , ll be out of the main current
ur+ku P erfectl y safe.”
with the assistance of the men
the canoes the Remora was
f ln t° the bank and macle
f ° n *y a few feet upstream
m two large seagoing praus.
... old man exhibited no
re ° sity as to their cargo or the
th„ ° n 101I 01 their visit. He was
oik * )ei A t . °?t—suave, courte-
sbrmu nd ms istent that they
„ n t C *Li ne asbore an d be his
at tk • He would put a house
wrmiriT dlsposa i where they
heat , away fr° m the clammy
creek mosc l u i t o e s of the
fusals WOdd take no re *
n
him int ,!u ?teve followed
wonirik the waiting canoe. He
aboard a vf prderred to remain
Vov ’ bUt now that their
tent tn , wa ?'. over he was con-
of tho f hls mate take charge
so that rraa § eaie nts. He said
KeTl? Ight . \ hen ' after dimer,
ou ; llle cargo list and
“Not a busmess interview,
“You no” 16 / en ’” he said,
nal a oi ?g and see your
orthe im? 'I 1 , like the look
sav hk no bird ‘ Wbat did you
“Pabln r? S wa s?”
“He ]nk mez ’”
scoundrel to me ” shi^ty dd
Ken laughed HA mao
sure of himself. Now tw ! k S
was back on solid land k he
sumed the role of leader Qt rc "
as right enough a a L!
ker ? he’d only ß be in ,iS™ an ;
And as for Gomez he’d
™et more than hi? T^% he - and
Keimeth Brecknell > Ca m
He’s got the chine «
0r this cargo,’’ he said t 0» ? a j
a - And
I’m just the bloke to reef ’em
off him. What do we care about
his looks?”
“Not a thing,” Steve admitted.
“Push off, Ken. I got a date
for tonight.”
£N returned t 0 his room
I \ and got into bed soon after
ten to spend a restless night,
s ) ee pi ng oa i y j n s h or t snatches,
smo king innumerable cigarettes
and watching anxiously for
§ teve ’ s re t urn . He was worried
Qyer Steye _ In fact> he was
worried over the whole set-up.
Q o mez, who had seemed so
affable in the old Army days,
now a pp eared somehow sinister,
Ken couldn ’ t explain why.
Q o mez had been suave enough
tonight _ too damn ed suave.
skilfully parrying all Ken’s
adem pt s t 0 get do wn to business
he betrayed not the slightest
terest in a consignment of goods
lying Qn the seabed< xhere was
a feeling of danger in the air,
sq str that Ken won dered
whether S the strain of being
shadowed by the Dutch sloop
was affectin / his ncrveS . He fc g
himself longing for Steve to re-
turn so that he could talk things
witil him . A strange admis-
; certain i y , W hal advice
’ Steve live? And Steve
wasn>t here was out x
. „ „ . , -T. \
m S a dangerous game with a
“obS?y rs
XX & he£n M
whether s teve had already been
knifed
The’first streaks of dawn were
showin S through the cracks in
the walls when Steve returned.
He crept silently in and, lifting
the corner of the mosquito'-net,
whispered, “You awake, Ken?”
Ken snapped, “Of course I’m
damned well awake. I’ve been
lying here all night wondering
if someone had stuck a knife in
your ribs. Listen, Steve. If old
Gomez finds out about you and
this sheilah he’ll run a knife
clean through you. I’ve told you
before that dames’ll finish up
gettin’ you into a pack of
trouble.”
“Steady up. Don’t talk so
loud.” Steve wriggled under the
net and stretched out beside his
mate. “This time it looks like
you and me have got ourselves
into a pack of trouble and a
sheilah’s gettin’ us out of it.
Liam woke me up to a lot of
things tonight. She’s a good kid,
Liam. Pretty near white, she is.
She reckons old Gomez supplies
all the boongs around here with
arms and ammo while he pre-
tends to keep sweet with the
Dutch. How’s his rotten form?”
“Just the sort of thing you’d
expect.”
“Yeah? Well, Til tell you
somethin’ you ain’t expectin’.
Liam tells me we’ll never get
paid for this stuff. She says
Gomez’ll kid us along until we
deliver the goods and then he’ll
either get some of his cobbers
to slit our throats or else he’ll
hand us over to the Dutch,
What do you think of that for
a nice turn-up?”
Ken was thinking that Steve’s
report merely confirmed his
secret fears. He was thinking
that he and Steve were in a hell
of a spot. No longer were they
a part of a large and powerful
army holding this land- They
were a couple of lone foreigners,
lawbreakers, witlj no one to
turn to for protection,
“Is this fair dinkum, Steve?”
he asked.
“Too flamin’ right, it is.”
“What do you reckon we
ought to do?” Once again he
was turning over the leadership
t 0 Steve.
“Dunno.” Steve rolled over
and closed his eyes. “It’s me for
a hit of shut-eye. We’ll think up
somethin’ when I wake up.”
’"T HEY had a conference with
Gomez later in the morning,
and Steve, who looked fresh and
a i ert after only two hours’ sleep,
took char S e of negotiations.
“. You leave this old bird to
me »” h® had said on waking, “I’ll
handle him.”
And Ken, the slick salesman,
th ® man of drains, was content
l et him. From a straight-out
business proposition the situa-
Uon had developed mto a
® a !?l , • thdr ves *
Its like this, Pablo,” Steve
b ®| an breez y familiarity,
, an , . W mate have been
tmkin, Hus thing over. If we
go foolin’ around out there and
this Dutch sloop comes along
we 11 be nabbed as sure as eggs,
They’ll recognise the Remora
and we 1] all go in the clink—
me and Ken and all the blokes
you send along with us. That
won t do anyone any good, will
_
, Gomez shrugged his thin
s uiru CrS ’ •
There is always an element
of risk in a venture such as this,”
he stated calmly, ‘But perhaps
you have an alternative sugges-
tion. One with less risk to—
yourselves, shall we say?”
Less risk to everybody, in-
eludin’ you. If we get pinched
you can write that cargo off as a
dead loss. You won’t even know
where it is. ’
‘ I have not purchased it yet.”
“No. But you want it.”
“piere will be others.”
Yeah. There might be. But
you 11 never get anythin’ as
cheap as this lot.”
“The price mentioned yester-
day by your friend was five
thousand pounds. I would
scarcely call that cheap.”
“But if we chopped that price
in half it would be.” ,
Gomez’s wrinkled face re-
mained as devoid of expression
as the crudely-carved face of a
wooden idol. He showed net the
slightest flicker of interest as he
sai ( f :
“I would be pleased to hear
any suggestion you care to put
forward.”
“Well, here she comes.” Steve
leaned forward. “We’ll sell you
the stuff where she lies for two
thousand five hundred. I’ll give
you the leads for it. Plenty of
your blokes can dive. They can
take a prau out and pick it up
in small lots. If the Dutchman
shows up they can drift off and
start fishing. He’d suspect us,
but he’d never suspect a prau
driftin’ along the coast. You
hand over the cash and I’ll give
you the position of the stuff.
That’s fair enough, ain’t it?”
Gomez smiled, a twisted,
mirthless smile confine'd to his
mouth and the network of fine
wrinkles surrounding it. The
dark, slanting eyes remained ex-
pressionless and inscrutable.
“For you, yes,” he answered,
“Beautifully fair. But for me?
How do I know that you will
give me the true position? How
do I know that the stuff is there
at all? And supposing it is
there? What guarantee have l I
that it corresponds with the list
your friend showed me?”
“You’ve got our word for it,
ain’t you?”
“I prefer something more sub-
stantial.” The cawed image of
a head inclined forward in a
half-mocking bow, but when the
eyes met Steve’s again they were
bland and smiling. It was as if
Gomez the suave, crafty bar-
gainer had stepped out to allow
Pablo Gomez, the perfect host,
to enter. “My pardon if I seem
to doubt you,” he said. “I will
make you an offer, a generous
offer. Give me the position of
this cargo and I will pay you one
hundred pounds, as a deposit
and evidence of good faith. My
men will start out tonight as soon
as the tide turns. When they
recover every item on your list
I will pay you a further three
thousand. And in the meantime
you will do me the honor of re-
maining as my guests. Could
anything be fairer?”
Ken started to protest, but
Steve cut in quickly. “Fair
enough,” he agreed. “Produce
the cash, uncle.”
O TEVE slipped away again
that night,
“Hang on to that hundred quid,
Ken,” he whispered. “It’s the
last we’ll get. You and me ain’t
waitin’ for no prau to come back.
We’re doin’ a bunk tonight be-
fore your pal bumps us off and
gets his deposit back. You stay
here and see what time the prau
leaves. If she starts when the
tide turns she’ll get away about
eleven. I’ll be back soon.”
And Steve walked into the
darkness.
It was a quarter to twelve
when he returned, gliding in as
noiselessly as a snake, so that
Ken jumped nervously when he
felt a hand on his shoulder.
“Righto, Ken,” Steve whis-
pered. “Time to get started.”
Ken, who’d been getting more
and more nervous as the night
wore on, growled, “There’s no
need to sneak in and scare hell
out of a man.”
Steve chuckled quietly. “Take
it easy,” he warned. “And don’t
talk so loud. What time did the
prau get away?”
“Ten past eleven.”
“Good. He’ll have about an
hour’s start on us. Now, listen,
Liam tells me the old man’s
takin’ no chances. He’s got a
guard posted to see we don’t
nick off. I did a bit of a recce
and located the bloke. He’s
sittin’ under a tree on the bank,
right opposite three canoes. Re-
member the old commando
ŵ


w
“Hard luck” story
that came good
A TRUE STORY,
There was nothing unusual
about a young married couple
who presented themselves at
a District Employment Office
late one afternoon and en-
quired'about the possibility of
employment as Station hand
and female domestic; nothing
unusual in the fact that there
was no accommodation in the
town and that their cash
assets totalled only 9/-.
The lateness of the hour called
for immediate accommodation,
for it was realised that satis-
factory . arrangements could
not be made until the follow-
ing day. The local Ex-Service-
men’s Association, which was
holding its monthly gathering
that night, was approached,
and a room for the night and
local credit arranged.
The first contacts made by
the Office early the following
morning failed to produce a
satisfactory placement. It was
then noted that too much
stress' was being laid by
friendly ambassadors from thb
previous night’s meeting on
the homeless condition of the
couple, and not enough on
their labour value.
Offers of temporary free
accommodation were plentiful,
but it was only after a new
area had been canvassed,
featuring the couple’s labour
value, that a satisfactory
placement was effected. Ex-
perience has already shown,
and this true story goes to
prove, that the potential
labour value of any applicant
is his chief selling asset.
Through the advice of experi-
enced officers of the Common-
wealth Employment Service,
many of applicants
have been shown how to make
the most of their own special
abilities. Employers in search
of competent staff are also
given expert assistance. These
services are available, entirely
without charge or obligation,
at all branch and district
offices.
COMMOMWBLTIi OMPUffMEKT SERVICE
Offices throughout Australia.
Consult your telephone directory
for addresses.
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
ŵ
m
&
m
m
•***
K._ 'V-i
«wCJS®
mist
v<S
ip*
v-y'
rw*
i
6
jr* ..
OWNERS AND OPERATORS ACCLAIM THE AD GRADER
The capacity of a motor grader is measured by the
work it will do, and here’s why ALLIS-CHALMERS’
AD is so superior: its travel speeds are smoothly
synchronised with operator controls, giving all the
power required; its 21,500 lbs. effective weight is
balanced for maximum traction and control; its full
circle revolving blade swings ahead of platform with
plenty of end clearance; its electric brakes make
control positive; its exclusive tubular frame, strong,
shock-absorbing, protects control rods inside frame
... and its famous 2-cycle diesel power is dependable,
economical and instant starting.
A
W. Speed Patrol. Gasoline powered-
ideal for operation in narrow quarters—
the most versatile light grading machine
for efficient, high speed work.
HD-5. 37.5 drawbar h.p., 11,000
lbs. fraetor smallest of AC
Crawler range, featuring 2-eyele
diesel power with electric push-
button starting.
HD-19. With fingertip hydraulic
steering and Torque Converter,
balancing ipeed with lead, it has a
drawbar pull of more than 36,000
lbs. Faster, simpler servicing, too.
AC
Personal and Missing Friend^
MARGARET M A TILDA OL AE K E
PEACHEY (nee
abovenamedj or any tiILEY,
please communicate with n. J.
Solicitor, Allora. Queensland. -
TO ELSIE LILLIAN PARKIN
of Clifton Hill in the Tggj
but now of parts unk tptlliaM
NOTICE that your husband wi jn
PARKIN of 274 Fitzroy Street •
the State of Victoria has on the
ceedings against you tordi three
ground of y° ur des y“ u enter an
years and upwards Unless yo prothon o-
appearance in the °® c .f street Mel-
tary Law Courts Wdham
boume on or before the lication of
twenty-one days from tte p in your
this notice the suit ma £ dissolution
absence and a decree nis vOU wish
of marriage be pronounced fll e
to defend this suit yo within 1®
an answer in the said WILLIAM
days after appearance.-JOHN Md .
GALBALLY, of 118 % u o e en °
boume, Solicitor for the Petition
An Investor?
• Th ,l“ TV e "“®d “S Monthly 0 B
without The Wild cat investment
contains the most comprehensive
analyses of Australia s I . ea^“ g tps C D “ P s Sted
economic reviews and mining note , pre u
■ in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts
the facts at your fingertips.
2/- a copy; 22/6 a year, post free-
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A “ Bulletin” Publication
THE SERVICE MAN
Putsch in E. Germany.
“Ek Dum”: Alarm continues
to spread in Europe with the
developments taking place in
Eastern Germany, These are
not based on fresh policies.
They are merely the unfolding
of plans which Russia has had
in train ever since the wicked
surrender of Yalta under the
influence of President Roosevelt
and his advisers, one of the chief
of whom has since been accused,
with a wealth of supporting* evi-
dence produced, of being a Com-
munist, An American jury has
recently convicted this adviser,
one Hiss, of perjury in respect
of his denials of this charge, and
its verdict was supported by the
trial judge, who then imposed a
five-year sentence.
The revelation of what was be-
hind, or allegedly behind, the
stunning concessions of Yalta
and Potsdam, however, come too
late. In -the intervening years
the Kremlin has moved steadily
towards its objectives, which it
could not have gained save for
these agreements —the control of
China and Manchuria, a place in
the Pacific threatening American
lines of communication with
Japan, the temporary confidence
of millions of English-speaking
people on assurances by Allied
leaders which has enabled the
infiltration by Communism of
the whole industrial fabric of the
larger countries of the world;
lastly, the capture and consolida-
tion of the countries of most
of Eastern Europe leading to-
wards control of the Eastern
Mediterranean, the domination
of Turkish policy and lastly, as
a final step, the taking-over
of Eastern Germany as a
Communist State.
This last move has been
cunningly led up to and cun-
ningly brought near conclusion.
Nothing has been done by the
Russians since the occupation of
Berlin in 1944 which has not
breached in spirit the Allied
agreements. Yet at the same
time there has not till now been
a single move worth a break and
threat of reprisals on a capital
scale, though the whole amounts
to a huge steal, flagrantly carried
out in defiance of every prin-
ciple of democracy enunciated
by Stalin and Molotov in their
discussions* with Britain and the
United States.
The events taking place in
Eastern Germany at present are
much on the pattern of those
which have taken place in
Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia and other
Eastern European countries.
First, tight' Red Army con-
trol was established. Then
industries were.removed which
were of use to the Russians,
together with a large force
of technicians. Next there
were cheeky demonstrations of
various kinds, carried on as
publicly as possible, to demon-
strate the helplessness of the
United States, Britain and France
against any steps which might
be taken under Russian aegis.
These included such measures as
the blockade of the West.
A reign of terror and starva-
tion to subdue the population
and wipe out all semblance of
freedom of thought or action
followed.
Next a local army—bands of
armed soldiery made to look as
much as possible like the old
Nazi Black Guards —was estab-
lished in every town and city
to make a show of force appar-
ently coming from a German
authority.
Lastly has come the begin-
nings of a putsch similar to that
which took over Czechoslovakia
and turned it into a Communist
State. All pretence that the
East German State is a super-
vised self-governing entity has
been dropped and the votes
which were taken at the last
elections as showing the trends
of political belief have been
ignored. In raids last week on
Government offices the Com-
munist-controlled East German
police arrested whatever high
officials they could lay their
hands on who refused to follow
the Communist line. Two East
German Ministers, Dr. Hugo
Kunics, a Christian Democrat,
Treasurer of Saxony-Anhalt, and
Dr. Fritz Schwab, Minister for
Labor in Brandenburg, fled to
the West.
Many of their colleagues
appear to be in the local Lubi-
anka, and Comrade Willi Pieck,
who, a few years ago, was urging
Australians and others over
Moscow Radio to throw down
their arms and make peace with
his delightful friend and ally,
Herr Hitler, is now one of the
main presiding geniuses of the
East, where his Government, on
February 8, established a Minis-
try of State Security on Krem-
lin lines and with unrestricted
powers to arrest and imprison
without trial. This measure and
the establishment of a new
Youth Movement which it is
rumored will be used for the
seizure of Western Berlin in
May followed a visit to the
Kremlin by the East German
Minister for the Interior. The
new plans are being fashioned
along patterns familiar to the
Germans. These new bodies are
being framed to look as much as
possible like cognate Nazi
organisations of Hitler’s day.
Everything at present seems to
point to a major crisis. The
Allies can scarcely let Western
Berlin go without loss of face.
For the first time the United
States State Department, which
began the piost-war period round-
eyed and innocent in its belief
that diplomacy could establish
peace with Russia despite the
unquestionable assurances of
Communism that it had no in-
tention of making peace with
anybody until it had destroyed
the capitalist world, has struck
the first note of practical realism
to its credit.
Mr. Acheson firmly told a
Press conference that there was
no chance of reaching agree-
ment with Russia by negotiation
alone, since “agreements with the
Soviet Union are only sound
when they register existing
facts.” He declared openly that
“the nature of the Soviet Union
Government was incompatible
with the accomplishment of
peace and world freedom”, and
that in consequence the United
Sfates proposed to try to “de-
velop areas of strength in the
world as one means of counter-
ing a possible breach of world
peace by Russia.” The Ameri-
cans must now be sorry that
they were so eagerly hasty in en-
couraging the dismemberment
of the British Empire in Asia
and in promoting the creation of
the chat)tic “free” nations which
have taken its place.
However, Mr. Acheson hopes
to “extend the area of possible
agreement with the Soviet by
creating situations so strong
that out of them can grow agree-
ment.” , . oc
This conception is almost as
unreal as the previous stand o
the United States Government,
which sought agreement by
normal methods, the only resui
being that the Russians signed
almost everything it suited them
to sign and then went off laugn-
ing and grateful for the free
hand which had been given them
to carry out plans totally


NOW IETS
wave a scenes
pga
PD
T/V
s~
sss
/
A'
when
call
for
Brandy
you
make
sure
you
say
S
AGK6S
BRANDY
TUB
EMPIRE
C UAMPIOM*
by
£S
Sout
QA3
Australia
Distilled and Bottled
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLES BRAITHWAITE. —TAKE
NOTICE that SARAH BRAITHWAITE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 191 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of April
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from GEORGE MONT-
GOMERY STAFFORD, Solicitor, 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—(t.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DORIS TREASURE BECK late of 240
Cleveland Street Chippendale.—TAKE
NOTICE that CECIL GEORGE MICHAEL
BECK has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
8678 of 1948 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance In the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th March 1950
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ROBERT OANIOB FREE-
MAN, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar In Divorce.
DEFEAT THAT
OLD
DEVIL
DANDRUFF
with Lustre Creme America'*
Leading Hair Dressing
American men have proved Lustre
Creme banishes dandruff scales,
relieves dry, itching scalp, keeps
hair glossy and healthy. It’s
America’s favourite Hair Dress-
ing. Now it can be yours!
jusfti
rwm€
(WITH LANOLIN)
THE INSTANT AID
TO HANDSOME HAIR
i
A little Lustre Creme a few
seconds combing and you’ve
handsome hair all day! No
"plastered down’’ look! Lustre
Creme has a high quality Lanolin
base, best for your scalp,, best
for your hair. Lustre Creme has
double action, it spreads and
penetrates double-quidd
IT’S HANDIER IN A TUBE-
TRY IT TO-DAY I
MR*-
ote#m
(with Lanolin]
HAIRDRESSING
AMERICA'S
INSTANT AID TO
WELL BROOMED HAIR
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives Lustre to dull a unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy and handsome
SOLO BY AIL CHEMISTS AND STOICS 2/-
A Kay Daumt Preparation
11 1 " 1 uIW/iWA'
ẁ
variance with the arrangements
to which they had pledged
themselves.
The facts which have to be
faced are that Stalin again and
again has made it clear that
Communism, does not believe
that it can survive save through
the destruction of all other
systems ih the world.
In the concept of Lenin, which
is the key to everything which
is coming out of Moscow and
the world Communist parties
today, “revolution is indivisible ;
it will be complete and secure
only when it has become world
revolution and when the dic-
tatorship of the proletariat has
been universally established.”
The creation of areas of
"Send out a double SOS, Sparks !"
strength merely means that
presently in some area will
be created a barrier to the
unrelenting aims of Moscow —
the base of world revolution,”
according to Stalin in 1939-
round which the promoters of
the Kremlin cannot find a way
without using force on a scale
and in a manner which must
mean world war.
Apparently the United States
has come to the point at which
it knows that it must recognise
this fact and also that U.N.O.
as failed as badly as, or worse
than the League of Nations. But
exactly what United States
Policy is will be masked by the
act that there is a Congressional
mi Ctl ° n •, t , his year - Possibly
poky will be expressed more
dearly after the British elec-
tions. ■*'
Mao Still in Moscow.
China remains quiet, but only
because it. awaits some decisions
from Moscow, where the Chinese
Communist leader, Mao, has so-
journed for several weeks.
He has been there so long that
it has been suggested that he is
a prisoner, but it is more likely
that he is joining in the making
of large-scale plans for the taking-
over and division of the whole
of Asia by the Soviet Union.
A Sinkiang delegation has joined
him in Moscow,
Meanwhile Russian recogni-
tion of the rebel Government of
Indo-China and the attempted
placing of orders by the Chinese
abroad —some for steel rails
from Germany have been re-
jected on U.S. Occupation Force
orders—and a stepping-up of in-
dustrial agitation in Japan, the
Philippines and Hong Kong,
whence the secretary of the local
tramway union has been de-
ported, following the organisa-
tion of Communist riots in the
territory, seem to point the way
to what is ahead.
The iron curtain has descended
over China, but among the sup-
posed news, which may or may
not be accurate, it is reported
that the Communist Government
is moving 500,000 troops
northward from Kwangsi by
rail (a tall order in China in the
present state of transport) to get
into position for the invasion of
Formosa. Heaven knows why
this should be necessary, seeing
that there are supposed to be
millions of Chinese troops in
more accessible positions further
north.
It also has been reported that
Moscow is delivering aircraft to
China and training Chinese air-
men. This seems to go without
saying.
Moslem v. Hindu.
President Soekarno returned
from Pakistan to his country
last week, and it was necessary
to impose heavy security plea-
sures to. assure his safety, since
Captain Westerling’s “army”
was in the offing and apparently
monarch of almost anything he
cared to survey.
Exactly what was afoot in
Pakistan during Soekarno’s
visit is not known, but there
seems to have been some sort of
discussion about mutual security
in progress. Three days after
the “Indernesian” comrade’s re-
turn home President Nehru said
that “Pakistan seemed to be
planning to resort to war over
its differences with India,” a
pronouncement which a few
years ago would have been set
under eight-column headings* in
the sensational Press, some of
which, being now bomb-struck,
scarcely mentioned the matter at
all.
Nehru declared that, irrespec-
tive of what Pakistan might do,
“India would not wage war un-
less she was attacked,” and that
day Pakistan lifted its ban
against South Africans in its
territory—a ban which is to be
maintained by the Indians —and
racial riots broke out in Cal-
cutta on a large scale, an
ominous portent in the present
state of relationships.
Soekarno evidently went to
Pakistan with its Moslem nature
in view and not without pur-
pose. The situation in the
Indias is not happy, and the
further away Australia keeps
from their problems at this stage
the better.#
Report on the Atom.
“Ek Dum”: A “Government
report,” otherwise described as
a “study,” has been released
which estimates the defence pos-
sibilities against the atom-bomb.
The report is stated by the
Press to have “discounted the
popular conception that Ameri-
can cities would take a bomb
attack better than Japanese cities
because they are less flimsily
built.” This is sheer rubbish, as
was clearly proved by what hap-
pened to concrete buildings in
Hiroshima as compared with the
fate which befel the
flimsier types the
only one within 250
yards of the blast
which could be
called a modernly
constructed building
even in a modified
sense is still there
and in use. The
Commerce Building,
over which the bomb
burst and which was
stripped, was a poor
thing, a striking example of
Japanese structural rubbish.
However, the report says that
“in general it is assumed that
the damage within a radius of
half a mile of an atomic blast
would be so severe as to make
protection of above-ground
facilities impractical within that
area.” Almost the same could
be said of half a dozen modern
bombs of more conventional ex-
plosive type which are manufac-
turable today at a fraction of
the cost of the atom-bomb.
The report recommends
“multi-storied reinforced con-
crete buildings designed to
withstand pressures of 901 b. to
the square foot on the sides and
701 b. per square foot from
above,”
Reports from official sources
upon the atom-bomb and obser-
vation of its results in Japan
give curious variations of
opinion.
It must always be remembered
that a nation which possesses a
new weapon which extensive use
has not evaluated makes the
most of it to frighten potential
enemies—this was the case with
the bomber before World War II
and with the tank by Germany
in the early years of the war
when it became the delusion of
the daily Press that anybody
with a few pieces of armor (and,
of course, the genius of Hitler
or Stalin behind them) could
tear through anything at will.
The main need in regard to
all these weapons is to see them
in proper perspective. The
atom-bomb is certainly a hor-
rible weapon. It particularly has
dreadful implications for coun-
tries like Australia, which herd
the bulk of their people into
closely-packed, pleasure-seeking
cities, some of them civicly the
worst-organised in the civilised
world. But atom-bombs are not
irresistible against various forms
of defence, the best of which sere
based on modern detection
systems and precautions against
the delivery of bombs, and popu-
lar conceptions of them do not
destroy the need for conven-
tional defence measures on a
maximum scale.
The spring cruise of the
British Home Fleet is on, a very
different affair from those of
the old time. The stately battle-
ship has almost disappeared off
the seas. The flagship is the
aircraft-carrier Implacable and
the C.-in-C. Admiral Sir Philip
Vian, who commanded the big
aircraft-carriers in the Pacific
with the R.A.N.’s present active
squadron commander, Rear-
Admiral Eccles, as his flag-
captain. ' There are 22 ships
only in the Home Fleet these
days.


UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHINA LOOKING SOUTH.,
Insisting that what the Wes-
tern side should be worrying
about is not so much the short-
term as the long-term aspect
of things in China, London
“Economist” notices “an un-
pleasant shape of things to
come” gradually emerging in
Chinese foreign policy.
It sees the Chinese Com-
munists taking over the Jap role
in Asia, including the drive
south, with full Moscow
approval.
Some of its views on this
Communist threat seem rather
inconsistent in a paper which
had castigated Mr. Menzies
for preparing to implement his
definite electioneering promise
to curb the Moscow conspiracy
in Australia. Also, it uses
“Australian trade-unions” some-
what sweepingly in the follow-
ing comment, but its meaning is
clear enough, and the account
and analysis of what was, of
course, purely a Communist
briefing conference is specially
interesting:
“The Peking conference of
Asian and Australasian trade-
unions has already marked out
the main lines on which Chinese
Communist activity is to de-
velop ....The Chinese Com-
munists, as hosts of the confer-
ence and paragons of successful
revolution, read homilies to their
guests, and fraternal delegates
from the Soviet Union and
European countries did honor to
the great occasion. The confer-
ence declared its support for the
‘national liberation’ forces in
Burma, Malaya, Indonesia,
Indo-China hnd the Philippines
and decided to set up a
permanent liaison bureau and
secretariat, which, as one of the
delegates explained, would serve
as a ‘general staff’ for all the
Communist - led revolutionary
movements in the region of the
world covered by the confer-
ence. In fact, the Far East now
has its Cominform”:
“What is most striking in the
new ‘Chinese Cominform’ pro-
gramme is that it is to be ap-
plied over a region in which the
Chinese imperial monarchy
formerly held a kind of para-
mount position, and in which
large Chinese communities have
been built up in modern times
by emigration from China, It is
also the region which, in the
abortive Japanese plan for
‘Greater East Asia,’ was to have
been completely separated from
all contact or connection with
the West and included, together
with China, in a bloc of States
under Japanese hegemony. The
propaganda against ‘Anglo-
America,’ which poured forth
from Tokyo only fivt years ago,
has now been taken over, some-
times in identical phrases, by
Communist China, and with it
the basic idea of ‘Greater East
Asia,’ though in the new version
the hegemony will be not Japan’s
but China’s.”
The Chinese Communists, in
return for their acceptance of
a treaty position in Manchuria
which was not of their making,
have the support of the Russian
bloc for a forward policy in the
south.
Further, “the Communist
technique is the one which
promises the best returns on a
very small capital of national
military power. China remains
extremely weak in modern in-
dustry and heavy armaments,
and the Communists, with all
their energy, have little prospect
of substantially altering this
state of affairs for a- long time.
There is no danger in the near
future of Chinese fleets and
armies following the Japanese
path of conquest to the Bay of
Bengal or the Timor Sea. But
Communist methods of subver-
sive propaganda and intrigue,
with the infiltration of armed
bands, might have great success
against weak or vacillating op-
position in a region already full
of disorder and unrest. This is
the ideal mode of expansion for
a nation which lacks real mili-
tary strength but can bring to
bear politically the mass weight
of a population of 400,000,000,
the prestige of a traditional
ascendancy and the glamor of a
revolutionary gospel.”
In any Chinese expansion to
the south the overseas Chinese
would be the natural instrument
of policy, the “Economist” sur-
vey stated. It added;
“From the indications given
by the Peking conference the
operational area of Chinese
Communism will comprise all
the countries of south-east Asia:
that is to say, Burma, Siam,
Indo-China, the Philippines,
Malaya and Indonesia, and there
will be links with the Com-
munist part ies of Australia to
the south and India t 0 t h e west ”
o- p • h never had
interest in anv of the
any <aireci , j . TV
countries involvedm this south-
ward offensive it may well be
that the Kremlin will be con-
tent to allow China more-or-less
a free hand in a part of the world
where Chinese action can be
extremely embarrassing and
dangerous for the Western
nations without interfering with
countries which Moscow regards
as being within its own sphere,
I n talk about the prospects of
Titoism in China, it is generally
assumed that all satellites must
be treated alike by the Russians
without any degrees of depend-
ence. There have been signs
that they are willing to accept
from China a much looser form
°f attachment than is required
from the East European satel-
lites. Apart from the vast extent
remoteness of China, the
fact that the Chinese Com-
munists have had an army and
territory of their own for more
than 20 years and have taken the
principal cities of China by their
own efforts puts the Chinese in a
different category from all other
non-Soviet Communists.
“There may,” the “Econo-
mist” survey concludes, “be con-
flicts between Moscow and
Peking, and, if a serious heresy
were to arise, Russian possession
of Port Arthur would enable
the Kremlin at least to set up a
rival regime in Manchuria. But
for the present there is no de-
tectable heresy, and it looks as
if the Moscow-Peking Axis may
work about as well as did the
Berlin-Rome Axis.”
Kostov “Verbatim”
Report.
Extract from the “verbatim”
report of the Kostov trial, as
published in Sofia:
“In the dock stood Traycho
Kostov, the old, sly double-
crosser, the well-known Left-
sectarian and fractionalist, the
experienced agent-provocateur in
the service of the Bulgarian
Monarcho-Fascist police, the
active agent of the British In-
telligence, the closest collabora-
tor of the spy and traitor Tito,
the disgusting criminal and scum
who shamelessly tried to reject
his written confession given by
him during the investiga-
tion ”
On which specimen of Com.-
brand “verbatim” reporting of a
typical Com.-brand specimen of
“justice,” MiclTael Padev, in the
“Manchester Guardian,” com-
ments :
“There is not one word of
Rostov’s very skilful defence at
the beginning of the trial which
so infuriated and frightened the
prosecutor, the judges and the
‘defence’ counsel that, after less
than half an hour of it, the court
decided not to listen any more
ẃ
RUSSIA
—“Washington Post.”
“ CONFERENCE .”
to Rostov but to proceed with
the reading of his ‘written con-
fession’ [which, of course, Ros-
tov repudiated]. Throughout
the whole trial neither the prose-
cutor nor the defence counsel
dared even to mention Rostov’s
testimony in court or his plea of
not guilty,”
New Air Weapons.
As always happens with new
weapons in due course, the de-
fensive may be catching up with
the offensive in bombing war-
fare.
At any rate. General Sir
Frederick Pile, who was G.0.C.-
in-C., Anti-Aircraft Command
in Britain, 1939-45, gives
countenance to reports, emanat-
ing from different countries,
about one particular new air
weapon: a controlled projectile
which could be guided by radar
to a bomber, or even to another
rocket, and could destroy it in
the air.
“America,” says this
authority, “is now the great
home of development research
in these fields. Already the
Americans have fired a rocket
at 5200 miles an hour—a great
advance on the 3400 miles an
hour of the German V 2; and
quite recently the . U.S. Air
Force have tested a new wea-
pon, ‘Gaba,’ designed to seek
out and destroy enemy aircraft.
The Ryan Aeronautical Com-
pany of San Diego have an-
nounced a similar automatically-
controlled weapon, the ‘Fire
Bug.’
“No doubt all the problems
are not yet solved —defence of
the rocket apparatus from inter-
ference by jamming may pre-
sent difficulties—but the highest
authorities here [in Britain] con-
sider this aspect of the problem
soluble.”
Britain, he concludes, must
now “forget air defence as it was
known in 1944, and concentrate
on the perfection and produc-
tion, as well as the organisation,
of this potentially invaluable
weapon.”
Brabazon Debunk.
In some debunking of the
belief, widely held in Britain,
“that a large, lucrative market
for airliners is waiting to be ex-
ploited by anyone who can build
better commercial planes than
the Americans,” London “Daily
Telegraph’s” air correspondent,
Air-Commander L. G. S. Payne,
casts doubts on current British
experiments in that line.
Quoting the deputy-chairman
of 8.0.A.C. as describing the
giant Brabazon land-planes and
the Saunders-Roe flying-boats as
“national experiments unlikely to
fly in final form until 1953,” the
writer comments:
“Expenditure of nearly £2O
million on the development of
these planes has already been
approved. Nobody knows how
the costs can be ' recovered.
These huge planes will be ex-
ceedingly expensive to operate.
“All the bases required for the
Saunders-Roe flying-boats will
have to be provided by Britain.
Foreign nations have ceased to
use flying-boats for commercial
air services and are thus uninter-
ested in building civil bases for
them. 8.0.A.C. doubts whether
it can afford the £4OO per hour
which it has estimated will be
the cost of operating the
Brabazon.”
The Titoist Rift.
Not only the British Left has
been put into a dither by the
Tito-Stalin break; in France,
according to Maurice Moyal in
a London “Time and Tide”
article, it has played havoc
among the Corns themselves.
Among other “deviationist”
disruptions: “In spite of the op-
position of the French Polit-
buro, 42 French Communists
from Bordeaux went to Yugo-
slavia to see for themselves and
returned from the dissident Red
Mecca thoroughly convinced
that Tito has taken the right
path.”
The Communist rank-and-
filers, for their part, “are in-
creasingly prone to question
their passive obedience to Mos-
cow’s orders.”
Also, “Less and less are com-
rades willing to go out on the
streets and yell their heads off
against the Atlantic Pact or sell
party literature.”
The writer gives significant
figures on falling circulation of
Communist newspapers; “To
bolster their sagging circulation
such Communist weeklies as
‘Droit et Liberte’ are compelled
to organise ‘circulation drives’
with old-fashioned cash prizes
for those who overwhelmingly
exceed their selling quotas.
Nevertheless, according to the
party’s own statistics, the circu-
lation of its Press is steadily
dwindling. Of the Paris dailies,
‘L’Humanite’ has fallen by
150.000 to 250,000 within two
years, ‘Ce Soir’ by 135,000 to
265.000 and ‘Liberation’ by
100.000 to 150,000. Quite a few
provincial dailies, sueh as
‘Rouge-Midi,’ the leading Com-
munist mouthpiece in southern
France, and ‘Le Patriote de
Bastia,’ have had to cease pub-
lication altogether.”
Moreover, “The Titoist ele-
ments in France have already
established their own organ of
opinion, ‘Unite et Fraternite.’ ”
The writer further indicates a
possible addition to the general
purges:
“Maurice Thorez, general sec-
retary of the French Communist
party, was summoned to Mos-
cow and given a piece of the
Kremlin’s mind. Because of his
popularity with the rank-and-
filers he has been left in com-
mand, for to purge him would
have meant an open split in the
Communist ranks. But it is
rumored that his popularity will
be undermined by the usual Red
tactics of slanders and that he is
to be replaced in due time by
tough Laurent Casanova, nick-
named ‘Moscow’s Eye,’ the hid-
den boss of the French Com-
munist party and in command of
its ‘para-military’ forces.”
A purge definitely on in the
party aims at removing all
“Titoist, Trotskyite and police
infiltrators”; but, the report
concludes, “more than savage
denunciations against ‘neo-Fas-
cists, murderers and spies,
flunkeys of the Anglo-Saxon
imperialists’ will be needed to
Stop the internal decay that has
already set in.”
In Crowded Israel.
In a further article on the
curious hotpotch of Jewish
strains being thrown together m
Israel by the influx from many
very different countries, London
“Times’s” observant correspon-
dent at Tel Aviv adds this re-
vealing glimpse:
“If a stranger were to ride
through Israel today, the domin-
ant impression he would receive
would be of camps, and more
camps. The coastal strip would
strike him as one vast camp ana
every other person’he met won
be a recent arrival from P°l aI L’
India, Rumania or Chma.
would find old residents of more
than 50 countries, including
Ethiopians, an Eskimo, an
Red Indian.”
The “Times” man has furthe
recorded that in one of the imm
gration camps he visited recent
he found no fewer than 32
tries represented among
20,000 inmates. In the past
months tens of thousands ot
Oriental Jews of one sort an
another—Yemenites etc. ha
been crowding in ; these amoan
ing to as much as 57 per
of the total immigration m
period. t 0
About 600,000 have ye
come from North Africa (
eluding, cave-dwellers) and
Arab States; thousands m
from Persia, Afghanista
India. “Their hvmg sunda^
are generally P ltxfu LY: on poor,
their physical condition
but they are Jews return
home.” a dds,
With them, the report f
they bring many a s
which the obvious on s sucn p .
malaria, leprosy and oth t
cal diseases probably gi
least cause for anxiety- the
have no comprehe j sra eL
modern materialist m
Their language is Arabic,


Zrusubev
ST
i r>
n
■a. 1 *
■S2
■
A
9.
TO FfIDE QB s^n
CQ| BP/P°f‘
passcng cf
miaf ft
/
means
Your BCPA ticket not only provides luxury travel to America and
beyond, via the world's most colourful route—it also provider the
finest, fastest passage across the Pacific. In the sleeper-equipped,
300 m.p.h. DC-6, it's only 29 hours of restful flying to San Francisco.
It costs no more to travel to U.S.A. or England by BCPA—the only
sleeper service across the
Pacific.
Departures every Wednesday
and Saturday. Full informa-
tion and reservations from
your local travel agent or any
airline booking office. General
Agents: Trans-Australia Air-
lines. BCPA Head Office: 53
Martin Place, Sydney.
8 CPA
mranm
ffiufcdA J JsA&ne<J o&t.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO UNITED KINGDOM VIA U.S.A. OR CANADA
8CA.20.12
their customs and attitude to
life: —'
“To integrate them with Wes-
tern Jews will be difficult. There
has long been a large Oriental
Jewish community in Palestine,
but they have generally remained
in tight patriarchal circles
divorced from the life of the
Tel Aviv pavements. If this
division remains it will threaten
the nation’s unity. If they mix
with the Westerners the socio-
logical, spiritual and physical
results will be unpredictable.”
The Oriental Jew “is a good
worker,” and will replace the de-
parted Arab as a field worker.
“His different values and outlook
cannot be ignored, however, and
it is admitted that he will
do much to increase the ener-
vating effect which the hot
climate has already had on the
imported Western social struc-
ture.”
Despite all that, the immigrant
ships, 15 of them flying the
Israeli flag, continue to dis-
embark their passengers, of
whom nearly 350,000 have
arrived since the creation of the
State, bringing the Jewish popu-
lation up to more than 1,000,000.
Another 150,000 will arrive this
year. Even so, “the present
overwhelming waves will be as
ripples in 1951 and 1952 if the
four-year programme to in-
crease the original Jewish popu-
lation of 640,000 to 2,000,000 is
to be completed.”
After a detailed analysis of
the various general problems—
economic and suchlike—which
the Israelis have to overcome, the
correspondent summed up;
“To the Zionist the prospects
of attracting to Israel more than
half of world Jewry are bright;
the emptying of Europe, North
Africa and the Arab countries
will increase the population be-
yond 2,000,000; the small but
steady trickle from the United
States, the Commonwealth and
South America is slowly increas-
ing, and about 3000 families are
due to leave Britain soon. It is
confidently believed that within
a generation Israel’s. population
can be expanded from a national
vanguard to the Jewish nation
and, given the necessary supply
ot willing immigrants, and per-
haps a recrudescence of anti-
Semitism, the attempt to achieve
mis nationalist’s dream will cer-
tainly be made. What the reper-
cussions will be in terms of
economic turmoil, human misery
d increasing pressure against
ne confining frontiers is un-
known. Only one thing is cer-
tain ; the creation of the State
of Israel will prove to be only
one stage in the struggle for
Jewish national identity.”
Some further idea of the job
ahead in that struggle is given
by a special correspondent of the
“Scotsman” (Edinburgh), report-
ing from Tel Aviv that actually
there are two distinct Israels—
that of the 700,000 old settlers
and that of the 350,000 new im-
migrants. In “the twin cities of
Jaffa and Tel Aviv”—the former
inhabited by nearly 50,000 new-
comers and the latter mainly by
a quarter of a million pre-1948
immigrants—the difference is
as substantial today as it was
during the British Mandate,
when Tel Aviv was purely
Jewish and Jaffa exclusively
Arab.
“The Tel Avivian, though
critical and reformist, is politi-
cally fairly stable. Zionism is
his political background and
ethicaLaim, and he has confi-
dent in the new State. The
Jaffaite is critical, and many of
them want a revolution, Left or
Right, to liquidate the present
regime and make conditions
tolerable.’ Despair and disillu-
sionment are his past and a
nerve-wrecking uncertainty his
future,”
And, the ‘Scotsman” corres-
pondent adds, the differences
apply even more forcibly outside
the big cities. “An even more
striking contrast can be drawn
between the 100,000 camp-
dweilmg new immigrants, among
whom the neurotic, anti-social
element is particularly strong,
old settlers in the
Kibbutzim (agricultural com-
munes) with their stability and
public-mindedness. ”
Altogether the welding and
job, if they bring it off,
will be an outstanding accom-
plishment in nation-making.
U.S. Communists
Shaken.
, Especially since the convict-
ing of the 11 leading Corns on
charges of conspiracy to over-
throw the Government by force,
the Soviet’s fifth-column in the'
U.S. is reported to be very much
“on the run.”
Thus a New York corres-
pondent of London “Daily
Telegraph” has reported;
“There are indications that the
party itself is thoroughly shaken
by the success of F. 8.1. agents
in penetrating its ranks, as re-
vealed during the long trial of
its leaders [the “plants” the
F. 8.1, worked into the Corns’
outfits all over the country]. A
purge of ‘unreliable’ members is
reported to be under way, and
the cell system is being tightened
up so that non-executive mem-
bers will only know the identities
of the small circle of their fel-
lows.”
But while Communism in the
U.S. is definitely on the defen-
sive, in the correspondent’s
view it is far from conquered,
and remains an ugly potential,
“An economic recession would
enable it to regain lost ground
and emerge as an efficient fifth-
column.”
Russia in China.
In the spate of optimism, wish-
ful thinking or churchyard
whistling over the way things
LP^J
ẅ
—Birmingham “News.”
“WHERE THE ROAD DIVIDES ."
will now work out in China,
“Washington Post” has come up
with a notion which at least has
the merit of being based on the
definite Russian characteristic
of apparently incurable clumsi-
ness.
It suggests that the Russians
might very easily “overplay their
hand.” In this assessment it in-
cludes Chinese as well as Rus-
sian psychology, and also past
experience:
“There are such things as pub-
lic opinion and a sense of his-
tory in China. In their race-
memory the Chinese are aware
of Russian aggression the
seventeenth-century loss of the
rich and immense Amur Valley
abutting upon Manchuria. This
memory will be revived by the
spotlight that has been put on
the Russian hand in Manchuria,
and, one day or other, an irre-
dentism is bound to develop at
Russia’s expense.
“There is a memory, too, of
1927. In that year the Russians,
then backing Chiang Kai-shek
and his fellow-travelling Kuo-
mintang, went too far and over-
night found themselves extruded
from influence and running for
their lives.”
Also, “the Chinese are any-
thing but puppets—and a day of
reckoning may be dawning for
those whom the Chinese think
of as ‘barbarians from outside
the wall.’ ”
Dentists Doing Well.
Everything in the garden seems
lovely for dentists, but not so
good for doctors, under Britain’s
“free” health scheme, according
to specimen figures on its first
year’s working quoted by Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph”:
In the Lothians and Peebles
area the doctors’ average pay-
ment was £2482; the dentists’
£4455.
At Bolton 50 dentists received
£137,898—£2757 each—and 106
doctors received £137,518 —£1297
each.
In Glasgow average dental
remuneration was £3746 and that
of doctors £1340.
Practice expenses have to be
paid out of these amounts —50
per cent, for dentists and 35 per
cent, for doctors. These deduc-
tions would bring the Glasgow
figures, for instance, down to
£1873 and £B7l respectively.
One great advantage the
dentists have is that they still
earn from private practice; for
doctors private practice has
virtually disappeared.
“Moreover, hard as dentists
are working, doctors have a 24-
hour responsibility for their
patients.”
Dragnet Digest.
Socialist Totalitarianism.—Vow far
Britain has gone along the totalitarian
road of Socialism, as surveyed by
London “Time and Tide”: “The cry
[in Britain] was ‘lt can’t happen here’
and is now ‘lt hasn’t happened here.’
If by ‘it’ is meant the sudden coup
d etat, the clamping-down on a help-
less people of an authoritarian regime
backed by a secret police, it certainly
has not yet happened here. Nor is
it likely to as long as less violent
and more overt means can be success-
fully employed to the same ends.
But what has happened already is
surely significant enough. Has not
the last barrier of Single Chamber
government been virtually swept
away? Are we not ruled in our
day-to-day existence by a mass of
delegated legislation over which Par-
liament has only the remotest form of
control? What degree of influence
has the people, through Parliament,
over the conduct of the basic indus-
tries taken over in its name? In the
answers to these questions can be
seen how far we have travelled along
the totalitarian road.”
'** * *
Dwindling Diplomats. London
“Observer” comment: “The satellite
Communist Governments must be
finding it increasingly difficult to
staff their London legations. As soon
as they recall their diplomats here,
the latter promptly resign—not sur-
prisingly, since those who return tend
to be arrested immediately on charges
of ‘associating with the West.’ ” The
report adds that the Hungarian
Minister in London has lost four of
his key men in the last six months.
Regarding these and the rest: “Few
of the diplomats who have resigned
or returned have been replaced. The
difficulty is that doubtful Communists
cannot be sent abroad and reliable
ones won’t go, for fear of incurring
excommunication.”
* * * *
Indials Communism. Reporting
that sporadic Communist terrorism
was widespread throughout India
during the past year, a London
“Daily Telegraph” special correspon-
dent makes the point that while there
has, as yet, been no mass movement
in favor of the Communists, it is
equally true to say that there has
been no mass resistance to them.
The Communists, he added, “are
banking on such a breakdown of
economic and administrative life as
would enable them to launch a
general movement among the masses,
rural as well as urban. They base
their hopes on the chronically un-
favorable trade balance of the present
Indian economy, and on its annual
deficit of food.”
* * * *
Soviet Slaves. —Referring in one of
his London “Daily Telegraph” series
of articles to the various estimates
of the number of Soviet “forced
or slaves, former American
Ambassador in Moscow Gen. Bedell
Smith has stated: “My own esti-
mate, after examining all possible
sources, is that the strength of the
entire involuntary labor force is equal
to about 8 per cent, of the total
population of the Soviet Union; that
is, about 15,000,000.” Moreover,
those who survive the “wretchedness,
poor food, coarse living conditions,
hard, exhausting work, rigid disci-
pline and an extremely high death-
rate” are far from welcome back to
the fold, but “are usually sent to
live in one of the more remote areas
of the Soviet Union.... Rarely is a
former ‘politically dangerous’ exile
allowed to return to life in any of
the larger cities.”
* * * *
Russia in Europe. —Noting that the
Russians have now been in Eastern
Europe for over four years; that the
Red Army still stands where it
stopped in 1945 in Eastern Germany
and Austria, in Poland, Hungary and
Rumania, along the Danube and the
Elbe, London “Times” expresses the
view that that might not be altogether
in accord with Kremlin wishes: “To
some extent the Soviet Government
is itself the victim of its own policy.
Fear of the Western Powers, the
dreadful logic of Stalinism, the
crudity of Russian methods and the
nagging suspicions which afflict all
tyrants may have driven the Soviet
leaders farther than they meant to
go.” Perhaps so; or perhaps the
‘Times” has been reading too many
of its own reports of defending
counsels’ addresses to the jury in
murder trials.
* * * *
Worried Czechs. —As a further
example of the British Left disillusion-
ment over Russian imperialism in
action, “New Statesman” writer
Alexander'Werth has reported from
Prague that there is a widespread dis-
like of the Communist regime in
Czechoslovakia. He noted it among
the remnants of the middle class, the
intellectuals and the lower-grade civil
servants, whom the regime is trying
to “proletarianise,” and even among
some sections of the working class.
“Many of the younger people of the
middle class were almost enthusiastic
about the novelty of it all a year
ago; much less so now. All these
compulsory meetings, all these
Marxist-Leninist lectures, the rewrit-
ing of Czech history, in which
Masaryk and Benes are made to look
like ‘class enemies’ —all this is a con-
stant irritation.” However, he adds
that, as with all regimes, there are
hundreds of thousands of people
who have a vested interest in the
system.


LOOK YOUR BEST!
v.v ■ •••:•
m.
I Sn
-*
Style
ẃ
Everywhere you hear men praising
the superb quality, style and smart
appearance of Akubra Hats.
Made from the finest of pure fur,
your Akubra retains its “New Look”
and colour throughout its long, all-
weather life.
F,or comfort, style and quality, wear
Akubra the choice of all well-
dressed men.
AKUBRA
FASTEST AIR ROUTE
FROM SYDNEY TO
SB
x>n
Safe
C^C
A ’) X-
wsshr
mL^%
w
SSf*
?OcC
,'L-'-i
V
&s&
Vv
r «
0J&
*.VCtV«
S 3
ccct.
£c
atw
S3*
HONG KONG
LABUAN
DARWIN
SYDNEY
Shortest, quickest air route to
Hong Kong is by Q.E.A. Ser-
vice via Sydney, Darwin and
Labuan. Comfortable Sky-
masters operate on a regu
schedule-fly you there in U»
than 2 days from Sydney.
First-class steward service-
excellent meals served in the air.
Enquire now from your local travel
agent, or
M
Q ANT AS EMPIRE
in association with British Overseas
AIRWAYS
Airways Corporate
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“She swung her arms and I looked
at the gloves which covered her
hands. ‘Cow are you?’ asked Harry.”
—“Daily Mirror ” short story.
All right, old horse.
•I* HE* *l*
“Treloar was satisfied to hear a
light meai at the ordinary time in the
ordinary way.” —Sydney “Sun.”
It was sound preparation for
his race.
•J* *!" •}•
“Princess Kazuko, second daughter
of Emperor Hirohito, has been be-
trothed to a £9-a-month clerk.”
Nine pounds a month, plus a
royalty.
* * *
Most women today' revel in
the fact that they have no visible
means of support.
Good Australians wish
that Roach, Communist
assistant-secretary of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, would
take his hook.
+ + +
“Models wanted. We are still
looking for ladies with busts from
56 to 66 inches to pose for our
fashion photographer.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.’''
For “pose” read “adipose.”
4* 4* 4*
“Women who have lost their looks
often become negative.”
—Beauty article.
Yet have fewer opportunities
of saying “no.”
“Refined man, pensioner, wants
furn. er unfurn. room or board,
very quite.” —Suburban paper.
Just too too, in fact.
"We're not on electric —could We have it converted
for gas ?”
“Remnants fascinate practically
every woman.” — Woman’s paper.
They simply go to pieces at a
bargain sale.
A Woman’s Long Suit.
w
D.H.E.
No Point in It.
ŵ
BERT.
Too Bad.
ẁ
JEAN STANGER.
The Poet Explains.
I wiped away the weeds and foam.
The poet mentioned that it was
to be distinctly understood that
this was a barmaid talking. One
of her customers, it appeared,
had sneezed just as he was mak-
ing a cigarette and the precious
weed had landed on the bar-
counter among the spilled suds,
so she got busy with her cloth.
Had it been one of her cus-
tomers speaking the foam would,
of course, have been blown
away.
In winter I get up at night
And dress by yellow candle-light.
The poet says that in this
couplet only one explanation is
possible. The gent, referred to
obviously resides in an area
served by the Sydney County
Council Electricity Undertaking.
During a dull day early in win-
ter the extra load on the plant
caused a breakdown at Bun-
nerong to a boiler that had been
in service for 27 years. All the
maintenance men went on strike
because the shift boss didn’t say
“If you wouldn’t mind, sir,”
when asking one of them to
work on the boiler, and they re-
fused to return unless they got a
24-hour week, free beer at
morning and afternoon smoke-
ohs and quadruple time for all
shift-work. The poet meant it
to be taken for granted that
blackouts would last throughout
the winter as usual.
And shall Trelawney die?
Here's twenty thousand Cornishmen
Will know the reason why.
According to his butler, the
poet intended this to infer that
the 20,000 Cousin Jacks, on
being apprised of the dread news
about Trelawney, immediately
went deathly pale. Hence the
term Cornish pasties.
And then he drew a dial from his
poke
And looking on it with lack-lustre
eye
Says very wisely “It is ten o’clock.”
The explanation is much more
simple than appears at first sight.
The fellow referred to in the
poem had been allowed by his
wife to go to his lodge-meeting
strictly on the understanding that
he must be home no later than
half-past ten. After having per-
formed his mysterious rites,
heard and told a few yarns, the
treasurer chatted him about
coughing-up for his dues. Pre-
tending to look for the notes he
knew weren’t in the wallet he
had taken from his pocket he
happened to see the photo of his
wife, which she insisted he
■always carry with him. The
sight of that forbidding visage
brought him to sharp realisa-
tion ; glancing at his wrist-
watch he saw it was 10 o’clock,
and he’d have to bolt if he was
to save himself an ear-bashing
until the small hours.
She knows her man, and when you
rant and swear
Can draw you to her with a single
hair.
Not her own, as Dryden has
assured us. Her hair is auburn ;
the one on his coat-collar is a
honey-blonde, and he had been
working back. She was draw-
ing him to her for an explana-
tion.
A babe in the home is a well-spring
of pleasure.
The poet was stone-deaf.
Books cannot always please, however
good.
The poet has cynically re-
marked on the side that what
with dopings, half the field “on
the ice ” crook tips and hickey-
hocks with' a pair of wrists like
Samson boasted, any punter who
expected the books to please by
joyously paying-up after the
race was an even bigger mug
than he was for going to the
races at all. The good, as ap-
plied to the books, would be
considered those who in a field
of 16 offered six to one bar four.
How fleet the dreaded hours speed
on!
The hours referred to, the
poet explains, are those immedi-
ately preceding the 70 hours of
muzzled pre-bdllot-box silence
for Press and radio imposed by
that champion of democratic
freedom, James (“Blackout”)
McGirr, so that there can be no
last-minute comment on his
brilliant effort in failing by only
a bare 50,000 to reach his
promised target of 90,000 houses.
BO.
Finesse.
“With the young moderns love is
becoming a battle of wits, particu-
larly before marriage.”
— Women’s paper.
Her loveliness was such that he
Fell easy victim to her
charms.
And, being a tactician, she
Was soon enfolded in his
arms.
He, too, exploited love’s deceit
What time she exercised her
wiles.
Her constant thought the shelf
to cheat;
His aim, of course, to win her
smiles.
Then came the rift within the
lute;
Their idyll ceased at wed-
lock’s brink.
Which proves that while the lass
was cute
The lad was cunning, don’t
you think ?
P. O.M.C.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
Jackson & O’Sulliva
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating?
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Pnnterj, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
‘ M TmsBANr TO,u “
AT «EDNEr, LONDON, NEW YOI
“rasmss & OFFSET PRINTER
IJTH ©GRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND ukottpi
OPERATORS
«TEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
D STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
pr ocess engravers
VELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CAXTON MANUFACTURERS
stereotypers
Eulers, bookbinders
gold blockers
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
crea tors and
ELLORS : ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
**"**" AND OFFI CE EQUIPMEN
and twines
Telegrams and Cables
iacksul,” Brisbane
f* N B eW B Controls
RUPTURE
swSmJSTS-
method P o?rn^ rer ? L an entirely
years' practice ,^ 1 ’ ■ the result of
Kt “St
&■ “°» b “b e .r «* «-
Intestine in “°[ t^ nents . hold the
FRE E LITERATURE.
ẅ
M.
•JCSI
n
m
rS
es
5?
~X.ll''
H
-4^
\
\
id
V
rtf?
r:
To mark those occasions
when charm, perfection
and easy confidence are
the keynote, nothing could
be more in keeping
than a cigarette bearing
the hallmark of
Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London —
when only the best will do.
VI APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
B MAJESTY mt KING
w. 0.8
In
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BmsowZj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
An attendance of 33,300 and tote
turnover of £145,155 at Randwick
on Saturday were surprising figures
for such a bleak and rainy afternoon.
Hbwever, all was not gloom. The
racing was excellent, with several
rattling close finishes keeping the
camera-operators on the move, and
nearly all winners were well in the
market.
Of several solid performances
noted, that of the Derby winner
Playboy in winning the mile Three-
year-old Handicap was easily out-
standing—an auspicious opening of
his campaign for the autumn classics.
Punters rightly summed up the race
as between Playboy (6 to 4) and
Elusive (4 to 1). Connections of
both took advantage of the 71b.
allowance for apprentice riders, Play-
boy, with J. Doyle up, carrying 9.4,
while A. Markland reduced Elusive’s
burden to Bst. The two fancied can-
didates raced together most of the
trip. Up till the half-mile they were
among the tailenders and were still
a good way back entering the straight.
At the Leger, however, Elusive found
a passage and streaked away; young
Doyle was forced then to switch the
favorite to the outside, but, riding
out a desperate finish, he got up to
beat Elusive by the shade of a nostril.
A big chestnut and a typi-
cal son of The Buzzard, Playboy
looked a picture before the race—a
credit to his owner-trainer, T. J.
Smith. A comparative youngster
among the training fraternity, Smith
bought Playboy as a yearling more or
less “on spec,” and was left with the
colt on his hands when none of his
patrons saw fit to buy. A stroke of
luck indeed; Playboy’s first win was
the £lO,OOO A.J.C. Derby.
One comparative rough ’un came
home when Hesdin made an exhibi-
tion of the opposition in the mile
Glenfield Handicap; the Agincourt
gelding started at nines, with five of
the eight other runners at shorter
odds, which is a fair comment on
the sort of prices offered by Sydney
bookies. Jockey B. Smith, on Hes-
dm, virtually won the Glenfield with
an exceptionally smart bit of work
at the barrier. Hesdin seemed to
gam a full length’s break on the field
as the tapes rose, and within a fur-
long or so he was several lengths
clear. Hesdin held the lead to the
finish; favorite Beau Robert (a gay
deceiver with many convictions to his
discredit) came home moderately well
but without looking a danger, and
the complete outsider Doughnut hung
on surprisingly well for third money
—a performance suggesting that he
might be able to pick up a minor
middle-distance handicap in the near
future.
Winning the Ingleburn Juvenile
(6f.) very easily on the equal-favorite
Ocean Prince, apprentice S. Cassidy
was treated to an example of the
fickle punter in full cry. The
youngster was cheered to the echo as
he returned to scale; a week or so
previously he had been verbally torn
to shreds for losing by a neck on the
same horse. As any older rider can
tell him, Cassidy wifi become familiar
with such phenomena if he continues
long in the game. Ocean Prince made
every post a winner, and had a couple
of lengths in hand at the finish, being
followed home by Rumyle and Aristo-
crat. In the Collingwood Nursery
(fillies) punters also had things pretty
well summed up with Ragazza (W.
Briscoe), Even Flow, Niaranga and
Fine Girl figuring in that order in the
betting and passing the post accord-
ingly.
* * * «
Prominent features of Saturday’s
racing at Flemington were the suc-
cesses of Chicquita, Achilles, Baldur
and True Course, all of them favor-
ites, and the excellent riding per-
formance of W. Williamson, who
landed three winners and secured
minor placings in the other four
events.
Surely more suitable races could
be found for such an outstand-
ing filly as Chicquita than the
mile Gooparle Highweight which she
contested on Saturday. Chicquita,
who has now won nine raCes from
11. starts, carried topweight of 9.10
and had to fight out a gruelling finish
before winning narrowly from Sunny-
}and, a four-year-old carrying only
21b. above the minimum. Sheer
gameness won for Chicquita, who
came again and again when seem-
ingly beaten. It was a splendid per-
formance to watch, but must have
taken far more out of her than the
prizemoney justified.
* P 1? former Sydney performer
Achilles heartened those who have
fancied him for the Newmarket, when
he just got up in the last few strides
to head Spitfire out of first money in
the six-furlongs Paddock Handicap.
Spitfire, a four-year-old daughter of
Hostile, showed a nice turn of speed
in leading right until collared on the
post, but she was carrying only 7.11.
Achilles lumped 9.2 —101 b. more than
his Newmarket impost; and he was
spotting weight to some pretty nippy
customers.
Achilles was one of Williamson’s
treble. As well he won a brace of
two-year-old events. Punters followed
the handicapper’s lead in the juvenile
races; the topweights for each going
out favorite. In the Criterion Handi-
cap for fillies the opinion was justi-
fied, True Course with 8.12 winning
comfortably from Harmonia and Lady
Pherozshah. The Stanhope Handicap
for colts, however, saw Williamson’s
mount, Flying Halo, with 9.3, win by
a half-head from the popular elect
King Richard, who was giving the
winner 11b. True Course is a daughter
of Midstream and Flying Halo a son
of St. Magnus.
Bringing a touch of unaccustomed
consistency to the distance handicaps
which are so often a snare for Mel-
bourne punters, the Helios four-year-
old Baldur (R. Hutchinson) made it
three in a row when he dished
Manakau and Rimfire in the 13-
furlongs Brookside Handicap. All
round, results on Saturday gave the
handicapper cause for self-satisfac-
tion. The Brookside was another
case of topweight and second-top-
weight fighting out the finish, and
Baldur, in receipt of lib., got there by
a half-neck. Rimfire’s third was the
Melbourne Cup winner’s first symp-
tom of form for some time.
A couple of three-year-old events
gave bookmakers their only really
good results of the day, but one
thorough skinner makes ample
amends to the Ring for a pile
of winning favorites. Landgale
(G. Bilney), taking the 10-furlongs
Fentona Handicap at 14 to 1, had
his quota of supporters, but most
bookmakers’ ledgers showed nary an
entry against the Felcrag colt Ben
Crag (W. A. Smith), who won the
Iramoo Handicap (7f.) at 66 to 1.
One lady punter—it would be a lady
—was reported to have collected over
£9OO for some tote tickets on Ben
Crag, which she bought in error and
tried desperately but in vain to palm
off on to someone else.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Nursery (fillies): Fair Diana, 1;
Dolphin, 2; Fine Girl, 3. Nursery
(colts and geldings): Navigate, 1;
Ocean Prince, 2; Gallant Leader, 3.
Maiden Handicap: Lord Byron, 1;
Teleprint, 2; Annabel Lee, 3. Bur-
wood Mixed: Boyscreet, 1; King
Lear, 2; Parlona, 3. Frank Under-
wood Cup: Playboy, 1; Wearie, 2;
Ballroom, 3. Flying: Penmore, 1;
Hesdm, 2; Pantomime, 3. Welter:
Bold Archer, 1; Bubille, 2; Ad-
metus, 3.
_*. * * *
. Those interested in sport have
already been regaled through the
daily Press with all the facts and
a fair quota of fiction re the Empire
Games. To record here in full detail
the splendid efforts of Australia’s
representatives is not possible, but
the score adds up to a record
to be proud of. And it’s a
record which makes pretty shameful
the recollection of the scratching and
scraping in which the various sporting
bodies had to indulge before contriv-
ing to raise at the finish still only
four-fifths of the cash needed to
“I Wanna enter fer yer knockout competition
send our team. Tempering that
view is the thought of the money
chucked away (as it was at the last
Olympic Games) in sending an eight-
man water-polo team. The water-
poloists had one solitary opponent
courteously provided by the host-
country, New Zealand, and interest in
the event was confined to the players.
Briefly, Australia absolutely domi-
nated the field-and-track events (albeit
a bit disappointing in the longer runs),
made almost a clean sweep of the
rowing and sculling, took a fair share
of the swimming, three wrestling
titles, four cycling events and, some-
what surprisingly, a fencing title
Total: 34 firsts, 27 seconds and 19
thirds for 175 premiership points.
Next-best was England with 19 wins,
15 sec 9 n ds and 13 thirds, yielding
100 points, followed by New Zea-
™ f ,10 wins, 21 seconds and 21
thirds for 93 points.
, To essay to nominate the outstand-
ing athlete of the Australian con-
tingent would be sticking out one’s
.1° O l ® niercy of a host of
differing enthusiasts. Conceding that
there are many with a claim,
two who stand out are Marjorie
Jackson and sculler Merv Wood. Miss
Jackson’s past victories over Fanny
Blankers-Koen and her own team-
mate Shirley Strickland, plus her three
world-record-equalling runs at the
Games, provide a fair argument that
she is the best woman sprinter in the
world today. Merv Wood, who took
the single sculls at the Games and
with M. Riley the double-sculls, is
proven and undisputed world cham-
pion at his game.
* * * *
After a light workout against
North Eastern Transvaal (beaten by
an innings and 165 runs) the Aus-
trahan tourists faced up for the
Fourth Test v. S’Africa at Jo’burg,
commencing on Friday last. A some-
what unique feature of the three
previous Tests had been that neither
side had altered its team, but with
the rubber crushingly decided, the
S’Afncans cast around for new talent
and brought in a string of new
players for the Fourth Test;
Excellent cricketer as he is, Aus-
tralian skipper Lindsay Hassett has
surely missed his vocation. He’d
make a fortune at two-up. One
glance at the most unpromising, soft,
green pitch at Jo’burg was quite
sufficient to inspire Hassett to win
the toss —for the third time in four
Tests. Batting first, the boys hit out
with a will. Openers Morris (111)
and Moroney (118) laid a rock-solid
foundation on to which Miller piled
84, Hassett 53, and Harvey was 56
n.o. when Hassett declared at eight
for 465. Hassett no doubt hoped to
bag a few South African wickets
cheaply in the failing light, but in this
he missed his guess. The S’African
openers Rowan and J. Nel looked
well dug-in with wickets intact and
77 on the board at stumps on Satur-
day.
* * * ♦
Reported from London that cricket
officials at The Oval propose to adopt
an Australian-type scoreboard for
next season. It will be surprising
if one doesn’t still have to
buy an official programme before
being able to decipher the board. In
this cunning practice lies one of the
English clubs' main sources of in-
come.
* * * *
Once again the N.S.W. lawn-tennis
people had stiff luck with the weather
at the weekend, but, between showers,
managed to complete a programme
which saw the visiting American girls
beat the local pair four matches to
one. Mrs. Bolton hit top form to
beat Doris Hart in straight sets 7-5,
6-0, but after starting stylishly to take
the first set against Louise Brough
6-2, went to pieces and lost the re-
maining sets 1-6, 2-6. Also played
was the postponed final of the 1949
N.S.W. mixed-doubles title in which
Worthington and Mrs. Long beat
Bromwich and Miss Fitch 6-4, 6-2.
* * * *
Performed amidst much fanfare
and ceremony at the new U.N.O,
headquarters in New York last week,
the 1950 Davis Cup draw gives Aus-
tralia the same round of matches as
last year. First round v. Canada,
followed by a meeting with the winner
of Mexico v. Cuba; then, all going
well, it’s the winner of the European
Zone and so to the challenge round
v. U.S.A. set down to begin August
25, in New York.


-A
fit?
m
Your next move
for better prices, consign
AJM.L.&F. specialists handle your
wool skilfully from its arrival in
store to the fall of the hammer—
with greater returns and less worry
for you! There’s a network of
Branches throughout the pastoral
areas—consult the A.M.L.&F.
man at your nearest Branch
and get the best cheque possible
in any season!
87 Yean in the Service of the Man on the land.
your
to.
w
lac. in England, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic,: Wodonga, Korumburra.
‘ Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
**> :S ,
&**' ' m,!
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
ŵ
tm.
‘PHENOVIS 7
Phenothiazine Drench
ẁ
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
ICI
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
Grazcos"
Crossbred Cattle.
“Oxo”: U.S. Department of
agriculture, which since 1938
has been conducting a pro-
gramme for the development of
crossbred beef cattle, has come
to the general conclusion that
crossbreeding can be most
profitable where the producer is
able to crossbreed systemati-
cally, and either feeds his own
cattle or sells them direct to the
feeder.
Experiments at Montana re-
search - station were designed
primarily to determine types of
range cattle best suited to the
northern Great Plains region of
the U.S.A., an area with a 12in.
to 1 Sin. average annual rainfall.
The first cross was Shorthorn
bulls and Hereford cows, the
first-generation females being
then bred to purebred Aber-
deen-Angus bulls to produce the
second generation. The third
generation resulted from mating
purebred Hereford bulls to
second - generation females.
Generally the data obtained in-
dicated that the, average of the
crossbreds was better in every
characteristic than the average
performance of the purebreds
fed during the same year and
handled as nearly alike as pos-
sible.
Progeny of individual sires
among both purebreds and
crossbreds showed considerable
variation in rate of gain and
selling-price per 1001 b., while
certain progeny groups of pure-
breds excelled the performance
of crossbreds. There seemed to
be a great advantage in cross-
breeding from the female stand-
point, stated the report quoted
in “Pastoral Review.” The
crossbred females were excellent
range cows, high in fertility and
milk - production, with very
heavy calves at weaning-time.
The second- and third-genera-
tion calves seemed to profit as
much from the fact that they
were out of crossbred cows as
from being crossbreds them-
selves. The first - generation
crossbred and purebred cattle
sold for nearly the same price
per pound, but the crossbred
steers returned more above the
feed and marketing costs than
did the purebreds.
The crossbred cattle were
generally of a good type, and
finished well at 9001 b. live-
weight. The second-generation
crossbred cattle were signifi-
cantly heavier than the pure-
breds. The crossbreds sold at a
higher price per 1001 b., and be-
cause of their greater weight
they yielded a net return of 11
to 14 dollars more than the pure-
breds. The third-generation of
Shorthorn - Hereford - Aberdeen -
Angus crosses sold at one dollar
per 1001 b. more than purebred
cattle, and owing to the higher
selling-prices and greater weight
brought in 44 dollars more per
head than purebred animals in
1945-46 and 37 dollars more per
head than purebreds in 1946-47.
They yielded a net return of
about 33 dollars and. 21 dollars
more per head, respectively,
than the purebreds.
Mules or Manchester.
“Golden Fleece”: “Bunga-
ree” (B. 25/1/’5O) misses the
vital point, viz., that unlike all
other methods the Manchester
system gives 99 to 100 per cent,
immunity against strike without
resort to jetting or emtehing for
the whole remaining life of
sheep treated by this method. .
This has been proved time
and again by practical graziers
in all States, N.Z. and South
Africa, many of whom previ-
ously used the Mules method.
The enormous saving in man-
power and in jetting and crutch-
ing equipment over eight or
nine years, especially with big
flocks, is self-evident.
The tests referred to by
“Bungaree” were on a very
limited scale, whereas Queens-
land woolmen who treated up to
10,000 sheep during intensive
fly waves, using ordinary
station hands and boys, gave im-
munity for several years with-
out the death of a single sheep
as a result of the operation or
injury to operators (they use
gloves).
It is 15 years since Man-
chester introduced his method
at . Charleville, and leading
graziers have stated that, if it
had been made compulsory at
that time and continued since,
with intensive fly-trapping and
carcass - burning the menace
would now be overcome. Un-
fortunately it is getting worse
each year and threatens our
greatest industry.
Scientists had experimented
for 20 years without success
when in 1935 Manchester
argued that if the attractive-
ness to the fly of the breech
area, due to smell and other fac-
tors, could be overcome the
problem would be solved. He
therefore designed the bare
patch (2in. wide) and the tail
treatment. Dags and stained
wool in that area were elimi-
nated. Wool - classers and
shearers welcome it. It also im-
proves the general health of the
sheep and produces better lamb-
ing.
A New Haymaker.
“He-Ne”: Those who have
seen the new F.M.C. haymaker
at work say it will revolutionise
haymaking. The haymaker cuts
the crop and passes the hay be-
tween two steel rollers that
crack the hard stems, thus
allowing the moisture content to
be reduced in a matter of hours
instead of days. In a test the
machine cut Sudan-grass at 4
p.m., and this was baled the next
day. Lucerne was cut at 5 p.m.
and baled at 9 a.m. next day.
Grain sorghum was also fit for
baling a few hours after being
cut.
A deputation from the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion obtained a promise from
the Inter-departmental Dollar
Committee in Sydney that con-
sideration would be given to
allow the importation of another
five haymakers.
Cane-ploughing.
“BJ.L.” :> Most cane-farmers
dislike ploughing low - lying
ground before the heavy wet
“Bill's a goat runnin' like that — he's got blood-pressure."
season, preferring to leave the
previous season’s grass and
weeds to prevent washaways and
scouring. This means a double
growth of weeds, etc., has to
dealt with after the rains, en-
tailing twice the labor to plough-
in and requiring much longer
“rotting-time” before the next
ploughing.
A better method is to do the
break-up ploughing as soon as
possible, say, early November.
This kills out the old growth and
enables the soil to settle down
in readiness for the first showers,
which will produce a crop of
grass that will be sufficiently ad-
vanced to prevent erosion during
the wet season and not be
nearly as troublesome during the
autumn ploughing.
Care of Sick Animals.
“Rooster”: An animal may
be ailing without the owner
being aware of it simply because
only clinical observations will
prove it. Where there is any
doubt it is as well for the farmer
to know the use of the ther-
mometer and methods for check-
ing pulse and respiration.
A veterinary clinical ther-
mometer registers from 97 deg.
to 104 deg. F., being a little
larger than the type used for
human beings. Temperature is
taken by placing the thermome-
ter in the rectum and leaving it
there for three minutes. Certain
influences, however, must always
be allowed for; (1) In the morn-
ing the temperature is lower and
increases till the evening, when
it begins to fall again; (2) after
feeding or exercise it rises; (3)
after drinking it is lowered ; (4)
young animals generally have a
slightly higher temperature than
adult animals ; (5) illness causes
greatest variation some ail-
ments cause a rise, some cause a
fall. Before inserting the ther-
morheter always shake it and
moisten it with oil or water.
Most convenient place for
taking the pulse is at the jaw.
Press the tips of the first and
second fingers lightly against the
artery which runs round the
angle forming the base of the
jawbone. Pulses vary accord-
ing to different conditions ; in
healthy animals it should be
strong and regular. Increase of
pulse may be caused by excite-
ment, breeding, vigor and diges-
tion of food ; decrease indicates
sluggishness, poor breeding, old
age, exhaustion, excessive cold
or disease.
When both temperature and
pulse are abnormal note whether
the breathing is affected. Nor-
mally respiration is regular,
easy and full. Labored breath-
ing of the chest usually indi-
cates abdominal pains; labored
breathing at the flanks signifies
congestion of the lungs or
pneumonia. The rate of breath-
ing in young animals is faster
than in old, tending to increase
with strenuous work, hot
weather, large meals, etc. Res-
piration can be best determined
by counting the heavings of the
chest, each inhalation and ex-
halation counting as one respira-
tion.
Normal readings for horses
are temperature 100.4 deg. F.,
pulse 38 to 43 per minute,
respiration 8 to 12 per minute ;
cows, 101.3 degrees F., 50 to 60,
12 to 16; sheep, 103.0 degrees
F., 75 to 80, 20 to 30; pigs,
102.6 degrees F., 70 to 80, 20 to
30; dogs, 101.3 degrees F., 80
to 90, 15 to 25. Any marked
variations from these readings
can be taken as indicative of
disease or illness.
Lucerne-farming.
“K.Mc.”: Most of the lucerne
grown in Australia is grazed by
stock and walked off the pad-
docks as fat-lambs and vealers.
But there is good money in rack-
pressed choice green hay. Some
years ago a Mudgee (N.S.W.)
grower disclosed his returns from
75 acres thus;
. Gross
Rainfall. Tons. Return
1936 .. 26in. 345 £l7oo'
1937 .. 20 „ 347 2109
1938 .. 18 „ 314 2075
An annual return of £26 per
acre without irrigation was big
money in those days. Today
prices have nearly doubled, but
so have costs. Such high-yielding
land is confined to a few farms
where the long roots of the
legume tap underground mois-
ture. Some of Mudgee’s best
lucerne farms yield as prolifically
in a moderately-dry year as in a
wet one.
A farmer who makes this crop
his principle source of income
does not allow sheep to graze
the lucerne. Sheep eat the fine
stems off the crown of the plants,
which then become spindly. If
the season is good spindly plants
will respond if given complete
freedom from grazing by stock
and rabbits, and cut regularly
just as the plants are about to
come into flower. The stand will
thicken and the plants be re-
juvenated.
Power-pressing is by far the
quickest and least expensive
method, but in the process it
bashes the nutritious leaves off
the lucerne and fetches £5 to £6
per ton less than rack-pressed
hay, under which method the leaf
is retained.
Export Corriedales.
“Dick Turpin”:
Australian Corriedale
breeders are again in-
teresting themselves in'
the possibility of the
American market for
stud and flock sheep.
A. E. Armstrong, a
director of George
Armstrong and Son
Pty., Ltd., who own
Mahonga Corriedale
Stud, Albury, and re-
cently bought out
J. F. Guthrie’s Bul-
gandra Stud, is in
America to explore
the position.
Armstrong will re-
port to the Australian
Corriedale Association
on his return. The purchase
of Bulgandra was the biggest
single transfer of Comedak
stud sheep on record. 1M
stud will be retained m tne
Albury district, and G. G. Carr,
flockmaster for 17 years, wi
continue with the new owners.
Lead-joint Wiping.
“Whit”: A blowlamp is easier
than using pot-solder and lad e,
especially for awkward jobs sucn
as replacing an S-bend under
sink; but care should be taken
that it doesn’t burn the je
piping. Always use thin P
solder and flux. . . .
With a straight-out join sue
as two lead pipes, make one en
the female end and open
with a turnpin. Rasp the other


II FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
leen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noisei and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IDE WENTWORTH
in c§)t^dney-
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
_ Just pour RE-NU Xfgnld NU-METAL.
MStten PlUg b ° leS- NU-METAL will re-
2™“® « TO IS motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
W Wm^V 09 compression. Guaran-
harmless to finest
toed has been proved and
many nwn*~ T . Ioo ,’ ooo nsers since 1934,
having used NU-METAL
S «-.*&
Postal SS,.** **• C-O D’a Phw
ORDER FORM
metal J me hy return NU-
-1 snclose Cheque—PJ4. Engine.
ASSTEuSf^
AtMren
******* ■
***** B. 15.2.’50
WST ”« n ™ ADING COMPATJ
■«*wa. n su"fK™"w»
SMOKERS
P,PE TOBACCOS that ai
BL £NDed to give
SATISFACTION to all.
s!h? h ®f »“»***. a blend
Cool smoke of I® 3 * to give
P«fer. 22/- per lb “
A ostralla* ll Amfrf’ A blend
2 °/- per* u>. A Posted! aDd Afrlci
S S REXXE TOBAcrn RIJBBJ
Improved bv hoff ACC 9* Orea
*«*(*! CT W Retaii * u lor loit Si
Write lo: Cask Order Depl
Hillman Trading Co,
Conunercial R„. d , Bri.lan.
rSIS.’S “<% «« orJrr.
_ mra 071 C-O.D. Order*.
ẃ
"e oCff
Uve :« tr^-
S eatr-° nable S
** ** 4e X? e ee o ? y o return -
° r Wr *
Ground R S, c^ n « service
B> w «s e Street,
To Effect Worth-while
PETROL SAVINGS
. . .With new power; new flexibility and new ENGINE
EFFICIENCY, you need a British Electro-energiser. This
modern ignition development is saving money and trouble
for motorists throughout Australia. Can be speedily
ẅ
installed WITHOUT
TOOLS, and fits all
internal combustion
engines with battery
ignition, except Ford
VB.
SIISJ HOUSAND HAVE BEEN allocated for free
DISTRIBUTION, ON ONE CONDITION, THE OBJECTIVE
l?^o T ?^ FUR ™ R POPULARISE THIS VALUABLE
MOTOR AID,
Interested! Then tear out this announcement, attach name
and address, and POST TO-DAY I This will place you
under no obligation.
H. W, ROBINSON SPECIALITIES CO., Turramurra, N.S.W.
MARK YOUR
THE MODERN
LAMBS
WAY
ELASTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
~ 266 Flinders Street . Melbourne . C.t m
« ■" 1,11 1 11 »
INV 912
Low cost Crude Oil operation
for MEDIUM power users]
/Sd
V
m
k
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor..
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h’P* models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest, Strongest, Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Builtl
K.L&M/LANZ
BULLDOG
30, 40 & 45 H.P. MODELS
OuuteOU TRACTORS
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304
Spencer St., Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA, K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.,
233 Elizabeth St., Hobart. QUEENSLAND. K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
vi mi
down to fit neatly into it and
scrape both ends inside and out
till they show a silvery color.
Apply the flux straight after this
or the air will tarnish it. Clamp
or tie both ends firmly together.
Adjust the blowlamp flame to
a keen bright blue ; a weak yel-
low flame will leave a layer of
carbon-black on the job, and
gently wave it over the joint.
When the lead starts to soften
apply the solder and allow it to
1 run into the joint and then about
; an inch each side of it.
Take the wiping-cloth and
heap the solder over the joint,
and then finish the job by re-
moving any excess solder on the
underside of the joint and
neatening the whole.
If joining a brass fitting to a
lead pipe the brass should first
be tinned and then set in the
pipe and the lead tapped up
around it. When the solder is
applied the brass side of the
joint should be heated first.
A Traveller’s Notes.
“He-Ne” after a tour of N. S.
Wales;
Croppa Creek siding had more
premium wheat this season than any
other N.S.W. centre. Millers paid
premiums of up to 9d. a bushel,
mainly in north-west N.S.W., though
the grain quality generally was not
good when compared with 1948
wheat. Second growth and the root-
rot diseases were the main causes of
deterioration.
Some wheatgrowers are concerned
at the smaller jute crops in India and
Pakistan. Flood damage caused
heavy losses. Although the trade in
Calcutta had previously predicted a
crop of about 4000 million lb., a more
likely figure is about 3£ thousand
million.
All trading in jute futures in Cal-
cutta has been banned, and the open
general export licence has been can-
celled. No raw jute can now be
shipped without a licence.
Exports from India for the first six
months of 1948 totalled only 187
million lb., compared with 359 mil-
lion in the same period of 1948.
A cheering feature of the good sea-
son is that so many new soldier-
settlers got a good start and are
doing well. N.S.W. Lands Minister
Sheahan told of some individual
cases:—
A Moree settler this season made
£lOOO for wool and £4500 for wheat.'
One at Edgeroi got £3OOO for wool
and wheat; another has had a £4500
cheque. A Delungra settler har-
vested an average of 44 bushels of
wheat per acre from 240 acres. Two.
Forbes settlers in partnership made
£2OOO from wool. A Tamworth
Digger-farmer got £3lOO from wool
and sheep. What pleases Sheahan is
that already settlers have paid back
23$ per cent, of their original ad-
vances.
Worst feature of the N.S.W. rural
scene is evidence of a rabbit drought.
The menace has increased sub-
stantially, and while there is sufficient
water-supplies in most parts, many
dams have silted up and need de-
silting. A dry spell early in December
caused pastures quickly to lose
nutritional value. This was reflected
in the State’s north-west and central-
west, where stock quickly lost con-
dition because the rabbits ate the
heart out of the pastures.
Hints for the Farm.
‘Rooster”: Gum deposits on
crosscut- or circular-saws are
easily removed with kerosene,
provided that the timber sawn
is not Australian hardwood.
Kerosene is useless against hard-
wood deposits; they are best
dissolved with a solution of
caustic-soda in water (loz. to
one gallon). Apply with a rag
or piece of waste. Thoroughly
dry the saw afterwards.
“Bill C.”: Linaria-seed is so
fine that it may not germinate
freely unless mixed with sand
prior to seeding (B. 18/l/’5O).
No effort should be made to
cover tiny seeds with soil; just
sprinkle them over the plot and
press in with a flat board.
“Ben Acre”: It is the wind-
mill that is lightly loaded that
will bring up the most water in
light winds, which is the time
that water is most likely to be
short. When there is a strong
wind and the big pump is mak-
ing a show water is usually run-
ning to waste. Also, a mill run-
ning freely with a light load
does not wear as much as the
mill turning slowly because of
being overloaded.
“8.J.L.”: A piece of an old
file snapped off about an inch
above the point (and including
the point) makes a fine wedge
for tightening axe-handles in the
axe-head.
“Gem”: Go over wet cement-
rendering with a wide-toothed
comb to make a good key for a
f en dering. It also gives an
effective finish for exterior walls.
Big Billy”: A good
hardener for concrete milking-
shed yards is sodium silicate.
Apply as a solution to the con-
crete surface after setting. It
converts the inert lime set free
from the cement during setting
into silicate of lime, a strength-
giving material.
“Sundowner”: As cow-pox is
contagious isolate the affected
animal or at least milk her after
other cows, being careful to
wash the hands with disinfectant
afterwards. Pustules should be
treated with zinc oxide or boracic
ointment; as a preventive
measure cows may be vaccinated.
“Benoss”: In N. Queensland
plant cabbage seeds about the
end of February. When the
seeds germinate, they will, if
looked after properly, be strong
healthy seedlings to transplant
about the end of March. The
Sugarloaf is a good variety for
Queensland. It is small, but with
a firm heart, and it grows quickly
once established.
“K.T.”: Keep several cats on
the poultry-farm. They pay their
way by keeping the rats and mice
down. Not only do these
rodents eat the feed, which adds
up to a lot yearly, but rats will
kill young chicks. Always keep
kittens from a cat which herself
has been a good ratter.
“Baroona”; Don’t scrap old
tins that contain dregs of dark
varnish-stain, paint or enamel.
The remnants, thinned if neces-
sary with a splash of turps, are
handy for addressing packing-
cases and crates. Use a lettering-
brush or a pen with a quarter-
inch nib.
“M.”: Pumpkins and squashes
for storage should be picked
with portion of the stem on,
otherwise rots may develop at
the stem scar. Never store them
on bare ground or in the open
—an airy shed with a wooden
floor is best. Stack them on
their sides, keep rats and mice
out and look over the pile once
in a while for signs of decay,
throwing out rotted ones.
Salmon Gums”: Using a
road-train consisting of a power
unit and two trailers, some
Westralian pastoralists recently
shifted 8000 sheep long distances
in a few weeks, without loss of
condition. The train carries 800
shorn sheep at each trip, and it
seems to be the answer to trans-
port problems in railless areas.
A diesel engine supplies the
power at a cost of a gallon of
fuel to five miles. The outfit cost
£7500. The owners recommend
low speeds while carrying stock.
They stick to 12 m.p.h.


glll§p^
''
a
£3*2
(as the years always do)
Looking back over the years, do you
see a vista of lost opportunities,
thwarted hopes and unfulfilled plans?
Or do you ‘look back with satisfaction
on a picture of personal achievement,
steady progress and financial security?
In many cases, the answer to those
questions depends on whether or not
you have made the most of your
chances to save.
You cannot do much now about the
years which have melted away. But
you can do something about the years
to come.
You can start saving right now.
For most of us, the
best and easiest way to
save is to join a
National Savings Group.
When you join the National Savings
Group where you work, you arrange
with your employer to deduct a fixed
amount from your pay envelope each
pay-day. This money is deposited to
your credit in a Savings Bank account.
That’s all there is to it.
Week after week, your bank account
grows without any further action on
your part.
If no National Savings Group has yet
been formed where you work, ask
your employer about starting one.
Employers and employees requiring further Infor-
mation about the National Savings Group plan
should contact:
COMMONWEALTH LOANS & NATIONAL SAVINGS
ORGANISATION IN ANY CAPITAL CITY.
See address and telephone number in your Telephone
Directory under “Commonwealth Government Depts.”
1 Join a
NATIONAL SAVINGS GROUP
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth,
N52.1f3.10
FONDE
EN 1724
„ Imri
if
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
stuff —unarmed combat? We’ll
sneak up and do this bloke over.
If he lets out one yell we’re done,
so we’ll get him under water
quick and lively. And no
splashes. Come on, Ken me lad ;
it’s a nice night for a murder.”
In spite of Stove’s cheerful
assertion it was more a night for
lovers than for murderers, a soft,
still night, a night of bright, stars
with not the faintest breeze to
ruffle the tree-tops and waft away
the sound of footsteps or half-
strangled cries. The one point
in its favor was the absence of a
moon.
Probably the man under the
tree was dreaming of love. It is
\ doubtful whether he realised who
or even what his attackers were.
Strong arms were around him,
strangling him, dragging him
down the slippery bank and forc-
ing him under water.
Ken heard Steve’s whispered
“You got him, Ken?” and
nodded. They were waist-deep,
and the man beneath the water
was no longer struggling,
“That’s the stuff to give the
troops.” Steve straightened up.
“Hold him there till the
bubbles stop cornin’ up.”
He pushed two canoes into the
stream and watched the current
carry them off. The third one
he dragged alongside Ken. “Hop
in when you’re ready,” he whis-
pered.
With swift, powerful strokes
he put the frail craft alongside
the Remora.
“I’ll tow her for a bit,” he an-
nounced, “Nick up and let the
stern line go. Lower it into the
water so it don’t make a splash.
We’ll have to leave it.”
The Remora was lying head
upstream. Astern of her was a
prau, so close to her counter that
Ken could have touched it as he
bent to lower the stemline into
the water. He could smell the
smoke from the embers of her
cooking fire, and see the huddled
forms of the sleepers under her
thatched awning. One bump, he
realised, and those sleeping men.
would become an excited, jab-
bering mob, arousing the whole
village.
But Steve knew what he was
about. He transferred the head-
line from the tree to his canoe
without once relaxing the strain
and paddled steadily upstream.
SLOWLY* the Remora’s stern
drew clear of the prau. The
canoe sidled round, swinging
downstream in a wide arc as the
current forced the Remora’s
bows around. Standing tense in
the stem, scarcely daring to
breathe, Ken watched the sleep-
ing village glide past. They were
off, really off! The current was
carrying them seaward. Steve
had only to keep the Remora’s
bows in midstream and they
would be safely away.
Ten minutes later he was not
so sure. They were well around
the first bend and the stream
was narrowing rapidly. The
dark overhanging jungle merged
into its own shadows so that it
was impossible to toll where the
water ended and the banks
began. Directly overhead the
stars shone brightly, but they did
nothing to lessen the deep gloom
ahead and on each hand. Only
a few yards from the Remora’s
bowsprit Steve was but a vague,
dark blur, merging into the dark-
ness of the water, paddling
steadily, silently.
A low branch brushed along
the Remora’s starboard side,
caught for a moment in the
mizzen rigging and parted with
a crackling of twigs. Steve's
paddle dipped deeper and faster
as he strove desperately to keep
his cumbersome tow away from
the bank. He wasn’t fooling him-
self about an easy getaway. Up
till now it had been easy. Too
easy. The greatest danger was
still to come. If the Remora
went aground on a falling tide
she’d stick there until daylight,
until Gomez and his gang came
along and slit their throats.
Aboard the Remora Ken was
tortured by the same thoughts.
He was using the wheel now in
an effort to keep in midstream,
but it had no visible effect.
Despite her helm and Steve’s
efforts the ketch sheered across
stream. A branch caught in her
port shrouds, swinging her
almost broadside on to the
current before parting with a
loud crash.
Steve came alongside then,
cursing softly but fluently.
“This is no flamin’ good,” he
declared, climbing aboard. “I'm
goin’ to start the engine. Nip
for’ard and haul the towline in
and cut that blasted canoe
adrift.”
FROM his position in the
bows Ken heard the hiss of
compressed air; then the big
diesel burst into a shattering roar
that echoed back from the dark
banks, shattering the hushed
silence of the creek like a sus-
tained burst of machine-gun fire.
The roar died to a steady, pulsat-
ing throb as Steve throttled the
engine back.
“That’ll wake ’em up,” he
yelled, reappearing on deck. “It’s
Sydney or die bush now, Ken.”
He slid the motor into gear
and moved the wheel a few
spokes. The Remora was mov-
ing under her own power, now,
and answering her helm. But
Steve, despite his cheerful tone,
was far from happy. Hemmed
in by black walls he was feeling
his way blindly downstream,
following a narrow strip of starry
sky that showed between the
overhanging trees.
Gradually the strip of sky
overhead bad vanished until not
one solitary star showed through
the gloomy overhang to point an
open Branches swished
against both riggings, vines and
leaves came tumbling down from
aloft.
Despairingly Ken yelled,
“WeTe stuck! We’re right up on
the bank! ”
“So’s your old man,” Steve
jeered. “Look up,”
Directly overhead odd stars
showed through the gloom.
Tree-tops and vines were still
sliding past, more rapidly now
as the strength of the current
increased in that narrow reach.
The tall trees gave place to man-
groves-—dark, squat bushes that
slowly opened out until Steve
could see the full length of the
mainmast standing black and
clear against an expanse of open
sky.
He yelled “We’re through! In
the clear!”
Xhe Remora’s bows lifted to
a gentle swell. They poised for
a moment on the crest and came
down with a soft, bubbling swish
of displaced water. To Steve, the
unemotional seaman, it seemed
the sweetest sound he had ever
heard. It was the first not© of
the song of the sea, the open sea,
the sea that stretched on and on
until its blue waters washed the
shores of Queensland. He
opened the throttle to its fullest
extent and bellowed “Bury your
nose in it. you little beaut!”
He felt no regrets at the com-
plete financial failure of their
venture. It had left him stoney-
broke, but then he’d seldom been
otherwise. He had the Remora,
safe and sound, and nothing else
really mattered. Nor did he feel
any regrets about sailing away
and leaving the girl who had un-
doubtedly saved his life. Accord-
ing to his philosophy there would
be other lovers waiting for Liam
just as there were other girls
waiting for him,
KEN felt that lift of the bows
with mixed feelings. They
had got away from Gomez, cer-
tainly. But was that really so
important? As important as it
had seemed when he lay waiting
for Steve to return before mid-
night? Supposing Steve had only
imagined the danger? The
dumping of the cargo was his
idea as was this stunt of clear-
ing out with only a miserable
hundred pounds instead of wait-
ing for the real money. Why had
he, the shrewd Ken Brecknell,
stood aside and let a mug like
Steve take charge of everything?
He said, slumping down on
the cabin top, “A hell of a
bloody mess you’ve made of
things. I had it worked out to
reef five thousand off old
Gomez for that cargo. And
you’ve presented him with the
lot for a lousy hundred!
Chicken-feed! He’ll be laughing
like hell when that prau gets
back.”
Steve shook his dark head.
“Gomez won’t be doin’ no
laughin’,” he declared confi-
dently. “Listen, Ken. You’re a
pretty smart sort of a guy in
some things, but in others you
ain’t so smart. Well come out
of this deal a lot better than
Gomez and his gang will.”
“You mean you gave him the
wrong leads for the stuff?”
“No. I made sure he got the
right ones. You, not bein’ a sea-
man, wouldn’t understand all
this. Because that Dutchman let
us get away you reckoned he’d
never even suspected us. And I
just dumped the stuff because I
had the breeze up. You’re for-
gettin’ you had the breeze up,
too, but that’s how you’ve got it
worked out, ain’t it?”
“That’s right. Dead right.”
“Well, let me tell you some-
thin’. That Dutchman was a
seaman' —the sort of bloke who
sees things you’d never think
about. He had a good look at us
that day, and one of the first
things he’d notice was that we
were sittin’ so low' in the water
that our deck was, nearly awash.
Right. ' He follows us and
anchors near us that night.
Next mornin’ we sail past ridin’
so high out of the water he can
see the weeds on our copper
sheathin’. Do you think he
wasn’t awake-up to us?”
“If he was, why didn’t he stop
us?”
“Because he’s after bigger
game—the blokes that buy this
stuff. He knows there’s a heavy
cargo dumped in shallow water.
He reckons we’ll lie low for a
few days, and by and by well
come back with a gang of boongs
to help us lift it. So he just slips
around the comer and waits-
And what a beaut double he U
land! He’ll have us and heU
have the boongs. The boongs u
squeal and lead him to Gomez, we
all go in the cooler together and
the Dutchy gets another stripe.
Steve threw back his head ana
laughed. “They’ll have a bonzer
party in Apar Bay today, only
we won’t be among those
present. WeTe goin’ home a
different way,”


luxury motor
OURS TO THE CONTINENT
OF EUROPE
to LONDON I w™*. L0NI) 0N back
ARMCHAIRMnfo o teSt r, model British
Drivers and Tonr w 68 Witß British
every i nch of the gm Wh ° knOW
ogKfcSJJ®. CRUISES LTD., a
the solution to v™ Ves y°u here
lem. your Continental visit prob-
-1854018 travelled with
their praises Were enth vsiastic in
confidently our or £ aniB ation. We
ample. y 15601 you f °Uow their ex-
-1 aw regular intervals to:
spahS ke^witzerland .
VENICE AUSTptam° t L^ TES and
BLACK FORFST IAN a T B. OL - RHINE,
QAU, OBERAMMER-
. AIENMARK and SWEDEN.
your vecommended to make
reservations prior to arrival in U.K.
L&Ti IMBLEGRIP . LONDON.
luxury land cruises ltd.,
9/U Princes House, 190 Piccadilly,
( London, W.l.
’Phone; REQent 4680 and 5241
wW.
W
KODAK
for Cameras
BROWNIE REFLEX.
Reflex viewfinder show*
picture in actual slie;
Time and instantaneous
shutter; push-button re-
lease; 12 exp. (if x if
in.), £3/4/9.
SIX-20 BROWNIE "C. ,;
New model Brownie; two
large viewfinders: time
and instantaneous shutter;
all-metal body; 8 exp.
(2i x 3* In.). 37/-.
T
SIX-20 KODAK "A."
Anastar f/4.5 lens; focus-
ing from 3i ft. to infinity;
Epsilon shutter with four
speeds to 1/150 sec.; time
and bulb; 8 exposures (21
x 31 in.). £lB/8/6.
►
BABY BROWNIE.
Modern, attractive, all-
moulded plastic; lens in
front of shutter; handy
eye-level viewfinder;
simple to use; 8 expos-
ures (2i x li in.) on
V 127 film. 21/-.
SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE.
Economical and
efficient; time and
instantaneous
shutter: all - metal
body; black-grained
leatherette cover-
ing; 8 e*p. (21 x 31
In.). £5/14/-.
»
Prices subject to alteration without notice.
a
FtSSZ'
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.-Branches in all States.
v^,
KODAK
Verichrome film
You press the button— '
and Kodak Verichrome
film does the rest.
Kodak film is scien-
tifically made to give
the best results with
every camera. It's
the film that gets
the picture.
ODAK
PRINT
W£ USE
V£LOX
KODAK
Developing
& Printing
The developing and print-
ing of your snapshots is
a job for an expert. You'll,
get clear, better snap-
shots snapshots that
live when you leave
your films with the
Kodak Developing and
Printing Service.
\ XEPI
V
UsJM
Mm
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Supplies of Jongan and Mada-
gascar bean-seeds. —4 / lv.
Information Sought.
A method of treating canvas
veranda blinds so as to protect them
from the weather?
Soak the material in a hot-soap
solution (3oz. soap to each gallon of
water). Drain off excess liquid and
immerse before dry in a copper-sul-
phate solution (8oz. copper-sulphate
to each gallon water) for several
hours. Iron or galvanised vessels
must not be used as containers. The
process both rot-proofs and water-
proofs canvas. It will turn the
material a very pale green.
* * * *
Formula by which so-called “fair
rent” is calculated in N. S. Wales?
The determination of fair rent in
N.S.W. comes within the jurisdiction
of Fair Rents Board in respect of all
premises other than shared accom-
modation, for this type of accommo-
dation is determined by the Con-
troller, Rent Control Office, Sydney.
There is no set formula or basis in
arriving at the fair rent, but Section
21 of the Landlord and Tenant Act,
1948-49, provides that the following
matters must be considered: (a) Capi-
tal value of the premises as at the
prescribed date, viz., August 31,
1939, or if erected subsequently as at
the date of completion; (b) the
annual rates, insurances and out-
goings in respect of the premises;
(c) the estimated annual cost of re-
pairs, maintenance and renewals;
(d) the estimated annual deprecia-
tion in the value of the premises;
(e) vacancy factor; (f) any services
or conditions provided by the lessor
or lessee under the lease; and ( g)
the rate of interest charged upon
overdrafts by the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia. Applying the
foregoing an assessment is reached,
but other factors must then be con-
sidered: (1) The rents of comparable
premises in the locality of the
premises the subject of the applica-
tion, (2) the justice and merits of
the case and the circumstances and
conduct of the parties; and (3) any
hardship which would be caused to
the lessor or lessee by either increas-
ing or decreasing the rent. Having
considered all these factors, the chair-
man of the board determines the rent
and fixes a date from which such
determination takes effect.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of tiny red
specks, resembling minute blood-
~.s ’ n Wearing on the skin,
and face? ° H ** tmnk ’ neck
J***. °r capillary blemishes,
mrlnf ppear and persist for no ap-
fhe hJ eaSOn ove - r vari ous parts of
m h „ di °9 dy . are accepted under the
blemkt! m tCrm u 0f an S ioma - The
the siLu y , b ,? present at birth, but
snm st ri at . e ’ or veinous, pin-
refer £ e 1S tbat to which you
for alarm'h these there is no cause
weak ™ ti, ? a £! a , r y tissues may be
L 001 * engorgement
treat™*, r, a reddened spot. Local
effec? A i*? 186 diet - has b ut little
trie canted £ may , apply the elec-
disfinnS, Where location causes
seldom SU^ gery otherwise is
the stellate V1 , Sed ' FaciaI blemishes of
calamin P te * ype may be covered with
calamine cream or flesh greasepaint.
rr * * *
?° eure snakeskins?
until qukeToft W ,f er for a few hours
to reraove i y t fle S h h n or S Sf e p th "
into skin «« a n , P r tat- Rub alum
a liquor cn^nn° a £ fo / pi g ht hours in
alum lo7 C °cTi?°i ed 2oz - powdered
S wash V 8all0 u n , water - After-
liquor Tnd sS r ° f Ughly ’ mix fresh
hours Snoi SOa u another eight
down '• ahons P w h d - ben be P ressed
will do ffr h ° ld "! nnger °r mangle
to the tit« U 4rTi, the base of scales
cool nlacp 'f n^ tre - tcb °- ut to di T in a
3in. on eachS£ mg ™ th a tack eVery
* * * ♦
Naturl? P°B nat . e Pumpkins?
bees W w! p °ll u l atl on is carried out by
male flo w ?f er the pollen from the
Set /%the stigma of the
effected twf r ' F pollination is not
yellow and h fin ei n br j 0 Pumpkin turns
J ow and fina Uy drops off the plant.
This may be prevented by artificial
pollination; the male flower can be
brushed over the stigma of the female
flower, or the pollen of the male "may
be transferred by camel-hair brush to
the stigma of the female. Most suit-
able time for this is in the early
morning. Male flowers may be dis-
tinguished from the female by their
long stems; the female has a shorter
stem and carries the embryo pumpkin.
* * * *
Rule for treatment of a turf wicket
during a cricket match ?
The M.C.C. Law of Cricket No. 9
provides that: “The ground shall not
be rolled, watered, covered (except
during rain), mown or beaten during
a match, except before the com-
mencement of each innings, and each
day’s play, when, unless the in side
objects, the ground shall be swept and
rolled for not more than seven
minutes.” Responsibility for rolling
of the pitch before play rests with the
umpires.
Brief Answers.
L.P.P.: On June 1, 1939, while
undergoing acceptance trials, the sub-
marine Thetis dived and failed to re-
turn to the surface. Salvage equip-
ment was rushed to the spot, but
only four survivors were picked up.
W.A.K.: Placed horses in the
1939 Melbourne Cup were Rivette
Ist, Maikai 2nd and Pantier 3rd.
T.R.J.: A passport must be ob-
tained from the Department of Cus-
toms, Customs House, Circular
Quay, Sydney, where forms of appli-
cation can also be obtained. A visa
obtainable from the Consul-General
for the U.S.A., 7 Wynyard-street,
Sydney, is also required J.McP.:
Australia has no true coral-snakes.
A small land species that is practi-
cally harmless is sometimes called the
Australian coral-snake because of its
bright coloration. These are some-
times confused with brightly-colored
sea-snakes found among the coral
reefs. The true coral-snake ( Flaps
fulvius) is found in southern U.S.A.
and is venomous E.H.r If the ear
makes a crackling sound when
squeezed at the base or has a strong
smell your dog’s trouble is probably
canker. Clean the ear out gently
S*. .'2S&£
Fben andu u s * m boracic acid. This will
re , ye the pain. A vet. can give you
a lotion to cure the trouble T.L.:
® adu Islahd is in Torres Strait about
30 miles from Thursday Island
K.G.: If the court were satisfied that
the parent is in need of assistance
and that the testator was under legal
and moral duty to provide it the
parent would be entitled to an order,
.. . .J.D.D.: A Dorcas Society is a
ladies’ association, connected with a
church, for the purpose of making
clothes for the poor; called after the
Dorcas mentioned in Acts ix 36
;..,D.D.: Treat dandruff with the
following pomade: Salicylic acid 10
grains, milk of sulphur 15 grains,
lanoline 2 drachms, oil of lavender
5 drops, yellow vaseline to loz. Rub
into the scalp overnight once a week
and shampoo in the morning with
coal-tar soap and hot water. The
sulphur ingredient tends to darken
greying hair... .A.E.S.: Circum-
Stance qsual with male cat. Late
treatment will have effect. Curtail
milk—give more solid foods ..
E.M.8.: Although associated with
gland treatment in general, that
method of therapeutics is not
specialised as such in Australia
Manipulative massage in its various
phases combines much that thil
method embraces in the way of gland
stimulation, but it is not yet estab-
hshed as a whole in surgical work.
Sir Humphry Rolleston’s The En-
docrine Organs in Health and Disease
covers much of the ground, but see
also works of Professor Cushing, Dr.
Harrington and H. Zondek. These
books are mostly held by medical
reference libraries... .K.L.: Write
D, 128 Bathurst-street,
Sydney. .. .P.T.M.: If the husband is
left without adequate provision for
maintenance he can make application
to the Equity Court for an order for
maintenance. In the circumstances
referred to his chances would be slim.
....G.8.: Warships that visited Syd-
ney during Australia’s sesquicentenary
celebrations were the Maoriland
cruiser Achilles; the United States
cruisers Trenton, Memphis, Milwau-
kee and Louisville; the French sloop
Rignault de Genouilly; the Italian
cruiser Raimondo Montecuccoli; and
the Dutch sloop Flores... .V.G.:
Halley’s Comet was last visible m
Australia in 1910 and was at its
pSR
the Salvation Army, used the words,
The submerged tenth,” in the book
ne sponsored, Darkest England, by
Stead. The words were used
*° “hicate the lowest social class,
w an ? misery - ,^ e estl ‘
at D . s . class constituted a
ot T Bn tam s population,...
u'rl -K-: Humediately scarify the spot
““ten ana rub in a strong solution of
T r P erma t l 2 an ate (Condy s
rys tals). If possible get a doctor ....
7° ' determme the age of a
C ST 5P unt * 5? n^s on °P e b° rn and
acu three. In the case of youngsters,
P eelm S horas indicate two years, clean
, °f ns tll J? e .., yea - rs and oae rin 8 f°ur
i^ TS ’ , att lf m cold climates may
5 s \ e , c ~ an aorns RJ two years..,.
’ to scour wool to make a bed-
„ put j, e m copper, cover with
, and water 5 add tlb. to 11b. soft soap
to srze of fleece) and bring
s^ irrin ? well * Remove
from copper, rinse in warn water
I,- ’ lf riecessary, repeat boiling.
g« se ’ dry m open and tease tIU
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, ' No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should bt
addressed to the Editor,
D.G.: Please take it out to
Watson’s Bay and throw it over The
Gap....N.5.: Most uninviting copy
—flimsy and crumpled paper, poor
ink, almost unreadable handwriting,
blots, smudges and stains. What do
you think we are? Collectors of
waste-paper? P. 8.: Ten pages to
say that an irate wife flattened her
shickered husband with the pressure-
cooker he bought to pacify her....
A.R.8.: Yes, we received it safely,
and we will try to think kindly of
you, despite the headache your offer-
ing gave us P.H.: Good, but
morbid —we thought we would not
hang ourselves today... .L.A.: “The
Pilot” beaten at the post... .H. 8.:
Still more a sketch than a story
K.H.: “Mystery Story” might make
a paragraph if true E.C.D.: Falls
into caricature D.M.H.: Seem to
have met those interesting characters,
Miss April and Mr. Winter, before.
... .N.J.: You don’t want the MS.
returned, and we won’t depress you
with an account of the funeral
A. 8.: Leave to Homer what Venus
said to Mars,.. .E.R.K.: Well, stories
have been written about spinsters
‘filled with regret for something they
have never known,” but people would
rather read about people who “live
and laugh,” or, at any rate, go out
and do something.... R.L.: Where
could you place humorous pieces of
that sort? Where, indeed? F.L.:
When his broken skull squelched up
beside your knee we popped out
quietly for coffee S.H.C.: Maybe
your duegoist can be in two places at
once, but here is not going to be one
of them.,, .G.F.S.; “Bertie’s Bald
Patch” a little thin 8.C.; The
wild pig has escaped back to you.
.... Bellerive: Generally you keep to
the southern regions:
•... W.D.: Ruminating dogs and in-
tending suicides not admitted K.;
The poet and the brown-paper bag
stories were commonplace; maybe
the King’s Cross skit could be pub-
lished there, behind locked doors
guarded by cockatoos R.M.:
“Grandpa’s Moment” wasn’t ours.
.. ..E.y.C.: Not that we don’t be-
lieve in haunted tramguards....
P.H.: “The Atomic Wave” —how up-
to-date you English are! M.M.:
Has all the natural ease of a B-class
film A.M.M.: “Yes, but”
No, but .... V.O’C.; Maybe your
country-town concert was too much
like the real thing... ,K. 8.: Even for
a holiday boardinghouse incredible.
. ...H.H.W.: The story gives no
warrant for waling it out of the Greek
b0y....J.H.: On “The Horse
Laugh” comment would be re-
dundant... .J.R.S.: All that manoeuv-
ring to get that punch-line in at the
end!
A TROPICAL NIGHT SCENE.
’Twas sultry weather;
The light of the moon
Shone o’er the waters
Of a murky lagoon.
Silently unstirred by
The breath of a breeze,
Spectre-like stood
The tall gaunt trees.
Mosquitoes did buzz
And glideth about,
Crocodiles did splash
And wriggle out
To blink and bask
In the pale moonlight.
A weird spectacle is
A tropical night.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Subsidies
After a long spell of artificial prosperity
—high wages, lavish Government aid,
high prices and heavy taxes many
people still think that Government sub-
sidies on woollen clothes and certain
foodstuffs would help check the rising
cost of living, and thus put value back
into the pound.
Some manufacturers, too, hold that the
simplest solution to increased costs is to
have their industries subsidised by the
Federal Government.
All these demands are a stiff order for
a Government pledged to reduce taxa-
tion and to give the pound a more solid
value. With the cost of living rising by
£3O a year for every man, woman and
child subsidies would have to be handed
out very extravagantly to have any
appreciable effect. And, even if they
were, would they benefit the consumer —
and taxpayer —or would they put us
further into the mire of artificial pros-
perity.
The Federal Government hasn’t a
bottomless purse into which it can dip
whenever prices rise. What is in
that purse is put there by the taxpayers,
and what is taken out has to be made
good by them. And so, when a com-
modity is subsidised by the Government,
the consumer instead of paying more over
the counter, pays the extra cost to the tax-
collector. That won’t put value into the
pound.
Subsidies are no cure —the position calls
for something more than sleight-of-hand.
Good, honest toil, like the workers gave
back in the days when they earned their
pound and when their pound was worth
a pound, would go a long way towards
solving the problem. More work means
mores production and more production
means cheaper goods, or, at least, that
should be the case with a Government
jpledged to restore the value of the pound.
To honor that pledge, it could not stand
by and see the extra output of the workers
exploited by profiteers. — Beau Forte
(Vic.).
Savings-bank Deposits
Australian savings-bank deposits have
reached the staggering total of
£732,172,000 —a colossal amount of “pur-
chasing-power,” virtually payable at call
and bearing interest at a rate higher than
trading banks are permitted to pay for
fixed deposits.
It’s a safe bet that a large percentage
of that money is held not for the kind of
depositor for whose convenience and en-
couragement the savings banks were first
established (wage-earners and the like),
but in comparatively large amounts for
others to whom the savings-bank interest
rate for money at call is much more
attractive than the H per cent, maximum
rate for fixed deposits at trading banks.
Add to the £732 millions of s.b. deposits
all money at call and fixed for short
terms which is held by trading banks
and you have one reason why commodity
prices are not likely to fall for a long
time. For safety, much of the ,s.b. money
should be for fixed terms. The creditor
current accounts with trading banks are,
of course, in a different category —they
earn no interest.
In a country with a population the size
of Australia’s there is no justification
for paying interest on £732 million at
call. The savings banks have departed
from the original and sound idea that
they should be thrift institutions for wage-
earners and artisans —it was never in-
tended that they should function as they
do today. The Royal Commission on
Banking, 1936, dealt with the subject,
and its recommendation —that much of
the money should be fixed with the
savings banks themselves —should be fol-
lowed. It has much more to commend
it today in view of what has happened
since. The astronomical figures are
always announced with a flourish as
spmething to be proud of, but, with sad
memory of the N. S. Wales Government
Savings Bank, I see in them a red light.—
Ceg (Vic.).
Insurance and Inflation
A few years ago, 120 companies were
licensed to carry on insurance business in
yictoria, and the number would prob-
ably be about the same in the other
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
States —most of the companies operate
throughout Australia.
That figure doesn’t include life com-
panies and represents, in the main, those
engaged in fire and marine business.
Some of the companies were in very
strong positions financially; others were
not so strong, but most of them had suffi-
cient backing in the way of capital and
reserves, etc., to look after the risks
they were then underwriting. But the
£A has depreciated to such an extent
that, whereas a few years ago a fire policy
for £lOOO might have been sufficient for
a small house, today the same property
calls for twice that amount of cover.
And so on, with practically all classes of
property and goods—wool, for example.
People with insurable interests have
largely recognised, this and increased the
amount of their policies accordingly.
Others, who have not done so, are being
urged by insurance-agents to take out
additional cover forthwith, so that in the
event of loss by fire (or otherwise) they
will be in a position to replace the
property destroyed.
So far as the assets of insurance com-
panies are represented in real-estate and
the like, those assets will have kept pace
with 'inflation, but where assets are in
the form of cash balances, fixed deposits,
bonds or other similar paper securities,
they have not done so. Of course addi-
tional premiums are collected on the in-
creased insurances effected, but it will be
some time before the net result of these
is available to augment reserves, etc., to
an appropriate extent.
In the meantime, it seems that about
twice the business is being written on
practically the same capital and reserves.
Perhaps someone well versed in the matter
will elaborate the point further, but it
appears that, as far as some of the smaller
companies are concerned, the subject
should be looked into. Or, to reduce it to
the Australian equivalent, when a bookie
transfers his business from the flat to the
lawn, he needs a bit more cash in the
bottom of his bag. The bets are larger.—
E. G. (Vic.).
States and Industry
Since mechanisation N. S, Wales has
held the industrial lead over the rest of
Australia. How long it will continue to do
so only time will tell, but Victoria is giv-
ing the Ma State a good run for its
money, and some experts confidently pre-
dict that, within the next two decades, it
will be in front.
Much of the credit for Victoria’s
potential goes to the virile State Elec-
Police notices
Reward
*ENOML if
OtCUCCUCK
ŵ
“We took that photo on our honeymoon."
tricity Commission, which is developing
the rich brown-coal resources in the
Latrobe Valley, to make the State more
and more independent of the N. S. Wales
black coal.
When I listened to a number of heated
debates in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly last year on the huge potential
for industry in the Latrobe Valley, I dis-
missed it as a lot of “political eyewash.”
Last week I visited the valley as a guest
of the S.E.C., and saw for myself that
Victoria has something in the valley and
is doing its best to develop it, and
quickly.
Unlike black coal, which can be used
“in the raw” without any treatment, Vic-
toria’s brown coal is 60 per cent,
moisture, and is almost useless as a fuel
until converted to briquettes by the extrac-
tion of moisture and application of pres-
sure, 'lhen jt gives a first-class fuel
almost as good as Maitland coal with less
ash content.
At Morwell—only a few miles from
Yalloum, where the S.E.C. operates its
base load thermal power-station—the
S.E.C. is taking away millions of tons of
overburden preparatory to building four
huge briquette factories which, within the
next six years, will make the State inde-
pendent of black coal except for gas-
making and locomotives.
Many secondary industries are planning
to expand to the Latrobe Valley to be
near the fuel centre, and Victorians are
predicting that the valley will become the
“Birmingham of Australia.” The Rail-
ways Department is building a new
double-track over the 90-mile stretch to
Melbourne to take fuel to metropolitan
and country power-stations, and to carry
goods to the city for distribution and
export.
At Yalloum the S.E.C. is enlarging the
power-station to make it the biggest in
the Southern Hemisphere within the next
six years.
While N. S. Wales is considering the
creation of a body similar to Victoria s
S.E.C., the southern State is not missing
a trick, and is going ahead to an organised
plan in a bold bid to attract industry. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Rats
According to the Press the Adelaide
garbage depository is infested with rats.
The health authorities, armed with a new
and extremely lethal poison, decided to
start a war of extermination, and in-
structed official ratcatchers to act accord-
ingly. The hunters refused to obey orders
because the baits might be picked up by
children who love to laugh and play and
poke among the refuse.
Of course psychologists teach us not to
say “Don’t” to kids, or inhibit their
natural urge to self-expression, but even
Freud would draw the line at granting the
little innocents the freedom of the
communal midden.
Rats are noted carriers of deadly
diseases; rubbish-heaps are not recom-
mended as health-resorts; rats and
rubbish mixed are doubly dangerous to
grubby kids.
Surely the City Fathers will find'some
means of protecting the city children,
instead of preserving the city dump as a
sanctuary for the city rats. — Fence (S.A.).
The Missing Link
The new Commonwealth Government
has established a Ministerial sub-com-
mittee to consider the general existing
plan for standardisation of railway gauges
and to give particular consideration to the
conversion of the Kalgoorlie-Fremantle
and Broken Hill-S.A. sections. The last-
named section includes the much-
discussed Broken Hill-Port Pirie rail-
link.
Probably the most puzzling feature
about this important key link of the
Australian railway system is that it was
not converted to standard gauge many
years ago. The opening of the Ivanhoe
to Menindee section of line, in November,
1927, providing direct rail communica-
tion between Sydney and Broken
Hill, really opened up a new direct trans-
continental railway route across Australia
from east to west. This was some
hundreds of miles shorter than the
circuitous rdundabout through Melbourne
and Adelaide. Strangely enough, how-
ever, nothing has ever been done to
abolish the breaks-of-gauge at Broken
Hill and Port Pirie and so develop a
through transcontinental traffic —even
when the Defence Department in 1935
declared its policy as favoring a through
standard-gauge railway from Sydney to
Fremantle via Broken Hill.
In 1940, when the sea communications
of Australia were not altogether safe, the
possibility of iron-ore from Iron
Knob being railed via Broken Hill was
considered, and the Commonwealth an-
nounced it would erect electric trans-
porters at £lOO,OOO apiece at the breaks-
of-gauge. Representation was then made
to the Government in September, 1940:
Why not convert the Broken Hill-Port
Pirie railway to standard gauge and so
cut out breaks-of-gauge, transhipment and
electric transporters at one stroke. In
December, 1940, the Commonwealth
called for an estimate for this gauge con-
version, but after it was prepared the
project was shelved. Three State railway
commissioners are said to have opposed
the project, against the support of the
Commonwealth Railway Commissioner
and the Chief of the General Staff,
Lieut.-General Sturdee (“Hansard,” 1941).
Manpower and material were available
at that time to lay a temporary standard-
gauge track in six months at an estimated
cost of approximately £1,750,000. That
the project was not proceeded with, see-
ing that the Japs broke out at Pearl
Harbor on December 7, 1941, can only
be regarded as a major mistake in Aus-
tralian railway history.
In 1943, during another inquiry into
the possibility of converting the rail-link,
the P.M., the late John Curtin, said “This
rail-link should have been constructed 10
years before the war.” The outcome of
this inquiry was that, as the war had
moved northwards, the work could wait,
bur that, as a post-war work, the construc-
tion of the rail-link should receive high
priority. In the Clapp report of 1945, the
rail-link receives special attention. Clapp
comments on the great value it would
have been if constructed before the war.
It is beyond question that the rail-link
would be of great value, both strategically
and commercially. It would be a matter
of plain commonsense to connect by a
standard-gauge railway two important
standard-gauge railway systems which are
only separated by a 255-mile gap. A
gratifying increase of traffic on this route
has been noted over the last few years in
spite of the break-of-gauge at Broken
Hill. When this is abolished, it can be
anticipated that this route will become
an important artery of traffic to and from
N. S. Wales.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Rubber Roads
Melbourne municipal councils are toy-
ing with the idea of following New York’s
use of rubber in asphaltic street mixtures.
Manhattan lately laid out experimental
stretches of roadway in which three and a
half tons of natural rubber were used in
every 200 tons of other material. The
road is to be given an 18 months’ test.
In Fiinders-street, ‘Melbourne, there is
a small stretch of rubber pavement which
has been under test for at least 20 years.
It runs from a right-of-way of the Dunlop
building to the gutter, and has been trod
by millions of pairs of feet without show-
ing deterioration. —C. Q. (Vic.).
Immigration
In one respect, at least, the present
Government will follow the example of
its predecessor. In the last Parliament
there Was never any serious difference on
immigration between the two parties, and
the attitude of the new Government tends
towards a still more vigorous develop-
ment of migration schemes.
The success of any migration pl ans »
however, does not depend entirely upon
Government sponsorship. The attitude
of the people of their adopted land ca
influence new settlers in such a iuanne
as to jeopardise the success of any
scheme. At present, and to a gr eat ®
extent in the near future, we have t
choice of welcoming the newcomers
equals, or regarding them as interlope
with a colossal nerve in wanting to com-
pete with such superior beings as o
selves* a
The hope has been publicly expresse
by women who should know better
there will soon be a plentiful supply.
domestic labor, and employers whose
dustries are either in remote parts o
volve heavy or distasteful work are h P
ful that this new labor will be dm _
to their factories. Workers of all
are willing to forgo their pre)
against immigrants as long as tn Y
fine their activities to those tasks
ful to the native born. but
We haven’t a slave-labor complex,
we are perilously close to develop
when, as well as regarding ”^ g^ ers
as potential hewers of wood and o
of water, we neglect them socially- - s
assimilation into the Australian
difficult enough by reason of
and customs, and the indifferent
temptuous attitude adopted by a
Australians is scarcely
Many of them are, by world
far more civilised than their pro P
employers. — Seahawk (Q.).


Wanderer's Songs.
,hat Roland E. Robinson does nowa-
days for a Jiving his Language of the
<nnd fprinted by Edwards and Shaw, 171
SussexSreet, Sydney, for The Lyrebrrd
Writers) does not say, But his book
shows that he has wandered in the Roper
. /er country, the Gulf country, the Illa-
rra and in sorfie unspecified ? region
; yond the grass-tree spears,” has
rked at all sorts of odd jobs and has
igled with the aborigines; and if his
, hnique was not modern and if he had
occasionally called at The Bulletin
ce, young and gaunt and rangy, one
aid have said that these were the poems
one of the long-lost tribe of swaggies
a quiet, reflective swaggie, deeply re-
otive to the countryside through which
tramps, given to long thought by
mote rivers, restless and solitary;
-shed to inaudible sound the deepening rain
jed round me on those ridges where the road
1 led me to hunger and darkness, and again
card its voice on leaves. I eased my load
inst a rock and found the tea-tree flowering
of the dark wet bush, and drew its spray
close-starred blossom over me with showering
cold rain on my face. And when my way
down through rocks, the lyrebird halted me
h those full rich repeated notes that sprang
, t of the darkness and the sound of rain,
and he
s silent then but, as I waited, sang
lin. Past roots and trees I went along
a with that flowering, rich with repeated song.
Mr. Robinson’s poems read far more
ipressively in Language of the Sand
* m they have in the various magazines,
thologies and slim little volumes in
lich they were first printed. What
ways told against them in isolation was
certain incompleteness, caused largely
the absence of rhyme and the com-
ctness, the precision, the rounding-off
the poetic image that come naturally
-th rhyme when it is skilfully employed,
r. Robinson seemed to offer short poems
iat required lyrical form and lyrical in-
ensity but were set out in the lax, blank-
rse style appropriate to a long, rumina-
te pastoral.
Fhat impression of incompleteness is
tset to some extent in Language of the
m by a number of poems which,
lether unrhymed like “Desert Quail”
f h its style influenced by Yeats—
mong boulders and stones
Earth and her gaping wounds,
id the weeping that may
r be comforted, ruins
<?etry, love and desire,
und, revelation alike
brought to a crystalline cry
enng the naked stars —
jed like the picture of the migrat-
lt swept by the winds from its
j,n° r “ ct: mere hunched sweep
flngs that fold within the fire
-lemental storms that burns
,a > nesh and sinew in desire,
itifies me and I hold
unewi fopes °r th os6 cross-trees:
nt ?n d thn W a ep , of meie P inion s, bone,
nt on the dark antarctic seas—
•oth lyrical form and a striking and
ul force. There is a note of im-
“tensity, almost of despera-
nat lifts these poems into a much
category of verse than the brief
msiye pastorals.
ilv rL° n t ! le P astora f s > blank-verse
dlnenT that Lan suage of the
mf d u f °, r lts W for
itt- ber the lyncs; and > interest-
imtku pa f orals which do most
b . from incompleteness.
isidereH - Published separately
» V 1 isolation, “I Made My
’’ h ugh Jt is pleasantly enough
ẅ
Bendrodt's Horses.
ŵ
ẁ
Exit a Manazine.
The news that the “Strand” maga-
zine is to cease publication recalled to
my memory the many other first-class
British periodicals which used to
appear on the bookstalls 40 years ago,
and which were always first-favorites
with train-travellers. I recall a goodly
list; in addition to the “Strand” there
were “Windsor,” “Pearson’s,” “Royal,”
“Cassell’s” and “London.” Of that type
of periodical only “Blackwood's,”
“Chambers’ Journal” and the “Wide
World” survive.
Knowing that the books which you
read and enjoyed when young often seem
flat when taken up again in later life, I
went to a library which houses bound
volumes of those old magazines and spent
two days in examining the oldest on the
shelves. I discovered that many of the
stories and articles in them, even after
allowing for changes in style and public
taste, still make good reading. Many
people wrote them ; some names became
famous—Kipling, H. G. Wells, Hardy,
Maugham, Conan Doyle, W. W. Jacobs,
Quiller-Couch and Conrad. The most
significant fact, however, is that there was
also a host of other people who had an
occasional story accepted ; and among the
works of the latter you often found the
really outstanding stuff by any standard.
I moved on twenty years to 1919, and
there I found a clue as to why so many
of these magazines were doomed to pass
out of existence. No longer were the
names of new writers appearing; only a
small and select clique, it seemed, headed
by people like Wodehouse, could get their
stuff accepted. With the exception of the
work of a few real masters of the craft,
the quality of the stuff published had
gone to blazes; it was robbed of all
freshness and originality and was merely
the same old themes, characters and situa-
tions hashed and rehashed. I consulted
a man who has been handling the whole-
sale distribution of periodicals for years.
“See what the figures can tell you,” he
said, as he fetched old account-books
from the strong-room. The information
in them was very illuminating; in thirty
years tire sales of the high-class British
magazines had dropped steadily, while
those for the same type of American
periodical had risen. With the exception
of the three old favorites already men-
tioned, only the lightest of British
periodicals are popular today.
The British publishers have their
excuses, but most of them are just as
unconvincing as those given prior to 1939
by British manufacturers for not turning
outwears suited to overseas requirements.
America also has radio, talkies, the
“illustrateds” which save the purchaser
from the effort of reading by presenting
a story in photographs, to say nothing of
the greatest flood of “pulp” magazines in
the world ; but their good magazines are
on the up-grade still. The only British
excuse which has a sound foundation is
the war-time shortage of newsprint; it
did deal many publications a deadly blow,
but nothing can alter the fact, revealed
by the decline in sales figures, that the rot
had set in long before the war.
There can be no doubt that the decid-
ing factor was the suicidal policy o f
British magazine editors in judging
stories and articles by the name of the
author and not by the quality of the
work in them. If you had an established
name, anything you wrote stood an excel-
lent chance of acceptance ; if you were
unknown, you usually had your stuff
rejected. The bound volumes of maga-
zines in that library show when that
editorial policy was adopted, and the
ledgers of the distributor show its effect
upon the circulations of the magazines.
Significantly, the , three good British
magazines which survive today do not
judge a contribution by the name of the
author and have never done so.
Many British periodicals also worked
to death that unholy racket of “Payment
on publication.” After having had
articles accepted in Fleet-street I have
waited up to three years for them to be
published and paid for ; W. Chamley of
W.A. has waited five years. Incidentally,
that same racket is not unknown to some
Australian publications. Any good
American magazine deals with contri-
butors in a prompt and businesslike way ;
payment arrives with the note of accept-
ance. The rates of payment do not stand
comparison ; before the pound was de-
valued the Americans would pay up to
£2OO in our money for a single short
story ; a British editor seemed to think he
had put you in everlasting debt to him
by paying ten guineas.
Obviously, the Americans encourage
people to try their hand at writing, and
they ensure that a crop of new writers
will come forward to replace the old.
The British editors suffered from several
delusions: that the people whose work
they favored would live for ever, would
never lose their originality or their skill
and that the reading public would never
tire of the same old literary dishes.
My investigations have shown me that
it isn’t any wonder that British magazines
which once enjoyed good circulations
have passed out of existence during the
past 20 years. The only remarkable thing
is that some of them kept going as long
as they did.
H.A. LINDSAY.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 56
Across.
T of ■ th f alimentary
10) f imitate Caruso.
(lf Cave ' women und er
'faultless beginner. (6)
CS\ e b “ bl ? 1- < B >
(4) return the monster.
aSnat?on et nai ter ’ atlons 6f an ex '
Vonsense fish ? (9)
i-edico. (6 ) 80 back for the
casualty in wi’E 16 • tbe first
-A Iran' Wind -erosion. (7)
Port on P la r nd° n (3) ater ’ ° r a trans '
0) en Crosby is frost-bitten?
.5° tb | °3 chance. (2 4)
b enev 0 ] ag n 8 t er ® befor e the era of
■*>
(cryptic type.)
31 —Preachers order the witches and
suchlike to depart. (10)
Down.
1 — Study the rope insect that is har-
monious. (10).
2 Bilious firm in an English trade
guild. (6, 7)
3 Pinch the devil. (4)
4 Thus. (2)
6 What Grimmett did for a deep
dish. (4)
7 a manner of holding a fastener
and a Roman emperor’s mother.
(9)
10 — Reversals above the cliques. (6)
11 — Canaan of plain dromes in con-
fusion. (4, 2,7)
12— The school’s best student of the
French kissing. (3)
15— The Scottish fellow and I have a
ringlet helper. (9)
16 — Boycotts Negro dances’. (10)
19 —Business paper. (6)
22—1. (3)
25 — A horse swallows a duck when
thus astir. (4)
26 — Genuine coin about Albert. (4)
29 —Above. (2)
Solution to Cross-word No. 55.


To Meet Australia 's Industrial Needs
ẁ
THE “MARS” HIGH-SPEED
HEAVY - DUTY PLANING
MACHINE
il
THE “MARS”
6-INCH LATHE
—for accurate
work at high
speed
“MARS”
PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
for Immediate or Early Delivery
LL-.
u±_*
/
-
K-
w-
is
A ’.Wut
V -11 \
// . W \ - I
r\
/it
r)‘
'\>iV-
—
dl
ii A/
*s \ •
2
It"
=*/
j\
V
/ t-
/ '
THE “MARS”
No. 4
UNIVERSAL
MILLING
MACHINE
m-
THE “MARS” UNIVERSAL
DIVIDING HEAD
mm
y - •
SSiaLifi
: ;: V : 1
m
-* -
i m m
i
r .. ■
IHlfe
ẃ
ẅ
.. t
;
SL
w..-
THE “MARS” No. 2
PLAIN MILLING
MACHINE
THE “MARS”
HEAVY DUTY
RADIAL DRILL
“MARS” RANGE OF AVAILABLE
MACHINE TOOLS.
• GAP BED LATHES sJin., 6in.,
7in., Bin., 10in., 11 in., 14in.
• HIGH-SPEED PLANING
MACHINES.
• SHAPING MACHINES.
• RADIAL DRILLS.
• No. 2 PLAIN MILLERS.
• No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLERS.
• UNIVERSAL AND SEMI-
UNIVERSAL DIVIDING
HEADS.
THE “MARS” 11-INCH
LATHE
w
CASTINGS
All castings are
produced in the
“Mars” Foundry under the super-
vision of a highly-trained metal-
lurgical and laboratory staff. We
manufacture all 21 grades of
MEEHANITE IRONS.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS;
N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., and Gibson Battle
& Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer,
567-9 Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne.
S.A.: M. S. McLeod, Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: The Western
Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. Tas. : Charles Davis, Ltd., Hobart-
India—Bombay Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Alii Chambers.
Fort, Bombay, Sales Representative: C. Evans, C/o Bank »i
N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
30*#
•y
m
i
MAR*.
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLSJN THE. SOUTHERN
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MAN FG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
t x, ns. AJvcik
