

The Bulletin
ufhe Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3673
Wednesday, July 5, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Salisbury, the county town of
Wiltshire, is renowned for its
graceful Cathedral, which is unique
among English minsters in that it was
the work of men of a single genera-
tion and was built upon a site not
previously occupied by any building.
The Cathedral was founded by
Bishop Poore in 1220 and was com-
pleted thirty-eight years later. Alone
among English medieval cathedrals
it is of uniform design (early Eng-
lish), and its pyramidal form rises in
perfect symmetry from the wide,
green lawns surrounding its base. The
slender spire, which is conceded to be
the most beautiful in the world and a
classic of architecture, rises to a height
of 404 feet, the highest in England;
supported by a low tower with which
it blends perfectly, it leans two feet
six inches from the perpendicular.
The material used in the building
was Portland oolite, found in the
Chilmark quarries, twelve miles
away, and Purbeck marble. The cost
of the building has been established
at which, in the thirteenth
century, was a very large sum. At
that time Salisbury was an important
centre of the wool trade, from which
it gained its wealth until the
eighteenth century, when the inven-
tion of machines removed the wool
trade to Yorkshire,
In the civil war between Cavaliers
and Puritans there was much fighting
in the city—the people being mainly
the supporters of the Puritans. They
saw the clergy driven out and their
Cathedral desecrated. After the Res-
toration Charles II (1630-1685) visited
Salisbury, which was also visited by
Samuel Pepys, the famous diarist and
founder of the modern British Navy.
Salisbury is the “Melchester” of
Hardy’s Wessex novels.
SALISBURY'S LOFTY SPIRE IS ENGLAND'S TALLEST
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


> T WjJ
sd
at TfOFtF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name *
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE
The Red Page
DOSTOEVSKY.
The admirable thing about Richard
Curie’s Characters of Dostoevsky
(Heinemann) is its restraint. Mr. Curie
has not succumbed to the temptation to
write a Russian novel himself. He con-
fines himself to discussing six leading
characters from each of four
of Dostoevsky’s greatest novels and he is
brief, enjoyable and, on the whole, lucid.
How pleasant it is, for instance, to
agree with him on that delightful
character Stepan Trofimovitch in The
Possessed, one of the few people in
Dostoevsky neither hidden from us by the
strange fog of his genius nor whirled
away from us by its cyclonic force:
On few of his characters did Dostoevsky
lavish so much care, such opulence even,
as on Stepan Trofimovitch. It is very clear
not only that he thoroughly enjoyed
creating him but that, having visualised such
a figure, he rose before him complete and
inevitable, in all the twisted oddity of his
personality, it needed Dostoevsky’s special
sense of humor to bring out the salient
points of a man who, despite his absurdity
and his shallowness, had both touches of
dignity and tragedy about him.... He
endows him with an epic quality which
seems to lift him out of the confines of the
book into the stream of life itself.
And how pleasant again, when Mr.
Curie comes to a far less pleasant
character, the lunatic Kirillov, to agree
that Kirillov’s suicide —when he stands
rigid with fear, hiding from his tormentor,
from death and most of all from himself
while Pyotr Stepanovitch comes to drive
him to the deed ; and when at last he
shouts out, ten times, his maniacal
“Directly! Directly!—is “one of the
most dreadfully vivid things in all
Dostoevsky” ; and to agree that, however
“Russian” this suicide may be —so
weirdly irrational beside, say, the death
of Jonas Chuzzlewit —“his creator does
make him live, does make him somehow
credible, and that is the final test.”
If one could run through Mr. Curie’s
commentary agreeing all the way as
amicably as this, and prudently confin-
ing the review to The Possessed, which
one happens recently to have read, it
should be possible to imitate his admir-
able conciseness. But how is one to agree
that a novel in which Mr. Curie himself
finds many faults and in which the
method of wilful mystification is used,
particularly in the opening chapters, so
remorselessly that the author himself
appears to be blindly groping through a
fog, is “handled with absolute mastery”?
Mastery, yes ; but absolute ... Is even the
ending of the novel, where like a great
wind through a forest Dostoevsky rushes
among his characters knocking them
down right and left, “absolutely” master-
ful? Does it not tend to be merely
statistically rather than tragically im-
pressive?
Well, an occasional excess of en-
thusiasm is natural in a book of this kind.
And perhaps, as Mr. Curie modestly ad-
mits, some errors are inevitable in dis-
cussing novels of such diversity, such
magnitude and such labyrinthine subtlety.
Perhaps, as he holds to be the case with
Stavrogin, Dostoevsky himself did not
always clearly set down what was in his
mind. Perhaps a final certitude about The
Possessed is impossible for the reason
that Dostoevsky published it incomplete:
omitting, on the advice of a friend, much
as Dickens altered the ending of Great
Expectations on the advice of a friend,
the three chapters afterwards published
separately by the Hogarth Press, in which
Stavrogin—so vague a “wild beast” in the
novel, “showing his claws” only by pull-
ing an old gentleman’s nose—confesses
that he has ruined a small girl.
But surely when, returning to the lodge
where Stepan Trofimovitch has pressed
her hand in the moonlight, Varvara
Petrovna hisses at her gallant, “I shall
never forgive you for this!” she is not,
as Mr. Curie thinks, reproaching him for
not making love to her but, on the con-
trary, for making love. That proud
aristocrat, so exquisitely refined in the
subtleties of sadism and masochism,
would much prefer to humiliate poor
Stepan as her pensioner and torture
him as her adorer than merely to sub-
mit to him.
Surely, again, Mr. Curie is mistaken
when he suggests that Varvara Petrovna
wants Stepan to marry Darya for the
reasons that
pciivaps, in part, she was avenging herself
on herself for her own preposterous fancies,
certainly, in part, she was meaning to pro-
vide for that time when she would no longer
be alive and able to look after him, but
maybe also —though this must have been
quite unselfconscious, as she was devoted
to the quiet and charming Darya —she
wanted to make him look a fool.
One had thought it clear that Varvara
Petrovna wants Stavrogin, her son, to
marry Liza ; and that Stavrogin has been
having an affair with Darya ; therefore,
though she is enchantingly enraged with
her middle-aged gallant for agreeing so
enthusiastically to her proposition, Stepan
must marry Darya to get the girl out of
the road.
One hesitates to plunge from these
comparatively clear questions of fact
into the wilderness of opinion, interpre-
tation and speculation. But how can one
agree that Dostoevsky’s caricature of
Turgenev as Karmazinov could be at
once full of “unlimited spitefulness” and
“brilliantly malicious”? It is malicious
beyond doubt, but brilliant only in
patches—quite crudely spiteful as a whole
if one compares it with Dickens’s
caricatures of Leigh Hunt and Walter
Savage Landor. One does not like to see
the author of Smoke —so slight a master-
piece beside the gigantic turbulence of
Dostoevsky, yet so exquisitely perfect—
smashed with a sledgehammer; and
merely, Mr. Curie reminds us, because
Dostoevsky once borrowed money from
Turgenev and could not forgive him for
the favor, or for the contempt with which
it was proffered.
Again, one finds it difficult to agree
with Mr. Curie —even though here he has
the support of John Middleton Murry in
his slightly too saintly introduction to the
Everyman’s Library edition of The
Possessed —that the murder of Shatov is
a masterpiece of pathos ... “It is im-
possible to read all that chapter entitled
‘The Wanderer,’ ” says Mr. Curie, “with-
out a catch in one’s throat.” Shatov’s
long-lost wife, who hafc been seduced by
Stavrogin, coming home to Shatov to
have Stavrogin’s baby the very night
Shatov is to be murdered: and Shatov
forgiving his wife (without even noticing
that she is pregnant); and the wife having
the baby on the spot; and Shatov in
ecstacies of paternal love over the other
man’s child and so, suddenly changing
from the sullen and silent brute he has
been throughout the novel into the in-
carnation of love and hope and tender-
ness, going out to be murdered by the
conspirators —it is all marvellously
arranged but, like the final scenes of love
and death in the flooded coal-mine of
Zola’s Germinal, too marvellously
arranged ; with something of mechanism
about it, with something of melodrama.
Mr. Curie finds Stavrogin hard to
understand and thinks that the novelist
failed with him. He stresses his “cosmic
boredom” and his “superhuman will”
and sees him as a man “beyond good and
evil.” But in the scene where Stavrogin
lets Shatov strike him without retaliation,
and in his distaste for his former revolu-
tionary companions, in his tenderness
with Liza, in his confession of his crimes
in the omitted chapters and, finally, in
his suicide, Stavrogin seems tolerably con-
sistent if we regard him as a satan ist, a
Byron carried to a Russian extreme, who
is trying to repent ; and who, through
weakness or from subconscious suicidal
intention born of remorse, lapses intp
conniving at the murder of his wife and
hangs himself.
And then, while it is undoubtedly true
that Dostoevsky meant Pyotr Stepanovitch
as a symbol for Cdmmunisnj*-—“Without
any sort of moral scruple, resolute, crafty
and cynical, he understands the technique
of disintegration as thoroughly as the
most accomplished agent from Moscow”
—one can hardly agree with Mr. Curie
that Pyotr is more interesting as a
“portent” than a man or that the scene
where the plotter begs Stavrogin to re-
main the leader of the movement is in-
consistent with his character. It is,
surely, precisely this scene, so ex-
traordinary and so horrible, revealing the
perverted love for his leader that sustains
him in his hatred of mankind, that shows
us the ultimate depths of Pyotr
Stepanovitch as a man ; and it is, surely,
precisely because he is so convincing as a
man —the kind of man whom Dostoevsky
thought could guide' a revolution in
Russia, directing and corrupting the
fanatical young Erkels, the woolly-minded
idealists and the lunatic Kirillovs —that
he is so impressive as a portent.
But this, probably, is what Mr. Curie
really means to say ; for- after all he has
left out the mad old Governor and his
wife—two of the most likeable characters
in the novel —to discuss the even more
interesting character of Pyotr Stepano-
vitch ... And when you start saying that
Mr. Curie probably means to say the
opposite of what he does say, and when
you stray towards attractive minor
characters, and when you go hunting for
the lowest depths of Pyotr Stepanovitch
you have begun to write a Russian novel
yourself. It is time to stop. With the
brief and (one hopes) perfectly lucid
statement that the other novels Mr. Curie
discusses are Crime end Punishment , The
Idiot and The Brothers Karamazov.
ARIEL.
? rost and snow, frost and snow:
FKe old ram scratches with a frozen tot
\t silver tussocks in the payable mist
\nd stuffs his belly like a treasure-
chest.
dis tracks run green up the mountain
side
Where he throws a shadow like an
elephant’s hide;
He has tossed the sun in a fire of
thorns,
<\nd a little bird whistles between his
horns.
“Sweet - pretty - creature!” sings the
match-stick bird.
And on height and in chasm his voice
is heard; >■
Like a bell of ice or the crack of the
frost
It rings in the ears of his grazing host.
“Sweet-pretty-creature!” While all is
as still
As the bird on the ram on the frozen
hill,
Oh the wagtail warms to his tiny art
And glaciers move through the great
beast’s heart.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
That Man Again,
I Neville Cardus’s Second Innings
(Collins) lacks tho robust realism that so
much enlivened the early chapters of his
Autobiography; it is more a book of
criticism in the sense that criticism is the
adventures of the soul among master-
pieces. Born poorer than most, he seems
to have concentrated a feverish intensity
on everything he saw; his masterpieces
are often what he makes them —but that
was always his talent, when he introduced
music in his A.B.C, Sunday night
sessions; he could make people see in the
music what he told them would be there.
He has the visual sense; —
At the dawn of Christmas f peeped
through the curtains of my sleeping-car
and saw a village, at the foot of a great
mountain; it was awakening in a gentle
twinkle of lights. I saw a dog pulling a
sleigh. 1 caught a glimpse through a
window just unshuttered of an old peasant
woman looking out at the passing train,
over the snow. Another morning on the
endless drift of the years while the stars
waned, a brief glimpse into lives that
would never touch mine. Everywhere the
unsmutchcd snow and a sense oi the
mystical presence of manger and oxen while
the day glimmered.
The picture is there; it is more a
tinselled Christmas-card of bygone years
but it is those years Mr. Cardus wishes
to recall for us, and with ar emotion often
close to tears. It is most noticeable when
he appears as Dramatic Critic, in a Ion*,
disquisition on the pantomimes-and actor-
heroes of his childhood, and here hi?
pictorial sense comes into full play in thai
rare kind of dramatic criticism without
which fill writing about the theatre is no
better than market reports: the criticism
which tells you how it was said and how
it was done: —-*
It was in this same pantomime [“Mother
Goose”! that George Robey held the stage
for half an hour (while the scene-shifters
were noisy and active behind a drop-Scenc,
often causing it to bulge from contact with
some royal dome or pinnacle), and created
the immortal Mrs. Moggeridge, a next-door
neighbor who, because never seen, lived
for ever. Robey came on from the side of
the stage in a condition of agitation, fingers
twitching nose sniffing. He cast glances to
the direction whence he had entered; they
were glances poignant with contumely and
injured pride. Simmering a little, but still
on the boil, he folded arms, gave another
toss of his head sideways, and said,
simply but obliquely, “Mrs. Moggeridge!”
Nothing more than her name to begin with,
but the intonation, with a descent of pitch
at “ridge,” was contemptuous. Then he
bent to us over the footlights, and in a
sudden hysteria of ridicule, stated (or rather
Conveyed) this information: “Fairy Queen
in a Christmas pantomime!” After another
snort and a pause he added, in a voice
pitched to a deeper note of irony, “Her!’
Satisfaction and triumph here became
evident in Robey’s eyes and gestures; but
suddenly he stiffened, and the neck was
thrust again towards Mrs. Moggeridge’s
garden wall, whence obviously some
Parthian thrust had been aimed. ‘ And
what of it?” asked Robey, the voice rising
science. “What of it?” rn mnnitn ~
arv ert”), pronounced “Wh at
A talkie-camera might give
ttal, In,i not all. Thefe are othwSl 01
o( actors and musicians in action*' 8 ,
musical evenings and concerts in ’ of
districts of Manchester of fa®,
Brodsky and Samuel Langford ; 0 n a ° lph
Lnedman living out the war to Z®
Vauduse, Sydney ; o£ a boyhood
he found recently clerking in t he si
office m which he had been all £
The finest Of lhe s e portraitsV’Vl?-
Brindley family, in whose home he had S'
hrst vision ol middle-class comfo„ a h J H s
elegance. The father, something i„
city, seemed to go there less and l e ,
The first thing I remember about Mr
Brindley is the casual way, without i
terrupting his talk, he squirted i ll!'
into a glass of whisky.” Within a yeS "
so this little Paradise disintegrated*
U could not have been long after tv
New Year’s Eve that I went wkh
an errand to a Manchester m ' - on
dealer’s, called an “Italian Warehouseman”
fhe man behind the counter looked at the
order list, then went away to ♦
somebody. When he returned he galc
oc a note, asking him to deliver ifm
Mrs. Brindley. That year there was an
auction sale in Laburnum Terrace. Strange
folk clumped up and down the stair?
Lhairs and tables and sideboards were
earned into the street, where for a while
they stood exposed to the public view
before they were carted off to unknown
destinations, the grand piano with them
; never saw Eric again; the family dis-
unpeared.
There are the inevitable stories about
cricket, which are very nice if you like
(a) cricket and ( b) Mr. Cardus on cricket
—these are not quite the same thing
But with the cricket stories go some very
enjoyable sketches of his fellow-cricket-
writsrs of the old days. There is also an
hilariously funny account of the author’s
e ter ences in getting a suit from a
Saviie Row tailor, and a less-amusing
manifesto setting out the metaphysical
standpoint of Cardus in relation to those
taken up by Kant, Berkeley, Hume and
Schopenhauer:—
The chessboard of metaphysics, the ironic
moves on it! Kant corners both Berkeley
and Hume in one or two moves
Here, one feels, is one place where the
n ’ ic criticism is a little at a disadvan-
tage.
considerable amount of this book
seems to have been studied-up in the
dney Public Library, and written in the
Cardus flat in Crick-avenue, Kings
Cross:
■he room at 35 West End is today surely
luff of sweci sounds when it is empty; and
a: least one ghost will be seen or heard in
it some night. I wonder if the carpet has
been- changed where, under my desk, I put
b; feet; so that in six years I wore it
threadbare
But there is little about Australia in the
Book. It is not the method of modem
autobiography to put all your eggs in
one basket;
He that writes and runs away
May live to write another day.
An Eye on fhe Arts,
When Mr* D< H. Rankin, M.A., M-Ed.,
in for review his Australian
hx'ticism, published by himself in Mel-
ne, he remarked a little sadly that
; Red Page had given his last book (pre-
Kibly The History of Australian
Culture) “quite a good review” but had
: r that it “smelled faintly of laven^ er-
"ho Red Page cannot recall having made
unmannerly an observation; but n u
v ! • so, it was so. . .
The difficulty in the way of giving
:r.Eon /Estheticism u quite a good review
is that Mr. Rankin should reaUy have
: ■ his proofs a little more carefully
: fore letting it go out to the public. a d
should also, perhaps, have revise
V He declares, for instance talking about
Australian art, that Lister e ever
the nush what no other ey h b a gen s0>
seen” ; and while that may h elsewhere>
Lister Lister, in the bush • d t0
would certainly have been surprised
see himself spelt that way. erform s
On another occasion the b°J { P jng M r.
the extraordinary feat ot r y anC e
Leonard Mann as a novel y
Palmer. A last-minute alteration.^
author, who has d ec ? s ’the para-
Leonard Mann s . na f m , e ’ c f eonar d Mann’s
graph up to a point, I’ l p | mer ’ s list:-
novels remain in Vance
Vance Palmer wrote The st< 1924,
Crnnullci* 1924, The iQ'iS Th&
Ihich became The £ £r r S
S IS: 'Telef H X f' S
to the hazards of P roo f'S a list; ° f
one to make ol thenne p; tz Gerald is
poets (in f'^ b ' rt BRebr» ‘
misspelt) of a Wilua
(Continued on inside back c


r ~TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
■
A
$0 *****
""m
1
v.
m
m
"0
m
m
1
m
m
m
c
D
I
m
i
s
m
I
80C8. The “Duromaster”
weighs only Iolb. Made of
top-grained cow hide. Will
pack two suits without crush-
ing, on one side, and space
for other clothing on oppo-
site side. 24 x 17 x 9. £l5/10/-
Colourful Fleecy Wool Rugs!
with exclusive and serviceable luggage
These Rugs are in colourful designs and in warm fleecy
wool to keep out those chilly breezes that always seem to creep
in whilst 4 travelling. The Leather Cases
at right provide serviceability as ivell as good looks and compactness.
C. Polished Hide Suit Cases
Available with strong rounded bottom edges,
two hide supporting straps. 26in. size, price, £9/12 /6;
28in. size, £lO/6/-; 30in. size, priced at £ll.
D - “Duro” Suit Cases
These hard-wearing cases have good strong locks
and reinforced with metal frames. 24in., only 60/3;
26in. size priced at 68/6; 28in. size, priced at 73/9.
E Knapsack Satchel
Are available in smooth cow hide with a large
lunch pocket, llin.size, 14/6; 12in., 16/3; 13in., 18/3.
F Popular Travel Bag
These bags are fitted wdth side fastener and out-
Sl de pocket and slide fastener, available in 18in. size
and reasonably priced at only 53/3.
G Club Bag of Grained Leather
compact attractive bag has two locks and
centre strap fastener, easy to pack and carry. Size
20in., and priced at only £5/6/3.
“Conway” Travel Bug
*ne Conway Travel Rug of pure wool. Attractive
designs with fringed ends. Size 58in. x 68in. 47/6.
Above photo.
A. “FINLAW”
Hand woven Travel Rugs in a
range of check designs and
finished with fringed edges.
Size 80in. x 60in. Price, 95/6
B. “TARMARCEL”
Travel Rug, reversible patterns
of Grey, Brown and Fawn with
fringed ends. 53 x 72in. 68/9
C. TARTAN CHECK RUGS
Travel Rugs of Tartan Checks
by 1. and R. Morley, made in
England, in colourful designs.
Size 58in. x 68in. Price, 95/-
D. “STANTON”
Soft and fleecy Rug with most
attractive designs and fringed
ends. A Klipper product. Size
60in. x 78in., price, £4/5/3
■'XiVX
5 s '.
m
■
m
55:, 5.55 5'
>5 .
w
an
■5 55 5':'
. ' V
v- *
H
W:4
M3?
i§T-
. .
2.
.
m
' ' v
v
«n ■
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRAVEL GOODS DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


No bull
enroot!
H
i 88
I 1
s I
1
II
1
JL*
***
I!
mm
mm.
M
mm
II
wm
mu
!££> o &
m
modern buildings are built of so-called
fireproof construction. But this will not ensure
freedom from fire hazards.
The contents of any building furnishings,
equipment, goods, waste accumulation —all are fire
hazards, all combustible. There is also the human
negligence factor with which to contend.
Control a fire at its source and all fire hazards
are reduced to a minimum.
A Grinnell Automatic Sprinkler Installation will
do this. Instantaneous and positive in action, Grinnell
safeguards valuable lives and property 24 hours out
of 24. It ends the menace of fire permanently.
Tailored-to-fit Grinnell protection can be in-
stalled quickly, with little inconvenience to staffs
and business routine.
Wormald Brothers maintain a complete fire
protection service at all branches located throughout
Australia and New Zealand. Experienced Engineers
will help you plan complete protection for any
common or unusual fire hazard.
Automatic Sprinkler
and Alarm System
WORMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LTD.
Sydney, Newcastle. Brisbane, Townsville.
WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LTD.
Melbourne, Adelaide. Perth. Hobart.
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LTD.
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.


WE -
WANT
PEACE/
THE RED ROAD.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NO JURY NEEDED.
President Truman’s ordering of United
States forces into action against the Com-
munist forces of North Korea was in-,
evitable. There was no other way out
for the United States if it was to remain
in Asia.
Nobody likes the Koreans much.
They are a lonely race, mentally and
morally belonging to the fifteenth century.
Australian and American soldiers have
unpleasant reasons for remembering some
of them into whose hands they fell dur-
ing the war. They are contentious and
quarrelsome. They have a fanatical
breed of Communists who have been a
trial to both General MacArthur and to
the British Occupation forces in Japan.
But their qualities as a people in this
case are beside the point.
It was planned to turn Korea, a former
colony of Japan, into a unified and in-
dependent nation within five years under
the tutelage of U.N.O. That plan has
been deliberately sabotaged from the
beginning by Russia, which virtually
annexed the northern half, holding a third
of the population and most of the
mineral and fuel resources, and pro-
ceeded to Communise it and use it as a
base from which to conquer the rest of
the country holding two-thirds of the
population. The southern half had been
under U.S. control by .arrangement with
the Allies.
While the Americans in tne south have
withdrawn their troops and allowed a
U.N.O. commission to check the fact, the
Russians and their puppets have barred
U.N.O. representatives from verifying
the Red Army’s withdrawal from the
north, which is “governed” by a Supreme
Assembly of 527 members, of whom 360
were supposedly elected in the south by
an “underground poll”—of 18,000,000
people!
Continual attacks along the* border of
Southern Korea long ago made it clear
not merely that the northern section was
bent on military aggression against the
south, but that it had been armed by the
Russians, a fact now all too well con-
firmed in the current full-scale offensive.
In essence the attack is not upon
Korean national territory; it is upon
territory for which U.N.O. is responsible
and which is in custody of the United
States. It is, moreover, an attack on a
strategic area of great importance, con-
quest of which would bring Communist
military bases within half an hour’s flying
of some of the most vital Japanese in-
dustrial areas, and place the Russians in
a position to close the entrance to the
Sea of Japan, control the traffic into the
Yellow Sea and police all sea-routes from
Japan southwards.
What Russia has done in Asia during
the past few years .has not been done in
secret. It has been done openly and
arrogantly and boastfully, in a manner to
appeal to the Asiatic mind. It has been
done in conjunction with continual
appeals to Asiatics to shake off the Euro-
pean yoke.
It has been done in consonance with a
plan framed originally nearly 25 years
ago, and for a time organised from Aus-
tralia. Immediate operations under this
plan seem to have been shaped at three
conferences, at two of which the Aus-
tralian Communist party was represented
—at Calcutta by Sharkey and at Peking
by Len Fox.
Each conference was marked by some
move forward, such as the outbreak of
terrorism in Malaya, the clamping-down
by the Soviet Union on Sinkiang or
further aggressions in China, Indo-China,
Burma or Korea, the borders of which
have been kept in a state of war by
northern attacks ever since the southern
Republic—recognised by U.N.O. in
December, 1948, by 48 votes to two as
the de facto all-Korean Government —
;was formed in May, 1948.
So far Moscow’s policy has been
carried through almost without failure.
Since the first of the conferences on
Eastern Affairs held in Calcutta, which
set in motion the general East Asian dis-
turbance, the great bulk of the Far East
has become satellite to Moscow —Man-
churia, Mongolia, Sinkiang, China
proper and North Korea. The fate of
Tibet is in the balance, if it has not
already surrendered. Ho Chi Minh’s
soldiery in Indo-China claim to have
killed 100,000 of the supporters of the
French. Malaya is in a state of war, the
Philippines are terrorised by Communist-
armed emissaries, Burma has long been
in a condition of civil war, mainly
through Communist organising, and even
in peaceful Australia the supine Chifley
Government had to use the permanent
forces last winter on the coalfields to
defeat Communist plans to create chaos.
As President Truman made clear, Com-
munism must not be allowed to advance
further. It cannot be permitted to if
Asia is not to become completely satellite
to Russia, and the Pacific and Indian
Oceans to become Russian oceans.
The Security Council (which has a
Russian secretary), with one dissentient
vote (that of the cuckoo Yugoslavs) and
with two abstentions —India and Egypt—
has declared North Korea an aggressor
and called on U.N.O. nations to join the
United States in repelling its forces.
Britain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand
and India have decreed specific
support for the Americans, who
were in action a few hours after the
President’s order was issued. Mr.
Menzies promptly ordered a heavy
Lincoln bomber squadron to Malaya as
a security measure, a move which all
rational Australians will approve, and
since then has ordered our naval ships
in Eastern waters into action, and offered
tbs use of the R.A.A.F. Mustang squadron
in Japan along with other help.
The Communist parties of the world
obviously have been primed for what
was coming. The Australian party beat
Stalin’s “Pravda” by a few hours in de-
nouncing President Truman as an
aggressor. It naturally used language
almost identical with that used later in
Moscow. It now will have to denounce
U.N.O. on the same ground. For the
first time the world is squarely divided
on the “world revolution” issue, and a
Third World War comes nearer, if it is
not already in being. It can be prevented
only by an ending of Russia’s present
policy, which, judging by the attitude
adopted in the Kremlin’s Note on Korea,
is to be pursued irrespective cf con-
sequences.
In all the circumstances there are
some strange silences obvious among
those who might reasonably be expected
to declare themselves.
Mr. Chifley has shown the char-
acter of “Labor’s” leadership by deferring
any statement until the Federal Executive
of the A.L.P. should this week have told
him what to say. Dr. Evatt, cham-
pion of U.N.0., might have been
expected to be one of the first
to proclaim his horror at the brazen and
cynical invasion of a country which was
created by the United Nations under
his chairmanship, and which was diplo-
matically recognised by Australia while
he was Minister for External Affairs.
Possibly he thinks President Truman
should try North Korea by jury. Or
possibly he is merely considering
what the Communist unions which
form part of the “Labor Move-
ment,” and/or of the A.L.P., will do
if he dares to thwart the plans of
him whom the Australian Communist
party describes as “Our great leader and
teacher, Stalin.”
Basis of Diplomacy.
Mr. Menzies’s statement in Adelaide on
the means to establish “a concerted
British Commonwealth policy for foreign
affairs” is, in aspiration, unimpeachable.
It is, of course, wrong that equal members
of the British Commonwealth should not
all have a voice in fashioning the raw
material of British foreign policy before
it is put into operation. Mr. Menzies
says, as others have said before him,
that there is consultation, but that no
system of consultation can be regarded
as adequate which presents decisions of
great moment as fails accomplis.
That is fair enough, as a principle of
government in this or any other young
British nation feeling its international
feet, so to speak. But two questions im-
mediately arise, and we may put them
to ourselves, though Britain and the
United States —whom we regard as
“working together” in the world —may
be too polite to ask us direct: (1) What is
this Australian viewpoint which we want
our voice in British foreign nolicy to
express? (2) By what means do we ex-
pect it to be made good?
Mr. Menzies proposes the setting-up
of “a committee on Imperial foreign
policy to sit in London, attended by the
British Foreign Secretary and the High
Commissioners or visiting Ministers
representing each Dominion,” with, also,
“flexible localised machinery or a small
British Empire secretariat in each
Dominion’s capital.” The purpose is that
“British foreign policy should not be
solely controlled by Whitehall.” But, in
practice, what does this mean? An-
other smaller but more intimate U.N.0..
If so, is there to be a joint Imperial police
force immediately available to support
the aims of our joint policy? And, things
being as they are, is Britain to have the
same voting-power as Ceylon, or a veto
as well? Are Britain’s military resources
to be disposed of by Dominions which
in peace-time maintain hardly any forces
at all? And if not, what does the voice
of such a Dominion in Imperial foreign
policy amount to?
Any Australian who starts reasoning
the matter out along these lines will
quickly come up against the hard truth
that, as Frederick the Great held,
“Diplomacy without arms is like music
without instruments.”
The harm that adherence to U.N.O. has
done in Australia —other of the smaller
democracies can be left to speak for
themselves —is that it has encouraged the
notion, as did the old League of Nations
before if, that mere high-sounding talk
can implement a nation’s foreign policy,
and military strength is no longer neces-
sary—that something called “world
opinion,” or “the world’s moral condem-
nation” (both of them egregious overstate-
ments of fact) can take the place of arms
in resisting aggression. No wonder that
on such a hypothesis the foreign policy
of Australia under the Chifley Govern-
ment could be devised by Dr. Evatt to
fit any tick of the clock, and that it was
expressed in the simple terms of “Sup-
porting U.N.0.,” combined with freedom
to “buck” U.N.O. whenever Dr. Evatt
felt like it. No wonder one of the
brightest among the staff treated as
personal aides to an Australian Foreign
Minister finally broke away and gave
vent to his feelings about Australian
foreign policy’s “larrikin strain” and its
habit of “changing plumage in mid-flight”
This rebel, Mr. Paul Hasluck, is now a
member of the House of Representatives.
In a recent debate in the House on the
international situation he said some things
which ought to be taken to heart in a
country both extremely vulnerable to
aggression and grown indifferent about
the training of its manhood for defence
under discipline in arms:
As I see the world situation today [he
said], all nations, including our own, are
in the grasp of fear and suspicion, which
are steadily attracting them towards another
war. There are two ways of meeting fear
and suspicion. Qne —which unfortunately
we have followed to date —is to seek means
of escape by building up a romantic picture
of international co-operation and general
peace and harmony. The other is to bring
our fears and suspicions into the light,
look them squarely in the face, and see
what we can do to dispel them.
We, and other democracies, look to attain
“the millennium” —world peace—through
international co-operation.
The Russians look to attain it not
through international co-operation but
through the triumph of Stalinist Russia
In Russia we are facing not only a fellow-
member of the United Nations but also a
Power committed to policies based on
measures of power within its own control
independently of the activities of any inter-
national organisation....
Minor disputes claimed to have been
settled by the United Nations were in
reality settled by methods of power, politics,
and afterwards confirmed by U.N. This
statement is not disparagement of the United
Nations, but is rather the realism of a
person who points out that the petrol in
the tank is running low. The U.N. lacks
the essential condition of its Charter,
unanimity among the Great Powers; and
unless, like those who recognise that the
petrol in the tank is running low, we face
the fact, we are likely to find ourselves
miles from anywhere, walking home on a
dark and dirty night.
As a representation of the “Labor”
party’s foreign policy—both when it was
in power to operate it, and now in Oppo-
sition —that description could not be
bettered. Support U.N.0., and for
defence rig up some buttons to push in-
stead of training Australia’s young man-
hood in arms; that was the sum of it.
And since a vociferous voice at U.N.O.
is the obvious way to fame and influence
in international society—especially with
the aid of a Government radio news-
service—the making of Dr. Evatt’s Aus-
tralian foreign policy was as easy as fall-
ing off a log. His Government did not
\yant fighting services to back its diplo-
macy, but only propaganda. It did not
bespeak trained fighting men, but only a
voice. Its Foreign Minister did his job
if he canvassed agreement with other
States ready to go to full talking lengths
to avoid war, and then made with them
a pact, suitably named from either th P
geography-book or what they call th™
“common ideals.” y caU thei r
T he U.N.O. complex under “Labor”
so militated m Australia against any me
paration to meet aggression—or even to
supply our due share of the nrSSJS
international force to keep the lbed
that Mr. Menzies, if he is try tog to lsd
this country out of the fatal spell S
upon it, should make sure thaT
popular approval as he may elicit for hk
latest proposal is not built upon the same
false concepts. His External Affair*!
Minister has already shown some parti
ality for those “Pacific Pact” meadow
where aforetime Dr. Evatt lingered like
Ferdinand smelling the flowers Thl
“Pacific Pact” idea begins and ends with
a desire to get the United States interested
m guaranteeing the security of the whole
Southern Hemisphere against aggression
no less comprehensively than the security
of Europe. What its advocates ignore is
the prerequisite in American pledges to
wards Europe—that those helped shall
put their shoulders to their own wheel«
with all their strength. 1S
As for the Chifley party’s “policy” of
a Pacific Pact, only a few weeks ago its
members were howling with indignation
over the sending of an R.A.A.F. squadron
of transport Dakotas to drop supplies to
British forces fighting Communist guer-
rillas in Malaya. Yet in 1948 Mr. Chifley
as Prime Minister, having expressed un-
easiness about Britain’s joining America
in the air-lift operations to blockaded
Berlin without any previous Dominion
agreement about the policy of the thing,
allowed R.A.A.F. pilots to join in the
operations, went to see Berlin for him-
self, and then said his Government would
back Britain “to the limit.”
Mr. Menzies is plainly trying to turn
Australian foreign policy back to the
traditional line—at least to the extent of
offering some backing in action, or in
available armed force, for the vbice he
wishes to claim in devising an Empire
foreign policy. If diplomacy aimed at
keeping peace in the world be asserted by
a Government which declines the task
of maintaining strong arms to back its
“policy,” that Government will excite
only the derision of those against
whom its diplomatists must pit their wits.
Money for Flood Relief.
If cold figures can tell a story the tragedy
and loss of the N.S.W. June floods add
up to the worst disaster in Common-
wealth history. By June 25 the damage
to homes, farms, livestock, public utilities,
business premises and so forth was esti-
mated to run into £l5 million, 10,000
people were homeless and at least 15
persons were dead. Only comparable
disasters are the Victorian bushfires of
1926 and 1939, when the death-roll was
much higher, though losses of property
and stock were not as great.
Centre of a disaster which flooded
cities, towns and settlements from
the Hunter to the Queensland border was
Kempsey. A prosperous and thriving
place of some 6000 townspeople, sur-
rounded by smaller villages and farms,
the very heart of it was washed out by
the raging Macleay waters, a fate that
was more or less repeated in Maitland,
Taree, Lismore, Grafton and scores or
places in 20 shires along the N.b.W.
North Coast. Nothing like the rum and
desolation has ever been seen before over
such a wide area in Australia.
Hundreds of people have lost homes
and livelihood; many of them will
recover from the blow. Federal an
State Governments have made mltia
grants totalling £120,000 for flood-rebel,
two public funds in Sydney have got in
somewhere about £BO,OOO, the two
ernments are to give another £ >
for the restoration of roads, bnd S es ’ I ®*.;
In Maitland and Kempsey al
£1,000,000 wouldn’t make good the l °L ds
And the losses will mount.
of cattle are starving ; some of them
been up to their bellies in water for J d
farms have been scoured out
feet deep with silt, many of them h
grown a crop since the spring fl •
The tale of disaster has no ead ; d
whole affected area must be reconstru td
as quickly as possible, and moi y
first essential. Australians are ag
ous people when then- sympat
touched, and they cannot but be
now. , a being
Sydney-s li millio " giveW
reminded that every shilling •hej h
flood-relief helps them as well
flood victims. A great part of me
milk, butter, meat and veg an d
plies comes from the
already the effects of floo t
felt in scarcities and high price*-


PLAIN ENGLISH
Our Own Coms' Reaction.
TherE was no need to speculate where
the Communist party would stand on the
Korean war. Its attitude was a foregone
inclusion based upon its one principle
_“When Joe turns over, we turn over.”
The “Tribune” demands that “not a
man not a ship nor a plane” shall be
sent’ by Australia to Korea or Malaya.
It states:
Menzies’ decision to place the R.A.N.
at the disposal of American warmongers,
following on his decision to send heavy
bombers to strafe Malayan people, is a
major step in the capitalist sell-out to
America and its criminal war.
It demands that Australians “denounce
the Truman-Attlee-Menzies policy as im-
perialist, aggressive and criminal.”
Then it publicises a “declaration’
which Australians are being asked to sign
against use of the atom-bomb—a declara-
tion which first saw the light in the
Cominform’s official paper printed in
Bucharest, where the leading “peace-
lover” is Mrs. Anna Pauker, who helped
to liquidate, among others, her own
husband. This “declaration” is being
hawked by the Communists in every
country in the world. It is intended to
create panic, to weaken the defence of
the countries in which it is circulated,
so as to make them easier meat for
Russia. Anybody who circulated it in
Russia as referring to the Russian Gov-
ernment would be shot out of hand.
Also, the Communist official organ
in Sydney prints an article called;
“U.S.S.R. Budgets for Peace and People’s
Prosperity.” This appears underneath
its long splurge about the danger of
atom war. The article declares:
Revenue in the main comes from
Socialist enterprises Armed forces which
accounted for 32.6 per cent, of expendi-
ture in the pre-war year of 1940 and 23.9
per cent, in 1946 will receive only 18.5 per
cent, in 1950.
Beside this the “Tribune” says the
United States’ military expenditure
represents an increase of from 22.5
per cent, of the Budget in 1939-40
to 76 per cent, of the total in
1950-51. The Communist journal
avoids saying what the supposed
18.5 per cent, of the Russian Budget
which is to be devoted to military expen-
diture represents, though the Soviet
Government itself issued the figure on
June 13. , It was equivalent (on the
London “Times” reckoning) to over
£17,000,000,000 for the year. It seems a
lot in a “Budget for Peace.”
It is, in fact, more than is budgeted for
by the United States, the British Com-
monwealth, France and the rest of the
Atlantic Pact countries put together by
a very long chalk. Yet Australia, which
spent about £70,000,000 this year if it
lived up to its Budget promise, is held
up by the Communists as a warmonger-
ing Government eager to attack poor,
peace-loving Russia, which budgets for
250 times as much! On Stalin’s own
figures, incidentally, the Russian military
Budget this year is 12 times that of
1938-39.
If the Attorney-General has any
doubts as to how the Communist party
should be dealt with, let him turn to
Federal “Hansard,” No. 16 of the present
session, date June 1, page 3517, and he
will find the Australian “Labor” party’s
view, stated by Senator Nash, as follows ;
The bill [Communist Dissolution] before
the Chamber states, hj effect, that a person
who is declared is unlawful, is subversive
and is doing something that is in the
interests of an enemy country. Section 24
of the Crimes Act states:
Any person who within the Common-
wealth or any Territory—
(a) instigates any foreigner to make an
armed invasion of the Commonwealth or
any part of the King’s Dominions, or
( b ) assists by any means whatever any
public enemy,
shall be guilty of an indictable offence
and shall be liable to the punishment of
death.
Surely there is enough power in that section
of the Crimes Act to deal with any person
guilty of subversive or treasonable
action.
Sub-section ( b ) seems to fit the Com-
munist party exactly. North Korea is
legally a public enemy which our troops
are fighting, as also are those of the
United Kingdom, another of the King’s
Dominions. And there is no doubt that
the Communist party is on the side of
the enemy and working for the public
enemy in terms of the subsection.
The McGirr Honors List.
Mister McGag, Premier again of
N. S. Wales, but with a floor majority
only by grace of the outcast Mr.
Geraghty, didn’t really believe what he
held out to the electors about either his
wonderful housing performance during
the past three years or the carrying-out
°f his pledges to rehabilitate the trans-
port services.
His disposition of the Ministers chosen
for him by Caucus shows it. The “out-
standing success” in home-building is
marked now by the deposition of the
Minister responsible. No more will the
metropolis be littered with foundation-
stones bearing the name of Mr. Clive
Evatt as that Minister. The Minister for
Transport, too, is deposed and given the
Health Department, in which previously
Mr. Gus Kelly was so successful —until
the papers lifted the lid off the State
mental homes —that he is promoted to
administer Housing activities.
Caucus had its own ideas. The
Premier’s white-haired boy, Mr. Evatt,
who lives in Wahroonga with a Hurst-
ville telephone number, nearly lost any
place in the Ministry at all, and was saved
only by his leader’s decision to increase
the number in Cabinet from 15 to 16.
Mister McGag did more than save him;
he put him at the top of the Cabinet
seniority list after Deputy-Premier
Cahill (J.J. of that ilk), and ahead of
the two Ministers between whom the
palm of Premiership lay if Mister McGag
had not retracted his resignation a few
months ago.
The outstandingly able man in the
team, ex-Digger Sheahan, whose show-
ing as temporary Transport Minister
last spring spoilt Mr. O’Sullivan’s visit
to New Zealand, is now given that post
—a stiff job of work —for his own; but
though Caucus voted for Mr, Sheahan
at nearly the top of its ballot-list, the
Premier put him back to 13th in seniority
in the Ministry. Boy-friend Clive Evatt
(elected equal-15th) made third, and
Digger Sheahan (elected third) made
13th. The boy-friend had to be prised
off the committee of that pro-Communist
body the •» Australian-Russian Society,
while Digger Sheahan came out in full
favor for the Federal anti-Communist bill.
Curtains for U.N.0.?
If the value of U.N.O. were registered in
Stock Exchange quotations the bottom
would have fallen right out of the market
last week.
The resolution at the first meeting of
its Security Council on the emergency of
the unprovoked invasion by armed forces
of one of U.N.O.’s member-States was
subdued enough in all conscience. It
called for immediate cessation of hostili-
ties and called on “all members to render
every assistance to the United Nations in
the execution of the resolution” and to
refrain from giving assistance to “the
North Korean authorities,” though it did
not directly name the latter as aggressors.
One permanent Council member (Soviet
Russia) refused to attend, and another
member dissented. Two —one of them
India, a member of the British Common-
wealth —abstained from voting for even
that harmless stuff because they “could
not get telephone communication with
their Governments.”
The resolution was only saved from
being a washout (so far as U.N.O. itself
is concerned) by the U.S. Secretary of
State, who resolved President Truman’s
problem—it was in the first instance his
baby as protector of thd infant U.N.O.
member —by “calling on his legal train-
ing.” Mr. Dean Acheson interpreted the
phrase—“render every assistance” —to
imply authorising America to take military
action in advance of the next Council
meeting. Next day the Security Council,
defying the strict requirement of its con-
stitution, duly complied by declaring the
North Korean attack as “a breach of
the peace,” and accepted an American
resolution “recommending members of the
U.N. to furnish such assistance to South
Korea as may be necessary” to restore
peace.
Original members of the British Com-
monwealth, also the Western European
Colonial Powers and Italy (not a member
of U.N.0.), promptly approved the
decision. Australia allotted naval forces
on the spot and ordered an air-bomber
squadron to Malaya.
This interpretation of the U.N.O. reso-
lution sets a precedent for the English-
speaking democracies —maybe, too, for
the Atlantic Group Powers. But what
happens to U.N.O, under this test? If
the aggressors against one of its mem-
bers are driven back, U.N.O. can claim
to have survived only by virtue of ignor-
ing a breach of its Charter. If —a big
“if” —Soviet Russia should eventually
comply with American representations
that it should call off its dogs of war the
way may be open to negotiation of a new
and wider settlement. But it must be
recognised that such a result would entail
the Soviet’s accepting a Supreme Council
resolution which Moscow has declared
illegal; and if, on the other hand, South
Korea should be irretrievably submerged
by this Russian-aided aggression, U.N.O.
will present the spectacle of being unable,
by its own authority or the agency of
loyal Powers, to save a small member-
State from being overthrown.
In either case U.N.0., as hitherto
propped up by the democracies, is
finished. The next September meeting is
expected to have to face the demonstrated
facts:—
That the Soviet-sponsored Communist
China Government cannot be accepted in
place of the Nationalist China Government
as one of the Big Five.
That unless Soviet Russia changes its
attitude, either it will voluntarily withdraw
from U.N.O. or U.N.O. will have to be
reconstructed without the Soviet and its
Eastern European and Asiatic blocs.
U.N.O.’s constitution and its whole con-
ception will then be meaningless—as its
name is already—and the democratic
nations will be obliged to rally around
a United Nations banner of their own,
if sufficient faith and enthusiasm remain.
Thinkers and Drinkers.
When J. L. Geraghty, one of the two
“Labor” rebels who successfully bucked
the ticket at the N. S. Wales elections,
was in the midst-of his slang-whanging
contest with the Trades Hall he claimed
that he had offended the-party bosses by
his opposition to the breweries and his
demands for reform of the liquor-trade.
If the list of items proposed for discus-
sion at the annual conference of the
A.L.P. to be held in Sydney next week
is a reliable guide, Geraghty is not the
only one in the party who has been
giving earnest thought to the Demon
Drink ; at least 17 branches have put for-
ward motions dealing with beer.
There is no criticism of beer as beer;
apparently all branches are prepared to
take it as an axiom that beer is more or
less a necessity. Nor is there any criti-
cism of the quality of the brew; the
whole emphasis is upon distribution. Bal-
main branch puts it succinctly in de-
manding an inquiry into “the unsatisfac-
tory supply and distribution of beer.”
Merewether is not satisfied with an in-
quiry ; it wants a royal commission “to
cover ramifications of liquor trades and
the management, ownership and control
of hotels.” Toxteth, a trifle incoherently,
wants the Government “to carry out the
Liquor Act, aqd particularly the Satur-
day-afternoon trade, when hotels should
be made to open,” but North Lakemba
apparently has no faith in Governments ;
it advocates steps “to organise public
opinion to enforce all hotels to remain
open on Saturdays until six p.m.”
Several branches want action taken to
end the system of “tied houses”;
Murrumbidgee would make the breweries
sell all their pubs by the end of next
year, and it also urges the Minister for
Co-operative Societies to see what he can
do in the way of organising co-operative
breweries. Conference will be able to
spend an interesting hour br so determin-
ing what Canterbury and Harcourt East
mean by “that this conference determines
to allow only one interest to control hotel
licences.” There is no doubt at all as to
what the Waterside Workers’ Federation
—apparently that Communist-controlled
body is to be fully represented at the con-
ference despite the A.L.P.’s vaunted de-
testation of Reds—means by
Preference in the distribution of beer to
be given to workers by a ticket-system
issued by the hotel committees or through
the shop committees and unions,
especially as another clause in the motion
provides for the appointment of commit-
tees of unionists to force their conditions
on publicans, including the right “to in-
spect the cellars and supervise the distri-
bution of bottle and draught beer.”
Community hotels are favored by
several branches —Tempe Park wants
them “in every electorate” —and there are
several suggestions for additional club
licences. Parramatta’s argument in favor
of club licences should commend itself
to conference: “It is considered that the
A.L.P. could apply for licences for branch
clubs, with the object of improving mem-
bership numbers.” Nationalisation of
breweries also has many advocates.
The conference’s best plan will prob-
ably be to hand all the proposals oyer to
Geraghty —assuming it re-admits him to
the fold—and tell him to report back
after the next elections. In considering
the matter he should give particular
attention to a Beverly Hills suggestion
that “hotel-licensing and liquor laws be
amended so as to conform to civilised
drinking conditions,” and to the plea
from Gordon and Parramatta that a fund
should be established “from an impost
on the liquor trade for the rehabilitation
of alcoholics.”
Playford of South Australia.
Premier Playford was able to face the
opening of South Australia’s thirty-third
Parliament with a record any Govern-
ment-leader might envy. The State, up
to 1940 regarded as a rather stick-in-the-
mud agricultural district, has made rela-
tively bigger factory expansion than any
other State, and now produces an im-
pressive range of manufactured goods.
Production of motor-bodies and parts,
electrical goods and machinery, estab-
lishment of a big shipbuilding industry
at Whyalla, building of a 230-mile pipe-
line to take Murray water through the
northern country and round Spencer
Gulf, opening-up of Leigh Creek coal-
field and a record in housing are among
the main achievements for which the
Playford Government can take credit.
Playford himself is one of the busiest
of politicians. He fought the Federal
“Labor” Government for years to get
industries established in his State and to
beat down attempts to stop his State’s
goods being marketed in the Common-
wealth ; he opened Leigh Creek in the
face of Federal “Labor” jeers and to
some extent saved S.A. from N.S.W. coal
tyranny. Every time an industrial
magnate from abroad came here look-
ing for factory-sites he found Play-
ford in attendance as soon as he landed.
And his Government has carried on
large and small schemes for road con-
struction, foreshore development, settle-
ment and urban and rural expansion.
The man has had plenty of criticism,
particularly from South Australians, No-
body claims that he is a paragon of all
the virtues, but it’s a great pity other
Australian States haven’t had men of his
calibre to lead them in the past decade.
Chance for an Assay.
An item which appears in the Communist
“Tribune” of July 1, page 5, should at last
provide the chemicals with which to assay
the genuineness of the attitude of the
Australian “Labor” party to Communist
bodies and decide whether it is gold
or dross.
The report states that “the 78,000,000-
strong World Federation of Trades
Unions” has “protested to the United
Nations against sending of Australian
armed forces to Malaya as a threat to
world peace,” and that “the W.F.T.U. did
this following receipt of a telegram from
seven Australian trade-unions.” The tele-
gram said, according to the “Tribune”;]
The undersigned unions have recorded a
strong protest against the reported decision
of the Australian Government to send
armed forces to Malaya. We believe the
entry of a third nation into the British
Malayan dispute is a threat to world peace.
We call upon the executive of the W.F.T.U.
to bring this protest to the notice of the
United Nations Organisation.
The telegram was signed—again ac-
cording to the “Tribune” —by the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, the Seamen’s
"Union, the Miners’ Federation, the Feder-
ated Ship Painters and Dockers, the
Building Workers’ Industrial Union and
the Federated Clerks’ Union.
The W.F.T.U. is a.Communist body.
It is officially recognised as such not only
by the Australian “Labor” party but by
.every true Labor party in the world. It is
run by' the Cominform. For any Labor
man to have contact with it is supposedly
to court expulsion. And yet some of the
unions which appealed to it are member-
unions of the A.L.P. Three of them at
least, and possibly more, are officially
taking part in the annual conference of
the A.L.P. (N. S. Wales branch) within a
few days. The Waterside Workers, the
Ironworkers and the Dockers have im-
portant resolutions on the agenda paper
for the conference of which Mr. Chifley
is the officially recognised Federal Parlia-
mentary leader, Mr. McGirr the official
State leader and Mr. Rosevear the official
representative in Federal caucus.
Yet here are these unions, members
of the political Labor party, deliberately
flouting—if the “Tribune” can be be-
lieved —the rules of the A.L.P. by
having truck with a Communist world
body, and that for the purpose of thwart-
ing plans which the Australian Govern-
ment considers necessary for the defence
of the country.
The A.L.P. Federal Executive is meet-
ing this week. If upon inquiry it does not
expel the Waterside Workers’ Federation
and any other unions concerned or
branches thereof if they have been party
to the cable, Australia will know where
Communism stands with Parliamentary
“Labor,” and why it is sabotaging the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill.
The Wool-levy Scheme.
There appears to be an indecent rush to
get through a wool-“stabilisation” plan
before anybody has time to think it over.
Woolgrowers are by no means unani-
mously in favor of the plan as it stands
—if it stands at all—and even those in
favor of it aren’t at all sure of what is
involved.
Minister for Commerce McEwen was
told the other day that the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council favored a levy of
5 p.c. on 1950-51 “sale values,” but that
(i Continued, on next page.}


T
m
■HJI
9834
Craven *A’ Quality means
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
The largest selling cork-tipped cigarette In
the world.
CARRERAS LTD.— OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
' • ■
SftSSS
Bi H
mm
P
“approval of the principle of grower-
finance for any wool-marketing plan did
not commit the council to accept any
plan that might be evolved.”
Evolved by whom? At its conference
the council was plainly told by a N.S.W.
member that it was “erroneous” to claim
that N.S.W. growers favored a plan, be-
cause “a ballot we took was hardly 50 p.c.
of the papers we sent out and there was
a majority of only 122 votes.” As here
said (B. 26/6/’5O), that’s hardly a basis
on which to claim a decision of any sort.
And a South Australian member said his
State’s growers were against the whole
idea:
We feel that the world is now screaming
for wool, and here we are sitting down
wondering how we can fix the price so that
it won’t get too low. There is 20 p.c. less
wool produced than is required.
We are putting ourselves in the hands of
the Government of the day by voting for
this levy. The fear that wool is going to
drop in price is completely unfounded while
we have free wool trade.
Unless all woolgrowers approve the
scheme it must be either made compul-
sory by legislation or left to flounder
along as best it can as a sort of voluntary
pool. Anyone who remembers the volun-
tary wheat pools of the 1920’s knows
what that means.
The current wheat-stabilisation system
works, so far as the actual fund is con-
cerned, because there is a fixed home-
consumption price and generally a fixed
export price for wheat. This couldn’t be
applied to wool if the free auction system
is retained, and even the most ardent
stabilisation advocate would fight to the
death to retain it. .
Applying a 5 p.c. levy to wool-auctions
would be a big job. It would probably
fall upon wool-selling agents to make
the deductions and pay them into a trust
fund- Varying sizes of clips and wide
variation of prices at wool auctions in
different centres and at different times
would make it necessary for selhng-
agents to keep complicated accounts, ine
trust fund itself would call for a special
administrator and staff, and there would
have to be limits on its size and opera
tlo ft is hard to see how the growers
are going to keep Government o . ’
though they appear to be unanimously
opposed to Government control of V
kind. It seems that too many peoge
have been dazzled by the success of LO.,
which was a special body with a f pec
function for extraordinary circum
POINTS
The new McGirr Cabinet is not very
different from the old in personnel;
Chief-Secretary Matthews is out; J. B.
Renshaw (Castlereagh) and F. H.
Hawkins (Newcastle) are in. Clive Evatt
stays in by the skin of his teeth. When
votes were counted it was found that he
and Renshaw had tied for the honor of
last man in. McGirr, fearful of losing
a loyal if often embarrassing supporter,
suggested playing ’em both, so Caucus
agreed to increasing the Cabinet to 16.
Judging by McGirr’s policy speech
his Cabinet had been doing such wonder-
ful work that it was a case of every
man in his right place. His reshuffling
of portfolios now raises the question
whether the Ministers who have changed
departments were in the wrong jobs in
the old Cabinet or have gone to the
wrong ones in the new. Housing is just
as important now as it ever was, yet Clive
Evatt has laid his last foundation-stone
and becomes Chief Secretary, Minister
for Co-operative Societies and Assistant-
Treasurer. Housing will be attended to
by Gus Kelly, who, as Minister for
Health, administered the hospitals to such
good effect that they’re all broke.
O’Sullivan is relieved of the responsibility
for railway deficits and for making the
decision whether his beloved Stadium is
to make way for the Eastern Suburbs
railway; Sheahan inherits those head-
aches, his Lands portfolio going to the
new Minister, Renshaw. J. G. Arthur
sheds the Tourist part of his old title and
adds Mines to Immigration; Hawkins,
the other newcomer to the Cabinet, gets
no portfolio, but full pay just the same.
Despite the evident disapproval of his
colleagues, who almost voted him out
of the team, Clive Evatt remains No. 3
on the seniority list.
Supporters of the Country-party Gov-
ernment in Victoria —there are some, in-
credible though it may seem —point back
to the long Dunstan regime for justifica-
tion of McDonald’s action. The twists
and turns of policy which brought Albert
to power and kept him there are a poor
criterion of ethics for his successor, but
apart from that Dunstan at least led the
second-largest party (21) in the Assembly
when he formed his first Government
in 1935 ; when his last Ministry was
sworn in in 1943 he had 26 followers and
his party was the largest of the three.
When McDonald reviews his troops there
are 12 on parade, most of ’em generals.
There is no reason why a farmer should
not make a good Cabinet Minister
Play ford is the outstanding example at
the present time, though there are plenty
more —but it seems against all probability
that among the small band of cockies led
by McDonald there should be a dozen
men, each capable of administering a de-
partment efficiently. Ten of the Mc-
Donald Ministry are farmers, graziers or
fruitgrowers, one an ex-country store-
keeper and one —the Minister for Health
—a maker of agricultural implements.
Melbourne, with more than half the
State’s population, has no representative
in the Cabinet. No wonder the new
Premier and his deputy “conferred for
three hours” before announcing the allo-
cation of plums —er —portfolios.
Ex-Premier Hollway’s action in offering
to support a temporary “Labor” Gov-
ernment and to co-operate with it in a
redistribution of seats was unfortunate
and undignified. Ex-Speaker Maltby had
referred to the Cain-McDonald pact as
“an unholy alliance, not a marriage, but
living together in sin”; Hollway’s over-
tures to Cain were the equivalent of con-
doning the liaison. At the same time
Cain’s tongue must have just about burst
through his cheek when he described the
suggestion as “a despicable piece of poli-
tical manoeuvring.”
Commenting that “peace - lovers
throughout the world are rejoicing at the
resounding defeats being inflicted by the
Korean people on American imperialism’s
war plans,” the Communist rag “Tribune”
told its readers: “The war in Korea was
started by an offensive from the south,
not the north The aggressors are now
receiving their just deserts.” There is a
familiar ring about this. In the Com-
munist Finland, Latvia,
Lithuania and Estonia were all
aggressors.
Peace, it’s wonderful! A meeting of
the Australian Peace Council in Mel-
bourne last week was addressed by ack-
nowledged Communists and misguided
parsons who preached or accepted the
Moscow version of events in Korea. An
interjector was thrown out and an
“Argus” cameraman attacked and his
camera smashed. Comrade Bird, of the
Seamen’s Union, referred to Melbourne’s
Shrine of Remembrance as “a heap of
skulls” and urged the organising of
groups within the trade-unions to pre-
vent arms, munitions and men being sent
to Malaya. Appeals were made for functe
to pay the fares of Dr. Kaiser and his
wife to London. Also off to London is
Jessie Street, who will attend meetings
of the “British Peace Committee,” which
the British Labor party last week declared
to be a Communist show.
The world-wide Communist claim that
the South Koreans attacked the North
on June 25 is not supported much by the
proceedings of the North Korean
Presidium. Only nine days before the
first shot was fired that strange body
issued a declaration which said that
“peace” must be established in South
Korea by arresting “the treacherous
Syngman Rhee clique” and expelling the
United Nations Commission,
Among items for discussion at the
A.L.P. Annual Conference are sugges-
tions from several branches that the
party’s weekly paper, “Standard,” be
converted into a daily newspaper. When
that happens the workers will get an up-
to-the-minute news-service. When last
week’s “Standard” appeared on Friday
the Korean fighting had been in progress
five days; there was no evidence to show
that the “Standard” was aware that it
had begun. This, after all, was not sur-
prising. No statement had been made
by Chifley, Evatt or any other “Labor”
leader, and everybody knows you can t
believe a word you read in the capiterlist
Press.
Pity the unfortunate flood victims.
There is a Government Flood Relief
Committee, and it is visiting all flooded
areas, will then “draw up a map showing
all distressed towns, villages and areas,
set up committees in each area and
presently proceed to distribute relief. But
by that time it will be Christmas, though
of what year is anybody’s guess. The
proper people to administer flood relief
quickly and justly are the local shire and
municipal councils, and to them the job
should be given.
Any lingering doubts anybody may
have had that State taxes on private road
transport are anything other than a means
of collecting revenue to offset State rail-
way losses can be finally dissolved.
Queensland Transport Minister Duggan,
announcing that rail fares and freights on
Government railways would be increased
by 5 p.c. and 10 p.c. respectively from
last Saturday, said that the road taxes
of Id. per passenger and 3d. per ton per
mile would be increased ‘‘progressively
wherever the private services competed
with the railways.
The Commos’ slogan, “Hands Off
Korea,” is a laudable sentiment, but it’s
directed to the wrong address.
Queensland Premier Hanlon has been
complaining that Ministers from down
south have been treating the Callide coal-
field as a showpiece or something in a
glass-case; they go there to browse, not
to buy. Two Victorian Transport
Ministers, South Australia’s Premier
Playford, some Federal experts and De-
velopment Minister Casey have all given
the field a look, over, but so far there are
no orders. At the present time good coal
should sell itself. Instead of complaining
that these fruitless visits are “tiresome”
Hanlon should take another look at his
coal. If that’s all right, then there must
be something hopelessly wrong with his
organisation.
Jock Garden is expected to be in circu-
lation again before the end of the month.
It’ll be interesting to see whether the
guests at his coming-out party include
“Labor” M.H.Rs. who, a few years ago,
petitioned Holloway, then Minister for
Labor and National Sendee, not to
transfer Garden from his position of
liaison-officer because in addition to
“straightening out many anomalies and
averting industrial trouble,” he had also
been “of considerable assistance to mem-
bers of Parliament.” Signatories were
Watkins, James, Falstein, Clark, Sheehan,
Amour, Mulcahy, Williams and Daly.
It cost a Lithgow (N.S.W.) policeman
a £l5 fine for walking off the job without
notice. Unusual. One of the strange
things about a lot of industrial awards is
that the boss can’t sack a man without a
dashed good reason, but any unionist can
walk off and fear nothing. “Our girls”
in industry are notorious for it.
On June 22 the N.S.W. Full Court
heard a case in which the owner of a
property near Forbes sought a declara-
tion on the resumption of his land by
the State Government. Through a slip
on the part of counsel three Sydney
newspapers reported the case as referring
to other land near Gunnedah. The fol-
lowing day, at the instance of Attorney-
General Martin, an order was sought
calling upon the three papers to show
cause why they should not be punished
for contempt of court, it being alleged
that the reports might influence electors
in Barwon electorate, where postponed
polls were to be held on June 24—Gun-
nedah is 10 miles outside the Barwon
boundary. An order nisi was granted.
Last week the Full Court considered the
application. Chief Justice Street said he
was satisfied that the mistake was purely
accidental and that the court “did not
think there was any negligence of a culp-
able nature”; and Mr. Justice Owen said
he felt the Attorney-General was attempt-
ing to use the court for political pur-
poses. The application was dismissed
and the Attorney-General ordered to pay
costs.
The yield of champion milker Wagga
Gladys isn’t worth talking about when
compared with what the Governments
get out of the motorist. Petrol tax this
year, apart from aviation petrol, is ex-
pected to reach £l7 million, sales tax on
new vehicles and spare parts about £9
million, and the States will collect about
£lO million from registration and driv-
ing fees. If you want to know what the
motorist gets in return, stand at least 10
feet away before you ask him.
“Ek Bum’s” late report:-
United States troops of the 24th TW.:
were well on their way to the SouthKorS
fro i lt 77 l l fr ? nt can be called—on Jui v i
and . U -S-. ai / u cr^ ft were operating as far north
as the North Korean capital, Pyong-yana ™
which, according to Moscow Radio 300 t °
of bombs had Been dropped in a sinde Sa
The R.A.A.F.’s 77th Squadron was alrSdv
bomber escort to N. Korea. AU aircraft mft
North Korean side is Russian, some vdth rm
An- Force markings. Generally, the main
battle had not developed on July 3 Tho
that no official U.S. censorship of Korea? wa
news was yet imposed from Tokyo proved tW
the affair had not reached the stage of serin,™
major operations for the Americans. Prohahw
the only tried . and . effective fomaSs S
land forces yet in action then were two North
Korean divisions which recently returned from
fighting with the Chinese Communist armies
General MacArthur on July 3 stated that thn
situation was “not too good,” and that the
next few days would be critical. China
was then moving troops towards Korea
In view of the bad weather, the task of gettine
U.S. ground forces into action will be much
slower than otherwise. General MacArthur has
120,000 troops in Japan, including Air Force
and the U.S. Navy has a carrier, two cruisers
and 10 destroyers in Far Eastern waters and
five fighter groups on Guam. U.S. estimates
made in Korea last month put the potential
strength of the North Korean Army at 180 000
backed by 75 Stormovik and 120 Yak fighters’
155 33-ton Russian tanks, 18 10-ton tanks and
30 armored cars. The S. Korean forces were
not armed for defence. Their aircraft totalled
only 10 training machines. They had no tanks


Caucus
Meetings,
UNWELCOME “PHILOSOPHERS.”


S ociety
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Sydney’s lack of theatres with foyers suitable
for gala premieres was ably demonstrated at the
Empire Theatre, when Melbourne’s National Ballet
Company opened its Sydney season. Women, who
had dressed formally for the occasion, bad difficulty
keeping their long skirts from being trodden on and
torn.” —Sydney “Sun.”
“Sackville St.”: The modern number-
plate with two letters prefixing the
numerals may have its merits, but it is
embittering my outlook on life. When,
with noble disregard for my tyres, I steer
my humble push-bike into the tiger
country, the motorist thus given the right
of road no doubt appreciates my quaint,
old-world courtesy. But his number-plate
doesn’t! While lam still battling with
bucking handlebars, loose gravel and
equilibrium the piece of enamelled tin
yells back with school boyish derision;
YA. If it is a foreign car the insult is
often JA, Different plates have different
outlooks. Some view my struggles with
a short, mocking laugh; HA, Others
titter; TE or merely HE. The snobbish
type throws back a disdainful UH or
«*,t> B^os
"It’s the only Way I can get him to take his medicine, doctor ."
HU, while some see me as an object of
repugnance: UG. The violent type grind
through their teeth: GR. Then there is
the kind ihat dismisses me with a con-
temptuous PA or a scornful BA. A few
take impoliteness to such excess they
borrow a nought from , the numerals to
hoot 800 at me, or even exclaim POO!
One motorist who chased me into the
paspalum had the complete approval of
his number-plate; it endorsed his action
“We must have overshot the station , Steve."
with SHOO. Occasionally a better-
natured plate will pass me with a note of
camaraderie; HI. But only one has
showed me real courtesy. As I sat in the
dust extricating my foot from the front
wheel and wriggling the point of the
saddle out of my coat-collar, the grateful
little thing flashed a demure TA.
* * * ♦
“Irving”: Not only tents can pro-
duce intriguing silhouettes (B. 21/6/’5O).
Take the case of the not-over-bright
Jonesy, the front bedroom of whose
suburban villa is at footpath-level, so that
the drawn blinds provide passers-by with
revealing shadowgraphs of the retiring
arrangements of the occupants. Eventu-
ally the regulars on the 8.30 a.m. bus de-
cided to tip Jonesy off. He wouldn’t have
it, insisting that the position of the bed-
room light precluded any possibility of
a silhouette on the blind and suggesting
that the informants should mind their
own business. Stung by this attitude one
of them declared “To prove that I’m
right I’ll tell you now that last Thursday
you and your wife got into bed at exactly
half-past ten.” Jonesy was stumped for
a minute, then replied triumphantly:
“And to prove that you’re a liar I’ll tell
you now that I was away on a country
job last week and didn’t get home till
Saturday morning!”
♦ * * *
“H.A.L.”: One of my neighbors is a
man who hasn’t been very popular; he
has a flair for complaining to the council
about rough footpaths, choked water-
tables and similar things; he is also loud
in his condemnation of residents who
don’t keep their hedges properly trimmed
or who use noisy lawnmowers in the early
hours of Sunday morning. Now, how-
ever, we regard him as a public bene-
factor. Our street has houses on one
side only; the other side has long been
a favorite dumping-ground for rubbish,
dead cats, dogs and fowls. Last night
a truck drove up and the driver com-
menced to shovel out a big load of refuse
which seemed to come from a restaurant,
judging by the broken crockery among
it; the place also seemed to do its own
slaying and preparing of poultry, for the
rubbish included fowl-heads, entrails and
feathers. Old Wideawake heard that truck
pull up, went out in the cold to see what
was going on, and went back to his house
to put through a phone-call. Daylight
saw the truck-driver still shovelling stink-
ing rubbish back into his truck under the
supervision of a couple of motor-cycle
police. We are now planning a suitable
party to show the old chap that on this
occasion we fully approve the way in
which he minds other peoples’ business.
• * ♦ *
“Pawang” (B. 21/6/’5O) is
making rather a sweeping statement
when he says that “Humanity seems to
be coming to the end of its honeymoon
with the ‘wonder’ drugs penicillin and
streptomycin.” The millions of pounds
spent in research on penicillin and strep-
tomycin have been amply justified.
Penicillin is active against a large sec-
tion of organisms called “gram posi-
tives” ; streptomycin is active against
“gram negatives.” It is true that some
organisms develop a certain resistance to
penicillin ; the chief of these are the
staphylococci, and they vary in degrees
of uesistance from about five times nor-
mal up to 1000 times normal. But this
is only one organism out of hundreds
that is resistant to any marked degree.
Pneumonia, once a dreaded disease, is
no longer a killer; a course in penicillin
and sulpha drugs soon sets things right.
Resistance to penicillin may be set up by
organisms if large doses are not given
and all of the infection cleared away. It
is a debatable point whether the use of
penicillin and streptomycin will increase
susceptibility to some organisms. Peni-
cillin is almost 100 per cent, non-toxic,
but the toxicity of streptomycin is one of
the major problems of research at the
present time. Because of its toxicity
sufficiently large doses can’t be given
to inhibit completely the growth nf
organisms. However, good results have
b koow„°as aln^ S by in USing
stepTomycin ” COmblnatio “ with
♦ » *
“Bo”: Were I a staff-manager of a
department store the first thing my { ift a
drivers would be subjected to would hi
a vo.ce-test. Nothing is more conducive
to thoughts of homicide than to be con
£ n ®d “ a crowded lift and to be bom-
barded by a bull voice chanting “Corsets
ironmongery, haberdashery, wools to the
eft crockery, underwear, boots, ties, hats
to the right.” And looming large on the
list of musts would be a sense of the
discreet. When the posh-looking dame
in the silver-foxes lowers her voice and
murmurs something incoherent she would
be given an almost-imperceptible nod
when the lay-by floor was reached The
cove who got into the lift looking sheenish
wouldn’t be asked what floor heated
but would be told “Straight through the
archway” on reaching the ladies’-under
wear floor. And so on. I have seen but
one bull-roarer devastated. A small
aggressive-looking bloke got in the lift
and asked for babies’ blankets. Twice
on the way up the liftman sang out “It
was babies’ blankets you wanted, wasn’t
it?” bringing smiles from the women At
the sixth floor he bellowed “Babies’
blankets to the left” As the doors flew
open the small cove, who was standing
right alongside the seated liftman, roared
right in his ear in a stentorian voice-
“ Speak up, I can’t hear you!” Then
he walked out.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Coloner”: Adelaide “Advertiser”
last week carried a rather alarming note
on the effect of television on book-reading
in the U.S.A. It quotes the “Wall-street
Journal” as having made a national
survey and discovered that whereas
American industry is “enjoying the
greatest boom in history,” publishers,
bookshops and libraries are suffering
“the worst depression for many years.”
Book-sales in 11 key American cities
were down 10 p.c. to 25 p.c. Most
prominent among the 100 different
reasons given for the slump was television,
and the “’Tiser” invited its readers to
contemplate an America given over
almost entirely to looking and listening
in its spare time. Heaven help the
language if it comes about,
• * * *
“Sam”: Next door to me lives a lass
who fancies herself as a vocalist. At the
musical evenings she holds at her home
she is always the main performer. On a
recent evening she was in the middle of
a song when from outside the house
there sounded loudly a man’s voice:
“Time for a change.” We heard it clearly
from our living-room. “Somebody’s
laughing at her,” the lady of the house
exclaimed. Then a spate of words re-
vealed the truth. The explanation had
come from a loudspeaker in a cruising
car. A political aspirant was exhorting
the electors to replace the sitting member
by himself.
* ♦ ♦ •
“J.A.A.”: This week the W.A. Rail-
way Road Services will put into opera-
tion what is probably the longest intra-
state bus service in Australia, when a
new diesel will begin a 364-mile run
from Perth to Hopetoun. For 150 miles
out from Perth the route follows main
highways, but it leaves the blue metal at
Wagin and takes to the gravel- and dirt-
roads which cut south-eastwards across
the drier areas. It is the last 100 miles
which stands to benefit most by the
service; till now the area has had to get
along without any regular means of trans-
port. The passenger-freighter will take
15 hours to complete the outward
journey, and will seat 20 persons and
cany three tons of goods.
$ * * *
“Hamer”: The columnist’s inquiry of
another: “Tell me, who do you think
writes your column?” quoted in the Rea
Page article on Charles Graves and Jane
Gordon” (14/6/’5O) had a particular in-
terest for me. Soon after my arrival i
hospital in London from France in lv
opened my account with the Even g
Standard,” “Daily Mail” and Evemng
News.” After receiving an elaborate
cheque for 2s. lid. from the Standar
for a news item it had double-col ’
I had disgustedly decided to do no
for it when a letter from the editor
its “Londoner’s Diary” said he w
two of my pars and invited me , j
more. The payment was good ana
became a regular contributor to t ’
as I did also to the “About ma j Qe d
of the “Evening News which
a market for me until the c
of the English papers at the start a
last war. The personal columnist
modern growth, but my oxp £
often led me to .peculate*
much of their “columns these col
really do write.
THE CLOTHING PROBLEM.
Said Mrs. Kafoops, in some hauteur,
Addressing our Social Repauteur
With ladylike oaths,
“Let theatrical dryads and satyrs engage
In tearing a passion to tatters on stage,
But not, in the foyer, our clothes!”
Our Social Reporter was gushing:
‘The foyer’s too frightfully crushing.
It’s the fault of the Firm —
The space they give actors —they’re paid, too,
I mean—
While you, with the outlay you’ve made to be
seen.
Must squeeze, struggle, stifle and squirm!”
At this Mrs. K. made a sally
And leapt on the stage with the ballet,
And made them disperse.
“And now,” said the lady, commanding more
lights,
“I’m a paying first-nighter, demanding my
rights,
So first let me show you my furs.
“The coat which tonight I have chosen
Is one of my group of six dozen
New pieces of mink.
Its story would keep you for ever entranced,
But it’s more of a ballet you’ll never see danced
Than many good people might think.”
Miss Bubblebaum shouted, “That’s funny!
My fox-furs are barking at bunny—
If it’s mink, and she’s right,
I’d say only one small condition was set,
The amount of the salesman’s commission she’d
get
For showing it off here tonight.
“On the other hand, look at my model —
The skirt is so tight I just toddle
Until I’m picked up.
I’m offering this one for hire—it’s designed
By Hartnell, Balenciaga and Dior combined —
To wear at the next Melbourne Cup.”
“We’ve never had such entertainment,”
Said people of subtle refainement,
“From Garbo or Boyer”;
But “Get off the stage!” many other folk cried.
“If you get yourselves lost in the smother out-
side,
Don’t panic; it’s good enough foyer!”
N.s.w,
SWILLIAM.


dAwording to a scientist. the use of bacteria In
j dustry is becoming? of ever-increasing; importance."
“Clooter”: Poets and writers of flowery
prose are fond of asserting that blue skies
and bird songs always go together—even
in these modern “songs” which come
moaning from the radio there’s nearly
always something about sunshine and
birds singing. It’s obvious that these
people have never heard my neighbor’s
canaries. There’s an aviary of them close
to our front door; possibly 30 of the
yellow sprites live therein. The noise
they kick up morning and evening goes
on irrespective of the state of the skies.
As anyone domiciled in Sydney knows,
there have been few glimpses of sun-
shine this month or more, the scene
usually being one of grey cloud-wrack
and pouring rain. My neighbor’s canaries
don’t give a hoot. They sing as joyfully
in the midst of the rain as at any other
time, though the floor of their aviary be
awash and the rain drives through the
unroofed part of their cage. I don’t
mind myself, but it gets the missus. With
a houseful of unwashed clothing, damp
and mildewed footwear everywhere,
dripping umbrellas and overcoats, off-
spring barking and sniffling all over the
place and puddles of slush on doorsteps,
herself expected to work miracles in the
provision of dry, clean clothes —all I can
say is that it’s lucky for my neighbor’s
canaries that we haven’t a shotgun.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Afraid “Billy S.” (B.
21/6/’5O) and I met different sahibs. If
he had caught the Tollygunge tram that
ran near Ops. H.Q., gone to the terminus,
“ She’s married beneath her , y' know."
turned north toward the region of water
buffalo, king vultures, jackals and
cucumber-plots, he’d have landed among
uiany acres of godowns ; it was the British
types in charge of these stores I had in
jumd. I didn’t say Digger hats weren’t
I-was-there” hats; L was in Chittagong
when some territorial regiment—the Berk-
os, I think —returned, dead-beat, from
the Wingate country. They wore slouched
hats, but they didn’t wear ’em like
Diggers. “Billy S.” will possibly agree
that Dachshunds appeared to outnumber
all other sorts of dogs in India—excepting
pariah mongs; 1 was told it was because,
no matter how hot the weather, the breed
emits no 8.0. In Calcutta that is a
quality not to be lightly passed over.
♦ 4 s * £
P.0.M.C.”: Would-be telephone
subscribers in outer-suburban areas such
as new subdivisions are sometimes asked
by the P.M.G.’s Department to attach
rough sketches to their applications show-
ing nearest street intersections or main
roads to facilitate the “spotting” of exact
locations. The other day an applicant
sent in a detailed drawing of the position
of his house even to the nearest tree.
Underneath, in bold letters, he appealed;
“Hurry, please. Stork hovering.”
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: A recent court exchange
about the use of “Mister” between lawyer
and witness recalled an incident towards
the end of World War I when some
surgeons at the top of their class seemed
to consider the title “Mister” higher
than that of “Doctor,” and demanded it.
The sister in a repat. ward was taking
a lot from a bad-mannered medico and
her restraint wasn’t improving his temper.
To one particular outburst she said meekly
“Yes, doctor,” and he bit. “ Mister!
nurse,” he barked. “Sister, mister!” she
snapped back, and the ward roared its
approval.
* ♦ * ♦
“Jim O’Keeffe”: Old hands who knew
Queensland’s Gulf country in long-gone
days probably chuckled over “Mullum’s”
trey-bit collectors (B. 14/6/’5O). George-
town (N.Q.) used to be called Half-
crown Town ; drinks were a bob each or
three for half a crown —but it had to be
a half-crown piece. Drinkers nearly
always approached the bar in threes or in
multiples of three. Then a local Bung
cornered all the half-crowns he could lay
hands on and packed them off to a
southern bank. The secret leaked out,
and two miners who had struck a rich
pocket of gold took a trip south and
came back prepared to change every-
body’s coin, or notes, into half-crowns.
They’d brought boxes of them. The old
order of three for half a crown was
resumed and everybody in the place
laughed, except Bung.
* * * *
“Historical Bloque”: It was Joseph
Pendleton, master of the Yankee whaler
Union, who landed those runaway con-
victs at Kangaroo Island and set them to
work building the first locally-constructed
vessel in South Australia (B. 21/6/’5O).
Built from local timber, she was named
the Independence and was a 35-ton
schooner. It was Pendleton also who
once took away 12 convicts from Hobart
Town # and put them ashore at King
George’s Sound, Westralia, to catch seals.
As he left them only sufficient provisions
to last a few months and didn’t return for
two years, they were in a bad way from
a diet of seal and fish, but they managed
to collect 20,000 sealskins.
• » * »
“Harold Hardupp”: The curious fact
about these people who spend all night
in the cold and the rain waiting to be the
first in any anticipated big crowd is that
they are proud of the foolishness. The
first arrival for the gate at the League
footbrawl Test at the S.C.G., who camped
on the doorstep of one of the gates at
7,30 on the night before, was quite an old
hand; of the about 200 who had
assembled (with rain increasing a cold
night’s discomfort) before even the most
conscientious milk-oh had started his
rounds half were willing to talk of pre-
vious exploits. The craze is age-old and
does not apply merely to football or other
sporting fixtures. Of. the afternoon
before the opening of the Common-
wealth’s history, practically every camp-
ing-spot in the Sydney Domain overlook-
ing the specially constructed pavilion
where the representatives of the throne
were to land was occupied by parties
prepared to stick out the night to hold
their box seats for the next day’s function.
When box-plans opened for the Melba
concerts when that lady first returned
from Europe with her vocal honors thick
upon her, there was a tremendous rush.
When sale of tickets had finished the first
night, people who were still in the queue
lined up and kept their places for the
next day’s helping. They included people
“ What's Wrong with YOU.
Beckston?”
from Bathurst who, a few years earlier,
had so greatly ignored the opportunity to
hear Melba with the John Lemone Con-
cert Co. for only a few bob that Lemone
had had to close the doors of the Bathurst
School of Arts for lack of an audience.
* * * *
“P.P.”: Without detracting from the
merit of the gentleman described by a
Bulletin writer as the pioneer of music-
publishing in Australia, it seems necessary
to mention that the real pioneering was
done before he was bom. As far back
as 1840 Isaac Nathan, the English com-
poser who set Byron’s Hebrew melodies
to music and wrote several operas (excerpts
from “Sweethearts and Wives” survive in
some regulation Army bugle-calls), had
several songs printed in Sydney. Nathan,
who had lived extravagantly, came to
Australia as a fugitive from debt and
lived here until he was knocked over and
killed by a horse-tram in Pitt-street —the
first tram-accident victim in Australia.
Nathan’s songs, which included “Land of
the Gold Wattle” and “Land of Sun-
shine,” were put up in a printery in
Bathurst-street and published by a music
firm which faded out in the late ’nineties.
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When is an Aus-
tralian not an Australian? I’m asking on
behalf of a man who has worked hard
all his life, paid taxes where they were
due, and, at the age of 67, thought he
was entitled to an old-age pension. He’s
not, solely because too many of his an-
cestors were born in Australia. Of course
he’s black, but that alone doesn’t dis-
qualify him from drawing a pension.
He’d get it, however black he was, if he’d
come from any foreign country and
possessed half this chap’s qualifications as
regards length of residence. Apparently,
if a man is to be black and live in Aus-
tralia, it’s up to him to be born outside
the country.
* ♦ * *
“Sackfair”: The tall, fair-headed young
chap seemed a decent type of New Aus-
tralian, but bis opening question left me
floundering after it passed “Scuse pliss.”
I must have looked terribly, terribly
vacant —the garble of words didn’t
resemble anything at all. The N.A. tried
again. Still I was floundering. A despair-
ing expression was creeping into the
light-blue eyes as the stranger had
another go. Speaking slowly, he began
to mouth syllables very carefully. Twice
he repeated the ritual before I realised
he was spelling something. But what did
“A-t-a-m” spell? And why did he finish
up with something that sounded like
“Lickitystick”? I must have looked even
more vacant, for the young fellow tried
pantomime. Purposefully he licked the
tips of finger and thumb, placed them on
the palm of his left hand, then patted the
spot once with three fingers, the whole
procedure accompanied by a chant of
“A-t-a-m. Lickitystick.” One of us
would certainly have gone mad if he
hadn’t sighted an envelope sticking out
of the flap of my coat pocket. “A-t-a-m!”
he exclaimed —and snatched the letter out
before I could stop him. ’ Then 1 woke
up, and told him where be could buy a
stamp, 1
* * * *
“C. Raiser”: A neighbor, after search-
ing high and low for a man who could
adze into shape some old railway-
sleepers he had bought as a means of
getting on with the house he is building,
mentioned his trouble to acquaintances
on a suburban train, “Joe, down at the
corner shop, is a good adzer,” said a fel-
low who lived near by. “That young bloke
at the grocer’s shop? Where did he
learn adzing? He was bora in Footscray.”
“Yes, but when he was a p.-0.-w. in
Austria they used to march ’em off
every day into a forest and make them
fell trees and adze ’em. He was shown
how to do it by an expert whose family
had been adzers since the days of the
ancient Romans.” So my neighbor got
his adzer,
* * * *
“Keadue”: Latest wheeze amongst
some of the lasses is the dual-job scheme.
In a permanent job, the lass concerned
conveniently “falls ill,” and while absent
on sick-leave with pay
takes casual work for two
or three days. Back at her
old stamping-ground, she
removes some of the nor-
mal make-up in order to
achieve a suitably impres-
sive pallor and slips back
into routine, no one being
any the wiser; she quite
a bit richer. Sometimes,
however, the double-cross
doesn’t come off. Recently
an employer, harassed by
recurrent staff shortages,
dashed into a distant office
on urgent business and
saw one of his “sick”
typists working briskly at
a machine. That was one
lass who didn’t get either her permanent
or casual job back.
* * * *
Has it been noticed that
that very good Australian word “dinkum”
is showing a tendency to fade out? It
was once the adjectival hall-mark for
cobbers, love, fights, information, dogs
and horses, sport, good bosses and
soldiers —in fact everything; if a man
was “dinkum” he was good and true and
could be relied upon, and if he was “a
dinkum” he was a good soldier and a
loyal Australian. It came as a shock
to me when a man resented my remark
that an argument he was using “sounded
dinkum”; subsequently, with some diffi-
culty, he recalled the time when it was
the highest commendation, but he said
he had not heard it used for so long that
he had forgotten. Then, with astonish-
ment, I realised that I have heard it very
infrequently and seldom use it myself.
* * * *
“Lau”: Fijian native names may be
lengthy (B. 7/6/’5O), and one suspects
that some of the dozen surplus syllables
have been added for swank, but the real
absurdity about Fijian names was foisted
on them by early missionaries. These
well-meaning folk brought out printing-
presses, but soon found that some con-
sonants were never used in setting up
type in the Fijian language, while others,
such as TH, occurred so frequently that
the supply ran out before a book could
be set up. To get over this difficulty
they pressed the unused consonants into
use to represent frequently-used combina-
tions ; C, for example, was used for TH,
with the result that the old king’s name
was printed as Cakobau instead of as it
is pronounced—Thakombau. This is still
used today, on the ground that it is
“linked with Fijian tradition.” Britain
and America long ago abolished this sort
of nonsense in regard to placenames by
adopting what is known as “geographic”
spelling. In it, A is pronounced ah, E
as ay, I as ee, O as oh and U as 00. To
this is added an inverted apostrophe, the
“hamza,” to represent a dropped con-
sonant which is spoken like a catch, in
the breath; a combination of N and G
to stand for those two letters as we pro-
nounce them in “singer,” the use of TJ
and DJ for the sound which we usually
pronounce as CH in “church,” and the
Continental J, which is very like the Y
in “young.” With it any native proper-
name or place-name can be written exactly
as it should be pronounced, from Maori
to Zulu and from Eskimo to Chinese.
The only English-speaking country which
hasn’t adopted it is Australia.
OLD FRIENDS.
Ve toilers who, with many a quip and jest,
Pnrizather ere the call comes to be homing,
d f.ce and reflect, the while the bar you breast
And Jipwards twist the suds, amber and
foaming, .
Thnt any praise for making such a brew
That you may voice should not be given
wholly . . .
m human workers. Quite a lot is due
it you must know, to other workers, too,
Loyal, yet lowly.
The wine, yield of the grape grown years ago
And then imprisoned in an airtight bottle,
Has the "bouquet,” the flavor that, you know,
Will be enchanted nectar on your throttle.
And how may that be. think you, other than
This: That some small wog, benign, indus-
trious, .
Has rendered to the services of man
Much selflessness, which makes its brief life-
span
Almost illustrious?
H o w many humans give one passing thought
To what bacteria suffer without question:
Th, a t working, say, in Stilton cheese has brought
Full many a microbe down with indigestion?
Just as the wog in bottle or in cask,
Slaving away until exterminated,
Carries on nobly with its chosen task,
Perpetually (how other, we would ask?)
Intoxicated.
The shorter working week’s not for their mob,
They’ve no appeal to Courts of Arbitration,
And should they get bowled over on the job
Their relatives can’t claim for compensation.
Still with a tax-slug they are never “crowned,”
Nor have to plod home after backing bosses.
They have no worries on the falling pound;
They don’t strap-hang, nor are they pushed
around
By union bosses.
They’ve full employment now. Their sphere of
toil
Gets every day, in every way, far wider.
Unseen, unheard, unsung, they freeze, they boil,
Working in media from cream to cider.
So let us cease our chasing of the quid
A mo. in tribute to some lives superior
In many ways to ours —and that’s no “kid.”
Gents, bow the head and lift the lid
To old Bacteria!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gravelsnatcher”: Two Sou’-Westralian
identities recently lost their lives in vain
opposition to modern methods and the
march of progress. Of the two the emu
came out best. It’s just as dead, but it
managed to inflict seventy-quids’-worth
of damage on
the mechanised
monster which
disputed its
right of way.
The best the
’roo could do
to its car was
fifty quid.
’Roos and
emus are awkward customers with which
to share an accident, but for sheer
ingrained cussedness they can’t approach
a cow. Once struck a chap sitting in his
damaged car on a country road. The
mudguards and radiator were smashed,
and he had a broken ankle. Being a cow-
cocky he took the damage philosophically,
but he told me that he became infuriated
when the cow calmly got up and walked
away. He immediately rushed from his
car and fetched her a hearty kick in the
slats. “What! With a broken ankle?”
I exclaimed “Up to that stage,” he
explained wryly, “1 didn’t have a broken
ankle.”
♦ * * *
“Kelms”:" An 18*months-old boy
had a remarkable escape when he found
a hitherto unsuspected entrance to a cave
at Yanchep (W.A.) and dropped 20ft.
down a steep incline to a limestone
floor. • His rescuers sank a shaft along-
side the cave and tunnelled through to it,
to find the boy uninjured. The Yanchep
“ He's passionately fond of his Work."
caves are a tourist attraction about thirty
miles north of Perth, and when they 'have
been fully explored and developed may
equal any in Australia. The locality is
honeycombed with caves, and, as in this
case, they’re not always obvious. A man
who, as a lad, was amongst their first
discoverers tells how he found one—
fortunately in time —with its sudden-drop
opening completely obscured by growing
shrubs. He explored it on the end of a
rope, and, some 20ft. down, found
the bones of hundreds of kangaroos. It
must have been a death-trap for centuries.
*■* * *
“J. H. Lawes”: Much has been written
about the big hauls of super-prawns
being caught by deep-sea prawners on the
N.S.W. North Coast. It was no accident
that fishermen found this new source of
supply, nor did they seek the advice of
the C.5.1.R.0. as to where to trawl. They
haven’t second-sight either, or some
special knowledge of the way or love-
life of a prawn. The knowledge they
have gained came to them in a practical
way. It is simply that they were
observant enough to take note of the
remnants of food in the gut of the fish
they caught from time to time. If, for
example, they catch flathead and the gut
shows ample traces of .prawns, then,
ipso facto, there must be prawns in those
waters, too. I was surprised to learn that
Sydney fishermen are topping the market
with extra-large deep-sea prawns caught
in local waters. The quantities caught are
smaller than on the North Coast, but the
quality is extra-high and the size larger.
The shrewdest fishermen don’t bother
about the small prawns ; they deliberately
go after the big fellows, which pay better.
* * ♦ ♦
“Old-timer”: The red kelpie pup,
having made itself a nuisance in the
yards, was shut up until the drafting was
done and the wethers for the back pad-
dock were well on their way. Released,
the pup ran to the yards, searched them
thoroughly, investigated a post or two,
looked wildly round at the horizons,
anxiously quartered the ground, couldn't
make anything of the maze of sheep-
tracks, suddenly decided that the wethers,
men' and older dogs must have headed
for the river and set out to catch up with
them. He found five old ewes in a
corner near the main road, mustered and
counted them, held them for a while and,
when nothing happened, gave them up
and made for the river again. An
attempt to yard a hare was an ignominious
failure, and he had as little success with
a sheepskin hanging on the fence. Some-
where further on he encountered Jim, the
surliest old dog on the station, and
galloped upon him with yelps of joy.
But Jim was on his way home, having
had a row with his boss, and he swore at
the pup, who fell over backwards, re-
garded Jim in pained astonishment and
then slunk off behind a dillon-bush and
pretended to dig for gold or something.
Jim went morosely home and the pup
pushed on. He came through the fringe
of wild tobacco on the edge of a shallow
lake and saw several white forms on a
tiny beach of sand. Promptly the pup
went into the kelpie crouch and advanced.
Step by step he closed in, ready to antici-
pate any attempt to break. A mild
tremor went through one of the white
forms, whose head turned and regarded
the advancing pup. Then the pelican
opened its huge beak in a cavernous
yawn, shook its feathers and closed the
beak with a snap. But by that time the
pup was a furlong away, breaking evens
for home and mother, vowing to stick to
Merinos in future.
* ♦ * *
“Wonk”: It might go like this. Dad,
settling in to milk Strawb, glances at
the clock on the shed wall and immedi-
ately gets up. He releases Strawb, turns
her and several other unmilked cows back
into the paddock, and makes for the
dairy with his bucket. With an eye on
the clock he commences to separate, and
with the milk-tank about half-emptied
suddenly shuts off the tap and reaches for
his hat. At the door he meets Dave.
“No time again t’night to feed the pigs,”
nods Dave, chucking a bucket through
the doorway. “Nor finish the calves,
neither. You get finished?” “Cripes, no.
Had t’ turn Strawb an’ Daisy an’ Patch
out again. Strawb’s bad in two quarters
from not bein’ milked. Good cow that.
Pity we got t’ lose ’er like this. Would’ve
like t’ give Creamy a shot of milk-fever-
“ You're stiff. Tiger; it isn't a fall — he's lying on his stummick."
cure, too, only there ain’t time. She’ll be
the third cow we’ve lorst this month/’
“Yair. ‘Course they allow f’r losses,”
agreed Dave. “Still, I don’t reckon the
lousy forty-five bob a pound we get f’r
butterfat’s enough t’ cover everything.”
“Well, no, it ain’t really,” agreed the old
bloke, strolling towards the house. “Some-
times I wonder if it wouldn’t pay us better
t’ grow sheep; although I heard yest’d’y
mutton’s down to thirty-nine bob a
pound. I duhno, Dave,” he sighed.
“Seems ’ard t’ make a go of anythin’
since they brought in this forty-hour week
f’r cockies.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Zake”: The double-breaster, suit
seems to have ousted the three-piece sac
in popularity in the cities, but I doubt
whether it Will ever achieve the same
success where the concrete-path existeth
not. For how else than by the trusty old
weskit can* the cocky use his sterling-
silver chain —“An’ stamped on every
link, see?” —which is invariably anchored
at one end by a quarter-pound watch and
at the other by a .44 bullet?
* * * ♦
“Dinkum”: Was working on the river
road when Ted came along on his old
pony. “River’s up a bit,” he remarked
as he paused at the crossing. “Got to go
over and get one o’ me cows out o’ that
bunch o’ Wallace’s in the clover paddock.
Bet she won’t like coming away, eh?”
As Ted had neither whip nor dog, and
his pony was the slow dumper variety,
I moved to a vantage-point to watch the
fun. Calmly the pony moved through
the mob, and as it ranged alongside the
wanted cow Ted dropped a rope over her
horns and, turning, led her out. There
was neither protest nor hesitation, the
animal plodding along with bovine in-
difference. Several times she broke into
a slow trot to keep by the pony’s flank
as they came through the river and up
again to the road. “Poddy,” Ted ex-
plained to me. “Always break all the
poddies to lead when they are small, and
they never seem to forget. Got thirty
to forty round the place now, from young
to aged, and every one of ’em can be
led anywhere. Handy sometimes,” he
remarked ; and, digging a heel into the
pony, he started up the road with his
Shorthorn-Jersey cross following obedi-
ently.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We trailed into the town-
ship, learned there was a picnic meeting
in progress and decided to hang around.
“You go round to the course,” I told
Seventyfiver, “and I’ll join you soon as
I see the agent about tomorrow’s mob.”
The interview brought several small jobs,
and I arrived at the meeting only in time
for the second-last race. Mooching
around the outskirts, 1 spotted Seventy-
fiver hopping madly up and down on a
flat stump. “Hey, Sol, I got Hairy Legs,”
he bawled. “Gripes, I got Hairy Legs.”
“Awright, awright,” I “shushed” modestly.
“No need to tell' everybody ”
that he’d have to see somebody a bom
it, he dived for a crowd under a yellow
box and I didn’t follow until the
race was due. Then I found him hover
mg near a brace of bookmakers and , '
pecting a loitering with intent, made in
qmry. “What are you after?” “Alone ”
he whispered confidentially. “That’s if
I can’t get a decent price on the Brown
Saddle.” “W-what!” I gasped. “S
mad!” But just then someone bawled
“They’re off!” and, knowing it meant it
was on, I turned to watch the gallop a
big red bay jumped to the lead near
the finish, and passed the post a length
in front. “What nag’s that?” I asked
a bloke. “Find-out.” I glared, flashed
a suitable rejoinder and returned to
Seventyfiver. “What won?” I inquired.
“Find-out,” he snapped. With noble re-
straint I merely spluttered. “Find-out;
with Alone second and this blasted Saddle
thing third. Aw, c’mon, Sol,” he growled,
ripping a ticket to shreds. “I always say
y' can’t beat nags f’r gettin’ a bloke into
trouble, if he don’t know ’em prop’ly.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: We were well over to
the left of the road, pedalling along
quietly and enjoying a really beautiful
sunset. Suddenly, with a whizz and
swirl, a long black car shot past.
That driver had all the middle of the
road, but he wanted the bit beneath Long
George’s pedal. The rush of air really
saved the tall bloke’s life; it breathed
him off the edge of the water-table-
right In my track. For a horrible moment
we seemed to hang suspended in the air,
as my front wheel hooked on his back
forks; then down we crashed in a wild
tangle of bikes and legs. Ten minutes
work with a block-spanner put the grids
in order again—apart from a few minor
buckles —but it couldn’t put skin back
over the gravel-rashes. Passing down the
main street George nearly spilled me again
as he jammed his brake on. “That car
outside the pub,” he said darkly. Am
it the one that piled us up?” I thought
it was. “Good ; I’ll do something about
it,” the long bloke announced. I wasn t
very happy about the matter. t
wouldn’t come at stabbing tyres, 0 ~»
sort of thing,” I protested. I w ° n
he declared happily. “ rhis l 1 ? e P ldn ’t
mental.” In the fading light I cou ld
see what he did in the region
back springs, but he insisted <an
until the driver came out of the h
Within a hundred yards the car
the driver got out, and, to Long g th6
diabolical enjoyment, peered
back of his bus. “Hell l e J°u! mi
for the next week! ’ chuckled
’un. “It’ll drive him mad trying
out what’s worked loose. I th nd tied
an old nut on a piece of string h
it where it’ll bang on the chass
THE MURRAY BELOW MILDURA.
Remorseless, quiet beneath its redgum trees
Whose stubborn life it gives or takes away,
Rapt in its mystery the river flows,
Turned by a pebble or a century.
For passing works of men, their noisy chatter —
Idle or busy underneath the sun—
The river does not care. It cannot matter
When time in time will mould the course to run.
Its giant hour has gone: long, long ago
It strove with mountains whom it tore in rage
And spread their bodies on the plain below —
A carpet for the comfort of its age.
Far back it still 'is nimble, swift and strong,
And tumbles boulders in its errant play;
It mimics still the ardor of its youth
In memories of an age’s yesterday.
But it is small, and gurgles now and cries
Where once loud gorges held the sun at bay
And shdfwed new Life the merest glimpse of stars
Whose rhythmic changing told the years away.
Indifferent: now it works sand into stone
And stone again to sand.
Knowing its destiny in time alone;
Sliding for ever through a silent land.
So will it flow, a brown sash falling
In careless symmetry across the plain;
Nothing to drown its song, no voices calling;
Only the dust its ceaseless waters stain —
When the last man has gone a million years
Beyond all hope of love, all fear of tears.
N.S.W.
O.H.D.B.


“Wasp”: “B. A. Ker’s” sister (B.
7/6/ ’5O) was merely the victim of an
unreal system of education. Personally,
at the age of 16 I was very thoroughly
taught by an excessively peppery old
Oodnadatta-side stockman that to speak
of tide “left” or “right” sides of any
natural feature or other landmark was a
crime as heinous as polling on a mate in
a pinch. I therefore, strictly in self-
defence, acquired the habit of always
denoting directions by cardinal points
and, even more important, of always
thinking in terms of the compass-card.
And the habit stayed. At the age of six
my son would no more think of saying
“to the left of the creek” than he would
of getting bushed alone in open country
a few miles from home. His three-year-
old sister talked of cars coming “from
the north” and “going south,” of the
“south veranda” and “west of the fowl-
house” almost before she was even aware
that she had a left and a right hand. Both
children have a better sense of direction
than many adults, and in time either of
the pair should be able to go confidently
into any sort of unknown country any-
where and take a line there and back
without consciously noting down land-
marks.
* * * *
“Frank Humphrey”; A horsebreaker
in the north told me how to break-in
mules, “Never try to ride ’em,” he
admonished. “You’ll never get anywhere
that way. They can kick you in the
back of the neck while you’re sitting on
them. But before that,” he went on,
“the first thing you’ll feel after you get
aboard is the saddle giving a little wriggle.
That’s him getting his tail out of the
crupper. Just like this.” He gave a
snake-like downward weaving motion of
one arm and hand to illustrate the facile
ease with which this preliminary opera-
tion was accomplished. “The way to
beat him of that is to get two big pack-
bags. Girth ’em on him and load ’em
up with basalt boulders. Then turn him
“Him GOOD medicine—him plurry funny-bone!"
loose. In about a fortnight he’ll come
back to be unloaded —and the game’s
won.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: The conversion to
pastures for soldier-settlement of 280,000
acres of native bush on 90-mile long
Kangaroo Island (SA.) will kill two of
the island’s old-established industries.
One is the collection of yacca-gum from
the grass-tree, which is at present being
killed out at the rate of hundreds of acres
a day. The transparent red-flaked gum,
which forms between the scales of the
y acea s stem, is gathered by shaving it
off with an axe. It is used for resins in
lacquers and varnishes. The other in-
dustry affected is the distillation of
eucalyptus-oil from the narrow-leafed
gum, the dominant species there, which
yields a special quality oil. Although the
iirst settlements in South Australia were
sealing-camps on the island early in 1803
the population this century of 2000 has
remained practically stationary owing to
inadequate shipping facilities. The one
boat has been on the run for 50 years
A more equitable climate and rainfall
than Adelaide, and the fact that Kangaroo
Island has no foxes or rabbits, has in-
duced the State to‘place more than 200
ex-servicemen there on 1200-acre, im-
proved-pasture blocks.
* * • *
“Tarbush”: Whether you call ’em
Mexican, American or Spanish, those
saddles are not fit to be mentioned in
the same paragraph as the Australian
stock-saddle (B. 7/6/’5O). Only a few
fine leather-craftsmen can turn out a
specimen of the latter that is worth
while in hard station work. But, given
the tree. I’ll guarantee to turn out a fair
version of the Mexican article with
nothing more than the usual bush experi-
ence of leather-carpentry behind me.
The Australian saddle owes its efficiency
to the beautifully narrow grip that is
built into it—a narrowness that will not
last more than a year or two in con-
tinuous hard work unless the maker was
a master-hand. The Yank tub is essen-
tially the medieval armchair that was de-
manded by the old boys in the tin shirts
as a safe anchorage when prodded in the
brisket by the other bloke’s spear. Know-
ing that, you can make as flash a “cow-
boy” saddle as you like and your skill
allows from an Australian military saddle,
a bit of kip and odd chunks of wood.
But if you do, don’t retain the rounded
seat and build the smooth, high pommel
seen in so many Australian versions of
the Yank model. The “ce-owboy” likes
his saddle built with the swell fork,
bumps on the side of the pommel that
answer as kneepads. Without these, as
most imitators don’t realise, the cum-
brous contraption is about as much good
on a tight horse as an English park
saddle. And, if you must use such gear,
chuck the wooden stirrups to blazes: a
chunk of timber through the ankle if your
prad comes over on his side is not a
pleasant thing.
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: It was Englishmen
who built “Billy T.’s” road over the moun-
tain (B. 14/6/’5O), but it was largely
“colonials” who blazed the tracks out
from Perth (W.A.); yet they, too, went
straight at the hills, up one side and
down the other. The Darling Ranges
don’t compare with the Blue Mountains,
but they have some stiff pinches.
Modem traffic couldn’t look *at some of
the hills those old-timers took in their
stride, and I can’t figure out why they
took them. There’s one old road that left
the coastal plains at Kelmscott and
headed straight for Beverley, It’s prob-
ably half a century, at least, since it was
last used, and motorists who follow the
valley-road a few hundred feet below it
must wonder what the plainly-visible scar
can he —it so obviously couldn’t be a
road. On the face of it, it doesn’t say
much for the old teamsters’ common-
sense, until you reflect that that country
looks a lot different after it’s been cleared,
fenced, built on and cultivated.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: The talk had got on to
cities and towns, and the advocates of
this or that place were busily skiting
about their advantages when the stout
bloke silenced them all by saying, “Ar,
you blokes want t’ go t’ Sydney. That’s
the joint. Best place y’ could pick for a
holiday or t’ live in, if it comes t’ that.
Yair, y’ wanter go f Sydney!” Mat
put his glass on the counter and said,
slowly, “Aw, I dunno. Didn’t strike me
as a hell of a place.” “You bin there?”
demanded the stout bloke excitedly.
“Know Bondi; bin t’ Manly; did yer go
t’ Randwick; what price Pitt-street on
a Fridee, eh?” Mat seemed unmoved.
“Aw, I dunno,” he said, again. “Didn’t
seem t’ be much. No fencin’ or clearin’,
no tank-sinkin’, no post-cuttin’; only
a bit o’ truck-drivin’ or ticket-
punchin’ or somethin’ like that. An’
everybody down there runs about
“ Don't be a fool, Ponsonby—get me out of this!”
like a lot o’ flamin’ rabbits an’ ”
Here the stout cove broke in urgently,
“But what about the shielas, boy? What
about the shielas? More shielas to the
bloomin’ acre down there than they is
sheep up here.” Mat reached for his full
glass. “Yair,” he grunted sourly. “That’s
what’s wrong with the flamin’ place.
Overstocked with ewes!”
* * * *
“Deep Keel”: A rare visitor to
Sydney’s sheltered bays during the past
few stormy weeks is the leather-headed
gannet. It has been a treat to watch
these fast-flying birds sweeping along
with necks outstretched scanning the
waters below for small fish. Suddenly
they make a perfect stalling turn and,
with wings folded back, dive like a
plummet straight on their targets. If
they overshoot or are doubtful of a
target, they come round in a wide sweep
at an altitude of about 50ft., returning
unerringly over the same patch of water,
then, if it was a fish they saw, they go
straight down again.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Bogaduck”: Before taking it for
granted that the American mesquite will
prove to be a pest in the Kimberleys
(B. 21/6/’5O) the W.A. Department of
Agriculture should make a few experi-
ments. The mesquite is none other than
the famous “honey-locust”-tree of the
U.S.A., which yields an abundance of
first-grade honey in its homeland, so a
few hives of a good honey-gathering
strain of bee could be taken to the
Kimberleys to see if it also yields a
good flow of honey in its new home.
There can be no doubt as to the
suitability of the climate of the area for
beekeeping; for nine months of the year
it is almost ideal, and there may be native
flora which would keep an all-the-year-
round supply of pollen up to the
bees. The top end of W.A. badly
needs some “small-man” forms of
primary production to attract additional
settlers. I was there in the early part of
1942, when a Jap invasion of the area
appeared to be imminent; having spent
my life in the southern part of the con-
tinent I was appalled at the sparseness
of the population in the Kimberleys.
Equally strange to me was the fact that
few of the local people ever seemed to
think of doing anything for that part of
Australia save to describe it as a fine spot
held back by political neglect. The idea
of self-help never seemed to enter their
heads. Yet Americans were unanimous
in declaring that some parts of the coast
could be turned into a second Florida
and would be a winter-holiday paradise,
j|g j|j jjj j|g
“B. A. Ker”; Old Mac and Scotty
were friends —until it came to business
affairs, then neither quarter nor
ha’pennies would be given. Mac owned
the best stand of trees in the district.
Scotty owned the sawmill. With decent
mill logs increasingly hard to get Scotty
prepared to strike a bargain. It was a full-
blooded battle, with one Scot sturdily
holding the price aloft, the other as man-
fully endeavoring to drag it down to the
very depths. Ultimately a price exactly
halfway was agreed on, with one proviso :
Scotty was to saw 2000 super, feet into
four-by-two and four-by-three for Mac’s
new house. In proper time the sawn
timber began to arrive. When the last
load was due Old Mac ordered the
carter: “Tell Scotty I want the scantlings
off those logs of mine, you ken.” Scotty
brought the next load out himself, and
the homeric scrap was on again. But
Mac stuck to his guns: Scotty had
bought the other logs, but he hadn’t
bought these, therefore he wasn’t entitled
to the scantlings. After two hours of
debate and abuse the timber-man left,
vowing he’d see his compatriot in hell
first. Next day he arrived with the
scantlings, threw ’em off at the wood-
heap, then drove three miles to find his
sparring-partner. “I brought your miser-
able scantlings,” he announced. “And,”
he tossed off a bulging sugar-bag, “Here's
your sawdust.” Old Mac didn’t turn a
grey whisker. “You’re sure this is mine?”
he asked. “Aye, and it’s all there,” de-
clared his brither-Scot, rubbing it well
in. “Well, in that case you’d better cart
all that hardwood back and bring me m’
own timber,” grinned the old bloke.
“This smells awful like cypress sawdust.”
It took three nips of Scotch to make
Scotty see that joke.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Old buggies and
cream-wagons have a new life in western
Victoria. Along Prince’s Highway from
Geelong to Mt. Gambier they are used
universally as portable milkcan stands be-
tween dairies and the roadways.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: Old Herb had been messing
about with the old utility for nearly an
hour. After he’d finished he sang out
to the new hand to get the can of cream
on to it. Just before he climbed into
the seat he looked at the front off-tyre,
then up at the sky, and turned to the
hand. “Think y’d better shove the scythe
in the back —I might need.it.” “What
for, sir?” asked the n.h. “Well,” said
Herb. “That there front tyre that blew
out the other day mucked up the inner
tube properly an’ we ain’t got a spare,
so I had to fill the cover with com. It
ain’t too good a fit, and with all the rain
we’ve had over the last week or two the
roads’ll be inches deep in water. With
the way this engine’s knockin’, be the
time I get to the cream fact’ry the corn’ll
be sproutin’ that long it’ll bog me down
if I don’t cut it.”
* * * ♦
“Wak”: Another landmark in the
shearing industry has come with the just-
completed class of shearing at the Tech-
nical College, Echuca (Vic,). The first
of its kind to offer instruction outside of
the shed, its pupils were shown the art
by one of the principals of a contract-
shearing firm- Only some of the lads
intend taking stands for a living. Some
were sons of landowners, who wanted to
be able to lend a hand when necessary
as well as judge the ability, of those whom
they employed. Nowadays, when it is
rare to find the fifth stand with a beginner
at it, and with skilled fleecers a scarcity,
the school is certain to become an annual
affair, and the day is probably not far
off when the prospective employer will
be asking to see his team’s diplomas.
NEON MONKEY AND RAILWAY
PORTER.
The puppet monkey on the Neon sign.
Raised high above this moiling city station
p[ av s with a spinning hoop, a slick design
nf captured light; while, Master of Creation,
One hundred feet below, a similar chap
piay S with a ticket-punch; fond Nature’s whim
Gave this beloved biped a porter’s cap,
Which proved her End was not the End for
him . • •
Ah somewhere, deep within his veins of light,
Midst wired nerves and little sparking-points,
There ghosts a Something, out of this world,
QU|t6)
That flows, it seems, with Purpose through his
joints . . •
yet, so close the species of the group,
One thought the less might fuse the ancient gap,
And lo! a puppet porter spins the hoop;
A knowing monkey wears the porter’s cap!
victoria.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.}
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
That Perplexing Problem!
~ how will mg Estate he administered ?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Will»
obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 71 years’ specialised experience
Administration of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees wi
guarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet .
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706
W. i
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Bankers and Traders* Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1911.. 28,585 7 p.c. = 8891 1 203,405
To contingencies, £l5OO ) 1 ’
From inner reserves,- £25,000 .. 228,405
1942.. 42,823 7 p.c. = 10,211 32,612 261,017
1943.. 44,024 7J „ ~ 10,960 33,064 294,081
1944.. 35,674 8 „ „ 11,691 23,983 318,064
1945.. 43,634 8J „ „ 12,422 31,212 349,276
1946.. 46,243 9 „ „ 13,716 32,527 381,803
1947.. 75,213 9 ~ „ 17,097 58,116 439,919
From inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 449,919
1948.. 113,289 9Jp.c.= 18,641 94,648 544,567
Tax refunds, etc., £25,000 . i 569,567
1949.. 120,656 24,528 96,128 665,695
1950.. 109,422 125,, ~26,367 83,055 748,705
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
In the investment category, few shares
take pride of place before those in a sound
and progressive insurance office. That is
because of their near gilt-edge quality,
their equity status —seldom are there any
debenture or pref. claims ahead of the
ords. —and a policy of profits allocation
which ensures strong reserves and, at
intervals, lifts in the div.. and other bene-
fits.
The 29-year-old B. and T, kept its
div. steady at 7 p.c. for 17 years to
1942, and then advanced the rate by
halting steps to 12y p.c. in 1949. And
last term those on the register welcomed
a call for a further 2s. 6d. per share,
making paid capital £245,285 in 392,450
£1 shares paid to 12s. 6d. each. To
support and assist this capital there were
reserves totalling £748,705, of which
£390,000 was earmarked for unexpired
risks at end March last. The lot is in-
vested in sound securities, returns from
which tread close on the heels of the
dividend charge, leaving the bulk of the
underwriting surplus available to swell
investments and the returns therefrom.
The market, which sees the glow of the
post-war years reflected into the future,
prices the co.’s scrip at 695. as against
455, a year ago. TTie immediate return
at 695. is 2.2 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
So the investor who looks for only 3.6 p.c.
on his money counts on the distribution
going to 20 p.c., or the remaining 7s. 6d.
per share being called and the div. re-
maining steady at 12i p.c., or upon some
combination of dividend and capital
increase.
During the last four years the co. has
widened the spread of its net consider-
ably, especially overseas, partly by re-
opening Asiatic and other agencies in
former enemy-occupied countries, and
partly by establishing new branches and
agencies, chiefly in Africa, the Middle
East and southern Asia. Since 1946 the
growth in net premium income alone
amounts to over 163 p.c., or £580,068, of
which £94,570 was in respect of the 12
months covered by the latest accounts:
Ket Doss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio, Ratio.
£, £ £
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 p.c. 34.4 p.c.
1945.. 342,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9* „
1946.. 354,299 160,917 160,567* 45.4 „ 45.2* „
1947.. 453,884 224,709 169,815* 49.5 „ 37.4 „
1948.. 643,734 351,417 197,597* 54.6 „ 30.7 „
1949.. 839,797 440,936 299,460* 52.5 „ 35.6 „
1950.. 934,367 498,304 357,092 52.8 „ 38.2 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
The loss rate, a factor over which the
management has little control, increased
by 6s, p.c. last term, but is still com-
paratively moderate. And so is the ex-
pense rate, though it is advancing briskly.
The increase last term was £2 12s, p.c.,
due mainly to the inevitable cost of ex-
pansion and to the effect of inflationary
pressure upon wage-rates, etc. The
writing-off of £BOll spent on new plant.
etc., also helped to bump up the year’s
exes.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£83,971, down £15,430. Allowing 40 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums (the ratio
usually considered adequate) as a reserve
for unexpired risks, the net available
surplus was £46,142, up £25,241. The net
return from interest and rents was £4196
better at £25,451. Aggregate net earn-
ings available for distribution were thus
£71,593 (up £29,437), equal to 33.9 p.c. on
average capital as against 21.4, 19.5 and
17.9 p.c, for the three preceding years.
So nothing had to be strained when the
2\ p.c. bonus was again sent out with the
10 p.c. div.
The continued expansion of the busi-
ness, as well as the co.’s strong financial
position, again shows up in balance-
sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. ~ £196,225 £196,225 £245,285
Sundry creditors* .. 79,852 106,485 205,920
Outstanding claims, etc. 263,148 336,126 364,615
Freeholds .. .. 202,000? 214,388 234,783
Government securities 401,202 422,360 499,864
Advances co-ops.t .. 87,345 135,136 157,794
Shares subsids. .. 14,995 19,995 69,995
Shares other cos. .. 87,194 124,082 131,943
Book debts, etc. .. 231,228 290,440 362,209
Cash 69,649 112,847 124,534
* Includes provision for taxation. t Advances to
building co-op. societies.
It is a well-balanced portfolio, the growth
of which augurs well for further improve-
ment in the return from investments. On
capital as it now stands p.c. will call
for £30,660, or £5209 more than last
term’s net return from investments,
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ■,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£♦ £* £• £* &*
1942.. 61,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5550 .. 295,853
War-risk fund created, £160,000 .. 455,323
1943.. 94,769 18,152 8$ px.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7355 .. •. 485,851
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. • • 480,351
1944.. 99,088 13,162 8i p.c.= 44,236 41,700 522,051
To patriotic funds, £lBO5 .. .. 250,246
To University scholarship, £25,000.. 495,246
Inner reserves disclosed, £128,000.. 623,246
1945.. 94,678 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,041 29,485 652,731
1946.. 94,210 13,152 15 „ „ 78,059 2,997 655,728
Capital profit, £42,872 .. ■. 698,600
1947.. 548.13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 38,536 736,956
To staff funds, £25,000 .. .. 711,956
Capital profit, £41,154 .. . • 763,110
1948.. 885.13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,693 805,803
Capital profit, £9740.. .. .. 815*543
1949- 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 51,190 866,733
Capital profit, £27,597 .. .. 894,380
1950- 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 50,447 944,777
* Fijian currency.
The long-continued advance of this big
and well-entrenched merchandising and
plantation-owning business became more
pronounced in the sheltered post-war
markets, where boom or inflationary
conditions have prevailed since V.P.-
day. For many years, however, the
board has followed a cautious dividend
policy, the aim being to build up strength,
visible and otherwise. For the 16 years
to the close of accounts in 1939 the ords.
received an average of 5.7 p.c., followed
by three lots of 6 p.c., two of 8 p.c. and
then 10 p.c. for the last six years, with
a 5 p.c. victory bonus added in 1946.
And since 1942 £288,000 of inner reserves
have been disclosed, while capital profits
from sale of securities totalled £121,363.
Since the £739,613 Of share capital now
has the visible support and assistance of
£944J77 of reserves, the two combined
need turn in only 3.8 px. to cover
current rates of distribution.
Last term turnover continued to ex-
pand, the improvement being most
marked on the plantation side, thanks
partly to purchase of the island of Lau-
cala and partly to the continued rise in
the price of copra—the in-store figure
was steady at £49 10s. per ton in 1949 as
against an average of £44 12s. 2d. for
1948. The improvement in gross earn-
ings from all sources was £11,558:
Gross earnings— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Trading .. ..£196,970 £238,160 £245,162
Other .. .. 151,646 163,119 167,675
Total .. ..£348,616 £401,279 £412,837
Exes 250,819 306,436 321.998
Profit claimed .. £97,797 £94,843 -£90,839
Unexplained additions 20,088 21,539 24,800
Profit per table .. £117,885 £116,382 £115,639
The growth of £15,562 in exes, was due
entirely to the heavier allowance for de-
predation (£36,052, up £17,255). Includ-
ing £24,800 dropped into the insurance
fund (now £189,929), the all-in profit was
only £743 short of the previous year’s
figure at £115,639. That covered the
pref. div. and 19.7 p.c. on the £520,407
of ord. capital, compared with 19.7, 20.1,
17.3, 15.5, 15.6 and 16.1 p.c. back to
1944. It was a very encouraging per-
formance considering the hurricane
damage to plantations, steady rise in costs
and scarcity of suitable labor.
The already strong financial position
was further strengthened:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
(Fijian.) (Fijian.) (Fijian.) (Fijian.)
Paid capital.. £739,613 £739,613 £789,613 £739,613
Deposits . . 3,897 2,680 2,646 2,485
Creditors, etc. 117,540 109,175 138,902 148,279
Suspense* .. 128,823 150,818 137,901 133,800
Land, buildings, *
plant, etc... 192,241 239,338 278,313 281,092
Plantations .. 16,954 19,363 14,796 69,988
Stocks, etc... 260,261 640,225 519,209 450,997
Capital value
branches .. 75,176 111,178 113,192 94,681
Book debts, etc. 171,122 178,676 210,026 298,475
Investments & _
cash .. 1,032,095 645,329 776,279 799,740
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
The growth in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,359,329) was £20,072, despite
a net addition of £57,971 to fixed assets.
The increase in the book-value of plan-,
tations (up £55,192) reflects purchase of
the island already referred to. Assets are
known to be conservatively valued in the
books. When labor and materials be-
come available the co.’s large building
programme is to be pushed ahead.
The British Government has contracted
to buy the exportable surplus copra from
Fiji until 1957 at prices-to be negotiated
annually, variations being limited to not
more than 10 p.c. above or below the
previous year’s figure. A somewhat
similar contract with the U.K. also ob-
tains with regard to sugar. When the
effects of the hurricane damage have been
overcome and the labor problem permits
a further increase in operational effici-
ency, the board expects plantations to
“contribute substantially to the co.’s
income.”
On Sydney ’Change the pound ords.,
which advanced from 495. a year ago to
545. early in 1950, stood at 60s. last week.
Allowing for exchange at the current rate,
the return at 60s. is 3.7 p.c. in Australian
currency on the basis of last term’s dis-
tribution. The prefs. at 30s. yield 4.4 p.c.
Net tangible cover (Fiji currency) is
£7 13s. Bd. prefs. and 565. 3d. ords.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends —*
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6' p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 41,543 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,243
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,860.
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,120
1943.. 37,837 10,500 19,200 2400 5,737 421,857
9 p.c.
1944.. 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,299
Added investment reserve, £398 .. 422,697
10 p.c.
1945.. 37,296' 10,500 24,000 2400 396 423,093
From inner reserves, £64,346.. .. 487,439
1946.. 40,427 10,500 24,000 2400 3,527 490,966
8 p.c.
1947.. 32,317 10,500 19,200 2400 217 491,183
From tax reserve, £29,710 .. .. 520,893
Unexplained addition, £6842 .. .. 527,735
10 p.c.
1948.. 42,418 10,500 24,000 2400 5,518 533,253
From inner reserves, £15,925 .. .. 549,178
1949.. 49,730 10,500 24,000 24(10 12,830 562,008
Unexplained addition, £4568 .. 566,576
8 p.c.
1950.. 41,249 10,500 19,200 2400 9,149 575,725
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
It was the cut in the rate of distribution
rather than the contraction (£7881) in the
profit that disappointed the market. The
price of the f.-p. pound ords., which
dropped from 565. a year ago to 50s. in
January last, fell to 465. following pub-
lication of the accounts, which revealed
that the 2 p.c. bonus sent out with the
8 p.c. div, in the two preceding terms had
been jettisoned. The immediate return
at 465. is 3.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. Restoration of the 2 p.c.
bonus would lift the return to 4.3 p.c.
The 7 p.c. prefs. at 335. 6d. yield 4.2 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £6 14s. Id. prefs,
and 675. lid. ords.
The cp. enjoys a very strong position
in the difficult dry-goods trade, where
margins are narrow, competition keen
and selling-prices still largely controlled
all of which make net results particularlv
sensitive to turnover and costs. Since
the war an expanding home market and
revival of the Asiatic and island trade
aided by inflation and the sellers’ market
that goes with it, have absorbed the in
creased output of the co.’s factories
Last term the story on the home market
was one of continued inflation and ex
pansion; but there was a sharp fall jn
the export trade, where price rather than
availability of goods is becoming the de-
termining factor in sales. One trouble is
that recurrent wage-lifts and over-rapid
extension of social-“security” plans
which have to be paid for by taxation in
one form or another, are unaccompanied
by increased production and are bumping
up the price of Australian-made goods
faster than those of overseas competitors
According to the published figures, it
was the heavier allowance for deprecia-
tion (£13,118, up £7978) that brought last
term’s profit figure down. The allowance
for taxation isn’t mentioned, but the
balance-sheet reserve for the purpose
(£56,381) increased by £11,912, which
might have been due to outstanding and
accrued assessments. The net return
from trading was £5481 lighter at £27,568,
owing to the heavier allowance for de’
preciation, and from investments £3OOO
less at £13,681, due to transfer of capital
from Government securities to freehold
and plant, which augurs well for future
earnings.
The £42,249 of profit from all
sources was enough to pay the pref. and
“B” (employee) share divs. (together
£12,900) and show 11.8 p.c. on the
£240,000 of ord. capital, compared with
15.3, 12.3, 8.1, 11.4 and 10.5 p.c. back
to 1945. The improvements and addi-
tions to fixed assets, some of which have
not yet developed their full earning
power, the fact that the co. has a
cautious board, and that shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
need turn in only 3.7 p.c. to cover the
pref. and B share divs., plus 10 p.c. to
the ords., are encouraging features when
prospects are being considered.
All-round expansion and a snug
financial position are the outstanding
features of the balance-sheet:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital. . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 41.358 90,903 99,387 161,080
Tax reserve. . 66,717 31,000 44,469 56,381
Freeholds .. 158,944 177,097 206,559 245,441
Plant, etc. .. 31,964 42,045 71,028 148,953
Stocks.. .. 133,604 225,738 218,461 316,519
Sundry debtors 61,144 77,280 91,756 123,700
Government securi- ,
ties, cash, etc. 573,857 498,596 483,660 319,373
Goodwill .. 80.000 80,000 80,000 80,000
The year’s additions |to freeholds (up
£38,882) and plant (up £77,925) reflect
completion of the new mill at Port Mel-
bourne and electrification of the Sydney
and Brisbane factories. The growth in
stocks (up £98,058) and book debts (up
£31,944) are indicative of bigger trading
and rising prices. To meet the year’s
outlay Government securities and cash
were drawn upon for £164,289 and
£61,693 was added to trade debt.
(Hawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1942 .. 10,737 9 p.c. = 9,000 1,797 72,521
1943 .. 15,446 9 „ „ 9,000 6,446 78,967
Loss.
1944 .. 3,512 5 „ „ 5,000 £0,455
1945 . . 2,460 5 „ „ 5.000 02,993
Add charter-rate adjustment, £5422..
1946 .. 3,345 5 p.c. = 5,000 60,672
Surplus sale assets, £395 .. 00,46/
Cost refitting, £ 4000 .. • • • • 06,4d7
Profit. kooiv
1947 .. 1,850 5 p.c. = 5,000 53,317
From tax reserve, £1862 .. •• 50,l
1948 .. Nil tl’lll
Net unexplained addition res., £25,144 "i’O
1949 .. 6.106 Nil .
Repairs expenditure, etc., £20,/ 28 .. L’, n
1950 .. 22,209 Nil 18 ’ 4 '
The figures for the last seven years
covered by the table tell the story of the
mess into which Government interference
and other things, including aggressive
post-war rail and road competition an
the steep and disproportionate rise m
shipping costs, have landed this hitherto
prosperous co., whose ships have


Copper Mine for Sole
Situated four miles from rail. Shaft
sixty feet deep. Vertical. Ore body
approximately two feet wide. Assays
18 to 28 p.c. copper. Driven twenty
feet east and seventy feet west. Load
very true and good holding ground.
Further particulars apply —
R. R. WATSON,
P.O. Box 43, Tottenham, N.S.W.
Telephone: 55 Tottenham.
CHAMPS!
§mmmm
■I':;:'?
'
i-.V-
Sugar is a fuel for the human body—it provides energy
for active, vigorous youngsters like these. Fresh air,
exercise, rest, pleasant surroundings and good food —
these are the main things which make healthy happy
children.
mm
; :V: X
m
um
m
m
M
m
A balanced diet—fresh fruit and vegetables, meat, eggs,
milk, .cheese, butter, fish —foods like these are pecessary
as well as the energy foods. Sugar—the best energy
food of all—comes to your table every day in many
wholesome household foods. C.S.R. Sugar is as pure
as any in the world.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office* 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0, GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
“ESSAYS and STUDIES”
by
W. A. OSBORNE
Twenty-two essays of outstanding interest on such
subjects as Diocletian’s Price Fixing; Chess,
Voltaire and Marat; and Poison Gas. Price 10/6
(Post Free 10/10£).
Available NOW from all good Booksellers or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING
COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Authors are asked to mark their name and address
clearly on all MSS submitted.
WA
. / / '///'// //' 4// , y-',
Baiit wait, unt 'i y e ! A
Mater* 9
m
v
A
'/?////////
v //
iUfiiooi
'//
m
X
Z
'/x
7
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature. , r
B.i. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulart call, write or phono . • •
It
s rMHi
PTT.
LTD.
Phones: SYDNEY. 8X5584; MELBOURNE. MU3506
BRISBANE 83604: 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257: 8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
sd
m
m
m
t ■
V
m ■.
m
£ I
m I
WMkm*
m ■
Unlike a private executor, Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited won’t grow old and feeble. Experienced Officers
continue to take good care of your affairs. If you have
appointed a private executor, now is the time to transfer
full responsibility to the Company. A senior trust officer
will explain the advantages. Or you may write for the
informative booklet, “Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.’ ’
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY; E. R. Overton. F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR — TRUSTEE — ATTORNEY
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.O., Sydney
BPtOA-BO
poking fn d out of ports on
the N. S. Wales South Coast for
nearly a century.
While under requisition to the
hinoing board the fleet was run
t a heavy loss, and charter-
a tpc didn’t cover the rising cost
r maintenance and repairs.
Since derequisition the persistent
; ; n running and other costs.
118 ravated by the slow turn-
about of ships, the 40-hour week
ond mounting cost of amenities,
ana toaothpr with increasing
etc., together wun increasing
a an d road competition, has
ra J D imnrnsihle to soueeze
mad e it — b iL t0 of S S:
anythmg , . y incfudins
°ut of the s ‘ . *
charter a J ’ •
tr £ a^ D |i r 6Q U n nd that after mak
of £43 ' aUowance whatever for
ing no allowan
depreciation Also sharehol rs
have gone hungry f t th cl
time in the last hair- y -
Last term’s loss of £22,209
largely represents the cost of
annual overhaul of three units
of the fleet. It leaves out of the
reckoning a further £20,728
spent on reconditioning another
vessel and charged direct to re-
serves. Lifts in freight-rates
authorised by the authorities
have been too little and too late ;
and the same remark applies to
road and rail transport adjust-
men ts recommended by the com-
mittee set up by the Government
,0 investigate eondittons under
which coastal trade operates.
trading conditions improve, it
proposes fo “submit certain
recommendations concerning ter-
mination of the co.’s activities.”
Immediate interest in the scrip
therefore centres mainly in the
wind-up value of the undertak-
ing. Here is the position as pub-
lished figures show it:
1948. 1949. 1960.
„ £ £ £
Paid capital .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Liabilities* .. 57,853 39,789 46,473
Ship property.. 24,680 21,930 21,930
Freeholds and
leaseholds. .. 2,155 2,155 2,165
Plant, stores, etc. 2,239 2,271 2,484
Book debts .. 26,127 29,819 23,593
Govt, securities,
etc 145,023 145,023 114,783
* Including 1 tax provision.
At March 31 last Government
securities, cash and book debts
together exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £91,902, or 18s. 4d. per
share. In addition the fleet,
which is worth a lot more than
its book-value, stood at £21,930,
equal to 4s. 4d. per share, and
there was another Is. a share
represented by freehold, lease-
hold, plant, etc., a total of
235. Bd. per share. At 255. 3d.
the market values the under-
taking at £126,250, or only
£BOOO-odd more than its net
book-value.
The Local Lead-market
The big silver - lead - zinc
mining cos.’ at the Barrier
(N.S.W.) have grown tired of
carrying the entire financial
burden of supplying all lead re-
quired by the Australian market
at the officially-fixed price of
£A3S per ton. This is not only
less than one-third the Austra-
lian equivalent of the May aver-
age for lead in London
(£AIIB 18s. 5d.), but is also now
below cost of production. So,
in future, these cos. intend to
contribute only their just pro-
portion of local requirements,
measured in relation to total
Australian production of lead in
lead-bearing materials, which
now amounts to 219,700-odd
tons p.a.
Local sales of virgin pig by
Broken Hill Associated Smelters
in 1948 totalled 34,700-odd
tons, and the demand has grown
since. The metal came entirely
from materials supplied by
North 8.H., B.H. South, Zinc
Corp. and New B.H. Consoli-
dated, with Electrolytic Zinc
making a financial contribution
in lieu of physical delivery.
Mt. Isa (Q.) and Lake George
(N.S.W.), which produce about
17.5 p.c. and 3 p.c. respectively
of the total lead in lead-
materials mined in Australia, sell
the whole of their output over-
seas at the ruling world price,
and they make no financial con-
tribution in lieu of physical de-
livery for local consumption.
This is inequitable and unjust,
and a damning indictment of the
quality of Government control.
Shareholders in the contribut-
ing cos., as well as the public
generally, have a right to expect
that the Government will hold
the scales fairly. On the basis
of the London average price of
lead for May, these cos. have
been subsidising Australian con-
sumers of the metal to the ex-
tent of nearly £3,000,000 p.a., or
over £700,000 more than would
be called for on a strictly pro-
portional basis.
And the whole position has
been aggravated by clumsy
official handling of the situation
in respect of scrap lead, which
is now being hoarded in the
hope that the local price will be
decontrolled, and/or the present
ban on exports lifted. One in-
evitable result is a stronger de-
mand for virgin pig from the
Port Pirie smelters, and a con-
sequent increase in the financial
burden carried by mining cos.
concerned.
Shareholders in Kundang Tin,
which is in the Anglo-Oriental
stable, welcome the board’s an-
nouncement that assessment of
the co.’s claim for loss of its
dredge, etc., which was dis-
mantled and removed during the
Jap, occupation, is expected at
an early date. The amount of
this claim has not been broad-
cast, but the dredge and plant
stand in the books at £88,845
net. The property, which figures
at £26,000, is at Kundang
(F.M.S.), where about 230 acres
of pay dirt remains to be
treated. The area is not big
enough to warrant installation
of a new dredge. The intention is
to work it by mutual arrange-
ment with an associated co.,
when a suitable machine for the
purpose becomes available. In
1940 co, was handling .651 b.
dirt, which should yield a satis-
factory profit with the price of
tin and costs at current levels.
At end 1949 cash and other cur-
rent assets totalled £47,175 and
current liabilities £1358. Paid
capital is £125,000 in f.-p. pound
shares, which have a fairly steady
market around Bs, 9d. (Sydney).
* * * *
B.H.P. has taken a two-years
option for £20,000 over a group
of nine leases adjoining the
southern boundary of its
Hannans North property at the
northern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.). The inten-
tion is to test-drill (estimated cost
£25,000) the extension of new
makes of pay-ore recently dis-
closed in the lower levels at
Hannans North. The co. has
worked this mine for the last 19
years for a production of some
451,000 tons ore, averaging
about ln 1949 42,900
tons were treated for 13,0270 z.
fine gold.
* * ♦ *
W. S. Robinson, president of
Consolidated Zinc Corp. and
consultant to Western Mining
Corp., who has just made an in-
spection of Great Western Con-
solidated’s Copperhead and other
leases at Southern Cross on the
Yilgarn field (W.A.), thinks these
holdings will become one of the
most important gold-producers
in the Commonwealth.


sdf
sd
B
<%
X7420-U0
Because of the
careful blending
of choice Virginia
•Tobaccos in
Capstan.
own blend * it is a
pleasure to smoke
Capstan
cigarettes
7a
Wig
I
Time for a
capstan
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
Business Rollery etc.
War-scare and Shares
The Stock Exchanges of the
world were startled by the flare-
up in Korea last week, more
particularly after President Tru-
man ordered U.S. troops into
action against the northern in-
vaders. Wall-street had its
heaviest day’s selling for nearly
11 years, but the fall in prices
was really not very steep —the
equivalent of a drop to 21s. in
a share previously priced at
225. 6d. is perhaps the quickest
way of picturing it —and the
lowest point reached was still
higher than this year’s “low.”
London followed New York
to some degree, but less de-
cisively. Australian Exchanges
marked down leading stocks to
about the same extent as Wall-
street. B.H.P. dropped from
535. 9d. to 51s. 9d. in three days.
A.C.I. came back to 575., C.S.R.
to £6B (rallying to £6B 155.) and
British Tobacco to 495., seller.
So far it is likely that the
greater part of the fall in Aus-
tralian prices is the result of a
reaction from the steady upward
trend of the market since the be-
ginning of this year. Any ex-
cuse is usually good enough to
produce a market shake-out
when investors and speculators
have been waiting for a definite
trend to appear after a period
of buoyant uncertainty. The re-
valuation question has caused a
quietening of market activity in
Australia for the past couple of
weeks, and nothing more than
that. On the other hand the Ex-
changes have always been par-
ticularly sensitive to Wall-street
movements, so that last week’s
fall in U.S. stock prices was
bound to have repercussions in
the Commonwealth.
But what is the actual posi-
tion, arising out of the Korean
affair, as it affects investors in
Australian industrial shares?
As has been emphasised in
these pages many times sipce
World War II began, war-time
is inevitably inflation-time. That
means that paper-money loses
value in war-time, and that
assets in the nature of property,
machinery, etc., usually rise in
price, as price is expressed in
terms of depreciating paper-
money.
Shares in industrial companies,
representing equities in the assets
of those concerns, have, after
“jitters,” generally risen in price
during war-time in Australia,
noticeably towards the end of
the war, and still more after-
wards.
During the last war military
reverses produced sharp falls in
many stocks, and at one period
in 1941 Broken Hill Proprietary
shares sold as low as 295. Bd.,
Bradford Cotton at 355., A.C.I.
at 375. 3d., British Tobacco 395.,
W. R. Carpenter (£1 shares) at
31s. 6d., Yarra Falls at 395. 3d.,
Carlton Brewery at 58s. 3d.,
Tooth at 455. 9d., Queensland
Insurance at 505., Burns Philp at
435., Burns Philp (South Sea) at
19s. 9d., North Broken Hill at
335. and Zinc Corp. (10s. shares)
at 495.
Though even lower prices
were generally accepted in
February and March of 1942, by
the end of 1942 all the shares
mentioned were sought after at
pegged prices well above the
1941 “lows,” and after unpeg-
ging generally went to much
higher levels still, as quotations
of recent weeks reveal. In many
cases there have been new cash
or bonus issues since 1941, in
some cases two cash issues or
more.
The Sydney index of 34
representative ordinary shares
stood at a war-time “low” of
94 in March, 1942 (the lowest
figure since 1934). By 1944 share
prices generally were above pre-
war levels. In May this year
the index closed at 195.6, and
record prices were being estab-
lished. This has been a year of
record prices.
All of these facts and figures
are intended to show that the
long-term investor should not be
“I hope you don't mind singles."
panicked into selling because of
war scares. There is no
sanctuary from war’s effects in
paper-money hoardings and
that is all you get when you sell
your shares. It is far better
for an investor (not in urgent
need of his capital in cash) to
keep his savings in shares in
good-class industrial concerns
which are bound to be kept busy
during war-time and which have
inherent worth which keeps its
value better than paper money
during a period of war-time
credit - expansion and price -
inflation.
Good industrial equities are a
refuge, to some extent, from the
ravages of war-time credit- and
cost-inflation. And if there is
no war the prospects of Aus-
tralian industry generally are of
great expansion.
The Pound-note
From A. T. Traversi, consult-
ing actuary, Sydney; —ln
supplement to the very valuable
article by David Adams (B.
21/6/ ’5O) on the value of the
pound, may I be permitted to
draw attention ’to the vitally
important distinction, seldom or
never made, between “credit”
and “credit-instruments which
become currency.” Credit in the
sense of “time to pay” does not
add in any way to the amount of
currency: and this is true of a
loan on mortgage. But credit-
instruments such as bank
cheques, founded on mere bank
credit, however well secured, do
add to the currency: and the
same is true of cash-orders.
In this sense, therefore, such
credit-instruments are entirely
different in their monetary
effects from simple “time to
pay.” By physically adding to
the amount of currency, they
must inevitably reduce the abso-
lute value of the pound-note, as
judged by what it will purchase
in the way of gold or dollars.
Whether, or how, they affect the
superficially apparent cost of
living depends upon the extent
to which production is or is not
similarly added to: but they
either increase the cost of living
or prevent it from falling as it
might otherwise do.
The dominating importance of
this lies in the fact that we can-
not increase or stabilise the
value of the pound-note in any
other way than by action on the
currency. Action to increase
production merely reduces the
value of production, and there-
by, for a while only, enables the
money to buy more of a less
valuable quantity.
It should be quite clear that
action on either of the two-
production or currency—cannot
in itself affect the absolute value
of the other: it merely affects
their relative value to each
other. Any attempt to improve
or even to stabilise the pound-
note merely by action on pro-
duction can only lead to the
same currency disaster that has
affected and must affect all
attempts to carry on with irre-
deemable paper currency. An
increase in production, most
desirable in itself, might even
reduce the absolute value of the
pound by encouraging further
issues of irredeemable paper: on
the other hand, action on the
currency, witness “the miracle
of the mark,” brought about
after the First World War by
Dr. Schacht, may have the most
beneficial effect upon the
financial wellbeing of the nation.
Cement in N.Z.
Outlay in New Zealand’s
premier cement - expansion
scheme, launched by Wilson
(N.Z.) Portland Cement, Ltd., is
likely to be lifted to a million
under plans unvefied to share-
holders by chairman George
Wmstone late in June. This .®
a quarter-million more than the
earlier ceiling, but the co. think!
it would be worth while to go
the extra distance to instal !
complete flotation process for
dealing with limestone-rock and
thus save production costs later
nf ß ?‘ d n es P rc f"‘ commitments
of £750,000, the co. has sunk
£78,000 into preliminary works
making £828,000 in all.
son’s main goal, manufacture
from its big new plant, should
be reached some time in 1952
Vickers - Armstrong’s chief
cement engineer, R, s. Burns
with a staff of assistants, is
directing operations on the spot
in preparation for the arrival of
the kiln, due for shipment from
the U.K. next January, to be
followed by the whole of the
machinery within the year
Present plant won’t be closed
down until the new one is ready
to take up the running, so there
will be no gap in the flow of
supplies to Maoriland’s under-
supplied cement market.
The co.’s wharf at Portland
will be extended 100 ft. this year
to take care of all needs when
output is more than doubled to
260,000 tons yearly. Funds
drawn mainly from annual de-
preciation have been enough to
foot a bill for £220,000 for
works to date, but there are
prospects of a new issue before
long to lift capital above the
total of £600,000, in 10s. units,
reached in 1937 by handing out
a share-for-share bonus.
So far nothing has been said,
but investors shouldn’t 'find it
difficult to make their own cal-
culations. Cement profits are
headed upwards, helped by an
extra surcharge of 10s. a ton
imposed in June, on top of the
12s. which had ruled since last
August. This brought N.Z.
cement prices into line with
those for supplies bought from
Britain.


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7. G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
FINANCIAL WRITER
“The Bulletin” offers an opening for a
young accountant or economist (or student
of accountancy or economics), with writ-
ing ability, for its financial pages.
Excellent prospects.
Applications to;—
“Ohief-of-Staff,”
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, Q.P.0., Sydney.
\V\
'v
'"•'nVutt /
!««/
(fO
This confidence In
you to provide for him is a trust
you will not betray.
A definite and very practical
way to provide for your depend-
ants' security is for you to take
out a suitable life assurance
policy with " The Equitable "
.... 'phone, call, or write to-day.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
yrjl
PROBATES. GENERAL
INSURANCE
J/eaJ off/ce37/'373 Queen ft, Bristowe
WINCEUO HOUSE, ANCEL PLACE, SYDNEY
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
State Electricity Commission of Victoria
(Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria)
FOURTH
(LOAN No 50)
Opens for public subscription
MONDAY,3rd JULY,I9SO
Cash subscriptions to the Loan will be applied to finance
capital works associated with the expansion of the Com-
mission’s undertakings, including the development of the
Kiewa hydro-electric project and the Morwell briquette
project, and the extensions to the Yallourn power station.
31%
4 per Annum
Price ol Issne PAR
Currency 15 Years
(Repayable at Par 15th July , 1965)
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be obtained from,
and applications may be lodged with. The National
Bank of Australasia Ltd. (including The Queensland
National Bank Ltd.) at any of its offices in Australia;
members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia;
the Head Office of the Commission, 22 William Street,
Melbourne, or any of its offices in Victoria.
The Loan is secured upon the revenues of the State Electricity
Commission of Victoria.
The principal and interest are guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria.
The Loan is a trustee security in Victoria, v
Queensland and Tasmania.
The Loan mil close on or before 21st ol July, 1950
Issued under authority of the State Electricity Commission (. Financial ) Act, 1937
No. 4512 ( and Amendments) of the State of Victoria.
zz William Street, R. A# HUNT,
Melbourne. Chairman.
Albert G. Sims, Ltd.
Xhe Sydney - headquartered
metal Ann of Albert G. Sims,
Ltd, is in the process of con-
siderable expansion. Paid capital
at June 30, 1945, was £27,485.
n v June, 1949, it was £98,272.
Since then 320,000 ss. ords. have
been issued to the public, and
total paid capital is now
£178,272 in 553,088 ords. of ss.
each and 40,000 £1 prefs.
Net tangible assets on book-
values at June 30, 1949, allow-
ing for the introduction of fresh
capital, were equal to 4s. lid.
for each ss. ord. share. On
valuations made by outside
valuers the net tangible assets
represented slightly under
6s. 6d. per share.
Earnings of the co. and its
chief subsidiary (Electro-
Chemical Refining Co.) were
equal to 14.2 p.c. on ord. capital
for the year to June 30, 1949,
compared with 18, 25, 8.8 and
13 p.c. back to 1945. That is
after allowing for public-co.
taxes and depreciation.
Earnings for the last term,
after allowing for pref. require-
ments, were equal to slightly
under 6 p.c. on ord. capital as
it now stands. But since then
the co. has had the assistance of
£BO,OOO in new money, and earn-
ings should improve as a result,
though the full benefit will not
be obtained for some time.
The co. had its beginnings in
1920, mainly as a dealer in
scrap-steel and scrap-iron. This
still forms a large part of its
activities. Over the past few
years the co. has been expand-
ing as a non-ferrous metal-
refiner, and it is now operating a
modern smelting plant in N. S.
Wales. Another smelter has
been established in Victoria.
The co. also owns all the shares
in Electro-Chemical Metal Re-
fining Co., which recovers tin
from tin-plate scrap clippings;
the tin is sold as pure metal or
manufactured into solder. The
remaining steel scrap is baled
and sold.
The £BO,OOO of new capital
issued this year was required to
complete erection of the Vic-
torian smelter, to extend de-
taining activities to Victoria
(which has the largest supply of
tin-plate scrap) through the sub-
sidiary, to acquire a second bal-
ing press and to provide further
working capital.
There is a large demand for
all the co.’s products at the
present time.
The ss. shares are priced at
6s. 9d. in the market, to yield
6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Air, Oil and Western Papua
“Lemon”: Although, in the
later 1930’5, the gold of Bulolo
had brought air-consciousness to
that part of Papua and New
Guinea lying north of Port
AJoresby, and although men like
Ray Parer were running taxi
air-services (using what would
be considered by most airmen
as unflyable crates) between im-
possible landing-strips in almost
any kind of weather, the Papuan
Gulf country to the west of the
port was still almost entirely de-
pendent on surface transport.
Except in cases of extreme
urgency, the exiles of the Gulf
area had to rely on the erratic
and infrequent local shipping
for all contact, other than
wireless messages, with the out-
side world. Even then, the little
ships delivered mails and
materials only to a coastal
landing-point which might—or
might not, according to the
vagaries of the season—be
accessible to the inland by
canoe and carrier. Quite
commonly, many months
elapsed between requistion and
receipt.
The only vessel which
attempted to keep to any sort
of time-table was a small steam-
boat called the Papuan Chief;
and it was bartered to the Nips
shortly before they declared war.
Miraculously, and despite leak-
ing boilers and general de-
crepitude, the Chief put in a
welcome appearance at the Gulf
coastal stations once a month,
more or less, but even then it
could land stores and passengers
at most points only when the
weather permitted. If the
weather did not permit, another
month elapsed.
A new era, however, has
now opened for western Papua
with the addition of two Sea
Otters to the permanent trans-
port facilities of the Australasian
Petroleum Co. These planes are
peace-time versions of the robust
Royal Naval aircraft of that
name which built up such an
outstanding reputation during
the war. Their record of service
indicates that they are eminently
suitable for Papuan Gulf con-
ditions.
The machines now delivered
in Papua are amphibians. They
carry five passengers each, and
will also be used to transport
supplies and to provide ambu-
lance and flying-doctor service
to otherwise isolated geological
survey parties and to drilling-
sites.
When the search for oil ends
—if it does end —the planes will
have opened up areas in this
part of the world, potentially
valuable for reasons apart from
petroleum, without the neces-
sity or expense for constructing
landing-strips.
The stretches of water on
which it will be necessary for
the Sea Otters to come down
will often be narrow and subject,
seasonally, to strong currents.
Flying hazards, moreover, are
considerable owing to “pockety”
conditions and the uncertain
and rapid changes of weather
encountered. For these reasons
a high degree of skill is de-
manded of the men who will
operate the new flying services.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
The strong and silent sex is breaking
in this week with a bit of social activity
of its own. A ball will be held on
July 31 in the University Union Re-
fectory, the first ever to be given by the
directors and members of the union, and
the committee will consist of men only—
to be exact, two at present, David
Gardiner and Barry Ffrench. Those of
us who are used to big committees of
women may feel a bit startled, but this
is not the valor of ignorance—very much
the contrary, and everything is nicely in
hand. There will be Harry Berry’s band
for dancing, supper has been arranged
and an original scheme of decoration is
in the making. This will consist of
caricatures of the University and its
people from 1850 to 1950 approximately.
On one wall will be caricatures of the
buildings, starting with a heap of mud —
very appropriate for the State at present
—and opposite those of people who
helped to make the University. Guests
will be limited to 400; it is hoped that
every faculty will be represented, and
that the tradition of an annual Union,
Ball be started. As much of the
union as possible will be thrown open
to the guests, giving women a chance to
see the many treasures housed there.
Wives of the Anti-T.B. Social Com-
mittee (we have it on the word of one
of them) had quite literally to lead their
husbands by the hand to a meeting of
the committee at which a “Husbands’
Auxiliary” was formed. These modest
and shrinking little violets are not only to
become bartenders and chairlifters for
the night of July 6, when a soiree will be
held at the A.C.I. Building, but they are
also to find the refreshment, which will
include (everyone hopes) champagne. It
is all quite simple: they can scout about
and v get it donated or they can donate
it themselves and then take charge of the
bar and dispense the cup that cheers.
Wives are in a very strong position, since
they are supplying the supper, which, as
everyone knows, takes much more work
that getting together a few drinks and
handing them round. About 12 heroes
have been roped iri so far. Mr. Ralph
Doyle is president of the group; Dr.
Frank Louat, Mr. Robert Noss and others
are honorary bartenders.
On Saturday afternoon the New Guinea
Women’s Club met at the Cenotaph to
lay a wreath in memory of their gallant
men —300 of them —who went down with
the Montevideo Maru. The wreath was
laid by the president of the association,
Mrs. N. H. Foxcroft, who has been a
source of inspiration and comfort to the
widows and children of the men of the
N.G.V.R. and civilians who lost their
lives in defence of the Territory. The
vice-president of the society, Mrs' J.
Edwards, whose husband, the late Cpt.
Edwards, M.C., D.C.M., M.M., twice
mentioned in dispatches, was second-in-
command of the Volunteer Force, was
there with Mrs. Harold Page and many
others.
On the afternoon of the musicale in
aid of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund a
nippy wind swept the steps of the Town
Hall. Guests were glad to get in to the
vestibule, where, under the glitter of the
lovely chandelier, oil-heaters gave out a
comfortable warmth and agreeable music
filled the air. Mrs. Hope Gibson had
arranged a nicely varied programme
which included singing by Razel Justelius
and Alan Light, violin solos by Cathleen
O’Carroll and pianoforte items by Eunice
Gardiner. Gladys Harte provided the
accompaniments. The lasses who so
kindly volunteered the musical entertain-
ment were each given a corsage of
flowers by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. E. C.
O’Dea. Afternoon tea was served in the
main hall after the concert. Among
those enjoying both programme and tea
were Lady Gillan, Lady Plowman and
Lady Parker, Mrs. W. J. Cleary, Mrs.
C. R. McKerihan and Mrs. W. R. Dovey.
An original idea was introduced at the
dance at the Carl Thomas’s Club by the
social committee of the Institute for the
Deaf, Dumb and Blind. Roy Harrison,
president of the committee, said that the
idea, that of a Noah’s Ark Dance,
originated in the spell of flood-weather
that had been experienced. The com-
mittee felt that the only safe place in
which to arrange a party would be the
Ark, so for the purposes of the party Carl
Thomas’s became just that. The band-
leader dressed the part of Noah, and the
rest of the band were disguised as
animals. The committee made animal
favors to decorate the tables. On one
table Bambi took time off to admire his
own reflection in a pool, another was gay
yvith red parrots and camellias of the same
color. All a bit more exotic than poor
old Noah would have had time for, but
very popular with the guests. Proceeds
help toward the Silver Lining Ball, to be
run later in the year for this deserving
charity.
Lady Nicholson yesterday opened the
Exhibition of Period Costume organised
by the Penguin Club at the Rural Bank
building. The costumes, part of a col-
lection of eighteenth-century objets d’art
made by the late Sir William Nicholson,
were left to his daughter, Mrs. Stephen
Banks, whose husband, Commander
Banks, R.N., is here on loan to the
R.A.N. This collection is of consider-
able interest, and, owing to the generosity
of Lady Nicholson and her daughter, will
finally be housed in the Melbourne Gal-
lery. Sir William, whose work is repre-
sented in the Sydney Gallery by some
half-dozen oil paintings, was an artist of
remarkable range and versatility. He may'
fairly be claimed, in conjunction with
James Pryde, as a father of the English
poster. Working under the name of the
Beggarstaff Brothers, they completely
changed the character of the, English
poster. Nicholson had already made
contributions to wood-engraving. Work-
ing on the principle of these en-
gravings, Beggarstaff posters were
cut on linoleum blocks which formed a
simple and inexpensive method of print-
ing big sheets in color. The limitations
of the medium, combined with draughts-
manship of a very high order, resulted
in posters which ultimately became col-
lectors’ pieces. An engaging set of books
Wood engraving by William Nicholson in possession of
Messrs. William Heinemann.
featuring wood-cuts by Nicholson was
published by William Heinemann.
How the project took shape is of some
interest to Australians. In 1896 a horse
name Persimmon won the Derby, and
Nicholson made a wood-cut of it, Phil
May, who had been Bulletin cartoonist
prior to his return to London, knew and
loved horses, and was impressed with the
quality of this wood-cut. Staying at the
time with William Heinemann, he talked
so much about it that Heinemann sug-
gested approaching Nicholson about a
book. A series of books followed, in-
cluding the delightful Almanac of Sports,
for which Rudyard Kipling, reversing the
usual order of things, wrote the verses
after the engravings were made. It is as
a painter that Nicholson is best remem-
bered here. He painted, oddly enough, in
immaculate white-duck suits and shiny
black-patent shoes. His portrait of the
poet W. E. Henley is virtually the official
portrait, whilst that of Ursula, daughter
of Sir Edwin Lutyens, wearing a busby
—or should it be a bearskin? —is equally
well known. His was an outstanding per-
sonality ; everything he touched displays
the impeccable taste of a connoisseur of
lovely things. This exhibition will
remain open for four days. Last night
Commander Banks gave a- talk on
“Period China,” and on Thursday
night the exhibition will again be open
until 10 p.m., when Mrs. Stirling Levis
will talk on “Manners and Modes.”
Commander Banks has a particular claim
to our interest, since he is a descendant
of the family of the famous botanist Sir
Joseph Banks, who came out in the En-
deavour with Cook.
Margaret Henderson, with her parents,
the Carlyle Hendersons, of Armidale, had
to turn back from floods at Singleton
and make a detour through Mudgee in
order to be in Sydney in time for her
marriage with Paul Tbose at St.
Stephen’s, in Sydney, last Thursday night.
The weather then cleared beautifully.
Mr. and Mrs. Henderson afterwards re-
ceived the guests, numbering more than
150, at the Pickwick. Paul, a barrister,
and formcly a major in the A.1.F., is the
son of Mr. Acting-Justice S. V. loose.
From Melbourne
Vida Goldstein’s work for woman-
suffrage in this country is to be honored
by a permanent memorial, which will
take the form of an annual essay com-
petition. This was announced by Mrs.
Julia Rapke, who is chairman of the
memorial committee and who has
launched the appeal. Subject of the essay
for each competition will be the history
of the woman-suffrage movement in Aus-
tralia and overseas and the evolution of
women as citizens. Vida Goldstein was
bora in 1869 and died in 1949. She
worked unremittingly for reforms such
as the right of women to enter Parlia-
ment, equal pay for equal work, equal
property and parental rights for men and
women and for change of laws affecting
neglected children, children’s courts and
police matrons. Vida Goldstein was also
the first woman Parliamentary candidate
in the British Empire, standing as an
Independent candidate for the Senate in
1903 and again in 1910. In 1913 she
stood for the House of Representatives.
All donations may be sent to the hon.
treasurer, Vida Goldstein Memorial
Fund, c/o Business and Professional
Women’s Club, McEwan House, Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne.
At Christ Church, South Yarra,
Patricia, second daughter of Air Minister
Tommy White and Mrs. White, of South
Yar r a, exchanged
vows with Timothy,
second son of Major
R. R. Sharp and
Mrs. Sharp, Southern
Rhodesia. The
bride’s gown of off-
white faille carried a
design of arum-lilies.
The full skirt fell
into a train and the
slim-fitting bodice
was finished with a
large Medici collar.
The silk tulle veil,
which belonged to
her grandmother,
Mrs. Alfred Deakin,
was held in place
with a coronet of
orange-blossom. She
carried a small posy
of cream hyacinths
and azaleas. Marjory
Byron Moore and the
bride’s sister Judith
were bridesmaids.
Their gowns, also of
faille patterned
with arum - lilies,
were in a soft shade
of apple - green.
Panniers on each
side of the skirt
formed overskirts and the bodices were
finished with wide bertha collars which
formed tiny pointed sleeves. Coronets of
variegated ivy-lilies worn in their hair
matched the small trails they carried.
Keith Mattingley was best man and
Geoffrey Hartley groomsman.
Mr. and Mrs. L. J. McConnan, who
left in the Strathmore, will spend six
months in London before going on to
Scotland, where Mrs. McConnan was
born and where they will visit her rela-
tives. Then a quick tour of the Continent
before going to America, ' Daughter
Bunty is eagerly awaiting her parents’
arrival in London, she having returned
there after a three-months holiday in
Italy. Bunty will attend the July garden-
party at Buckingham Palace.
Dale Collins appeared in a new role
when he opened the portrait exhibition
of artist Betty Paterson, well-known
creator of baby studies, now showing at
the Melbourne Book Club Gallery.
Many who visited the gallery on opening
day were accompanied by their small
children, who were very excited at seeing
their portraits on the walls. The orchid
pinned in her fur wrap matched the velvet
hat Betty wore. Her sister, Mrs. Hermon
Gill, who as Esther Paterson is also a
noted artist, wore with her black caracul
coat a powder-blue felt hat. Vice-
Admiral J. A. Collins arrived in time to
hear his brother’s opening speech and to
admire the charming sketches of his two
young nieces, Susan and Felicity, who
were with their mother. Mrs. John
Hampshire, in junior-navy jacket-suit and
pheasant-feathered matching hat, was
with her mother, Mrs. W. Bridgeford,
whose black suit had grey fox furs for
company, Rita Miller was in steel-grey
coat and a tiny grey hat trimmed with
pastel-pink feathers.
The negro baritone, William Warfield
opened his first Melbourne recital with
a fine lieder group, moved £
French songs, then sang negro" spiritual,
to his own accompaniment. I n th.l
audience were Mrs. Conrad Charlton
in midnight-blue chenille velvet, Dorrip
O’Neill, whose white georgette blouse
was worn with a long amber-brown
tafleta skirt; Mrs. F. Irvine, an unusual
red velvet bonnet splashed with jet-beads
worn with her black frock ; Mrs. Frank
Tait, who covered her black frock with an
ermine coat; and Elizabeth Lewis who
wore black under Scotch mole.
The Ballet Guild of Victoria, now an
established fact, is taking ballet to
country centres. Valerie Grieg, subject
of this photo by Eastwood, is an attrac-
tive member of the Guild and a fine
exponent of the art. Every Thursday
morning she takes the ’plane for Hamil-
ton, where she conducts ballet classes in
which the age-groups are from four years
up to girls of twenty.
Zena Freeman, only child of Mr. and
Mi;s. Gerald Bacon, of South Yarra, was
a white-and-gold bride. As she entered
St. John’s Church, Toorak, with her
father the graceful folds of the white
tulle overskirt fell away from the gold
brocade gown, while from a lace Juliet
cap a filmy tulle veil spread graceful
folds over the gown. Zena, who carried
a bouquet of white orchids, was attended
by Pam Jennings and Marie Houston,
with her tiny cousin Beverley as flower-
girl. Beverley was a miniature of the
bridesmaids, who wore pale-pink slipper-
satin gowns with matching boleros and
Juliet caps and carried pale-pink
bouquets. The bridegroom, Brian Philip,
who is the only son of Mrs. P. Smith
and the late Mr. Phil Smith, had Stanley
Patch as best man and John Spiers as>,
groomsman.
There were many inter-State guests at
the reception at Grosvenor, Toorak. Mrs,
Bacon received them in a gown of dove-
grey crepe made with a full, flowing
skirt. In her silver-fox cape she pinned
orchids, and her turban was of deep
brown and grey feathers, which formed
a halo in front. Mrs, Phil Smith’s gown
was of burgundy-and-blue striped faille.
Mrs. J. V. Blackwell, aunt of the bride,
allied a royal-blue taffeta skirt with a
bodice of green and red leaf-patterned
silk. A gold halo finished with red roses
completed her ensemble. Another aunt,
Mrs. B. Underwood, from Borneo,
combined a green-gold satin skirt
and a tunic of blue and silver tissue.
Over an aqua-blue gown, with touches
of coffee-toned lace in the bodice, Mrs.
Frank Fox wore a full-length dyed-
ermine coat. Mrs. Mac Falkiner’s beech-
brown Chantilly laces had long sleeves;
a scarf drapery finishing the bodice.
Diamente clusters outlined the decollete
bodice of the black crepe gown worn by
Mrs. W. W. Killough. Mrs. John Tun-
bridge, from Ballarat, wore with her
black silk faille a matching jacket; hei
hat was of black coq feathers.
The Grand National Hurdle at
Flemington provided one of the best
fashion-parades seen since P r J"
days. The beaverine coat held ns
own among the more luxurious rn ,n .
dyed - ermine and squirrel. Cto
coats with a trimming of ocelot,
often matched by a tiny cap, were P°P '
lar, but, in the main, these coats were
plain and tailored in duvetyn, moil
and face-cloth. Collars were high, occa-
sionally in velvet, many of the coach
variety, sometimes split at the back
pointed. Buttons were used extensi V
for trimming, and one coat had a
of large buttons and button-hole:s f
shoulder to hem on a back panel, i
or flares from below the waist g aV
ness to many smart coats, and mo
them featured contrasting belts.
predominated, and feathers fle a
higher; but even more popular was
trimming of stiffened felt to match m


“Keep in
Good Spirits
Qilartk
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tf William John Victor Windeyer keeps
diary it should record that at 22 he
a sB A, at 25 barrister, and now at 54
maior-general. Member oi the widely-
known Sydney legal family TK.C. himself,
crandson of a former N.S.W. Supreme
Court judge, nephew of Richard
Windeyer, K.C.), on the military side he
led the famed 20th Australian Infantry
Brigade, A.1.F., for almost four years,
f rom El Alamein to the capture
0 £ pinschhafen in 1943 and the landing
in Borneo in 1945. As well, he com-
manded the 2/48th Battalion at Tobruk,
one of the most bemedalled units over
that way; Cpl. Edmondson, V.C., was in
it. Tobruk brought Windeyer D. 5.0.,
Alamein a bar to it; then command of
the 20th Brigade, C.8.E., and, for good
measure in between, he collected three
“mentions.” With the major-generalship
goes appointment as Citizen Force
member of the Military Board, with
command of the 2nd Australian Division,
C.M.F.
Dropped in and sketched by Prior while
in Sydney for the recent Manly con-
ference of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce, bulky Harold Gibbons, the
HAROLD GIBBONS, drug man.
first and only secretary of the Drug
Houses of Australia, one-time bank clerk
and recently-appointed president of the
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce. A
director of Felton, Grimwade and Duer-
dins. Gibbons can refute the notion that
secretarial duties are mundane affairs
—particularly as he’s spent 20 years
dealing with a commodity like
rare drugs. Preparations for the
Normandy invasion included, as well as
tanks and guns and shells, a supply of a
tremendously potent drug, hyoscine, with-
out which many of the soldiers taking
part could have been more worried about
sick stomachs than straight shooting
Felton Grimwade’s did the job, manufac-
turing the drug from a Queensland plant
called duboisia, long-known to Binghis
thereabouts. The dose which settled
soldierly stomachs, and the hash of enemy
welcoming committees from Normandy
to Borneo, was one hundredth to one two-
hundredth of a grain. Hailing from
Bordertown (S.A.), now 64, Gibbons is
the third man from Felton Grimwade’s
to head the Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce.
Ex-Victorian Chief-Secretary Leggatt
has associations with Korea. His father,
the late Rev. T. Watt Leggatt, had charge
of missionary activities in the Hermit
Kingdom as secretary of the Foreign
Mission Committee of the Presbyterian
Church, and his sister. Miss Dorothy
Leggatt, recently returned on sick leave
from Seoul. Leggatt himself looked
through barbed-wire at Korean guards
for thrde years as a p.-0.-w. of Nippon.
Up around Korean country is on© Aus-
tralian destroyer, 4.7-gunned Bataan.
Though she was hardly blooded in the
last scrap, her captain, Commander
William Beresford (“Harpo”) Marks,
was, Six-feet-odd of casual effi-
ciency, he’s a fully-qualified gunnery-
officer who can be depended upon
to direct Bataan’s armor - piercing
messengers accurately if the situation
requires their posting. He’s been bed-
fellows with 4.7’s before, when, as first-
lieutenant of destroyer Napier, he was
gunnery-off cer of the 7th Destroyer
Flotilla, arbiter on all its gunnery queries,
and later Squadron G.O. to the Commo-
dore Commanding all the British Eastern
Battle Fleet’s destroyer flotillas —those
which screened the heavies on their slams
at Sourabaya and Sabang. And he mixed
it with the Japs as gunnery-jack of that
uncannily-accurate radar-ship, cruiser
Shropshire. Now 38, with 24 years in
uniform, he’s the son of a former N.S.W.
member of Parliament.
Elevated to Ambassadorial status, and
changing his address from the High Com-
missioner’s office in Capetown to The
Hague, Alfred Stirling, 0.8. E., an able
Australian who already has collected a
bagful of experience abroad representing
his country. External Affairs Officer in
London from 1937 right through the war
years, he crossed to a year of High Com-
missioning in Canada, and in 1947-48 was
Australian Minister to Washington. Born
in Melbourne in 1902, he graduated M.A.,
LL.B. at its university, won the Moilison
Scholarship in French and took a B.A.
at Oxford. He practised at the Vic-
torian Bar from 1927-34, and was a
member of the Australian delegation to
the British Commonwealth Relations
Conference at Toronto in 1933, the first
of many international get-togethers at
which he spoke for Australia. One of
his few jobs on home soil was private
secretary in 1934 to the Federal Attorney-
General, then R. G. Menzies,
A grand old lady who had a birthday
last week in Sydney, Mrs. E. G. Crans-
wick, must be the only mother in Aus-
tralia to own two Bishops as sons. The
elder, George, Bishop of Gippsland be-
tween 1917-41, son of the late Canon E.
G. Cranswick, was born in Sheffield
(Eng.), but came back in time to be edu-
cated at The King’s School and St. Paul’s
College (Sydney Uni.), finishing off at
Oxford. After that he carried on his work
at Brighton (Eng.), in India, Chats-
wood (N.S.W.) and Bendigo (Vic.), be-
fore getting his bishopric. He left it to
become chairman of the Australian
Board of fissions, and is now a prime
organiser of the World Council of
Churches. The younger brother, Geoffrey,
is Bishop of Tasmania. Their mother is
still very much on the active list, works
hard for the church and every year flies
to Hobart to see her son there.
Professor George Whitecross Paton,
Dean of the Law Faculty, relieves John
Medley as Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne
University. Forty-eight, son of a Mel-
bourne parson, he was only 27 when he
stepped into the chair of jurisprudence at
the same academy. His career has been
uniformly brilliant —from Scotch College
to the university, 1925 Rhodes Scholar,
first-class honors in jurisprudence at
Oxford and first-class final honors for his
bachelor degree. He got his Melbourne
appointment from a job at the London
School of Economics. Born at Grove-
dale, near Geelong, he’s of a family of
scholars.
The Reaper claimed his grimmest har-
vest in Australian civil-aviation history
(29) at York (W.A.) last week. The
Anglican church lost two of its leading
clerics in the Rev. Norman Blow, Dean
of Newcastle (N.S.W.), and the Rt. Rev.
Charles Herbert Murray, Bishop of
Riverina. The Dean had been in office in
Newcastle barely a year; he was a Cam-
bridge man. The Bishop was an Oxford
M.A. and B.Litt, Director of Religious
Education in the Melbourne diocese be-
fore he was 30, and when he was conse-
crated in 1943 was, at 44, the youngest
bishop in Australia. Before shifting to the
Riverina he was vicar of Christ Church,
Melbourne, which at the time had
dwindled almost out of existence.
It is one of the city’s largest
and finest churches; Murray caused
a spectacular increase in its con-
gregation and left it a prosperous diocese.
Members of the Amana’s crew, except
Captain Chappie (39), were all compara-
tive youngsters, R.A.A.F. men who, like
many of their A.N.A. colleagues, took
their war-time experience into civil fly-
ing. First-Officer Raymond Willis (24)
joined up at 18, got his wings as a
sergeant-pilot and flew with a transport
squadron in New Guinea. He was
married four months ago. Junior First-
Officer Victor Trevitt was cut short at
29 ; both hostesses were in their early
twenties, though Miss Jean Graham, of
Port Pirie (S.A.), had had over two years’
service. Margaret Britton had taken to
the air only a few months ago.
Professor J. C. Eccles, who was director
of the Kanematsu Memorial Institute of
Pathology at Sydney Hospital and lecturer
in physiology at Sydney University before
appointment to the chair of physiology at
Otago University, Maoriland, will return
to Australia when the John Curtin School
of Medical Research at Canberra is
ready in 1952 ; he will occupy the chair
of physiology. Born in Melbourne 47
years ago, he rates a world reputation in
neuro-physiology; to study with him
specialists in that science, including
American, went to Dunedin, where he’s
been since 1944. For 10 years (1927-37)
Eccles was a fellow and tutor in his
branch of science at Oxford University.
Dubois caught Alceo Galliera, the
Italian conductor now touring Australia
under the A.B.C. house-flag, in a soulful
moment at. rehearsal polishing the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra in a. Brahms sym-
phony. Not exactly a typical attitude;
Galliera is nothing if not volatile —even
dynamic—and his changes of expression
and gestures would do credit to a con-
tortionist. That he is a sound musician
anyone who saw him pilot the orchestra
through two exacting programmes at the
Town Hall will agree, and mostly he calls
on a prodigious memory to dispense with
the score. The intensity of his concen-
tration both at rehearsal and in perform-
ance would run a dynamo for a week.
Now 40, built like a front-row forward
and handsome, Galliera trained at the
Verdi Conservatorium in Milan. It was
natural that he should take to the organ
(his father was professor of that instru-
ALCEO GALLIERA, caught conducting.
ment at the same academy) just as it was
that he should win a diploma for the
piano (his Brazilian mother was a noted
pianist). He gradually pulled away from
those first loves under the stronger tug
of the baton, and since then he has estab-
lished a reputation all over Europe. On
the outer with Musso’s castor-oil regime,
he and his wife sought refuge in Switzer-
land.
“King’s Pawn”: Fittingly, Cecil Purdy
has been selected as Australian represen-
tative at the British Empire Chess
Championship, to take place in New
Zealand next April—one half of the con-
test in Christchurch and the other in
Wellington. It is the first contest of the
sort. Lajos Steiner, ranked as Australia’s
No. 1 player, stood aside on the ground
that Australia should be represented by
a locally-bred player; and he has a very
high opinion indeed of Purdy. There may
be another representative—the winner of
the Australian Championship to be played
in Queensland in Januaiy. The Aus-
tralian Chess Federation is raising £2OO
to send its reps across the Tasman; the
Maorilanders frank some of the expenses
over there.
BERTRAND RUSSELL, as seen by
Heth in Sydney.
“Recco”: New president of the Air
Force Association, John Waddy, D.F.C.,
was Australian No. 2 fighter-ace in the
recent dust-up, with 15 j kills to his credit.
Four of these he collected in one day.
He was one of a team of prominent
R.A.A.F. officers who tendered their
resignations to Air Board because they
considered they were not gainfully em-
ployed. He served in the Middle East
and in the Islands, was for a time man-
ager of the Royal Aero Club of N.S.W.
and on resigning took on an import and
export business with Clive Caldwell and
George Falkiner. Air Board has appa-
rently forgiven him his resignation; it
recently offered him the job of bossing
the Air Training Corps in N.S.W., with
which was associated the organising of
the expanded programme initiated by
Minister for Air Tom White. Business in-
terests precluded his acceptance, unfor-
tunately for the A.T.C. But his driving
initiative is expected to do a good job for
the A.F.A.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, Jack White, secretary of the
Victorian Rangers’ Association and prince of
rangers. A soldier when the rangers’ batteries
were pulled by bullocks, earlier still he was a
windjammer sailor, and won the Royal Humane
Society’s medal for rescuing a seaman. After
serving in the Boer War he became one of
Melbourne’s first taxi-drivers. Though his
regiment was wound up 40 years ago there
are still 500 members on the roll of the asso-
ciation.
In Sydney, at 74, Ernest Albert Buttenshaw,
one-time leader of the N.S.W. Country party,
Minister for Lands, Deputy-Premier, and, for
an unbroken 20 years, member for Lachlan.
He was head of the Farmers and Graziers’
Co-operative Co. at the end 1 .
In Melbourne, at 60, Hugh Grant Adam,
born in Foochow, China, M.A. from Aberdeen
University, Scotland, and in 1913 journalist on
the “Age,” Melbourne. Leader-writer and
dramatic critic on that paper, he shifted to
Melbourne “Herald’s” leader-page, went to
America with the Australian Industrial Mission
in 1927, put what he saw between covers, and
returned to become assistant editor-in-chief
of the “Herald.” He was one-time president
of the Commonwealth Golf Club.
In Sydney, at 62, Leslie Frank Burgess,
managing-director of Australian General Electric
and a high-voltage factor in the pioneering of
electrical-manufacturing in Australia. Two big
jobs to his credit were the electrification of
Sydney’s railways and installation of the first
turbines at Bunnerong. An Old Digger of
four years, he came home with a wound and
M.C.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Perfectly
IZtfLrfl'%
a&'&M 'i
%
hk
m
liil
a*
i
I!E
3P?
■f*
IT
Rpi
s?
iSS
a
s'
03SS
ft? V'
stif-su" 0 *™ 16
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
Sjnevto liouMM
* NO ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
BIUNDAIIER-S
Of#
55?
f
PENS
Every point
guaranteed-*
do ttot experiment with imitation*
C. BXANDAUEK A CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, EN4
Jim Crow
BY DAVID ROWBOTHAM
Altogether
1854 had been a
memorable year.
Governor Si r
Charles Fitzßoy had
arrived at Glengallan
at midday on April 1
and caught Archdeacon
Glennie with his collar
back -to - front; Chas.
Marsh had been bitten
by a desperate goanna
—chased by Jacky—
while sleepily having a
haircut on his
veranda at Mary-
land ; the Crimean
War had begun;
and now Jim
Crow sat down
and mulishly re-
fused to get up.
Mr. Glennie,
deposed in the de-
liberate process of
the horse’s sitting
down, ten miles
off Drayton, stood
hands on hips
amazed at the re-
bellion. He for-
got about the
near -by lagoon
with its masses of white water-
lilies speckled with a few har-
monious blues that had held his
attention only a moment before,
Jim Crow had chosen a comfort-
able patch among the sandal-
wood, and there, peaceably, he
eased his sorrowful belly down,
heaved a sigh and looked age-
lessly at the shadows.
“You Judas!” swore Mr.
Glennie selectively. “You
bloated old Falstaff.” Jim Crow
flicked himself ever so calmly
with his tail.
NO one knew how old Jim
Crow was; least of all his
owner. He was the most harm-
less old horse in the colony,
high, wide and unhandsome,
and could be ridden without
reins or saddle. The cavity in
his back made an excellent seat,
and the coarse, ample, grubby
mane assured the timorous rider
a handful of balance whenever
a lurch took place. You
couldn’t fall off Jim Crow.
He accepted his burden com-
placently ; he seemed to know
at any time which way he was
required to go. He had no pedi-
gree ; be had no pride. The
mystery surrounding his origin
found expression in the non-
entity of his eyes. His tail
looked like an afterthought*; his
rump was obscene; his flanks
and withers seemed to be mis-
placed ; he was heavy-hoofed,
leer-toothed, trundling and un-
concerned. His miscellaneous,
four - stumped, tumble - down
structure existed only in that it
moved and huffed like a soot-
filled flue when it was out of
sorts.
And here be was, settled down
in sandalwood country like a
hulk among mangroves.
“Get up, you old devil.”
Jim Crow sneered.
A FLIGHT of rosella parrots
pelted low across the sum-
mits of the trees, blazing color
into the early afternoon. Mr.
Glennie’s irritability thawed in
their warm light and completely
vanished in wonder as a few
moments later a magnificent
eagle hovered and spiralled and
swept on in the path of the
parrots.
Jim Crow showed a plain dis-
interest ; but didn’t move.
“What’s up with you, you—
refractory wreck?”
Mr. Glennie stooped for a
stick. He grabbed the beast by
the mane and wrenched and
whacked simultaneously. It was
too much for him; beads of
sweat gathered on his forehead.
“I save you from the scrap-
heap and what do you do? You
—you —you let me down,” he
finished weakly.
He pushed at the rump, he
prodded here, he prodded there,
he tugged on the ears, he strained
on the rotting reins. “Urrrrp
therrre. Girrrup, up, up, hup.”
One of the jreins snapped; he
pirouetted at the end of the
other and sat down with a pre-
cipitate action in front of his
obstinate Judas.
Mr. Glennie perspired to the
lagoon, parted the lilies there
and carted water back in his hat.
He dashed the water in the
beast’s face in an endeavor to
startle it into motion. The
splashing water suddenly made
his mouth feel dry; dry as the
tent floor he had seen at Dray-
ton in the drought weather of
1850-51. He remembered that
tent well now, and visualised it
as he parted the lagoon lilies
again and dipped his hat for
the second time. The water
looked good. He put his lips to
the brim of the hat, moulded a
channel with his hand and tilted.
And when he looked round Jim
Crow was struggling to his feet
and a wild dog lingered uncer-
tainly beside the only big gibber
among the sandalwood.
JIM CROW made noises his
master had never heard be-
fore. The bow seemed to go out
of his back as if some invisible
arrow of fury had been fired
from the horse’s bowels at the
Mongolian head of the dog. Mr.
Glennie suddenly had a notion
of what kind of a sire Jim Crow
may have had as the horse,
waving a remnant of majesty
like a tattered flag in his tail
and mane, lumbered for the dog.
The dog turned silently about
and fled, and though Jim Crow
could not gain on the animal, he
gained on identity. He galloped
among the sandalwood along the
edge of the lagoon, following
the dog clean out of sight. And
Mr. Glennie, sodden hat dis-
CRrded, wilh a Quixotic fervor
raced after him. vor
Mr. Glennie caught up with
Jim Grow about two P is
further on, by a little creek
where the old horse had 111
down again. The man, sweat
mg as much as the beast
down, too, and rested his back
against the broad belly, which
had by this time slipped' back
into Is habitual position. *
“Man you’re—a—dashed—
emg mahrr! You’re stubborn
you gallop like a frog and
you’ve ruined my collar!”
Mr. Glennie gulped and
soughed with Jim Crow.
“See what you’ve done, you
pestering sinner. We’re both
now socially inadequate. We
both reek and we’re due at four
It’s a colonial impossibility to
make it with you. Gerrup.”
Jim Crow made the effort with
a sigh. Mr. Glennie legged him-
self into the saddle, discarded
the crippled reins, grabbed the
mane, jabbed the horse with his
knees and turned towards Dray-
ton.
Jim Crow began to plod. His
bulk, its identity lost with the
escape of the wild dog, moved
back along the edge of the
lagoon, past the lonely gibber,
out of the sandalwood shade!
Mr. Glennie recovered his hat
and promised religiously to break
Jim Crow’s neck some time.
Legal Notice. '
IN the Estate of MARY ANN BROWN
deceased and MARY HELEN DEVINE
BROWN, both formerly of Thornwood
Estate, Mlanje, Nyasaland.—PUßSUANT
to an Order of His Majesty’s High Court
of Justice in Nyasaland made on the X2th
day of April 1950 and directing that
enquiries be made as to possible claimants
in the matter of the Estate of Mary
Helen Devine Brown deceased Cause No. 9
of 1947 and in the matter of the Estate
of Mary Ann Brown deceased Cause No.
10 of 1947 persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Helen
Devine Brown late of Mlanje in the Nyasa-
land Protectorate living at the time _Of
the death of the said Mary Helen Devine
Brown on the Twenty fourth day of
November One thousand nine hundred ana
forty six and persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Ann Brown
deceased late of Mlanje aforesaid living
at the time of the death of the said Mary
Ann Brown on the Nineteenth day ot
August One thousand nine hundred an a
forty six or persons claiming to be next
of kin according to the Statutes for
the distribution of intestate estates of tne
said Mary Helen Devine Brown and/or
the said Mary Ann Brown living at the
time of their respective deaths as aforesa
or to be the legal personal representaLves
of such of the said next of km as are
now dead or persons claiming to be en
titled under the Wills °odicils of the
abovenamed deceased or Charitable I
tutions and persons claiming to
entitled under the andl Codicils
of the said deceaseds ARE b f ® el , r ® ot
citors on or before the Thirteenth day «
November One thousand nine h ™“ r^ aimB
fifty to come in and prove their claim
at the Chambers of His honour t
Chief Justice for Nyasaland at the H
Court of Blantyre or in froin
they shall be peremptorily exclud a day
the benefit of the said Order. __ thQU ,
the Fifteenth day of January &
sand nine hundred and flf y 6a id
o’clock of the f ? r , en . oon for at t he hearing
Chambers is appointed f'Dated
and adjudicating upon the
this Twelfth day of gf t y.—(Sgd.)
sand nine hundred a nd .V y Co urt of
M. J. GOW. Registrar, High
Nyasaland.


BRANDTS “TILLEY”
TABLE LAMP
Bring to your Home
the wonderful lighting
qualities of this fine
Lamp!
%
This strongly constructed
Lamp is ideal for country use,
and also as an emergency
lighting unit in city homes.
It sheds a soft white light of
300 c.p., and is recommended
for reading and sewing. Com-
plete with attractive Parch-
ment shade, stands OO I m
lOiin, high *'/
Larger model, 21 Jin. high,
£5/9/-
Full range of ALL SPARE PARTS in Stock.
Mail Orders by return mail.
BRANDTS^
Kerosene Heating and Lighting Specialists
371 Pitt Street, Sydney (near Water Board).
mmrm
m
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Rbgistrt.
TO ARTHUR ALLAN SMITH formerly of
Launceston in the State of Tasmania. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer charges in
the Petition of LORNA MAISIE SMITH of
49 Wellington Street, Launceston in the
State of Tasmania praying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion IN DEFAULT of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereof AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within Thirty days of the last
publication of this notice an aifbearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart or at the Launceston
District Registry Cameron Street Laun-
ceston in the State of Tasmania.—D. W.
SHIELDS, Acting District Registrar.
N.B. —Friends of the abovenamed Arthur
Allan Smith who may see this advertise-
ment are requested to bring it under his
notice.
iF
HI =•
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X24L
High Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY.,.. LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers’ Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
SUNDRY SHOWS
Pretty Puss.
It is difficult to decide whether
Elisabeth Bergner chose to open
in Sydney with “The Two Mrs.
Carrolls” from unnecessary
modesty or simply to prove that
she could lift a mediocre thriller
to something slightly better. At
any rate, she proved both points
at the opening performance at
the Palace last week—that any
modesty is quite unnecessary,
and that she is a skilful and
gifted actress.
Still, the performance did
give rise to vague feelings of
frustration. From the moment
Miss Bergner appeared she lost
no time in demonstrating—with
her soft husky voice, her small,
supple and expressive figure,
and the remarkable range and
fluency of her hands and
gestures—the qualities that make
her a great actress. But one
would have liked to have seen
her in a part which gave her
scope to be the great actress.
In the first two scenes particu-
larly it was hard to get away
from the impression that, al-
though she was playing her part
and playing it very well, she was
also playing with it; patting and
tossing an inconsequential trifle
around the stage for all the
world like a kitten with a ball
of wool. And, while there is
something very clever and pretty
and charming about the run and
pojmce and mock-terrors and
-fears of a kitten with its play-
things, the spectacle does not,
after all, make satisfying enter-
tainment for very long.
True, as the play developed—
and as Miss Bergners kittenish
young wife fell into illness ; then
into bewildered fears and doubts
when the first Mrs, Carroll turns
up with the information that
Mr. Carroll is given to poison-
ing his wives; and finally into
plain terror—there Were signs
of claws and sinews and
dramatic fury under the
actress’s playful paws. But they
were only signs and promises—
like a demonstration outside the
tent of the wonders that are
inside.
A further complication arising
from the play is the fact that,
accurately enough, it makes its
would-be murderer a more in-
teresting specimen than his
victims, which leaves John
Robinson, as Mr. Carroll, in a
very awkward situation, and, on
the opening night anyway, he
seemed to be in some difficulty.
He played his role in two dis-
tinct and unconnected parts, first
as a normal, likeable character
without the slightest suggestion
of abnormality; and then, after
the play makes it very clear what
he is about, as a more-or-less
mad poisoner. The second part
of Mr. Robinson’s performance
was quite satisfactory for the
purposes of melodrama, the first
part was not. An artist who
poisons his wives as soon as he
finds a fresh mistress is, even
by artistic standards, an odd
character, but there was no sug-
gestion of oddity about Mr.
Carroll as Mr. Robinson played
him until the play forced itself
on him, as it were.
Possibly, of course, Mr.
Robinson was playing down the
more interesting aspects of his
role in the cause of playing up
Miss Bergner’s part of the pro-
ceedings. Or, possibly, he was
indulging in the art of under-
statement, in which case he suc-
ceeded in understating to extinc-
tion the nuances of the first part
of his role which should lead up
to and connect with the second.
None of the other members
of the cast were faced with Mr.
Robinson’s task of keeping the
most interesting role in play on
the fringe of the limelight; or
with Miss Bergner’s task of mak-
ing her part seem worth the
talent and industry she lavishes
on it. Peter Woodruff as an
amiable, talkative doctor,
Winifred Kindle as the house-
keeper, Ailsa Grahame as the
friendly neighbor, and Grant
Taylor as Mrs. Carroll’s sub-
stantial ex-suitor and agitated
rescuer, all fitted unobtrusively
into their parts. Jacqueline Kott
looked very dark and beautiful
as the reason for Mr. Carroll’s
lethal intentions towards his
second wife, but could have re-
laxed both her voice and
manner, even in such a strained
situation. Nina Latta, as the
first Mrs. Carroll, delivered her
warning to the second as though
she were reading her lines from
a book and thinking about some-
thing else.
The production itself is com-
mendably polished and smooth,
except for the last scene, which
is pnduly prolonged, with the
effect that Mr. Carroll seems to
be a long time killing, Mrs.
Carroll seems to be a long time
talking and avoiding being
killed, and rescuer Grant Taylor
seems to be an unconscionably
long time breaking down the
door to rescue her. If Mr. and
Mrs. Carroll must talk it oyer
for so long, Mr. Taylor could at
least arrive a little later, particu-
larly as he looks as through he
broke through the door without
changing his stride.
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre is the latest to essay
Aldous Huxley’s “The Gioconda
Smile.” On an effective dbuble
set allowing immediate transi-
tion from the cell of the
wrongly - condemned Henry
Hutton to the parlor of the
actual murderess, the final act
was played out with commend-
able tension and afforded scope
for some of the best repertory
acting seen in Brisbane for a
long time. James Buchanan
was admirable as the doctor
who, at the last minute, brings
the guilt home to Janet Spence,
but the heaviest demands of the
play were brilliantly met by
Mary England as that pathetic
murderess. Peter Munro, as
Henry Hutton, was excellent.
Jiis intelligent handling of the
poignant prison scenes when he
realises true human values too
late to appreciate them and his
beautiful speaking of both the
poetry and prose were highlights
of the performance.
* * * *
It has always been obvious
that, to fit Sidney Nolan’s pic-
tures to the size of his talent, so
far as his technique has de-
veloped, his works should have
been not 6ft. square but 6in. At
his exhibition at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries —his fourth big
show in 18 months —he has, at
last, some landscapes and por-
traits (from his “Burke and
Wills series”) about Sin, by
4in.; and these, though they
have not the minute and ex-
quisite perfection to be found in
Percy Lindsay’s small oils or
Hilder’s small watercolors, are
very pleasant little pictures. His
gigantic cartoon of Burke has
indeed a mad and monstrous
look, but so has a child’s snow-
man. And as for the scribbles
on glass and the non-existent
“monotypes”—anybody is free
to tear up the telephone direc-
tory and say it is the works of
Shakspeare, complete and un-
abridged, but one must retain a
lingering suspicion that it isn’t.
Pnina Salzman was soloist in
Beethoven’s Third Piano
Concerto with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra under Galliera.
It was a beautifully smooth per-
formance, the weight between
the two instruments nicely
balanced, the slow movement
delicate but never flaccid, with
the marching rhythms of the
final section carried along with
a joyous surge. A charming
little Concertante by the contem-
porary Italian composer
Ghedini, a highly spirited read-
ing of Stravinsky’s “Firebird”
Suite and the two Debussy
Nocturnes, of which Fetes was
much more impressive than
Mages, whose dreamy image
was invested with a rather
woolly texture, were works all
suited to the conductor’s warm
and vital style.
♦ ♦ * ♦
In its second offering at
Sydney Empire the National
Theatre Ballet presented two
new ballets. “Romantic Suite”
is set to the music of the Irish
composer John Field, who as a
contemporary of Chopin invented
the nocturne, which the Pole was
later to perfect. The music is
redolent of early nineteenth-
century grace, at its best in the
middle - movement nocturne
danced by Rex Reid and Joyce
Graeme, whose choreography is
first-class. The other ballet,
“The Listeners,” representing a
man’s nostalgia for his lost
loves, has choreographic weav-
ings strikingly wedded to the
brooding music of Donanyi. In
this, as in “Romantic Suite,”
Kenneth Rowell has succeeded
in capturing the spirit of each
ballet in decor and costume.
The Polovtsian Dances from
Borodin’s opera “Prince Igor”
required rather more barbaric
abandon than was accorded
them.
* ♦ * *
Only a master of his instru-
ment could make the sober
’cello caper and step-dance at
terrific pace while maintaining
perfect clarity of every note,
such as Edmund Kurtz did to
wind up his only Sydney recital
with a whirlwind burst of vir-
tuosity in Piatti’s “Tarantella.”
But this was merely by way. of
showing the contrast of moods
of which his magnificent instru-
ment is capable. Earlier he
had culled from it a voice of
noble resignation in the Brahms
Sonata in F Major. Pizzetti’s
Sonata in the same key, a
graceful work elegiac in style,
brought out some of the best
playing of the night. Only one
offering—a Hindemith light-
weight—fell away from high
standard.


The MIND of MATSUOKO
GEOFF BINGHAM
UK A ATSUOKO?”
\\J\ “Ya, Mat-
I \ suoko!”
“M atsu-
oko in there?”
“Matsuoko in there!”
Another area, then,
of jungle to penetrate,
vines to be hacked
from the ancient
trails where it was easy to swear
no man had set foot these twelve months.
Nor any animal, either. And yet it had
not been months, weeks only in fact,
since the tall jungle had hidden its
swarms of small yellow men. Yellow
men who were no longer, now, in their
swarms. Driven back, pressed upon,
starved, defeated, captured. Except, of
course, Matsuoko.
“This time we find Matsuoko,” Small
Ben, the squat Javanese, was certain of it.
His brown eyes assured us merrily.
An occasional hack with a parang,
cutting a vine, knocking back the thomed
fronds of a palm. Then stepping over
the dead rotting body of a yellow soldier.
Conn’s quick look at it, his suspicious
glance at small Ben, and then Ben
nodding his head in negative fashion.
“Not Matsuoko. Not Matsuoko
certainly.”
Not Matsuoko; neither in the flesh
rotting, nor along the thin track, nor in
the trees, nor hidden waiting, or ever to
be found. Matsuoko to be devoured by
the blue flame of the lanky white man
who pursued him.
“This Matsuoko,” I said after a time,
daring to say the question that had
puzzled me. “You know him. Conn?”
“Yes, I know him,” Conn had said
gloomily.
“M’m. But not just another follow-
up?”
“You could say that.”
“But Matsuoko means more than that
to you.”
“Matsuoko is the last of them. The
biggest thing yet.”
AND, after Matsuoko, no more Nips.
There was a pleasant thought if you
liked. “Mopping up”—that would be
over. Just Matsuoko, who had committed
an atrocity,
“Eight men were killed through him.
Eight!” If a monotone can convey
intensity, Conn’s voice did. “Eight kneel-
ing before Dai Nippon.”
“You know all about them, don’t you.
Conn?”
“Very bad!” said small Ben in Malay,
but Conn seemed not to hear him.
When Conn did not answer, Ben said,
with the smile gone from his face, his
eyes staring at Conn speculatively,
“Maybe Matsuoko dead, eh?”
“No!” said Conn. Little Ben drew
back from his eyes and then laughed, not
nervously, but with understanding, and
with great jocular confidence, “Oh no!
Matsuoko not dead. Certainly never!”
“Certainly never! ” Conn bent
forwards again, kicking at a limb in the
path, hacking at a vine, pondering his
own mystery of Matsuoko. The silence of
the jungle falling heavily in the late after-
noon, the faint sounds in the undergrowth
distinct above our soft walking. Ben
chatting by our side, and the whole thing
unrealistic, its intensity for me lost in the
familiarity time brings to places.
Then we came to a clearing, and in the
clearing were huts, a whole kampong, in
fact, and children playing in the centre
of the village. As we appeared they ran
up the fragile steps of the huts, and a
few squat Javanese appeared.
“What news?” shouted Ben happily.
“Good news,” they said, returning the
formality. Conn stared at them without
expression.
“Matsuoko,” said small Ben, his brown
eyes gleaming, his face lit with joviality.
“Ah,” they said. They nodded and
began speaking savagely. Ben listened to
them, his head cocked to one side, and
Conn never blinked an eyelid.
“There,” they said and pointed to the
jungle. They appeared immensely re-
lieved, as though the shadow of
Matsuoko was about to depart from their
lives, which, of course, it was.
“Matsuoko,” they said, “tida bagoose.”
“Very bad,” I agreed, and Ben clapped
his hands and gabbled softly. Their eyes
lighted with real pleasure. When
Matsuoko went, that would be the last of
Nippon, and the dread occupation of
their jungles. The tapioca would be theirs,
the corn, the yams, and the pardi. Ah,
yes, the pardi.
“And the pardi?” Ben asked.
The laughter left their eyes and they
stared speechlessly at the jungle, at the
ground, and finally, fearfully, at Conn.
His eyes were very blue now, inquiring.
“Pardi through there,” they said.
Ben spoke something in Malay, but
they shook their heads. They knew noth-
ing about the pardi, only that it had
happened somewhere. And the pardi was
green now, soft
and flowing. We
could see it
through the stems
of the graceful
fronded palms.
Only beauty on
the waving green.
They shook their
heads slowly, a
rhythm of nega-
tion.
Conn nodded
to them. “Mat-
suoko,” he said
in a strange dry
voice, staring at
the field of mud
and rice.
Matsuoko hidden in the last of the
jungle, the beginning of the new jungle
which rose towards the hills, the vastness
of it spreading away. To remain in it
could be only death by starvation for
Matsuoko, and yet it was understandable
that he should try to hide. Through the
strip that led by the pardi and into the
leafy thickness of the new jungle the
Malays led us. Then, when we had gone
some distance, treading the thickness of
undergrowth on a scarcely used track,
they stopped, and before us was
Matsuoko.
STRANGELY enough it was not at
Matsuoko I looked, but Conn. I
expected hate and triumph, but there was
neither of these. His eyes did soften
a trifle, and his lips did relax, but it
seemed more relief than anything. Then
he said, almost good-humoredly, “Ah,
Matsuoko!”
The thing was seated on a bamboo
platform, his legs crossed, yogi-fashion,
his skinny arms resting in his lap. He
wore a loincloth of sorts, but it was
covered with his own filth. His skin
was dried and yellowed, like aged parch-
ment. His eyes were huge in their sockets
and hot as they stared. His face was
black around the mouth and chin with
a growth of thick dark hair, longer even
than the hair of his head which had
been not long since shaven. He was a
haggard animal, drooped there on what
might almost have been his death bier,
rotten with dysentery, debilitated. The
covering above him had rotted and left
him exposed to what sun filtered through
the gloomy jungle. It was queer seeing
this Matsuoko there.
“Five days without food,” one of the
men muttered to small Ben. “When it
finished, no more food.” He thrust out
his hands angrily, deprecating the neces-
sity for explanation. Ben nodded assur-
ingly, and the group fell silent.
“Ah,” said Conn again, almost tenderly
this time, “Matsuoko.”
It was impossible for Matsuoko to
read any meaning into those words. 1
could not read them, but Matsuoko, still
and watching, would not take his eyes
from Conn’s face. Dry petrification in
that cruel flesh, perhaps, but in the eyes,
knowledge. The remainder of us did not
exist.
Then he said in a dry harsh voice,
“Kunnamoto, me.”
The natives looked surprised, almost
offended. One of them said indignantly,
“Matsuoko! ”
The Nipponese on the platform shook
his head with strange dignity. “Kunna-
moto,” he insisted.
“Kanamoto,” said Conn slowly. He
passed his tongue across thin dry lips
and shook his head, not without belief,
but with faint incredulity. “Kana-
moto?” he repeated wonderingiy. Then
he smiled gently.
The sick soldier seemed to gain assur-
ance from that. He straightened per-
ceptibly, as though gathering his dignity
fully about him. In a way I was forced
to admire him.
“Ha! ” said Conn suddenly. He stepped
forward and took between the thumb and
forefingers of his right hand a hair of
Matsuoko’s face. I thought he was go-
ing to pull it. I had seen that happen
often, though not with Conn. Conn
retained it, looking into Matsuoko’s eyes,
but he did not tug. “Kanamoto, eh?”
he said quietly, without the trace of a
sneer. “Matsuoko, I think,” he said.
When the soldier made no response he
said suddenly, in the same harsh voice
the sick man had used, but in Japanese,
something which made the sick man start.
He looked fully at Conn and shook his
head. Conn let his hand drop slowly.
Then he said to the kampong natives,
“Carry this man.”
They seemed
reluctant to do so,
staring at Mat-
suoko with hate
and some fear.
Nevertheless they
wrested some
poles from the
platform, some
nippah-palm and
improvised a
stretcher. At the
kampong they
made the stretcher
more secure and
we followed it in
silence, Conn
staring down at
the prisoner, but
not speaking. When we reached the camp
Conn took him to the hospital instead
of a prison-cell.
“I can’t understand you, Conn,” I said.
He looked at me a moment, frowned
and said, “Matsuoko’s a sick man.” He
smiled, becoming a soldier again. “Or
Kanamoto, as he liked to be called,” he
said mockingly.
J T took three weeks to save Kanamoto
1 from dysentery and debility, and make
certain he would live. Then two weeks
to strengthen him, and another month
to fatten him to normal strength. He
had been a sick man for a long time, and
yet the power of, his personality had
forced those kampong Javanese to take
him food when they hated him.
I could easily visualise the sick Kana-
moto seated upon his platform, seeing
the Nipponese planes disappearing from
the sky, the sounds of war fading and
Kanamoto brooding over a pardi-field
and eight men bowing to him and the
glory of Nippon, bowing until their noses
touched the cold mud. Bowing even
deeper. And Kanamoto watching, whilst
he remembered, hoping the leaves would
part and white rice be thrust before him,
with perhaps a mess of tapioca, a tasty
slice of white pork or the rich salty tang
of dried fish. But no food, no human
being, no soul to hear him groan and
writhe as the disease bit deeper.
In the early days of his treatment
Kanamoto was silent, and even grateful
for the treatment he received. Then he
became arrogant, contemptuous of soft
usage. Conn, who had nearly wept at
Kanamoto’s lapse into unconsciousness,
now stared at him thoughtfully and even
more thoughtfully when he transferred
the patient to the prison-cells.
Conn’s treatment of Matsuoko puzzled
me. On the one hand I could conceive
of him trying to save the Nipponese in
order to have him tried and hung, but
because I knew Conn better than others
I was sure there was more to Conn’s
care of the prisoner than that. He had
even dressed Kanamoto in Nipponese
soldier dress and given him a sergeant’s
rank, so that Kanamoto could fairly claim
to have been rehabilitated in mind as well
as body. It was apparent to me that
Conn saw something special in Kana-
moto.
Nevertheless I was surprised when Conn
sought me out one night and began dis-
cussing the matter.
“This Matsuoko,” he said. “You know
there is no way of proving he is Mat-
suoko.”
“You have photographs,” I said.
“Oh, I know he’s Matsuoko,” he said,
“but it has to be proved. Most of them
don’t keep up the pretence long. Usually
they admit it, as you know, and are proud
to do so, especially if they know they
are bound to die.”
“And Matsuoko’ll do the same, eh?”
I said.
Conn sat staring for some time. Then
he said, slowly, “Oh, no, he won’t.” He
looked at me with eyes surprisingly
gentle. “I think his crime was too per-
sonal to admit.”
I knew Conn had some private know-
ledge of the working of the Jap mind, so
I did not contradict him. His statement
on the surface was incredulous. “Yet,”
I said, “any Nip would have done it.”
“Oh, yes,” he admitted easily, “any
Nip would have done it. To
murder eight airmen would have been
an intense delight—for the glory of
Nippon.”
“Then you’ll get him,” I said triumph-
antly. “He’ll be glad to admit it, later.”
My enthusiasm scarcely touched him.
“Yes, I will get him,” he said, “but not
in that way. Matsuoko won’t admit it
that way. He killed the airmen for
Matsuoko, that’s what
he did.” ai
I shook my head
It was difficult to
follow Conn.
“Say,” Conn said
we failed to prove
he was Matsuoko.
inen he would be
just any prisoner
He would go free. If he went
free then he would be free to kill
himself if ever he wished, and so be
happy. Or, on the other hand, being the
queer individual he is—and he is an in
dividual—then he might prefer to keen
his life and his memories.” Conn stared
at me and said in a dry voice, “He is
not one of Nippon’s honorable ones vou
know.” 5 J
“Ah,” I said, beginning to comprehend
Then Conn Webster showed the first
signs of emotion I had seen in him. “But
by the living God,” he swore, “Tli ma k e
him confess.” His face had flushed his
eyes become brilliant, his teeth showing
between the slightly parted lips. It was
almost a snarl for the convalescent Mat-
suoko.
“Well,” I said, ‘Tve seen Nips made
to confess before tpday.”
He stared at me.
“One man,” I said, “pulled out a beard
hair by hair. Mind you, Conn, he had
a brother in a Jap camp, and he felt
badly. Another time he whipped the
calves from a Jap’s legs. Tanaka was
that Nip’s name.”
“Yes,” said Conn. “I know. But that
isn’t right.”
GONN saw I was amazed. “He was
only doing what he hated himself,”
he said. “Just equalling the crime; so
that in the long run the Nip really won.”
I could not understand that, and Coiin
knew it. At other times I suppose he
might not have cared, but because he
was in an unusual mood, excited I think,
he began arguing the matter.. “You’d
hate a big skunk of a Nip to stand over
you when you were helpless,” he said,
“and you’d only see him as cruel and
merciless. Yet you would do the same
now and feel justified.
“Now, I’ll tell you something,” he said
suddenly and his eyes had lost their ice.
“I’ve never told this to anyone, Tony.
We won’t be together for long now and
when we part we might never meet, and
even if we do I’ll be in different clothes
and you’ll think then that I am different.”
He paused and said in a tone of exul-
tation, “I will be different, too.”
He began a sort of story. “I was an
insurance clerk before I enlisted. I sup-
pose that surprises you. Well, it sur-
prised me, too. When I enlisted I sup-
pose I came to life, if you could call it
that, for the first time. War then was
going to be glory for me, like it is to you
and some of the others. I was going to
go ‘over the top.’ I was sure for the
very first time that I was really alive.
“There were others with me, too, those
who had escaped their wives, families,
the monotony and the work of life. They
were just as keen. They came to life, I
suppose you could say. You could talk
to them, over a drink, at nights on
bivouac. I suppose they talked as they
hadn’t done before.
“When final leave was over I was glad,
but looking back on it sometimes, Tony,
I think it is as unreal as my old clerking
days. The ship that took us to Singa-
pore, the moon on the ocean at night,
the guns snouting above the top-deck,
beer everywhere, men talking, and at
heart anticipating. Then Singapore
Island, richly green like these islands here,
seen for the first time, and the natives
clamoring for our pennies. Then the
train taking us north.
“God, that was beautiful! We moved
off in the night and went across the
Straits of Johore. I thought that night
was the very best in my life. If as
like dreaming properly for the first time
and even having that dream come true,
the lights on the waters of the Straits,
the rich smell of it and the East, and ° n
the northern shore of the Straits the buiio-
ings and palaces in the late evening, n
with stars it seemed. And then tn
jungle. ,
“I sat in the last carriage and stareo
at it, and thought all life was very
wonderful, very mysterious. But it w
all imagination. It’s wrong, though, tony,
for a man to lose his sense of iny st
and beauty, and to have to put it do
to imagination. Strangely enough it
the most real thing that ever happen
to me. I could see a whote w °r d
beauty reaching down to the Soutn,
it was for us to defend. Even whe
trained, or went on leave, or hit tne e
spots, it was still the A
known, the very best thing.” e
Conn Webster, as he spoke, had be
human. Now his head was resting ,
clasped hands as he stared at the gi
His lips had resumed their normal


fullness, and his eyes were warm and
Tying ’ I wondered, almost wistfully,
about the strange days of that ghost
force up on the Peninsula, and yet it
was difficult to envy them. Nevertheless,
♦hev had had an experience which could
never be ours. Most of all I wondered
about Conn Webster, and why he should
be sitting there, talking to me about his
hidden past.
“Nine months it was,” he said, “before
they came. We thought then that they’d
leave it until after the monsoons, but
they didn’t, of course. Long before they
landed, long before they reached us I
had begun to wonder about fighting.
Most took it for granted, as most still
do and some seemed scared when you
caught them unawares with a question,
but I never knew properly what my feel-
ings were. At the back of my mind I
wondered if I was all I had believed
myself to be.
Conn had been talking to me, but
more, I think, to himself. Now he
looked at me and said, “You know what
it is to be scared of being scared, don’t
you, Toijy?”
“Yes, I do,”, I said. “Most of us do.”
He nodded. “Well, X was. When the
balloon went up we were on our battle-
stations. Different, see, from going on
the offensive. Waiting all the time, I
began to think I couldn’t do it. I began
to remember I had been an insurance
clerk, that I was, underneath, still an
insurance clerk, one at heart and not the
great Conn Webster, that born fighter.
Looking at the others, the confident ones
I began to think they were the really
bora fighters, descendants of a fighting
breed, and that I was outside them.
“I managed to fight these thoughts at
times, and then when the Nips did land it
seemed all so easy. We actually
ambushed them in places and wiped them
off with artillery barrages and laughed
at their silly waving of flags, their cries
and their shouts and their crackers. I
knew then that I wasn’t scared. Then
there wasn’t much fighting in our area, as
the other coast had been broken in its
lines and we were forced to retreat to
the island from the mainland.
“It was a week before they landed on
the island, but that week worked on me.
We were cooped up in a small area,
bombed and gunned and shelled continu-
ously without much ack-ack defence and
with no air-defence at all. That part
didn’t matter, though. It was the fighting
I was thinking about. Then they landed.
“The magic had gone out of the
Straits then, Tony, and the lights, for
that matter. The whole romantic dream
was drivel. There was a gulf between
dreams and reality, and yet none of it
was reality. But 1 still believed I was a
soldier and I wanted to be that more
than anything, as though it was what
counted, and it was, too.”
CONN was talking to himself really,
although he fancied I Was the only
listener.
“When they landed it was terrible. I
was down on the beach on a Bren. We
kept at it until our magazines gave out.
Then a runner brought us more, and we
started again. After a time our Number
Two was killed. We kept firing until
they were so thick we had to go. We
raced back into grass and scrub, carrying
the gun, firing here and there. After a
while there were only two of us left,
and I wasn’t firing. Harry—that was his
name—he kept working, and I was feed-
ing the magazines. All in a blaze of
glory, too. Until they were nearly on us.
“You could see them coming, all right.
They didn’t care. There were too many
for them to care. They threw their
crackers into the air, and fired tracers,
and laughed and joked like the devil on
a holiday and screamed and shouted and
cheered, and whirred rattles and flung
hungers. You’d call it funny now, but it
wasn’t then. Think of it, Tony, the first
to face that sort of thing, something which
we know now, but didn’t know then.
“We kept firing until Harry was killed.
Somehow nothing seemed to hit me. It
was my big chance. There was still
some ammo but I didn’t wait. I left
everything and ran. Can you see what
I did?”
“Anyone would have. Conn,” I said.
He shook his head, but when he spoke
he was arguing with himself, going over
an old discussion, assessing facts, sum-
ming up, condemning.
“No, a born soldier may be careful,
but he doesn’t care in those moments,”
he said. “I did. When I got away from
them I ran like a little kid and I cried
like one until I was well out of danger.”
Conn stopped and looked up at me.
‘You know,” he said slowly, “I had the
feeling those Nips were laughing at me,
that they knew what I was.”
I remembered Conn’s cold stare at
Matsuoko, and Matsuoko’s unwavering
stare in return.
“You might think that silly, but it
stuck in my mind, I wandered through
the scrub and stuff until 1 met up with
others. Things weren’t going to schedule,
but we settled down and waited for them
to come through. It was early morn-
ing and they didn’t. Then, when the
sun came up we withdrew quietly to
what they were always calling ‘appointed
positions,’
“We did that for days, losing ground
all the time, being shelled, and bombed
and machine-gunned out of positions,
being pushed back inch by inch, and I
was never wounded. That was the strange
thing about it, Tony: never wounded.
You’d have thought I’d have’ been glad
about that, and that I would have risked
more than 1 did. But I wasn’t glad. I
kept thinking all the time that it was
useless, anyway, and that I’d escaped so
far, and I’d make sure I escaped alto-
gether.
“Escaped altogether!” Conn echoed
those words, almost as a question. His
eyes dulled, his face relaxed. “It’s hard
to tell this part, Tony. We got pushed
back properly and the battalion broke
up. We reformed into another battalion
back at base and went forward again,
but we were a different crowd. There
were reinforcements who panicked at the
slightest thing. You never knew where
you were, but I suppose you’d say I
was lucky. I was with the best of our
old company, in the one section. We
moved forward in the late afternoon, the
sort of afternoon you spend at home
playing tennis or chatting over afternoon-
teas, or taking your girl on picnics. It
was cool and had a soft light about it.
Then, when darkness fell, we went for-
ward. This time we had to attack and
break through. It was madness, of course,
and I knew it, and I think most of us knew
it, but what I knew, more than any of
them, was that the end must come sooner
or later and why not in the very best
way?”
CONN stopped again and stared at
me, his eyes no longer dull, but filled
with accusation. “Why not the best way,
Tony? To charge and be damned!
That’s what the others thought, and when
the guns began, the artillery' and the
machine-guns and the mortars, they didn’t
care for officers, anyone or anything.
They charged, all of their own accord.
They’d been told it would come to that,
and it had. I was in the section, but I
didn’t go forward. I told myself I was
waiting for orders. Waiting for orders,
Tony.
“That was what I told myself when
we moved back, pushed back slowly, like
men with backs to a wall, and then some
of us fled, and I was with them. When
we were past the supporting troops we
were able to sit down and rest for a
time, but I didn’t wait to rest. I went
on into Singapore itself, where there
wasn’t any fighting at that time. I just
walked into Singapore.
“It’s funny, I suppose, but I remember
getting coffee at a hotel. There were
plenty of soldiers there, and some kid —
a newly-arrived reinforcement, probably
—spilled it over himself because his hand
was shaking. Then he began to blubber.
The old lady who was serving the coffee
came across and put her arm around him.
She smiled at him and said something.
The kid had got up by this time. I could
see he was going back. When she looked
at me the smile went off her face and
out of her eyes. She just went back to
her coffee.”
Conn laughed. “I suppose the kid went
back and was killed. I never went back.
I waited in Singapore for another day,
and then I got on to a boat that was
taking civilians. I was dead by that time.
I had ceased thinking, or I only had one
thought, to get away. I wanted to get
away from my failure, and from the
place of it, and most of all, I suppose,
I wanted to get away from myself,”
He seemed to have pulled himself to-
gether, He stood up and came across,
staring down at me. “I wanted to get
away from myself,” he repeated. “You
see, Tony, it is wrong having to live with
a man you hate.”
“I never knew about this,” I said.
Suddenly Conn seemed different, as
though his life with us had been a weird
pretence, t
“So I suppose I did die,” he said, walk-
ing away, staring into the camp com-
pound. “Anyway, I was dead on that
ship. I lay on the decks night and day
until we reached Java. I was just alive
enough to see it all, time and again, what
I had run away from, from that moment
when Harry was killed. I wasn’t bomb-
happy, and I wasn’t scared. When the
seas were rough, or the bombers came
after us it didn’t matter. When we were
taken off at Java and put into cells it
still didn’t matter. When they put us
on the boat to come home I didn’t care.
Not until we reached the Heads at
Sydney.
“lt was seeing those Heads which
brought me to life, Tony. I knew then
that something had gone wrong, what it
was almost, but I couldn’t believe it.
Strangely enough it was all mixed up with
having been an insurance clerk in a quiet
city, a soldier racing through the jungle
that night, running from the shrieking
Nips, coming into Sydney through the
Heads. I knew there could never be an-
other chance.
“Why couldn’t there?” I said.
“Malaya had fallen,” he said. “I
couldn’t go back there and fight it again.
I couldn’t even start that war again, or
be one of the captured prisoners. It was
ended for ever.” '
CONN looked almost pitiful. “You’ll
have to hear the rest of it,” he said.
“They didn’t know whether or not to
put us in prison. I had some vague idea
of blotting out the past, and when I
volunteered to go north they let me.
Others didn’t want to go; I went back
into infantry to begin with, and fought
pretty well. No running away this time,
and it seemed good to be on the offensive.
“Then I thought I’d like to get closer
to them. As you know we never saw
much of them in infantry, not to speak
of, anyway. I wanted to know if they
were braver than us, as brave as they
made out, at rock-bottom, below the
training of fanaticism. I started to leam
the language. It didn’t take long. Strange
that, when you think I couldn’t learn
simple French at school.”
Conn stared fully at me. His face was
composed, but there was a slight cynical
twist to the lips. “Well, that’s it,” he said.
“That’s all.”
“All?” I echoed.
“Yes,” he said. “Now you can see why
I just can’t whip a confession out of
Matsuoko. He has the upper hand,
morally, and knows it.”
“You’re a queer cuss, Conn,” I said.
“Granted you missed the bus in Singa-
pore, but what about what you have
done since?”
“And what have I done since?” he
asked, his eyes beginning to turn cold.
“Well,” I protested, “you have two
‘mentions’ to your credit.”
He laughed. “Bravery,” he said.
“What’s that? What’s in driving yourself
on, or being driven because of the thing
that is nagging at you, the old fear of
fear, the fear of failing again, of adding
sin to sin, so that you can never live with
yourself when it is all over? That isn’t
bravery.”
“You’re crazy,” I said. “Of course it
is You just weren’t experienced. Why,
I’ve known cases ...”
“So have I,” Conn said. “You’re a
fool, Tony. I thought you’d understand,
even if the others didn’t. Don’t you see
that when Matsuoko had those men
before him he had the upper hand, every-
thing in his way. Then he told them to
die, and they had to die —because
Matsuoko said so.”
“Because Matsuoko said so,” I re-
peated mechanically.
“And now Matsuoko has to die,” Conn
said; “but he has to die because he is
not worth living with—living with him-
self.”
“Now I’m beginning to see daylight,”
I said.
Conn said, “Remember what I told
you this morning? ‘Matsuoko is the last
of them —the biggest thing yet?’ ”
I nodded.
“Matsuoko has to pay for those little
Japs who made me run,” Conn said
slowly. “He has to prove to me that I
was wrong, that they would have done it,
too, that I wasn’t any more pitiful than
they would have been.”
“And that helps?” I asked.
“Listen, Tony,” Conn said. “If
Matsuoko had had me in the pardi-
field I wouldn’t have cringed. I wouldn’t
have cared, or been afraid, not like I was
in Singapore. I could have thought
clearly as I do now, as I never did at
Singapore. Matsuoko can think clearly.
I’ve often wished to die, but I couldn’t.
You might it was written that I
couldn’t. Matsuoko doesn’t want to die,
but he will, and he will want to die
honorably, but he won’t be able. We
don’t commit hara-kiri to escape our
deserts, Tony, and Matsuoko won’t
either,”
“Then I can’t see it, Conn,” I said.
“It’s all too complex for me.”
“You’ll see,” he said calmly. “Just
watch Matsuoko.”
“Those eight airmen,” I said suddenly.
“Where are they buried?”
“Remember the pardi?” he asked.
I remembered it and the downcast
looks of the natives.
“We don’t know where,” he said.
“Even little Ben doesn’t know that. He
only had it on hearsay. But Matsuoko
knows, and he knows we don’t know.”
“We could dig,” I said.
Conn laughed, his old icy laugh. “So
we could,” he agreed. “But we won’t.
It would take a long time. No, Tony,
we won’t bother to dig.”
I DID watch Matsuoko —and Conn.
* Before the Nipponese was transferred
to the cell, and in his last arrogant days
in the hospital, I watched him and Conn.
Conn always took me with him.
Once with Matsuoko he would simply
stare at him, a cold meaningless stare.
At first it confused Matsuoko, but later
he became almost triumphant about it,
not that he showed it in expression, but
you knew, even felt it. It was as though
he wished to unnerve Conn, but I knew
he would not succeed. For myself I had
a great contempt for the little sergeant.
I knew, with Conn, that he was a murderer
at heart, and that his atrocity was
personal, a gesture of personal hatred or
fear. Conn would have known best what
it was.
When Matsuoko went to the prison cell
he seemed no less arrogant. He expected
water when he wanted it; even cigarettes,
and would attempt to bully the guards.
They ignored him, and he seemed to
think that was a great triumph for him.
Perhaps he wanted them to dance atten-
dance, but I think not. Gradually I be-
came interested in Matsuoko, almost as
interested as Conn. Only the guards had
little time for his tactics. “Why don’t
you starve the big fat b—>-?” they asked
him.
“He’ll be better for the killing,” Conn
told them; but I knew it wasn’t what
he meant.
After a time Matsuoko began, I think,
to look forward to Conn’s visit with a
fascinated dread. I would have hated to
have had those cold eyes upon me, neither
commanding nor inquiring, eyes without
purpose, you might say, yet some purpose
lurking behind that cold veil of imper-
sonality. There was no personal hate in
Conn. But there was nothing, either, on
which Matsuoko might feed his pride
as a son of Nippon, his own individual
arrogance. At first he had been able to
think Conn soft for saving him, and then
it might have dawned upon him that it
was for a killing, but he was cunning
enough to know he was safe. Some
second instinct must have warned him to
murder the few natives who had seen the
killing of the airmen, even the one who
had spoken, in a prison, to little Ben.
How Conn knew that Matsuoko could
speak English I do not know, but I saw
the sergeant start when Conn said to me,
in his cell, “This man will be known as
a coward when he goes back to Japan.
He has surrendered.”
Matsuoko almost spoke, but his fingers
compressed into his palms.
“But they are all like that,” Conn went
on calmly, “when the fighting is over.
They fight under hysteria.”
Matsuoko was giving Conn small dart-
ing looks,-
When we left the cell I said “You had
him there, Conn. It’s the first time I’ve
seen him roused.”
“Of course,” Conn said.
I thought Conn should have followed it
up immediately, but he had different
plans. There were times when I saw the
very sweat stand out on the head of the
stocky Nipponese, but he never spoke.
Often Conn would ask him, almost dully,
“You Kanamoto, eh?” and always
Matsuoko Would give his small secretive
smile and nod. “Me Kanamoto.” Conn
would smile, too, faintly, and the Nip
never seemed compensated for his small
triumph.
ONE day he told him that Matsuoko,
when he was found, would be hung
for the murder of eight airmen and many
natives. Kanamoto seemed politely in-
terested. When Conn told him that much
evidence had been gathered he seemed
diffident. Time and again I could have
smacked his fat face, but Conn seemed
not to care.
The next day Conn said to me, in
English, and before Matsuoko, “This
man is afraid to admit his crimes. For
the true son of Nippon it is no crime.
Only to the boastful who murder, but
do not kill. They were helpless, but he
did not know Nippon would lose, other-
wise he might have thought better.”
He turned and regarded Matsuoko with
a cold stare.
In the cell, on the second day, Conn
gave me a talk, in English, about the
theories of Nippon, about honorable
death, and those Japanese ethics so
familiar to us. If I had not known it
was for Matsuoko’s benefit I would have
been bored.
The third day brought the report that
Matsuoko refused to eat his food. Conn
went to the cell immediately, and asked
Matsuoko in politest tones to eat his
food. “We wish to return an honorable
fighter to his homeland,” he said, “and
if you do not eat you will die.” He stood
for a time gazing at the sullen sergeant.
The next day Conn asked him a ques-
oContinued on page 32.)


T he ease '
that A GA brings
There is only one AGA, and
only a demonstration proves its
wonderful efficiency, its con-
venience and coolness in cook-
ing. The vitreous cream enamel
is so simple to clean, and the
delectable way the AGA cooks
defies description. Fuel economy
is guaranteed!
fJ€*U . . .
sd
<2
' /
Conif 0
C« w „ i<h an
AGA
COOKER
mr
\vy
v\
k-
SBK
'nimy.p/tf/'/M
m
firm
«o
■ B
£ i
O T* *. *.
to
1
ee*
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING "AGA*
or write for full particulars to:-
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
MARGARET ft ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. O. WEBSTER
ft SONS LTD., HOBART. WA. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
A4/100
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Ik Divorce.
TO CYRIL GEORGE WILLS late of
Narooma.—TAKE NOTICE that JOY
BEATRICE WILLS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4224 of 1948 on the ground
of your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend the suit you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 11th day
of September 1950 and may obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MR. J. B. FERGUSON, Solicitor, of Hos-
king House, Hosking Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF'NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce,
TO JAMES OLDHAM late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOSEPH KEIDEL
has filed a Petition No. 1068 of 1950 pray-
ing for a divorce from PHOEBE EDNA
HARRIETT KEIDEL on the ground of
her adultery with you If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth day of September
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HENRY PEEDON &
CHAPMAN, Solicitors, Crown Street, Wol-
longong.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALOYSIUS O’SULLIVAN late of
Kingsford.—TAKE NOTICE that NOREEN
WINIFRED O’SULLIVAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 8549 of 1949 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Sydney by the 6th day of Sep-
tember 1950 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MEILLON &
MEILLON, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Forbes. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fjHahes oni^
40 SECONDS
PAY
TO 0 R
ACCOUNTS
£heque
mufiiie a
CHEQUE..
Paying accounts by cash means
standing in queues, waiting for
change, irritating delays, waste of
time.
Then why do it? It is so much
easier to pay by post.
It takes only 40 seconds to write a
Commonwealth Bank cheque. It is
the quick, modern, convenient method
of paying bills. It is safe, too, because
you can stop payment of a lost
cheque.
Paying by cheque has other
advantages:
It gives evidence of payment if you
lose your receipt.
It adds to your prestige.
It shows you clearly what you have
spent and where.
It saves you keeping large sums o
money in the office or home.
Call in to-day and open a cheque
account at any branch of the
Conitnonwcalrl)sanl!
oflustralia.
•THE BANK YOU OWN* eaaio-e*.
THE KOREAN ISSUE
The war in Korea is no new
thing. It has virtually existed
from the moment the new
republic was formed in 1948.
In 1945 it was placed under
trusteeship of Britain, the United
States, China and Russia for five
years, at the end of which Korea
would be organised into an in-
dependent, democratic State.
Russia from the beginning set
out to establish the usual basis
for turning Korea into a satel-
lite. Attempts were straightway
made to form a People’s Front
in accordance with the technique
used in Hungary and Czecho-
slovakia.
It was arranged that Russia
should militarily occupy the
northern half of the country
above the 38th Parallel and the
United States the southern half,
which holds two-thirds of the
population, the Russians being
unwilling to agree to any
arrangement which would leave
Korea in one piece unless that
piece were all under their con-
trol. In other words, they pro-
ceeded to play in the Far East
exactly the same game that they
had played in Germany. Better
a slice which was their own than
a share in a partnership in the
whole with people who would
not tolerate the N.K.V.D., slave-
camps and People’s Courts.
Early in 1948 the Allies under
U.N.O. agreed that a poll should
be taken to elect a Korean
National Government which
would carry on under United
Nations supervision. The Soviet
Union officials in the north
promptly called what they de-
scribed as “an all-Korean politi-
cal conference” which was held
on April 23, the puppet dele-
gates who attended agreeing to
take all measures to prevent the
poll unless voting was restricted
to electors approved by the Com-
munists. They refused to allow
a vote in North Korea, and —
Australia dissenting U.N.O.
decided to take the vote in South
Korea only. The election was
held on May 10. There were
widespread disorders, intimida-
tion, murder and sabotage of
railways and communications,
all organised by the Commu-
nists. However, the poll was
completed and an assembly of
200 was elected for South Korea
■with an overwhelmingly Right-
wing majority.
A Government was formed.
Dr. Syngman Rhee, then 73 years
old, who had been leader of the
independence movement for
many years, was chosen as Presi-
dent. He was a graduate of
Princeton where he had
been a pupil of President
Wilson —and of Harvard. He
gives the impression of being
more equable and well-balanced
than is usual in a Korean. As
Premier the Assembly chose
General Lee, former commander
of the Korean forces fighting
with the Chinese Nationalist
Armies against the Japanese.
The Foreign Minister was Chang
Taik Sangh, a graduate of Edin-
burgh University in political
science and economics.
On August 9 the Government
advised General Hodge, com-
mander of the United States
forces, that it was prepared to
take the country over. On
August 15, 1948, it was pro-
claimed a nation and in the
southern section of Korea United
States military government
ceased to exist.
“Underground” Elections
A request was now made to
the northern Russian control to
see that free elections were held
there for a further 100 seats to
complete the Parliament. The
result was a derisive burst of
protest. And on September 11
a Communist-dominated confer-
ence at Pyong-yang, as usual
under Russian management,
proclaimed what it described as
the “Korean Democratic People’s
Republic.”
It was announced that
“nation-wide elections were held
on August 25,” and that 527
M.Ps. had been elected, 360
from the south. There, it was
explained, the poll had been
taken “underground.”
It goes without saying that the
south —which three months be-
fore had given a thumping
majority to the moderates —now
By "EK DUM”
appeared to have voted about
99.8 per cent, in favor of the
Communists and their instru-
ments.
The northern rulers immedi-
ately formed a Government as
much on Moscow lines as those
of its new Parliament. It was
headed by a ' Russian-trained
Communist, Kim Ir Sen, and it
called itself a “Presidium” in the
Kremlin manner.
It made a request for the im-
mediate withdrawal of Allied
troops. Upon which the Krem-
lin politely replied that the exist-
ence of such an excellent legis-
lature was a sufficient guarantee
for the maintenance of order
and recognised it as the sole
Government for the whole of
Korea.
This device meant that from
a Russian viewpoint any incur-
sion by northern troops into the
U.S, zone of the south would
merely be a police operation and
not an act of aggression against
another Power, although the
south was the majority Govern-
ment.
Rebellion in the South
The United States at once de-
cided (with Dr. Rhee’s concur-
rence) that its troops must re-
main while the status of the re-
spective areas was taken up with
U.N.O. And Russia just as
promptly and with a virtuous
and innocent demeanor offered
to withdraw its troops from the
north in October, 1948. Within
a few days a rebellion broke ou-
in Southern Korea. This was
arranged in two suitable towns
by Communist agents who had
filtered into and corrupted some
of the Southern Government’s
constabulary.
The United Nations’ meeting
in December, 1948, decided by
a vote of 48 to 6 to recognise
South Korea as the legal
Government of all Korea. By
48 to 6 it agreed to appoint a
commission, on which Australia
was represented by three of its
legion of wandering delegates,
to supervise the withdrawal of
the military forces. The
Ukraine refused a seat on the
commission. The U.N.O. debates
were notable for abnormally
vituperative abuse of the
United States by Russian dele-
gates. The Americans withdrew
in June, 1949, save for a small
military mission of 500 left be-
hind to organise Korean defence.
TTie Russians announced in De-
cember, 1948, that they had
withdrawn their armies, but the
Northern Government flatly
refused to allow the U.N. Com-
mission to visit the north to
certify to the fact. It returned
the letter of request unopened.
Diplomatic recognition was
given to South Korea by the
United States, Britain, France,
Nationalist China and, among
others, Australia. The Security
Council early in March, 1949,
rejected by eight votes to two
an application from North Korea
for membership but advised the
United Nations Assembly to
consider admission of the
Rhee Republic. Only Russia
and the Ukraine voted against
this resolution. Moscow at once
countered on St. Patrick’s Day
by signing a 10-year treaty of
economic and cultural collabora-
tion with its puppet State in the
north.
The United States has given
Korea aid under the Marshall
Plan. In June, 1948, President
Truman asked for and received
from Congress a sum around
£A70,000,000 for Korean pur-
poses. This amount was supple-
mented last year when President
Truman, in a message to Con-
gress, said that the new Republic
of Korea was menaced by the
Communist regime in the north
and that the country, with the
advice and assistance of the U.S.,
had established a small force to
protect its internal security and
defend itself against outside
aggression, short of a full-scale
war.
He said that it was essential
to the survival of the new State
that assistance should be nm
vided He made it quite
how deeply the United State,
was committed in the matter
War Breaks Out
From the first establishment
of the new Republic its forces
and communications have been
subject to raids and guerrilla
warfare and to the underground
operations of bands of Com
munists charged by their Russian
masters with the duty of causing
industrial disorder. s
Threats had become more in-
sistent over the past few months
and gave place to action on June
25 at dawn. The action was in
the same old pattern which has
become familiar in the assaults
of Russia and its satellites on
little nations. The Northern
Presidium first of all sent troops
across the border. Then it
yelled like a banshee at the
aggressive action of the South
Koreans in daring to make an
“unwarranted attack on the
peaceful defenders of the right-
ful Korean Government, under
the incitement of the blood-
drunk lackeys of Wall-street.”
This anguished cry was uttered
some hours after the first attack
from the north, and when five
Red spearheads had been
launched. The North declared
war only six hours after the first
assault when its forces were
about half-way to Seoul.
It was obvious that left to
themselves the South Koreans
would have no chance. The in-
vading forces were in some
strength. They were armed in
a modern way with mobile
United States 155 mm. guns—
perhaps the gift of America to
Russia during the European war,
perhaps captured from the
Chinese Nationalists by the
Chinese Communists. They had
also heavy Russian 33-ton tanks
and apparently plenty of road


FOR AIL EMERGENCIES
w
m
m
IN THE
HANDY RED TIN
SN °'*V)lg v
SVUSIIB
sawnoAA
afO
In the home, or when on holidays, never
be without Elastoplast, the comfortable
clastic dressing that stretches with your
’Skin. It is medicated for perfect protection,
and is flesh-coloured and inconspicuous.
Various sizes and shapes of dressing all
in the one tin. At chemists everywhere.
Elastoplast
THE COMFORTABLE £-i-A-S-T-/-C
FIRST AID DRESSINGS
A product of T. J. Smith <E Nephew Ltd.. Hull. England.
S -r~/?-£-r-c-//-£-s with the skin
FEW
DROPS
r
J
SAUCE
The Sauce of Economy
+o give +haf Added
Flavour+o evenj dish
thaf is not suueef
mu
mmmmm
o'
-.,
I
Good Memory Guaranteed
IN FIVE HOURS
Without Study or Practice
TYPICAL
WORLD-WIDE
SUBSCRIBERS
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER CO.
GENERAL
MOTORS LTD.
DALQETY &
CO. LTD.
ASPROS LTD.
P. & 0. SHIP-
PING CO.
NATIONAL
BANK.
BANK OF
SOUTH
AFRICA.
THOS. COOK
& SONS.
GOODYEAR
TYRE CO.
UNION
CASTLE
SHIPPING
CO..
BARCLAY’S
BANK.
COLONIAL
MUTUAL LIFE.
FARMERS’
TRADING CO.
SINGER SEWING
MACHINE CO.
STANDARD
TELEPHONES
LTD.
LEWIS BERGER
& SONS.
RONEO LTD.
WAUGH &
JOSEPHSON.
HADFIELDS LTD.
ALLEN dk
HANBURYB.
BANK OF N.Z.
LINDEMAN
LTD.
BRITISH GEN.
ELECTRIC.
KODAK LTD.
ARTHUR
YATES As
CO. (N.Z.).
At present you can remember, off-hand,
only five or six unrelated things. By
“Controlled-visualisation” you are guaran-
teed that you can remember, virtually at
sight, not less than, but probably many
more than, TWENTY things of any kind
facts, figures, things to be done," office
memoranda, prices and locations of stocks,
details of your speech, music, cards, racing
data, lodge rituals, etc., and can also . . .
REMEMBER PEOPLE’S NAMES.
“Controlled - visualisation” is fully ex-
plained in two brief parts, and requires
neither study nor practice. Merely read
the instructions through carefully, and
forthwith put them INTO practice. The
immediate results will amaze you.
Simple, Practical, Inexpensive
“Controlled-visualisation” shows you the psycho-
logically correct way to apply certain natural
functions which control your memory, and which
you and every other normal person possess. If
you follow the instructions, then, irrespective of
your education or age, you MUST REMEMBER.
“Controlled-visualisation” is as effective with a
child of eight, as an adult of eighty. It is simple,
practical, and effective because it is NATURAL.
Good Memory
Is Merely “Know-How”
Thousands of well-known people and firms
throughout the world have subscribed for
“Controlled-visualisation.” Why not
TRY IT? Good memory depends on
“knowing how.” If you follow the
simple instructions your success is
guaranteed. Write NOW for full
particulars, including names and
full address of typical users,
and their grateful letters of
praise. USE THIS FORM.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE/
FOR VISUAL LEARNING/
Operating in England, America, /
Canada, South Africa, Australia. /
7th Floor, Daking House, Sydney. /
If coupon been used address /
inquiry to— /
Box 280, G.P.0., Sydney 7
/ TEAR
/ OFF AND
/ POST
/ Tlie National
/ Institute for
/ Visual Learning.
BOX 280, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Without obligation to
me, please send me by
return, full details of
‘‘Controlled - Visualisation” .
under plain cover.
Name (clear)
Full Address
transport, without very great
distances to use it over.
rbe strategic Position
Korea is divided almost in
half by the post-war arrange-
rnents The northern area, more
industrialised and sparsely popu-
ated, is slightly the greater. The
whole is about 2000 square miles
Ss in area than Victoria. The
oeninsula is roughly 160 miles
across for most of its length. It
is largely mountainous granite
country, in the south not so
mountainous as in the north,
w here the ranges towards the
border run up to round 8000 ft.
and more. The border between
North and South Korea lies
across some of the rare, more
low-lying land on the west coast
near the base of the Oshin Pen-
river valleys run down
from the north-east across the
border. About 30 miles north
of the border there is a junc-
tion of all main roads at
Kaesong on the main railway
line from Seoul (Kaijo).
Another line runs from the
north-east out of the Russian
territory from the coast at Gen-
zan, a most convenient point for
the delivery of Russian help,
apart from the coastal railway
to Rashin. The road system, as
Oriental road systems go, is
above the average. The port of
Chinnampo, 50 miles from the
border on the west side and not
many miles from the northern
capital of Pyong-yang, pro-
vides fine access for Russian and
Chinese materials from Antung,
which lies on the Manchurian
side of the Yaiu, about 160 miles
from Mukden.
The invaders had only about
40 miles to travel from the
border by the optimum route to
reach Seoul, the capital of
U.N.O.’s Korea. They had five
main-road routes and three rail-
way lines, all integral with their
own communications converg-
ing on the southern capital,
which holds about 1,000,000
people these days.
They used all of them, but
their main assembly-point ob-
viously was Kaesong. They
quickly secured control of
the southern portion of Oshin
Peninsula. Yak fighters flew
overhead on their way to
Seoul’s civil airport of Kimpo.
So far as the Southern
Army was concerned, the fight
for Seoul, conducted both from
within by guerrillas and without
by the Russian-armed and
-trained mobile Northern divi-
sions, was brief. It seems to
have been only a matter of hours
before the invading forces from
North Korea, helped by landing-
parties in the rear of the cover-
ing line which the defenders
tried to establish on the Imjin
River, about 35 miles from Seoul,
quickly made the capital unten-
able and forced the Southern de-
fenders across the Han River
(Kan-Ko).
Uncle Sam Comes In
The South Koreans at once
appealed to the United States
and to U.N.O. for help. There
was little choice for either, even
if they had wished for alterna-
tives. There was no doubt that
Communist Russia and Com-
munist China were fully behind
the attack, and probably its
organisers, and that the move-
ment was interlinked with Com-
munist plans for assault on For-
mosa and Indo-China,
To allow the Communists to
assume control of South Korea
would be to present them with
a doormat from which to strike
at Japan’s great metal areas in
the south and to control access
to the Sea of Japan and to the
Yellow Sea.
It is only 120 miles from
Korea to Japan. It is only 250
miles from Fusan, the great
Korean port on the Korean
Strait, to Shimonoseki, not much
more to Kure. Osaka and Kobe
are roughly 500 miles; Tokyo
and Yokohama about 700 miles,
so that all would be within easy
r§ach of medium bombers and
even medium - distance heavy
fighter bombers.
The total force which sup-
posedly was operating from the
north was about 100,000 men—
correspondents like nice round
figures—consisting of regulars,
Russian - trained. The total
southern forces were said to
total about 95,000, including
coastguards and all ancillaries.
The front-line forces are prob-
ably considerably less on both
sides, apart from reserves.
The United States wasted no
time. It demanded the calling-
together of the United Nations
Security Council for Sunday
night (June 25), while General
Bradley, fresh from Japan, and
the heads of the defence depart-
ments conferred at Washington
and President Trumari flew back
to the capital from Missouri.
The U.N.O. secretary Trygve
Lie reported that the North
Korean action was a “threat to
international peace,” and asked
the Security Council —of which,
farcically enough, the official
secretary is a Russian nominee
—to take action. By a vote of
nine to nil, Yugoslavia not vot-
ing on the United States
motion, it was resolved to order
the northern forces to withdraw
beyond their border after an
immediate cease-fire, the retreat
to be observed by a U.N.O.
commission.
A motion to hear North
Korea’s version was defeated six
to one (Yugoslavia) with India,
Norway and Egypt abstaining
from voting.
Russia was not represented,
and immediately declared the
meeting and the resolutions in-
valid because her representatives
preferred to be absent, and be-
cause of the presence of repre-
sentatives of Nationalist China,
which they held to be illegal.
Moscow proclaimed the Ameri-
cans aggressors. Ks Note didn’t
specifically disavow Russian
connection with the North
Korean drive —it couldn’t. There
was too, much evidence.
Truman’s Statement
On June 27 President Truman
ordered U.S. Air and Naval
Forces into action in Korea to
support the resistance of the
Southern Koreans, and to drive
the invaders back to their border.
Later North Korean military
objectives were bombed.
He requested General Chiang
Kai-shek to cease attacks on the
Chinese mainland and coastal
waters so as to remove prova-
cation for the invasion of
Formosa, ordering the Seventh
Fleet at the same time to patrol
the Formosa Straits to stave off
a Chinese attempt to take the
island, and to see that peace was
observed. He said that he had
directed the acceleration of
military assistance to France for
the defence of Indo-China. The
Philippines at the same time are
being put on a military war
basis or something very like it.
And all these actions the Presi-
dent justified with his summary:
The attack on Korea makes it plain
beyond all doubt that Communism
has passed beyond the use of subver-
sion to conquer independent nations,
and will now use armed invasion
and war. It has defied the United
Nations. In these circumstances
occupation of Formosa by Com-
munist forces would be a direct threat
to the security of the Pacific area and
to the United States forces perform-
ing their lawful and necessary duties.
The Security Council, having
declared the North Koreans
aggressors, ordered U. N, O.
nations to give aid in protecting
South Korea and liquidating the
Communist threat to its
territory.
British Commonwealth In
The Prime Ministers of
Britain, Australia, Canada and
New Zealand at once proffered
their support. The British Far
Eastern Fleet, a strong cruiser
squadron with an air-carrier and
a division or two of destroyers
under Admiral Sir Patrick Brind
—“Daddy” to his friends, but
nothing fatherly about his
6ft, sin. of ironbark in the
presence of an enemy—became
at once available to help deal
with North Korean sea convoys
and help in coastal operations.
Australia placed the Tribal de-
stroyer Bataan and the frigate
Shoalhaven at General Mac-
Arthur’s disposal. A squadron
of heavy Lincoln bombers was
sent to Malaya, partly as a
security measure, but also to
help the general Far Eastern
defence situation and free the
R.A.F. of some local responsi-
bility. It was announced that
8.C.0.F.’s battalion would re-
main for the present in Japan.
And before the weekend it was
reported that General Mac-
Arthur had asked for the use
of Australia’s No. 77 Squadron,
a very efficient rocket-firing
Mustang squadron based at
Iwakuni, which was on its way
by July 2.
By July 2 the front
which General MacArthur had
visited on June 28-29 began
to crumble. The South Koreans
had established a temporary de-
fence behind the wide Han River
(Kan-Ko), which runs through
the valley in which Seoul
lies. Thereabouts it is about
as broad as the Brisbane at Vic-
toria Bridge, but nearer the sea
it becomes a wide estuary. Near
its mouth it covers the port of
Seoul, Jinsen —its other name,
Chemulpo, was known to every
breakfast-table during the Russo-
Japanese war in 1904. The River
line defence, however, did not
hold and the complete lack of
efficient South Korean and U.S.
preparation was advertisement
enough of the cynical falsity of
the Moscow claim that the
South Koreans had attempted in-
vasion of the north. South
Korea proved to be militarily
without defence or organisation
and to have been taken by sur-
prise, as were obviously the
Americans.


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign . . .
s.
ft
//'
YOUR Will is a document that vitally affects the
welfare of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
.. . specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
Permanent
Tmstee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G, Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E.,
M.B.ChM., F.RA.CS.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Sub Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: F. R. Garland.
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh Stewart.
n.tr.tt
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE SCHUMAN REJECTION.
Remarkably, it was left to a
writer in the Leftish “New
Statesman” to report that the
Schuman proposal for a single
European Iron and Steel
Authority took the steel indus-
trialists in France and Germany
completely by surprise.
The French industrialists (the
report states) were indignant at
the high-handed way in which
Schuman had neglected to con-
sult them before presenting his
plan, which was worked out by
experts under the leadership of
M. Monnet, the late Bidault
Government’s Commissioner for
Planning.
“I record these facts,” adds
the “New Statesman” writer,
“in order to end the suspicion
that the plan was inspired by
the iron-and-steel industrialists
of France and Germany in an
effort to revive and extend the
pre-war cartel.”
Apart from that interesting
aspect, the Schuman scheme, as
it was announced, had the effect
of bringing British - French
differences into the spotlight,
and also reinforced the charge
that Britain (or the present
British Government) is not
merely apathetic, but is actually
opposed to Western European
union.
“The view is growing on the
Continent,” the “New York
Times” Paris correspondent has
reported, “that the British Gov-
ernment not only is reluctant to
take part in uniting Europe, but
dislikes the idea of a strong and
united Continent.”
By general British report, how-
ever, the simple fact of Britain’s
position would seem to be a very
natural insistence on looking
this gift horse in the mouth, an
insistence made apparently in-
evitable by the singular manner
in which the animal was offered.
Indeed the suggestion has been
made in more than one quarter
that the offer was deliberately
made in the way it was in order
to keep Britain out —for the
time being.
Not only France is named in
that particular charge. A staff
correspondent of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” reported from Bonn
that “with the British staying
outside the pooling arrange-
ment German heavy industry
will provide a balancing—or
overbalancing—weight to the
pool ancl German industry will
be given a voice in questions of
Continental marketing and pric-
ing at the expense of its British
competitors. The British deci-
sion has therefore not exactly
caused disappointment in the
Ruhr, and there is, in fact, quite
open talk of the opportunity the
plan now appears to offer Wes-
tern Germany.”
The same correspondent
further stated: “Whether Great
Britain is unfairly regarded as
the ‘arch suppressor’ of Ger-
many is beside the point. She is
so regarded, and as a result the
Germans are glad to have her
stay outside the Schuman plan
and the European heavy-indus-
tries pool.”
The proposal included one
thing that Britain could hardly
be expected to agree to —a cer-
tain degree of commitment in
advance of details. Either, the
“Manchester Guardian” com-
mented, the French misunder-
stood Britain’s probable reluct-
ance to sign such a document,
“or else they were too ready to
put us [Britain] in the wrong.”
The upshot was that the
negotiations towards placing
European heavy industry under
a single authority (with such
possible effects-as reconciling in
friendship, if not uniting, France
and Germany, and thereby
lessening the risk of war except
from the Soviet quarter) had to
begin (June 20) without British
participation.
Up to the Schuman issue, a
conference of France, West
Germany, Belgium, Holland,
Luxembourg and Italy on a
European-unity move, with
Britain a mere onlooker, would
have been unthinkable. This,
London “Economist” called the
result of “as sorry a piece of
diplomatic muddling as the
world has ever seen.” It ex-
plained :
“The French wanted the
British at the negotiators’ table
—or so at least they said. The
British wanted to be there —or
so at least they said, Tlje fatal
disagreement arose from the
fact that the French Govern-
ment made it a condition that
all the participating countries
should first sign a statement of
their intentions. And when the
British came to examine the text
proposed from Paris they found
that it would bind them in two
ways: first, to accept, in general,
the principle of pooling, before
the negotiations could reveal
exactly what it meant; second,
to agree to the view that the
scheme should be administered
by an international body, con-
stituted independently of Gov-
ernments but whose decisions
should be binding upon them.
In short, they were invited to
surrender a portion of their
national sovereignty to a body
whose composition was unde-
cided and whose purposes were
unelucidated, and they were in-
vited to do so from one day to
the next. Not unnaturally, they
objected; the French refused to
modify their draft (which the
other interested countries had
accepted) sufficiently to meet
the objections.”
When, subsequently, it was
learnt in London that the timing
of the invitation and the text of
the proposal had been discussed
with the German Government,
but not with the British, “the
feeling grew that France had
been less than fair to its British
partner.” The French (the
“Economist” added) “passion-
ately want British participation
in the scheme when it is set up.
But British participation in the
negotiations that precede its
setting-up may be, in their eyes,
another matter. They have had
plenty of experience in recent
years of British skill in deferring
and emasculating projects that
have been accepted in principle.
They may prefer to make more
speed with their Continental
neighbors and then present a
scheme on which the British will
not have the hardihood to turn
their backs.”
Even so, in the same paper’s
view, the British Government
had “done itself great harm” by
its attitude; “and this is not in
the least altered by the fact that
it was formally in the right”:
“For it is now quite evident
fs
%
4.
%\
c O
s>
i
&
df
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) "Star."-
"PEACE OFFENSIVE" REACHES KOREA.
that the Schuman proposal has
become a test case. Irrespective
of its detailed content, the
French have succeeded in mak-
ing it the symbol they wanted it
to be. Are the nations prepared
to surrender any of their
jealously - guarded sovereignty,
or are they not?” The British
Government had failed that test,
and “Those throughout the world
who suspect that in this island,
of all incredible places, an
attempt is seriously to be made
to live to ourselves alone, have
had their suspicions confirmed.”
As a result, “what is now
most urgently in need of recon-
struction is not the European
iron-and-steel industry but the
world’s confidence in Britain’s
willingness to play a constructive
role in world affairs.”
A report by the “Manchester
Guardian’s” Paris correspondent
suggests that the relations be-
tween Britain and its Continental
neighbors “may be at a turning-
point” on this issue: “It is
pointed out that at the meeting
of Socialist parties in Copen-
hagen the British Labor party
alone maintained that the pro-
posed steel-and-coal authority
should be inter-Governmental, so
that its decisions would, in fact,
be negotiated by delegates and
not made in its own name.”
Since that is the very opposite
of the French idea, it would
seem very unlikely that Britain
would join in, unless more
searching consideration by the
six lately - conferring nations
brings them round to the British
view.
West’s “Maginot Line.”
In a “Commonwealth and
Empire Review” article Lieut.-
Gen. H. G. Martin questions
whether Russia is piling up arms
so much with the intention of
using them in a shooting war as
with the idea of making the
“cold war” more effective —of
playing, that is, upon the fears
of the Western democracies, and
so keeping their attention
focused on Western Europe;
“Hence, surely, the recurring
crises in the West, such as the
Berlin incidents past and present
—crises that are designed to
maintain the proper atmosphere
of tension.
“The West, according to this
strategic concept, is to be en-
couraged to regard the Atlantic
Pact as another Maginot Line,
behind which it can shelter: a
line, however, which Russia will
never attack until she has under-
mined'its defences elsewhere.
“While the Atlantic Powers
are thus preoccupied with the
building of their Maginot Line
in the West, Russia and China,
or so their Governments plan,
will exploit their opportunities
in the East till they have gained
control of three-quarters of tS
human race.”
Coms Drop Pretence.
While the party line elsewhere
1S l f ° tra ? e on the curious
sort of Socialist sentimentalism
(or affinity) which deluded
Chifley into defending them as
“political philosophers,” i n Italv
and France, particularly, the
Communists (a correspondent of
N. Y. ‘Herald Tribune” reports')
“have abandoned the faintest
pretence of constituting normal
political parties with normal
political aims.”
Instead, “The whole current
objective of the French and
Italian Communists is to disrupt
the organisation of any defence
of the West. The sole long-
range objective is to prepare to
play the role of paramilitary
fifth-columns when the word of
command is given. In short, the
Western European Communist
parties have now become naked
military-strategic instruments of
Soviet imperialism, hardly to be
distinguished from special units
of the Red Army.”
The correspondent sees that
change in the Communist line
as “deeply significant” for two
reasons. First, it clearly reveals
the intention of the Kremlin to
renew the attempt to bring
Western Europe within the
Soviet empire at a fairly early
date. Second, the preparations
that the Italian and French
Communists are now making
can have decisive effects if and
when the time ever comes for
the big Soviet pressure drive
westward.
In short, “The French and
Italian Communists are now
getting read to strike when their
countries will be terrified, con-
fused and divided by the menace
of the Red Army and the Red
Air Force to the eastward.”
Recruits from Britain.
On the British Government’s
agreement to the scheme for
attracting settlers here by
recruiting 4500 single men in
Britain, the bulk of them to be
from 18 to 30 years old and
qualified to serve as tradesmen,
“Manchester Guardian” expects
there will be plenty offering:
“A raw recruit in the Aus-
tralian Army has had since 1947
a basic wage of 10s. a day, com-
pared to 4s. in the British Army ;
a tradesman gets substantially
more. These recruits from
England will serve a six-year
engagement, after which they will
get a gratuity and the right to
remain as full citizens. Two
years ago the Royal Australian
Navy worked a similar scheme
to recruit one thousand ex-Naval
ratings in Britain.
“All this, on the face of it,
would seem to be a nasty knock
for Mr. Strachey’s own argent
campaign for more Regulars for
the British Army, since 4500 men
are the product of three
hard recruiting here [in Britain].
Concluding, however, that it
actually shouldn’t make much
difference to the British intake,
since the Australian scheme will
attract a different— perhaps a
more adventurous —type of man


Established 1868
retractors to Government, Municipal,
Banking and- CommercuA
S lStions throughout Australia
<V
qSUUJV\\
t VSr mvn ,
IiMS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating 1
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head orncE and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT BTDNET, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS 4 OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! i PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
u
Li
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
"I Leap Over the
Wall"
Just before tbe first World
War, pretty, 21-year-old Monica
Baldwin entered a strict con-
vent. For 28 years she lived
in an austere cell, rose every
morning at 4.45, was taught
to walk always with downcast
eyes. Then she came back to
the world. Back—to a vastly
changed, bewildering world of
cocktail parties, lipsticks, up-
lift bras, roaring traffic and
startlingly naked silk stockings.
July Reader’s Digest brings
you a 22-page condensation
from her fascinating best-seller.
Get your Reader’s Digest
to-day: 31 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
One shilling and sixpence, all
newsagents and bookstalls.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and Improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERB acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, bold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
barbeke DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27g), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
i
7 r usaoev
m
ST
r
\jsrfm^hqrpjriQjn^
m
mmm
•3
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE. OR SHRINK
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
EDITORS
,«rt
'•i-ftfTftgy-'
mm
«•:;
More successful men use
He
worn SMART
AM SOT
mem/
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t win her "by a whisker” . . . it’s his
smooth, clean-shaven look! You, too, can have
shaves that look good and feel good . . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
sd
fsd
fs
df
sd
ONLY
Is
PS2/120
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN
LAWYERS
Genuine REISER pattern
SECATEURS
MANUFACTURED FROM SOLID STEEL WITH
TOLEDO alloy steel cutting blade, and steel
lining on lower jaw.
Price 32/6 each , post free.
TOLEDO STEEL COMPANY,
P.O. Box 15, Mosman, N.S.W.
Trade enquiries to STANLEY F. COFFEY, 24 Bond St, Sydney
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
from such Regulars as now sign
on for service in Germany or
the United Kingdom, the com-
ment adds:
“In any case, five thousand
more Regulars for the Australian
Army must be made to mean
some lightening of our own
[Britain’s] commitments in the
Far Eastern theatre.”
Distributed D.Ps.
Figures given by “New York
Times” show that in Europe
there are still some 390,000 dis-
placed persons in the camps of
the International Refugee Organ-
isation or otherwise under its
care.
There were 1,100,000 when
the 1.R.0. began operating in
1947, and others have come into
the camps since then. So far,
115,000 have returned to their
former countries. About 800,000
have been resettled as immi-
grants in new homelands, thus:
U.S., 176,000 ; Israel, 136,000;
Australia, 112,000; U.K.,
104,000; Canada, 80,000;
France, 40,000; Belgium, 40,000;
Argentina, 32,000; Brazil,
24,000; Venezuela, 16,000;
other, 40,000.
Sponging on Uncle.
“Yorkshire Post’s” editor ex-
plains something of the encircl-
ing gloom:
“I cannot help suspecting that
part of the present gloom comes
from the desire of Western
European and other countries to
get more help from the United
States.
“Mr. Truman is President of
a giant of a nation that is in-
credibly wealthy, a nation will-
ing to use part of that wealth to
strengthen weak nations near
the danger line. Must there not
be a strong temptation to
foreign statesmen to make their
stories even more appealing
than the facts warrant in order
to get a good share of help?
“Leaders in the war-harassed,
disaster-threatened, dollar-short
countries would show a queer
kind of human nature if they
did not try to get all they could.
That temptation does not ex-
plain all the present dismal
prophecies, but must be brought
into account.”
Commonwealth First.
In London “Times’s” editorial
view, if J. Bull had to choose
between Europe and British
Commonwealth, there would be
no doubt about the answer:
“No good can come from
trying to conceal that if Britain
were ever faced with the harsh
alternatives of entering a Euro-
pean federation, and in the pro-
cess weakening if not altogether
destroying her ties with the
Commonwealth, or remaining
outside, with all the attendant
risks of isolation from the
Continent, she would be obliged
to prefer the Commonwealth to
Western Europe. Her strength
and her usefulness to Europe
depend on the skill with which
she can contrive, in modern con-
ditions, to combine the tradi-
tional roles of a European and
an oceanic Power. For these
reasons the British Government’s
reserve towards all schemes for
constitutional union in Western
Europe can be explained and
justified.”
Baltic a Fortress.
Reporting that “The Russians
are turning the Baltic into a
fortress on land and sea to pro-
tect the Soviet Union’s northern
flank in any war with the West,”
London “Daily Express” corre-
spondent Selkirk Panton lists
these facts:
Peenemunde, where Hitler
tested and produced his Vis and
V2s to fire at Britain, is now
working again at full speed.
Heavily-protected submarine
bases are being built near Wis-
mar, near the British zone, while
the British are blowing up Ü-
boat shelters in their zone.
Memel, in former Lithuania,
has become the chief Soviet
submarine base in the Baltic,
where the Red Navy has 200
submarines. Naval dockyards
have been established at Stettin,
now just inside Poland, and else-
where along the coast. Radar
stations dot the coast from the
British zone to Libau.
Kolberg, now in Poland, is
Russia’s main rocket base. From
there the Russians claim they
could “rocket” the Ruhr, the
industrial heart of Western
Europe. Naval and army air
bases are scattered along the
coast and inland.
Dragnet Digest.
Victors of Modern War. —Historian
Etienne Gilson packs a vast amount
into a sentence in Paris “Le Monde”:
“The real victor in one of these
modem world-wide wars is not the
country that is victorious against the
common enemy, but the country that
is also victorious against its allies.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Germany Looks East. —“One of die
prime facts of European life, which
is not always fully appreciated in
London and in Washington,” com-
ments N. Y. “Herald Tribune” writer
Walter Lippmann, “is that Germany
must have relations to the East. She
can wage war to the East. She can
make deals with the East. But what
is impossible for Germany is to have
no relations with the East.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
U.S. and Us. —Writing from the
U.S., a “World Review” contributor
notes “a remarkable change” that has
taken place in America since the end
of the late war: “Aware that the
United States has emerged as the
greatest Power in the world, most
Americans, especially statesmen and
businessmen, are rediscovering a birth
of affection for Great Britain and the
Commonwealth. This is due to ad-
miration, fear and ties of history and
culture.” .
♦ ♦ * ♦
Jap Birth Control— ln one of a
series of articles based on personal
observation in Tokyo over the past
two years, N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
staff correspondent Allen Raymond
declares that the Japs “are tackling
today the greatest problem which
besets them,” that of overpopulation:
“They are tackling it by legalised
birth-control on a more ambitious
scale than any other nation has
attempted for a long time, if ever.
Post-war birth-control in Japan
involves legalised sale of contracep-
tives, legalised abortion and legalised
sterilisation of persons who are
deemed by the proper authorities
unfit to have babies According to
the Japanese Welfare Ministry, there
were 145,984 legalised abortions in
the country in the first eight months
of 1949.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Uncle Sam in Greece. —Allowing
that “the U.S.A. has definitely inter-
fered in the internal affairs of
Greece,” London “Time and Tide”
insists, however, that it has done so
“in a manner the opposite to that
which figures in the Communist
accusations of Western interference
in general and American interference
in particular.” Actually, “By insist-
ing upon the exit of Venizelos and
the entry of the Plastiras coalition,
and using the matter of American
economic aid as the lever for so
doing, the U.S. Government has suc-
ceeded in replacing Rightism with a
form of Leftism in the Greek Govern-
ment. It will be difficult for the
Cominform propagandists to make
out a case that this is yet another
example of American capitalist Im-
perialism forcing reactionary forms
of government upon a satellite.”
* * * *
Endless " Cold War." “Why,”
questions “Yorkshire Post,” “should
Mr. Stalin lift his little finger to . put
an end to the cold war? So long
as Communist parties exist outside
Russia, so long will he have devoted
agents abroad. The Western Powers
have nothing comparable. It would
take a far less realistic statesman than
Mr. Stalin to renounce so useful an
instrument for embarrassing the other
side. The cold war will go on until
one of two things happens. Either
the Russian Government must be
persuaded that there is no ultimate
difference between their interests and
those of the Western Powers; or else
they must be made to feel that a
continuance of their present course
will only shift the balance of power
to their disadvantage.”
* * * *
The Most Formidable Aggressor.—
Describing Soviet Russia as “the mosi
formidable agency of aggression ir
the world,” “L’Aube” (organ of the
French Popular Republican Move
ment) comments: “The Communist:
may deny it, but the facts are there
What are the nations or territoriei
that France, Great Britain and thi
United States annexed after the las
war? What are the countries in whicl
the Western Allies are imposing J
Government of their own persuasion
eliminating the leaders of the Opposf
tion, domesticating the Army, enslav
ing the churches, occupying thi
economy to their profit and forbid
ding citizens the exercise of the mos
elementary liberties? We don’t knov
any. On the other hand, we knov
very well the already long list o
peoples whom file Soviet Union ha
brutally annexed and on whom it ha
forced the heaviest kind of yoke.”


STARTER
fsd
fs
df
sd
fs
TO START WITH—
MORE POWER
TO KEEP GOING
For quick starts on the
frostiest morning—for the
extra power you need in
winter get a guaranteed
Goodyear Battery. The De
Luxe has Felted Fibre Glass
insulation that adds 50% to
battery life, increases storting
power by one third. For general
service the heavy-duty All-Weather
satisfies every requirement.
HEADLIGHT
HOfiM
Wil
•AOIO
mf
INTERIOa
UGHt
D
%
CI6HT
lAIC
df
good/year
BATTERIES
Missing Beneficiaries.
WOULD WILLIAM OALE HENDERSON,
son of James Allan Henderson, and
FREDERICK WILLIAM HENDERSON,
son of Robert Gale Henderson, last heard
of in Riverina or Victoria, or anyone
knowing their whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
CO. LTD., 88-39 Hunter Street, Sydney,
“reference N.McC.”
V :
I •
/<
1; ...WHEN CAN YOU COME TO
| SOUTH AMERICaT^
■ ■ ■ • ; \
" I’ll fly—via London
—at once!”
Competition in to-day’s rapidly
changing markets waits for no
man. Buyers and sellers
know that a decision
made to-day in South America
for example, may well mean a
flying trip there very soon.
They know, too, that they can
fly swiftly, and in comfort —
on one ticket all the way-
over Speedbird routes to 51
countries in all six continents.
Complimentary meals and
refreshments served en route.
NO tips—no extras to pay.
FLY BRITISH BY 8.0.A.C.
to almost anywhere
Book from Sydney to Indonesia
FAR EAST • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA
ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA
ILK. TO U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
flY ■ BOA C
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia ) at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin or from
Travel Agents in all cities and towns, 4/14/»
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments!
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
I V
4i
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S Na I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise man
“You’ve heard those quaint terms
a gaggle of geese, a firkin of beer
and a pride of lions.” —Sunday paper.
And an onus of proof.
4* 4* 4*
“King John did not sign the Magna
Charta. He could not read or write.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
He left his mark on English
history, just the same.
4* 4* 4*
“The bagpipes are not a Scottish
invention. They probably were of
Roman origin.”— “World’s News.”
No doubt used to torture the
early Christians.
4* 4* 4*
“He predicted that the machine
would revulotionise spelling.”
—Sydney “D.T."
And has, in fact, already done
so.
“Cabbage grows wild in certain
places on the west coast of England.”
— “World’s News:”
No doubt in resentment at
Socialist attempts to regiment it.
4* 4* 4*
“As a school student my school-
work suffers because of the long holi-
days I get.”
When it comes to a holiday
most students can take it.
4* 4* 4*
News.
“Police found a 23-year-old man
in his kitchen trying to bite a dog.
The man protested: ‘lt’s my dog.
I can bite it if I want to.’ ”
I knocked, and the dog opened
the door, keally, I’ve never seen
such a cunning face. I couldn’t
hazard a guess as to his breed,
but I was certain he needed a
bath,
“Watchawant?” he growled.
“Good morning,” I answered
pleasantly, “I’m from the ‘Trom-
bone.’ I’ve come to get the
story about being bitten by a
man. That’s the sort of news
we want.”
“Wot sort of a bone didya
say?” he asked.
“Trombone,” I said. “It’s a
newspaper.”
“Never heard of it,” he
snapped. He waved me inside
with an unmanicured paw. There
he fixed me with a shrewd look.
“I’ll give you the dope about
it,” he said, “but it’ll cost you
a porterhouse steak and a couple
of telegraph-poles. You see, it
was like this. I”
Just then a small white well-
groomed dog poked his head in
the door.
“Excuse me butting in,” he
said politely, “but I live next
door. If you’re the gent, from
the Press I’ll be delighted to tell
you why my master tried to bite
me yesterday.”
A red glow rose before my
eyes. I wheeled on the shaggy
dog, who was now trying to get
out the window, and with a
mad yell grabbed and bit him be-
hind the ear.
Jonas Dill.
4* 4* 4*
“Most people today think they are
in the world to get as much as pos-
sible for as little work as possible.”
—Bishop of Geelong, Right Rev. J.
D. McKie.
After all, they can’t all be
union bosses.
Vicarious Uses.
“Old ballroom-gowns can be made
into beautiful vestments and church
furnishings, says the Dean of York.”
Don’t throw away those dresses
which
With trimmings elegant and rich
Won hearts in ballrooms in the
days
When youth and beauty earned
the praise
Of gallant lads with “mutton-
chops” ;
And never let them go to shops
Where Shy locks give a measly
price
For taffeta that could entice
In bygone years a host of beaux
Who blithely trod upon your
toes;
Nor let them go to share the
fate
Of oddments which accumulate
In trunks and cases in an attic.
For here’s a Dean who’s most
emphatic
That he can find a use for stocks
Of antiquated surplice frocks.
BERT.
I.Q. Test for Benedicts.
1. You have taken up resi-
dence in a new suburb, and your
wife becomes friendly with a
neighbor’s wife. Soon you learn
what a paragon her husband is:
that he pan cook, he puts the
vacuum around, can do the
washing and look after the
children ; that he is a very clever
handyman, is the essence of tidi-
“Hope the fire'll be worth it when I've finished”
ness, wouldn’t think of coming
into the house in his gardening
boots, etc,, etc. Shortly after
the fourth of these virtue-recitals
you learn from an old friend
living in a distant suburb, and
whose wife is also a friend of
your wife, that a flat near him
will shortly become vacant and
that if you want it he can “fix”
things. Would you, therefore,
consider mentioning to the wife
that you have heard that the
area you now live in is a par-
ticularly bad one for colds
“hanging on,” and that it might
be jeopardising little Shirley’s
life if you don’t move to a more
salubrious locality?
2. You arrive home very late
from lodge one night, and, so as
not to disturb your wife, you
considerately refrain from snap-
ping on the hall switch. So,
knowing the hallstand is on the
right side, you keep well over to
the left. After going a few feet
you bark your shin on the hall-
stand, Feeling your way into the
bedroom, you undress and, in
groping around for your
pyjamas, you knock over the
standard-lamp and bark your
other shin on the occasional-
table.
This makes the fifth time so
far in the year she has, in your
absence and with the advice and
help of Mrs. Nexdoor, trans-
posed .the rooms. Resolving to
teach her a well-deserved les-
son, you use her new hat as a
receptacle for the sump-oil
which next day you drain from
the car. She retaliates by giving
you every night for a week for
dinner tripe, a dish you have
always regarded as revolting in
the extreme, and informs you
that the treatment will continue
until you have supplied her with
another hat. While paying out
for the new hat, would you deem
it expedient to invest in a small
pocket-torch?
3. You start to paint your
house. The first weekend, while
burning-off, you crack a couple
of panes of glass in the back
veranda. The second weekend
a duststorm blows up just as
you’ve finished one side of the
house. The next two weekends
it rains. On the following one
some of the wife’s relatives
arrive unexpectedly in the middle
of operations and you are
ordered to make yourself pref-
sentable quickly. It takes you
half a day later to scrape off with
a razor-blade the paint that has
dried on the window-panes and
bricks and to hammer into mal-
leability the brushes you forgot
to soak in turps when you
knocked off.
Discreet inquiries following
the news that your golf club will
for the next four Saturdays be
running a competition result in
getting a quote as low as £3O
for finishing the job. This is
exactly the amount you have
saved up for reupholstering the
car. In the circumstances, would
you consider it imperative to
proceed with the car repairs?
4. On arriving home from
work one scorching mid-sum-
mer day your wife informs you
that she had got a man who had
come round selling seedlings to
move the gardenia “that was
doing no good, and which I’ve
been at you for months to shift,”
to a more favorable position.
“He was such an obliging man,
but he seemed to act rather
queerly when he came for his
money.”
. Adopting an air of studied
indifference you casuallv
saunter out to look, but your
worst fears are soon realised—
you find the two empties under
the rondeletia. You tot up the
damage at 245. (15s. the gar !
dema, doomed to an early de-
mise through mid-summer trans'
planting, ss. she paid the ghoul
and four-bob for the beer). i Q
view of this disaster, would you
on getting your next quota, defy
the long-standing edict against
bringing drink into the house
and setting the children a bad
example, or would you chance
the effect on the beer of possible
spontaneous combustion in the
next-safest pache, the compost
pit?
BO.
Place in the Sun.
“If you are a composer the surest
way to get yourself talked about is
to die a century or two ago.”
—Music critic Ernest Newman.
How foolish is the man who sets
His heart on fame and idly frets
Because he cannot win renown
And gain the plaudits of a nation
Or earn at times a wild ovation
Like many who have worn a
crown ?
Let him take comfort from the
thought
That many men who nobly
wrought
At risk of losing strength and
health
To aid mankind through skill
and learning,
Passed from this life still vainly
yearning
For fame and its offsider, wealth.
Yet some achieve the meed of
praise.
The laurel wreath, the poet’s
bays;
Not your composer ; he despairs
Of winning fame; and realises
That this same public which
despises
His graces’ll on6 day laud his
airs.
D.H.E.


Numetal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
-Just pour RE-NU Llqnid NU-METAI.
trough plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times In the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for I, 4. 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’i plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—PJN.
1 Or please send me Illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Address
- B. 5/7/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
I*l Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250.
rSbI
At an times, and
especially In the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming- Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace I
of roughness and soreness, t
One of the famous trio—-
Cuticura Soap, Oint- C »•
ment. Talcum
Powder,
sdf
sd
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
t" e S, t . r * c Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs*
(?
- ; ' -
OjSlw*
h
**•
i
u
y
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
m
%
I
I tins of 20
k 8/-
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MS MAJESTY TUB KINO
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bensonmd Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
m
i
iid
m
iiH
ill
n!
Hit
'...mil- _L±
a
&
&
\Ws
«»10
«»
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT !
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
u is unlikely that many of the
Owners who attended a meeting at
gg&li (Q ) o- March a 1948,
rrif-d away any outstanding im-
Ssion of the scraggy little Kimvcil
pr fnm c who won the Maiden Hack
l e !r thereby earning for his owner
nrize of £5, which is the sum
barged today by metropolitan
tndners for the care and upkeep of
“rr horse for one week. Some
Sener-than-usual student of the
mav have made a mental note
be one of the first of the
njxnveils to win a race”; and no
£f u bt added as a jocular after-
thought “And he’s got a long way
to go before he’ll be another Rim-
veil-”. ....
Some few witnesses of Rim Boy’s
jpK.it may have noted that the two-
vear-old did the job fairly well, beat-
ine some much older horses, winning
fairly comfortably and cutting out
the four furlongs in the smartish tune
of 48fsec. However, any who did
so had probably forgotten this form
note by the time Rim Boy made
his next appearance, which was when,
aS a three-year-old, he won another
hack race and another £5 at Ingle-
wood (Q-). The next heard of Rim
Boy was a month later, when another
hack race and another fiver came his
way at Warwick (Q.). For the two
runs which then completed his three-
year-old racing Rim Boy moved
south, and also moved a little higher
up in the scale of class and prize-
money, winning, at the N.S.W. towns
of Inverell and Armidale, Progressive
Handicaps worth, respectively, £lO
and £3O to the winner.
Thus Rim Boy at the beginning of
the present season; a horse unbeaten
in two seasons’ racing, yet credited
with stake-winnings that would barely
cover his feed-bills for two months.
But the tide, as concerned the stake-
earnings, was due to change with a
vengeance. After winning a couple
of races at provincial meetings earlier
in the season, and registering the
solitary unplaced run of his career
to date, Rim Boy bobbed up in
Sydney in March this year to run a
moderate second in a Welter at
Mobrefield. In four starts since then
Rim Boy has won, in succession, the
Rous Handicap. Denman Stakes and
June Stakes, all at Randwick, and,
on Saturday last, the Doomben Ten
Thousand. Saturday’s win was worth
£6500, which is a somewhat different
proposition to two seasons’ racing
tor £55.
Giving riders engaged in the Ten
Thousand a talking-to before the
race, the Brisbane stipes endeavored
to impress upon them that a £lO,OOO
prizemoney did not give them carte
blanche to ride in a fashion that
would not be tolerated for an instant
in an ordinary suburban Welter, but
evidently the lecture had little effect.
As was the case last year, the race
was pretty much of a riotous donny-
brook from go to whoa; it is difficult
to expect otherwise with so much at
stake upon a scramble.
Among the worst sufferers in the
scrimmaging were the winner and the
runner-up, Radstock, both of whom
achieved near-miracles in being
where they were at the finish; indeed,
in being still on their feet. The
heavily-supported Melbourne repre-
sentative Sentiment was not so for-
tunate ; he fell early, and was
destroyed. Third money went to
Heroic Sovereign, neglected in the
betting but showing excellent form,
and fourth prize to the Newmarket
winner High Jip, who was hailed as
the winner when in front a furlong
from home, but didn’t quite see out
the trip. Radstock has been unlucky
in the Ten Thousand; two years back
he was beaten a short half-head by
Murray Stream for the thick end of
the prize and on Saturday a length
represented the vast difference between
£2OOO and £6500 plus bets.
* * * *
Melbourne “Sporting Globe” last
week published a photograph of
cross-country jockey F. Dummett in
process of falling off his mount
during a hurdle race at Moonee
Valley, with the bright caption
“ ‘Dammit,’ said Dummett.” How-
Dummett had no occasion to
indulge in anything but joyous exple-
tive at Flemington on Saturday when
he landed his third Grand National
Hurdle winner.
With the almost-equal favorites
Elastin, Lupinus and Rebel Regis all
unplaced, the success of the 10-to-l
chance Hush Hush was a handsome
result for the books. Second money,
oddly enough, went to Ring’s Walk,
the horse from which Dummett was
depicted falling in the photograph
mentioned; King’s Walk just shaded
Tyrian.
After Monte Cassino had done
much of the pacemaking, at times
enjoying a huge lead, Hush Hush
and Tyrian got to the front with
about faalf-a-mile to go. Tyrian held
a narrow lead, and appeared to be
going the better as they turned for
home, but he passed in his chance
with a poor effort at the final jump.
Thereafter Hush Hush forged to the
front, and went on to win by an
official margin of five lengths; it
looked closer to ten. Hush Hush,
who carried 11b. above the minimum
9st., is an aged gelding by Hellespont
from Rebuked, and is trained by A.
H. Oliver for E. Baillieu.
The Kensington Steeple saw Bronze
Laddie (G. Godfrey) move up to
Grand National favoritism with a
clear-cut win over Worrowing and
Lucky Sign. Bronze Laddie carried
11.1, which is 21b. more than his
National weight, and, after moving
up to jump the last fence on terms
with Worrowing, he scooted away in
the run home to win by three lengths.
The third jumping event on Satur-
day’s card was the Keilor Hurdle,
in which the South Australian
hurdler Tuckout made light of a
plaster of 11.5 and won convincingly
from Lord Tanti and Chief Com-
mand. Punters had little luck in the
Hat events, although they started on
the right leg when favorite Grand
Monarch won the first Braybrook
Handicap.. Welkin Sun (W. William-
son) downed favorite Kadmos and
33 other two-year-olds in the Myross
Handicap; the New Zealand-bred
trio Sir Jack, Lord Bian and Merry
Robin filled the places in the July
Handicap (12L), with the last-named
pair deadheating for second; and
Damon ended a long run of outs
for jockey J. Purtell when he won
the second Braybrook Handicap.
* * * *
Racing at Randwick on both Wed-
nesday and Saturday last week, the
A.J.C. finally caught up with the
lag in its programme occasioned by
the recent deluge. The track was
so heavy on both days, and training
has been so interrupted in recent
weeks, that it might be wise not to
place too much reliance on some of
the form exhibited.
On both days representatives of
the grey tribe added to their reputa-
tion for partiality to heavy going by
winning the flying handicaps; on
Wednesday it was Granite and on
Saturday Blue Flag. As well, on
Saturday another of the tribe m
Susan took out the mile Maroubra
Handicap. On Wednesday the track
was so soggy that the best time
recorded in four events over the 7-
furlongs journey was 1.345, which is
only a fraction better than the Rand-
wick record for a mile. Winners on
Wednesday were Wanfield and Man-
stride taking two-year-old events;
Thunderer winning a 12-furlongs
Encourage; Mona’s Choice, after
repeatedly weakening in shorter races,
suddenly unearthing sufficient stamina
to win the 10-furlongs Belmore
Handicap; and Silique and Cumnock
beating Highweight fields. On Satur-
day, with punters again taking a bit
of a thrashing, the country galloper
Fire Ship chalked up his fifth in a
row when he won the Corinthian
Handicap with Mr. S. Graham
aboard; Bold Actor, the 66-to-l out-
sider in a field of six, won the mile
Three-year-old Quality; Gallant
Leader registered another good win
against fellow two-year-olds; Maranga
took the 10-furlongs Trial; and
Bolivia confirmed his recent return
Stop all that earhashing and get on with the fight.”
to form by winning the 12-furlongs
Pacific Handicap.
♦ * ♦ *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies):
Magic Maze, 1; Keeborough, 2;
Canoe, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(colts and geldings): Old Jamaica, 1;
Maragleam, 2; Aerofoil, 3. Ashbury
Mixed: Star Day, I; Valiant Step,
2; Artois, 3. Burwood Mixed:
Erpingham, 1; Gold Trace, 2; Tahlee,
3. Flying: Bungymun, 1; Brazier, 2;
Denali, 3. Canterbury Park Handi-
cap: Yamboon, 1; Marine Victory,
2; Thunderer, 3. Welter: Golden
Tan, 1; Chief Mohican, 2; Marconi,
3.
* * * *
Australian prospects looked bright
at Wimbledon last week, with the
unprecedented number of nine rep-
.resentatives in the final 32, but they
all but vanished with a wholesale
dropping-by-the-wayside in the fourth
round, played on Saturday. Mc-
Gregor was beaten by Drobny,
Sidwell by Mulloy, Brown by Stur-
gess, Bromwich by Seixas and Quist
by Talbert. Left, then, as the sole
Australian hope in the final eight,
was Frank Sedgman, who beat the
American F. Kovaleski in straight
sets. The change from nine Aus-
tralians and seven Americans in the
final 32 to one Australian and five
Americans in the final eight was
scarcely conducive of optimism re-
garding our Davis Cup prospects.
However, one bright ray in the gloom
was the success of the unseeded Aus-
tralian pair Sedgraan and McGregor
against the American pair Talbert
and Mulloy, who had been seeded
No. 1 in the doubles.
* * * *
While Essendon, North Melbourne
and Melbourne consistently stay on
top of the V.F.L. “Four,” the fourth
place is chopping and changing each
week. On Saturday Carlton held it.
Next Saturday St. Kilda should beat
Footscray and Melbourne should
down Carlton, and wins for Geelong
and Richmond will have their effect.
Last Saturday Essendon were un-
troubled to beat Collingwood by 12.18
to 6.12, and North Melbourne piled
up 14.16 to Hawthorn’s 2.13. St.
Kilda was 13 points ahead of Mel-
bourne at quarter-time, 16 behind at
half-time, staged a flying third quarter
which left Melbourne standing and
Saints six points in front, but faded
out against the wind in the last and
were beaten, 9.13-6.17. Fitzroy for-
wards wore their shooting boots, and
got 15.8 to Carlton’s 10.13; Rich-
mond Tigers chewed up Footscray,
15.18-8.14; and Geelong had South
Melbourne at Geelong and made
hacks of them by 19.21 to 8.7.
'** ♦ •
“Pass-it”: A problem which must
be causing considerable headaches to
R.U. officials is the continued poach-
ing of promising young players by
English Rugby League clubs. Only
last week Gordon and Australian
front-rower Bevan Wilson succumbed
to the cash lure and joined the
Workington R.L. Club at a signing-
on fee of £1750 for four years.
Tempting offers to leading players
reached a peak when Test captain
Trevor Allan was offered £4OOO.
Allan rejected the offer; but there
are few, if any, players who are in a
financial position to resist such a
temptation. The player who has
done most to boost Australian Rugby
Union prestige among the English
professionals is former Randwick
centre Tony Paskins, who is now
rated the best R.L. centre in the
game. Workington got Paskins for
the absurdly low sum of £BOO, but
scouts here have been told that if
they strike another as good as
Paskins they can name their own
price. The scouts are leaving none
of the proverbial stones unturned in
their efforts to find players, and
Rugby Union officials are reduced to
wondering who will be the next to go.
In the matches last Saturday fans
welcomed the sunny weather after
several weeks of mud and slush.
Manly and Randwick turned on a
bright display of fast, open football,
in which the more experienced Manly
players proved too mi«h for* the im-
proving Randwick team. Randwick,
however, was not disgraced, and the
final score was 11-3. In other
matches, Gordon drew with St.
George, 8-8; Norths beat Wests,
12-5; Easts beat University, 14-9;
and Eastwood beat Parramatta, 8-6.
The bye went to Drummoyne.
* * ♦ *
The second Rugby League Test,
played in Brisbane on Saturday and
replete with disputed tries, men sent
off and dark hints about “neutral”
referees for future matches, saw the
Australians down the “Chooms,”
15-3. The crowd numbered 35,000,
and with the score now one-apiece
there is sure to be a bumper crowd
for the deciding Test in Sydney.


is
ip
SSsA
m
Use
ONLY u ,
ELASTRATOR
CRECD. TRADE MARK)
unbreakable
RINGS
A Product of ELASTRATOR 4Au*l.) I»TY. UP*
EL9
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS.
Returns of land held at midnight on 30th June, 1950, are required to be
lodged on or before 31st August, 1950.
Land Tax returns must be submitted by persons resident In the
Commonwealth when the total unimproved value of land held is tww
or over, and by or on behalf of absentees where the unimproved vaiue
Is £1 or over.
Where land holdings have altered In any way since 30th June, 1949,
Form “C” should be used. Where no change has taken place a declaration
(Form “CA”) to that effect Is sufficient. „
The unimproved value to be returned is that as at 30th June, 19«> •
For Land Tax purposes values are pegged at this date.
Where land is hfeld in more than one State returns should * or^ a p
to the Deputy Federal Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G, tx-t:- ••
Melbourne. Forms of return and full information may be obtame
the principal Post Offices or at Federal Taxation Office, 3rd Floor. oa
Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney—Postal address, Box vn .
Q.P.0., Sydney. ,
Penalty for late lodgment: 10 p.c. additional tax —minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns: £lOO. in at ion or
NOTE: Perpetual Crown Leases which are not subject to revaluation
which have the right of purchase must be included in the ret
W. A. PERT, . T rjw
Deputy Commissioner of Land -tax
f
I Mve. Lost
fooßto#
in the Mountain Snows,
And an eye in the Tasman Sea.
A hand and a jaw in a circular s >
And a foot by a falling tree, ....
But I never look ill from cold or
My health I can aye ensure, . . ,
By wetting my throttle in time
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cnr®*
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Treatment of Footrot.
“J.R.D.”: Sheep and cattle
are now facing one of the worst
outbreaks of this disease for
many years in all eastern and
southern States.
In sheep there are two distinct
types, footrot and foot abscess.
Both appear when there are wet,
rank grass and mud to soften
the hoof and open cracks to in-
fection, but there the similarity
ends.
True footrot can be eradi-
cated from a property; foot
abscess may crop up anywhere
in spite of ail precautions. Foot-
rot is caused by a wog carried
from one season to another
within the hoof of a sheep that
has suffered from it and has not
been properly treated. As a re-
sult, the hoof-growth closes up
—possibly in a deformed shape
—and as soon as wet ground
softens the hoof out come the
wogs to lurk in the mud and
attack the rest of the mob.
These wogs cannot live outside
the sheep for more than a couple
of weeks, so footrot can be
eradicated by thorough treat-
ment of all affected sheep and
by getting rid of all bumble-
footed and chronically lame
sheep.
Treatment consists of cutting
away broken and diseased hoof
and treating with bluestone or
formalin. If only an odd sheep
is affected dip the treated foot
into a tin of bluestone or use a
brush to work it well in. As a
rule, however, footrot spreads
quickly. For mass treatment,
after trimming the hooves stand
the sheep in a bluestone foot-
bath for 15 minutes.
A race or a pen may be used.
Floor of the race may be made
into a shallow trough with
hardwood planks, A concrete-
ftoored pen is easiest to trans-
form if fairly level. Build a wall
one brick high and finished off
with cement all round the pen,
leaving the bung-hole for drain-
age at the lowest side. It should
be filled to three to four inches
with water, then add dissolved
bluestone at the rate of lib. of
powder per gallon of water.
A drawback of bluestone is
that it stains wool, and it is
almost impossible to put sheep
through a bluestone bath with-
out extensive staining of belly
wool at least. Formalin gives
equally good results, it is
cheaper and does not stain. Use
a gallon of formalin to 19 gal-
lons of water. Because of its
chemical action on metal forma-
lin has to be packed in special
containers for transport, either
glass carboys, or wooden Casks,
or steel drums lined with wax.
In addition to the lame sheep it
is advisable to put all the mob
through the footbath.
Foot abscess is caused by a
germ that passes out of sheep
in the droppings and attacks the
hoof as soon as wet conditions
have caused it to soften or
crack. Sheep are seldom affected
in more than one foot, whereas
true footrot may be present in
two or more feet. Both types
have the same symptom—lame-
ness —but whereas an examina-
”A coupla corner-posts an she'll be as good as new again."
tion of the foot immediately re-
veals the ravages of footrot
there may be no visible sign of
foot abscess.
What happens is that the
germ gains access to the hoof
and sets up an abscess. It can-
not break out through the hoof,
so it attacks the bones of the
foot and eventually works up
the leg and breaks out between
the coronet and the hock or
knee. Handle the lame foot,
and if one claw feels hot search
carefully for signs of a crack.
Pare the born away with a sharp
•knife until the seat of infection
is located and the pus spurts out.
If no crack is" visible pare the
front of the claw and it will
probably be found there. This
drainage is essential.
Footrot in cattle is also
known as foul-in-the-foot, and
in addition to trimming the hoof
it can be treated by an injection
of sulphamezathine 33 per cent,
solution. Quickest results are
obtained by an injection into
the jugular vein, but this is a
job for a vet. However, injec-
tion under the skin of the neck
is effective.
Sulphamezathine has also been
used successfully in treating
sheep with foot abscess, but it
is too expensive to be used
generally except for rams or
studs. Dose for sheep or cattle
is at the rate of 15 c.c. sulpha-
mezathine 33 per cent, solution
per 1001 b. bodyweight.
New Blood for Pigs.
“Longjon”: Josiah B. Swain,
who has spent all his life operat-
ing on the Smithfield (London)
meat market and is now in Aus-
tralia, strongly recommends that
local pig- breeders should try the
new American pig, Minnesota
No. 1. This breed, developed
from the Danish Landrace and
the Canadian Tam worth, grows
fast, makes weight gains eco-
nomically and reaches the mar-
ket faster than other breeds.
The history of Minnesota No.
1 is interesting. In 1936 six
Tamworth sows were mated to
a Danish boar. Next year two
additional Tamworth sows and
four Landrace sows and another
Landrace boar were added to
the herd. In 1938 all pure Land-
race and Tamworth animals
were removed from the herd, and
since then no outside stock has
been introduced in the founda-
tion herd —the herd has been
bred from within since that
time,
Swain believes Minnesota No.
1 to be the coming pig, and
thinks there is a place for them
in Australia, especially for ex-
port carcasses.
Blacks in the Tropics.
“Oxo”: In the opinion of
Professor M. V. Macfarlane,
Professor of Physiology, Queens-
land University, the theory that
color makes Aberdeen-Angus un-
suited to hot climates is en-
tirely without foundation. While
black hair absorbed heat, the
pigment of a, black skin diverted
radiation of those short waves
which caused distresses such as
sunburn, he said. Generally
speaking, beasts of a breed of
smaller beef animals would prove
more adaptable because of their
ability to throw off excess body
heat and “cool off” more quickly
than would animals of a larger
type.
The amount of heat absorbed,
however, is an irrelevant factor
in determining suitability to a
tropical environment, Jhe skin
of a negro absorbs approxi-
mately 30 per cent, more heat
than the skin of a white man.
Yet the negro races thrive in
tropical and equatorial areas.
Acclimatisation and adaptability
to tropical environment are
essentially a matter of the in-
herent hormone constitution of
the animal, irrespective of color.
If an animal’s hormone make-
up is unfavorable to tropical
heat, a marked reaction occurs
in the functioning of the pitui-
tary gland, which “shrivels up”
and ceases to function, with sub-
sequent loss of fertility. In
Professor Macfarlane’s opinion,
if Aberdeen-Angus cattle show
there is no decline in the repro-
ductive rate when bred in tropical
areas, they have thereby proved
that they are inherently adapt-
able to hot, humid climates.
The reproductivity rate was a
certain barometer as to the
manner in which animals were
becoming acclimatised to tropical
conditions, and when abortion
became prevalent it was the first
indication that animals were not
acclimatising.
Rabbit Menace.
“Outback”: Rabbits are re-
ported to be crossing the N.S.W.
border as they please owing to
the Rabbit Board being unable
to get the netting required to
repair its border fence. The
invasion is viewed with consider-
able alarm by Darling Downs
local authorities, who decided to
bring the seriousness of the
position before all Federal mem-
bers whose electorates are in-
volved, including that of Tren
surer Fadden. a
By this means they hope to
secure a high priority for net
ting supplies. Councillor J Wil
son, of Rosenthal (Warwick
Shire Council, stated that for
over 50 years the people of the
Darling Downs had depended
on the board’s fence, but today
rabbits are breeding at their
front doors.
It was suggested that the
assessment levied to raise the
funds required for the board’s
work should be levied on land
instead of on stock, so that all
landholders shared the cost on
a more equitable basis. Many
landholders, particularly cattle-
fatteners, often have very f ew
stock on hand at the particular
period of the year when the stock
return is prepared, hence they
escape payment of most of the
levy paid by those whose stock
numbers vary little from year to
year. The rabbit menace in
southern Queensland cannot be
overestimated.
Mumblebone Ram.
“C.S.”; In the article on Syd-
ney ram sales (B. 14/6/’5O) it
was stated 16 rams were sold at
four-figure prices and the names
of five studs were given. There
was another ram, a splendid
representative of the Kater
Bros.’ Mumblebone stud, which
brought 2000gns., and was
bought by the Boonoon Pas-
toral Co., Barraba.
Use of Power.
“Agric”: Thiess Bros., in the
Goondiwindi (Q.) district, has
replaced thousands of acres of
brigalow-belah scrub by good
grassland, and already, within a
40-mile radius of Goondiwindi,
they have orders for the clear-
ing of a further 150,000 acres.
In July last year the firm took
two D 8 crawler-tractors to
Nomby station. A 400 ft, steel
cable weighing just on a ton was
connected between the two
machines, and after 20 days’
work 2000 acres of brigalow,
belah and box lay on the ground
behind the cable, most of it
dragged by the roots completely
free of the soil. On another
property the owner said “To
think of the years I’ve been
nursing men to keep them doing
a few acres, and 70 men
wouldn’t have ringbarked what’s
been dragged out today!” It
took this grazier 10 years to get
4000 acres rung, and in 30 days
Thiess Bros, dragged 3000 acres
of trees out by the roots.
The charge is by the working
hour, so costs vary with the size
of the timber, but the average
cost is £1 per acre. One
property which used to run 6000
sheep is now running 10,000


swisssmastkhpifces
V
fIOQ
□ a a
r«
WITH THE
NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
lAvm
WATCHES
Founded 1852
VILLIERT ★ SUISSE
ij Jewelled movement
LW6
FACING R PARK
The one thing you will Imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise* and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
in
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
m? mom
SANDERS
FILES
s
VJ
Price* and f»r-
(ber informi Unit
upon »ppll«»U#i
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc., filed In the
"Sanders’ can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
toe end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd
SYDNEY AND
t>“ir,huUnt Agents-
BRISBANE
C. Prnfold * Ce. Pty. Lltf.
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardan A Son* Ltd.
Oeekct Boas Ce. (AuU
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
W . i
4k
■
■jnnssssß*
mwzs*
li
%
mi
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISTMET
c£eUacie&
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If It isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre I Then examine it closely . . . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria.
G.P.O. Box 71,
CRAIG & AITKEN
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
W2a} £}v
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar's Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land. by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous "White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
"White label”
SfomouA SCOTCH QDhUhu
n , v
114 n& itei
> awar
n
mi
50 Cold
on 4
Prize Me&ol*
50 Gold
soft
Prize Medals
, "White Label ,
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. .
Dewar & Sons I>
DISTILLERS
How Hipjorttt. S.WT.
Cii . NET CONTENTS I PINT. 6 EL. OZS. ....flO
JWMWrEED WHOLLY DISTILLED, MATURED AND BLENDED 1H SCU V sS ti
fter the OS’s spent a few weeks
“mong the brigalow scrub.
A remarkable growth of grass
noticeable in the wake of
caterpillar tracks where earth
Ss been disturbed. This revo-
lution in scrub-clearing has
created much interest among
graziers, who today find it
almost impossible to get scrub
fallen even when offering from
255. to 355. per acre.
Thiess Bros, are also interest-
ing themselves in other phases
of the pastoral industry. Work-
ing with associates here and in
the U.S.A., they are experiment-
ing with weedicides for spray-
ing from the air to control
suckers, and aerial sowing of
pasture seed is also being in-
vestigated. There are many
millions of acres of scrub in
Queensland which may eventu-
ally benefit.
Victorian Pastures.
“Myrrhee”: In pasture-
improvement work fertility must
come first, otherwise seed and
labor may be largely wasted.
Topdressed pastures and graz-
ing stock are soil-improving
agents, bringing about a progres-
sive increase of fertility. Re-
sults, however, are slow, calling
for a speed-up in the shape of
super, and introduction of
improved pasture plants.
Grass species recommended
by Victorian Department of
Agriculture and which have
proved themselves in that State
are Italian and Wimmera rye,
cocksfoot, Phalaris tuberosa, and
Paspalum dilatatum. Best clovers
are white, red, subterranean,
strawberry and alsike. Time to
sow depends on district and
rainfall, but autumn is mostly
preferred; in higher-rainfall
areas seeding can be deferred
until August and September,
In districts with a 25in. rain-
fall the department recommends
a mixture of certified perennial
rye-grass, 101 b,, with a mid-
season (Mt. Barker) sub.-clover,
21b., to the acre, sown under
cover of wheat or oats or on
stubble ground.
In country with a well-dis-
tributed rainfall of 30in. or more
extending over the full year the
recommendation is: Certified
perennial rye-grass, 101 b., Vic-
torian or N.Z. certified cocks-
foot, 51b., sub.-clover, 21b-, N.Z.
white clover, 11b. The addition
of 51b. Italian rye-grass, 21b.
red clover and a sprinkling of
strawberry clover (ilb.), all of
which develop rapidly, contribute
valuable feed while the more
permanent elements establish
themselves.
The Honey-locust.
Australians are not
yet awake to the value of the
honey-locust (Gleditsia tria-
canthos). U.S.A. farmers have
for years grown it for its bean
harvest, which tides stock over
lean periods.
A remarkable feature of this
tree is the manner in which it
bears consecutive crops. Under
American methods of cultivation
branches are often weighed down
with the beans; an average
weight per tree is 5601 b. The
pods are raked up as they fall
and stored.
Fodder value of the bean
comes very close to wheat-bran,
which in U.S.A. is the standard
nutrient of the dairy cow. Both
cattle and pigs eat honey-locust
pods with relish; thrive and
fatten on them.
The tree does double service
by tying up soil on hillsides and
in gullying areas. Its widespread
head of foliage allows the sun
to penetrate the leaves, so that
pastures grow up to its base.
It can be easily grown from
seed, cuttings or suckers. If
propagating from seed, pour hot
water on them and let them soak
for 24 hours, then plant in a free,
sandy loam. Young trees can
be placed in permanent positions
when about lOin. high. Cut-
tings should be planted while
the tree is still in the deciduous
state. These jobs should be
done in the early spring.
Choose the thornless species.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: If Brussels-sprouts
are picked correctly it will in-
crease yield, quality and length
of season. First buds form at
the junction of the lower leaves
early in growth. As soon as
they appear strip leaves above
and below them without allow-
ing any to remain. Thereafter
as the plants increase in height
continue to strip above the de-
veloping sprouts. This may in-
volve stripping about two-thirds
of the leaves, but will eventually
pay dividends.
“Rooster”; Well-grown fruit-
trees up to several years old can
be moved if care is taken. Shift
deciduous trees early in winter
when leaves have fallen, and
citrus about mid-spring. Lift
large ball of soil with each tree,
and wrap bagging around to re-
tain most of the soil. Place in
new situations no deeper than
they stood originally. Pack rich
light loam firmly around the
roots and fill in without ram-
ming. Water and stake well.
“Sundowner”: Control of
rabbits is more difficult in tim-
bered areas because they burrow
under trees or fallen logs and
other rubbish. Give these
burrows some shots of chloro-
picrin with a spray-gun. In
boulder country one method is
to break small stones into the
holes and pack them with a
crowbar. If this is vigorously
pursued the rabbits will eventu-
ally move out to areas where
they can more easily be tackled.
Mid-winter is the best time.
“Moya”: The soil should be
well dug and manured for
rhubarb roots. They like a deep,
rich loam, and will thrive for
years in it if well divided. Over-
crowding of shoots is fatal to
success. Plant roots in June, and
coax the stems upward by en-
closing each clump in a frame
or tin. The leaves will reach
upward towards the light.
“Sundowner”: An applica-
tion of carbonate of lime at 2oz.
to 4oz. per square yard will help
beetroot crops. Used in conjunc-
tion with a dressing containing
one part blood-and-bone, two
parts super, and 1/20 part sul-
phate potash at 2oz. to 40z., it
will ensure adequate fertilisa-
tion.
“Myrr”: To kill the eggs of
green-peach aphis, spray after
the leaves have fallen, but not
after mid-July, with tar distillate,
one in 35. For severe infesta-
tions of scale use a combination
spray of winter white oil, 2gal.
plus sigal, of lime sulphur in
72igal. of water. In mUd cases
use red oil, one in 15, or lime
sulphur, one in 10. The last-
named sprays will also kill the
eggs of red spider and bryobia
mite.
“Big Billy”: Advising on the
establishment of a household
poultry flock S.A. departmental
experts emphasise that 12 hens
correctly handled will give three
dozen eggs a week over the full
year. They stress that pullets
must be got at the right time,
that is, July-September hatching,
and that half the flock should be
replaced annually. For feeding
they advise a morning mash and
grain at night with the addition
of green-feed. Use of table
scraps in the mash will reduce
the feeding bill. A shed suffi-
ciently large to allow exercise if
a yard isn’t available, with ade-
quate perches, nests and scratch-
ing litter (to which some lime
may be added), is also important
to maximum egg production.


<
I
m
ill
(SSS
6My financial future , and that of my
family , is well cared for 9 with a margin
for safety , foo/ Life Assurance sees to
that! What’s more , Fee secured this pro-
tection for the lowest possible outlay. For ,
thanks to healthy competition among Life
Assurance Offices, I enjoy the most
economical premium rates.}
This statement is echoed by the three million Australians who
own one or more Life Assurance policies. They, like Mr. L. E.
Richards of Woodford, know that no other form of thrift offers
such returns ... such complete security. Our free and indepen*
dent Life Assurance Offices offer the most economical terms
consistent with safety.
Australia's policyholders are doing far more than protecting
their own future, however. Because their savings are invested
in Public loans and works of national importance, they are
helping to develop the nation, bringing immediate benefit]
to everybody.
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
BENEFIT EVERY AUSTRALIAN
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
AMAZING RELIEF
FROM
RHEUMATIC AILMENTS!
For more than 30 years sufferers from ailments in the
Rheumatic Group have found quick, sure, safe relief in
Cluny McPherson’s Mixture. Cluny’s is a prescribed
scientific formula which, taken as directed,
quickly strikes at the root of the trouble,
restores proper functioning to the kidneys and
tones up the whole nervous system. End Rheu-
matic Agony and Exhaustion—start taking
Cluny’s to-day and get back to good health
and well-being quickly.
FOR ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, FIBROSITIS, GOUT,
LUMBAGO, and all ailments
of the RHEUMATIC GROUP
s
set
jr ‘
fiflU
cluny McPherson^
MIXTURE
: c ' " H b M ' - 1 ~
tA MED THESE 30 YEARS
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2 h
Yearly subscnption
Published by The Bulletm New^
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney
all States.
question. “You will be a great
hero when you return to your
homeland, eh?”
Matsuoko regarded him with
slow cunning. “I do not think
so,” he said, and Conn knew it
to be ambiguous deliberately.
Matsuoko ate because of the
bayonet at his stomach. While
he ate Conn talked to me about
the Matsuoko who, when he was
found, would be hung, and who
would be unable to commit him-
self to an honorable death.
Conn shook his head and looked
at Matsuoko.
I thought Matsuoko would
never break, and that all Conn’s
efforts were doomed to be fruit-
less. Yet, in his own way, Mat-
suoko had the upper hand. We
were convinced he was Mat-
suoko, but we had no worth-
while evidence. Nor would we
have cared much. Matsuoko
could easily have died, one way
or another, but that Conn would
not allow.
Ben was brought in. It was
evident he disliked Matsuoko,
but he seemed not to show it.
Instead be was uproariously
humorous, as indeed Conn in-
tended him to be. Immobile, he
would stand and regard the
prisoner, and Matsuoko showed
both contempt and bewilder-
ment, although gradually the
contempt died. Ben would with-
draw silently and Conn would
stand watching him. Conn was
always careful to explain that
this Ben had been a Nipponese
prisoner, and that while in prison
he had been told about the exe-
cution of eight airmen by one
Matsuoko.
'T' HEN, suddenly, Conn seemed
I to have changed his tactics.
He began a rapid-fire of ques-
tions to Matsuoko. Did he have
a wife? Would he be glad to
go back to her? Did he love
the Emperor? Did he like fight-
ing? Was he glad it was all
over? Did he fear death? Did
he believe in the old-time re-
ligion of Nippon? Then Conn
cracked a few jokes at which he
laughed himself, uproariously,
as though, with Ben, he seemed
to share some tremendous joke,
but the sergeant regarded him
without a smile, and seemed, if
his eyes betrayed anything, to be
even more fearful of this new
development.
Ben was allowed to come in
occasionally and look at Mat-
suoko. To nod his head smil-
ingly and say “This Matsuoko.
Oh, yes, certainly.”
Perhaps Ben was the last
straw. Matsuoko began to lose
his calm. He had long lost his
customary arrogancy and
swagger. He would not refuse
meals, but ate them with pitiful
relish. The guard reported him
as staring through the window
continuously, as though on the
outlook for Conn. When he
saw Conn coming he would pace
his cell, although by the time
we arrived he would have fairly
well concealed his agitation.
I was growing excited, was as
involved almost as much as
Conn, It seemed something
hung in the balance, and was
to be decided by this experi-
ment.
One morning Conn went up
to the sergeant, nodded and said
“Good morning, Matsuoko.”
Matsuoko said nothing. The
next morning little Ben came,
nodded towards the prisoner and
said “Him Kanamoto,” after
which he roared laughing. He
crouched on the floor in imita-
tion of the sick Matsuoko and
said, mimicking the prisoner,
“Me Kunnamoto!”
Then, looking at Conn, he said
“Him good Nippon soldier.”
When Ben had left the cell
Conn peered through the win-
dow of the door to see where
the guard was stationed. He was
nowhere near the cell. Conn
walked up to the sergeant, stared
at him, and waited until Mat-
suoko positively trembled. Then
he walked towards the door, but
somehow his pistol became de-
tached from the holster and
clattered to the floor. Conn was
extraordinarily slow to act, and
Matsuoko was on to it before
he turned. Then Matsuoko
backed away, grasping the pistol,
snarling gutturally.
UNTIL then, I suppose, I had
never fully understood the
depths of Conn’s experience, nor
his claim to another experience
which would cancel his past
shame. It was as though, in
those moments, I fully under-
stood the fear which had been
his, the shame following it.
Long ago any of us could have
whipped a confession out of the
yellow prisoner, but it may have
been, too, that MMsuoko would
have defeated us, I don’t know.
We would never have got it in
the way Conn did. When he
faced Matsuoko he never moved.
Instead, he looked at Mat-
suoko, and Matsuoko at him.
The contortion in the Nip’s face
died to smoothness. I was help-
less, too, having no pistol. The
guard was too far away to know
what was happening. To shout
would have meant death to one
of us at least.
Conn continued to stare, his
cold eyes on the small yellow
man, and the small yellow man,
pistol in hand, began to show
fear. Then his hand trembled.
At first I could not believe that,
but when I thought over those
weeks of staring, strange ques-
tionings, contempt in his eyes
more so than in his words, I
began to understand. I knew
this Conn was not the man who
had run at Singapore. He was
a man of whom anyone might
have been afraid, and with justi-
fication.
Conn did not speak. But
Matsuoko did. “I am Mat-
suoko,” he said in perfect, though
lilting, English. He smiled
triumphantly at Conn. He
listened for the guard’s tread,
and when it did not come he
said “I have* killed many.” He
smiled again, and his eyes were
on Conn. I doubt if he could
have shifted his gaze. “I would
shoot you,” he said, “but it is not
honorable, seeing you have
saved my life,”
Conn said nothing and Mat-
suoko was disappointed. “It is
true I committed some killings
of airmen. It was very good.
They died as all men must die.
I gave them honorable death.”
His fear of Conn seemed to
have died. “Now,” he said, “I
die honorable death,”
J T was queer watching him
I place the pistol to his stomach
—not to his head or heart,
although he placed his free hand
over his heart —and it seemed
queerer that it should happen in
a prison cell where he was a
prisoner, and where, only a
dozen yards away, there was a
guard. Perhaps I should have
shouted, but that would have
been incredibly foolish, so in-
stead I watched the incredible
escape from dishonor of the fat
Matsuoko, no longer diseased,
but in possession of full health
and his mental faculties.
“You will not die now,” said
Conn slowly. He kept Mat-
suoko’s eyes to his. He will
hypnotise him, I thought; but
it was madness to think that.
Such moments seem to move
slowly, so much thought can be
crowded into them, so much
understanding, as though,
throughout the business of life,
nothing is irrelevant, unrelated.
Let him shoot himself. Conn, I
was saying. It is better for him
to die that way. Then I thought
that Matsuoko might want to kin
us as a last fine gesture to the
betrayed. Wh ° m h ° had
But Conn had taken the
courage from him. If he could
wound himself, then courage
would immediately return.
“There is no death for y ou
yet, Matsuoko,” Conn said, and
I was reminded, strangely, the
Conn Webster asleep on the
ship, with his shame hauntin«
him, and wanting to die, nol
knowing or caring, living’ and
dying being the same, both
terrible, yet both to be desired
and hated,
I could understand now. Here
was Matsuoko escaping because
death was honorable. But Mat-
suoko would never have killed
himself had not Conn awakened
that shame within him. “We
can’t have that way out,” Conn
had told me. “We can’t com-
mit hara-kiri ” And again he
had said, “He won’t admit his
crime. It was too personal for
him to admit.”
But Matsuoko had been any
man then, arrogant in his power,
abusing it, striking fear or
courage into the hearts of dying
men, yet making them die,
nevertheless. It was nothing to
do with war, as Conn had said.
It was too personal to admit.
Then Matsuoko squeezed the
trigger. His eyes were upon
Conn’s, fearfully, pleading
almost to be allowed that escape,
but when he pulled the trigger
there was only a click. Rage
broke in Matsuoko and all his
proud arrogance was shattered.
He forgot his marvellous doom,
and pointed the pistol at Conn.
It clicked again, and with the
fury of desperation, his eyes
gleaming in live rage, he threw
it.
It caught Conn on the shoulder
and dropped to the floor. I
picked it up. Conn never moved.
His eyes were on the trembling
sergeant.
Cold eyes. Eyes of white-blue
flame. Flame within ice. But
above all eyes that knew the
secret and the shame of Mat-
suoko.
Then Matsuoko broke. His
hand gesticulated, clawed, words
poured like a torrent from his
lips, babbled, stuck in his throat,
emerged in anger, in rage, but
mainly in babbling terror, and
all the time Conn stared at him,
speaking not a word.
1 LOOKED down at the pistol,
‘ and marvelled at the foolish
Matsuoko, the foolish Conn.
There were only two empty
chambers, and the pistol had
been set for them. Whether de-
liberately or not I did not know,
then or ever.
“Get a guard, Tony,” Conn
said, “We’ll take him there
while he’s like this. He can
dig the bodies up, with his hands
if he likes. I think he would.”
Conn had begun to glow, as
though life, long withheld in the
back-reaches of himself, was now
beginning to flow, to warn him.
It was as though a vacancy was
being tenanted, and with a living
being. Yet his eyes upon Mat-
suoko were cold, although his
voice, when he spoke, was
almost genial.
“He can grovel in the mud if
he likes,” he said. He nodded
Matsuoko into temporary silence
and repeated, as though in some
form of symbolism. “Grovel m
the mud, Matsuoko.”


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premise* that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB" Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per ib. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC" Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
"WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
Per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’* good.
Write: MAIL, ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box «, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
fs
df
sd
md avoid s o'clock smm
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
"who will quote you price for
the original.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Gl
M
Established 1808 in Reign of,
Qeorge 111,
STABILITY
The “Atlas** has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS buildings,
8 SPKING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE
FARM.” —A thousand ways of im-
proving yields. Published by “The
Bulletin.” Price 1/-.
“TOOL UP”
YOUR MACHINE SHOP WITH.
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
Hi
Hi
■
mm
mmm
m
mm
nni
H a
V
-
. * *;
pTv
itmh
lr -i
: - *..r
illl
mm
: : <
-
M
- . *
■
REDUCE ERRORS AND LABOUR TURNOVER
WITH CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The link between good workmen
and good work is good lighting.
That is why Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is as funda-
mental to production efficiency as
are good machine tools.
Claude Cold Cathode lighting
raises the general level of illumina-
tion for the most critical seeing
operations without increasing
shop temperatures, without pro-
ducing the deep shadows and glare,
and consequent eye-fatigue, nor-
mally associated with increasing
light intensity.
The all-round advantages that
accrue are tangible—reduction of
rejects, of accidents, labour turn-
over and costs, as well as lower
costs per lumen and increased
lamp life.
Call your nearest Claude office for
all the facts, and for details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
the necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
SYDNEY
POD LIMITED
PJ'r
*t h \
NEWCASTLE ■ MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - LAUNC r STOH
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Tn buv copy of The Flora of Vic-
.JJ by Professor Ewart, in any
readable condition.— 4868.
To buy war relics and souvenirs,
an } description, particularly Italian
helmets, weapons and armor.—4867.
To buy copy of J. M. Barrie’s
plays.- 4866 - __
Information Sought.
In politics, what does the term
“gerrymandering ’’ mean ?
Walter Theimer, in his Encyclo-
pedia of World Politics, defines it as
follows: “The art of drawing the
boundaries of electoral districts with
a view to fragmentation or isolation
of the opposition and to securing as
many representatives as possible for
the party in power. Known in
Europe as ‘electoral district geo-
metry.’ In 1812 Governor Gerry
of Massachusetts had the State redis-
tricted in favor of his own party,
and the chequered map which resulted
was represented by a cartoonist as a
salamander. The species then became
known as ‘gerrymander.’ ”
* * * •
Where and when was Alfred
Griffiths (“ Griffo”) born ? Did
“Griffo” ever win a world champion-
ship, and when did he die?
Information as to “Griffo’s” birth-
place is contradictory, but general
opinion is that he was born at Sofala,
near Bathurst (N.S.W.), on March
21, 1871. “Griffo” is said to have
decisively beaten Jack McAuliffe when
they fought for McAuliffe’s world-
lightweight title in 1894, but
McAuliffe was declared winner on
points. “Griffo” died in New York
City on December 6, 1927.
* * * *
(1) What musical degrees can be
obtained in N.S.W.? (2) What
authority conducts the examinations?
(3) Can specimen examination papers
be obtained ? (4) Where can they be
purchased ?
(1 and 2) Degrees in music are not
obtainable in New South Wales. The
Conservatorium Diploma, which is
recognised as having status equivalent
to a university degree, is available
to students who follow the full course
at the New South Wales State
Conservatorium of Music and pass
the requisite examinations. Hie dip-
loma L.Mus. is available for award
to students of music throughout the
State who submit themselves for the
requisite examination conducted by
the Conservatorium on behalf of the
Australian Music Examinations Board
and the Associated Board of the
Royal Schools of Music. The dip-
loma A.Mus.A. is available also to
students of music generally in New
South Wales who submit themselves
and qualify at the examinations pre-
scribed by the A.M.E.B. and con-
ducted on behalf of the board by
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium of
Music. (3 and 4) The examinations
are mainly practical, but there is a
theoretical qualification prescribed,
and, so far as the external (L.Mus.
and A.Mus.A.) examinations are con-
cerned, specimens of these theory
question papers can Be obtained at
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium of
Music. For these no charge is made.
* * * *
Who was the tallest boxer to
become world’s heavyweight champion
under Marquis of Queensberry rules ?
Did this honor belong to Primo
Camera or Jess Willard?
Jess Willard was tallest boxer to
win the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship, although Primo Camera ran
him a close second. Willard stood
6ft. 6|in. in his socks, and Camera
6ft. 51in. New York heavyweight
Ray Impellitiere was taller at 6ft. 7in'.,
but Impellitiere (in action around
New York a few years ago) was not
rated in world-championship class.
* * * *
Who were the iconoclasts and what
is the modern meaning of the word?
Reformers who rose in the Eastern
Church in the Bth century, and were
specially opposed to the employment
of pictures, statues, emblems and all
visible representations of sacred
objects. The crusade against these
things began in 726 with the Emperor
Leo 111, the Isaurian, and continued
for 120 years Under Constantine
Copronymus, Leo the Armenian,
Theophilus and other Byzantine
Emperors, who are known as the
Iconoclast Emperors. In modem
times the word means a person who
criticises and seriously questions ideas
and attitudes previously accepted as
correct, just and valuable try conven-
tion and tradition rather than by
independent examination and judg-
ment.
* * * *
What is a prayer-wheel?
A device used by the Tibetan Bud-
dhists as an aid to, or substitute for,
prayer, the use of which is said to be
founded on a misinterpretation of the
Buddha’s instructions to his followers
that they should “turn the wheel of
the law,” i.e., preach Buddhism inces-
santly. The prayer-wheel consists of
a pasteboard cylinder inscribed with
—or containing—the mystic formula
“Om mani padme hum” and other
prayers, and each revolution repre-
sents one repetition of the prayer,
————— #
Brief Answers.
A.A.: Washtutrs are very well
made in the first instance, and give
a very long service before showing
signs of wear; it may therefore be
assumed that the tubs are quite old,
and the concrete would contain a
great deal of oils and grease, which
would make the success of any lining
very doubtful. The low cost of
replacing the tubs would also not
warrant the cost of repairing them.
S.W.W.: Rigby, Ltd., 12 Gren-
fell-street; Beacon Book Shop, 17
Pulteney-street; Argonaut Bookshop,
224 North-terrace —all Adelaide
A. 0.8.: Write Cement and Concrete
Association of Australia, 14 Spring-
street, Sydney A.J.C.G.: Car-
pentry in the Kitchen (2s. 3d.),
Carpentry in the Garden (2s. 3d.),
Walton’s Woodwork in Theory and
Practice (13s. 9d.), Sharp’s Australian
Methods of Building Construction
(15s. 9d.) —all obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. Prices include postage.
M.M.H.: The male basic wage
on which wage-rates in the majority
of N.S.W. industrial awards were
based was, on April 1, 1936, £4 19s.
per week in the Sydney, Newcastle
and Port Kembla-Wollongong areas
and £4 16s. per week elsewhere, the
corresponding rates for adult females
being £2 13s. 6d. per week and
£2 12s. per week respectively....
M.McL.: Write H. Rowe and Cos.
Pty., Ltd., 136 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
S.A.K.: Write Age and Invalid
Pensions Branch, Department of
Social Services, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney W. 8.5.: Write Registrar,
Miners’ Pensions Tribunal, Mines
Department, Sydney J.S.S.; Under
the present exchange position import
licences are not being granted in
respect of saddles from U.S.A
J.M.: The A. R. Bluett Award is
made each year to the N.S.W. shire
and municipal council which during
the past twelve months has made the
greatest progress in providing com-
munity amenities and public works.
E.P.G.: When used under cover
Malthoid should first be coated with
a shellac varnish and then painted
with a normal paving paint of the
required color. This may afterwards
be waxed or polished A.8.M.R.:
Odham’s Motor Manual (16s. 6d.),
The Motor Manual (Bs. 3d.), The
Owner-Driver’s Handbook (12s. 6d.)
by Goodman; all obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney—prices in-
clude postage... .H.W.C.: Write
Commonwealth Director of Fisheries,
Warwick Building, 15 Hamilton-street,
Sydney.... K.D.: The “Newspaper
World and Advertising Review,”
Bouverie House, Fleet-street, London,
E.C.4 C.L.C.: Obtain following
pamphlets from N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, Sydney: “Potato Grow-
ing,” “Insect Pests of Potatoes,”
“Propagation of Fruit Trees,” “Re-
working of Fruit Trees,” “Pruning
Deciduous Fruit Trees” and “Apricot
Growing”... .H.McD.: Handy Hints
for the Farm, compiled from the
“Land Pages” of The Bulletin
and obtainable from The Bulletin;
price, Is. 2id., posted W.F.:
Write Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281 George-
street, Sydney... .E.W.P.: Gregory’s
Guides and Maps, 57 Regent-street,
Sydney A.M.8.: The Australian
Language by Sidney J. Baker, pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Sydney.... K.P.T.: University of
London School of Librarianship,
University College, Gower-street,
London, W.C.I R.McT.; The
words are from Henry Lawson’s
poem “The Wander-light.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
M.H.H.: “He is half mad, he has
lived too long, but no doubt he will
shortly die.” That sort of sums up
the rest of the story, don’t you think?
. ...J.8.: Much too slim EJ.:
The point of your “timely hoax”
escaped u5....R.H.: More talk....
L.8.H.: A bit late in the day for
random reflections on Burns 8.L.:
You did make us sad F.A.R.:
That woman-who-almost-left-her hus-
band is perpetually knocking on
editors’ doors V.O’C.: Well, if
you insist on throwing cheap wise-
cracks at waitresses M.M.: Back
to the West goes the bloke in the
cabbage-tree hat... .D.McK.: Topical
verse needs to arrive as soon after
the event as possible N.D.: Can’t
let you “blab sweet nothings to the
mountain reeds” in our columns
W.E.8.: We’re rounding up the
stragglers and heading them for home.
O. : It’s often happened, but
you make it sound so unlikely... •
P. All three miss D.M.: Will-
ing to take a small bet that you will
“live to see again blue seas beneath
blue skies”... .D.A.E.: Cheer up.
... .Bellerive: A stirring introduction,
certainly;
....M.S.: “Come home, my love;
come home, dear love.” Rushing it
home by express delivery W.H.P.:
Explode your comets elsewhere
S.P.: Even “Lamentation” failed to
move our heart R.D.M.: As
crude as ever L.A.W.: No pick-
ings for “The Gulls”... .J.H.S.:
F.a.q. cowyard misery p0em....D.8.
(Dunedin): Try us with a Maoriland
scene,.. .0.F.W.: Your “New Year”
poem was a long time on the road.
R.P.S.: It left us exhausted
1.F.G.: Left the lady sipping her pas-
sionfruit cup in the Bombay bar....
A.H.G.: We’re still scratching....
R.W.: Misses C.K.: Tree poem
ringbarked H. 0.: At least this
gem won’t be lost to posterity:—
The bagpipes wailed, then louder grew.
The elf looked her surprise
That changed as satisfaction crept
Across her face and eyes.
Excitedly her voice rang out:
“Oh, Daddy, don’t you see.
The man has got them in his bag.
It’s cats, it’s cats—Daddie.”
A.G.: Every year hundreds send
their poems to the Queen and receive
a charming acknowledgment in reply,
but that doesn’t necessarily make
them poets C.F.R.: Read it to
some literary-minded rat-catcher
A.C.P.: Chocolates might produce a
better result than poems S.K.C.:
The punter laments at too great a
length, and is not amusing C.N.:
Save it for next year and re-submit.
. ...H.F.: Syrup and water.
THE BOAR AND BRITISH WAR.
’Mid recollections to veterans of the
Boar and British War are wild nights at
Predora, the toll of sickness spread by the
malaria vipers known as the South African
mosquitoes, hairbreadth escapes, deeds of
daring, songs and mouth organ solos by
Australian Bushmen, tranquil starry nights
and sudden 4 tropical storms, the sad
tragedy of the young Australian poet,
literary known as “The Breaker,” fierce
conflicts, scenes of carnage, and other
grim episodes.
Where the thundering guns
. Had wreaked carnage around,
Charred and shattered was
The very ground
After the fray.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contrubutor first is paid
4¼d. per lone; all others 2½d. per lone.
Droving Troubles
If stockowners are lamenting the
passing of the old drovers (B. 21/6/’5O)
then they had better reflect on the part
which they themselves have played in the
decline. Their forefathers did the same
thing with the old teamsters. As is por-
trayed so graphically in Tom Collins’s
Such Is Life, the squatters of up to 40
years ago relied upon the teamsters to
bring out their stores and cart their wool
to market, yet begrudged the owner of
the team of bullocks or horses a bit of
grass to feed them. Stockowners also
relied upon drovers to shift sheep for
them, yet many of them went out of their
way to make the lot of the passing drover
as hard as possible.
I’ve helped to shift mobs of sheep for
thousands of mjles in N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria and S.A.; the landowners who didn’t
regard you as enemies were very rare.
In my time I’ve (1) been attacked for
“letting the mob eat off every scrap of
grass around my place” by a man who
regarded the roads as “long paddocks”
belonging to his station; (2) been denied
access to a waterhole, plainly marked as
a water-reserve on the map, by a man
who had fenced it off; (3) been fined for
not covering the statutory mileage per
day with th© sheep I was shifting, despite
evidence that I had covered the required
distance according to the map.
Generally, when one of those same
drover-hating stockowners wanted some
of his own sheep shifted, he always took
care to employ one of the “fighting”
type of drovers on the job, and he also
showed a curious reversal of form if his
own sheep had cases of footrot or were
carrying Bathurst-burr or other noxious-
weed seeds in their wool —the very things
about which he had complained so
bitterly when other mobs were taken past
his property.
Since those days I’ve become a stock-
owner myself, and I can see both sides of
the question, but that hasn’t stopped me
from remembering what it was like to
have a mob of sheep on the track, and
I’ve found that to give the passing drover
a fair deal is not only common courtesy
—it is also a thing which the sheep-
puncher remembers with gratitude. If
the old-time drover is soon only a
memory, Australia will have lost one of
its most useful outback workers —and
the very men who most need his services
are those who did most to deter others
from undertaking the arduous and often
thankless task.—Cumbee Hindere (S.A.).
Indian Coal
It is stated in B. 7/6/’5O that Callide
(Q.) coal can be landed in Melbourne
10 per cent, cheaper than Indian coal of
no better quality. The next sentence
suggests that Indian coal c.i.f. Melbourne
now costs Australia £6 6s. a ton. To the
best of my knowledge Indian coal, c.i.f,
Melbourne, does not cost £6 6s. a ton.
I am mainly concerned, however, with
the statement “India’s present policy is
to export only lower-grade coals.” As
Indian Trade Commissioner in this
country, I would like to make it clear
that that is not India’s present policy.
India is willing to sell the best coal she
produces to Australia. As a matter of
fact, when tenders were invited by the
Supply and Tender Board of Adelaide
a little over two months ago, India
offered very good coal and an order for
a substantial quantity has been placed.
The Supply and Tender Board of
Adelaide accepted only offers of coal of
satisfactory quality.—A. Baksi, Indian
Government Trade Commissioner
(N.S.W.).
Jungle-fighting Weapons
During the last war, most of our in-
fantrymen were still armed with the
S.M.L.E. rifle, a weapon designed during
the Boer War. Practically every other
weapon had been improved out of all
knowledge during that same 50-year
period, yet this antiquated rifle was
allowed to remain unchanged; any sug-
gestion that it should be replaced with
something much better was looked upon
as a rank heresy by Army H.Q.
About the only thing which can be
said in favor of the S.M.L.E. rifle is that
it will stand a great deal of knocking
about and still remain serviceable. It has
no balance whatever; attempt to throw
it to your shoulder for a quick shot, after
the style of a sporting rifle, and you find
that the absurdly heavy muzzle makes
the foresight wobble all over the place.
Its clip-loading, five shots a time, is also
deplorably slow by modem standards.
Not only is the rifle itself absurdly
heavy—about 91b. —but its ammunition
is also very weighty. As soon as jungle
fighting began in the last war, all the
defects of this rifle became obvious, and
a cry went up from the troops for a
better weapon. “Give us something short
in the barrel, light to carry and which
can be loaded and fired rapidly,” was the
substance of their demands. It was met
to a certain extent—and pretty late in the
day—by the issue of Owen, Sten and
Thompson sub-machine guns, but the
need for a light, short, semi-automatic
rifle still remained.
The Americans soon saw what was re-
quired and brought out the “U.S.
Carbine, .30 calibre.” It is only 3ft. long,
its weight is 51b. and two rounds of its
ammunition weigh less than one round
of our .303. It is loaded by box
magazines holding 15 rounds; after a
bit of practice the empty magazine can
be dropped and a full one put in its place
in 2.5 seconds. It is cocked by a swift,
straight pull on the bolt; thereafter those
15 shots can be fired singly; in short
bursts or as a long burst without taking
your sights off the target—you merely
pull the trigger as fast as you can waggle
your finger. It combines the accuracy
of a rifle with the rapid-fire of a machine-
gun when the latter is necessary.
Being modelled upon the best sporting
rifles, its balance is so good that it seems
to leap to your shoulder of its own voli-
tion and you find yourself looking
straight through the sights. Shortly after
its introduction it became the most
popular infantry weapon in the U.S.
Armed Forces, and it is still the favorite
today.
Britain’s War Minister, John Strachey,
has been to Malaya to see things for
himself, and has returned to tell the
House of Commons that from now on
the troops who are fighting the Com-
munist terrorists will be armed with
“American carbines —light weapons, ideal
for jungle work.”
Extraordinary though it may seem, it
is a fact that it is usually a civilian who
“If you want any more , sir, call out."
puts Army leaders right in matters of this
kind. We had an instance of it in Aus-
tralia when the simple, sturdy, efficient
and easily-produced Owen sub-machine
gun was turned down by our Army H.Q.,
but was adopted when our Army Minister
had been given a demonstration of it.
It is possible to give our troops a full
field equipment, including weapon and
300 rounds of ammunition, a total weight
of less than 401 b (S.A.).
A Stabilising Slogan
For years I’ve advocated a return to
the rule of a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay as the only solution to stabilis-
ing post-war costs and prices. David
Adams’s “Value and the Pound”
(B. 21/6/’5O) should be read and digested
by those thousands of Australian
unionists who have been persuaded to
accept as gospel the perverted ideas and
ideals of extremists.
The go-slow, “Government-stroke”
principle under which industry labors
today is the direct result of Communist
propaganda, particularly of the Fabian
Socialists, the so-called intellectuals such
as the Red Dean, many university pro-
fessors, hundreds of callow and irrespon-
sible university students, writers, artists
and magsmen who, having absorbed the
teachings of Marx, Lenin and company,
have been glib enough to present the
greatest menace of modern times as the
Phoenix of the working-classes.
What astonishes me is that so many
Australian workers, enjoying as a class
the world’s best working conditions for
50 years, should be weak or irresolute
enough to hazard their internationally-
envied state in exchange for that of the
Russian system, which, even after bloody
civil war and 30 years of totalitarian
barbarism and autocracy, still lags a
generation behind their own.
As David Adams points out, wages and
prices in this or any other country may
never fall again to pre-1939 levels, but the
curbing of inflationary trends here today
depends mainly upon the people inflation
hurts most —the wage- and salary-
earners. Having only our labor, mental
or manual, to sell we cannot expect to
draw high wages, work reduced hours in
a slovenly fashion in return, and yet buy
the necessities of life freely and easily.
The ability to live with reasonable
comfort on wages depends to a surprising
extent upon the individual doing a fair
day’s work for a fair day’s pay. Each
succeeding generation sets its own
standards of remunerating it, of course,
but work remains the measuring-stick of
the nation’s economy. “A fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay.” In the accept-
ance or otherwise of the significance of
that phrase lies the welfare of every
worker in the world. And Australians
aren’t exempt. —P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Home-ownership
I certainly agree that home-ownership
is possible for those who are willing to
try (B. 3/5/’5O). Six months ago we
made the big decision. It had to be
quick, and we didn’t have time to examine
all methods of finance, but of those we
did we picked the insurance-company
scheme. ,
Here is the result. We have a home
and a policy for a £l3OO loan. If I die
tomorrow my wife has a home free of
debt; if I go the 25 years (I’ll then be
60) we get the home (the value of the
policy), plus £650 in cash. Our payments
are £2 2s. 6d. a week, which is for policy
and home, with rates and taxes as extras,
of course.
We were paying £1 7s. 6d. rent, which
leaves us about 15s. a week extra to find
—which can be done with the required
effort. If we had continued as rent-
payers for 25 years the owner would have
received from us nearly £lBOO.
It’s so easy when you know how that
I wish I’d started years earlier. Those
who maintain that costs are too high
should remember that wages are corre-
spondingly high, and although a £9OO
house may cost £lBOO today the former
£5-a-week man is now on £lO or there-
abouts.—Plumbus (N.S.W.).
When a tenant pays £BOO in 10 years
the landlord is not “enriched” to that
amount. Considerable amounts must be
subtracted for income tax, land tax,
maintenance, fire insurance, local rates
and agents’ fees. In many cases the bal-
ance left is less than bank interest on
the sum invested, even when the occupier
is an ideal tenant. One of the chief
reasons for the present shortage of houses
does not pay worth
while dividends under the curren^o^
When a “worker” builds a house n
borrowed money he discovers that th Q
original cost of the domicile is onlv th
beginning of his outlay. Instead of col
lecting interest on his savings he
pay usury on the full amount borrowed
keep own house in repair to a cerTain
standard, pay rates and taxes and car™
t landlord bUrdem USUally borne »V
Of course every family-man should trv
£ °h Wn M lS ri°u Wn £ astle ’ but he should Z
be beguiled by the idea that the landlord
is getting something for nothing or thai
ownership is all beer and skittles.-ij. W
Neglected Children
“Taswegiau’s” claim that there are very
rw*/ I »cn l w ted c hhdren in Australia (fi
31/5/ 50) is open to question, in Sydney
an n y '. A feW weeks a B° there was
P u ?l an accoun t of the discovery bv
child-welfare officers, of a family of 7mZ
children who were huddled together in
a filthy bed m a squalid room The
parents were out and had locked them
m With child-endowment that house-
hold was stated to have an income exceed-
mg £9 a. week. The child-welfare people
could cite plenty of comparable cases.
Major Raven Hart, who visited this
country just after the war, and wrote a
book about his experiences, remarked in
it on the number of young boys he saw
m mid-winter in Sydney who were bare-
legged and only lightly clad.
When the 1949 coal strike caused wide-
spread temporary unemployment in
Sydney, soup kitchens were established
in some of the industrial suburbs and
clergymen appealed to the charitable for
donations of clothes and blankets for
which there was urgent need. That hap-
pened before the strike was a fortnight
old. Yet for years there has been full
employment at high wages with child
endowment for those with more than one
child.
Heart-rending stories were published in
the newspapers of the state to which
many families in suburbs like Newtown
and Redfern had been reduced by the
strike. Some of those interviewed con-
fessed to enjoying incomes of £9 or more
and to paying rents as low as 10s. a week.
Yet they declared that, even in normal
times, they sometimes had to owe the
rent.
It is such people who have neglected
children. Their incomes are obviously
frittered away, for others no better off
financially can live in more expensive
suburbs and yet save money. Social-
service income is unlikely to be applied
by this irresponsible type to its intended
purpose It is just so much more cash
to waste. —Cunedda (N.S.W.),
Fire-brigades
The timely insistence (B. 7/6/’5O) that
fire-fighting is a fourth line of defence
brings in our national unpreparedness in
this regard. The war of the foreseeable
future will be unannounced and sudden,
and it will be launched against our great
industrial centres with unheralded
ferocity. There W'ill be x no time for
preparations, such as London enjoyed
during the “phoney” war before the
Luftwaffe blitz.
The explosives launched from the sky
against our cities will be no mere 500-lb,
or 1000-lb. bombs—they will be of block-
buster dimensions capable of widespread
destruction followed by fire. Apart from
the threat of air bombardment there is the
possibility of guided projectiles with
atomic war-heads launched from long-
distance underwater craft.
The time to prepare our cities for such
attacks is during peace. Radar-screens
and submarine detection may warn ot
approaching hostile craft. Fighter aircrait
may intercept and destroy approaching
bombers. Naval forces may dispose ot
submarines. But the lesson of London,
Berlin and Tokyo is that some bombers
can get through. The lesson of Sydney is
that submarines may penetrate even into
the heart of protected harbors.
After the bombs have done their work
of destruction, fire inevitably follows, in
control of fire is as importankas any ot e
defence activity. At present the vital in -
fighting services of our great Cltie L .
controlled by civilian boards. }.
costs are met from State and mum*. P
contributions and by levies on tw P
miums of private fire-policy holders.
While peace gives us time to P re P are ;’
is vital that all fire-brigades be
ordinated on a national basis, tr ain
equipped to meet the sudden c^e f 1 j fetice
war, and financed as a normal d
service.—J. B. (N-5.W.).,


MIGHTIER THAN THE SWORD
By E. C. SOMMERLAD
Comprehensive information, by a man
with lifelong, practical experience, on
Journalism, Broadcasting, Propaganda,
Public Relations and Advertising.
Price 16/
Publishers ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89 CASTEEKEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
• The first text-book
to be especially
written for
Australian conditions
Announcing '
the NEW CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOP/EDIA
• 15 VOLUMES • 4,000 ILLUSTRATIONS
• 14,500.000 WORDS • 2,500 CONTRIBUTORS
The first ENTIRELY NEW encyclopaedia on a great scale for over twenty years.
Post-war in outlook and treatment, and BRITISH. His Majesty the King has
graciously accepted the dedication. No work can compare with the New
CHAMBERS'S for accuracy, completeness, authority or price. Write now for full
details and copies of British press reviews.
AVAILABLE FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS
GEORGE NEWNES (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. Sydney! *n.s S w;
i C V C
A NEW SCHEME FOR BOOKLOVERS
First edition copies of the month’s best books chosen by a Committee of experts. No
membership fees; no extra charges of any kind and a saving of at least 10 per cent, on a
year’s book purchases. These are some of the privileges enjoyed by members of The
Book Society of Lohdon. It is now able to accept new members and we shall be pleased
to send you further information about this remarkable organisation.
THE BOOKMAN
The monthly magazine of The Book Society is
sent free of charge to all members. It is a
full size magazine with reviews of all the best
books contributed by some of the most famous
names in present-day literature.
TO The Book Society, Ltd.,
Room 90, Third Floor, Collins Bouse,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Please send me tree of charge and without obligation
your illustrated brochure of The Book Society and
a copy of The Bookman magazine.
NAME
ADDRESS
BRING THE BOOKSHOP
INTO YOUR HOME!
By receiving Dymock’s catalogue of new and recent
books every month. Includes books for the whole family.
• AN EXCELLENT GUIDE TO READING
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
Mail Orders promptly attended to.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE BE 3611.
Your bookseller will be pleased to register your order for
ROSE MACAULAY’S NEW NOVEL
THE WORLD MY WILDERNESS
Book Society Choice. “Evening Standard” Book of the Month.
Rose Macaulay’s best novel . . . Miss Macaulay has brought her
inimitable blend of humour, criticism and poetry to bear not only on Barbery’s
tragi-comedy but also on the confused world in which we live." (>
—Eric Gillett in the “Sunday Chronicle.
Available July Price 9s. 6d.
Obtainable at all Booksellers.
COLLINS
GOLF-THE PICKWORTH WAY
By OSSIE PICKWORTH
Australian Open Champion, 1946-47-48
Golf secrets revealed that will enable you to become a successful player,
together with preliminary advice, essential features of stroke-making,
general hints, how to practice, etc., with 37 photographs as illustrations
for right- and left-hand players.
New Edition —5/-, plus 6d. postage.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
«r;iUaoi Blacksidge—-obviously Block-
■foe who adopted the pen-name of
n Abridge—as separate authors? Surely
B T Bavlebridgc (or Blocksidge) was
Enough for us.
Wnat again, is one to make of Mr.
_ tin’s contradictory statements about
Miles Franklin? On page 136 he
of Bin Bin” is probably the writer
Miles Franklin, the author of My Brilliant
Career A competent authority in a lecture
• 1946 given to members of the Australian
fiterary Society, proved beyond doubt that
Franklin was responsible for the
sinks Up the Country (192 4 8), Ten Creeks
Run (1930), Back to 800 l 800 l (1931).
But on page 241 Mr. Rankin, who
nerhaps loves a "mystery even more than
Miles Franklin is reputed to do, inex-
plicably declares:
Tjn the Country by Brent of Bin Bin
0928) is not only an interesting work, but
it presents the question—who wrote it?
No satisfactory answer has been given as
yet to this interesting query.
Mr, Rankin, one fears, has belied too
much on other compilers of literary
histories, and has failed to quote from
them or interpret them, correctly. Stirely
something has gone wrong with the
strange statement that “Wonien writers,
according to Nettie Palmer, contributed
j ess to their quota of poetry than they
should have done ; nor have they always
written the kind of poem expected from
them.” And surely A. W. Jose was never
quite as flattering as this on the gay com-
panions who drank and talked with
Brennan—“ Brennan, according to A. W.
Jose, was a recluse; one who gathered
round himself at his causeries rugged or
introspective geniuses of his own sort.”
Well, let it be “quite a good review”
after all. It is better to love the arts, even
a trifle erratically, than to limit one’s in-
terests in life to comic strips, racehorses
and radio quizzes. And here is a man who
reveres the arts—‘'those flowers that
bloom beautifully in the garden of life”
—and who sets out to prove, with many
deep arguments:
First, that an expression of the esthetic
has taken place in ' Australia ; secondly, that
the Australian aesthetic has undergone a
development; and thirdly, that the develop-
ment has a philosophy, i.e., underlying the
development there is a philosophic implica-
tion.
It will do nobody any harm to read
Australian /Estheticisrn and it will do
most people much good. It does, how-
ever, as one seems to have remarked
before, faintly smell of lavender.
From South Australia .
The distinctive qualities of Nancy
Cato’s poems in The Darkened Window
(handsomely printed by Edwards and
Shaw for The Lyrebird Writers, Sydney)
are, first, a warmth of description when
she is writing about the South Australian
landscape of paddocks and vineyards
among which lives:
—the wavering haze of heat,
The golden bands of paddocked wheat,
Broad grazing-lands and clumps of trees.
Next, a gift of witty imagination, as when
she is travelling in a tram through the
parklands at night and observes:
To each his individual ghost ;
Through the fat man in spectacles
There shines an arrogant telephone-post,
Solid, assertive. I can see
The post is quite as real as he.
Next, a feminine sensitiveness to children
and the mysteries of creation, as when she
sees “M.A.N., Six Months Old,” setting
out into life as into
—A dark country, lost •
Beyond the known world, beyond the
present or past,
A mystery, set in a vast, unvoyaged ocean
Which you must sail to find the last solu-
tion.
And, lastly and rarely, as in “Independ-
ence”—which, either from unconscious
memory or by coincidence, says the same
thing as Wordsworth’s “The Leech-
Gatherer,” and says it with striking force
and precision—that intensity of feeling
which makes the poetry of vision:
... .Yet all ahead
Was glowing in an unearthly wash of light.
Dry roly-poly and saltbush lit to beauty,
The sky a menace but the wide plains bright.
And there in that lonely place an ancient
swagman,
Traveller, bagman, sundowner, what you
will —
His rolled-up blankets slung aslant his
shoulders,
Billy in hand, his back to the line of hills
And the coming storm; as mysterious in
that place
(With his hat set straight and his grey
beard blowing)
As a small ship glimpsed a moment from
land;
Where did he come from, where could he
be going?
that symbolic stranger
Glimpsed in a moment of vision and swiftly
gone—
Man and his independent spirit, alone
On the vast plains, with night and rain
coming on.
Often, trying to lift all her poems to
this visionary plane—to imbue them with
a tragic intensity she does not really feel
—Nancy Cato over-writes, mistakes her
direction and drops -into commonplace.
One finds, too, feelings picked up from
contemporary movements rather than
from original vision—voyagers from
Kenneth Slessor and Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald, aborigines from Rex Ingamells.
And, though rhymes are generally pretty
free these days, one cannot let the dis-
tortion of “real” to rhyme with “wheel”
pass without recalling that, as T. S. Eliot
puts it, it is the poet’s task to “purify” the
dialect of the tribe.
The Darkened Window is a brief
selection from the much larger number
of poems Nancy Cato has published in
The Bulletin and elsewhere. On the
whole it is a good selection, for it pre-
sents her at her best; but one wishes she
could have found room for, at least, that
engaging little oddity “The Fly.”
Reviewed Briefly.
Martin Makesure: Frank Kendon
(Dent). Better-known as a little-known
poet, Mr. Kendon opens his novel with
a few excellent scenes of a London
literary journal in course of disintegra-
tion, and of the unemployed journalist
and his wife trying to put a good face
on the situation. Then the journalist
walks out, penniless, to various adven-
tures with gipsies, tramps, policemen and
inventors, while his wife goes home to
mother. After a series of adventures in
which the couple inhabit the same district
and meet the same people without being
aware of it, they come together again,
to what purpose, and with what improve-
ment, it would be hard to say.
# * * *
No Duty on a Corpse: Max Murray
(Michael Joseph). Mr. Murray’s third
investigation (his titles are all to have
“corpse” in them) is by no means as gay
as his The King and the Corpse. The
beautiful secretary of a blackmailing
diary-keeper is found dead on a liner;
and the diary, which she was taking to
a New York publisher, missing. An
apparently unemployed young playboy
puts two and two together, hampered by
a young English girl who follows him
about and says she loves him, and a pub-
lisher’s daughter who says she doesn’t
love him, and whom he follows about.
A disagreeable sympathy for the
characters pervades the book: Mr.
Murray pleased us more when he was
belaboring them with a balloon tied to
the end of a stick
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 76
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Across.
I— Girl to relax an Azores sunburn
for Robert Schumann. (9)
6—-HT, not ht, between Adelaide
and Fremantle. (5)
9 Oyster arts upset in the ocean. (9)
10— Red Indian trophy from a South
Carolina mountain. (5)
ll How you might catch a mermaid
below. (6)
13— Cloth and I go to the alleys
entirely surrounded by me. (8)
newspaper proprietor
Ifi backed a. marsh tortoise. (4)
Jo—Ron’s coach participates in
9r . funeral dirges. (9)
u—A medico goes to a back alley
.. in a heart stimulant. (9)
A carefully selected range of
to °d for a legislature. (4)
Pertaining to the introductory
study of Scripture, this is very
®uch astir, I see. (8)
26 —Do behold an ancient city in
grief. (6) . . .
28— If Ken is cut about,' this might
be responsible for it. (5)
29 Two American States and yours
truly, without a hair on his head,
finish off the Italian patriot. (9)
30 — Hot port sweetened and spiced
for the Emperor of Ethiopia. (5)
31 — Harming bite of a rodent. (9)
Down.
1 — Florence beneath a fish. (8)
2 Revealed greater stamina, and yet
didn’t come home. (9)
3 Russian hail upset this dodger. (6)
4 Muscle opposite. the east. (4)
5 She has taken the veil. (3)
6 Say cabin in Basque. (8),
7 -Raged in class. (5)
8— A hint to the favorite cape. (6)
13— Metallic number mentioned dur-
ing a medical examination is
satirical. (6)
14 — With one in a bung, I follow a
town in N.S.W. (6)
17 — It’s Greek for the riff-raff. (3-6)
18 — Fans four-fifths of county
mounds for driving off. (8)
19 — Beginning to chant about some of
the Knave of Hearts’ plunder. (8)
22— Barrel relatives of a timber. (6)
23 — Hairdresser gets directions in the
deep, wooded valleys. (6)
25—Inspiring dread when flying. (5)
27 —inland sea in Asia. (4)
29 —Rising vessel is to stick down. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 75


' -
v ■
*
-
;-Kn
%:Vi
f;A
imm
s
:• -
i I;
A
w?
■
■ •:
Wim
r%
\<
1 «$i
■
&
> *
'S
m
mm m
■
r.-i-A
■
■
# -s:*:
f m
m
■/■
m
m
'; ' ::
§m
m
wit
m
m.
.
i
■ ■
■■«■
*
■-
m
m
, 'p “
' V
*" -
*• **. *!
r.
■
-
r
-
TAILORED FROM -A SPECIAL
IlliK
