

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
w
i ■
HOUSE O
F SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 No. 3631
Wednesday, April 12, 1950
Price BcL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
BROADSTAIRS, a popular holiday
** resort on the South-East coast in Kent,
is famous for its close associations with
Charles Dickens, the great novelist.
Dickens first visited.Broadstairs in 1837,
and stayed at many different addresses
in the town before he finally'settled in the
building now known as Bleak House.
This castellated building, illustrated here
(surmounted by a flag-staff), overlooks the
harbour; in the foreground is The Boat-
house. It was in Bleak House that
Dickens wrote “David Copperfield” and
also many chapters of his world-renowned
books—-“ Nicholas Nickleby,” “The Pick-
wick Papers,” “Barnaby Rudge,” “Old
Shop” and others. Something
of his personality and fame will always
cling to the town which he described as
“this pretty little semi-circular sweep of
houses, tapering off at the end of the
wooden pier into a point in the sea,” and
“one of the freest and freshest* little places
in the world.”
Each year a Dickensian play is per-
formed in Broadstairs, and the Dickens
Festival, arranged by a local branch of
the Dickens Fellowship, has been revived
a gain after the war years.
Broadstairs, originally known as
Broadstayer,” is rich in historical
interest; its present population is approxi-
mately 38,000, but in the year 1565 it
possessed only “98 inhabited houses and
48 persons were connected with the trade
of fishing.” York Gate, one of the town’s
fifteenth century fortifications against
marauding pirates, can still be seen in
Harbour Street. Pierremont Hall, now
the offices of the Town Council, was the
summer residence of Queen Victoria
during her childhood.
THE BROADSTAIRS HOME OF CHARLES DICKENS, BLEAK HOUSE


UmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE..
The Red page
HUBERT MURRAY.
In his Sir Hubert Murray of Papua
(Collins), Lewis Lett,\ by letting facts
speak for themselves which other
biographers might have omitted, has made
an absorbing study of a man of principle
who spent half his life gaining a contempt
for human beings, and the second half in
saving them for the good of his own soul.
John Hubert Plunkett Murray was the
son of Sir Terence Murray, one of the
richest men in Australia, first owner of
Yarralumla on the Molonglo River,
M.L.A., Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly in 1859, and President of the
Legislative Council from 1862 until his
death in 1873. Hubert Murray was born
in 1861 in his father’s mansion at Manly,
but with the crash of his father’s fortunes
in 1865 the family moved from housq to
house, finally settling in King’s Cross, in
a house where the fire-station is now. It
was at some other address in the eastern
suburbs that Hubert Murray, at the age
of eight, began his pleasant habit of
emptying the glasses left on his parents’
dinner-table ; but it is pleasant to think
of him as a King’s Cross boy who made
good, or as King’s Cross’s Greatest Son—
and it was in fact from King’s Cross that
he attended Sydney Grammar School
and gained a reputation, from the age of
14 onwards, as a frequenter of King’s
Cross bars.
With this, he was a consistent prize-
winner, in 1877 winning the Senior Knox
Prize for general proficiency, the Uni-
versity Medal, and the West Medal at the
Senior Public Examinations with first-
class honors in all subjects; and he was
an all-round sportsman, and a favorite
boxing pupil of Larry Foley’s.
On his father’s death in 1873 his
mother, who had been a governess before
becoming Sir Terence’s second wife, took
over a school for girls. In 1877, Lady
Murray sold the school and went to Eng-
land, and in 1878 Hubert joined her, and
having been admitted, with some diffi-
culty, at the awkward age of 17, into
Brighton College, which had nothing to
teach him, he was failed in an examina-
tion for entrance into Magdalen College
because, having finished his papers, he
occupied the rest of the examination-time
in writing humorous answers to the ques-
tions, and then handed in the wrong set
of papers. Sent back for a year, he
further delayed his university entrance by
knocking down a master who had bawled
him out for a bit of horseplay. His
mother sent him to an academy near
Cologne, where he contracted a fondness
for German poetry; and in 1881 he was
finally admitted to Magdalen College,
Oxford.
He was not particularly fond of
Oxford; but he rowed in the college
eight, performed muscular prodigies in
the gymnasium and passed his examina-
tions without difficulty. After leaving
Oxford, he played football for the Harle-
quins, and won the Amateur Heavyweight
Championship of England. Admitted to
the Inner Temple in 1882, he was called
to the Bar in 1886, but decided to return
to Australia, where, in 1886, he was ad-
mitted to the N. S. Wales Bar on the
motion of Salomons, Q.C.
Welcomed in Sydney society because
of his family, Murray diversified the
leisure of waiting for briefs with fencing,
walking-tours from which his com-
panions returned exhausted, reading, the
friendship of Chris Brennan, the Premier,
Sir Edmund Barton, and other knowledge-
able men of that time, and in drinking,
for which he had been conditioned from
childhood to outlast most men —there is
a general undertone of riotous life, only
a little interrupted by his marriage in
1889 to a doctor’s daughter. But by 1892
(perhaps his conversion to Roman
Catholicism had something to do with it)
he had taken a solid job as Parliamentary
draftsman at £7OO a year, and this
considerably cut in thd ensuing hard
times, enabled him to weather the
financial depression of the 1890’s, when
his wife lost the use of her money. In
1896 he became Crown Prosecutor at
£5OO a year, conducting his cases with a
profound distaste for dramatics, although
he could be eloquent in cases where ad-
vantage had been taken of weakness.
He had taken up amateur soldiering,
and was a major of Irish Rifles at the out-
break of the South African War. In 1900
he sailed for South Africa and, demand-
ing a series of rapid transfers and re-
transfers, at last got into action. He was
leading the N. S. Wales Mounted Infantry
when they led the march into Pretoria on
its surrender, and later took part in five
battles during the pursuit of De Wet.
Back in Australia, he had again become
Crown Prosecutor, and had acted as
judge in three extended courts, when a
fight in a bar sent him into court with
a battered face; so that, in 1902, he put
a whisky bottle on the table and outstared
it from midnight to dawn, when he poured
the whisky into his garden. His court
appearances improved; he seemed on the
way to a judgeship when he was
appointed a royal commissioner to inquire
into the slaughter of natives by New
Guinea police. The report of the com-
mission blamed an administrator, who
killed himself; this left open the post of
judicial officer; Hubert Murray applied
for it, and was appointed Chief Justice
of New Guinea in 1904.
It is likely that when he took it the
new job seemed no more than a step
towards a career in Australia ; years later
he was still half-hoping for an Australian
Governorship. But after a year in New
Guinea Murray felt that he had found
his vocation. His wife, who disliked the
climate, went back to Sydney after a week
at Port Moresby, to return for only short
stays during the rest of his sojourn there.
He was left among the sixty European
men and four European women living in
“about a dozen huts, which pride of
ownership permitted them to call houses,”
and working in “five erections of timber
and galvanised-iron in which Govern-
ment departments functioned.” He held
court in his shirt-sleeves in offices, on
board ship and under trees, and as he
travelled about dispensing law he studied
the people. It is doubtful whether, if he
had later been offered a job in civilisa-
tion, he would have taken it, or taken it
With pleasure.
Some two years after his entry into
New Guinea, Murray told a royal com-
mission inquiring into New Guinea ad-
ministration, in effect, that the service
was lax and riddled with favoritism, and
that Captain Barton, the temporary Ad-
ministrator, was neglectful of the welfare
of European settlers, and overkind to the
natives, treating them to feasts and cele-
brations when he should have been in-
culcating in them the virtues of industry.
Wherefore, in 1907, Murray was made
Acting-Administrator. In 1908 he was
confirmed Lieutenant-Governor of the
Australian territory of Papua, recently
handed over by Britain, with the object,
in the words of the royal commission of
1906, of proving “that it is possible to
rule a native race without destroying it.”
Murray had thus become a judge as
the result of a commission in which he
had been commissioner, and a Lieutenant-
Governor as the result of a commission
to which he‘had given evidence; nor had
he peace who, from however enlightened
motives, slew his master. Captain Barton
attacked him bitterly after his appearance
before the 1906 commission. The former
Commandant of Police, Bruce, who had
been dismissed on the recommendation of
the commission, stayed on as editor of
the “Papuan Times” and attacked the
Murray administration for the next
twelve years. The runner-up for the
Governorship, Staniforth Smith, became
Murray’s assistant, murmured in private,
and while Murray was abroad, staged a
bid for fame with a journey of explora-
tion in which he almost got lost, and
from which he returned with a map which
earned the medal of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, but was afterwards
condemned as worthless by an Australian
inquiry.
After the First World War a commis-
sion sat upon the problem of amalgamat-
ing German New Guinea and Papua;
and at that time a number of post-war
discontents burst into flame around the
refusal of Murray to allow a doctor to
practise in the Moresby hospital; busi-
ness interests anxious to get Murray out
were involved; and a public meeting,
presided over by the deposed police-chief,
Bruce, passed a motion, demanding the
removal of Murray and the substitution
of Staniforth Smith, which was tele-
graphed to the Australian Government;
while another malcontent sent a telegram
to the King:
Persistent persecution by Governor
Murray has caused dangerous rising among
white population. Appeals to Australian
Commonwealth have been fruitless. En-
treat your Majesty intervene and remove
menace to British Empire.
The majority report of the commission
of 1920 was against amalgamation, says
Mr. Lett, because of the feeling that
Papua was all very well as a show-place
for Australian native administration, but
that what was wanted from German New
Guinea was production. In twenty years,
when the question came up again, the
positions were reversed. Extension of
his domain, which might have been
welcome to Murray in 1920, was most
unwelcome at the time of the royal com-
mission of 1939, and the aged Adminis-
trator fought it bitterly: a German
administration of New Guinea, which he
detested, had been replaced by an Aus-
tralian administration, which he disliked ;
and he saw the move as one in which the
New Guinea mineowners, short of labor,
would outbid the Papuan' planters for
their native labor, and so upset the careful
balance of Papuan administration.
Mr. Lett is to congratulated on the care
with which he has set out these matters ;
obviously it has been for him a labor
of love, although the portraits of
Murray’s enemies have been done in acid.
Anyone who has had anything to do
with Government instrumentalities knows
that the servant of a Government must
spend half his time doing his job, and
the other half in keeping it; making re-
ports, answering - criticism, anticipating
attacks —and in this book we feel
Murray’s ever-present anxiety about what
was cooking in Melbourne or Canberra,
which became in the end almost un-
relieved pessimism, and led him to distrust
statesmen who wished him well. If this
book has a value beyond personal bio-
graphy, it is in bringing home to us these
anxieties which are perhaps ineradicable
from democratic government. It might
almost be called an avenging biography
if Murray had not been so well able to
take care of himself:—-
Sir Hubert had not been Governor of
Papua for more than thirty years without
learning how to obtain reliable information
on any subject of importance to his work.
And in his reports he could be devas-
tating, as in his dispatch in the case of the
medical officer whem he had refused to
allow practise:
He was to die a martyr to his fate, I
think by crucifixion. After his death he
was to receive a special reward, and was to
be one of the great multitude that no man
can number, clothed in white robes, with
palms in their hands, as mentioned in
chapter VII of the Book of Revelation. If
he failed in his mission he would lose his
reward. He was in deadly earnest about
this, and believed it implicitly. I cannot
say when it was that Dr. decided that
his mission was to reform the Port Moresby
native hospital. On April 23, when I
visited it, it was in so dirty a state that
there could be no question of retaining the
services of Dr. permanently.
Mr. Lett is not quite so satisfying on
exactly what Murray did in Papua; no
doubt the reader may consult Murray’s
own reports and his numerous writings on
native administration. He believed in
“indirect rule” —that is, rule through
representatives of tribes maintaining their
own institutions —in the working of
planters and natives in harmony, in strict
discipline and hard work among Govern-
ment employees; and, to the dismay of
some Europeans, he enforced laws which
they expected to have been enacted purely
for show to humane societies. But, of
course, other men might have done the
same things, and failed. Murray had the
personality without which the best-
intentioned of philosophers cannot rule,
and that is incommunicable.
There are scores and scores of excel-
lent anecdotes—of Murray walking on
crocodiles in swamps; of his turning,
v/hile walking with a European accused
of murder whom he was about to try, and
telling a servant not to forget the rope;
of the amazing speed and distances of his
walks —at 69, he walked a hundred miles
over “steep ridges which involved one
climb after another of anything from one
to three thousand feet, and passed over a
summit of eight thousand” in six days,
and returned in five days. But the best
story in the book is of a Greek, a huge
and powerful man, whose licence to
recruit labor Murray had cancelled. The
Greek called, and demanded an explana-
tion. Murray, who had little reason to
fear violence, but disliked trouble, took
the bull by the horns:
“The reason why I refused the licence is
that you are a man of bad character. You
are a drunkard, a thief and a libertine; and
you are quite unfit to hold a licence for
recruiting or for anything else.”
And now, I thought, I must look out
for myself. But not a bit of it. A pleased
smile spread over the man’s face.
“Oh, is that the reason?” he said.
“Of course that is all right. I thought
it was because I was a Greek. And I came
here to tell you that it was the Greeks
who civilised Europe.”
“My dear sir,” I said, “I am fully aware
of it. It was the Greeks who civilised not
only Europe, but the whole world. I have
the greatest admiration for them. In fact
I have a brother (Sir Gilbert Murray) who
is a professor of Greek. But you happen
to be a man of infamous character and I
will not give you a licence.”
“Oh, that is all right,” was the reply.
“I quite understand now.” And we shook
hands warmly and parted the best of
friends. I always had an admiration
this Greek, who put the reputation of h»
country far above his own.
end °c f hi r S T 3 . 5 years ’ administra-
tion of Papua Sir Hubert Murray saw his
policies reversed by military necessity
and military compulsion applied to the
natives whom he had governed for so
long, under laws of free contract. He had
spent most of his time in New Guinea
without his wife or family. A second
marriage in 1930 had ended in judicial
separation. He had no faith that, the
policies he had initiated would be con-
tinued. Against all this he could balance
two addresses presented to him in 1937,
one by the Papuan residents, the other
signed by two thousand Papuan natives.
Ihe address of the natives was a real
surprise to him. He had been contemplat-
ing retirement to his daughter’s home,
but the natives’ message jarred him to a
display of unusual feeling: “I will never
leave you,” he said; “I will die among
you, here, in Papua,” and at the age of
79 he fulfilled this promise in the hospital
at Samarai.
It had been a strange life, and if Mr.
Lett, who gives so many facts, does not
quite explain it, it may be because the
powers which move great men, like the
powers which move artists, are beyond
other people’s comprehension, and
beyond their own.
Wordsworth Revisited.
It is 100 years since Wordsworth died,
and it is 10 years since the present re-
viewer plucked up the courage to read him
right through, straight from end to end
of the two crowded Everyman’s Library
volumes, not even sidestepping the
Ecclesiastical Sonnets —which is the only
proper way to tackle a mountain. Those
who, in a selection like Norman Nichol-
son’s William Wordsworth (Phoenix
House), try to leap from peak to peak,
inevitably miss the mass of him; the
full majesty.
There are some gaps in Mr. Nicholson’s
selection. Having said in his introduction
that the sea “meant little” to the poet,
the editor goes on to prove his point by
omitting from his selection die two
glorious sonnets “With Ships the sea was
sprinkled far and nigh” and “Where lies
the Land?”:
Where lies the Land to which yon Ship
must go?
Fresh as a lark mounting at break of day,
Festively she puts forth in trim array;
Is she for tropic suns, or polaf snow?
Alid one looks in vain for “It is a
beauteous Evening, calm and free.”
And then, though perhaps one could
not include it in a selection of Words-
worth’s masterpieces, the present reviewer
has always a peculiar personal affection
for the sonnet beginning, “Degenerate
Qouglas! ” —it seems to have, like so
much more of Wordsworth, a special
significance for this age.
But a selection, after all, has to be a
selection. If Mr. Nicholson offers a
thinner representation of the sonnets than
did Matthew Arnold he prints, in com-
pensation, extracts from “The Prelude”
which are at least a useful introduction
to that extraordinary blank-verse auto-
biography. It is pleasant to have
Wordsworth’s centenary remembered and
—with shame let it be confessed —
extremely pleasant not to have to read the
whole lot of him again. And, on the
whole, this is a pretty good selection.
For instance, there was a stanza quoted
in Macneile Dixon’s essay on Words-
worth ; a stanza whose source one had
forgotten; and here it is, with some
of the loveliest vowel-music in the
language, so much more subtle and sin-
cere and natural than Tennyson’s, in—of
all places!—one of the Lucy poems that
everyone should know by heart:
The stars of midnight shall be dear
To her; and she shall lean her ear
In many a secret place
Where rivulets dance their wayward round,
And beauty born of murmuring sound
Shall pass into her face.
Then, vaguely one recalled that there
was a second poem about the Highland
Girl hardly less lovely than the famous
one where the cuckoo sings among the
farthest Hebrides; and here, alongside
“The Solitary Reaper,” not at all vaguely
but in Phoenix House’s nice large type on
clean white paper, it is:
Sweet Highland Girl, a very shower
Of beauty is thy earthly dower!
Twice seven consenting years have shed
Their utmost bounty on thy head; _
And these grey rocks; that household lawn,
Those trees, a veil just half withdrawn,
This fall of water that doth make
A murmur near the silent lake;
This little bay; a quiet road
That holds in shelter thy Abode-
In truth together do ye seem
Like something fashioned m a dream.. •
If his selection is to be acceptable Mr.
Nicholson must include, of course, the
Westminster Bridge so^et; he does in-
clude it. He must have To the Cuckoo
and “The Daffodils,” the great Ode on
(Continued on inside back cover.)


'TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
y li
t- ■: I
<A
to
m m
w
mm
w
%
■
T ”T ”7
f :
i 9 I
- 5
-I
mmm
mm m
y y
m
'■■l
PH r iff ' w 1
m
m
‘
ri
'
.
.
rwf
******
£
'
CJ
B
W 7
n
llllplilf
d£i
Here’s something new—livable new furniture designed on
lovable old lines to blend harmoniously with any surroundings,
add a quiet note of distinction to your rooms.
ABOVE
Handsome Cocktail Cabinet, Ball and Claw leg, nicely
carved. Well appointed interior for serving. This Cab-
inet is of a quality that endures. Priced at ;£B7/3/0.
Occasional Table, sturdily constructed. Ball and Claw
leg, nicely carved, with rope edge. Priced at
Card or hall table combination. Swi-
vel folding top and built-in recess
for cards when not in use. ,£1:0/17/9.
Cocktail Cabinet, elongated ball and
claw leg with carving. ' Interior with
pull-out tray for serving. / 64/17/0
Nest of Tables, Jacobean, turnings
finished mission colour. ;£i7/7/3-
Colonial Dining Suite. Buffet, Drop-
end Table, six tapestry upholstered
chairs. Rich Walnut finish.
FURNITURE—THIRD FLOOR
’PHONE M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Insybordination of P.O. BRANDY
The Insubordination
Of P.O. BRADY
PETTY-OFFICER JIM BRADY
was not amused at what the
Captain had just told him. He
bent his head to clear the cabin
lintel and stepped out into the violent
sunshine of Singapore’s summer. With
the sloop’s guard-rail sagging under his
weight, he stared across-harbor at the
cause of his upset.
His seaman’s eye noted the corvette’s
rust streaking from her scuppers down
the low, grey side; a rope’s-end trailing
over from under the whaler with the
carelessness of a dead man’s arm; the
whaler itself, he saw, with a savage, per-
verse satisfaction, was hanging at the
davits a good two feet down by the bow.
He pushed back from the rails im-
patiently. What else could you expect
of a mob of Reserves?
A gunnery man, Brady had all the im-
patience of the breed for slipshoddiness.
He could, indeed, be said to resemble a
gun—back straight as a barrel, arms and
fists which a certain jackstroppish leading-
stoker ashore in Mauritius, from his ex-
perience with the patrol of which Brady
was in charge, could describe as rammers,
and a weatherburned face, the color of
a well-used pick-handle, which in its jaw,
mouth and cheekbones had the metallic
angularity of a breech-block.
Now thirty-two, he had been in small
ships for the past eight years—a good
small-ship man must have, and exercise,
a peculiar tolerance coupled with an easy
and wholly personal power of command,
and captains don’t let them go in a
hurry—and was the sort of cove who
made the platitude, “petty-officers are the
backbone of the Navy,” mean something.
Which is why the captain sent for him.
The Old Man had been very nice about
it —he was about everything. But his
draft to the corvette had come as a
shock—the captain does not usually send
for his petty-officers to (ell them of their
movements to other ships.
When Brady stooped his length into
his cabin the captain had asked him to
sit down —again unusual—and then, in his
quiet, sincere way, had told him of his
intention to shift him to the corvette,
“to stiffen up the ship’s company, Brady.
They need a permanent-service man
badly. You’ll be chief bosun’s mate, of
course, and in charge of the four-inch
gun. Their captain has asked for a staid
gunnery hand —that first raid certainly
won’t be the last —and though I don’t
want to lose you, I’m sure you’ll settle-
in happily.”
He didn’t add any guff about the good
of the Service —just lightened his brown,
wise face with a sudden grin that got
right inside you, and prevented you from
offering even the most respectful remon-
strance about leaving such a damned fine
ship. Reflecting, standing there outside
the sea-cabin, Brady realised just how
decent the old boy was, the compliment
he had paid him —in any other ship he
would have been detailed-off with no ex-
planation, kiss me foot or reason at all.
He took a longer, considering look at his
new ship, nosing her red buoy off the
Causeway, and went below to pack.
A BRONZED little whip of a man
looked up as he entered the mess.
“What’s up, you fathom of bloody
misery?” he greeted cheerfully, “Lost
your mother-in-law?”
He swung his legs down from the
scrubbed table.
“Ooh, we have got a liver on, ain’t
we?” Then, as he saw Brady open his
locker, reach far into the bank, and heave
his kit-bag out on to the table: “Here,
Jim —ain’t got a draft, have you?”
Brady nodded. “Yes, Tug, that’s what
the gentleman said.”
“So that’s what the Old Man wanted,”
the other said slowly. He was Brady’s
go-ashore oppo. “Hell’s bells! That’s
mucked things nicely. Where to, Jim?”
“That flippin’ great battle-wagon you
can see out the port there,”
“What! That corvette ?”
“Yes, that corvette.”
“Aw, that ain’t so bad. She only come
in this morning. You won’t be duty
aboard the first night. Yeah”- —— His
face brightened. • “We can still meet
those squaries tonight. Come to think
of it, you prob’ly won’t do no duty nights
at all. Bit of a king-pin, that’s what
you’ll be. Only p.o. on board.”
Brady turned on him. “All right, all
right. If it’s such a sweet cop why aren’t
you rushing up to the Old Man?” He
stared at the gnome-like face of his mess-
mate, and saw suddenly the concern
behind the banter.
“Sorry, Tug,” He grinned a bit. “It’s
lousy, shifting ships,” He threw a pair
of boots into the big bag and picked up
a set of punch-bag gloves. «
“Don’t suppose I’ll need these in the
vast open spaces. Want ’em?” He
tossed them to Tug. “That’s another
thing—blast their eyes—this draft will
knock me out for the flotilla champion-
ship.”
“Save your ugly dial gettin’ knocked
off,” commented Tug, then yelled “Yes?”
at a knock on the door. The bosun’s
mate shoved his head in and looked at
Brady.
“Boat from the corvette alongside,
chief.”
“Tell it to wait!”
“Aye, aye.” The head withdrew.
“Here! ” The head reappeared, ex-
pectantly. “Ask the officer of the day
to hold it a bit —I’ll be up in a shake.”
The head grinned and withdrew.
“Well, Tug.”
“Well, Jim.”
They overcame the embarrassment by
the physical relief of a hard handshake.
Tug picked up the other’s hammock.
“Give you a hand up.”
All along the upper-deck as they
walked aft, Brady’s big figure lumping
the heavy kit-bag easily, his diminutive
cobber beside him not much bigger than
the hammock he was carrying on one
shoulder like a roped banana, men called
goodbye. Even one child of an ordinary
seaman, the phone-number on Brady’s
gun, impelled by the continued chorus of
“So longs,” “Happy ships, cobber,” and
so on, thrust out ope brill-whitened paw,
“Goodbye, chief.”
Brady grinned and swallowed the
other’s hand in his own.
“So long, young feller. And remember
—repeat all orders over that phone.”
Then he was saluting the officer of the
day and running down the tiny gangway
into the corvette’s motor-boat. As it
shoved off Tug called down. “See you
at the steps —seven o’clock boat.”
Brady waved acknowledgment.
HE did not look back at the ship he
was leaving ; not because of nostalgia,
which, her being such a happy ship, he
could have felt, but because his atten-
tion was riveted by the appalling filth
of the boat in which he was sitting.
Brady had been captain of the sloop’s
quarter-deck—responsible to the first-
lieutenant for every bit of paint- and
woodwork from two-thirds of the ship’s
length aft. And in that considerable area
every inch of paint-work shone glossily
and the holystoned wooden deck stretched
as white as a hound’s tooth. A ship is
known by her boats, Brady remembered.
Judged by this, what in hell was he
heading into? The boat’s woodwork —
sure sign of sloth —was painted a dirty
grey instead of being scrubbed white. It
was stained and greasy, streaked here and
there by the smear of carelessly applied
brasso. In the bilges, as she rolled with
her own motion, an oily scum swilled
from side to side, now and then welling
up over the floorboards in odoriferous
filth.
Behind his engine, sitting on an oily
stool, inclined so that he could-trail his
hand over the side in the water, was the
driver, a young stoker. Brady restrained
himself.
“Driver.” He spoke calmly.
The other turned. “Yeah?”
The p.o.’s jaw set tighter—not with
resolve, but the strain of controlling him-
self under the careless insolence of the
reply.
“Don’t you know it’s against orders to
hang your arm over the gun’nle?”
“Yeah, I know —but who’s to see?”
■7 am!”
The driver jumped like a stung horse
at the unexpected whipcrack in the voice
that had drilled a hundred guns’ crews,
“Get your arm in! And keep it in!
You,” turning to stare at the cox’n stand-
ing beside his tiller above him, “report
to me as soon as your boat’s secured.
Well? You heard, didn’t you?”
The cox’n, a sandy-haired A.B. with
his cap over one eye, gulped. “Yes.”
“Yes, what?”
“Yes, chief.”
“Remember it. This boat’s like a
brothel. And by the look of you I’ll have
your kit mustered before you’re a day
older. You .and your boat are a disgrace
to the ship.” He turned to gesture at
the pile of'junk forrard. His hand was
arrested in mid-air, caught by what he
saw half a mile to starb’d. Old Perseus,
the high-sided depot ship moored off the
dockyard, was wreathing herself in urgent
spouts of white steam from her siren,
like a gigantic kettle screaming for atten-
tion. Then, seconds later, came the
screams — whoa, whoo, whoo. Air raid,
red!
FOR a moment Brady hesitated. From
astern, from his old ship, he heard
faintly the clangor of the alarm-bells,
and could see the figures running along
her upper-decks. He had been captain
of the forrard: twin four-inch / gun, its
eighteen-rounds-a-minute his pride. Who,
if anyone, had been detailed in his place?
Then *he looked ahead to his new billet.
So far there Was pot a sign of movement
He sat down again on the tHwart and
ordered the driver.
“Give her all you’ve got.”
The * alarm-bells were ringing as he
hauled himself up the corvette’s dangling
ladder. Already, from the direction of
the aerodrome, the dull thunder of ex-
ploding bombs Was beating across the
harbor.
There was no officer on the quarter-
deck to deal with the motor-boat. Brady
felt the ship shaking—that would be the
anchor coming up. He turned and
shouted to the boat below him.
“What’s your, action station?”
“Oerlikon ammunition-supply, chief.”
“All right. We can spare you. Lie
off in the boat and follow the ship. Keep
your eye lifting for a signal to come
alongside and hook on. Right?”
“Yes, chief.” The boat shoved off.
Brady slung his gear into a doorway
and doubled forrard along the ship’s
narrow waist. At the foot of the ladder
leading up to the fo’c’sle deck he almost
cannoned into a middle-aged, bald-
headed lieutenant hurrying from the mess-
decks.
“Morning, sir,” Brady saluted. “Petty-
officer Brady joining.”
. “Thank God for that,” was the sur-
prising reply, spoken in a quick voice to
match his movements. “Take over the
four-inch gun, will you? Open fire when
you think fit —and if the captain queries
it tell him I said so. I’ll see you after-
wards,”
Then he had doubled up the ladder
with the agility, and appearance, of a
little brown monkey and disappeared to-
wards the bridge.
Before he reached his gun Brady had
a brief moment to consider those remark-
able orders. Open fire when you think
fit. Queer instructions to a petty-officer
in a fully-officered fighting ship. And the
bit about the captain—you could expect
a captain to say it of a junior officer,
but hardly, as in this case, the reverse.
I’ll see you afterwards seemed to have
more in it than a mere routine get-
together to discuss ship’s duties. Some-
how, Brady thought, the tone and the
confidential nod of the head seemed to
promise a confidence. About the captain?
The p.o. grinned at the foolish trend his
imagination was taking, and jumped into
the urgent business of getting his gun in
action.
HIS quick eye took in the dispositions
with pleased surprise. The crew was
properly dressed, in tin helmets and anti-
flash gear; all wore boots (he had once
seen a gun disabled through a breech-
worker collecting an ejected cylinder on
a sandalled foot) and they numbered
with a rapping efficiency sweet to his ear.
When the breechworker turned to greet
him he realised why.
“Hello, Carter,” Brady held out his
hand. “Long time no see,”
The other grinned with pleasure.
“Heard you were joining.” The omission
of “chief,” and the stopping short' of
“Jim,” was a nice indication of the
breechworker’s rank arid character. A
leading-seaman, with lumpy shoulders
and a broad face whose tan could not
wholly hide the freckles, his service was
too long to call a p.o. “chief,” and long
enough, later, in a small ship and in
private, to allow of “Jim.”
Brady remembered him as one of his
breech workers in a twin-gunned destroyer
about two years before. He felt suddenly
easier about his job in the ship. Carter,
as well, would be working with him on
the upper-deck.
By the time he had checked ammuni-
tion, and noted, with something like dis-
may, that there was no time-fused anti-
aircraft stuff, only direct-action, which
would require an actual hit (on a plane
streaking at 300 m.p.h.) to explode it, the
ship was under way, heading down-roads.
There was no sense in sitting on the end
of an anchor-chain like a lame duck.
Brady was about to mention to Carter
the lack of time-fused when he remem-
bered in time —what would be the use of
it in a ship not fitted with the fire-control
equipment necessary to calculate fuse-
length and aim-off? Lucky he’d remem-
bered —the crew would not have been im-
pressed by their new officer-of-quarters
if his first order had been supply ot an
obviously useless ammunition.
As it was, his first order was on a sub-
ject of which he was pastmaster.
“Alarm starb’d! Bearing green two
oh. Angle of sight three oh. Aircraft,
coming towards!”
The'gun seemed to jerk from its fore-
and-aft bearing under the blast o
bellow. From the corner of his ey
Brady caught sight of a md face p
down over the bridge windbreak.
(i Continued on page 20.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3661
Wednesday, April 12, 1950
ANOTHER FLOOD.
“Homebuilding costs in six States have risen by 31 ½ p.c. in three years mainly because of higher labor charges."- Canbera report.
“That home of ours seems to be drifting farther and farther away, Dad."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE RIGHT TO STRIKE.
Judging by the speeches of its members
and its attitude towards measures so far
brought down by the Menzies Govern-
ment, Federal “Labor” in Opposition still
believes, as it did when in office, that it
possesses a complete monopoly of pro-
gressive ideas and that all who think
differently are slaves to heresies, clinging
obstinately to outworn beliefs. Actually
no other Australian political party is so
hidebound, so much the prisoner of its
own past, as is the “Labor” party. The
last “Labor” Government was always
under the influence of this dead hand—
sometimes wittingly and a little regret-
fully ; more often without even being
aware of the touch. John Curtin felt the
weight of it during the war when the anti-
conscription “tradition” —proudest boast
of “Labor” for a quarter of a century —
came into open conflict, as it had been
in fact all along, with the national wel-
fare.
Still, eight years of office can apparently
do a lot of things even to Socialist tradi-
tions. Last year’s coal strike saw many
cherished “principles” go by the board.
Perhaps it was not that “Labor” loved its
traditions less, but that it loved office
more. The Chifley Government froze the
funds of striking unions; it suffered union
officials, mostly Communists, to be jailed
for contempt of court; it used the Army
in an industrial dispute ; it shifted coal
which had been declared “black,”
But a tradition which survived the
coal war, albeit somewhat tattered, was
the doctrine of “the right to strike.”
There is probably not a man in the Par-
liamentary “Labor” party who, if prodded
m the right spot, will not bellow or bleat,
according to temperament, a string of
platitudes on the worker’s inalienable
right to strike. During the coal strike
this shibboleth was a constant embarrass-
ment to the Chifley Government, and
Labor” members found themselves being
continually put on the defensive on the
matter of the right to strike. In general
their reply was something like this; “Yes,
we believe in the right to strike, but this
is industrial issue. It’s a political
X nk «V t No sucb sentiment came from
the Labor” benches last month when
Prime Minister Menzies invoked the
Crimes Act against a political strike on
the Brisbane waterfront.
Nine months ago, when “Labor” men
were indulging in double-talk on the strike
issue, Mr. Calwell went further than most,
but only succeeded in tying himself in
slightly more scientific knots than his
colleagues. His contribution;
. The opinion of most Labof people today
18 j weapon is out-of-date,
and should not be resorted to. But no
Labor man will deny the general principle
ot the right to strike, even though arbitra-
tion machinery has been perfected. Labor
will, therefore, never make a strike illegal
while capitalism lasts.
Although he has probably changed his
mind since returning to the Opposition
benches Mr. Calwell put his finger on
the truth when he spoke of the strike
weapon being out of date. The worker
won recognition of that right in the days
when there was no wage-fixing legisla-
tion ; wages and conditions were purely
a matter of agreement—or disagreement
—between employer and employee and
the withholding of his labor was the only
weapon the worker possessed. It is doubt-
ful whether the strike weapon ever
achieved the direct gains with which the
industrial movement credits it. What it
certainly did accomplish was to awaken
trwb° Cia conscience of the community
of lptiif eed r f ° r a less P rimitive method
employer 6 SpUt6S bet Ween WOrker and
In Australia this took the form of
?n r td tr Mr fl CoUrtS ’/ nd with the coming
into full flower of compulsory arbitra-
tion the moral sanction of the right to
strike ceased to have any vafidiW
although “Labor” has never admitted the
fact, Many years ago Mr. Justice Higgins
who although not a member of the
A.L.P., served as Attorney-General in a
“Labor” Government under Mr. Watson,
so that he can hardly be called an enemy
of the “Labor” movement, wrote:
The arbitration system is devised to pro-
vide a substitute for strikes and stoppages,
to secure the reign of justice as against
violence, of right as against might, to
subdue Prussianism in industrial matters.
Even without arbitration courts the so-
called right to strike is subject to certain
limitations. There are limitations to most
human rights. The real argument is not
that a man has no right to stop work,
but that he has no right to prevent others
from working if they wish to do so —•
the right to strike surely implies also a
right to work? And ex-President Hoover
made a telling point a couple of years
ago:
A new idea has grown up around the
use of the strike; that this weapon can
be employed for political and ideological
purposes and that it can be used so to
injure and endanger the people at large
that in their misery they or the Govern-
ment will be forced to do the strikers’
bidding. It is the people who suffer.
Last year’s coal strike, the rolling
strikes on the wharves and the Melbourne
tram strike all fit into this pattern.
Mr. Hoover added that by the use of
such methods there had arisen in America
a dozen men, not elected by the people,
who wielded greater power over the lives
of the people than did the Government.
In Australia this power is wielded by the
Williamses, the Thorntons, the Healys,
the Elliotts, the O’Sheas and the rest of
the gang who control the Red unions. As
a remedy Hoover proposed arbitration,
with penalties, as did a more recent writer
in the “Saturday Evening Post.” If
America does introduce arbitration it
will do well to profit from our experience
and make it plain to the unions from
the start that when arbitration comes in
the right to strike goes out.
If politicians are hazy on this point,
Arbitration Court judges seem to have
no doubt at all on it. Last year Mr.
Justice Jackson, of the West Australian
Arbitration Court, threatened the Coastal
Dock, Rivers and Harbor Works’ Union
with deregistration unless it agreed to
abide by arbitration. Federal Arbitra-
tion Court Judge Kirby was even more
explicit when he warned the Waterside
Workers’ Federation last August,
The general principle of Judge Kirby’s
pronouncement applies with equal moral
force to all trade-unions registered with
an arbitration court, and the half-baked
“code of economic sanctions” adopted by
the A.C.T.U. towards the end of last year
does not alter the principle one jot.
At the present time the A.C.T.U. is
asking unions to hold their horses until
May, when a special congress will be
held to consider, among other things, “the
latest threat to implement the Crimes Act
in connection with industrial disputes.”
The Council president, Mr, A. E. Monk,
has asked that “any potential stoppages
envisaged by trade-unions to enforce
sectional wage increases should be held in
abeyance pending the special conference.”
The principle of arbitration is accepted
by all parties— except the Communists,
whose avowed object is to smash the
system—and as long as this is so a strike
authorised or condoned by the A.C.T.U.
has no more moral justification than one
authorised by a Cessnock pit-boy. It is
time the “Labor” party, which in office
had bitter experience of the damage
strikes can do to the community, made
this clear to those it professes to lead.
If, as Mr. Calwell said last August, most
“Labor” people believe the strike weapon
to be out of date, why doesn’t this “most
progressive party” bring itself up to date
and tell the people so? There is only
one possible explanation—that it prefers
to follow a policy of obstruction for the
purpose of imagined political gain and
to the detriment of the country. In the
present set-up of Communist control of
the key unions a policy of obstruction is
a policy of destruction.
Two Generals Retire.
The retirements of Lieutenant-General
Northcott and Lieutenant-General Stur-
dee from the Permanent Military Forces
of the Commonwealth round off an
important era of Australian defence
development and of growth in military,
stature.
General Northcott was born on March
23, 1890; General Sturdee in the same
year on April 16. There was then no
Commonwealth, the only link between
the colonies being the moribund Federal
Council. The population of Australia
was 3,150,000: about that of the United
States at the time of the consummation
of the revolution. During their periods
of service the population has grown to
a stage at which it about equals that of
England and Wales on the eve of the
Napoleonic wars, when the United King-
dom had already its Nelson and controlled
a widespread Empire. The Australian
expeditionary force in which they began
active service was at first 60 p.c. born
in the British Isles, though it changed in
nature to 73 p.c. Australian before it
sailed.
It could never have been imagined in
1890 that the day was within reach when
a young Australian, born in a country
town, could become Governor of New
South Wales, the premier colony, a dis-
tinction in vice-royalty then reserved for
Jerseys, the peerage in general and
distinguished British regular soldiers. It
would have been hard to imagine suffi-
cient Australians mustered to carry on,
without aid, military operations compar-
able to the battles of the Peninsular War.
Yet Australia has since figured gloriously
in two Great Wars, in the last one
assembling greater manpower than was
called up in England under fear of
Napoleonic invasion in 1803, and has
established a pool of war leaders who,
while history has not shed the glamor
upon them which their records deserve,
might well compare with Wellington’s
galaxy.
The careers of General Northcott and
General Sturdee are only variations in
the pattern of a dozen other Australian
careers of men who rose from a civilian
origin through volunteer service with the
defence forces to high rank in the Per-
manent Army and to other honors to
which a few years ago Australians had
little or no access.
General Northcott’s birthplace was Cres-
wick, the little mining town in Victoria
which produced also such diverse charac-
ters as the Lindsays, John Curtin and
Dr. A. T. Nisbet, founder of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand College of
Radiology. He went to Grenville Col-
lege, Ballarat, and thence to Melbourne
University. He joined the Light Horse
in 1908, and, as a matter of course, en-
listed for active service in the proud 12th
Battalion of the A.1.F., a battalion which
at one stage on Gallipoli was bereft in
battle of nearly every officer. On Galli-
poli he was so severely wounded that it
was reasonable to expect that his soldier-
ing days were over. But the years after
the war saw him moving through all the
normal grades and promotions in the
Permanent Forces, which had absorbed
him, taking the Imperial Staff College
courses and gaining experience in control
of the various administrative departments
of command headquarters.
His military career brought him, at the
most crucial point of Australian history,
when the Commonwealth was under
threat of Japanese invasion, to the posi-
tion of Chief of the General Staff of the
A.M.F. and Allied Land Forces in the
South-west Pacific Area. Little known
to Australians, he was a tower of strength
in those days. His relations with General
MacArthur, as Supreme Commander, and
General Blarney, C.-in-C. Allied Land
Forces, were excellent and smooth-work-
ing.
It is rarely that three men in such
a position of improvised association,
developed under circumstances of un-
paralleled urgency and danger to the
structure of defence and offence, have
been able to so well sustain their positions
and relationships throughout a period of
three trying years of political stress and
hard-fought battle. It is rarely, also, that
a Supreme Commander has had such
loyalty in a situation in which his im-
mediate subordinates come from the
Army of another nation and have been
trained in diverse schools of thought and
method and that, at the end, he has been
able to feel a warm gratitude for their
co-operation and admiration of their
abilities. Yet this can be said of the
war relationships of the Supreme Com-
mander, the Commander-in-Chief of the
Allied Land Forces and General North-
cott, whose career in the Army reached
its peak when’ he became Commander-in-
Chief of all British Empire forces in
occupation of Japan, a position which he
held until the middle of 1946, when he
became Governor of New South Wales.
His appointment, and that of his
colleague General Lavarack, another fine
soldier, from Queensland, seem to have
finally solved the problem of the source
from which Australian-born State
Governors may be drawn regularly. •
Both have proved that the rigorous
training of military life, its day and night
caffs, its experience in ceremony and
etiquette, and its detachment from party
politics, combined with a familiarity with
the details and mechanism of international
politics which comes inevitably from a
study of higher strategy, make the Aus-
tralian naval, military and air staffs an
ideal pool from which to draw the King’s
representative of the moment.
General Sturdee’s career began very
much in the same way as General North-
cott’s. Technical training took him into
the volunteer forces. More w
than his colleague, he fought m tu . nate
World War I with distiS *t oughout
ally rose to be Australian mdita™”*” 1 "'
sentative in Washington during pre "
with Japan, before he succeeded r® War
Northcott as C.G.S. He is an Sn neral
whom it will be difficult for the Wlth
wealth to do without, exi fen^" 1 " 1011 -
is both in high command^and^on'th’
staff, more the Brudenell White \ the
than General Northcott, a SmuT
soldier with a knowledge tl riy
unequalled in Australia § o f
strategy and war potentialities, fearffin
dangSs g thC C ° mmonweabb of impending
It is symptomatic of the nfFUo
manner of the Australian people tow ards
Its abler men and to the preference f?
mediocrity which has been born of the
class-war” that neither of these two dis
tmgmshed citizens is much known to rtf.
pubhc or appreciated by the countrv
which they served so faithfully for 0 111
40 years. cr
The late ‘'Labor” Government treated
them, in common with their fellow
generals of the Second A.IF verv
shabbily. It denied them the rewards
and honors normal to victory in war and
in General Northcott’s case it even’prc
vented General MacArthur from con-
ferring on him a high decoration in
appreciation of his services to the United
States and the Allies-in-common in the
Pacific.
That is a position which might be
mended with justice by the present Federal
Administration. The conferring of
honors upon distinguished servicemen is
not merely an expression of thanks to
individuals; it is an advertisement to
youth of what the defence services of this
country offer in the matter of careers
and an incentive to ambition in which,
on the military side, the youth of today
is somewhat deficient.
The Flood Disaster.
It will be weeks before the extent of
flood damage in eastern Australia can be
assessed. But Governments talking about
flood-relief grants for the people of coun-
try towns will find their first estimates of
£30,000 or £40,000 well below ultimate
needs. That much damage could occur
to a single town like Dubbo or Forbes
or Sale or Winton, and the list of flooded
towns and villages is the longest on
record.
The greater and more lasting damage,
however, will be outside the towns.
Cowra, Dubbo and Adelong, for instance,
are important vegetable-canning districts,
while all along the Hawkesbury and
Nepean, the Wollondilly, the Colo and
their valleys are most of the vegetable-
and fruit-farms which supply Sydney.
One estimate puts the loss of potato crops
around Orange alone at £500,000. m
eastern Gippsland, as in northern Vic-
toria, earlier, there is heavy flood damage
to dairy- and vegetable-farms.
This is the seeding month for wheat
over most of eastern Australia. V^ st
areas of wheat country have been under
water for weeks ; there has been no nna
working for seeding, and heavy machines
won’t be able to get on the ground or
some time to come. In central-western
N.S.W. it is reckoned that over 350,UW
acres won’t grow wheat this year—a os
of perhaps 5,000,000 bushels.
Lucerne and pastures will have een
drowned or washed out, weeds win
riot as soon as the water goes on
paddocks, there are widespread re P Ol , B
outbreaks of footrot and worms in s
and the blowfly has multiplied.
Add to this all the wreckage of fence ,
roads, culverts, railways and the , k
by sheet-erosion from fallow pa
and by gullying in others, and o
add the earlier losses of stock an P
perty and soil in the coastal wet
the spring, and it is . obvl ° as J? a * bad do-
weather has given the country
Governments will be called l upon
quick relief in the way f repairs
food, but the greater job «
to fencing, roads, buildings, b “ ’ tage
will be hampered by the curre
of material supplies. After th though
come a wild growth of grass, t fown ed
millions of rabbits have been feW
millions more will replace th t 0 a
weeks. The position amounts
national emergency, and . there
State Governments face ele p e deral
ought to be a joint State ever
conference about it at on ‘ O£ j uc tion
the country needed stimula _ P i n es and
of coal, steel, timber, iron,
veterinary drugs ijt heeds it


PLAIN ENGLISH
Coms. and the Crimes Act.
A/ir Menzies in Launceston was
WUH; E Mr_ (hat his Government
“Id have ‘ P a showdown with the Com-
*°n i” Messrs. H. Barnes and T.
2T President and secretary respectively
"f NZ Waterside Workers’ Union, were
" Brisbane telling the wharfies there that
Crimes Act were invoked every
Australian ship on the N.Z. coast would
te temeTput b ove k r the same old fustian
t 8! theNZ “Labor” Governments
f? a , a t the elections as the Comrades
e ftried here over the Chifley defeat:
K£ Government had jailed workers, de-
reaistered unions and registered scab
. 1 This of course, was a refer-
enrelo Sharkey and Burns (punished by
fi for seditious utterances) and to the
Chifley Government’s use of troops in
die coal strike last year; the defeated
m 7 “Labor” Government had to use
similar tactics, but, like the Chifley Gov-
ernment, used them too late.
jy[r. Menzies told his Launceston
audience:
if I am to be told that because a Com-
munist has become a union leader he is
untouchable, my answer is that the enemies
of Australia are never untouchable. It does -
not matter who they are—lawyers, clergy-
men, or anybody else.
The visit of Barnes and Hill to Bris-
bane immediately after Brisbane wharfies,
plainly warned by the Prime Minister or
what awaited them if they persisted with
their “rolling strikes,” unanimously
voted to return to arbitration, was a
patent Communist stunt to try to kid the
men that Menzies was wrong and the
Communists right and that they could
depend on their N.Z. allies.
In his election speeches the Prime
Minister made no bones of what his Gov-
ernment would do about the Communists
if elected. Elected it was —in a vote that
was a great personal triumph for Mr.
Menzies—and it has emphasised with in-
creasing determination that Communist
contempt of the law will not be tolerated.
Australians are in no mood to put up
with interference in their affairs by
agitators from other parts. Proclamation
of the Crimes Act in the Brisbane “rolling
strikes” made the Comrades yell with
rage, and there was great talk of general
strikes and so forth. But the mass of
Australian workers merely got on with
their work, and attempts to stampede them
failed; to the Communists’ disappoint-
ment it seemed that nobody had any
sympathy for their dupes in Brisbane.
Perhaps Comrades Barnes and Hill were
lucky to get back to N.Z. of their own
and not the Australian people’s, will.
Share Prices-—and Values.
Last week the prices for many leading
Australian industrial shares went to a
record high level. But, generally speak-
ing, these high prices were no indication
of good times for investors. Far from it,
in fact. A price of 555. for a £1 B.H.P.
share meant a return to the investor of
only 3 p.c. on his money, and the same
price for British Tobacco ordinaries gave
a yield of only 3.3 p.c. The return from
Colonial Sugar scrip was even lower —
2.4 p.c.
There is a mixture of motives behind
present high prices for Australian in-
dustrial shares. One is the hope that
profits one of these days will catch up
with the expansion that has taken place
in industry, and with the inflation that has
occurred in money values. Another is
the fear that further inflation, because of
low coal and other industrial production,
will cause still further declines in the
value of money, and that investment in
equity shares, land, etc., may be the only
way of preserving the value of savings.
Another factor is the flow of sterling
funds to the Commonwealth, partly be-
cause of the possibility of an alteration
in the exchange rate and partly as a
general investment trend.
It would be quite wrong to
assume from present increased share
prices that investors as a class are doing
well. They are not. They are getting a
far smaller share of the national income
than they did before the war —this
applies more particularly, of course, to
those who have their money in Govern-
ment bonds, but it is relevant enough in
the case of 8.H.P., where the present
dividend of 8.3 p.c. compares with
p.c. in 1941. Income to shareholders in
B.H.P. has increased by little more than
a tenth in the last decade, whereas the
basic wage, based on living-cost figures,
has risen by almost 70 p.c.
The Fate of Comrade Bridges.
The news that Harry Bridges, president
of the International Longshoremen’s
Union, which corresponds to the Water-
side Workers’ Federation in Australia,
has been found guilty of perjury at San
Francisco, thus becoming, subject to
appeal, liable to deportation, may be
good news for Americans, but it isn’t
necessarily so for Australia.
Bridges was Australian-born, which is
about all that is really Australian about
him, though a century ago he would have
been easily recognised in California as
what was known as a “Sydney Duck.”
Bridges’s operations were very similar
to those of the waterside leaders in the
Commonwealth. These are directed
from Moscow in the interests of the world
revolution. He desired to become an
American only in order to have a foot-
hold from which to strike at American
democracy.
It has been suggested that if the United
States Government should deport him, it
will send him back to this, his “home-
land.” But it is not his homeland, since
by his own act, in applying for naturalisa-
tion abroad, he has renounced it. Aus-
tralia does not need any more of the
Harry Bridges type ; at present its Gov-
ernment is devising measures to get rid
of those who already are here.
There is only one country or group of
countries to which he could logically be
be sent —the Soviet Union or one of its
satellite groups. Bridges’s history sug-
gests that Albania might be a suitable
one if Moscow doep not want him, which
is likely, since the Kremlin never forgives
failure.
Wool and the Exchange.
Everybody connected with it must be
wondering why the London wool con-
ference was held. No threat to wool
prices was in sight, and there was so sign
that demand for wool was weakening.
The decision to continue the Joint Organi-
sation scheme “for the time being” was
a foregone conclusion, and could have
been made without all the fuss and bother
of the London meeting.
The J.O. scheme had two purposes:
to sell off the accumulated wartime-pur-
chase wool without disturbing the market
for post-war clips and “put a floor
under prices” by buying in wool when
auction prices fell below the determined
level. It succeeded so well with the first
that it got rid of 1.0 million bales in the
five years it has operated and has only
about 250,000 bales left, which will be
sold by next June. There has been no
necessity to do anything about the second.
A lot of people believed that when all
the wartime surplus wool was sold J.O.
would cease to exist. This was inferential
when it was created, but later experience,
together with the obvious determination of
Australian growers to keep Government
hands off wool-marketing, indicated pretty
clearly that, if the floor-price idea was
to continue, J.O. was the only body to
do it.
A statement released by Mr. Menzies:
The [London] conference considered a
reserve-price scheme. This, it decided,
could be introduced only after prices had
fallen from the present high market levels.
The general effect of the scheme, how-
ever, would tend to modify upward price
movements. .
Delegates agreed that the scheme had
potential value as a stabilising factor m
international trade and that it warranted
further consideration.
There’s more in that than meets the eye.
The distinction between a reserve-price
scheme to stabilise wool prices and one
to act as a “stabilising factor in inter-
national trade” needs to be thoroughly
understood. Bound up with it are such
things as dollar-sterling differences and
the 25 p.c. exchange “premium” on Aus-
tralian exports of wool and other land
products.
There’s a strong sentiment in Australia
for reduction of the exchange rate as a
first step in deflating the overblown Aus-
tralian pound, and woolgrowers’ organi-
sations have been getting in early with
pressure against it. It’s hard to see how
the pressure on the Australian pound can
be eased unless it is brought nearer to
parity with sterling. Woolmen would
benefit with the rest of the community
from it, and the Federal Government has
already shown that, unlike its prede-
cessor in Canberra, it will not place sec-
tional interests above the general welfare.
"Controls" in Maoriland.
From Auckland: With several well-
aimed strokes, New Zealand’s Holland
Government has made a promising
beginning to release Maorilanders from
the bonds of price-control and other re-
straints that have enchained them for
years past, M.L. Reserve Bank s pin-
pricking effort to gain a grip on funds or
securities held abroad in the sterling area
by enterprising Maorilanders is among
the latest powers to go, and probably the
bank, which was never happy about
maintaining the pretence that it could act
as policeman over funds scattered round
the world, is among the most relieved.
The only external control it’s supposed to
exercise now is in the dollar area, where
Maorilanders have valuable assets, in-
cluding insurance.
New Zealanders who placed funds out-
side their country in late years did it
partly to gain freedom, and weren’t likely
to go cap in hand to the Reserve Bank
every time they'wanted to do any buying
or selling. They ignored the R. 8., and it
had no means of compelling them to toe
its mark. Its powers had little more than
a nuisance value, and were flouted
accordingly. It knew this, and nearly
everyone else concerned seemed to know
Most of the funds were in Australia,
N.Z.’s nearest and most profitable invest-
ment field, where “hot money” joined
more permanent wealth in the past year
(Continued on next page.)
THE WRECKERS.


A
v:;<:v
m
ii
craven*
1
SOW
-fa
UK
68B0E/B
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITjU
and a half. This “hot money,”, the most
shy and evasive of all capital, was well out
of reach, and Maordanders didn’t worry
much whether or not the R.B. was
officially keeping an eye on them, because
there was nothing it could do anyhow.
There’s a world of difference between
policing exchange on the internal and
external fronts. N.Z.’s tight ban on
transfers of funds out of the country still
operates, and hasn’t many loopholes. The
Reserve Bank is at the helm and knows
it’s master there. It has a wad of more
than £45 million of its own to look after,
and the six trading banks, which work
closely with it, have nearly half as much
between them. That’s £6B million, all
told, which would have been thought the
limit of affluence back in 1938, when N.Z.
was scraping the bottom of the bucket
and was down to a mere £9 million, but
pounds don’t go so far now ; besides, the
Dominion has big pent-up demands for
equipment, and, to a lesser extent, for a
fairly wide range of rationed imports.
No Maorilanders are kicking against
reasonable holding of the purse-strings
here, but many of them can see no further
use for import-licensing, which, they say,
should be next to go.
A cheer goes up with each move to clip
the wings of price-control. In
houses and building sites were freed,
the accompaniment of a chorus or he ,
hears,” and this has been followed up y
decontrol of more than 100 items, mai Y
household lines, brushware and stationery,
along with professional fees, rat ® s .
newspaper ads and commercial prm 1 =■
White-collar men who had been forgo
while wages snowballed breathed m
freely. It’s likely the new liberty wi
used moderately, otherwise the
would be spoiled by boosting cos
exposing the new policy to attacks
disgruntled Socialists and control a
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament opens up shop again
next week after the Easter recess, and it
won’t be long before the Banking Bill
finds its way to the Senate. Chifley’s pro-
mise that there would be no sham fight
sounded genuine enough when made, but
although the ex-P.M. may think the Com-
monwealth Bank board a suitable issue
on which to face a double-dissolution, not
all his followers are of the same mind.
There are also sharp divisions of opinion
on the proposed measures for the ban-
ning of Communism, so the coming ses-
sion could easily produce some surprises.
It will certainly provide some fireworks,
even if the projected motion of censure
against the Speaker does fizzle out.
State-election season is fast approach-
ing—Queensland votes on April 29 and
Tasmania May 6; Melbourne tipsters seem
confident that Hollway will choose May
13. McGirr is still studying signs and
portents; on Monday an unofficial
observer reported having seen hurtling
across the sky a flying saucer with June
24 engraved upon it.
Queensland is at present staggering
under a barrage of speeches from the 174
candidates contesting the 75 Assembly
seats at the State election on April 29.
Only three members are unopposed—all
Country party, including Opposition-
leader Nicklin; 54 seats are straightout
fights between “Labor” and a Liberal or
Country-party candidate; there are 12
three-cornered and six four-cornered con-
tests. Under the first-past-the-post system
the issue may well be decided by the re-
sults in the two last-mentioned groups,
espefcially in the northern electorates,
where Mundingburra Aikens’s North
Queensland Labor party is contesting
seven seats.
N. S. Wales “Labor” is all one happy
party again—so it says. But the four
blokes who were dumped by the executive
after their own electoral committees had
endorsed them are still on the outer,
although three of them attended the get-
together. The fourth, F. Stanley, has
resigned from the party and intends to
stand for Lakemba against the executive’s
nominee.
In Victoria events are moving towards
an early general election, with the L.C.P.
and the Country party each claiming to
be the real bulwark against Communism
and Socialism —all others false imitations.
After the L.C.P. offer of amalgamation
had been rejected by the Cockies with
the comment that it was “impertinent,
bumptious and completely dictatorial” the
State Council of the Libs, decided to
contest every seat at the next election, a
former president claiming that on the
basis of the Federal-election figures there
was no reason why the party should not
win 44 seats —there are* 65 in the
Assembly,
The Country party’s reply to this was
that it was considering putting up candi-
dates for some of the metropolitan seats,
its annual conference having urged it to
“carry the fight into the heart of the
city.” That last mustn’t be taken too
literally; the Dunstan-McDonald party
isn’t thinking of attacking “Labor” strong-
holds like Footscray and Collingwood;
outer-suburban seats held by Hollway’s
men will be the objective.
At a conference in Bendigo the Vic-
torian Country party turned down reso-
lutions criticising the Parliamentary
party’s action in staying in Opposition.
Several delegates said, in effect, that they
did not care where the party sat; it was
how it voted that mattered What the
public would like to know is where the
party stands. The L.C.P.-C.P. feud,
carried to the electorates, can benefit no
one but “Labor.” In solid anti-“ Labor”
districts one of the two contending parties
may gain votes at the expense of the
other —in the Federal elections and again
in Westralia the L.C.L. was the gainer—
but in borderline electorates the squabble
is more likely to give “Labor” the seat.
The revived New England new-State
movement, which presented a petition to
Premier McGirr the other day asking for
a referendum on self-government, got en-
couragement from one Sydney morning
daily and from the other this;
A new State could easily become as
centralised as the old States. The real
solution lies in a greater development of
Australian regionalism.
As to the one, more centralisation in the
sense of more State capitals is the very
thing the Commonwealth needs; as to
the other, regionalism is only a euphem-
ism for more bossing by the big cities.
N.S.W. Local Government Minister
Cahill’s forced amalgamation of country
shires is a shocking example of that.
A few facts quoted by the New Eng-
land New-State movement: the proposed
new State would be more than twice the
size of Tasmania ; in population it would
be bigger th%n Tasmania or Westralia ;
in value of production it would rank
ahead of those two States and also South
Australia.
The McGirrs announced last week that
the superannuation payments of some
railway and tramway employees would
be increased by 25 per cent, next year.
Anybody who supposes this has anything
to do with the forthcoming N.S.W. elec-
tion is just a nasty-minded anti-working-
class capitalist stooge.
When the House of Commons re-
assembles next week the Attlee Govern-
ment, with its majority for practical pur-
poses reduced to six—the two Irish
Nationalists do not attend Westminster —
will face another challenge when the
Liberals press for a debate on electoral
reform. The Libs, have favored pro-
portional-representation, under which
their party would be the chief gainer,
but may compromise with the Conserva-
tives for preferential voting instead of
first-past-the-post. Attlee will be on a
tough spot. He will find it hard to pro-
duce democratic arguments to refute the
Liberals’ claim that on the February
figures their party is grossly under-repre-
sented in the Commons, yet the same
figures show clearly that he could never
have won the last election under preferen-
tial voting.
There was no significance in Labor’s
by-election win at Neepsend. The vacancy
was an artificial one created by the resig-
nation of a safe-seat member to enable
Attlee’s Solicitor-General, Sir Frank Sos-
kice, defeated at the general election, to
re-enter the Commons.
Advocates of proportional-representa-
tion should study the recent history of
the system in Tasmania, which, on May
6, will have its third general election in
less than years, although the statutory
life of its Parliament is five years. Of
11 Parliaments since 1916, four have been
won by a party holding only 16 seats in
a House of 30, giving it a majority of one
after appointing a Speaker. Twice, in-
cluding the Parliament just dissolved, the
Government had only 15 members and
had to rely on an Independent accepting
the Speakership. In a landslide it is pos-
sible for a party to gain a comfortable
majority—the Nationalists won 19 seats
in 1931 and “Labor” 20 in 1941—but
the normal condition is a House almost
equally divided.
At the annual conference of the Vic-
torian A.L.P. on Sunday a resolution was
passed ordering every State and Federal
“Labor” Parliamentarian “to join an in-
dustrial group and take an active part
in it,” One speaker supporting the move
said “Every Labor man has got to get
off the fence. Fence-sitters are as bad
as traitors who stand on Communist
tickets,” If the Victorian A.L.P. is really
in earnest it will support the Menzies
move to ban the Reds from holding
union offices; anything less than that
will be fence-sitting.
Three former “Labor” M.H.Rs. are
trying their luck at State elections. In
Tasmania Dr. Gaha has nominated for
Denison and H. C. Barnard, Repatriation
Minister under Chifley, for Bass, Dr.
Gaha is an old hand at State politics ;
he was at one time Tasmania’s Minister
for Health. He did not stand for re-
election for the Canberra talking-shop
last December; Barnard did —and was
beaten by Liberal Bruce Kekwick. Up in
Queensland J. W. Hadley, overwhelmed
in Lilley on December 10, is offering his
services to the electors of Kedron, a
metropolitan seat.
F. L. Edmunds, one of the two “rebels”
expelled from the Victorian L.C.P. a
fortnight ago, ignored the expulsion and
offered himself for endorsement by the
Hawthorn electoral convention. He was
turned down, and the nomination went to
a former Mayor of Hawthorn, Leslie
Tyack; Edmunds will now stand as an
unendorsed L.C.P. candidate. Tyack rep-
resented Hawthorn over 10 years ago. He
won the seat as a U.A.P. man in 1939 and
lost it a year later to an Independent,
L. H. Hollins, who in turn was defeated
by Edmunds.
Caught on holiday by a “New York
Times” man. President Truman let it be
known that he intended to win the “cold
war” and to “perfect a global free-trade
system” which would introduce a “golden
era.” We had one of those “golden age”
fellows ourselves, but he seems to have
got lost on the way.
Calwell failed to make it 20 years on
the Federal A.L.P. executive, being outed
by J. V. Stout at the party’s Melbourne
conference. He’d been there 19 years,
and can blame the Chifley crowd’s pan-
dering to Communism for his defeat.
What he learns from it —if still capable of
learning—is that a defeated party is
always likely to belt its josses.
New Zealand is closing its Moscow
Legation—for reasons of economy. Our
own External Affairs department could
do with a little economy, and Moscow
seems as good a place as any to start on.
Cheerful note from out the waste of
flood-waters in Queensland:
Election campaigns of all parties in
western Queensland will be bogged down
for at least a fortnight because of the
flooded country in the Flinders, Carpen-
taria, Belyando and Barcoo districts. Thank
heavens, all we’ll hear from them for a
while will be what comes over the air.
“It’s an ill wind...,”
In Maoriland the Holland Govern-
ment is tackling the difficult task of un-
scrambling the Socialist eggs—or some of
’em. Its Labor predecessor made
workers’-compensation insurance a State
monopoly, and during the election cam-
paign the National party promised to
restore to private companies the right to
compete in that field. Holland is working
on legislation to give effect to this promise,
but it’s not a simple matter. The point
is that all employers are required by law
to insure their employees with th- r,
eminent office. There is rm 7 1 .the Gov-
closing the Slate office, but
will give employers the right tn f W , lU
their cover to private S r Scf"*'
panics. ute com-
Another legacy Holland has i„k •
is a batch of claims for compensating d
unmined coal which, unde? the Pr/° r
Government’s Coal Mines Act becaif
the property of the nation. Owner??
these hidden coal reserves haven’t been
modest in the preparation of their claims
so far they are asking for £1549 millio? ’
equivalent to about 500 years’ output
the current rate of production, P at
Comrade J. J. Brown, Federal president
of the Australian Railways Union,?ireS
Comrade J J. Brown, secretary of the
Victorian branch of the ARU r sa ?!
Brown in all essentials, including alle?
ance to Moscow), not, to call a rail strike
m Victoria because (a) it might mean
deregistration and (b) it would threaten
an award for the N.S.W. branch Rail
men in both States had another reason-
“ Brown knows we won’t have his ruddv
strike on,” 3
The contest for the Nedlands seat in
the Westralian Assembly resulted in the
elimination of the oldest member of the
last Parliament, 86-year-old Sir Norbert
Keenan, and the election of 26-year-old
Dave Grayden, who will be the youngest
member of the new Assembly. Grayden
had an unsuccessful try at a by-election
for the the last Parliament, and was
campaign-organiser for his brother Bill
who won the Swan seat at the Federal’
election last December. He stood for
Nedlands as an unendorsed L.C.L candi-
date and beat the selected party man,
C. Bird, with the aid of Keenan’s prefer-
ences.


1847
in
ULI
iiiiiiiiiiijuiiiij,
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Crook news for crooks, the Inter-
C oi Criminal Police Commission
national Hague next month—
fuSan representative, William Francis
fif s Australian Police Commissioner.
One of the most colorful personalities in
2? force, which he got into in 1906,
L to top-level from the ranks, hes
str j n g of names tacked on to him,
w of hem Johns of the Mounted and
u.Va Bill The horse reference stems
from “ six years with the Terri-
fy Mounted, with tune °ff *o ride
S the old Ninth Light Horse m
Palestine, from begmnmg to end of
hat rumpus. Big even for a bobby-
over 6ft. 3in. and a bit over a powerful
l 7st in his younger days he was a
formidable amateur heavyweight, and is
still a champion horseman. Just turned
65 crandson of a Cornishman who settled
on land near Adelaide 100 years back,
Johns has an unusual hobby; public
speaking, which 'may be useful when he
debates among the world’s enme-
scotchers.
No one is more interested in having
the politicians’ promises about Blair Athol
fulfilled than its chairman of directors,
Douglas Corrie, here mined by Lambart.
DOUG. CORRIE, of Blair Athol.
A Brisbane Grammar product, he began
his journey to his present string of busi-
ness interests with the Bank of Aus-
tralasia, had four years with a shipping
firm, looked Sydney over for a year, then
headed north again to partner his father
in stock- and sharebroking in Brisbane.
Now director of five sizeable Queensland
concerns, and for the past 20 years presi-
dent of the Stock Exchange Club, in his
younger days he believed in the all-work-
and-no-play adage to the tune of repre-
senting his State in Rugby Union, rating
championship class in swimming for four
years, and gaining some renown as a
bowls aQC * heavyweight lifter. Now he
Presenting Canada’s views to the British
commonwealth committee on economic
md to s.-e. Asia, meeting in Sydney next
onth, Robert W. Mayhew is an Ontario
an who shifted west to Victoria (British
o umbra), and made a sufficient success
manufacturing to rate his presiding over
hi! V t Cto P a Chamber 0 f Commerce and
In iq-j, s Manufacturers’ Association.
Oh tt lifted back east, this time to
kent' V fh ouse Commons. He was
term ttlCre 0r *h e next two successive
tn trf’ 10,I 0 ,. lec°me 1 ec °me Parliamentary Assistant
heaH 6 *T. mster of France, and, in 1948,
nmc* * ais ° wn Ministry of Fisheries, his
felin, nt P° st *. He’ll be no stranger to his
of ,'f' conim itteemen having met most
whif4> em * at Colombo conference,
Ikh u, a * ew wee ks ago decided to estab-
Wac fn c °nnnittee. One of his two sons
Cevlrm • ? ying with the R.C.A.F. over
eylon m World War 11.
Accepted honorary membership of
Melbourne’s Scrap-Iron Flotilla Associa-
tion, Viscount Cunningham of Hynd-
hope, once better known as C.-in-C.
Mediterranean, and, more descriptively,
“Old Close-the-range.” All the old
string - and - wire contemptibles of
Goebbels’s sneer Stuart, Vendetta,
Vampire, Voyager, Waterhen —fought
under 1 * his command, and in his letter of
acceptance the Viscount paid tribute to
that “great sea officer,” Hec Waller,
D. 5.0., of Stuart of Matapan and Java
Sea legend. A grand association with a
grand new member.
“K.G.W.”; New Australian J. V.
Branting, hailing from Sweden, now in
Brisbane, has found a comfortable little
niche for himself —removing tattoos.
Using what he claims is a secret formula
discovered in Sweden, of which only two.
others know the composition, he has
practised on a New Guinea Digger who
had a spider tattooed on his bald skull to
scare mosquitoes, girls who are finding
the marks inspired by their American
war-time escorts heavy handicaps in the
matrimonial stakes, and a tattooed lady
of a travelling circus who was left high
and dry, and highly colored, when the
show folded. For information of sailors
and other intending customers, Branting’s
method takes the offending picture off in
one piece, preserving the design, which
can be kept at home as an unembarrassing
souvenir of the time it got there.
David Milne, who won the University
of Melbourne School of Architecture
competition for an emblem for the 2/2nd
Field Company, got his taste for archi-
tecture at Changi. Made prisoner when
the 2 / 9th Field Ambulance was captured,
he spent the rest of the war in the Singa-
pore prison, and off-watch attended
lectures on art and architecture at the
“university” established by British
p.-0.-w. One of 60 Digger students
who are continuing their studies at the
School of Architecture, he has built his
own home at Warrandyte.
Some years ago this page reported of
Professor William John Dakin (passed on
at 67 in Sydney last week) that he “has
the air of a contented young seal splash-
ing joyously in a boundless and sparkling
ocean of knowledge.” Ocean deeps were
his domain, and" his findings in them
brought him world-wide recognition, par-
ticularly as regards plankton, those
stretching acres of minute pink beings
which whales strain by the thousands
through their narrow gullets. For almost
20 years Professor of Zoology at Sydney
University, as he was in his native Liver-
pool, he studied in Kiel and Italy,
matriculated in England’s Victoria Uni-
versity, and from then on studied or
lectured from Heligoland to Belfast, from
London to Perth. In the Kaiser’s War
Professor of Biology in Westralia’s Uni-
versity, in Hitler’s he was ? Technical
Director of Camouflage, putting into
practice what he knew of his animal and
marine friends’ color-merging propen-
sities, That rare combination, the
specialist in a fascinating field who can
convey his expert knowledge in palatable
form to a layman’s understanding, he was
one of the Commonwealth’s most interest-
ing broadcasters.
New g.-m. of the Fremantle Harbor
Trust, F. W. E. Tydeman is as well-
equipped for the job as his name is
appropriate. Before War II he helped
design and construct Jaffa, the Palestinian
port whereabouts Jonah embarked for
Tarshish and encountered the whale.
With that harbor in use, Tydeman shifted
east to Singapore as chief civil engineer,
got out just before the fall, and con-
tinued opening, and keeping open, the
British Army’s ports in s.-e. Asia. As
boss of Rangoon’s waterways he handled
up to 15,000 tons of cargo daily. After
tidying-up Singapore when its temporary
owners had fled, he shipped south to
Fremantle as a consulting engineer. Here
he prepared plans for the construction of
a dock, and for the port’s development in
the next 30 years. These have been
approved; now, at 49, their originator is
all set to put ’em into practice.
Already with three medals in his bag
—the Sir John Verco, the Farrer
Memorial Trust and the Royal Geo-
graphical Society of South Australia
—Professor James Arthur Prescott
packs another, with his recent award of
the Australian Medal of Agricultural
Science, allocated annually for distin-
guished service in this field. Appointed
Director of the Waite Institute in 1938,
before he was 50, the prof, is one of the
world’s leading authorities on agricultural
chemistry. Born in England, educated
there and in France and Germany, he
spent four years at Rothamsted
(Eng.), and for the next eight was super-
intendent of field experiments at the
Bahthn Experimental Station in Egypt.
Came to Adelaide in 1924, Professor of
Agricultural Chemistry and Chief of the
Division of Soils of the then C.S.I.R.
In this field he made his name classifying
and mapping Australian soils; study of
his soil-map, first printed in 1931, is con-
sidered a “must” wherever land develop-
ment is mooted. As well as his medals,
he owns to M.Sc. (Manchester) and D.Sc.
(Adelaide).
Among the 250 degrees, diplomas and
awards ladled out by Chancellor Charles
Lowe at the Melbourne University’s
annual frenzy was the David Syme Prize
to the man with the best record in
research in connection with the industrial'
and commercial development of Aus-
tralia. It went to Dr. F. J, Fenner,
M.8.E., professor of biochemistry at the
National University, Canberra, and
formerly engaged in research at the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne. Born in Adelaide in 1914 and
educated at the University of that city, he
served in the A.A.M.C. jn the Middle
East and the South Pacific in the late
war. Dr. Donald Thomson, of Mel-
bourne, got belated recognition of
work in Arnhem Land, where he played
a lone hand for several years among wild
natives; his award, the Harbison-Higin-
botham scholarship for research in his-
tory, politics and economics.
Prior has captured here the tight lips
of John Austin, chairman of Self ridges,
who kept them in that position for the
four months preceding the shock merger
announcement of his firm with G. J.
Coles. When they do open they talk like a
machine-gun, punctuated by emphatic
nods of the head which has ably directed
SELFRIDGES’ CHAIRMAN.
the affairs of Sydney Glaciarium, Mick
Simmons and Associated Blue Metal
Quarries, helps control Morley Johnson s,
and in a King’s Cross hotel-room with
E, B. Coles, of Melbourne, handled the
deal which sent Selfridges’ shares almost
overnight from 40s. to 100 s. Now 46,
Sydney-born, accountant by training and
(to his shareholders) one of the most
popular of chairmen, Austin is as keen
as he looks. He has worked particularly
hard for Selfridges.
F. S. Simpson, president of the Poll
Shorthorn Society of Australia, was
hiding mild perturbation behind this
urbaneness when Prior sighted him at the
society’s annual dinner in Sydney. He’d
read in a Sydney newspaper that the Poll
Shorthorn judge was “Mr. W. R. Ross,
Coldstream Guards,” and he wondered
whether or not the Show cattle should
have worn dress-uniform. However, it
F. S. SIMPSON—Poll Shorthorns.
turned out that the judge merely came
from Coldstream (Vic.), just out of Mel-
bourne, where Simpson went to school
(Scotch College), having come up there
from the A. J. Simpson Shorthorn stud
at Clifton, Hamilton (Vic.). Simpson was
clearly destined to become a president.
Not only did he marry a granddaughter
of that grand old lady, Mrs. Whitney, of
the famous Coombing Park stud, but he
" started breeding Poll Shorthorns (founded
on his father’s stock) on his Gunnawarra
stud, Gulargambone (N.S.W.), before the
P.S. Society was formed in 1935, when
he became an inaugural member. A
brother of that T. L. Simpson who won
a D.F.C. in 1918 with the old A.F.C.,
became a Vic. Graziers’ Assoc, president
and helped found Ansett’s, the Gunna-
warra man was with the R.A.A.F. in the
last war, returned to his stud interests
and breed-society affairs, and this year
managed to collect a prize or two at
Sydney Show. When he gets a chance
he plays a bit of tennis.
Into the Silence:
At 76, in Melbourne, William Hassan, actor,
who delighted thousands of Australian kids who
never saw him. Always encased in a skin,
pelt or fur, he capered through scores of J. C.
Williamson pantos as Dick Whittington’s cat,
Mother Goose’s goose or some other species
of fauna, whose actions he studied for hours
at wild-life sanctuaries and the zoo. During
50 years he was never absent from the Christmas
panto season, and could sustain the role of a
polar bear even in a heatwave. Born in
England, he arrived in Australia as a young
man.
In Christchurch (MX.), at 73, Alfred James
Bunz, distinguished musician, conductor and
teacher. After studying in Vienna under
Leschetizky (among whose other pupils were
Mark Hambourg, Artur Schnabel and
Paderewski) he had eight years back in MX.
before crossing to the Royal Academy of •
MuSic, obtaining there the R.A. Medal. While
in England he batoned the London Symphony
as guest-conductor, and, back home, the Crystal
Palace Orchestra and Christchurch Operatic
Society. Of handsome presence, with a Con-
tinental manner and puckish humor, he made
his home a mecca for the visiting distinguished
—among his guests being Backhaus, Friedman,
Moiseiwitsch and fellow-pupils Paderewski and
Hambourg.
In Melbourne, Eric Thomas Fyander, a
director of Foy and Gibson and general
manager since Foy’s amalgamation with Gilpin s
91 country stores in 1944.
At 90, in Townsville (Q.), Angus Cameron,
among the North’s most experienced sheepmen.
Hailing from Victoria, he came up to Lans-
borough Downs station as a lad; since then he
had managed sheep properties in the Hughenden
Muttaburra and Winton districts, helped found
the Hughenden Show Society and Jockev Club,
and became known as sheep- and cattle-judge
in many western and coastal show-rings. He
was still woolclassing at 83.


Society
“Horseless H.”: Melbourne’s tram
strike, now in its seventh week, has its
humorous side. For years my mate has
walked daily from South Yarra to the
city through the Domain on his way to
work; but since the strike began he has
reluctantly been driven to town. The
motorists are so decent he doesn’t like
to refuse the lifts.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Forced to pull up at an
intersection, a motorist friend was hailed
by a youth of doubtful appearance.
“Coin’ St. Kilda way?” Seeing that he
was in a stream of traffic overflowing
towards that area it seemed futile to
deny the fact. Whereupon the youth
turned to an elderly woman, inebriated
to the point of near-staggers, hustled her
into the back-seat, received a florin for
his enterprise, and hastily disappeared.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Remember the garments, for
both men and women, which Doctor
Jaeger gave to the world? From neck
to ankles, of pure wool, they may still
be obtainable ; I don’t know. If they are
still worn, their death-knell has been
rung by a cabled announcement from
London. Peter Russell, an English
fashion-designer, has laid it down that if
a man wants to keep a woman’s love he
should never wear combinations. “They
are so unromantic.” If Australian men
want to know with what to replace the
doomed garments, the talkies will show
them. The Hollywood boys seem to have
developed the habit of parading in their
underwear, like any starlet. Hollywood,
of course, is the home of true and lasting
romance.
* * * «
“Strict Veg.”; Melbourne “Argus’s”
strenuous efforts to make some sort of
stir since the paper’s change-over to some
sort of “Labor” policy have at length been
rewarded. In a recent issue the Elizabeth-
street journal, having heard, or thought
it heard, from the Mint that only 15
pennies had been minted in 1933, invited
its readers to communicate with it if
they had any 1933 pennies in their pos-
session. Thousands found they had them,
and telegrams, long-distance phone-calls,
short-distance ones and callers converged
on the office from seven in the morning
till past midnight, and a special staff had
to be put on to deal with the rush. One
earnest investigator reported having found
20 of the 15 in Wangaratta alone, and
several hadn’t to go any further than
their own pockets for a sample. Fifteen
“proof” pennies inadvertently got into
circulation in 1933, and an “Argus” re-
porter, hearing the story, got the impres-
sion that they were the only coppers
minted that year.
“Becks”: The good old verb “to job”
is certainly not obsolete (B. 15/3/’5O).
It was used as recently as March 9 in that
shrine of pure English, the House of
Representatives at Canberra. Rowley
James, M.H.R. for Hunter (N.S.W.), in
the course of a dissertation on foreign
affairs and international amity, regaled
the House with what he termed a parable;
Let us assume that the right honorable
member for Bradfield [Mr. W. M. Hughes]
is my next-door neighbor, and that he and
I have a scrap because he threw dirty
water from his house into mine. He jumps
the fence and jobs me. I prosecute him,
and he is fined £lO. He is not able to
pay the fine, and he tells his children the
story of how he has to pay £lO because of
the action of Rowley James. But if I am
big enough to say to him, “Here is the
£10; you are welcome to it,” he will
probably shake hands and remain friendly
instead of preaching hatred against me to
his children.
The picture of Billy Hughes, eight stone
nothing and rising 86, jumping the fence
and jobbing Big Rowley is a delightful
one. Rather more difficult to swallow is
the thought of the same gentleman
pocketing his pride and the tenner graci-
ously offered by the man who took him
to court. The Little Digger would be
more likely to tell Rowley what to do
with it —even at the risk of being jobbed
himself.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Most men look forward to
a lessening of their labors as their years
increase beyond the allotted span, but
there’s a Geraldton (W.A.) man whose
“ Zonk!”
self-imposed task grows heavier each
year. He’s getting on now—turned 75
last February—but he still tackles the
job with the zest of youth, although he
realises that the very nature of the work
precludes the possibility of his seeing it
through to its logical conclusion. The
job, which he started years ago, consists
of drinking a whisky for every year of
his life on each birthday. I’ve never
actually seen him in action, but I’m told
he’s looking forward to becoming a
centenarian,
♦ * * *
“Melbn”: If Russell Grimwade, the
Melbourne benefactor, really wants to
present Captain Cook’s cottage to the
people of Victoria, he will have to hurry.
The house is threatened with demolition,
vibration from heavy traffic having caused
the outside walls to crumble. The house
in question stands at 88 Mile End-road,
London, next door to a distillery. Cook
lived there from 1764 until his last expedi-
tion. All six of his children were born
there, and his wife remained the owner
until early un the nineteenth century.
The cottage in the Fitzroy Gardens, Mel-
bourne, is a charming example of old
English domestic architecture and is an
adornment to the city, but it wasn’t
Cook’s cottage —it was his father’s.
* * * *
“G.M.”: It might not have much effect
on the housing shortage, but another link
in the chain of Sydney’s early history
will shortly be severed when Winslow
Cottage is delivered into the hands of
the demolisher. Built by James Milson
on a 50-acre grant in 1838, the old home
is a two-storied weatherboard structure
situated on what were then the upper
reaches of Careening Cove, long since
reclaimed and now known as Milson
Park.
♦ • • *
“Bo”: A little, bent, scrubby, wizened
fellow, he wanted to know where the
patents office was. Perhaps it was grati-
tude for my having directed him that im-
pelled him to divulge to me the object
of his visit; though, judging by the pride
with which he unfolded his voluminous
plans, it was an excuse to trot out his
brainwave. I asked him what it was;
he gave me a rather reproachful look
and said it was a garden-rake. But not
an ordinary one. That was obvious.
When I remarked about the peculiarity of
the prongs he informed me they were
made that way so that a gardener walking
on them in his bare feet wouldn’t become
impaled. The fact that they would fail
also to rake a garden didn’t seem to
strike him. But it was the handle that
intrigued me. I thought it was telescopic.
That’s exactly what it was, he delightedly
informed me. By various springs and
gadgets it went that way when, lying
prone, it was stepped on by an unwary
gardener—and instead of the handle
flying up and hitting him in the chin it
would merely hit his chest, an organ
better able to withstand a clout. I’ll be
looking out for it on the market. Some
manufacturer is sure to snap it up.
* * % lie
"Col M.”: How loudly we cheered
Tom Mix as he galloped along hanging
from the saddle-horn by his feet, pro-
tected from an ambush of crooks by the
stout frame of his horse, and giving
them a broadside from under the faithful
moke’s belly! I regret to report that he
was a piker. Recently I saw a youth
driving a car past my house with all his
body from the hips up lying along the
running-board. He must have been steer-
ing by very remote control, possibly with
a foot on the wheel, for, with the bonnet
raised, both his hands were engaged in
pulling rods and producing loud roars
and short bursts of speed from the motor.
The youth was part of a large garage
some distance away which uses this street
for testing purposes. Not quite so spec-
tacular, but a more frequent vision, is
one of these mechanics driving the car
with his assistant leaning out through the
open doorway with his head under the
running-board, listening for intelligence
from the transmission-shaft. But to me
the most startling of these sights was that
which looked like a clear case of hit-run
driving. The car was doing 30. Spread*
eagled along its bonnet with one ear above
the motor and his feet hanging down the
radiator was a man in overalls. If there
are any Boy Scouts about hankering for
their first-aid badge, I suggest that they
pitch camp by the side of this thorough-
fare ; sooner or later something suitable
must happen.
* * * *
“Blue P,”; Natural-history students
ought to be interested in a mild discussion
going on in Sydney’s oldest daily. On
April 1 a reader claimed that wrens were
nesting in Easter-daisies, On April 5
another claimed that silver-eyes were
nesting in hydrangeas and had pulled
down a leaf to make a roof. I dismissed
the first claim with a grin because of
the date; the second makes it plain that
wrens and silver-eyes in Sydney have sud-
denly decided to nest in the autumn —a
phenomenon that should intrigue all
ornithologists.
* * * *
“Tricia”: Parked immediately behind
a sleek, shiny 1949 model was its
decrepit, antiquated counterpart of 20
years ago. Its tyres were treadless, two
doors had long since parted company
with the body, and the tattered hood was
threatening to leave the framework. The
comparison was ridiculous. Presently
the flashily-dressed owner of the 1949
model arrived and seated himself at the
wheel, conscious of the envious looks
thrown his way. Ten minutes later the
owner of the relic arrived and started
grinning. He was still er i„„; n .
as he pulled out from be® t& Wldel y
front, and as he passed he Car *
pathetic look at its owner tSr a . s Vm-
shirtsleeves on an engine ihat refused't
* * *
“Reefer”; Ducat-huni« ™
Reef (B. 22/3/’50)? At the W Barrier
of Long Island there is a wreck »,, e \ d
can be seen at low water on a calm a Ch
Odd timbers taken from It c,. m day-
theory that it is a Spanish
period earlier than Captain (W? • a
At the northern end
another wreck. Possibly it is a c a
coastal steamer which went n ast n"!
Lighthouse one stormy day if Wa = D Dt
to cross the Passage A storm
from view and it was not seen agtia
That is comparatively recent histon,
Dent can't be much more than
* * *
“Emel”; This daily menu, quoted in
a Scots paper about a year ago
exactly austerity: Breakfast, porridge and
hlvf’ri bre f d and rnar garine; lunch
boiled ham slice of corned meat Zt
toes, beans, bread pudding with chocolate
sauce; high tea, soup, pie and potatoes
tea, bread and margarine; supper hot
chocolate, bread and butte. fe™
to this fare was added free lodging - S
deen menU ° f Craiginches Aber-
. “T.McN.” : It’s from the murder serial
in my morning paper;
First he heard the noise. It was far
2’ki SOniew J} er e beyond the house and
probably m Elm-road, which led up from
the railway-station. The noise was a faint
wailing, as of children; then it churned,
and grew to a banshee howl. It swept
closer and stopped, evidently near the front
of the house. Frederick Manning, with a
startled face, had backed away..,. It was
evident that he knew the sound, too. It
was the sirens of police motor-cycles.
Mr. Manning was smarter than I. I had
thought it was the neighbor using a new
electric lawn-mower.
♦ * * *
“A.L.D.”: I wonder if “Ek Bum’s”
plain-speaking military neophyte who
spent long years as a Senator in Can-
berra (B. 15/3/’5O) was the gentleman I
once heard over the air in an amusing
tussle with an irritating microphone. He
was taking part in an election broadcast
and had hardly started when, loudly and
irritably, he interpolated into his speech:
“Take the damned thing away.”
* * * *
“Jobber”: Electric belts (B. 22/3/’50)?
Years ago, when I was a very junior
clerk in one of the banks, one of the
principals of a concern that adver-
tised the things used to bring along
savings-bank pass-books, covered by an
authority from the owner in the bush—
they all seemed to be in the bush—and
the bank would collect the balance, less
the usual commission, for, credit of the
ghoul’s account. We had an old
messenger in the bank who was a martyr
to rheumatism ; he approached the repre-
sentative of the firm one day and asked
about the famous belts. He was given
good advice —to keep his money; the
belts were only meant for the mugs in
the bush!
* ♦ * *
“Dalmore”: I asked a young chap
whether he had ever thought of the Army
as a career. “Gripes, no,” he replied.
“It’s bad enough having to work tor a
boss eight hours a day.” So I suggeste
that he was probably thinking of setting
up a business of his own in the ne
future. . “Not me,” he told me. in ere
is too much worry' when you work
yourself.” .
* * * *
“Sixenate”; The police could gi ve
a long list of former delinquents »
like that multiple-sentence man \ •
29/3/’5O), have got their feet on m
straight and narrow. It’s a .^ and }f tr : er
today, with a ready hand for nt i v
who wants to reform. One such r
learnt what a tab the cops keep o
efforts. Having got a job (with pon
help) as a lorry-dnver, he wasgjjg
along nicely until, m an um
district, he fouled a parking rlde e \&
booked. He was in a stew because
didn’t know how his employe
take the breach when he had t a
time off to attend court. Tna
cop dropped in, made a no t to
about the weather, and told h oUter
worry about the “booking m cC \\ed
suburban court, as it had been y,
at the request of the police. co ps
driver was mystified about bo .
had found out about the o nQ ’ ticeC i
guess is that his name_had reco rds
when an application for P koning a
was made, and the P°b c ®». . t a trier, 1
prosecution would be a baa ] j o hn
had asked for its withdrawal, £
who saw him knew nothing the I
his station had been 1
information to him WfthoUt 0 ji
ONE PREMIER TO ANOTHER
(Second Epistle.)
Dear Ned, as I said
In my last.
We’ve taken some blows in the past,
But it’s no use repining
On fortunes declining—
The future is catching up fast.
You’ve read what was said
In the Press,
By those who would cause us distress.
But our troubles, heart-breaking,
Are none of our making—
A tissue of lies, nothing less!
Take our floods!
Mine on the ’Bidgee, yours on the Burdekin.
(Room 32 has gone back on its word again
Cooking a scheme to make me look absurd
again.)
And our duds!
You’ve got a mob of ’em; I’ve got a glut
of ’em.
You’d never believe what a cartful I’ve got
of ’em.
Sometimes I think I’m the worst of the lot
of ’em.
Am I, Ned?
Take our coal!
Yours at Blair Athol, mine at Wallerawang,
Unscratched Awaba and virginal Burrag’rang —
Critics assume that we none of us I care a hang.
Ton my soul!
Coal, they maintain, is the key to prosperity.
That’s just a proof of their crass insincerity.
We’ll keep our coalmines intact for posterity.
Won’t we, Ned?
They say, up your way
Things are bad.
I’m sorry to hear it, old lad.
If northern defections
Lose you the elections
You’ll know that I’m with you, bedad.
I’m told (if it’s old
Stop me, Ned),
All troubles must come to a head.
You’ll know the worst soon,
But perhaps before June
We’ll both be politically dead.
N.S.W.
JASBY.


“Plop”: A friend who works in the
Government office which issues renewals
of driver’s licences recently looked up
from his typewriter attentive to. sounds
coming in from the counter. “And why
do you want a duplicate of your driver’s
licence? What happened to the one we
sent you?” The other gave a nervous
cough. “I tore it up,” he said. “Thought
it was my light bill.”
« * * *
“Clooter”: In England, as in Australia,
and (I presume) in other parts, sporadic
efforts to stir up public enthusiasm —and
cash donations —for the erection of war
memorials come to sudden and dismal
ends. It was soon realised that, with
the memorials of World War I around
them, people wouldn’t be interested in
statues or cenotaphs and the like, but
apparently they won’t even come at utili-
tarian memorials such as halls, parks,
hospitals, etc. There’s probably a good
deal of psychology involved. The World
War I memorials became mockeries to
a lot of people when World War II got
going, and there’s a very widespread con-
viction abroad that before any sort of
memorials to World War II are completed
World War 111 will be on the way. An-
other psychological point is that the public
attitude to memorials has changed. Most
of the men who fought in the last war
hold that its best memorial would be to
forget it, and when it is suggested that
something concrete should commemorate
not the war but the men who died in it
the invariable answer is; “Did memorials
stop their being forgotten after 1918?”
* * ♦ «
“Brolga”; A medico pal thought he had
discovered the cure for baldness (B.
22/3/’sok He had prescribed a mixture
for a patient suffering from asthma; a
week or two later the patient reported
that the mixture hadn’t done the asthma
ntuch good, but, taking off his hat, he
demonstrated a remarkable new growth
°t thatch on an erstwhile very scantily-
covered dome; he reckoned the mixture
? s responsible. Doc and the chemist
tn° ad ma de up the dill-water got
gether and began to reckon up their
Prospective fortunes in millions. How-
ph as , a further test the chemist, also
y taln on top and also prone to
a S re ed to take a course of the
himself. His report: asthma
h improved, hair failing out fast.
* Jjc jj* jj.
of ' • Th e mental processes
whaf 0 enthusiasts may become some-
JSL bew ddering to the fellow who
22n/fr m t be fellow who watches (B.
Plavs tK our local Rugby team
verv nk e - nei Bbboring town one aspect is
the' nn n VIOUS: Rust y Hobson, who leads
the rW Sltlon , to victor y or Valhalla, is
upright tlCSt payer that ever tortured
season a y . oung sportsmen. During the
teams se l e . cte d from the various
Plavs m yS tde adjoining district. Rusty
a chanL° U y dlstrict ’ s team - But he is
Play P a , yer ' be wants to do is
other Sru clean football; and all the
of it T , wants to do is make a brawl
busines/ p nngleader of all this filthy
from thn c 9 u rse, is Bullock Brody,
chosen h! Various districts a team is
Probables » eP n S n nt ,°“ r county in the
and what ' Bullock is in that team;
a Same he plays—or would
play if big Smasher Grundy stopped
“playing the man” instead of the ball.
Smasher is picked for the N.S.W. team,
and, boy, doesn’t he give those Queens-
landers curry! Of course, he is selected
for the Aussie team. And what he would
have done to those Chooms —if they hadn’t
started to whip in the dirt! Put him
in the ambulance-room before half-time,
“Well, thank goodness—none of those jobs suit us!"
they did; got no idea of good, clean
football.
* * * ♦
“Uramao”: A Maoriland bishop, noted
for his length of limb and his strict
disciplinary nature, was not altogether
popular among the young curates. One
of these, desirous of absenting him-
self on some social engagement and
having no wish to incur the wrath of
his Lordship, rang up the bishop’s place
to se§ if the coast was clear. He failed
to recognise the voice that answered to
his call, and asked: “Is Long Tack Sam
about?” Back came the reply: “Long
Tack Sam speaking.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When the letter
from Germany reached Perth the address
read: “Mr. W. Osbome was living in
Perth, 1925. In the first war fie was
staying at Remagen on the Rhine in a
family Gruner at the gasworks as a
p.-0.-w. We lost his address. He got
married about 1924, he had a mine.
Perth, Australia.” Perth sent it to Kal-
goorlie, where they advertised it. A man
saw the advertisement and notified his
father, who claimed the letter. His name
“Excuse me!"
is G, J. Osbome, and he now lives at
Guildford, a Perth suburb. While a
p.-0.-w. in 1917 he was employed in a
gasworks, where the manager was named
Gruner.
* • * ♦ *
“X.S.”: Of interest to factory-owners
who step up production, or imagine they
do, by broadcasting music to their em-
ployees, is a decision by Herring, C.J., in
the Supreme Court in Melbourne. Issue
was between Fetter Mills Pty., Carlton,
and the Australian Performing Rights
Association. The company refused to
take out any licence as required by the
association, maintaining it had the right
to broadcast without paying royalties,
and they did it from 28 loudspeakers
blaring for 6\ hours daily. His Honor
held factories have no such right and
made an order in favor of the associa-
tion. What the factories ought to do now
is to have their ’speakers blaring out the
sublime words of Homer, Plato, Shak-
speare and some of those other fellows.
Nobody has to pay them royalties, and
they might really step up production.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A friend of mine
reckons his dad, though not a professor,
is as good an example of the “absent-
minded” species as it would be possible
to find. Friend, driving his new car,
kept a secret from his family, saw his
old man in George-street ineffectually
hailing taxis. When Ron drove up and
threw open the door the old chap slipped
in, briefly said “Wynyard,” made a
cursory remark about the weather and
began to read a paper. Amused, my
friend said nothing but drew up at
Wynyard and threw the door open ; then
as dad produced the money for his fare
he said quietly, “I don’t think you need
pay for the ride, Dad.” Then the old
man woke up with a “Bless my soul, it’s
Ron!” The old gentleman is by no
means shortsighted ; it was simply that he
didn’t associate his son with a car and
therefore failed to recognise him when
he saw him driving one, ' ,
“Strict Veg.”: A slang word that
appears to be falling into disuse (B.
29/3/’5O) is “wowser.” When I used the
word in conversation with our office-boy
he said: “What’s that mean?” Born
and reared in the word’s spiritual home,
too.
* * * *
“Turret-head”: Haven’t read All About
Ships and Shipping, but I’m afraid “Mac-
nell” (B. 29/3/’5O) must have been too
well entertained in the wardroom on his
inspection of cruiser Australia last month
when he found she “still had all eight
teeth,” instead .of the book’s six. She
had “X” turret and its twin guns drawn
during her last big refit in England: the
lost weight being made up in extra
gunnery-control equipment.
* * * *
“Bass”: The columnist of a Perth daily
is still chuckling over his story of the
stationmaster who reached out to pick
up the staff from the engine-driver and
found that the latter had substituted a
live goanna. That joke, .or a variant,
has been played by drivers ever since
stiffs were introduced. A more serious
twist was given to it once when a station-
master reported the engine crew for some
breach of the regulations. On the next
trip through the driver passed over the
staff correctly, but red-hot. I believe the
incident led to the framing of another
regulation.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Just as the newspaper stuffed
under the arm of the Ormond statue
in front of the Melbourne Technical
College passed unnoticed for months, so
the latest defacing has escaped official
observation. Some idiot has daubed the
pedestal and figure with incoherent com-
ments on the politics of the man who
spent £250,000 of his own money for
the education of the worker. By some
quaint process of reasoning he is linked
with Mr. Menzies as a '“Fascist.”
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s Singing Police-
man, recently mentioned, has a successor
in a singing tram-conductor. The rhythm
and tempo of the music he produces
communicates itself to his actions, and
he even punches tickets adagio and some-
times presto. His whistle has been silent
now for nearly seven weeks, and I
fervently hope it hasn’t been lost to the
service.
* * * *
“P.L.G.”; If “Jemac” ever passes my
way I’ll demonstrate the possibility of
“B.A.K.’s” burning-glass experiment—
through an inch of plate-glass if he likes,
and at a range of 6ft. Heat lost in passing
through the window is less than eight
per cent., which, still leaves plenty for
scorching purposes. The passage of years
may have made an interesting specula-
tion seem real to “8.A.K.,” but more
than “Jemac’s” obvious inexperience
with burning-glasses is needed to refute
him.
* * * ♦
“Szechuan”: Reference to professional
ratcatchers (B. 22/3/’5O) reminds me of
contacts with professional grasshopper-
catchers in China. To obviate hardship
to this profession, Government pro-
grammes for destruction by poisoning had
to leave a fair share of the ’hoppers for
the catchers, who sell them for food.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Kids are unable to get any
appreciation of the reality of violence and
bloodshed (B. 15/3/’50); the same is true
of many adults. My classic example was
an amiable friend with whom I spent an
afternoon shortly after my enlistment for
World War I. He was quite heated about
my statement that I had no personal
animus against Germans, and re-
garded with regret the necessity of help-
ing to slaughter any of them. Kill the
lot, he urged; no good German but a
dead German, Use the bayonet; if the
boys got out of hand and wiped out
prisoners and civilians it would be all to
the good. While he breathed slaughter
his wife placidly peeled and pared
apples; but his flow of gory eloquence
stopped suddenly and he flopped back
in his chair, his face paled and his eyes
closed. While his wife and I sprinkled
water on him and used other means to
restore him to consciousness, she showed
me her finger bleeding from a little nick
with her paring-knife. “He always faints
at the sight of blood,” she explained.
Could a man so upset by a trifling blood-
letting have any realisation of what the i
wholesale slaughter in which he found a
verbal delight really meant?
* * * ♦
“V. Cluse”: A State transport boss
having deprived our somewhat exclusive
subbub of trams and substituted buses, a
first-class controversy over the virtues or
otherwise of both systems has been
raging. Loudest noises emanate from the
kind of people who, years ago, opposed
the steam-train as it replaced the horse-
coach and later demanded laws pro-
hibiting motor-cars. Argument for or
against is based on premises ranging from
the sublime to the gorblime, but it re-
mained for one retired gentleman to cap
them all. “It’s me dog,” he said. “Every
day he used to come up to the tram-stop
with me and wait there while I went down
to the pub for an ale or two; he’d be
there when I got back. He don’t like
buses ; won’t go near ’em since the day
he tried to bite one and it rolled him
over. Now he don’t come up with me.
I tell you it’s pretty crook when a man’s
got to go without his dog for their damn
buses.”
POETIC JUSTICE.
, ethmild be no piace for bookmakers in a
“There sh lty> xheir parasitical, calling should
civilised com th were made to do some of the
be abohehea. wou m also be better to look at
wor lds wor country clergyman.
tta lfcot.be field:.
toil not, neither do hey spm-
TT„|i;/they’ve deemed it toil to wield
SMS as they’ve slowly peeled
1 A tenner ofi to pay a win-
In any case a Tare event.
And as for any spinning, you 11
Agree it’s limited, that bent,
Tcfvarns, or maybe when they ve lent
Their presence to a two-up school.
They really haven’t any use.
They’re on the world’s most perfect cop.
Out de their game they’re oft obtuse.
Exactly nothing they produce
Except of headaches quite a crop.
Through mugs who study form and price
Before they do their dough on certs
fNot knowing most are “on the ice ),
McShortodds lives in paradise,
With limousines and silken shirts.
They’re not athletic lly inc i' ! ] ,
These swingers of the fielders bag;
For that their chasses weren t designed.
Their muscles would be hard to hnd,
Their stomachs are inclined to sag.
To pulling at a fruit-machine
Or climbing up into a bed,
To bellowing the odds between
The races to the punters keen
Their exercise is limited.
To one gent, it seems passing strange
They’ve been allowed so long their lurk.
It’s time, he thinks, there was a change.
If left to him, he’d soon arrange
That they engaged in useful work.
What sort? Well, what a joke’t would be
If bulging bookies, fat and slick,
Were by some twist of irony
Put on a job where they, not we,
Perforce had need to use a pick.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Kelms”; i I have a sympathy with the
cove (B. 22/3/’5O) who didn’t know
whether to keep his bins half-full or half-
empty. During the Depresh I undertook
to make a gate and swing it for
a cocky at Kellerberrin (W.A.). He paid
me on completion, but wasn’t altogether
satisfied. “She’s not just right,” hei com-
plained. “If a gate’s swung right she
swings shut when she’s half-shut, an’ open
when she’s half-open.” Trying to figure
that out I didn’t notice the twenty-odd
miles I tramped to the next job. One
thing I’ll swear to —he was serious.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl, Fleming and
I were busy sinking a 20ft. hole at the
rear of the hut. When it was done we
intended to place a small structure on
top of it and use it for sanitary purposes.
Pocketknife, instructed by the boss, was
showing the new jackeroo where every-
thing was—woolshed, stables, men’s hut,
breaking-yard, galley, meat-house and so
forth —and the lad sighted our activity
and became curious. “Keep clear of
them blokes,” Pocketknife warned.
“They’re cranks. The goats reckon
there’s gold on this slope an’ they bin
sinking that shaft for two days. Boss
can’t get any work out of ’em. Wouldn’t
you think they’d have more sense!”
But the jackeroo was young and imagina-
tive, and that night he got Little Curl
aside and asked him for the right oil
about it. Curl told him Pocketknife was
apt to get things a bit mixed, that there
was no gold there but that he and his
partners were after opals. Since the
hole was deep and our horses were
wandering about we hung a lantern over
the hole that night. Up at the homestead
the jacky remarked, “Gosh, those fellows
down there must have struck something.
Look, they’re running a night shift.” We
heard afterwards it took the whole family
nearly an hour to get the boss back to
normal.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Westralians think
rather kindly of their sharks —the sea
variety—which haven’t made themselves
particularly conspicuous since the days of
the penal settlement, when they were en-
couraged to discourage escaping convicts.
They weren’t regarded as more than a
passing nuisance in the days when the
cattle-ships from the nor’-west unloaded
their cargoes off-shore and let the beasts
swim to land. Now, sharks are supplying
much of Perth’s snapper cutlets, and
it’s quite common to see a man-eating
shark in a caf6. But we’re claiming a
record, even for the West. A carpet shark,
caught near Busselton, was carrying a tin
of dripping in its stomach. Good drip-
ping, in a sealed tin. We claim the shark
was acting in the best traditions of Wes-
tralian hospitality.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: For weeks now from
Port Melbourne along the eastern shore
of Port Phillip Bay to Mordialloc a host
of men and kids roam the beaches every
morning and gather large numbers of flat-
head, flounder and other fish that have
been cast ashore or which, feebly swim-
ming in the shallows, may be caught by
hand without a struggle. The peculiar
thing is that the affected fish, when cooked
and eaten, do not harm humans. For a
while the phenomenon baffled everybody.
Fishermen had never heard of such a
happening, so fresh water from surface
drainage was blamed ; then the possibility
of weed-killers being washed down drains ;
while others attributed the piscatorial
malady to masses of rotting seaweed
generating sulphuretted-hydrogen. It was
then found that garfish and salmon were
untouched, and that only bottom-living
fish were affected. This led C.5.1.R.0. bio-
logists to examine a mysterious brown
scum, 9in. up from the sea-floor. The-
layer consisted of dead dinoflagellates, a
microscopic form of marine life, which,
thpugh normal inhabitants of the sea,
have never been found here in such
plague-like numbers. It is these that
stop the fish breathing. One remarkable
feature is the high proportion of big
flounder and yank-flathead that is being
cast up.
* *!= * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I got caught in a
bloomin’ flood once,” Mat said. “Out
from Warraeknabeal on the old Yarriam-
biac. Me an’ another bloke was camped
in a old mud-brick shed on a. flat, an’ the
crick come up one night and we had t’
get out in the dark in water up t’ our
knees. There was a house on a rise, an’
me mate saw some lights in it an’ went
up there. He come back an’ said the
“If you girlsh wanna beer-rinse you're stiff!"
people in the house wasn’t scared be-
cause they was well up above any level
the flood might reach, an’ if we liked
we could go up for the night an’ camp
on the veranda. Well, up we go, an’
just as we get there half a dozen more
people come up from the flood t’ take
shelter in that house. There was a bloke
with whisky an’ another bloke playin’
the bagpipes, an’ me and some other
blokes got playin’ nap an’ I won eight
an’ fourpence. Round about midnight a
girl comes round with a bucket o’ tea an’
a dish of sandwiches an’ we has some.
A bit later on she come back an’ called
me aside an’, whispers there’s some cold
mutton an’ a bottle o’ beer in the kitchen,
an’ if I’m careful I can slip in an’ help
meself without nobody knowin’. So I
says right-oh an’ slips through the kitchen
an’ round the back an’ grabs me knot
an’ hits out through the water for the
Brim-road. But I got caught in the flood
an’ had t’ spend the night in a tree.
Still, a man was safer there than in a
house with a girl chasin’ him with cold
mutton an’ beer.”
* * * *
“The' Pirate”: The taste of fish
certainly alters with the sea-bed. Out-
sizes in flathead we hooked on the grassy
shallows of huge Swan Bay (Vic.) ate so
sweetly one hardly recognised the flesh ;
yet similar flatties from outside Port
Phillip heads near by were flavorless.
Again, flounder from the sand .about
Mud Island are the best in the bay, but
the same flat fish at Clifton Springs, a
mere 15 miles away but on a different
bottom, were too rank and bitter to
enjoy. Fishermen attribute it to the
iodine in the seaweed.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Ben and Sandy were plan-
ning fishing trip, but, doubtful where
to go, decided that Ben should ask the
advice of old Bobtail. “Well, I asked
him,” Ben reported back, “an 5 he reckons
they’re bitin’ well in the Brandy. Yair,
an’ he’s a wily old bird is Bobtail,” Ben
.continued shrewdly. “Goes fishin’ every
weekend, and I bet he don’t want nobody
cleanin’ out his pet places. Told me t’
be sure ’n’ go down below the junction
a couple o’ miles, so I bet that means
the fish is all up above. You ’n’ me ’ll
play safe and go well upstream.” Up-
stream the country was rough, and the
two anglers found the going heavy. Hour
after hour they stuck to it, scrambling
over rocks and fighting a" way through
banks of blackberry. They got not one
bite. “Must surely get on to ’em soon,
Ben,” grunted Sandy. “We’ll walk up
another half-mile or so. Bobtail’s been
catching plenty, I know that, so they
must be here somewhere.” The two
struggled on till nearly dusk, then, ex-
hausted, called it a day and mad<»
ward. At the junction they rTn
Wharton laboring under a heavv h*®
“ ’Day,” Pete greeted them. “You blfe
been fishm’ upstream ? Crine* if
didn’t y’ get hold of old BobtaU'/ Told
me t be sure ’n’ £0 down a few mUes
below the junction, an’ he was right too
the fish is just laid on down there” ’
* * ** * ‘
“8.A.K.”; To clarify this snake bud
ness for ‘The 0.D.” (B. 29/3/’50): £
body challenged the main text of hU
theories; I merely submitted that Joe
doesn t always work to a pattern Ad
mittedly it would be a raw newchum who
took his eyes off a stationary snake—if
there was somebody within call to brim*
him a stick—but I’ll “see fly” “keep his
eye on Joe until he finds a dispatching
weapon”—unless he has a glass optic
In the instance that started this sym’
posium I would have needed a television
set to watch that reptile while 1 got the
stick. Of course, 1 could have carried
out another ritual that used to be
drummed into my juvenile ears by
allegedly snake-wise bushmen: “Put your
hat down on the ground ; the snake won’t
move while he can see that.” But, alas,
1 have tried that one, too, and found it
no more accurate than many another
bush axiom.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: That fellow who seasoned
the sheets of stringybark by leaving it
sapside up until the sun hardened it (B.
22/3/’5O) must have been a New Austra-
lian. The real bushman smoke-cures it.
Thus treated it will last as long as
galvanised iron and keep out the rain just
as well.
* * * #
“Bo”: The new hand was chockful of
confidence. A tractor? Nothing easier.
He could drive that or a 14-horse team
or anything else. A minute after the
boss told him to take it down to the
western paddock it had got away with
him. Swerving across the yard it
brought down Mum’s lineful of clothes,
mashing them into the mud as it careered
along. Slewing round, it caught
the edge of the tank-stand, tipping over
the full 800-galloner, which rolled into
the kitchen garden* and flattened four
beds of vegetables. Bouncing off the big
corner-post, the tractor was making
straight for the back veranda, but the
hand swung the wheel just in time.
Eventually he stopped it in its second
sortie past the broken tank-stand. As
the boss came roaring up, the hand, a
happy grin spreading over his face,
pointed to where the tin dish in which
the family washed at the tank stood just
in front of the tractor-wheels. By
cripes, that was lucky,” he exclaimed.
“Another yard or two and that dish
would ’a’ bin mucked up!”
* * * *
“Tarbush”: The iron of the yard-fence
was nailed to two horizontal three-by-
twos, the bottom one of which, where
it slanted to the iron, being the home ot
three red-back spiders. I watched a small
wasp with light-orange head and thorax
and black abdomen boldly push through
an -opening in the web and advance,
selecting a victim. Within a few secon s
it hung paralysed from the silken trap.
The other spiders stayed motionless, as
though carved. The wasp, several times
smaller and lighter than its_ prey, e
began to manipulate the inert spi
across the web, past the other dange
arachnids and down to the 8 r °u •
Walking backwards, the insect
dragged the red-back slowly
seventeen feet of stony sod » 1 „ nn .
came to the 16in.-high edge of me
crete veranda floor. Still proceedmg
backwards, dragging the spider Y
jaws, she struggled up the vertical
until she reached the top two '
where the surface had been fi nis^ ed L d
glassy smoothness. Here she
for I foothold, her deheate hmd f«t
flickering over the cement while the 1
most legs took the , ei / tne am i that
strain of her own body an
of the spider Frustrated ® sible
sideways, feeling for any p
unseen crevice. Finally,
fell with her load to the g ro y nd recove red
a minute she was sufficient y along
to drag the spider a co^ ple t 0 aS cend.
the foot of the wall and agai j, 1
This time she found a small era
the smooth upper surface, w j n
feet working “hand over he ne xt
crevice, and gained thestoj). veran da
stage, across the , a£ i a t the
floor, was easy. She left h r of
foot of the concrete-wall at tn
the veranda, and began th u p t be
atory flight. Returning, she p wall
spider and dragged it up a V late .
and into a crack behind the
Anyone who thinks big g j an g er ous
and mountain-climbing . t 0 con-
and strenuous exercises is 1
sider this little epic,
LOOKING FOR THE COW.
When the dew-wet grasses glistened
In the light of early sun,
Dreamingly I looked and listened —
Morning, oh, so well begun!
In the thick of bush and bramble,
Silver webs new-spun with gold—
There to dawdle, dream and ramble
Through the glories manifold;
Oh, the joy that was my measure,
And I did not care much how
I might squander time and pleasure
When I went to find the cow.
How I wandered down the gully!
How I whistled ’cross the flat!
Aye, appreciating fully
Things all set to marvel at,
My full heart so well contented
As I idled wide and free
Smelling grass and flowers scented,
Peering into bush and tree
Where joys were ripe for finding
And I was so busy now
—All the hills and gullies minding—
That I couldn’t find the cow.
In that early sunlight walking
With the air still soft and cool,
Mysteries of paddocks stalking,
Wading in each shallow pool
By the reaches of the river—
In the silver in the sun
With the ripples all aquiver
And the sunbeams on the run,
Oh, the joys of wayward straying
’Neath the sway of branch and bough,
Home from school the morning slaying
So that I could find the cow.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON


“Wonk”: Shuffler was looking after
Harriman’s place while the family was
away, and, knowing they were about due
back, I dropped in. I found Shuffler
flat-out digging over a garden-bed. “Yair,
they’re cornin’ home in the mornin’,
the odd-jobber told me, “an’ I’ll be goin’
night ’n’ day t’ have things finished be
then. It all comes o’ the silly way they
do things nowadays. System, they call
it. Boss wrote it all down f’r me afore
he left; all the jobs that’s got t’ be done
over every week. An’ he says if I don’t
do ’em the one day I got t’ do ’em the
next, see, an’ I ain’t t’ tick ’em off till
I’ve done everything for the week.”
Shuffler shook his head with a sigh.
“Mightn’t ’a’ been so bad if me brother
hadn’t ’a’ come for a fortnight or more
an’ wanted me t’ go into town so much,”
he went on. “The work sort o’ crept up
on a man them weeks* an’ I got a couple
"I always preferred Workin' in an office to a fact'ry!"
c ti] i° unc * s or so be’ind with the tickin’-orf.
t’ c\ t re< ?k° n I might have ’er pulled up
got atG »» t morrer mornin’. I only
nn . ; • He paused, and, diving for a
‘*y . ’ thoughtfully consulted his list,
thp lr ’ j at s f i§ht, I only got to water
non a^ en three more times,” he an-
budfpf S? ing t 0 B rab UP a watering-
horcpf I got t’ clean out the
the rV. tr °i Ug k or l ast week an’ this, give
the ° i fourteen more feeds, an’ take
tiinp„ r P las eggs down t’ the store four
m£ s. Then I’ll be through.”
ti sj: jjj 2|g
Paddock 13, ' ’ en ®tll took on his rough
unconr S °j me years a B° he was quite
erned over the two rocky outcrops
it embraced, thinking he would soon
have the place cleaned up. He dug out
every burrow with the exception of the
two rock retreats burnt all fallen timber
anc j destroyed all hollows where a rabbit
could hide. With the rest clean, he turned
his attention to the outcrops, which,
because of their situation at the only
available water-supply, could not be
netted without a great deal of trouble
and
expense. His onslaughts on the
bunny hideouts have included everything
from fumigant to dynamite. At one stage
he imported a couple of ferrets; another
t jme be built an enormous bonfire on
top, which burnt for days with a heat
that cracked several of the great rocks
j ntQ more fissures for the rodents. The
only answer, then, was traps. For years
Bill has had ten or a dozen traps around
t b e outcrops. He leaves them set, and
when he t alon « ,hro k ws <*•* the
dead , uns and re . se t s> a number of times
the rocks have been cleaned out, with
no catch for weeks; then more strays
get in’from a badly-infested neighbor,
are l ed by some uncanny instinct to Bill s
Waterloo, and once more the trapping is
resumed. Bill has collected many hun-
dreds of rabbits there, and the outcrops
are more trouble than all the remainder
of his 640 acres. As the old cove claims,
“j bere ’ s more j n choosing a paddock
than meets the eye! ”
“J.R.D.”: You can ban the comic-
strips any time, as far as we bush blokes
are concerned, so long as the city re-
porters continue to handle everyday bush
tQ pj cs w j tb their present knowledgeable
touch. On the eve of the big Easter
Show, Sydney newspapers published a
breathless account of a wild bovine that
ducked out. of the Showground without
waiting to inquire about the traffic and
parking regulations of the big city and
gQf himself considerably tangled with the
populace. One newspaper started him off
as an Aberdeen-Angus steer, but a few
lines farther down promoted him to the
status of bull. This wild black poll
scattered people right and left, tossed a
boy varying heights from 6ft. to 12tt.
in the air, then gored a horse,
According to various sources, the kid was
(a) playing hide-and-seek behind a tree
and (b) on his way to the Showground
with a billy for a free milk hand-out. The
fate of the savage animal varied from a
penitent return to the fold to death from
overexertion. Eventually one of the
papers published a picture of the mis-
creant which proved the scribes right in
every particular with the exception of (a)
color, ( b ) polledness, (c) sex and (a) breed.
He was a big horny Hereford bullock.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver strolled into
the pub and found Dud Spender on the
seat in the corner. He’d been caught
many times before, but decided a Jimmy
Woodser was hardly in order. “Have a
drink, Dud?” he invited. The other
lounged forward. With the first one
down, Seventyfiver ordered a second,
and, a bit later, a third. “Not a bad-
lookin’ mong y’ got there, Dud,” he
remarked presently. “Always have the
same sort o’ breed though, don’t y’? Bit
like me. Bloke gets stuck with the one
breed all his life. Trouble with that, o’
course, is he don’t know it’s the best
unless he gives other sorts a trial.” “What’s
—er” Seventyfiver leaned forward at
the ready. “What sort o’ dog is yours?”
inquired Dud. Seventyfiver relaxed
again. “Aw, same as that bloke o’ yours
there,” he explained. “’Course I ain’t
sayin’ them ain’t good all-round dorgs,
Dud, but have y* seen that kelpie cross
o’ Ted Butcher’s? Ted reckons keepin’
three lizards on a hot tin plate ain’t even
pastime fr that joker o’ his. Yair, y’
want t’ be like me, Dud, when that dog
o’ yours wears out, an’ get what I’m
goin’ t’ have next.” “Yair? An’ w>at
are you going to have next?” “Eh?
Aw er—thanks, Dud. Make it a double-
Scotch.” And Seventyfiver’s empty glass
“CuT out the jive and act civilised
landed back on the bar with a ring of
triumph.
* * * *y
“Old Bushman”: Saw frogs playing an
unusual role in a market-garden near
Keysborough (Vic.) the other evening.
The hoppers were using growing
pumpkins as take-off platforms from
which to pounce on the purple-spotted
white cabbage-moths. The owner told
me the frogs lived under the pumpkins
by day, and one year when there was a
plague of moths the garden was thick
with jumping frogs from sundown to
sunrise. Now he never plants cabbages
without first sowing pumpkins alongside.
* * * *
“Towser”: “I’m emptying the wheat
silo at Kirrawan Siding one time,” said
Nugget. “You know Kirrawan —just the
wheat bin and nothing else but scrub and
emus for miles. You had to either work
or go dingbats, but I couldn’t load any
wheat because the railways wouldn’t
bring me any trucks. The only train that
had stopped for about three weeks was
one that had shunted off an empty petrol-
tanker. I’m staring at this thing because
there was nothing else to stare at when
suddenly the great idea hit me of how I
could nark the railways for bringing me
no trucks. The next day the length-
runner stopped for his usual yarn and
cuppa, and chats me about having no
work to do. ‘Oh, yes I have,’ I said. I
filled that petrol-tank with wheat yester-
day.’ I show him the address-card on it
consigning—‘One tank of wheat to Great
Southern Flour Mill, North Fremantle,’
and casually turn on the tap at the side.
Out pours a stream of lovely yellow
wheat. His eyes bulge, he says something
about mucking up good wheat, jumps on
his trike and tears off to ring up the s.m.
at headquarters. Meanwhile I just takes
off the address-card, pick out the last few
grains of the wheat I’d stuffed up the
tap. gets a lift into Koorda and pays the
publican a social visit. The railways are
probably still trying to figure it out.’
* * * * *
“Sackfair”: “Cool, cool water” was an
unexpected beverage to inspire a Tin-Pan
Alley songwriter, and the crooner moan-
ing out the ditty sounded as if his heart
wasn’t in such heresy ; but I found myself
remembering a drink I once had a dnn
of cool, cool water. The other lad and
myself weren’t really lost we only
thought we were. Nor were we really
dying of thirst; we had drunk from the
creek four or five hours earlier. Still, we
were painfully thirsty. The sugar-bag
containing the nets and pegs hung like
deadweight from youthful shoulders and
cramped the hand that held the jute
mouth, the ferret-box seemed to weigh a
hundredweight, and the bunnies grew a
pound heavier with every step Some-
where between the range of hills we had
left behind and the forest of box saplings
the creek should have wound. It didn t.
With that ghoulishness that memoiy
specialises in, all the grim stones of death
from thirst began to come leering to our
minds, narticularly gems like: Tongue
swollen three times its size.” Doubts
about our direction did npt help our
peace of mind. Then a wavering line of
different foliage appeared beyond a rise,
Swamp-oaks? They were—-and they
bordered the creek. The water was run-
ning and it was indeed, cool, cool water,
We drank it, dipped our heads in it, hung
our hands and arms deep down in it, and
splashed our hot feet in it. Wonderfully
refreshed and sure of our direction again
we gathered up our gear and headed up-
stream. Ten paces away, around the
bend, we found the drowned horse. The
blowflies had long discovered the carcass.
Their progeny were being washed down-
stream as the waters lapped the noisome
mess. Strange how I still remember that
“cool, cool water.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Tell “Old-
timer” (B. 22/3/’5O) that George Beecher,
a Euston identity, is still carting from the
railheads with a horse-Uam, as he has
done for more than half a century.
George was born in the old riverside
town in the days when his father, when
he was not carting to the gum-shaded
landings on the Murray because of low
rivers, used to overland 100 miles with
grass-hay-fed teams to Swan Hill, then
the nearest railway. Later, when the
line came to within 60 miles away, he
changed to Mildura, and Mananga-
tang and afterwards Robinvale across the
river. A reliable horseman, George
used to be Euston’s common-ranger,
poundkeeper and curator of the
cemetery, and, though he unloaded from
rail-vans and -trucks every week, he had
never been on a train of to Melbourne.
One day this prompted a visitor to whom
he was introduced outside Medley
Hotel to reiterate; “Never been to Mel-
bourne, eh? That’s
“There’s nothing extraordinary in that,”
retorted George. “There’s plenty of*
people in Melbourne that have never
been to Euston! ”
# * * ♦
“L.T.”; For the first time in the
history of Bass Strait the taking of
mutton-birds on the 50 or so islands and
islets of the rugged Furneaux Group is
prohibited this season, except at the well-
known rookeries at Chappell and Babel
islands. There only the Cape Barren
Island half-castes, descendants of the
extinct Tasmanian race, are permitted
to take the birds under special permit.
These restrictions were forced on the Tas-
manian Fauna Board following reports
that unusually heavy rains flooded the
burrow-nests during the laying season
and destroyed 75 per cent, of the eggs.
Moreover, in recent years at the larger
island rookeries, where the birds are
taken commercially as well as for salted
food by the islanders, the depletion of
the shearwaters has been alarming. This
summer, for the third year in succession.
Dr. D, L. Seventy and two assistants or
the C 5.1.R.0. resided at five-acre Fisher
Island, off Lady Barron, to undertake re-
search into the reason for the dwindling
in numbers of mutton-birds. This, along
with the question as to whether the
young birds return to the island where
they were hatched or disperse to
neighboring islands, and the reason why
the birds migrate in countless millions
to Bass Strait to breed, is not expected
to be solved until a few more years
of patient research.
SINGAPORE.
Navy sword’s 8 ready s word, arrd naval
"°' more atford ths safe,y - srip
“ sword's a steady sword: but to
J?e'ef harassed, with full aocord, on
or tair.be tutore
. a Australia's shoulders share the shield
Wins <0 te" suns
of Singapore?
The dar k bewildered races rise to cross their
A is in their eyes, fanatics urge
To dispossess the stranger, and to kill or to
Raffles dared" no such danger, for he came to
He Sealed” an”bland to erect a city by the
His Sin. by the Sultans checked, was sealed
„o„S r «a e s rn Shtbe architect who founded
Singapore!
O’er China’s conquered regions! the Reds extend
The S 'brigades his legions, and looks the
In Indo-China Marianne has found the foe
How 1 lonfwilf white men curb Japan, how long
TheHoilanderdrawrin'his horns that threat-
The dash oTfresh Encounters warns the planter
Who°faces Haines and walks on thorns, north-
ward, of Singapore.
The East is seething, edge to edge, crowded
from brim to brim; , ,
Shall politicians plant a hedge for words to
keep in trim? , ..
With three Australians each square mile, a
thousand leagues of coast,
How long may we the Fates beguile? A score
of years at most! .
If any former foe attempt to regulate the score,
What bastion can we pre-empt ? What rampart,
short of war? . .
How long will Darwin stand exempt? The
word’s with Singapore!
ENGLAND.
KETTLBDRUM.


The WIED AT COLUMN
Huddart Parker. Ltd.
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.!
, Dividends— N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c.. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942. .125,416 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
Profit liq. subsidiary, £75,376 .. 2,148,131
Adjustm’t outside infests, etc., £7244.. 2,155,375
1943. .107,956 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 2,143,331
Surplus sale assets, £3148 .. .. 2,146,479
Unexplained addition, £13,651 ..2,160,130
1944.. 103,911 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 2,144,041
Unexplained addition, £61,379 .. 2,205,420
1945.. 149,901 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 29,901 2,235,321
Unexplained addition, £17,574 ..2,252,895
1946. .138,572 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 18,572 2,271,467
Subsidy adjustment, £7169 .. ..2,278,636
Unexplained addition, £63,181 .. 2,341,817
1947. .121,614 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 1614 2,343,431
Subsidy adjustment, £24,794 .. .. 2,368,225
Unexplained reductions, £84,808 .. 2,283,417
1948. .140,315 30,000 11 p.e.=82,500 27,815 2,311,232
Unexplained additions, etc., £87,391 2,398,623
Added res. subsidiaries, £159,700 2,558,323
1949. .117,633 30,000 11 p.e.=82,500 5,133 2,563,456
t After eliminating outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
The co. could have shown more profit
and paid a higher dividend last year, but
the cautious board preferred to follow
a policy of “consolidation.” Profit
claimed for each of the last two years
is arrived at in this way;
1948. 1949.
Trading profit* .. .. £17,482 £70,178
Income from investments.. 162,572 125,859
Total £180,054 £196,037
Deduct—
Directors’ fees .. .. 1,767 1,750
Tax allowance .. .. 22,384 26,845
Contingency allowance.. 60,000
Outside interests .. 15,688 809
Net profit 140,315 117,633
* After allowing for depreciation, £44,477, 1948,
and £65,544, 1949.
Including the £50,000 reserved for con-
tingencies, the year’s profit was £27,318
stronger at £167,633, which covered the
pref. div. and 18.3 p.c. on the £750,000
of ord. capital. And that leaves out of
the reckoning unexplained additions of
£87,391 net to reserves. So maintenance
of the div. at 11 p.c.—the rate was steady
at 12 p.c. for the eight years to 1947
was an easier matter than the £117,633 of
profit claimed suggested. It covered pref,
requirements and only 11.6 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 14.7, 12.2, 14.5, 15.9
and 9.8 p.c. back to 1944. The growth of
£159,700 in subsidiary reserves—excess of
book- over par-value of holdings—relates
mainly to purchase of outside interests
in a subsidiary.
Shareholders can thank returns from
investments other than in ships for most
of the profit. The half-dozen freighters
in the fleet,didn’t earn their keep, despite
a lift of 15s. a ton in officially-controlled
cargo rates —this followed rises of 15s.
a ton in 1947 and 17s. in 1948. On the
costs side the figures have been bumped
up by wage-lifts and increases in prices
for fuel, stores, etc., and, worst of all,
by the slow turn-about of ships, due to
the go-slow and rolling-strike tactics of
Communist-led waterside workers. The
resultant immobilisation of vessels and
their crews is a dead loss to the public
as well as to shipowners, because it need-
lessly increases the already steep rise in
other costs, all of which have to be paid
for by additional freight and passage-
money. And higher freight-rates finally
express themselves in higher selling-prices
for goods. So the public has much for
which to thank the Prime Minister for
his prompt and effective handling of the
recent trouble on the Brisbane waterfront.
Of the co.’s two passenger vessels, the
Wanganella, out of commission for nearly
two years after grounding at the entrance
to Wellington Harbor (N.Z.), was on the
trans-Tasman run again for the whole
of last term. The Westralia, on Govern-
ment charter ferrying troops and supplies
to and from Japan, is now being refitted
for entry into the Australian coastal trade
again.
Three 30-odd-year-old cargo vessels are
due for replacement, and one 6000-tonner
(deadweight) has been ordered from the
Shipping Board. According to the
Minister for Shipping, latest quote for a
vessel of this tonnage built in Australian
yards is £625,000. A similar ship could
be built in England for £A445,000. Under
the Shipping Act of 1949 the Government
undertook to pay the difference, provided
it did not exceed 25 p.c. of Australian
cost. The cost to the co. would thus be
at least £23,750 in excess of the British
price. Over the last few years the cost
of shipbuilding in Australia has increased
by nearly 20 p.c., and is still rising. The
wisdom of the board’s cautious financial
policy is thus obvious, both from the
public’s and the shareholders’ viewpoint.
What the future holds for privately-
owned shipping on the Australian coast
is difficult to say at the moment. Losses
incurred by the Shipping Board sinde the
war have been £2,000,000 1946-47,
£2,600,000 1947-48 and £2,400,000
1948-49. Mr. Menzies has declared that
the Government line must justify its exist-
ence nationally and competitively. If,
in addition to increased freight-rates, the
public is also made to pay heavily in
taxation to cover operating losses of the
Shipping Board, it would be in the public
interest to scrap the Government line.
The co.’s investments, other than ship-
ping, include £1,252,280 (down £206,990)
of Government securities and £1,357,067
(up £195,256) of shares in other cos., etc.
Movement in the figures mainly reflects
purchase of the Australian Agricultural
, Co.’s holding in Hebburn, Ltd. The rest
of the portfolio includes scrip in Metro-
politan and J. and A. Brown and Aber-
main Seaham—also in the distraught coal
trade—and in Melbourne Steam, Tas-
manian Steamers, A.W.A, and A.N.A.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 422,279 428,200 53,876
Sundry creditors) 571,725 642,778 758,344
Inter-co. balances! 9,360 21,886 676
Freehold & leasehold 522,424 517,312 535,822
Ships, plant, etc. 601,516 595,583 564,681
Government bonds 1,575,930 1,459,270 1,252,280
Shares, etc. .. 1,121,820 1,161,811 1,357,067
Stores .. .. 97,965 121,718 131,220
Sundry debtors .. 607,557 855,522 843,202
Cash .. .. 187,083 2,880 2,080
* Includes proportion undivided profits. 1 Including
taxation. J Due to variation in balancing dates.
The amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., was more than covered by book
debts alone, and Government securities
were still in excess of paid capital.
The market notes the strong financial
position and the board’s cautious policy
and prices the f.-p. pound ords. at 58s.
9d., giving a return of 3.7 p.c. on an
11 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 30s. 6d.
yield 3.9 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £7 12s. 6d. prefs. and 83s. 7d.
ords,
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
( Dividends , Nominal
Pref.—To Re—
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
’44... 17,561 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 1 » K
To contingencies, £2OOO .. f ‘ ’
’45.. 17,581 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 ) „. a
To contingencies, £2OOO ..} IUJ>
Share premiums, £10,119 .. ..71,467
’46. . 20,639 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 12,011 8,414 74,881
To contingencies, £7500 ~
From tax provision, £18,750
Female-wage subsidy, £7240 ..
r- Pref N Ord. 106 ’ 275
8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c.
’47.. 33,701 2214 3000 1823 13,760
Share premiums, £21,500 .. ~127,775
Wage subsidy, £1287 .. .. .. 129,062
Reserves disappear, £5OOO .. .. 124,062
101 P-c-
-’48.. 53,254 2214 3000 7084 19,189 21,767 145,829
Share premiums, £23,650 .. ..169,479
’49.. 66,022 2215 3000 8750 24,268 27,789 197,268
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks ( £15,934
at Dec. 81, 1949).
Expansion and decentralisation have been
the keynotes of the policy of this manu-
facturer of women’s stockings and scarves
and men’s socks and ties since war ended.
A lot of new plant, much of it for pro-
duction of now-fashionable nylon stock-
ings, has been installed, and more is on
order. In addition to the main factory at
Brunswick (Vic.), the co, has seven pro-
duction units at work in its home State,
and a subsidiary and four units are
operating in and around Sydney (N.S.W.).
Since 1945 paid capital has stepped up
from £205,955 to £510,685 in 27,685 8 p.c.
first 50,000 6 p.c. second and 175,000
5 p.c. third cum. prefs. and 258,000 ords.
Of the increase, £175,000 was 5 p.c. pref.
money and the other £129,730 ,ord.
capital, which brought with it £55,269 of
share premiums. Also the ord. div.,
which had dropped from 10 p.c. for the
five years to 1940 to 8 p.c. for the next
seven, was raised to 10| p.c. for the two
years to the close of last accounts.
To help finance continued expansion of
trade and further capital outlay, those on
the ord. register at March 31 were offered
86,000 new £1 ords., one for three, at a
premium of ss. each. A further 15,000
ords. are being offered to the staff, also
at a premium of ss. each* and all share-
holders were invited to take 35,000 new
5 p.c. third prefs. at par, without fixed
rights. Applications for both classes of
scrip close April 24, and the entire issue
(pref. and ord.) has been underwritten.
When all the money on the new shares is
in, reserves will benefit by £25,250, less
cost of the issue, and paid capital will
become £646,685, on which pref. divs. and
p.c. to the ords. will call for £12,612
less profit than was shown last term.
About 85 p.c. of the co.’s qutput of
women’s hosiery is now nylon. Last year
more yarn became available, and, helped
by a lift in selling-prices, turnover reached
a record £2,033,813. The bigger sales
more than took care of spiralling costs,
and, after allowing for depreciation
(£41,917, up £1917) and taxation (£46,918,
down £2409), the net result was £12,768
stronger at £66,022, which covered pref.
requirements and 22.5 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 22.4, 15.5, 10.3, 9.6
and 9.6 p.c. back to 1944. After deduct-
ing outside shareholders’ interests, com-
bined net earnings of parent and sub-
sidiary were £77,223. So the 10i p.c. to
the ords. was actually more comfortable
than the parent’s accounts alone indicate.
During the year the N. S. Wales section
of the business passed to a subsidiary,
Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd., which has a
paid capital of £185,000 in 75,000 5 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 110,000 ords. The public
took the prefs. for cash and the parent
the ords. (fully-paid) in return for assets
transferred. For the year to Aug. 31,
1949, this offshoot netted £10,037, of
which three-months pref. divs. called for
£937.
Obviously no time has been lost in find-
ing profitable employment for the new
capital and other moneys. The policy is
to finance building largely on mortgage,
and plant and trading assets out of the
balance of shareholders’ funds and
current liabilities:
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. * 1949.
Ord. .. .. £172,000 £204,799 £258,000
Pref. .. .. 202,685 252,685 252,685
Mortgages .. .. 16,500 136,500
Overdraft .. .. 202,391 448,218 74,140
Sundry creditors ~ 112,218 140,752 186,003
Tax reserve, etc.* .. 71,440 102,067 113,789.
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 213,572 419,916 535,198
Shares subsid., etc. .. 191 191 110,184
Stocks 421,349 662,445 503,841
Book debts . . .. 98,303 177,579 49,728
Cash, etc. .. .. 127,969 53,660 26,583
Goodwill, etc. .. 15,934 15,934 15,934
* Includes provision for, contingencies.
To slash £374,078 off the overdraft, add
£115,282 net to fixed assets and £109,993
net to shareholdings, £120,000 was added
to mortgages and £45,251 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., while
stocks were reduced by £158,604, book
debts by £127,851 and cash, etc., by
£27,077. At the same time £53,201 was
added to share capital and £23,650 to
share premium account. Since the books
closed a further £144,000 has been raised
on mortgage and £136,000 of fresh share
capital issued.
The immediate outlook seems bright
enough, but later on competition, both
local and overseas, promises to become a
much more important factor in both sales
and earnings than it is today. All that
can be said definitely at the moment is
that technically the co. is well equipped
for the struggle.
Allowing for brokerage and after
exercising the rights to the new issue, the
ords. at 375. lid. are worth 345. lid. net.
The return at the lower figure is 5.7 p.c.
so long as the P-- distribution con-
tinues. The firsts at 355. 6d., seconds at
28s. and thirds at 20s. 6d. yield 4.5 p.c.,
4.3 p.c. and 4.9 p.c, respectively. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible cover is
£3l 16s. firsts, £l6 16s. seconds, £3 15s.
thirds and 325. sd. ords.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
f- I—Dividend 1 —Dividends— —^
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary, ten off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 56,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30,966
1941.. 38,751 25,000 Nil 10,540 27,755
6 p.c. 6 p.c. \
1942.. 31,496 15,000 450(K 10,527 26,286
1943.. 33,577 15,000 4500 10,063 22,272
1944.. 48,702 15,000 4500 10,003 3,073
Reserves.
1945.. 41,676 15,000 4500 9,872 9,231
1946.. 52,582 15,000 4500 18,978 23,336
1947.. 54,165 15;000 4500 17,869 40,131
1948.. 50>418 15,000 4500 16,802 54,247
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1949.. 60,516 25,000 7500 15,384 66,880
The last is the best showing for just on
30 years, and it includes a windfall of
£15,555 from J. 0., being p.c., less
i p.c. commission, on wool sold between
September, 1939, and June, 1946. The
season was good and so were prices. Fat
bullocks, chief source of earnings, aver-
aged £lB 6s. 2d. a head and wool £65 16s.
9d. a bale. No sheep were sold during
the year. After allowing for deprecia-
tion, shown as written off in the table, net
profit was £45,133 (up £11,517), equal to
13.8 p.c. on capital as against 10.3, 11.1,
10.3 and 9.8 p.c, back to 1945. A 4 p.c.
bonus, which the board says is not to be
construed as a recurring item, was sent
out with the 6 pc. div., making an all-
round 10 p.c. for the year.
The £325,000 of capital is in 250,000
£l6 p.c. cum. prefs., which rank ahead
of the ords. for both divs. and capital
and share in surplus assets, and 600,000
ords. of 2s. 6d. each. The other 17s. 6d.
per ord. share (£525,000) was written off
in 1932 to cover the heavy losses incurred
after World War I, when, among other
things, the influence of Vesteys in Britain
and the Meat Trust in America virtually
guaranteed the European market to
Argentina. At the same time the hot
sun dried up the co.’s western water-
courses and left the runs bare of feed,
while mortality of livestock and'the cost
of handfeeding and agistment bit deeply
into earnings, savings and capital, and
sent the co. into debt as well.
With World War II came the stabilising
influence of the British wool and meat
contracts, which meant ready markets at
assured prices and a run of satisfactory
returns. Since the war seasons have been
fair to good. This, together with high
and rising prices for wool ami r
has enabled the co. to show 1 S°° k ’
turns since 1920 ts re-
Queensland and over the bordaT th ° f
Territory. Largest is Barclay n
3440 sq. miles) in the CamoowJal dkf WDS
(Q.). Here the co. has been SI tnct
30-year pastoral-development l ea e s ?
old tenures were nearing comniS : ~ the
and a substantial sum (amount nofcm
is to be spent on water- and SSf*
conservation and fencing, etc. over £
next 10 years. An application £ the
extra 1344 sq. miles adjoining Lake ki
(3365 sq miles) in
successful. In addition the co. LnTfht
coastal freeholds, aggregating 45917
acres, m the Gladstone, Nauango and
Kilcoy districts. °
As for the current term, best rains
within living memory have fallen on a]
the co. s properties, brandings were
better and there were 79,715 cattle
24,536 sheep and 1649 horses “'n
the runs at end 1949-their safet!
is assured until well into the spring
Prices for wool and livestock re
mam high, and the British meat contract
has been renewed at better than last
year’s figure. Moreover, since the Argen-
tine is now in the hard-currency area the
British and Australian Governments' are
discussing a 15-year meat contract, sub-
ject to annual price adjustment. How
long current prices for wool and live-
stock will hold is anybody’s guess at this
stage. Biggest gamble looks like being
with seasons, hence the large speculative
element in the investment possibilities of
the scrip, as the co.’s history bears out
Financially, the co. has never been
better shod:
_., . ' 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £826,000
Creditors* ~ 122,849 186,663 150,510 16M16
Freeholds .. 27,90 3 27,90 3 27,903 27 908
Leaseholds .. 121,138 111,088 106,870 IOOW
■Plant .. 57,479 54,613 50,875 48 804
Livestock 162,487 158,051 160,671 168,822
Wool.. .. 32,208 2,833 3,810
Stores .. 11,965 11,598 13,866 10,063
Debtors .. 15,702 15,494 15,507 15,792
Cash, etc. .. 61,800 139,715 169,756 217,324
* Includes provision for contingencies and
taxation.
After allowing for divs., the more-or-less
liquid surplus was £20,787 stronger at
£214,368, and the large holding of cash,
etc., gives the board elbow-room to deal
with the effects of adverse seasonal con-
ditions.
At 255. 9d. the pound prefs. yield 7.7
p.c. and the 2s. 6d. ords. at 4s. return
6.2 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c. distribution
continues. On an average all-round 6 p.c.
div. basis the return would be 4.6 p.c. and
3.7 p.c. respectively. Prospects of a
return of part of the written-off ord.
capital look like a long-term speculation
at the moment. Net tangible cover is
245. Id. per pound of paid capital, pref.
and ord. combined,
t r- -
Pelaco. Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends—
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Be- Be-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c, 9 p.c. 3 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4,950 1,494 12,860
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6,600 4,865 1^,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6,600 7,873 26,698
1945.. 22,771 2080 4500 8,250 7,941 33,639
• 6 p.c.
194 0.. 25,4 4 3 20 8 2 45 0 0 9,90 0 8,96 2 42,600
From tax reserve, £5OOO , .. ••
1947.. 33,7 3 7 20 8 2 4500 1 3,062 14,093 61,593
1948.. 39,088 2082 4500 21,/l6 10,690 72,283
1949.. 44,829 2081 4500 28,650 10,198 82,4tu
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (*
This is the co. which took over the
Pearson Law business at Richmond (Vi •/
38 years ago. It is in the highly compc i
five men’s-wear business, specialising i
manufacture of shirts, collars, pyJ am
etc., and it ran into rough weather dur b
the early 1930’5. No ord. divs. were paw
for the nine years to 1938 ; but by
the business had been got on to an
keel again, and progress, steady
the war years, has been as rapid as ’
materials and other bottlenecks
allow since. The ord. div. averag •
p.c. over the 11 years to the close o
accounts, starting at 3 p.c. and
8* p.c.’ in 1948. Also, over thejas two
years £165,000 of fresh , c^ nita i to
gathered at par, lifting paid
£409,736 in 29.736 A 7 f
B 9 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1 e ’
660,000 ords. of 10s. each. blern>
To help overcome the labor pro
quicken production and eas se t
and other difficulties the boa at
up eight branch establishmen Lara
Frankston and one each at L c’ v( j D ey
and Moolap (Vic.), another *Last
and the eighth at Sandgate (Q’ o( j era te
term trade was brisker than Turn-
increase in net earnings , b y
over (amount not stated) 1 . ere-
-53 p.c. But net earnings in re J a f 0 all the
to were “perhaps the lowest That
co.’s history,” the chairman . officially-
was because of a 25 p.c. cut and
allowed gross margins on


HOW
OPEN
closing on or before
Ist May, 1950
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£1,000.000
LOAN
No. 67
£3-5-0
PER CENT PER ANNUM
GUARANTEED BY
THE N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT
An Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland &Tasmania
• ISSUED AT PAR.
• CURRENCY 15
YEARS.
• INTEREST PAID
HALF-YEARLY.
• INTEREST MAY BE
CREDITED TO CUR-
RENT OR SAVINGS
BANK ACCOUNTS.
• AREADILY MARKET-
ABLE SECURITY.
Interest accrues im-
mediately from date of
investment and is pay-
able free of exchange in
terms of the prospectus.
Subscriptions are free of
exchange and payable by
instalments if desired.
Minimum subscription is
£5O.
PROMPT
IWBTMtNT
ADVISED
to any office of
tbe Commonwealth Bank
2 Australia, the Sydney
a ter Board, or through
numbers of recognised
Australian Stock Ex-
c anges. Prospectus and
a PPhcation forms avail-
able on application.
fcr rfe, * ~7' e n 1
"embers of The
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
w
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land. by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous “White
Label’’ Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
SCOTCH
rk , /
ill i
awar
I I
n
500015
«ni
Prize Me&ol*
SOGolj
out
Prize Medals
v
BY APPOINTMENT /*%
CCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS 6N,
JOHN OEWAR 4 SOWS. LTD M g/O^XfOtSJ»
JA “*»CA BRUSSELS AKTWtW CAIRO
. ‘White Label „
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE.
Dewar & Sons
DISTILLERS
‘■-CC-Asm pE s R COTLAND
NET CONTENTS I PINT. 6 EL. OZS. _ nTIU IO
MlMurep WHOLLY -DISTILLED. MATURED AND BLENDED IN scul
THINKING OF BUILDING
NEW SILOS, SHEDS,
TANKS ?
There’s a set of
LYSAGHT DATA SHEETS
for every type of farm
building project
The following Data Sheets,
which include designs and
general information covering
the latest approved types
of farm buildings, are now
available:
SHEARING SHEDS
FARM'BUILDINGS
DAIRIES
SILOS
PIGGERIES
POULTRY SHEDS
TANKS, TANKSTANDS
GENERAL BUILDING
INFORMATION
Before you finalise plans for new farm buildings,
write to the SERVICE Department, John Lysaght
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., and ask for a set of
Lysaght Country Service Data Sheets. Planned
to help the potential user of Lysaght Galvanized
Iron and allied products, they include useful
sketch plans and general information covering
a wide range of modern farm structures, including
Silos Tanks, Dairies. Piggeries, Poultry Sheds.
Shearing Sheds, etc. Simply state the one
required when writing and it will be forwarded
you promptly with the compliments of the Com-
pany.
John lysaghl (Australia) Ply. lid.
S/DNEy, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE
5213-8236
pyjamas at the beginning of the
term, while wage and other costs
continued to spiral. After allow-
ing £9819 for depreciation and
something for taxation, the profit
was only £5741 better at £44,829,
of which the pref. div. called
for £6581. The balance was
equal to 11.6 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 13, 15.6, 11.4, 9.8, 8.7
and 6.9 p.c. back to 1943. While
the co.’s products (they figure in
the cost-of-living regimen) re-
main subject to price-control,
anything better than 8£ p.c. on
the ords. is doubtful.
To carry an extra £173,765 of
stocks (the increase was due
largely to withdrawal of sub-
sidies and price rises) and add
£12,917 to the book-value of
plant, etc., the co. went outside
for an extra £132,007 last term,
raising the debt to £482,182, of
which £320,617 (up £206,125)
was coming to the bank:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £299,736 £409,736 £409,786
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. 236,784 350,175 482,182
Tax prov’n 47,553 58,287 56,393
Final diva. 16,853 25,107 31,341
Premisea .. 97,802 97,043 94,052
Plant, etc... 44,378 48,395 61,312
Book debts 197,472 291,945 254,204
Stock .. 322,276 478,155 651,920
Cash, etc... 91 46 55
There was little change in the
more -or - less liquid surplus
(£336,263), and there was over
19s. of outside money in the
business for every pound be-
longing to shareholders when the
books closed. If trade continues
to hold around its present level,
it might not be long before the
board asks shareholders for
more.
The market sums up the posi-
tion by pricing the ords. at
14s. 6d., giving an immediate re-
turn of 5.8 p.c. on an 8i p.c.
div. basis. The A’s at 31s. and
the B’s at 345. yield 4.5 p.c. and
5.2 p.c. respectively. Cover in
net tangibles is £l6 11s, A’s,
£9 ss. B’s and 12s. 6d. ords.
“Khills”: Harking back to
the complex ores mentioned in
B. 21 /12/’49: what could be a
case in point is mentioned in the
Herberton (N.Q.) warden’s re-
port for November, 1949. The
Consolation mine, which used to
supply fluxing ore to the State
smelters at Chillagoe, shows a
body of tin ore limited in depth
by a copper ore-body. The
latter probably has some tin
values, perhaps more than has
been shown by the acid-cleaning
commercial assay, if in the sul-
phide zone. The Brass Bottle
tinmine, in the same area, has
similar and other problems.
Apart from natural inclination,
the driving-force behind pros-
pectors’ picks is the hope of
finding something spectacular.
Dolcoath, in Cornwall (Eng-
land), was originally worked as
a coppermine, and then through
a rather poor zone into rich tip
ore to a record depth of 4000
feet. There might be a Dolcoath
to be opened up in Australia,
but treatment and marketing
facilities require overhauling if
the prospector is to be en-
couraged to give such possi-
bilities a go. At the moment
hopes are that a British metal
manufacturing concern will soon
become interested in tin smelting
in Australia, and thus help to
brighten the outlook for the
prospector.
* * * *
Although its No. 5 dredge,
which capsized, has been out of
commission since Nov., 1949,
Bulolo Gold Dredging (New
Guinea) won more gold from a
bigger turnover of lower-grade
ground during the nine months
to end Feb. last. Figures were
10,757,740 c.y. (up 3,397,925
c.y.) for 56,2470 z. (up 40120 z.)
gold, worth $1,968,645 (up
$140,420),i an average of 18.3
cents (down 6.54 cents) a yard.
The salvaging of No. 5 machine
is well in hand, but it will be
some weeks before the full
extent of the damage and the
date when the dredge is likely to
set in again- are known. Wage
and other costs are still rising.
Last div., 50 cents per $5 share,
went out Dec. 2, 1949. On
Sydney ’Change the scrip fetched
85s. last week, as against 80s. a
month ago.


WSm
f rot to*
BRANBi
STRENGTH
mos. wines pruia
at; m*
rc.r.mni
IV/lARINE ENGINEERS AND ENGINE
IVA DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering and
desirous of passing examinations for ad-
vancement, write for prospectus regarding
Engineering Correspondence Courses,
Tuition for Engineers and Engine Drivers'
Examinations, also Special Courses for
Engineer Apprentices.
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, C.l.
P.O. Box 904 NEW ZEALAND.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE McINTYRB DONALD late
of Holt Avenue Oremome.—TAKE
NOTICE that ANNETTE HENRIETTA
DONALD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1985 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day ht June
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from E. A. LEASK &
NICHOLAS, Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
apP r6 °
iat©
rape
lW) «^ S£E '
a o t I 1 ”®
°-S2-^ lea f ana -
VirS 1111 rA.PSI^*
r .
A
Lvv:-y
CAPSTAN
;ST V
TH|E EMPIRE'S FAVOURED OCABJO®
X733D-2.50
*o*
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Chain-store Merger
Sharemarket prophets are still
wearing sackcloth, shareholders
of Selfridges still singing
hosannas to their board, and the
question lingers: “Who could
have guessed G. J, Coles would
pay so much?”
One suggestion has been a
desire on Coles’s part to possess
immediately their new Sydney
property in the Strand Arcade,
which is partly occupied by
Selfridges on a lease having
about four years to run.
It is known that Coles’s own
long-term lease of their King-
street store has expired, leaving
the company in occupation on
monthly tenancy from Alberts,
the owners. Managing-director
E. B. Coles says “The first store
to lose its Selfridge identity will,
of course, be the No. 1 store in the
Stewart Dawson buildings, as the
Coles company plans to construct
a modem 10-storey building.”
But it will still be years,
probably, before Coles can get
the materials to build. The
strong factor seems to be the
company’s general desire for
expansion in N. S. Wales, where
building prospects are worse
than in any other State.
Selfridges could offer 16 ready-
made stores, including four in
growing industrial towns outside
Sydney, and even those which
are now competing right along-
side Coles in certain suburbs
will not be redundant, in Mr.
Coles’s opinion.
Essentially this merger is a
N. S. Wales matter, though it
helps also to explain why Coles
had dropped negotiations with
Macduffs, of N.Z. (B. 22/3/’5O).
Selfridges has its own subsidiary
—not very successful to date—
which will give Coles the desired
leg-in to the Dominion. There’s
been no sign that Coles wants to
buy outright either the Perth or
N.Z. subsidiaries ; it gets a con-
trolling interest in each by taking
over the parent Selfridges.
Until Penney’s comes on the
scene, the variety-chain-store
business in N. S. Wales is now
left as a straightout issue be-
tween the tyvo giants. Wool-
worths and Coles; it was only
two years before the war that
these themselves thought hard
about merging. Woolworths’
chairman has been forecasting an
era of “greatest expansion ever”
for his chain, and the Coles con-
cern plainly has the same idea.
Selfridges shareholders have a
double debt of gratitude to their
board for so ably negotiating
the terms and for protecting
members against premature leak-
ages. Before the directors’ first
warning to holders, Selfridges’
scrip (285,000 £1 ords. issued)
had been selling around 435. on
’Change. Each share will now
be exchanged for five fully-paid
ss. ords. in Coles, having a
market value of around 28s. each
cum bonus rights. On an ex-
rights basis, total value of five
shares is theoretically about
108 s very nice capital appre-
ciation.
It was always possible that
other bidders might have
appeared for the Selfridges busi-
ness —the tipsters’ talk about
Penney’s was not really un-
intelligent—and this must have
been a bargaining-point in the
discussion with Coles. More-
over, the market price of
Selfridges’ scrip would have im-
proved a little if split into ss.
counters, like Coles’s. And the
latest interim report gave hopes
of Selfridges raising its dividend
above last year’s 10 p.c., whereas
it is practically certain that
Coles will not maintain last
year’s 15 p.c. rate of distribution
after the capitalisation of the
premiums-reserve. The fact re-
mains, however, that Selfridges
made a brilliant marriage. »
After the bonus share-issue
and the issue in connection with
this merger, Coles’s paid capital
will be £2,373,218, as against
£1,701,515 at last June 30. Face-
value of the proposed issue to
“Mr. Crumpston—before you go, I Wonder if I might
have a reference, please?”
Selfridges shareholders is
£356,000
It is interesting to reflect that,
back in 19.38, prior to the elec-
tion of a new board headed by
chairman J. W. Austin, losses
made by Selfridges knocked the
scrip down to around 10s. in the
market, and litigation and in-
ternal strife were then the order
of the day.
The Australian newspaper
business is finding the going
tough at present. Cost of news-
print is still rising, and supplies
are becoming scarcer, with the
Canadian market closed to Aus-
tralian buyers because of dollar
problems. Freight costs in re-
spect of distribution of supplies
have risen steeply, and wages,
of course, have soared. Advertis-
ing revenues are still somewhat
restricted by lack of competition
among many types of businesses
which cannot meet the demand
for their products under present
coal and labor conditions.
Sydney “Herald” has been forced
to raise its daily-issue price to
3d. and Sunday price to 4d., thus
coming into line with other
Sydney papers. Melbourne
papers are still 2d.—no Sunday
issues—but competition between
the “Herald” and “Argus” pro-
prietaries is sharpening up.
Newspaper shares have been un-
responsive, on the whole, to the
generally upward movement in
investment-share prices since
1950 began.
* * * *
The cost of the search for oil
in Papua was further evidenced
by figures released by Austra-
lasian Petroleum Co. last week.
Oilwell-drilling equipment cost-
ing more than £872,857 has been
landed in Papua by the co. dur-
ing the past nine months. It
includes two complete drilling
outfits and special oilwell casing
imported from the United States.
About 7000 tons of barytes, cost-
ing £l5 a ton, was imported from
India. Australian supplies of
barytes were inadequate. Dril-
ling is now going ahead again
after some delay. Oil Search,
Ltd., through which Australian
investors are interested in Aus-
tralasian Petroleum Co., failed to
raise more than 47 p.c. of the
new capital it sought last month..
Object of this issue was to pay
for 292,364 £1 ords. in A.P.C.
and to have funds for 194,408
further shares to be issued
within a few months. Applica-
tions for Oil Search ss. shares
totalled 988,655, which will
bring its issued capital up to
about £1,450,000 in 5,800,000-
odd ss. shares. Oil Search may
not be able to maintain its one-
fifth interest in the Papuan
operating co. unless more funds
are forthcoming from some-
where. On the basis of a par
valuation for Oil Search ch.
market capitalisation f or S’
whole A.P.C. undertaking- “ e
about £8,500,000 1g 18 Dow
* * * *
. and Josephson shares
* av< = ? ad a spectacular rise since
the scrip was listed in Svdnev
nff Ut^ e S iddle o£ l“»t year
Offered to the public at 25s by
brokers O F J. Wolff J
Dunlop the shares have since
gone as high as 575.; there «s
a reaction last week, but buver.
still offered 545. when the Stock
Exchange closed for Easter The
co. holds the N. S. Wales and
Queensland distributing rights
for Caterpillar tractors, together
with the agency for Deere wheel-
type tractors in those States. Ad-
justed net earnings for the three
years to June, 1938, averaged
19.3 p.p. on present capital of
£300,000, and later results have
been better (38.3 p.c. last term)
The sharemarket is attracted by
the demand for tractors, etc.,
likely to follow the start of the
Snowy Mountains scheme.
* * # ♦
Over the past three years,
according to Canberra figures’
home-building costs in the six
Australian capital cities have
risen by 31| p.c. The figure
applies particularly to two- and
three-bedroom houses in each
capital. Rising labor costs are
officially reckoned to be mainly
responsible for the increase.
Perth has had the greatest rise
of the triennium with 42? p.c.
♦ * * *
Shares in Metropolitan
Cement, Sydney, floated in 1948
and still to reach production, are
priced above par on Sydney
Stock Exchange. Many people
are wondering why. The co.
bought a second-hand plant from
the Ford Motor Co. in the
U.S.A., and at the time of flota-
tion there was a political outcry
over the allocation by the Chifley
Government of more than a
million dollars for the purpose.
Success of Metropolitan Cement
as an investment depends upon
some features unusual in the rest
of N- S. Wales industry.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
ANO-AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUL ’ WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
„ ELECTRIC USAGES
„ NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
'JACKSON
osinj.xv.Vv
pmm .v
Trade
BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
Properly covered) Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
08 ses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
insurance Co. Ltd.
B °-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
to 6 TtZ EARS 0F SERVICE
public
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
It Is essential to our own as well as to the
Interest of our customers that wo maintain
the highest standards of efficiency. . .
That is good business.
It is natural that customers should seek the
advantages of an efficient organization. . .
That is sound judgment.
As a result of these factors the Bank's circle
of customers is ever widening and its ser-
vice constantly improving. . .
That is a matter of record.
of
45
Y &
Established 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
*
Pelmanism
develops;
OBSERVATION
SELF-CONFIDENCE
WILL-POWER
CONCENTRATION
DECISION
ORGANIZATION
JUDGMENT
SOCIAL EASE
INITIATIVE
and a
HOLDFAST
MEMORY
The Headquarters of
the Pelman Institute
are in London. The
Institute has been
established in Melbourne
since 1907 and has
enrolled more than
80,000 of the million
world Pelmanists.
R.A.A.F.— Back to Old Job Then Manager
Big Business Now Manager Bigger Business
This letter illustrates the friendliness of the association between
the pupil and the Pelman Institute and the confidence w.th which
the pupil approaches the Institute after completing the Course.
The excerpts show the rapidity and certainty with which
Pelmanism develops foresight, reflection, judgment, decision and
determination. , , , , n n
sth January, 1950.
"My Course in Pelmanism was commenced during the final stages
of the war, when I was attached to the R.A.A.F.,, and completed after
1 had returned to my pre-war occupation. On completion of the
Course I commenced to look around with a view to improving my
status in life.” (The writer then tells of the first steps and the
commitments they involved.) . ,
"I had to find a better job—one that would give me a good
living and still allow me to meet the new responsibilities. 1
interviewed business houses in the city, and, without forcing rpy case,
awaited results, which after three months bore fruit. I was given
the management of the largest and best established business of its
kind in this State, and I could see opportunities in it. Now, after
two and a half years, I have been offered the management of the
associate wholesale establishment. . ,
After giving further details, the writer continues: I mention these
matters —which spine people would deem unnecessary—because I am
of the opinion that it was due to Pelmanism that such steps have been
taken. I write to thank your Institute, and particularly the Instructor
whose very encouraging remarks on each paper submitted helped
greatly in my continuing to the final paper. I must tell you, too, of
the formation of many small, good habits which contributed to my
success. . . . 7
"Of course, it is not all over—far from it. I now seek your
further advice.” (We appreciate the compliment implied in seeking
further advice and we have replied fully.) _ p
A Quick Mind and a Firm Will
The writer of the above letter was impressed by the copy of
“The Efficient Mind” sent to him, and particularly by the emphasis
placed on the qualities implied in the term “a quick mind and a
firm will.” In his correspondence there is a warmth and friendliness
which is typical of the association between the Pelman Institute
and its students.
/ . « tt'ruo vffirient Mind” ore posted free. The service given
confidential.mile, call or telephone MB 2555.
The Pelman Institute, for the Scientific Development
of Mind, Memory and Personality, 3 G oucesler House,
396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and en-
able residents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman Course of
Training without delay. Write in
the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
I To The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
j Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.
| NAME
j ADDRESS
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
E N tTzealand exchange funds
* ton drifting for four years,
1 lir a heavy dram to pay oft
Zhi but this has now come to
ffend In the next stage Maori-
| !1 . be able to get its
f«t on firmer ground and githei
fUe gains in smaller interest
fills and bigger import buying
IB sterling-value pound should
Sphere, A weakness up to now
has been paper prosperity, which
Eas robbed M.L. of early bene-
L expected from halving obli-
vions to John Bull and giving
the pound a blood-transfusion.
Labor-Socialists had the right
idea when they set about paying
'ff j B while export income was
at peak, but, through lack of
judgment or too much faith m
money theories, they spoiled
things by borrowing £2 mtemahy
for every pound they paid off
externally, and inflated credit by
more than another pound for
good measure. Inflation and
money-spinning undid all the
good and left a balance on the
debit side. If there’s any sense
in the Socialist theory that it
pays to take millions out of some
pockets to put into other pockets,
there was something wrong with
the way it was done in Maori-
land, because it led to soaring
costs and prices, shortages,
labor bottlenecks, blackmarket-
ing, ever-rising taxes and falling
real incomes. Incentives were
knocked to leg and Maori-
landers found they were carry-
ing a growing army of officials,
who were flogging them along.
Against a post-war fall from
£133 million to £BO million in
debt to J.B. internal public debt
ballooned from £403 million to
£534 million (at Marcji, 1949),
and the Reserve Bank was
milked for £64 million of new
credit.
First signs that the Holland
Government is beginning to
rein-in inflation and stop the rot
are seen in steadiness of R.B. in-
vestments and advances, but it’s
a little early to jump to con-
clusions yet.
Here’s the trend of exchange
receipts and payments over five
years:—
Pay-
To Dec. Receipts, merits. Deficit.
31. £mil. £mil. £mil.
1945 .. 129.1 86.0 *43.1
1946 .. 148.1 154.6 5.5
1947 .. 164.5 190.4 25.9
1948 .. 174.8 180.0 5.2
1949 .. 160.7 165.2 4.5
• Surplus.
How Government debt and
other demands have swelled debit
items over the five years is seen
here:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
£mil. £mil. £mil. £mil.
Imports
(general) 31.7 115.2 108.2 109.7
Govt, debt
and other
fa
imports . 40.2 56.4 46.6 28.4
Other pay-
ments .. 14.1 18.8 25.2 27.1
Total.. 86.0 190.4 180.0 165.2
Signs of a sizeable swing in
favor of imports is discernible in
the latest term, when State de-
mands on the funds were cut to
half the earlier post-war average.
Maorilanders who have been
kept waiting for goods plentiful
elsewhere shouldn’t have to hang
on much longer. The exchange
barrier, which looked like a brick
wall, is showing cracks.
Maoriland Housing
After a 13-year spate of State
house - building and Labor-
Socialist efforts to kill Maori-
land’s traditional love of the
freehold, the good old spirit of
self-reliance is coming back into
its own again, under the Holland
“free - enterprise” Government.
But it is easier to qualify to be
a home-owner in Maoriland in
1950 than in the days of the
pioneers. With buying and sell-
ing of homes decontrolled ; with
State tenants —33,000 of them —
given the option of getting
possession of the roofs over their
heads; with State loans for
housing lifted to a ceiling £5OO
higher at £2000; and with £2OO
free-of-interest thrown in as
good measure, to be converted
into a straightout gift to mort-
gagors of the State who are still
living in the homes they buy or
build seven years hence, every-
thing seems sugar-coated to
attract and help borrowers.
This is free enterprise with
State generosity stretched to the
limit, for loans will be up to
90 p.c, for the majority, to the
£2OOO-mark, which is as high as
the Stafe will go, and 100 p.c. for
ex-servicemen. When the seven-
year term is up the last 10 p.c.
for civilians will be cancelled
out by the £2OO gift, so there’s
really not much difference be-
tween this and a 100 p.c. loan.
For ex-servicemen the £2OO gift
will as good as lift loans to
110 p.c. if borrowers stay put
for the stipulated term.
The free gift will be written
into mortgage contracts for
three years; that is, till just
after next election. By then the
new management expects the
housing problem to be as good
as solved. Today building is at
a peak of 1000 houses a month,
against 650 before the war, and
pressure is slowly easing.
Private lenders will be
whacked in the lower-cost field,
where the State leaves no margin
for equities or setbacks in prices.
It’s a calculated risk which only
a Government can take. The
houses built won’t have much
room for frills, because average
costs in N.Z. are well above £2
a square foot these days, and a
£2OOO house now is not much
better than one worth £lOOO in
1939. The trend is towards com-
pactness and economy in labor
and materials, with not much
more space than a moderately
roomy flat.
Socialists raised their hands in
horror against lifting controls,
and did their best to frighten
Maorilanders with warnings of.
a big jump in prices, but when
they cited 1942 controlled values
as the basis they went too far,
for “under-the-table” dealings,
which kept the property market
alive for years past, were well
above officially recognised levels.
Although contracts were signed
to satisfy control, the extra
money was paid over, for all
that —in the “blackmarket.”
New open-market prices will
start where the blackmarket, not
control, left off.
A nice little windfall should
be collected on the sale of State
houses built in earlier years,
when costs were on a lower
plane, for there can be only one
rule in parting with these ; they
must be sold “at valuation.”
Pre-war homes should be worth
nearly double the amount the
Government paid for them, and
in quitting them it should be
able to net more than enough to
compensate for loss in post-war
years through renting its latest
houses below cost. Tenants who
have been spoon-fed might be
happy to sit back and pay rent
till the cows come home, for
they’re not credited with being
the most thrifty, and are hardly
likely to rush in in droves to
buy, either with hard cash or on
easy terms. But there’s one
catch: uneconomic rents won’t
be there for ever—-they’re on the
way out now.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Last Saturday ’the lawns and the oysters
at Randwick were the same as they always
were, and that's the best. But it's good-
bye to all that if you think of Randwick
as a fashion-parade combined with
elegance of deportment. There’s simply
no room. When the queues get in line
before the tote windows in the official
stand, which they do immediately after
each race, it’s a case of worming one’s
way from one end of the enclosure to
the other. Hats are the one bit, of
feminine wear that present themselves
clearly to the view, and on Doncaster day
the hats favored were the small cloche —
a style that is a very good setting for the
classic of feature. Mrs. J. H. Berryman’s
gabardine suit was navy. White wings
trimmed her navy hat.
The brown (from tobacco to cinnamon)
or the navy color-scheme was very
popular. Elizabeth Northcott, who was
with the Governor, Lieut.-General John
Northcott, wore a jonquil-yellow felt hat
with her dahlia-brown woollen suit.
Cinnamon-browns in the softest of angora
made Mrs. Reg Moses’s suit, and her
matching beret. Mrs. W. J. Smith’s
suit was reseda-green, her small
postillion hat lemon-yellow.. One of the
brightest throughout the heat and murk
of the day was Mrs. Tom Bateman. Like
everyone else she had come out expecting
the nip of autumn and found summer
instead. Her black velvet suit was made
with a tiny basque, and the skirt was of a
graceful fullness. Her small hat of jade-
blue satin straw was clustered with
flowers at the left side. Margaret
Salenger contrasted a turquoise-green
frock and a small hat in dark fuchsia
tones; with her was Pat Aboud.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. E. C. O’Dea,
was smart in a suit of pale-beige with
toning accessories. Tall Joan Alien’s
suit was grey and tailored; the small
hat fitting like a casque on her gold
hair was yellow, as were her handbag and
gloves. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s black
cloth suit had its pockets banded with
ocelot, while her upturned cloche was of
the same fur. Mrs. Alec Binnie was one
of the noted. Her yellow hat, worn with
a brown outfit, flew white Mercury wings.
Mrs. K. Martin and Mrs. A. Creswick
were notably smart; so was Mrs. Henry
Rosenthal, whose beige-grey tie-silk frock
was made with a draped skirt. Jann
Crossing was one of the day’s youthful
belles. Her choice was navy. Of pale
beige chiffons was Mrs. Sam Hordern’s
wide-brimmed hat.
Mrs. N. Somerfield’s suit of black
boucle was cut on classic lines. Mrs.
Thelma Wheeler’s frock of dusty-pink
crepes and Mrs. Clement Chapman’s
mist-blue faille suit were in keeping with
the temperature. Mrs. Douglas Fell’s
deep-navy suit was accompanied by
a large pink felt hat. Mrs. Maurice
Nathan’s large white hat was swathed in
veiling; her frock was of brown-and-
;white-spotted tie-silk. Royal-blue crepes
and matching hat'were allied by Mrs. H.
Carey. Hyacinth-blue were Angela Fell’s
suit and hat. Two tones of brown were in
the silk suit worn by Mrs. Robin Spencer
with her large black hat. Mrs. E. Par-
sons and her daughter, Mrs. M. J. Adair,
were among the glimpsed ; so was Mrs.
Joe Coen, just back from travels abroad.
A shoulder-length golden plume trimmed
the small black velvet hat of Mrs. I.
McCullough, of New York.
The Empire was crackling at every
pore last Monday night with the ex-
citement of “Hellzapoppin.” For the first
half-hour stalls and stage seemed to have
a fifty-fifty interest in the hectic boil-
over. Old friend “Mo” made instant
appeal, and the women in the audience
seemed to enjoy the noisy, swift-moving
nonsense as much as the men.
Everybody at the Red Cross Ball in
the Trocadero last week admired the
red-and-white roses and the red candles
used in decorating the official table. The
Governor, Lt.-General Northcott, and
Miss Northcott were present, and the
roses were later sent by the committee to
Mrs. Northcott, who is president of
N.S.W. Red Cross. Elizabeth Northcott’s
frock of pale-blue brocades made with an
off-the-shoulder neckline was attractive
Mrs. David Roper, president of the ball
committee, was accompanied by her hus-
band, Mr. Justice Roper. Her rose-white
chiffons featured a long shoulder scarf
and a draped skirt. Ann Berryman’s
bouffant white tulles had sparkling
shoulder straps. Mrs, Ken Pointing and
Mrs. Paul Nelson were the dance secre-
taries. Lord Mayor .O’Dea and Mrs.
O’Dea and J. F. Clack, chairman of the
N.S.W. division of the Red Cross, and
Mrs. Clack were among the official
guests.
For four days the Royal Easter Show
was more an aquatic event than an agri-
cultural exhibition. It was probably in
such weather that Noah and his family
took to the Ark. The New South Wales
family took to the pavilions on the Show-
ground. Here they wandered among
avenues of pianos and gramophones and
deep freezes, and washing-machines, some
of which were driers as well. One
middle-aged visitor said a trifle resent-
fully: “They never let up on Mum, do
they? Always rows and rows of gadgets
that turn the thonghts to housework.
Wouldn’t it be nice to just gaze on luxury
things for a change?”
There were luxury things there,
though rich Axminster carpets, all
summer in the glowing design,
ranging from £ll to £2O or so a yard.
Officials about the stands looked as
though their outlook had become
mildewed M the Ring, usually so
spirited a scene, was a sodden and de-
pressed area. But the Hall of Agriculture
was as usual an opulent and highly orna-
mented facade ,of this land of plenty.
And when you thought of the floods, the
heartache and the distresses which have
been the lot of the farmer and his wife
throughout the State you felt that they
deserved an Easter jGloria all to them-
selves.
In spite of the threnody of the rain
women exhibitors and visitors refused to
look bedraggled. Women had an English
county look in their tweed suits and
tailored top-coats —one lady on a very
wet morning wore tailored white gabar-
dine, and had managed to keep it with-
out one mud splash from gate to Council
stand. As always there were hundreds
and hundreds of children. They were
quite happy. They didn’t bother to by-
pass the puddles and miniature lakes,
they just waded right through them. No
gala ballet could have been more avidly
followed by the women than was the
parade of Jerseys and other cows. Milk
being the price it is and cream on the
index, the cow has grown of outstanding
importance to the housewife.
This is Jane Wolff of Pymble, who is
secretary of the Abbotsleigh Old Girls’
Dance committee now busy working for
the success of the great event. This will
be held at the Trocadero on the night of
Monday, April 24. Jane is in final year
Arts at Sydney University, and plans to
further her studies abroad. Photograph
by Norton Trevaire,
Any first-nighter going to the Tatler
Theatre last Saturday with the ex-
pectancy of hearing “Rusty Bugles” play-
ing a fanfare of extraordinary obscenities
must have been disappointed. The swear-
words in Sumner Locke Elliott’s play are
old-established cuss-words* but there are
more of them to, the square inch of
dialogue than is heard at most family
breakfast tables. ■ The play has now
stepped from the amateur to professional
status, and a lot of theatrical interests
were in Saturday’s audience. In the foyer
knight Benjamin Fuller and Lady Fuller,
Who were with son-in-law Judge Rainbow
and Mrs. Rainbow, greeted old friends.
Judge Kirby, Dr. Silberman and his
mother, and the Vernon Coles couple
were there, Mr. Coles told of seeing a
play by Sumner Locke, the mother of the
author of “Rusty Bugles,” and also spoke
of her as a novelist. Kenn Brodziak is
up from Melbourne managing the show.
From Melbourne
On Good Friday night the Town Hall
was packed to capacity when the story
of Easter was told in the glorious music
of Bach’s St. Matthew Passion, The
Royal Melbourne Philharmonic Choir
and the Victoria Symphony Orchestra
were conducted by Sir Bernard Heinze.
The chorus work was impressive; the
eight-part “Come Ye Daughters” and
“Thunders and Lightnings” were marked
by richness of tone and dramatic strength,
the unaccompanied chorale “Be Near Me
Lord When Dying” was whispered in a
fashion that it seemed as though the
whole world stood still. Elsie Findlay
was the soprano, and Joan Jones the
contralto.
Serenity always descends upon this city
at Eastertide. There are few parties;
only a multitude of weddings on Easter
Saturday. But the theatre world has been
very busy. Over the weekend three
shows had their premieres. First was
at the King’s, where “Command Per-
formance” started, Joy Hayden made her
first appearance here in a shimmering
satin gown in soft blue, the bodice Covered
with a mauve tulle scarf. A number of
the ballets were strikingly dressed. In
one the dancers, in panniered dresses,
carried huge baskets of red and cream
roses. A well-dressed trio in the audi-
ence comprised Mrs. A. Athorne, in a
copper-toned moire Jjallerina frock, Mrs.
Duncan McLaren, her short black crepe
frock covered with a hip-length black
Persian-lamb jacket, and Mrs. Gilbert
Kerr, whose black frock had a yoke of
white guipure lace. Mrs. Roland Dixon’s
navy-and-black-shot taffeta frock was
worn under a dyed-ermine coat. Mrs.
Charles Davidson added a small black
theatre-hat finished with black aigrettes
to her black frock. A yoke of silver
beads enriched Mrs. G. Staley’s black
frock.
“The Girl Who Couldn't Quite,” at the
Princess, is a mixture of comedy, drama
and pathos in which the English actor
Clifford Mollison has the leading role.
There were many attractive frocks noticed
at the premiere. Mrs. L. H. Jamison’s
soft clover-pink crepe gown was relieved
by a necklace of jet beads. Her daughter
Greeba’s crepe gown carried an imprint
of gay flowers. Ann Collins contrasted
her pretty powder-blue moire taffeta with
a hip-length jacket of garnet-red velvet.
Dorothy O’Keefe’s moires were in soft
dove-grey tones. Jean Campbell looked
festive in a gaily-embroidered mandarin
coat. Margaret Reid’s black chiffons had
an off-the-shoulder bodice finished with
a soft pink-and-black tulle ruffle. Mrs.
Maud Crougey combined black and white
satin effectively. Over her black velvet
gown fat Weetman wore a ruby-red velvet
jacket. Her sister Etta contrasted her
black skirt with a gold-and-white-striped
top. Marjorie Kennedy’s white tulle had
inset bands of lace. Turquoise-blue
angora was the choice of Rachel
Robinson. Margot Ham - covered her
black gown with a midnight-blue satin
wrap. Biddy Sewell’s ballerina frock was
of pale-beige lace over taffeta. Gertrude
Johnson's flowing black satin cape
covered a matching gown. She was
accompanied by Barbara Wilson, in a
turquoise-blue bouffant frock.
For the opening night of the brilliantly-
dressed Ice Follies of 1950 at His
Majesty’s the big audience apparently
sought to match the sartorial splendor of
the Firm’s wardrobe resources. Mrs,
Frank Tait allied jewelled black lace
bodice and black crepe skirt. Mrs. Frank <
Martin’s black frock had a flesh-toned
tulle yoke. A lovely gown was worn by
Mrs. Norman Paul; of heavy white
brocade, it comprised crinoline skirt and
an off-the-shoulder bodice finished with a
band of gold and jewelled embroidery.
Mrs. Leo Guest’s full-skirted gown of
black tulle was scattered with appliqued
flowers. Mrs. George Griffiths’s gown
was of white broderie anglaise. Mrs.
Maurice Sloman wore a floral satin gown
and a cyclamen velvet jacket. Muted
pink and grey crepes were the choice of
Mrs. L. J. Brown. Mrs. L. V. Stokoe
wore a mutation mink coat with her
cream lace gown.
For her marriage at Wesley Church to
Alan de Graaff, son of Mrs. F. de
Graaff, of Fairfield, Moyne Elaine, eldest
daughter of Mr. Colin Berry, of Dennis,
and the late Mrs. Berry, wore a trained
gown of magnolia satin. The tulle veil
was mounted on a coronet of orange-
blossom. The matron-of-honor was Mrs.
Zelda Dale, whose pink lace frock was
matched by feathers worn in the hair.
Lorraine Berry, the small sister of the
bride, was flower-girl. Also frocked in
pink lace, her hair was adorned with
a flower-halo. Ray Wagner was best
man.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
is an executive member of the committee
responsible for the wellbeing of the
Sutherland Homes for Children w •*
with much joy that she recei’ved fr? S
Keera Cameron, Sutherland a tr ° m
didate in the recent mS Amtalk o'*"'
a cheque for £530. But Mrs n^ Uest >
also on the giving end of presented, WaS
life-governorships of the Homes to
auxiliary s president, Helen Mr-n ° the
and co-worker Jean Date” A^fif U ’
doings were celebrated at a ‘ mortem, f 6
party m the Lady Mayoress
decked reception-room. A navy sI ?S
a fine white-pencil stripe was worn bv
f OS H te wT th Wack fcW*
Lady Wales & nd Mrs. A. Wenborn repre
sented the Homes at the party, and aSxt
liary members present included
secretary Mrs. John Whyte hnn
treasurer Mrs. Garnet Curwen, and cZ
mittee-women Mesdames Geoff iw
man Max Ham, R. Noone, RuJS
Coldham, Alwyn Spicer and Ahm
Pedersen Pat Christie and Pat Rawlings
New bathrooms are to be built in be
Homes, and the children are to
equipped with raincoats and gum-boots
for the coming winter. To raise funds
a card-party will be held at Kenilworth
Chapel-street, South Yarra, on April is’
Tables will cost £1 each. Reservations
may be made by contacting the ticket
secretaries, Mrs. J. M. Robinson, U 4919
and Mrs. C. Ashley, LB 1363.
Mrs. A. A. Lord, who was private
secretary and companion to Lady Dugan
throughout Lord Dugan’s extended term
as Governor of Victoria, is now on ner
way to England, where she will stay with
the former vice-regal pair. After that,
accompanied by Marie Daly, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. J. J, Daly, of Thornbury,
she will travel across the continent to
Rome for the Holy Year Festival. Mrs.
Lord expects to be away for about eight
months.
Pam Holden, eldest daughter of the
late Captain Leslie Holden and of Mrs.
Ken Guest, of Eltham, has announced
her engagement to Peter, only son of Mrs.
A. E. Cuming Parry, of Toorak. Wed-
ding will not take place for 12 months,
for Peter is due to take a trip abroad with
his mother towards the end of the year.
A party was held at Mrs'. Guest’s home
to do honor to the couple, and further
celebrations will be a family dinner-party
at Menzies’ on April 14. Hostess will be
Mrs. Cuming Parry.
Fifty guests made merry at the East
St. Kilda home of Mr. and Mrs. Richara
Dixon at a party given to farewell M •
and Mrs. Norman Lynch, who shortly
leave for England. A copper-tonea
• moire taffeta ballerina gown with go
accessories toned with the hoses,
auburn hair. Gold sequins, green stones
and pearls embellished the sl 'ver-o
shadow-printed French taffeta ballerina
worn by the guest-of-honor. Mrs. „
Lynch was in mist-blue angora. A
the guests were the stars of ‘Street ■
Viola Keats, wearing a brown-and-wm
checked taffeta ballerina frock, an -
Longmuir, whose amber-toned totta*
contrasted with a black lace &po ■
cock-blue French faille fashio .
frock worn by Mrs. Henry Armatruda-
Mrs. F. Marland added a short mat
ing jacket to her powder-blue
frock. Mrs. W- Fenton Bowen A S l a wl
frock had a matching lace top. j,
collar was a feature of the taffeta f L rs .
in elephant-breath tonings worn y
C. Curtain. Pastel-ptnk bead*
mented the soft pmk c J e P e , nriges’s
by Mrs. L Riddell. Mrs. Ted Bngg^
black crepe frock had a yoke
guipure lace. raU ]field
The M.R.C’s meeting atl «'
attracted a bumper crowd. elusive
smart racegoers seeking Xayl° r ’
winners were noted Mrs. G. • 0 f
whose frock and full-length c j n trim
royal-blue ; Mrs. Johnny Long »
navy suit and matching smal w ith
J. Reilly, her navy ensemble t Merton,
matching beret; Mrs. Gera sU jt
in bright-yellow felt hat and Ba®/


THE WORLD’S FINEST VERMOUTHS
SINCE 1816
Siill
i /w i
mm
on
ms
gfjl
I
A LITTLE MEAT
GOES A LONG WAY
HOME
MEAT
LOAF
OLD
r*%
«
Si
w
A
m
m
ZM'i
S2*W!
uci
• ••
■ ■■• v.
<<• w $
*«• S&£###: •>w-^
Lea»Perrins
SAUCE
Lea f Perrins
TOMATO SAUCE
044 eMetdui/& -wa/s
it
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HAROLD GEORGE BYRNE formerly
of Enmore railway-worker. —TAKE
NOTICE that QUEEN LEAH BYRNE has
filed a Petition for Divorce (No. 41 of
195.0) on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 16th June 1950 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. J.
KIELY, Solicitor, 17 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Exercising Federal
Jurisdiction in Divorce.
TO HAROLD MAX WOOLLEY formerly
of 7 Jacques Avenue Bondi Beach. —TAKE
NOTICE that MONA MARY WOOLLEY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3075
of 1949 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for two years and
upwards under Tasmanian Law If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 28th June
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JAMES BIRNIE
JACKSON, Solicitor, 117 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney. — (1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Exercising Federal
Jurisdiction in Divorce.
TO CHARLES MAXWELL SIELY late of
13 Baker Street New Town Tasmania. —
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN HARLEY
SIELY has pursuant to Part 111 of the
Matrimonial Causes Act (Federal) 1945
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3107 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for two years and
upwards (under Tasmanian law) Should
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South
Wales by the 28th day of June 1950 A
conv of the petition may be obtained free
of charge from MESSRS. PRIMROSE,
YOUNG & PRIMROSE, Solicitors, 12
Oastlereagh Street, Sydrfey. —(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar in Divorce.
• • •
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE...
Burned
in a Second
fPh+=4
□Ta
-,x
x
m
Longitudinal section
of o B. & W. High,
Head boiler unit
arranged for pul-
verised coal firing.
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. Wi t h
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - ■ REGENTS PARK. R.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
SUNDAY SHOWS
Vic. Gallery Trustees.
Tustifiable surprise and inquiry
have followed the peremptory
Sing of Max Meldrum from
his seat as trustee of the Mel-
hourne National Gallery—the
on |* artist on that body. The
S excuse Best put forward
,as that artists were undesirable
members of such a board be-
e they never agreed.
Bat is not true. When there
were three artist-trustees Long-
staff Meldrum and Alex
Colquhoun— -they could agree
among themselves on the art-
questions put before them. As
might be presupposed from their
training, they did not always
agree with the lay members ; the
board was then 17 strong and
they were then naturally out-
voted. . . . ,
The only new artist appointed
since the passing of Longstaff
and Alex Colquhoun could not
stand the subordination im-
posed upon him, nor the waste
of time involved, so he resigned.
Meldrum, who had been
pointedly dropped whep the
trustees were reorganised in
three bodies, was later reinstated
by the then Chief Secretary, and
thereafter was, as he says, “a
thorn in the side” of sundry lay
trustees, by his determined
attempt to maintain a high and
sane standard in gallery pur-
chases. The wish to get rid of
discordant elements was no
secret. R. D. Elliott knew
of the aim to purge the
trustees’ body of the two in-
dependent members (himself
and Meldrum) and commented
on it months ago. His death
was followed within three
days by the curt 4 dismissal of
Meldrum.
This leaves the conduct of the
gallery, the mosjt important in
the Southern Hemisphere, in the
hands of laymen—amateurs, col-
lectors, all and sundry, except
actual working artists, who
might have inconvenient wills
and views of their own.
The public shotld note what
is going on and study the S.A.
example. There, in a National
Gallery committee of five, two,
if not more, are leading artists.
In Melbourne the Chief Secre-
tary —another layman—who has,
unaccountably, the absolute
power of appointing trustees, has
issued the remarkable pro-
nouncement that no artist may
take part in the management of
the Vic. Gallery or in the choos-
ing of the pictures to be bought.
Would that state of affairs be
conceivable in any other pro-
fession? —(Miss) A. M. E. Bale.
* sic * *
W. Hickson Adams, who held
some highly successful exhibi-
tions when he had a gallery in
Brisbane, has moved to Adelaide,
where he has established the
Flinders Gallery, opposite the
Soldiers’ Memorial and Gardens
and facing the sea where
Flinders moored the Investigator.
For a start he is showing his
own collection, which includes
the “Two Rivers” by George F.
Lawrence, which won the last
Wynne Prize. Exhibitions by
South Australian and inter-State
artists will follow; and the idea
is ultimately to establish an art
centre with a director-instructor,
devoted to Australian work.
"S.S. Glencairn."
It is the extreme naturalness of
their people which gives to
Eugene O’Neill’s one-act dramas
of the sea —collected together
under the title “S.S. Glencairn”
—their power of realism. While
his characters cling to reality the
result is forceful drama, but if
they are false to life there is
danger of the whole thing be-
coming no more than pleasant
fantasy.
It is naturalness of character
which is lacking in Lawrence H.
Cecil’s production of the plays
for the Independent Theatre at
North Sydney. These are stage-
bound seamen, who seem to
know nothing of the salt sting
of the sea or the mustiness of the
fo’c’sle. Their lustiness is a pose,
and no natural growth out of
the unnatural repressions of their
living.
There is a music-hall flavor to
their cavortings with the dusky
belles under “The Moon of the
Caribbees”; they seem largely
schoolboy pranksters in “In the
Zbne,” scarce hinting at the en-
croachment of the menacing
world about them; and the
Yank “Bound East for Cardiff”
is an unconscionable and weary
time a-dying.
The last act, “The Long
Voyage Home,” is almost wholly
satisfying. Cecil himself curbs
his Irishman’s stagey fanciful-
ness, leaving him as a blustering,
happy, slightly - bewildered
fellow, easily credible. Leonard
Thiele’s Olsen has the right blend
of attractive, simple likelihood
to make his fate a matter of
tragedy, and Lyndall Barbour
and George Simpson-Lyttle fit
unobtrusively but distinctly into
a pattern of cheap, chiselling
squalor.
are odd glimpses of
character sharply etched in the
other plays—Charles Tasman’s
Donkeyman is clearest under-
stood —but mostly the drama is
lost in dramatics.
Musical Migrants.
The popular illusion that the
vast body of New Australians is
entirely composed of professors,
prima-donnas and world-famous
virtuosi gained some support
from the latest Music for the
People concert conducted by
Hector Crawford at Melbourne
Botanic Gardens.
Apart from the Australian
Symphony Orchestra, contri-
butors to the festival consisted
entirely of d.ps. Three Latvians,
a Hungarian, a Bulgarian and a
Dutchman sent their voices
above the treetops in excerpts
from Wagner, Verdi, Puccini,
Rossini and Gounod, and the
standard of the singing was as
high as what would be heard
coming from a cognate number
of well-trained, talented Old Aus-
tralians.
One of the soloists was Maria
Tauber, a cousin of the cele-
brated Richard. She showed her-
self an accomplished singer.
There was beautiful concerted
singing from a Latvian choir
which rendered numbers un-
accompanied under the baton
of their own conductor. Minister
for Immigration Holt made a
graceful analogy between the
effect of soil and climate on the
floral immigrants in the Gardens
and the human performers.
Verdi's "Falstaff."
Since last year’s prolonged
’blackouts ruined its season of
“Falstaff,” the Sydney Conser-
vatorium Opera School has con-
siderably sharpened its general
perception of the work ; a richer
comedy invests the present
season, with a capital portrayal
of Falstaff by James Wilson,
whose voice matched his bulk,
Ronal Jackson’s Ford, too,
gave evidence of more careful
preparation, and his acting has
improved out of sight. John
Dudley’s lyric tenor flowed
smoothly in the love airs
allotted to Fenton, and Ronald
Neill’s was well’cast as Dr. Caius.
In their respective solo work
Gloria Read, Lorraine Davies,
Rachel Neale and Lina Belle
gave good accounts of them-
selves, and they excelled in the
“chattering” choruses, lending
particular animation to the plot-
ting scene in which they en-
compass the knight’s humiliation
swallowing of “a gallon
of Thames water.” Lina Belle
also succeeded in injecting the
requisite slyness and bantering air
into the role of Dame Quickly.
There were one or two weak-
nesses. The search for Falstaff
by Ford and his henchmen lacks
conviction, and the final scene is
too overcrowded and confused,
for which the inadequacies of
the Conservatorium stage must
take the major blame. All the
subtleties, the aptness and the
wit of Verdi’s magnificent score
were emphasised in splendid
playing by the orchestra under
Eugene Goossens.
* * * *
Brisbane’s Villanova Players,
in their production of Shaw’s
“Arms and the Man,” kept in
mind the author’s sub-title “an
anti - romantic comedy.”
Although many scenes could
have been improved by further
rehearsal, others were delight-
fully played; none better, per-
haps, than those when Donn
MacDonagh as the daring Major
Sergius was completely routed
by the charms and schemes of
Mary Lythgo’s Louka, the
serving-maid who made the most
of her situation. Mary Lou
Weller as Raina, the over-
romantic, aristocratic girl who
sheltered the chocolate-soldier,
gave a competent performance.


he forgot it in the smooth, raucous cycle
of his orders.
“With D.A. shell load, load, load!”
Home rammed the squat, ugly shell,
its cordite bag behind it; thud slammed
the breech, and locked immovably into
place. Standing in rear, with his legs
straddled, Brady in one swift look checked
the safety of the line of fire —he didn’t
want to land a direct-action shell in the
white-and-green town and roared
“Fire!”
A second, while the layer, one leg
braced out behind him on the deck, his
head thrust hard into thb telescope eye-
piece, rested the oncoming bomber in his
sight-wires. Then crash! And the little
ship exploded in noise and smoke.
Brady was not surprised that the
bomber was still a bomber. A direct hit
at that range ... He only hoped to
frighten him off. Before the next round
crashed he realised his firing had had
exactly the opposite effect. From 3000 ft.
up the corvette would look like a beetle
—the Jap pilot, now it had been foolish
enough to spit at him, would crush it.
His slight bank made the intention clear.
All that Brady had ever learned, and
taught, was working in his brain with
practised speed. ‘ Height, speed, course,
range, all mentally calculated, dissected
and decided on in one automatic opera-
tion governed what would be his third,
and last, decision bfefore the bomber
would be over and away. It was almost
on them, a huge roaring bat loaded with
menace. As the bomb dropped, a black
blob, from its belly, he ordered “Fire! ”
The next few seconds were a blast of
violence. The little ship jerked with the
recoil, then lifted bodily under the vicious
upthrust of bursting steel. A fraction
of time earlier 401 b. of steel-encased
shell blew itself asunder under the
bomber’s nose. The gun’s crew were
cowering beneath the drenching wall of
water the near-miss flung up and over
them when in a bellowing roar of engines
and whoosh of air the bomber rocketed
over the fo’c’sle and smashed itself into
the waiting harbor. A fanned spray of
white water spewed into the air, then
settled in misty curtains over a creaming
circle on the surface of the bay. The
corvette came upright, steadied, and drove
on.
IT was a miracle, a shot in a million —
but, in the excited words of a young
loading-number capering behind the gun,
“We got the !”
Brady interrupted his jubilation.
“Pack that up!” he snapped. “Get
that wet cordite out of the way. Wipe
your hands and open the starb’d locker.
Come on, smack it about! You haven’t
killed the whole bloody Jap air-force.
Trainer! Get back to your wheel. Train
fore and aft. You! What’s your name?
Smart? Nip forrard of the gun and keep
a lookout. Stand fast layer and trainer
—rest of the gun’s crew out brooms and
clear this water away. Fjull speed now,
me hearties!”
Then, duty done, he walked to the
starb’d rails and under pretence of scan-
ning the sky savored himself of the
jubilation bursting in his own breast.
Ten minutes,later, when Perseus broad-
cast the all-clear in long, relieved blasts,
Brady walked slowly aft to get his gear
taken below, inspecting his new ship on
the way. She certainly was a tight little
craft, not an inch wasted —and she cer-
tainly needed a face-lift. In a week (if
the rest of his hands were anything like
that gun’s crew) he’d have her as clean
as a whistle. They lacked direction, the
way to go about things, all the scores of
wrinkles which meant the difference be-
tween a ship’s company just working and
one whose efforts made of a ship some-
thing really to live in.
His thoughts and plans were interrupted
abreast the funnel. A voice he recog-
nosed called him from the bridge.
“Petty-officer Brady; up here a
moment.”
The first-lieutenant was waiting for him
at the bridge-ladder, his brown face,
wrinkled like a prune beneath the smooth
brown dome of his head, alive with
pleasure.
“Damned good work, Brady! Damned
good!” The bridge team was staring at
him, and Brady wriggled uncomfortably.
Number One went on: “Captain, sir,
here’s the new p. 0,,” yelling jubilantly
across the bridge.
A SHORT, red-faced man with a
barrelled mid-riff condensing to
hock-bottle shoulders turned from the
binnacle and frowned at his officer.
“All right. Number One —I’m not
ashore,”
[The light died from the other’s face.
He introduced Brady brusquely. The
short man held out his hand, not yet
letting go with his eyes.
“Welcome to the ship, Petty-officer
Brady. As the first-lieutenant has just
told us, I’m the captain.”
That was bad, thought Brady—the
whole bridge was listening. Aloud, he
said: “Glad to be here, sir. I under-
stand I’m to be chief bosun’s mate?”
The first-lieutenant’s head jumped into
Brady’s vision. Hell’s bells, he’s like a
monkey, he thought.
“Yes, Brady, you’re the new Buffer.
I’ll give you a run through”
“Petty-officer Brady.” The captain
brought Brady’s head back. “You will be
chief bosun’s mate, and officer of
quarters of the four-inch gun. You’ve
no doubt noticed the upper-deck looks
as though we’ve been in dockyard hands
for six months. You’ll have your work
cut out” Brady could hardly believe
his ears. What sort of ship was this!
The first-lieutenant, whose responsibility
the upper-deck was, was standing beside
him, listening to his captain decrying it
to a petty-officer, and a p.o. who would
be immediately responsible to the first-
lieutenant.
Brady slid a quick glance at Number
One. His face was working, a rigid line
of muscles knotting along his jaws. He
had to get out of this.
“I’ll have a look at my gear, if you
don’t mind, sir. I think that near-miss
may have caught up with it.”
The captain nodded, turned his back
on the first-lieutenant and stalked back
to the binnacle. The other led Brady
down the ladder and waited for him near
the funnel.
“I’ll give you a thorough run round,
Brady,” he said in a low voice as they
walked aft, his bald head nipping from
side to side like a chicken’s. The emphasis
on the “I’ll” left no doubt the bridge
scene was rankling. He pulled up in the
ship’s low waist, before the huge mine-
sweeping winch squatting on the quarter-
deck.
“By the way, did you find the ship’s
manoeuvring threw your gunnery off at
all? She was turning at that last shot.
Lucky you even got your gun to bear.”
Brady gaped at him. The detestable
little . This was something new in
his experience, but there was no doubt
of the other’s meaning. Only one man
handles the ship in action.
Number One saw the effect, and at
once brought, as it were, his stripes out
on show.
“All right, Brady. Get your gear
stowed, then come along to my cabin.
Hands fall in at 1300.” He bounced off.
DOWN in the tiny mess which he was
to share with the stoker, supply and
telegraphist petty-officers, the stili-won-
dering Brady found the coxswain, the
senior petty-officer in charge of the ship’s
discipline, stowing his gas-mask away.
They were alone. Brady shook hands
and felt an instant liking for the elderly,
wrinkled chap. He must have been fifty,
obviously was a Reserve, called up, as he
learned later, from a dredge in the Bris-
bane River.
The cox’n grinned quizzically up at
the other’s height.
“I see you’ve met them,” he decided
in a husky whisper.
“Beg pardon?”
He repeated himself, more loudly, and
added: “Gas —first war.”
“Yes,” returned Brady, standing his
kit-bag in a corner. “I’ve met them.
What’s the strength of it?”
“Sit down, and I’ll tell you. Smoke?”
Brady began to see light shortly after
the other had told him both officers’
peace-time vocations. The Old Man, the
cox’n enlightened him, speaking in his
uncanny whisper, had been in the Mel-
bourne Harbor Trust in between doing his
Saturday-afternoon training with the
peace-time Reserves. He had, of course,
been to sea before that —a long time
before. The first-lieutenant, on the other
hand, was till recently a China Rivers
pilot, and could handle any sort of ship
like a dinghy—which knowledge didn’t
help the captain any, and no doubt
accounted for the scrapes Brady would
find along the ship’s side, and for the
trail of split pier-posts they’d left behind
them in pretty well every port from here
to Brisbane. Brady ought to see the two
of them on the bridge, coming alongside.
The Old Man, standing stiff as a stanchion
forrard, in determined ignorance of his
understudy’s presence on the wing, and
the understudy muttering wheel- and
engine-orders to himself until the ship
belted into buoy or pier. Of course, the
Old Man hadn’t had much time to feel
her —they had come straight from com-
missioning in Sydney—but, time or no,
Number One could handle her on his
back, as he had proved when they had
to shift berth in a hurry once with the
captain ashore. That was the biggest
mistake Number One ever made; the
captain knew that all hands knew who
should be bringing her in alongside, and
from that day his concealed animosity
flared into intense, naked dislike.
“Mark me, young feller,” the cox’n
ended. “Both of ’em will be after your
favor like a sailor after skirt. The other
Buffer was only a leading-hand—Carter,
a likely lad —but you’re a p.o. and, what’s
more, a two-badged permanent-service
p.o. In a ship this size a very handy
boy to have on a man’s side.”
AND so it was. Brady slipped into the
ship’s routine easily enough, and
under his practised experience the ship
blossomed. He had, as Tug forecast, no
watches to keep, and in his spare time
worked on a little bench abaft the funnel,
in a sort of cave formed by the carley-
rafts overhead, on knocking-out blocks
of tackles, greasing and emery-papering
until the sheaves would turn, as it were,
at a puff of air. Soon one or two hands
turned up to watch, in their own time
off-watch, and it was a short step from
“Here, Young, wipe the muck off that
pin, will you? Your life may depend on
it some day,” to “Yes, Thompson, you
can have a go at this snatch-block.”
The rusty screech disappeared from
the whaler’s blocks, guard-rail stanchion-
pins lifted out by hand, instead of re-
quiring a blow-torch, you could eat your
dinner off the once-oily deck round the
gun, and the one time Brady caught a
stoker spitting on the deck (all one after-
noon the offender scrubbed it with a
hand-scrubber) was enough.
The new Buffer would have been com-
pletely happy but for the feud between
the two officers. He got to dread the
first-lieutenant’s approach, for it invari-
ably heralded a confidence alien to
Brady’s training and character. The
captain, though not so direct, was nearly
as bad, because the stoop from his exalted
position was all the steeper. Of the two,
Brady preferred him, possibly because he
felt sorry for his comparative incom-
petence.
The ship was back in Singapore Roads
after a convoy to Timor when the inci-
dent of the whaler flared relations into
the first open raw clash. It was the foot-
hill to the climax.
The ship was anchored well up, in a
narrow, tide-swept arm flanked on each
side by the close-packed green of man-
grove swamps. It was ideal shelter for
her week of boiler-cleaning, with her
engines out of commission.
About 1600 of that stifling afternoon
the” motor-boat had been ordered inshore
for mail. Now, just on dusk, she was
returning. Brady was working on a rope-
mat for the bathroom when he heard the
bridge signalman shout aft;
“Bosun’s mate. Motor-boat broken
down! ”
He stepped at once to the guard-rail,
peering between the motor-boat’s davits.
The boat was about half a mile away,
stopped. Or her engine was. Brady had
her lined up against the opposite green
bank, and could see her drifting quickly
astern. The tide was running swiftly ; in
parts of the Roads it streams seaward at
four knots.
The captain’s voice from the bridge,
where he had been looking for a breath
of air, brought his head up.
“Chief bosun’s mate. Tell the first-
lieutenant to get the whaler away.”
BRADY’S hesitancy was scarcely
noticeable ; he had already thought
of the whaler, and had as soon discarded
the idea—she would be helnW
herself back against that rip tet aw IJ 8
heavy motorboat.
Be grabbed the nearest hand and
him aft with (he message. In a moi2
Number One came trotting forrard 1
short, swift legs, his head nSg "ftjf
ously. His first words told Brady
he, too, thought of the idea. nat
“What’s this rot about the whaler
Brady? Can’t you see it won’t stand a
chance against that tide?”
from 'the 0 bridge. * ed g e came
“ Tbat u 0t ’ bout tbe whaler came from
One. Get it lowered i mm "
'Hie other stared up, his bald head
thrown back like an infuriated vulture
• “,? U T V the - crew won,t have a chance
sir. His voice just trembled on the brink
of disrespect. “I suggest the motorboat
be signalled to get its oars out and ease
herself into the mangroves. We can nick
her up at slack water,” v
Good idea, thought Brady.
The Old Man was on his feet both
hands clenching the bridge-rail. His far P
matched the sunset.
“Good God, Number One!” he spoke
between his teeth in a low, compressed
hiss. “Am I the captain of this ship'
Get that bloody boat in the water and
get it there fast!”
It was the first time Brady had heard
him actually invoke his rank, and the
first time he had heard him swear. There
was no brooking his order. Number One
turned to call to the bosun’s mate, and
muttered something to Brady. He was
interrupted by a furious bellow.
“Belcher!”
Number One swivelled at his name—it
was the first time he had been called by
it since he joined the ship. But the Old
Man could only mouth speechlessly at
him, so wild was he, and gesture stab-
bingly with one hairy paw at the whaler.
It could have been the shock of seeing
him so ropeable that caused Number One
to make his next mistake —normally he
was seaman enough. With the crew in the
whaler at the davit-head, he took one fall
and Brady the other. Now a full-laden
whaler requires at least one round turn of
the fall round its cleat to lower it the
twenty-odd feet from the davit-head.
Brady took his turns off cautiously, till
he had a turn and a half on, with which
he could control the lowering easily.
Number One, on the other fall, threw his
turns off impatiently, his face a choleric
red through its tan. Brady watched him
apprehensively. His warning shout was
half-formed when it happened. Number
One had thrown off the last full turn,
leaving a slippery half-turn, when the
boat suddenly took charge. The rope
sizzled through his fingers; the after-end
dropped like a stone, spewing men, oars,
bottom-boards and barricoes in a flailing
stream into the water. The men grabbed
lifelines and the boat, dangling up-ended
on Brady’s fall; the oars floated swiftly
off on the tide. To make the ridiculous
spectacle two officers had made of them-
selves more ridiculous, faintly above the
splashing in the water below came the
assured chug-chug of the restarted motor-
boat.
'"T HE scene in the captain’s cabin lasted
I an hour, and was so violent tna
Brady kept watch outside, clearing a
hands off. When the first-lieutenant
bounced out through the canvas darken
ship screen he nearly bowled Brady
so vehement was his exit. TT nn
“Brady? The man I want! Up ou
the bridge.” ~ . , f , p t,
Brady followed him with m ixed
ings. What the hell did Belcher want to
drag him into this for? Number
took no time in telling him.
“See here, Brady.” They stood nor
the chart-table, the °^ ce [. • 8 P y 0 u
Brady’s arm. “You saw everyt g- at
knew it was bloody s^ carried
whaler away—she’d have be n {he
right out. Wouldntshe. He
arm with emphasis. „
“Yes, sir. I suppose she would.
“No suppose about it. Your ®| V doing
hand, Brady. You know I was Y
my duty. And look at the way t
and roars at me. No wonder ffie t 0
slipped. Now see here 1 ashore
lodge a complaint Theb-■ stan ding
will hear about this. I m


EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE
wr
ATTORNEY
They Deserve
Full Protection
hasty appointment of a private executor is a mistake
st ar to ° common. Who can guarantee that he
p 1 * 3e capable of carrying out his duties efficiently?
oor judgement, inexperience, bad health, business reverses
o. aav ancing years inevitably lead to faulty administration.
. * nce his vital to look far ahead, you will be well advised
o appoint Burns Philp Trust Company Limited as your
bpn C fi tor -° r trus,:ee - This sensible decision protects your
nen ciaries from avoidable errors in the administration
, of your estate,
a^s Company's services are given in "Hands
thic ~e ver Leave the Wheel.” A complimentary copy of
non r eres^n 9 booklet will be forwarded on request. If
are to call, a senior officer will be readily available
to discuss important matters with you.
Ja DIRECTORS:
MANapcT 5 Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
ER: L> S - Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.P.I.A.
b *RNS PHILP TRUST
Co MPAHY LIMITED
"stituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
ra'w 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DOCTORS
STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN •
-
mm
M**
mm
m
m
m
m
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
A credit to the company, that’s Bill! He’s the man
with that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. You, too,
can have shaves that look good and feel good . . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ONLY
18
SALESMEN
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES
LAWYERS
He
WOK£9 SMART
Am HOT
mem/
„ mnre of it, Brady, d’
f ° r fir? I’ ve i ust ab ° Ut h^
you near-^
m^ gUt ;nied to pull a cigarette
up and
<i er Brady, I’m going to
N ,i7’this down m writing.
S at l «n. you to do is w.t-
-"lrady jerked back. So that
•ti The sly hound. The
S had said he would be a
cOX ? hand to have on your side.
perhaps he°was —but not. that
Lod, nor on that side, either.
|very facet of his training re-
Sed against the thought—he,
a petty-officer, the balance be-
fween punishment for a captain
and a first-lieutenant. No, they
could settle their own rotten
business between them.
As Brady looked at this man
before him, his bald head thrust
eagerly at him through the dusk,
he forgot the stripes on his
shoulder. This wasn’t an officer
-it was a civilian, and a poor
one at that, a mere dressed
dummy unschooled in the tradi-
tions of oflficership in a fine ser-
vice. All the disgust and shame
he had felt over the past months
at the utterly unofficerlike
bickering between the two burst
out in a heedless, impassioned
tirade.
“Listen to me! I’m not going
to witness your damned com-
plaint. I’ve witnessed enough in
this blasted ship ■to make me
sick of the sight of officers act-
ing like a couple of wharf-
lumpers! Complaint, is it?”
His tense voice swelled. “D’
you ever stop to think of the
complaints the crew could have?
Do you?” He grabbed the
other’s shoulder. “I tell you I’ve
shipped with all sorts of officers,
from snotty-nosed subs to full-
blown admirals, and I’ve yet to
come across a man the likes of
you. Officer?” He snarled, and
pushed the, other from him.
“You’re not an officer’s sea-
boot.”
The silence between them
lasted a full ten seconds —the
officer, shocked by the vehe-
mence of the other’s denuncia-
tion, the rating stunned by the
realisation of his own temerity.
Then Number One pushed past
him, and without a word clat-
tered down the bridge ladder
and aft.
DRADY could not remember
a worse night than the one
he spent, dressed and ready for
the axe, waiting in his mess. He
had told the cox’n (by now his
friend), and they both agreed,
the older man with serious con-
cern, that court-martial was cer-
tain, ‘disrating probable, dis-
missal from the service possible.
Neither predicted, nor even
thought of, what did happen—
precisely nothing.
An inwardly tortured chief
bosun’s mate reported the hands
to the first-lieutenant at eight
o’clock next morning. Normally
the officer took Brady’s salute
without a cap, acknowledging
with a nod. The only time he
wore a cap was at Sunday divi-
sions and going ashore. This
morning it was on, and he re-
turned the salute with the at-
tempted smartness of an amateur
in such things. This is it,
thought Brady. The only other
time a cap was absolutely neces-
sary was when taking defaulters
before the captain.
But Number One merely
grunted; “Carry on part of
ship,” and dived below again.
All morning Brady waited. Was
the little swine merely torturing
him? It never occurred to him
that his outburst, delivered with
all the righteousness of outraged
training, could have pulled the
object of it up with a round
turn. Normally, of course, that
occurrence was out of the ques-
tion ; but Brady had not been
dealing with a normal officer.
When a week had passed, and
Brady was still a free man, the
incredible truth dawned on him
—he had got away with it. But
it did not need the cox’n’s warn-
ing to make him watch his step.
As was to be expected, rela-
tions between captain and first-
lieutenant grew worse. A small-
ship commander, at its members’
concurrence, makes free of the
wardroom. The captain had
been an infrequent visitor ; now
they never saw him. The com-
pass of his movements was
bounded by his sea-cabin and
the bridge, except during cap-
tain’s rounds on Saturday morn-
ing, when he went round every
part of the ship inspecting every-
thing, to see that the first-
lieutenant was keeping the ship
efficient. On Saturday the ship
had to be swept and garnished,
all loose gear stowed away,
messdecks scrubbed extra clean,
every particle of brass-work
rubbed till it glittered —Saturday
was the day when the profes-
sional ability of every first-
lieutenant in his Majesty’s Navy
was weighed in the balance.
There was plenty in which this
particular lieutenant was found
, wanting. The captain pursued
• his rounds with deliberate step
and serious inwardly he
was gloating.
The break had to come —even
i the men were becoming affected
by the thinly-veiled hatred (it
had worsened to that) between
both officers. It came —in the
. middle of a night air-attack.
T HEY were alongside a big
* oil-lighter about two miles
from the Causeway where old
! Perseus had sat her broad beam
all through raids which had be-
come a daily routine, even
shooting down a plane or two
with her single four-inchers.
Coming in late from anti-sub-
marine patrol, the ship had
fuelled at dusk, and would re-
main secured to the lighter all
night.
The wailed at 11 p.m.
They had to get clear of their
dangerous bedfellow, quick.
Brady was on the fo’c’sle in a
trice, singling up wires. He left
one wire to the lighter, on which
the captain could go astern, kick
his stern out and his bow in,
and spring himself off.
He straightened from his work
as the first-lieutenant’s voice,
cursing and blasting, came along
the dark upper-deck from aft.
Brady turned to Carter.
“Hell’s bells! ” he groaned.
“The b ’s drunk!”
A fanged line of brilliant
flashes leaped in the darkness
ahead as Number One stumbled
on to the fo’c’sle. / They Were
doing the town over tonight.
That probably meant the oil-
tanks and harbor as well.
“Whash up, Brady? Whasher
doin’? Carshun off wires? Here,
lemme give a han’. Up she
comes! There, lars one
The wire slithered along the
deck under its own weight and
snaked out the fairlead. Brady
swore.
“That was the spring, sir.
Now I’ll have to put a hand on
the lighter to get it back.”
“Eh? Shpring? ’Do wants a
bloody shpring to get unner
way?” His voice rose in
drunken delight. “No, it ’asn’t,
Brady. It ’asn’t gone. See!
Caugh’ round the fairlead.
Look. Sweet an’ tight. That’ll
hold her. Or it would if there
was a seaman drivin’ this bloody
craft. There ’e goes! Listen to
’im. Answer ’im, Brady, and
tell ’im all ready on fo’c’shle.”
The captain’s voice came
again, insistent.
“Fo’c’sle, wake up! Can I
go astern on the spring?”
“It’s caught on the horn of
the fairlead, sir, but I think
she’ll hold. Otherwise I’ll have
to put a hand on the lighter to
give me some slack,” Brady
called back.
“What the blazes is it doing
on the fairlead?”
“Becosh I put it there,” bel-
lowed the first-lieutenant.
“Carter,” Brady hissed ur-
gently. “For God’s sake get him
away.”
But the captain, hearing the
hated voice, stepped back to the
binnacle. “Slow astern starb’d,”
he ordered.
A moment, and a slow thrash-
ing started under her counter.
She eased astern under the drag,
until the spring tautened and
held her. Brady watched it
tightening round the fairlead
horn anxiously. His judgment
told him it was a precarious
hold. The ship, unable to go
further astern, began to swing
her stern slowly away from the
lighter under the side-drag of the
screw. She swung, then stopped,
though the thrashing astern con-
tinued.
SUDDENLY through the
waiting quiet on the
fo’c’sle and the muffled thunder
ashore, a voice shouted:
“Bridge! ”
The captain instinctively
stepped to the starb’d wing, his
white-clad body in full view.
“What is it?”
“Why the blue blazesh don’t
you put the bloody shtarb’d
shrew half-astern? A wall-eyed
Shinaman could shee the tide’s
holdin’ her in!”
There was a stunned silence.
Then the captain spoke, with
forced calmness. “First-lieuten-
ant, go to your cabin.”
“Captain, go t’ hell!”
The fool, thought Brady. Now
the Old Man had him athwart-
ships. Drunk on duty, insubor-
dination, all in the face of the
enemy.
“Chief bosun’s mate.”
“Yes, sir?” >
“Take charge on the fo’c’sle.
You are to ignore all orders of
the first-lieutenant. Take the
names of all hands present.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Standby to slip the spring.”
“I can’t, sir. It’s bar taut. Can
you come ahead a bit and give
me some slack?”
“All right. Knock it clear as
soon as you can. We’ll collect It
in the morning.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Brady heard the captain order
“Slow ahead port.” He was to
remember that order for a long
time. Then he shouted at a
figure heading, mumbling, to-
wards the wire that stretched,
with the weight of the straining
ship still on it, a taut bar of steel
down to the lighter.
“First-lieutenant, sir! Keep
away from that wire! ”
He might as well have shouted
at the planes overhead. Number
One kept on, muttering about
“knockin’ the blarsted wire off”
until he bent right over the low
guard-rail his hands tugging
futilely at the wire. It may have
been the shaking of the ship as
the screw was reversed ahead ; it
may have been that the smooth
horn of the fairlead could hold
the weight no longer. As the
first-lieutenant’s head bent right
over the guard-rail in a further
drunken effort, the wire shook,
slipped an inch, held, then with
a grind of metal sheared off the
fairlead and flung itself viciously
back at the lighter like a coiling
steel whip.
There was a thud, a half-
strangled shriek, and a heavy
splash. Then, while they waited,
horrified, stupefied, and the ship
nosed slowly ahead towards the
lighter, a long-drawn scream of
agony sheared up from over the
side. It ended in a shuddering
gasp. Eight-hundred tons of
steel, moving under the thrust of
1700-horsepower, takes a lot of
stopping; and the human body
was not built for a fender.
’"THEY found what was left of
i the first-lieutenant next
morning, well down where the
tide had stranded him over a
mangrove root. It all came out
at the inquiry, of course. There
were too many witnesses this
time. And when Brady was ques-
tioned by the gimlet-eyed senior
naval officer about certain rela-
tions on board, things didn’t look
over-rosy for the captain. De-
cidedly un-rosy, in fact. So that
no one was surprised when, four
days later, a fresh-faced six-
footer with two rings on his
sleeve sprang inboard and was
escorted to the captain’s vacant
cabin by the sub-lieutenant.
Brady was sent for that after-
noon —not too soon, not too late.
He knocked.
“Come in,” called a cheerful
voice. Brady bent his head and
entered,
“Oh, chief bosun’s mate. Sit
down, won’t you? I want to
have a bit of a yarn with you.”
The new captain leant back in
assured casualness.
“We’ve, had a bit of trouble
here—as far as the ship is con-
cerned, we’ve bad the trouble.
Right?”
Brady couldn’t stop a grin.
This young cove, not much older
than he, had a refreshing, irre-
pressible bounce about him
rather like a determined cork.
“Yes, sir.”
“This is my first command,
Brady. I’ll expect full co-opera-
tion from you and the cox’n.”
Brady nodded.
“By the way, what ships have
you served in?”
Brady named them. At one,
a cruiser, the captain stopped
him.
“You’d probably know my
father in her.”
“What’s his name, sir?”
“Langridge.”
“Captain Langridge?”
“Yep.”
He laughed at Brady’s look,
and held up his sleeve. “All
right, all right. I admit the
stripes aren’t straight; but there
are some who think the Mer-
chant Navy rates a bit of im-
portance, y’ know. I’m one of
’em.”
Brady left the cabin, trying not
to grin. What a combination—
regular sea-going naval captain
for his father, the wider toler-
ance of the Red Duster for his
training.
The cox’n met him near the
funnel.
“Hullo. You look pleased with
yourself.”
“Do I, cox, me old townie?
Probably because I am. What
about a run ashore tonight, you
old reprobate? It’s about time
I saw Tug again. Eh? Oh, he 5 s
an old shipmate I haven’t sighted
for weeks. There’s a thing or
two I’d like to tell him.”


LUDOWICI
INDUSTRIAL
PACKINGS &
JOINTINGS
Oo facilitate ordering , J. C. LZJDOWICI & SON LTD.
will gladly supply on request a specification sheet that
covers every vital factor to ensure satisfactory service
in the application of all types of Packings. It’s a free
J.C.L. Technical Service write for your copy to-dayl
RUBBER
ASBe sro s
* //
(Sf
ett m
Jj n "‘ 0 *iri
oh
tiidowici’s range of Industrial Packings and Jointings
now covers Industry’s full requirements. In addition
to our universally recognised line of Leather Packings
for hydraulic and pneumatic applications, we maintain
a complete range of high and low pressure steam pack-
ings and jointings in both Australian and imported
brands.
[We also supply a full range of rubber and synthetic
rubber, packings, gaskets, dust excluders and the
approved Flu-Seal oil and grease retainers.
ẃ
J. C LUDOWICI & SON lID,
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY. BX 5841. 20-28 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX 3101-3.
Leather Belting • Rubber Belting • Conveyor and Elevator Belting • Round Leather Belting • Textile Leathers •
Belting Accessories • Leather Packings • High-Speed Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Plain
Bearings • Anti-Friction Bearings • Steel Shafting • Shafting Couplings • Shafting Hangers • Microid Bearing Metals
• Porous Bronze Bushes • Gears • Pulleys • Wall Brackets • Variable-Speed Drives • Ludowici Pivot Drive •
Fla-Seal Oil Retainers • Composition Packings • Lutex Industrial Plastics • industrial Gloves • Rubber Hose •
Lemcol High Quality Trucks, Wheels,, Castors, etc.
Why the san
stood still
Did the sun actually stop
at Joshua’s command I.
t^KedSeareaUjroll
the Red Sea ream pa ss
to let the Israelites
through? J er * at a
m? -L' ia a
3 ome tumbling/ojm
trumpets blast • our s-
Reader’s Digest 1 atio nal
er P t e TZ Vv Immanuel
aew book by iveS a
Velikovsky wlllcl ? a J io n of
'evolutionary explanat
niracles that
luzzled manl^n^p r > s Dig est
Get your Rea f.L s 0 f last
:oday: over 30 d from
ng interest,
ending magazln
looks. I/ 6 aR
ind bookstalls.
Passengers with the Fish
J.H.MELVILLE
u I —EELING a little better,
Jr** Frances?” asked Mrs.
Thumwood. “I can
knock with this, you
know.” She had picked a brass
weight out of the scales. “That
would soon stop him.”
“Oh, I’m no worse, Aunt,”
the younger woman replied, and
wryly feigned a smile, “I’d be
worse if we stopped. It’s just
that I’m such a poor sailor.”
Mrs. Thumwood, clinging to
the wooden framework of the
van—her husband’s fish-van, in
the back of which the two
women were travellings—leaned
forward to confide smugly:
“You know, Frances, I really
don’t know what sort of a sailor
I am. I’ve never been on a
boat.”
Her niece waved a gloved
hand. “It can be just like this —
the smell and the heat and the
engine fumes” She broke
off, too squeamish to risk fur-
ther evocation.
“And the way we’re swaying
about?”
“Yes, that, too.” Frances
mouthed the words tentatively.
They sounded weak and distant.
She sat grimly astride a suit-
case. Occasionally, as the back
canvas flapped open, the sun-
shine would dart in to set alight
the* scarlet moons of buttons be-
decking her coat. Her face,, in
the dimness of the van, was
sickly pale.
“The same as this,” Mrs.
Thumwood cried happily, “I
must be a good sailor then. I
always travel here in the back.”
A motor-horn squawked to
their right as the van shuddered
and swung in that direction.
Tyres licking over melting tar-
seal now, it sped away more
smoothly. The clatter in the
back had fallen away so much
that the clicking of decorations
on Mrs. Thumwood’s hat and
the buzzing of a fly ob-
truded. A fish’s head that had
slid out between the trays
gravely nodded approval.
“Every second Friday, with-
out fail, I go out to Effie’s,”
Mrs. Thumwood said, making a
virtue of the visit they were pay-
ing her sister that morning.
“She’s sort of cut off from
things out there. And I always
travel in the back like this. It’s
a case of having to. You saw
your Uncle Arch loading his
vegetables and grocery messages
in the front, didn’t you? And
you saw how they take up all
the room* They’ve got to be
kept away from the fish. They
mustn’t get tainted here in the
back, whatever happens. It
doesn’t matter about his wife.”
Frances nodded wearily. She
gestured, without effect, at a fly
investigating the crayfish basket
swinging from the roof.
Mrs. Thumwood giggled. “It’s
a wonder I wasn’t tainted years
ago. It’s me that should havri
been tainted, don’t you thinks
‘‘Fffip h’t anxio X
tllie and I have a great nia
laugh over that-nTfe-S
tainted while Arch’s stuff get f
the front seat.” Mirth contorted
her red shining balloon of !
face. d
RUT Mrs. Thumwood’s jest-
ing was strained. She made
her point defensively, twisting
away in disarming fashion; for
the taint she feared was' the
social one of being a fish-
monger’s wife—a snobbish fancy
that led her to travel under
cover rather than be seen seated
alongside her husband. She
considered the front seat of a
fish-van was no fit place for the
daughter- of a hunting family, a
woman closely connected ’at
Home with a retired landowner,
two aldermen and a prison
governor. So she rode in the
back with the fish.
Lack of room was, of course,
merely a convenient pretext!
There had been days when Arch
Thumwood had not had any
groceries to deliver nor vege-
tables to sell. Then it had been
too hot for her to sit in front,
or too draughty or too cold.
Whatever Arch may have
thought of this, he said nothing.
He had no more pride than a
filleted sole, and little more
imagination. The secret of
handling fish, he would stress,
was to keep them moving, and
his own way of life was about
as simple and straightforward as
this. He was a peaceable man,
with a bent for compromise.
“Give and take, Elsie,” was his
catchcry. “Give and take.” For
minutes on end, while the traffic
of the township passed his shop
window, he would stand ponder-
ing—a shaggy, pensive man—
and studying his fish as if on the
verge of making some discovery,
but nothing ever came of it.
At one time she had chided
him for his apathy.
“You’ll be selling fish all your
life,” she used to say when they
were first married, and would
toss her head in the air and cite
more enterprising men. Years
later she had come to realise
that he had been treating most
of this as prophecy—he actually
had not die least intention ot
doing anything other than
going on selling fish all his
life. Well, that might suit
him all right, but what about
appearances?- Whether it was
new casement windows or a
wall-to-wall carpet like Mrs.
Jackaday’s—and her husband a
panel-beater—the answer was
always the same: * Cant sc
how we can afford it; there®
not much money in fish the
days, Elsie.”
She had eschewed all shop
work. Even the cleaning s ®
left to Arch, and except for a
tendency to overlook
cobwebs, he managed quite •
Once seen busy in the shop j
could hardly have
superior ignorance when tac
in the street about bad fish
really have no interest m
husband’s business, was h
stock reply on such occaswn.
Even so, she was often oblig
to make annoying c ° m ? th van ’
and riding in the hack of e
was one of these. Thus sne


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Build ... modernise with
CANE-ITE
The only structural board that decorates
as well as insulates
> : jf*
51
T
1
k\
c
Hjilf an inch of Cane-ite Insulates
against Summer Heat and Winter
Chill better than 16 inches of con-
crete or a brick wall 8 inches thick.
Cane-ite can be painted, or left in
its natural suede-like finish.
Sold by Hardware Dealers and
Timber Merchants.
CANE-ITE
is a product of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. 1.10.
Building Materials Division
If
you want to Know
, N
WHY
• • •
ask
20,000
USERS
Ask the opinion of a man who uses ELAS-
TRATOR. All over Australia, under all
conditions, ELASTRATOR has proved
safer, cleaner, better for the lamb, and just
as fast with practice as the knife. With the
new antiseptic latex rings now made in
Australia, supply is assured. Get your
ELASTRATOR today from your usual
station supplier.
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
for Bloodless, Safe, Humane
CASTRATION & TAILING
OF
LAMBS & CALVES
From station suppliers, woolbrokers, chemists
and stores. Instrument, £5/5/-; Antiseptic
Latex Rings2s/- per box of 500 (Capital
City Prices.)
Distributed in Victoria, Southern
Riverina and Tasmania by
D. G. OFFICER PTY., LTD.,
90 William St., Melbourne, and
123 a Charles St., Launceston.
Distributed in Queensland by
TAYLORS ELLIOTTS PTY.,
LTD.,
Brisbane —Rockhampton—Townsville.
Distributed in N.S.W. by
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORA-
TORIES, ELLIOTTS & AUST.
DRUG PTY., LTD.,
35 Bligh St., Sydney.
Distributed in S.A. by
BENNETT & EISHBB, LTD.,
i Currie St., Adelaide, and Branches.
Distributed in W.A. by
DAVID GRAY & CO., LTD.
2-10 Railway Parade, West Perth.
Distributed in Queensland by:
TAYLORS ELLIOTTS PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Rockhampton - Townsville
EU
r m ff- he was 80
a "4°„“d Effle says if Em tainted
tim shut up in here once a
fortnight’ what's she with a cow-
? ?St at her back door all
time'” she was prattling.
f s e he “ a caution. She'll cheer
yOU Up.”
r- RANGES was watching a
r blowfly crawl along the
paper that covered the fish-
tra‘‘Still holding up?” her aunt
asked, suddenly solicitous.
“Oh, yes.”
Then Mrs. Thumwood, too,
watched the fly. A burly fellow
with brown fuzz shining when a
flicker of sunlight caught him, he
patrolled the cover in measured
style There was a hole in the
cover giving entry to the fish, and
each time he reached this he
would make a paddling about-
turn and lumber off again.
She made no attempt to drive
it away. Let the fly please itself.
Her marriage vows had said
nothing about caring for fish.
Frances became apprehensive
as the van slowed down. “Surely
we’re not stopping for a cus-
tomer, Aunt Elsie?” Having had
her attention drawn by such a
trifle as a prowling blowfly had
apparently irritated her.
“Oh no,” her aunt assured her.
“He never stops to sell fish while
I’m in the back. He goes right
out to the hill and works back
from there.”
Both women, eyeing the fly
covertly, saw it duck down sud-
denly through the hole in the
cover. Mrs. Thumwood smiled.
She had asserted her indepen-
dence.
“Yes, we are stopping for
something,” Frances maintained,
squirming into a more dignified
position.
“Perhaps there’s something
ahead. Arch is a careful driver.”
The fish-van was hardly
moving now.
“Oh dear,” said Mrs. Thum-
wood. “I hope he hasn’t for-
gotten we’re here. I wouldn’t
like anybody to see me like this.”
By a hurried reckoning she
judged that they must be near
Seelye-Hunt’s, since they had left
the tar-seal a few minutes be-
fore, and at the thought of Mrs.
Seelye-Hunt’s hysterical mirth if
she found them there Mrs.
Thumwood was greatly dis-
turbed. Or perhaps the next
customer would be Mr. Muler,
a retired postmaster, whose
hobby was writing verse about
such people and events of the
countryside as took his fancy—
worse, he recited it at every
chance. This prospect alarmed
her. ' „
“I’m going to peep out,” she
said, reaching for the back can-
vas. “And I don’t care whether
it lets the dust in or not.”
The van, however, was picking
up speed again.
“Traffic,” Frances observed.
“Oh, I’m so glad it wasn’t a
customer.”
Mrs. Thumwood settled back
against the side of the van. The
stifling heat in their cramped and
smelly quarters had brought
beads of sweat to her forehead.
Frances nodded. “I’m not
feeling in a mood to meet any-
body, either.”
“Well,” retorted her aunt,
growing impatient and out of
sympathy, “I just have to knock,
you know.” She was fingering
the brass weight again. “He
stopped once before when I
knocked —the time I had to go
back for a knitting book I
promised Effie. You just need to
say the word.”
“No, thanks,” replied Frances.
“It’s just that I feel worse when
we slow down.” Tlien, quite
casually, she added, “I’ll prob-
ably be as sick as a dog when we
do stop.”
'"T HE van was bumping over
* potholes, rattling the Ash-
trays and setting the protruding
fish’s head flapping.
The horror of being dis-
covered had unsettled Mrs.
Thumwood. In fact, she had
caught something of her niece’s
squeamishness; She had never
felt exactly like this before. This
was different from the mood she
expected to overtake her when
she travelled in the back of the
fish-van—the despair and vicious
resentment. Something would
have to be done, she decided.
She just would hammer with the
weight until Arch stopped, and
then they could let some fresh
air in. Or she could cheer
Frances up and get her mind off
it; then they’d both feel better.
That was the best idea.
“Why don’t you go over a bit
of your lecture?” she suggested.
She failed to keep out of her
voice her pride in having her
niece tour the country giving
mission lectures. “You could
pretend the canvas there is the
screen for your magic-lantern,
couldn’t you?”
Frances pouted. She had a
long, straight nose that was ideal
for expressing distaste. “I
should know it all by now. I’ve
gone through it in a dozen tin-
pot halls.”
“Ah, well, the funds are in a
good cause,” her aunt reminded
her piously. “We must all help
the heathen.”
Frances received this with a
cryptic smile.
“Pretend you’re showing that
slide with the native children
lined up for their mouth in-
spection,” Mrs. Thumwood
prompted. “Everybody enjoys
that.”
“Do they?”
“Well, they laugh.”
“I often wonder if it’s not the
cup of tea they enjoy most,”
Frances said. “When I hear
some of their remarks I wonder
if I’ve been wasting my time.
Their time, too, if it’s worth
anything,”
“Really, Frances,” her aunt
rebuked her. “You wouldn’t
talk that way if you were feeling
like yourself.”
“Perhaps I wouldn’t.”
Somewhat huffily, then, Mrs.
Thumwood said: “Don’t go
over any of your lecture for my
sake. I wouldn’t want that.”
Evidently feeling that any-
thing was better than merely
sitting and waiting to be sick,
Frances gathered herself for the
effort. She slewed her suitcase
round between her knees and
began listlessly to address the
side of the van:
“....And here , we see the
native children assembled for
dental examination. A most in-
teresting study is provided by
observing the effect of sugar and
white flour on the children’s
teeth, and though they are, un-
fortunately, all too fond of these
damaging. foodstuffs, the most
modern methods of dental care
are being made available
through your generosity.” [She
spoke with that affected, mongrel
accent which poses as cultured.]
“Now, who among you does not
envy the smile of the chubby
little rascal being examined by
our officer? No denture troubles
there — ha, ha, ha....”
This was being recited so cal-
lously that Mrs. Thumwood was
indignant. The more she heard
the greater her anger grew.
The mood of the van had
overcome her. She was a cap-
tive, with the dancing trays and
the heat and the smell. Her
husband was carrying her and
his fish in the back as equals,
The further she ran from the
tyranny of fish the more she
was at their mercy. All her
troubles were compressed and
clamant there,
U
DUALLY this mood ex-
ploded against her hus-
band, and then she would take
a vicious delight in devising
ways of exposing him to Effie s
mockery. One day she had been
able to bring news of a Maori
swishing a glass of whitebait
across Arch s face ; and on an-
other she had given her sister
an account of his efforts to keep
the shop door from flying open
after he had fitted a patent clos-
ing device. There were lots of
other little tales, too, and all
most unfairly mterpreted-so
much so that after she had seen
and heard the use Eflfie made of
them, she was often led by re-
morse to hurry home and cook
Archs favorite dish of cuirie
eggs. But it was only in the
company of the fish that she was
prey to these malicious moods,
Now her bitterness was being
directed against her niece, and,
as she bridled self-nghteously at
Frances s cynicism, she sourly
recalled suspicions that she had
waided off as unworthy.
“....the devotion of our
heathen brother ”
Heathen. Frances was the
right one to talk about the
heathen, all right. Wasn’t a
woman who was doing what she
was worse than any heathen?,
Mrs. Thumwood asked herself,
Her with her fancy talk. The
poor heathen was ignorant, but
Frances was old enough to
i,m OW better. She was making a
f arce D f jbe mission business,
anc j { bat was the truth. A pass-
j ng craze> that’s what it was.
she had to find some sort of
interest, her doctor had told her,
and an interest was all her lec-
turing was—just an interest. The
poor heathen natives didn’t
matter a dump,
“ nnd t u p : r u nr _
mon y )' s a delight to the ear To
hear their singing fills one’s heart
with j oy and renewed hope ”
p at j ot 0 £ bope for the natives,
thou h A pity they couldn ’ t
be as sure of it ' all as she
tended to be y and f all
their OW n way, too. Catch them
turning ove /’ good who lesome
food as if it was poisoned, and
re f us i ng everything that wasn’t
just t 0 their liki « o h, Aunt>
j si j couldn’t sl with a
green i ampshade in th £ roo m,”
sbe ’ d sa , d and tbat a f ter peop le
had t themselves about for
her comfort. A nice way for a
guest to talk< Bringing her own
pillows, too, and saying she
couldn’t sleep on anything else;
a s if she’d expected to find sacks
stuffed with straw. Selfish, it
((Continued on page 32.)


low cost Crude Oil operation
for medium power users!
ẁ
ẃ
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
30, 40 &4S H.P. MODELS
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h.p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest, Strongest, Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Builtl
K.LftI||LANZ
BULLDOG
OuukOU TRACTORS
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Danger, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St.. Sydney. VICTORIA, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304
Spencer St.. Holb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA. K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.,
233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart. QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., (21 Brunswick St.. Valley, Brisbane.
KL2O3
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
n
A
a
‘n.
fifl
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
'j**
m
FHGIHG I) PUK
The one thing you will tome-
diately notice when you «“>,,
*• *
atmosphere .. • tne au fj,,
noise and hustle. • •
Wentworth faces a park
It is merely roun 4 e . fhe
from the centre of the citjSJ
rooms are all you w
. . . the service end
thTweniwobth
in cSf^f
•plc»BWl36.
Maclurcan. Manag
The 7****
people
MU 2321
•• Melbourne. -
ichine J oo *t in £ Mach^f?;
, Woodworking type*
Band Saws. •
« Repairs.
New State
By M.H. ELLIS
THERE is, perhaps, not yef a
public opinion fully alive to
the need for new States, but in
the depths of rural minds there
is the seed of action. The New-
States issue is once more living
politics.
State Premiers in the two
States most ripe for subdivision,
Queensland and N. S. Wales,
have inevitably professed
deep interest in the matter; but
their interest is usually defensive.
A visitor from Mars might
feel as he talked to Mr. Hanlon
of new States that here was a
prophet of the movement. He
said last year, as he has said
more than once before, that “the
Commonwealth badly needs at
least three States in Northern
Australia.”
He says that “we could give
one to North Queensland, and
as soon as it was in a financial
position we should be pleased to
recommend it.” He adds that
“the population of the south-
eastern portion of the State
would cheerfully abandon an
area in which it is costing
£1,000,000 to £2,000,000 a year
for works in progress.” And
which, of course, in sugar alone,
leaving out the wool, the beef,
the minerals, the timber, the sea
products and the dairy products
of Atherton Tableland, adds a
round £25,000,000 a year to
the value of Queensland’s pro-
duction.
Labor’s Policy
Mr. Hanlon went so far
that in 1948 he even embodied
his sentiments in the Governor’s
speech. The reviewer of them
only begins to laugh when he
realises that Mr. Hanlon is a
pillar of the “Labor” party, even
of the Federal Labor Triennial
conference in years not so long
past, and that as such he is com-
mitted to the abolition of all
States, and to their replacement
by a series of small helot pro-
vinces, living on the bounty of
a huge centralised Socialist
capital in Canberra. However,
taken at his face-value, Mr.
Hanlon wants new States in
Northern and Central Queens-
land, a State in the Northern
Territory and another in north-
western Australia, perhaps
“within the next decade or so.”
He says that the “curse of the
Commonwealth” is that we have
not enough States and no inland
States, and he believes that if
Central Queensland had been
created a State 30 years ago and
Longreach turned into its capital,
that flat city would now hold
70,000 to 80,000 people, and the
population of the surrounding
districts would be four or five
times greater.
He declares that this is why
his Government is embarking on
a policy of decentralisation, and
is endeavoring to build up 18 or
20 centres in the country capable
of forming nuclei for units of
government each able to carry
on its own public works and
dealing with its own industrial
and economic development
“instead of sending everything to
Brisbane.”
This plan accords more closely
with the “Labor” ideal of pro-
vinces, adopted 30 years ago and
still in vogue, than with the
concept of' sovereign States in a
free Federation. The “Labor”
programme framed in 1920 pro-
vided for 31 provinces, each of
which was to be granted a con-
stitution setting out its powers
and duties by the Common-
wealth.
This constitution was to be
amendable by the Federal Parlia-
ment, which was to have un-
limited legislative powers. It is
interesting to remember that one
of the authors of this plan, which
ŵ
In practice it will probably be
found, as has happened a dozen
times in the United States begin-
ning with seceding West Virginia
in Lincoln’s day, that when a
compact community makes up
its mind powerfully enough that
it needs a legislature it will get
it.
The manner in which Aus-
tralia was first divided into
colonies seems to prove that the
population needed can be very
small. Three Australian States
achieved Parliamentary govern-
ment with populations of under
100.000, two of them with under
50.000.
The first essential is that a
cohesive community shall feel
the urge (to quote Dr. John
Dunmore Lang) to “have their
government, in all the more im-
portant concerns of life, brought
to their own doors by the
division of a common country
into States, each of which is
sovereign and independent
within its own territory.” Geo-
graphical situation, unity of in-
dustries and interests and the
extent of the isolation of the
area affected are natural influ-
ences.
The Movement Bom
The first agitation worth the
name for separation from all-
dominating N. S. Wales was born
in the fight for the establishment
of the separate colony of Port
Phillip, followed by the battles
for northern separation. The
north began to agitate almost
exactly 100 years ago. The New
England movement actively
fighting for separation as the
result of a recent conference
at Armidale can look back
over a centuiy of history
to the beginnings of New-
State agitation at another confer-
ence at Armidale held on
December 30, 1850, following
the passing* of the British legisla-
tion which made the subdivision
offtewnUnem a practical po«i.
Demands for the
Queensland began
same time. The Moreton i?
and Northern Districts
ti°n was functioning much
the same lines that SteN™
England movement has E
functioning m the past fcS
months with petitions, speech*
and slogans. In 1859 Queens
land was established, and the
next year the Armidale mcwf
ment, which previously had
affected to deal with the whole
portion of the eastern section of
the continent north of the 30th
parallel, became purely a move
ment for New England separa-
tion.
The relative positions of New
England, still unseparated today
and Queensland as it was when
it was created make interesting
reading. Queensland in 1859
had a population of 25,000. Its
stock resources were 20000
horses, 300,000 cattle and
2,000,000 sheep. The capital
value of its stock and town
properties was reckoned at under
£4,000,000. Its exports were
worth a whole £500,000.
New England, within the pro-
posed new-State area which in-
cludes Newcastle, comprises
64,000 square miles with a popu-
lation (1947-48) of 620,185, which
is greater than the population of
Western Australia (502,480) and
Tasmania (257,000) and nearly
equal to that of S. Australia
(646,000). Its production has been
valued in recent years round
about the £ 100,000,000-mark, as
great as that of Tasmania and
W.A. together, but it has suf-
fered, as have all the other areas
away from the capitals, either


SAFE. SURE KEROSENE LIGHTING!
h A\dtc
w
BRANDTS “Tilley” Stormproof
Lantern of 300 c.p. gives a brilliant
shadowless light. This kerosene
pressure Lamp is economical DZ /
and absolutely safe. *
Kerosene Flood Light
? n<l easy tn T lley ” Flood light of 5000 c.p. is stormproof, portable
for «0 hours ° Pe ? ate - holds 6 pints of kerosene which will burn
steel i ,e^n heB pumping only every 10 hours. Strongly
Weal for rL* ank ’ highly polished nickel plated reflector. fOQ
Por table, sm?,,™ 01 *’ harvesting and Flood lighting buildings.
.a*WrT, , mod " £lO/,0/ '
Ma 'l Order • • aII Kerosene Heating and Lighting Appliances.
enquiries answered by return mail. Full range of Spare Parts.
D «HNUTS PTV I Tfl APPLIANCE SPECIALISTS
. _ w ■■■■■■■ 111 SINCE 1878
P T t S eating and Lighting Specialists
* x street, Sydney- phone, miosi
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MERCIA FRANCIS McMINN late of
No. 89 Goulburn Street Sydney and
Herbert dodge late of No. so Gmii-
burn Street Sydney.—tAKE NOTICE that
FRANK McMINN has filed a Petition No.
957 of 1950 praying for a divorce from
MERCIA FRANCfS McMINN on the
ground of her adultery with HERBERT
DODGE If you or either of you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divo’rce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 28th June 195,0 and
obtain a copy of the petition free of
charge from W. F. HOLMES, Solicitor,
39 Martin Place, Sydney.—(n.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce,
No other stimulant
is quite the same as
SCHNAPPS
The name “Schnapps” distinguishes a special
type of spirit which is absolutely unique in
character, flavour and aroma.
First introduced to the
English-speaking world more
than 100 years ago, Wolfe’s
Schnapps has earned world-
wide fame both as a refresh-
ing, satisfying drink, and a
reliable, healthful
stimulant. Always
keep a hottle of
Wolfe’s Schnapps
in the home.
arfti*
mm
gajiQM.
WOLFE'S
C zflrunu£bc
SCHNAPPS
The Lovely
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream Metal Parts
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L. 106 "THE QUEEN’! 2IJ' High
T.L. 136 "THE PRINCESS” I6J” High
ŵ
TILLEY™. LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle'!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
aw.*™'
MELBOURNE, C.l
of population-growth
JSSU& “ f p°p ulatlon -
The Magnetic Capitals
T can be no doubt of the
* effect of capitals, even
f S “h“ thef arecentred in
lh °“f s [ike that which sur-
Sds Sydney ahotu as barren
“s«n‘V nd 1947-the
os‘iii W Ss booklet Why flew
rL Are Vital to Australia—
he Commonwealth’s population
•leased by 951,000. Capital
’ aS g e ained y 738,000, or 78 per
nt of the increase ; provincial
ties only 238,500-mam y
xLcastle Townsville, Rock-
hampton, Broken, Hill, Ballarat,
Bendigo and Geelong, which in
themselves might be reckoned as
district capitals, illustrating the
ceneral axiom about metro-
politan suction, though in a lesser
degree than the really Great
Wens. , , , .
On the other hand, purely
rural districts lost 27,500 people.
The increase in Sydney’s
population, 249,000, exceeded the
total increase of the whole pro-
gressive State of Victoria ; it was
double the whole increase of
W.A. and S.A. and equalled that
of S.A. and Queensland. The
total area of the Sydney district
(County of Cumberland) is about
1500 square miles. The total
area of Queensland and S. Aus-
tralia is 1,050,000 square miles,
or one-third of the whole con-
tinent.
Again, while all provincial
centres of N. S. Wales gained
only 96,000 people, industrial
regions of the State, including
Sydney, Newcastle and Illawarra,
gained 399,000. And this —for
some rural districts lost popula-
tion—was 15,000 more than the
net population gain for N, S.
Wales as a whole,
Queensland Depletions
In Queensland, 1400 miles
long and occupying more than
one-fifth of the Commonwealth,
Brisbane houses more than one-
third of the whole population on
386 square miles. Of the State’s
gain between 1933-47 of 158,000
people the capital absorbed
102,000. In Central Queensland
there was an increase only in the
Rockhampton statistical district
—70,611 to 78,009 —and some of
this was offset by the tragic de-
cline of population in the districts
on which Rockhampton lives.
The great Central-West, famed
as a rich artesian wool area, lost
-500 of its 23,000 people. The
bar-West lost also. The five
divisions of North Queensland
gained only 12,000 people on an
original 184,000. There are only
two towns with populations of
more than 30,000 north of Bris-
ane. Losses are in nearly every
case due not to decline in
ural increase, but to emigra-
tion to capitals.
n,S ltlV j ated acrea ges in the
rural industries showed a shrink-
-21 r m 23,000,000 to
iT’SS for all Australia be-
pSo 938 a . nd - 1947 ' The total
bnttp IO j on farms for
r and cheese and processed
milk for other purposes fell in
10 years by 564,000,000 gallons
—from 1,189,174,000 gallons to
624,179,000 gallons.
Strangling Transport
Hamstrung by a railway and
general transport system which
in N. S. Wales and most other
States filters everything through
the capitals and absolutely bans
traffic-lines which make straight
for the coast and local ports,
much of Australia is slowly
strangling in the grip of the big
cities. An example of the con-
dition of affairs in N. S. Wales
is illustrated by the fact that to
send lucerne from the rich
Inverell districtby rail to its
natural outlet, the great dairying
districts of the North Coast in
the Clarence and Richmond, it
needs to be trucked 500 miles
south via the Moree-Sydney rail-
way, and then nearly 500 miles
north to its final destination,
where, after about 1000 miles of
travel, it reaches a point 120 to
200 miles from where it was
grown.
It is no wonder that the New-
State movements are reviving
under the cold blast of realisa-
tion of such conditions, but it is
not easy to design subdivision
in the districts which most need
it, because to saw N. S. Wales
and most of Queensland into
fresh States which would have
their own access to the sea in-
volves sawing them also into un-
balanced areas with a * scarcely
populated hinterland and a clus-
tered population on the coast.
Party Opinion
While New England, with a
draft Constitution based on the
recommendations of Mr. Justice
Nicholas on display, is most ad-
vanced with its movement,
North Queensland, where feeling
is not so strong as on the New
England, but which has an equal
claim to Statehood on the
ground of completeness in its
own peculiar concentration of
local resources, seems to have the
greatest chance of immediate
success.
In N. S. Wales the parties in
Parliament are divided on new
States. Whatever “Labor” may
say in its moments of opportun-
ism it is bound by its platform
when the point of action is
reached. The Liberals have no
love of the New-State movement,
which they regard as a Country-
party baby.
An Election Issue
In Queensland the Liberal and
Country parties are working
in the present election cam-
paign with a unity unexcelled
(it is hoped, at this early
stage!) anywhere except in
South Australia. They jointly
pledged themselves on March 27
to the New-State idea. The two
parties “consider that the de-
mand of the North for separa-
tion is fully justified.” They
propose, if elected at the forth-
coming election, to call a repre-
sentative convention to “make
recommendations as to the
boundaries of the new Northern
State, and as to the terms and
conditions of formation.” After
that they are pledged to take
a referendum from which, if it
is successful, they will proceed
to (secure separation “without
delay,” ,
In 1896 a vote for a referen-
dum on Northern and Central
Queensland separation was
carried in the Queensland
Legislative Assembly on the
casting vote of Mr, Alfred
Cowley, the Speaker, but
nothing came of it, though the
idea of the division of Queens-
land into three States has always
remained a living aspiration,
admitted even by the Common-
wealth Constitution, which, in
dealing with the Senate, states in
Section 7 that “until the Parlia-
ment of the Commonwealth
otherwise provides.... Queens-
land..., may make laws divid-
ing the State into divisions and
determining the number of
Senators to be chosen for each
division, and in the absence of
such provision the State shall be
one electorate.”
One electorate —thanks to the
indefatigable concern of the
southern electors that they shull
carry the burden of the State’s
outlands —Queensland has re-
mained ever since.


Banish stabbing pains of
BACKACHE
mi
i
m
m
»»
MS
&t*
mi
♦»:
Housework can be such a
“drag” when backache and kid-
ney pains make life miserable.
But you’ll find relief in Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Start on
a course now.
That “Sudden” stab-
bing pain is a danger
sign . . . excess uric acid
in kidneys can cause so
MUCH troubfc.
Your Kidneys must func-
tion normally to filter out
poisons and excess uric acid
in the system. Help weak
kidneys do their job properly.
Take Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Many sufferers enjoy such re-
lief in a day or two, they keep
taking them for a few weeks
to stay free from nagging
aches and pains.
Get a bottle at your nearest
Chemist or Store.
27 Pills 21- 60 Pills 3/-.
Dr. Sheldon’s
FOR THE KIDNEYS
in
GUARANTEED NEVE
R TO FADE OR SHRANK
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP POPULATION SOARING.
Wild excitement over Aus-
tralia’s recent population in-
crease of about quarter of a
million by immigration might
be steadied a little by running
through some figures for Japan
set forth a week or two back
by the Tokyo correspondent of
London “Times.”
The recent Australian immi-
gration figures are good in their
way, and the fact that they were
set up under a Labor-party
Government makes them
specially significant and en-
couraging. But the Jap figures
are none the less startling.
In 1946 the population of
Japan stood at 76,155,000; an
increase over 1945 of 3,745,000.
In 1947 the Jap population rose
to 76,627,000; on October 1,
1948, it was estimated at
80.697.000, and in June, 1949,
at 82,000,000, or, as the “Times”
man puts it, more than half that
of the United States, crowded
into a total area smaller than
that of California.
Some of the 1945-46 rise was
due to the return to Japan of
repatriated p.-0.-w., but the pre-
sent figures come from natural
increase. This increase is stag-
gering, and instead of any eas-
ing-off is being maintained at
such a rate that by the end of
this year Japan will have a total
population of no less than
84.000.
In the Jap natural increase
the excess of births over deaths
is approximately 1,600,000
yearly. In this the health and
welfare section of the occupa-
tion has played a leading part,
among other things bringing the
death-rate of 15.68 per 1000 in
1946 down to 11.96 in a couple
of years ; the lowest rate ever
recorded for Japan,
After outlining the economic
problems involved, the “Times’s”
Tokyo correspondent notes
among suggested solutions that
advocated by Dr. Warren S.
Thompson, head of the Scripps
Foundation of Research in
Population Problems. It is
familiar enough birth-control.
In fact, over-familiar, since it
makes no appeal in Japan and
is not at all likely to be adopted
or adequately encouraged. Then
the correspondent has this para-
graph :
“The Japanese leaders make
no secret that they regard emi-
gration as the solution of the
population problem. They look
upon Borneo, New Guinea and
the tropical districts of Australia
as suitable territories for emi-
gration and ignore the claims of
the other overpopulated coun-
tries of Asia. Catholic repre-
sentatives, who have bitterly
attacked the views of men like
Dr. Thompson, have urged emi-
gration and have suggested it
might be advisable to give Japan
‘territorial rights over some rich
but updeveloped areas outside
hqr present territorial limits.’ ”
In any case —as the “Times”
man points out —emigration on
the scale required would mean
the removing of one and a half
million Japs from the home
country each year. Also, “A
million acres of land would
have to be cleared and perhaps
half a million houses built,” and
that would take care only of the
annual increase; it “would not
reduce the number of people
now crowded in these islands.”
It should be recalled that,
back in 1931, when the Jap
population was lower than it is
now, with a greater area to ac-
commodate it, overcrowding was
the reason given for starting the
war against China. The present
position is a rapidly and inevit-
ably worsening situation.
Packed with the tinder of war,
it must in time become des-
perate.
How threatening it is becom-
ing has been indicated in a
general survey by “U.S. News
and World Report,” which has
quoted experts as holding that
by 1970 the four islands that
now compose Japan will have
at least 100,000,000 people. Per-
haps the number will be
115,000,000 or 120,000,000.
“The difficulty is in finding
ways to support such a popula-
tion. Of Japan’s present area
only 16 per cent, can be made
to grow crops. The cropland
has more people per square
mile working it, on the average,
than any other farming area in
the world. Still, it cannot pro-
duce enough to feed all the
people”
Though farm production has
been close to its limits, Japan
has had to import at the rate
of about 20 per cent, of the
minimum needs. As the popu-
lation grows, still more food
from abroad will be needed. It
can’t be grown at home.
“Food is not all that Japan
has to import. It is poor in
raw materials. It has to bring in
oil, coal, iron ore and cotton
— N. Y. “World-Telegram.”
ARC DE TRIOMPHE.
to keep industries and transport
running.
“Before the war, when Japan
was much larger than she is to-
day, she managed to support a
population of 70,000,000 by ex-
ploiting colonial territories, par-
ticularly Korea, Manchuria and
Formosa. But these colonies,
which supplied raw materials
and export markets on Japan’s
terms, have been lost. Now it
is necessary for the Japanese to
buy and sell in competitive
world markets.
“The fear is that, as popula-
tion gets too big, standards of
living will fall, unemployment
will increase and political
troubles will become acute. Re-
actionaries who supported the
pre-war programme of conquest
are hoping for a chance to get
control of the Government. So
are the Communists. Americans
are worried lest, instead of
being an outpost of peace and
democracy in an - area where
Communists are becoming
strong, Japan will turn out once
more to be a major trouble-spot
in Asia unless the population
problem can be solved.”
Also reporting that the solu-
tion most Japanese leaders are
urging is large-scale emigration,
the “U.S. News and World Re-
port” survey adds that “They
would like to send several hun-
dred thousand people each year
to such areas as Australia,
various Pacific islands, maybe
parts of the Asiatic mainland
and the Western Hemisphere.
They plan to work for the right
of unlimited emigration at the
peace conference when it comes.
“Australia and many other
areas are wholly or partly closed
to Japanese inimigrants and are
likely to remain so. Some coun-
tries are afraid that Japanese
settlers might form the spear-
head for aggression, as was the
case in the Philippines at the
onset of World War 11.
“Getting more ‘living space’
is one plan, but it is discussed
very quietly. Many Japanese
would like to get back the
Kuriles and Southern Sakhalin
Island, which Russia took over,
and Formosa, which was turned
over to China at the close of
the war. A draft of a peace
treaty, drawn up secretly in the
Japanese Foreign Office, pro-
vides for the return of these and
some other territories. But the
idea has never been put for-
ward seriously. Most Japanese
realise it doesn’t have a chance,
“The Communists are urging
all-out industrialisation under a
soviet form of government as
tfie cure-all. They maintain
that this would provide a living
for everyone and would cause
the population curve to flatten
out.
“Continued aid from America
for a long time is being urged
by some Japanese politicians,
They argue that, unless the U.S.
keeps on helping, serious trouble
will result.”
The French Strikes.
Obviously, there is a close
family relationship between the
strikes in badly-shaken France
and those in Australia which
made drastic action by the
Menzies Government absolutely
necessary in this country’s com-
mon interests.
Australian Communists re-
ceived their instructions from
the Eastern branch of the
►Cominform, set un a ~ .
back in China
partners in the same world-S
—-f ? ave closer c °iT s
W v. , foreign slave State
wh.ch a h°l ds the am loyalist
of R X d “^“ h S Ch
“Economist" has reported't hat ft
had been clear for months p a
that France’s Communists had
received their orders-to aid
Russian plans in the Far EaS
by sabotaging the delivery of
arms to French troops in Indo-
Chma and to aid Russian plans
m Europe by preventing the de
livery of American arms to
France under the Mutual Assist
ance Pact. .
To fulfil these orders, violent
action has been called for—the
raiding of arsenals, riots at the
docks, strikes prolonged bv
force. But (in the “Economist’s”
view) the great mass of French
Communist workers did not join
the party to wage a civil war on
Moscow’s orders. They voted
for Communism believing it
could most effectively improve
their often deplorable conditions.
Where, therefore. Communist
action could be disguised as
strike action to raise wages and
improve the lot of the working
class, it has had success.
The British publication has
hopes; “The Communist reduc-
tion of Parliamentary govern-
ment to insults and blows has
sickened the mass of Frenchmen
who remember the Nazis’ on-
slaught on the Weimar Re-
public.” On this ground it ex-
pects a turn in the tide. As
there’ll certainly need to be if
France is ever to be France
again.
Even as it is, the size of the
Soviet fifth-column in France,
and its success in causing peace-
time chaos, must be the worst of
all the nightmares haunting the
Western defence planners.
“Political Philosophers”
Looking forward to the pro-
mised legislation to curb the
Communist sabotage of this
country, Australians are well
aware that under the Chifley
Socialists the “rolling-strikes
tactic would have had to go on
unchecked. The known— and,
in fact, proclaimed attitude or
the Chifleys to Communists and
Communism would have itselt
prevented adequate counter-
action.
The position has been much


Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
Birough ping holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10.000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
mree and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus elirainat-
h>? guess work. Municipal Councils.
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costt for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders. 10/6. 30/-.
45/-. CalL write, or phone MA7250
Mau Orders post free. C.OJVs plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
~£' e ?s e forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Foldei
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
.* B. ISJi/’SO.
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
14J vuJSJ'S*'’ Bristol House,
-U7 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. UA 725
Cigorette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
CLIPPER” Read
from m Aro^atic Fine Cut Blende
PaS« T °t? . Q " alit y Leaf. In 2o;
rSa w-'ivti: B " " loos
Cut Ready Rubbe
Pack. Ct u>n and Mildness, in 2o:
Prlwd’ *2/- e Ser / ib Per PaCk ’ ° r loo£
ffiS I Pin! Fine old We
even Mlxt ure that Is no
PeAb^foo^ 11 ever - Priced 20/
WINSTONS. It's goo*
W «te: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
° X r ,^’_y a, Hey P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Quotes Retailers For Ordei
401bs. or Over.
kkp m
Sanders
C ° n,, »M. n „ , 0 .„, N
!'°’"»to.., , lc .J, **
B<nd,„- ■ fll,d •” to.
fctow" ** «cu«ly
XL a z nn * u “ -
*M o, « ch 01
T* “to., —to
1.1 Art/.
,
mu
'riee> and far-
| Period
Jackson & O'Suu
- ,Sidney and
•n>N E ,
“ITU
-Ivan Pty. Lt
BRISBANE
W- c. Peafold
Peofcld * Co. Ply.
Mormaa Bros. Pty.
Vsrdon * Sons
i Cs LA
0*0(1 Book
Chatterhouse No. 2. —Stating in
passing that the £23,000,000 U.N-O.
building is so far an all-American
job, contracts worth £15,000,000
having been signed and every penny
of it to be spent in the U.S., London
Old friends'
n*s»
(T)
'%*!**
f'Oto.
eo *»
The name is_
c
The uuhisku is_
CLOSE WORK NEEDS
LOW SURFACE BRIGHTNESS, YET
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
mmm
Sr?
m
. - a
L
i m
m
mm i
m
%
if
■ ■
n
! "
Mi
I
H
■
J
SHI
ii
BBHI
m
mmm
£aie Ci/eJ,£pee 4 Work uith
CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
The human eye is industry’s
most critical control device. Good
seeing conditions are, therefore,
just as fundamental to good
work as good tools, machines and
equipment.
To'-day, Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is regarded
by progressive management as a
production tool designed to pro-
mote product quality as well as
rate of output.
For restful vision, the eye needs
low surface brightness at normal
vision levels . . . even light distri-
bution with absence of shadows
and glare ... a comfortable detail-
revealing illumination level on all
working planes with good colour
discrimination.
There are other tangible benefits,
too lower lighting costs, low
maintenance. Your nearest Claude
office will be happy to tell you the
full story and give details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
CLAUDE
NEON LIMITED
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE ■ MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH • HOBART - LAUNCESTON
.me in Britain, there mak-
f 6 SS such a scandal as
ing P° ssl f t he Communist
*SJS spy Fuchs. The Attlee-
Press 7 has sought to pass
exhibiting the Security
11118 vf as a scapegoat, to which
s f rV J don “Sunday Times has
t he real blame lies
Stl Scfof Communists,
facilitates them subversion
and espionage.
-The fault,” it contends in
comment singularly applicable to
hie position that existed in Aus-
Sia under the Chilieys, “lies
St, a whole administration, in-
deed with a whole attitude—a
mental laxity which sh ™ ks
from recognising that Com-
munism is not a party but a
conspiracy. Thus it allows
Communists to work in the
teaching profession or m the
B B C and to infiltrate the public
service. To drift like this is to
commit democratic suicide.
“All Communists must be con-
sidered not as potential enemies
of democracy, but as its actual
enemies. With Communism we
are actually at war —cold war
but deadly. We shall always
be fighting the cold war
with one arm tied behind our
backs so long as we are handi-
capped by exponents of the view
that Communism is ‘only an-
other philosophy’ and must
therefore have ‘fair’ opportunity
to destroy us. That view, while
not prevailing among Socialism’s
wiser heads, is frequent among
its adherents: for Socialism has
its ‘lunatic fringe,’ and on the
extreme Left of its deployed line
there is always a brigade apt to
pass into the enemy camp.
Thus, in European countries, has
Socialism, betraying, been be-
trayed.”
No Escape for J. Bull.
Accepting that, in preparing
his Budget, Britain’s Chancellor
of the Exchequer would, with
an early election looming, be
under a terrific “pressure to
escapism” from all sides, “Man-
chester Guardian” editorially
argues that what can be pressed
“is, of course, escapism for a
few months only.”
It directs special attention to
statements on Britain’s economic
position made by John Kenney,
head of the E.C.A. mission in
London, who was putting to the
Foreign Affairs Committee of the
U.S, Senate the reasons why
the American taxpayer should
go on supporting Britain with
Marshall aid after June.
Kenney, who, in the British
paper’s view, “showed the re-
straint in commenting on
Britain’s weaknesses that is
commendably common in the
American Administration,” de-
clared that, though “substantial
progress” has been made since
devaluation, Britain’s economy
still hangs in “delicate balance,”
with too much tendency to rely
on Government controls to sup-
press the consequences of infla-
tion.
Controls, Kenney said, could
not insulate Britain from con-
tact with the outside world and
. the free economies; “Last
1 summer the complex economy of
Britain broke down at the point
of contact with those economies,
and she did not have the resili-
ence or the reserves to withstand
the impact of the changing
forces in world trade.” Devalu-
ation was the “grim” and
“drastic” result.
Agreeing that that “is a fair
enough appreciation,” the “Man-
chester Guardian” points out
that it is how J. Bull’s best friends
abroad see him, and that they
draw the obvious conclusion —
that it can happen again. On
which it further quotes the
American;
“An inflationary increase in
costs could very quickly recreate
the situation which required de-
valuation. Therefore, adequate
steps were and are required of
the British Government to pre-
vent a recurrence of these con-
ditions. The necessary correc-
tive measures complementary to
devaluation must be accom-
plished or else the British
economy may proceed periodi-
cally from crisis to expedient,
and then back to crisis.”
The sum of the matter, in the
British paper’s view, is that
“Even in June the Government
might well have to hold the elec-
tion during a financial crisis as
devastating as that which swept
Labor from office in 1931.
Escapism is impossible; the
Cover nment’s Parliamentary
weakness is no excuse for a
timid economic policy. In its
own electoral interests alone it
has to be as firm in the short
Parliament as its duty would
have required if the electors had
not to be faced for five years.”
Dragnet Digest.
Epitaph on a Fiasco. —A Yorkshire
engineer who spent three years on the
Attlee Socialists’ collectivist-farming
peanut (or “groundnut”) scheme in
Africa bids it a soft farewell in th'e
“Yorkshire Post”: “Many people are
asking me if it is true that the scheme
is a failure. My reply is: ‘Yes —a
dead failure.’ I believe the sponsors
of the scheme will persevere with the
effort for a year or two, but it seems
certain that finally the land will have
to grow other crops or return to its
original bush condition. TTie con-
clusion of many of the practical men
out there, the men who have no
political axe to grind, is that grow-
ing groundnuts can never be an
economical proposition for the
British Government.”
“Daily Express” concludes: “But
when all the glass and marble are in
position and all the thousands of
typewriters are clacking away their
millions of words each day, what will
be the standing of U.N.O. in the
world it was supposed to refashion?
Its feeble gropings towards a world
peace settlement are on record. They
are enough to deny it all confidence
and authority in the future. The
U.N.O. building takes its place with
the Palace of Peace at Geneva.”
* * * *
Full Employment. —Attacking the
Attlee Socialists’ claim that they have
created full employment in Britain,
a “Financial Times” writer finds an-
other name for it: “The truth is
that we haven’t full employment: in-
stead, we have full featherbedding,
organised by Mr. Isaacs as Minister
of Labor. Featherbedding is an
American word that graphically de-
scribes a situation in which two, or
even three, men do the job of one,
and all draw full pay for their small
output.”
* * * *
“Creeping Blockade" in Berlin. —
A new version of the Berlin block-
ade, reported by the “Scotsman”
(Edinburgh), is a “creeping block-
ade” imposed over the past month
or two “with characteristic Soviet
ingenuity”: - “On some days goods
vehicles are allowed to pass the
Russian traffic controls at the normal
rate. At other times they are sub-
jected to long delays while Soviet
officials examine documents with
meticulous care. Thus the Russians
are able to conduct a war of nerves
against the Western sector of Berlin
and to make communications pre-
carious and uncertain, without going
far enough to provoke a counter-
blockade or to drive the Western
Powers to resume the air-lift.”
Counter-attacking more promptly
this time, the Western side has
placed restrictions on exports of steel
to the Soviet zone. This, the West
blandly insists, is not a reprisal, “but
the Russians will regard it as a
measure of retaliation, and their
interpretation may not be wrong. It
is the only kind of language they are
likely to understand.”


“Fly British to Britain
and almost anywhere /”
From the “New” world to the Old . . . from Sydney to London,
or any airport en route via the colourful East ... or on, across the
globe, to other Continents . . . you can fly British by 8.0.A.C.
Book in Australia and fly in comfort, without delay, on one ticket
all the way. Enjoy 8.0.A.C.’s traditional standards of unfailing
personal attention, wherever you travel on 175,000 miles of
Speedbird routes to 51 countries.
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • WEST INDIES
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • MIDDLE EAST • WEST AFRICA
EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • INDONESIA • FAR EAST • HONG KONG • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF
YOU
nr-mac
AI2/AU-B
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C .
General Agents in Australia ) at Sydney , Melbourne , Brisbane , Towns-
ville, Cairns, Darwin or Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP’ NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM SINCLAIR-REN-
DALL formerly of Lismore.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH MAY SIN-
CLAIR-RENDALL has filed a Petition No.
lIS'S of 1949 for divorce on the ground of
habitual drunkenness and failure to sup-
port the Petitioner for three years and
upwards and your habitual drunkenness
and cruelty for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 19th
day of June 1950 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERNEST OLIVER SNOWDEN late
of West Wyalong.— I TAKE NOTICE that
SARAH MARY SNOWDEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3838 of 1949 on
the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street by 7th day of June 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from VINCENT J. BRADY,
DONALD & CO., Solicitors, 60 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—(l.S.) J. DOUGHAJSJ,
Registrar in Divorce.
■ : ssgpssi;:
m
;
mm
. 1 ’•
vx:«
oB
<*"<***» .-S...V*
If your car ran on eight tyres instead of four
and you drove 24 hours a day for 4 years you
wouldn’t pile up as much tyre mileage as Good-
year drivers have in testing Super-Cushion Tyres.
In over 8,000,000 miles of test driving they have
proved this bigger, softer tyre gives more mileage
than conventional tyres, and far more comfort
Super-Cushions will fit your present wheels, so,
see your Goodyear Dealer.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
w
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother, Safer Ride , . •
Quicker Stops . . . Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car
all this and GREATER
MILEAGE. TOO!
MORE PEOPLE, ffl
THE WORLD OVER, >
RIDE ON GOODYEAR
THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE.
SL3-«»
SMOKE-OH!
“I suppose it can be claimed that
the value of wives has gone up with
inflation.”
— Mr. Acting-Justice Toose.
You could almost trade one
for a tin of Russian salmon.
4* 4* 4*
“Exeeptionally complete domestic
offices and quarters, including maids’
bedrooms, sitting-room and bed-
room, well-equipped kitchen, butler’s
and housemaid’s panties.”
—Adelaide “News.”
Of the step-in sort?
“A sugar heiress won a divorce
after testifying she heard her husband
boast he had married an heiress and
was ‘rolling in sugar.’ ”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
But his fortune wasn’t in the
bag.
4* . 4* 4*
“Speaking of his projected visit to
Australia, the Dean of Canterbury,
Dr. Hewlett Johnson, said: ‘I don’t
know yet whether 1 will give any
church-addresses.’ ”
Still, Communist-party head-
quarters is sure to find him.
4* 4* 4*
“Woman wins prize-cow contest.
—Heading in ‘Sydney “Sun.”
She was determined to calve
out a career for herself.
4* 4* 4*
“If all the economists were laid
end to end >they would not reach a
conclusion.” — Earl Waldegrave.
But we’d have an imposing
array of figures.
Basic Need.
“A group of grandmothers have
formed-their own chorus line.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph
There was a time when grannies
all
Wore bonnets and a woollen
shawl,
Content to sit around the house
Engaged in darning, as was
fitting,
Or crochet work and patient
knitting.
As self-effacing as a mouse.
Those days have gone. Now
grannies fly
With confidence across the sky
Or share the keen activity
Of younger generations playing
On tennis-courts or holidaying
In mountain towns or by the sea.
But surely if the sprightly dears
Turn back the clock that marks
the years
And gaily undertake to don
The spangled garb of chorus
beauties.
They’ll need to drop all other
duties '
And really get a bustle on.
BERT.
Around the Dial.
“ well, that was the old
maestro, ‘Fat’ Swilier himself,
and he played ‘The Dames All
Say I’m Screwy’ But They Kaih’t
Kid Me.’ Now before we pass
on to the next disk we have a
message from our sponsors.
“Do you suffer from warts on
the kidneys, dizzy spells, tennis
elbow, writer’s cramp, sciatica,
blistered heels, clergyman’s
throat or flat feet? Do you
sweat if you put in only an hour
or so on the mattock in a heat-
wave? Are you conscious of a
feeling of lassitude next morning
if you’ve enjoyed two hours’
solid sleep the night before? If
you do or are, it indicates that
your system lacks the vital ele-
ment TrinipopitobaHtone. In its
natural state this element is
found only in octopus roe, the
petals of the edelweiss, radio-
active isotopes and the froth off
nutmeg-juice, forms not readily
available to you. But it is avail-
able in Spoopju, the new wonder-
product of the famous Phew
Laboratories, and is the result of
thirty-six years’ patient research.
You can sprinkle it on your por-
ridge or drink it with your
shaving-water, and its only fif-
teen shillings a bottle. Order a
dozen bottles now in case of a
shortage. Now here’s Count
Boosie and his band to play ‘My
Honey’s As Smooth As Pine-
apple-skin.’ ”
Whee-e-e-ah-00.
“ with Carstairs bound
hand and foot to the railroad-
"How much longer are you going to keep me waiting,
Doreen ?”
track, it will need only a few
fleeting seconds before he’ll have
to be wiped off the wheels. Can
rescue arrive in time? And
what of Miriam? Without the
great detective’s help she will
face a fate worse than death, for
she will be in the sinister power
of Rotgutt Plone, the criminal
master-mind whom Carstairs is
trying to prevent from stealing
secret formula for sourless
vinegar. Will the secret be his
if Carstairs is doomed beneath
the pulping iron wheels of the
onrushing engine? You must
listen-in again at the same time
tomorrow for a further spine-
chilling episode of this wonder-
serial. So now, kiddies, off to
bunky-do, and don’t forget—tell
mummy you’ll have nothing but
Tak castor-oil next time you’ve
eaten too many green quinces.
Remember the name—-Tak —
M’ml It tastes just as good
coming up as going down,”
Ding . . . Dong . . . Ding.
“This is Station Two O.P. The
time is approximately two and a
quarter seconds after six. Now
before we play one of the new
hillbilly releases here is an im-
portant announcement. Instead
of the usual brickbat when you
go home, why not give your wife
a bouquet occasionally? You
can get the perfect floral tribute
from Deddina Day, the King’s
Cross florist. She will also make
up a beautiful bunch of ever-
lasting flowers to present to the
sister-in-law who came to stay
for a weekend with you six
months ago. And when you are
lying cold and stiff, what more
beautiful than to have one of
Deddina Day’s large white lilies
lying on your chest? Remember
the name, Deddina Day, the
Florist with a Future. Now here
is Spike Bones and his Hillbilly
Hicks playing ‘My Cutie’s False
Teeth Go Clickety Clack When
She Eats.’ ”
W hee-a-a-e-e-ow.
“ 'and what do you do?
You go home at night and stare
at the radiator you’re not allowed
to use, thinking gloomily of all
your unpaid bills or trying to
figure out how many years it will
be before the fridge is paid off.
Take your mind off these lugu-
brious subjects by reading. Join
the Whacko Library. One of the
most popular books now being
read is The Case of the Shrieking
Skeleton. You can relax in bed
with this book on cold winter
nights. You won’t even need a
blanket on, for you’ll get a sweat
up with shivering at this grisly
other bS’s areUtr* *
Whacko which “ thc
special concession for fo P a
three months is reducing foe fi* 1
a n x: kept £ s•s££
Whacko Library l at et ~' the
of Centennial Park and pT"
beth Street. And now hetefS’
ever-popular Nellie Luck * J
|ng ‘Clam Chow Ya Ya H^a
. Wliee*-e ■ ■ . “who’ll discus,
m a minute or two the pro® “
at the dogs tonight. In the mean
n , e rj H have some more Sc
But before we do here is a S
sage of interest. If it’s luncheon-
sausage yon want, then ask for
Pura-Snork, which is guaranteed
to contain a lower percentag
sawdust than any other. Don’
forget Pura-” . un 1
Clunk.
BO.
So It Is Rumored.
“New South Wales Bellringers’
Association will send a team to Yass
next month to try to break the world
bellringing record, held by an English
team with 10,080 changes in eight
hours continuous ringing,” 6
Some folk may start imagining
The lovely sound of sweet,
refrains
When echoes of the bells that
ring
Float through the night across
the plains.
But let us not assume that all
Will joy to hear the bells
betimes.
The changes rung are bound to
pall
In eight unbroken hours of
chimes.
And cynics, I’ve no doubt, will
ask
What country town where
dames have lungs
Needs men to supplement the
task ,
Of vvagging brazen clacking
tongues?
D.H.E


WORK BETTER
OK-
v*.
Cp
■ON
MP
mm
fR/m/ff /f
\\
\
mg n trade mark
TolP°n R n lES: FELTHAM > ENG.;
EDQ ’ U - S -A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
? ew Invention Controls
RUPTURE
This i°t Spr ' n 8:s —Cushions
brings* town^’ 011 by Dr - L. Barrere
new method P Af rC Bufferers an entirely
40 years’ Trae+i c °ntrol, the result of
Proved eomni* i and improvements,
'I ho have Tried It. Buccess£ul all
hand A oi RE^ E acts llke the
°rifice. v Oll P £ace( i fiat upon the
sttort and in a£: once > without
mtestine in u move ments, hold the
* u its cavity.
b ARrerVTI FREE MTERATUHE.
(Dept 2 7 !1 v E o I)ISTRIB17Tion co *
' 243 Rli *° lwl ’ St., Sydney.
Missing Friend.
TO MARGARET ISABEL TANKARD for-
merly of Upwey in the State of Victoria
Married Woman but now of parts un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band CLIFFORD MATHEW TANKARD of
10 G. R. Squadron Royal Australian Air
Force Garbett Townsville in the
State of Queensland has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne on or before the 22nd May 1950
the case may proceed in your absence IP
you intend to defend the suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Ist June 1950 AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
Copy Petition and Copy Citation in this
suit may be inspected at the office of the
Petitioner’s Solicitor, A. J. McNAMARA,
of 89 Queen Street, Melbourne.
'■/? - _
\,*A^
EfPQD
OODD
DO ti p
OOOTI
✓
rt
S
&
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
lOr tins of, 20
vnl
m* 3/.
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BmsoNmj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET L LONDON
J.
f
A lifetime of study may be
given to the art of
choosing the appropriate
from so much which is
just very good . Yet y where
cigarettes are concerned
the name “Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London”
is an unfailing guide —
for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
SPORTING NOTIONS
After the deluge, the A.J.C. had
the amazing luck of a day of spark-
ling sunshine for the opening on
Sawrday of Ihe
ine __Doncaster, St. Leger, hires tro
Se Stakes and the rest. It brought
nnfa crowd of 78,300, and the splen-
did racing itself, along with the fresh
preen track and the attention the
a r C is sensibly giving to the pre-
start parading, the colorful pageantry
of the sport, made it all the old Rand-
wick at its brightest.
Above its other points of interest,
this year’s Doncaster was a specially
timely tribute to a horse who must
rate as one of the great sires of the
Australian turf—the grey French-bred
Nizami, who had died only a day
or two before Grey Boots added to
the breed’s long list of wins at all
distances and in all manner of con-
ditions by fairly sailing home in the
big mile. #
As Nizami’s owner, F. W. Hughes,
offered only two of the sire’s pro-
ducts—significantly not greys—at the
last yearling sales, he probably has a
nice crop of others on hand or' due
to arrive; so the best of the Nizamis
may not have been seen even yet.
Still, they’ll need to be good to better
the record up-to date, since this in-
cludes two of the last three Mel-
bourne Cup winners (Hiraji and
Foxzami), and two winners of the top
double for fillies, Wakeful Stakes and
Oaks (Nizam’s Ring and Grey Nurse).
Last season’s score alone was 19
winners of 29 races and £26,000 prize-
money. The present season’s lot in-
cludes, of course, the Breeders’ Plate
winner, Nirandoli.
The outstanding Nizami to date has
no doubt been Hiraji—a compliment
to his sire on two grounds in par-
ticular: that all distances from six
furlongs to two miles came alike to
him, and that he was an “iron horse”
if ever there was one. This goes for
most of the breed, though the other
main winner, Foxzami, has preferred
the long trips, the Hotham Handicap-
Melbourne Cup double among them.
Also, as noted, the mares have been
just as good, both Nizam’s Ring and
Grey Nurse beating the best of their
sex at a mile and a mile and a half.
As a result of absurdly extravagant
crystal-balling gush about him, Buz-
mark went out for the Doncaster an
absolutely false favorite. He started
at the preposterous odds of 5 to 2,
and he failed after having every
chance and being in front in the
home run, just as he had done in the
Epsom, for which mile also he was
a similarly manufactured false favor-
ite, at the same odds. Also, on that
occasion, only a few months ago, he
had 51b, less than his Doncaster
weight, and just couldn’t see it out.
To complete the chapter of coinci-
dence, it was another grey, Denali,
who then beat him home.
In the nowadays fantastic crystal-
balling referred to —it is invariably
lush before every big double —it isn’t
enough to merely make a selection on
revealed passable credentials. Instead
of any admitting that the Doncaster,
say, is one of the very hardest races
in the whole calendar to pick, the
soothsayers put their choice forward
as a foregone conclusion; a certainty;
a “special”; a past-the-post proposi-
tion. Many thousands must be taken
in by it. However, as to that, there
was this time one commendable bit
of unusual frankness: the boomed
horse was photographically publicised
in the company of an animal of not-
able symbolic character —to wit, a
goat.
The winner of the big mile has
changed a lot from the perfect little
grey rockinghorse he looked when he
won his first race at Randwick a
year or two back. He has hardened
to a much closer resemblance to
Hiraji, though still rather lighter and
not so strong and tough-looking. His
condition on Saturday was a distinct
compliment to owner-trainer H. V.
Cooper; Grey Boots coming in from
running the mile on the heavy and
heavily-grassed track in looking
as if he could have gone out and
done it again.
Of course, with only 7.7, Grey
Boots was suitably weighted for
the heavy track. Under the solid
burden for a three-year-old of 8.6,
Achilles did very well in the condi-
tions to finish within three lengths of
the winner and comfortably shading
Buzmark. The Groom looked as if
the race, and then a few more, would
do him good; the New Zealander,
Lord Moss, on the other hand, looked
too sparse for such tough work. Of
all the beaten lot, quite the best per-
formance was De La Salle’s; finishing
fourth, handy to the placegetters,
under the crushing burden (for such
a track) of 9.3.
Oddly enough, not a solitary
Nizami contested the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, which provided a most crush-
ing comment on the present season’s
colts; not so much in being won by
the fine Melbourne-trained filly True
Course (the first filly to win this
classic in over 20 years), but in the
wholly obliterating fact of the places
also going to fillies. True Course is
yet another of the very successful
P. F. Miller plan of mating Mid-
stream with Magpie mares. The filly’s
a galloper as true as her name, and
she needed to be to win. Unused to
the barrier-stall contraption, she was
last out, was at the tail of the field
for the first furlong or two, still had
a lot of ground to make up with three
to go, and then, when they got down
to business in the straight, simply
played with them. The Wakeful-Oaks
double would seem very likely to
stay in Melbourne this year.
Apart from the luck of the A.J.C.
itself in getting such a perfect day,
the luckiest there were those who
got the fabulous price of 3 to 1 about
Playboy in the four-horse St. Leger.
Actually it was a two-horse field, since
Brother Jonathan could be written
off and Delta had already shown he’d
had enough for the present. Anyway,
Delta had been beaten by Playboy
in the A.J.C. Derby, and the same
went for the other opponent, Dickens.
At the finish, it was only a one-horse
race; Playboy, who’s of The Buzzard
breed, winning as he liked.
The real upset of the first day was
Benvolo’s defeat of Carbon Copy in
the mile-and-a-half w.f.a. Autumn
Stakes. In the Princess Handicap
Happy Medium ran a fairish trial
for next Saturday’s Adrian Knox
Stakes. Young Selkrig deserves a
mention for his excellent handling of
Grey Boots; but the best bit of sheer
riding on the day was Sellwood on
High Order beating Cook on Dalston
in the Vaucluse Handicap. To say
that a jockey’s in form shouldn’t
mean merely that he’s in luck; Sell-
wood is in form just as a topnotch
athlete may be in form. Cook made
amends with yet another of his ftist-
race victories —riding Tamasha along
fr9m a near-hopeless start to bag the
mile-and-a-quarter Local Handicap.
* * * *
Leading American jockey Johnny
Longden, who no doubt learned quite
a lot about local racing in his first
day’s riding on the opening day of
Melbourne Racing Club’s Easter
meeting at Caulfield, went very close
to enjoying one unique experience—
that of being cheered to the skies
for downing a favorite. As it was,
there was loud cheering, or at any
rate a mighty lot of noise, from
when he looked like winning as they
turned for home till they’d passed the
“I Wonder which one of you they're for!"
post. A nice example of the racing
game at its finest.
In the photo-finish, after the head-
and-head battle from the turn to the
post, it was favorite Bidwell (Purtell)
a short half-head better than Long-
den’s mount, topweight Derrymore.
Actually Longden, catching up with
a nicely-judged run, got Derrymore a
shade in front, but Purtell was at his
best, too, and that and his 101 b. pull
in the weights were just enough.
Longden’s three earlier mounts
finished well out of it; in fact, nearer
the rear than the front. His first two
—in divisions of a Juvenile —were per-
haps merely not good enough.; but
something better was expected of his
other one, Beau Gem, in the seven-
furlongs Victoria Handicap. Starting
second favorite, Beau Gem got away
rather slowly and looked to be rushed
along in the early stages. They seem
to get results from such bustling in
America, but the local axiom that
“they can’t do it at both ends” proved
as sound as usual. Favorite Chic-
quita, for her part, was beaten by
the handicapper and the tiring racing
she has had, being comfortably
downed by lightly-weighted good
sprinter Star Port.
Both divisions of the Juvenile added
to the stocks of this season’s fillies
and further discounted those of the
other sex; the En Passant filly Nihill
and the Prince Sion filly Adsum finish-
ing first and second ahead of the
Kinderscout colt Great Scout and the
rest in the first division, and the Gay
Lad filly Gaylyne and Hudson Bay
filly Apsaras similarly treating the
Dhoti gelding Dhobrae and others in
the other division,
* * * *
Showing the decency due to a
grand horse —there are examples
enough of the contrary—connections
took Carbon Copy out of Monday’s
very rich Sydney Cup (which will he
examined here later). Carbon Copy
had the crusher of 9.7 in the Cup; a
deadly weight in the circumstances.
It gives him a chance to atone at
w.f.a. today (Wednesday), with
Johnny Longden due to be on top
as an added attraction.
* * # *
Australia winds up yet another of
its own cricket seasons with the re-
markable record of being still un-
beaten in international play in the
post-war period, during which teams
from here have toured England, South
Africa and New Zealand, and teams
from England and India have toured
Australia.
* * * *
Many local fans who followed the
progress of the last Wallaby team in
Britain must have been intrigued by
the name of the side which beat the
Australians at Cardiff the Bar-
barians. Although little known here,
the “Ba-bas,” as they are popularly
termed, have a great reputation in
Britain. The Barbarian club is
probably the most exclusive. Rugby
Union club in the world. Barbarians
are recruited from the ranks of
internationals and international trial-
ists of the four home countries;
ability to play attractive, open foot-
ball is an essential, but, above all,
the prospective Barbarian must be a
“good fellow” both on and off the
field. With these qualifications in
mind, the selectors pick a party of
some 20 players; the club then in-
vites these playes to join them on
one of their periodical tours, during
which they play exhibition matches
against leading club's. Although
their class almost invariably carries
them to victory, the winning is only
incidental to their main aim, which
is to give exhibitions of bright spec-
tacular Rugby without the dourness
and “must-win” attitude usually
associated with representative matches.
Their matches are always a joy to
watch, and the good spirit which pre-
vails on the field is carried in more
tangible form to the dinner which
traditionally follows. It is a proud
boast of the “Ba-bas” that their
dinners have never been known to
get past the soup course. The
Wallabies, incidentally, made a spot
of history in that they were the first
overseas touring team that has been
accorded the honor of a match with
the Barbarians. The “Ba-bas” won,
9-6.
* * * *
Ken Bailey (10.6 i), who’s been go-
ing to give the game away long
enough to rival any prima donna,
still had enough fight in him at Leich-
hardt to score easily on points over
Ron Warner (10.6), who isn’t exactly
a chicken, either. Ringcraft did the
trick, the old familiars of the place
confirming the rightness of ref. Maw-
son’s decision in Bailey’s favor by
hooting it heartily.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
when toasigning your dip—
everything ;
points
to
mmmm,
jAii.if.R_
inc. in England. 1863 wmmmmmmmmmmmi
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, UNO & FINANCE COY. LTD.
JO
1
“ft
i
5c
“Is
%
87 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Oowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa t Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Yeness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Ftc,; Wodonga, Korumburra.
FONDE EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
"Phenovls” Worm Remedy
tirriv
y/M
'M-
/
///''/
//
yj
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS
Phenothiazine Drench
ŵ
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Cattle at Sydney Show.
“Bulago”: Judging was
marred by wet weather, but it
takes more than rain or floods to
keep cattle enthusiasts away;
they were there in full force.
The mark of time was perhaps
more evident than usual this
year. Numerically, entries were
better than ever in practically
every breed in spite of restric-
tions due to lack of showground
space. On the credit side, new
exhibitors appeared in most
breeds and did remarkably well;
in fact, too well at times for
older well-known studs.
This was particularly notice-
able in Aberdeen-Angus, whose
leading studs have suffered
casualties during the year.
Kahlua, which has featured in
the prize-list for years, sold the
bulk of its herd recently and was
not represented. Dispersal of the
famous Abington stud following
the death of Norman Forster
robbed Sydney Show of one of
its most consistent supporters,
and the breed of a studmaster
whose whole time and energy
were concentrated on his cattle.
In the Shorthorns there were
noticeable blanks and evidence
of strong competition from new-
comers. For many years
Coonong has held a premier
position; its Calrossie blood set
the fashion for Australian Short-
horns, and still looms largely in
the pedigrees of today’s topliners.
This year, a new stud—Gulf
Cattle Co.—invaded the field
with signal success, including the
bull championship. While the
name is new, that of the owners
—the Whites of Edinglassie
(N.S.W.) and Brunette Downs
(NT.)—is familiar to all cattle-
men.
Partiality for polls is still on
the increase, and both Herefords
and Durhams are closing the
quality-gap that separated them
from the horned breeds. Short-
horn colors are improving
rapidly, although there are still
some washy roans and reds.
Breeders are to be congratulated
on the fine showing in the fat-
cattle classes, where top honors
went to a Polled Hereford steer,
and Aberdeen-Angus won many
awards.
Recently a number of sires
have come here from Britain
and U.S.A. or are on their way,
but it will be some years before
their mark will be evident. This
year, however, the progeny of
sires imported since the war
figure prominently among the
prizewinners in every breed, and
“Ever hitch-hiked this Way before?”
the improvement in type of the
youngsters parading this year
was one of the most heartening
features of the Show.
Herd-testing.
“Agric”: Overwhelming evi-
dence of the value- of herd-
recording data on the economics
of district dairying was provided
by the senior dairy adviser in
Queensland (N. E. Pegg). Cows
calving in August in the Beau-
desert district produced half as
much butterfat again as cows
which calved in January, while
the August calvers’ milk cheques
averaged £lO a head more,
Cows calving in January pro-
duced during lactation 271
gallons, compared with 376
gallons produced by cows which
calved in September.
Pegg advised dairymen to get
into the July-August-September
calving routine, where prac-
ticable. This would relieve much
of the burden of dairying, and
enable dairymen to take their
holidays at a set time of the
year, when cows were dry, or
enable them to do extra main-
tenance, etc., on their farms. He
realised, of course, that milk-
suppliers must, of necessity, have
cows calving all the time, but
cream-suppliers could confidently
undertake a calving programme
to suit their own convenience.
The greater production in a
July-August-September calving
programme relied on the first
flush after calving, then the
storm rains in early summer,
with plenty of protein in the feed
to keep up the cream supply*
followed by a reduced supply in
March . and the winter. Cows
calving in January were on good
grass for two months and then
went into the winter, and re-
duced production.
For the last 18 months, 1270
cows have been tested in the
Beaudesert district, and the
records showed an average lacta-
tion of 74- months (223 days)
with a production of 29591 b.
milk and 1291 b. fat at a 4.3 per
cent. test. About 48 per cent, of
the cows tested produced under
1501 b. butterfat, and 25 per cent,
between 1501 b. and 1991 b
big a percentage of cows below
the profitable range. In one herd
of 34 cows, 29 produced under
1501 b., whereas the district
average pointed to 1501 b. as a
standard for the area.
Translating the Scientists.
“Dungaree”: N. S. Wales
Graziers’ Association wants un-
derstandable language used in
publications by the C.5.1.R.0.
Since its inception, C.5.1.R.0.
research has made important
discoveries in the pastoral
field, and its general work over
the years has saved graziers
millions. This fact, and
even the existence of the
C.5.1.R.0., is unknown to
thousands of land men because
of lack of publicity and of an
extension service competent to
pass on the fruits of research.
In its early days State agri-
cultural departments were
jealous of the C.5.1.R.0., believ-
ing it was infringing on their
preserves. That position has
been largely overcome, but there
is still room for more liaison.
C.5.1.R.0. used to publish
journals and bulletins in which
the majority of articles were
written by scientists in scientific
language. Their specialised
vocabulary enabled them to de-
scribe things much more
minutely and accurately than
would have been possible in
everyday English, but they per-
petuated a deep gap between
scientist and farmer only
bridged shakily by occasional
newspaper articles.
Now the journal has been
scrapped, and quarterlies are
being issued at about 7s. 6d. a
copy; the last pretence of writ-
ing for the land man has
vanished. Perhaps because of
difficulty in getting staff,
C.5.1.R.0. appears to be concen-
trating on fundamental research
only, and is leaving the applica-
tion of new techniques and drugs
in the field to those private firms
who have a technical or veter-
inary staff.
Another drawback to the
official publications is the delay
in getting the results of research
to the public. It is not unusual
to find an article on an im-
portant subject that has been
waiting over two years to get into
print.
The complaint of the graziers
deserves attention. There is
urgent need for liaison between
the research scientist and the
landman by means of tech-
nicians who can spread
knowledge by field tests. These
could be done on selected pro-
perties, and supplemented with
films, lectures and field days in
country centres.
What is wanted is a regular
publication to let landmen know
what is being done. It would
have to be written and edited by
someone capable of compre-
bending scientific jargon in print
and speech, experience in stock
work and station management,
able to talk the language of the
stockman, and with the flair to
reduce to simple language what
is going on in the scientific
wprld.
Cost should not be great. An
extension service would cost
”° t r ’f b "i WOuld W dividends
out of all proportion in direct
and long-term benefits A n
enormous amount of the money
spent at present on publications 7
both by the C.5.1.R.0. and £
various State departments, is
utterly wasted.
Over the Fence.
Rooster”: Occupiers 0 f
adjoining properties are liable
to contribute equal proportions
toward the cost of erecting and
maintaining dividing - fences
under Victorian law. Only
exception to this rule-is where
the occupier holds his land by
yearly licence from the Crown •
unless he occupies unused roads
on his properties he is not liable
to any fencing costs.
When property is let to a
tenant, the tenant, not the owner
is liable for the boundary-fence'
If a fence is being erected at a
time when the lease has less than
three years to run, the total cost
is payable by the landlord. With
a three- to six-year lease, 75 p c
is payable by the landlord, 25
p.c. by the tenant; similarly a
six- to 12-year lease warrants a
50/50 basis. Over 12 years the
tenant forks out entire cost.
In Victoria a person about to
erect a dividing-fence must (1)
Serve notice in writing upon the
occupier of adjoining land; (2)
specify the boundary to be
fenced and the type of fence re-
quired ; (3) draw up a definite
proposal re contract. The
neighbor is allowed one month
in which to signify agreement;
any time after that, if no word
is received, a summons can be
taken out under the Fences Act
and a court may then order that
the fence be erected and both
sides pay half.
Should a fence be erected
without a summons being served
on the party in disagreement, the
cost or any portion of it cannot
be recovered from that party.
Failure to contribute toward cost
after a verbal agreement entitles
the contracting party to sue for
the amount. In deciding what
class of fence shall be erected a
court is not compelled to adhere
strictly to specifications.
The procedure for repairs is
entirely different. If a fence
urgently needs repairing, notice
is served on the disagreeing party
requiring him to assist. If he re-
fuses or shows no indication of
positive action, after the lapse of
seven days after service of notice,
fie is liable to half expense on


tLet us prove it on your fur mu ...
NO JOB TOO TOUCH
i \ \
w
FOR THE
WYD
CRAWLER
25/33 H.P. 32/40 H.P.
TRACTOR
Before making any decisions about a new traefor ... see your nearest
Loyd distributor,..ask him to arrange a Loyd demonstration under
your own conditions ...on your own farm. Let us say right here, such
a demonstration places you under no obligation whatsoever.
The Loyd is an all-weather, all-the-year-
round tractor. Mud, sand, clay, under-
growth, roots or saplings make no differ-
ence to its broad tracks. Maximum speed
of 7 m.p.h. . , * ample power to do every
job under the worst conditions.,. economy*
of fuel as low as three quarters of a gallon
of Diesel fuel per hour . • • the Loyd
Crawler is the ideal tractor for the
Australian farmer.
Every class of broadacre farming,
orchard work, breaking new country, cane
farming, logging, dozing, grading, scrap-
ing, loading, back-filling, excavating,
winching or road building, the Loyd
Crawler will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
The Loyd will outpull any other tractor of
equivalent horsepower!
See or write to your nearest Loyd Distributor,
NEW SOUTH WALES: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 82a Parramatta Rd., Camperdown.
QUEENSLAND: Norton Toothill Pty. Ltd., 12 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Power Handling (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 61 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: John Chambers & Son Ltd., Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service available throughout Australasia.
COMMONWEALTH FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
fence, or
* oald teeof is also a 50/50
P°C Sanson through
pa Ct such as would be caused
neglect, s close to a
by —, must be made
(lil j , °aMhe cost of the guilty
*J$. That's Victorian law.
Fat Lambs.
“Fowler’s Boy”: Join 2 p.c. ot
vigorous young Down rams,
J r,c good workers and 3 p.c.
Iloolhs and older. If possible
tap some rams in reserve and
engage them later when workers
Sin to tire. It’s advisable to
take the rams off after about two
months, to ensure an even drop,
5 keep ’em off until the next
mating period.
Twin-lamb disease (pregnancy
toxamia) is largely due to
neglect. Loss of condition
through inadequate feeding pre-
disposes the ewe to the disease.
If natural pastures are scant it
pays to hand-feed generously.
This doubly applies during the
latter stages of pregnancy.
A paddock should be kept in
reserve for lambing ewes, pre-
ferably handy to the homestead,
where a close watch may be kept
on them. Plenty of water and
shelter is necessary. Crutch the
flock as close as possible to the
danger period of fly-infestation,
but sufficiently early to prevent
injury to ewes and unborn lambs.
Forward ewes should be crutched
standing up. Keep dogs at home.
There is no need to interfere with
ewes when dropping until quite
sure that assistance is warranted.
For greater promoting of twins,
flushing with green-feed will
help.
Mark Jambs within a fortnight
of birth. Abundance of young
grass or crop will guarantee
good milk yields from ewes, and
good green picking for growing
lambs. Sold straight off the
mothers lambs can be a profit-
able business. If kept longer,
wean them in time for the ewes
to have a spell before the. next
mating. Lambs should be shorn
before grass goes to seed.
An N.Z. Grass.
A successful field
trial by a South Australian
grazier of New Zealand HI
short-rotation ryegrass may make
it popular throughout the 22in.
and better rainfall districts.
It was sown in April, 1948, at
Oakbank, and within six weeks,
because there was no other feed
offering, the grazier turned his
sheep on it. They stayed on it
until September, and at no time
was it higher than lin. After
a spell it came again to a' height
of 4ft.
This short-rotation ryegrass is
a hybrid from Italian and
perennial ryegrasses which has
been fixed by the N.Z. plant
geneticists, E. Bruce Levy and
• Corkill, after eight years’
research. It was specifically de-
igned to fill the gap between the
ahan annual and the four years
or the perennial to
establish completely.
It combines the lusher leaf
mr ? alatabi lity °f the Italian
P ent on the one hand and the
£j Sency the perennial
° n th . e other - It levels out
nm/ r ! duction curve by raising
L Uct,on during winter. It
aupm ll0 * rt^ ace d s parents but
augments them.
ment ° akbank grazier’s experi-
began at n thp rtakeil - by chance ’
em ;“ at the same time as Gov-
PlantpU ‘ contr °lled plots were
exnert ? Kybyb ohte (S.A.)
amnlifip 6ll / stat i on - His success
announo ! en , tative results so far
»” StuS *
are°^ P °i nt * about N -Z- HI
Perennial ee fln yiel - d lsbigher than
Perennial’ Wenng 1S later than
the seed l earlier than Italian >
shows marp e< u r l f v dlly ’ the grass
from natural ablllty to establish
is sunerio 1 re f eedin S and thus
It wnfTJ 0 ' both its parents,
than toe fill- off »«ds longer
Slsts longer l^ because 11 per "
the ll d P es not smother
Italian dr, der u tbe Pasture as
vi goro Us and cause il is less
Ce ntaee can d u thus a greater per-
So Wnln th ll be * SOWn - It can be
perennial Same quantity as for
Care of Old Gums.
“H.C.”: Old gums are less re-
sistant to manhandling than
young ones. Lopped back too
hard, they will pass out unless
three or four good branchlets are
left to act as breathers.
Deaths of old gums are
common in tree-starved pad-
docks where stock trample the
soil as far as the shade cast
becomes rock-hard.
men me ram runs off instead of
soaking in.
When this happens, crack the
soil around the tree to about 6ft.
out from the trunk with a
mattock or axe, fork up to a
depth of Sin. to 12in. and level
off* Then remove about 3in. of
top-soil from the whole area, fill
in the gap left with leaf litter,
press down and water; then
shovel back the soil you took
out on to the top of the leaf
mass to keep it in place,
As well as being good fer-
tiliser, the leaf mass will act as
a filter for the rain, and the soil
on the bottom will gradually be-
come porous again, provided, of
course, stock are kept off for
some months, preferably during
winter. A strong fence has given
many old trees a new lease of
life.
Meantime, to replace the
ancient and withering trees, plant
more young ones.
Hints for the Farm.
“M”: Colic in a horse may
be due to overfeeding during a
rest period, working heavily on
a full stomach, watering after
feeding instead of before, sud-
den changes in diet, or sanding
and wheat engorgement. In all
of these except perhaps sanding,
the horse exhibits signs of pain.
At the first symptoms drench
with a pint of raw linseed oil con-
taining 2oz. of oil of turps, 2oz.
of aromatic spirits of ammonia,
and ioz. to loz. of tincture of
mix vomica. In an hour or two
follow with a drench of 2oz. of
aromatic spirits of ammonia,
loz. of sweet spirits of nitre, and
\ pint of water. Stable the horse
in a warm stall and keep an eye
on him.
“C.A.A.”; Where onions are
making slow growth apply a
dressing of nitrate of soda, 2oz.
to each square yard. If condi-
tions are dry water the mixture
intn thf* cnil
mto the soil.
“B at : T °. ** nd , of ° n ,! o "-
weed ? v<n 7 blt of root aad bu b
must be dug. out-possible only
m friable soil. The pest may be
ke ? t . under control by emptying
boilmg copper-suds over it
wher ® no garden plants are
growing.
“Myrrhee”: Algerian and
Algeribee are still the two main
oat varieties grown in Victoria,
They’re late-maturing and pro-
duce a grain liked by the oat-
milling trade. They stool better
than the early types and have
proved adaptable in most Vic-
torian districts over a lengthy
period. They recover well after
grazing, and on that account are
favored by southern Victorian
farmers who sow in the early
autumn, graze until the spring,
then allow it to mature and take
off a hay or grain crop,
“Big Billy”: Cracked hooves
can be reduced to a minimum
u • ,• , c , *
by periodical applications of a)
a dresSm f. ° £ h P ‘ X lq Z 5 h
be f, swa * * lb ;. h °" ey ? b ;’ ard
Hib.. glycerine -Jib. Melt lard
and beeswax, then stir mgredi-
ents until mixture is blended and
begins to set. Apply lightly over
wa || s G f hooves once or twice
weekly. Or (b) mix one part oil
of tar, one part oil of turps, four
parts fish-oil. Shake together
until mixed and apply daily,
Wash off remains of previous
dressings before applying fresh
ones.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAOfiEY , Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8, White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing- Birector. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. »361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
3d
Wife left penniless ...
now financially
secure
A TRUE STORy
Recently, a young married
woman sought the assistance of
the Commonwealth Employment
Service through a District
Office. She had been left with
a young child to support; was
small, frail, and endured the
disability of deafness, but had
had a little factory experience
prior to her marriage.
An employer called upon the
Service for temporary em-
ployees to pack foodstuffs, indi-
cating that one or two of the
temporary workers would be
selected for permanent engage-
ment. The applicant’s case was
presented to him in detail, and
he agreed to engage her on
trial. Arrangements were made
by tHe young woman for some-
one to care for her infant, and
she accepted the position offered.
Some time later, the employer
’phoned. The woman had been
appointed to the permanent
staff. What’s more, she had
been able to demonstrate a new
method of sealing packets which
had enabled production to be
stepped up 40 to 50 per cent.
ẁ
ẃ
■■■ - .
WHERE MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
. .
-
in
•'*. J
mm
ft. /' 'ft
•••
4. ■'
m
n
m
s
1
BX
t w a
O F
m
wm
POST-WAR DESIGN
OTIS ESCALATORS
INSTALLED AT
MARK FOY’S LTD.
SYDNEY.
★
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE: Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd 4
BRISBANE: McWhirters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE: Myer Emporium Ltd. ...12
„ Manton & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEY: Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 10
m David Jones Ltd 6
„ Mark Foy’s Ltd. 6
PERTH: Boons Ltd 6
OtiA ESCALATORS MEAN
MORE TRAFFIC, MORE SALES,
MORE PROFITS . . .
This Otis escalator installation at Mark Foy’s Ltd., Sydney,
makes shopping easier, more enjoyable, hy extending an
attractive invitation to visit every department without effort
and without waiting.
Continuously moving escalators move merchandise because
they cater for people—people who are tired and weary,
people who are impatient, people who are lazy and people
in a genuine hurry;
People plus Otis escalators mean traffic —and traffic in a
store means sales. A survey of your store may provide you
with interesting facts.
n
r
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY t MELBOURNE •
BRISBANE * PERTH • HOBART
ADELAIDE
NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA
FRANCE
PS-1
Hum
fooß To#
in the Mountain Snows
And an eye in the Tasm^ cular saw,
A hand and a jaw in a
And a foot by a falling tree cb ill,
But I never look ill from cold or
My health I can aye ensure. ith a
By wetting my throttle m time
bottle „ —.mint t or o '
Jf Woods’ Great Peppe***** 1-
was —selfish and cold-blooded,
like her lecturing. If you were
so fussy about yourself you
didn’t have much thought left
over for others, heathen or not.
Then what about all those
funny people she knew, Mrs.
Thumwood went on to question
herself. People that were always
getting their name or picture in
the paper .for stirring up some
sort of trouble or other. And
her calling them by their first-
names. Coming men,'she called
them. There was the picture,
too, that she kept beside her
bed. She fussed over it and said
it was very intimate and ad-
vanced, but it looked like no-
thing more than a chain of
yellow loops coming out of a
snowstorm. “Darling Fuzzy
painted it in his most tantalis-
ing mood,” she’d said. My
word, wouldn’t Effie make some-
thing of that! And then to say
that if ever Fuzzy came down
this way and got his easel inside
the fish shop Uncle Arch might
as well close the door until
Fuzzy had interpreted! Well,
there’d be other ideas about that,
too.
How could it all be anything
but a game? As much a game,
she decided, as the tig and hop-
scotch the youngsters played
outside the hedge. Her mission
lecture-tour was just that. A
game. An interest to help her
to get rid of her nerves, or
whatever it was she had, or
thought she had. And what
about the poor heathen?
SHE had abandoned herself
now Jo a state where she
hoped fiercely that when the van
stopped her niece would be
wretchedly sick. Seasick at
Effie’s gate. That would keep
Effie going for a month. What
a pantomime there would be
when next she went out alone,
what capers Effie would cut!
Mrs. Thumwood broke in on
her niece’s wilting monologue.
“Listen. We’re crossing the
bridge. We won’t be long
now.”
“Thank heaven,” Frances
sighed.
Outwardly smiling, Mrs.
Thumwood said: “Effie’ll be
glad to see you.”
Frances’s nod made of her
visit a necessary evil. “Yes. I
mightn’t be down this way again
for a long time. I hope the
board keeps me lecturing in the
North Island.”
“You’d rather be up there?”
“I like it best,” Frances said.
Mrs, Thumwood regarded her
fingernails. “I once heard of a
woman who lived in the North
Island three whole years, and
the only time her neighbor
spoke to her was to grizzle about
the ashes blowing around on
washing day.”
“Perhaps. But you can get
too much of a good thing any-
where.” s
Taking this to mean fish and
the effects of fish, Mrs. Thum-
wood retorted huffily: “Perhaps
we should have taken a taxi out
to Effie’s. I’ve always come this
way before, and it’s never upset
me. And the steamed cod you
had for your breakfast was your
own idea.”
“I know,. Aunt Elsie. You’ve
been very kind.”
« This was a sop offered so
glibly that Mrs. Thumwood was
infuriated. What a fool she’d
been to chase round after parsley
to please such a spoiled selfish
creature, she reproached herself.
And haying to get it from that
borrowing man at the back ; in
no time he’d be over asking
for a loan of everything in sight
and she’d have to offend him
again. However, a vision rose
in her mind to comfort her—
Frances seasick at Effie’s gate
and Effie there to see it.
“How are you feeling now,
Frances?” she asked.
“Rotten.”
“Oh, I thought if you got your
mind off it, going over part of
your lecture, it would help.”
Frances shook her head.
“Aunt Elsie?”
“Well?”
“Is it very public where we’re
going to stop?”
“No,” Mrs. Thumwood re-
plied. “There’s only Effie’s place
and paddocks, and there’s a
bank with broom growing on it;
I sometimes take home a sprig or
two for the vases. But it’s not
public out here.”
“Thank heaven.”
“You think you’ll be sick
then?”
“I was never surer of anything
in my life. Steamed cod and
parsley sauce.”
This indelicacy shocked Mrs.
Thumwood until she thought of
what Effie might make of it.
Then came three shqrt honks
on the horn.
“That’s Arch,” said Mrs.
Thumwood. “We’re there.”
P RANGES gave a moan of
* resignation as the van slowed
down.
They heard Arch shout a
good-humored greeting: “Here
we are again, Effie. And I’ve
got a special catch today.”
The back cover was raised and
Mrs. Thumwood stepped out,
blinking in the sunshine.
“Look, look,” squealed Effie.
She was a wisp of a woman,
with a fringe overhanging a
pushed-in face, and wac • .
for the benefit o "a S/ olntil >B
her on a stick-horse W T". 8
peevishly* •
Aunt Elsie.” ’ 11 s on ly
This witticism sent his mnti,
into shrieks of ? 2 . 1
Arch Thumwood bega § n nra and
about horse-like, apparent?""" B
s* “ e T r pl v° -£
horse. Then Frances came
crawling out of the van
“Another mermaid i”
squealed. “Look, Clark.”
Frances managed a grimace of
brooms? “ d Sl “ k int ° the'
Effie was watching o nen
mouthed until her sister tm
toed across the road and whk
pered in her ear.
“Here?”° k? ” marvelled -
She glanced round the hills
that swelled, crested with gorse
from out the blue distance The
sea lay miles ,behind the wooded
skyline.
But the spasms of distress
sounding in the brooms were elo-
quent enough.
" “Clark, come away from
there,” Effie ordered.
The two women were whisper-
ing together, and at each fresh
outburst Effie would purse her
lips and shake her head dole-
fully. With distracting noise and
vigor, Arch was busy sharpening
his big knife.
Presently the fugitive emerged,
hat in hand and her hair
dishevelled.
“Oh,” cried Effie. “You poor
thing.”
But before Frances could
speak, she was obliged to re-
treat again. This time Effie, feet
twinkling, darted in to help.
More or less to himself, Arch
was observing; “Effie doesn’t
want any fish today or she’d
have brought her plate out. So
I’ll be moving along.”
He climbed into his van and
tinkered about for a minute or
two before he started the engine.
“Wait,” his wife called, re-
straining him. “Frances has left
her suitcase in the back. It’s that
native handwork she brought to
show Effie.” She reached in and
retrieved the suitcase. “Go on,
then. I’ve got it.”
The fish-van slowly moved
away.
MRS. THUMWOOD was
anxiously shepherding young
Clark away from the patch of
broom when her niece and sister
came out again.
“You’re feeling better now,
Frances?” she asked, and
hastened to offer her arm for
support. „
“Yes, thank you, Aunt.
Effie said firmly, “It’s a nice
hot cup of tea she wants, and her
feet up.” , ...
As if this was a mater of vita
urgency, she went pattering up
the path, her young son at her
heels
Her visitors followed more
sedately. The decorations on
Mrs. Thumwood’s hat click
faintly with each deliberate s P.
and Frances’s coat-buttons
fiery in the sun. Behind r §->
rhododendrons through
they passed, cows raised then
heads and watched. _ the
“The kettle will be just on
boil,” Effie called back.
She had vanished a m ° f m J er
later in the dark.wees of her
front-door, and the chi
the stick-horse was lost to g
with her.


Personal and Missing Friends.
wn „tJ ICHAEL PHELAN
™AEL PHELAN formerly of
Bendigo, a brother of
AnstiJr CHELAN late of Perth, Western
2“ , or anyone knowing his where-
pl . ease communicate with the
ROBINSON COX & Co.,
ohcitorß, 20 Howard Street, PERTH.
KENNPnv 1 T h ° mas — son of JAMES
born at n MARY ANN KENNEDY
on flip tlourt near Liverpool
J 876 ’ died on 25th
or m nT ro i 943 / Would the next-of-kin
Please ml!!” 8 knowing their whereabouts
quoting p fi tnf lCate with 016 undersigned
KENNPnv EState nr T i ame of THOMAS
o’Con N nrstreetfS E Y TRUSTEE ’ 19
formerly 08 ™ Hnr^ STEVENSOh
Victoria but S™, in the State
TAKE NOTICe” tw ° f parts unkn °wn
«ay St even cm, tha ! your wife Kathleen
Horsham in 5 f J a f 11 7 Street
Woman has Victoria Married
y°u for divorpp Uted Breedings against
desertion UNI E«f« ° n tle S r °unds oi
anoe in thefwv, y ° U . enter an appear
Courts William r ° th onotery-8 Office Law
State of Victnrf * ree * in the
twenty-fourtv, a ° n or before the
suit Will mocp d^ y -° f May 1950 the saic
DECREE for dkLw y ° Ur abs ence and a
be granted, if v ,,,1 ut10 , n ° f niarriage may
Bui t you must aW? intend to defend this
s aid office on Iw® an anßwer in the
o f June 1950 P bef ° re the Fifth day
Queen Street Mel L ‘ BARBOUR, 89
01
Sores caused by
are soon n. ? h f fin B napkins
CuticuL rv fam ° US trio —
and Tab. 0,1 l tme nt. Soap
ojaJcum IWder.
w
Double first for Whisky and Gin
four years running . . .
■
|9*°
HH
\9*Z
i
v
X 1
ark
is
N.
ft
j,
On pure merit, Australian Whisky and Gin from Corio
Distillery swept the board this year, FOR THE FOURTH YEAR
IN SUCCESSION at the Royal Easter Show, Sydney. Corio’s
leadership in distilling methods is proved by these awards—
• Whisky from Corio, 5 years and older, awarded FIRST
PRIZE this year, and in ’49, ’4B and ’47.
• DRY GIN from Corio awarded FIRST PRIZE this year
and in '49, ’4B and ’47.
• On all occasions when entries have been Invited for
Championship awards for Australian Whisky (5 years and
older) and Australian Dry Gin—the products of Corio
Distillery have won the Championship Medals and
Certificates.
Be with the winners. Always drink Corio products.
The Corio' Distillery productions include :
CORIO SPECIAL—Whisky at its Prime.
VICKERS GIN—2OO years of Tradition. 1750 to 1950.
Corio
Distillery
The sales of the whiskies and gins
produced at the famous Corio
Distilleries exceed those of all
other brands marketed in Australia,
DI/44*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
, othnd of reducing small
Simple meihoiioj fQ
quantities of 75 P-c-
tin? a „trotp‘i finely and mix
Grind concentrates rm y ht q£
"■ * eciay
powdered the cruc ible to a
crucible. " e L a t in a furnace or
bright yc» ow h 3i 5 . of concentrates
forge: 21b. or an hour It 1S
can.be f 0 deduce by heating
a!so possible Jo tass i um cyanide,
with s odwm or pom much heat _
which does not require . g
If M n wi°* r fnr heating 8 it is inadvisable
Stffffi moKL ». of ore
at a time. * *
How to soften kangaroo-skins that
Jle hardened after tanning in wattle-
bark solution ? . . n
Tf skins are under-tanned it will
b / neSary to soak for a longer
neriod in the tan liquors. If they are
under-oiled, wet thorougWy, shake
nff surplus moisture and rub m
Seatsfoot or fish oil or tallow. Allow
to dry and repeat the process until
kin is of the softness desired
* * * *
What was the text of Churchills
reference to “blood and sweat, and
when and where was it made ?
Churchill said: “I have nothing to
offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat.
We have before us an ordeal of the
most grievous kind. We have before
us many, many months of struggle
and suffering. You ask what is our
policy? I say it is to wage war by
land, sea and air. War with all our
might and with all the strength God
has given us, and to wage war against
a monstrous tyranny never surpassed
in the dark and lamentable catalogue
of human crime.” —May 30, 1940;
Commons.
* * * *
Is it true that after the black has
been bred out as the., result of inter-
marriage between a white and an
aborigine there is no chance of a
sudden return to black?
In the case of a full-blooded white
and a full-blooded aborigine, “throw-
backs” may occur over long periods,
the exact period not being known,
owing to the sorting out and re-
combination of color genes. A true
dark-skinned child will be produced
only if both parents carry some dark-
skin genes. This scientific fact dis-
poses of the belief that a woman with
hidden aboriginal blood, passing as a
white woman, may unexpectedly bear
a coal-black child to a white father.
* * * Ht
Recipe for pickling capers?
Cover with a brine made by boiling
Hb. fine salt in 4 gals, water. Stand
overnight. _ Bring just to boiling-
point, strain, and fill sterilised bottles
or jars with the capers. Tie in a
piece of muslin a clove of garlic, a
few peppercorns and some blades of
mace. Place in the required quantity
of vinegar; boil for five minutes, then
strain and allow to cool slightly.
Pour into bottle with the capers, fill-
ing to overflowing. When cold, pour
out a little of the vinegar to make
room for cork. When corked, dip
top into melted sealing-wax. Keep at
least three weeks before using.
* * * *
A method of repainting golf balls ?
The surface of the ball should be
thoroughly cleansed of dirt and
grease and the old paint removed by
immersing the ball in a diluted
caustic-soda solution, taking care
that the outside cover is not burnt.
The simplest method of painting the
ball, outside of spraying apparatus,
is to pour a little golf-ball lacquer
into the palm of the hand and roll
the ball between the palms of the
hands. Two coats should be suffi-
cient. The ball can be dried by
inserting a pin into the ball, attach-
ing thread and suspending the ball.
* * * *
Are there any major differences
between cow’s and goat’s milk?
There is no marked nutritional
difference between them, but composi-
tion varies, variation being affected
by seasonal changes, breed, diet and
health of the milk-producing animal.
Goat’s milk is very similar in com-
position to the milk of Holsteins and
Ayrshires, but contains less butter-
fat, and so has a lower energy con-
tent per unit volume than the richer
Jersey milks. Goat’s milk has a
softer curd and smaller fat globules
than cow’s milk. The vitamin content
of the two milks is practically equal.
H° w to waterproof a cord fishing
line?
Soak in a mixture of equal parts
of boiled linseed-oil and copal var-
™fh" a
• Vff and varnish’‘S not
S Pans ,O S2Sn^x Par ‘wS
warm coil line in pot and draw out
through wet rag.
n . . .
Brief Answers.
.
wc • Cricket- Australia v Eng-
j and ‘ 87 789 £7405 in 1937 Foot-
ball ’ CaVlton v Cohinewood' 96 834
£677« f n I93g‘ RnTmSes were
t-oi/S, in 1938. Both matches were
P la V ed on the Melbourne Cricket
Ground... .N.A.: As part of the de-
ceased',, estate, Ihe amount o£ the
)cgacy is subjc . ct , 0 state death dut y
and p edera j estate duty. An annuity
£ n the hands of a beneficiary is
income, and should be shown in his
income-tax return... .S.M-F.: Posses-
sion Q f deeds a f o ne confers no
right to the land, but if the holder
can establish his legal title to the
land he can> upon making proper
application, have it transferred to his
name. It would not revert to the
Crown MJ.: Normally a patent is
for one invention only. Select those
features you regard as most valuable,
discarding matters of detail and
known engineering practice. Gener-
ally there is one governing invention
in a machine, and it can be
claimed and covered. Other less-
important features can be patented in
dependence upon it R.F.A.: (1)
Dissolve good joiner’s glue (softened
by swelling in water) with a little
turpentine and enough water in an
ordinary gluepot. (2) Make a thick
paste by mixing two parts, by weight,
of starch to every one part, by
Srffe°cooi r, be B f“i applTcaOcn" 1 "'
E.F: “sSS 'tt*'u^TZ; ' ip
i°e m S ,°MvlTde“
polish the teeth, then use a suitable
type of brush and paste or powder
reaularlv HPH • Place clean
U! ’
wet blotting-paper oyer the cuttings
or apply to the back of the page it
the back is blank. When the moisture
from the blotting-paper has had time
to soak through, the cuttings may be
removed withou difficulty.
j-
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
Jits'. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
R.C.F.: We envy your energy,
but the killing of a cat wasn’t worth
all those words D.L.: Admire
your adjectives angry, scowling,
menacing, terrible, awful, furious,
demoniac, blinding, darksome, fiery,
terrific, loud, grand, sublime, majestic,
heaving, raging, relentless, spacious,
foaming, brooding, dismal—all on the
first two pages of your story
D.H.L.: Can’t recall your story “The
Curse of Drink,” but it was probably
unsuitable; the title sounds ominous,
Bellerive: Received introduction
(printed below), but where is the
poem?:—
A Visit to the American Soldiers’
Encampment, Royal Park, Victoria,
’TwafT ™n. For
SBtiStfL’WßfiS
iSS
soldier’s encampment. Clusters of children,
adults and elderly people could be per-
ceived conversing with the lads of the
star-spangled banner, whom were cheer-
fully gat h e red in front of their tents—
game and light hearted young American’s
trained and in readiness to share in the
modes of warfare, dangers and adventures.
Making my way to the spacious
recreation tent I watched soldiers and
youthful visitors engaged playing table
tennis, which very much interested me.
After a pleasant outing I made my way
ho»ewa,<t.
E.S.; Scn PP> a " d unsatisfactory.
. ...F.P.: That type of story has
become a drug on the market....
R.H.F.: You haven’t risen to the
occasion... .K.M.: Your letter is a
lot brighter than your yarn... .A.A.:
You have a good idea, but you’re
a tyro as regards style.... R.T.A.:
Too trifling for print.. . .N.F.: Diffi-
cult to extract any definite sense from
your astonishing tangle of words.»...
R.McL.: The Bulletin could wall-
paper the entire premises with simi-
lar effusions on that same soul-
weariness theme... .PJ.: “I enclose
a contribution for your w.p.b.” There
is many a true word spoken in jest.
R.S.N.: Let your muse alone for
a while and she might treat you
kindly when you’re older V.A.:
Doesn’t fit in with what we know
of newspaper life... .E.D.: Well, the
first batch is not impressive.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Bedlams”
I agree most wholeheartedly with
“Pawang” (B. 22/3/’5O) upon one point.
A mental hospital within the city con-
fines is a horrifying thought. The con-
tinual noise and the lack of any oppor-
tunity for the less unbalanced cases ot
leaving the institution for walks and
exercise (under escort, of course) consti-
tute great and insuperable drawbacks.
during my youth I lived at a pretty
little village in Cambridgeshire (England)
called Cherry Hinton. Near by stood
one of the largest “Bedlams” in Southern
England. Every Tuesday and Friday a
large number of inmates might be en-
countered in the village street, under an
inconspicuous escort of a nurse and a
male attendant. Some of them were very
“queer” indeed, but they did no hijrm and
piade purchases at the village shop; it
was rumored that certain “old identities
of many years’ standing got a half-pint
of beer from the landlord of the Archers.
Of course, that last couldn’t happen
in Melbourne. The Archers was an old
inn with a sanded floor and never more
than two customers in the bar at one
time during daylight hours.
The country people of those parts had
something of the Oriental’s awe of the
mentally deranged A fear mixed with
respect —“God has kissed them.” The
afflicted were not resented, and the village
cricket team had a match against the
asylum twice a season, played in the
asylum grounds. I once played in it
myself (on the village side, of course),
and will venture to say that the conduct
of the mentally deranged was not
below that of some professional
cricketers I saw at the time of the Lar-
wood controversy.
If ever my small allowance of brains
gets a bit scrambled I hope it will be
near Cherry Hinton and not near Kew.
—Salt Horse Pom (Vic.).
New England
To the critical eye, the New-State
movement in New England is marching
towards failure. In my view it is bogging
down in the overlarge territory selected
for it—l said on this page a year ago
that a new-State movement which sought
to include the Northern Rivers, Newcastle
and the Tablelands under the one
umbrella could not prosper. At the
present stage there is no evidence that
the movement is making any real for-
ward move.
Some interesting things have happened.
Petitions for a referendum are circulating
through the area, but it is too much to
hope that the McGirrs will include such
a referendum in the approaching appeal
to the people. There’s not much evidence
of any proselytising outside the New
England boundaries, but the leaders of
the movement will have to touch the
imagination of a majority of the people
of the whole State if anything effective is
to come out of a referendum. In other
words, the gaining of a new State in
north-eastern N.S.W.' may well depend on
the people of, for instance, the Riverina,
being convinced there should be a new
State in the Riverina, even if the Riverina
movement lagged behind the erection of
New England.
There is, however, a suggestion that a
Sydney branch of the New England move-
ment may be formed. If so, it indicates
some real imagination on the part of
the New Englanders, because the move-
ment will never succeed unless there is
at least a well-informed minority back-
ing its case in Sydney.
Conventions have been held at Armi-
dale and Lismore, and the next is to take
place at Moree. An organiser is busily
at work and no doubt some quite signifi-
cant things are being done in the New
England area.
But all this amounts to no more than
scratching ineffectively at the surface,
and I feel certain that the movement will
eventually crash on the issue of its size
and its capital. It was a fatal error to
include Newcastle, and there have already
been premonitory rumblings about New-
castle becoming the capital—a position
which Novocastrians are bound to take
up, but, to the agrarian areas of the north,
where the real heart of New England be-
longs, quite impossible.
Since this new State issue and the con-
stitutional questions which will be resolved
with it form the biggest single issue in
domestic Australian politics today (taking
Communism as international rather than
merely domestic) I have no wish to under-
rate all that is being done. If nothing
else, it is slowly educating the public
mind, though too slowly to be decisive
within a decade at least. And the move-
ment must be large enough to accept its
critics and its diagnosticians—it has many
friends in Sydney and outside the New
England borders generally, but they want
to see a movement which is inherently
sound, so that when it moves into the
larger area of a passionate cause, as it
must if it is to win out, it will not be
hamstrung by inherent improbabilities or
crippling defects in conception.— Dee
(N.S.W.).
Australian Wines
Australia needs more discriminating
wine enthusiasts like “Vino del Pais” (B.
15/3/’5O). In his summingAip he writes;
Australian vintners should concentrate
on producing good and consistently-
flavored table wines at a competitive price.
Any loss of profit-margin would be com-
pensated by increased consumption, which,
in turn, would encourage a taste for the
higher-priced bottled wines. Then the
vintners would have to make certain that
one label indicated one distinctive wine,
and one only, except for the inevitable
annual fluctuations, which should affect
quality, but not type.
To overcome those “inevitable annual
fluctuations” the principal makers blend
“Just between ourselves —where d’you get the quarts?"
wines of different years and different dis-
tricts in such a way that a consistent
quality and flavor is maintained for
each brand.
Nearly all well-known brands of Aus-
tralian table wines are blends. Blending
is the best method of marketing wines
from the viewpoint of the buying public,
who find it easy to get to know a brand,
but almost impossible to keep up with
the vagaries of different vintage years
and districts.
In his Dictionary of Wine, Andre
Simon, one of the world’s leading wine
connoisseurs, describes blending as a per-
fectly legitimate way of improving the
quality of different wines, and averaging
their cost by vatting or mixing them
together to obtain a more harmonious
whole.
The skill of the leading Australian
wine-makers in blending is widely recog-
nised, and the principle brands generally
maintain a remarkable consistency. There
are always exceptions, and variations will
sometimes be found from bottle to bottle,
but that is not confined to Australian
table wines. It occurs with the best-
known imported wines.
The price of Australian wines is less
than that of comparable wines in practi-
cally every country of the world* France
included. Many of the well-known Aus-
tralian brands sell today at exactly the
same price as before the war, although
the price of nearly everything else has
risen from 50 to 100 per cent.
“Vino del Pais” disapproves the use of
overseas type names such as hock, claret
and burgundy for Australian wines, and
suggests the adoption of local names,
but if every wine in Australia were given
such appellations the public would be
completely confused. What, for instance,
would be “Vino del Pais’s” impression if
offered a glass of Onkaparinga, or a drop
of Mudgee, or a bottle of Ararat? It
would take many years and a great
amount of money to make people under-
stand what type of wine you meant.
A description on the bottle such as
“hock type,” “sauterne type” or “bur-
gundy type” is often suggested, but that
sounds too apologetic to rate as sound
merchandising.— Kenneth T. Hardy,
Chairman, Australian Wine Board.
_
The Senate
“Ek Dum” can forget about “a nucleus
of able constitutionalists among its [the
Senate’s] members, not wedded to any
party,” There is an axiom in politics: the
larger the electorate the more sway has
the party machine. Contrary to the in-
tentions of the framers of the Consti-
tution, the Senate is a party House and
will remain so.
For most of its history the Senate has
been a mere echo of the Reps., and during
those periods a great expense while serv-
ing no useful purpose. There was one
point of value: some members of a Gov-
ernment could be drawn from it, but with
the larger Reps, that is no longer neces-
sary, as the majority party will always
have about 70 or more members to select
from.
The only occasions when the Senate
appeared to be of value were when it had
a majority opposed to the Government,
and on each of these that majority came
into being at an election before the last
one. Which view is to prevail, that ex-
pressed by the electors recently or three
years ago? Surely the former.
To rely on a single House is dangerous,
As J. S. Mill put it, “The consideration
which tells most in my judgment in favor
of two Houses is the evil effect produced
upon the mind of any holder of power,
whether an individual or an assembly,
by the consciousness of having only
themselves to consult.” But when the
Senate automatically passes all measures
sent it by the Reps., as has occurred
during most of its history, we have to
all intents and purposes a single House,
Two outstanding facts in Senate elec-
tions are the large number of informal
votes and the advantage gained by certain
candidates through being placed first on
the ballot-paper. Apparently a large
percentage of the electors make no effort
to give an intelligent vote ; the whole pro-
ceding is haphazard and a travesty on
democracy.
We are told a double-dissolution will
settle nothing, as each party will come
back with 30. The suggestion is made
that the total number from each State be
reduced to nine. There is no guarantee
this would do any good. The Opposi-
tion (majority) party in the Senate may
be lucky enough to secure first place on
the ballot-paper in all States or even in
four, and that advantage may enable it
to elect five from four States and four
from the other two, giving a total of 28
in a house of 54. That might be helped
by that particular party being able to
regiment its followers and prevent their
making so many informal votes. Last
December one vote in nine was informal.
All this might occur although the Gov-
ernment maintained its majority in the
Reps.
The conclusion is inescapable: the
Senate in its present form should be
abolished. In its place a new body should
be set up consisting of actual members
or delegates from the various State r n
ernments. Two from each StX Gov '
be sufficient, and in this way the
the States would be brought (LemT ° f
Canberra. The new Senate would L* 0
the right to suggest alterations to h n
measures passed by the Reps which or. u
e.ther accept or reject
The proper check on the work n f p*
hament should be by the re wL
20 per cent, o£ the electors tvtagX
right by petition to compel a vote 1
measures passed. That is real dem°
cracy. The presence of direct more™
tatives of State Governments at Canbern
would serve to draw the attention of the
public to any measures savoring too much
of centralisation and so pave the wav
tor a referendum. —Egypt (N.S.W.) ‘
Rail and Air
VVhat is the use of “Waddlin’ Willie”
stating (B. 22/2/’5O) that “rail and air
are not in competition in Australia-
each is doing a first-class job” when that
competition has obviously become a
problem of the first magnitude with no
apparent solution, and when rail services
are far from being first-class?
There’s nothing first-class about the
Brisbane-Sydney service, and that between
Sydney and Melbourne is a disgrace
No improvement can be expected until
money and materials are available, and
that won’t be until it has been decided
whether air transport is to remain in the
taxpayer’s pocket or is to stand on its
own feet and obey ordinary economic
laws.
There’s no shortage where civil aviation
is concerned. Somebody devises a new
ground-approach control system. The
materials are ordered immediately.
Ordinary power-supplies might be inter-
rupted? The Minister orders half-a-
million-worth of stand-by generating
plant—just like that. The new Comet
requires larger runways? The work is
put in hand at once, and if a super-Comet
comes along in the next few years and
the runways have to be rebuilt the
work will be done without question. No-
body will ask whether it will pay. No-
body will suggest that existing equipment
might do for the time being. Plain ordi-
nary old-fashioned economics just don’t
come into it.
If I make use of a railway my collective
payments as a user, not as a taxpayer,
have to meet the total cost of opera-
tion, have to pay all the wages from the
Commissioner down to the newest boy
porter, have to cover the cost of all the
equipment from the tower’on Sydneys
Central Station down to the ballast under
the sleepers. If I want a better service,
higher speed, greater safety, I, again as
a user, have to pay for it. That system
will work, given a fair go, but you cannot
operate it alongside the present aviation
set-up. It simply can’t compete.
I agree with “W.W.” that rail and air
both have their own place, but the place
of air travel is that of a swift and luxuri-
ous service at luxury prices, not as
subsidised mass carrier.— Transporticus
(Singapore)!
Unborn Children ,
A blackmarket in babies is alleg
have been discovered in M e * n oa h
mothers having been said to sen
offspring for £5O or more. The Children
Welfare Department says it is quite po
sible as the Adoption of Ch lldr en A
(1929) stands at present. Pohce offi
deny that there is any trafficking
fants, and the secretary of the B.M.A.
he knows nothing about it. ,
Where there’s smoke Acres fire, »
there are no doubt hundreds of
married couples anxious to ad P
and pay almost anything for t • {he
Pittard, of the C.W.D., dedans
present Act gives unscrupulous P ? d
plenty of opportunity to sell ,
it should be drastically amend . d
What needs to be drastically amen jed
is the attitude of society to the
mother. While that remai fining
in. the Dark Ages girls will 0 {
their health and their futur’ P abor tions,
being mothers by having dig , will
and the children of those who doni
be penalised in another way. . ate
Communist Russia tried t t waS
evil by making abortion le § a j- ved that
done not because they heir b£cause
abortion was a good thing, praC tice
they thought that hringn ing it to
into the open instead °. al ' d t o
go on under the lap would tend
11 How far Russia su^ a f the oum ber
know, but Ido know that t faave
of potential new A ustr £l* a th eir appfj'
been prevented from f L nt ial m oth^ S
ance, and the number of f f° asV chologi
who have been-damaged, JW the last
and spiritually if not phy ld ma ke tb
12 months in Melbourn in babies se eol
little bit of
utterly unimportant. * A


T Hmations of Immortality,” and ‘ She
K among the untrodden ways, and
X Slumber did my spirit steal” and the
ien linnet and the sparrow s nest; and
£ has them. And, if he is going to take
lessors to “The Prelude,” he cannot
nossibly omit the passage where Words-
worth goes skating and
the leafless trees and every icy crag
Tinkled like iron;
nor the story of the stolen boat and the
mountain that, looming up more mon-
strously than Milton’s Satan, chased the
poet home; and Mr. Nicholson does not
omit these passages:
When, from behind that craggy steep till
The horizon’s bound, a huge peak, black
and huge, .
As if with voluntary power instinct
Upreared its head. I struck and struck
And growing still in stature, the grim shape
Towered up between me and the stars, and
still,
For so it seemed, with purpose of its own
And measured motion like a living thing,
Strode after me, With trembling oars I
turned,
x And through the silent water stole my way
Back to the covert of the willow tree.
No familiar shapes
Remained, no pleasant images of trees,
Of sea or sky, no colours of green fields;
But huge and mighty forms, that do not
live
Like living men, moved slowly through the
mind
By day, and were a trouble to my dreams.
And again, everyone who has struggled
through “The Prelude” must remember
how magnificently rewarding Wordsworth
is; how the poet and the reader must toil
together through the flattest expanses of
inferior verse and commonplace moralis-
ing and then how, in mutual triumph,
suddenly they win through together to the
shining light and rocky strength where
Wordsworth’s genius at last reappears.
And the estimable Mr. Nicholson duly
provides the long, faintly ridiculous de-
scription of the tuckshop which Words-
worth frequented in his schooldays, so
that at the end you may come upon the
superb couplet—
Lighted by gleams of moonlight from the
sea
We beat with thundering hooves the level
sand.
There is not a great deal of fresh
material in Mr. Nicholson’s introduction
—as is hardly to be expected when
Coleridge, Matthew Arnold and Hazlitt
have told us what to think about the
poet—and frequently when he attempts
to depart from the standard criticisms,
as in his whimsies about Cumberland
rock or his attack on a “tautology” in
“The Daffodils” that should properly be
described as a repetition for the sake of
emphasis, he is merely wasting words.
But he recalls some of the brilliant lines
fpbe found in such unlikely fields as
The Thorn” and “The Idiot Boy” ; he
points out that T. S. Eliot, like Words-
worth, has risked the bathos that is so
haid to avoid in a conversational style of
he questions the value of Mr,
Herbert Read’s psycho - analytical
approach to Wordsworth’s art; and he
reminds us, dealing with two of the Lucy
poems, that “if Wordsworth were alive
oday he could have published either
P°em unaltered as a contemporary work”
as clear a proof as one could wish of
e advantages of a natural language and
a direct style. . •
struck Ihc present reviewer most
i 1 . Y» reading this selection and warily
L, CIQ 8 at the complete works, was to
1 great an extent later poetry has found
dicr!? UfCe onl y in Wordsworth’s re-
„ ° ver y nature, simple humanity, and
Verse ura language but in the text of his
Where dies the Land to which yon
Ship must go” becomes the “Whither O
splendid ship, thy white sails furling” of
Robert Bridges; the conclusion of the
sonnet to Toussaint L’Ouverture,
Thy friends are exultations, agonies,
And love, and man’s unconquerable mind
becomes Henley’s “unconquerable soul” ;
and here, in “Strange fits of passipn have
I known,” is the voice that spoke through
W. H. Davies;
My horse moved on; hoof after hoof '
He raised, and never stopped:
When down behind the cottage roof,
At once, the bright moon dropped.
What fond and wayward thoughts will slide
Into a Lover’s head!
“O mercy!” to myself I cried,
“If Lucy should be dead!”
The borrowings begin with Shelley and
they continue to the present day. Those
two formidable volumes of Everyman’s
Library— to which, with trepidation and
with joy, Mr. Nicholson’s selections lead
us inevitably back —contain in theory, in
germ and sometimes in the flower itself,
so much of what has since been written,
that it is as if Wordsworth provided not
only the ideas which move the modern
world of poetry but, to a very large
extent, its actual physical body.
Flowers of History.
“I observe,” said Gregory Blaxland,
that a Mr. T. Stuart Gurr and a Miss
Gwen Harrowsmith have revived our little
jaunt with Lawson over the Blue Moun-
tains.”
“In Blue Mountains Story, published by
the Shakspeare Head Press, Sydney,” said
William Charles Wentworth. “An ardu-
ous Journey, an arduous journey.”
“Perhaps it is mere vanity on my part,”
said Gregory Blaxland, “but I should
never admit that a book was as hard to
get through as the Blue Mountains.
Moreover, we have a duty to be consider-
ate to authors who keep our memory
green.” v ,
“It is natural in you,” said W. C. Went-
worth, “who have only a Federal electo-
rate named after you, but have not yet
had your name represented in the Federal
Parliament itself, to be grateful for any
small sprig of remembrance that comes
your way. For my part, having lately
achieved representation, and, I believe,
worthy representation, in that august
assembly”
“Nor has your good fortune ended
there,” said Gregory Blaxland, “for did
I not see, in an article in The Bulletin
of March 22 on the Mitchell Library,
some reference to an astute New Zea-
land land deal of yours with some Maori
chiefs?”
“I would not say that it is a bad book,”
said W. C. Wentworth, pointedly resum-
ing the earlier discussion, “But there
has grown up lately in the colony a habit,
imported, no doubt, of dramatising
history in little simple scenes . . . One
has the feeling of having been patted on
the back by persons to whom one has
not been introduced”
“So that one doubts,” said Gregory
Blaxland, “whether one’s life-work has
been the extension of colonial dominion
or the entertainment of children.”
“Precisely,” said W. C. Wentworth.
“Nor is that the only uneasiness my early
exertions have caused me over recent
years. We found a passage through
mountains which finally enabled the
colony to expand westwards on a road
built to Bathurst. We forgot, I fear, that
roads run both ways.”
“Ah, yes,” said Gregory Blaxland.
“But could we foresee that on that road
back from Bathurst would come the
leader of a rabble whose only connection
with Labor was that they had forsaken it
for politics, and that this fellow, this
Chifley, would seek in one legislative act
to cripple the private banking institutions
of the colony? However, Mr. Gurr and
Miss Harrowsmith have not brought this
matter as a charge against us.” ,
“Then we may breathe freely,” said W.
C. Wentworth. “Probably they have
overlooked it in the belief that more good
than evil has come and gone along the
Bathurst road. I pray heaven that this
may be so. And indeed, in the mere
building of the road, apart from our own
efforts and apart from what has gone
along it, there has been much to admire ;
the surveys of Evans, the roadmaking of
Cox, the new route of Mitchell . . . Alas,
that it should all end in what they call
‘beauty spots’ for holidaying trippers!”
“As one may judge from the plates of
photographic reproductions,” said
Gregory Blaxland. “Fine plates, fine
pictures. But little to do with the road.
There is not even a map of the road, if
one excludes the heavily-detailed end-
papers ; and as to the ‘Big Hill’ on the
old route, in which the authors manage
to interest the reader deeply—a hill so
steep that carriages had to be braked
down it on ropes turned round trees on
the side of the road —there is no picture
of it in the book.”
“Could one say that the journalistic
resources of the young colony were not
being fully implemented?” asked W. C.
Wentworth.
“One could,” said Gregory Blaxland.
“Young William,” said W. C. Went-
worth, “shall bring the matter to the
notice of the Prime Minister.”
Reviewed Briefly.
“F.S.”: Edith Sitwell’s Alexander
Pope, among the recent Penguins, is
grand stuff, and could be compulsory
reading twice yearly for most book-
reviewers of the dailies and the Little
Magazines. Her introduction contains
one of the most sustained pieces of in-
vective in the English language against
non-practitioner experts and the people
who love to harass and belittle greatness.
She lays about her with a will, with her
very considerable weapons—her pro-
found knowledge of and love for poetry
and her family wit and forthrightness.
* * * *
From the Ground Up: Jorian Jenks
(Hollis and Carter), Thoughtful and well-
written sociological survey of modern
man and the patently silly things he does
with his machines, with various idealistic
advice on how to stop doing them. From
the introduction —“I doubt whether there
is another living man who could have
probed to the heart of the heartless
economic machine which is disintegrating
under our eyes with such an extraordinary
grasp of its labyrinthine windings.”
* * * *
Odysseus and the Swine: Lion
Feuchtwanger (Hutchinson). The author
of Jew Suss, now living in California,
does not write short stories “in the Anglo-
Saxon sense/ for none aims primarily at
relating an anecdote” —they are, in fact,
what Anglo-Saxons call sketches, and for
the most part pretty thin ones; but
“Marianne in India,” which shows
Warren Hastings buying for himself the
wife of the Baron Imhoff, and “Venice,”
the story of an American who put up a
Venice in Texas of canals dug in sand and
palace-fronts of stucco, and populated it
with imported Italians, are worth the
book. The name story makes Odysseus
remember how he charmed back to life
one of his companions who had been
turned into a swine by Circe, and how
that gentleman reviled him, demanding to
be changed to a pig again—in some way,
this is supposed to hold a lesson for our
times ; but what lesson is unsure; there
are so many ways of applying it. . .
* * * *
Promise and Fulfilment, by Arthur
Koestler (Macmillan), is a Zionist enthusi-
ast’s account of the struggle for a Jewish
State in Palestine between 1917 and 1949.
The author says two compelling situations
arise from the satisfaction of the age-
long Jewish struggle to return to theii
ancient homeland. The first is: What will
happen in Israel, where the oriental Jews
(from Syria, Egypt, Irak, the Yemen and
North Africa) “will outnumber the Euro-
pean element in the not too distant
future,” which puts the cultural problem
of Israel in a new light which as yet few
of the intellectual leaders are prepared
to face. The other is: Now that Israel
is established, for non-migrating Jews
domiciled elsewhere to insist on remain-
ing a community apart in their adopted
country “has become an untenable
anachronism.” These “are at least free
to do what they could not do before:
wish the State of Israel good luck and go
their own way.”
***•■!:
Iceland Yesterday and Today : Horace
Leaf (Allen and Unwin). Mr. Leaf, who
has previously visited Australia and New
Zealand and written about the aborigines
and the Maoris, does these sort of surveys
very well. He has a poetic eye for scenery
and gives a most striking description of
the moss-covered lava at Eldhraun, “the
largest lava deposit in the world”—“The
moss has softened the contours of the
brown masses of burnt-out rock but has,
in consequence, imparted a sort of life to
it making the- vast mass look like
creatures, many of the lowest types in
bestial torment, with hosts of shattered
men, women and children trying in vain
to escape from the agony that seems to
afflict them.” By way of contrast he finds
remote farmhouses full of books and
pictures. And that is Iceland yesterday
and today.
* ♦ * *
In East Wind Over Prague (Hollis and
Carter, London), Jan Stransky, friend
and colleague of Benes and Masaryk,
explains why people in his own Czecho-
slovakia and other Russian satellite coun-
tries in Eastern Europe have gone so
easily under the yoke of Moscow. The
Communists’ methods in conquest are
terrorism and brutality, and, for holding
down a conquered people their aids are
fear, blackmail, bribery and despair. The
Red Army squatted on the country, and
the only means of saving anything from
them was to “join the party.” Others
said: “How can we ‘fight for democracy’
if the great democracies of the West have
left us to the mercy of Russia?” Others
said: “How do we fight against these
Reds? If democracy wins, nobody will
punish us for turning Communist for
safety sake ; but if the Communists win
and we are not members, there will
be hell to pay.” Others affect to join
the Communists, and under that cover do
the underground work which must be
carried on to help people escape, to get
news out to the free world, to prepare
for insurrection. The last-named especi-
ally believe there can be only one end
and are prepared ultimately for self-
sacrifice. Stransky’s conclusion is that
war is inevitable: “The first stage —its
cold stage, as they call it —is now on.”
His appeal to the West is to be ready
as it was not in Hitler’s time. He declares
that the people and the armies of the
satellite States will never assist Russia in
assault on the West.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 64
Ln„. , . Across.
cattle? thl (s_6)° ker bi ® sheep and
flonJ (3)° W bad B reat expecta-
-8 hidden by Sam. (5)
nudit Y of the
H—Gas r!f° i ervant - (?)
scribed l he 'T? y Macbeth de-
I2 _pi£ d En te% p—i"
h r °t to valley. (4)
Process °nf ° by the bait in the
fiHing un L en r raVmg - gold and
]s^p B osit P ion he (S eS Wlth a black
and'hL W b- re . ac S om P an ' ed by him
1 8— GaincQ S k ! nd of fibre. (4)
city l b e French
19 - (4)
22^° PPer ' ( J hC deer bef ° re thC
(4) an educational
plunged
„ * W for his bolero fish
hit D klng a tangle ■> (91
28^ A ffil a public. (51 ' W
29 4fees tlVe - (3 >
***** cobbers. (11)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1 — Lions, tigers and suchlike upset
the ruler when making a tidy
heap. (8>
2 It’s precious beef swallowing an
American State. (4)
3 In what part of Australia can
you find Beryl and Mike? (9)
4 What some people are painted in
with a sprinter might be sold on
the stock exchange of Tulsa.
(3-5)
5 Social offence on the vessels of
the brooks. (6)
6 Poles denote distances of 198
inches each. (4)
7 Petty versifiers who sample Edgar
Allan’s work. (10)
8— Made by hypnotists, “wolves”
and lenient examiners. (6)
13—Reformed lady-killers are prac-
titioners of lycanthropy. (10)
15— His Honor’s joint? (9)
16 — Metal label on the Spanish castle
of ancient Cornwall where
Tristan brought Isolde to King
Mark. (8)
1J, —Curiosities ring the prelate with
** one mercery. (8)
20— Coppers are ahead of schedule
with great fondness. (6)
21 — Kind of art animal in infancy is
1000. (6)
24 — Boy gives beer to 100. (4)
25 Rising to tease Munchausen. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 63.


ẁ
ẃ
1
s?\
*
«S
«C>>
N>
>£
<<.
«
NEWS for the >
MAN on the LAND
In a special endeavour to bring city shaving
comforts to the man on the land Rolls have
perfected a special Electric Dry Shaver
which will operate from 32-volt home
lighting units. This Dry Shaver possesses
all the qualities of the regular 24-volt
Model, but the drain of power from your
home lighting unit is only a small fraction
of the power used by an ordinary wireless.
Write in for free leaflet .
m
Sg
The famous
ONE BLADE SAFETY
Equipped with one hollow-ground blade,
this famous Safety Razor, with proper care
and attention, will last for many years.
This self stropping, self honeing Rolls
Safety Razor has maintained its prestige
and given perfect satisfaction to countless
thousands of men the world over for more
than a quarter of a century. Price, £4.
No soap, water, brush
or blades . . .
Th<? famous Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry
Shaver is a beautifully made precision
instrument which is fully guaranteed
against defective material or workmanship.
It has no motor and requires no lubrication,
and there is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing twin cutting head to be cleaned after
shaving. Operates on 240 volts A.C.
Price, £7/7/.'- 32-volt model, ,£B/12/0.
y
V)
and NO ELECTRICITY. . . shave anywhere
This is the ideal model for a man when travelling and on holiday camping trips.
It can be carried in the glove-box of a car and used wherever and whenever you like.
No soap, water, brush, blades or electricity is required for this Rolls Viceroy
non-electric dry shaver. Price,
lf your local dealer cannot supply you write direct to us and we will arrange
have your requirements forwarded to any address within the Commonweal t
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PIT. ITf*
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW2 0 3 8
Interstate Representatives: _ , > nn cdale Street, Hclk° urn *’
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: GodJ*'ey P hi| l'P Metaide .»,* P
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street. Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., P.r.e Street. Adelaide.
