

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71-No. 3681
Wednesday, August 30, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
REPOSITORY OF INCOMPARABLE TREASURES, THE BRITISH MUSEUM
THE finest dassie-al facade in London belongs to the British Museum,
situated in Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, a few yards from busy
Oxford Street. Sixteen of its forty-four fluted columns support the great
pediment, in which sculptured figures illustrate the growth of progress from
low forms of life to the beginning of art and science.
No other building in the world contains such a vast collection of treasure
and learning. The British Museum began with a public lottery in the
eighteenth century to raise funds in order to buy the Duke of Montagu’s
house, which stood upon the site of the present edifice, begun in 1823. During
the Second World War the Museum was extensively damaged by high-
explosive bombs, but fortunately the greater part of its collection had been
removed to places of safety, and these are gradually being returned as the
post-war work of rebuilding and reconditioning progresses. The famous
Elgin Marbles, recently restored to the Museum, were safely preserved in the
Aldwych-Piccadilly Underground railway, and other valuable exhibits were
stored in underground tunnels near Bath, in Somerset.
Among the many hundreds of priceless treasures in the British Museum’s
magnificent collection are Roman, Greek, Assyrian and Egyptian antiquities
dating back to 7000 b.c. Here also is the famous Rosetta Stone, which
provided the clue to the meaning of ancient hieroglyphics and opened up the
mystery of Egypt’s past.
The British Museum Library ranks with the Bibliotheque Nationale in
Paris as one of the two largest libraries in the world, and contains over four
million books, 100,000 of which were destroyed during the war. The great
circular shelves if placed end to end would stretch for a distance of fifty
miles. A copy of every book, newspaper and journal published in the United
Kingdom is preserved at the British Museum.
In the manuscript section is exhibited the Codex Sinaiticus, the second-
oldest bib'le in the world; one of ,the four contemporary copies of Magna
Carta and Nelson’s unfinished letter to Lady Hamilton, written on the eve
of Trafalgar. These are only a few of the many interesting exhibits to be
seen at the British Museum.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
sd
Ot HOT*TE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney •‘Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
The Edgewofihs,
Maria Edgeworth was famous in her
own day for her moral children’s books,
full of simple invention and good sense,
but is best remembered for her novel,
Castle Rackrent, which preceded and to
some extent inspired Scott’s WaveHey,
as he says in his preface: —
Its combination of Irish humor and
pathos and its illustration of the national
character led me to try my own skill at
depicting Scottish character in the same
way.
But the most interesting part of Isabel
C. Clarke’s biography, Maria Edgeworth,
Her Family and Friends (Hutchinson),
is the first hundred pages, when Maria’s
father, Richard Lovell Edgeworth, is
alive; he had four wives and 21
children; his energy quickens a book
which might otherwise have been the
quiet record of a quiet woman.
Son of an Irish lawyer and a Welsh
heiress, heir to a large estate, Edge-
worthstown, Co. Longford, Richard
Lovell Edgeworth was sent to Oxford
to cure him of the dissipation of Trinity
College, Dublin. At 19, he ran off to
Gretna Green with Anna Elers, daughter
of a bankrupt of German descent. Maria,
their second child, was born in 1767.
Richard Edgeworth was an admirer of
Rousseau and a believer in the Natural
Man ; his son Dick was to be brought
up in the method set forth in Rousseau’s
Emile : —
Dick ran about bare-armed and bare-foot
and dressed in a jacket and trousers that
differed entirely from the apparel worn by
his contemporaries; he might, indeed, have
been a son of the veriest pauper From
the free, uninhibited condition of his
childhood Dick grew up fearless, indepen-
dent, capable of enduring considerable
fatigue and privation, but... .completely
beyond control. He had, his father said,
not without pride, “all the virtues of a
child bred in the hut of a savage, and all
the knowledge of things which could be
acquired by a boy bred in civilised society.”
The mother seems to have had no
appreciation of her husband’s erratic
abilities or power to control them ; she
nagged, and Edgeworth sought refuge in
inventions: —
A sailing-carriage, which terrified the
horses of a stage-coach.
A velocipede (a forerunner of the bicycle,
but with only one, enormous, wheel), which
ran away with the boy who tried to ride
it; he jumped off, and the machine ran
at a chalk-pit and smashed to pieces.
A machine for cutting up turnips.
A tellograph that would bring quick
results from Newmarket races.
Church spires.
Self-winding clocks, one of which he
presented to the King of Spain.
He took young Dick to France, to in-
troduce him to Rousseau as an illustra-
tion of Rousseau’s precepts; though
Rousseau’s own practice was to put his
children in Foundling Institutions ; and
with the aid of a sculptor and architect
Edgeworth set about diverting the Rhone
River so that land might be reclaimed
for agriculture, a scheme that was frus-
trated by floods.
After 10 years of this kind of thing,
Mrs. Edgeworth seems to have been
happy enough to die, giving birth to her
third daughter, Anna, who was to be the
mother of the poet Thomas Lovell
Beddoes. Beddoes’s macabre verse-dramas
and glorious songs make a strange
Woman’s Last Word for her.
Edgeworth had already been paying
prudent addresses to Honora Sneyd a
beautiful, wealthy and tubercular Lich-
field intellectual ; they were married ; she
took a more firm control of the children
except of Dick, who went to sea and
ended up an American ; she bore Edge-
worth two beautiful and doomed
daughters, and died seven years after the
marriage. Thereupon, and in the same
year (1780), and at Honora’s dying
request, Edgeworth married her sister
Elizabeth, who lasted 17 years, and bore
him nine more children, “seven of whom
succumbed to her own fatal malady.”
On the death of Elizabeth, Edgeworth
married Frances Beaufort, daughter of
the Vicar of Collon: thus Maria, now
aged 31 years, had to cope with a new
mother, aged 26, who was to give her six
more little brothers and sisters the
youngest of them being 45 years her
junior.
But Marie was used to coping. In a
corner of the living-room at the Edge-
worthstown house, she sat at a desk her
father had had made for her, while her
mothers passed througji in sad and slow
procession, and their children stayed and
romped and worked on the tellograph
and went off and got married; and at
that desk, undisturbed by whatever else
was going on in the room, she wrote
children’s stories and novels. From her
childhood, she had always worked under
her father’s eye:-
Her first sketch of a story was always
submitted to her father for criticism,
approval or, in more unfavorable cases
destruction When she had told him the
rough outline of a story he decided whether
it would suit his purpose or not. If he
liked it he would tell her to sketch it and
show it to him... .If the story met with his
approval she had then to proceed to fill
up the skeleton, paint the descriptions and
represent the characters. Nor was she
allowed to show' it to him until she bad
written thirty or forty pages. Then came
his final verdict, either, Go on and finish,
or Leave that to me, it is my business to
cut and correct, yours to write on.... The
whole family was present at these pre-
liminary operations, for Edgeworth believed
in collective opinion, and his younger
children were probably far better judges
of the worth of a story' than himself . . .
Thus Toys and Tasks, Moral Tales,
Practical Education (in collaboration
with her father, a work that “influ-
enced .... many teachers and educa-
tionists of the day”), Letters to Literary
Ladies and the Parent's Assistant were
written. In fact, “almost the only book
she ever wrote in which Mr. Edgeworth
had absolutely no part, nor did he see it
in the making,” was her masterpiece,
Castle Rackrent, made without previous
sketch or framework, which not only
gave Sir Walter Scott an idea, but also
Turgenev:
Turgenev declared that it w'as after read-
ing her books that he conceived the idea
of writing of his own country and of
Russian peasant life in similar fashion.
That Maria Edgeworth had a “natur-
ally fluent and spontaneous style” is
proved not only by Castle Rackrent, as
Miss Clarke says, but by her letters, from
which much of the latter part of the bio-
graphy seems to have been built. Take
the comparatively early letter, describing
her visit, with her fourth mother and her
father and stepsister, to a Miss Watts of
Leicester, an authoress of some local
fame:
Mrs. Watts, a tall, black-eyed, prim,
dragon-looking woman, in the background
Miss Watts, a tall young lady in write*
fresh color, fair, thin oval face, rather
pretty. The moment Mrs. Edgeworth
entered Miss Watts, mistaking her for the
authoress, darted forward with arms, long,
thin arms, outstretched to their utmost
swing: “OH, WHAT AN HONOR THIS
IS!” —each word and syllable rising in
tone till the last reached a scream. Instead
of embracing my mother, as her first action
threatened, she started back to the furthest
end of the room, which was not light
enough to show her attitude distinctly, but
it seemed to be intended to express the
receding of awe-struck admiration —stopped
by the wall. Charlotte and I passed by
unnoticed and seated ourselves by the old
lady’s desire; she, after many twistings of
her wrists, elbows and neck, all of which
appeared to be dislocated, fixed herself in
her armchair, resting her hands on the
black mahogany splayed elbows. She
looked like a nervous and suspicious person
electrified.
Through these letters, as Miss Clarke
interprets them, we see a fair area of the
Ireland, England and Europe of those
times; a visit to Sir Walter Scott in
Edinburgh; Madame De Stael, the
Duchess of Wellington dying, Madame
Recam i e r, Talleyrand, Byron, Sir
Humphrey Davy; Maria’s French trans-
lator, ancestress of Hilaire Belloc such
letters make colorful biographies, but
they have this disadvantage, which was
noticeable in the recent Australian lit®
of Rosa Campbell Praed, that thougn
the letters show you the world brilliantly
depicted by their brilliant writers, they
(Continued on inside back cover.)
"T. THE R."
A poet of another age had it that “the
world knows nothing of its greatest
men” ; and our part of the world knows
nothing, or next to nothing, of its poets.
In the latest of many examples it let
Andree Hayward live and die obscure.
Yet in the writing of light verse, which
great poets have not disdained to write,
Hayward was for many years unsur-
passed, not only in Australia but in other
countries where English is the language ;
and when he attempted higher flights of
poetry he “nothing common did or
mean.”
True, Hayward’s verse was not
neglected altogether. In point of fact, it
delighted two generations of discriminat-
ing readers. But even the discriminating
readers were incurious about the man,
who, modest to a fault, was known only
to a circle of close friends and the news-
papermen with whom he worked. They
were his warm admirers always, and
none more so than those capital judges,
compositors. When Hayward died The
Bulletin companionship sent the widow
a telegram of condolence which moved
her deeply.
Hayward, as I have written elsewhere,
was the son of a pioneer pastoralist who
made a fortune in South Australia, re-
turned to England, married there and
raised a family. Andree had a Rugby-
and-Oxford education, and at the uni-
versity he became no mean Greek and
Latin scholar (he could read Homer
and Virgil in the original), meanwhile
and afterwards soaking himself in the
literature of his own country. He quali-
fied for the Bar in England, and prac-
tised for a while in South Africa, but,
liking that country little and the legal
profession not at all, he came to Aus-
tralia in the early ’nineties, joining the
rush of goldseekers to the west.
There he soon felt an irresistible call
to journalism. His talents recognised, he
edited papers at Cue, Geraldton, Kal-
goorlie and Perth itself, brightening their
pages with verse on topics of the day.
Influenced at first by lyrists who had
taken his fancy in the course of his
omnivorous reading, in his case Calver-
ley, I. K. Stephen, Kipling, Bret Harte,
Lawson, Paterson and Edward Dyson,
he soon passed beyond the imitative stage
which all young scribblers go through
and became known to the discerning as
a writer of graceful lines, always pithy
and polished, often touched with wit or
humor and expressing an original point
of view.
I met Hayward for the first time 50
years ago when he was editing the Kal-
goorlie “Sun.” Rough though Kalgoorlie
was at that time, he liked it immensely,
revelling in its robust life and racy
speech. But it was a hazardous period
for editors, who had to be prepared for
visits from outraged readers much too
ready with their lists. And Kalgoorlie
then possessed a polo club, composed of
“mine Johnnies,” of whose type, as he
viewed it, Hayward had written in
opprobrious terms;
Take an ordinary man
Built upon the usual plan—
Never mind his former calling, ’tisn’t likely
he’ll be missed—
Lead him gently through the mazes
Of a few tough mining phrases
Such as kaolin zones and gossan, vughs and
dioritic schist.
Make him affable and glib;
Man who’ll take a hand at crib
Or perform on the piano (when there’s
scarcity of flutes);
Dress him in a Norfolk jacket
With some riding pants to back it,
Finished off with brand-new gaiters and a
pair of varnished boots.
Prime him up with mystic hints ’
Of a reef, struck not long since,
And some specimens collected from a stack
of quartz at grass;
Then complete his field equipment
With an invoice for a shipment
Of machinery—a compass and a magnifying
glass.
President and secretary of the polo
club were two sons of “Rolf Boldre-
wood,” Gerald and Tom Browne. Chiefly
at their instance the club staged a pro-
gramme of polo-pony races on the Kal-
goorlie course, inviting the general in-
habitants of Kalgoorlie, Boulder and the
Golden Mile to attend as paying guests.
This the general inhabitants did in large
numbers, and lost their money. As the
day wore on there were full-throated
allegations, repeated after the defeat of
each favorite, that the races were rigged.
Forming, or at least professing, the same
opinion, the “Sun” came out with a re-
port headed “Robbery Under Arms.”
The following morning saw the
Brownes at the “Sun” office demanding
satisfaction. Opposed to Tom Browne,
Hayward was in no condition to do
more than show his courage, but Arthur
Reid, the manager, burly and active,
fought Gerald Browne to a standstill.
Wiping the blood off their persons and
clothing, the combatants chummed up
and repaired to the pub next door. Over
the drinks, Gerald Browne, a prince of
good fellows, confided to Hayward that
he took a liberal view of journalism,
especially the Sunday variety, and would
have let the report pass if it hadn’t been
for the heading. “Robbery Under
Arms,’’ he mused with a momentary re-
turn of indignation—“the only good
book the old man ever wrote.”
Another unforgotten incident of Hay-
ward’s Kalgoorlie days was the turning-
on of the water from Mundaring, nearly
400 miles away: a really great achieve-
ment projected by John Forrest, designed
and carried almost to completion by the
ill-fated C. Y. O’Connor, an engineer of
genius, and financed by a community
with less than the present population of
a suburb of shortage-ridden Sydney. To
the ceremony came Lyne, Reid and
others from the then-young Common-
wealth Parliament; and at the banquet
Reid made a speech which brought the
house down. In his squeaky voice he
said, monocle in a fat hand, “Never in
my life have I heard so much talk of
water and seen so little drunk.” In the
arrangement of words, at least, an in-
telligent anticipation of Churchill’s
utterance in a supreme hour 40 years
on.
Though inveterate political opponents,
The Bulletin —as Hayward liked to re-
call —briefed Reid when sued by the Eng-
lish soubrette Billie Barlow for record-
ing her appearance in a costume so re-
vealing that gratified students of the
theatre could almost see “her immortal
soul.” The lady lost the case.
I was Hayward’s editor for 30 years,
and for five years he had been mine.
The change in our relations did not
affect his friendship for me, though in
the beginning it must have brought many
a smile to his face when there was no one
to see. For I was only a whelp, and
must have looked it, whereas he, with his
richly-stored mind and his far greater
experience of men and affairs, was
approaching middle age. He always
wrote his best for me; and what a com-
fort it was to a young editor trying to
make a Sunday paper interesting to have
such a man at call! Even when I thought
it necessary or expedient to spread strong
meat before my public, as some of our
successors do to this day, he could get a
greater effect with a dainty dish of
rhyme than the rest of us could with all
our heavy articles and pars. An instance
that has stuck in my memory for 40
years:—
Shall we borrow the drama, staged from
life, that another clime knows well:
The outrage wrought on the lone white wife,
the fate that is worse than hell;
The hunt in the track of the lecherous
black, as the toils close, inch by inch;
The prison gates of the southern States
that open their locks to Lynch;
The human hound, with his yelping drowned
in the fierce triumphant din,
And in the flames that rend to a nameless
end the sinner of nameless sin?
In Kalgoorlie, and later in Perth, Hay-
ward gathered about him a band of poets
whose work was inferior only to his own.
Among them were Jack “Bluebush”
Bourke, Tom “Crosscut” Wilson and
that merriest of jesters and most in-
genious of jinglers “Dryblower” Murphy,
whose “My Son,” one of his rare
attempts at serious verse, was quoted by
Archbishop Riley in his cathedral. A.
G. Stephens, never indulgent to pre-
tenders, praised them all.
In the early years of our association
Hayward was moved by a longing for
England:
I remember the fens and marches,
In the grip of the frost below,
The whitening firs and the larches . .
Let me gather a spray from the far away,
A leaf from the long ago—
Five years have passed since I saw you last,
Where the hedges were draped with snow,
And the lawn lay white in the waning light,
The lawn where the roses grow.
So we all thought he was going to
return ; but he never did.
From the time of his arrival in Aus-
tralia Hayward was drawn to The
Bulletin. When editor of the “Express”
at Geraldton he addressed an ode to the
“red-winged herald”;
Satire that cuts and epigrams that tickle.
Mixed with hard logic or with pungent
slang—
These make thy dreaded name a rod in
pickle
For many a gang.
“Hop’s” facile pencil, turning subjects
solemn
To laughter-moving shapes, we know right
well—
The cynic candor of the “Wild Cat”
column,
The quips of “Titus Salt” and “Silas
Snell,”
Bedford and Becke, Montgomery and
Dyson,
Make thee an anvil where they strike their
sparks;
With thee we stray from Talleyrand to
Tyson—
From Pope to Parkes.
Twenty-five years later he was to join
The Bulletin staff, and, writing mostly
as “T. the R.,” stay on it for 28 years.
There is irony in the thought that only
one collection of Hayward’s verse has
appeared: a paper-covered volume issued
at Geraldton by his friend Drew, after-
wards a public man of eminence in Wes-
tralia, as far back as 1897. A representa-
tive firm offered to publish the cream
of his Bulletin contributions, but he
was too old and ill to compile it. That
task will not be easy, for over the years
Hayward’s output was immense, and he
never kept copies. But in justice to a
grand writer (withal a gentleman to the
fingertips) it should be undertaken. The
world of letters will be the loser if it is
not.
J. E. WEBB.


OXFORD
> ¥■' ■
IT
£2
■
r<*
‘junriwr;]
[ nV
NO (L4P
MISVDDOW
“Packard” Oxford with neat punched caps on a
comfortable swing last in'Tan Calf or Black Box
Calf, 56/-; or Black Kid, 61/-. Fittings 5 to 12.
“Packard” No-cap Derby Shoe for that extra
comfort. Tan Calf or Black Box Calf, 56/-,
Black Glace Kid, 61/-. Multiple fittings 5 to 12.
“Packard” Moccasin with smart wall toes and
derby fronts in Tan Calf with non-slip rubber or
leather soles, or Black Calf with leather soles. 62/-
“Packard” Mogger Casuals with roomy toes and
snug fitting heels. Rich London Tan Calf uppers
and flexible leather soles, heels. 5 to 12. 48/-
m
: .
■
■'. •;, ■ ■
i JIB ' ' ''
a>K
f: *>..;
»
i&w JHI
IB
is
asi
i
<V«
m
i.:A ;
BHf
H
1
, "
"
'■ ' "
spring is on its way
“TRUThJJiN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
with smart, stytes
in Packard shoes •
CASUALS
I
■
\
fm
v.-.
H
v*J2
HB'.:
■ ..-
HLI
% 'i
ABOVE
“Packard” designed this stylish Brogue with extra
stout soles, wide welts and sewn heel seats for
comfort and hard wear. In Tan or Black Box Calf
or Suede priced at 67/-. Also with rubber soles
and heels for golfers and hikers, at 67/-, or Scotch
Zebu priced at 91 /-. Sizes 5 to 14, fittings B to F.
Country clients please state
normal size together with an
outline of the foot
to ensure comfort fitting.
n
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOE DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. TELEPHONE: M 2401 5 BOX 2712 C, GP.O., SYDNEY


m
-:-k
m
U
i
■
With the price of wool so hif/h
it’s essential to get the best —
insist on VICARS worsteds . j
There can be no good
clothes without good cloth.
All 4he tailoring skill in the
world cannot make a satis-
factory suit unless the
foundation, the CLOTH,
, right.
Vicars Worsteds are
fabrics you can trust in
every way. They are
woven from the finest
virgin wool in patterns
that conform to all the
canons of good form. If
you choose Vicars Wor-
steds, your tailor can give
you the kind of clothes you
want.
mm
MWLm. Wf3.
mm . %0
VA
%il TOO** 8
c\VAt
i
,OHJf VICARS & CO. PTY. LIMITED, MARRICKVILLE,
MANUFACTURERS OF QUALITY CLOTH FOR MEN
N.S.W.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3681
Wednesday, August 30, 1950
the dollar ward
QUIDRUPLETS.
“Mr. Menzies has arranged for five annual loans of $5O million each from the International Bank."
“Five! And Dr. Menzies says there may be more to come!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
"LABOR" IN CONFUSION.
With Mr. Menzies home after a
successful tour, in his pocket the sub-
stantial dollar loan which was one of the
main objectives of his travels, Parliament
will meet next month. In spite of the
steep rises in commodity prices, which
“Labor” created but which it now des-
perately tries to tie on to the Menzies Ad-
ministration, public opinion has every
week solidified a little more behind the
Government.
As Mr. Menzies and his Ministers
succeeded with petrol, so they seem likely
to succeed, given reasonable time, in the
economic and developmental fields. And
their correctness in the matter of the
introduction of anti-Communist legisla-
tion, even if their bill is not likely, by
itself, to achieve all it says in its title, has
been proved up to the hilt. As Mr.
Menzies says, “It is plain nonsense to
fight the Communists in Korea, to pre-
pare against them elsewhere in terms of
war, and to give them a free run in
Australia.”
“Labor’s” plight over the matter is
the worst in which it has found
itself since it was torn to bits by the
conscription issue. It is learning to the
full the wicked folly of its long term of
toleration of Communists as leaders of
the trade-unions and of ex-Communist
officials as heads of its own political
organisations, as well as of Mr. Curtin’s
dictum, which has governed its conduct
and organisation for so many years:
The Labor party is composed pre-
dominantly of trade-unions, and Inevitably
its organised strength comes from the
trade-unions.
This dictum was uttered in 1939 in estab-
lishing the party’s policy of pandering to
the Red element which had taken control,
through the unions, of policy and of the
N. S. Wales branch of the A.L.P. The
grip of Communism on “Labor” has never
been released, with the result that, in the
present crisis centring round Communism,
“Labor” presents the spectacle of a noisy
but uncontrolled band of larrikins.
One thing on which it now professes
to agree is that the “Labor” party has
always fiercely fought the Communist
party. But facts prove the contrary. The
evidence is to be seen in its own objec-
tive, which was framed by a committee
which actually included Moscow delegates,
,and in the fact that heads of some of its
constituent A.L.P. unions are at present
supporting the North Koreans and Mos-
cow in preference to their own country.
The Ironworkers, Watersiders and the
controlling faction of the Clerks’ Union
are in that box, among many. The party
has a long record of preferences to the
Communists in high ofl|ce which is almost
unbelievable.
J. S. Garden was the official represen-
tative of the Soviet Government in Aus-
tralia, and he had merely to announce a
breach with Moscow to be elevated to
highest ranks of “Labor’s” organisation,
where he remained until the police
(interested in another matter) dis-
covered Communist credentials in his
office, in which he was employed by a
“Labor” Federal Minister who shortly
afterwards declared that he could show
that Communism and Christianity were
identical in their aims.
Mr. H. L. Denford was general secre-
tary and treasurer of the Communist
party, and was banned from the Federal
conference of the A.L.P. in 1939 ; yet he
had only to disavow his former beliefs
and within three or four years he was
one of the three trustees of the A.L.P.
Mr. R. A. King, now general secretary
of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council,
was in 1938 a Moscow delegate; before
the end of the war he was a trustee of
the Australian Labor party and a dele-
gate to its Federal conference. Dr.
Lloyd Ross, in the view of Mr, Sol
Rosevear, in May, 1940, was a notorious
Communist. By the end of 1940 he was
a sterling “Labor” man.
Mr. Anderson, president of the N. S.
Wales Trades and Labor Council, which
for years was a section of the Com-
munist Red International and the very
spearhead of Moscow’s organising in
Australia (the actual body which sold
Communism to the Australian trade-
unionists), is shocked that “even school-
children are being used by Communists
to further their phony peace campaign.”
But he has nothing to say about the un-
questionable fact that Mr. McGirr’s
Minister for Public Instruction, Mr. R. J.
Heffron, was formerly tutor in public-
speaking to the Communist party, declar-
ing that “we learn from the Russian
revolution that the proletariat in every
and all countries cannot peacefully march
to power,” and calling for the “sup-
planting” of the “capitalist dictatorship
by the dictatorship of the proletariat.”
And Mr. J. A. Ferguson, president of
the N. S. Wales A.L.P., who at the 1934
A.C.T.U. conference supported the
Communist Moscow delegate, William
Orr, in attempting to throw arbitration
overboard, is no better example of how
“Labor” recruits its leadership.
The Australian “Labor” party is
built round such a framework of
leadership and service, and unable, with-
out falling apart, to divest itself of its
associations with unions such as the
Waterside Workers, whose general secre-
tary is named as a delegate to go abroad
to a Communist “peace” conference, and
the Ironworkers, whose secretary, re-
elected time after time, is already lodged
with the Reds in Peking. It cannot get
rid of the Communist union-leaders. Its
unions, entirely through their participa-
tion in politics, are becoming chaos, with
open war, physical and otherwise, in the
Clerks’ union, whose secretary is a mem-
ber of the Communist Central Commit-
tee.
The latest disaster which has fallen
upon “Labor” has been the adoption by
the Melbourne Trades Hall Council
of a recommendation that the A.C.T.U.
should reconsider its opposition to the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill. This
statement of policy was published in the
same week that the “Standard Weekly,”
described as “the official organ of the
Australian Labor party,” declared that
in the opinion of most A.L.P. the
Korean crisis has not altered fundamentally
the attitude of the Labor party to those
sections of the bill regarded as an infringe-
ment on the ordinary rights of civilians in
peace-time.
All of which shows that “Labor” is
no longer a party of principle. Its
leaders and organising bodies are a gang
of opportunists, ready to use every
weapon which comes to their hand —
Communism wljen it is in the ascendant,
anti-Communism when it is not. The
next sittings of Parliament should result
in its complete exposure,
“Labor” leaders throughout the previ-
ous session supported the objectives of
the Communist Dissolution Bill, yet
sought to destroy it because the measure
allegedly contained a threat to personal
freedom upon which they would never,
never surrender. But groups of their fol-
lowers, like those at Melbourne Trades
Hall, are changing their stand. And
others, like Mr. Anderson, are making
the position impossible for their politi-
cal leaders by such statements as that
“the peace petition circulated by the
Communist party is just as much a
weapon of war as the Russian tanks
being used by North Korean troops” and
that the Communists hre engaged in the
“creation of fifth-columns in all free
countries to sabotage both their economy
and defence preparations.” Even
“Labor’s” official organ has been forced
to subscribe to the statement that the
Communist party is a fifth-column.
More than a thick hide will be needed
if the Chifley-Evatt partnership is to
present an unchanged front in the new
Parliamentary session.
The K in Pakistan.
Only Soviet Russia can profit from the
failure of the three months’ efforts of the
United Nations arbitrator. Sir Owen
Dixon, of the Australian High Court, to
mediate between India and Pakistan in
the Kashmir dispute. Appropriately
enough, Mr. Justice Dixon’s “last-minute
effort to find a way out of the deadlock”
was an appeal to Pandit Nehru, for it is
Nehru who holds himself out as a man
of peace, as the advocate of Asians
settling their own affairs, as the Asian
spokesman for a cessation of hostilities
in Korea, and it was Nehru who first took
the Kashmir case , to U.N.O. Yet it is
Nehru who refuses to withdraw troops
from the disputed province, who will
abate no inch of a stand which virtually
excludes any peaceful settlement, although
Kashmir is predominantly Moslem in
population and vital to Pakistan’s inde-
pendence.
It remains to be said that Kashmir’s
northern boundary lies for a short length
(together with part of the N.-W. Frontier
Province) along the Durand buffer-strip
facing Soviet territory, and for the rest
of its length it borders the Sinkiang
province of China, now under Soviet
control. . ~ .
All those, in India and outside it, who
have for the past quarter-century been
traducing British rule in India are
afforded now the opportunity to reflect
that British administration at least, kept
the peace between these Indian races for
the past 100 years, and gave them security
for economic development.
In a recently-published book. The
Making of Pakistan, a highly-experienced
observer, Richard Symonds, points out
that with 80 million of inhabitants
Pakistan is the fifth-largest nation in
the world. It is, at any rate, the sixth.
Its two parts, West and East
Pakistan, are separated by 1000 miles
over the greatest width of India. West
Pakistan embraces Sind, Baluchistan,
N.-W. Frontier Province and West
Punjab; and East Pakistan consists of
Eastern Bengal and Southern Assam
(Sylhet). The plebiscite voting which
created the two Dominions in 1947
divided not only India, but also Assam,
Bengal and the Punjab. A similar solu-
tion for the dispute in Kashmir, owning
only four million of population in all, is
rejected because, as the Australian arbi-
trator finds, neither side will agree on the
conditions for holding the ballot.
Mr. Symonds describes the racial dis-
tribution in some detail; he shows that
three million out of the four million
Kashmiris are Moslems, and that
the area of Hindu predominance
is confined to three districts of
the southern (Jammu) region border-
ing on East Punjab. It would seem an
obvious solution, which a plebiscite con-
ducted as elsewhere under partition would
apparently endorse, to cut off this Jammu
territory and give it to India, and give
the rest of Kashmir to Pakistan ; but such
a solution is ruled out by both parties for
several reasons, all based on racial
animosity, especially:
1. This Indian Jammu enclave would
command the river Chenab, important to
Pakistan’s water-supply. Pakistan’s entire
economic prosperity (the irrigation of West
Punjab and Sind) depends on five rivers,
the Sutlej and Ravi, rising in India, and the
Indus, Jhelum and Chenab, rising in
Kashmir. For this reason, among others,
Kashmir puts the' K in Pakistan. India,
with power to divert all these rivers, as it
has claimed the right to do, could ruin her
neighbor completely.
2. Nehru was bom in the Kashmir Valley,
and wants the whole province for that
reason, as well as, it seems, because it
makes a corridor to central Asia.
3. The manner by which India sought
to settle the disposal of Pakistan by force.
This last-named consideration embraces
the whole later conflict. Kashmir was
not part of British India, but was one of
the princely States, and was ruled, despite
its predominant Moslem population, by
a Hindu Maharajah, who had long
governed in the interests of the minority.
A considerable revolt, the “Quit
Kashmir” campaign, arose against this
prince in 1946, and incidentally Nehru
himself was arrested in Kashmir at the
time while supporting the Sheikh
Abdullah against die Maharajah.
After the partition of India all except
two or three of the princely States, of
which there were some 500 (mostly
extremely small), acceded to India. The
chief State, Hyderabad, under a Moslem
ruler, objected, but was subdued by
Nehru’s army. Kashmir was the last to
be decided. The atrocities accompany-
ing the transfers of millions of defenceless
people at the partition of the Punjab
inflamed the Kashmiri Moslems ; and the
ex-soldiers of West Jammu, which had
supplied 40,000 of the best Indian troops
during World War 11, began demonstrat-
ing for accession of Kashmir to
Pakistan. They set up their own “Azad
[Free] Kashmir” Government and drove
out the Maharajah’s forces. The
Maharajah, receiving a flood of Hindu
refugees-from West Punjab, ordered local
Moslems to clear out, and many of their
convoys also were ambushed and
slaughtered on the road. Then the
frontier tribes, the Afridis, Mohmands,
Waziris and the rest, took the warpath.
They were all enthusiastic for Pakistan.
The Maharajah, his army vanishing
through losses in action and desertion,
sent his accession to the new Indian Gov-
ernment and asked for military help.
Governor-General Mountbatten accepted
the accession, but stipulated that when
order was restored it should be confirmed
by a plebiscite of the people.
Indian troops, flown in by air, drove
the hillmen back, but could do little
against the “Azad Kashmir” forces in
West Jammu. The Pakistan Government
was as furious as the border tribes at the
acceptance of accession from a non-
representative and tyrannical Maharajah,
who was due for the scrapheap anyway,
but the influence of its leaders (Jinnah
and Liaquat Ali Khan, who took over
after Jinnah’s death) averted extension
of the hostilities. They proposed to
India that fighting should be stopped and
a plebiscite taken under joint control.
India refused to recognise any Kashmir
concern in a plebiscite. In January, 1943
India charged Pakistan before U.N o’
Security Council with having encouraged
a violation of “India’s sovereignty ”
After three months of delay in face of
charges and counter-charges U.N.O. re-
solved to conduct a plebiscite itself
under supervision of a Five-Power Com-
mission.
When the commission arrived in May
1948, it found an Indian offensive in
progress against the “Azad Kashmir”
army and Pakistan sending in regular
troops to support the latter. Both Gov-
ernments, while using pressure to localise
the fighting, were maintaining the forces
engaged, and it was not till January, 1949
that these submitted to the U.N.O. Com’
mission’s cease-fire orders. They have
remained facing each other across a no-
man’s-land supervised by the commission.
There the failure of the arbitration
effort leaves them. That India may be
involved in a civil war as exhausting as
that which has laid China open to
Russian influence would entail
catastrophe not only for India, but for
the whole world. As for the immediate
bone of contention, Kashmir means to
Nehru’s India some measure of prestige,
probably an economic liability, and cer-
tainly a perpetual cause of quarrel with
a neighbor whose people include the chief
fighting races of the sub-continent. A
generous gesture would be worth vastly
more to him. To Pakistan Kashmir
means everything. Says Mr. Symonds,
after eight years of intimate acquaintance
with conditions during relief-work during
and since the war (and latterly with the
U.N. Commission):
In Pakistan no Government which gave
way on the Kashmir question would remain
in office for a day. Until the dispute is
settled there is no prospect whatever of
improved relations with India, and
Pakistan’s defence policy, her foreign policy
and much of her economic policy will con-
tinue to be based on the assumption that
India is a potential enemy.
The ruling elements in the situation are
not distinguishable from those which led
to war in Palestine a couple of years ago
and in Korea the other day.
Food Costs.
Colin Clark, the Queensland econo-
mist who is usually worth listening to,
had something to say the other day
about the demand for cheap food, assert-
ing that the “world complained of a food
shortage because it grudged paying a
price which would enable farmers to en-
joy urban living standards,” and one
result “was that labor was rapidly leav-
ing agriculture” and thus hastening the
threat of a food shortage. Up to a point
Mr. Clark is right; but in Australian ex-
perience of recent years the price grudge
is not against the farmer but against cer-
tain of the “operators” who come be-
tween producer and consumer.
Dealing with the Australian aspect,
the Queenslander let himself go:
Still more contemptible is the attitude
of many Australians, now thoroughly
urbanised in their outlook and demanding
cheap food as a right, and terrified at the
prospect of a natural growth of the num-
bers and the economic and political
influence of the Asian peoples.
Maybe it’s true enough that some
thoughtful Australians are “terrified” of
Asia; they have some cause to be, since
their open, empty land is geographically
and militarily the first likely to suffer it
the Asiatics overflow. But the demand
for cheap food is not purely a demand
on the farmer.
Urban populations in this country have
been forced in recent years to inquire
into food prices. Where their effect js
more heavily apparent —as in Sydney
it is now no secret that the producer gets
a comparatively small proportion o
those prices, and occasionally city P^ 0 ? 1
read of certain land products being
“ploughed-in” because the grower can
get a payable price, though the proem
itself is scandalously dear in the pity.
A fact worth considering, too, is tn
this sort of thing exists more blatant y
in cities under “Labor” Governments
and infested with a hundred-and-o
Government boards set up to contr
the particular commodities.
It is also another fact, and one wmc
ought to be plain to a person ot •
Clark’s training and acumen, that
addition to the greedy market °P
tors,” “forestallers” and other g
battening on the food racket, costly
cumbersome Government transport y
terns, the effects of the Communis
spiracy in the way of wharf ho - ’
the 40-hour week and continuous a
creasing Government interference ,
trade and transport all help to load
stuffs with costs which, a generate
were undreamed of. Mr. Clark “Uia;
if he wished, interest himself .
phenomenon of canned foods b 6l f res h
quently cheaper in the cities tha
foods


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dollars.
Mr. Menzies was obviously well received
abroad, especially in the United States.
On his return to Australia on Wednesday
of last week he told Pressmen at Rose
Bay that on this visit to America he was
warmly welcomed as a representative of
Australia, whereas before World War 11
he had found U.S. interest in this country
merely to be polite.
And on this occasion Mr. Menzies was
seeking a loan. That, perhaps, is where
friendship is put to a real test. The Inter-
national Bank from which this country
eventually received a substantial long-
term loan put the preliminaries through
in record time. This was a tribute to
Australia’s financial standing abroad as
well as to Mr. Menzies’s ability—and
acceptability—as a negotiator.
Australia is obviously regarded as an
important stronghold for the Western
democracies in the Pacific. In respect
of the dollar loan Mr. Chifley and the
Communists have made jibes about the
bartering of Australian troops for Korea
in return for dollars. Mr. Chifley and
the Communists would not, of course,
suggest that the Menzies Government’s
Communist-party Dissolution Bill had
anything to do with the celerity with
which the dollars were made available.
The loan is to be used for purposes
intended to help beat the Communist
fifth-column in Australia and build up
our industrial strength in the event of a
military clash with the headquarters of
world Communism. And, of course, for
the building of a greater industrial Aus-
tralia generally.
Who Heads "Labor"?
Because of bad strategy and worse
leadership ever since the end of the coal
strike —that strike gave the late Chifley
Government the chance for a change of
front which it stupidly threw away —
“Labor” is now on the horns of an acute
dilemma in face of the test it will have
to meet with the coming Parliamentary
session.
Lively exchanges billed to accompany
the pre-sessional discussions of the party’s
Federal Advisory Committee in Sydney
this week will follow through the
A.C.T.U. inter-State executive in Mel-
bourne next week and of the Federal
caucus thereafter. In W.A. the executive
of “the movement” is still for outright
opposition to the Communist Suppression
Bill, and so is the Sydney branch. But
Melbourne Trades Hall, following a hot
debate, is against further obstruction as
leading to a debacle for “Labor” at a
dissolution on the issue. Mr, Chifley re-
mains silent. He refused to meet the
Acting Prime Minister to hear in private
the preliminary warnings which Mr. Men-
zies had sent ahead of his return. He made
a grievous mess of his opposition to the
anti-Communist bill last session, and by
all appearances he does not know how to
repair the error.
Meanwhile spokesmen for “Labor” in
the effort to hold up a party front against
the Government’s greatly strengthened
position are Dr. Evatt, the architect of
that obstruction to the anti-Communist
bill which has landed the party in the
ditch, and Mr. Calwell, whose disgust
and irritation are aggravated by the
restraint he is obliged to observe until
some new party line is readied-up. To
add to the Socialists’ general bewilder-
ment, the Attlee Government, their
erstwhile partner in “the great experi-
ment” which the Communists have ex-
ploited, is being pushed by its own trade-
union directors into exactly the policy
which Mr. Menzies is expounding and
Australian “Labor” is trying to resist.
The General Council of the T.U.C. in
Britain has announced the following dec-
laration to be submitted for approval at
the annual conference next month, and
thereby made binding upon the British
Socialist Ministry;
The trade-union movement has been
forced by the march of events to conclude
mat in all the countries where a Com-
munist party exists the Soviet Union and
me Comintern are using them for fifth-
column activities....
The use of civil war [the class-war] as
an instrument of foreign policy and aggres-
Sl °u must be condemned and resisted.
The acceptance by this country of its
obligations under the U.N. Charter will
onng further burdens upon the people, and
mere will inevitably be some diversion of
; he country’s limited resources from the
task of rebuilding the national economy.
Not only is that precisely what Mr.
Menzies has been saying to the Australian
People, but even the phraseology is in
Pfrt identical. Moscow’s official “Pravda”
°bligingly provides justification for the
sternest measures any democratic country
may decide to use. London “Economist”
reveals from this source that the
Communist "peace campaign”—certainly
Australian “Labor” has unambiguously
banned that —has now become a call for
Communist sabotage operations in all
free countries against both economic
planning and defence preparations. The
order is given out with details of key
industries and services to be laid idle.
This is happening already in the United
States, Canada and Australia. It will
be interesting to see whether “Labor,”
under Mr. Chifley’s leadership, continues
to help this Moscow fifth-column by
obstructing the Government, and, if Mr.
Chifley is forced to relent on that,
whether he will decide merely to play
neutral.
N.Z. Shows the Way.
Treasurer Fadden has been set an
example by his opposite-number in N.Z.
There Mr. Holland is going some way in
reducing taxation despite rises in defence
and social-service charges, which propor-
tionately cannot be any less than those
pressing on the Australian Budget.
N.Z.’s Treasurer is attacking the
steepened rise of tax-rates on middle and
higher income^ —a familiar feature of
past Socialist juggling in this country, too
—and is encouraging thrift by increasing
both the permissible income of pensioners
from personal savings and the tax
exemption for citizens of 65 years and
over. Exemption allowances for farmers
in assessment of tax are also raised.
There must be room for some begin-
ning here, too, in providing greater
rewards for thrift and working-effort.
Mr. Fadden has been given several sug-
gestions on how he can reduce the burden
of excessive Government employment,
without reduction of which reduction of
Government expenditure is hardly pos-
sible. To these may be added a simpli-
fication of tax assessments, which would
not only enable the taxpayer to calculate
his tax bill, and check it when received,
but should also relieve considerable
numbers employed in the Taxation De-
partment. The complicated taxation
system has immensely added to the work
and the staff of the department.
Little has been heard lately of the
special committee which Mr. Fadden
appointed to review this irritating and
expensive system of taxation assessment.
That is one reform which the electors
were assured they would enjoy.
If N.Z. can do the trick, it ought not
to be beyond the capacity of an Aus-
tralian Treasurer. Mr. Holland did not
have a special dollar loan to encourage
him, either.
Handpicking for Communism.
The statement of Mr. T. Nelson,
secretary of the Sydney branch * of the
Waterside Workers Federation, dealing
with the admission of new wharflaborers
to the union and to a share in the loaf-
and-opulence of “labor” at the docks,
should just about seal the fate of any
argument which the Federal “Labor”
Opposition has to offer against the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill.
Mr. Anderson, president of the N. S.
Wales Trades and Labor Council,
formerly a hotbed of Communism,
whose experiences with his fellow-
delegates no doubt keeps him thoroughly
informed, opined that in selecting the
lucky 500 who are to be admitted to the
privileged classes of the wharflaborers,
the Communists were “handpicking can-
didates” so as to preserve the balance in
favor of control by the Communist-party,
which he had previously described as a
fifth-column designed by Moscow to
sabotage our economy and defence.
Mr. Nelson denied this. But he said
that if the Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission had not ordered the admission
of the new members, the union “would
not have considered them for a minute,
because new members mean a loss of
Left-Wing voting strength They are a
political risk, and we would rather do
without them.”
Thus, from a senior official of the
union, comes an admission of the brazen
objectives of Communist union-leaders.
That ships should be loaded and un-
loaded —there are always dozens on the
Australian coast which are at the mercy
of 'Moscow’s ruffian agents—is a
secondary matter, even at a period of
world crisis like the present.
Yet the “Labor” Opposition tolerates
the union which takes this stand as a
member-section of the A.L.P., and
objects to simple measures which are
calculated to secure its legitimate control.
It has made it clear that it will fight to
the death any attempt by the Government
to interfere with the management of this
and other unions whose general
secretaries are at present preparing to go
abroad to consult with the Reds.
The Government should take steps to
see that the power to decide who shall,
and who shall not, work in any industry
shall cease to be the sole prerogative of
the unions alone. Why should any em-
ployer be compelled to employ a man
who is in tow with a foreign Power and
pledged to wreck the business which
gives him his bread and butter?
Evatt's Red-herring.
That red-herring expert, Dr. Evatt, who
led the late Chifley Government astray on
every course taken upon his constitu-
tional advice, is now producing his latest
idea for playing the double-dissolution if
“Labor” decides to force one with con-
tinued obstruction of the Communist-
party Suppression Bill.
He tried —in vain—to deny that the
Communist activities, to which his lift-
ing of the ban on them gave free rein,
was not the issue at the elections last
December, and he takes the same line
still. Prosperity in “Labor’s” record of
“full employment” was the stunt he
favored then; now it is to be the ruin of
that prosperity through inflation under
the Menzies Government.
Last year (he broadcast last week) the
standard of living in Australia was far
higher than in any other country. Since
then deterioration has been rapid
Financial and economic collapse is pos-
sible if the Government fails to halt the
inflationary drift.
The Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures, already published in these
columns (B. 16/8/’5O) in detail, showed
in a way that no political manipulation
could obscure that the aggravated infla-
tion Dr Evatt is suddenly so concerned
about was the direct result of his own
Government’s actions. It was Dr, Evatt’s
department which intervened in the 40-
hour-week hearing in 1947 to impress
the Arbitration Court, obviously re-
luctant to declare that the working pro-
duction of Australia could carry the
shorter working week there and then, that
output would not decline more than
temporarily, if at all, and that prices
would rise no more than 5 per cent, at
the maximum. The full force of this
boosting influence upon prices of living
commodities and public services began
to be felt in 1948, and it increased with
compounding effect at every quarterly
adjustment of the basic wage.
The Chifley Government’s boasted price-
control scheme, crippled as that was, too,
by njutilation in the interests of the
trade-unions, failed utterly to stop the
drift. The final spurt imparted to the
upward movement was Mr. Chifley’s de-
valuation of the currency against the dol-
lar a few weeks before his Ministry was
driven from office. That was just after
he had revealed in his last Budget speech
that his estimated expenditure for the
year lately ended had ballooned on him
to the-extent of 14 per cent. •
The Chifley Government did these
things deliberately in the interests of
prosecuting “the class-war”:
It unpegged wages while affecting to peg
prices.
It reduced man-hour output and put a
premium on necessary overtime with the
shorter working-week.
It cut value clean out of the pound with
the devaluation decision.
And now Mr. Chifley’s chief lieutenant
in this political mountebankery for eight
years has the effrontery to tell the elec-
tors that all the damage has been caused
by eight months’ administration of the
Menzies Government. For six months
of that eight Australia has been dis-
tracted with the Socialists’ howls over
their Federal defeat while they tried to
reverse that defeat through six
State elections in succession. The de-
mand by “Labor” that value should be
instantly “put back into the pound” —
into the Chifley quid—by “Labor’s” suc-
cessors began, in fact, even less than
eight days after the Menzies Govern-
ment had been sworn in.
Dr. , Evatt is advising “Labor” to ob-
struct, through its Senate majority (which
he rigged for the purpose), every effort
of the Government to legislate for any-
thing at all. He will get his election
from a double-dissolution if his party
wants it, and the resultant debacle it
suffers should be largely his own monu-
ment in its political story.
Defence and the Frontiers.
Quartermaster-General of Australian
Land Forces, 1940-46, and thus vitally
concerned with continental transport of
men and munitions in that period,
Major-General J. H. Cannan, Queens-
land-born and -educated, has been telling
his State through Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” where it would stand in the event
of an attack on Australia and how its
railways are rather more of a defence
weakness than an asset, though retired
Railway Commissioner Wills, like
Premiers and commissioners in other
States, talks about the “wonderful job”
the railways did in war-time.
“Wonderful,” in view of the resources
at their disposal, is the way Major-
General Carman puts it. Holding that the
1939-45 war emphasised the vulnerability
to attack of West Australia, the N.T.,
Queensland and New Guinea and that, in
the event of another attack, the other
States would have to act as supply-bases,
he insists that in peace the south “must
take second place to the north and north-
west,” which must have the maximum in
Federal aid to improve harbors and
docks, aerodromes and sea bases, railways
and roads.
Speaking as the Q.M.G. of 1939-45:
We were so disturbed at the carrying-
capacity of the Queensland railways that
in 1944 the then Premier, the late Mr. F. A.
Cooper, agreed to listen to the case for our
defence transport services, showing the
deficiencies and what the Federal Govern-
ment wanted to do and was willing to
contribute towards it.
The Premier was good enough to say “he
had no idea the Queensland Government
Railways were falling so short of our
maximum requirements.”
His co-operation with us secured con-
siderable improvement in the carrying-
capacity of the Queensland railways.
Urging that profit be taken from the
escape of those years, Major-General
Cannan, whose words strangely coincide
with the announcement of the big dollar
loan for the purchase of capital goods
like railway equipment, says Queensland
railways “urgently want better tracks,
more crossings, signals, engines, trucks,
better workshops and more personnel.”
He doubts that we have time to unify
all Australian lines to the 4ft. B|in. gauge
as demanded by the defence authorities,
but wants the immediate conversion of
the Terowie-Broken Hill line “to allow of
an interchange of engines and rolling-
stock of N.S.W, with the transcontinental
line.”
And as immediately-needed defence
railways in Queensland, which would still
serve in peace-time: Lines from Charle-
ville to Blackall, Nanango to Yarraman,
Cooyar to Tarorig, and a better means
of putting coal into Mt. Isa and taking
silver-lead out “in case Townsville were
threatened.”
This is a man speaking with no
political axe to grand, whose words are
as important to the southernmost Tasman-
ian as to the most northerly New Guinea
planter, and who speaks from past ex-
perience and patriotism. What weight
his words will carry in complacent Can-
berra, where the advice of “outsiders”
isn’t welcome, is another matter.
Television and the A.B.C.
From M. F. Dixon, who retired from the
service of the Australian Broadcasting
Commission recently after being in charge
of the news department for nearly 14
years:
A third world war could cut across the
Federal Government’s plan to have television
operating in Australia within two or three years.
So could the Labor-dominated Senate’s refusal
to accept amendments to the Broadcasting Act
designed to give private enterprise a share in
providing programmes.
The Act, as it now stands, makes television
a Government monopoly. The Labor party is
wedded to that policy; but the Menzies-Fadden
Government has agreed to give commercial
interests an opportunity of entering the tele-
vision field, and will almost certainly seek to
amend the Act, to that end, during the next
session of Parliament.
Although the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission held high hopes that under a Labor
regime it would have been entrusted with the
task of running a television monopoly, the
Chifley Government had given no indication
that it intended to hand that plum to the
A.8.C.; indeed, the probability is that it would
have asked the Broadcasting Control Board to
run the service, leaving the A.B.C. to potter
along with sound-broadcasting, as at present.
The Control Board apparently expected some-
thing of the kind to happen, because it adver-
tised a number of programme-vacancies in all
States; these have never been filled, probably
because of the change of Government last
December.
Shortly before he left for London a few
months ago the chairman of the A.B.C. (R. J. F.
Boyer) told a gathering of senior officers that
he hoped to get enough evidence overseas to
convince the Federal Government that the two
aspects of television about which it was most
concerned—technical standards and finance—
were of far less importance than the form of
control under which it would operate. Boyer
said he was afraid the new Federal Government
would jib at making available the millions of
pounds annually that would be required to
make television a success under an independent
authority such as the A.B.C. This suggested to
him that television would either be in the hands
of commercial interests, with necessarily J°wer
standards and insufficient money to get the
best out of it, or it would be divided between
a public authority and commercial enterprise,
neither of which would be able to spend enough
money on it to guarantee success.
All authorities agree that it will cost a tremen
dous sum annually to provide a television pro-
gramme for even two or three hours a uay.
New material will be continually required; and
should sporting bodies and film interests decline
to play ball it is difficult to see where it will
come from. Even granted such co-operation
the price is likely to be high, if not
actually prohibitive: in which case television
authorities may decide to stage their own spo -
ing fixtures and produce their own films, on
(i Continued on next page.)


T
h
6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
__
top-level standards. Topical subjects may be
expected to occupy about half of a two-hour
programme, and sporting promoters are suffi-
ciently hard-headed to realise that few people
will travel miles to watch a game, and pay a
stiff admission fee on top of it, if they can
see it in their own homes without additional
cost.
Private enterprise can be depended on to look
after its own interests if it enters the television
field; but are the achievements of the A.B.C. '
sufficiently impressive to warrant its being given
the same role in television as it occupies in
national .broadcasting?
The A.B.C. prides itself on its cultural stan-
dards, but, if listener-research reports are to
be believed, its programmes lag far behind those
of commercial radio in popular appeal.
For years the A.B.C. plodded along under
the comfortable illusion that audiences didn’t
matter; as long as its programmes were oi
sufficiently high standard to satisfy the dis-
criminating few it had nothing to worry about.
It was encouraged in this view by the Fitzgerald
Committee, appointed by the Chifley Govern-
ment a few years ago to inquire into the
administrative set-up of national broadcasting.
But the same Government’s later creation—the
Australian Broadcasting Control Board-had
other ideas, and soon gave the commission to
understand that minimum audiences
sistent with maximum expenditure, and it had
better do something about it.
But the A.B.C. had been in the doldrums for
a long time; it had lost most of its sense of
showmanship, and didn’t take kindly to the
idea of competing for audiences with some of
the wealthy, resourceful commercial stations.
Conferences held to decide whether it should
go after the listener in a big way—“cater for
the morons,” as one departmental head described
it —or stick to its cultural standards were
usually indecisive. This inability to make up
its mind on big issues has been characteristic
of the A.B.C. in recent years.
Up to a few years ago the programme side
of national broadcasting was paramount; and
administration existed only as a means of
making the organisation work. Today the
positions are reversed —administration is in the
box seat and wields an influence out of all
proportion to its ultimate responsibility to
listeners.
The appointment of a Treasury representative
on the commission, coupled with the Govern-
ment’s decision that national broadcasting
should be financed from consolidated revenue
instead of through a share of licence fees,
strengthened administration’s grip on the overall
activities of the A.8.C., to the dismay of the
programme departments. In the words of one
senior officer recently, the A.B.C. now has a
cash-register in the place where its programme
heart belongs.
Overseas authorities agree that to attemp
to run television cheaply is to court disaste,
and yet that Was the A.B.C.’s attitude towar
it less than a year ago. Probably it did
expect to be taken seriously; its attempts
run national broadcasting on economical u
have not been conspicuously successful.
Years ago the A.B.C. had a sense
manship and a flair for doing things that c
manded attention in the entertainment wo-
rts war work, in most directions, was exce <
but in recent years it has been content to
on its laurels. Ho new ground has been or
since the independent news service was m s,
rated three years ago, and, ironically eni 8 >
although news is easily its biggest dra >
the commission opposed the mtroductio
the independent service to the very fast-■ , *.
what, then, does it base its claim to be en ? 7
with the running of a national television se v •
In ray opinion the A.B.C. is not now a
equipped to run national broadcasting
was ten, or even five, years ago. .
To sum up ; In my opinion the A.B.C. 1 w
the leadership and imagination neces pt itively
make a success of television, either comp .
or as a monopoly. Had its achievements y
broadcasting been more spectacu., at ion,
have been entitled to serious considers
but television will make demands on - „ j S
ship and initiative, in which the a-
singularly lacking.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Prime Minister returned from his
world tour after having obviously raised
his own and Australia’s status abroad,
and on Monday night broadcast to the
people something of what he had learned
from the tour and of what Australia
could expect in the near future.
Federal Parliament will meet some-
where round September 20. It was re-
ported on August 26 that a secret session
of Parliament would be called to allow the
Prime Minister to outline the facts of
the world situation and defence plans.
In view of the peculiar ramifications of
the Communist fifth-column in Australia
any defence plans should be discussed
secretly indeed.
Wasn’t it Mr, Chifley who said some-
thing about the Chinese Communists in
Malaya fighting for “national independ-
ence”? And wasn’t it Mr. Strachey, the
British Socialist War Minister, who said
Britain proposed to pacify Malaya under
“the principles of trade-unionism” or
something? If she could speak Mris,
Nora Stutchbury could tell both eminent
gentlemen something about it. Mrs.
Stutchbury was “captured” when her
husband’s car was ambushed in
Selangor State, and when found was dead,
“riddled with bullets and knife-wounds.”
Calwell declared that the new dollar
development-loan is a matter not for re-
joicing but for national mourning, A
few days before he was all for standing in
with America for the sake of our national
safety and in gratitude for past assistance.
It seems clear that Calwell expects the
“Labor” Senate to abandon its opposi-
tion to the anti-Commo Bill and avoid an
election. Victorian A.L.P. takes this
compromise line ahead of the Federal
party’s decision, but seeks to preserve
“solidarity” by advocating that if re-
turned at the next election —not the one
now to be avoided —“Labor” will repeal
the legislation.
The British Labor party is out with a
grand new Socialist “long-term world
plan for mutual aid to succeed Marshall
Aid in 1952 to attack poverty every-
where in developed and undeveloped
countries alike,” The British Socialist
system for attacking poverty in un-
developed parts cost the taxpayers £25
million, which the Socialists spent on a
big peanut-farm in Africa and hardly got
a peanut. Strachey, who as Minister for
Food was responsible for it, didn’t lose
his job. On the contrary, he was
promoted to Secretary for War.
People who go about complaining of
the high and growing cost of everything,
the shortage of houses and other things,
don’t seem to realise that they are now
living in the “new order” about which so
much was said during the 1939-45 war
years. AH these “orders” mean Govern-
ment-control of everything, which is
largely responsible for the “new order”
being much less popular than,the old one.
The Victorian McDonald Government,
which rules with “Labor” support, is
facing a neat Liberal move to preserve the
Upper House, which “Labor” would
abolish. McDonald’s Chief Secretary
Dodgshun recently said the Country
party would preserve the bicameral
system, whereupon the Libs have brought
out a private bill to provide for a refer-
endum before anybody moves to abolish
the Leg. Council. It’s a nasty one for
McDonald, who can’t govern without
“Labor.”
Queensland Opposition-Leader Nicklin
proposes to “question” the Hanlon Gov-
ernment on ‘the cost and findings of the
Powell-Duffryn coal survey. He will
achieve a real service to his State if he
can force Mr. Hanlon to publish the
real reasons for the Blair Athol fiasco.
The Premiers will make their annual
attempt to prise more money out of the
Commonwealth when they meet next
week. None of them is too optimistic
about it, though McGirr and Hanlon, at
least, have genuine claims for more
money for roads, which suffered mil-
lions-worth of damage in their States
through abnormal floods. The 100-mil-
lion-dollar loan for buying capital equip-
ment offers a chance to get done road
repairs which otherwise might have to
wait for years.
Housewives who pay 3|d, for one
hen’s egg noted grimly last week that
egg-production in the U.S.A. was acci-
dentally bumped up 19 p.c. by the use
of ultra-violet rays to kill bacteria in
fowlhouses. Uncle Sam has 4000 mil-
lion eggs stored in caves and old barns.
He bought them from farmers to keep
up prices, and now doesn’t know what
to do with them. That sort of thing
usually happens when Governments take
“control” of commodities.
In one of those curious “I’m for it and
agin it” speeches which “Labor” leaders
are making about Korea and other dis-
turbances, Mr. Chifley told Perth union
leaders that Western Europe is “the
crucial point in the world today and must
be saved.” How? By a voluntary
defence system and the 40-hour week?
When Calwell heard of the dollar loan
he was out in Deniliquin and he rushed
outside and informed the unconcerned
Riverina that “the Federal Government
had pledged the credit of Australia in the
pawnshops of New York.” A mopoke or
something along the Edward River
muttered sleepily that the loan didn’t
come from America but from the World
Bank, but by that time the solemn silence
of night on the plains had scared Calwell
inside again and he missed the point.
The latest Asiatic Communist ruse is
contained in the notification to U.N.O.
that five delegates from Communist
China will attend the Assembly sessions
next month. Nominations from the
Malayan terrorists, the Hukbalahaps and
the Australian Waterside Workers’
Federation are expected at any moment.
Admitting that Russian officials were
allowed into British defence factories, a
“spokesman” for the Attlee Ministry of
Supply gave the peculiar excuse that “If
Russia is buying she has a right to see
how the goods are made.” Only a
Socialist could think of that.
When this was written new season’s
wool was being sold in Sydney, and
strengthened American interest set every-
body expecting new high prices. Wool
is now so valuable that it’s hard to get
insurance for big stocks, cover having to
be sought in England and America. Can-
berra may yet have to devise some sort
of an insurance scheme rather than a levy
for a “post-J.O. scheme.”
The McGirr crowd in New South
Wales mean to cop it every way.
They’re out to bump up city and
country fares and freights, get more
from the worker by shortening tram
sections and, just to catch those who’re
thinking of travelling by car, intend to
bump up registration-fees. Meantime
motorists can expect another increase in
insurance-rates. It’s all part of mat
whirlwind N.S.W. people have had to
reap since McGirr sowed the 40-hour
week, and it will get worse as long as
McGirr stays in power.
Finnan, the N.S.W. “Labor” Govern-
ment Minister who happens also to be
“senior Minister” of the Prices Ministers,
made the ridiculous assertion in Perth
that the Commonwealth Government had
allowed too much meat to be exported,
and thus caused the stuff to be dear. Fin-
nan knows perfectly well that high wool
prices, floods, short hours, high wages
and other things are responsible, but the
“buck” must be passed somewhere and
the Menzies Government is as good as
anywhere else.
Speaking on the inadequate finances of
Australian universities, H. D. Black, a
Sydney Uni. lecturer, said that they re-
ceived in grants only one-eighth of the
£2O million Australians spent each year
on drink. Mr. Black’s quarrel seems to
be with Governments rather than
drinkers, for they take more than half
of that sum in excise duties and taxes on
the booze absorbed.
The Victorian Government has ac-
cepted the tender (£11,360,000) of Utah
Construction Co. (U.S.A.) to construct
the new Eildon Weir by 1955. A bigger
job than was Sydney Harbor Bridge, its
hydroelectric turbines will generate
120,000 kilowatts against the present
16,000, and make Victoria a lot less de-
pendent on N.S.W. coal. It is expected
to boost Goulburn Valley land produc-
tion to £7,000,000 p.a., and, if American
“drive” is all that is said of it, may give
us a lesson in how to get things done.
According to F. L. Edmunds, who was
“expelled” by the Vic. Liberals and lost
his Parliamentary seat, “The Victorian
Parliament is controlled by a group of
intellectually and morally retarded citizens
who have learned to use wealth, title and
church connections to perpetuate their
cynical plutocracy.” Come, come, Mr.
Edmunds —any man just in receipt of
income-tax assessment could give that 10
on and a licking!
According to Senator Spooner, Minister
for Social Services, Australians now
weigh in to the tune of £92.8 million a
year for the payment of pensions, child-
endowment and the rest of it. That works
out at roughly £ll 10s. for every man,
woman and child of the 8,000,000 now
inhabiting the place. By the time we have
20 million or so, at the same rate, no-
body will have to bother about saving
against illness or old age. Truly, a para-
dise on earth —if it holds out.
The Australian Wheat Board announces
the sale of about million bushels to
Egypt at 18s. a bushel, delivery Septem-
ber-December this year. This is a sale
outside the International Wheat Agree-
ment “in competition with other export-
ing countries,” and as the I.W.A. maxi-
mum is 16s. Id. and “free-wheat” futures
are somewhere around the 20s. mark it
suggests that there’s a lot of “free wheat”
being offered.
“Cab”: With liberal pay and allow-
ances and pension conditions no other
occupation can approach, politicians
nowadays don’t take kindly to defeat.
But, then, they never did. Bub Dod-
dington, when he put up for Bridgewater
in 1754, spent two and a half thousand
pounds, and then lost on the casting-
vote of the returning-officer. Peeved at
losing his money. Bub was even more
hurt at the time wasted. “More than a
week spent in Infameous and Disreput-
able compliance with the low Habits of
Venal and Abandoned Wretches” was
how he described his excursion to the
West Country after he had left Bridge
water for ever. s '
Victorian Clerks’ Union members sue- ‘
ceeded in having their ballot for State
secretary conducted by the Arbitration
Court Registrar. Their anti-Red candi
date, J. E. Henry, won with a majority
of 2250—2880 to 628—against the u 7
wanted Meyer. One of Meyer’s backers
had the face to object to the registrar’s
conduct of the ballot because he “was
not allowed to be present at the printing
and stamping of the ballot-papers.” h


df
FOR FREEDOM OF THOUGHT AND ENTERPRISE.
"Queensland University is seeking to raise £600,000 by public appeal in order to build six residential colleges and to keep itself free from political control. It is
asking the people of other States to assist, as business firms in N. S. Wales and Victoria particularly have large interests in Queensland industry, and its um University.
graduates are sought after in all parts of the Commonwealth.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“P.0.1v1.C.”: Of all trades and callings
reserved for females in Sydney the one
most patently suffering from an inferiority
complex is that of the waitress. Mostly
untrained casuals with chips on their
shouldefs, Sydney’s waitresses have
transformed the erstwhile pleasure of
dining in public places into something
like a nerve-fraying
ordeal. In the well-
appointed dining-
room of a George-
street pub the other
day, one girl kept
a cigarette burning
in a bowl on her
serving - table, and
seemed to retain
control of her
temper only by
taking deep draws
on it at every
opportunity. Then, having received the
orders at my table, she strolled off to
the kitchen, glancing darkly about her
the while she demanded of her confreres;
“Where’s my bloody tray?”
* * * *
“Waja”: If you are a normal sort of
Australian with a normal Australian
thirst, think twice about taking a trip to
Colombo. In a climate about the same
as Coober Peedy in midsummer this is
what it will cost you to keep a little decent
moisture in your body: Australian
currency, pint of beer 3s. 6d., pink gin
75., glass of sherry or port 45., whisky or
brandy and soda 75., Pimm’s No. 1 6s. 6d.,
Benedictine ss. 6d., bottle of Rinegold
355., French and German table- wines
38s. to 605., champagne £4 10s. In each
case add 6d. to 25., according to the cost
of the order, for the “boy.” It’s not the
hotels that are to blame, but a Govern-
ment avaricious, in good old Oriental
fashion, for Customs revenue, and pos-
sibly abetted by what in the Perfumed
Isle is politely called “Ceylonisation”—
the process of edging out the white man.
Even in shops whisky will cost you £3
a bottle and gin £3 6s. They tell me
the extra six-bob is on account of the
higher strength of English gin over
Scotch whisky—something I hadn’t
realised before. A Colombo man
travelling with me on the Strathmore
bought a case of Westralian claret in
Fremantle for 425. Ceylon Customs levy
was £lO.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Staging of Doris Fitton’s
witch-play at the Comedy, Melbourne,
has coincided with an outbreak of witch-
craft stories in the cables. The best
comes from South Africa, where a judge
was trying a native evil-eye case. Asked
whether she believed in witches a charm-
ing young native witness replied calmly:
“I am a witch.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Melbn”: The two Kilmore (Vic.) kids
who found 83 sovereigns worth £3OO in
a deserted house and were told that as
treasure-trove it belonged to the State,
which might reward them with a miserly
£lO, have had their faith in Governments
restored by three other children. They
were Premier McDonald’s, and they so
pestered their father to give the finders
all the money that that gentleman made
a gesture which will probably be worth
3000 votes to his party at the next
election.
* * * *
“Clooter” has been reading the papers:
Nobody will deny that the advent of the
Bellingen (N.S.W.) quads is big news, but the
hysteria of city dailies over the thing reached
the limit in newspaper childishness. From the
day it became known that the mother was to
have them it became a competition in tripe,
and at least two of the sheets ran columns of
stuff about how their reporters had been called
upon to “contact” their offices and arrange for
special newspaper planes to deliver all sorts of
things, from special cradles to barley-sugar, how
the stuff was “rushed” by special car to aero-
dromes (speed-limits seemingly ignored) and
“flown to the scene.” The sober citizen was
confronted with one poster, “First picture of
one quad,” then by a rival poster, “First picture
of two quads,” and so on, which turned out to
be pictures of nurses or parents holding a
bundle in which, presumably, a quad was
hidden. Reporters hovered around the hospital,
the parents, the nurses, the doctors, harrying
them as the Scythian cavalry harried the French
on the retreat from Moscow, and every gesture
they made or word they spoke was breathlessly
recorded and “rushed” to a waiting public. But
it was the obvious which got the real flaying:
The four infants “are being carefully cared
for”—“every precaution is being taken” —“fed
at three-hourly intervals” —“kept warm”—
“guarded against infection”—and so on, as
though anything to the contrary could occur.
I dips me lid to the parents, and wish that all
Australians could repeat their feat, for the
safety of the nation, but how I wish these
papers would treat these things as news, instead
of circulation competitions! One bright spot
in the whole blatant furore was the answer of
the proud mother when a cameraman wanted
her to kiss her husband “for a picture.’,’ “Not
in public,” she said, quietly and firmly, and
the waiting flappers of both sexes were denied
another “highlight.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Blind men and colors
(B. 2/8/’50)? An eye-operation caused
me to be blindfolded for five days and
taught me that a blind person—who has
known sight—still “sees.” Every voice I
heard seemed to photograph on my mind
a picture of the speaker. A boy in the
next bed was vjsited by his father. Hear-
ing the man talk, I felt I could see him.
A tall,, well-groomed man with mid-
brown hair brushed back, he had a fresh
complexion and the type of small
moustache that suited him. He wore a
blue serge suit with a very faint red
stripe. It wasn’t just that his voice re-
minded me of somebody who looked like
that —I could see him. Moreover, I can
still see him! When he had gone I
described the man to his son. The boy
laughed. “No,” he said. “He’s short
"tRy
'"W g\/ ,
Electro I
“Madame will find this rather alarming for a while."
and thick-set, and he was wearing pants
and a sports-coat.” Every nurse had her
particular image to me, but when the
bandage was removed not one looked
even remotely like the girl my mind had
pictured. Nor could I recoficile the
voices with their rightful owners.
Inanimate things were just as deceptive.
A utensil which was placed in my hand
to be used with the toothbrush puzzled
me. It seemed to be a complicated vessel
made in two parts, one within the other.
Sight revealed it to be a small enamelled
basin with an ordinary cup standing in it.
“Grise”: Can’t understand “Pawang’s”
difficulty (B. 2/8/’5O) in believing that the
“But we haven't GOT a ladder , Elsa.”
blind can distinguish color by touch. A
blind friend of mine claims a red flower
feels totally different from one of another
color, though I don’t suppose he counts
the vibrations to get the feel, any more
than we count them before we decide
whether we are seeing red or blue.
Apparently it’s all in the fingertips.
Those of us blessed with normal sight do
not have to cultivate our sense of touch ;
blind people do —some, no doubt, to a
greater degree than others.
* * * *
“Bo”: Whilst the batswing dress-
collar has moved into the aristo class as
to price, cross-breeding with austerity
cutting has watered down its pedigree
until it now looks —and acts —almost
like a sartorial mongrel. Manu-
facturers; once were compelled,- by
competition and a surfeit of the article,
to make the ironclad horror at least
amenable to discipline; nowadays they
stamp out things with uneven peaks and
almost indiscernible stud-holes. But the
worst feature is the abandoning of the
two rear slits under which one could
anchor the tie, happy in the knowledge
that even at the end of a night’s revelry
it would still be in place. With the collars
being churned out now the tie, if one
sneezes too robustly, is liable to shoot
up to the top of the collar. When I
asked the lordly being who condescended
to Sell me one whether they supplied a
bit of glue with the collar to keep it
down he loftily informed me that my
dress-shirt would have a loop for that
very purpose. I asked him to trot one
out. He did. No loop. May the manu-
facturer of my new slitless collar be
strangled by one of his own creations!
* * * *
“Mullum”: Re the suggestion in
“Sporting Notions” (B. 9/8/’5O) that the
phrase “thrown-out” should be reintro-
duced to cricket score-books, it is on
record that a batsman was given out “hat
knocked on wicket.” That was in 1843,
when C. G. Taylor was hit on the head
by a fast ball from Hillyer and his hat
fell on to the wicket. Perhaps that is why
the top-hat gave way to the cap as correct
cricket headgear,
* * * *
“Aestur”: Wisecracking judges (B.
26/7/’50)? An English journal recently
reviewed the “Mr. A. Case” of royal
blackmail; Lord Darling was judge, and,
the reviewer says, his constant efforts
to amuse the court by witticisms that
were both feeble
and irr e 1 an t
clearly drove both
the defending and
prosecuting counsel
to an exasperation
with difficulty regu-
lated to the
normal rules of
respect for the
Bench. Lord Dar-
ling it was who
received what the
legal profession claims to be one of the
neatest retorts of all, when he facetiously
asked counsel “Who is Mr. Robey?”
The rjgply came: “They call him the
Darling of the halls, my Lord.”
* * * *
“Bill Gee”: For years I had been in
the habit of giving my Bulletin, when
finished with, to old Healy up at the local
pub. More than once I heard one of the
regulars ask the old boy to pass it on
to him after he’d read it; Healy always
refused. Last month my old friend died.
On my way back from the funeral 1
dropped in at the local. As I was down-
ing one in memory of Healy the regular
sidled up to me. “Can I have your Bully
now, mate?” he asked.
* * * *
Walter W. Stone: Officially launched
this month by Sydney’s Lord Mayor, the
Roderic Quinn Memorial Fund is backed
by a number of Australian literary
societies and prominent citizens, b°
over 50 years Rod Quinn maintained a
steady flow of prose and verse to 1H
Bulletin as well as to other journals,
and he once proudly claimed that he wa
the only Australian poet to live by fJV
Muse alone. His memorial is to take tn
shape of suitable treatment of the P°®
grave, provision of a plaque m so
public building or other suitable P la ’
and a possible publication of a wot
while selection of his writings. To d°
this will take a lot of money, and
who feel that they can help the c
mittee are asked to get in touch wlt ”. ‘
Stone, Paraell-street, Sydney. Donati ,■
to the fund may be sent to H. F. >
hon. treasurer, 17? Elizabeth-8 '
Sydney.
ECCENTRICS.
“If a country is to produce great individuals it
must add to the Four Freedoms a fifth—the freedom
to be eccentric.” —Lord Russell, in farewell, giving
advice to young Australians,
To .be a mighty nation,
Lord Russell’s thesis is,
We must learn toleration
Of eccentricities:
Being flighty
Makes men mighty,
Thus our fate
Is to be great,
For, say disinterested aliens,
There’s none so strange as we Australians.
Take banking, for example—
When Ben, that social norm,
Said one bank would be ample,
What was our greasy form?
“Don’t be funny
With our money!”
“Many thanks—
We’ll keep our banks!”
You may remember, Ben was furious,
Saying, “Eccentric people! Curious!”
Take Rousseau’s Natural Manikin
Who had no roof or wall,
No knife, fork, plate or pannikin—
We’re not like him at all:
Grousing, grousing
Over housing,
Won’t eat grass, ’
Cook with gas.
Statesmen sigh, “We don’t doubt that you’re all
Australians, but you’re most unnatural!”
Some, though not s.-p. bookies,
Demand a telephone,
While others, offered “Luckies,”
Remark, “We’ll roll our own;
Tailored tips
Won’t touch our lips
Till they’re again
A zack for ten”
Short supplies, our spies report,
Result in many shingles short.
And thus, as a community
Eccentric altogether.
We have an opportunity
To tolerate each other;
Willy-nilly
We’ll be silly—
If our fate t
Is to be great,
We must somehow rid the nation
Of its “normal situation.”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Drong”: Surely no other Australian
playground contains such a hetero-
geneous assortment of statuary as that
spread over a wide area in Sydney’s
Centennial Park. A job lot apparently,
selected at random and bought in the dim
and distant past at the bargain-counter
of some statuary emporium presumably,
unless of course the collection was a
bequest. It comprises old-time statesmen,
Australian and American, celebrities
(extinct) in the realms of art and science.
pagan deities,
griffins, effigies re-
presenting the
seasons, and
persons, unlabelled,
real or imaginary.
Three of these at
the lower end of
the park are on
pedestals so high
that you get a
crick in the neck
attempting to find
out who or what
they represent.
One is of a lady.
clad in a loincloth, with an infant at her
feet. Propriety may, in the Victorian
era, have demanded a pedestal like that
for her, but why the woman clad in the
flowing garments of Biblical times should
also be skied is an enigma. Beside a
footpath two soldiers of the American
civil war are depicted in action, appar-
ently making a last stand. This contri-
bution to the ornamentation of the park
is entitled “One More Shot.” Vandals
have been unable to resist the invitation,
and it has been badly knocked about.
* * * *
“Fitz” remembers:
Fifteen years ago and more I spent many a
lively hour in the saloon-bar of Bateman’s
Hotel, a few doors from The Bulletin office,
m company with Andree Hayward, J. B. Higgin-
son, then The Bulletin’s sporting writer, and
P r - F. J. Bridges, who wrote on medical sub-
jects for the paper under the nom-de-plume of
General Prac.” While the woolbuyers and
shipping men who were the bar’s main
customers talked of clips and cargoes, my
companions would yarn at the sunny end of
the counter, mostly about literary subjects.
Hayward and Higginson shared a liking for
the verses of Kipling and Henley and for the
writings of such virile English journalists as
G. R. Sims, who was “Dragonet,” and who
wrote the “Mustard and Cress” column in the
old London “Referee,” Henry Labouchere of
London “Truth” and John Corlett, editor of
the “Pink ’Un,” the nickname for the London
Sporting Times.” It was from them that I
about that famous trio who made the
Pink ’Un” one of the moft popular weeklies
ot its time—“ Captain Contango,” “Uncle Toby”
and “Long Hill.” On other literary subjects
the pair were often in disagreement, but no
matter how fierce the verbal duel Hayward was
always his calm, courteous self. At the height
ot the argument Bridges would somehow
manage to steer the explosive Higginson into
another avenue of talk, and peace would be
restored. On other occasions Hayward would
act as peacemaker. When Higginson was
*?/?vely dying in a sanatorium at Springwood
UN.S.W.) Bridges often drove Hayward and
myself up the Blue Mountains to see him. I
remember our last visit, Bridges mildly but
unthinkingly twitting Higginson as we were
leaving about some rough justice dispensed by
Higginson when he was a magistrate under
C. A. W. Monckton in Papua. It was Hayward
who headed off the expected spirited retort by
Higginson by gently remarking that circum-
stances created a wide difference between justice
as handed out in a Sydney court and in a
court in the Papuan jungle, and that the same
“Never mind what happened —FIND THE KEY!"
might be said of medicine as practised in a
Sydney suburban surgery and in a Papuan
village. On the run back to town Bridges
thanked Hayward for his kindly intervention.
We never saw Higginson again. He died a fort-
night later, and a few years after Bridges
followed him to the grave. When I last visited
Hayward at his Cremorne (N.S.W.) home he
spoke in affectionate terms about his two
companions and recalled our last trip to
Springwood.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: Any Australian author
with a flair for writing thrillers has a plot
ready to hand in the desperate peanut-
running gangs of the Queensland border.
The Peanut Pirates of Watchers of the
Peanut Trail has all the materials of a
best-seller —peanuts “kept under observa-
tion,” trucks “slipping through the
guard,” night-watches .on the Warwick
road, inspectors disguised as possums and
hiding in trees, the reckless risks of the
peanut-runners and the frantic plots to
hide the contraband goods, to say nothing
of armed peanut-farmers patrolling their
plants at night. And the big-shot of law
enforcement, the Edgar G. Hoover of the
peanut war, Adennann, M.H.R. and
chairman of the Peanut Board, swearing
to bring the offenders to justice and firmly
railing the captured peanuts back to their
rightful place in the Kingaroy silos.
Next time you buy a bag of the things or
listen to somebody crackling them in a
picture-show, think of the grim sights and
sounds in the dark of night on the
Queensland border and chew more slowly
and soberly, for some bold officer or
outlaw has risked his freedom so that
you may chew in peace.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Sydney must be just about
the most credulous and gullible town in
all Australia. - The other day somebody
started a rumor that, owing to the
Korean affair, blankets would be short,
cotton goods, sugar, petrol and sundry
other items would be rationed, the Gov-
ernment printing-office was working over-
time printing ration-books. Though the
Acting Prime Minister denied repeatedly
that there was any intention of rationing
anything, there was a mad rush to the
shops, and people went away under loads
of blankets, cotton goods, sugar and a
lot of other things, which will probably
be hoarded until the scare dies down. It
was a grand thing for the stores, who’ve
found business dropping off a bit lately,
and it is typical of the nation’s biggest
city, which seems to have an outsize
supply of selfish citizens whose motto is
“I’m grabbing what I can and hang you,
Jack.”
Sf * * #
“K.”: Believing there’s life in the old
dog yet, I would quote two country
youngsters from South Australia, sons
of old Light Horse stock, who lately have-
been holidaying in Sydney for the first
time. Age?—the prime of life in mid-
twenties. Their fathers were well enough
off to have given them the money for a
holiday; but no, they said, “That wasn’t
the way we did it, and there’s lots of
casual work: go and earn your spree.
You can take the old car.” So off they
set, did a fortnight in a boiler-room at
“WHAT an operation!”
Redcliffs, then a fortnight on a vineyard
at Rutherglen, where the boss stopped
them working the last day and told them
to go and clean up and he’d shout them
a dinner in Then to Sydney, and
they spent a fortnight in a goods-store
shifting goods: “We got very good letters
of reference when we left.” Stayed with
some relatives. Then pushed off to Mel-
bourne, en route home, probably to do
some more odd jobs on the way, but any-
way to be in time for Melbourne’s country
golf week, where one of them at least will
be known without any introduction. As
an improvement on hitchhiking, their —
the old Australian —way deserves to be
given a boost. There must be a few
fellow-Australians along their route who
think so, too.
* * * *
“Sackville-street”: An old hobby that
went out of fashion, only to return in a
new guise, is the working of cattle-horn.
Remember when a spreading pair,
polished and bound across the skull with
red or purple velvet, was mounted over
the chimney-breast in every second
home? The modem variation of the
craft is fashioning horns into ornamental
ships and shoes and seals and such, in-
cluding happy-looking, sharks, stolid
penguins and fiercesome eagles. Horn is
surprisingly easy to work —and with tools
available to everybody: a hacksaw, sharp
knife, sheet of sandpaper and an
imaginative mind. Polishing is a simple
operation: scrape, sandpaper, then
massage vigorously with a paste made
of whiting and kerosene or vinegar. A
word of warning: the solid end of cattle-
horn, although reasonably easy to saw,
can’t be bored—with an ordinary nail-
bit. Grease it or oil it, but the bit will
still “seize” in the compact fibre. Yet
a nail can be punched through! The
reason for the contradiction seems to be
that the horn is not very tough, but is
extremely close-textured; the friction
on the bit generates heat which causes
fibre and steel to bind together, to the
ruination of the bit —-and the user's
temper.
♦ * * *
“Rooster”: I’m not exactly a fresh-
air fiend, but it beats me how people
can sit in a crowded smoking-compart-
ment with all doors and windows closed.
Travel on any suburban train during
winter and you’ll receive ugly glowerings
if you so much as make a move towards
opening a window. Cold air contains a
natural quota of reasonably pure oxygen,
good for the lungs and anathema to
viruses and bacteria. Exclude it and your
chances of dodging any one of the seven
different types of
’flu now prevalent
will be remote.
You fall asleep
in a railway-
carriage full of
smoke-fumes and
carbon dioxide
for the same
reason as you do
so in front of a
fire — lack of oxygen. Oxygen is the first
thing you’re given when you’re out to it
on the operating-table, but apparently it
is the last thing people look for while
they’re healthy.
* # * #
“Skewbald”: There is no accounting
for sense of humor. In the Gippsland
hills X was told the story of a suicide. An
old couple married 40 years or more had
always fought and quarrelled. One day
the old woman so enraged the old man
that he knocked her down. In falling she
struck her head on the corner of the
hearthstone and he, after vain attempts to
resuscitate her, thought she was killed.
He went out into the barn. The old
woman recovered consciousness about 20
minutes later, picked up the poker and
went to look for him. She found him in
the barn, hanging from a rafter.
Although this happened many years ago
the man who told me the story thought
it was funny. He was one of the sons.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Stock joke at) the Mint is that
no free samples are given to visitors. I
must have been the exception. Back in
1912 I was sent to the Mint in a four-
wheeled cab to collect £4O in pennies. On
getting back to my suburban-branch
bank I took a hammer and chisel and
began to open up the four boxes of
coppers; they were strongly made and
bound with steel-tape. When I peeled
back the tape off the first box I found
three bright - new “tray - bits.” The
authorities at the Melbourne Mint
assure me that such a thing could not
happen today; in 1912, pennies and
threepences all came from London.
Perhaps I should remit ninepence, plus
25 per cent, exchange and interest at, say,
four per cent, for 38 years, to Stafford
Cripps. Then again I had better not; the
lad responsible for losing those three
coins in 1912 may be master of the Royal
Mint now. Td hate to embarrass him.
THE CAUTIOUS AMORIST.
“Widower (twice), middleaged, tidy, likes dancing,
dog-racing would correspond widow 30-35 similar
testes, view mat. Send photos.”— Agony ad.
Already, twice,- he’s run in double-harness;
Conjugal life for him’s the only one.
Once again he’s contemplating
Possibilities of mating; .
The ball-and-chain he deems a benison.
He announces that he’s back in circulation,
A prize for any woman to procure,
He’s as safe as a debenture
For a matrimonial venture —
His experience has been ample, that is sure.
He’s obviously well domesticated;
He’s been, in racing parlance, broken-m
(Though never his admission
That this same was his condition,
That he’d ever bowed to wifely discipline).
Tis often with such Benedicts, one gathers—
In freedom they’ll not revel off the chain,
But eventually their reaction
Is to get the satisfaction
Of having collars buckled on again.
A book, a pipe and slippered ease in armchair
Beside a fire would put him in the dumps.
He’s gregarious of habit
And as nimble as a rabbit .
On the dance-floor, as he hoofs it in his
pumps.
So, in advance he duly gives a warning:
She who’d aspire to be his bride-elect
Must “trip the light fantastic”
With a step enthusiastic —
Flat feet will prove so fatal a defect.
As well, she’d be expected to be urging,
On nights Terpsichore gives not the call,
To greater speed some skinny
Mong who’s chasing hare that’s tinny,
And on which her spouse has plunged his
nearly-all. .
Whether he’d supply the dough for both their
punting,
Or if to her that privilege he’d allot,
Is a point for cogitation
Or for keen negotiation
(If he’s prudent) ere the parson ties the knot.
That he is canny one may take for granted—
Simply con the final message in his ad.!
No risks, you’ll note, he’s taking
That a union he’ll be making
With a bride who might be older than his
Dad
Or whose face bore some resemblance to a
gargoyle’s.
A likeness he would have the lady give;
A condition which to many
Makes their chances ten a penny—
With, of course, the answer in the negative.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Boree”; We ran into him on the
“tin-hare” between Dubbo and Bin-
naway, returning west after his first visit
to Sydney. He seemed to be particularly
impressed by the automatic scales at
Circular Quay, which he claimed he tried
out while waiting for a ferry one Sunday
afternoon. He was amazed, he said, to
receive a card which, besides his weight.
contained the in-
formation that he
was a country
visitor on a
pleasure jaunt to
Manly. Several
times he tried the
machine, each
time with the
same result. In
answer to our
condescending ex-
planation that all
the cards were
probably printed
that way, he
maintained that
a bystander whom he persuaded to try
the gadget each time received a card
containing the appropriate information
that he was a Manly resident returning
home from the city. He stuck to his story
and even insisted that the two in despera-
tion eventually stood on the scales to-
gether, and he produced in support a
plain white card which he swore was the
result. It read “You pair of bloody
fools! You’ve missed your boat.” We’re
still wondering,
* * ♦ *
“Old Bushman”: Had to go to Mans-
field (Vic.) to learn that the Kellys have
a memorial. It is a magnificent obelisk
in the centre of the main street, and it’s
known only as the “Kelly Monument”
or “Ned Kelly’s Memorial.” Yet if you
read the inscription you find it was
erected to the memory of Sergeant
Michael Kennedy and two mounted
constables who were shot dead by a
“band of lawless armed criminals” in
the near-by Wombat Ranges in 1878.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Admired Sid Black’s
realistic portrayal of tent-life (B. 2/8/’5O),
but he raiswW €*lf on that hurricane-lamp
swung from the ridge-pole. That’s one
place where a hurricane-lamp would be
useless to a bloke lying in bed reading,
since the shadow cast by the wide base
would cover practically the whole of the
tent at bed-level. Moreover, there’s
going to be a mighty grim argument
about who’s going to get out on to the
wet floor to douse the blanky glim. Still,
it might be as safe a place as any for it —
it wouldn’t get knocked over, / thought
it was a good place to park an electric
bulb —once. Being in an engineers’ unit
we had a lighting plant, and, against
orders, I strung some lines between the
tents. It wasn’t until two tents had gone
up in smoke and the third was on the
way that we discovered the cause. The
globes were hung from the towel-rope —
the ridge-pole was between the tent and
the fly—and during the day damp towels
were hung over them. If the tent-crew
was absent when the lights came on at
dusk the heat from the globe set the
towel smouldering, and a slight breeze
did the rest.
* • ♦ *
“Old-timer”: In other days there used
to be meeting-places for coves on the
track —the bridge at Wagga, Moama, the
“bushman’s home” at Wellington, Pinkie
Bend (Mildura), the Gol Gol pub. South
Forbes, Ungarie, Coonabarabran and
scores of similar places in every State
where the bagmen camped in empty
houses or delicensed pubs or river-bends
or showgrounds or anywhere where there
was shelter from wind and rain and a
convergence of roads brought the
trampers in. In these spots they gathered
and there was g swapping of news and
yarns and a lot of humor, and men did a
bit of washing and cleaned themselves up
generally and prospected the nearby
town for beer and tucker and an odd job.
“Full employment” has changed it all,
and the only camps you find now are of
long-distance truck-drivers or • fellows
contracting, and if you travel the coves
you run into are too busy chasing big
money to stop for a yarn, and most of
them travel by motor-car and aeroplane.
I suppose it’s all for the good, and
stomachs are full and bodies well-clothed
and pockets jingle with silver, but some-
how you miss the lazy good-nature of
the camps and the coves who’d share
their tucker and tobacco, and above all
the humor and the yarns. The whole
blessed continent seems to be so busy
chasing dough that it hasn’t time to tramp
or camp or think and talk, and I wouldn’t
mind betting that’s what’s wrong with
the poetry and prose of Australia today ;
and I sometimes think nostalgia for the
old days, when a man could put up a
drum and go where he liked at his own
pace, is partly behind what the news-
papers call “these industrial troubles.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were on a train
meandering out from Adelaide into the
“It gives us a vocalist , too !”
Pinnaroo scrub country, the day was
blinding hot, the compartment full,
progress slow and tempers on edge. At
some forsaken siding in the desert a
little, wire-whiskered man, shedding dust
and ingratiating grins, wedged himself in
among us, wiped sweat from his brow,
looked at Mat and said “G’day, mate.”
Mat scowled at him and grunted. The
little chap spoke to me and I answered
distantly, a reception he got from the
rest. He tu/ned to Mat again. “Got t’
pick up a cobber o’ mine at Lameroo,
he confided. “We’re goin’ over t’
Victoria for a bit of an ’oliday. Fumiy
bloke, he is, but I like ’im. Full o’ funny
idears. You know what he done?
“No,” Mat snapped, “an’ I don’t ruddy
well care.” “Well,” said the little man,
unabashed, “he’s had two dozen bottles
o’ beer in the cooler all night, an’ when
he gets in we’ll have it t’ start our ’oli-
day.” He looked round apologetically.
“Looks like I belter find another com-
partment,” he said. “Be a bit of a job
gettin’ him in here.” That’s all there is to
this yarn, except that by the time the
train hit Lameroo we had made room in
MO
«£•
“Hullo, Surge. How's business ?”
that compartment for one more pas-
senger. No happier group of passengers
ever landed at Pinnaroo.
» >♦ * •
“Lower Tops’l”: Tuna don’t frequent
Tasmanian waters in the numbers
imagined. A four-month survey around
the island by A. M. McKay, of Devon-
port, in the 45ft. fishing-vessel Buda,
resulted in only eight fish, despite the use
of the very latest American plastic lures.
Local canneries have now abandoned the
idea of catching the big fish as a dollar-
earning product.
* * ♦ ♦
“M.S.”: Though it is common for a
dog to open his mouth in home defence,
and even for a mUd-mannered feline to
send fur flying if a stranger ventures on
her private precinct, I’ve never seen the
same spirit displayed so strongly in a
horse as it is in Ben’s brown. In the sale-
yards paddock, or the pub yard, the
apologetic old dumper is always the butt
of other nags. Away from home, no
sooner is he turned in with others than he
becomes the quarry in the coursing-
match that follows. On his home ground
things are different. For years the
dumper has run in the same clover-
paddock, furnished with a tumble-down
hut against which he shelters in bad
weather. Other kinds of animals are
tolerated there, but should a horse enter
it is immediately attacked in a savage
effort to drive it out again. Recently
the district’s No. 1 horse-bully was
loosed in the clover during a noonday
spell. Instantly war was declared, the
broken-down dumper charging in an
assault so determined that the other gave
ground until he became wedged
in a comer. The all-in stoush that
followed would have ended in another
famous victory for the dumper if the
rails in the corner hadn’t broken and
allowed the visitor to escape.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Mention of turkey-
breeder A. G. Zwar at Broadford (Vic.)
(B. 31/5/’5O) recalls that he now rears
a 201 b. broad-breasted turkey in 20
weeks instead of the normal 30. It’s done
by special feeding evolved by himself,
biit what has him tricked still is the
feathering. He has only reduced this by
three weeks, so that there’s a lag of seven
weeks as for market; immature birds,
when plucked, are not the required
white, because of the quill pigments
going back into the skin.
* ♦ * *
“Horseless H.”: Old Smithers from
Wiregrass blew down to the city with a
record wool-cheque, and, paying cash for
the biggest Rolls-Royce he could find,
directed the sales-
man to fit a glass
division along the
back of the front
seat, “the same
as they had in
the old - time
taxis ...” Sales
tried to talk him
out of it: There
would be an in-
evitable delay, it wasn’t an essential, etc.
“Not an essentual?” vociferated Smithers.
“How else am I going to stop my dogs
licking the back of my neck?”
* * ♦ ♦
“Chuck”: Barney was on the draft-
ing-gate giving Dan a hand to sort a few
ewes, and the jummies weren’t running
very well. They fought the dogs, balked
in the race, and charged out of the
forcing-yard. Dan was urging them with
kicks, cuffs and curses when Dan Junior
arrived to help. The kid laid into the
ewes right and left. “G’on, you blasted
blankers,” he yelled lustily. The sheep
surged into the small yard, the kid follow-
ing into the gateway. “G’on, you blasted
blankers,” The words reached his old
man. Dan Senior paused ominously,
strode back to the forcing-yard, and
landed the youngster a clip on the ear.
“Ain’t I told y’ about that before? he
reminded angrily. “What sort o’ bloke
d’ y’ think y’ll grow inter?” He stamped
back towards Barney. “That’s what
comes o’ sendin’ the blasted little wanker
t’ that blasted blank school,” he snorted.
“Gets mixin’ with a lot o’ blasted
blankers, an’ before y’ know what
blank well' happened, the blasted lit
blanker’s picked up some blanky ha
language! ”
* ♦ ♦ *
“En B.”: One trap held a dead rabbit
Ten yards away another trap held.a u
rabbit, uninjured, while, only Bft. dista»
a big dog fox plunged in a third tr P-
The tracks in the white dust told
story. Reynard had come along,
and killed the first rabbit and then
trotted over to the second. But inst
of killing it, the red bloke, who
probably full-fed, had begun to play -
the poor rodent. This consisted
springs at the rabbit, always stopping J
short, followed by backward leaps,
pleasant little exercise had gone on
some time, judging by the ring oi
tracks in a circle round the Victim,
last Reynard had put just a httle
much style into one of his Tear
gambols, and had put a f° ot J? \uhit
set at the neighboring burrow. The i
died, apparently from shock and te r »
as I released him.
THE BLISTERED BUNYIP.
[The author’s apology for this outburst appears on
the Personal page in this issue.]
Behind the Buies of Ballarat,
The Bricklies of Banemore,
Or roaming Warrnambool the flat
Or sleeping in a hatter’s hat, .
In rather less than more —
The Blistered Bunyip can be found
The first night of the moon,
Provided that you make no sound —
Provided, too, you salt the ground
With nutmegs in a spoon.
His locomotive powers are such,
He comes up unawares;
His feet are rather less than much,
He has a most exclusive touch,
When climbing up the stairs;
His coat is black, or else it’s white—
At times it may be grey—
Depending on the kind of light
There is, and also on your sight,
And what is in the way.
His call is like a Banshee’s wail —
That’s when he’s fully grown—
A cross between a whistling snail
And driving home a ten-inch nail—
A terrifying tone;
His crunch is critical to hear.
At least so it is said.
You have to go so very near
His teeth —it trickles in your ear
Whenever he is fed.
His claws have got a nasty curve,
The edges, too, are rough;
He only holds them in reserve,
His face can usually unnerve
His enemies enough.
And yet he is a kindly soul,
For sympathy he yearns;
It’s just because from pole to pole
All people shun him, on the whole,
That his resentment burns.
If you should take him by the beard
And woo him tenderly—
But not as if his bite you feared
(If you would make yourself endeared) —
He’s humble as a bee.
At least —so local gossips state —
If gossips you can trust; *
I’ve never met a man to date
Who actually had tried his fate,
Confess the fact I must.
The only thing—and this is that
Upon the Bricklies of Banemore,
Or by the Buies of Ballarat,
Or roaming Warrnambool the flat,
In rather less than more —
If you should be out late at night,
And all around seems dank and dead.
And in the darkness something light
Appears and makes you prick with fright —
Don’t wait —go home to bed.
HOLLYWOOD, U.S.A.
RICHARD GODDARD.


0
A
Well, our chat
about portables
has aroused quite
a bit of interest,
and we have re-
ceived many
letters from readers relating to their ex-
periences with portable receivers, both
old and new. One of the most unusual
was from our old friend Bill of Battery
Flat, who never seems to miss an oppor-
tunity of writing in about any obscure
points.
Bill says that a friend of his has a
Mullard Portable radio, and when often
out in the bush uses it in the sulky to
find his way home much like the wireless
direction-finders in ships and aircraft.
Bill would like to know how reliable this
would be. Well, Bill, it is true with a
Mullard Portable radio you can tell in
which line your local broadcast station
is because as you rotate the portable,
there will be two positions of minimum
volume and two of maximum volume.
Where there is a minimum, the end of the
portable is pointed to the station. The
only problem is how do you know which
end of the portable points to the station
and if this cove in the sulky does not
watch out, one of these days he will
finish up many miles in the opposite
direction.
To find out which end points at the
station is a little more involved, and we
will come to that later. All this, of
course, bearing in mind that you can
identify the actual station you are listen-
ing to. This is difficult enough on most
receivers, but even more so when there
are hook-ups and a number of stations
transmitting the same programme—you
must remember there are 140 broadcast
stations in Australia. As far as the
Mullard Portable is concerned, Bill, there
is no problem in identifying your station
as all of these Australian stations are
clearly marked on the dial, and what is
more they are grouped for each State
and the major stations are shown in
larger type and a different colour.
If you have not seen the new Mullard
Portable with its colour scheme of rich
blue plastic and iridescent aluminium,
we will certainly forward you a photo-
graph, postcard size. This shows clearly
all the station names, and we will leave
the colour to your imagination. You
will see from this photograph there is a
shutter over the dial which automatically
turns the receiver on or off, this is a great
thing in conserving batteries and a pro-
tection to the dial itself.
We seem to have wandered off this
business of direction-finding, and to finish
up we might say this phenomenon of the
volume becoming louder and softer as
the receiver is rotated can be usefully
used as an additional boost for weak
stations or even as a “volume control,
and incidentally, to find which end it is
that points to the station, we will forward
you instructions of how this can be done
if you care to write to Box 2118 G.P.O.,
Sydney, — advt.
“Bo”: I hadn’t seen old Ned, who is
a bachelor cocky, for some years, and
when I dropped in on him he was put-
ting some steak through the mincer. His
fat old dog took nearly half a minute to
get up from an old mat in the corner to
Took me over. After the greetings Ned
went back to his mincer. “The steak I
get from the
butcher’s i s
that tough I
couldn’t chew
it, me havin’
no tomb-
stones,” h e
said, “so I put
it through this
so I can
swal le r it.”
“Why don’t
you get your-
self a set of
crockery,
Ned?” I asked.
“You aren't
stuck for a few bob, and you could eat
anything once you got used to them.’
The old bloke shook his head. “I did
think o’ gettin’ ’em a while back,” he
said, “but old Toby here, he’s 15 now an’
he’s only got a few dice left himself, and
I couldn’t get him a set, an’ what I can’t
get for him I don’t get for meself. So
I bought a mincer, an’ the both of us can
use it. If I’d have got a set o’ tatts for
meself I couldn’t have offered Toby the
use of ’em —they wouldn’t ha’ fitted
him.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’m not going to
argue about “the psychological qualities
of firm chins” (B. 2/8/’5O)—my wife has
one. But I’ll stand firm on eyes. In
Baalbek, “the pearl of the Lebanon,” 1
once turned a corner and came suddenly
face to face with a bevy of veiled Muslim
women. Only the eyes were visible, yet
in that brief moment I gained an impres-
sion of apprehension, curiosity and, from
the youngest of the bunch, potential mis-
chief. How did I know she was the
youngest? I’d say by the expression in
her eyes.
* * * *
“Wippegong” j The N.S.W. western
rivers are out over their banks, and here
am I stuck in the hills, dreaming of it.
Lake Narran is full, and the brown
carpet of duck that covered it when I
was there last will be scattered out over
the miles of water that now gives greater
scope for feeding. The wild pigs will be
hunted out into the open as the water
covers the lignum flats where they usually
hide, and Dud’s rifle will be cracking
loud and often as the pests show up near
the sheep. The old abo. fish-traps at
Brewarrina will be so far under water
that they’ll make never a ripple, and
there will be no sign at all of the ribs
of the Wandering Jew —last of the up-
river boats —which rests near by. If Jock
got in from the Culgoa before the waters
got out he’ll be quietly poking about
and watching how the wet season affects
the birds, while Fred will be laying the
odds as to how high the water will rise,
or how long the flood will keep the
blokes from the mill off the booze if they
“Look, darling—a six-page letter from Mother !”
didn’t beat it to town, or on it if they
did. On the Marthaguy, Long Bob will
maybe watch the yellow tide creep out
beyond the river-gums towards the
shearers’ huts, will grin to himself to
see his house snug above any flood-level,
then catth a horse and jog out to see if
the stilts have come back to the long
lagoon behind the wilga paddock. There
will be no great flocks of birds ; they will
be spread with the waters —teal and
herons will rise from water-tables where
in normal years there is only dust. But
when the wet passes and the surface
dries there will arise a carpet of color —
miles of magenta, or white, or gold ; and
those who _see the west only then will
find it hard to picture it as a desert,
while those who have seen it in drought
will again wonder at the amount of seed
that can live through the lean years.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: X liked that item by “S.
Gums” (B. 26/7/’5O) on Arabs catching
the crocodile by means of a spring that
expanded in the saurian stomach. Some
20 years gone I watched a professional
crocodile-catcher, with an order for the
Perth Zoo, trap a big bull in a palisade
snare. In this trap the crocodile was in-
duced to walk up between a double line
of stakes, narrowing at the bait-end, to
sample the cadaver of a dog that should
long before have been buried. On grip-
ping the bait the croc, touched off a
trigger which kept a big stone suspended,
the stone in its fall drawing tight a strong
noose, through which the saurian had to
pass to reach the tempting titbit. With
the croc, thus held, suspended literally
on tiptoe, it was a comparatively simple
matter to pass around behind its forelegs
a surcingle fitted with two long strong
ropes, one on each side. With about 10
men on each rope we (the palisades being
removed) proceeded to bring the captive
from the edge of the gulf swamp to
higher ground and an isolated pool. It
taxed the strength of 20 strong men to
get that 18ft. croc, to where it was
wanted. The scaly one’s idea was to
return to salt-water, and occasionally he
would start back. At other odd moments
he had the idea of giving his tormentors
a flick with his tail. Ultimately we got
him where we wanted him, but so badly
injured by his frantic plunges and our
resistance was the croc, that he died a
week later from internal injuries. Con-
cealing a spring in food to be gulped
down by the prospective quarry originated
in yarns about the Eskimo, who was said
to freeze a spring of whalebone in a lump
of blubber, cast it out on the ice, to be
picked up by the Polar bear: the blubber
then melting in the ursine stomach, with
the result that the Eskimo ultimately
dined on bear cutlets.
* * * *
“Kelras”: An importation which has
made itself at home in W.A. and is well
on the way to becoming a paying boarder
is the lucerne-tree. Of South American
origin, it is a Melaleuca, which means, I
take it, that it’s a sort of distant cousin to
some of our tea-trees. This may explain
why it has established itself so readily.
Its seeds are rather like wattle-seeds, but
they apparently germinate more readily
and, having struck, the seedling shows’a
tenacity, even in dry conditions, which
would do credit to a native. It is used as
a hedge and serves as well as some
shrubs, but, left to itself, it grows to a
height of 20ft.-30ft, and is an acquisition
to any poultry-run. But its chief value
lies in its honey-flow. It flowers heavily
and for a long period, and provides the
best-flavored honey in the West. A small
percentage of it in a hive completely
obliterates all trace of the eucalyptus
flavor which is characteristic of bush-
honey.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Neither science nor
“Rooster” (B. 2/ 8/ ’5O) need travel very
far back in Australian history to find
where whole populations lived for years
on quite saltless water without experi-
encing any ill-effects. The first water
drunk at Coolgardie (W.A.) came from a
couple of distant soaks, which soon
threatened to run dry. An ingenious
Perth plumber thereupon evolved the
“condenser.” Salt-water from deep
underground was evaporated in a big
iron boiler and caught up as steam in a
series of cooling-tubes, generally of
galvanised-iron 6in. in diameter and
hundreds of feet long, and so recondensed
into pure waler. This, of course, was
practically ffee from salt, though
chemical analysis might find a trace. It
was curiously “flat” in taste, and, to the
new arrival, mildly revolting. When the
population of Kalgoorlie-Boulder grew to
20,000, the amount of drinking-water
thus distilled ran to hundreds of
thousands of gallons weekly. There were
a score of so of smaller camps outback
which also depended for drinking-water
on the condenser. This distilling of water
to serve a large population was an epic
of adventurous industry that should never
be left out of any record of Australian
history. Without the condenser the
Boulder mines might never have been
developed.
* * * *
“Eurunburra”: Had just shunted the
last shivering Jersey, and stood watching
the floodwaters creep across the flats
when a couple of foxes sneaked out of
a sacchaline bed. Distastefully picking
their way through the puddles they made
for the high ground on the bank of the
drain. To reach the bush at the back
of me, three courses were open to them:
to swim the swamp, cross the busy high-
way and skirt the village, or cross a
neighbor’s culvert and run the gauntlet
between our respective homesteads, which
were only 300 yards apart. Reckoning
the last choice the best bet I grabbed the
gun and .22 and took up a strategic possie
between both homes. For a moment it
looked as if they’d chance the highway
traffic, but a slug from the .22 plumped
into the water well ahead of them de-
cided the point, and they shot across the
culvert and came racing, heads down to
a gust of wind and rain, straight for
where I crouched. They weren’t 20 yards
off when I pulled the triggers, only to get
two clicks and miss the chance of a life-
time. That cannon was loaded; and
with British-filled shells from the first
box of any sort to come my way for 20
months. Later I tried a dozen more
cartridges and only one went off, and it
coughed apologetically, vomiting the shot
a few feet from the muzzle. Sporting
cobbers tell me that mine isn’t an
isolated case. For a while I felt like a
kid that had been sold a crook
lot of crackers, but only until I
managed to give the balance of the box
to an s.-p. bookie who wanted to do a bit
of illicit turkey-shooting, and had to
travel 60 miles to do it.
* * * *
“Blime”: When Charlie’s dog pegged
out the old coot found life so lonesome
that Cockie Simpson spared him one of
the mongs off the farm. Scratch settled
in all right, shared Charlie’s scran and
daily pottering, but every night he woke
the old bloke up again as soon as he
went to sleep. Charlie did what he could
about it. He tried sitting up longer after
tea to talk to the dog, he left a fire burn-
ing, and he put a bag down for the mong
in front of the coals. It was no use.
Scratch still persisted in his barking.
Heavy-eyed and weary, Charlie sought
Cockie Simpson, but he could offer no
explanation, and probably the problem
would
never
have
been
solved if
Cockie
hadn’t
dropped
in on the
old bloke
a couple
of nights
later.
Chari had just got to sleep, and the
visitor watched as Scratch lifted his head,
growled, then, going to the bunk, barked
his new boss into wakefulness. “Get what
I mean?” said Charlie, spotting his
visitor as he sat up. “What’s he do it
for?” “Well, y’ see,” explained Cockie,
“before I give ’im to you, Scratch was
always me pig dog. The flamin’ pigs was
always gettin’ out, an’ soon’s Scratch
heard one where it shouldn’t be, his job
was t’ go after it'an’ put it back inter the
pig-paddick. No, I —er I dunno
what y’ c’d do about it,” puzzled Cockie.
“ ’Less y’ try sleepin’ on y’r side.”
FIRST FLOWERING ALMOND.
Bride of the bitter weather,
Companion of the cold,
Bud and blossom together
Have broken winter's mould.
Over the austere branches.
Over the boughs they go,
Weightless avalanches
Of rippling rose and snow.
Despite the dark rain’s drumming,
The frost wind’s whip and sting,
Nothing shall stay their coming,
The shock-troops of the spring!
Calling bees by the dozen .
To work in their fields of white,
Fumbling and half-frozen,
Yet purring their delight.
Heaven grows black with anger,
And skies presage mishap
Bult something vaster, stronger,
Is there in the surging sap.
Some incontestable power
With neither fury nor sound
Keeps the appointed hour,
Draws strength from underground.
With trifling weapons taming
Winter’s impotent wrath,
It is Life the boughs are proclaiming
Triumphant over Death!
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


Safeguarding Estate Investments
demands this specialised \nowledge
/
pAMILIARITY with legal requirements,
investment values, taxation and property
details is a paramount responsibility of the
Executor or Trustee charged with the duty of
administering an estate involving commercial
or pastoral interests. Such knowledge is far
beyond individual capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified
by nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this
responsibility, and will act either jointly with,
or in place of v those who seek relief from such
onerous tasks. Charges are moderate; service
is most comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees”
the union trustee
COMPANY OP
AUSTRALIA LTD.
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St, Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at and Rockhampton
g 0,1 y rUSt£e compan y offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria. New South Wales and Queensland
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 389,492 7$ p.c. = 355,426 35,000 4,428,266
1941.. 384,589 7* „ „ 355,426 35,000 4,422,429
1942.. 377,162 7$ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 7$ „ „ 355,426 15.000 4,422,837
1944.. 879,823 7$ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,422,234
1945.. 384,777 7$ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,426,585
1946.. 387,755 7$ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,433,914
1947.. 393,293 7$ „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,446,781
1948.. 402,771 7| „ „ 367,237 25,000 4,457,279
1949.. 411,797 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,464,955
1950.. 426,542 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,487,376
Although the div, remained steady, the
price of the co.’s £25 shares paid to
£l2 10s. each advanced from £24 ss. to
£26 2s. in the market over the last 12
months. At the higher figure the return
is 3.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 4.5 p.c. on his
money counts on a 9 p.c. div., which
would call for £426,511, which is almost
exactly the amount of profit claimed last
term. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s profit
was a moderate 4.6 p.c. As more of
the bank’s loanable funds find employ-
ment with trade and industry, and the
proportion held by Government and
Government-bodies at very low, rates of
interest decreases, further improvement
in earnings can be expected. It should
be remembered, however, that the trad-
ing banks are still subject to a large
measure of central-bank control in rela-
tion to advances, interest rates, invest-
ments and the freezing of deposits, all
of which react in one way or another
upon earnings. The cost of conducting
business is still rising.
It was a combination of political,
psychological and economic developments
that sent the price of the scrip up. The
change of Government last December
spelt the death-knell of Labor’s attempt
to nationalise the private trading banks,
and produced a greater feeling of freedom
and improved public sentiment that were
reflected in an all-round strengthening
of security prices, and of bank scrip in
particular. In the economic field the
story was, and still is, one of expansion,
assisted by a vigorous policy of immigra-
tion, another good season—third in
succession—high prices, especially for
wool and other exports, inflow of capital
from overseas and buoyant, conditions in
internal trade.
The C.B.S.’s net earnings increased by
£14,745, reaching £426,542, or 9 p.c. on
capital, which was the best showing for
the last 20 years. Much of the profit,
and the improvement therein, appears to
have come from the investment basket.
Our improved terms of trade—export
prices have risen faster than import prices
—and the sharp rise in the volume of
overseas funds are the main support for
our current high-level of incomes and
costs. The effects upon the banking
structure are seen in the following com-
parison of the C.B.S.’s balance-sheet
figures:—
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £4,739,013 £4,739,013 £4,739,013
Notes .. .. 13,517 13,517 13,517
Deposits, etc.* 109,742,133 126,667,675 155,384,758
Due other banks 382,423 768,787 2,189,114
Liquids .. 77,438,204 90,711,107 114,319,400
Advances .. 40,171,727 43,445,013 48,173,616
Premises, etc. 1,001,541 1,041,441 1,186,736
Other assets.. 912,451 1,645,944 8,323,586
* Including provision for contingencies.
The bulk of the year’s increase of
£27,717,083 in deposits, etc., went into
low - interest - bearing liquids (up
£23,608,293), which include amounts
frozen on special account with the Com-
monwealth Bank (£46,350,000, up
£2,000,000), Treasury bills (£10,000,000,
up £4,500,000) and Government securities
up £12,860,230). Only
£4,728,630 went into additional advances
to trade and industry. The increase of
£1,420,327 in amounts due to other banks
is a temporary fluctuation, and the
growth of £1,677,642 in other assets is
due largely to hedging by importers
against possible appreciation in the
external value of the Australian pound.
When the books closed advances
amounted to only 31 p.c. of deposits, and
liquids were equal to 72.5 p.c. of liabilities
to the public. It is a very strong position.
The two most important developments
since the close of accounts are the Korean
incident and Australia’s dollar loan. It
is too early yet to say what repercussions
the Korean affair will have in the wider
sphere of international relations. Only
if large forces become involved will there
be a marked increase in inflationary
pressures.
Of more immediate importance is
Australia’s dollar loan (=£A44,642,857)
from the International Bank, which
has a currency of 25 years and
carries interest at 3} p.c., plus 1 p.c.
p.a. commission. Interest and sinking-
fund payments (together 7.4 million
dollars p.a.) begin on Sept. 1, 1955. The
declared intention is to use the new
dollars for purchase of capital goods and
other equipment, at present available
only in the dollar area, which are
urgently needed for development pro-
jects, both private and Governmental,
All sections of the economy, especially
the suppliers of heavy equipment, will
benefit directly or indirectly from the
spending of the money, and the banks will
get their share of the business. What the
results will be after the money is spent
will depend largely upon the extent to
which production, primary and secondary,
increases. The long-term benefits will
be gradual and cumulative, and should
be substantial, given balanced expendi-
ture. Some of the Government projects,
such as hydroelectric and large-scale
irrigation schemes, will take years to
complete.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 65,420 11 p.c. = 55,000 . 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 354,471
1942.. 63,162 11 „ „ 55,000 8,162 362,633
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
1944.. 61,96* 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 374,741
1945.. 72,562 11 „ „ 55,000 17,562 392,303
1946.. 56,184 11 „ „ 55,000 1,184 393.487
1947.. 23,584 11 „ „ 55,000 862,071
From inner reserves, £33,985 ~ 396,056
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. = 55,000 29,444 425,500
1949.. 104,638 13 „ „ 65,000 39,638 465,138
1950.. 87,918 13 „ „ 65,000 22,918 488,057
Despite a contraction of £16,720 in last
term’s profit figure, the 13 p.c. div. was
repeated with a comfortable margin, and
the price of the co.’s pound shares ad-
vanced from 555. to 695. in the market
over the last 12 months. The new sugar
agreement with the U.K. has brightened
the outlook for the industry in Aus-
tralia by providing for both increased
production and export sales. For the
next five years Britain has agreed to take
annually 600,000 tons of Australian raws
(200,000 tons more than the export quota
under the old international sugar agree-
ment), one half at a guaranteed price to
be fixed annually and the other half at
the price ruling in the London market,
where Empire producers enjoy a tariff
preference. Also, the Nov,, 1949, lift of
a halfpenny a pound in the local selling-
price of fines should help to stiffen re-
turns from an expanding home market.
Mill peaks have been lifted, too, but that
doesn’t mean much at the moment, be-
cause production (about 944,000 tons
raws last season) is still short of the new
target figure for the industry (1,100,000
tons p.a.).
Since 1938 wages in the industry have
increased by 75 p.c. for field workers and
73 p.c. for mill-hands, and prices for
equipment, fertiliser, etc., have rocketed,
too. To meet the increased operating
costs, millers and growers have had to
rely mostly upon the export market,
where, of recent years, returns have been
over £5 a ton better than in the home
market. For the 1949 season the figures
per ton were home consumption £23 10s.,
export £2B 155., pool £25 135., and over-
all average £26 14s. lOd. For the two
preceding seasons the overall average was
£25 19s. lid. and £24 18s. 9d. respec-
tively. For the current season a bigger
crushing and better export price are ex-
pected, which augurs well for the earn-
ings of growers and millers, subject, of
course, to what happens in connection
with costs, which are still rising. Aus-
tralia’s new dollar loan should help ease
the problem of farm and mill mechanisa-
tion.
Last term the co.’s two mills (they are
in the Bundaberg district) turned out
47,535 tons raws (down 7073 tons), the
drop being due to seasonal influences.
The refinery, which worked to capacity,
melted a slightly increased tonnage, and
the subsidiary, Bundaberg Distillery (in
the books at £64,591, or 60 p.c. of the
face-value of the scrip held), continues to
“do well.” The shrinkage in net earnings
was due almost entirely to extra provision
for depreciation (£32,164, up £16,228) —
it points to flexible operating effi-
ciency and alert management. The
£87,918 of profit claimed was second-
best in the co.’s history, being
17.6 p.c. on capital as against 20.9, 16.9,
4.7, 11.2, 14.5 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1944.
Of the 13 p.c. distribution, 8 p.c. is
labelled div. and 5 p.c. bonus —the
rose by any other name smells just as
sweet to the investor, who can see nothing
at the moment to endanger the 13 p.c.
For the 11 years to the close of accounts
in 1948 the distribution was steady at
11 p.c.
At 695. the pound shares, which have
always been popular in the market, give
an immediate return of 3.7 p.c. The
investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on his
money counts on the distribution reach-
ing 15 p.c,
Millaquin plans to assault the costs
problem by increased production and
further improvement in technical effi-
ciency. To these ends the mills are to
be expanded and modernised at an esti-
mated cost of £250,000; and the co. has
the money to finance the work:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors, etc.* 218,041 263,931 419,207 460,957
Final div. .. 87,500 37,600 46,000 45,000
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 301,901 291,932 801,629 318,009
Plantations, etc. 39,365 40,184 44,170 47,192
Railways, etc. 33,914 37,197 86,031 34,342
Stocks . , 131,559 103,232 141,641 126,293
Book debts .. 12,962 67,552 61,192 125,828
Investments .. 564,429 574,429 587,079 625,562
Cash .. .. 33,483 112,405 257,603 217,293
* Including taxation.
Investments include £509,102 of Govern-
ment securities, in addition to which there
is the large cash holding. The etcetera
in the creditors item includes unspecified
provisions for taxation and other contin-
gencies. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£588,514), or net amount of working
capital in the business, increased by £5206
last term, despite a net addition of
£17,693 to fixed assets.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £>£>£,
1940.. 21,920 8 p.c. = 20,161 1,759 57,971
1941.. 18,789 8 „ „ 20,160 56,600
1942.. 15,939 5J „ „ 13,860 2,079 58,679
1943.. 29,276 9 „ „ 22,681 6,595 65,275
1944.. 29,270 10 „ „ 25,201 4,069 69,344
1945.. 31,671 10 „ „ 25,201 6,470 75,814
1946.. 35,657 ll£ „ „ 28,987 6,676 82,490
1947.. 85,321 Hi „ „ 28,981 6,340 88,830
From tax provision, £5OOO .. .. 93,830
1948.. 34,431 11$ p.c. = 28,981 5,450 99,280
From deferred repairs reserve, £2000.. 101,280
1949.. 4,3666 12$ p.c. = 31,501 3,165 104,445
From deferred repairs reserve, £4000.. 108,445
1950.. 31,633 12i p.c. == 31,501 132 108,577
The Metropole, a popular rendezvous
for country visitors, has been one of
the best and most consistent dividend-
payers in the hotel group. Of the
£252,010 of capital, £117,000 is bonus
scrip, and a steady 10 p.c., plus special
distributions totalling £67,500, were paid
during the 20 years to 1929, followed by
divs. averaging 6.9 p!c. for the nine diffi-
cult years to 1938, and 10 p.c. for the
dozen years to the close of last accounts
The post-war boom in rural and urban
incomes, which has not'yet run its course
together with an expanding population
and “full” employment, has meant free
spending, a high level of guest occupancy
and brisk lounge and bar trade. The
gains, however, have been mostly offset
by a combination of controlled tariff
charges and rising wage and other costs
especially for foodstuffs. For the half’
dozen years to mid-1948 the dining-room
was operated at a loss. It has since
earned a small profit, thanks to a little
relief in tariff charges and expanding
turnover. One of the most perplexing
problems the management has had to
solve has been maintenance of a satis-
factory standard of service—the backbone
of goodwill in this class of business—the
difficulties of which have been greatly
increased by the 40-hour week and the
high level of staff turnover inseparable
from a sellers’ market for labor.
Too much importance need not be
attached to the slip of £3033 in last term’s
profit figure. It was due to expenditure
(amount not stated) on maintenance and
repairs, the need for which occurred in
previous years, but which could not then
be carried out, owing to shortages of
materials and manpower. As a partial
offset against this outlay, £4OOO was trans-
ferred from the provision for deferred
repairs and renewals, reducing it to
£lO,OOO, which is not included with re-
serves in the table. The 12i p.c. dividend
was maintained, although it called for all
but £132 of the £31,633 of profit claimed.
The customary £2OOO was allowed for de-
preciation and £19,675 (down £1100) was
set aside for the taxgatherer. The ratio
of profit to capital was 12.55 p.c as
against 13.7, 13.6, 14, 14.1, 12.5 and
11.6 p.c. back to 1944.
Although floods have created much
damage in some areas, another good
season- and continued high prices for
rural products are in prospect, which
augurs well so far as spending and hotel
turnovers are concerned. Still, it poses
new problems of costs in relation to
turnover, especially in the catering sec-
tion, where prices of foodstuffs have
recently rocketed. The bar and lounge
trade promises to remain the principal
contributor to net earnings.
The co. is well-ribbed financially; and
that means much so far as renovations
and renewals, also important elements
in goodwill, are concerned:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £252,010 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 11,054 11,110 9,869 10,373
Tax reserve .. 31,799 24,630 23,890 23,320
Final div. .. 18,901 18,901 21,421 21,421
Fixed assets.. 268,317 266,317 264,817 262,317
Stock . . 3,28 6 2,938 4,473 3,884
Book debts,
cash, etc... 146,994 152,674 156,844 169,499
At June 30 the more-or-less liquid sur-
plus amounted to £108,469 (up £2332), all
in Government securities and cash.
The market takes the long-term view
and prices the f.-p. pound shares at 465.
(41s. a year ago), giving an immediate
return of 5.4 p.c. on a 12j p.c. div. basis,
or 4.3 p.c, should the distribution drop
to 10 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 28s. 7d.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd, (Hobart)
To Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve*.
£ £ £ *
1942.. 30,768 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £2500 J
1,268 124,085
1943.. 36,145 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £6200 )
2,945 127,030
1944.. 89,367 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £B4OO J
8,967 185,997
1945.. 41,406 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £B6OO f
5,806 141,808
1946.. 44,578 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £10,487 )
7,091 148,894
1947.. 42,733 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £9860 f
5,878 154,767
1948.. 43,860 12 p.c. = 27,000]
Written of! hotels, £6970 )
To staff fund, £1341 .. J
8,549 163,816
Profit sale assets, £5lOO •• 16M*®
1949.. 45,710 ISip.c. = 29,8121
Written off hotels, £4973.. f
To staff fund, £956 .. J
9,969 178,385
Freeholds written up, £150,000 .. ??|’oas
Reserves capitalised, £150,000 ••
Profit sale assets, £7140 ••
1950.. 38,747 131 p.c. = 29,812 |
To staff fund, £336 .. 3
8,599 194,121
Those on the co.’s register at May U


OUR SECOND RELEASE
OF GEORGE CARSON-COOLING’S
REMARKABLE BOOK
“HERE’S A VILLAIN”
“A revelation of skullduggery in edu-
cation .... There are chapters which
approach violence.” — Sydney Bulletin.
AT ALL BOOKSTALLS—PRICE 15/-
Watson Ferguson & Company—Publishers
fs
The Machinery
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools e Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws.
Saw Repairs.
All types
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Professional Engagements.
METALLURGIST competent to operate
large Gravity and Flotation Concentrating
Mill at Grassy, King Island. High salary
to suitable applicant plus rent-free house
and other benefits. Apply with full details
experience, copies of references, etc., to
The Secretary, King Island Scheelite
(1947) Ltd., 450 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, C.l.
An exceptional opportunity
FOR THE INVESTMENT OF SAVINGS OR FUNDS AT BETTER THAN BANK INTEREST
NOW OPEN
The Sydney County Council’s £1,000,000 Loan offers investors
£3:5:0
PER CENT PER ANN PM
SECURED UPON THE INCOME OF SYDNEY’S £31,000,000 ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKING
This loan gives you an opportunity to acquire, in multiples of £5O, readily marketable, gilt-edged securities paying an
attractive rate of interest and, at the same time, to assist the development and extension of Sydney s electricity supply.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN NEW SOUTH WALES
The loan, underwritten by J. B. Were and Son (Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne;, is an authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W. and should prove particularly#attractive to administrators of trust funds as well as to small investors.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY
Your interest will be paid half yearly, free of exchange at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. It can
be credited to your bank account if you wish.
HOW TO APPLY
Your nearest branch of the Commonwealth Bank has a prospectus and application form ready for you. Or you can apply at
the Council’s Head Office, Queen Victoria Building, George Street, or through any member of a recognised Stock Exc ange.
YOU WILL BE WELL ADVISED TO MAKE YOUR APPUCATION AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE
last were rewarded with a two-
fold issue of new shares, one for
cash and the other a gift. The
cash portion consisted of
135,000 21s. shares, to be called
to 20s. each, three for five at
par; the gift was 150,000 bonus
shares also of 21s. each and
credited as paid to 205., which
were provided by writing up the
book-value of the freeholds by
a like amount, thus making the
gift tax-free. When all the
money on the cash issue is in
paid capital will be £5)0,000, on
which 8 p.c. would call for
£40,800, or £2039 less than the
average profit (£42,839) over the
six years to the dost of last ac-
counts, and the gift would make
8 p.c. worth 11.3 p.c. on the
£360,000 of cash-paid capital.
The investor who a year ago
bought the scrip at 605., giving
an immediate return of 4.4 p.c.
on a 13.3 p.c. div. basis, and
who exercised his rights to both
new issues, can now see a gain
in both capital and income. The
average cost of his holding is
31s. lid. a share, on which the
return would be 5 p.c. from an
8 p.c. div., and the current mar-
ket price of the scrip is 405., at
which figure the return would be
4 p.c. on the same basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
275. 7d.
The new cash-paid capital is
wanted to expand the co.’s brew-
ing interests, which consist of
approximately half the capital
in Tasmanian Breweries Pty.,
which amalgamated the beer-
making interests of Cascade and
J. Boag and Son in 1922. The
curtain is kept drawn over the
proprietary’s figures. To meet
the increasing demand for its
products the brewery is install-
ing new plant, delivery and erec-
tion of which are expected to
spread over the next couple of
years. Meanwhile, completion
of A.C.l.’s new glassworks at
Hobart —scheduled to be in pro-
duction within a few months —
is expected to give the brewery’s
sale of bottled beer a lift. Cas-
cade’s other sources of income
are hotel rentals, the manufacture
of cordials and returns from
two small subsidiaries —Traders
Pty., which' is a wine-and-spirit
business, and Cascade Fruit Pro-
ducts Pty., formed about three
years ago to supply fruit juices
to the cordial factory and to
mainland and U.K. markets.
All sections of the business
are said to be giving a good ac-
count of themselves. The slip of
£6963 in last term’s net earnings
was due mainly to a bigger
allowance for depreciation
(£13,986, up £6637) in connec-
tion with plant purchased during
the year. The £38,747 of profit
claimed was 17.2 p.c. on capital
(£225,000) as against 20.5, 19.4,
18.9, 19.8 and 18.4 p.c, back to
1944. That disregards a capital
profit of £7140 on sale of assets.
When the books closed £44,730
of the new cash capital had been
received, leaving £90,270 to
come:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. 225,000 225,000 419,780
Mortgages and
deposits . . 83,579 79.724 79,831
Other liabilities 24,298 32,956 52,208
Tax reserve .. 22,000 22,000 16,500
Pinal div. . . 13,500 16,313 16,313
Hotels, etc. .. 313,339 330,409 510,612
Plant, etc. .. 88,820 94,876 104,254
Stock . . . . 29,558 37,736 48,974
Book debts, etc. 19,152 10,222 12,034
Cash, etc. ~ 1,178 1.488 21,645
Shares other cos. 79,646 79,646 79,646
Of the year’s growth of
£180,203 net in hotel properties,
etc., £150,000 was in respect of
the writing-up already referred
to, and the remaining £30,203 on
account of additions and im-
provements. The smaller ad-
ditions to plant, stocks and book
debts reflect expansion of the
co.’s cordial-making activities,
The excess of liabilities (includ-
ing tax reserve and final div.)
over more or less liquids was re-
duced by £19,719, leaving the
figure at £2183.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Syd.)
Toße . Re .
Mar., Profit. Dividends seizes, serves.
>42.. 14,175 10 p.c.= 12,327 i,848 8,052
12,405 10 „i|.m J s m
>45 .21*652 10 9,325 22,366
16,299 10 „ ~12,3273,97226,338
.&;?$? I" " I’ll! 3mh
’49...i0,460 7i„ ~ 9,2451,21530,270
p- . „ , .
v i H t r,F, nnn
£90.454 m o) e than °t
tbey had stood in the
books bring boc f k
f»,000 which was offset on the
2 S Lerve‘of hkfamountl
Tlfis will not affect the earning-
paw ? business one way
° r the other, but might ease the
F ressure ° f taXation a little b y
mcreasin § the allowable deduc-
tlon for depreciation.
the lift-installation and
subsidiary. Lift Inspection and
i nsurance> Ttd., has been amal-
g at -nated with the lift section of
Johns and \v aygood Ltd
(Me lb.), and passed to ’ a new
jointly-owned subsidiary, Way-
good jjfts wb i c h will
operate in Queensland and the
Federal Capital Territory as well
as § Wales, and which will
handle escalators and other new
lines The folding in the new
o ff sb oot appears at par,•
£ IO 5 87 (£9414 i ess t h an the
bolding in the old one), and its
pj-ospects look brighter.
The backbone of earnings is
manufacture of heavy elec-
tncal equipment generators,
tr f“ s -
tormers » etc - and other
engineering lines, for all of
which there is a strong demand,
Chief obstacles to production are
shortages of materials (chiefly
steel) and skilled labor.
Last term benefits from
expanding turnover just about
took care of the growth in costs
The profit was £169 better at
£10,629, or 8.6 p.c. on capital
as a g a j nst g 5 2 and 5,9 p.c.
for the three preceding terms,
The div. was kept at 7i pc
ma ki ng t h e average 6.2 p.c. over
the last four years For the
half-dozen years before that
defence contracts enabled a
steady 10 nc to be mid
The financial position im-
nrnvpf i-_
' »S 9. 1949. 1,50.
Paid capitalsm, 273 £123,273 £123.273
Overdraft .. 8,322 23,266 44,725
SSSST" m. 2 eSo
•• 63 >£ 52 20,804 37,276
3 ?|I“ gjS *SJ3.
Including'*
™K)43Bl)’™" £7539 strong®
IS
carry an extra £20,230 of stocks
and add £16,026 to debtors’
dances the co. went to its
bankers for a further £21,459.
The growth in freeholds (up
£27,373) and plant (up £16,472)
to.
What effect the dollar loan
will have upon the co.’s earn-
i ngs remains to be seen. Much
will depend upon the quantity of
heavy electrical equipment im-
ported and upon its cost in
relation to comparable lines
turned out by the co. Over the
last couple of months the co.’s
f.-p. 13s. 4d. shares have eased
from 16s. 3d. to 15s. 9d. in the
market. At the lower figure the
return is 6.3 p.c. on a 7# p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 225. 2d. a share.
Western Mining Corp.. the big
holding and prospecting con-
cent which about nine months
ago took over the assets (shares
in a number of goldmining ven-
tures) in Gold Exploration and
Finance of Australia and also
offered the public 3,000,000 10s.
shares in Great Western Con-
solidated, has announced a profit
of £154,240 for the year to
March 31 last. Two 6d. divs.,
together equal to 20 p.c., will
take £139,718 of it. For the
previous term 25 p.c, was paid
from a profit of £271,345, which
included £248,001 gross from
sales of shares and properties
as against £58,751 last term. Of
the co.’s seven major invest-
ments, four—Central Norseman,
Great Western Consolidated,
NewCoolgardie and Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie—are in Westraha
and three-Central Victoria
Dredging, Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia and Victorian Gold
~ T “ V icto ™j
Chief contributors to the pool
l«t tertn were &ntral Norseman
as"
how’Seat Western Consolidated
? nd R il : b orian Dredging
SSd ac ount'rf £nS% so
and
S S “End Se
is risine hosts' against
of a fixed nrice
Sr WMP’Jfn 5 s
£ A m w £ the
-rket as against 13s. 9d. a year
8 *
.
Consolidated Zinc Corp. is
test-drilling big pyrites deposits
some 26 miles from Adelaide
(S. Aust.). The lode is known
to be several hundred feet wide,
and four or five test-holes are
being put down to a depth of
500 ft. in order to ascertain the
approximate quantity of ore
available and its sulphur content.
Chief producers of pyrite con-
centrales at the moment are Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) and Norseman Gold
Mines, N.L. (W.A.).
....
Mt. Cooion (Q.) still holds on
in the hope of a worth-while
prospect turning up, but nothing
attractive has come along since
war ended. At Dec. 31, 1949, the
co. (paid capital £300,000 in
f.-p. 10s. shares) had £24,032 in
cash and Government bonds,
£2164 in debtors’ balances, and
held 102,100 £.-p. 4s. shares in
Morning Star (Vic.) and 90,000
3s. shares paid to 9d. each in
Atlas Gold (Q.). D’ivs. frpm
Morning Star (£12,762), plus in-
terest (£430), enabled a profit of
£12,462 to be shown last term,
and a 6d. div, (£15,000) went out
on Jan. 17, making total distri-
butions to date £480,000, or 16s.
a share. The co.’s own mining
operations ceased in 1939, when
the ore-body gave out below
450 ft. The scrip fetches 3s. 3d.,
or thereabouts, in the market.
Morning Star’s shares are priced
abound 245. each.
* * *, *
Meekatharra Sands (W.A.),
whose financial and other esti-
mates went all awry, is still in
deep water, but hopes for the
best. The co. borrowed £15,000
from the State Mines Depart-
ment, and has repaid £BOO of it.
Total outside liabilities amount
to £ 18,800-odd. Now, it is
argued, an extra filter would
keep the undertaker away, and
the board has asked the Govern-
ment for a further £4OOO. For
the eight weeks to April 30 last,
treatment costs amounted to
12s. 4d. a ton and recoveries to
7s. 7d. Costs have since been
got back to 6s. a ton, and it is
hoped they won’t rise much
■beyond that. Recoveries have
improved, leaving only a trace in
the barren solution, and enough
piping has been secured to
extend the sluicing line to the
slightly richer parts of the dump.


Wm
mm
mm
*
m
m:
i4a
No S
te
*
BfS f J
# S
Business.Rollery.Etc.
HIGH SHAREMARKET ACTIVITY.
Last week saw established in
Australia * a record price-level
for a number of industrial
shares. The dollar-loan an-
- nouncement gave an ultimate
fillip to several weeks of upward
market strength, and again
attention was directed most
pointedly to shares in the
heavy industries. Most spec-
tacular rises in this category
have undoubtedly been in
respect of Tutt Bryant, Ltd., and
Waugh and Josephson, both
Sydney concerns.
The firstmentioned, which
distributes earthmoving equip-
ment and the like, had sales of
its shares as low as 345. 6d. in
1949. Last week the scrip sold
at 80s., although ordinary capi-
tal had meantime been in-
creased by 50 p.c. Waugh and
Josephson, distributor in N. S.
Wales and Queensland of Cater-
pillar tractors, put its shares on
the market in May, 1949, at 255.
Last week they sold at 61s. 6d.
This concern in particular de-
pends on imports from the
United States.
The market in both these
cases is prepared (o pay a high
premium in respect of future
earning possibilities. The Snowy
Mountains scheme in particular
is expected to keep them busy.
It will call for large dividends
indeed to justify a 300 p.c. pre-
mium for Tutt Bryant shares, for
instance. But whether the market
in this or other specific cases is
paying too much or not, Tutt
Bryant represents the tallest mar-
ket poppy in what amounts to a
very promising field at the
moment —the heavy industries.
Other poppies are perhaps less
colorful and of shorter market
stature, but nearly all have their
roots in similar soil. And all
have another similarity: they
are being denied fullest develop-
ment because of lack of certain
essentials.
These essentials are coal, elec-
tric power, raw materials and
manpower. In some respects the
dollar loan will help to speed
up the supply of these vital
items. Coalmining machinery
from the U.S.A. may help pep-
up coal output, the most
essential ingredient in all our in-
dustrial planning. The 8.H.P.,
too, may now be able to get
ahead more quickly with its tin-
plate works. But in other cases,
such as the B.H.P. and A.I. and
S. steelworks, it comes back
fundamentally to a matter of
Australian coal and Australian
manpower. Our present steel-
works, without any additions
from dollar sources, are quite
capable of turning out 40 p.c.
to 50 p.c. more steel, provided
more raw materials become
available from our own mines.
The Boom in “Heavies”
To those who have followed
The Bulletin’s financial pages
regularly over the last 10 years
the trend of investment popu-
larity towards heavy industries
will not come as a surprise. Be-
fore World War II it was a wise
practice to demand exceptionally
high returns from, an invest-
ment in any construction in-
dustry. Those were days of un-
even demand for construction
work, including homebuilding.
But today W) are still faced
with the prollem of overcoming
shortages which began with the
diversion of production to
munitions from 1940 to 1945,
, and which have been intensified
since by increasing population,
lack of dollars with which to
buy U.S. goods, the 40-
hour working week, deliberate
Communist trade-union policy
of slowing down production,
and lack of manpower in various
essential industries, including
coalmining. Our “milk-bar”
economy (so described by Pro-
fessor Copland) has not
favored expansion of construc-
tion activity at the rate desired.
There are so many years’
arrears of constructional activity
to be overtaken in Australia
that the heavy industries have
been given a new investment
status. There would appear to
be at least five years—probably
more —of high activity ahead of
any essential constructional in-
dustry. Whether these indus-
tries will be able to take full ad- 1
vantage of the situation will de-
pend partly on their efficiency,
partly upon the availability of
manpower and materials and
very largely upon by how much
we expand our coal production.
The field of activity ahead of
heavy industries in Australia is
obviously broad as well as long,
but it has to be surveyed with
discretion from the investor’s
point of view. As usual, much
will depend on management,
which will have many head-
aches with regard to costs and
taxes.
The follpwing is a list of rep-
resentative share prices, last
week’s “high” being compared
with final quotations for
January this year:
January. Last Week.
Price. Yield Price. Yield
p.c. p.c.
BankofN.S.W. £46.5 3.4 £49 3.3
Tooth .. .. 84/- 3.6 94/- 3.2
J. &A. Brown 22/- 5.9 24/9 5.2
Qld. Ins. .. 107/- 2.3 112/- 2.2
Melbourne
“Herald”.. 17/3 4.1 19/6 3.7
Adelaide Steam 31/- 3.3 31/3 3.2
A. E. Goodwin 19/9 30/
A. G. Healing 16/3 4.1 18/9 3.5
A.W.A. .. 32/6 3.1 47/- 2.2
Ansett .. .. 25/- 6.8 23/- 7.0
Assoc. Leather 20/- 4.0 21/6 3.7
Assoc. Pulp .. 31 1- 3.9 32/- 3.7
Aust. Hotel .. 26/- 4.7 25/3 4.7
A. 63/- 2.9 *59/6 3.0
Bradford Cot-
ton .. .. 47/6 4.2 46/- 4.4
Bradford Ken- •
dall .. .. 14/-4.2 15/6 5.2
Brit. Stand.
Mach. .. 38/- 4.7 61/6 2.9
B. 52/- 3.2 56/- 3.0
Burlington .. 34/6 4.3 33/-
Burns Philp.. 89/- 2.8 91/6 2.8
Carpet Mfrs. 42/6 4.7 46/- 4.3
Clyde Ind. .. 22/9 5.2 29/6 4.1
C. £66.2 3.2 *£6l 3.0
C’wealth Eng. 39/- 5.1 46/- 4.4
Concrete Ind. 28/9 5.6 32/- 5.1
David Jones . 62/6 3.2 58/6 3.4
Drug Houses 41/- 3.4 43/3 3.0
Dunlop .. 41/9 3.8 43/9 3.6
Electro Zinc. 76/- 6.7 84/6 6.0
Elect. Meter . 34/9 4.3 40/- 4.0
Felt & Text... 48/6 5.2 50/- 5.0
F. Spring.. 44/- 5.5 71/6 2.9
Gen. Ind. .. 36/- 3.5 43/- 3.9
Gibson Battle 27/6 5.5 31/3 4.9
G. J. Coles .. 24/9 3.0 *2B/- 2.3
Goldsbrough . 43/- 4.7 48/6 5.0
Hadfields .. 14/-5.7 19/6 4.2
H. Jones .. 75/- 2.7 65/- 3.1
Howard Auto 34/6 5.8 38/6 5,2
Howard Smith 26/- 3.8 30/- 4.0
Humes .. 40/- 4.0 40/- 5.0
J. McGrath.. 56/- 5.4 *5B/9 2.7
Kandos .. 46/3 3.5 45/- 3.6
Masonite ~ 57/6 4.4 74/6 3.3
Matthews
Thompson . 14/- 6.2 *l7/- 5.1
McPhersons . 59/6 3.4 60/- 3.4
Meggitt .. 40/6 5.0 47/6 5.3
Millaquin .. 63/6 4.1 67/6 3.9
Morris Hed-
strom ~ 54/- 4.1 57/- 3.9
Olympic Tyre 21/3 3.3 32/9
Palgrave .. 12/9 5.1 *l7/3 4.2
Peters .. ~ 36/- 3.5 42/6 2.9
Repco .. .. 53/3 4.7 65/- 3.9
Sonnerdale .. 22/3 4.5 28/- 3.6
T h i r 1 w e 11,
McKenzie . 26/6 4.5 *29/- 4.1
Tutt Bryant . 54/6 3.7 *BO/- 3.7
Warb., Franki 53/6 6.5 60/- 5.8
Waugh & Jos. 45/6 4.4 61/6 3.3
W. E. Bird v . 27/6 32/
Westcott Haz. 50/- 4.0 54/- 4.8
Wests .. 23/3 6.4 26/9 6.3
Wm. Adams.. 33/- 5.4 *39/- 4.6
Winchcombe . 45/9 3.9 47/6 3 9
Woolworths.. 27/3 2.8 25/9 2.9
Wunderlich .. 52/9 3.6 55/- 3.7
Yarra Falls .. 70/6 3.6 70/6 3.6
North 8.H.., 79/- 89/
* Capital increased since January.
Away from the specifically
“heavy” industries, sharemarket
tone has been strong generally,
with isolated exceptions.
Although the rank-and-file of
investors may be slow to appre-
ciate the fact, the unhealthy in-
flation influence has had a strong
sway over share prices during
the last 10 years, and at the
present time inflation is a grow-
ing force.
Inflation and Prices
The influence of inflation is
undoubtedly unhealthy, but it is
a disease which attacks paper-
money more directly and rapidly
than it attacks the value of
equity shares in industries. The
Bulletin has been consistent in
its advocacy of industrial
equities as a protection against
inflation for more than 10 years.
This has been so during all the
slumps which have occurred on
’Change during and since World
War 11.
Allowing for inevitable specu-
lative excesses in a rising market.
"Hey—findings keepings?"
to a large extent present-day
buoyancy of share prices repre-
sents no more than an offset
against the depreciation in the
value of money. A share which
was valued at 20s. in 1939
would, if sold at 40s. now, buy
the investor no more of most
things than his 20s. would in
1939.
On the other hand, many
concerns have increased their
capital in post-war years, and
have paid post-war prices for
their assets. These assets, paid
for in post-war pounds, are
nearer, pound - for - pound, to
present-day values, and have not
the inner strength of pre-war
purchases. Many post-war
share-issues, however, carried a
high premium, which to some
extent is an offset against the
inflated cost of present-day re-
equipment. In considering the
inflationary factor fh present-
day share values, aspects
peculiar to the particular stock
must obviously be taken into
account.
If a world war should occur
in the near future, the present
inflationary momentum would
undoubtedly increase. But with
it Federal price-control would
return, and higher personal
taxation.
The Lag in Yields
Whilst inflation on a very
large scale has already occurred
in the replacement cost of de-
preciated plant and buildings—
as indicated by the premium
charged on the C.S.R, issue—for
various reasons many key indus-
tries have not been able to show
increased returns, from assets
valued on a pre-war basis, to
equal post-war rises in costs.
8.H.P., for instance, shows no
increase in dividend over a
decade, though it is building up
earning-power which promises
a great deal for the future. The
Commonwealth Bank has pro-
duced statistics to show that
nearly 600 companies which
earned 6.8 p.c. on their funds in
1939 earned 8.1 p.c. on their
money in 1949. This is a growth
of less than 20 p.c., and would
not equal the average apprecia-
tion in replacement cost of the
assets of the companies con-
cerned.
Considering these figures, the
investor might at first sight say
that, whatever the replacement
cost of the assets of the com-
panies concerned, they, on the
average, were worth no more
than 20 p.c. more than they were
in 1939, since, when their shares
are bought on ’Change in
present-day money, they pay
dividends in present-day money,
and those dividends have in-
creased comparatively little.
But the interest-rate factor has
to be considered, along with
others. Since 1939 the Austra-
lian long-term bond rate has
fallen from an average of 3.92
p.c. to 3.14 p.c., with a much
heavier cut in short-term rates
And interest offered on two-year
fixed deposits has fallen from
3 p.c. to \\ p.c., with only 1 p, c
on deposits in excess of £10,00o!
Since one gets a so-much-lower
return from gilt-edged stocks,
one is prepared to accept a
correspondingly lower return
from preference shares and
ordinary shares.
Another thing which is in-
fluencing investors in accepting
lower yields from ordinary
shares is prospects of future
benefits. A period of very con-
siderable industrial expansion
lies ahead of Australia, and
hopes are that eventually coal,
steel and manpower bottlenecks
will be straightened out and
reasonable man-hour produc-
tivity restored. Deferred demand
for our basic production, as
already indicated, is very high.
A factor which is having a
double-edged effect on share
prices is the high national in-
come, an outstanding feature of
which is the soaring price of
wool. Not only are higher wool
prices increasing profits of wool-
brokers through commission-
earnings ; a more general effect
is being felt through increased
spending-power, affecting many
classes of enterprise, and greater
funds available for investment.
These surplus investment funds
are undoubtedly a great in-
fluence in present higher share
prices.
In June, 1939, the volume of
money in Australia was
reckoned at £612 million. In
June, 1949, the estimate was
£1779 million. In March this
year the figure had swollen to
£2040 million, and it has gone
higher since.
Predictions are that the wool-
selling season will orpes next
month with prices still higher.
When nearly three dozen
high-ranking or rising New
Zealand engineers, some of them
key-men in State departments,
the university and industry, were
recruited over a few weeks for
service in Australia, mainly on
the Snowy Mountains hydro-
electric scheme, Maoriland Gov-
ernment heads decided they’d
have to do something about oft-
demanded salary-rises or they d
be in a fix. Those who have
gone, or are going, have won the
battle for professional talent left
behind, and young engineers,
scientists and technicians should
find the path of promotion
easier from now on, and the
falling-off in enrolment of cadets
should be halted. All through
the civil service staffing in late
years has been a headache, made
worse by Socialistic trends ano
influences, which couldn’t be
banished overnight when the
Socialists were kicked out.
Under departmental expansion
as socialisation grew and spread.
State payrolls grew longer, but
staffs were always unsettled,
average competence fell and tax-
payers got less and less value
for their money. There’s a big
task ahead to put Maoriland de-
partments into good, he;
shape again after years of driit.


This modem
Speedbird Fleet
provides, swift, sure
services to all
6 continents
Constellation Speedbirds
Stratocruiser Speedbirds
Argonaut Speedbirds
Solent Speedbirds
8.0.A.C. routes to fifty-one countries on all six continents can
save you weeks of valuable travelling time.
You fly in the world’s most modem comfortable airliners, arrive
with a bonus of extra time to do and see more at your journey’s
end. You get there sooner . . . stay there longer.
Complimentary meals and refreshments served en route; no tips
or extras for countless comforts and courtesies. It’s all part of
8.0.A.C.’s 31-year-old tradition of Speedbird service and experience.
Book from Sydney to Indonesia • far east • hong kong
JAPAN . CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN £ AFRICA • ITALY
GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (.8.0.A.C
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Towns-
ville, Cairns, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and tozvns.
B-O,A.£. takes good care of you
d
FLY-BBAC
M6B
Specify 8.0.A.C. ",Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments!
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN PRAZEB-
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
r
]Ay ON MacpoTF/
who hasn’t read
How bold Macbeth was slain.
But now he’s been so long since dead,
Why rake him up again?
Then let him rest, he’s out of date.
We’ll turn to something newer.
If you’ve a cold be not too late.
Take Woods’ Groat Peppermint Care.
'//&
til
wait
an
/
Bant
hnost 9° ne
a
Winters
m
%
'//
Hm
yy///7/z
m/s
%
YY
GIAGWOOL
*> J*l V
/
..... i
m
S /// // 7 V /- F / _ 'VX
x /i
>' /
Bi
YWTYyYVYT? V '
8.1. Slagwoool is the modem insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Sfagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwoof and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulars call, virile or phono • • »
s
[b.I.C 21 /
rWOOL
51 »
insulation
PTY.I
LTD. I
Phones: SYDNEY, 8X5584; MELBOURNE, MU3SO6
BRISBANE 83604: 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257: 8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
Milestones in our National Progress (3)
RjT
u
m
.
• ;
'Tree selection" in all States
followed the discovery of gold
in Victoria and N.S.W. and
this unlocking of the land
ushered in vast expansion in
Wheat —now second in our
primary exports. Sheep-farm*
ing also prospered and ships
bringing prospectors took
back wool to English mills.
Steady growth of all prim-
ary enterprise persisted and
this has been hand-in-hand
with Ronaldson-Tippdlt pro-
gress, for this Organization,
by the production of the finest
machinery for primary indus-
try generally, is dedicated to
the advancement of all pur-
suits which are the backbone
of the Nation.
RONALDSON BROS* TIPPETT LTD.
ds
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melbourne Office; 628 Bourke Street.
H S.W Distbrs.; Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
Frazer'House, 42 Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distbrs.:
Ronaldsob Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
The Dollar Loan
Mr Menzies has succeeded in
obtaining for Australia a dollar
loan of $5O million a year for
the next five years from the In-
ternational Bank for Recon-
straction and Development.
t W o years’ loans ($lOO million)
re already being made avail-
able The entire loan is intended
for capital goods and equipment
needed for development projects,
both Government and private.
Terms of the loan are excel-
j ent 25 years at 3i p.c. This
is almost on a par with the
present long - term domestic
borrowing rate. However, there
is an additional charge of 1 p.c.
p a. for commission, which is to
be credited to the bank’s re-
serves. Amortisation paymehts,
calculated to retire the loan by
maturity, will start on De-
cember 1, 1955.
The bank is sending repre-
sentatives to Australia later this
year to discuss the Common-
wealth’s development plans, and
it is possible that the amount of
the total loan will be increased,
Mr. Menzies stated, immedi-
ately on his return from abroad,
that “the loan does not mean
that there will be dollars to
play around with. My purpose
was to establish Australia s need
Srn ta doC” P
It is nossible however that
It is possime, nowever, inai
with the capital-goods side o>
things more adeauatelv looked
‘after 8 , 5 aT/^^bJger'Vw of
dollars from wool likely to go
mto the London pool this year,
some essential raw materials
mav be broueht from the U S A
may oe oiougai uum uic
m larger quantities. At present
substitutes from other parts of
suosiuuies uom uum pans ui
the world are costing Australians
dearly. But with Australia a net
user of dollars from the London
pool in previous years, we shall
be expected to make a larger
contribution to other sterling
countries now we have got this
dollar-loan assistance.
The capital goods—in simple
language, the tools—which are
bought from the United States
with our additional dollar funds
must be chosen carefully and
employed wisely and speedily if
their full value is to be obtained,
Emphasis in this country is still
upon inadequate coal supplies,
and any mechanisation of our
mines which would overcome
this bottleneck would be of im-
mense value to the developmen-
tal efforts contemplated.
The Snowy Mountains scheme
will need our own fuel and
power as well as American
machinery. And that will be
the story all along the line. We
shall have to help the imported
machinery to help us. And as
the dollar loan has a direct re-
lationship with the Western
Nations’ aim of strengthening
the democratic front against
Communism we may expect the
Communist-controlled unions to
be as obstructive as they can.
Depending upon a number or
things* the economic effect of
the dollar loan upon Australia s
finances _ may have varying
effects To the extent that P ro '
ductivity per man per hour is
speeded up by its influence its
effect cou lf be deflßbonMy.
Similarly, if the g.oods bought
or . P art ° ( ! them > £Old t 0
SToSTKef £
ernment debt the result again
would be to check inflation. But,
• , indicated to set
"f. Y ,
the maximum benefit from the
loan we shal. need to work con-
siderably harder as a nation.
p j Failure
rroaucuon
All sorts of demands have
d th Australian
been made on tne Australian
economy in the past decade,
j
There has been a great growth
in the appropriations for social
security” and for public servants’
pay, and wage-rates have risen
by 80 p.c. to 100 p.c. Yet out-
put of coal, to take a key item,
has risen by no more than 25
p.c., and supplies of steel are
coming forward at no better
than the rate we knew in 1939.
Consumption of food, clothing,
electricity and building
materials by the public is a
record, and is taxing the pro-
duction capacity of the country.
During the Chifley Socialists’
period of office the Budget em-
phasis was on consumer spend-
ing in spite of exhortations to
“save for security.” Whatever
taxation was collected from a
buoyant national income the
Chifley Government managed to
spend it or whisk it away out of
sight. It would have been a
crime, in the eyes of “Labor”
Caucus, to have shown a large
Budget surplus and used it to
repay loans or pass it to the
National Debt-sinking Fund.
“Full employment” -was
“Labor’s” catch-cry, and “full
employment” it was, regardless
of whether those on the payroll
pulled their productive weight
or not. And with “full employ-
ment” went the 40-hour week
and all sorts of “prosperity”
coupons which the voter was en-
titled to cash sooner or later.
The plain facts now are that
more cash and coupons (in the
shape of claims on the public
purse) have been issued than
there is production to meet
them. In order to carry through
our present plans of full em-
ployment and social security for
all we should have had a far
greater present output of goods
and services and a far greater
diversion of them to reproduc-
tive works. You cannot pro-
vide for future social-security
benefits without real saving
now; and, in spite of heavy
taxation, we have made no real
provision for future social-secur-
ity charges in the way of creat-
ing an increased production po-
tential in the shape of increased
plant and transport capacity.
What many people appear to
have forgotten is that mere
money provision for future
charges on the economy is no
good, especially where those
charges are to be adjusted (as
pensions are) in accordance with
the cost of living. When those
charges fall due there should be
a sufficient surplus of consumer
goods available to meet the
spending-power of receivers of
pensions, endowments, etc. As
it is, today there is not enough
production available to meet
current urgent demands, such as
in housing the people, repairing
and extending road systems,
supplying railways with ade-
quate rolling - stock, building
power-houses, etc.
Yet, in this condition of
underproduction of essential
goods and services, Australia
faces the prospect of a third
world war. We have to consider
re-equipment of armies at a time
when our production machine is
overloaded even for civilian pur-
. poses.
The trouble has largely to do
with the coal industry. With
more coal more steel could be
produced without any extension
of our steelworks, which are
operating at only about 70 p.c.
capacity. With more coal and
steel many other shortages
could be overcome, including
that of electric power. But the
all-over picture in Australia today
is one of inadequate produc-
tion in relation to the consumer
demand of the population, let
alone the capital assets demand.
There has been too much en-
couragement of consumer de-
mand and no corresponding
trade-union emphasis on the
need for a greater productivity.
During the depression the cry of
the trade-unions was that if em-
ployment was provided wage-
earners could make the country
wealthy and strong as well as
doing well for themselves. To-
day, with jobs for all and a fair
day’s work asked from them only
in return for an enhanced day’s
pay, they are falling down on
the job.
If war should come the pres-
sure on our economy will test it
to breaking-point. The days of
trying to sponge on the other
fellow, which won’t work, any-
way, will then have to come to
an end.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
It is not the return of spring that has
exhilarated Sydney. It’s the return of
the spring-onion.
Determined not to be put to shame by
beauteous mannequins and overseas
clothes, the audience at David Jones’s
American fashion-parade really showed
what Sydney could do in the way of
dressing. Furs abounded, fox pre-
dominating (Arctic, platina, pearl, silver,
cross and red). More unusual were the
soft little kolinskys, ermines and
Canadian squirrel. Dresses were mostly
bare-shouldered and bouffant, but Mrs.
Deke Coleman looked chic in a narrow
black gown, high-necked, wrist-hugging
and primly collared-and-cuffed in white.
Claudia Beazley matched classic beauty
to a brocade gown. Mrs. John Bovill
wore wool-jersey in green and orchid,
Mrs. J. W. Johnstone’s beautiful dress
was of citrus pique, embroidered with its
own color and worn with a jacket. The
hall was decorated with trees (imitation)
of port-wine magnolia—very effective.
Champagne was served. Every woman
received a daffodil, a phial of scent and
a tiny lipstick called “canary red” (are
canaries sometimes red?). The presenta-
tion of the actual display was not quite
up to David Jones’ usual standard of
efficiency, as the models seemed to burst
forth, sometimes four at a time, like a
spray of fireworks, and disappear at
lightning-speed up the runways, return-
ing later to disappear into the curtajns
without even a backward glance at the
audience. This was specially true of the
American mannequins, beautiful girls
all, but inclined to the supersonic. Les
Welch and his band played during the
parade, competently drowning the voice
of the commentator throughout.
Of the clothes shown, some were
pleasantly absurd, such as the pink satin
swimsuit embroidered with pearls, also
the “fuchsia sequin sheath which actually
goes into the water” (but not at Manly).
The huge ponchos and stole wraps were
more practical for beachwear, one of
fine raffia, one of leopard-printed terry-
cloth. The suits were excellent —skirts
really pencil-slim, hips definitely rounded.
Coats were full and in good, gay colors,
lime and flame the most striking. A new
fashion likely to succeed is the, “duster,”
a full-length coat with wide sleeves of
linen, shantung, pique or organdie,
frosty-white the best color. The fashion-
conscious should watch sleeves very
closely, as they look to become the main
centre of interest in the near future.
Button-on and separate sleeves were
shown several times, the newest being
bishop-type organdie sleeves, billowing
from a dropped shoulder-line.
There’ll be a gathering of S.C.E.G.G.S.
clan from Forbes-street, Redlands and
Moss Vale when the O.G.U. holds its
Blue and White Ball at the Troc. on
September 25. The preliminary preview
of summer fashions will be held at
Prince’s today (August 30) to help the
ball along.
It should be interesting to all women
to know just how the children of war-
stricken areas are fed by U.N.I.C.E.F.
Apparently only those countries which
approach the fund are helped, the
countries themselves paying half the cost
of feeding the children. The money that
is raised either from the Government or
by voluntary contributions is always
spent in the countries where it is raised,
for example, wool, lard and margarine
are sent from Australia, hot the money
itself. Even with the huge sums contri-
buted (£3,200,000 from the Australian
Government alone), it is only possible to
give the children one meal a day. This
consists of a hot, thick soup, black bread,
a cup of milk and (if possible) some
drops of fish-liver oil (one thin little boy
was seen trying to give his milk to his
half-starved pup. It’s hard for a kid to
keep a pup in Europe today). The
fund is administered by members of
U.N.1.C.E.F., who must be non-nationals
of the countries they work in. For in-
stance, the head of the mission in Italy
is. British. They always work through the
Government of the country, but nowhere
does U.N.I.C.E.F. find that discrimina-
tion is made against children of any sect,
religion or political group. The plight
of children is, it seems, beyond politics
the world over.
The dinner-dance arranged by the
committee for the Spastic Centre turned
out to be the best party for many a long
day. The Roy McCaugheys lent their
home, Yarranabbe, and donated all the
food for the 150 guests. The dressing
was really superb, red the winning color
by far. Mrs. McCaughey allied to a
black skirt a commendable blouse of red,
its low bateau-neck embroidered with
gold. Mrs. W. J. Smith’s dress was red
,satin at its richest. Americans Mrs. Tom
Alexander and Mrs, H. R. Hungerford
also chose red. Lady Plowman teamed-
up the same color with lustrous oyster
satin. Mrs. Doug. Fell’s full-length red
wool coat, decorated with black cord
embroidery, sparkling ever and anon with
a sequin, had been admired at the dress-
parade earlier in the week. The dinner
(minestrone, coq au vin and all the other
luscious dishes), which had been pre-
pared by Jay Stanley and Mrs. Maurice
Samuels, was served in a silk-lined
marquee, where later the puppet-show
which has been televised for America was
shown. Among the dozens of dresses
worthy of note were Mrs, Frank Louat’s
moonstone satin and cocoa lace, Mrs.
Ben Fuller’s jet-spangled black and Mrs,
Mel Lawton’s exotic gown of silver
brocade (made, still more exotically, by
Mr. Wong, of Singapore). Mrs. Joe Joel
swathed white shoulders in black net.
Lady Moxham’s personality stood up
well to competition from the two
wonderful orchids she wore, and the
Countess of Effingham, who organised
the party, wore a dream coat of white
ermine, long-sleeved and tipping the
instep.
In Sydney this week is Mrs. Grace
Bok Holmes, an American (you can tell
it by her hat) with an interesting and
worth-while job. As liaison officer be-
tween the U.N. Children’s Emergency
Fund and the 200 non-Government
organisations which have status at Lake
Success, she travels all over the world
making sure that the food bought by the
fund really reaches the children. Vital,
eloquent, brown-eyed and stimulating,
Mrs. Holmes is a Master of Science of
Chicago University. Formerly associated
with the p.-0.-w. branch of the Ameri-
can Red Cross, she has just returned
from New Zealand, where she lectured
on behalf of the U.N. Children’s Appeal.
Aftei* a short stay in Sydney, where she
is giving addresses to schools and clubs,
she will lecture at Bathurst (August 30),
Wollongong (August 31) and Tamworth
(September 1). She takes off for the
Middle East two days later. A vivid
personality, to meet and listen to her is
a rewarding experience.
The new decorations at Kinneil
restaurant have an unusual touch in the
subtle bronze and olive ceilings, possible
only in lofty rooms such as these. Most
of us have to worry about how to make
our ceilings look higher in these days
of meagre measurements. In contrast to
the skilful blending of colors in the
rooms, the mural seemed a little vapid.
Still, as the pooking at Kinneil is always
so excellent, even the mural will probably
look good to the patrons. Mrs. Caroline
Hall is at present running a knowledge-
able eye over furnishing fabrics, as she
has agreed to redecorate the bedrooms at
Kinneil. They should be ready, she says,
in about three months’ time.
In aid of the Spastic Centre and also
for Legacy was the ball arranged by the
High Commissioner for Pakistan and the
Begum Haroon, and held at Florida
House. Immigration Minister Tim Holt
and Mrs. Holt were iff the official party,
Mrs. Holt’s honiton lace stole being
something extra-special. Mr. Justice De
Baun and Mrs. De Baun, newly-returned
from abroad, were also present. The
dance was decorated by the many pretty
young girls who attended it. Admired
were Diane Greave’s beautiful dress made
from a sari she bought in Ceylon,
Madeline Archbutt’s lovely white
shoulders, Mardi Burgess’s white organdie,
which had a halter neck and a crisp wing
collar, Lois Turner’s corn-silk hair, Lyn
Malin’s white flower necklace and
Pauline de Dassel’s slender blondness.
The floor-show was fun, Nelly Small
singing that song with a moral for every
woman, “If your kisses can’t hold the
man you love, then your tears won’t bring
him back.”
From Melbourne
The Thomas Harrison parade of
spring hats, profits from which will be
split between the War Widows’ Guild
and the Eye and Ear Hospital, was held
at Mrs, Hamilton Sleigh’s home. Bowls
of fruit-blossom, arum-lilies and daffo-
dils flanked the stairway which manne-
quins descended, and in the centre of
the courtyard, where refreshments were
served, was an island of flowers: cycla-
men, stocks and anemones. Modelling
the hats were well-known young matrons
and girls. They included Mrs. Jim
Buchanan, Mrs. John Chapman, Mrs.
Eric Avery, Mrs. Elizabeth Draffin and
Mrs, Richard Faulkner; Sheila Scottar,
Beverley Buxton, Paddy Wilkinson,
Sandra Anderson, Brenda Mcßoberts,
Gillian Forrester and Joy Allen. Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh wore a ballerina frock
of black taffeta, the hem of the skirt
heavily quilted, the bodice carrying black
Chantilly lace. Ticket-secretary Iris
Clarke wore a bouffant gown of cherry-
striped white chiffon.
Mrs. Ronald Marriott’s mist-blue
laces featured a three-tiered skirt.
Mrs. G. A. Vasey added a brilliantly-
patterned scarf to her black gown.
Thelma Halbert and Mrs, Douglas
Stephens favored black lace. Lime-
green moire faille was worn by
Elizabeth Frankel, Mrs, David Body-
comb’s blue-faille gown, with its side-
draped skirt, was trimmed with ame-
thysts and silver braid. Margaret Coch-
ran’s outfit comprised an amber satin
skirt and tight-fitting gold-braided match-
ing velvet jacket, with sable at the high
neckline and long sleeves. A lovely full-
length coat of bronze faille covered
Elizabeth Simpson’s black lace and tulle
gown. Elizabeth Johns, matron of the
Eye and Ear Hospital, wore turquoise
taffetas and a matching jacket, Mrs.
Paddy Moran’s white-crepe gown had
gold accessories. Mrs. Leo Curtis had
white Arctic foxes as contrast for her
black-velvet gown.
Leading legal lights and medicoes
were among those who danced at the Old
Xavierians’ Association Ball held at St.
Kilda Town Hall. It was the first for
12 years, and over 900 were there to
make it a success. The main feature of
the decorations, which included the col-
lege crest and a ceiling almost hidden by
huge balloons in the college colors, was
the stage backdrop. On a stark-white
background was a charcoal sketch of the
college’s War Memorial Chapel—pro-
ceeds from the ball will be donated to
the chapel appeal. Gordon Rennick,
president of the association, and his wife
received the official guests. Mrs. Ren-
nick wore a filmy black Chantilly-lace
gown. Among the dancers were Mrs.
Frank Mulcahy, the bodice of whose
bouffant gown of pearl-white lace was
splashed with diamente; Ann Marron,
her slim-fitting gown of aqua-blue bro-
caded faille; Nona Craigie, who con-
trasted her ice-blue taffetas with a cerise
tulle scarf; Joan Millea, her pastel-pink
georgette gown having a frilled fichu
collar; Mrs. J. Smiley, a tiny matching
bolero added to her pale-lilac, self-
patterned faille gown; Mrs. John
O’Driscoll, her off-the-shoulder velvets
in hunter’s-green ; Mrs. Jack Waters, her
choice pale-grey brocade patterned in I
Chinese motif of soft pastel colors;
Mrs. Cyril J. McCarthy, in midnight-
blue laces; and Mrs. Frank Foley wear-
ing shimmering ice-blue satins.
St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill, was decorated
with bowls of pink and white blossoms
for the marriage of Anne, youngest
daughter of Professor and Mrs. W. E.
Agar, of Canterbury, Her gown of white
French lamd brocade was made on
bouffant lines, with the heart-shaped
neckline framed with a portrait collar;
the graceful skirt ended in a short train.
The 200-years-old Brussels lace veil was
her mother’s, and the bouquet was of
white hyacinths. The bride’s sister, Mrs.
T. S. Taylor, and the groom’s sister, Pam
Edwards, attended. Their hooped gowns
were of sunset-yellow georgette over
desert-rose taffeta. They wore matching
ruched mittens of georgette ; their cloche
hats were fashioned of the same materials
as their gowns, and they carried sheaves
of Lorraine Lee) roses. The bridegroom
Frederick Arthur, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. B. Edwards, of Randwick
(N.S.W.), had Jim Arnold as best man.
The reception was held at the Delphic
Mrs. W. E. Agar wore a pinky-beige
wool-crepe ensemble and a matching silk
straw hat trimmed with multicolored
ribbons. Mrs, Edwards’s beige jacket-
suit had an unusual pocket-treatment-
her beech-brown straw hat had the
turned brim faced with pink to match the
rose trimming. Mrs. John Agar had
matching feathers on the beige felt hat
she wore with her lettuce-green wool
jacket-suit. Mrs. Stanley Addison’s mid-
night-blue frock was trimmed with match-
ing sequins; a lighter blue feather con-
trasted with her midnight-blue hat. Mrs.
Edward Smith’s deep-turquoise-blue
frock had eyelet embroidery on the
bodice. A sable coat covered Mrs. Colin
Mackay’s black frock; her small sailor
hat was of red and white checked taffeta
with two white straw ornaments finishing
it. Mrs. James MacDougall’s rust-red
duvetyn coat was worn with a sable scarf.
A mink coat and small black hat was
worn by Mrs, Farrin Webb. Citron-
yellow wool was the choice of Mrs. Guy
Bakewell,
Mrs. Walter Ebstein is a hostess whose
parties invariably go with a swing. Her
twin children, Mary Louise and Michael,
her home and garden are her chief in-
terests. In the culinary sphere she is an
acknowledged artist. She plays golf and
in summer manages to get in some swim-
ming as a help to fitness, Mrs. Ebstein
will be one of the mannequins at the
fashion-show the committee of the
Sutherland Homes Auxiliary will hold at
Butleigh Wootton, Glenferrie Road,
Hawthorn, on October 4.
There will be a slimming-down of
frocks and suits this spring. The arrow-
straight coat is ideal, for it gives an
illusion of height and slenderness. Waist-
length capes swing jauntily from the
shoulders and above a pencil-slim skirt.
Boleros are crisp and straight, or they
may flare backwards. The fitted suit-
jacket is curved to a lower waistline, and
the box one is finished with a back-belt.
Grey and navy frocks have the added
charm of white pique. About the waist
of linen, shantung and lightweight wool
frocks, silk sashes are twined. The dress-
maker-suits are fashioned of prints and
polka-dot materials. The silk suit is at
its best when made in red or navy or
white polka-dots, and ihe jacquard taffeta
suit in navy or black is one of fashions
newest tricks. And if you must have
a tweed suit for spring, let it be in soft
mauve tonings.
Taffeta will be worn a lot by day.-It
comes in every silhouette ; from the slim
suit and coat-dress to the fantail bolero,
the bare-top shawl-dress and the dress
with the swishing flare. And the black-
and-navy taffeta frock vies for favor
with the cafe au hit shade. Over a woo
dress goes a taffeta jacket, whilst a full*
length taffeta coat worn over a pretty
pastel silk or shantung dress will be on
of the features of Cup dressing. Coats
long and cut on easy lines will be man
in the colors you love: lemon-goi ,
coral-red, royal-blue and sea-green,
coat in color is not an extreme ’
but is a gay asset to other clothes in 1 1
basic shades. The gold coat could
worn over a grey dress or suit, the r °y a
blue over red, the coral-red coat ov
navy or black. Hats are high, wide anu
handsome. A hat of black tulle with
outsized brim is finished with a clustei
red roses. But that is only for th s
woman. A short woman would be rn
or less extinguished with a hat this ‘
The medium brim or the upwa
slanting-brimmed cloche is the spring
for the medium-height woman.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
0
0
✓ M
PERSONAL ITEMS
Returned to his native Sydney last
week carrying a considerable cargo of
musical honors earned in his 40 years in
England, Arthur Benjamin, who way back
won an opera scholarship to the Royal
College of Music, studied composition
under Sir Villiers Stanford, the dis-
tinguished Irish composer, and ended as
Professor of Piano at the Royal College.
In between he served in the Royal Fusi-
liers and Air Force in War I (shot down
and taken prisoner) and had a period as
piano professor at Sydney Conserva-
torium. Benjamin has written in most
forms; many songs and violin and piano
pieces—the “Overture to an Italian
Comedy” is one of his best-known
works. Now a hearty 57, delighted with
the present musical awareness of his
birthplace, he aims to spend the next
eight years composing (before he “peters
out”), and while here will play a con-
siderable list of his own compositions.
“Macnell”: As straight as a mast and
as whippy, Commander Rodney Rhoades
ups-pick from the R.A.N. air-station at
Nowra (N.S.W.), where he Was 2 i./c.,
for more sea-time on exchange with the
R.N. For over a year he drove destroyer
Vendetta, one of the “string, rust and
wire” contemptibles of Goebbels’s sneer,
through the Mediterranean in the famed
Scrap-iron Flotilla; beat the life out of
an Itie sub, with depth-charges; was
held back from Matapan by engine
trouble ; on Anzac night, 1940, took off
350 troops from Megara, Greece, under
the treads of a Panzer division and never
lost a man; withstood a logbook full
of air attacks ; and in seven weeks’ hectic
running landed in Tobruk 4000 men and
650 tons of supplies and ammunition.
Vendetta, tired-out, left the Mediter-
ranean in October, 1941, but her driver
kept driving in destroyer Quickmatch —
with her four 4.7’s and eight tubes a
young cruiser compared with the valiant
old termagant he’d left. Quickmatch’s
motto is “Swift to Strike”; there was
little enough deviation from it under
Rhoades’s seasoned competence. He had
her for two years, and finished the war
Training Commander at Flinders. He
shipped sea-legs again in 1946 in frigate
Shoalhaven, boss of the First Frigate
Flotilla. Now 42, 24 years at sea,
Rhoades has the D.S.C, and, when last
sighted, one of the best-looking Drakian
beards in the Fleet.
Author’s apology (for the bunyip poem
appearing in Aboriginalities in this
issue);
Dear Bulletin,
A friend sent me a copy of your Jubilee
number, with the extremely interesting supple-
ment of writers and artists who had contributed
over a period of years. I was in Australia on
numerous occasions—the last time in 1935,
when my old friend Sydney Ure Smith was
alive—and had the pleasure of meeting Norman
Lindsay, Elioth Gruner and other artists. Had
stories and verse published in “The Home”
and Melbourne “Punch” when that first came
out. Seeing your paper again reminded me of
the “Bunyip” (enclosed) which I did when I
was staying on a station in Victoria —after a
hectic golf week. I thought it might possibly
appeal to you.
I was first in Sydney about 1904, when I
arrived from Tasmania —having there run away
from a sailing-ship, as I found I was not cut
out for the sea by any manner of means. In
those days the gods were good to youngsters
and those who wanted to work their passages
to places afar, I slept a night in the Domain,
was hailed to some police-station for consorting
with doubtful company; the latter fleeing when
a cop loomed on the horizon, leaving me afraid
and alone. My friend, who had accosted me
while wandering round, had some scheme for
helping an old gentleman pawn his gold watch
(he said the latter didn’t like to hock it himself),
but the cop fortunately appeared before we
met the old gentleman. I was an innocent
fifteen in those days. Got a boat at Circular
Quay, on which I worked my way back to
England, with enough money from tips to pay
the rail-fare back to Yorkshire. I remember
myself and another bloke we called the “Queer
bellow”—why, I don’t know —.sitting on a
trunk belonging to the wife of a cattle-man
m order to ensure receiving our dole, as she
was reportedly closefisted. Wonderful days . . .
Anyway, I send you the verse for what it is
worth —not a lot, with the poor old pound
being made to look so small by the plutocratic
dollar . . SSlaams. —Richard Goddard, H.
and H. Motion Picture Studio, Hollywood.
Another Scot who would feel no
pocket-pangs at Mr. Menzies’s with-
drawal of 100 million from the Inter-
national Bank is Stuart Gordon McFar-
lane, Australia’s representative on the
board. Money has been his meat since
he was appointed clerk in the Common-
wealth Treasury in 1903 ; he was
appointed secretary to the same outfit
in 1938. A director of the Common-
wealth Bank board the same year, be-
fore that he had been secretary of Aus-
tralia House, London, and in War I was
the Defence Department’s Chief Ac-
countant. He is Maldon (Vic.) currency,
1885.
From Cambridge to the Chair of Ani-
mal Husbandry at Queensland University
comes Maorilander Dr. T. K. Ewer,
bachelor of veterinary science from Syd-
ney University. Lecturing in animal
hygiene at Cambridge and supervising its
animal-pathology department, his par-
ticular interest is prevention of stock
disease.
The sea still offers adventure. Here-
with the jolly facade of Steve Johns, one-
time R.A.N.R. lieutenant, student-
engineer and, at the moment, navigator
of George H. (“Bert”) Griffiths’s 73ft.
ketch Coongoola, which craft Johns
conned in through Sydney Heads last
week after sun-sighting her through a
22,000-mile voyage starting at Brisbane,
and taking in Darwin, Djakarta, Singa-
pore, the Seychelles, Mombasa, Zanzibar,
Durban, Mauritius and Fremantle.
Griffiths, boss of a huge Toowoomba
(Q.) foundry, wanted to take a look-see
at his new works in Bloemfontein (S.
Africa); he also wanted to test a brace
of new 60 h.p. Southern Cross diesels,
with a cruising range of 5800 miles,
almost half that of a County-class
cruiser. Johns, foundry employee, with
blue-water experience in corvettes (“a bit
of bombarding and a bit of anti-aircraft
stuff”) and Thursday Island luggers
(spoiling the local geography with a
mine-disposal squad) was a moral for the
trip. Keith Ratcliffe, of the Westward in
several Sydney-Hobart yacht races, was
signed on as skipper, an engineer-cum-
radio man was included, and with three
landlubbers, plus three of his family,
SUN-SIGHTER.
Griffiths set off on his argosy. The navi-
gator reports that all, after at trip lasting
just under one year, are seamen enough
now. In a force-10 blow south of Beira,
in Portuguese S. Africa, Coongoola blew
out three sails, and came up with a
steamer whose upper-deck bulldozer
cargo had broken loose and was treating
her superstructure like a kerosene-tin.
The ketch’s diesels brought her through,
and sweetly over 21 days of landless sail-
ing from Mauritius to Fremantle. On it,
judging by her sextant-serang, she carried
a good range of tucker.
Mcßeath found this newly-appointed
collector of recruits spelling in his
booklined study after a long confer-
ence with military chiefs. Edmund
Francis Herring, leader of the well-
blooded Sixth Division (he relieved
General Mackay), was born at Mary-
borough (Vic.), and went- to Oxford
on a 1912 Rhodes Scholarship. His
military career began when he enlisted
in King Edward’s Horse for the Kaiser’s
war; he got his commission, M.C.
and D.S.O. in France, then served in
Macedonia. Called to the Bar in Lon-
don in 1920, he returned to practise in
Melbourne, and had as successful a
career in law as in the Army, attaining
to Victorian Chief Justice in the one and
RECRUIT-ROUSER.
lieutenant-general in the other. The
artist found him unassuming, and, like
most great men, easy to talk with.
Through the study’s bay-window streamed
the spring sunshine, outside blossoms
blossomed and birds twittered, while
from the distance came the faint roar
of cheering football crowds. A keen
sportsman himself, knight Edmund’s
thoughts registered the remark: “This is
what we’ve got to hold and that’s why
I’m not -at that football match.” More
recruits to his recruiting!
“L. de R.”: The diaries of “Chinese”
Morrison are in the Mitchell Library,
a provision with them stipulating that
they were not to be published before 1948.
As Morrison was privy to the inner
counsels of the Manchus, especially the
old Empress Dowager who tyrannised
over China for two decades, and to its
first President, Yuan Shi-kai, and as he
was as uncompromising a critic of
British infiltration into China as of the
twisted ways of Chinese rulers, there
should be some interesting matter in
them. Son lan was to have edited the
papers; now the job should be handed
over to some distinguished Australian
writer.
“X.S.”: John Pomeroy, who has
passed on in Melbourne, was an extra-
ordinary individual. His pies—he ran a
horse-drawn pie-cart which had its stand
at the Flinders-street intersection —were
locally famous before he himself be-
came world-famous through the inven-
tion of explosive bullets. Rejected by
both British and Australian inventions
boards as being contrary to world peace
conventions, the incendiary was first used
against Zeppelins over England in War
I, and was singularly effective. Pomeroy
got £25,000 for that one, and his wife
was made a Dame of the British Em-
pire. An improved variety being also
refused, he went to China and sold it to
Chiang Kai-shek. Later the Americans
fired off millions of rounds of the same
article, and he sued Uncle Sam for
£7,000,000; ill-health, however, com-
pelled him to desist. Pomeroy also
invented a fuel-economiser, a water-
softener, a fire-bar for stoking furnaces,
a cotton-chopper that didn’t work be-
cause American cotton crops didn’t
grow symmetrically enough, a razor-
sharpenet and a rabbit-trap that didn’t
break legs. In between he sold Pop’s
pies at Prince’s Bridge, where, on one
occasion, a draught-horse was seen
appreciatively munching 1 Pop’s comestible
from the back of his cart while he sold
them in the forepart. He asked doctors,
in the last stage of his cancer, to make
a special study of his case for the benefit
of science. Born in New Zealand, he
was 78.
Left for London, Dr. William Lasich,
the first atomic-research officer appointed
by the Commonwealth. A 29-year-old
graduate of Melbourne University, he got
his v Mastership in Science and Doctorate
of Philosophy in 1940. He’ll study for
two years at Harwell.
Last week short-story writer Geoff
Bingham leapt in, hand and grin out-
stretched, and introduced brother Ray,
who has played many parts in his young
life. Purser, in 1937, of the Centarus,
the first commercial flying-boat to operate
from England to Australia and Maori-
land, in Hitler’s disturbance deputy C.O.
of Central Ferry Control, 41 Group,
R.A.F., at Andover, then flight-captain
of No. 7 Ferry Pilots’ Pool, Ray shifted
to Portuguese East Africa- as British Vice-
Consul —and local Pooh-Bah. Among
secret-service work which, in the midst
of many Germans who had gravitated to
this neutral haven, never saw the light,
he was Naval Intelligence Reporting
Officer, Ministry of Economic Warfare
representative, Ministry of Information
representative and handler of all Allied
responsibilities in the area. He left
Mozambique with M.8.E., to return to
flying, boss of 8.0.A.C.’s airport in
Johannesburg. Last week he headed for
Southampton, where he manages
8.0.A.C.’s flying-boat terminal, the
largest and most modern of its kind
anywhere.
New honorary surgeon to the King,
Group-Captain Clifford Henry Searby
had already been vice-regally recognised
—honorary surgeon to the Governor-
General in 1946. Old Digger, one of
Melbourne’s top-flight medicoes, he’s
been connected with Melbourne Hospital
since 1927, in the late scrap was con-
sultant surgeon to the R.A.A.F., and still
is. He squashes and golfs. !
Into the Silence:
At Bendigo (Vic.), at 91, Dr. John McCarthy,
Bishop of Sandhurst, 67 years a churchman.
Born at Ballyvaughan, County Clare, he started
his ecclesiastical studies there and continued
them in Paris. Coming to Australia in 1890,
he was priest at Woodend and St. Kilda, and
became a bishop in 1916. He was private
secretary to Archbishop Carr.
At Caulfield (Vic.), at 50, Robert Carter
Dunn, editor for the past 10 years of the Vic-
torian State Rivers Commission’s staff-magazine
“Spillway” and its official journal “Aqua.”
A shiplover, he worked tirelessly at his hobby,
collecting invaluable records of Australian ship-
ping over the past 30 years, between times
broadcasting and writing on the subject. His
work earned him an associateship of the Naval
Architects’ Society of London.
In Brisbane, at 60, Cyril White, Q. Govern-
ment botanist since 1917 and a world front-
ranker in his field. For years a good friend
to farmers, he made a plant-collection in Papua
in 1918, ten years later made even more
extensive gatherings in New Caledonia for Har-
vard University, and in War II was recalled
from Kew (Eng.) to advise the U.S. Army on
the war potential of plants in the Solomons.
In his time president of five Queensland scien-
tific societies, he was one of the few to be
awarded an honorary M.Sc. by Queensland
University.
In Melbourne, at 61, Robert Bell, son of
Harcourt Bell (founder of the printing-press firm
of Bell and Valentine) and an Australian
authority in his field. Two years ago the firm
amalgamated with the famous English firm of
Hoe and Crabtree, with Robert managing-
director. He was the author of a plan for an
underground railway in Melbourne.
At 92, near Stanthorpe (Q.), Captain Allan
Bishop, builder of Bishop Island, at the mouth
of the Brisbane River. Essex-born, he saw the
world in windjammers before anchoring in the
Queensland dredging service. Here, master of
the dredge Hercules, he gouged the channel
from river-mouth to deep water m Moreton
Bay, the silt forming his island.
At 85, at Brighton (Vic.), Sylvester Casey,
doyen of Victorian racehorse trainers. A jockey
for 17 years, he started training winners in 190 U.
In Perth at 62, the Rev. Charles E. Taylor,
secretary of the Westralian auxiliary of the
British and Foreign Bible Society for the past
18 years. Ordained a Methodist minister in
1914, he served overseas as a Y.M.C.As_ officer
with the Ist A.1.F., and came to the West m
~1932. Apart from his secretarial job his best
work in the State was his unremitting labor to
improve living conditions of aborigines.


The BEDABLE BUSHRANGER
by RODERICK M. DAW
■"“JT HE tall character in the
f centre takes a step
V j back. “Come in,
spinner.” The little
sandy-haired man spins them
well and heads are right.
That is the seventh head he’s
thrown, and the heap of
notes in the centre is worth
the best part of two hundred
quid. I feel sick in the guts.
Fifty quid of it is mine. Fifty
pounds that’s taken months
to accumulate. Fifty quid’s worth of
sweat, tight horses and spooky cattle.
And damn near Christmas Eve.
I finger the last note. Might as well
be broke as the way*l am. The fat man
near me is squatting down in his heels
with his back against the seat he’s just
vacated; He can’t fall forward because
of the notes stacked in front of him. I
tell myself, never again, like I do when
I come off the slops.
Sandyhair takes a hundred and fifty
quid out of the centre and spins for forty
quid. I think, Spinning out, eh? The fat
man says, “I’ll lay ten the head, ten the
head, ten the head,” in a flat monotonous
voice. I poke the ten shillings over his
shoulder. He takes it, not looking. Then
the hubbub of voices stops and the coins
rise high.
Oned ’em. The fat man says “Ten the
head, ten the head.” The little sandy
fellow picks up the head and tail,
balances them heads down on the bat and
throws again. This time it’s tails and I
put my hand over the fat man’s
shoulder. He shoves a handful of notes
into my hand and I realise when he says
“Ten the head” he’s talking about quids,
not bobs.
I quell the urge to stuff the dough into
my pocket and drift. I count it slow and
see two men easing towards me through
the crowd. Just as well I didn’t beat it. I
pass nineteen .pounds back to the fat
slob. “Only had ten-bob with you, mate,”
I tell him. He nods, and when I turn to
move away the two men are not visible.
I think I am a very wise boy oh. The
Broken Hill game is well run and well
watched. It’s a very good place not to
try anything.
I go into the other room and have a
steak and eggs, buy a packet of smokes
and I’ve got fifteen-bob left. I amble
back to the game and thrust the ten-
bob at the fat man. This time he
keeps it.
SOMEONE taps me on the shoulder,
but I’ve been about too long to turn
round and find out who’s going to clip
me. I turn the opposite way quick, and
there’s Johnston smiling his slow, stupid,
damn-fool smile. “Hello, Herb boy,” he
says. “What’s the good word?”
“There aren’t,” I tell him, “any flamin’
good words at all.”
“You’re just the man I want to see,
Herb boy; come out and have a feed.”
“I just had one, but I can watch if you
don’t pick your teeth.”
This Johnston is a sight for my poor
weak eyes.- He’s long and ugly and
awkward, but I love him like a brother.
I think Johnston has just arrived in town,
and if so Johnston has maybe got a lot
of dough in his kick. I let him buy me a
cup of coffee and listen to him eat. When
he’s done I give him a cigarette.
“How long you been down, Herb
boy?”
“Only a week and I’m catching the
Cordillo mail in the morning.”
“Broke?”
I nod, and point with my thumb to the
next room.
“Better stay down and spend Christmas
with me,” he says. “I may need a bit of
a hand later on.”
I think. Watch it, chum; if he needs a
hand there’s going to be strife for some-
one. Remember what mother said about
driftin’ round with low people like
Johnston.
“Look, Johnso,” I say, “I’ve been two
nights out of seven in the Broken Hill
peter for being drunk and fell down, and
I been' cautioned once for being mixed
up in a blue at the back of the Willyarmy,
and a blonde in Sulphide-street is going
to shoot me stone-dead if she sees' me
first. It’s going to be better for every-
one if I toss the swag on that mail in
the morning.”
Johnston grins. “You make a terrible
welter of it when you come down, don’t
you, Herb.”
From the sound of the hum inside I
get the idea that tails are starting to come,
“Give me a tenner, Johnso, and I’ll talk
to you in ten minutes,”
I wave the tenner at Fats and the tails
come down. We double up and the next
spinner ones them five times before he
gets two tails. I put ten pounds in my
pocket, and have thirty with the fat boy.
Two flat tails, and this time I prove I’ve
got more between my ears than most
people think. I take the sixty and go
back to Johnston,
“Here’s the red-back, boy, and thanks.
I think I’ll maybe spend Christmas in
Broken Hill after all.”
I’ve got sixty quid on the hip,
Christmas two days off and Broken Hill
is wide-open. With an ounce of luck I
may even dodge that blonde for another
week. Best of all, I’ve got a good battling-
mate.
WE go round the back of the first pub
we see. It’s two o’clock in the morn-
ing and the bar is three deep. I buy two
pints and we go into the back lounge.
There are only two other men down the
other end.
I ask Johnston, “Now what’s all this
about needing a hand ; what’s the story?”
Johnston rolls a cigarette and lights a
match off his boot. “Well, I can’t say
it’s strictly legal, Herb boy; there’s no
risk to speak of, but I can’t quite handle
it on my own,”
I think, Here we go, chum, it’s just like
mother said.
He goes on, “I’m still working for ole
Callow, but he’s gone to Sydney for a
spree and one of the neighbors wants a
few clean calves. I thought it .would be
a good time to collect ’em between
Christmas and New Year.”
I stop him. “You just lobbed in town —
aren’t you having a holiday?”
“Yair, Herb, I intended to, but then I
saw you and thought you might like a
little quick dough.”
He has me there ; I like money slightly
more than I like blondes and beer.
“How many calves does this character
want?”
“Hundred and fifty at two quid a head
branded. That’s a hundred and fifty quid
each for five days’ work.”
I am surprised ; sometimes it goes as
high as a quid, but I’ve never heard of
forty-bob before. I ask him, “Where’s
this joint we gotter take ’em to, down near
Adelaide?”
“Nope, Herb boy, only forty mile in-
side Noo South.”
“Only forty mile! Hell, Johnso, they’re
civilised down .there, they got fences and
things, to say nothing of boundary-riders.
No wonder it’s two quid.”
Johnston picks up the glasses to get
them filled. While he’s gone I have a little
think. Anyone but Johnston and I’d have
turned it down flat, but this boy is a
very smart feller. I guess he’s maybe
twenty-two, that is, just ten years younger
than me, but he’d lose me among stock,
and I’m a fair average ringer. Also, a
hundred and fifty quid could mean a lot
of blondes and beer.
Johnston comes back with the beer and
I ask him “Where would we make our
dive? It would want to be pretty close
to the border, eh?”
He gives me a quick look. “You still
working for Candongo?”
“No, I finished up. I was goin’ fruit-
pickin’ down to Renmark; they reckon
there’s mobs o’ blondes down there in
the fruit season.”
“Well, that’s G.K., you just leave it to
me, I got it all worked opt.”
I lift up the pint and look
at Johnston over the top,
“Well, here’s a go, mate,”
He’s smiling again; it
stretches his mouth nearly
to his ears and his eyes
almost disappear. “Good on
y’. Herb boy, here’s a go.”
On the way back to the
“Willy” Johnston tells me
that we’ll catch the mail on
Boxing Day. That’s O.K.
with me ; I’m happy and tired
when I crawl into the tiger-skins.
NEXT day we drink beer and talk, and
the day after it is Christmas Eve.
Johnston has been leaving me each night
and I get the idea that he’s on a bit of a
clue. I am not surprised when he tells
me that we’re going to a party out at
North Broken Hill. After tea we hang
around until about eight o’clock, then
catch a bus in Argent-street. It is a nice
night with a moon and stars and a soft
wind. It is, in fact, a wonderful night
for blondes. I wonder hopefully if there
will be any at the party.
The party is just warming up as we hit
the front door, A hard-faced redhead lets
us in, and introduces us all round. The
faces I remember, but the names come
too fast. There is a great deal of beer in
the bath with lots of ice. There are no
blondes in sight, so I concentrate on the
beer. A little man comes up, and we
start talking about mining. He tells me
what a terrible game it is working under
the ground all the time, and I’m beginning
to feel sorry for him when he mentions
making twenty quid a week.
Johnston is poking round talking to
everyone, and I can’t see his sort with
him. Leastways he’s not concentrating
on anyone, so I guess she hasn’t arrived.
Around about half-past ten I am
getting in a very happy frame of mind,
when Johnston comes up and says he
wants a word with me. I follow him out-
side.
“See that house, Herb boy”—he points
to a dark shadow about thirty yards
away. “Well, my sort’s over there in bed
on the veranda and her old lady won’t
let her come to the party.”
“No problem there,” I say. “I know
what I’d do if it was my sheila.”
He shakes his head. “That’s no good,
the old flea comes round every fifteen or
twenty minutes to see if she’s still in bed.”
I am getting cold and a little puzzled.
“What you want I should do, dash over
and do a fast line with the old hag?”
“Be serious, Herb,” he says. “This is no
time for bein’ funny. After the old lady
comes out to the veranda next time you
dash over and tell Jean that you are
Herb. She’s waitin’, and as soon as you
get there she ducks over to me, then,” he
finished triumphantly, “you get into bed
and cover yourself over with the bed-
clothes and pretend you’re her.”
T’VE heard enough and start back for
I where the beer is. Johnston grabs my
arm and starts to plead. He’s very earnest
and reminds me of a cocker-spaniel
you’ve just kicked. “Look, Herb, we only
got two more nights in town and I gotter
see her tonight.” He’s nearly crying.
I am a fool for young love at any time,
and when I get a little high I’m a terrible
sentimental feller. I know when I’m
licked.
“How long will you be away with this
babe? Hours and flamin’ hours, I
suppose.” “No, Herb, look, Herb, as
God’s me judge, we won’t be more than
twenty minutes, honest, Herb.”
Then he falls over himself telling me
what a good mate I am.
Just then a door opens on to the
veranda and wa| see a woman come out.
In the shaft of light I can see the foot of
the bed.
“That’s her,” says Johnston. “That’s
the old —- —.”
“Maybe,” I say hopefully, “she’s come
to tell Jean she can go to the party.”
“Maybe she’ll drop dead too.”
Johnston apparently doesn’t get along too
well with the old tart.
The woman goes back in the house and
Johnston gives me a shove. “Go on,
Herb, she’s right.”
I start off towards the darkened house.
Johnston calls, “Take your boots off
before you get into bed, Herb.”
I keep going. Take me boots off! Like
ruddy hell I’ll take me boots off, I might
need them in a hurry before this thing’s
over. And if I needed ’em iff a hurry I’d
want those old elastic-sides right on my
plates o’ meat.
I blunder into a rose-bush and some-
one says “Shhhhh.” from the veranda.
Then a low female voice, whispers “That
you, Herb?”
I’m too sore from the scratches to tell
her.
When I get on to the veranda Jean has
got her dressing-gown half on and I can
see why Johnston is an eager beaver.
She says “Thanks, Herb, you’re a pal.”
She doesn’t know the half of it. I get
into bed and pull the covers over my head
and wait.
The bed has a nice female smell to it.
Soon Ma comes out and puts her hand
on my thigh. I wonder is she going to
pull the sheet off my face to give me
some air ; you can never tell what capers
women get up to. I breathe nice and
soft and natural, like women do when
they sleep. The sheet tickles my nose
and I want to sneeze. I hold my breath,
and the door closes. Then I sneeze into
the pillow and the door opens again,
“Did you call me, dear?”
I go into my soft-breathing act again.
The door closes. If that old doll knew
what I did call her, her ears would be
pink for a fortnight.
It is a cool night and I am sweating.
I’m not too sure whether it’s beer or
fright. I wipe my face with the sheet and
think about all the beer I’m not drink-
ing. The noise from the party drifts over
and I know how Jean must have felt.
She should be back soon, I tell myself.
It is wishful thinking. Mother comes
before Jean. In fact, mother comes twice
before Jean. I am a very sober gentleman
by this time and I’m getting a little toey.
Damn Johnston to hell, why don’t they
come back?
The second time the parent bird comes
out she puts her hand on my leg below
the knee. The third time she just touches
the calf of my leg. It won’t be long now,
chum, before she comes out and finds
her daughter wearing boots to bed. Then
she’ll be on. I’ve got my mind made up ;
if that old biddy tries to pull my boots
off I’m going to rare up in bed and yell
“Up there, Mother!’’ and shortly after
that I will be long gone from this cursed
place.
Then Jean is back and I get out of bed.
She says “You’re an angel, Herb,” and
gives me a kiss. I never enjoyed a kiss
less.
I stagger off the veranda and fall full-
length over the rose-bush. While I’m
down the door opens and I’ve got to
stay there till the old girl has had a
shufty at the bed.
The things I do for England.
| OHNSTON is waiting for me, but I
walk right past him into -the house
where the party is. I go to the bar and
havei a double whisky. Then I have an-
other just to put the polish on the furni-
ture. I don’t drink whisky very much,
and I am busy uncrossing my eyes when
the sweetest little blonde you ever saw
comes up and says, “Hello, I haven’t met
you before, have I?” I rectify that and it
appears she has gone to a party before
she came here.
I’ve lost a lot of time as it is, so I take
a bottle of beer in one hand and the
blonde in the other, and in nothing Hat
we’ve got a large chair in a secluded
corner. This is something like. Im a
fellow who is easily pleased. As long as
I’ve got a lapful of blonde and some
good beer to hand, I ask no more or m e -
This thrush is telling me the story o
her life when I hear some voices raise
round the corner of the room. Johnsto ?
is saying “But I didn’t take your flamin
sheila, I tell y’, I don’t even know her.
There are some more words by someo f
else and then the unmistakable sound
fist hitting flesh. j
I say “Excuse me” to the blonde, a
stand up. She goes bump on the no ’
and I step over her to see who’s IoS, .T
Johnston has his back to the wall
three characters standing in front ol
and one on the floor. They are a
doubtedly trying to frit him, so I I°° s
couple of them from behind witn


beer-bottle. Then there are men coming
to the doors every which way. Johnston
says “This is where we came in,” so we
make for the door.
We hit the street, and there are sounds
of pursuit, so we put on the big wheel for
a few hundred yards. Around a corner
is a Zinc Corporation jeep. It is down-
hill "oing and I switch on as we hit the
bottom of the hill. Jeeps are something
I know about, and in no time we’re back
safe in Argent-street. I park the jeep in
front of the police-station so they won’t
have far to search.
I am annoyed at losing track of my
blonde. “You know any more parties
like that one, Johnston?”
IJe grins at my sarcasm, “Bit of a
hooer-and-rob show, wasn’t ft?”
“I wouldn’t know,” I tell him. “I
didn’t see much of it.”
I’m not too clear what happens
Christmas Day. I know we ate too
much and drank too much, and that we
hadn’t gone to bed by the time we get
on the mail-truck on Boxing Day. We
spread our naps out among the Tiboo-
burra groceries. Before we get to
Stephens Creek Johnston throws the last
marine overboard. “Mishter Kidman,”
he says, “here we come.”
Then we go to sleep,
WHEN I wake up it is not very good.
The sun is directly overhead and it’s
not missing a beat. The mail-truck noses
cautiously into a creek and roars up the
other side. I lift my head up to see where
we are. It’s a mistake. Something hits
me hard on the head, so I put it back
on the pillow and pull the hat over my
eyes again. I think people who get drunk
aren’t very shrewd.
Next time I take it easy and come to
a sitting position without doing too much
damage. Everything throbs. Johnston is
sitting up trying to roll a cigarette. With
one thing and another he’s making a poor
fist of it. He looks like the wrath o’ God.
I say, “That little sheila back in the
Hill is in for a wonderful thrill when she
wakes up and sees you in the mornings,
chum.”
Johnston looks at me without love. He
doesn’t answer. I think that he is veiy
thirsty, too, because he has to run his
tongue up and down the cigarette-paper
for some minutes before it will stick.
We pass the burnt ruins of the Ban-
cannia pub. Johnston unconsciously
licks his lips, and says it’s a terrible thing
about the pub being burnt down like that.
He says “Gee, boy~ my guts is crook.”
I feel a faint urge to debate whether
it’s gut is, or guts are, but I haven’t the
energy. Then Johnston goes “Hup” and
throws himself at the side of the truck.
He is very ill. I look away, but I can
still hear him. I crawl to the other side
of the truck.
Afterwards I think I feel a little better.
Then I work out the distance we have to
go before we get to the Milparinka pub,
and feel worse than before. The truck
hits a bad gutter and the little man goes
to work in my head with his 71b. sledge.
Behind us the bull-dust rises to a height
of about four feet and hangs in a long
white trail. It is a ride to forget.
About fourteen hundred years later we
get into Milparinka and have a few beers
and some black coffee and aspirins. In
another hour we are in Tiboo-
burra and the sun is down. We
carry our swags over to the shed behind
the pub and spread them out on the floor.
It is a fairly cool night for Tibooburra,
and there aren’t many in the slide bar.
The feed we have at the eat-up joint is
good, but Johnston says he wouldn’t like
it even if it was good. By next afternoon
we are nearly fit, except for the butter-
flies.
THE three planes come in low over the
town and circle before landing. They
are Aero Club machines. Someone gets
into a buckboard and heads out to the
’drome. When he comes back he has the
three pilots with him. I recognise one of
these boys and we help them drink some
beer.
I don’t suppose Johnston and I have
exchanged fifty words since we left
Broken Hill. There’s not much point in
talking when you’ve got nothing to say.
You gotter feel well to talk, anyway. I
buy a round and catch Johnston’s eye
and follow him down the back.
He has brightened up considerably. I
get the idea that Johnston is feeling
better. He says “Herb boy, do you know
that bloke well enough to get him to give
you a ride in his plane?”
I can’t quite see what he’s getting at, I
say “Yes, I guess he’d take me up.”
Johnston borrows my makings. “It
could be,” he says, “a very handy thing
to know what’s goin’ on at some of the
bores and tanks over the fence, don’t
you reckon?”
Sometimes I think this boyoh uses his
nut. “Yes,” I say, “that could be a handy
thing.”
Johnston goes on, “I’ve got a few
things to collect tomorrow morning, so
while I’m loading the ute, you see can
you get that ride round. If all goes well
we can be over the fence tomorrow
night.”
Before we get back to the pub Johnston
has a final word. “If you can get an
idea of where the bloke from the Adelaide
gate is, and which direction he’s head-
ing, it might save some worry.”
It is fruit off the sideboard, it is like
taking wheat from blind chooks.
At half-past nine next morning I am
over the Adelaide gate, we head north
for maybe ten miles, then parallel with
the fence for about another fifteen, then
home. My cobber has the idea it is my
first ride, and he thinks he is frightening
hell out of me when he ‘loops over the
’drome. I am picking my teeth while he
is doing this, but I let him have his fun.
I pay for the petrol he has used and
buy him a lot of beer,
WHEN Johnston and I are well out in
the bush he says, “Well, Herb boy,
what do you know?”
I am pleased with myself, I smile. “The
cattle, Johnso, are, mostly watering at
Pago bore and. Freddy was just starting
out west from the Adelaide gate when
we got there.”
Johnston slows the old ute down to
take a gutter. “There’s yards at Pago,
ain’t there. Herb?”
I tell him they are good yards, too.
When we get to the station Johnston
shows me where to go for the horses.
He says “I’ll ring old Jack up and tell him
to expect us about Noo Year’s Eve.”
As I walk down to the horses I think
Johnso is happiest when he’s doing some-
thing wrong. A man could get into
terrible trouble with a feller like
Johnston.
After a while I get them into the yard
and go down to the kitchen. Johnston
is cooking. You can hardly see him for
the smoke and vapor, I say “Bubble,
bubble, boil and trouble, you look like
them three ’ole witches Shakspeare talks
about.”
Johnston piles some eggs on top of the
chops. “It must be wonderful to be edu-
cated like you, Herb.”
The eggs are nice, but the chops are so
tough you can’t cut the steam that’s
coming off them.
After lunch I watch Johnston pick the
four horses. They are nice animals in
good hard condition. We pack two of
them with our naps and two small
canteens of water, a couple of pairs of
pliers and a wire-strainer. The tucker
doesn’t take up much room. Two small
dampers that are still half-hot, a slab of
corned beef, tea and sugar. Johnston
looks at his watch; he grins, “Come on.
Herb, let’s listen to the hens’ session.”
We go down to the house and he turns
on the receiver. Some female woman is
on the air over in South Australia, she
has a very good recipe for sponge-cake.
We have a cup of tea and smoke a
cigarette. We learn that the Narryambo
plant is at home with the boys gone into
town. We also hear the plant is out on
Nockatunga. That makes us suspect that
the Narrv boys have not gone to
town. If Bill’s got the Nockatunga plant
out you can reasonably guess that some
Narry people will be roaming round, too.
Wherever they are it is a good bet that
they won’t be down south where we’re
going, so our troubles are about over.
I think the pedal-sets may be the
biggest aid to bushranging since the in-
vention of the horse.
That night we camp a mile on the
Queensland side of the fence.
EARLY next morning I walk down
to the fence and find hobbled horses,
give them a drink at the mill and tie the
two pack-animals up in a clump of
mulga. By nine o’clock we have a yard-
ful of cattle, and by nightfall we have a
hundred and fifty calves through the
fence. Collecting cleanskins doesn’t vary
much. You cut out your calves, hunt the
rest of the mob away and then go like
hell until the calves are where you want
them.
The moon comes up at about ten
o’clock. We have the first meal since
breakfast and push on.
A few miles further on Johnston takes
the packs off the two led horses and we
swap our saddles oven The two we have
been riding all day are getting tired. He
takes them through a gate into one of
Callow’s paddocks, dumps the packs in
an old hut and we push on. We have our
blankets tied to the saddles now and no
horses to lead
The sun comes up as we reach the Gov-
ernment bore, the calves drink and we go
on another mile until we find a place to
camp- After breakfast I sleep and
Johnston watches till noon. Then he
sleeps and I watch. We start them mov-
ing before the sun goes down, and get
in two good hours before it is dark.
When the moon finally arrives we start
again, this time we keep going, and at
nine the next morning the poddies are in
Jack’s yard. Jack has a nice breakfast
waiting. He is a rough old bachelor.
Jack is, but he can sure cook. He says
“You’re a day early, boys, you must have
found ’em quick.”
Johnston says “Yair, they wasn’t no
trouble. Jack.”
After breakfast we start the branding.
Jack has an old half-draught he calls
Sambo all dressed up like a broncho
horse. I am a very tired boyoh, but I
keep at it because Johnston is still full of
fight. By late-aftemoon it is all over. We
make for the bunkhouse without worry-
ing about tea.
Next morning when we have eaten Jack
gives Johnston a letter. “Take this into
the agents’ office at the Hill, son, he’ll
fix you up.” He paused. “And thanks,
boys, that was nice work.”
I think, You don’t know the half of it,
chum. We get on our nags and head
back to Callow’s.
That night we drink beer in town. I
guess we drink quite a lot of beer. I
think we’ve maybe earned it. I put
Johnston to bed around midnight; he s
an awful mess when he’s full, Johnston
is. Then I go to bed and forget to take
my aspirins.
At six o’clock next morning I wake
from force of habit. I have a headache
so big you can see it. The cook gives
me some aspirins and two cups of tea and
1 go back to bed. X guess it’s nearly
midday when we finally fight clear of
those, nice hotel beds. I am feeling good
and hungry, but Johnston doesn’t care
if he eats or not. We go downstairs and
head for the bathroom.
The first thing we see is Eb Kerr, the
policeman. Eb has a sour look on his
pan as usual. We say “Morning, Eb,”
and stop.
We stop because Eb has his big frame
barring the way. Eb says “I was just
cornin’ fr you two peanuts”—he waves
a paper in front of our eyes. “I hereby,”
he says, “arrest you and warn you that
anything you say will be taken down and
used in evidence at your trial.”
WHILE our mouths are still ajar Eb
clips handcuffs on our wrists, joining
us together.
Johnston says “Jeez,” and I agree with
him.
Eb says “Follow me.”
My knees feel weak. I think it .must
be last night’s beer.
Johnston asks “What’s the charge,
Eb?”
Eb says “Cattle-stealing,” and my knees
feel a damn’ sight weaker.
As we trail along after Eb, Johnston
says “How ...”
I tread on his foot and he shuts up.
I’d like to know how Eb found out, too,
but I’m not going to ask him. I think
this is not so good, I think mother was
right. It is only seventy yards to the
courthouse-cwm-police-station, and I
would think it is the longest seventy yards
I ever walked.
There is a big crowd around the court-
house and Eb gets a big hand. I take a
look at them, and get the idea that they
are enjoying our discomfort. A fine lot
of flamin’ mates. There is something
wrong, too, and we find out when we get
inside. I am not a praying man, but I
say “Thank God” four or five times
under my breath. 1
It is a mock court; these damn’ fools
are raising money for something, Flying
Doctor, probably, I remember being
mixed up in one up at Longreach a few
years back. Three of the local cockies
are on the Bench, Harry Pilcher in the
middle with Jeff Dace and Bill Simpson
on either side,
Harry is addressing the prisoner. “The
jury has found you guilty as charged,
have you anything to say before I pass
sentence?”
Old Sam Collins is prisoner; he has a
wide grin on his face.
“Don’t make it too ’ard, y’r Honor, on
account of me wife and kids.”
This gets a laugh because Sam is a
bachelor. Harry fixes him with a cold
look-. “Sam Collins, you haven’t got a
wife, and a lot of other men are looking
after y’r kids, fined two pounds or take a
chance.”
Sam says, “What chance?” “The
chance I don’t find you a bloody fiver, y’
miserable old cow. Remove the prisoner
. . . next case.”
THERE is some delay here, because
someone has handed Eb a bottle of
beer. Eb fights clear and calls out our
names. “Charged with cattle-stealing and
not using offensive language when
arrested, y’r Honor.”
Harry says “M-m-m-m, very serious.”
He looks over at the foreman of the jury.
“Don’t be all night with that blasted
Scotch, Jimmy.”
I sneak a quick look at the jury. We
are certainly being tried by our fellow-
men,
Harry says, “How do you plead?”
I’m going to say “Guilty,” and get it
over, when Johnston says ‘‘Not guilty, y’r
Worship.”
So they call witnesses, all of whom
saw us driving thirty to two hundred
cattle down to Broken Hill last Sunday.
Johnston says “Last Sunday we
couldn’t have drove a peg into the
ground,”
Two men come in carrying a case of
beer for the court officials. It takes a
little while and no one thinks of the
prisoners. Eb has left to drum up some
more trade.
After another ten minutes or so they
decide we are guilty as charged. Harry
is about to fine us when someone from
the back says, “Hang the baskets; string
’em up!”
This is received with wild enthusiasm,
and in no time two ropes go over the
rafter and are fastened by slip-knot round
our necks. I say to Johnston “You and
your ‘Not guilty’.”
The long fellow isn’t happy. There are
two big men on the other end of each
rope. Johnston whispers, “These
might hang a man, they’re all full
enough.”
I think they might, too ; they just might
hang a bloody man. Harry has had about
nine fingers while I’ve been watching
him. My sense of humor is wearing thin
at the edges.
Johnston says, “Slip the rope off with
your free hand and well make a dash
for it.”
Out of the side of my mouth I say
“For Gawd sake keep still, y’ mug.”
Harry puts his old black hat on back to
front and asks us “Have you anything to
say before I pass sentence?”
Out of the corner of my eye I can see
the boys on the rope take a fresh grip.
My mouth is dry, and it isn’t because
I haven’t had anything to drink either.
THEN someone behind us says in a
clear voice, “0.K., boys, break it up,
you’ve had your fun ; I’ve seen accidents
happen like this.”
I could kiss him, whoever he is. The
noise dies down a bit. Our hangmen are
clearly disappointed ; one of them says in
a hurt tone, “Aw, we was only goin’ to
give ’em a little hang.”
They take the ropes off, and Charlie
yells “Case dismissed, two quid costs
each. Next case.”
We totter outside looking for Eb. Eb
has the keys to the handcuffs. We find
him in the bar. Johnston and I don’t
speak for some time after he has gone.
Johnston breaks the silence, “I’ll never
lift no more cattle, Herb, after that.”
That makes me smile. “Not for two
or three weeks anyway until we’ve spent
our three hundred quid, eh?”
Johnston grins. “Let’s go down to
Renmark fruit-pickin’ after we’ve done
the Hill over, Herb boy.”
We have another round and go. The
sun is hot and the dust swirls about our
boots as we cross the street to book our
seats on the mail.
ABOUT CAROLINE.
(1) THE BIRTH.
Events refuse to fall into line
When I question the birth of Caroline.
Her mother says she was unnatural
born ,
And, at three months, from her womb
was torn;
The father, she states, was a unicorn
Or something like, with a polished horn
Between his ears —he was very proud
Of its length and size and would
trumpet loud,
Splitting the mother’s ears with his
laughter,
"Who would have thought we’d get a
daughter I”
But Caroline spins a different tale:
"One morning as the moon grew pale
I, whose existence was total dream
Was hurtled into a day’s bright stream.
I, who have always had existence
Pitted in visible resistance
Against a life. So I make the best
Of my curious fate. How can I rest
With pity of my mother? What man
can know
Of woman-terror when the moon hangs
low?”
Or she tells me: “My true self is pliant
and mild
Though what you may see is a vagrant,
wild
You must believe that you are mistakeh.
I am a theft from Beauty taken.
—But this is cruel, how should you
guess?”
She weeps, "Or should Beauty have re-
dress?”
She has asked for comfort, and I would
speak
But that my words come thin and weak
Against her present, protested fear—
It is enough, she is flesh, and here.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


Public Notices.
TO DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON address unknown Jeweller
and Watchmaker. —TAKE NOTICE that
FRANCES AMY ROBERTSON of 35 Hill
View Road Mt. Lawley in the State of
Western Australia Married Woman claim-
ing to be lawfully married to you has
commenced an action and filed a claim
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 255 of 1950) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your adultery
with JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
Co-Defendant If you desire to defend the
said action you must within FORTY
DAYS (40) clear after the date of the
publication of this Notice file in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a statement of your defence to the
Plaintiff’s Claim or a counterclaim for
any relief to which you are entitled In
default of your so doing the said
FRANCES AMY ROBERTSON may pro-
ceed in the action and the Court may
hear evidence and judgment may be given
in your absence A copy of the Writ of
Summons with the Statement of Claim
endorsed may be obtained by you free
of charge on application to the under-
mentioned Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Dated the 13th day of July, 1950.—(5gd.)
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. MESSRS.
SPEED & CANTOR, Padbury Buildings,
Forrest Place. Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff herein.
TO JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
address unknown Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that HORACE EMANUEL
GLOSSOP of Carnarvon in the State of
Western Australia Diesel Engineer claim-
ing to be lawfully married to you has
commenced an action and filed a claim
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 335 of 1960) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your adultery
with DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON Co-Defendant If you desire
to defend the said action you must within
FORTY DAYS (40) clear after the date
of the publication of this Notice file in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a Statement of your Defence to
the Plaintiff’s Claim or a counterclaim
for any relief to which you are entitled
In default of your so doing the said
HORACE EMANUEL GLOSSOP may pro-
ceed in the action and the Court may hear
evidence and judgment may be given in,
your absence A copy of the Writ of
Summons with the Statement of Claim
endorsed may be obtained by you free of
charge on application to the undermen-
tioned Solicitors for the Plaintiff. Dated
the 13th day of July, 1950. —(Sgd.) G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. MESSRS. SPEED
& CANTOR, Padbury Buildings, Forrest
Place, Perth, Solicitors for the Plain tin
herein.
’O DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
tOBERTSON address unknown Jeweler
md Watchmaker. —TAKE NOTICE that
lORACE EMANUEL GLOSSOP of Car-
larvon in the State of Western Australia
liesel Engineer claiming to be lawfully
narried to JOANNA JOSEPHINE
ILOSSOP has commenced an action anti
iled a claim against her in the Supreme
lourt of Western Australia (Matrimonial
)auses No. 335 of 1950) for a Dissolution
if Marriage on the ground of her adulterj
vith you DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON Co-Defendant If you desire
:o defend the said action you must within
i'ORTY DAYS (40) clear after the date
if the publication of this Notice file u?
he Central Office of the Supreme Court
’erth a Statement of your Defence to tn
?laintiff’a Claim or counterclaim for any
-elief to which you are entitled *
lefault of your so doing the said HORAL
EMANUEL GLOSSOP may proceed in tne
iction and the Court may hear eviden -
md judgment may be given in yo
ibsence A copy of the Writ of Summo
•vith the Statement of Claim endorsed may
■>e obtained by you free of charge
ipplication to the undermentioned Sol -
;ors for the Plaintiff. Dated the 13tli ■ •
if July, 1950. —(Sgd.) 2^™‘« B oawtor’
Registrar. MESSRS. SPEED & CANTOR
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, 1 ertm
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
IO JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
iddress unknown Married Woman. 1A
NOTICE that FRANCES AMY ROBI h 1
SON of 35 Hill View Road Mt. Lawny
in the State of Western Australia Marrnu
Woman claiming to be lawfully m,
to DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS ROD
ERTSON has commenced an *
filed a claim against bim in the o I (
Court of Western Australia
Causes No. 255 of 1950) for a Dissolution
of Marriage on the groundofhisa p
with you JOANNA JOSEPHINE
Co-Defendant If you desire to do vnltTY
said action you must within
DAYS (40) clear after the date of ™
publication of this Notice file Per th
Central Office of the Supreme 0our “/
a Statement of your Defence to «
Plaintiff’s Claim or counterclaim ’°5 (au it
relief to which you are entitled I l
of your so doing the said action
ROBERTSON may proceed in the a
and the Court may hear evidence^, K , e
judgment may be given in y° ur ... t j, e
A copy of the Writ of Summons with
Statement of Claim endorsed t)P li-
obtained by you free of charge 2“liters
nation to the undermentioned Solic
for the Plaintiff. Dated the 1|» V W O N,
July, 1950.—(5gd.) O. J- AVfvTOB,
Registrar. MESSRS. SPEED & CAN
Padbury Buildings, Forrest I lace,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff hereu •
HEAD TEACHER
HACKITT
By
F.L. COMBS
Teaching today is a
skilled occupation and
ranks with plumbing and,
perhaps, even with phar-
maceutical chemistry by exam.
Half a century ago teaching was
done far more by the light of
nature, and teachers, particularly
head teachers, were more pictur-
esque. Some of them were men
game to tackle anything, who
were “giving it a go.” The go,
as a rule, was a short one. 1
remember one such old-timer
who, in spite of being well dug
in with the Masons and the life
and soul of any convivial gather-
ing, only lasted six months. His
last public-spirited act was to
ride thirty miles to persuade
Mr. Phillis to bring his circus to
Paka Puki. The circus, six
lions, three elephants, etc., and
a special train came all right.
The William Tell act of the
clowns was my first glimpse of
the heights farce could rise to.
It nearly asphyxiated a dozen of
us in row-nine at eighteenpence
a piece and three lucky enough
to squirm in under the canvas.
But this most human of
teachers hedged dismayed when
it became his task to tackle
vulgar fractions and when his
attention was called to a brogue
in his scholars, in spite of saying
“It’s meself, sorr, as will bate it
out of thim” to the inspector, a
finished scholar who had written
an Elements of Grammar for
Students, Four to Six with Six
Kinds of Subjunctive Mood, he
was thought not to be the man
for the job and was—not un-
sympathetically sacked. H e
then obtained a position as bar-
man in the Junction, but made
too free with the stock and left
for foreign parts—at any rate the
parts were foreign so far as we
youngsters were concerned. I
can, as a pupil, speak up for
him to this extent. He had a
personality that told, and we all
regretted the free, if not liberal,
education he imparted. Many a
happy half-hour I have spent
going over to the residence two
chains away to get his tobacco.
His successor was a proper
teacher. By proper I mean a
man trained at Home in the
devastatingly efficient craft of
driving in and hammering home
the three Rs. It was the sort of
mill he had been through him-
self that he put us through and
no beg - pardons. Charles
Dickens detested him and his
like and all they stood for (see
Dombey and Son and Hard
Times and Our Mutual
Friend ), but, in right of his
genius, Dickens had a concep-
tion of education still far in
advance of anything yet prac-
tised and (I risk saying so) did
not allow for the enormous
resilience of yoiing fry and the
amount of concentrated know-
ledge they are, by the very nature
of their vagrant intellects, im-
pervious to.
THIS teacher, whose name
was Hackitt, might have
stepped into a portmanteau at
Tilbqry Docks and stepped out
of it intact among the blackened
tree-stumps of Paka Puki. He
had jelled in the three Rs mould
and set to work in an energetic
fashion to jell us. He had, as
regards his trade, cast out all
doubts and measured up to Mr.
Mencken’s pedagogical standard
by passionately believing in
what his mind and quite often
his left hand (he was left-
handed) found to do. He never
related his instruction to our en-
vironment of bush and paddocks
of blackened logs and pubs and
lean-tos and slab whares. He
preferred to teach rivers and
ranges ten thousand miles away
and gave us (1 do not exaggerate)
hell while compelling us to
master the counties of England.
Arithmetic was his long-suit,
and fantastically intricate com-
pound - proportion sums with
men and oxen in varying
numbers and with varying hours
ploughing fields of diverse acre-
age were a joy to him. I have
never forgotten this arithmetic
so resolutely rammed home, and
it still joggles round in my head
in a balled-up lump and gets in
the way whenever I start trying
to really think.
Mr. Hackitt had a swarthy
countenance and a black beard
and hollow chest. In his ever-
lasting greeny-black claw-
hammer he looked like a dys-
peptic crow. We thought him
frail and sincerely hoped he
would die soon, but he was the
stringy kind over which the grave
has no victory. He was punctual,
and, deeply regretting his pre-
decessor, we, too, became
punctual. He applied himself
with a sort of unhallowed fury
to his work and, with a diligence
the reverse of pious, we applied
ourselves to ours.
Paka Puki school became
famous for spelling prodigiously
big and preposterously tricky
words, for scaling nimbly to the
top of long tots twenty digits
high, for reeling off pat dates
and names of capes and bays,
and for reading, in a high-voiced,
hard, mechanical way, the least
glamorous portions of British
essayists. We could also draw
freehand symmetrical designs
so that the left side (with
rubbing) matched the right to a
hair and we learned tonic-solfa
without dreaming that it had
anything to do with the sound
poetry called music,
Mr. Hackitt did not so dream
himself. What he had taken in
as boluses in his training college
in order to obtain his certificate
he imparted as boluses to us, and
he saw to it that, by the aid of
blood and sweat and tears, we
got it down. “Work for the
night cometh,” etc. Mr. Hackitt
did work. A few army corps
of him deployed over the five
continents would have changed
the world and then, I honestly
think, the flowers would have
ceased to bloom and the vernal
grass to turn green. It was this
side of the Mr. Hackitts of his
day that maddened the irascible
Charles Dickens, so excessive in
his imagining as to be rabidly
intolerant of a total lack of if in
other men.
MR. HACKITT was not popu-
lar ; he could not be. He
reminded you of a kind of pod,
never succulent, that had dried
upon the stalk. But nobody in
Paka Puki in the ’nineties could
deny that he was all that a
teacher ought to be, or that, if
he erred in aught, the love he
bore to learning was at fault.
He was worldly and wise enough,
too, to put himself on side with
the Presbyterians, in those years
the dominant denomination in
Paka Puki. He did so by per-
forming a variety of semi-sacred
offices. No teacher at that date
could live by his calling and his
calling alone. There was too
much public spirit for such a
neuter in social life to be borne
with.
So with us education flourished
and was as arduous and distaste-
ful as everybody at that date
knew it ought to be. Even the
numerous tribe who left ex-
standard four went out into life
carrying a burden of compressed
erudition they could never for-
get and, as I can personally
testify, the standard sixes were
marvels. They became of course
butchers, bakers, barbers and
carpenters, but none of them as
they sliced, kneaded, clipped or
hammered ever forgot that the
verb to be takes the same case
after it as before it or the (at
that date) seven causes of
climate.
As for respectability, Mr.
Hackitt was impregnably re-
spectable. He had enough of
that not endearing quality to
make a vicar and two sidesmen,
and the Presbyterian church re-
garded him as a religious and
moral pillar and paragon.
He was the first Paka Puki
head teacher to settle firmly into
his socket, and his virtues and
success as an educator even
silenced the considerable number
who instinctively disliked him.
When one of these voiced his
animus in the bar of the Junction
there was always someone to
say “But Bosun [or Bullocky, or
Big Boy], you can’t get away
from it, he’s been the makings
of the school, he gets the kids
on.” The makings! Those who
spoke thus should have heard the
opinions of Mr. Hackitt ex-
pressed by his most advanced
pupils when smoking Old Judge
butts behind the dunny.
It seemed as if the man’s
tyranny would endure for ever,
for, if he first arrived looking
like a dyspeptic crow, years did
not tell on him and he merely
continued to look like one. His
professional slogan “What I
can’t drill into your thick heads
I’ll drive into them” became a
semi-proverb, and his terrific
once-a-year dust-ups with some
rebellious scholar found the
community staunch in upholding
that sine qua non of the learn-
ing process, discipline.
WHEN he had been head a
year a visitor to his
bachelor residence gave him
both aid and comfort. This was
a niece from Home, altogether
a most attractive young woman.
Black hair braided round her
head, large grey-blue eyes, and
an expression at once demure
and bright gave her what is
today called pulling power, a
power, however, which she did
not use except for worthy causes
such as a tea fight to help build
an addition to the Presbyterian
Church or a bazaar to pay for
a reredos in the ’Anglican one.
She did not dance. Quite a
number of maidens in well-
brought-up homes in the ’nine-
ties drew the line at dancing.
That devastating word, wowser,
had not then turned up to drive
off the stricken field the dis-
couraged rearguards of primeval
virtue.
Her name was Katherine
Hackitt. Katherine enjoyed
going to church. She had a right
to, for her simple but elegant
taste made her the cynosure of
all eyes whether envious or
admiring. As for Mr. Hackitt,
he was a different man when
with her, still a dry stick 'per-
haps, but, in his own stiff-jointed
way, quite the gallant. Though
he was, to say the least, thrifty,
his niece was given everything.
When she made up her mind to
stay on in Paka Puki the resi-
dence was refurnished and the
upholstery and hangings installed
in it kept the ladies of the village
agog for weeks and made the go-
ing hard for not a few better-
halves who had settled down to
the comfortable view that what
the home contained in the sump-
tuary way would do very well
for some years to come.
The niece improved Mr.
Hackitt’s standing. She collabo-
rated in his church work and
started entertaining as entertain-
ing was then understood in non-
conformist circles. Her appear-
ance at the Sunday-school picnic
in spotless white was breath-
taking, yet there was no hint of
coquetry. She kept possible
suitors at a distance, and a
rumor got round that she was
waiting for her young man to
get his training-college certificate
and corrfe out.
There was, of course, both a
bright side to Paka Puki and a
seamy side, but even those
admittedly (and some of them
avowedly) on the seamy side
allowed that Mr. Hackitt and
his niece conjointly improved the
village’s fair-seeming,
THEN with the stunning force
of a thunderbolt came the
crash. Even those citizens of
Paka Puki who should have been
surprised at nothing were taken
off their guard and morally
staggered. The first intimation
of the crash reached us pupils,
the simple reason being that at
nine a.m. on the morning of
February 20, 189 — Mr. Hackitt
did not turn up for duty and
there was no one to ring the
first bell.
Just as eager anticipations of
a let-up were beginning to stir,
the policeman’s boy, arriving out-
side the main entrance, imparted
sotto voce to a few discrimin-
atingly selected mates the in-
credible information that old
“Whackitt” was in the lockup.
Met with blank incredulity the
policeman’s boy was able to
furnish a few corroborative par-
ticulars. Old “Whackitt” had
said to his father, “This is all due
to the machinations of lifelong
enemies of mine, Mr. Huck-
stable, and I can prove it ” To
which Mr. Huckstable had re-
plied, “Not to me, Mr. Hackitt
It ain’t got nothing to do with
me. All I know is I got mv
orders to jug you.” y
The discriminous few rapidly
circulated the tidings till even
the standard oners, though vague
as to the reason, brightened at
the happy possibility that there
would be no school that day, and
one or two hilariously and reck-
lessly rubbed their homework off
their slates and set to on their
lunches. Why? Because they
felt free, and like those dogs let
off the chain, to whom they have
such a strong affinity, gave way
to the desire to rip round and
tear loose.
The feelings of the older
pupils were more mixed. Partly
they were awed at the magnitude
(Continued on page 32.)


A
BOOK OF
60
CAKVOOI
“Cousin Jack Characters’
The odd caption "Cornish
Pasty" aptly describes this
collection of cartoons by
Oswald Pryor. Containing 60
drawings depicting amusing
situations of early Cornish
characters as published over
many years in "The Bulletin."
Price 2/- (postage 4d.).
r Available at all Booksellers
or the Australian Distributors:
ARGONAUT BOOKSHOP, 224 North Terrace, Adelaide
AL 45/4
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ... 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Ply., Ltd., Sydney.
i
/I
f \HI
W
to®
cubic
UBa Teei’. >
y
aw
Hr
m
m
JH
m*
m
you fteed-all you could desire in
a non-electrical refrigerator-is yours
in full measure in Icemaster. Just on
6 cubic feet of usable all-refrigerated
storage; big below-freezing storage
and ice-block capacity (63 cubes per
freeze). A new, high-efficiency,
tow-cost refrigerating system ... and
richly beautiful in design and finish.
Icemaster, today’s de Luxe Kerosene
Refrigerator.
★ Chilling tray for fish, meat cuts im-r
mediately below evaporator, ★ Extra
thick slag-wool insulation on all sides
and door. ★ Improved Bismark white-
flame type burner. Improved lamp
design. ★ Big-capacity evaporator, 3
ice-trays. Room for
frozen food
storage.
ds
6 CUBIC FEET.. RELIABLE TO THE LAST CUBIC INCH!
ffcmtaiwi
? s ,sT fr T 0 . R e,c # N .
V ,£o Kt t WYLERS .- CO m LTD.. *«;£»- "i
• STH. AUST. • RADIO ELECTRIC WHOLESALERS LTD., James nace
HILL BARRIER ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES LTD., Argent St. W W _ STR .
• WESTERN APPLIANCES LTD., c/o NICHOLSONS LTD., BorUnck St. W
MAN FARMERS CO-OP. LTD., 569 Wellington St. Perth.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Gilsullivan.
Those Savoyards who deem it
rank heresy to alter a syllable of
W. S. Gilbert’s libretti would
have a skyrocketing blood-pres-
sure at a few of the liberties
which Ivan Menzies took with
“The Mikado,” which opened the
Sydney season at Sydney Empire
on Friday night. But few would
doubt that, could Gilbert himself
have appeared at the perform-
ance, he would have given an
approving grin when, the Mikado
having demanded to know where
Nanki Poo had gone, Ko Ko
replied “Bellingen.” And Gilbert
the political satirist certainly
couldn’t have cavilled when the
comedian in an addendum to the
list of those who “wouldn’t be
missed” made mime by pulling
an imaginary engine-whistle
cord imitating a moving loco.
It need hardly be said that
Ivan Menzies bulked large in the
night’s doings, and if his clown-
ing leaned to the slapstick, at
times at least he raised a good
crop of genuine laughs, and if
that isn’t the function of a come-
dian, what is? What makes
Menzies’s work so attractive is
that, allied to an air of easy
familiarity and a comic nimble-
ness of foot that remains a per-
petual wonder is the clarity of
his diction, even when delivering
musical patter at top speed.
No more grim-iooking an-
cestor of Big Charlie could be
imagined than that delineated by
Bernard Manning; the way he
rolled around his tongue the con-
jecture as to whether it was
something in boiling oil or
melted lead that was reserved as
punishment for those who com-
passed the death of the Heir
Apparent was a beautiful piece
of humor, and his horrific make-
up was as good as could have
been devised. As a solid prop to
his histrionics he raised a reson-
ant voice to excellent effect in
“A More Humane Mikado,” get-
ting quite a menacing relish out
of the billiard sharp’s doom of
having to play “on a cloth untrue
with a twisted cue and elliptical
billiard-balls.”
Though there have been Yum
Yums with better voices, there
have been few of greater charm
than the laughing-eyed, mis-
chievous Helen Roberts. Her
voice at full volume is inclined
to a hard brittleness, but when
she sang softly, as in the re-
peated second stanza of “The
Sun and I,” it was touched with
beauty. John Dean’s Nanki Poo
was adequately sung, though his
romantic aspect could have car-
ried more conviction, Richard
Walker was in turn pompous,
didactic, aggressive and humble
as befits Pooh-Bah, and his voice
was as ponderous as his bulk.
Leslie Rands’s Pish Tush was
meticulous and coldly polished,
whilst Evelyn Gardiner, from
dissolving in tears at the har-
rowing account of an avian sui-
cide to the minatory magnificence
of her denunciation of the Lord
High Executioner, was the
authoritative Katisha whose fate
it is never to be loved by an
audience.
Against a highly artistic set-
ting, and in the most lavish cos-
tumes in which a Gilsullivan
chorus could possibly be dressed,
the gentlemen of Japan and their
ladies sang with commendable
vigor, discipline and a nice
weight of tone —altogether a
well-balanced chorus of which
any producer could be proud,
and one, on the feminine side,
assaying high in pulchritude.
Grand Guignol.
The National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, has been providing its
habitues with a few nights of
horror. Grand Guignol plays
have been done before in Mel-
bourne. They originated at the
Grand Guignol, a theatre in
Montmartre, the suburb in Paris
noted for its gay nightlife. When
you weren’t feeling gay you
could drop in and sup of its
one-act plays, which alternate
broad farce with chilly horror,
and come out gloomier than
ever. They were insanely clever,
but they were horrible just the
same because they dealt with
life —generally sexual life —in its
negative aspect. The National
Theatre producers make the
point that their Grand Guignol
playlets “may upset and shock
you, but each has a moral to
teach.”
Where is the moral? In
“Coals of Fire” a fat old stone-
blind lady is sitting over the fire
with her pretty young lady help.
With all the cunning of the blind
she abstracts from her terrified
companion the confession that
the man who was in her room
on the previous night was the
handsome young husband of the
blind old lady. It turns out that
they have been in love for three
months, that she is going to have
a baby and that they want the
old lady to divorce her husband
and condemn herself to com-
plete isolation. The old lady
asks for a toasted crumpet, the
girl kneels to toast it and
the old lady hurls her huge
bulk upon her and holds her
face in the fire. The moral in
this is presumably that one
should never toast crumpets.
In “The Last Kiss” the young
foreman of a foundry who loved
seeing the shining steel turn into
beautiful machines is discovered
with his face a mass of sup-
purating scars and his eyes
empty sockets. He is now
learning to make baskets in a
blind asylum. It turns out that
his mistress, Mintie, in a fit of
jealous passion, threw acid in
his face because he had taken a
fancy to another woman. She
does six months, comes out and
calls on her mangled lover. He
tells that she shouldn’t object to
kissing her own handiwork, and
when the horrified girl attempts
to do so he empties a bottle of
the same acid with which she
blinded him into her eyes.
Where is the moral in this one?
There are two blind people in
the flat now instead of one, so
nobody has been advantaged.
Although the plays were
thoroughly well acted, the audi-
ence was quite unresponsive.
There are said to be some
notes in music so high that the
ear can’t respond to the vibra-
tions, and you can make the note
as high as you like, but all you
get is silence. The Grand Guig-
nol playwrights defeat them-
selves in the same way.
"High Place."
• This prizewinning Australian
play by Laurel Mills, of New-
castle (N.S.W.), produced by
Maie Hoban at the Union
Theatre, University of Mel-
bourne, goes to our old friend
the South Sea island for its
subject-matter, and there are
many of our old friends in it.
There are the whisky-soaking
white men, the English snob, the
beachcombers, the bad island-
trader and the snivelling failure
whose grandfather made a for-
tune out of blackbirding and
buccaneering and ruined the
island in the process.
There is also the noble self-
sacrificing wife who after mak-
ing one burst for freedom re-
turns to immolate her youth and
beauty at the feet of the snivel-
ling failure, who mercifully
passes out at the end of Act 11,
while she remains to sink down
to the level of proprietress of a
dubious cafe whose native
servants are much more in touch
with their instincts than she is.
The woman’s son turns
up. He is an artist with a burn-
ing desire to paint the light of
the tropics like Gauguin, but he
isn’t a bit like Gauguin. He
immediately becomes diverted
from his artistic purpose by
one of the voluptuous island
wenches, and then gets into
conflict with another white man
for whom the girl has also taken
a fancy. His rival is murdered
and he is wrongly suspected of
the murder, and his mother
makes another self-sacrificing
gesture by hustling him aboard
a steamer without revealing her
identity and remaining a victim
to the malice of the island.
In that plot there are more
than a few hints of the stereo-
types that have stood playwrights
in bad stead ever since the Eliza-
bethan era, but there are also
more than a few hints of obser-
vation on the part of the
authoress. The self - pitying
husband is true enough, though
the complacency with which he
blames his conditions through
two acts is apt to become tire-
some. His Brunnehilde-like wife
(Girlie Reddan) is real enough,
too, and, despite 'its faults and
minor discrepancies, the play
itself has some strength and a
good deal of sincerity.
Generally speaking artists’
sketches are better than their
finished pictures, probably be-
cause they are being less pre-
tentious and less ambitious and
hence less conscious. Often
Claude Lorraine’s sketches were
better than his pompous gallery
pictures with their nymphs and
fauns and Roman ruins. This
more or less applies to a show
of watercolors at the Stanley
Coe Galleries, Melbourne. Brian
Jones’s “Mordialloc,” the
“French Interior” of Louis
Kahan, R. Malcolm Warner’s
“Highway” and Phyl Water-
house’s “Knowledge” have a
freshness about them that the
artists don’t always get into their
loftier efforts.


Em
& &
\SJ
m
>
522
m.
'X
lather
pockets
aivhmer.
Dad’s smile as he
pockets his new
Biro is one of
pride. He’s proud
you remembered
his day—Father’s Day—and he’s proud
to own a Biro Ballpoint Pen. And you
can be proud, too, that you chose such a
handsome, useful gift for him—a gift
you can buy at a price to suit your pocket.
There are five attractive models in the
Biro range, at prices from 6/- to
£6/10/0, This Biro, for example, is
smart, streamlined and businesslike, and
costs 23/-, with Magnum refills at 3/9.
Obtainable in grey, maroon or black.
Another winner with men is the
Biromatic, Single-handed, automatic
action. Rolled gold model, 55/-;
Rhodium plated, 33/6, Refills, 2/3.
23
THE BRITISH
BALLPOINT PEN
i ro
a pen for your “Father’s Day” thoughts
* . t'
Fkt No*. 122073-8 Dec., t 943. 133163-31 Dec., 1943.
August READER’S DIGEST*
reports the same research
which proves that brushing teeth
right after eating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Better Than Any Other Way of Preventing
Tooth Decay According to
Published Reports!
d
READ AUGUST READER’S
digest's report on one ol
the most extensive experiments
in dental history! And remem-
ber these additional facts: The
toothpaste used exclusively in
this research was Colgate Den-
tal Cream. Two years’ research
showed brushing teeth right
after eating with Colgate Den-
tal Cream stopped decay best.
Better than any other home
method of oral hygiene! The
Colgate way stopped more
decay for more people than
ever reported in all dentifrice
history!
•jcYOU SHOULD KNOW! Colgate Dental Cream, while not mentioned by
name, was used exclusively In the research reported In Reader's Dlge»**
f ALWAYS USE 'I
COLGATE'S TO CLEAN
YOUR BREATH WHILE!
YOU CLEAN YOUR
’ TEETH-AND HELP
STOP TOOTH DECAY!
m.
sd
FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE, ONLY 3/3
OM«
THE SERVICE MAN
Turn of the Tide.
“Ek Dum”: It is obvious that
the turn of the tide has come
or is about to come in Korea.
The North Koreans are still in
strong force along the 120-mile
defence line of the south-east
corner; and the position as it
was here estimated last week
proved correct. The enemy was
regrouping on August 19-20, and,
having partly achieved his new
arrangements, renewed his fling-
ing of forces against the north-
western sectors of the defence
box, particularly near the junc-
tion of the U.S.-South Korean
sections north of Waegwan.
Sheer force of numbers moved
him forward at some points, and
some of his units reached points
as close to Taegu as eight miles
away. But the U.N.O. forces
everywhere showed themselves
strong enough to deal with what-
ever happened, even though the
North Koreans still have a very
substantial force estimated at
from 50,000 to 100,000 fairly
well-armed and still capable of
attacking.
American attacks are still met
with heavy and competent
mortar and automatic-arms fire.
But the position is stabilised, and
the growing strength of the
South Korean forces, at last
apparently well - armed and
blooded, makes a big difference.
The U.S. forces no y can afford
even further retreat,
A Transition Period
The advantages are now
swiftly moving to the American
side. The North Koreans are
now fighting at the end of a long
and very bad communication-
line. They subsisted in their
southward drive largely by strip-
ping the countryside of food.
But it is impossible to follow
that policy when at least 50,000
troops have to be kept more or
less static in a narrow belt of
battlefield, especially when some
of them have a big river behind
them and when all the inhabi-
tants within reach have fled.
Unless they are to receive out-
side help in manpower from
China or the other Iron Curtain
Powers—it has been suggested
that such help was this week
being organised in Bucharest in
the shape of a Cominform bri-
gade their reserves must
dwindle. Those of the Ameri-
cans are growing, along with
U.N.O. morale, which is
strengthened by the arrival of
air forces powerful enough to
dominate the peninsula, tie N.
Korean aircraft to the ground
and smash every enemy war fac-
tory within reach.
British Troops Arrive
The further arrival of the first
contingent of British troops —
battalions of the Argylls and
Sutherlands, who put up such a
grand show in the Malayan re-
treat, and the Middlesex Regi-
ment—the Duke of Cambridge’s
old 57th, which once was in
Australia and in which, before it
was renumbered. Governor Mac-
quarie served in India the year
this country was founded —will
help. These two battalions were
flown from Hong Kong, and will
be followed by further British
troops, by Australian troops, by
Canadian, Dutch, Turkish,
Siamese, Philippine and other
detachments and additional
Americans.
The attack of the South
Koreans on a small island near
Chemulpo, the port of entry to
Seoul, points the way to the
future. The U.N.O, forces
dominate the sea as well as the
air and are growing rapidly. And
thus the North Koreans are
faced not merely with the task
of dealing with the Americans
along the borders of the defence
box, but with inevitable assaults
on their communications, on
their rear and perhaps even
in the heart of their own
territory, their capital Pyong-
yang being very vulnerable
from the sea. They are
due to learn presently the
disadvantages of peninsula cam-
paigning, and the very threats to
their flanks should be enough
presently to send them into re-
treat, which they will find very
difficult through a denuded
country in months in which the
weather is very hard on march-
ing infantry, especially when
food is scarce.
No Need for Hurry
It is doubtful, however,
whether General MacArthur will
hurry. Political reasons * which
dictate that an advance should
not be made until the U.N.O.
nations are generally represented
in Korea apart, the fact is that
the longer the American com-
mand can delay the better off it
will be and the greater its
superiority provided always
China and/or Russia are still
“neutral.”
There are signs of the policy
of delay in the first U.S. advance
against Changyong, which
stopped before that city without
attempting to go farther. The
U.S. game is likely to be attri-
tion to the limit in static offen-
sive-defence until the Commu-
nists can be chased home or cut
up front and rear with a mini-
mum of losses.
The job which the Americans
have done has been a splendid
one taking into account the raw-
ness and paucity of the man-
power with which the command
has had to work, the surprise
of the North Korean attack, so
well prepared and so well-
thought-out, the weather, and
the constant hysterics of the daily
press which have been enough to
shake the nerve of any com-
mander. The Australian Mus-
tangs and R.N. and R.A.N. have
had their share. Without their
presence the tale might have
been considerably different.
N. Koreans “Still Superior”
Lieutenant - General Walker,
G.O.C. of the U.N. forces in
Korea, said on August 27 that
the North Koreans still had
superiority and that this was “no
time for complacency” ; that the
momentary calm of the fronts
was ominous. This is only the
obvious, but the position is no
longer weighted on the North
Korean side, and every day
brings new help or the promise
of help and depletes a little the
enemy’s power for mischief.
The North Korean attacks at
the weekend were mainly against
the South Koreans on the north
of the defence box. In the see-
saw war there they took a small
town in an advance towards
Pohang, the U.N. supply port
now once more in the hands of
the civilised nations and further
west took Uihung, another
small township. They were using
two divisions aimed at Pohang
in their three-pronged coastal
attack. The Uihung operation
was a probing thrust at the de-
fences of Taegu concerted with
another blow in the south-west
corner of the box towards Masan.
In the Air
The report of Lieutenant-
General Stratemeyer, C.-in-C.
Far East Air Forces of the
United States, covering two
months, emphasising the superi-
ority of U.N.O. airpower and
the dwindling power of the North
Koreans to resist it.
On casualty statistics of fighters
the aircraft-against-aircraft war
has been a small thing, the esti-
mate of losses being 72 North
Korean machines to 58 Ameri-
can. The U.S. and R.A.A.F.
fighters dropped 1700 tons of
bombs and fired 33,000 rockets.
The B-26 Invader bombers
loosed 2000 tons of bombs, the
heavies 11,500 tons, about half
on industrial targets—the total
15,200 tons of bombs in 20,500
sorties. The estimates of damage
are as usual in such cases on the
optimistic side, but even at a
discount must be heavier than
the enemy can afford.
On August 25, the last .day on
which an air report was made
before this was written, the
Allied aircraft, including
R.A.A.F. 77th Squadron, had
flown 600 sorties and claimed to
have destroyed 26 tanks.
U.N.O. Contingehts
The first U.N.O. ground troops
outside the Americans to arrive
are the British, whose com-
mander, Brigadier Coad, and
staff, arrived with Air-Vice
Marshal Bouchier, the British
liaison officer with General Mac-
Arthur’s command, at Taegu
aerodrome on August 27.
The same day the Belgian
Government announced its in-
tention to send 1000 men to the
front, and the South Koreans
decreed conscription of all men
from 17 to 35. It appears to be
about time, though possibly the
South Korean Government has
been too busy to decree anything
since June 25.
Australia’s Effort
Mr. Francis, Minister for the
Army, on April 28 announced
triumphantly that his depart-
merit had “reached its target of
a battalion of infantrymen for
Korea,” together with a “substan-
tial proportion of a battalion of
reinforcements.” He remarked:
We are continuing to recruit men
because have a steady stream
of reinforcements The response by
the young men of Australia to the
Government call for recruits was
wonderful. If we were able to accept
all the recruits offering, Victoria
Barracks would be bursting.
Somebody should keep an eye
on Mr. Francis to see that he
doesn’t burst.
It now seems that the British
Empire outside Canada intends
to provide a whole brigade for
Korea, Gt. Britain and Australia
providing the infantry and N.Z.
about 1000 men in artillery sup-
port.
Graver Every Day.
“Ek Dum”: Every day the
world situation becomes graver,
and in spite of Mr. Spender's
attempts to persuade Europe
that the Pacific has become the
centre of the world the real
danger continues to be in
Europe. There, whatever hap-
pens in Asia, the fate of the
world will be decided ; for there
cannot be a large-scale war of
menace to civilisation in Asia
without Europe becoming imme-
diately involved directly. And
as soon as shots have been fired
in Europe the fate of the world
may hang on the events of the
next few weeks there.
The heart of the European
danger, is, of course, Germany,
where the blow must fall if and
when it comes. Its position is
perilous indeed in the face of the
admission by Eastern Germany’s
propaganda chief, Gerhart
Eisler, formerly the de facto
head of the United States Com-
munist party, that the supposed
police-force of the Russian zone
now totals 500,000. In other
words there are as many armed
police armed with tanks,


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSObj &
SjE WXKn>
MARX
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT STONES’, LONDON, NEW YORK
letterpress a offset printers
lithographic printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS t : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABREEE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27L), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
• • •
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
A NEW OPPORTUNITY FOR YOUR SON TO BECOME A
NAVAL OFFICER
in the Royal Australian Navy
\H
boys
OF
Ip your son’s fif-
teenth birthday
occurs between
Ist October,
1949, and 31st
December, 1950,
he may apply now for
entry as Cadet Midship-
man into the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College for
service in the Executive,
Engineering, Electrical,
and Supply and Secre-
tariat Branches of the
Royal Australian Navy.
To a boy of intelligence
and character, the career
of a naval officer offers
remarkable opportunities
and attractions indeed,
few other careers provide
a life with the interest and
rich experience that come
from world travel and
opportunities for high
advancement.
TRAINING IN AUSTRALIA
AND ENGLAND
Your son will begin his
training at the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College at
Flinders Naval Depot,
Victoria. He will graduate
from the College at the
end of two years and will
then undergo various
courses at sea and ashore,
in Australia and England.
His training in England
will include service in all
classes of warships, and
specialist courses at his-
toric Naval shore establish-
ments. On completion of
these courses he will take
his place in the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy, where he
will have opportunities
for promotion to high
appointments.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE?
Candidates must be the
sons of British subjects by
birth or naturalisation,
and be substantially of
European descent.
Selection will be made
from boys who have
passed or who intend
sitting for, in 1950,
\ one of the follow-
ing examinations:—
Intermediate Certificate.
Junior Public Certificate.
3rd-Year Tasmanian High
School Standard.
Equivalent technical
school examinations.
Passes in English, a mathe-
matics subject and a
science subject are
required.
Successful candidates will
enter the Royal Australian
Naval College in March
and July, 1951.
Applications close with the
Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office,
Melbourne, S.C.I, on 30th
November, 1950.
APPLICATION forms and
ALL PARTICULARS can be
obtained from Naval Re-
cruiting Office in your
capital city.
Actual date of birth should
be stated in your inquiry.
OPPORTUNITIES ALSO FOR
BOYS BETWEEN 16* AND 18
Applications close on 31st
October, 1950, for entry as
Cadet Midshipmen (Special
Entry) and Cadet Midship-
men (S). Details of qualin*
t cations required will be sup-
plied on request.
NC.i.ei.M
artillery and automatic arms—
in vanquished Eastern Germany
with which the Allies have no
peace as there are troops in
victorious Britain. There are
more Russian troops and
Bereitschaften “police” under
arms in Eastern Germany alone
than there are troops in France.
And the whole 750,000 Russian
and German troops in the
Russian zone are on a war foot-
ing, fully-trained for battle,
which neither the French nor
the British troops are.
Western Germany is totally
unarmed, and this week the
Allied authorities of Western
Europe were still giving con-
sideration to the matter of per-
mitting the Germans to arm. Dr.
Adenauer has called for a West
German police-force of equal
strength with that of Eastern
Germany.
Every leader who speaks
attests the grimness of the
prospects. Mr. Attlee told
leaders of his party on August
23 that Britain was facing a
grave international crisis, and
that everything must give way
to the new armament pro-
gramme. He said that the world
position was so serious that
primary concentration must be
on building up Britain’s armed
strength; that further nation-
alisation plans must be post-
poned, and that there must be
“more guns and less houses.”
Mr. Menzies’s Report
Mr. Menzies has returned
speaking in the same strain. He
says that there is a great sense
of urgency everywhere, and he
holds that part of the Com-
munist tactics are to create
incident after incident to dis-
perse military forces and
by a parallel economic pro-
gramme to assure that the demo-
cracies shall be compelled des-
perately to divert resources to
defence, cause an economic col-
lapse and bring about a Com-
munist triumph without a major
war.
Some students of Communism
would not go all the way with
him on this interpretation—it
does not square with the Com-
munist programme, which
rather aims to impede than
develop defence. But there
will be complete agreement with
the Prime Minister’s view that
“we are witnessing in the world
now a movement which is as
grave in its implication—direct
and indirect —as movements
which preceded 1939, and that
there is urgency in getting the
free countries into a procedure
of defence.”
It will take some effort to
drive that viewpoint home to
Australia. The daily Press must
know what is happening, but it
does not adequately drive home
the facts which are printed daily
abroad, largely because it can-
not afford space both for the
distasteful part of the world’s
news and for columns about the
Bellingen quads and the races
and the dogs.
Possibly if the Budget is re-
vised to meet the needs of the
moment it will enforce to a lot
of people the fact that they are
in greater danger than they were
from Hitler’s Germany in the
year 1939. One thing is certain
—that the Government should
be given full national support
on any measures it feels it neces-
sary to take, and that if there is
any interference from any
quarter whatever which
threatens to impede defence
plans, the Prime Minister should
take steps at once to get a man-
date which will enable him to
proceed without interruption or
obstruction. It is unthinkable
that any Government should be
asked to bring swiftly into being
a vital defence programme if
it is to be thwarted and
sabotaged, as it was during the
last session, by an Opposition
which has only one aim in view
—to prevent any Government
which is not “Labor” from gov-
erning even if to do so calls for
subversion of the spirit of the
Constitution,
Mr. Churchill Speaks
Mr. Churchill, in a speech over
8.8. C. networks on August 27,
emphasised the facts. Though
he declared that he did not be-
lieve a major war to be immi-
nent —the normal opening gambit
of all speakers on either side who
are concerned with diplomatic
strategy —he said that “nobody
could be sure, though he thought
there was still a breathing-space”
in which to ward off the danger
of being overrun. He added:
The danger in Europe is nearer
than in Korea, and is on an incom-
parably larger scale At the present
time the atomic bomb is the sole
deterrent against aggressive Com-
munist invasion. No wonder the
Communists would like to ban it in
the name of peace. They would then
have Europe naked and at their
mercy.
The day before, the U.S. House
of Representatives passed an
emergency bill totalling
$ 16,771,000,000, or about
£A7,487,000,000, for rearmament
of the United States and those
fighting oh her side, including
$4,000,000,000 assistance to
allies.
Raids in the
Philippines.
“Ek Dum”: The present con-
dition of affairs in the Philip-
pines illustrates the feebleness of
the Government of that country,
which could scarcely continue to
exist in its present form if it
were not for the armed support
of the United States.
With a Government as cor-
nipt as most Asiatic Govern-
ments, the Philippines are
riddled with violence and
Communism from one end of
the islands to the other, their
roads unsafe even in the environs
of the capital and their more dis-
tant towns liable to find them-
“The old man Won it in the last War, sir."
selves either paying protection to
the bandits or burned out," with
corpses in the streets.
The Communist Hukbalahap
levies have become openly active
since the announcement that the
Philippines, which provides
U.N.O. with its president, in-
towns, one of the last Tarlac, 70
tended to send 5000 men to swell
General MacArthur’s forces in
Korea. They had in three days
up to the weekend raided 12
miles from the capital, and the
home city of Dr. Romulo, who
succeeded Dr. Evatt as head of
the U.N.O. Assembly. There, as
in other towns, all within 80
miles of Manila, they burned,
murdered and mutilated. Thirty
police were killed. Two nurses
and 20 patients at the hospital
were bayoneted and disem-
bowelled and the jail gates were
opened so that the local criminal
element could join in the rapine.
Near by they invaded a mili-
tary camp at Makabulos, burned
the camp buildings to the ground,
shot two officers and retired, as
always, loaded with stolen
money and booty.
The Philippine Defence Min-
ister at the weekend, after the
11th raid, described the situa-
tion as “under control.”
The Communists’ answer to
this was to attack San Rafael,
30 miles from Manila, killing
two civilians. Within four days
they had caused 75 deaths. The
operations are being conducted
much on the lines of those in
Malaya, and it seems certain that
their plans come from China.
Chinese-language leaflets signed
by Mao have been found urging
the Philippine Communists to
co-operate with their comrades
on the Asiatic mainland.
The behavior of Communist
China towards Hong Kong
smacks ominously of the tech-
nique used on the verge of
Russia’s attack on Finland in
1939. The careful British are
now being accused of “boundary
violations and provocations.” An
unnamed British warship is
charged with having intruded
into Chinese waters and shelled
a shore garrison, and “fully-
equipped British soldiers accom-
panied by a policeman” with
having crossed the Chinese
border. At any moment we may
expect to hear that a platoon of
Argyll® is aggressively march-
ing on Peking, thus forcing the
Communist Government to fling
a few divisions against Kowloon
in self-defence.


m
m
Ml
\s
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
n
Over palm and pine, at airports all over the world— including
those of Melbourne and Sydney—the green and yellow sign of the BP
Aviation Service stands for speed, courtesy and efficiency. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Air Lines and many other national
airlines are regularly fuelled by this
great Service, which has behind
it the global resources
and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company Ltd.
X AVIATIDNx i3.P/SER VICE
■
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.. ALL
Telegraphic Address “AIUBEEPEE” Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ADDITIONS
HOPE FOR PEACE.
U.S. authority on European
and Russian history, Professor
Peter Viereck, analysing Rus-
sian policy and motives in a
New York “Herald Tribune”
article, sets the questions:
Why is it that attempts at win-
ning Soviet friendship • are
doomed from the start? Why
the failure of every such
attempt, no matter how sincere
and generous? Why the U.S.
failure to win reciprocal good-
will with lend-lease, the post-
war United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration,
relief to the Ukraine, the con-
cessions at Yalta, all the earnest
acts of sympathy for the Russian
people? Why was Trygve Lie,
who took the Soviet position
on admitting Communist China,
denounced on July 8 as a capi-
talist warmonger by the very
Government he was in effect
appeasing?
There is, Viereck concludes,
one answer to all these ques-
tions: Friendly relations with
America and the democratic
West are the one thing the
Soviet ruling class can in no
circumstances afford:
“Russia’s ruling class cannot
afford friendly relations abroad
any more than can any exploit-
ing and power - monopolising
despotism, whose slaves are for-
bidden to strike and are ruled
by the triple-lashed knout of
secret police, propaganda and
forced labor.
“Since time immemorial any
such despotic bureaucracy can
keep its slaves drugged only by
inciting to the point of paranoia
their fear of an encircling, per-
secuting enemy. So long as this
fear remains the.masses will not
revolt against the class-line
system of palaces for the rulers
and five-in-a-room for the
masses; an enormous surplus
value of profits for bureaucrats
(a relatively higher percentage
of profits than in capitalistic
America) with no consumer
goods for the masses; class
differences vaster in terms of
economic security than in any
Western country, capitalist or
Socialist.
“The escapist voices continue
to plead, sincerely enough, ‘Why
cannot we somehow, by some
new concession or by some new
direct conversation, improve
Russian - American relations ? ’
The answer continues to be: The
Russian ruling class cannot
risk improving relations lest it
lose the imaginary plotting
enemy who keeps it in power.
“Yet if the Soviet rulers can-
not afford friendly foreign rela-
tions, they probably cannot
afford war either. Whenever
possible they will seek their ob-
jectives by means short of a
world war. Here they differ
from Hitler. They are more
realistic, more slow - moving,
more cautious and calculating.
They are prejudiced in favor of
going on living, just as we are.
And here is the real hope for
peace. Their aim, in which they
have succeeded brilliantly, is a
middle stage which equally
avoids peace and a major hot
war. They will perpetrate a
Pearl Harbor only if it does not
destroy them also. That is, only
if we continue to be so vacil-
lating and so scandalously dis-
armed.”
West’s Tanks.
A London “Times” special
correspondent, reviewing the
West’s tank strength (or, rather,
deficiency), concludes that in this
regard the Western democracies
labor under two handicaps:
“In the first instance they have
the unhappy legacy of the last
war in the fact that the Sher-
mans, almost the only tank of
which there is plenty about, is
so woefully inferior to the old
T. 34.
“Secondly, with tanks as with
other weapons, it is better to
produce new types on the out-
break of war than several years
before. This consideration puts
defensive alliances at a per-
manent disadvantage compared
with those who are able to suit
the time of their aggression to
their production programme.
“In general, the Western
Powers, not unreasonably, have
concentrated expenditure on de-
sign rather than production.
The only exception is the British
Government, which, in marked
contrast to their record after
the last war, had had the
courage to maintain a steady, if
minimum, expenditure on
modern tank production.”
Germans Alarmed.
Reporting that the Korean
war has seriously alarmed the
West Germans, a “Manchester
Guardian” staff correspondent
insists that they have every rea-
son for their alarm, the Western
Allies having up to now taken
—London “Daily Express."
“At least we have a military association without parallel in history."
no better defence measures in
Germany than elsewhere.
Apparently the Russian
threat has meant nothing. The
position in Germany, as the
correspondent reports it, is that
five Allied divisions still face
about 30 Russian divisions on
the other side of the zonal
frontier. The Allies among them
muster no single armored divi-
sion in Germany; the Russians
are consistently reported to have
at least five there. Allied troops
are still largely disposed in
small, scattered detachments,
underequipped with arms and
transport, that would be able to
take no effective part in a Euro-
pean war.
The West Germans (this
correspondent on the spot re-
ports) have long since given up
any belief that the Western
Allies are keeping their real
strength “further back.” They
know, through published de-
fence estimates, how few trained
and complete divisions there are
in both France and Britain.
While the Russians have built
up large concentrations of troops
round Konigsberg and Lemberg
(probably 40 divisions in all),
in addition have organised the
para-military People’s Police in
the Soviet zone, which could in
a comparatively short space of
time provide up to a dozen
divisions of trained troops, and
have begun systematically to
fortify the Baltic coast from
Liibeck to Riga, there have
been “virtually no heartening
signs of similar activity in the
Western camp.”
Moreover, every German is
aware that a “localised” long-
range atomic war between
Russia and America “is an illu-
sion” and that the Russians
could threaten terrible reprisals
on the peoples of Western
Europe if the Americans
launched an atomic war. Any
German can well visualise an
eastward “death march” of mil-
lions of Germans and the
systematic obliteration of what
the Allies left of German cities
by 1945. He knows that even
the most optimistic West Euro-
peans do not consider defend-
ing Germany east of the Rhine
; —and this means the automatic
surrender of nine-tenths of his
country.
Quoting the “Rheinische Post”
comment “Every responsible
statesman must press for the de-
fence of Europe on the Elbe
line,” the correspondent him-
self comments;
“This, then, is the final con-
sideration. As long as Allied
plans for war entail the sacri-
fice of almost the whole of Ger-
many no one can expect a
whole-hearted German confi-
dence and co-operation. A well-
armed, highly mobile European
army of 25 divisions might not
only deter the Russians from
any thought of aggressive war
against Europe ; it would show
Germany that the democracies
are ready to defend themselves
—as well as the junior partner
in the European comity 'of
nations. The alternative is a
steady retrogression of German
faith in the Western world and
in Western democracy.”
“Civil-war” Technique.
London “Economist” lists les-
sons about the technique of
Cominform (i.e., Soviet-directed)
“civil war” which are now being
learnt by those whose business
it is to estimate future develop-
ments in the international field:
1 —lf a personality or organ
of the Cominform accuses the
British and Americans of plan-
ning aggression in an area the
chances are that plans for civil
war to break out in that area
are well advanced.
2. —The measures taken to
build up public opinion in the
Communist sphere are an im-
portant source of intelligence
about future intentions. It is
curious, for example, that the
persistent East European propa-
ganda accusing the West of pre-
paring an atomic war is never
used to encourage air-raid pre*
cautions or civil defence in the
countries where the war fear is
whipped up.
Who Cares?
Lord Vansittart, in a London
“Daily Telegraph” letter, slashes
at the “attitude of the West to-
wards the outrages of the Krem-
lin and its satellite gangsters”;
“Tyranny and persecution run
riot, but do we wax hot, or even
warm? Justice and humanity
are mocked; millions of human
beings are liquidated. But Mr.
Lie trots meekly to Moscow,
while professing critics of
‘Munich’ contemplate the aban-
donment to Totalitaria not of
one country but a dozen. Who
really cares?
“We continue to tolerate Com-
munists in the church, education,
the civil service, the 8.8. C. We
dawdle with Western defence.
We react to nothing much or
long. We neglect the element
necessary to generate the sense


COUNTRY CLUB
CASUAL SHIRTS
These casual shirts, styled by Spire of
California, are of an excellence never
before attained in Australia. Materials
are the world’s best cut to the stan-
dard of a well-tailored sports coat.
The exclusive “Neatline” collar sits
comfortably, looks smart whether
worn open or with a tie. Sleeves and
shoulders are specially shaped and the
action-back gives maximum freedom.
In all wool Hopsac: Grey, fawn,
ox-blood, cream.
Full sleeves: 69/6.
In crease- and shrink-resisting Rayons:
Pastel shades of blue, fawn, green,
cream beige, white.
Full sleeves: 48/6.
Half sleeves’: 42/6.
Khaki Cord Jodhpurs
Roomily cut in hard-wearing heavy-
weight cotton cord, these jodhpurs
are styled with cuff bottoms, cross
and hip pockets, belt loops and self-
strapped knees for longer wear; 48/6.
Bostock's English Shoes
Brown calf brogues, neat round toe,
stout soles. Full and half sizes.
D. and E. fittings: £6/12/6.
Black and brown semi-brogues,
medium pointed toes, single soles.
Full and half sizes. D. and E. fit-
tings: £5/3/6,
m
»t«5
M
In every field of sport—
leading players prefer Daks.
For superb comfort and
bang, they have never been
equalled. Self-supporting—
no pressure round the middle.
Concealed rubber pads to
control the shirt. We have
Daks now in a variety of
fine fabrics.
a
TAILORED BY SIMPSON
Price £6/14/0. Gabardine £7/10/6.
INTERLOCK COTTON UNDERWEAR
SPECIALLY
Made for
PEAPES
m
Designed for both sports and ordinary wear, these fine
Interlock Cotton underwear give you cool summer comfort
and are noted for their long wear.
Undershirts have V-necks and quarter-sleeves that do not
show under open-neck sports shirt.
Sizes 36, 11/3; 38, 11/6; 40, 12/-; 42, 12/6; 44, 13/-.
Trunk drawers have button waists, elastic at sides for snug
fit and roomy seats for comfort.
Sizes 32, 8/7; 34, 9/2 ; 36, 9/7; 38, 9/11 ; 40, 10/6;
42, 11/-; 44, 11/6.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
285 George Street, Sydney
(opposite hunter street)
Address Mail Orders to Box 165. G.P.0., Sydney
of urgency: heat, the price of
survival.
“This is a country where the
sun goes down on nobody’s
wrath, as it should,.test one day
it rises on nothing.
American Influence.
Lewis Galantiere, author,
editor and translator from the
French, in the course of a
lengthy “Foreign Affairs” sur-
vey of America today, contrasts
Russian and American influences
as showing that the Russians
run the U.S. a rather poor
second:
“Europeans do take pleasure
from listening to the music of
Shostakovitch or Khachaturian ;
but this side of the Iron Curtain
nobody .any longer reads a
Soviet book, sees a Soviet film,
produces a Soviet play—to say
nothing of driving a Soviet
motor-car or using Soviet tools
and gadgets in field, factory or
kitchen. And by their Hitlerian
tactic of nationalising, or
racialising, science and the arts
the Muscovites have merely suc-
ceeded in exciting the hilarity of
the universe.
“The evidences of American
cultural influence, on the other
hand, are so abundant that they
can be indicated only by random
sampling. The American school
of novel-writing has been the
dominant school in Europe for
nearly 30 years. In England we
see at one end of the cultural
spectrum works of American
scholarship repeatedly extolled
in the learned Press and at the
other end the deep incrustation
of American idioms in English
speech.
“When British provincial
newspapers call their biographi-
cal sketches ‘profiles’ and a
Labor-party rally sings Ameri-
can songs ; when ‘Punch’ takes
over from the ‘New Yorker’ its
one-line captions and some of
its satiric subjects; when a
British poet, publishing in
Egypt, salutes Alexandria as a
‘bright new * city Arab-Ameri-
kanki’; when a European
authority writes that the leading
review in the field of aesthetics is
that published by the Cleveland
Museum of- Art —then, clearly,
chewing-gum, the comics, Coca
Cola and the tawdrier products
of Hollywood cannot be thought
of as the only world-wide dis-
seminators of the ‘American way
of life.’ ”
Further examples: “A Swiss
curator writes in the ‘Neue
Zuercher Zeitung’ that Europe
has everything to learn from
American museum directors
about winning the public to a
concern with art. An Italian
educator says there are no ele-
mentary schools to compare with
ours. A Hindu director of an
institution for deaf mutes comes
to the United States to learn
more about his subject. ‘Blue
babies’ are brought from Europe
for treatment in American
clinics. Whole areas of serious
musical composition are no
longer tlffe same since we began
in the 1920’s to export jazz. The
libraries and reading-rooms
which now form part of every
American diplomatic mission
are visited daily in scores of
countries by thousands of
foreigners avid to learn about
America and even to learn from
America.”
A “Peace”
Propagandist.
As an f.a.q. specimen of the
brand of hypocrites and worse
busily belting the “peace” drum
for the Kremlin in various coun-
tries, Canadian “Peace Congress”
leader Dr. James Endicott tells
a Moscow Press conference
about life in his own country
(published in all Moscow
papers):
“If a Canadian invites friends
to his home and if, moreover, he
refers in a positive manner to
the Soviet Union, noting, for ex-
ample, that great care is taken
of children in the Soviet Union,
then the police have the right to
declare that this is ‘defence of
Communism’ and to drive this
Canadian out on to the street
and seal off his apartment. He
will not even be able to com-
plain about these actions by the
police in court.”
On which Canada’s Secretary
of State for External Affairs L.
B. Pearson tersely commented:
“A man who, professing honest
motives and high ideals, goes
amongst strangers and maligns
his country with this kind of
falsehood is beneath contempt.
In a Communist society he
would also be beneath the
ground.”
Liquidated Airmen.
In an article featured in
“Manchester Guardian” as writ-
ten by a former Russian staff
officer, the writer suggests that
“the best-informed and most able
Western expert” would not be
capable of understanding “the
real reason why the Soviet Air
Force is not yet, as it should be,
a first-class fighting force”: —-
“It is Stalin’s fear of his
powers being destroyed by a
military coup that damages the
Soviet forces more than any out-
side enemies.”
This fear, the Russian writer
declares, leads to the regular
purges: “In the eight years
1937-45 the commanders-in-
chief of the Soviet Air Force
were changed five times: Alksnis,
Loktionoff, Smushkevitch; Rich-
agoff, Novikoff and now Kli-
ment Vershinin, whose position
is not secure ; with each com-
mander goes most of his staff.”
The writer was right on Ver-
shinin’s position being a shade
shaky, London “Economist”
having since reported :
“Marshal of the Air Force
Konstantin Vershinin, who had
been Commander-in-Chief since
1946, has been displaced by his
deputy, a notoriously pushful
and politically-minded charac-
ter, whose experience has been
mainly in the Far East —Colonel-
General Pavel Zhigarev. The
fact that this most unpopular
officer should have attained
such a rank shows how few
have been left to choose from
by recent purges in the higher
ranks of the armed forces.”
Truman on the Soviet.
Discarding diplomatic camou-
flage, President Truman com-
pletely sums-up Soviet Russia’s
post-war performance in a
sentence or two;
“In the five years that have
passed since the end of the war
we have been confronted with a
new, powerful imperialism. We
had hoped that our war-time
ally, the Soviet Union, would
join in the efforts of the whole
community of nations to build a
peaceful world. Instead, the
Soviet leaders have been an ob-
stacle to peace.
“By means of inflation, sub-
version, propaganda and indirect
aggression the rulers of the
Soviet Union have sought to ex-
tend the boundaries of their
totalitarian control.
“With s cynical disregard for
the hopes of mankind, the
leaders of the Soviet Union have
talked of democracy —but have
set up dictatorships. They have
proclaimed national independ-
ence but imposed national
slavery. They have preached
peace but devoted their
energies to inciting aggression
and preparing for war.”
Dragnet Digest.
Atom-bomb' I 's Flash. —Telling the
House of Commons that the flash of
the atom-bomb “had to be seen to
be believed,” Conservative member
Commander Noble recalled that, even
though, at Bikini, lie was 20 miles
away from the explosion, on a
brilliant tropical day, and looking
through glasses so thick that he could
not see the person standing beside
him, the flash was brilliant. This,
he said, would give some idea of the
intensity of the heat that it produced.
* * * *
Lenin on Aggression. —ln his latest
book, The Rise of Russia in Asia.
David J. Dallin points put that even
as early as 1920 Lenin was openly
proclaiming “the right of the Soviet
State to conduct aggressive wars,”
and pouring scorn on those who
favored only wars of defence. “These
are,” said Lenin, “words which lost
their meaning long ago, words of
petit-bourgeois pacifism We would
be not only fools but even criminals
if we promised never to commit acts
which could be considered aggressive
in a military-strategic sense.”
* * * *
Real Housing Shortage. —A report
by a “Yorkshire Post” special corres-
pondent suggests that any Australian
visiting Germany would decide that
he’d never really known what housing
shortage meant. The correspondent
found that in West Germany every
house was requisitioned, with more
than one family living in each, and
it was common to find a refugee
family living in one room.
* * * *
Schuman. —N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
personal glimpse of “the author of
the new deal in European relations”:
“ When M. Schuman went to talk to
Chancellor Adenauer at Bonn, he was
revisiting the site of one of his old
universities, and he could talk to him
in the language and in the terms of
a common culture. For the present
French Foreign Minister was born in
Lorraine when it was still under
German rule, and although, like that
other great Lorrainer, Raymond Poin-
card, he comes of a family intensely
and belligerently French for genera-
tions past, he understands Germany
and its problems as few Frenchmen
understand them, and unlike Poincare,
who could not forget or forgive the
German annexation of Alsace-Lor-
raine in 1871, he has shown himself
capable of making the greatest and
most imaginative gesture of recon-
ciliation in the long history of
Franco-German discord.”
* * sjc
German Advance. —Sir Duff Cooper,
in London “Daily Mail,” sees Ger-
many once more, but by peaceful
means, rising to the top via the
Schuman Plan minus Britain: “Once
again we may see Germany advance,
and this time by peaceful methods,
to the dictatorship of Europe. If
Great Britain had taken part in the
[Schuman] scheme this danger would
have been averted, because her
presence would have redressed the
balance of power. We have been
afraid to do so. We have allowed
France to go on and face the danger
alone. It is an unhappy day for
Great Britain when her policy is
guided by fear.”
* * * *
Britain Outside. Typical Con-
tinental comment on Britain’s attitude
towards the Schuman scheme, from
Paris “Le Monde”: “The integral
maintenance of sovereignty, which
has been made a question of prin-
ciple, is no more than a screen to
mask the distaste in London for any
European organisation, whether a
pool of basic industries or the
Council of Strasbourg. England is
determined to remain outside Europe,
and not only a non-Socialist Europe,
but any Europe.”
* * * *
The Line Literary. —As expounded
by Russian writer V. Ozerov in
“Oktybr”: “The value of a literary
work is determined, in Soviet society,
primarily by whether it assists the
people to build Communism in p.
shorter period of time and whether
it promotes the development of high
aesthetic tastes. The most important
task of Socialist art is creation of
the image of a positive hero to whom
people could look as to a pattern of
behavior.”
* * * *
Jap Peace Treaty. —Reporting the
present Jap Government as favoring
both an early treaty with the West
and the maintenance of American
garrisons “as a deterrent fo aggres-
sion, internal or external,” N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” concludes that the
Japs would accept “an agreement
■ with the West which would provide
military guarantees”: “If such an
arrangement could be worked out it
would provide a legal basis for the
maintenance of American protective
forces in Japan. General MacArthur
is said to believe that some such plan
would satisfactorily resolve the dif-
ferences among those who fear a
peace treaty with Japan for security
reasons and those who believe that
time is running out for the occupa-
tion regime.”
* * * *
A Menzies Proposal. Supported
by London “Daily Express”: “Lack
of Imperial consultation could be
avoided if a suggestion made by Aus-
tralia’s Prime Minister, Mr. Robert
Menzies, were adopted—that an
Imperial foreign affairs committee
should be established in London so
that the countries of the Common-
wealth would be able to speak and
•act as one. During the Schuman
debate Socialists spoke fine words
about the Empire. Let them show
now by their deeds their desire to
promote its unity.”
» * ♦ ♦
Jap Emperor Worship. —Practically
all correspondents who have lately
been in Japan are agreed that emperor
worship, if not belief in Hirohito’s
divinity, is as strong there as ever.
A Paris “Le Monde” touring corres-
pondent gives a touching example:
“All Japan was filled with high
enthusiasm on learning that at
Niigata, finding on his arrival that
an enormous crowd had been waiting
to see him for more than an hour,
bareheaded in spite of a fearful down-
pour, the Emperor pronounced these
historic words: ‘Let them put up
their umbrellas! ’ ”
* * * *
India and Korea. —Describing as
“both patronising and unsafe” the
“comfortable assumption among
Western observers that, if the great
storm should break, India, largely
because she is a member of the Com-
monwealth, would join our side,” a
writer in London “Observer” adds
this significant note: “Much of the
Indian Press has been reporting
United States reverses in Korea with
studied glee, because of a widespread
conviction that the Americans are the
heirs of European colonialism in
Asia.”


te=.
m
'sr.
Ill] I
i*"?
Ml’r
:\ &
’SsS?
WSCJ
■m- LI
tv« e
0
s
BUY AY THIS SIGN
-forext/ci m/es
.sa/em'fes
Extra mileage and extra safety
are built into Deluxe Tyres 4 by
Goodyear . . . into the wider,
flatter tread that hugs the road
. . . into the stronger cord body
. . . into the huskier shoulders.
Thousands of motorists are getting
more miles per tyre and more
safety per mile ,pn Deluxe Tyres.
See your Goodyear Dealer buy
Goodyear forjjreater economy
and safety!
ś
£
W.
5L5-18
Two treads are available
DELUXE RIB • DELUXE ALL-WEATHER
d
SIUAJL
38(11 Aina AAV3H BV3AOOOO M3H V S3AB3S3Q 38A1 M3H AH3A3
VI V
r\
\ ryo/ „ \ f 5 &
r*
Dashes
ARE EASY . ..
1
&
s . I
rrt
S'
with the
4-oven AGA COOKER
Yes, it’s cleaner . . . cooler , . . easier with an AGA! Here is
a Cooker that is almost automatic —no gadgets to watch, no
switches to turn, no matches to strike. Twenty-four hours a
day. its 3 hot-plates and 4 ovens are ready for instant service,
for the AGA burns continuously ... yet its guaranteed
maximum fuel consumption cannot exceed 3i tons of coke per
year! Each of its 4 ovens automatically maintains an exact
temperature (1) a roasting oven for joints (2) a baking oven
for bread and cakes (3) a
simmering oven for soups, cas-
seroles, porridge, etcetera (4) a
warming oven for keeping food
and plates hot. The vitreous
cream enamel and chrome finish
is easy to keep sparkling.
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE ’AGA’ OR WRITE FOR
FULL PARTICULARS TO:—
LEVIN & GO. LTD. 45 KING ST., SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET. ADELAIDE; CNR;.
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS: A. »•
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD.. PER'"
10 TEARS GUARANTEE
British-built, the AGA is guaran-
teed for 10 years against faulty
materials and workmanship-
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
Hie No. i Drink
for wise men
“You’re a bit tough on the teen-
agers when you compare crooning
with the pitiful cries of a motherless
calf.” —Letter in Sydney “D.T. V
“Statistics prove that marriage is a
preventive of suicide.”
— ‘‘World's News.”
And vice versa.
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, unfurn. room or flatette
not in all day.” —Suburban paper.
An outhouse would be satis-
factory.
“Droving feat by 33-year-old ex-
waitress amazes N.T. A
woman who was a waitress last Feb-
ruary and turned drover brought in a
mob of 1500 cattle to Newcastle
Waters from Hall’s Creek, W.A. She
is 23-year-old Edna Ziggenbene.’ (
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
The trip took 10 years off her
life.
4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Jones played football for
Wales before he came to Australia
as a young man, and retired only
three years ago after 30 heads as head
of the State farm for delinquent boys
at Westbrook, near Toowoomba.”^
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail
He had a pretty good spin.
“American film- and radio-star
Frank Sinatra has signed a £1,000,000
long-term television contract.”
A million in exchange for
spurious notes.
Beefing It Out.
Have patience with the younger
generation
Which blithely hails as lord of
all creation
The love-lorn loon
Who, casting older forms of
song aside s
For mournful moans from
mouth distended wide,
Is said to croon.
You can’t expect the present
adolescent
To rave about the ballads
effervescent
Of other days.
He must express incipient
romance
When graduating into longer
pants
In modern ways.
And we, who, growing older and
maturer.
Look back to days when art and
song were purer
And life more full
Should not attempt to raise a
jeering laugh
By likening unto an orphan calf
What’s merely bull.
BERT.
Disillusionment.
The gay old poet blinked be-
neath the lights,
And sighed: “These modern
glamor-girls reveal
Incomparable charm and sex-
appeal ;
Compared with them my hey-
day flames were frights.
‘He lived too soon,’ should he
my epitaph,
‘And learned too late his wild-
cats crop was chaff.’ ”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Something Different.
The Sydneian had returned to
his native city after having been
abroad for over 40 years. Some
things hadn’t altered. The
trams' were just the same, and
many even had the same paint
on, or partly on, as when he
had left. He had come back
again, too, to the kerosene-
lamps and candles of his boy-
hood. There were, of course,
many more potholes in the
streets than when he left.
Another feature he observed, an
echo of the Sydney of his youth,
was that four of the eight clocks
on public buildings still showed
different times, while the other
four weren’t going at all.
Yet there was something in-
definably different. He men-
tioned it to the head-waiter of
his hotel. “Everyone,” he said,
“seems to be using foreign sur-
names. When I asked someone
if the Mitchell Library was in
Macquarie-street he looked blank
for a moment, then muttered
something that sounded like a
Spiggotty general.”
“It was, sir. You see, McGirr’s
Socialist-Pacifist Government, in
the interests of international
comity and appeasement, re-
named it the Commandatura
Navarro Ortiz Drive, in honor
of the Panamanian national hero
who led a palace revolution and
burned alive the retiring Presi-
dent and his family. They felt
that the honor thus bestowed
must put an obligation on the
Central American Republic to
refrain from including Australia
in any dreams of conquest it
might be harboring. In any case.
Governor Macquarie, it was felt,
had not been a good ‘Labor’
man —he hadn’t allowed convicts
the basic wage or permitted
them to form a powerful trade-
union.”
“I also mentioned Bligh-
street, where the Union Club
is.”
‘‘Nobody would know what
you were talking about, sir,”
went on the .head-waiter. “Cap-
tain Bligh is regarded in
Socialist circles as a reactionary.
They were glad of the oppor-
tunity to rename it the Boule-
varde da General Ramon
Greeza, who, as President of the
Latin American Republic of
San Domino, made himself a
national hero by massacring two
hundred women and children
and decamping with several mil-
lion pesetas from the Treasury.
I remember a Minister saying at
the time —and he was backed up
by his seven-thousand-a-year
Director of Potholes, who had
been an ex-union president—
that the gesture amounted almost
to an insurance against a war
with the republic.”
“Don’t tell me they’ve altered
that street behind Hyde Park
that was so indissolubly a part
of the history of our land —
Boomerang-street! ”
“That’s now General Chou En
Lichee - avenue, renamed in
honor of the great liberator of
the Chows —you recall he was
celebrated for his application of
the bamboo-shoot form of tor-
ture to rich landholders and for
pouring boiling oil over
prisoners-of-war. The Minister
for Straphanging and the Direc-
tor of Potholes issued a joint
statement giving as justification
for the change the belief that
the whole Asiatic mainland will
hold our land in reverence and
inviolate for ever for having so
honored such a distinguished
Celestial.”
“And the suburb of Woolloo-
mooloo?”
“I think there were too many
‘Ls’ and ‘Os’ in it, sir, and the
Seamen’s Union, many of whose
members use the place quite a
lot, protested against its further
use. Either that, or the Attorney-
General and the Director of Pot-
holes considered jointly that it
didn’t sound sufficiently melli-
fluous, or that continued use of
aboriginal names might cause
eventual dissension among the
citizens. Anyway the bay and
the suburb were > renamed
General Bonaventura y Carlos
San Caramba, in honor of the
great liberator - dictator of
Gautazuela, who struck a
memorable blow for democracy
in 1841 by burning the great
liberator - dictator Benvenuto
Biaz and sacking the city instead
of the usual Latin-American
practice of sacking the liberator-
dictator and burning the city.
“And if you go bankrupt
now,” pursued the head-waiter,
“they don’t say you ‘go up
King-street’ (the location of the
Bankruptcy Court, sir)—-you
now ‘go up General Witold
Wzilcrylzcwckl-street,’ so re-
named to give honor to the
great Polish patriot who is
dimly remembered for perpe-
trating the Bloodbath of Lodz
a few centuries ago.
“No, it doesn’t seem like the
old Sydney, sir. But the renam-
ing has done some good. You
see, it has kept the McGirr
Cabinet so busy with brawls
among themselves they haven’t
had time to mess other things
up.”
Bo.
“Men can learn more from the
study of a woman’s mouth than from
ogling her ‘other physical features,’
says a lipstick manufacturer.”
, In that case, dentists will have
a pull over the rest of us.
•b 4*
“More women than men are secret
drinkers, but they like to conceal their
drinking habits as they conceal their
age.”—' “S. M. Herald.”
They can always say they are
too young to be weaned from
the bottle.
Once Bitten Twice Shy.
“Australians are reluctant to tip
because of their ultra-democratic
principles.” — Victorian union sec-
retary A. A. Kyle.
You pay enough for bed and
grub
When staying at a first-class pub
Or travelling on train or boat
Without a crowd of people
waiting
With outstretched hand insinu-
ating
To take your bag or hold your
coat
You know full well that each
of these
Is moved, not by the wish to
please,
But by insidious designs
Made obvious by palms ex-
tended
In gestures where it is intended
That you will read between the
lines.
So, with your wallet on your
hip
You purposely withhold a tip,
Australian-like, not half so
much
From motives of economising,
I’m sure, as from your realis-
ing
The practice has a menial
touch.
D.H.E.


FHGIHG B PARK
*n>« one thing you will Imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
It is merely “round the comer’*
from the centre of the city. The
rooms ate all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour KE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
87/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name ..'
Address
B. 30/8/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
a
y
Y.
r
M
¥
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do •
aye
f
~w~
BY appointment
TOBACCONISTS TO
MS MAJESTY THE KINKt
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Zj Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
WOIO
TOW
SPORTING Notions
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Beating the official gun by a week,
cnring, as far as concerned racing,
opened with the A.J.C. Warwick
Farm meeting at Randwick on Satur-
day The weather was pure spring;
Randwick was gleaming under a
wholesale distribution of fresh paint;
and a host of the prospective equine
stars of the spring emerged from their
winter spelling. Nor was there any
shortage of pointers to spring-racing
prospects—on the contrary, as usual,
far too many thereof.
Mentioned here last week that it
would not surprise to see imported
horses make a good showing in the
coming season. To be more specific,
after seeing their efforts on Saturday,
Stanley Wootton’s Donegal and Blue
Mickie are a pair who look capable
of giving the Epsom-Metrop. double
more than a passing shake.
Both are trained by Maurice
McCarten, were ridden oh Saturday
by the stable’s No. 1 rider, N. Sell-
wood, and, contesting respectively the
6-furlongs Campbelltown Handicap
and the 12-furlongs Spring Handicap,
each ran a tip-top race to bag third
money. The speedy Cognac, with W.
Cook up, consented for once to do
his best, and led nearly all the way
to win the Campbelltown. Donegal
came from a long way back to
threaten the leader in the,straight, but
he was in need of the run, and, right
on the post, lightly-weighted Phil
Tress just cut Donegal out of second
money; the margins were three-parts
of a length and a neck. In the Spring
Handicap the promising stayer Red
Loch ran an excellent race to down
Conductor and Blue Mickie by mar-
gins of a half-head length, but
the honors were with *the imported
horse, who was conceding 281 b. to
the winner and 141 b. to Conductor.
One factor which detracts from the
chances of Donegal and Blue Mickie
in the Epsom and Metrop. is the very
high assessment Australian handi-
cappers seem to make automatically
of imported horses. Both carried
topweight on Saturday, and Donegal
has 9.2 in the Epsom and Blue Mickie
9.3 in the Metrop. When those
weights were framed the importations
had had only one run in Australia,
finishing last and seventh; respectively,
in a suburban Flying Handicap.
Excepting Red Loch, Blue Mickie’s
prospectively toughest Metrop. oppo-
nents contested races other than the
'Spring Handicap on Saturday. Sir
Falcon, for instance, ran in the
Campbelltown, and, considering the
distance, ran a very nice race. A
pretty impressive bunch of stayers in
Benvolo, Snowstream, Playboy, Delta,
Hurry Up, Dark Marne and Indian
Chief opposed the recognised sprinters
San Domenico, The Groom and
Dickens in the 7-furlongs w.-f.-a.
Warwick Stakes. Allowing that the
bulk of those whom he beat were
contesting the race by way of a
pipe-opener, and with scant aspira-
tion to victory, San Domenico turned
in possibly the best effort of his career
to register his first w.-f.-a. success in
the Warwick Stakes. He had at least
one extremely tough opponent in
The Groom, conqueror at w.-f.-a. of
some mighty good horses. San
Domenico led all the way, The Groom
was second all the way, and, apart
from a short-lived threat from
Dickens at the turn, they had the
race to themselves. Striding home
beautifully, San Domenico won by
four lengths, with Snowstream finish-
ing on well for third money a couple
of lengths behind The Groom.
Prospective Derby candidates con-
tested either the mile Three-year-old
Handicap or the 7-furlongs Hobart-
ville Stakes. If the coming Derby
winner was in the field contesting the
Three-year-old Handicap it was at
least not the winner Elegant Lad, a
Hua colt whom connections thought
at the time too weedy to bother
entering for the classic. Elegant Lad
won well by three-parts of a length.
Following, in order, behind him,
Final Act, Keeborough, Colonel’s
Daughter and Canning Downs each
ran a good race, with Canning Downs
showing particular promise.
None of the three-year-olds con-
testing the Hobartville made any par-
ticularly outstanding impression. In
a very even finish the Midstream colt
Careless won by a head from Over-
sight, with French Cavalier a neck
further back and Karangi, Aerofoil
and Poitiers all close at hand. Pos-
sibly the best efforts were those of
French Cavalier and Karangi, who,
more than the others, were in need
of the run.
* * * *
Saturday’s racing at Moonee Val-
ley attracted a large crowd seeking
the answers to three questions.
Would Chicquita prove that she’s as
good as ever? Would last season’s
crack filly and outstanding two-year-
old of either sex, True Course, do
likewise? And would anything ap-
proaching a Derby prospect show
up among the three-year-old colts.
Results seemed to answer all ques-
tions in the affirmative.
Chicquita contested the mile Tulla-
marine Handicap, started at 7 to 4 on,
and thoroughly redeemed her com-
parative “failure” of the previous
week. Admittedly Purtell had to ride
her pretty vigorously in the latter
stages, but it was, after all, only her
second outing after a spell. Chic-
quita lasted it out to win by a half-
length from Ellerslie, with Epsom
Boy third, followed by Lincoln and
Harella, who both finished on
promisingly after being together last
at the half-mile.
Forgetting the lesson of the pre-
vious week, when Chicquita had
failed first-up, punters sent True
Course out at 5 to 4 on for the Ailsa
Handicap and again singed the digits.
True Course carried a plaster of 9.7,
conceding others 161 b. and upward,
and it’s asking a deuce of a lot to
expect a filly fresh in from a spell to
beat horses in prime racing condi-
tion at that sort of weights. In the
circumstances she appeared to do
very well to finish third behind Weka
and Swadeshi. Notwithstanding the
reports that her connections are
reduced to the depths of despair by
her failure, it will surprise if True
Course does not, like Chicquita,
make amends at her second attempt.
The early Derby favorite Flying
Halo added to the highish opinion
held of him with a good win against
fellow three-year-olds in the mile
Morang Handicap, for which he
started favorite at twos. Flying Halo
was smartly out of the barrier, was
always well up with them, and,
answering every call made by his
rider, W. Williamson, won nicely
from Andvari and Qustar. The win-
ning margin was only a neck, but
Flying Halo, with 9.4, was spotting
the runner-up 201 b.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Ashbury Mixed: Aubilrn River, 1;
Erpingham, 2; Peace Treaty, 3. Earl-
wood Mixed: Thunderer, 1; Gene
Tunney, 2; Bonfire,. 3. Three-year-
old: Colonel’s Daughter, 1; Canning
Downs, 2; Video, 3. Canterbury
Park Handicap: Buonarroti Boy, 1;
Air Flare, 2; Dona Marcheta, 3;
Canterbury Stakes: San Domenico, 1;
Rim Boy, 2; Donegal, 3. Canterbury
Guineas: Karangi, 1; French Cava-
lier, 2; Rumyle, 3. Welter: Bold
Duke, 1; Duke of Syke, 2; San
Mateo, 3.
* * * *
Almost everything that is to be said
of Australia’s regaining the Davis
Cup at Forest Hills, U.S.A., ovsr
the weekend has been said, and
repeated ad infinitum. To put the
basic facts on record, Hopman’s team
got away to an unexpectedly good
start, due to young McGregor, who
was played in the singles instead of
Bromwich, astonishing all concerned
by beating the redoubtable Schroeder
—and in straight sets at that. Earlier
Sedgman had comfortably accounted
for Brown, also in straight sets.
Then Bromwich and Sedgman yvon a
hard-fought five-sets doubles match
against Schroeder-Mulloy, and the
ornate rosebowl was ours. Naturally,
"There s bad blood between those two.”
McGregor came in for the greater
share of praise, and he deserved it,
for, playing his first challenge-round
match, and against a player of such
repute, he was facing a very big
psychological hurdle. But, defeating
Schroeder, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2, in the second
singles, Sedgman showed that Mc-
Gregor had faced not quite such a
mighty player as had been supposed.
Evidently Schroeder is past his prime.
Brown beat McGregor in the second
singles, 9-11, 8-10, 11-9, 6-1, 6-4.
With the limelight played fiercely
upon McGregor, and to a lesser
extent on Sedgman and captain
Harry Hopman, somewhat the for-
gotten man of the piece was the
veteran Bromwich, whose performance
actually was the most praiseworthy
of all. His splendid court strategy
was principally responsible for the
doubles victory. Beyond that was the
fact of Bromwich’s sharing in an Aus-
tralian Davis Cup victory after having
done likewise 11 years ago. Eleven
years is a long time as top-flight tennis
players go.
In this respect, however, Brom.
didn’t quite equal the performance of
Australia’s first Davis Cup star Nor-
man Brookes. Brookes helped win
the Cup in 1907, ’OB, ’O9, ’ll, T 4
and T 9. In those days, of course,
it was Australasia. Australia has only
won the Cup twice, and Bromwich
has helped on both occasions.
* * * *
With Eric Cremin completely out
of touch over the last round (he had
an almost incredible 80), N. von
Nida at last won an Australian
open golf championship. Twas on
Adelaide’s Kooyonga, and even if
Cremin had been at his top “the
Von” would have taken toppling, with
his three 7l’s and a 73 in a strong
wind. It was not Cremin or Pick-
worth, but Peter Thompson (Vic.)
who ran close, with 73, 76, 72 and
a final record 66, for 287, one stroke
behind the champion.
* * * *
Though Fitzroy had come with a
fine burst of wins over the last few
weeks it failed to make the V.F.L.
“Four,” Geelong holding its place
on percentages. Geelong is to meet
Melbourne in the first semi-final next
Saturday, Essendon plays North Mel-
bourne the following Saturday, the
loser of that plays the Geelong-
Melbourne winner a week later and
the “grand final” is down for Sep-
tember 23. The season has been a
triumph for Essendon, which lost
but one match, North and Melbourne
have been pretty certain of places,
and Geelong managed to scrape in
ahead of Richmond and Fitzroy.
Most consistent team in the contest
has been Hawthorn, which has lost
every game it played. Saturday’s
games: Essendon 10.9, St. Kilda 6.6;
Carlton 13.4, South 10.10; Colling-
wood 9.10, Footscray 8.14; Rich-
mond 9.12, Geelong 8.8; Melbourne
14.10, Hawthorn 7.5; Fitzroy 13.12,
North 9.12.
* * * *
“Pass-it” deals with the “experts”:.
At the S.C.G. on Saturday Aus-
tralia suffered a crushing defeat —five
tries to one—at the hands of the
British Isles Rugby Union team. The
final score was 24-3 „ which may be
of interest to the vast majority of
spectators who had departed long
before the final bell.
Coaches and critics have now let
loose a shower of criticism on our
players for their failure; but the
Australians, in fact, played exactly
the same football that they have
played for the last three or four
seasons. When that brand of football
was enjoying success the same experts
ventured into delirium in their praise,
and fast flew the superlatives. The
sound, all-round team fielded by the
British Isles has shown our men in
their true light, and now the experts
have taken up the cry that our players
are lacking in the “fundamentals,”
which has been the constantly re-
peated contention of present writer
throughout the season. The fault had
been recognisable right from the
beginning, and the right kind of
criticism, coupled with an intelligent
approach to coaching, could have
ironed out these suddenly “obvious”
weaknesses.
The experts, however, have been
constantly dazzled by the individual
success of a player in beating men
and scoring tries; they have not
recognised at the same time such
matters as a weakness in the way he
carries the ball, his inability to .pass
from the left side, his failure to
straighten the attack before passing
or the fact that he kicked the ball
when his outside men had the over-
lap. Those are the things which
should be brought to a player’s
notice with a view to helping him;
instead, he is inundated with flattery
and lulled into a false self-satisfac-
tion with his game.
The fact is that many of the
“experts” have only the vaguest
notion of what constitute the “funda-
mentals” of Rugby, and it is they
rather than the players who should
be blamed for our team’s poor show-
ing against the tourists. As to
the tourists —they are to be congratu-
lated on their very fine wins and to
be thanked for their entertaining
exhibitions of fast, open, attacking
football.


iSmtf Milhll i
Use
ONLY
ELASTRATOR
IREGD. TRADE MARK)
unbreakable
RINGS
The GteenKuty"
A Product of ELASTRATOR (Ausf.) PTY. LTD„
EL9
mcnovis " Worm Remedy
M ficH two ,s .
ovis timel
f
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
''ifa/.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
*
sd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-Sl9'
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity*
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2£ posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
\\
Don't worry, iVifsgftD(*J6~ir to
Grazcos*
Mineral Needs of Sheep.
“Bungaree”: Hypocalcaemia
in sheep is caused by a lowering
of the calcium level in the blood,
and symptoms usually develop
too quickly to save sheep in the
paddock unless the remedy is at
hand. This consists of injecting
under the skin a solution of cal-
cium of borogluconate, and, be-
cause hypocalcaemia may occur
anywhere, every sheepowner
should keep a suitable syringe
with hypodermic needles and a
supply of c.b.g.
In the first of six experiments
the C.5.1.R.0. proved that diet
was most important in causing
or preventing hypocalcaemia.
Sheep on a good mixture of
green-feed are safe from it so
long as they are not suddenly
moved to poor pasture. A flock
that has access to a fair propor-
tion of clovers or lucerne
rich in lime is safe. Drought
or semi-drought periods where
there is hand-feeding of wheaten
or oaten hay, or chaff and grain,
bran or linseed-meal mixtures,
which are lime-deficient, are a
prime cause of hypocalcaemia,
and under such conditions the
deficiency should be balanced
by adding a ground limestone
supplement to the feed.
Experiment No. 2 investi-
gated the effect of fasting. After
a fast sheep frequently go down
and remain paralysed until treat-
ment or death. It was found
that three or four days without
feed caused severe hypocal-
caemia, which increased to the
end of the first week but there-
after natural recovery followed,
and in most cases when sheep
were put back on feed the con-
dition soon cleared up. But if
sheep are moved about in the
danger period they will go down
in large numbers. Sheep in poor
condition are much more sus-
ceptible than those in good
nick. So long as affected sheep
were left alone they remained
normal in outward appearance,
but as soon as they were driven
about they began (o go down.
Recovery was much slower
where sheep were kept in covered
pens and went short of sunlight.
These latter conditions are rare
in this country, but at certain
times of the year Tasmanian and
N.Z. flocks suffer from vitamin
D deficiency resulting from lack
of sunlight, and unless this is
remedied recovery from hypocal.
will be slower or unsuccess-
ful.
All sheep are susceptible, but
susceptibility is greatest in milk-
ing ewes, next in young lambs,
then in weaners, next in pregnant
ewes and last of all in dry sheep.
Milk is rich in calcium, so unless
the ewe gets enough calcium in
her diet the drain of milk pro-
duction will rapidly induce milk-
fever, which is only another
name for hypocalcsemia. Young
growing animals need lime for
their increasing bone structure.
In the last few weeks of preg-
nancy the growth of the unborn
lamb and its demand for cal- >
cium are greatly accelerated. At'
these periods if natural pastures
are dry or scanty, ewes and
lambs should be fed a ration
containing sufficient calcium to
make up the deficiency.
The final experiment con-
cerned prevention. Lime was
administered as a drench, as a
mixed lick, mixed with feed, and
in such various forms as ground
limestone (calcium carbonate) in
different degrees of fineness,
slaked lime, bone-meal, bone-
flour and di-calcic phosphate.
Very finely-ground limestone
gave best results and is prob-
ably the cheapest of all. With
regard to the best means of ad-
ministering, drenching is too
slow and expensive, as a lick
it is erratic ; it is best mixed with
feed. One per cent, of ground
limestone incorporated with the
feed ensures that every animal
gets its share.
Salt alone'as a lick gave no re-
sults. Salt plus limestone was
good, but sheep are inclined to
eat either too much or not
enough. However, as handfeed-
ing on a general scale is full of
difficulties, and only done as a
rule when absolutely necessary
to save stock, the provision of a
salt-limestone lick throughout
the breeding and lambing seasons
will go far towards keeping
losses down.
Mix plenty of salt with the
ground limestone until sheep are
eating it well, then gradually in-
crease the proportion of lime-
stone. Sheep may eat too much
salt fP get their limestone re-
quirements, but will not eat too
much limestone. In addition to
the provision of a lick, keep a
hypodermic syringe (an all-metal
20c.c. type is handiest) and a
good supply of c.b.g. on hand to
treat sheep that may go down.
Wool at Brisbane Show.
“Murrawong”: The organisers
of the Wool Hall at Brisbane did
a very good job in the face of
arduous weather conditions, and
other R.A. societies could follow
their example with profit.
Main feature was the fleece
section, which put Sydney’s
feeble displays of late years
completely in the shade. It was
an all-Merino show, and every
district in the State contributed
to it. Best fleeces were in the
stud-breeders’ section. There
were only three types through-
out the display—fine, medium
and strong —and while some of
the entries were not quite true
to type, probably as a result of
the different conceptions of
growers about spinning qualities,
the bulk and breeding of some
“We'll have to chase that bird , Mat — he's gettin' too
friendly.”
of the exhibits were highly
creditable.
All the wool carried some dust
in the tip, and there did not
appear to be any fleeces from
rugged sheep. In the flock
classes some of the fleeces
carried a fair amount of color
and condition, which spoiled
their appearance.
One interesting section was
the inter-district competition,
won by Talwood - Bungunya
branch of the U.G.A. . Each
entry comprised nine fleeces —
three fine, three medium and
three strong. This is a feature
that should be considered by the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion.
Method of displaying the
fleeces is the best yet seen in
Australia. Tall, three-tiered racks
painted blue were arranged
against the walls and in banks
in the centre of the hall. Each
tier was approximately 3ft. high,
allowing plenty of room for the
largest fleece and at the same
time affording an v excellent
opportunity of inspecting the
fleece without actually handling
it. Each fleece can be per-
manently and accurately num-
bered for reference to catalogues,
and awards can be displayed to
best advantage. This system is
also particularly suitable for
entries of three fleeces, as each
entry can be shown with the
fleeces arranged in one vertical
section.
Each end of the Wool Hall
was occupied with wool-classing
and pooling exhibits arranged
by local firms. The static nature
of the exhibit was broken by
shearing exhibitions, displays of
skirting, piece-picking, etc., and
classing. The C.W.A. also had
an interesting display of weav-
ing on hand-looms and exhibits
of manufactured products.
Crops in the North.
“Archaps”: Though abnor-
mal rains this year have been
particularly favorable for the
growing of crops in the Gulf
country, such success has been
achieved that graziers there are
expected to continue growing
of fodder crops. I. McFarlane,
Rockfields, Gilbert River, has
already taken off five tons of
maize, the price there being esti-
mated at £2 per bag.
McFarlane states that the
tonnage might not give the
correct impression on yield as
the maize was planted in drills
too far apart and the sowing was
too thick. He thinks that too
much must not be expected of
maize in a normal season.
An irrigation plant for culti-
vation paddocks where lucerne
and tobacco will be tried is the
next project. McFarlane favors
an irrigation set-up like the
“Rainmaker,” which forces water
in a jet over a wide area of
2\ acres working from a tractor
unit. Failing this, a centrifugal
pump would be required to
pump from about 12ft. and to
force the water to the top of the
river-bank.
Extensions of trial plots of
grasses into paddocks to check
on the practicability of establish-
ment will be tried next year.
Detrimental Bee-trees.
“Soc”; In Australia it is sur-
prising to note the number of
trees that are blooming threats
to the welfare of the hive. The
heaviest yielders are, paradoxi-
cally, the most dangerous.
Yellow-box, famous throughout
the world for its quantity and
quality of nectar yield, will finish
a colony off before the season
is spent. It’s anyone’s guess
how much yellow-box honey is
lost to the hungry world simply
because the experienced bee-
herder won’t graze it in the pure
state. *
White-box, just as bountiful
except that its flowering-time
beats the bees, differs from its
cousin in that it yields pollen
Yet white-box causes more
dwindling trouble than any other
tree in Australia. Furrow-
browed bee-men moving off a
half-finished flow learn the lesson
over and over. The lure is that
one year, when climatic condi-
tions are right and a certain
mysterious something about the
flow is “good for the bees,”
everyone moves on to the white-
box and does well. Bees come
into the spring in three decks.
Most years, however, the
combs rattle in the boxes like a
man yelling up a lift-well on Sun-
days. Most of the ironbarks are
as treacherous as the boxes.
Mugga yields an excellent honey;
so does Caley’s, but both trees
leave the brood-nest bereft of
even an egg. This shortage of
pollen on heavy flows has not
been tackled adequately. One
beekeeper in a hundred might
mix and feed his bees an artificial
pollen. The next hurdle is in
persuading the bees to try it.’
Australia’s honey yield will be
doubled when C.5.1.R.0.—0r
some backyarder—works out
the answer.
Growing Eucalypts.
“Farmer Bill”: There are
eucalypts suitable for most areas.
For shade, windbreaks and
avenues, no other species can
beat these natives when they are
kept well lopped. Woodlots of
them can be grown on otherwise
unproductive acres.
Make a tour of the district to
see which types are standing up
best to local conditions, and
select seed from vigorous, well-
developed trees. Choose gum-
nuts just turning brown and diy
them on a sheet of paper till the
seed spills out; kept in a diy
container. Seeds will retain
fertility for at least three years.
Provided you can give the
seedlings a spot sheltered from
frost and winter wind, seed can
be sown now. A sheltered corner
near a chimney nook, enclosed
on three sides with hessian, is a
good idea. Add a hessian top
that can give the plants all the
shade they need or be rolled
back to let in the sun. Let the
seedboxes be about 4in. deep
and place crocks in the bottom
to supply drainage. Use a soil
mixture of two-thirds loam and
one-third sand and dampen well.
Then scatter the seed over the
top, sprinkle a very thin layer of
soil, over it and press down with
a flat piece of board. Keep the
soil moist.
Once two sets of leaves
appear, prick the seedlings out
into tins or pots. Use the same
type of soil as for seedboxes, but
place a layer of leaf-litter on
the bottom above the drainage
crocks. When the trees are


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
A
r^i
6S ’
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB" Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 71, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CINZANO!
SWEET OR DRY
; M/6
(Qcte&ii 6 *
COUNTRY
HOMES!
s
QUIRK’S
VACUUM CLEANERS
Here's an up-to-date Vacuum Cleaner that can
be operated from your own lighting plant—a
wonderful boon to the country housewife!
Operates on 32, 50, MO and 240 volts. Quirk's
Vacuum Cleaner is well designed and built to
do a thorough cleaning job, taking up the dirt
with powerful easy suction from all your carpets, floors, curtains t
etc. Complete with modern attachments for cleaning.
AND FLOOR POLISHERS
Choose a Quirk's Floor Polisher and Scrubber and eliminate the
backbreaking work of hand polishing and scrubbing. It can be
operated from your lighting plant on 32, 50, 110 or 240 volts.
Solidly made, this three-brush polisher will stand up to continuous
hard work and is easily converted for scrubbing purposes.
QUIRK'S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY ’Phone M 3114
M
m
mm
mmm
m
FORD
df
sd
Showing ail
seats in position
CD
Seats folded away
Ample loading
space
FEC2I-27
(CONVERTIBLE)
At last speedy goods delivery and comfortable
transport for guests, friends or family with the
one vehicle. The Ford Estate Car Convertible
answers the problem of small-business owners who
require a combination van and family car
guest-house owners, large firms too, will welcome
this new addition to the Ford Range.
It carries 7 passengers. Comfortable seating is
provided for seven adult passengers or if so
desired the back seat folds neatly away to enable
carrying of parcels or 4 passengers with luggage.
In 30 seconds becomes a Van. The change-
over is quick and simple all back seats folding
away to leave a flat, flush floor even bulky loads
can be carried, the load being accessible from front
or rear. And at all times there’s the famous
Ford Ten-Ten economy in fuel, oil and tyres.
. v • ■ v 7'
Your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
will be glad to give you full details
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PR ITD. (INC. W VIC.) RFC. OfflCE: OHIONG, VIC.
about 12in. or 18in. high, plant
into the permanent positions. .
Do this job thoroughly. For
each tree prepare a hole 12in.
square by 18in. deep. On the
bottom place a 2in. or Sin. layer
of leaf-litter and then Iretumtto
SOI -bottom »il first smfaco
s°, last. Soak this well and
make a h .
equivalent to the size of the tin
in which the tree is growing.
Don’t remove the tree from the
tin; that disturbs the roots and
retards growth. Instead, cut
open sides and bottom of the
tin and place the tree, intact in
the tin, in the hole. Protect the
trees with guards.
Neighbors may welcome your
surplus seedlings.
. ~
The Rabbit-war.
“Ngaduri”: Fumigants and
poisonous gases are virtually
useless unless the rabbits are
forced into the warrens immedi-
ately before the gassing begins,
For this a good pack of dogs
is unsurpassed. Hunt the pad-
dock regularly for at least a
week and then have someone
hunt it while you are fumigat-
ing. If this is not done there
will always be one or two
missed—the ones which will
open up the burrows again.
Hunt while treating and all
the rabbits will be underground,
and then, when all the burrows
have been treated and before
any escaped ones have time to
make new homes, continue the
hunting. A well-balanced pack
of terriers and hounds will soon
clean up the odd rabbits. Trap-
ping is useless as a control mea-
sure. It makes the rabbits
burrow-shy and at best only
thins them out to breed up again
for the next trapper.
Noogoora-burr.
“Weedexp”: Co - operative
schemes have been introduced
into far - western Queensland,
where it is hoped to free the
Burke, Wills, Diamantina and
Upper Thomson River water-
sheds from Noogoora-burr.
Landholders are being supplied
with hormone weed-killers and
spraying gear at cost price,
freight-free. During the burr-
growing season experts are
stationed in the districts to give
advice on spraying programmes.
The clearing of these river sys-
tems would mean a very large
part of Queensland’s best wool-
growing areas freed of the pest.
It has been found that hor-
mone weed-killers, applied at an
0.1 p.c. concentration, will
destroy plants of any size and
render infertile all green-
developing seed.
Vic. Herd Test.
“Mr.”: Cows numbering
7522 in 130 herds completed
their lactations in this year’s
pure-bred cow-test run by the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture. As usual, Jerseys pre-
dominated, 107 herds of this
breed completing the 273-day
test. Of the remainder eight
were Friesian, seven Guernsey,
four Ayrshire, three A.I.S. and
one Red Poll.
Championship went to the
South Gippsland farmers P. W.
Goodfellow and Sons, Bunyip,
whose 16 Friesians averaged
6101 b. of butterfat. This suc-
cess followed a third in last
year’s test. The herd also pro-
vided three cows with mature
yields exceeding’ 7001 b. of fat,
including the year’s highest-pro-
ducing individual, Ingolston
Gwen (7961 b.). She missed the
championship in not calving
within the prescribed 15 months
of her previous calf.
Reserve went to the Jersey
herd of C. J. Jennings, Rye
(Mornington Peninsula), the 34
Jerseys averaging 5561 b. of fat.
In third place 31 Jerseys belong-
ing to J. Stedman, Appin, pro-
duced a 5441 b. yield, Stedman
was winner of the last two tests
and runner-up in 1947.
Champion cow, an A. 1.5.,
Brocka Becky 21st, is owned by
G. Tandberg and Son, South
Gippsland. First two-year-old
and first A.I.S. to win the
championship, Becky produced
15,3661 b. of milk testing 5.10
per cent., giving a butterfat yield
of 7831 b. Reserve was Yarra-
view Golden Daffodil, a senior
four-year-old Guernsey in Cap-
tain A. E. T. Payne’s Yarra-
view stud. Daffodil’s 7661 b.
yield this year followed junior
productions of 393, 728 and
7361 b., aggregating 2623, not
bad for a senior four.
Hints for the Farm.
“Quorn”: In bad red-spider
areas, unless you are prepared to
keep a constant watch for the
pest, leave sunflowers out of the
garden. They are very suscep-
tible to attack by red-spider. Sun-
flowers are easily grown, though
the seed varies greatly in time
of germination —some appear in
about three weeks, others may
take as long as two months.
Plant in September.
“Plane Creek”: Weil’s disease
has reappeared on the N.Q.
coast. The rats which spread it
live in canefields and grass pad-
docks, but they often enter
houses in the spring months.
Breakback rat-traps are effec-
tive, often catching two rats at
Once, and raw meat smeared
with phosphorus is good bait,
though the rats will eat almost
anything. The war-time rat-
destroyer —MlO9 —is very deadly
to rats and mice, and they go
away to die after taking it. Keep
the house and yard free of rub-
bish and waste foodstuffs.
“Sarina”: Provided the
chicken-run is made secure at
night a bush cat around the
place need not cause undue
worry. It will often clean up all
the mice around the house and
then leave. If it starts interest-
ing itself in broody hens or
chickens a couple of rabbit-traps
set in its haunts will usually get
il in quick time *
“C.A.A.”: Valuable for both
soup and as a table vegetable
artichokes may be planted m
r\ugust 4m. deep in rows •
apart with 18m. between se s n
thc rows - Ti>ey Wlll do well m
sod tbat wd [ grow potatoes.
s tbe tubers in a dry place,
preferably in sand or sa Uust.
“Billjim”: In winter when milk
p roducts are often scarce pigs
m fed on otber f ood gr own
on tbe £ arm sucb as carro ts,
SU g ar . bee t 5 maize, barley or
as three last-named are
g etter . fed if crushed, although
maize can fed on tbe cob
either soaked or unbaked.
jy[ a j ze prov ides roughage and
some minera i s>
“Wirremeju”: For colic in
borses ke ep bicarbonate of soda
band y > Give one tablespoonful
j n a pj nt 0 f warm water or half
a pint of warm milk. If this
f a ff s to bring relief follow up in
half an hour with half a pint of
paraffin or raw linseed-oil, with
a few drops of turpentine. Give
slowly with a long-necked bottle
and chin held up to wither
height. Many horses have been
drowned by drenching with
heads tilted up so far they were
unable to swallow.
“Billjim”: Garlic may be
easily grown in rich, light, well-
drained soil worked up to a fine
tilth. Plant seed or bulbs in
August in drills lin. deep and
12in. apart. Place bulbs 6in.
apart.


QUEENSLAND rASTORAL SUPPLIES PTV. LTD. ft Q-P-S-
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY. LTD. ☆ Q.P.S. ☆
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.
Q.P.S.
Q.P.S. FIRST WITH
DEEP FREEZE
REFRIGERATORS
fs
English Rose
z/ a***. -
refrigerator
L^ 5
The latest
development of
British craftsmanship
offering normal
and deep freeze
refrigeration at the
same time. BoSk
now for summer
installation.
Designed for the storage of frozen foods at zero temperatures and other
foods and drinks at normal refrigeration temperatures, this model
completely supersedes the ordinary now out-of-date refrigerators.
The normal refrigeration chamber occupies the whole of the left half of
the unit and has a capacity of approximately 5 cubic feet. The long-
storage zero temperature compartment will hold approximately 401bs. of
frozen food for an indefinite period.
The unit is designed for utmost utility and is simplicity itself in operation,
while, at the same time, a most attractive and easily-cleaned piece of
furniture. It is a handy table height with stainless steel top for use as a
work bench and/or for standing foodstuffs on. It stands flush with the
floor eliminating tiresome cleaning beneath, and features an indented
toe-piece allowing the housewife to stand right up to it when using it
as a work bench. Fitted with the famous Kelvinator Motor and serviced
by Queensland Kelvinator Engineers. • 1
Importation of these units will be restricted for some time by circum-
stances beyond control, therefore book your unit at once. Our first monthly
shipment has been sold already (even before having advertised them)
to those who have seen them in our showroom, so book now in order to
be sure of delivery and installation before the Summer.
The fixed selling price in Australia is £250, but to introduce them the
makers have allowed us a further shipment of 100 at the special price
of £lB5 only. Only the next 100 orders received can obtain them
at £lB5, so book at once!
Liberal terms of £65 deposit and £lO/10/- per month for 12 months.
inquiries invited from large retail establishments for the N.S.W, and
Victorian agency. Apply in first instance to
| SOLE AGENTS
rftffuSw
THE BIG FIRM
ran »m»
MAN oimt LAND lit
Associate Company GROCERIES LTD.,
OFF ANN ST., BOWEN ST., BRISBANE Phone 83131
f,
rv -i
s
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.
☆
Q.P.S.
QUEENSLAND
PASTORAL SUPPLIES PT¥. LTD. * Q.P.S. ☆ QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY. LTD. & Q.P.S.
An Investor?
• Then you certainly cannot afford to be
without The “Wild Cat” Monthly. It
contains the most / comprehensive investment
analyses of Australia’s leading companies,
economic reviews and mining notes, presented
in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts ail
the facts at your fingertips.
2/> a copy; 22/6 a year, post free.
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A “Bulletin” Publication
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fit YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
df
BLOTCHYI
SKIN'
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Goodfor
cuts, bruises and sores. One
L of the famous trio- Cuticura
m Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder.... S3J_
u
A.?
kuv mom saw
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence. In*olC*»
VV3
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders” can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.ontb os
Prices «ni> ,or '
(her informeMn*
■ pee .ppMectlo"
any other period. • _
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Dumb using
»VBNKf
MfXBOURNB .
ADELAIDE •
miu .
W c. Prnfold ACo 1
Rlormao Bro» r*f‘
v»rdon & 8» n * ,
BOWLS
A valuable book o|
Send for
Become a Champion” by
Harrison. Fully illusirafed.
your copy to “ The Nor s j.
Leader,” Tamworth, N.o.w.
Posted.
of old “Whackitt’s” misdoings,
but, on the other hand, they
could not but feel exuberant at'
the almost certainty of a holi-
day.
The situation being a most
awkward one, Mr. Hackitt’s two
lady assistants did not turn up,
either, and at nine-fifteen the
chairman of the committee
appeared with the tame an-
nouncement that the headmaster
could not come today and that
therefore everybody was to go
straight home. The mane of
the policeman’s boy rose high
at this moment; his news was
hot stuff, the dinkum oil, as
compared with the chairman’s
anaemic version.
As to going straight home, no
one had any need to heed the
chairman, the local ironmonger,
who was not invested with the
rigors of authority, and, cheer-
ing and yelling, the whole pack,
comprised of the juvenile wild
of the human species, tore off
to the swimming-hole. A great
day. Above all, a great day for
the policeman’s boy, who, having
a lively mind, enhanced his
standing by embellishing to the
limit the few simple facts about
old “Whackitt” which he had
really ascertained.
There was at first much sym-
pathy with “that poor thing
Katherine Hackitt,” and every-
one understood why, without an
hour’s delay, she had left the
town and gone to the capital.
Some who “just couldn’t believe
it” even sympathised with
Hackitt. His male scholars were
not among these. We would
have given anything to see him
with his aspect of a dyspeptic
crow behind the bars, but the
pohceman, who had already
tanned his own lad, was not a
man to be trifled with.
WHEN the truth leaked out
it was rather shocking,
though the widespread modern
interest in criminology would
find it instructive apd regard it
with taintless objectivity. It
appeared that Hackitt, in spite
of his appearance being so
much against him, was some-
thing of a “homme fatal”;
that he had had many affairs;
and that, marrying two different
ladies, he had, by masterly
scheming, gotten hold of nearly
all their worldly goods and
absconded.
His name, of course, was not
Hackitt, and Katherine of that
ilk was not, of course, his niece.
What a shudder, half-thrill, half-
reprobation of the two passed
through the collective mind of
Paka Puki as all the facts be-
came known. Even so, respect-
ability and education tell. The
judge on sentencing “Hackitt”
said as much, pointing out how
his advantages as a training-col-
lege graduate with a D certifi-
cate and his responsibilities as
one having custody of youth
ought to have made his deeds
unthinkable. Then he gave him
two years. Everybody expected
that he would get seven, but it
seemed as if he had too much
class for that.
Katherine Hackitt returned to
the stage, “where she and her
like rightly belonged,” said her
scornful disclaimers. Those
were no longer the days when
clergy refused to bury dead
actors in hallowed ground, but
slowly, as the truth about her
sank in, a great many said that
the stage was just what they
would have expected of her.
Some had even been filled with
a clairvoyant distrust at the
sight of her all in white at the
Sunday-school picnic. Her in
white! It was like .her, the
baggage!
HACKITT, if I may venture
a scientific sentence or two,
was a schizoid, a split per-
sonality. One of his egos was
that of the pattern respectable
educator made by the converg-
ing repressions of his arduous
upbringing; the other was the
Old Adam he had battened under
hatches. Schizoid? Well, per-
haps so in these all-comprehend-
ing days, but to the Paka Puki
of sixty years ago he was just as
bad as they make ’em, and, in
the Junction, with a chuckle,
“The old rip! The rascal!
Who’d have thought he was such
a lady-killer?”
We youngsters had the hardest
psychological task, and the
younger we were the harder it
was. We were quite prepared to
have black black and white
white. Indeed, to so judge with-
out truth was part of our natures.
But to have white turn black
before our very eyes! It was
most confusing. Our parents,
behind assuming an abrupt re-
proving manner when Hackitt
was so much as named, felt con-
fused too, and in my home we
were told that “we were just
not to talk any more about Mr.
Hackitt.”
This being so, we lost a cer-
tain amount of faith in grown-
ups, a loss which in the long
run is also something of a gain
to those with their wisdom-teeth
still to cut. But little did we
guess as on February 20, 189-
we bolted for the swimming
hole that in ten years’ time we
too would be saying “Well, I’ll
be hanged! The rip! The old
rascal!”
THE JET-PROPELLED
DINOSAUR
By IAN HEALY
GJBBITNUNNAYALIP is
a most unhappy man. He
lives out on the gibber
plains in Central Aus-
tralia: a member of the Wattle-
Youhab tribe, with two teeth, a
dust-grey beard and an in-
credible string of tales.
In happier times, with a bribe
of baccy, bottled beer or enough
cloth to make a lap-lap, he
could be induced to tell posi-
tively everything that has hap-
pened to the tribe since away
’way back in the Dream Time.
Now, he just stands on one leg
most of the day (like a flamingo,
only black) scanning the horizon
for a dinosaur that never comes
in.
The dinosaur was his pet
Gibbit called him George, and
they got along famously until a
fortnight ago. They used to go
hunting together, and in idle
moments Gibbit derived a great
deal of pleasure thumping him
on the rump with a nulla-nulla
and shouting “Pull your head in,
George.”
George was a fierce-looking
fellow, but quite harmless, and
it is amazing to think that Gibbit
managed to keep him so long in
the Dead Heart without lon
Idriess finding out about him.
But of course George was kept
hidden most of the time.
Anyone who has ever owned a
dinosaur will realise the difficul-
ties involved in this.
Only the chiefs of the Wattle-
Youhabs, who regarded it as the
greatest of all secrets, knew
where Gibbit found the dino-
saur, and they wouldn’t talk.
They wouldn’t say a word about
George, Not even for a 10-year
supply of witchety grubs. You
see, they loved that character.
They didn’t want to lose him.
BUT it seems George’s time
has come . . . And this is
how I really came to know
about him.
A fortnight _ago he disap-
peared.
Gibbit and the chiefs were out
looking for him when I hap-
pened to be strolling across the
gibber.
It appears that when the
Woomera Rocket Range was be-
gun George became scared
seeing so many white men about
and ran away. Gibbit had the
debbil-debbil’s own job finding
him, and went searching for
weeks, calling mournfully on his
didgerie-do and shouting “Put
your head out, George.”
Eventually George was dis-
covered cringing in a cave away
in the hills somewhere. Gibbit
managed to lure him into the
open again by showing him the
juiciest bunyip you ever saw
and saying “Come out, you re-
luctant dinosaur. Come out.
No one’s going to hurt you.”
After a while, George grew
so accustomed to the goings-on
at Woomera that the tribe had a
great deal of trouble keeping
him at home. Whenever he got
the chance, he used to canter off
and stand on the outskirts of the
range, his beady eyes peering at
it all day long.
Security - officers sighted this
strange-looking object in the dis-
tance a couple of times and
thought it was a Russian spy
machine with a periscope, but
by the time they’d hustled all
the secrets into the safe and
gone off jfo catch the spy
George had galloped away.
The security - officers were
accused of wasting time and
having mirages,
ONE night, two weeks ago,
George went too close. He
actually disobeyed Gibbit’s
orders and went right on to the
range, snooping around, sniffing
at this and that while everyone
was asleep. Suddenly, he came
to a jet-propelled rocket, and be-
fore Gibbit could get to him
swallowed it.
Well . . . Away went George,
zoom, zoom, zoom. Whirling,
twirling, up, up, up, until, in
about three seconds flat, he had
disappeared in the general
direction of the moon.
Gibbit sat down and wailed.
Then he got up and trotted off
to tell the chiefs.
I couldn’t help them, but they
are certainly worried. They have
an idea George will land on the
moon and stay there. Personally,
I think he’s bound to come back.
A well-jetted dinosaur is just
like a well-flung boomerang, to
my way of thinking.
So, if Junior comes in from
the backyard one of these days
and says: “Hey, Daddy, here
comes a flying saucer,” you can
just tell him: “Stand out of the
way, child. That’s not a flying
saucer. It’s only George.”
[ F this happens—if George
» makes a four-point landing in
your cabbage-patch—would you
mind sending off a message stick
or a smoke-signal to Gibbit?
Just say: “Dinosaur touched
down here, Tuesday,” or what-
ever day it happens to be,
Gibbit will be so pleased.
And while you’re waiting for
him to appear on the scene, you
can make George feel right at
home by feeding him any spare
children you happen to have
handy, and by whacking him on
the rump with the scrubbing-
board or something and telling
him to pull his head in or push
it out, according to whether he’s
being reluctant or not.
When Gibbit arrives, he’ll be
so grateful, he’ll give you the
old tribal howl: “Wattle you-
hab, mate? Wattle youhab?”
Tell him I’ll have the same.


COMMONWEALTH
sdf
OF AUSTRALIA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Official Announcement
11
LIFE-SAVING DRUGS
BENEFITS START FROM MONDAY, 4TH SEPTEMBER
LIFE-SAVING AND DISEASE-PREVENTING DRUGS will be avail-
able free of cost to patients throughout Australia from Monday, Septem-
ber 4, 1950.
There will be no Means Test. The entire cost of the scheme will be met
by the Commonwealth Government.
THE LIST OF DRUGS.
The prescribed list of basic, life-saving drugs
has been prepared by a committee of leading
Australian doctors.
Insulin, the sulpha drugs, penicillin and strep-
tomycin are typical of the drugs included.
Among diseases treated by the listed drugs are:
Pneumonia, epilepsy, tuberculosis in certain
forms, heart diseases, arthritis, blood pressure,
post-operative shock, diabetes, venereal dis-
eases, diphtheria, asthma, gastro-enteritis,
whooping cough, malaria, meningitis, blood
poisoning, pernicious anaemia, septicaemia and
post-natal diseases.
HOW THE SCHEME WILL WORK
These drugs will be made available only qn
a prescription written by a medical prac-
titioner on or after the 4th September, 1950.
Prescriptions which entitle patients to free
life-saving and disease-preventing drugs
will be Clearly marked as such. The full
cost of these prescriptions will be met by
the Commonwealth Government.
Your doctor will give you two copies of the
prescription, one of which will be marked
“duplicate.”
You will take both copies to an approved
chemist or dispensary.
You will recognise an approved chemist or
dispensary by a sign on the window.
If the prescription conforms to the Act and
Regulations the chemist will supply the
drug without charge.
• The chemist, however, is entitled to make
a charge for delivery or in certain circum-
stances a late fee./
• Where it is necessary for the doctor to ad-
minister a listed drug without delay he will
charge you his usual professional fee but
the drug will be paid for by the Common-
wealth.
® Repeat Prescriptions: Arrangements have
been made to avoid the necessity of a fresh
visit to your doctor in order to obtain a
further supply.
• Inpatients and Outpatients under treatment
at hospitals will receive full benefits.
REMEMBER: The scheme will cover only those life-saving and disease-
preventing drugs contained in the official list. Ordinary mixtures prescribed by
your doctor are not included.
For any further information apply to:—
THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF HEALTH, CANBERRA.
CUT THIS OUT
FOR REFERENCE
°n
COMMONWEALTH MINISTER FOR HEALTH.
H1.114J88
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
How to weather-proof a camouflage-
net ?
Untreated netting may be proofed
by ' immersion in 20 p.c. creosote
solution or in 10 p.c, solutions of
copper naphthenate or creosote and
copper soap in organic solvents;
creosote should be obtainable from
gas companies and the copper solu-
tions from Hardie Trading Co., Syd-
ney. The treatment should be such
as to leave about 10 p.c. creosote on
the netting or about 0.5 p.c. copper
(5 p.c. of copper compound) and
5 p.c. creosote. Creosote should be
handled with gloves because of pos-
sible dermatitis hazards. The treat-
ment would not result in any shrink-
age of the netting.
* * * *
What are essential oils ?
Oils which possess the odors, in a
concentrated form, of the plants or
vegetable substances from which they
are obtained. These oils are generally
contained in a special gland or cell
within the plant. Essential oils are
generally insoluble in water, but they
dissolve freely in alcohol, ether or
fatty oils. They contain a large pro-
portion of carbon, which causes them
to ignite easily, but as a rule they
leave no permanent grease-spot. They
possess an aromatic smell, a hot,
burning taste, and can be distilled
unchanged.
* * * *
What information is ordinarily
entered in a ship’s log-book?
The columns of the log-book make
provision for the nature and velocity
of the wind, the state of the’weather,
the observed latitude and longitude,
the course, progress, etc. Under the
heading of “Remarks” are entered
the employment of the crew, the
times of passing prominent land-
marks, any alterations of the course,
signals made and exchanged, drills
performed, etc., and in the case of
sailing-ships the making, shortening
and trimming of sails.
* * * *
Origin of the band, the linen
appendage to the neck-cloth or collar
forming a part of clerical, legal or
academic costumes ?
Some regard it as a survival of the
amice, an oblong piece of linen used
as a vestment by priests or 'bishops,
while others date it back to the
collar worn by laymen in the reign
of James I. It still forms the part
of the legal costume in England and
other parts of the British Empire,
but has been replaced in Scotland by
the white tie, except in the case of
the King’s Counsel. It is also worn
by ordained Presbyterian ministers.
* * * *
Can a boxing contest be decided by
a technical knockout? If a boxer is
stopped, or retires, does it go down
in his record as a technical knockout?
According to Nat Fleischer, one of
the world’s greatest boxing authori-
ties, and editor of American “Ring,”
a boxer cannot be beaten by a tech-
nical knockout. If a boxer is stopped,
he is regarded as having been knocked
out, and the same thing applies if he
surrenders. Some American com-
missions use the term “technical
knockout” to designate that a boxer
was not counted out, but a knockout
defeat is set down in his record just
the same.
* * * *
Some particulars about the German
gun known as “Big Bertha” ?
It was a specially-prepared German
naval gun (or guns) which fired on
Pans from Coucy, a distance of 75
miles, during World War I. The
name was in allusion to the fact that
Frau Bertha von Bohlen was one of
the proprietors of Krupps, which
made the gun. Twenty-one shells of
2holb. each were fired on March
-3, 1918, the first day on which the
gun was used against Paris, and
thereafter there was intermittent
nnng for several months, during
which it caused between 100 and 200
deaths.
* * * *
Who was Nell Gwyn?
Born 1650, she was an English
agtress, and the mistress of Charles
JL Of her early history very little is
Known, but when quite young she
sold oranges somewhere near Drury
Lane. She afterwards joined the
acting profession, and made her first
appearance in 1665 ■ as Cydaria in
JJryden s “Indian Emperor,” and
atterwards in many other witty parts,
being a general favorite with the
P“ bhc - Her two sons by Charles
were Charles, made Duke of St.
Albans, and James Beauclerk, who
died young. She died in 1687.
* * * *
What is Glaubers salt, and its
uses ?
Glauber s salt, or sodium sulphate,
is prepared by heating salt with sul-
phuric acid and crystallising the
residue from water, from which it
separates as- colorless prisms having
n molecules of water of crystallisa-
whl9h aro lost on prolonged
posure in the air. Glauber’s salt
k IC.Tl C .Tl mg ’ - bitter and saltish taste,
s a mild laxative and diuretic, and is
European "spas/ ° f various
-
Brief Answers,
0) Grimwades, Ltd.,
p n obe ‘ r ° ad ’ Shelton, Staffordshire,
SfcK (2) La y * ou * flat, with
mil ted corners , and rub in repeated
Tf,u• ”, warm ed raw linseed-oil.
„i. s d °es not succeed, probably
thing will, as flexibility may have
completely perished... .P.S.: The
Jacobites were the partisans of James
II and his 'heirs after William 111
superseded him. They engaged in
fruitless rebellions in 1715 and 1745.
S.S.: The taking of trout by any
means whatever in any waters of
N.S.W. is prohibited between May 1
and September 30 ip each year
J.E.L.: See Queensland Politics Dur-
ing Sixty Years by C. A. Bernays....
T.R.: Jack Ketch was a hangman
and executioner, notorious for his
barbarity, who was appointed in
England in 1663 and died in 1686....
W.L.: An octavo is a book com-
posed of sheets folded so that each
leaf is one-eighth of a given size of
paper T.P.F.: From War Widows’
Guild of Australia, 435 a Collins-
street, Melbourne... .H.S.A.: Aus-
tralian Whaling Commission, 301
Flinders-lane, Melbourne A.J.D.:
(1) Try W. C. Penfold and Co., 88
Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Write Police
Motor Traffic and Licensing Office,
Upper Albert-street, Brisbane... .J.S.:
To remove the fungal growth treat
with a solution of copper sulphate
(bluestone) consisting of 2oz. of the
bluestone to 10 gallons of water.
This should be made up in a wooden
or earthenware vessel, and should be
kept away from ironwork. This solu-
tion will kill the growth, and after
it has died and become dried it can
be removed with a stiff brush
C.R.M.: Pure white paraffin-wax
can be applied very hot and rubbed
in with a stiff brush. When cool,
smooth over with emerytpaper. This
treatment will not allow cleaning with
hot water. Serving-bowls are usually
lined with removable glass or china
shapes; individual bowls are best
made of some fine white innocuous
wood such as pear or N.Z. white
pine, which does not require waxing.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to me Editor.
N.C.: That swaggie comes in for
a handout at least once a week....
L.A.F.: Nothing mueh wrong with
it; nothing very new about it, either.
S.R.: If you have to borrow
your yarns don’t send them to us.
W.H.M.: Stories dashed off in
“a spare hour or two” generally look
like it.... F.T.: Spare us from the
yarn spattered with Latin proverbs.
... .T.M.M.: No anchorage here for
the long-winded skipper... .P.J.8.:
Use ink, and write on one side of the
paper only G.S.H.: Impoverished
jockey commits suicide without know-
ing he’s won the lottery. Out!
R.H.: We had to pay several pence
in deficient postage to read /that
horror E.P.: Flavorless stuff on a
well-worn theme F.P.W.: Appre-
ciate the feelings of the trainer who
swallowed the horse-dope 5.C.8.:
Opened promisingly, then monotony
set in 8.A.: Your devil-may-care
boundary-rider is hoofing it home.
Bellerive : Bring in your bruiser: —
C.D.: “I suppose you get many
yarns worse than this.” Not many.
D.W.McK.: No, we emphatically
can’t find space for 100 lines of that
sort W.H.M.: “The Bush Fire”
burned well for a few pages, but soon
flickered out R.L.C.: We got up
to where he married for the third
time a wealthy widow, then went out
to see what we could do J.J.:
Cut it in half and try a daily
T.A.G.: Yes, it was a good mystery,
no one here could solve it C.8.N.:
You run around in circles and finish
where you started 0.C.: You’ll
never get anywhere by copying
another man’s style... .J.F.D.: With
perseverance you should some day be
able to make your characters talk
and behave like human beings
A. 8.: You’ve earned one distinction;
yours was the only drunk-yam to
arrive this week R.C.8.: From
“the thunder of galloping hoofs and
the roar of a cheering crowd” we
assumed it ■ was a racing yarn, but
why introduce the spy with a bomb
in a suitcase? G.R.D.: An accom-
panying letter of excuses and explana-
tions doesn’t help a yarn... .N.T.:
We couldn’t make head or tail of
“A Lucky Shilling”... .K.L.S.;
We’ve yet to meet the “Australian
drover who sits like a Greek god
in the saddle and declaims with a
melodious voice the magnificent
verse of the Bard of Avon” H.L.:
Don’t know which was worse, your
writing or the yarn E.V.N.: “He
rushed from the scene of his crime,
sprang into a taxi, leaped out and
ran madly up the rocky hill in the
gathering dusk”; after that we lost
trace of him H.A.L.: Yes, “The
tempo of the story moves briskly
forward” and “events lead in logical
progression towards the climax and
disaster,” but that doesn’t lead us
to inflict it on our readers F.A.R.:
Liked your yellowhammer, but not
at emu length G.F.S.: Surf story
just a bit too slick; bomb-story
humor much too explosive S.S.:
The dialogue of “As I Remember”
is so stilted the story might almost
be true C.N.: Well, instead of
beginning, like all other beginning
short-story writers, with the endeavor
of a husband to poison his wife,
you should look about you at the
happenings among people who
miraculously commit no crimes and
keep out of jail—Mosman’s full of
them L.H.C.: Those conversa-
tions your hero had with Boisterous
Thought—can’t do that there here.
C.T.: The material in “Skid”
might have done if the girl who
kissed the young man in the car
had been credible J.C.S.; “Blake’s
Bridge” just missed.
TOM SAYERS.
Among the once pugs
Of old England’s clime
Tom Sayers did reign
The best of he’s time.
Victor of combats with
The nerve of a lion.
Forceful in action
And hard as iron.
Weight nor size of
Sloggers and stayers
Had no fear for
England’s Tom Sayers.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Decentralisation
Were I a young man I would leave the
city, make for a good country town,
accept any sort of a job and wait for the
golden opportunity I know would come.
I reckon I would then be' in on the
ground floor of the industrial develop-
ment which is the next logical step in
Australia’s history.
In many parts of Australia there
are country centres of population,
strategically placed in the business sense,
where industry can readily secure the
labor it needs and where hydroelectric
power is available, or soon will be.
One such district is Orange (N.S.W.).
This western railway town draws electric
power from Burrinjuck Dam. The town
is situated on road junctions serving a
number of towns further west—Forbes,
Peak Hill, Parkes and others. A bus-
service operates between the various
centres.
The district developed on rural in-
dustry. Orchards close in, then fat-lamb
and sheep properties, further out merg-
ing into wheatlands. Orange prospered.
The townspeople had all the amenities of
a city: picture-shows, well-stocked stores,
four clubs, two golf-courses, bowling-
clubs, tin-hares and a racing track. Life
generally was good, and, temperamentally,
the people reflected that goodness. But
opportunity for the young people was
limited and many drifted to the city.
War came and, under the defence policy
of decentralisation, a large munitions
factory was built. The local townspeople
largely comprised the staff.
Today, as well as the district’s income
from bumper crops and high prices.
Orange now shares in the spending of
many hundreds of pounds paid weekly in
wages to the staff of the commercialised
ex-munitions factory where refrigerators
and electric goods are being made. The
population is no longer static but grow-
ing. Xhe youth of Orange has found a
local job and families remain happily
united.
All that has not come about in a
haphazard way. It has been due to the
active encouragement of the municipal
authorities and local businessmen, backed
by the strongminded purpose of the
people themselves —a determination col-
lectively to make the district go ahead.
That was exemplified when the Com-
munist leaders of the union at head-office
in Sydney decreed a strike at the Orange
works and sent up agitators to do the
organising. The local people objected to
this “outside” interference, and, if the
Commos had not discreetly faded out in
the face of the determined vocal opposi-
tion, they would have been run out.
Orange is just one example, but from
Goulbura in the south —a rich agricul-
tural centre near Canberra —to Inverell in
the north —grazing, wheat and tinmining
—there are several towns destined for in-
dustrial development. Hydroelectrics —•
the Snowy, the Clarence and other pos-
sibles —will open up for industry new
fields of profitable enterprise. Set in
appropriate centres these will solve many
of our economic problems by spreading
our growing population over the land in
rhore-or-less self-contained rural centres,
easing the overload on our transport
system, making possible more amenities
for the people, and removing in some
degree, by the spending of weekly wages,
the country businessman’s fear of bad
seasons. But most important of all
would be the creation of an industrial
potential so immense as to change entirely
the planning of Australia’s defence.
Last but not least, anything which tends
to halt the growth of Australia’s bloated
cities, particularly Sydney and Mel-
bourne, must be for the national good.
Rather than transport more and more
food over long distances ‘ at high cost
wouldn’t it be better to encourage the
population to move out to where the food
is grown?— J. Henry (N.S.W.).
Profit
“Morris the Tinker” (B. 2/8/’5O) sup-
ports Calweil’s advocacy of industrial
councils and one of their objects—“to
determine a fair profit in each branch of
industry.”
The natural profit-rate is the amount
of inducement that must be applied to an
industry in order to make it supply the
community’s needs. Nobody knows in
advance how much inducement is neces-
sary, because of the imponderable factors
involved. A man does not know how
he will respond to new situations ; much
less can anyone else predict for him.
Nor can the nature of the situations be
known. Floods, fires, droughts, earth-
quakes, wars, plagues and many more
perils are outside the ken of science. A
profit-fixing tribunal can only act after
the event. Its decisions must be based
on cost-plus, and we all know where that
leads.
It is the fashion to blame the housing
shortage on to the last war, and of course
that is partly true. But houses were
scarce in N. S. Wales before that, partly
because of the political postulate of “fair”
rent. The only rent that is really fair in
the long run is one that will induce a fair
building-rate.
Brains and energy are drawn into an
industry not by the prospect of a profit
that someone else thinks is fair, but by
the hope of big rewards for big efforts.
Progress involves risk, and if profit is
fixed nobody will bother to try anything
new.
It is typical of the “fair-profit” philo-
sophy that “M. the T.” refers approvingly
to the medieval guilds—organs of the
most stagnant period in commercial
history.— Robert Howie (W.A.).
Land Resumptions
Many people received a rude shock
when a judicial decision mentioned in
passing that, should it so desire, the
N.S.W. Government (and the Govern-
ment of any other State for that matter)
could resume land without payment of
any compensation.
That position, of course, is
nothing new. Ail land in the
country is held as from the
Crown, represented by the State
Governments, and the most
complete title any holder can
possess—fee simple—may be
revoked at the will of the
Crown. In the past, however.
Governments have laid down in
various Acts the conditions upon
which such titles would be re-
voked. The basis of fair value
has always been the guiding
principle in assessing compensation for *
the dispossessed parties.
The legislation relating to soldier-
settlement, introduced this year and up-
held as to its validity by the judgment
mentioned, pins compensation to a basis
of value as at 1942, and that is where
the trouble started. When public outcry
at the unfairness of this pegging’ was
heard, it was pointed out that if the
State so desired it could resume without
payment of any compensation. It would
be necessary, of course, to amend exist-
ing legislation to do it —or to introduce
special Acts for special purposes—but the
State Parliament is undoubtedly com-
petent to do that if it is of a mind inclined
that way. A rabid Socialist mind, for
instance!
The Commonwealth Government is a
little differently placed. Not representing
the Crown in the same sense as do State
Governments, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment may not “resume” land—but
may compulsorily “acquire” it. “The
same difference” in other words. The
difference, however, lies in the principle
of compensation for the dispossessed
owner. Assessment of compensation
must, by law, take into account market
values current at the date of acquisition..
The Commonwealth may not acquire
private property in any other way, except
by straightout purchase.
This latent power of the Crown posed
little worry for landowners in other years,
when politics and politicians showed
signs of morality, but with the present
N. S. Wales outfit roosting in Macquarie-
street, the matter has a different aspect.
Comments by certain members of this
Government indicate that it seems to
think it is being generous by even paying
1942 values for property it is resuming in
1950. It is threatening to cancel certain
leases, and implying that the holders may
be further penalised if they do not “co-
operate” with the Government,
The question of soldier-settlement is
all-important; too important, in fact, to
be made the plaything of politicians.
Since the war, with high prices for farm
products, land has become Valuable be-
cause of its potential earning capacity,
which in the main is due to, or enhanced
by, the improvements carried out by
owners or lessees. To resume land at
1942 values or to settle on that war-time
date as the basis of payment of compen-
sation for any other form of disturbance
is plain banditry. Australia as a nation,
and N. S. Wales as a State, benefited by
the sacrifices of the soldiers- Therefore,
the country as a whole should pay the
cost of putting the soldiers in the posi-
tions they might now have occupied had
they not gone off to war. If current
market values are too high for the re-
habilitation of ex-servicemen, the nation
as a whole should subsidise the projects.
Nothing qould be more unfair than to
coerce one section of the community into
making sacrifices for the benefit of
another, when the debt owed to the latter
is the debt of the nation, —Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Flood Protection
Well over 50 years ago Bourke and
Walgett were engaged on the same kind
of flood-defence as they have been fran-
tically building lately—throwing up
levees to hold back the water from the
town. Sometimes they have been suc-
cessful, more often tragically unsuccess-
ful. With all our advance in science and
modern methods, there should be some
new approach to this problem. If a
hastily-built embankment of two or
three feet almost contains the flood, why
haven’t we a long, strong bank sft. high
—or 10ft. if necessary. Property is too
valuable these days to be washed away
or destroyed by flood-waters when a little
“Holes in your underwear , and
now you MUST go and have an
accident !”
planning would save it. G. A. B.
(N.S.W.).
It Can Be Done
There is a new cattle-station (not yet
12 months old) on the Barjdy Tableland
(N.T.). Area 2000 square miles, and
wholly without natural waters.
A fencing contractor has more than
100 miles of wooden posts and wire
fencing completed, with more than a
couple of years’ work ahead.
Some boring contractors with the latest
in boring plants are sinking eight bores
from 300 ft. to 600 ft. deep—if conditions
are good, in a few days, or, if not so
good, in a few weeks.
Following closely behind is another
contractor erecting 27ft. windmills on
40ft. towers, together with the installa-
tion of an engine and engine-house for
pumping in windless periods.
Some modern earthmovers joined in,
cutting roads between the bores and
building 300,000-gallon earth - tanks —
5000 cubic yards of embankment in each
lank, and each of them completed in two
days. Locally these tanks are known as
“turkeys’-nests”—they are built above
the natural surface of the ground, filled
from the bores, and the water is gravity-
fed to cattle-troughing.
In a country where one can travel 50
miles without seeing a shrub or tree,
these tanks are good landmarks.
As we who moved the earth left
this cattle-station —made almost over-
night ; one could safely say that never
has a station been developed so quickly—
several thousand head of cattle were
arriving, with feed and water laid on for
them, and the fencing erected.
Old-timers said “it couldn’t be done.”
Actually larger lessees who have taken
so much out of the country for so
little development should hang their
heads in shame, and the smaller and less
well-off lessees could take a lesson.
This is just an example of what private
enterprise, new blood, planning and
enthusiasm can do.— Earthmover (N.T.)
Stockowners and Drovers
“Grazier” (B. 9/8/’5O) must have done
his droving in different country from that
in which I gained my experience. Our
sheep did not “spread themselves con-
siderably” over any holdings through
which we passed, because we always gave
the statutory notice that we were coming
and when we reached the boundary of a
run its owner would be there with all
hands and the cook to see that our sheep
did not stray from the stock-route—
already eaten bare in many cases by the
stock owned by the squatter whose
property it crossed. To all growls about
travelling stock passing through the pro-
perty, the drovers of my day had an un-
answerable argument: “Why don’t you
fence off the track, then?”
The sort of complaint I objected to
came from the men who raised a fuss
because the grass was eaten along the
fenced road which tan past their places,
depriving some local landowner of
feed to which he had no more right than
the man in the moon.
As regards waterholes: those used by
drovers are marked on the survey map
with the broad arrow—the sign that it
is a water-reserve for travelling stock.
Landowners who also used one of those
waterholes would often raise a fuss if
your mob lowered its level considerably,
but again they hadn’t a leg to stand on
in the legal sense.
Of course it’s wrong to send sheep
travelling with Bathurst-burr in their
wool or cases of footrot among them, but
who is to blame in that case, the man who
owns the sheep or the unfortunate drover
who travels anything up to 100 miles to
lift the mob, and doesn’t know what
they're like until he takes delivery?
Among the things which stick in my
memory about my droving days is the
way some landowners would make things
unpleasant when you took a mob along
the fenced road running past their pro-
perties, yet when you were given one of
their mobs to sjjift expected you to play
all sorts of dirty tricks on their brother-
squatters along the route. Other memories,
however, are of men of the opposite
type; those who said things like “Don’t
bother about putting hessian around the
mob —shove them in the bottom paddock
for the night and come up to the home-
stead for tea,” or “Yes, give them a drink
at those troughs over there —the mill will
soon pump up another tankful of water.”
—CUMBEE HINDERE (S.A.).
Houses
No, there’s no reason why Australia
should not mass-produce houses as it does
other commodities (B. 9/8/’5O), except
that the manufacturers receive little
encouragement to do so from the
authorities.
One decentralised enterprise in Western
Victoria has been manufacturing pre-
built and pre-cut houses by streamlined
production methods for 18 months.
Timber from; a forest 30 miles away
enters the mill in the form of logs, passes
through various processes organised on
the assembly-line technique, and three
days later emerges in the form of a pre-
built or pre-cut house. This is then
carried to its destination in two parts on
a specially-built transport. ,
The houses are of good- standard an
design, and cost some £5OO less than their
imported counterparts. The pre-bin
three-bedroom house sells at £1475, pw
£142 for lavatory, washhouse and shea,
while the two-bedroom unit sells to
£1307 plus £142 for the utilities. Twelve
hundred pounds will buy a pre-cut hou
with three bedrooms and £llOO a
bedroom unit, both prices includ g
utilities and bricks for chimneys.
Today, these works, capable ot P
ducing five to six pre-built and s o m< f
30 pre-cut houses a week, are only tu
ing out two pre-built and two pre-
houses each week, and they have or ■
booked two years ahead. The re .
The enterprise receives no greater P ,
in the allocation of plywoods, m .
fittings, etc., than an ordinary merchant
No Government housing experts
ever set foot in the plant to see w ,
can do. Instead they take trips
as members of overseas missions, r
ing with tidings of expensive P 1 7 £
often inferior in standard and
those our own manufacturers are pr
ing. Let us import houses if we m
there is room for them all but
us investigate the potentialities
Australian manufacturer, and gr ,
every assistance to deliver the g°
Carlyle CVic.).


DYMOCKS CATALOGUE
of New and Recent Books
Includes Books for the Whole Family
Send for our August Catalogue. It
has an excellent selection of books
listed; 32 pages of interest to the
discriminating reader.
For your convenience our Catalogue
is now published each month. Ask
to have your name placed on our
mailing list.
'
fMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE 8L3611
t* °9.NOt
Just published London —
-NOW available in Australia
- ' J : >-■ :
the NEW CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA
• 15 Volumes
• 2500 Eminent Contributors
® 4000 Illustrations
HIS MAJESTY THE KING HAS GRACIOUSLY ACCEPTED THE DEDICATION
The first ENTIRELY NEW encyclopaedia on
a great scale for over 20 years. Post-war in
outlook and treatment and BRITISH. No
work can compare with the New
CHAMBERS’S for accuracy, completeness,
authority or price. Available cash or easy
terms.
To GEORGE NBWNES (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
Third Floor, 119 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free descriptive folder and press re-
views of the Yew CHAMBERSES ENCYCLOPEDIA.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.8.50
A New and Fascinating Novel . . .
THE CHINESE CAMELLIA
HELEN HENEY
This is a novel of character that records the impact made by the
arrival of a Chinese girl in an unhappy family. The Camellia, as she
comes to be called, is a silent figure, remote and serene, but her coming
to the Bent household is explosive in its effects. The secret turmoils in
each of them are brought to the surface by her influence. By gesture and
motion, by her clothes and her painted face, are revealed the charm,
subtlety and power of her alien presence.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS —9/6d.
COLLINS
4
■yjf,
Every subject under the sun
at the
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
• Ask for our Lists
THE KON-TIKI EXPEDITION
ELEPHANT BILL
WITH A FEATHER ON MY NOSE
WEEK-END AT ZUYDCOOTE
I, CLAUDIUS
CLAUDIUS THE GOD
ELECTED SILENCE
THESES AND VARIATIONS
THE GOLDEN BOUGH
THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS, 3 Yols.
PEARS CYCLOPEDIA
THE CONCISE OXFORD DICTIONARY ,
MODERN ENGLISH USAGE ...
Craftsman Bookshop
HOSKING PLACE (Off 86 Pitt Street), SYDNEY. BW 7318.
TWO AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
THE PATHWAY OF THE SUN,
by E. V. Timms.
The stirring sequel to Forever to
Remain. Historically illuminating, a
story poignant and brutal, tragic and
gay. 12/6 (post 9d.)
DUST OR POLISH,
by Norman Lindsay.
The highly-diverting story of a show-
girl who found a new career and
romance in the second-hand furniture
business. 11/6 (post Bd.)
US &
Publishers
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
leave the authors themselves well in the
shade.
The book ends with an account of
Maria’s distant cousin Henry Essex
Edgeworth,, Abbe de Firmont, the priest
who accompanied Louis XVI to the
guillotine, saying, as his head rolled:
“Fils de Saint Louis, montez au del!”
Because of which his old mother died in
prison, and his sister was dragged from
prison to prison for a year. On reading
Lamartine’s Histoire des Girondins,
Maria Edgeworth asked her French
translator to convey the author her
thanks for his treatment of the Abbe
Edgeworth;
She regretted, however, that he did not
include the episode of Fils de Saint Louis,
etc., and also omitted the fact of the crowd
separating to allow him to pass after the
execution.
But this had been taken care of by
one of the Edgeworth family in an
English life of the Abbe. In fact, the
family was literally well able to look
after itself literally. Maria’s father wrote
his own Memoirs; Maria edited them
and gave them to the world with a trepi-
dation which was justified when the
“Quarterly” demanded from her one
simple statement: “Was he a Christian?”
As for Maria, her Memoir was written
by her fourth mother.
Baroque and Bullfights,
When a competent poet goes on the
wallaby and records his impressions in
prose, anything may happen. In this
case, the result is Spain (Batsford) by.
Sacheverell Sitwell.
The tour opens in France and the
border is crossed at Irun, when the reader
is whisked right through Spain to reach
Seville in time for the great fair, vividly
described. This first chapter is worth
reading if only for the account of the
ageing but still great Flamenco singer,
Pastora Imperio.
Further dashes reach, and leave
behind, the towns and countrysides of
Castile, Aragon and Levante. The
volume —an epitome of hurried travel
and leisured writing—ends with the de-
scription of a bullfight in Valencia.
The author is at his very good best
when he describes the less visited monu-
ments and places—villages at the end of
bridle-paths, simple, kindly peasants and
colorful gipsies. He is at his worst where
he revels in Baroque, which he delights
to call by the frightful name
“Churriguerresque.”
In the earlier sections, Spanish words,
without adequate translation, appear in
profusion ; this is a calamity for those
ignorant of the language, and it savors
of pedantry. In the latter part of the
book, translation is often overdone,
for example, “sus correspondientes
cmdrillas” is translated “their respective
assistants” on both pages 111 and 112,
except that, in the second case, the spell-
ing is “quadrillas,” which is even worse
Spanish than the near-by “Gloria.”
The love or dislike for bullfighting is
a personal matter. At its best, this sport
takes on the character of a fine art, even
in its Portuguese form ; at its worst, it
is unadulterated cruelty, particularly for
the horses, which, when not too seriously
injured, are patched up to have their
bellies ripped open in another fight. That
facet is not dealt with by the author, but
otherwise his description is both correct
in detail and pleasant to read.
As a whole, Spain is intriguing and
absorbing, but, in parts, it is an irritating
record of Sitwellian opinion which does
not quite succeed in masquerading as a
guidebook.
It will be in my knapsack, however,
when I next visit the Peninsula, and 1
advise every prospective tourist to that
country to get -a copy.
L.O.
Reviewed Briefly,
Halifax, Warden of the North:
Thomas H. Raddall (McLelland and
Stewart; Dent). History of the city of
Halifax, from Cornwallis to World
War 11.
* * * *
Flower of Cities: Studies and sketches
of London life by 22 authors (Max
Parrish, London). A useful introduction
to the city for intending tourists. The
authors, including John Betjeman,
Elizabeth Bowen, E. Arnot Robertson,
Nicolas Bentley and Leonard Woolf, are
several cuts above the kind of authors
usually found in a guidebook. More in
the guidebook tradition and almost like
an encyclopaedia, loaded with historical
information packed into double-columns,
running to 384 pages with 300 illustra-
tions, is the revised edition of The
Wonderful Story of London (Odhams
Press), edited by R. Webster Smith.
* * * *
White Collar Zoo: Clare Barnes, Jr.
(Angus and Robertson). One of those
stunt-books, popular at the moment, of
photographs of animals looking like
human beings—sometimes, even more
surprisingly, it is babies looking like
human beings. Mr. Barnes’s are supposed
to show crocodiles, tigers, chimpanzees,
etc., looking like businessmen in typical
office situations. There is even a
kangaroo, with a joey in her pouch, above
the caption, “Gentlemen, this is my
assistant, who will be working with me
on your account.” It looks more like a
kangaroo than a businessman; but the
animal-photographs are good in them-
selves, even if the gags are rather feeble.
* * * *
Murder in Marble: Judson Phillips
(Hale). A rich American, Mr. Chizmadia,
goes with his bodyguard to investigate a
strike at a marble-quarry ; his friend, the
owner, is killed, and Chizmadia con-
siders that the strike has been organised
for reasons other than improving the con-
ditions of the workers. There is a
crooked sheriff, an effort at lynching, a
tough police-detective, a pistol-toting girl-
reporter and a conclusion just a little
different from what one had expected.
* * * *
Little Boy Lost: Marghanita Laski
(Cresset Press, Dymocks). The English
father, whose wife has died in France
under Gestapo torture, goes to look for
their little boy and finally, at an orphan-
age, is shown a child who may or may
not be his son. He stays on in the vil-
lage, taking the child out every day, try-
ing to make up his mind ; then he begins
an affair with a Paris milliner who is
staying in the village. He has to choose
between child and milliner ; and this is
as truthfully done as the denouement is
satisfying.
The Roosevelt Letters, Vol. II: Edited
by Elliott Roosevelt, foreword by
Eleanor Roosevelt (Harrap). The first
volume of these letters, beginning with
the late President’s first scribbles at the
age of five and taking him through his
college days of mumps and measles and
football, was so lamentable a disappoint-
ment that one approaches the second with
trepidation. There is still far too much
incredibly trivial stuff —what on earth is
the use of publishing a diary entry from a
fishing trip such as, “Friday, March 14,
1924. This year has been considered a
very poor one as to weather down here—
a lot of wind, large temperature changes,
etc.”? —but at least the letters covering
F.D.R.’s visit to England during the 1914
war, when he met King George V and the
Cabinet Ministers, are of interest. There
is also a visit to the battlefields in France.
The period covered is 1905 to 1928.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 84
Across.
I—Cloth urges a sheep to perform
some rodeo capers. (7)
s—The automobile is mobile loads. (7)
8— Cooking fuel gait of a horse has
nothing with my operation on
the belly. (10)
9 This nuisance is out of step. (4)
11— French town provides dishonesty
around the fifties. (5)
12— A burst of gunfire fury in the
drinking-saloon. (7)
13— Water at 90 degrees —of latitude.
(3)
14— Agree to a famous record firm
backing the east. (6)
15— Beverage. (3)
19—Confer a knighthood. (3)
21—Dearer confusion describes you,
for instance. (6)
25 —Play by Karel Capek (initials). (3)
26 In the cooler thanks of a Spanish
princess. (7)
27 Solitary Capone and the same
fellow without his cap. (5)
28— Water-supply in good health. (4)
29 bucks and 3.14159 and a
negative instrument. (5, 5)
30— Merry pronoun boat used by an
Annamese fisherman. (3-3)
31— Perform with Ginger Meggs’s
girl that is a schoolmaster. (7)
Down.
1 — This two-timer takes the large
with a fog. (8)
2 Throw the French chateau. (6)
3 An artist to depend upon, but
not often. (6)
4 Timothy turned up the Com-
munist wearing a bishop’s head-
dress. (6)
5 Return a crossbred sheep. (8)
6 Edgardo della Scala acted as a
surgeon? (8)
7 Place to rest a game of a tennis
and the beginning of a golf
round. (6)
10 —Lear and I confuse another
Shakspeare character. (5)
16 — Fadden has a full heart in a
rather wily manner. (8)
17 — Karenin’s wife gets a century
flower. (5)
18 — Mends cloth melodies. (7)
20 —Prohibit it with one kind of
voice. (8)
22 Important fellow offers a disguise
for outsized baldness. (6)
23 like a dead queen between
100 and 500. (6)
24 — Two Englishmen provide an
ornamental sphere of wool. (6)
25 Keep thanks in check. (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 83.


91
SERVES AUSTRALIA'S TNGIKHMG HTTPS
WITH PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
* *•
THE “MARS” No. 4 UNIVERSAL
MILLING MACHINE.
(Fitted with Rapid Power Traverse, also
all attachments.)
EARLY DELIVERY
ALSO AVAILABLE FOR EXPORT
- .
THE “MARS” 101-INCH ALL GEARED LATHE.
(Motorised and complete with all equipment.)
m
i
m
THE ‘'MARS” 161-INCH SHAPING MACHINE.
(Complete with graduated vice and motorised
drive.)
• BUILT UNDER GUARANTEE.
• TEST CHART—Showing tolerance against Schlesinger stan-
dards, supplied with each machine.
• BALANCE—AII necessary revolving parts are Dynamically
Balanced. ,
• FINISH—AII main working surfaces are Machine Ground.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE
MACHINE TOOLS
• MATERlALS—“Meehanite” (Reg. Trade Mark) Casting#
throughout.
• SMOOTH RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are generated.
• VERSATILITY—AII Lathes have generous Detachable Gap
Bridges and Large Hollow Spindles.
• “MARS” Lathe Lead Screws are cut from a certified and tested
Master Lead Screw.
s£, sjr, 6,7, 8, 1 I, 1 2 and 14 inch Lathes; 18 inch Shapers:
Radial Drills; Horizontal Universal; Plain and
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS AVAILABLE
Vertical Milling Machines; Lathe and Mille
Dividing Heads; Machine Vices.
-V
■
H
,7 .
THE “MARS” 8-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
IMMEDIATE
THE “MARS” 5-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
AVAILABLE FOR EXPORT
I*
u
THE “MARS” 3-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF "MARS I ' DIESEL ENGINES ARE:
SLOW RUNNING—Bosch Injection—Water Cooled —Replaceable Liners —Detachable Cylinders—Variable Speed-Sensitive
Governor Control —DYNAMICALLY BALANCED (Crankshaft and Flywheel are individually dynamically balanced —means
smoother running, less wear and tear) —Force Fed Lubrication —Easy Starting—Economical fuel consumption —Simple to operate.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.8.W.; Gibson Battle & 00. Pty. Ltd. W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.,
Perth. 5.A.; W. H. Butler & Co., 184 Waymouth St., Adelaide. Queensland:
Mars Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd. India—Bombay Province: R. S.
Mehta & Co., Alii Chambers, Fort, Bombay.
dales Representative: C. Evans, C/o Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
A FEW INTERSTATE AND
OVERSEAS AGENCIES VACANT
1
All castings are produced in the
“MARS” Foundry under the supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and laboratory staff.
We manufacture 21 grades of MEEHANITE (reg. Trade
Mark) IRON.
■v
OL
i
o
m
4#
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
M ANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES! VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O S. Advert*
