

The Bulletin
71 —No. 3658
Wednesday, March 22, 1950
Price 6d.
r ' . General F-*st O’- , Sydney, N.S.W., Austral! a, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
HARVARD HOUSE WAS OLD WHEN THE “MAYFLOWER” SAILED
A MONO the many fine old houses in the High Street of Stratford-
upon-Avon, Shakespeare’s birthplace, is Harvard House, which
is one of the finest specimens of domestic architecture of the
sixteenth century. At Harvard House, rebuilt twenty-three years
before the “Mayflower” sailed for North America, lived the mother
of John Harvard, born 1607, who emigrated to America and died at
the early age of thirty-one in 1638 at Charleston.
The whole of the front of the house is elaborately carved, and
the massive supports to the overhanging first floor represent the
bull, the badge of the Nevilles, and the bear, the badge of the
Beauchamps, Earls of Warwick. For many years this “Ancient
House ” as it was then called, was allowed to fall into neglect, until
WO9 Van t was secured through the action of Miss Mane Cora h
he novelist who interested Mr. Edward Morrts of Ch.cago rn B
preservation; he bought the house and presented it to the Harv
it 1""e d most* a«r"se b s O SS
Stratford, retaining - * “
Solf wto ma*”e here some fine Elizabethan furniture, Tudor
pewter and some fifteenth-century domestic glass.
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
house of seppelt


Learn
df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.” ' * a *
My Name ....
My Address
S.B. 150
AGE
at HO*TF
The Red Page
THE POTENTATE.
When two years ago William Morris
Hughes published certain of his early
reminiscences under the title of Crusts and
Crusades, he expressly eschewed any
stories of his political life later than the
’nineties —which is almost to say, any
of his political life at all —because, he
said, he disliked “telling tales out of
school.” The Red Page thought this a
pity, and said so. After all Billy has
never allowed these uncharacteristic in-
hibitions to restrain him on countless
occasions when he has been induced by
festive company to open up, and his
narrative style on such occasions treated
nothing which it did not adorn.
Billy has either repented his self-
restraint or taken advice from his friends.
Ar any rate, his new book Policies and
Potentates (Angus and Robertson) is a
distinct improvement on his previous
effort, and he lifts his self-imposed ban
over at least the first two decades of the
Commonwealth. Of his prefaced under-
taking to take his public on a conducted
tour “down the corridors of the years”
he cannot be regarded as having fully
acquitted himself, for he stops at the
Peace Conference of 1919, and he declines
to speak, he says, of his contemporaries
in other professions and callings, that is,
of figures off “the Parliamentary stage.”
Perhaps he meditates another volume
covering the second half of his 50 years
(now nearer 60) in public life.
For the first part of Policies and
Potentates— ‘Part I, At Home”—Billy,
after offering one or two left-over crusts,
recounts some fun-and-games during the
early years of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment (in Melbourne) with “three elevens
in the field.” That “haloyon period” for
the Labor party, of sitting on the fence
apd forcing concessions from one or
other of the “two old parties” in power,
ended with the fusion of those two, and
Labor’s word no longer cut any ice.
Caucus was in the depths of depression.
The leader decided that something had to
be done to recapture lost publicity in the
daily Press, and caucus, agreeing with
him, decided on the manufacture of “a
scene, a clash with the Speaker leading
to the suspension of one or several
Labor ites. Billy was chosen to be the
goat ; the great Deakin was his target;
but he plot failed because young Mr.
Hu '- uestioned directly, could not
? ' to admit that his descrip-
<’’on 0 Vi Oeakin as contemptible was
[ , -onal, or a lything but political. The
of the hunt for the Federal capital-
is gi un, especially that of the
it/al h ;nd choice of Dalgety, “which
; etrospect I have always regarded as
an absolutely demented decision,” fortu-
nately remedied later when members
tnought they might as well go and see
the place for themselves.
What might be called the last of the
good old days is represented in the story
of the debate with E. W. O’Sullivan at
Captain’s Flat (thither Billy rode on a
bicycle from Sydney)-O’Sullivan of
whom it was said that he “knew the un-
knowable, could do the undoable, and
could unscrew the unscrutable” ; and in
another yarn, of a boastful Yankee fellow-
passenger in the Aorangi in 1907. Billy
was deputed by the skipper to take this
fellow down a peg, and produced a series
of statements about the dimensions,
fertility and various natural marvels of
our great country which rose to this mag-
nificent climax:
Sb,” said I, “you can get some idea of
the size of our country and of its ranches
rrom the size of the constituencies which
members of our national legislature re-
present. One of my colleagues sits for an
electorate over 2000 miles long and 1000
miles wide.”
“Gosh!” ejaculated the American. I
looked at him with a critical eye. He was
ne f% done. I went in to finish him.
Sir, said I, “these figures are too big
lor you. Your brain cannot grasp their full
significance... .You will get some better
idea of our wonderful country and its
ranches when. I tell you that some of the
centres of population in my colleague’s
electorate are so remote that the returns
from these outlying polling booths do not
reach the capital during the life of that
Parliament.”
The American reeled in his chair, and
inquired brokenly—“ But how does the
rooster take his seat?”
“Sir,” I replied quietly, “he’s always
one Parliament behind.”
“Part 11, Abroad” covers Billy’s stories
of the First World War. Having arrived
at D owning-street and been inducted into
the Imperial War Cabinet, he was also
invited to attend the meeting of the cabal
which decided to displace Asquith and
instal Lloyd George as national leader
to win the war. He was there because
“it was known that I felt very strongly
in the matter.” He enjoyed leisure hours
with Reading and Birkenhead, but for
some reason does not tell the entertaining
story of how the latter, hearing that Mr,
Hughes was not a K.C. in his own
country, got him admitted to the Middle
Temple, called to the Bar, and then to
the Inner Bar, with a final visit to Buck-
ingham Palace included, all without notice
and on a Saturday morning. That per-
formance makes Mr. Hughes unique
among King’s Counsel in Australia. He
had a great affection for Jacky Fisher,
Clemenceau (“a man after my own
heart”), Lloyd George (whom he was
privileged to curse in Welsh), old Joffre,
and Theodore Roosevelt; towards most
others of his high-level contacts he was
generally neutral, except Asquith and
Woodrow Wilson, whom he detested.
His stories of how the entire British
Cabinet was issued with pistols by the
head of Scotland Yard for self-defence
against Sinn Feiners, and how Billy, be-
ing left without one because he was not
a British Minister, said that would not
prevent the Sinn Feiners from mistaking
him for one, and was then duly armed,
also; how the Emir Feisal pretended at
the Peace Conference not to understand
English, and why ; and the scandals about
Poincare and the postman’s wife related
to him by the lady from Bolivia at the
banquet in the Elysee—these are all
worth while. But those of his collisions
with President Wilson are classic. Mr,
Hughes gives most of two chapters to
them. The duel between them over the
New Guinea question is well-known and
has become history, but less familiar is
the story of their first meeting, at Wash-
ington in 1916, when the Australian Prime
Minister was first on his way to London.
Billy called on the President, put to
him the views of his Government on the
future of the islands in the Pacific, and
was astonished at Wilson’s complete
silence. “He remained as unresponsive
as the Sphinx in the desert He sat
there like a stuffed image, never betray-
ing by word or gesture the slightest in-
terest in what I was saying.” Billy got
outside with dispatch, and went to see
Theodore Roosevelt at Oyster Bay, who
received him with open arms. Billy told
him about the White House interview
and asked Roosevelt what he thought of
Wilson.
He paused for a moment and then said
Well, now, the other day the Press
boys were here and they asked me the
same question. I said “Boys, I will tell
you. Not long ago some of my friends
talked to me about the President. None
of us knew much about his private life,
and after they had gone I spent some days
digging up his family history. And do
you know, boys, what I found? Of all
the public men in the United States
during the past three-quarters of a century,
his is the only family whose men didn’t
fight on either side in the Civil War—and
has done no fighting since!”
Mr. Hughes fought President Wilson
not only over the New Guinea mandate,
but also —which is not so often remem-
bered—over the racial-equality clause
proposed for the League Covenant, per-
mitting free entry of the nationals of
every country into every member-country.
“My friend” Baron Makino, of Japan,
worked hard for this. Hughes heard
from him that Smuts and Lord Robert
Cecil, as well as Wilson, were in favor;
the Baron was jubilant; and Wilson was
chairman of the committee. “The little
man,” as S. M. Bruce used to call him,
finding the fight going against him in the
committee, went gunning in the open. He
hastened to the Press Club and spilt the
beans to the world’s correspondents,
especially those of the western States of
America. “My story lost nothing in the
telling 1 emphasised that unless
immediate action were taken President
Wilson would commit himself next after-
noon ; let them rouse the people on the
Pacific slopes, overwhelm the President
with messages You know what to
do.”
They did, and next morning the Presi-
dent s desk was flooded with telegrams
from the Pacific States denouncing the
clause. When the minutes of the previ-
ous meeting recording the decision on the
clause were read and confirmed without
comment, and Makino cried jubilantly
“It is carried,” Wilson shook his head
and replied that it was lost, because all
resolutions affecting the Fourteen Points
required a unanimous vote. jMaJdno went
to Hughes, and near to tears, said—“ Mr.
Hughes, you say what you mean. But
die President, he lead me on, he say,
‘This clause is good, I will support it,’
and now ”
Undoubtedly Billy was one of the
Potentates.
Blacks and Whites.
The most lively writing in White
Settlers and Native Peoples by A. Grenfell
Price (Georgian House) is about
monstrosities;
41 California the whites killed Indians as
a sport to enliven Sundays and holidays.”
£ n lojl th® kindly Kingsley wrote that he
nad had to use his 38-calibre revolver to
shoot children as his 56-calibre rifle “tore
them up so bad.”
But there are few of these little human-
interest stories; the book is a survey of
white treatment of natives of the United
States, Canada, Australia and New
Zealand, a careful and compartmented
survey, nation by nation, factor by factor,
of the efforts which have been made,
first to wipe out the noble savage, and
then to preserve him,
We see the white man, in America,
Australia and New Zealand, making
noble gestures in Parliament, and
merciful laws, against exploiters and
land-grabbers, who privately continue
stopping natives of their land; then
efforts by missionaries and men of public
spirit to raise the natives to white
standards of living; then the abandon-
ment of these efforts in a further effort
to “re-tribalise” the “de-tribalised”
natives.
It is estimated that before Columbus
discovered America there were 846,000
Indians in the now-United States. By
1910, the white man’s diseases, whisky,
rifles and his extinction of the buffaloes,
on which the Indians fed, had reduced
them by 82 per cent, to 150,053 Indians
of full blood. In Canada, an estimated
220.000 Indians before Columbus were
brought down to 93,260 Indians of full
blood by 1901, a 58 per cent, reduction.
Australia’s estimated 1788 population of
300.000 aborigines was reduced to
51,556 by 1939 ; an 83 per cent, reduction,
pie full-blooded Maori population had
dropped by 1871 to 37,502 from an
estimated 200,000 before New Zealand’s
colonisation, an 82 per cent, reduction.
But, taking natives of mixed blood into
the totals, there has been an increase in
the United States from 244,000 in 1880
to 351,878 in 1938, and in New Zealand
from 37,502 in 1871 to 106,492 in 1947.
From 1921 to 1939 Australian aborigines
declined by only 213, from 77,481 to
77,268. In America and New Zealand the
mixed-bloods increase faster than the
full-bloods. In America in 1937, mixed-
bloods increased by 22£ per cent, and
full-bloods by 3.5 per cent. In New
Zealand, the full-bloods are increasing,
but in ten years they dropped from
71.35 per cent, of the total Maori popula-
tion to 67.92 per cent. In Australia, the
mixed-bloods, 16,818 in 1921 as against
25,712 in 1939, mask the rapid drop of the
full-bloods from 60,663 in 1921 to 51,556
in 1939. In 1941 there were fewer than
600 full-blooded aborigines in New
South Wales; but with the mixed-bloods
they show an annual increase of 2.6 per
cent.
In 1939, under Roosevelt’s “New Day
for Indians” policy the United States
spent 33,000,000 dollars, an average of
89 dollars (4605.) each, on its 372,497
Indians, for education, health, irrigation,
loans to establish farms, etc. In 1939,
Victoria spent 187 s. a person for the
same purpose, New South Wales spent
1415., Western Australia spent 315.,
Queensland spent 755.; in 1929, South
Australia spent 1395.; and in 1945-46 the
Commonwealth Government spent 365.
each on the Northern Territory natives.
Australian average expenditure on natives
m 1939 was 745. a person.
Dr. Price has produced an excellent
reference-work on all phases of his
subject, with maps, photographs and an
index. The reader is left to conclude that
the best way to preserve full-blooded
natives is to leave them alone,
“tribalised,” in a reservation, or to “re-
tribalise” them by some artificial approxi-
mation to their former natural
surroundings. For such as think this a
degradation of human beings into in-
habitants of Taronga Park or Whipsnade,
it may be some consolation to reflect that
natives stand a better chance if they cross
with whites:
On present statistics, New Zealand faces
a particularly serious problem, for Maoris
now number nearly six per cent, of the
population, and are rapidly increasing that
percentage. In regard to many other
regions, one cannot accept Macleod’s airy
dictum that, as Indians of the United
States total only about the population of a
small city, the problem has ended.
Reviewed Briefly.
Latest additions to Hp
* a|e
Canasta: Spencer Teakl* r a *
How to nlav th n ® us and
which, supposed to have n e card game
Uruguay, has taken the IT % lgU l ated in
by storm. Dorothy Fielder ? ? ey sa y.
Culbertson teacher” puts {L certi fi«d
the top-drawer with rw the " in
Dunn"(P°w. °CheZ4 V
bourne’s Port PhilipTht & to L Mel ‘
pleasantly written WhlCh is
wreck, history and surf co m l ahi P'
way between the sort Tbcal h
which can only be read bv in h , lsto T
visitors), of which Australia i or
multitude, and the place-historv ft/* ad a
its style and its careful selectio7J hat f ? r
while incident and drama can be
everybody of which Australia h as h «H
very few and needs more a utu had
Natural History, of ™£ r * W ° Uen m '
* * * *
The Charm of Hobart: written k.
g? a} r rf U LiS USt S ted by
jacK (ure Smith Miniature Series!
“i Jack is a better artist than the
black-and-white reproductions and eve,
Sises liMe book
suggest thepe are a crispness and a
poetry of atmosphere in his work which
have not been brought out. But he
drawings remain pleasant, and the artist
and Mr. Turnbull are an ideal collabora-
™ depicting the old buildings
With skill and the other writing agreeabfy
about Hobart s history ; and the combina-
tion making a volume which has historical
and artistic value as well as the usual
local interest of g, souvenir-booklet
*** * '
A set of eductional books from Long-
mans (Melbourne), chiefly intended for
schools, includes pamphlets on Our Coal
Our Iron and Steel, Our Sugar; a booklet
by Donald McLean, Ourselves and Our
Neighbors, which expounds world history
and sociology with special reference to
Australia ; and the two volumes of the
Poets’ Way anthology, each of which adds
to the standard English poets an up-to-
date though limited selection of Aus-
tralian poetry by such writers as Kenneth
Slessor, Judith Wright, William Hart-
Smith and David Campbell.
* * * *
The rediscovery of Trollope in England
apparently continues with unabated vigor.
Latest contributions are The Bedside
Dorsetshire (Faber) in which Lance 0.
Tingay presents a pageant of Trollope in
quotations that portray his principal
characters or embody his most striking
or most amusing scenes —an effective and
affectionate introduction to the master—
and a handsome edition of The Warden
from Harrap, illustrated in line and color
by Phyllis Harrap. Possibly an even
greater attraction than Mrs. Harrap’s
drawings, lively and decorative though
they are in their satirical style, is the fact
that in this edition, for once, Trollope is
presented in a readable print.
* * * *
Zen Buddhism : Christmas Humphreys
(Heinemann). As far as can be ascer-
tained from the author’s jaunty exposi-
tion, Zen is somewhat or something like
Foo ; it is here, it is there, it is every-
where ; it is nothing in particular but
you feel wonderfully happy when yp u
have found it. “Let us summarise. Life
is flow and Zen is the flow of it. It 15
therefore neither Buddhism nor any other
“ism’; it was not born, neither will u
die.” The author, who is president of the
London Buddhist Society, tha
“interest in Zen is rapidly rising. **
is Zen, zen.
* ♦ * *
Archibald Prize Illustrated: edited by
John Brackenreg (Legend P ress >. ,
Macquarie-place, Sydney). This I
book contains 67 photographs of e ®t
in the last Archibald, Wynne and Sulm
competitions, in which the pnzewm .
were Arthur J. Murch, George Lawrence
and J. Carrington Smith: also lists
former prizewinners and a statemeo
the terms on which each prize is awa . ,
The aim is “neither political nor cnhcah
but simply for the information oxA P
who didn’t or couldn’t see the ex .
at the N. S. Wales National Gallery
Black-and-white reproduction can
be wholly reliable as a guide to
merit, but the booklet will
serve a most useful purpose, an .
be hoped that the Legend Press
it an annual institution. The pi t 0
reproduction have been fairly s
show the best works of all schools.


mm
m
■■'.■-’■>:■ K -..
-:/v>'
S
SMSiS®!
« « ® &&s*£
mm
pp
ill
Wmmmm
*» , j
if
; ;;
”'■ i ’ i
mssm
-VS*': -■ ■:
I
*
■i
mmmm
m
m
II
?m
» a
< ■ • • -S -
*&&&**
>•• ••■■ •:•
#
§ - I.'
m
<&«m
a
8S
II
-‘ « !
itx' ''sse« £ 4. „
MB
Bli
111
mz
m
m
ASmS :■ ■''■■ ;'•
jfe«
IB
S :>■;.■■
«»«
-.Mx
: :'J : '' : ’
Hi
■ ■ ••:
' : •- >•
M
i»i
,
liiii
r *> :
m ai -r**^nwmm T ™ i
mm I '4 :ttit w," ?:.*s:; u: ;
jpapg a u i
k&i£i£
■ ' * ;.' ~
,y' .->.
Look smarter, feel better in
Jnlins Marlow Shoes for Men
"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING’'
Julius Marlow’s five popular styles in 60 measured
fittings with non-jarring heels and roomy toes to assure solid
comfort. Your perfect fitting is here.
nthony Bordens’
9
m
Derby 46/3
Casual 46/3
“Julius Marlow” Brogue. Stout soles, wide
welts. Tan Calf or Black Box Calf. 46/3
“Julius Marlow” Casual with flexible soles,
snug-fit heels. Tan Calf, Brown Suede. 46/3
“Julius Marlow” Oxford. Tan Calf
Black Box Calf, 46/3; Black Glace 50/-
“Julius Marlow” no-cap Derby Shoe rub-
ber soles and heels. Brown Calf. 46/3
mmm
:
m
me
m
m
“Julius Marlow” Moccasin Derby with either non-slip rubber or
leather soles. Brown Calf Uppers. Multiple sizes 5 to 13. Price, 46/3
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOES—GROUND FLOORS GEORGE STREET. PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


WITCHCRAFT
BY
OLAF
RUHEN
WHEN Cummings stepped out of
the office, Kandarim was there by
the door, standing very straight
with his heels together, and his
feet spread wide at the toes. He threw
a salute that was still, Cummings noted,
as smart as it had been in his police-boy
days; and Cummings returned it.
“Sir,” said Kandarim. “This is the
woman who commits the witchcraft; who
killed my wife by witchcraft. Also her
father, who has killed many by witch-
craft ; and her mother, and her young
brother. And he also kills.”
The girl stood with her head cast down,
one foot clasped across the top of the
other, and the dangling strings of her
hand-wide skirt clustered against her in-
turned knees. There was a bunch of
bright yellow flowers like marguerites in
her close-cropped curly hair, and there
was nothing shame-faced about her ex-
pression. She held her head down as a
well-bred should, but her eyes
were bright, and eager, and questioning.
“Her name is Malis,” Kandarim said.
The mother stood a little behind the
girl, in the same attitude. The girl’s skirt
hung from a belt woven of a fine grass,
eight inches wide, and decorated with
intricate raised work. Her mother wore a
simple thin rope, indicating her married
status. The boy, small and naked, stood
at the right-hand of his father, whose net
kirt swung to his ankles ; and both of
hem looked proudly and without fear at
Cummings.
“Now we will have a court,” Cum-
mings said to no one in particular ; and
sent two boys to set up a table and a
chair beneath the light-shade of the
kapok-tree that stood near the flagpole
where the Union Jack drooped in still air,
HE walked back into the office ; and
heard a movement on the steps. De-
liberately he picked up a paper from the
table before he turned. Kandarim was
standing hesitantly at the top of the steps.
“Sir,” said Kandarim.
“What is it?”
Kandarim walked into the room and
stood ; his mind full of something he had
to say ; but his lips hesitant.
“There is something that should be
said in the matter of the witch.”
“Then you can say it at the court.”
“Sir, this is something that should not
be said at a court. But nevertheless it is
something that should be said. Something
between you and me.”
Cummings walked round the table and
set out a chair and sat in it.
“Well?”
“Sir. If the witch goes back to the
village there will be another killing. And
if there is another killing she will die.
And her father and her mother and her
young brother; because they are all
killers.”
“How will they die?” Cummings
looked very steadily at Kandarim.
“Sir, they will die and I will kill them.”
Kandarim squatted suddenly on the
floor, and for once Cummings didn’t
order him back to his feet. “There is an
end to what a man can put up with.
There is an end ta the sacrifice a village
can make. And I know what you will
tell me—that killing will mean that I
swing at the end of a rope. But there
are more people in the village; and they
will remember me. And my wife Lupas
and I were happy.”
Cummings was disturbed, but he didn’t
show it.
“It is true this was not a thing to tell
the court,” he said in a composed way.
“Nor is it a thing to tell me. It is not a
•thing that would bear on the subject of
I the woman and her guilt; nor is it any-
thing I can take any account of. But I
can tell you this: If there comes a time
when the woman or any of her family die
at your hands, you will die, too. That is
something you have known since you
were a boy in the police; before you were
a sergeant.”
Kandarim inclined his head. “It’s been
a lot in my mind,” he said simply; and
Cummings was immediately at a loss. He
dismissed Kandarim; who saluted and
went out.
KORAJI, his sergeant, had the court
ready when Cummings went down.
The four members of the witch’s family
sat on the ground, the man and the boy
in front, at the end of the table distant
from the chair that had been placed for
Cummings. Koraji stood at attention
beside the chair, and to the left of the
table a file of natives stood or squatted in
the shade. To the right, a few overawed
youngsters, stark-naked, watched the
group from the edge of the clipped grass
a couple of chains away ; and beyond
them were the prison huts, and women
busy about them.
As he approached, Koraji said some-
thing quietly ; and the loungers, including
the accused, got to their feet; their skins
shining with oil of pandanus in the
filtered sunlight that dripped through the
symmetrical branches of the kapok.
There was paper and a pencil on the
table.
Cummings took his seat and looked
around.
“The woman whom they call a witch,”
he said.
Kandarim stepped forward from the
line on the left
“Her name is Malis,” he repeated. He
had evidently appointed himself prose-
cutor. “There is a man whose name is
Balip, who saw the killing.”
Balip stepped forward. He was a
medium-sized native, with a malforma-
tion of the mouth —a great ugly over-
hanging upper lip; through which he
spoke with difficulty.
“It was in the evening,” he said, “three
days ago. The women were preparing the
meal; and Nona, the wife of Kandarim,
was at her fire. There was no one near
her ; but I was watching her. And after
she put her sweet potatoes on the fire she
ran to the foot of the coco-palm as
though someone had bid her; and she
looped the strings of her pul-pul between
her legs and into the cord at her back;
and climbed up the coco-palm swiftly,
right up to the top. And without any
hesitation at all she threw herself from
the top. The palm was high, and it leaned
over the crest of the hill above the path
that goes down to the stream. And her
body fell on the path. And the girl Malis
was carrying a bamboo of water up the
path, and she had waited there a little
way from the crest. And the body of
Nona fell at her feet. It fell three steps
away from her. And she smiled and
waited ; and walked up and stepped over
the body, and brought the water to
Nona’s hut, where the policeman’s wife
had been preparing the sweet potatoes.
That is all.”
“The policeman’s wife?” asked Cum-
mings, frowning.
“My wife, sir,” Kan-
darim said. “My wife
Nona.”
“Now you, Kanda-
rim. What do you
say?”
“That was the way
of it, sir,” Kandarim
said. “I saw my wife
when she was at the
top of the palm-tree,
and not before. And I
saw her fall and the girl
Malis walk over her
body and bring the
water to the hut of my
wife.”
“Yet this is not a
killing,” Cummings said,
“This is a woman who
killed herself, and is now dead.”
“Sir, she was killed by witchcraft,”
Kandarim said stubbornly. “And as a
proof there is the girl Malis. And she
will say she killed my wife.”
“Malis,” Cummings said; and the girl
came forward from behind her father.
“You have heard Balip and now Kan-
darim. He has said that you killed his
wife by witchcraft.”
The girl looked up from her crossed
toes and smiled briefly, rather sweetly.
She wriggled in an excess of embarrass-
ment ; like a schoolgirl accused of talking
to a boy.
She said: “It is true. I killed Nona.”
CJMMINGS put down his pencil;
slipped his hands into the pockets of
his shorts and leaned back, tilting the
chair up on its two back legs.
He said: “How did you kill her?”'
“I saw the tree as I came up from the
stream, and I thought it would be a good
thing if she died. She was a vain woman.
And I slipped from my body and left it
standing on the track. And I went into
her body and I climbed the tree and I
jumped.”
“And if this is true, why did you kill
her?”
“She was a vain woman. And she sent
me for water. It was late and I do not
like the stream when it grows dark. She
knew it. And she sent me late when it
was dark. She was very vain. She tried
to rule me.”
“And you weren’t afraid to jump from
the tree?”
“I have killed before. There is a joy
in jumping from the tree.”
“You have killed. How many?”
The girl considered, looking at the dirt,
and sweeping a toe in circles, making
little patterns in the dust at her feet. Then
she looked up smiling again.
“I do not know. Five. Six. Some-
times when I was small. Sometimes it
was only afterward when I knew that I
had killed.”
“And this is how you kill? From a
coconut palm?”
“From the same palm. Always now.
But twice in thg water when I was small.
And once I walked a body not my own
over the hill to the Kuno country. It was
a girl my own age. That time I was sick.”
She was so matter-of-fact about the
whole fantastic conversation that it was
beginning to seem utterly credible. Cum-
mings said in a very loud voice: “Now
I do not think you have killed at all.”
She smiled again ; a brief and fleeting
smile as before ; and looked at her feet.
Cummings said: “Kandarim,” and the
man stepped up to the table.
“Sir, this is a family that kills. This is
true. My wife had nothing for which to
take her own life. And the old man kills.
Many years ago he killed my cousin, who
was older than I, and a fighting man.”
THE old man came up to the table.
He had a proud look, like the hawk
whose wing he wore in his hair. His net
billum swept the ground between his
splayed feet as fashionably low as any of
the billums the young, bucks wore. He
spoke as Cummings’s eye rested on him.
“My name is Miropo,” he said. “And
all the things that have been said here are
true. It is true that my daughter Malis
killed the woman Nona. I saw her do it.
And I knew it had been in her heart for
many days.”
“Was the manner of the killing as has
been said?” Cummings asked.
“That was the way of it. But there is
more to be said. Some people have the
power of death and some have not.
Therefore the people who have the power
are the rulers of those who have not Th™
might not wish it; because power k I
heavy thmg to carry. But they have it
and therefore they must use it And if
people have not the power and still trv
to rule those who have ; then, in a wav of
speaking, they bring about their own
deaths. Because power must be respected
And those who have it must use it.”
“True,” said Cummings. “And there
fore, since I have the power, I should
hang you to a high tree. I should send
you to the Government; and the Gov-
ernment should hang you.”
The old man didn’t alter his expression.
“True. And thus people will see that
your power is greater than my own.”
He looked innocent; but Cummings
felt the double-lash of the sentence. He
called Koraji, and gave him an order.
“Then there will be an end to women
jumping from the coco-palms?” he asked
the old man —because he didn’t know
what else to say.
“You can put an end to people; but
not to the power that is in them,” the old
man said. “Thus my father told me;
and he also had power. And he also
died.”
“And he also killed by witchcraft 9”
Cummings asked. The conversation be-
came more fantastic than ever; and he
could make nothing tangible of it. He
knew that there was fear in him. He
didn’t know what he feared.
“He killed, and I kill; and behind me
my son.”
Cummings sat up and called the
youngster to the table. He was no higher
than his father’s waist; an ordinary little
lad, nearly naked; a token wisp of net
hanging from his belt that was not suf-
ficient to reach to his fat dimpled thighs.
“You are . . . ?” he asked.
The boy said: “Kopek,”
“Your father says that you have killed,
Kupek?”
The boy looked intensely shy. When he
spoke the words tumbled out of him.
“I have killed only boys. Only three
little boys.”
“And how do you kill them?”
J N answer to the order Cummings had
* given Koraji, a man in a lap-lap came
from the house with a bottle of rum, a
glass and a jug of water with ice floating
in it.
The boy waited till it had all been set
down on the table and then he said
quickly: “There is a fire comes out ot
my mouth. It comes out of my mouth
when I am asleep; and it goes in at the
mouth of the other boy and he dies.
And I know it in my sleep; and when
the fire comes back to my mouth I wake
up. And the boy is dead. And that is
all I. know. But if I want to kill the boy
the fire will leave my mouth.”
Cummings poured a stiff glass of t e
rum and drank it; gulping it dowt.
Immediately he poured another one,
drank half of it, and felt better. H
spoke to the old man again.
“Now it is dangerous for you and your
family to live in the village So it wou
be better if you were to build your hou
at a distance. Is there a reason why y
should not 'live at a distance from
village?” . j
The old man said: “There is a g
reason, in that my gardens are clos
the village. I have a place * “ r
councils, and my power is a goo p
for the village; though they might
see that always. Also there is thei mat
of the Kunos, who live at no gr
distance,” j ea i
Cummings had heard a se( j
about the Kunos. They were supfW
to poison their arr °^ s , m +1 ! he phv carry-
of those they had killed; ther{ ion 0 n
ing a never-ending tetanus m g ut
and on. There was no P roof *fhonor-
it was certain the Kunos wer j Q
able enemies. There was no sateiy
their proximity. nerbaps,
“Then for your own safety ’ f n der
you will stay in the prison and
man tanked more *****
than proud now. m stay'
“Mine is not a P oWer „ and
confined in a calaboose, con-
that was all; but Cumrm f g ver . e0 ding
jure up an acute vision of
(Continued on inside back cover.)


The Bulletin
vXTPNo. 3658
Wednesday, March 22, 1950
COMING EVENTS....


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
ISew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE "LABOR" SPLIT.
Like the gentleman found in California
the other day asleep and snoring on a
railway track after several trains had
passed over him, N.S.W. Premier McGirr
has been suffering a return to political
consciousness of his surroundings. Trains
have been running over him, too. Like
the other human curiosity across the
Pacific, he had to be awakened to what
was happening, and then for the first time
became aware of bruises about the head.
The “Labor’" split first became apparent
to most other people when last winter
the Chifley Government went through
the motions of getting tough with the coal-
strikers. That train passed over Mr.
McGirr’s unconscious dome while he lay
in its tracks. He was the only man in the
joint-coal-getting Governments who said
nothing at all about the strike. Next
swept over him, stirring only a sleeper’s-
twitching of his limbs, the train which
expressed the alarm in caucus and the
Trades Hall about the boomerang effects
of Mr. McGirr’s election-gag restrictions
against Press and absent voters as regis-
tered in test by-elections.
Then came the N.S.W. A.L.P.’s
tossing out of four of Mr. McGirr’s
caucus from pre-selection for the
coming polls. Mr. McGirr went
to the A.L.P. executive cap-in-hand
to plead that, this other fellow’s
election-ban should be lifted. He re-
ceived what coarse-minded observers de-
scribed as “a kick in the pants,” So little
was Mr. McGirr aware of it that he went
humbly petitioning his masters—that is
what they are, of course—a second time,
and got another kick in the same place.
Two days later (Mr. Ferguson, the State
A.L.P. president, having meanwhile de-
claimed that “suggestions that there was
a serious split and crisis in the Labor
party were a distortion of fact”) Mr.
McGirr, now fully awake, became
so indignant that he told caucus
he would resign the party leader-
ship, He was persuaded to reconsider
it. The party split had developed to the
extent of splitting himself. Thus it
may be accepted that Mr. McGirr is now
aware of a wide rift in the whole “move-
ment,” further signposted for him (and
others) by Trades and Labor Council
secretary King, exploding that Mr.
McGirr had “acted childishly” and asking
(echoing what N.S.W. voters are also
asking):
What is the use of your organising to
return Labor Governments if they are going
to behave in that fashion?
Caucus dissension has been rife ever
since Mr. McGirr won a hot contest for
the Premiership against the influence of
his departing chief (now Governor-
General), who tried to arrange that the
job he was vacating should fall to some-
body other than Mr. McGirr. The
general conviction outside has now
broken on caucus also, that Mr. McGirr’s
natural disqualifications make his pros-
pects of losing the coming State elections
the safest bet going.
“Labor’s” political bungler in N.S.W.
is, of course, only a minor detail in “the
movement’s” upheaval. His significance
on the troubled scene is that his “Gov-
ernment,” being in the chief industrial
State, stands next after that lately led by
Mr. Chifley in service as the Communist
party’s half-way house. Results in a
group of by-elections last month rang the
knell for Mr, Chifley’s junior partner in
their experiment of killing Communism
with kindness; and the current split in
the Sydney A.L.P. is but a reflection
from what has gone before. So desperate
is the situation that some of the dismayed
ones in “the movement” are tipping that
Mr. Lang, dressed up in anti-Communist
warpaint with nowhere to go, will re-
enter the N.S.W. “Labor” lists. More
extraordinary things than that have hap-
pened, though no more dreadful example
of what sabotage the Communists can do
in the house that offers them hospitality.
Maybe “Labor’s” hold, when its chance
comes, of the reins of office must always
be uncertain so long as it clings to the
undemocratic creed of “the class-war,”
Which (as one of its clearer-sighted
apologists recently pointed out) defines
the party first and foremost as one of
Opposition. But in these post-war years
“Labor” had its opportunity in office and
muffed it. It clung to the latter-war-time
idea of Moscow and Moscow’s agents as
friends and allies despite every local
manifestation of their “cold-war” through
the unions against harmony and pros-
perity in Australia’s economic life. The
mistake has been spotlighted in the opera-
tions of the (late) Chifley and (still-
lingering) McGirr Governments mainly
because of their special alliance for the
express purpose of “getting more coal.”
By their success or failure in that effort
they inevitably had to stand or fall.
Failure was assured them when, being
challenged by the Communists on the
coalfields, they declined to face the music.
“Labor” is everywhere discomfited now
because it has not only bungled its
chances and paid the forfeit politically,
but, having lost, is still left with the
domestic job of work, which it funked.
Ants in its shirt could not irritate the
party more than its unhappy reflection
that, if the Chifley Ministry had stood
up to the Communists —even if, after last
year’s strike, it had imposed on the
wreckers the full penalty of defeat—it
might have remained in office. It might
even at the eleventh hour have rallied the
nation —and the unions—for a purge of
those traitors from public life, instead of
abandoning the job to the then Opposi-
tion parties. But it had not the intestinal
fortitude for the effort. By going cold
on all their fighting words at the height
of the Communists’ coal strike, the
Chifley-McGirrs not only sealed the fate
of their own Ministries, but took the heart
out of the unions’ campaign, instigated by
Mr. Chifley himself, to set their houses in
order.
In the anti-Menzies agitation of the dis-
comfited Socialist leaders, protesting that
to ban the Communist party is “futile,”
to ban Communists from union office
is “interference with the unions,” nothing
could be more disconcerting than the re-
sumption of Communist-organised strikes.
The development plays straight into Mr.
Menzies’s hand. The latest stoppages on
the northern coalfields (foreshadowing
another black winter for industry,
industry’s workers, and housewives, and
so making urgent the Menzies Govern-
ment’s importation of a million tons, and
more, of coal), the “rolling strikes” on
the wharves, the transport strikes in Vic-
toria —all branded by union spokesmen
themselves as planned by Communist
saboteurs —are not so much the splitting
of “the movement” as evidence of the
extent to which the split has spread.
“Labor” denials are quite idle, for the
test is, as Mr. Menzies emphasised in his
Address-in-Reply speech last week: In
face of the chaos threatened in industry,
where does the political “Labor” party
stand ?
Anti-Communist executives of the
trade-unions are up against the same
dilemma, and it is being put to them by
the Arbitration Court., They must answer
and make good their bona fides on
penalty of deregistration or loss of privi-
leges. The Builders’ Union and the
F.E.D.F.A. are already deregistered ; the
tramways union now follows them, the
penalties imposed on the ironworkers in
N.S.W. and the w'harfies in Queensland
are forerunners of further action if re-
sisted, and the miners’ Communist bosses
expect the Coal Tribunal to withdraw
concessions they purport to prize above
everything except'obedience to the law.
How does punishment by the court
expose the split in the unions? In the
Melbourne tram-strike proceedings the
court has reasserted the principle stated
clearly in the F.E.D.F.A. case last year,
that it was not sufficient for the executive
of a union enjoying the court’s protec-
tion to order strikers back to work:
They must be prepared to go farther.
They must apply whatever disciplinary
sanctions were available under the union
rules, either to enforce their direction or
to divest themselves of recalcitrant
members. Failure to do this from what-
ever motives, whether from fear of loss
of a branch which may be supporting the
strike, or fear even of complete dissolution,
must be held to be tantamount to
condonation
Organisations unable or unwilling to
fulfil their responsibilities should be re-
moved from the register, if for no other
reason than that the way should be made
clear for some other industrial association
to undertake the obligations in return for
the benefits of registration.
The Coal Tribunal was equally out-
spoken on another essential principle,
that “such utterly wanton and irrespon-
sible” strikes as that of the South Mait-
land deputies should not pass without
some action taken to punish wrongdoers.
It may not result in coal being produced
in the pits but at least the people re-
sponsible should be visited with the
punishment they so richly deserve.
The test to which these rebel unions
are being put, through the gratuitous
mischief-making of Communist bosses
acting as always on plans framed by a
Communist executive quite outside the
union, is symptomatic of a much wider
struggle for the cleaning-up of the in-
dustrial “movement.”
Defence and Talk.
Examination of Mr. Spender’s foreign-
affairs plan would suggest that Dr.
Evatt is in spirit still Australian
Minister for External Affairs—so much
so that Dr. Evatt seemed to have
difficulty in disagreeing with him
in the debate on. Foreign Affairs
last week. Mr. Spender, off to
Manila at the invitation of Dr. Romulo,
who wishes to demonstrate “goodwill,”
has adopted from the outset the Evatt
belief that this country is to be saved by
a Pacific Pact, in which Australia would
provide the leadership, the United States
would provide the strength, and the
nations of South-East Asia would provide
the followers and humble chorus.
This kind of idea has been inherent in
Australian policy since early in 1942,
when it was proposed from Canberra that
the Pacific should be divided into zones
for the purposes of war, and that Aus-
tralia —that is, the frightened Canberra
Ministry, which had just been yelling for
25 divisions of foreign conscript troops
to defend these shores—should be .lent an
American general to command, along
with American and British troops and
naval units. to fight with under British
and American air-cover, and then given
strategic command in an offensive war
which was to be waged immediately
against the coasts of Japan from the
banks of the Molonglo under the control
of the great generals of “Labor.”
The response of the Allies was to take
over the South-West Pacific hurriedly
lest worse befall, and to send at once their
own commander without even telling
Canberra. General MacArthur arrived
on Australian soil before the “Labor”
Cabinet knew he had been appointed.
After that the “Labor” Government de-
cided to hold its horses till peace should
arrive
The years after the war saw Dr. Evatt
ostensibly running the world, interfering
in the affairs of every country concerned
in the business of U.N.0., demanding the
right to settle the main issues in the
Pacific and the nature of the democracy
to which Japan was to be committed, and
assuring the democratic future of this
hemisphere by the creation of the Pacific
Pact of which he was to be the leader.
The Americans—the only people who
mattered in the Pacific from the viewpoint
of strength, the Socialist Government of
the United Kingdom having given away
most of its Empire—received the new
ideas politely, but gave no practical co-
operation. Canada preserved an aloof
silence on the main issues and made it
clear that there would be no surrender
to South Pacific leadership.
The United States continued to pursue
its own policy and make its own arrange-
ments. It withdrew strategically to the
North Pacific, basing its military policy
on the creation of a defensive curtain
across the China Seas from Hokkaido to
the Philippines. It negatived all the Aus-
tralian suggestions for dealing with
Japan, such as the “democratisation” of
the Japanese trade-unions so that they
could emulate the coalminers and wharf-
laborers of the Commonwealth, and also
the proposal to try the Emperor
Hii ohito. It liquidated the policy of non-
fraternisation dear to Canberra’s heart.
It is still going its own sweet way, at
present being engaged in supervising the
reorganisation of the Japanese financial
system, amid loud protests from the Aus-
tralian delegate, as usual isolated in his
stand from all the other Western Allies.
That others disagree does not neces-
sarily always mean that Australian policy
is wrong ; but that we are in disagreement
with our main allies all the time does not
augur well for the future of a pact set
up under Australian leadership. Neither
do the events which have accompanied
Mr. Spender’s declaration of policy. The
ink on his statement of foreign affairs was
not dry when the question arose as to
what action Australia might be prepared
to take in Malaya, where all manpower
is being organised against the swelling
tide of Communism, fresh resources
being imported even from hard-pressed
Hong Kong, which has sacrificed its
Gurkha battalions to Singapore’s needs.
Mr. Spender’s Government announced
that it would send neither troops to
Malaya to help stop the Communist drive
(which Mr. Spender alleges as the very
core of his reason for a Pacific Pact) nor
troops to Hong Kong to help hold back
the Red Chinese Government, which his
country alone among the major Powers
of South-East Asia has failed to recognise
as yet.
That announcement may reflect only a
momentary attitude, but such will not be
the interpretation in South-East Asia.
There it will be looked on as a general
declaration of Australian policy n .
a test of the potential value nd as
fensive arrangement in which thk dfS
assumes the initiative. S COUI %
But this is not all. For the n ■
States has had wandering i n a*- ted
Ambassador-at-large, Mr. Phillip!? an
and it is surely no coincidence that r?’
lowing immediately on Mr V ol '
speech, “observers" in London', vfe*
Jessup then was, let it out that
would “probably recommend extension,
the Atlantic Pact to the Pacific,” w S of
the sane, and indeed inevitable, procedm
for organised defence and l. c
Communist policy in this region
Long before Mr. Spender’s plans ar.
under way, if they get under way ?h
whole question may be settled by
in Indo-China. If the Chinese Commun"!
Government sends military aid to th
Communists under Ho Chih-Minh!
leadership, France will very
ask for consultation with the rest of fh
Atlantic Powers upon a casus belli Z
defined by the Treaty, and so raise’th,
question of co-operation in Asia and
remove the initiative from Mr. Spender?
hands. That is, if events in Berlin or in
India do not provide a crisis which can
overshadow anything at present happen
mg or likely to happen in the Chinese-
Malayan theatre.
The prime necessity for Australia at
the moment is not arrangements with
outside Powers, but arrangements within
our own borders which will equip us to
play an active part in defending us and
the world against Communism if military
necessity should suddenly arise. The “De-
fence Departments at present are more
important to our foreign policy than the
External Affairs Department. Without
sound defence and something tangible to
offer allies our bargaining-power must be
negligible.
Storms in Queensland.
From Windorah up to Cloncurry and
eastwards to the coast, all northern and
western Queensland has suffered heavily
from storms and floods. The Channel
Country, all along the Barcoo, the
Thompson and the Diamantina were in
flood again last week, the waters pouring
over the tall grass that had sprung in
the wake of the great spring floodings.
Windorah itself was cut off from mails
and fresh food for a month, and over
wide areas where rain is usually a novelty
motorboats were rescuing stock and
people. By the weekend, after monsoonal
rains had fallen for a period well exceed-
ing the 40 days and nights of the Biblical
deluge, practically all Queensland was
waterlogged and huge areas looked like
inland seas.
It was an exceptional phenomenon.
Every stream in the State was in flood.
Some inland rivers, normally chains of
waterholes, were over 20 miles wide, and
great streams were pouring down into
South Australia’s Lake Eyre country,
which was getting heavy rain itself. Iso-
lated communities were being fed by
R.A.A.F. planes. Losses of stock and
property can only be guessed at for the
present, but the final toll is sure to be
heavy.
It began with a cyclone which wrecked
small Carmila, south of Sarina, on the
sugar coast, and ruined sugar crops,
fences, roads, railways, homes. Winton.
Longreach, Mt. Isa and other places out
on the westward-running railways went
without trains for weeks. Last week in
Central Queensland alone 10,000 tons ot
freight lay in flood-bound railway trucks.
And in all the major ports from Bris-
bane to Cairns, the wharfies had been
indulging in the new Communist tactic,
the “rolling strike.” Sugar ships and wool
ships, ships with general cargo for im-
port, export and intra-State commerce
have been held up since the beginning
of the year at one port and another.
Rain and floods may have their com-
pensations, especially in the dry hrterim-
It is different with “rolling strikes,” whic
penalise everybody, even the wharnes,
and it was poor satisfaction to Q u^ eI ? s
landers to hear that Judge Kirby, ot
Arbitration Court, would stop *
strikers’ appearance money and holuw
grants. Judge Kirby was careful to s y
that these were not punishments, me -
“withdrawal of privileges.” As
appearance money, there is so much t g
waiting on the wharves that no wtia
need fear not getting a call-up for w
to come. f
Between the weather and the
munists the whole State has been ta
an unmerciful doing. It does n°t
to Canberra to do anything a • uS jy
weather, but it is watching am*'
for the promised Communist cur ,
Chifleys’ failure against the Com
blight being one of the main reaso p e( j er al
Queenslanders arose at the , {es
elections and threw out Chifley can
with such special Enthusiasm,


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Bank Bill.
v Federal Government’s first piece
THE new Federal g ank
of fl s like 8 a bad start on the road
BiH. era of private enterprise. If
t 0 had out it forward a few years
-Labor had put criticised
a6 °Short-many of the pro-
which it maintains were, tndeed,
“if Selfs “he socialisation legislation
r io/i7 P but it leaves the Government
power of control over
private banbng.for replacement of
? r t h e Commonwealth Bank by
r fr afLer and governor of the bank
mntrol by a board which is to
Wlt iJ of the governor, the deputy-
S nor the secretary to the Treasury,
S more than two other civil servants
or* Commonwealth Bank employees
aoDointed during the pleasure of the
Governor-General in Council, and five
others appointed each for five years with
an initial rotatory system providing for
the retirement of one each your. Fie
terms of the governor and deputy-
covernor are limited to seven years.
Thus five will be civil servants, one of
whom as chairman will have a casting
vote. Another will be deputy-chairman.
Anybody associated with the trading
banks is barred from membership, and
the board is debarred from functioning
except with the attendance of the
governor or deputy-governor.
It has been announced that the two
members of the public service to be
appointed to the board are Professor
Melville, already an employee of the
bank, and Dr. Roland Wilson, the Federal
Statistician. And control rests in the
board and the Treasurer subject to agree-
ment. In the case of disagreement Parlia-
ment may have its say, but in the face of
the constitution of the bank that even-
tuality is so little likely to arise that the
clauses dealing with it are a formality.
It seems that the present governor—a
co-author in the bank-control scheme as
framed by “Labor,” including the plans
for the nationalisation of private bank-
ing—-is to be maintained in his position,
in which he also remains one of the
initiators of broad policy, though there
is little to initiate in view of the fact that
a full policy of stringent controls and
interferences is in operation under the
unrepealed provisions of the 1945 Act.
Whatever might be initiated in the
general field is governed by the fact that
the Government has decided to retain the
socialistic principle of combining central
banking with the functions of trading
banking, thus producing unfair and grow-
ing competition with the trading banks,
the Commonwealth Bank in its trading
functions not being subject to the load of
restrictions, prohibitions, and imposts
which sit on the shoulders of the private
trading banks.
This, however, is only one of the many
conditions tending to help forward the
complete socialisation of finance, which
Mr. Fadden professes to fear as the basic
move towards the destruction of free
enterprise.
The Liberal and Country-party rank-
and-file will need to examine the Bill very
closely before it reaches its committee
stage. _
Hands Off the Unions!
Broadcast by the Premier of Victoria in
the middle of a transport strike that left
Melbourne without any bub emergency
services:
This is a Communist plot under
direction of a few leaders who have
nothing in common with the ideals of this
democratic community. Those who have
been identified with the Labor movement
for many years must present a united front
to the Communist minority.
That is not Liberal Premier Hollway
speaking in March, 1950, but “Labor”
Premier Cain, in April, 1947.
Cain’s strike began with the A.E.U.’s
defiance (under Communist-agent Rowe)
of a Conciliation Commissioner’s award.
It lasted from March 18 till May 6, when
the strikers went back and the union
consented to abide by the Commissioner’s
decision.
The A.C.T.U. at that time approved
deregistration of the A.E.U. and said the
threat was “not only to the economic life
of the community, but also to the founda-
tions of the trade-union movement.”
On A.E.U.’s deregistration, Communist-
agent Brown ordered out his Victorian
branch of the Railway Union. Then, as
now, the union members did not have any
voice in the decision, but they cheered
him, also according to plan. Rowe’s
directions to A.E.U. men in various jobs
then laid idle railway workshops, tram-
ways, powerhouses, gas-plants and T.A.A.
It was then that Communist-agent Brown
issued permits to private buses to pass
his picket lines when the “Labor” Govern-
ment’s permits were just waste-paper.
The A.C.T.U. ordered resumption of
work by all unions six weeks after that
strike began.
Victorian railwaymen—the suburban
train-guards—woke up a bit earlier last
week than they did in 1947. Having
been ordered out without any voice in
the matter, they learned that Communist-
agent O’Shea, of the trammies’ union,
announced in Bendigo the night before
that they were due to be ordered out in
24 hours’ time. If that is not outside
/lhU*^u renC f ' n if ■ f s ‘'Hairs, then
oejections to such interference are a mere
pretence,
—
What About Blair Athnl?
PlWir MTIIOI.
~ . .
QUEENSLANDERS, pricking their ears at
the talk in Canberra of vast national de-
velopmentel schemes, want to know why
lllfnlo f !!f,„ s ' Fadde . n Government isn I
isplaying more interest in Blajr Athol
coal — of which great things were expected
two or three years ago. A summary of
an article by K. H. McDonald in Bris-
Kn np “fVniriW TLfaii” „ „ r ■
bane Courier-Mail supplies a fair
sample ox Queensland thought about itc
Conservative estimate of deposit of good
black coal is 400 million tons, all available
to open-cut mining. Present equipment is
capable of an output of a million tons a
year, but present rail-haulage limit to
Rockhampton is only about half that.
Cost of a new rail link to the coast at
Broad Sound (about 130 miles) would be
huge, but from both a State and national
viewpoint is as important as the equally-
costly State Government proposal to
electrify Brisbane suburban lines. In
addition to coal, Blair Athol is the second-
biggest cattle-trucking centre in the State,
and Capella, a few miles away, is the
trucking centre for the huge Queensland-
British Food Corporation’s grain-sorghum
and pig-raising scheme. There are
practically unlimited markets for Blair
Athol coal, both here and abroad. A
steady million tons a year is not to be
sneezed at by a country whose annual coal
production is anything up to five million
tons a year below requirements.
Getting the coal out of the ground is
__ it to cbionintr rioints
no trouble , getting it to snipping point
m significant quantities is impossible
under present conditions. There was keen
State and Federal interest in the field
when the English Electric Supply Cor-
poration planned to spend £2O million on
developing it. Since that plan collapsed,
neither Government seems concerned
, ,
aoout u.
But Australia ought to be concerned
about 400 million tons of good coal
lying near the surface of the ground and
within 150- miles of a coast well served
with shipping ports—especially since so
u ■ A 4- +oiv
much of the industrial expansion we talk
about depends on coal and on the caprices
of Communist-led deep-coal miners,
TL- CkilliuM M lam Ihmi.l-u
1116 Smlling-a-TOn incgmry*
,
On widening the issue:—
_. . . . , ° , . .. . , . ...
Chief interest during the past week in the
inquiry by the royal commission (Mr. Justice
] nt 9. c i*/r ge A l C ,°wf r
buffing ta ’hf arrnngSncms 1 with Non-
H et a lh ton 6 raifed
company’s quarry at Thuddungra, near Young,
was tbe edort by counsel representing the
the terms *
The arrangement made between Cahill and
the company was disclosed in letters tendered
in evidence as having been proposed by the
company on May 19, 1948, and accepted by
Cahill two days later. The date from which
the r °yal commissioner is requested to inquire
is j anuary 1; 1949- Before the inquiry o p| ned
the N.S.W. Premier refused demands in the
Assembly that the terms of reference should be
extended - Mr. Shand, K.C., unsuccessfully
SSI St fiTSy o°£ n “
On March 9 Mr. Smelling (for Cahill) ten-
dered the letters (above-mentioned) which
passed between the company and Cahill record-
uig Cahill’s appointment as the company’s
a !f n u J??,, com^ ny ’ s letter stated points on
which Cahill could assist them—an increase
in f.o.r. price for their metal, difficulties in
getting railway trucks, and “satisfactory public
relations .with all Government, semi-Govern-
and ° ther authorities in the Young
district. The company stated it was prepared
pay C aadl Is a ton on all magnesite mined
trom - lts Thud dungra leases. Cahill replied
accepting, and suggested that the payment
should start from May 15 preceding, when he
was . successful m having important road
repairs ca ™ ed out to facilitate the transport
9r rnagnesite to Weedalhon. He also wrote
I be P ertur bed at the prospect of
further restrictions on rail trucks, that he had
discussed the matter with the Minister for
Transport, and that he would do everything
Possible to secure sufficient trucks.”
Following several days’ evidence, including
views at the time of Non-Metallics’ representa-
tives about the arrangement, and what was said
about it more recently by that company’s
manager to informants (upon whose declarations
the matter was made public), Shand, K.C.,
applied again for extension of the terms of
reference, Ijis application being in the form of
a letter to the State Attorney-General, copy
Of which he handed to the commissioner. He
submitted that the terms should be widened to
j nc i U( j e questions whether, between May 15
a nd 28, 1948, Cahill and the company and its
directors ‘‘unlawfully conspired that certain
sums of money should be corruptly given to
WS b Scb"‘«£
“bad been corruptly accepted as inducement
to Cahill, in violation of his official duty, to
use his position as a Member of Parliament
to influence Members of Parliament or Govern-
ment departments or officials or officers of
public bodies to obtain transport facilities or
Other advantages for Noa-Metallics, Ltd., to
the public mischief.”
Simultaneously Mr. Shand quoted to the
commission the case of The King v. Boston
in theJHigh Court in 1923. In this case Boston,
m.L.A. of N.S.W. for Wagga, was charged
with having conspired with H. E. Mitchel-
more and J. A. Harrison, from whom he
received moneys to secure acquisition by the
Crown of certain lands by purchase. Appeal
b y the State A.-G. from a judgment
i n t b e N.S.W. Supreme Court (Ferguson, J.)
was upheld by the High Court (majority of
4to 2 ). w . hich held lhat the agreement alleged
asa conspiracy was a criminal offence, although
tbe a ji ega ti on might be satisfied by proof of
an agreemen t that Boston should use his posi-
tion as M.L.A. exclusively outside Parliament,
Following these representations the royal
(Continued on next page)
“MOUNTED HIS HORSE AND RODE OFF IN ALL DIRECTIONS."


CRBVEN
***
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
wl
mj
M
V"
/I
R435E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION Jn^}i
commissioner said he was in a dilemma,
would consider what action he should taKe.
the next day (last Friday) he announced t
he had decided to recommend to the
Government a widening of the
commission, not in accordance with
request of the preceding day, but along
earlier suggested by Shand, subject
qualification.” He would reCo ?^ e ?A r ; n rela-
tion of the following term: Whether
tion to transport facilities for the transp r
of magnesite, Mr. F. J. Cahill, {0
January 1, 1949, has exercised or attempt or
exercise corrupt influence upon a®y „
officers of the Department of Rail j • 0 f
The royal commissioner said it
paramount public interest that he sn tbe
completely with every matter touching _ p offic ers
probity of Mr. Cahill, of the rail ( b j S
and of the producers of magnesite , who | e
ultimate findings “must relate to
transaction.”
POLITICAL POINTS
On Friday, after the hot-and-cold war
between N. S. Wales “Labor” caucus and
the A.L.P. executive had reached the point
where McGirr, having suffered two re-
buffs from the Trades Hall, had tendered
his resignation as party leader, but at the
request of caucus had agreed to think it
over, there was talk of caucus taking re-
prisals against the executive by demand-
ing the abolition of the Legislative
Council. As abolition is on the platform
of (he party innocent bystanders could
be pardoned for wondering where the
“reprisal” came in. The explanation is
that 11 members of the executive are
M.L.Cs., and it was apparently assumed
by those who knew them best that they
would be reluctant to part with the honor
and the £3OO a year, the gold pass and
other privileges that go with it. Nothing
is likely to come of the threat, but it
reveals the cynicism of these alleged
representatives of the toiling masses.
The McGirr resignation, variously
represented as a challenge, a gesture, £
bluff, a sacrifice and an act of despair,
contained a rich element of comedy. At
a time when family squabbles are splitting
the ranks of N. S. Wales “Labor” wide
open and every day sees its election
chances slip further downhill, who on
earth would want to take on the leader-
ship of the party? In the moment of
victory or in the period of recuperation
that follows the loss of a battle there
may be plenty willing to take on the
general’s job, but when he is in the pro-
cess of leading his army to defeat no one
is anxious to relieve him of the responsi-
bility.
The A.L.P. Industrial Groups held an
indignant session at the Trades Hall,
Sydney, on March 19, at which it passed
a resolution “declaring our implacable
hostility to Communism wherever it
presents itself,” and expressing the belief
that “there is no fundamental difference
between Communism, Fascism and
Nazism, all three types of dictatorship
aiming at the subjection of the working-
class and the nation and the concentration
of power in the hands of an ambitious,
power-drunk clique.” Having got that
off their chests the delegates turned to
the discussion of Saturday shopping, and,
according to the “S. M. Herald” report,
the principal speakers included “Mr. J.
Healy (Waterside Workers),” the Water-
siders being an outfit whose secre-
tary, a Mr. J. Healy, is a member
of the Central Committee of the Com-
munist party, and Miss Gardner (Clerks),
whose union is also Communist-ruled.
On the same day the lead in the fight
against McGirr was taken up by the
Hon. R. A. King, a trustee of the A.L.P.
Executive, secretary of the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Council, an official section of
the Federal A.L.P. Fie is a former
official trade-union leader of the Com-
munist party and was a Moscow delegate
in 1938.
King’s effort was a masterpiece of
“Labor” logic. Referring to the four-
members dispute he said;
Just when we had a majority and it was
vital to vote for Labor candidates in the
Upper House, four Labor politicians
allegedly broke away from the ticket.
Allegedly? Sq R. A. King and the
A.L.P. executive condemn men on allega-
tions? If the allegations were proved to
the satisfaction of the executive then
somebody must have infringed the secrecy
of the ballot. As Mr. King knows, this
is a serious offence.
Turning to the suggestion that caucus
might urge the abolition of the Legisla-
tive Council, King said;
If they want to be so foolish I will help
them to abolish not only the Upper House,
but State Parliaments as well, and also the
Senate. It is just as childish to abolish
the State Parliament as it would be to
abolish the Upper House. Such moves
could only bring dissension in the A.L.P.
The platform of the A.L.P. includes
abolition of the Upper House. It also
includes abolition of the Senate. For
that matter it includes abolition of all
State Parliaments.
When abolition was placed on the
“Labor” platform the party was in a
minority in the Council; the Upper
House was therefore an anachronism im-
peding progress and thwarting the demo-
cratic Will of the people “Labor” now
has a majority in the Council, and with
defeat at the Assembly elections staring
it in the face there is about as much like-
lihood of its abolishing the Council as
there is of its closing down the State
Lottery.
Doomed to certain defeat if he faced
Parliament again, Tasmania’s Premier
Cosgrove last week decided not to put his
fortune to the test. Without calling Par-
liament together he tendered his resigna-
tion to Governor Binney. The situation
was an unusual one for the ex-Admiral
to deal with; the Government had run
less than-two years of its five-year term
and had not been defeated in the House.
Technically it still had a majority and
would not lose it until it appointed one of
its members as Speaker. This it could
not do until the present Speaker resigned
—as he had expressed his intention of
doing—and the present Speaker could not
resign until the House met.
Governor Binney would hate been
quite within his constitutional powers if
he had refused to accept the Cosgrove
resignation and insisted on Parliament
being called together; alternatively he
could have asked the Leader of the
Opposition to form a Government. But
it would be evident to him that such
moves would be futile. The composition
of the Assembly was “Labor,” 15 ; Liberal,
including the leader, Townley/ formerly
an Independent), 13 ; Independent, 2. One
of the Independents was Speaker
and both he and Mr. Gray had indicated
their intention of voting against the
Government. This meant a House evenly
divided —an unworkable state of affairs.
Queensland Premier Hanlon returned
from his northern tour expressing a
confidence he can hardly have felt, and the
squabbles south of the border were no
encouragement of waiting for an election
day that would suit the McGirrs.
Hanlon has plenty troubles of his
own, and will have to face an
Opposition more closely-knit than for
many years. The lessons of the Menzies-
Fadden co-operation last December have
not been lost on Hiley and Nicklin, and
they have worked out a plan of campaign
which apportions between, their parties
all but four of the seats. In three of
the seats where' agreement could not be
reached on party alignment delegates in
equal numbers from the two parties have
chosen a joint candidate. In one elec-
torate only, Townsville, will Liberal and
Country-party candidates oppose each
other. They were encouraged in this by
the knowledge that the “Labor” vote
would be split by the entry into the field
of a member of a breakaway “Labor”
candidate and possibly a Communist.
This should have been all the more
reason for running a joint candidate and
making a bird of the seat.
Unfortunately the Menzies-Fadden and
Hiley-Nicklin close co-operation has not
been attained in Westralia, despite three
years of composite Government. At the
elections next Saturday Liberals and
Country-party candidates will clash in 12
electorates, including Bunbury, which
was won from “Labor” in 1947 for the
first time in 30 years. The two parties
are exchanging preferences, but there is
bound to be some drift, which in a
borderline electorate could be sufficient
to lose the Government the seat.
Three years ago cartoons played a big
part in election-tactics of Westralian anti-
“ Labor” parties, the most telling of them
being a series expressing the stagnation
of the State under Socialist rule; they
depicted giant cobwebs across the rail-
ways, power-plants, factories and housing-
schemes. “Labor” must have thought
the idea very effective as this time it has
enlisted the artists on its side. The
material isn’t so easy to find as it was in
1947. So far the most popular advertise-
, ment has been a joke-block on the pollu-
tion of the Swan River. Most people
took it for a “Give-it-a-name” competi-
tion.
The French, who’ve always held a high
regard for Australians since World War I,
found one they couldn’t stomach in Bert
Williams, “Australian secretary of the
Communist-dominated World Federation
of Democratic Youth,” Comrade
Williams was invited to leave France at
once, and Russia has protested. What
was Comrade Bertie doing for Russia in
France?
At the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
conference in Sydney this week, resolu-
tion 53 reads: “That the tax on J.O.
profits [that is, income tax on disburse-
ments of wool money to growers] be
spread over a period equivalent to the
period in which the profits were earned.”
This is the very thing Australian authors
who have won cash prizes in literary
competitions or collected book royalties
have been asking the Government to do
for years. It frequently takes longer to
produce a book than a fleece, yet the
author is taxed as though he produced
it in one tax year. If the new Canberra
Government is amenable to the graziers
on this question it should be as amenable
to writers.
Kennelly, general secretary of the
A.L.P., is back from a brief visit to
Britain, during which he is reputed to
have studied the British Labor party’s
methods in the election campaign.
Seemingly he didn’t learn much from the
trip. In his first statement after his
return he said he intended to advocate a
policy of “go ahead with nationalisa-
tion.” At the general election the British
people clearly warned the Attlee Govern-
ment to slow down on nationalisation.
Australians showed last December that
they want none of it.
The Australian Wheat Board and Com-
merce Minister McEwen hotly opposed
admission of Germany and Japan to the
International Wheat Agreement and had
visions of selling both countries large
cargoes of wheat at 20s. 4d. a bushel —
the I.W.A. limit being 16s. 4d. A deal
with Japan for about 700,000 bushels at
the top price was almost closed when
Japan found she couldn’t afford it and
turned to Canada for dollar wheat. Then
Germany was admitted to the I.W.A. and
bang went the prospects of selling 20s.
4d. wheat there. A Wheat Board man
says Australia has lost wheat- and flour-
sales to Japan running into the equivalent
of 14 million bushels of wheat a year.
It’s not good news for growers, but it
does show what Australia let itself in
for when it joined the I.W.A.
The rolling strikes have rolled from
the waterfront to the coalmines, for the
second time within a fortnight threatening
the steel industry and all dependent
it with unemployment. That th ° n
incidental to the Communist S ls
objective ; their real purpose is to S
industry and hold up production as m P l
as possible at as little cost as possiff Uch
their members. None of
union leaders who plead to be aiin i
to deal with the Communists in their ' id
way has come forward with anv cm,? 11
“ as the «*C£
From London;
. That the British Liberal party has u ,
mg headlong to destruction has* long J? 11 '
to all except the party organisers and h s o
Press. During the election campaign a fiL j
propaganda affirmed that a vote for the Uh 1
candidate was not a wasted vote; two
—the “Manchester Guardian” and the "xu 6s
Chronicle” —pleaded eloquently the I &
cause. Result: 474 candidates, representing
able and, worthy cross-section of English i;r
polled 2,600,000 votes; more than S £
their deposits; nine were elected. Of thTT
nine, five were in Wales, where the spirit of
Lloyd George lives on; Scotland returned two
Liberals—one in the Lowlands and the other
in the Orkney Islands. Of the only two seats
woo in England one (West Huddersfield) was the
result of a pact with the Conservatives- the
other, in Suffolk, went to E. L. Granville ’ who
served with the A.I.F. in the Kaiser’s war- in
a four-cornered fight his majority was fiVnnt
of a poll of nearly 50,000.
The end of the party as a national entity
surely does not need confirmation, since, in the
next election, the voters will have another vital
problem to decide: how to give a working
majority to one of the two major parties. That
is enough to reduce the Liberal vote to further
insignificance. This view, it now seems, has
been reached editorially by the “Manchester
Guardian” with much sorrow and heart-searing.
But hard facts have to be faced, and little
good can come of a few diehards making
public fools of themselves. Liberalism, as
distinct from the Liberal party, is as strong as
ever in Britain and cries out for guidance and
leadership, and the party that can win over the
Liberal vote in sufficient strength next time
should have a working majority. The future
of Britain greatly depends upon whether the
Conservatives can rise to this achievement.
Humpty Dumpty Dunstan is still
firmly seated on top of the Victorian
Country-party wall, a strong attempt last
week to edge him off the Central Com-
mittee having proved not strong enough.
That means that Hollway’s L.C.P. Gov-
ernment has next to no chance of coming
to a kiss-and-make-up agreement with'the
Country party and may as well start
thinking of an election date.
This is how the Commo-run coal-
miners of Wonthaggi (Vic.) went on strike
in support of the Melbourne Commo-
bossed tram strikers. There are about
300 miners employed at Wonthaggi. On *
March 9 their “mass” meeting was
attended by 70; 34 drifted away, and
36 finally passed the strike resolution.
Nine days later another meeting attended
by 200 heckled repeatedly the Commos
on their platform and even howled down
their Commo president. Then they voter,
for resumption of work by two
and the Commo secretary announced that
he would “demand an interview with the
Government to discuss our claims, ouch
is Australian trade-unionism— that once
keen and sturdy youngster—in its dotage
in 1950.


sf
the
was
first
an
ignition
2f$i$'
—the first lighting
battery was an
EXIDE.
lighting
battery was
w —the first starting,
lighting and ignition
battery was an EX1DE.
EXIPE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
xw.as
PERSONAL ITEMS
ASt Mge Sham Can™. o£°Saya's
t followtog brief. Began life 1894,
hopes to enjoy the next
m D rmths on leave in Australia, and has
SIX months on leav years
ming Malayan bandits in Alor Star,
trY th nolice protection throughout his
Cross-examination filled in the
c in the record—served throughout
B Wa P I emerging D.S.O. and MC.; con-
tinued soldiering in Nigeria, ending it in
1927 and beginning a 12-year term as
Police Commissioner there, which gave
him mighty useful knowledge, tor hts toU
inwine magistracy. Then, Crown Law
Officer in Sierra Leone, Deputy Provost
Marshal, and, finally judge of Nigeria s
Supreme Court. Seven more years there,
before crossing to Malaya, where
travellers spend their nights behind
barbed-wire, protected by arc-lamps and
armed guards against bandits mostly
Chinese, plentifully provided with Britisji
guns dropped during the war. Opining
tha f the current anti-bandit month has
stirred those gentry to greater activity, the
judge mentioned he had had many up
before him—if caught with arms they
left with a death sentence.
Landed in Sydney from London last
week seeking a nipper tc\play Smiley in
the film of the book, Captain Anthony
Kimmins, who, after 18 years’ naval ser-
vice (he was one of the first to change
over to pilot in the Fleet Air Arm),
came ashore in 1932 to write plays and
direct players. In that line he
directed many films for Fox-British and
other companies, including many of
George Formby’s. His next war (he
served through the first in battleship
Marlborough) found him a natural niche
in Naval Intelligence, where, via the
8.8. C., he brought the savagery of
Atlantic and Mediterranean battle to
British armchairs. At the cease-fire, and
for a year afterwards, he was round this
way and points north as Chief of Naval
Information, British Pacific Fleet. In
1932 Captain Kimmins wrote a play,
“While Parents Sleep” ; in 1950 he’ll find
plenty of parents owning a Smiley-aged
lad quite wide-awake.
In Melbourne heading an Italian indus-
trial mission, Count Giancarlo Camerana,
whose enormous interests in the cement,
phosphate and glass industries of his
country place him in the magnate world-
class. He is vice-president of Fiat, which
concern contemplates establishing
assembly plants in Australia. The com-
pany, which is nearly back to pre-war
scales of production, has plants in Eire
and m England—with the count is Dr.
Prosio, who runs the Eire plant.
A bridge-builder passes:
“Thp Cl L!, n a Bulletin scribe recorded:
on whkh h-H of the last chords of the arch
Put in nli bndge u IS to han 8 have just been
rdUk l^fh^ , i'?°4 W begins the delicate job of
the two talvic dozen or so cables by which
earth -rfc; ° f the are tethered to
nearest noinnf sma 1 s P ace between the
cables 1 iln lL! t j le^ wo sections, and as the
steel win slow?v S f d u the^ tW 2 huge masses of
together- anTlft fa H an d the ends will come
anywhere "£ > after . that , if there is no buckling
dreams WiU have fewer bad
of the cahlps P^f^ reei ? an re B ar ds the releasing
that he has mnJ f uc 4 tremendous importance
Freeman and C °mLfi 0 i^ UStn }J a to supervise it.”
w ho desionpH rad bc d could never quite agree
Dorman iLot the bridge—Freeman, as
which his firm 5 f Spe s* drew the plans on
that the accpm P H ten^ ered- II nearl y happened
the NS W f.nwl par ! s ™ sscd submission to
ing engineer for , Freeman was consult-
tenders were invffp<L CV h and Bnd S e Co. when
Bradfield’s e «w« te l-’ be prepared plans to
time for nostin^ufi 1 h” S ‘ But i ust before
died; whereimnn director of his company
no further CUP Rnt °pv r Sectors decided to go
urged that it w-f* Fr ? eman hked his design,
directors acrpprf 5 3 l j waste it, remaining
approach Dnrmn a ? d decided Freeman should
that cSpf n °™ aa L° ng ’s- Wit hin an hour of
Freeman’s desist A g U Was 2 ecided to offer
t° his skill arp * Among other monuments
and the slendpr 6 v’ V °i Beit bridges in Rhodesia,
spanning the y strength of the arch
was 69 when ? ambesi , nea r Victoria Falls. He
when he passed on in FnalanH
Maoriland inventor A. W. Phillips,
M.8.E., A.M.1.E.E., has produced an in-
strument which has attracted considerable
attention among scientists and economists
in England. His first machine has been
purchased by the Leeds University, and
another is waiting for the London School
of Economists. Representing money,
colored water flowing along transparent
tubes shows all that happens to the wealth
of a country, dispersed through the
channels of private and public expendi-
ture. It’s claimed the machine enables
various effects of fluctuations in national
trade, taxation, interest, exchange and so
on to be demonstrated simultaneously.
Among interested observers of the in-
vention were R. A. Hall, head of the
economic section of the British Cabinet
Office, and Sir Otto Niemeyer. Phillips is
35, a native of the Dannevirke district,
Maoriland.
Alexander Reginald Ward, managing-
director of Chilton Aircraft Co., on a
rush tour of Australia, belongs to the
new-type English aristocracy who have
gone in for business. The name of the
firm, which he founded, comes from his
family seat, Chilton Manor, one of the
seven “stately homes.” Lord Dudley, who
was two years G.-G, in Australia, was
an uncle. There is big business on both
sides—his mother is the principal share-
holder in the N. Y. “Herald-Tribune,”
and her father was the millionaire
American Ambassador Whitelaw Reid.
The son manufactures electric razors and
monoplanes, selling the latter for £5OO
apiece to aero clubs and private fliers.
Thirty-five, he was an Atlantic ferry-pilot
in the late war.
Dubois has here captured some of the
ppthusiasm which Igor Hmelnitsky
registers when he speaks of those pianist-
tutors to whom his own art owes so
much: of Paul Schramm, who launched
him on his concert-platform career in
Java, where he was born 29 years ago ;
of Ignaz Friedman, the great Chopin ex-
ponent, who died in Sydney last year;
of Orloff, Borowski, and above all, of
his father, Alex. Hmelnitsky, a celebrated
pianist himself, who first nourished
the gifts he detected in Igor’s early boy-
hood. Young Hmelnitsky, who came
here from Java with his parents in 1938
(his mother was a noted ’cellist), was- no
stranger to Australia. He made his first
publie appearance here at the keyboard
IVORY TICKLER.
at eight; at 15 he toured France and
Italy. A product of the classical school,
he has everything to put him into the
top flight, including an extraordinary
memory. His goal later in the year is
Paris, as a preliminary to which he is
limbering up with an exacting tour of
Australian capitals and big country towns.
He served through the Pacific war in the
Dutch Air Force. His father, inciden-
tally, was Pavlova’s musical-director dur-
ing her Australian tour and was some-
time programme-director for the two
Sydney stations that were absorbed into
thp A R C
The world-wide search for oil was the
drawer of Lisle A. Pym’s particular circle,
which began at Perth University, arced
through England and Persia and has
fetched up in Australia and New Guinea.
Born at Albany (W.A.), 49 years ago, he
graduated in Perth, shipped to England
in 1922 and then straight into Anglo-
Iranian as junior-engineer. The next year
he landed in Iran to inspect the company’s
wells and stayed there 25 years, long
enough to get acquainted with the Nazis.
The acquaintance was not of long dura-
tion —the Persians went over to Hitler’s
hordes, friendship lasted two days, the
OIL TRACKER.
oilman was arrested and a day later was
released by British forces. He stayed on
to become chief petroleum engineer and
later deputy field-manager. When the
A. was formed with three share-
holders—Anglo-Iranian, Vacuum of Mel-
bourne and Oil Search, Ltd., of Sydney—
he became general-manager. He is now
prospecting in Hohoro, in Papua, where a
sackful of cash has already been invested,
the drill has bitten past the 3760 ft. level,
and is still searching down.
“Macnell”: Ashore that afternoon hav-
ing a look at what those first-raid bombers
left of Darwin, I ran into one of the
Army a.-a. gunners on the cliff. He was
boiling with enthusiasm. “Boy! Never
seen anything like it! The Swan —up and
down below us like a she-wolf, all guns
blazing! Brother, so long as the Navy
sticks around they can send what they
like! ” A eulogy addressed, in reality, to
Swan’s skipper, then Lieut.-Commander
Alan Jeger Travis, now, with three rings
up, stepping ashore as C.O. of depot
Torrens and Resident Naval Officer, Port
Adelaide. Big, stooped and casual, Travis
fought his 4in. sloop all through that long,
savage morning, and caught a bomb aft
which fired his ready-use ammo and
caused 20 casualties. Essentially a small-
ship man, he had frigate Barcoo as his
next command (she was the second built
here) and operated her from Manus with
the tI.S. Navy. Already with much mine-
sweeping know-how from Swan, he next
took charge of the 22nd Minesweeping
Flotilla, reaped what the Japs sowed in
his territory, and, with the cease-fire,
transferred his harvesting to the Reef. In
Adelaide he relieves Commander S. T. M.
Gower, who goes to cruiser Hobart, in
command.
“King’s Pawn”: The State Chess cham-
pionships of Victoria and South Australia
are already held by New Australians (Dr.
Ozols and R. Endezlins); now the City
of Sydney (not quite the State champion-
ship, but a big event) has been won by
B. Strazdins, who lost only two half-
points for draws in the whole contest. A
Latvian whose English is perfect,
Strazdins is unusual in that he claims no
European championship. Australian
chess is now thick with ex-champions of
one country and another; one of
Strazdins’s opponents was K. Madjaric,
ex-Yugoslav champion. Strazdins was
too busy finishing his university course
to play in the big contests. Australian
junior champion Will Levick ran second
after beating J V Kellner, the N.S.W.
junior champion, in a game that settled
the placings. Both these lads are barely
18 ; and there is a lot of good material
in the younger generation to put up a
show against the New Australian inrush.
Henry Frank Gurney, at 61 calling it
a day after 13 years Trade Commission-
ing for the U.K. in Victoria, South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania, knows this globe.
Before coming here he looked after the
Old Dart’s trade interests in Toronto,
Winnipeg and Vancouver; shifted to
Newfoundland, then the British West
African colonies, and continued travelling
through four years of the Kaiser’s war
as paymaster in the British Navy. Arthur
Burton, Trade Commissioner in Sydney
the year Gurney landed in Melbourne,
and lately on the same job in Calcutta,
takes over.
An unusual success story ended when
F. W. G. Liebe passed on in Perth.
Born in Wittenberg, Germany, he served
his apprenticeship in the building-trade
and at 17 set out to gain journeyman ex-
perience in neighboring countries. One
of his first jobs was on the Budapest
Opera House—later, he built Sofia’s
Houses of Parliament, Shifting to Mel-
bourne in 1885, he found his reputation
had preceded him, and that he had no
need to tender for jobs. Travelling West
in 1891, he rode the gold-boom’s crest,
and in Perth put up His Majesty’s
Theatre, which has one of the biggest
stages in Australia, the Art Gallery and
Queen’s Hall (now the Metro Theatre), as
well as hotels and railway-stations. Past
60, frosty-pated, but tough as a karri-
stump, when most men would have called
halt, he took on wheatfarming—l6,ooo
acres at Wubin, added to 50,000 at Waddi
Forest, and by 1930 had cropped his
season’s 100,000 bags—from what must
have been one of the biggest farms south
of the line, using 32 tractors, 12 big
motor-trucks qnd £ 11,000-worth of fuel.
When that year saw the bottom out of
the wheatmarket, the indefatigable oldster-
turned to sheep, and by 1944 had a 465-
bale clip—a stout effort for Westralia. He
was 88.
Knight Norman Martin, who Agent-
Generalled for Victoria in London from
1945 onwards, has a new job with the
brand-new title of Director of De-
centralised. Industrial Development. De-
centralised development in Victoria is a
minute speck at present, but it promises
to grow into a large patch, with more
than 120 British firms already under
agreement to start business, either in city
or country, and more than 200 others
queueing behind them. The ffirector’s job
will be to act as liaison officer between
these concerns and the State Government.
Into the Silence:
At 58, in Sydney, Eric Robert Mitchell, Old
Digger, numbered in the front rank of Aus-
tralian .accountants. Chairman of well over a
dozen companies, ranging from electricity and
book-publishing to hosiery and rubber con-
cerns, he was also N.S.W. branch treasurer of
the I.C.A. and member of the General Council
of that institute. In War II he was in the
Commonwealth Aircraft Production Com-
mission.
In Adelaide, a few days short of 56, John
Tennant Mortlock, one of the State’s foremost
pastoralists and Merino breeders. With his
mother, he returned much of what his land
gave him, through £31,000-worth of gifts for
pastoral research to the Waite Institute and
Adelaide University. The home on his Mm-
taro property, built in 1878, is one of the iinest
specimens ot Georgian architecture in the State.
In Sydney, at 63, noted Australian bird
authority Neville Cayley, whose book of our
feathered inhabitants, \Vhat Bird Is Thai?, ments
being named a classic. He hailed from Earle
Page’s country—Yamba at the mouth of the
Clarence (N.S.W.).
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 82, Alex Downes one
of N.Z. cricket’s greatest bowlers. .Hc playcd
aeainst N.S.W. in 1895 and again m 1898-99,
was a member of the first N.Z. cricket team to
tour Australia, represented in 1902-03 against
the M.C.C., and again in 1906. Rugbyite as
well, he played against Stoddart s combination
in 1888, and was regarded as the greatest drop-
kick of his day. With amassing years he
became a noted referee and umpire in inter-
national matches of both sports.
At 48 in Melbourne, James Burt Aitken,
chairman of the “Argus” , and “ Au ;jt ra
till London “Daily Mirror took a controlling
band last year. A lawyer who began practising
in 1926, in 12 years he was president of the
Victorian Law Institute.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
\“A.J.S.”; Many people must have
wondered whence came the term “Wog”
as a nickname for the native inhabitants
of the Middle East. Here’s one explana-
tion. At first the Diggers referred to all
the denizens of Cairo, Alex, and other
towns as “Gippos” or called them Abdul
or any other name that came to mind.
The cream of Middle East society, as
represented by the traders and small shop-
keepers, objected, and a deputation
obtained an audience with the higher
powers. Result: An Army order drawing
attention to the fact that the inhabitants
of the country were “Worthy Oriental
Gentlemen” and must not be referred to
in disparaging terms. The Army habit
of coining words from initials did the
rest. My authority? A copy of the
“A.I.F. News” published in Palestine in
1941.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: J. J. Quinn’s quoted
words that Chris Brennan’s reference to
unsuitable living conditions did not apply
to the public library, but to another public
department (Red Page, 1/ 3 / ’5O), re-
minds me of the poet’s temporary —very
temporary —sojourn in the accounts sec-
tion of my own Department of Red j
Tapery—probably the one indicated.
Brennan got the job shortly after leaving
the Uni.; he used to bring a bundle of
books with him and he spent most of
the office hours reading them. One day
the sub-accountant pounced, with some
remarks ajpout the “important work”
Brennan was expected to do. Chris did
not bat an eyelid nor did he close the
book he was reading. “My dear sir,” he
said, “it is most important that I should
read this book; lam expected to supply
a review of it by tomorrow morning.”
The clatter of typewriters must have been
very disturbing to Chris in his reading;
but he did not have to endure it for long
after that.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: “It has been a pleasure,
on road or street,” said the “Age” in a
leader extolling the noble way Melbourne
took the tram and train strikes, “to
witness the consideration of some
motorists towards weary workers home-
ward bound, and, at the same time, a
disappointment to observe those who, like
the Levite, continue to pass with all speed
on the other side,” Well, I can safely say
that I haven’t given a lift to a single
pedestrian yet. Why? Because I am in
secret sympathy with the strikers or lack
civic spirit? No. My car, being a 1927
model with a torn hood, no radiator-cap
and thoroughly old-fashioned though the
best I can manage, hasn’t been hailed yet.
As with furniture and houses something
a bit more modern is preferred by the
weary worker. I nearly got a passenger
one day last week, but an Oldsmobile
sedan, 1947 model, snatched her from me.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Discussions on the high cost
of living sometimes bring forth brief com-
ment on the high cost of dying. In the
realm of what might be termed post-
humous living-expenses probably no item
has increased as much as the water-
transport of the dead. In the days of
Ancient Greece there was a standard fare
for the ferry trip across the Styx—one
obol, which was one-sixth of a drachma,
and within the means of all but the very
poor. It is a very different story today.
In Scotland a district councillor has been
complaining of the high cost of conveying
a coffin, plus legal occupant, from Inver-
ness to Stornoway in the Outer Hebrides ;
the rate quoted him was four times the
cost of a return passage ticket for the
same journey. It seems to be a clear case
for the British Price Controller. In Aus-
tralia the rates, although high, don’t
approach that. The last time I inquired
Australian shipping companies were ask-
ing two-and-a-half times the first-class
single fare. The reason why it costs more
to travel dead than alive is said to be the
sailors’ superstition that a corpse brings
bad luck to a ship. For the same reason
the costly cargo, instead of being shown
on the passenger-list as “Bill Bloggs, de-
ceased,” is listed on the ship’s manifest
as “one case of natural history speci-
mens.”
* * * *
“Zake”: In the early years of the
century two lines in popular public de-
mand—if the ads. in old Bulletin files
are a true reflection —were electric-belts
(guaranteed to restore or maintain virility
in men) and books on advising the tyro
how to make a speech. Electric-belts,
possibly due to the scorching condemna-
tion of gay old octogenarians who bought
them with touching faith and were later
disillusioned, have long since disap-
peared, but books on hovy to make bril-
liant, witty speeches are still sought,
according to a bookseller friend. Those
who seek them are mostly confined to
the 20-25 age group. It wouldn’t need a
Sherlock Holmes to deduce that the
majority are either bridegrooms or best
men who hope by a flow of pure oratory
to stun the assembled guests at the recep-
tion. The tomes not only contain speeches
by the great, to be used as models —but
instruct the reader in how to be com-
pletely at his ease. What they don’t stress
“Can't you wait till you get home to try out your movies?”
is the inexorable fact that either you are
a naturally good speaker or you are not.
If you are, you won’t need any book ; if
you aren’t, you can digest its contents
100 times and at your first attempt —and
you’ll fervently hope it’s your last —you’ll
do exactly the same as all non-natural
speakers do: find your throat as husky
as your mind is a blank, that you 11
stammer a few inanities and kick yourself
afterwards thinking of all the brilliant
witticisms you forgot.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: It may be rare,
but there have been instances of hirsute
fertility being restored to parts that have
become desert places (B. l/3/’5O). At
one time artist Dick Gates decided, with
a pal, to make a sketching trip through
the country, and he decided in discarding
the city life to discard his hat also. The
trip was a success; The Bulletin pub-
lished some of his caricatures of cquntry
personalities. When Dick returned to
Sydney he astonished us; his bald head
had developed a thatch that could be
almost described as vigorous. Gates
reckoned it was the sunshine that did it.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Kiddies and films (B.
15/2/’50)? In my barefooted days the
story of John Lee was screened under the
arresting title: “The Man They Could
Not Hang.” The film was highly moral,
demonstrating that right was right, justice
could not go awry and Divine interven-
tion was an innocent man’s guarantee that
he would not be hanged. Every kid at
our rural school was intrigued with the
theme; but the kids on the next block
to us took the matter farther. George, the
eldest, appointed himself the hero. With
a dramatic pose he took up his position
under the big stringybark. Billy,
equipped with an old rope-halter and a
length of clothesline, adjusted the noose,
then with the line cast over the lowest
branch fell back to help Sis., Tiddles,
Tommy and the blue cattledog in the
hauling operations. Perhaps the thing
was a conscientious experiment to ascer-
tain whether Divine intervention would
prevent the youthful “John Lee” from
being slowly strangled ; or it might have
been merely an example of the good old
game of “playin’ pitchers,” But the hero
was on his tiptoes, gasping for air, when
old Granny burst into the picture. Her
long skinny legs raced beneath the
tattered black dress, her bony arms
threshed the air, her grey hair streamed
behind her, and her few teeth showed
like scraps of yellow soap as her leathery
lips mouthed “Varmints. Idiots!” Bluey
fled yelping from the impact of a bare,
bunioned toe. Tommy and Tiddles
copped a cuff left and right, and the rest
of the cast bolted for the scrub. “John
Lee” fell in Granny’s arms for the final
fade-out. Providence may work in
strange ways, but somehow I can never
really think of Granny as a holy angel.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Somebody recently re-
marked upon the house in Paddington on
the wall of which is painted, with the
lion and unicorn coat-of-arms, the an-
nouncement that the chimney-sweep
family owning the house were “under
vice-regal patronage.” The Prevost family
have held the business and the warrant
for four generations. Lord Carrington,
N.S.W. Governor in the late ’eighties, was
a great hander-out of the vice-regal
patronage, which meant a great deal to
the holders of the warrants in. those days.
Wigzell, the hairdresser ; Miss Berming-
ham, the florist; Holley, the tailor,
and Fernandez, the fish and poultry man,
were among those who could sport the
ceremonial menagerie on their business
premises. There was an idea that Car-
rington’s butler made a pretty penny in
inducing his Excellency to hand out the
warrants; an unkinder rumor made the
benefit more personal, Carrington’s
family name was Smith, and The
Bulletin most irreverently made use of
the fact—for example, a par. commencing
“Smith has been at it again ” But
Smith was an active Excellency, and his
titled monicker has been well remem-
bered in N.S.W. place-names.
♦ * * *
“Sally Jane”: With the blessing of the
British Government an expedition is mak-
ing yet another attempt to recover the
equivalent of £30,000,000 in gold Spanish
ducats which has lain at the bottom of
the sea in Tobermory Bay (Scotland),
since one the Armada vessels, plus the
pay-chest, sank there in 1588. Aus-
tralians, too, might find it would pay
to do a spot of treasure-seeking. Glad-
stone, Queensland, has a Spanish wreck
that the old Gladstonians swear to. A
marine survey party in 1947 found
another unaccounted-for wreck in about
30ft. of water which, from the absence
of the modem copper sheathing, could
well have been Spanish and ancient.
From the evidence of sunken wells, rock
carvings and the like, there is little doubt
that Spanish or Portuguese ships reached
the Queensland coast in pre-Cook times,
so a ducat hunt along the Barrier Reef
might be worth while.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: I have yet to hear Handel’s
“Water Music Suite” over the air with-
out first having to listen to the announcers
explaining that the composer wrote the
music as a propitiatory gesture to George
I, who, in his previous capacity as Elector
of Hanover, had allegedly been enraged
when Handel overstayed his permitted
leave from the court to the point of
taking up permanent residence in Eng-
land. To get back into his hew monarch’s
good graces —so the story goes—Handel
composed the “Water Music,” conduct-
ing his orchestra on a barge which fol-
lowed the Royal barge up the Tham
and that George was so delighted
it he forgave the composer and bestm
on him a life pension of £2OO v Wed
pretty; unfortunately cold facte ki
the legend out. A report by
denburg envoy to the English court Si
July 19, 1717, preserved in the &
archives, states that “the King exp“ ™
a wish to Baron von Kilmanseck t
have a concert on the river bv Jk°
scnption.” This concert “was composed
expressly by the famous Handel” u
was the “Water Music,” and Georee ,!!
approved it that “he commanded it to S
repeated, once before and once a fte
supper ” That was almost three ye ar ’
after Handel allegedly did the favvnin»
act with his old boss. B ng
* * * *
“Jemac”: I forget whether it
Einstein or Buck Rogers who first mooted
the idea of an acre or so of magnifying
glass mounted by an enemy on a man-
made satellite, and concentrating Sol’s
solace into a city-searing blast of he-it
But “B.A.K.’s” glass (B. 15/3/’5O) must
have been built along the same lines to
reach his hypnotised sleeper in the shop
window. All my experience of the
weapon precludes an effective range of
more than six inches, and I can’t accept
the story of its retaining the ray’s con
centration through the light-diffusimr
thickness of a plate-glass window. ]f
“8.A.K.” believes he saw his friend
Skinny scorch the lady in that way he
must have been under hypnotic influence
himself.
* * * *
Hattie F. Hopkins: Why does
“H.G.L.” (B. 8/3/’5O) take so much
trouble to assert that
Norman Lindsay and Ted
Scorfield are better car-
toonists than Hop? Has
anyone questioned this, or
said anything about their
respective merits? Such
opinions are a matter of
taste —and of time. Those
who are worth anything
do their best for their own
time and for their own
contemporaries. The great-
ness of Hop’s cartoons lay
in the influence which
they exerted over the
politics of his time, over
the minds of the statesmen
of his day, and on the
history of Australia. There
was never any malice in
my father’s cartoons, and
I think that proof of this
-is contained in the fact that
the great political leaders
whom he depicted did not
bear him any malice, but
were numbered among his
most devoted and admiring
friends. William Dailey
was the first, then Edmund Barton,
William Lyne and George Dibbs. They
visited his home, and he was an honored
guest in theirs. The work of Hop and
of ail those great men belongs to the
past, but they laid the foundation tor
what is good in the present. No less did
Hop blaze a trail for The Bulletin'
cartoonists of today, and to suggest tna
his drawings were inferior to those o
modem cartoonists is equivalent to say-
ing that the pioneers who hacked tnei
way througji the forests and mountaii
ranges were not as worthy of renown
the macadamised roadmakers or
present day.
* * * *
“Clooter”: As far as the Australian
rural scene is concerned our fictioncer
and playwrights can no longer use
the good old villain, the mortgagee,
threaten the squatter’s daughter a
she doesn’t submit to a fate wor f?
death he’ll foreclose and put her ol ’
her mother and her 17 younger bro
and sisters on the track. T°
mortgage, so far as wool- and whe
are concerned, is no more; not ( - v . _
Labor politician can now rant • u i,
closure. Instead of desperate => ,
turists invading outback bank a 0
offices and pleading for more ti j fl g
increased overdraft, they’re either sh
big wheat or wool cheque
managers and asking them w c j t j e s
with the money or they to in ing
buying high-priced English c a
for trips abroad for their fa j can
good luck to them, for as lo b
remember there wasn’t a tffage or
who wasn’t haunted by a ? block-
three from the day he started on keep
I only hope the present co uS can
going; while they do the r even
be sure of a job at g°° jaunts aS
though a cost-of-fivmg spectr laDd-
as the mortgage once haunte
men.
A SONG IN SEASON.
“There has been a train strike in Victoria, miners
and wharflaborers in N. S. Wales have begun a ‘rolling
strike,’ gas restrictions have been threatened in
Sydney, and an M.H.R. says the threat of starvation
facing the world is graver than that of war.”
Winter is icumen in,
Lhude sing commo!
Striketh mine, and hiketh man,
And stoppeth winch also —
Sing commo!
Wife bleateth after lamb,
Waileth price of bulluc too,
Gas Jacketh, light blacketh,
Murie sing commo!
Commo, commo, well singes thu commo:
So strike thu ever so;
Sing commo, O sing commo,
Sing commo, sing commo, O.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Cine Ma”; Some slight advance in
civilisation is indicated by the Common-
wealth Film censors refusal to allow
entrepreneurs to cash in on the unfortu-
nate predicament of the Siamese-twin
girls born to a couple in
When Chang and Eng were born in Siam
with their breastbones united, their
parents had no difficulty in selling them
for exhibition. It was a rude age. 1 hey
continued to make money for their
owners for many years. They were suc-
ceeded by Rosa and losepha Blazek, born
in 1878 in Bohemia, who toured Europe
in 1921, visited the U.S.A. and diea in
Chicago in 1922. The original twins
grew to about sft. 2in. in height. They
could walk, run and swim. After years
of exhibition life they settled on a farm
in America, married sisters, and lived
there for several years. Late in life they
went back to show-business ; in 1874 they
died within two hours of each other,
aged about 63.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Melbourne “Herald” lets itself
go:
Care for self alone, and utter disregard
for others; a love of frippery and finery
which seems to regard dress rather than
character as a test of reputation; a habit
of breaking, wasting, and destroying with-
out scruple or remorse; a craving for
exorbitant wages without the slightest in-
tention of yielding any proportionate
return; ilippancy and impertinence of
demeanor—such are the, characteristic
features of the colonial population upon
which so much of our common happiness
depends.
Date of this diatribe, March 11, 1850.
Cause: A nursery-maid valuing her ser-
vices at £2O per annum.
* * * *
“Scrutator”! Hitchhikers are not all
miserable cadgers (B. 8/3/’5O). What is
saved on fares is usually spent on over-
night accommodation, so economy is not
the sole motive. Finding out “how the
other half lives” by talking with drivers
trom many walks of life is, to many, the
main attraction of hitchhiking. What I
learned of geography, economic condi-
tions, political attitudes and modes of
he in a six-weeks’ trip convinced me
nat my supposed average knowledge of
Australia was up to that stage very super-
hlor is it fair to describe the prac-
lce as hogging. The average motorist
r e s a kick out of the gratitude shown
V the wanderers—expressed, perhaps, by
W i, ln 'l lta^on to have a drink or meal
n them. Company is welcome on a
lot f*’ and the motorist can learn a
hit* 0 ] 11 a conversation with hitch-
with rS , m other P arts - I look back
on n Pleasure, unspoiled by any shame,
of ai/ 1 ? miles in 117 lifts. Best
road k ♦ reca ll the comradeship of the
etween driver and his mobile guest,
“r * * *
“An rftS- : t \ news re P or t tells us that
Who said that he h ad seen a
now Bbei 8 beii ev L £hiahuahua airport
P'anet Venu s d ” th i 1 hat he u saw was the
c taiminp tb I * °h]ect to the Americans
the Sr? T- In Novern her, 1941,
Maddaiena A n located at Fort
aica. One Ha? n o the bounda ry of Cyren-
to within in tanks penetrated
considerable ou . r airfields, causing
Protection am? n !i er u atio - n ’ We had little
the tanks tFe ad helds, and had
Ca ught us .jP s ° utb they would have
While evervom> * fl ° Ck of sitt ing ***•
sadden raid hv ivrtfi i)! tery ’ there was a
damage excenf -*P S ’ w hleh did little
exce Pt a heightening of the ten-
sion. The a.-a. gunners were caught
napping and did not get into action until
too late, but for the rest of the day the
gunners were trigger-happy. Towards
nightfall there was a wild burst of a.-a.
fire, followed by an “all clear” and an
explanation that the gunners had mis-
taken the Evening Star for an aircraft.
Later a member of No. 3 Squadron,
R.A.A.F., strolled over to the battery and
remarked to the officer in charge, ‘ You
know, sir, I don’t think you hit that star,
Sypno
sSSS
“Now see if your turn will bring the house down!”
but I feel sure that you must have
loosened it.”
* * * *
“Clo”; Those involuntary trippers
from Cocos Island (B. 1/2/’5O) merely
achieved what had often been the
wish of members of the exiled Cocos
staff. When- I was there I know that
every time we went out for a cask from
a passing liner the thought occurred that
a week in Perth wouldn’t be hard to
take. But sooner or later there was
bound to be some accident whereby
the Cocos blokes had to be picked up
and taken on to Fremantle. The recent
mishap was due to a combination of
causes. For over a week a cyclone had
been centred about 200 miles north of
the islands, and seas were dangerously
high. The small boats shouldn’t have
ventured near the Strathaird, but there
was a mail to be put on board. So they
all had their holiday; the six Europeans
enjoyed it very much and so did the
Malays, except for one complaint —they
were barefooted and found the hot hard
pavements unwalkable. Having seen the
same Malays running around on jagged
coral reefs without any ill effect on their
soles, I dips me lid to Perth Civic Fathers.
♦ * * *
“Drong”: Old-time Shakspearian actor
George Rignold would probably turn in
his grave and quote appropriate lines
from the Bard if he could see what has
been happening in the vicinity of his old
home, Braebrook, perched on a wooded
hillside overlooking Sydney’s Middle
Harbor at the northern end of Seaforth
“Keep playin' , Mum , it tickles me feet.”
Bay. All was bush there in his day, the
only sounds to be heard being those made
by birds and the wind in the trees ; today
it is being rapidly built over. Once the
haunt of naturalists and naturelovers the
bush is being hewed down to make room
for more and more bungs, replete with
mod. cons. Nowadays one can only hear
the birds there when the clattering of
concrete-mixers and lawnmowers ceases
for a minute or two and roadmakers dis-
continue blasting in order to boil the
billy. The ancients of the locality, especi-
ally those who were raised in bush shacks,
wag their heads sadly as they bask in
the sunshine on' seats thoughtfully pro-
vided by the Transport Department and
tell one another pessimistically that they’ll
have to move further out. If a, retrogres-
sive league was inaugurated in opposition
to the progress association they’d prob-
ably hasten to join it.
* * * ♦
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In recent years trans-
lations of Babylonian clay-tablets
have shattered the idea that the
world’s first real knowledge originated
with the Greeks. The work of trans-
lating the tablets is an exasperat-
ingly slow business; the chief trouble
lies in the fact that there are
literally millions of them; as a result a
research worker has to wade through
thousands of school kids’ exercises, love
letters, merchants’ accounts, the stud-
books of horsebreeders and similar stuff
of small value in the hope of finding one
scientific treatise or historical document.
The school exercises did yield one import-
ant fact —geometry was taught in Baby-
lonian schools long before Euclid’s day.
Sometimes a stack of tablets is found
which contains much valuable material;
archaeologists are still rubbing their hands
over one such find —copies of the corres-
pondence of Babylonian kings.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: At least one publican
in Victoria has attempted to dispel the
gloom that surrounds Australian drink-
ing (B. 8/ 3/ ’5O). As soon as he moved
in to his newly-acquired premises he
established a beer-garden, on his side
lawn, replete with gaily-painted chairs
and tables, striped umbrellas, tubs of
ferns and shrubs and so forth. His in-
tentions were good and the effect most
enticing. Unwittingly, however, he en-
gaged as waiter a person who had the
most unfortunate associations for all the
locals. When he sallied on to the lawn
with a tray of glasses, especially if it was
a few minutes after six, looks of acute
embarrassment would suffuse the faces of
the drinkers and the beer would almost
choke them. The waiter was an ex-
policeman who once served in the district.
* * * *
“R.A.C.”: New Australians may not
readily grasp our language, but they seize
on to our attitudes and ideas quite
rapidly. Big Joe had not been long in
our sawmill when he gained quite a repu-
tation for his great strength. The yard
foreman began to call him Twoman.
“Hey, Twoman, come and lift this. or
“Hey, Twoman, come over here and
shove this truck up the hill. After a
time the novelty of doing two men’s
work wore off and Big Joe decided to
put a stop to it. Next day when the
foreman called, “Hey, Twoman!” the
N.A. was ready. “Ah, all the time Two-
man no good!” he cried. “Two man
work —two man pay, eh? I pretty soon
see your union about this!” Now he is
referred to as simply Big Joe.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A mod. con. which “P.P.”
has omitted from his list of the amenities
enjoyed by our forefathers
(B. 8/3/’5O) is the cellar.
When I was a youngster
the first thing the builder
of a home did was to dig
a cellar. The cellar was
provided with stout walls
of stone, a skylight and
ventilation, and a large
trapdoor gave access to a
stair which led to a
treasure-house, in my case,
o f homemade jams,
cheeses, home-brew,
lemon-syrup, pickles, hams
and plum puddings, the
last hanging from the
rafters awaiting the next
Christmas. The cellar not
only smelt delightful; it
was a refuge from the
severest heatwave. Some of
my pleasantest as well as
one of my most unpleasant
memories are connected
with that cellar —the unpleasant one was
when I swallowed a cup of waterglass
used for preserving eggs in mistake for
lemon-syrup, and turned the inside of my
stomach for a few painful hours into a
solid mass of concrete.
♦ • * * •
“Phil Anthus”: It is gratifying to
observe that a note of high piety is being
introduced into Australian football or
at least into one of the various brands
of the sport. Keith Froome, captain of
Australia’s Rugby League team, recently
proclaimed in a Sunday paper “I felt like
going down on my knees to thank God
when I read that England had omitted
David Valentine from its touring team.”
The implication that the Deity, with the
interests of Australian football —earbiting
variety—in mind, wangled matters so that
the English selectors omitted a highly
useful player suggests that the proper
authorities should rally the hillites to a
combined thanksgiving service before the
first Test match. Anyway, surely its
a poor line of sportsmanship to rejoice
over an opposing side being weakened by
the absence of a class player.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Professional ratcatchers, em-
ployed by municipal councils and har-
bor trusts, work with modern fumigants,
poisons and alert-looking terriers. Fifty
or so years ago in the Port of Liverpool,
when ships had discharged their cargoes,
men used to descend into the empty
holds (one man to each hold), smear their
hands with aniseed and lie flat on their
backs in the darkness with arms out-
stretched. There they lay waiting for a
nibble or sniff. The rat was then firmly
grasped and put into a bag and the human
“trap” relaid. This business had been a
family concern for very many years, and
the shipping companies had firm con-
tracts with them at so much a scalp. Une
man in the course of a night might catch
a couple of dozen. This surely, if it still
exists, is one occupation with no danger
of invasion by women.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Fallacies die hard. You
will still hear the claim made that Bronte
House at the Sydney seaside suburb was
once the home of the famous Bronte
sisters and that it was named after them,
and if you journey out to Botany B y
someone is certain to tell you that the
land surrounding the La Perouse monu-
ment and the Receveur tomb actual V
belongs to France. Up on the Blue
Mountains they still repeat the story
about Govett’s Leap being named after
a bushranger who jumped to his deadi
over the cliff there when chased by police
and another popular story is th
Jenolan Caves were named after a Bus -
ranger named J. E. Nolan At the
Hartley courthouse tourists are stil
regaled with the yarn about the convict
starving himself and then s ° apl "jf
body in order to allow him to slip throug
the iron-bars of the cell window. Quite
recently a Sydney radio-station broadcast
S dd one about a valuable diamond
being swallowed by an abongme. who,
body (with the diamond) was bune
beneath a deodar-tre/at Yarralumla, It
fs almost impossible to kill these yarns,
but here’s my attempt.
CHOICE.
... resu it of the Soyiet elections,
only P ai ; ty Ba a rty V or Government received such
the entire population-
no voice-
Exp li the master-class decrees.
U’s f * election-time their choice
is smctly they strike,
What blows t r h promote,
What md fPXwe to cast a vote
W £ e Jf for whomso’er they like?
25i^“
Or any ° th ®^ e ° ” r ifling detail though :
There s just ° would bestow
1 ‘5 i r5„“ml:rbe e a W Comm Un ist.
nSf hTU cur'ain know
°The privilege of being urged
n nkVD men to show
rh,t Freedom has in Joe a champ.,
T He moves by scotching any schism.
«.,t these elections set the stamp
B As well on his great patriotism
Has he not saved the glorious State
As well as making sure he 11 boss it;
All opposition costs? That: s great,
But better— not one candidate
Will ever “do in” his deposit.
N.s.w,
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Long Tom had 30-odd
bags of wheat on his four-horse wagon,
and when the offside leader got scared
by the oncoming car and pushed the
nearsider into the table-drain the wagon
slewed and the car ran into the back
end of it. It didn’t do the car much
good, but nobody was hurt. After the
usual exchange of compliments the car-
owner drove his battered vehicle off and
Long Tom got the team back on the road.
About a week later a fellow called on
Long Tom and said, “I’m from the in-
surance. We’ve got a claim for damage
to a car that collided with your wagon.
We want to get full particulars. Will
you fill this in?” Laboriously, and with
the insurance man’s help, Long Tom
filled in the answers to his name, address
and so forth, wrote his version of the
accident, drew a rough plan of the place
and position of the vehicles. Finally,
one space remained, headed, “Any Other
Remarks.” Long Tom studied it, then
looked at the insurance man. “Do I put
in mine or the other bloke’s?” he asked.
* * * *
“Rooster”: There is at least one ex-
ample in nature where propagation and
cruelty are inseparable. In his courting
the male octopus warily reaches out a
tentacle and gently strokes the female ;
initially this advance is repelled, the suitor
being furiously attacked. Then they
come to close grips, blowing out their
pulpy paunches, their entwining and
squirming arms tearing off huge shreds of
skin from each other. Finally they churn
up the water in a fierce “love-dance.”
The finale of this macabre encounter is
the severance of one of the male’s limbs,
which, wriggling about on its own like
some monstrous seaworm, is promptly
swallowed whole by the female. That
consummates the “marriage” ; the swal-
lowed limb contains the sperm-cells neces-
sary for egg-fertilisation.
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: Measuring distances (B,
1 1 3/’50)? For anything between 50 yards
and half a mile I use 100 yards as a
basis; above that I think in miles, and
below I guess in yards or feet. Men on
the land invariably reckon in chains.
But I heard another basis of calculation
when two lads from the Speck’s back-
blocks came to town together to join up.
When one was asked where he lived he
replied “Hollow Log.” When asked if he
came from there, too, his mate replied:
“No, about three scrubs further back,”
* H= * *
“Salmon Gums”: Described by a daily
as a “large eaglehawk,” a bird which
allegedly “killed a pet seagull in South
Perth and a pet parrot in Leederville,
terrorised other caged birds, and raided
chicken-runs in the metropolitan area,”
was finally fought and conquered by an
English-game rooster whose domain he
raided. I know the quality of the old
English-game, and I’m not decrying his
courage or strength when I say that his
victim wasn’t an eagle. The term eagle-
hawk is reserved for the wedgetailed
eagle, and I for one won’t see it applied
loosely, even by journalists who can refer
seriously to waterside workers. The
hawk in this case, pictured beside its
conqueror, is smaller than the rooster,
and resembles the chicken-hawk which
raids suburban fowlyards. I can’t see any
rooster beating a wedgetail. That bloke
will fight a man, and he’d beat an un-
armed man hands down. Some years
ago one entered the room of a settlers
cottage near Manjimup, in sou’-Westralia,
in which a baby was asleep in a crib.
The child’s mother held off the bird until
a man arrived and dispatched it with a
stick. It had a 7ft. wing-span, and a bird
that size, standing 3ft. high and armed
with strong beak and talons, is a powerful
adversary. At that, however, it wasn’t
a “large eaglehawk.” I’ve seen them go
9ft. from tip to tip, and an old bird-
trapper swears he’s seen them up to 12ft.
One of “Banjo” Paterson’s characters
once matched an emu with an English-
game and won on a forfeit. With a “large
eaglehawk” a rooster would fight (of
course), but I think he’d make the meal.
* * * H>
“Zake”: Knew a cove who roofed a
hut with stringybark, and it never let a
drop of rain in. Before using it he
seasoned the strio.gy by leaving it sap-
“There must be something deuced interesting on the bottom."
side up till the sun hardened it. A bullet
wouldn’t have gone through it then. But
if not thus seasoned the rain rots the
sap part of it.
* * * ♦
“Bogaduck”; One of the unsolved
mysteries of the animal world is how it
came that some quadrupeds abandoned
running about on their full set of
legs and adopted “bipedal locomo-
tion.” Most curious example is
the Agamidae family of reptiles,
known to bushmen as “bicycle-lizards.”
They range in size from the big frill-
neck of northern Australia down to the
spry little dragon-lizards of our semi-
desert country, When feeding, they walk
around in the usual way on all four legs,
but when alarmed they elevate their tails,
arch their backs to raise the forepart of
the body clear of the ground, tuck their
forelegs against their bodies and race off
on their hind-legs, with a comical resem-
blance to a man working the pedals of a
racing bicycle. The University of
Washington, U.S.A., has now taken up
this study and asked the co-opera-
tion of the South Australian Museum,
two members of the staff of which,
John Mitchell and Gordon Gross,
have gone off in a truck to the
country north-west of Port Augusta,
S.A., where, in addition to general
field work, they will make an in-
tensive study of bicycle-lizards. American
seats of learning often single out the S.A.
Museum for jobs of this kind ; the reason
being that a big proportion of such
original field-works research has been
done by this institution. In size
the S.A. Museum is only third on the
list in Australia, but in other countries
its reputation overshadows all fflte rest.
He * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The Argentine ant
(B. 1/3 1 ’5O) is making life harassing for
residents of the Westralian capital. One
strange feature is that the pests have
shown a partiality for cement and mortar.
One chap who feeds a fair-sized colony
reckons his team, working only night-
shift, could keep a bricklayer going full-
time, and without working any harder
than the brickie, either. The colony I’m
boarding with at the moment are tolerat-
ing me —at least, they’re not eating me,
as they did one chap recently, who went
into a coma —because I’m by way of
being an old acquaintance. I knew their
dads and mums 30 years ago at Cue. Up
there, when women were present, we
called them Singapore ants, and I’ll lay
any odds that the Perth infestation is
just an extension of the invasion from
the north. The State Government reckons
their eradication is too costly and un-
certain, so they’re going to control them.
Gloomy householders are trying not to
remember other Governments that con-
trolled prices. Communists and other
pests.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Some time ago an Abo. argu-
ment ended, as nearly as I can remember,
in favor of the bloke who maintained
that termites, to live, must maintain con-
tact with, not necessarily the ground, but
some supply of moisture. What passes
with me for memory filed that little item
away, and rather proudly produced it the
other day when I chipped a piece off a
paper-bark log and found some termites,
fat and healthy. Paper-bark is poor wood
for a stove, but, moving into a new
place at the end of last winter, I’d
brought in a load of wood from some
choppgd-out bush, and that log came, too
—just in case. It lay all the summer to
one side, and now I’d turned to it in
necessity. I stopped after that first blow
and carefully examined the log. There
was no sign of the ants having made
contact with earth, but to make sure
I split it open and explored their tunnels.
They’d apparently entered from one end,
but that way was not used as an exit — 1
there was no clay tunnel covering the
“I must have left it switched on when I answered the phone."
foot dash to earth through daylight. As
far as I could see they hadn’t bothered to
leave the log. It was about 18in. through,
and 4in. from the outside it was quite
moist. Obviously that log would stay
moist until it rotted or was eaten away,
so the termites had all th» „„
ife in that little world of
Looks like that Mote was W "
moisture they need, not earth. ‘ ts
♦ ♦ *
“Betcha”; Ted was seated on the edo
of the post-office veranda waiting for tP
mail to arrive. “Coming to bu*
nurse sports on the tenth, Ted?” S
Jock Banfleld dropping down alongside
The tenth? Cnpes, X thought the cricket
club was havin’ theirs that day.” “Thev’re
not, then,” snapped Jock. “There’s been
a pretty big blue over it, I c’n tell you
but our crowd are sticking to the tenth’
see, and we don’t care if the cricketed
arrangements are all spoilt.” “Now, now
r ttl , ats no wa Y for a man to talk’’
old Ted reprimanded. “There’s plenty
more days, an’if y’ talked it over sensibk
both affairs d be awright, instead o :
spoihn both with bad feelin’s ” He
searched thoughtfully for the makings
Y' know,” he continued righteously “it’s
damn’ nonsense like that that makes wars
Whole flawin’ world’s the same. Blokes
bein’ too greedy, an’ too pig-’eaded t’
meet the other feller half-way.” j oc k
shuffled uneasily. “Yair, I s’pose you’re
right, Ted,” he agreed, after a bit.
“Come over and have a drink on
“’Course I’m right,” echoed Ted.
The peace-maker glanced eagerly towards
the pub, got half-way to his feet, and
slumped down again. “Better wait till
that good-jf’r-nothing Brownson comes
out,” he scowled. “I’ve had nothing to
do with that cow since our dividin’-fence
fight, an’ what’s more, I ain’t ever goin’
to.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Anybody ever had a nag
like this one I got hold of tecently?
Most unpredictable moke I’ve struck,
One day I can’t get near the snorting
fireworks and the next can’t shove him
out of the way. Sometimes he’ll run
yards to get a bite of me, and 10 minutes
later grows positively maudlin in his
affection. If I’m riding him in the pad-
dock and he gets sick of it he calmly
lies down for a sleep. First time it hap-
pened I thought something was wrong,
then learned it is just his custom. One
day he’ll walk all over the jumbucks as
though he’d never seen one before, and
the next will mooch along behind the
mob like an old-stager. Are there such
things as half-witted nags? Some days
this cuss wouldn’t budge for nuts, with
his reins dropped, and the next time out
he’s never heard of the practice. Seems
to have been mouthed all right, and his
head responds readily enough, but the
trouble is his legs don’t co-operate.
Probably he wasn’t worked enough after
first breaking-in. The fact that he jumps
with fright at a hastily-raised arm, then
next minute overlooks it entirely, is prob-
ably the result of both harsh and kind
treatment from blokes who have pursued
their individual methods of trying to cure
the craziest thing on four legs.
♦ * * *
“Bundeena”: Largest of our 200-odd
varieties of crab is the Giant Tasmanian,
a wicked-looking fellow weighing up to
301 b., and armed with claws over 2tt. ij
length. But he is only a midget compared
with the, Japanese spider-crab, a monster
with a tody 4ft. in diameter and legs up
to 10ft. long. This crab comes ashore at
low tide and is captured on the beach wit
long nets. With the legs safely tied the
crab is taken to the market alive, fie re,
as another security measure, the
straightened and bound to long section
of bamboo. Apparently there is n
R.S.P.C.A. in Japan, for the crab is no
sold in one piece,
segment of leg, the Jap ho suf-
in| it by the inch-6.n or so
flcient to feed a crab contain*
The actual body of the c rab
very little meat and is sold cheap y.
JAMES FLETCHER.
(A statue of James Fletcher stands in Fletcher
Park, Watt-street, Newcastle, N.S.W. At Platts-
burgh, a suburb, a bust of Fletcher rests on a
pedestal which, some time ago, was hoofed by a
straying horse.)
Man, I never heard of you.
Tell me, what you ever do?
Why’d they put your statue in the park?
Why’d they give the park your name?
You can’t be such a man of fame,
For all my friends are also in the dark.
Tell me why they cast your face
And left it in that public place
At Plattsburgh, where the band rotunda rusts.
What made you worthy of renown?
Were you an early Mayor in town?
(I know we seldom pedestal their busts.)
At Plattsburgh, man, a horse, I bear’d,
Once kicked you in the frozen beard,
And birds are really getting in your hair.
Both in the park and other place.
I’ve often wondered at your face . . .
Who were you, man? As though I really care.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


“MS”’ New Australians might find
our ways'strange, but judging by certain
reactions round this way the difficulties
aren't all on one side. Our newie speaks
little English, no Australian, and the lingo
he reverts to in times of stress would
scare the crows. When his task needed
dogs, we picked out a couple of easy-
goers that used to work for anybody.
First day they followed eagerly; the
second, reluctantly; and since then are
regularly missing at starting time. For a
nag, we presented Job, knowing the old
faithful would stick it out if equinely
possible. The first few tirades Job took
with patient disinterest, then it dawned
on him the flow somehow concerned him-
self, and his ears came up suspiciously.
Newie patted the log in front of him, let
fly a string of gibberish, and waved his
arms. It brought no result. He took
a run, cleared the log, and went through
some physical jerks on the further side.
Job eyed him distrustfully, and contri-
buted a snort. The gibberish rose in
volume. Two magpies left, a jackass
raised an uncertain chuckle, and a blue-
tongue put himself inside a log. Babbling
at high pressure, Newie came back, turned
the nag’s head, and pointed out the long
way he must go round if he didn’t get
oyer the log. The moke wasn’t impressed.
His ears rose and fell, he sidled off as
far as he could, and looked "at Newie
sorrowfully. When my sides could
stand no more, I came round the scrub
patch, dropped a hand on Job’s rump,
said “Righto,” and the show was over.
*i* * $
“Iron Knob”; It is old Harry’s job to
supervise the filling and emptying of the
iron-ore bins at the opencut quarry and
to help fill the trucks as they are pulled
by in rakes. He takes his orders from
the foreman usually, ’ but one morning
the superintendent came along and told
mm to leave the bins half-empty. A little
later the foreman came along and said
Youd better keep the bins half-full
oclay, Harry.” Registering disgust,
arry replied, “Listen here, can’t you
re ows make up your minds? One bloke
teds me to keep the bins half-full and
another to leave them half-empty. What
am I supposed to do?”
< B - 22/2/’5O)
? terms species” and “genus”
shp n Q !l e groups .the Murray-, brown- ,
diflV . c yP ress -pine as one. Most pines
mnJk' SOme bave smo °th cones, others
or thick 1 " ° neS ’ Small or large ’ thin
as wifi S L hape or outline of the tree,
charart P aS —although not a good
the snp r mdl< differences between
specie P s h CS ot u Callitris - In all some 20
growino ave keen named and described,
or li(?h?fi n a !.States, and preferring sandy
areas^ 1 Vf S0 ‘ S Wlthin the lower-rainfall
hold a n. Murr r pines are a sure bet to
on suc/iff ridges ’ and can be see n
tralia u many parts of South Aus-
stock invSr eV !u’ P reve nting rabbits or
men t is taking th f arCa >vhile establish-
doubtedlv * g P !f Ce - 1S ess ential. Un-
mo« are not pS > nte d mber ; “ pUy
“Pata”. o * * *
deck-chair Was , drows ing in the
dling t he P t aCed the P lat form strad-
Paddied hv W ° du , 80ut canoes being
p apua’s Vail s l evera sweating natives,
murky ,hl ai !l a was low and
bath. PasLt T Sphere like a Turkish-
a bend 0 T * C ° Se t 0 the bank at
startled to the paddlers were
air above them * !? ft crocod ile in mid-
ship; the cm! d Promptly abandoned
nap, had back-Qn dlStUrb< l d in . his midday
ti°Q of the wa'tA n^ ersau lt ed in the direc-
ater to find himself on the
iiiiteiM
F/\VAOOS
OKbOES
anything
1 5 Ml NOTES
“ Time's up — that's ten quid you owe me."
platform of the canoe staring at the now-
thoroughly-awakened man in the chair.
Old Scotty found himself staring into the
cavernous mouth of the monster 2ft. away.
Both went over the side at the same
instant. Within three seconds of his
breaking water Scotty was back in the
canoe, beating the crew by a split-second.
The croc., satisfied to continue with his
original plan, disappeared into the muddy
depths.
* * * *
“Bo”: Old Sam had lived for years
in the shanty he had built at the bottom
of the steep boulder-strewn hill. Every
so often, and more especially after heavy
rain had undermined the shale and clay
holding it, a huge boulder would come
bounding down the hill. Once a half-
ton pebble carried away one whole side
of the kipsy. Another had ricocheted
off a boulder just above the house and
demolished the top three feet of his
chimney. On the occasions when they
missed his menage Sam was wont to rush
outside, jeer at the unsuccessful bould!er
as it careered past his place and then
look up the hill and shake his fist at those
remaining. Then one day he went into
town and gave Tommy Millett, the
carrier, the job of shifting his humpy with
his horse-team. When he had got his
platform under it Tommy said: “Well,
Sam, I wondered how long you’d be able
to stick them gibbers out. Where you
want me to take it—somewhere on the
flat where there’s no boulder for miles,
eh?” The old hatter screwed up his
eyes, then pointed his pipe at a spot
around the base of the hill and above
which was a very forest of boulders.
“It’s bin gettin’ too quiet here,” he said.
“Ain’t had a gooley fall for nilly a
*y\V>
“If we hurry We oughter beat the five o'clock rush."
fortnight. I’ll shift her over there. A
man’s gott€r have some excitement !”
* * * *
“Amdee”: The fertility of the
Maroochy River (S.Q.) flats, the growth
of young sugarcane and the death of
weeds ceased to hold my attention as the
swish of wildly beating wings sounded
low overhead. Ducking and squinting
upwards, I was able to avoid a swipe
from the tail of a lengthy swamp tiger-
snake, being carried aloft in the talons
of a lordly white-breasted sea-eagle. The
sight seemed to lend conviction to the
belief among bushmen that snake and
fish are similar in flavor.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In the gang with us
was a young cove about my build who,
on the first Saturday afternoon, appeared
in a brand-new outfit from hat to boots.
Mat eyed him with a friendly grin, and
was about to pass some remark or other
when he suddenly fell silent. The young
cove didn’t notice it and went off up the
town to give the locals an eyeful of him.
An hour or two later we struck him in
one of the pubs. Mat was full of beer
and devilment, and he grabbed my arm
and said, “Hey, he’s still got that flamin’
feather in his hat.” Twas then I under-
stood his. sudden aversion to the cove, for
Mat hated blokes who wore extra items of
personal adornment. It made no differ-
ence to him that the wearing of small
feathers peeping above the bands of felt
hats was fairly popular and that hatters
sold them thus. “You’ll have t’ go him,
mate,” Mat said to me. “Go him
y’rself,” I said. “I don’t care if he wears
a flamin’ peacock on his head.” “Y’ll
have t’ go him,” Mat repeated, “because
I’m too big; I’d kill him.” Before I
could stop him he stalked over to his
aversion and said, “Here, me mate don’t
like your style an’ he wants t’ have y’
on.” * The chap looked across at me in
astonishment and said, “Go to hell. I
ain’t lookin’ for fight.” Mat reached out,
took his hat from his head, plucked the
feather from it and threw it on the floor.
“Well, don’t you go slickin’ feathers in
y’r cap till y’ve done somethin’
entitlin’ y’ to wear ’em,” he growled, and
came glowering back to me.
“B. A. Ker”: If old Ned had un-
expectedly been made father-in-law to a
divorcee with seven kids he could hardly
have shown more annoyance with his
son. As it was, he expressed his opinion
of the young city girl in one scathing
sentence; “Fancy marryin’ a girl who
can’t even milk a cow! ” However, he
magnanimously gave the young couple a
home —the hut the shearers blackballed
in 1923. The bride looked at it and
announced: “Plenty of young couples in
Sydney would give their ears for it, any-
how.” Then she went to work. A couple
of yards of cretonne and a few rolls of
cheap wall-paper worked miracles inside,
while young Ted, flogged with a velvet
whip, patched floors and external walls.
The old hut was really looking like a
home —when the storm came. Every one
of the old split shingles leaked. For a
few minutes Joy’s cheerful disposition
left her ; then it returned —and brought
back an idea. Ted rode into town.
Money couldn’t buy corrugated-iron, but
corrugated fibro was procurable: “Might
have to wait four to six months, of
course.” Seven months the couple
waited. Two days after the last sheet of
fibro was fixed the drought broke. Old
Ned came around and found the young
’uns rejoicing over a water-tight roof and
a tank full of water. That he didn’t like
the idea of “drinkin’ water off a roof of
that stuff” he made very plain ; but he
stayed for dinner and grudgingly ad-
mitted the tucker wasn’t bad for a girl
who’d never seen a colonial oven before.
Next day the old chap went down with
violent pains in the small of the back.
With his usual obstinacy he refused to
have the doctor, and with the usual sub-
terfuge it was arranged for the medico
to “Drop in as I happened to be passing.”
The diagnosis was prompt: “A severe
form of fibrositis.” Old Ned nearly for-
got the agony it caused him as he jerked
up from the supine. “I knew it!” he
roared. “I knew it. I knew that blasted
fibro would poison the water!”
* * * *
“Taswegian”: The butcher-bird perched
on top of the big fir-tree was singing
his heart out; burst upon burst of
beautiful song held us entranced. The
tree is a regular haven for hosts of small
birds, and I wondered when the butcher’s
siren song would cease, and his less-
admirable operations begin. But away
he flew, calling as he went “Whit-it-to-
toe-toe-toe! ” without so much as a glance
into the tree. Then I saw another
butcher, who had been waiting silently a
little from the top, start hopping from
branch to branch down the tree, peering
in as he went. Suddenly a small bird
flew out some yards below him, and the
butcher dropped like a plummet. I
didn’t see whether or not he made a kill,
but I saw him fly off in the same direc-
tion as his mate and wondered if they
planned to work together, and, meet some-
where to whack up the proceeds. It
certainly looked like it.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: I don’t agree with “The
0.D.” that a snake will invariably move
once you take your eyes off him (B.
8/ 3 / ’5O). In the first place he may not
have seen you ; in the second, he might be
quite happy where he is. Generally
speaking he moves, but I’ve known cases
when he stayed put, “Snake-wise bush-
men” also stress the same tenet in re-
verse: “A snake won’t move while
you’re watching him.” As a general rule
he won’t —until your eyes are diverted
for half a second ; - then he is gone like
a Commo from a fair-dinkum ballot.
But if it suits him to slither away while
you’re staring at him, he’ll go ; and a
hypnotist couldn’t keep him there. I
fear I’ve become a little cynical of “snake-
wise bushmen” and their wisdom. When
I hear of a man who has been even mildly
poisoned by the bushman’s “wood-adder”
(which is really a harmless gecko) or of
somebody dying from the bite- of the
“deadly” moonlight or Bandy-bandy
snake (with or without the fit alleged to
be thrown for every band on the reptile’s
body) my faith in snake-wise bushmen
will be restored.
* * * *
“Chuck”: City folk scoff at the flat-
ness of radio serials presented for country
people, never guessing the vast entertain-
ment they provide for the initiated.
Amusing incidents break through the
philosophic discourse, the latest being a
visit to a sheep-sale. The saleyards were
so abominably noisy with the incessant
bleating of sheep one could only conclude
somebody was shifting a mob of ewes
and lambs, while blokes added to the
bedlam by lustily bawling their opinions
of the yardings. Then a pen of young
ewes went up. Starting at a quid, they
rose in a rush of five-bob bids, then
dropped temporarily to half-dollars. One
bloke jumped in frantically with a rise
of one and sixpence, which evidently
proved too degrading for the other
bidders, who promptly returned to five-
bob rises. In no time at all the jumbucks
were knocked down at three-pound-one,
and as the hammer fell there wasn’t a
straight face round the dinner-table at
this joint. Next time our local auctioneer
is bursting his lungs in an effort to get
another penny on a price increased by
only a few bob from where it started,
we’ll recommend the easy radio* method
—or would our buyers know too much
about sheep and wool values?
PAST AND PRESENT.
(Apologies to T. Hood, Esq.)
f remember, 1 born—
>' r S 'aw Wh rdu!np“ a b . Toked
V Mo” ‘crußy »Jorto^
The joint had p^f;
Fo?an“S /obbled hatf the walls
And started on the root.
VdTo4tfSnsK': h
Maybe the fault was ours, the shack
Was rarely treated right—
to take the doors inside
To sleep on overnight.
1 ST*hhoU" b en%acked,
%fwVdow-panS?.l! e ™cfcd;
Thechimney whence nosmoke escaped,
But caused a fiendish fog.
The bath that never in its life
Possessed an honest plug.
I remember, J remember.
Our valedictory wail
When parting from our loathsome home
The morning of the sale;
And how it cheered us up no end
To hear the final bid
Our little hell on earth had brought
Nine hundred bloomm quid.
W.A.
A. J. HALL.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Expert Handling of Your ESt G t 6
may save much more than it costs
COMPLEXITIES of legal and taxation matters,
constantly changing values of investments, amend-
ments in legislation, details of Probate and Death
Duties, all call for specialised knowledge in Estate
Administration and Property Management—knowledge
that can be acquired only through many years of
experience.
The safety and security of your Estate are assured
when you appoint the long-established Union Trustee
Company as your Executor, Trustee, Manager or
Attorney.
Charges are moderate . . . service continuous and
comprehensive.
You are invited to call for a confidential interview—
or write for your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne: 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 188 S)
St., Brisbane
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Parent’s Figures.
r — Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 71 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 30,312 8,438 4 p.e. =20,000 1,874 203,674
1945.. 18,198 8,438 4 ~,,20,000 193,434
1946.. 36,963 8,437 4 „ ~20,000 8,525 201,959
1947.. 40,202 8,438 5 ~,, 25,000 6,764 208,723
Added assets-revaluation res., £210,741 419,464
1948.. 77,079 8,438 7} p.e.= 37,500 31,141 450,605
To special deprec’n res., £20,000 .. 430,605
Added specific reserves, £7721 .. .. 438,326
1949.. 88,292 8,438 8 p.e. =40,000 39,855 478,181
* After deducting intangibles, now £lB,OOO.
Consolidation of interests and further ex-
pansion of the undertaking, with savings
in overhead and improvement of share-
holders’ prospects, are the broad aims
behind current proposals of this 30-year-
old parent of the Hume group. The two
principal subsidiaries are Hume Steel,
Ltd., and Hume Industries (Far East),
Ltd. Early in the piece much was ex-
pected from sale of patent rights outside
Australia, but except for the Far East
Co. (Singapore), whose ord. capital is all
held by the parent and Hume Steel,
results from this source have been dis-
appointing. All three members of the
group now report brisker business and
bright prospects.
The parent (paid capital £612,500 in
112.500 1\ p.e. prefs. and 500,000 ords.)
turns out reinforced concrete pipes for
water-supply, etc., as well as a wide range
of other cement products, from a string
of factories throughout Australia and
New Zealand. Last term it netted
£88,292 (up £11,213), which was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 15.9 p.e.
on ord. capital as against 13.7, 6.1 and
5.7 p.e. for the three preceding terms.
No divs. were received from subsidiaries.
The co.’s own div. was lifted from p.e.
to 8 p.e., making the average distribution
5.2 p.e. over the last 15 years. An in-
terim at the rate of 10 p.e. p.a. has just
been paid in respect of the current term.
The Steel co. (paid capital £500,000,
one half in 1\ p.e. prefs. and the other
half ords.) also operates throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, and turns out
high-pressure concrete-lined steel pipes
for water-supply schemes, etc. The ords.
were all issued fully-paid for rights, the
parent co, taking 165,000 and W. R.
Hume 85,000, which were recently
acquired by the parent in exchange for
41.500 of its own fully-paid ords. Short-
ages of materials (chiefly steel) and labor
stood in the way of profits in 1947 and
1948. The position improved last term,
when the net result (£45,145, up £25,630)
covered the pref. div. and 10.5 p.e, on
ord. capital.
The Singapore co!, formed in 1922, did
well’ on a capital of £50,000, which was
increased to £75,000 in 1937. The figure
had grown to £291,681 in March, 1947,
and then shot up to £950,000 in 250,000
5 p.e. cum. par. prefs. and 700,000 ords.
The prefs. were taken for cash by those
on Hume Pipe’s and Hume Steel’s
registers. Growth in ord. capital was as
follows:
Hume. Hume
Pipe. Steel. Total.
Previously held .. 216,670 76,003 291,673
Bonus issue .. 209,717 99,997 309,714
Taken for cash .. 61,681 36,932 98,613
Total .. .. 488,068 211,932 700,000
The bonus scrip came from a surplus of
£421,858 on revaluation of properties in
1946. For the 12 months of 1948 (1949
figures not yet available) co. netted
£69,077, or 7.2 p.e. on capital (pref. and
ord. combined). No ord. div. was paid. A
contract with the Singapore Municipality
is expected to keep plant profitably
employed for the next couple of years
or more.
The parent now proposes to increase
its nominal capital to £5,000,000 by
creation of 250,000 7\ p.e. B prefs. and
3,700,000 ords., all of £1 each, and to
change its,name to Humes, Ltd. The
new prefs., which will rank after exist-
ing prefs. for capital and divs., are being
offered in exchange for the prefs. in Hume
Steel, one for one. Since the offer spells
greater security for both dividends and
capital, it is likely to be accepted. Humes,
Ltd., will then have a paid capital of
£904,000 in 112,500 A and 250,000 B
prefs., both p.e. cumulative, and
541,500 ords. Presently a further 270,750
of the new £1 ords. are to be offered,
one for two, at par.
The pref. divs. (£27,187) and 10 p.e, to
the ords. (£81,350) will then call for
£108,417. After deducting outside share-
holders’ interests, latest consolidated
accounts show combined net earnings of
the group at £202,402, which was enough
to pay the pref. divs. and show 21.5 p.e.
on £812,300 of ord. capital.
Here are balance-sheet figures of Hume
Pipe and Hume Steel at last balancing
dates:
Hume Hume
Pipe. Steel.
30/6/’49. 30/9/’49. Total.
Paid capital—
Preference .. .. £112,500 £250,000 £362,500
Ordinary .. . . 500,000 250,000 541,500*
Overdraft . . . . 213,220 114,550 327,770
Sundry creditors, etc. 165,772 142,680 308,452
Tax provision, etc. .. 119,169 69,859 189,028
Final dividends . . 24,219 9,575 33,594
Freehold,- etc. .. 191,170 106,167 297,337
Plant, etc 186,243 205,558 391,801
Shares Hume Ind. . . 488,068 211,932 700,000
Shares other cos. . . 129,805 189,628 319,433
Asbestos deposit . . 31,899 30,876 62,775
Stocks 192,828 183,373 376,201
Work in progress .. 50,406 118,978 169,384
Book debts . . . . 339,806 161,383 501,189
Cash 2,886 163 2,998
Patents, etc 18,000 25,900 43,900
* After allowing for purchase of Steel co.’s shares.
The figures are subject to adjustment in
connection with inter-co. debts, etc. At
end 1948 the Singapore co.’s accounts
showed net tangibles of £817,051, of
which £579,637 was represented by war-
risk and war-damage claims, all of which
might not be received.
At 465. 9d. the ords. are worth 38s. Id.
after exercising rights to the new issue.
The return at 38s. Id. is 5.2 p.e. on a
10 p.e. div. basis. The parent’s prefs. at
325. 6d. and the Steel co.’s old prefs. at
30s. yield 4.6 p.e. and 5 p.e respectively.
Including the new issue, net tangible
cover will be approximately £l7 13s. A’s,
£7 10s. B’s and 40s. ords.
Associated Dominions Assurance
The Associated Dominions Assurance
Society Pty,, Ltd., is in th£ news again.
It is a small Sydney life office which
writes ordinary and industrial business —
bulk of existing contracts are industrial —
in N. S. Wales and Victoria. This time
the co. and its managing-director
have issued writs claiming damages
of £lOO,OOO and £25,000 respectively
against John Fairfax and Son Pty., pub-
lishers of the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
The co. also has two other writs in cir-
culation ; one, issued in May, 1948,
challenges the validity of the Federal Life
Insurance Act of 1945, and the other,
issued in Dec., 1949, claims damages of
£200,000 against the Commonwealth and
two of its officers, together with two
former employees of the co., alleging un-
lawful combination by the defendants to
injure the plaintiff co. None of the
actions has yet been heard before the
court.
Under the Life Insurance Act of 1945,
if it appears to the commissioner that,
among other things, the statutory fund
of a co. is less than the liabilities in
respect of that fund, or if the cost of
procuring, maintaining and administering
its life business is unduly high in rela-
tion to premium income, he may call
upon the co. to show cause why he should
not investigate the whole or part of the
business. Appearances are that this has
been done. But until the writs already
referred to are out of the way, the com-
missioner is unable to proceed further
under the powers conferred upon him by
the Act, the main purpose of which is to
protect the interests of policyholders.
Associated Dominions was formed
in 1928 to write life business and
reinsure the risks of the Associated
Deposits Assurance Society, Ltd., and the
A.N.A., Ltd. The Deposits Society,
registered in 1926, was limited by
guarantee and was the upshot of the
trouble into which A.N.A., Ltd., got itself
when it extended to Victoria. Thus the
businesses, or a great part of the busi-
nesses, of what were two virtually mutual
concerns were transferred to an ordinary
joint-stock limited liability co., not by
direction of policyholders but by re-
insurance. The promoter of the
Dominions, who was also connected with
the management of the other two cos.,
was to get £20,000 in f.-p. shares—£62oo
in 1928 and the balance in annual instal-
ments —for arranging the reinsurances.
Paid capital is now £24,009, of which
only £4009 has been paid in money. No
dividends have been earned for or paid
to shareholders, nor has the co. earned
bonuses for its policyholders. It has
gone along, paying legitimate claims as
they fell due. But for the five years to
the close of accounts in 1946 the actuarial
liability under policies grew at a faster
rate than, and exceeded, both the life
assurance funds and net tangible assets:
Liabilities Net
under Assurance Tangible
June 30. Policies. Funds. Assets.
1941 .. £331,564 £179,915 £98,521
1946 .. 549,783 332,239 245,778
Broadly speaking, the actuarial liability
under policies is the sum that ought to
be represented by tangible, revenue-
producing assets, turning in at least the
rate of interest assumed in calculating
these liabilities. The life assurance funds
should, therefore, equal the amount of
liabilities under policies, or exceed them
if bonuses are to be earned for policy-
holders. At June 30, 1946, liabilities
under policies exceeded the assurance
funds by £217,544, and these funds
exceeded net tangible assets by £86,461,
leaving net tangibles £304,005 short of
the mark. Whether the co. has been able
to arrest the drift since will not be known
until the actuary makes his next overhaul
of the business in 1951.
For the year to June 30 last the co.
wrote £161,395 of new life business —
£86,866 ordinary and £74,529 industrial.
The year’s income and outgo in the
various sections of the business were as
follows:
Ordinary. Industrial. Accident.
Income£ £ £
Net premiums .. 38,962 74,378 9,975
Interest, etc. .. 4,383 8,367 96
Total .. .. 43,345 82,745 10,071
Outgo:—
Claims ~ . . 21.698 50,826 2,346
Exes 8,350 26,026 5,510
Total .. .. 30,048 76,852 7,856
Excess income .. 13,297 5,893 2,215
Exes, took 21.4 p.e. of net premiums in
the O.D. and 35 p.e. in the I.D. The
proportion of premiums reserved for
exes, at last valuation was 23.3 p.e. O.D.
and 33.4 p.e. I.D. The net effective rate
of interest earned on the mean assurance
fund was £2 18s. p.e. O.D. and £3 ss.
sd. p.e. I.D. But that doesn’t
mean all that it ought, because the funds
fall short of liabilities under policies. The
rate assumed by the actuary in calculat-
ing these liabilities was 4 p.e.
Excluding £119,911 of intangibles
(establishment account), assets and
“^^ e we*.‘L Under at
Govt, and municipal securities
Mortgages .. .. mes •• .. £1457.,
Loans on policies .. ' ’ ‘' • • 74’gaa
Shares other cos. .. ‘ ‘ * • • • 29’fii'
Book debts, etc ’ ’ * ‘ • • ’7o^
Cash .. ; • * > • • • uHi
Freehold .. ’ ‘ • • • • j 8 20
Equipment .. ‘ ‘ " • • •. 74* 2l g
Total . , . _ -
Liabilities (other than under policies) " £244 '992
Net tangibles ..
The auditors say that, in the aggreS
the assets are fully of the value S
m the accounts. The improvement lu ll
net tangible position over the last three
years amounted to £94,957. Still £
whole of the share capital and £209 04?
of the actuarial liability under policiesj
June 30, 1946, were still unrepresented
the books " revenue -P roduci ng assets in
What are the co.’s prospects of main™
up the leeway? The business is sm?ft
expensive. And transfer of the co’shf.
contracts to a solid, regular boaus-payl
hfe office—a possibility provided for
under the Act might not be practicable
without some scaling-down of po H
holders contract rights. The Life In
surance Act of 1945 provides all Z
machinery necessary for dealing with
position that has arisen as between the
co. and its policyholders, but, for reasons
already stated, this machinery is hp.
mobilised at the moment. Meanwhile
best advice to policyholders as a group ii
to continue payment of premiums.
United Provisions, Ltd.
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
rv ~ , m Nominal
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
L £ £ £
1911.. 75,373 8 p.e. 4 p.e. 74,0 00 1,3 73 1 72,902
1942.. 95,776 8 „ 3 „ 04,500 31,476 204,378
1943.. 97,796 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 23,796 228,174
1944. .127,471 8 „ 5 „ 83,500 48,971 272,145
1945. .147,617 8 „ 8 ~112,000 35,617 307,76’
1946. .124,723 8 „ 8 ~112,000 )
To staff funds, £4700 .. .. f 8,023 315,785
1947.. 90,631 8 p.e. 7 p.c.102,500 303,916
Staff fund, £2 42 6 ~ .. .. 301,490
1948.. 62,009 8 p.e. 3 p.e. 64,5 00 298,999
To capital reserve, £19,852 ~ .. 318,851
Currency profit, £19,186 .. .. 338,037
1949. .101,257) 8 p.e. 5 p.e. 83,5 0 0 1 7,7 5 7 3 55,794
* Subject to intangibles, £642,828.
t Subject to revision. 1
This big ham- and bacon-curing, canned
foods and smallgoods manufacturing or-
ganisation—it amalgamated the interests
of J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones in
1927—has been a disappointment to
shareholders. At the start it looked like
an 8 p.e. proposition. But five out of the
11 years to 1938 were dry ones, average
distribution for the period being 2.7 p.e.
—and the co. had built up a substantial
export trade with Britain, Southern and
Eastern Asia and near-by islands. The
trouble lay, and still does, mainly in de-
structive competition. This not only cuts
selling-prices to the bone, but also bumps
up bids for pigs, etc., the market for
which has been affected by seasonal con-
ditions as well. War and controls steadied
the position, and the div. climbed from
3 p.e. in 1939 to 8 p.e. for 1945 and 1946,
followed by 7 p.e., 3 p.e. and 5 p.e. to the
close of last accouhts.
The group, largest of its kind in Aus-
tralasia, operates 11 factories in the Com-
monwealth and three in New Zealand,
and has 13 warehouses scattered through
both countries. Continued shortage
and increased price of livestock, mounting
costs and the absence of a compensating
lift in selling-prices brought net
down with a rush during the two year
to 1948. . ...
The marked improvement m
1949 figure was due partly to a 10'
gain in turnover, to which revival ot t
export trade contributed, and partly 0
more reasonable price-control P° 1
adopted by the States. Still, conditions: m
the ham and bacon trade in Aust
caused George Farmer and Co. (no
subsidiary of Ballarat Products, Lt .)
close down in July last, and it d


re You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
_ Filter
Cylinder
f
TO
guthridge
PT Y., UMITED,
CaßM„i!» r T atta Road.
p Td °Wfl > Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES k COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
For Sale.
Double Drum Logging Winch. Main Rope
liin. Diameter, Tail Rope fin. Diameter,
with a number of Ball Bearing Sheave
Blocks. Apply Box 580 Innisfail, Q'land.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
SPRAY SECTIONS NOW IN
SW
8 ! **s
m
Cttl „ok— W ® .
sW S»o«
sdf
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sections to buy and
to move around 1 Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
ALUMINIUM MAINS AND SECTIONS
Lightweight, durable spray sections and 24 ft. mains, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mains and sections.
SPRAY IRRIGATION IS BEST, AND "RAINBOW" MAKES
THE BEST SPRAY IRRIGATION!
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 'PHONE 8U3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124
Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria: C. BEAUMONT,
64 King St.. Melbourne—MU 5271. South Australia: RALPH
CURRY, 24 Light Sq., Adelaide. 'Phone: C 1065.
60/83.8
sdf
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
ds
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on ball and socket prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
3
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
minimum obstruction in
both outlet and main.
f
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
with vegetation.
Says TOMMY
TRINDER: —
"lucky because your chemist
has Ingrams waiting for you
. . . Ingrams, the cool com-
fortable shaving cream that
is easy on your razor, kind to
your face and economical!
Ves, 120 shaves to the 2/-
jar. From all chemists."
- • . •
urn
mm
urn
HI
mwjS
m
1
mm
Ingram*
SHAVING CREAM.
\The product of Bristol Myers Pty. Limited l
P f?i49B3 (£3672 in 1948) on
of . £ i 4 f 9 assets and was written
sa e for depreciation
Pr oU V e
iomnfK) of ord. capital as
« 7 , 5.7, 9.3 and 11.7 p.c.
b£k to 1945. During the year
reserves benefited by an un-
earned capital profit of £19,852
and a currency profit of £19,186
on undistributed earnings of sub-
sidiary interests in New Zealand,
owing to appreciation of the
N Z pound early in the term.
The £355,794 of reserves is sub-
ject to £642,828 of intangibles,
thus leaving £287,034 (6s. Id. per
share) of the ord. capital un-
represented by tangibles in the
books. A reorganisation of the
capital account might prove
beneficial to both shareholders
and the co. in the long run.
To finance recent growth in
stocks and book debts, due to
rising prices and growth of turn-
over, the co. has had to lean sub-
stantially upon its bankers:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1.400,000 1,400,000 1,400,000
Outside In-
terest .. / 1,035
°':r aa 174,279 400,702 531,857
ot tors Uedl . 158,909 219,342 192,227
Suspense a/e 5,172 2,228
Freeholds.. 342,226 341,285 350,101
Plant etc. . 167,943 177,605 202,966
stock.’ .. 638,869 877,585 988,917
Debtors .. 278,121 348,878 398,292
Cash, etc... 31,141 32,179 21,476
intangibles* 641,632 641,652 642,282
Suspense a/c 47,601
* Mainly difference between book-value
and par value of inter-00. shareholdings.
Last term £131,155 was added to
the overdraft, £111,332 to stocks
and £49,919 to book debts. Net
addition to fixed assets was
£34,177, due partly to the cur-
rency factor already mentioned.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£682,373) was £49,452 stronger
than at the previous balance.
The market, doubtful of what
the future holds for those in the
trade, prices the f.-p. pound
ords. at 15s. 6d. as against
16s. 3d. three months ago. At
the lower figure the return is 6.5
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
8 p.c. prefs. at 295. 6d. yield
5.4 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 495. sd. prefs.
and 13s. lid. ords. ,
Dittmer Gold-Mines, Ltd.
This co. has just left the slips
in Sydney with a nominal capi-
tal of £400,000 in 2s. 6d. shares,
of which 2,000,000 (underwrit-
ten by G. D. Wharton at Ijd. a
share) were offered and quickly
taken by the public, and 800,000
paids, plus £197,000 cash, go to
Iha venc * or - The remaining
4U«,000 shares are in pickle,
•he co. thus kicks off with an
issued capital of £350,000, of
which £40,000 will remain as
working capital after paying pre-
liminary exes. (£500) and broker-
age (£12,500).
In return for the £297,000 in
scrip and cash naid to the ven-
nors the co. gets a 70-ton-a-day
trea t men t plant, together with
P werhouse, buildings, mining
qu'pment stores and dam esti-
mated to be worth £lBO,OOO and
on which over £lOO,OOO
ds been spent on development.
etc. It contains 115,000 tons
broken ore, averaging a wink
under 7dWt, and 32,000 tons of
developed and partly-developed
ore, averaging lldwt. There is
thus 57,6000 z. gold in sight, and
the ore contains some copper
and silver as well.
The prospectus puts gross
value of the gold at approxi-
mately £850,000, equal to a 95.2
p.c. recovery, and estimates
aggregate mining and treatment
costs at £300,000, an average of
40s. lOd. a ton. That leaves the
aggregate estimated working
profit at £550,000, equal to 157
p.c. on capital, or 3s. lid. per
2s. 6d. share. On a throughput
of 400 tons a day, say, 30,000
tons a year, there is about five
years’ certain work ahead of the
mill. Working profit would thus
be £llO,OOO p.a., or over 31 p.c/
on present issued capital, and
subject to administrative costs,
taxation and expenditure on de-
velopment, etc.
The mine, which is at Ditt-
mer, about 14 miles from Pros-
erpine (N.Q.), is rich, narrow
and patchy. The lode is a well-
defined fissure, averaging 4ft. to
'sft. in width, ancl traceable for
1200 ft., with high-grade sulphide
bands traversing the vein. The
main shaft is down 60ft. below
No. 7 level, and in ore all the
way. Chief speculative aspect
of the float is the possibility of
pay ore continuing at depth
and of finding parallel and pay-
able lodes. Geological features
and the fact that the gold is
primary lend color to both pos-
sibilities. But in this class of
formation drilling is of limited
value, which means prospecting
mostly by driving and sinking,
which are very expensive.
Prospecting on the leases be-
gan in 1935, since when they
have yielded 52,2500 z. gold, 30Q
tons copper and 30,0000 z. silver.
Picked ore was freighted to Chil-
lagoe, Mt. Morgan and Port
Kembla for treatment. The
mill, just installed, is now being
run-in, and throughput is ex-
pected to be 60 tons a day in
May. The figure is scheduled
to reach 100 tons a day when
additional plant, now on order,
is installed.
On the board are Dr. Ditt-
mer, A. S. P. Sangster and G. B.
Lean,
Central Norseman Gold Corp.,
Norseman (W.A.), of whose
£650,000 of paid capital Western
Mining Corp. holds 50.5 p.c.,
has taken an option over the
Mount, near Widgiemooltha,
about 56 miles from Norseman.
Preliminary sampling has shown
attractive values, and under-
ground prospecting is about to
begin. If the option is exercised
ore is to be railed to the central
mill alongside the Phoenix mine
at Norseman. Here throughput
has just been stepped up from
130,000 tons p.a. to 155,000 tons
p.a., and presently is to be
further lifted to about 200,000
tons p.a. The main shaft to
handle ore from the northern
end of the Mararoa vein has
been completed at a cost of
£135,000, and is in operation to
the 2500 ft. level (1690 ft. verti-
cal). A new winder, expected to
cost £30,000, is to be added later.
The Princess Royal, where two
new ore-bodies have been dis-
covered, and Lady Miller leases
are now contributing to the feed,
future value of which is expected
to range from 100 s. to 120 s. a
ton, with gold at its present price,
and costs are not expected to
exceed 70s. a ton. Since 1943,
when the co. paid its first div..
shareholders have received
£780,000; the last 9d. a share
was sent out in December, 1949.
The market now prices the scrip
at 18s, as against 9s. a year ago.
* * * *
Linden (W.A.) Gold N.L. is
asking the contribs, to dredge up
another 3d, a share (£2000),
making the scrip paid to ss. 6d.
The money is wanted to further
prospect the old Queen of the
May mine, Yundamindera,
North Coolgardie field, over
which a 12-months free-working
option has been taken from
Koolgardie syndicate, which has
dewatered the shaft to 35ft. be-
low the 130 ft. level. Recent
samples averaged 3oz. to the
ton, but what the bulk value of
the ore will be and how much
of it there will be to treat re-
main to be proved.


mu came to !SSO
(From the " Illustrated
London News," 1850.)
mm
Yd® c w tow ted fa t&SO
FOR THE
CANTERBURY N.Z.
CENTENNIAL
CELEBRATIONS
Note the Dotes: AUGUST, 1950, to JULY, 1951.
Events include: N.Z. Industries Fair; N.Z. Grand National Steeple-
chase, Winter Cup, etc.; N.Z. Trotting Cup, etc.; Maori Sports
and Hui; N.Z. Centennial Galloping and Trotting Cups; Royal
Centennial Show; National Symphony Orchestra Season; Speedway,
N.Z. v. Australia; Centennial Amusemeftt Park; Replicas of
Lyttelton Landing and other historic events; Spectacular Proces-
sions; Old-time Musical Festival; Plunket Shield Cricket; Centen-
nial Games (International); River Carnival; Art Exhibition; Monster
Fireworks Display; Horticultural Pageant and Show; Inter-Dominion
Trotting Championships; Military Pageant; National Highland and
Pipe Bands Championships; Choral Concert Season; Cricket, M.C.C.
v. Canterbury, etc., etc.
CANTERBURY
CENTmill
For programme and
accommodation informa-
tion enquire at leading
Travel Agencies, or write
" The Organiser," Box
237, Christchurch, N.Z.
For Sale.
PARTS FOR ALL MAKES
Cars, Trucks, Planes, Machines.
BETTER PARTS
Box 604, G.P.0., Sydney.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSON 4
OSUUJVAtf
WXITO
y l7 ■'tfossias*; V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
"national” rotary duplicators
“protecta” self-registering -
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS _
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMEK*
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
"jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
dsf
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend- ___
ed by thousands. self'
Call or send stamp for ■ ’ pree
measurement form and it
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE ca
(Dept. 27), » Martin Place, W
B
m
Oo
d
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Picture-shows in Uniform
“T.M.F.” writes: So we’re
going to get more “consoli-
dation of interests” by the big
cinema chains —this I gather
from your last balance-sheet re-
view (B. 15/ 3 /’so)—more of a
process that has already brought
stagnation and dullness to film-
exhibiting and is insulting the
mentality of suburban picture-
goers. . .
My case is typical. Living in
a western suburb of Sydney,
handy to the railway, I have,
theoretically, a choice of 16
different theatres within an easy
half-hour’s travel. And I be-
long to the quite large class of
people who discriminate (if we
can) in favor of films that are
really “suitable for adults” —
that is, by cerebral standards.
But, in fact, I don’t have a
choice of more than two pro-
grammes on most evenings from
all those theatres. It is either
one circuit’s offering, or the
other circuit’s, or nothing. Each
of the two programmes is evi-
dently designed to command the
maxffnum “popular” appeal, but
even that is not guaranteed,
since there is no competition.
All of Sydney submits to this
process of standardised amuse-
ment as it comes over in a
sequence of bi-weekly waves.
For zoning purposes the film
Caesars seem to have divided the
metropolitan area into three
parts, like Gaul. A new pro-
gramme, consisting of the main
picture and support, usually
makes its first appearance on the
northern horizon. When I
notice sympathetically in the
newspaper that all residents of
the North Shore are undergoing
the arboreal impulses of Tar-
zan or one of those drawn-out
seductions of the coy Mr. Van
Johnson, then it is safe to pre-
dict that the same fate will
descend immediately after-
wards in one blow on all the
eastern suburbs together, and,
finally, upon myself in the west.
If there were some let-out for
people who wanted different en-
tertainment this wouldn’t matter,
but there is none. The grip of
the big circuit duopoly seems to
stretch indirectly beyond the 70
or so suburban theatres they
actually run.
I don’t know the inner work-
ing of film rentals and controls,
nor do I want to be unfair to
the circuits, which would no
doubt put up a case of financial
necessity for their methods. But
this flat monotony won’t even
bring them financial advantage
in the long run. As it is, v some,
of the mid-week screenings in
big houses are being sat through
by no more than a dozen
people, and shortly there will be
the further serious challenge
from television.
The dead hand of this tied-
house system is apparent in the
city as well as the suburbs.
Many front-rank pictures suffer
long delays before a first-release
can be arranged, whilst inferior
stuff comes through.
In Sydney, where another
species of tied-house system
seems to have wrecked the
chances of decent after-dark
community living for a genera-
tion at least, the suburban
theatres are really left with a
special responsibility. Given
imaginative management they
could be a vital influence in a
communal development which
would be to their own advantage.
The present defensive, exclusive
policy is not good enough. The
circuits could best remedy things
themselves—they have shown
plenty of public spirit in other
directions in the past. Other-
wise the authorities should take
a leaf from the copybook of the
United States Government,
which has smashed the big chain
monopolies and insisted on
separate ownership for film pro-
duction, film-renting and film-
exhibiting.
Maoriland Shareholdings
If lifting of capital-issues
control in Australia releases a
spate of new shares and bonuses.
New Zealand investors will be
racking their brains to think out
ways of negotiating the exchange
bottleneck and 20 p.c. difference
in the pound to take advantage
of favorable offers. M.L.’s Re-
serve Bank, unable to hold out
much prospect of help, has got
in early and told N.Z. share-
holders in Commonwealth cos.
that they’ll be limited to four
avenues in taking up their
quotas: (1) by using funds, in-
cluding divs., they’ve accumu-
lated in Australia; (2) by selling
“rights”; (3) by selling other
Australian securities and assets
and putting the proceeds into
shares ; (4) by selling “rights” in
N.Z. and transferring the cash.
Reserve Bank heads lay it down
that their O.K. must be given
before embarking on any of
these cash-raising moves.
There might be a thinly veiled
aim in all this to entrap Maori-
landers into disclosing how much
“hot money,” probably a wad
running into millions, stands to
their credit in the Common-
wealth ; if so, they’ll be cagey.
The avenues are the same as a
couple of years or so ago, when
something like a brick wall
began to loom up in the way of
transfers from Maoriland to
Australia. Expansion by A.C.1.,
Woolworths and G. J. Coles have
now ’forced transfer problems
right into the centre of the stage,
because shares in these cos. are
among the most widely held of
Australian issues in M.L.’s in-
vestment market.
Back in 1948 the Reserve Bank
unbent and perhaps set a pre-
cedent. It gave holders of
Woolworths, Sydney, shares the
option of paying subscription-
money in N.Z. currency to
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd., agent
for the Australian parent, when
the previous issue was on the
market, if they had no liquid or
“ The Joint Coal Board may be right , but I can't see
how this'll produce more coal."
easily marketable assets in the
Commonwealth, so that full
quotas could be taken up with-
ou t sacrifice, Maorilapders
are now asking themselves
whether the Reserve Bank will
go this far again.
Another case that might be
useful in bolstering-up a plea for
concessions if hard-pressed is
B.H.P.’s big £7-million issue last
year, when M.L. exchange-
control was relaxed to give New
Zealanders with no funds to
draw on across the Tasman a
chance to dip into the
Dominion’s exchange pool, and
holders of 100 or fewer shares
were not called on to cash-in on
Australian securities.
Labor-Socialists were in the
saddle then. Today the “free-
enterprise” Holland Govern-
ment should be more sympa-
thetic, but its handicap is the
stickiness of M.L.’s over-all ex-
change problem. Still, with these
experiences to cite, Maorilanders
who can’t make the grade when
it comes to buying popular new
Australian issues may be going
cap in hand to the R.B. once
more.
Until the Reserve Bank’s
policy is made known Australian
investors won’t be sure of the
strength of the “rights” market
for A.C.1., Woolworths, etc., on
their side of the Tasman, since
there may be forced selling if
Maoriland-held rights have to be
dumped.
Coles Lays Off Macduffs
After putting the measuring-
rod over Macduffs, Ltd., the
half-million-pound “baby” of
N.Z. chain-store groups, execu-
tive heads of G. J. Coles and
Co., Melbourne, * weren’t im-
pressed enough to want to buy
the show, so talks of a merger
are off. Coles are convinced
they can do better by putting all
their eggs in the Australian
basket.
There was a flutter in Mac-
duffs’ shares while the issue was
in doubt, and they jumped from
a ’49 low point of 9s. lOd. to an
end-of-year peak of 13s, on N.Z.
exchanges. In the opening
couple of months of 1950 the
price settled a bit, and on March
9 came a report of a drop in
net profit (to Dec. 31) to £27,467,
against £40,481 in ’4B, and a
cut in ordinary div. from 10 p.c.
to 6 p.c. Investors who had
fancy ideas of the value of the
scrip a couple of months earlier
would have^ been glad to! take
10s. (twice face value). ( n its
life of only 12 years the c<3. has
had its ups and downs, and has
something to learn from suc-
cesses based on skilful buying
shrewd appraisal of the market
and ability to keep a finger on
the pulse of public spending.
Early in its career Macduffs
had an almost disastrous experi-
ence of overbuying when public
purse-strings were abruptly
tightened, and there were years
in which not a penny div. could
be paid on the ords. That, how-
ever, could be attributed to im-
maturity or youthful irrespon-
sibility, and should be viewed
in proper perspective when
assessing prospects now.


Legal Notice.
BURLES address unknown.—
I ARE NOTICE that MILDRED BIJRLES
a[ P° J^ 0 , maB Street West Perth in the
Wtate of Western Australia Married Woman
claiming to be lawfully married to you
has commenced an action and filed a
claim against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia (Matrimonial
uses No. 56 of 1950) for dissolution
of marriage If you desire to defend
me said action you must within 40 clear
ays after the date of the publication
of this Notice file in the Central Office
? l‘ e S T/ me Court Perth a Statement
or your defence to the Plaintiff’s claim
uhini. Counter Claim for any relief to
are entitled In default of
you so doing the said MILDRED BURLES
mav n^ eed -i n the action and the Court
given in 1 , eVlde, l ce and judgment may be
UefcLi y our absence Any Statement of
address w ? 18 Sled must specify an
(! I’ n than ~ mile from the
all f„L,;„ ert “,. at which service on you of
action , n ° tlces and proceedings in the
o W" y be . made A COPY of the Writ
JSM W n th l he statem ent of Claim
charge obtained by you free of
tioned °e .fPPbcation to the undermen-
KOTT f9 h «!° r r , for the Plaintiff.—M.
Solicitor 6 # & t. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Pebruarv for 10 * be Plaintiff.-Dated 27th
195- Q j BOYLSON,
Registrar.
fv-TK Pivorce Notice*.
T Smn A E L *g C “™ T or hei
»»aiiKss
SVELYN n A P m NOTICE tin
Divorce No , as flied Petition fc
desertion 19 t, 49 ° n the grounds c
three years anH 1 JUst S ause or exeuse fc
defend’ mav P T dB If you wish ‘
the Divoren » ay - f nter an appearance i
Street Svmnev g K Btr ?u Supreme Court Kin
1651) and obtain' 7 n thC 29t e day of Ma
without eW COpy of the Petitio
CUPIT Snßn! from ALLAN ERNES
Sydney-J? l^ tor i’ TT I29 Pitt Stree
in Divorce. * J ‘ DOUGHA N, Registry
Z ?OUTH UP wSs °? U^ T 0F NEI
T? CHRISTINA YOn^^V
DAROLD°ROSS~iTRJW' x, NOTICE a e tha
°r excuse for tw n wlthout just caus
If you wish to /^ rs and upward
enter an a ™ d ° fend this suit you ma
Registry arJ r? ce itt the Divorc
ney bv y t he P 29th H° Urt # King Street s y<
obtain a conv of °l May an
charge fron/’ tr r iw 6 Petition wither
Solicitor 17 lioit ERNEST CUPII
(L.s.) ’j 0t Street, Sydney.-
Divorce. COHAN, Registrar i
THE
WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Account*
M LV ng Ac «vitie,
PRICE 2/-
< lhe
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England)
SYDNEY
ROYAL SHOW
Ist to 12th April, 1950
The Bonk conducts an Agency at the
Show for the convenience of customers
and friends who are cordially invited to
make use of this facility.
The Agency is located in the Hordern
Pavilion, Park Road, near the main
entrance.
r-k
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia # New Te aland
1
From small farm to broad-acres
FORDSON
FARMS AUSTRALIA
There’s a tractor in the British
Fordson Major Range to handle
your implements.
1. THE FAMOUS FORDSON MAJOR
KEROSENE-FUELLED TRACTOR
Positively the lowest-priced tractor per h.p.
rating. Delivers more power per gallon of
kerosene, due to 5 exclusive design features.
3-Way Power (drawbar, belt or power-take-off)
supplies mobile power for every job on the farm.
2. THE MAJOR “ ROW - CROP ”
MODEL.
(not illustrated). Adequate ground clearance.
Front and rear tracks adjustable from 48" to
72". Independent rear brakes. Available on
steel wheel or rubber tyres. Kerosene powered.
3. THE (D-G) ROADLESS i TRACK
KEROSENE or DIESEL TRACTOR
The interlocked track links form on the ground
a rigid, curved track like a section of a wheel
20 ft. in diameter —giving increased ground
adhesion, cutting rolling resistance and lowering
fuel consumption. Ideal for hillsides, sugar
cane areas and heavy, wet soil.
4. THE NEW B-l-G DIESEL-
POWERED FORDSON
AVAILABLE IN TWO GEAR RATIOS
THE SPECIAL RATIO for soil conditions where tongb
going and the implements used demand increased pounds
pull at the drawbar.
THE STANDARD RATIO for use where soil conditions
and implements allow increased miles per hour and
where less pounds pull at the drawbar is necessary.
In official Nebraska—type tests, at rated load (75% of
maximum), and in second gear, comparisons ate as
follows I—
SPECIAL RATIO STANDARD RATIO
Drawbar M.P.H. Drawbar Drawbar M.P.H. Drawbar
pull lb*. HP pull lbs.
3,000 3.5 28.4 2,300 4.6 28.3
*QU* lS
HO*#
10
9 V£P#
to**
ITIOW
m
yiCONP
m
Hi*
UltT
:?>xi
?0
fO*
i
FM9IOA-27
Enquire from your State Distributors:
uc w »».MotoP Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369*385 \Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA; Malcolrn
Moore Pty Ltd , 300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND:—Buzacott’s (QMd.)
Ltd . 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA:-Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie
St., Adelaide. WEST AUST.:—Lynas Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay St., Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTjftAMft PTY. lIP. (INC. IN YIC.(. HOWCgOSH, N.S.W,
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
W reached the end
W^ ntCr tenure and is now
of handing over to spring,
markedly na » raw and
Breakfast-ti , nippy cool-
dank ’ S* is enlivened^ by pale
nCSS J»m and the chirruping of
sunbeams orkers are the
Sr for returning home with
h P ?ram of daylight. The pink-
““white flourish ot almond
Wn«om defies the stony drab-
ness of street and terrace. Many
narks and commons are soggy
and, with fuller employment
elsewhere, show lack of care,
although not to the extent of
robbing the weekender of his
sight of crocuses in bloom. The
well-known banks and lawns are
there for all to see, and the first
warm Sunday afternoon sug-
gested that nobody stayed away,
After the thirteenth - hour
election excitement and the
pageantry of the French visit an
urgent feeling that the nation
should get down to business is
inescapable. The coming months
promise to spare us neither worry
nor trouble. That fearsome
bogey-man to every household,
the cost of living, threatens to
encroach more and more upon
personal comfort and enjoyment,
The full Effects of devaluation
have not yet been felt, but they
are as certain as they are de-
ferred. There lies the main per-
sonal worry, at present below
surface, that gnaws at British
families. Setting aside such
obvious national problems as the
defence estimates and the mount-
ing national health-service costs,
there is abundant evidence of a
rising tide of trouble over wage-
claims. It remains to be
seen whether the Mother of
Parliaments can show her worth
and overcome the instability
which the present composition
might suggest.
One thing is apparent: the
electorate’s sweeping rebuttal of
avowed and crypto-Communists,
and also of many wild men of
the Left, points to bitter and
calculated revenge. Perhaps;
but as the Communists can
hardly have expected to save
many deposits, let alone win
seats, it is not beyond possibility
that their 100 candidates were
a deliberate blind, to draw atten-
tion away from their less obvious
activities.
Left About or Left Out?
It is perhaps a little unfair of
the Beaverbrook Press to couple
the name of Mr. John Strachey,
wealthy shareholder, intellectual,
one-time theoretician of the far
Left and now Secretary of State
for War in his Majesty’s Govern-
ment, with Dr. Klaus Fuchs,
dazzlingly brilliant physicist,
“gentlemanly and inoffensive”
colleague, converted lover of
Britain —and many-sided traitor.
But it has set people thinking
and talking, which, no doubt, is
what the “Evening Standard” in-
tended.
What is the imputation? Is
the argument that because Dr.
Fuchs was, like his faith, un-
avoidably subservient to Soviet
Russia, therefore that the same
attitude might be inferred of Mr.
Strachey, well-known for his
Marxist writings? Mr. Attlee
and Mr. Strachey have both
denied the charge, and, on the
face of it, their sincerity is un-
questionable.
The main points about the
Fuchs case, after the appalling
and frightful consequences of his
action, are that he is an un-
balanced man (not necessarily a
handicap to scientific work), that
he has thrown a cloud over many
worthy and thankful aliens who
have found refuge in this
country, and that his background
—he was an avowed Com-
munist while taking doctorates
at two British universities —was
known to the security authorities.
This last factor has wrought
damage to Britain’s good name
in the United States.
But we are still left with the
fact that had there been no Dr.
Fuchs —and how we wish there
hadn’t! Mr. Strachey still
would be Minister for War. That
office seems now to be a pre-
serve for Ministers who haven’t
quite made the grade (compare
Mr. Shinwell after his bungling
the fuel crisis of 1947). What-
ever-Mr. Strachey has felt in the
past, whether he has retracted,
whether he really believes that
the Red light means danger or
indeed whether his Prime
Minister and the moderates
genuinely mean to bow to the
recorded censure of the elec-
torate —all amount to little. The
pith of the matter is that Mr.
Strachey does not promote con-
fidence as Minister of Food,
Minister of War or Minister of
anything else ; and equally is this
true of other old-established
Socialists in the reshuffle.
Theatre Walkabout
A most welcome recrudescence
of native British energy is to be
noticed in the world of the
theatre. Established play-
wrights whose latest works have
opened, or are shortly due for
presentation, include Frederick
Lonsdale (“The Way Things
Go”), Terence Rattigan (“Who
Is Sylvia?”), Emlyn Williams
(“Accolade”) and Esther Mc-
Cracken (“Cry Liberty”).
“Pommy,” by W. P. Lipscomb
and John Watson, brings the
outback to London next month.
The Stratford-on-Avon season
has opened with “Measure for
Measure”; the company is a
strong one, including John Giel-
gud and Peggy Ashcroft.
While it may not be usual to
associate that awesome figure,
the Official Receiver, with sym-
pathy or lenience towards the
Arts, it is comforting to know
that he is all tenderness where
the affairs of the “Boltons”
theatre are concerned. In
liquidation because of the drain
of entertainments tax, this gal-
lant “Little” theatre has been
able, with civic and stellar sup-
port, to come to an understand-
ing with the Customs and Excise
authorities which should ensure
its proud survival.
There’s nothing new under
the proscenium arch, as well as
under the sun. A return of the
old flaunting don’t-give-a-damn
expressionism of the ’twenties
has caused a mild stir in town,
C. E. Webber’s “Man of the
World” (Lyric, Hammersmith) is
at once puzzling and illuminat-
ing, absurd and compelling, out-
rageous and clear. Episodes in
the life of an international
financier, who finally escapes a
sentence of death for treachery
by being certified insane, are
portrayed by retrogressive flash-
backs ; characters come out of
their parts, preach to the audi-
ence and apostrophise. People
talk too much and too wordily.
Almost all seem slightly un-
hinged, if not actually mad, yet
this topsy-turvydom somehow
contrives to glue audiences with
keen apprehension to their seats.
Responsibility for the show’s
fascination must undoubtedly
go to the producer, Ken Tynan,
who is a newcomer only recently
down from Oxford. There, it is
said, he brought color and
originality to the alleged highly
serious academic scene in
the tradition of some of the
literary “bloods” of the ’twen-
ties. Whether that was a good
or a bad thing to do is of no
concern here: but the theatre,
with its present tendencies to be
“safe” and formal, is all the
richer and livelier for such in-
souciant sparkle.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The vagaries of Melbourne weather
were responsible for the mixed dressing
at the first of the three garden-parties
given by the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
and Lady Brooks at Government House.
Still, the sun made handsome amends
later in the day. The Governor's lady
wore a silk frock printed in two tones of
blue and white; her large hat was of
white straw. Her daughter Jeanette
topped with a large white hat her white
orchid-printed silk frock. Wife of the
Premier, Mrs. Hollway, wore a simply-cut
beige woollen suit and a featured match-
ing cloche. Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh’s
Jacques Path suit was of taupe-grey
taffeta; forget-me-not-blue lined the
winged cuffs, the same shade being used
in the head-hugging hat. A very pretty
frock was worn by Pat Christie. Of
brown shantung, it was heavily em-
broidered in white flowers ; her large hat
was of black Bangkok straw. Mrs.
D. Stewart contrasted an ink-blue tweed
suit with a small white felt hat veiled and
banded in navy,
Apple-green ripple-crepe fashioned the
frock Mrs. Gordon Byron Moore wore
with a large nafipral straw hat. Mrs. L. J.
McConnan’s jacket-suit was pastel-blue,
and her small feathered hat and gloves
were in the same toning. A Christian
Dior suit in beech-brown angora was
Mrs. Stewart Clyne’s choice. Mrs. G.
Lansell gained smart effect with a
Chartreuse bolero - suit and large
cinnamon-brown hat. Mrs. R. Lansell’s
navy gabardine suit carried London-tan
beret and accessories. Mrs. Iris Clarke
was in navy-and-white-spotted taffetas
and matching hat. Mrs. Fred Gilder’s
powder-blue crepes were notable. Barbara
Sloman’s frock was of orchid-pink faille ;
her matching pineapple straw hat was
trimmed with sky-blue satin bows. Judith
Silk’s poker-red suit had for company
a jaunty leopard-skin cap. Her mother,
Mrs. A. Silk, was in black faille. Mrs.
Peter Condon wore pale grosgrain with
her large natural straw hat. Lady Syme’s
black laces and picture-hat made an
elegant combination. Mrs. Louis Sall-
mann’s donkey-brown woollen frock had
a velvet skirt-panel, collar and cuffs ; her
hat was a large winter-white felt. Her
daughter Pamela’s frock was of silver-
grey angora ; with it went a Parma-violet
velvet cloche.
Heavy rain and violent wind made the
holding of the second and third of the
Government House garden-parties impos-
sible, and these have now been postponed
until March 31 and April 1. It is the
wish of the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
and Lady Brookes, that those who re-
ceived invitations will attend on those
days, and if unable to do so, will please
notify.
Women scribes foregathered at the in-
vitation of the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J S.
Disney, in the Town Hall reception-
room, where a representative committee
paid tribute to two women, Judy Garrard
and Beth Thwaites, who have forsaken
the pen; Judy to take on a full-time job
as housewife and Beth to raise chickens
on a property she and her husband have
bought at Lower Plenty. Mrs. Gordon
Chirnside, in dove-grey and matching
hat, spoke of the part the two guests-of-
honor had played in giving publicity to
various charitable functions. The Lady
Mayoress then made presentation of
flowers and handsome cheques to Judy
and Beth. Mrs. Disney’s black frock
featured a floating panel at the back of
the skirt; her small pink grosgrain cap
had pink roses clustered at one side.
Lady Clapp added to her black frock a
beige felt hat upturned and swathed with
a matching ostrich-feather plume. A
picture-hat of black tulle was worn by
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith with a simple
tailored black frock. The Angliss lady’s
florals were in brown tonings. Mrs. K.
Walker’s pink hat matched the scarf worn
with her black frock. Mrs. T. J. Ryan
teamed a silver-grey tailored frock and
wide-brimmed white straw hat. Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain offset her grey frock with
a small red hat finished with a black cocq-
feather mount. Judy’s pretty pink tulle
hat with its trimming of matching roses
was worn with a black frock. Beth, who
was hatless, wore a hyacinth-blue crepe
frock under a full-skirted black wool
crepe coat.
Mrs. Geoffrey Damman was hostess of
a party given for her sister Mrs. Hayford
Enwall, who shortly returns to her home
in Florida, U.S.A. Mrs. Enwall, who was
in the A.A.M.W.S. during the war, was
the first woman officer to marry an
American Army officer, and she has been
back in this city visiting her family. Her
husband is District Attorney in Gaynes-
ville, Florida. Mrs. Damman’s royal-blue
moire taffeta ballerina frock had a cluster
of* pink roses in the bodice. The guest-
of-honor allied a black taffeta bodice and
a black white-diamond-patterned taffeta
skirt. Black sequins trimmed Mrs. Bill
Wilson’s black crepe frock. Mrs. Fay
Friend’s powder-blue frock was pleated.
Mrs. Athol Shmith wore with her grey
ensemble a small black beret. Verna
Shmith’s navy taffeta frock had a match-
ing blue lace yoke. Helen Sherwin’s rust-
toned taffeta frock featured a portrait
neckline. Mrs. Colin Stansfield’s beige
frock had gold accessories.
Already designers are at work on the
fashions for next sprifig and summer. It
seems it will be a season for the shantung
dress worn with a matching sweater.
There will be casual tailored necklines for
night and day and pleated skirts for
almost everything. The return of the shirt
waist frock is forecast, and there will be
fresh white collars and cuffs on practically
every dress. The straight look will be
the most fashionable, but the full, flared
skirt will* also be popular. Frocks will have
the bare camisole top and be worn with
a matching jacket. The dress with the
bare arm and high neckline will be the
thing for day or night. Stockings will be
paler and the new colors are all pastels.
Honey-gold, bright-red, pale-pink and
oyster-white are likely to be among the
most popular.
Charmian Jacka is busy taking lessons
in ballet-dancing for the part of Anitra in
the University Dramatic Club’s presenta-
tion of “Peer Gynt,” which opens at the
Union Theatre on April 1. Charmian has
done 4 three years of drama at the Con-
servator ium, and as well as working in
her father’s office is doing a Fine Arts
course at the University, and for the past
three months has had* three rehearsals a
week. For the first time Des Connor
will use his own invention, projection
scenery, in “Peer Gynt.” Elizabeth
Rickelson is making Charmian’s costume
for her dance.
At the party given at the Delphic in
honor of her daughter Angela Mrs. J. V.
Fairbairn wore a gown of black slipper-
satin with sequins at the neckline. Angela
wore gold-spotted black tulle mounted
on taffeta. The fitted bodice had an off-
the-shoulder neckline finished with a tulle
ruffle, whilst the skirt was made .on
bouffant lines. Jeanette Brooks came
with a small party from Government
House. Geoffrey Fairbairn came up
from Mt. Elephant, Skipton, to help with
the entertaining. Also from the country
were Mary Austin, Mary Manifold, Judith
Armytage,' Louise Landale and Robina
Russell.
Threatening weather and a high wind
for Flemington on Saturday, with a rash
of highly-colored raincoats breaking out.
Of necessity the dressing was generally
drab, though there were bright spots here
and there. A tweed suit in grey and
turquoise-blue and a small amber-toned
upturned felt hat was Mrs. Arthur Laver’s
contribution to sartorial neatness. An
ensemble which combined cinnamon-
brown and black, worn by Mrs, Henry
Rosenthal, was another smart touch. Her
daughter,. Mrs. P. D. Phillips, was in a
brown corded-velvet coat and small
banana felt cloche. Florence Kaufman,
of U.S.A., wore a gay little tartan swing-
back jacket oyer, her grey suit; her black
velvet cap flew a frontal plume. Mrs.
Keith Bostock’s jacket-suit was in junior-
navy. Mrs. Frank Herman’s grey suit
was topped by a matching hat. Mrs.
Max Welsh contrasted her grey suit with
a duck-egg-blue velour hat and a cash-
mere scarf of yellow and white.
From Sydney
In point of size the party given by the
women members of the Royal Empire
Society was a sonorous gloria to Mrs.
R. G. Menzies, but there were so many
women —hundreds of them —that the
dignified proportions of the club’s old-
fashioned drawing-room were completely
hidden. Short of singing “The Conquer-
ing Hero” everything had been done to
make this a glittering occasion for the
wife of the Prime Minister. Flower
decorations were of a size and beauty
suitable for the rooms. There was even
a crimson carpet laid down in the halls.
Before half the procession of women
entering had passed along, it developed
a tendency to cockle. Still, it was a bright
rivulet of color along the corridors.
The first part of the afternoon was
given over to welcoming the guest-of-
honor on the platform of the lecture hall
upstairs. Then, to a packed audience,
Mrs. Menzies told of personalities she had
met on her last visit to England. Tea
and handshakes in the drawing-room
were presided over by Mrs. Percy Spender,
whose husband is president of the
Empirians, Mrs. F, Manning, from
whose Bundanoon gardens came the
afternoon’s glorious flowers, Mrs. Keigh-
ley and Miss Elizabeth Plummer. But
even in the midst of the gaiety Mrs.
Menzies thought of the gas-stove at The
Lodge in need of repair, and the new
parts for which she had sought in the one
hour of shopping her Sydney programme
had permitted her. With her afternoon
frock of dove-grey Mrs. Menzies wore
a small off-the-face black hat. Her
presentation flowers were a great spray
of frangipani.
Just before the war-gong sounded in
1939 a great international women’s
hockey tournament was planned. It was
to take place in England, and a team
from Australia was to take part. But,
of course, there was no International
tournament that year. Today, in the
Arawa, one of three Australian dele-
gates sails for South Africa, where the
delayed tournament will be played. Olive
Burrell, hon. secretary of the N.S.W.
Women’s Hockey Association, who was
to have travelled with the 1939 team,
Edna Buckton, of Newcastle, and Mrs.
Page, of Tasmania, are the three. The
teams taking part are from England,
America, Scotland, Wales, Ireland and
South Africa. Transport difficulties
(nothing to do with Mr. Winsor) have
prevented an Australian team from going.
The Australian delegates will land at
Cape Town, and then journey to Johan-
nesburg, where the big events will be
played off. The tour also takes in
Southern Rhodesia, and a visit to the
famed Victoria Falls. Last night every
hockey enthusiast in Sydney turned up
at C.E.N.E.F. memorial centre, where a
farewell party was given to Olive Burrell
and Edna Buckton, who is vice-president
of the Newcastle Association. Mrs.
Madge Page, vice-president of the South
Tasmanian women’s hockey, was toasted,
though still in Tasmania. There are
diamonds evidently in them thar mines
yet. All teams will be the guests of the
South African association. The South
African Railways arranged the tour and
put a train at the disposal of the hockey
contestants.
Thelma Yeo, the well-liked hon. sec-
retary of the English-Speaking Union,
will be absent from her Sydney haunts
for 12 months. Last Saturday Maloja
bore her off to England, with Europe as
a sideline. Devonshire, where all the
Yeos come from, is Thelma’s main ob-
jective. In her absence Mrs. George
Rankin will take over the duties of hon.
secretary to the union. Mrs. Rankin,
\who is assistant-secretary of the Society
of Women Writers, has been associated
with E.-S.U. for many years, and Was the
founder of its literary circle.
White gladioli, white dahlias and asters
and a cloud of Michaelmas daisies decor-
ated the reception-rooms at Rosemont,
the Darling Point home of the Charles
Lloyd Jones couple last Friday evening.
They were the right floral background
for a wedding celebration, and the
arranging had all been done by Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones, the aunt of bride
Phyllis Hughes. Phyllis, now the wife
of Richard Gordon Fraser Kalberer, had
for her wedding garment a silver beige
suit with stiffened basque, three-quarter
sleeves, and an almost ankle-length skirt
that floated to a panel at the back. Her
hat, a tiny white cloche, had for trimming
silver-grey mercury’ wings. Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones entertained a family
party after the ceremony in St. Stephen s
in Macquarie-street.
The C.W.A. Thursday teas are in full
cry in the Rest Room, Endeavour House,
Macquarie-place. All country visitors
and all members are welcome ■> i c
The Chocolate and Blue Ball 'Ji/f 1,
run by the Sydney Boys’ HL1”? ,s
0.8. U., will take place at the Trr,?s° 01
on May 15. The proceeds wil
for remodelling the Fairland Pavafn'®* 1
the school sports oval. R ear ah ° n
L. Bracegirdle, the guest-of-honor
himself an old boy, will, with his’w?
receive debs. Tickets can be had J t
school or by ringing FU9648 (Mr
Cameron, hon. sec.). An evening cZ
party to help with expenses will be ‘
on March 29 in the main hall „?.?
school, ine
“Street Car Named Desire” is the mo& t
magnetic entertainment in Melbourne
city that has had a four-weeks’ tram
strike.
This is Mrs. Eric Blashki, whose
husband, Dr. Eric Blashki, is president of
a movement which all Australia is proud
to help—Legacy. Through Legacy this
nation tries to express some of its grati-
tude to soldier-fathers who were killed
in action or who die leaving the young
orphan and widow without a protector.
This movement gives war orphans such
care and attention and the same chance
in life as a father would. Mrs. Blashki
is herself a keen worker for Legacy.
Norton Trevaire photo.
The annual meeting of the Infants’
Home, Henry-street, Ashfield, will be
held at the home on Tuesday, March 28,
at 2.30 p.m. The expenses of running the
home have increased greatly, and the aim
of the committee, of which Mrs. C. P.
Johnson is president, is to raise £20,000
this year.
Still forging ahead in business, the
Australian Women’s Movement Against
Socialisation held its annual meeting in
the G.U.0.0.F. Hall last week. Cam-
paign director Mrs. Preston Stanley
Vaughan delivered the report in prideful
tones —22 new branches had been opened
during the year, making a total of 97
anti-socialisation centres. Over 200 mem-
bers and friends attended the meeting
and listened carefully to speeches by Mrs.
Allan Tory—her subject was “The Right
to be Oneself” —Eleanor Manning, the
daughter of former N.S.W. Attorney-
General William Manning (she is Deputy
State Commissioner of Girl Guides and
has travelled in Malaya and south-east
Asia), on “Communism in South-east
Asia and Its Bearing on Australia” and
Mrs. B. How, a Chinese National resi-
dent of Sydney, who told of the tragedy
of Communism in China.
The anti-socialisation movement will
continue in business till after the State
elections and the referendum to amen
the Constitution. To round off there
was tea for all, and an exquisite Swiss
travelling clock for Mrs. Preston Stanley
Vaughan as an appreciation of h er
splendid leadership of the cause. M rs -
O’Malley Wood made the presentation
wrapped in neat speech.
Mrs. H. J. Brady, of Rose Bay,
had a busy week showing the s^ ts
Sydney and its surroundings to her *
sisters, Mrs. W. F. Davey and wm-
Patrick Fennessy, who dropped in tr
Victoria last week on a surprise V 1 •
Neither had been .in Sydney for so
years. Mrs. Davey’s home 18
Minyip, amid the fields heavy with go
grain of the Wimmera district. To
them tell of driving on a moonlight 8
between the acres of stubble stret s w
like a limitless lake of silver is to
that all the poetry of Australia
get between book covers. Mrs. ra
Fennessy comes from Maryboroug
her favorite pastime is the E an ?, u\ s
bowls. She’s known as a st j e .
player on Ballarat, Bendigo and
maine greens.


m
t *
DI STI Ltt»'f
EWCVj-r^
■zrpv\
.-■/•
w
ss*
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI.
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Gordons
_ Stands Scwi&ma
Divorce Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY JAMES NOEL GAWTHORNE
'ate of 6 Park Road Hurstville.—
f’AKE NOTICE that HAZEL MARY
GAWTHORNE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3490 of 1949 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 2nd day of June 1950 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GORDON L. BEARD, Solicitor, of 17
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD HENRY WARBEY.—
TAKE NOTICE that FANNY ELIZABETH
WARBEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 308 of 1950 on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the court’s discretion
in her favour If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth day of May
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. MICHELL
GEE WILSON & CLAPIN, Solicitors, 92
Pitt Street, Sydney. (1.5.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DULOIE CECILIA ISABELLA BOND
late of Lidcombe. —-TAKE NOTICE that
ARTHUR HENRY BOND has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 736 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the sth day of June 1950 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE & CO., Solicitors, 18
Martin Place, ’ Sydney. —(L.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
don't buy
unless he can answer "Yes
to this important question
I*l
K
m
v,
No matter whether it’s a refrigerator or practically
any other item of domestic “machinery”—ash whether
it's constructed with COMROL Steel. If the salesman
can answer “Yes,” you can buy
with complete assurance that
you are making a lifetime
investment. Comrol Sheet
Steel gives enduring STAMINA
to such domestic equipment.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTR Y
** . nAiaiuA kill I C PTY. LTD.
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
Head Office and Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W.
JOHN LYSASHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY, LIMITED-GENERAL SALES ASENTS.
SYDNEY- 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon Street. South
Melbourne ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street BRISBANE: 3flg' H sgsJ
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham btreets.
N.Z.; John Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited ■
SUNDRY SHOWS
THE DARK DANUBE.
Whether it has taken him 10
vears or 50 to express his per
Sal vision in art, any painter
presenting the h _ S
rlf as Desidenus Orban is
S n g at David Jones’s Gallery,
Svdn 8 ey should have some clear
statement to make. As we can
v that Gruner is primarily a
lyrical painter of the morning
light, Streeton a painter of the
sweep and strength of open
landscape, Lambert a painter of
snS portraits and Norman
Lindsay an imaginative painter
of the nude, so we should be
able to say that 0»ban is
* r Well jin, this exhibition, which
covers his European work and
is to be followed by a display of
his paintings done in Australia,
he has painted flowers and still-
life. Viewed from across the
room his gigantic table of fruit
among green and purple drapery
has a sombre and cumbrous
richness; his red roses glow
dramatically out of the murk of
“Flowers” ; the blue background
smoulders with dark life in
“Fruits and Flowers.” Yet you
would not describe him, on the
strength of these few pieces, as
primarily a painter of still-life.
He submits one portrait, “My
Son,” in his fresh pastel-tech-
nique, obviously a good likeness,
admirably drawn and sensitive
in feeling. But one lively por-
trait does not make a Lambert.
He submits two nudes, one
small, with an extremely pained
expression, and the other enor-
mous, soiled and angular; and
the less said about these the
better.
Mostly he paints the land-
scape. But even here it is diffi-
cult to say what primarily en-
gages his attention: out of what
love for earth or sea or sky, city
or country, slum or palace, the
landscapes have emerged.
There is a large, heavy paint-
ing of mountains under snow;
there is a pastel, “Morning
Storm,” very like a Blamire
Young watercolor, with tiny
buildings huddling under dark-
green trees and dark heights of
tempest; there are the usual
bridges and boats from Pans;
a dark and sticky view of the
Louvre; there is, in View
from St. Stephen,” a stretch of
rooftops sunk in inky gloom;
there is a solitary blue sky, full
of the movement of white
clouds, against which the stone
spires of a Hungarian village
church thrust with stony
strength; smooth pastel browns
and greys and smooth slopes in
“Hills in Slovakia” ; the lighter
greens and whites of foliage and
buildings in “The Barns” ; there
is the open landscape of “The
Danube”; the massive gold
masonry of “The Terrace”
against leaves of vivid green . . .
a record of life in many coun-
tries which, with the flowers and
the fruit and the nudes, if one
tries to regard it as a unity—
the contents of a painter’s mind ;
the expression of a personal
vision—makes a strange variety.
Possibly this variety could be
regarded as a sign of strength ;
the painter has loved equally
everything fate set before him,
whether it was a snowy moun-
tain or a plate of chunky fruit.
It could also be a sign of in-
difference ; that the painter has
not cared for anything in nature
with that impassioned intensity
which makes for a distinctive
achievement in the arts.
But Orban’s diversity is
limited. Except rather palely in
his pastels, he does not paint the
beauty of landscape in light as
we are accustomed to it in the
French Impressionists and the
Australian inheritors of their
tradition. There is no joy, no
gaiety in his art. And, running
through this limited diversity,
there is an emotional unity. This
is, of course, his sombreness of
spirit. Though “The Danube”
is one of the most attractive of
his landscapes, the famous blue
river beloved of sentimental
song-writers is muddy with
flood; and this dark river, so to
speak, runs throughout his work.
v At his worst, in his dark
mood, he is laboriously dull. At
his strongest, as in “Flowers,”
“Hungarian Village” and
“Terrace,” a richness of color
and emotion emerges with strik-
ing force. His darkness is not
memorable or distinctive; his
deep and fiery power, on the few
occasions when it is fully ex-
pressed, is.
Sail Herman.
“F.S.”: Sali Herman’s paint-
ings of Sydney’s rookeries at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne,
stirred in me a vague mood of
reminiscence, but it wasn’t
reminiscence about Sydney, The
pictures recalled somebody else’s
pictures of other subjects—it
might have been Breughel or
some other painter. They also
recalled the dictum that the last
great master is both the greatest
friend and the greatest enemy of
the new master.
Is Mr. Herman seeing Sydney
“ Puss! Puss! Puss!"
through his own .eyes or through
the eyes of some previous
master, one of the commonest
phenomena in art history?
Here and there in some of his
pictures Mr. Herman seems to
be recording his own observa-
tions, but in most cases Some-
body else’s shadow seems to be
getting between him and his
subject-matter. Which isn’t to
say that there isn’t something
rather alluring about his bricks
and mortar. But there is noth-
ing alluring about the self-
portrait, which is hard as con-
crete.
"A Bill of Divorcement"
Clemence Dane’s stark study
of a shell-shocked soldier of the
1914 war has taken a long time
to get worthy presentation in
Melbourne, but it got it the other
night at the hands of the Cameo
Players at the Melbourne Reper-
tory Theatre. *ln the hands of
Mel Morgan, who seemed to
know the character from inside,
t was almost a bit too poig-
nant, and at times became in-
tolerably so because the situa-
tion is not only completely hope-
less but there is no solution for
it.
Under a new law the wife has
divorced her husband during his
15 years of incarceration. He is
certified cured and released and
returns home to find his wife no
longer his wife and about to re-
marry. What advice can be
given to the wife—to remarry
him and hate him? Yet if she
doesn’t, she will feel guilty to-
wards the unfortunate creature
she is deserting, her new hus-
band will feel guilty at being the
occasion of her desertion and
both will feel insecure in rela-
tion to one another.
On the other hand the ex-
husband can’t stimulate love in
his wiff whatever he does ; all
he can stimulate is the Brunne-
hilde in her. Pity is all she can
feel, and all he can get is duty,
which is not what he wants. The
catastrophe that has happened
to them all is as impersonal as
an earthquake, and that is why
the play fundamentally doesn’t
stir us as much as “Madame
Bovary” does. The playwright
gets father maladroitly out of
the situation by allowing the
daughter to sacrifice her own
love affair by staying with her
father.
A strenuous sincerity marked
the acting of all the performers,
especially Beryl Pye as the wife
of the neurotic soldier.
"The Paragon."
This tough play by R. and M.
Pertwee, put on by the National
Theatre, Melbourne, nearly got
there. The events depicted
could have happened, and there
are plenty of people like that,
but the authors haven’t any real
symphathy for them. Hence they
are not seen so much from within
as from outside, and the result
runs perilously close to melo-
drama. The last scene where
the blind father strangles his
own son raised titters instead of
giving the audience the horrors.
William P. Carr, making a fare-
well appearance before leaving
for England to find new plays,
infused passion into his por-
trayal of the deluded parent who
worships his soldier-son as a
war-time hero and then dis-
covers that all the time he has
been a deserter, has murdered a
policeman and is now back
home blackmailing his wife, but
the lack of insight of the authors
frustrated him completely, as it
did Reg Gillam as the delinquent
husband.
The lack of subtlety makes the
characters merely symbols, but
the play is theatrically well
written and evoked excitement
—but only excitement of the
same order as was produced by
recent hunts in two cities for a
gang of tommy-gunners.
The second of the special
series of eight orchestral con-
certs at Melbourne Town Hall
produced, under the Heinze
baton, a remarkably fine per-
formance of Tschaikowsky’s
“Fourth Symphony,” the one the
composer dedicated to the
patroness he never saw, Nadejda
von Meek. In the lovely third
movement, with its tangled skein
of motives, the orchestra was
at its gayest. Ibert’s “Divertisse-
ments” in six parts was a dose
of humor which, with the suite
from the “Music for the Royal
Fireworks” of Handel and the
“Midsummer Night’s Dream”
scherzo, cheered a hall only
three-parts full of music-lovers
who had tramped or hitchhiked
their way into the city through
the barriers of the tram strike.
The baritone of soloist Ronal
Jackson isn’t perfectly adapted
to the needs of opera, but what
it lacked in fire and volume it
made up for in sparkle in the
serenade to Zerlina from “Don
Giovanni.”


A CULTIVATED GENTLEMAN
BY
P.J. CUNNINGHAM
STRANGE how our
perceptions are some-
times * given fanciful
twists by some child-
hood experience. I never
hear the term gentleman
applied without recalling
Daniel Gibbons and the
days of my youth. Daniel ,
was the only gentleman I
knew, then. To me he ful-
filled the category. The
nobles and gentles of our
school history books were
for me so many Daniel
Gibbonses. Raleigh spread-
ing his cloak in the mire
for Elizabeth was a beruffed,
doubleted Daniel Gibbons;
Louis XIV, strutting the
mirrored halls of Versailles
in his high-heeled red shoes,
sported the majestic moustaches and
winked the roving wicked blue eye of
Daniel Gibbons; Gladstone declaiming
at Queen Victoria was for me a wing-
collared, bow-tied Daniel Gibbons.
"TTie nobles and statesmen in books
were vague, unreal characters to those of
us who went to the Old Man Gunyah
Creek School; but Daniel Gibbons had
his home on Old Man Gunyah Creek, and
very real indeed. Not that he was
constantly with us. On the contrary he
was as migratory as a snipe, returning to
his family regularly in an annual cycle ;
sojourning among us with the airs and
privileges of an honored guest.
Always with the coming-in of autumn
and the first cold westerlies you’d hear
the neighbors asking if Daniel Gibbons
was home ; and he’d not be back a day
before the whole Creek knew it, from
Taylor’s Flat to Wheeo ; and the news
brought a ripple of excitement in its wake,
especially for the youngsters. For us it
had something akin to the arrival of the
travelling picture-show (a rarer delight),
with Daniel the greatest actor of them all.
My father ran the mail from Burrowa
to Wheeo in those days, and at times took
me with him to help with the parcels and
the gates. About the time of the first
frosts I’d be an enthusiastic offsider at
the job of transporting his Majesty’s
mails ; for it was the time for Daniel
Gibbons’s return.
YOU’D not understand, unless you
knew Daniel, and had been a spec-
tator at his homecoming. 1 witnessed the
event some half-dozen times ; and always
it fascinated me, as did Daniel himself,
in those days. So, I imagined, might
Caesar have returned to Rome in triumph
and stepped down amidst the plebs.
Especially if he stepped in the manner
of Daniel Gibbons as he alighted from
the Galong-Burrowa mixed. On his
appearance, others about the platform
shrank into insignificance. He was a tall
expansive man with extraordinarily wide
cheek-bones and deep-sunken blue eyes
overhung by shaggy eyebrows. He had a
hooked nose and a great red moustache
that spanned his lower face like a
swallow’s wings. His head was commonly
tilted back and his chin, outlined by a
great fold of skin, withdrawn into a collar
that seemed two sizes too large for his
corded, stringy neck. He looked down
on you through drooping eyelids that
failed to hide the gleam of a wicked,
twinkling eye; and before he spoke he
puffed out his lips and cheeks so that the
great moustaches drooped and recovered
like a wallaby’s ears.
Usually he wore a grey coat bold of
stripe or check, and on all occasions a
blue serge waistcoat and trousers, and
yellow-tan boots. Between waistcoat and
trousers-top protruded a generous expanse
of shirt; for Daniel favored the homely
belt rather than the more formal but re-
strictive braces. Twas rumored that
nightly in all his peregrinations he slept
with the blue-serge pants folded carefully
beneath his pillow, and wore tfie waistcoat
as an adjunct to his night-attire. The grey
coat and the yellow boots were but
annuals, subject to the dirt, dust and
grease of the shed, their renewal coincid-
ing with the end of the shearing season ;
but the blue-serge apparel was perennial.
For Daniel Gibbons was a shearer. So
his family boasted. There were those
who affirmed, disparagingly, that he was
no more than a rouseabout, or a dagging-
hand at the best. To those of us who
accepted Daniel’s word on it he was not
only a shearer, but the ringer of a score
of sheds.
In the early spring he migrated to the
sheep country of the central-west. As
spring waxed into summer he moved
south through the sheds of the Riverina,
until by March they cut out far down
the Murray. Then, having replenished
his wardrobe, invariably he took his
pleasure, ranging widely though in a
generally homeward direction through the
towns &long the Murrumbidgee, where his
days were hazy and his nights hilarious
to the verge of delirium tremens until his
funds and his physical resources were
alike exhausted. Then he came home.
HOME was a slab-walled shanty with
a lean-to kitchen, huddled beneath a
clump of red-box trees in a bend of the
creek. To the rear was a primitive cow-
bail, used chiefly as a fowl-roost; and
hard by was a stable minus two walls and
with part of its roof leaning drunkenly
over a disused pigsty.
Daniel Gibbons’s wife and two sons
lived there, scratching a living from the
few acres of cultivation by the creek and
the hundred-odd acres of scrubby hills
about which grazed a small flock of cross-
bred sheep, a few cows and calves and
two cart - horses. The Gibbonses
borrowed our plough and harrow at
planting-time, and Father helped them
harvest the few acres of wheaten hay.
They planted potatoes and pumpkins
with the hoe. The sheep were shorn over
at Cliftons’ at the end of their shearing.
The two lads were school-pals of mine,
and astonishingly fertile of ideas when
we played at bushrangers about the black-
wattle clumps down the creek. They
milked the cows —never a lengthy opera-
tion —hoed any vegetables that grew, and
supplied the firewood ; but their chief con-
tribution to the economy of the home was
rabbit-trapping. They ran their lines
twice nightly, often with my assistance,
and usually had a sizeable bundle of skins
for the dealer on his rounds.
They were gaunt, big-boned, tow-
headed youngsters, running wild, and
impervious to any disciplining on the part
of their mother, though they had affec-
tion enough for her, in their way. They
were being reared on a diet of home-
made bread, home-made butter, potatoes
and rabbit, and thrived on it.
The mother was a small, spare woman
worn from hard work ; but she must have
been pretty once. She seldom smiled, as
I remember, yet I never heard her
grumble. She had a low-pitched, pleasant
voice and her speech was much better
than that of the other women about the
Creek. Sometimes she would hum sweet
little tunes, especially in the evenings
when we were handling the rabbitskins,
and she would sit sewing colored patches
on to a hessian quilt.
She and the boys seldom went to town,
and, when they did, seemed ill at ease.
At home they were happy enough and
contented. Both the mother and Archie
could play the concertina —delightfully,
I thought.
MY father was never as enthusiastic
about Daniel Gibbons as I and, in
fact, the majority of the folk along the
Creek. Father was a quiet man who had
knocked about a lot; I remember the
particular homecoming of Daniel when
this attitude of Father’s first struck me.
As Daniel alighted from the train and
strode the platform to where Father was
loading the mails and parcels he stroked
his sweeping moustaches, puffed his Jins
and cleared his throat portentously F
“Ah, there, Carney!” (I don’t think
Father liked being addressed as Carnev
Others called him Walter.) y "
“Hello, Daniel. You back?” he replied
tersely.
Daniel turned from him then, to my
delight, and eyed me, legs, apart, hands
in trousers-band, chin pulled back into
his collar, moustache puffed out.
“The young ’un!” he greeted me
“The Creek’s breeding some likely colts
by the Beard of God!”
He turned back to the vehicle. “Ten
minutes or so before you’re ready? I’ll
be down at Hardiman’s. Pick me up
there,” and he sauntered off in the direc-
tion of the Harp of Erin Hotel.
Father ceased stowing, for a few
seconds to scratch his head and gaze
after Daniel; then he slammed his hat
back over his eyes and got on with load-
ing the mail-cart.
A quarter of an hour later we pulled up
outside the Harp of Erin, Father
motioned me to the back of the vehicle
among the mail-bags, pulled on his over-
coat and proceeded to fill his pipe. Dur-
ing the operation he hailed a frequenter
of Hardiman’s (Father didn’t drink), and
asked him to tell Gibbons that we were
waiting. Daniel appeared with alacrity,
Piping his moustache; for he knew that
Walter Carney and his Majesty’s mails
tarried unduly for no man.
Daniel took my seat, Father cracked his
whip, and we were off on the eighteen
miles to “the Creek.” What Daniel had
had in Hardiman’s stimulated him to a
loud and unceasing flow of narrative and
anecdote. He had rung or could have
rung every shed down the Lachlan and
through the Bland into the Riverina.
There were bosses he had cowed, ill-
treated rouseabouts he had championed.
It appeared, too, that the stations were
badly managed, the Government’s policy
ruinous to the country, and most publi-
cans robbers and crooks. All this in a
sonorous, well-modulated voice, with
most impressive emphasis, and no bad
language ; if one exCepts, as I did readily,
such grand oaths as: “By the Beard or
God,” “By the White-hot Hobs of Hell,
uttered with a vehemence that awed yet
delighted me. I remember I tried them
out on schoolmates for a week; but they
didn’t have the force apart from Daniel.
GETTING closer to home his tone
changed. The heartiness went out 01
it and he grew censorious. My father s
occupation he thought a poor thing,
neighbors along the Creek poor types.
“Why in the name of the Great 0
don’t you get out of this, out to
back-country, Carney?” he demande
know “You’d do better out there,
could get hold of a nice bit of pi"°P ■
and add to it later. Some day you
worth a few quid. But no; Y ou
about here—no chance for your tan >•
no go in you, none of the g°o
pioneering spirit. Stick-in-the-rnu .
Father spat over the dashboard U
heard that from where I was), an . j
asked Daniel in a quiet voice, a J
had reason to fear, where this , nic ® me
property was to be had. Daniel
rhetorical as he described the h t an
be taken up “away down the.L £ ,
and out in the whipstick mallee. j e [
country, wonderful country, j nto
insisted it was, and swung melto y
Dorothea Mackellar’s poem:-
“An opal-hearted country,
A wilful lavish land; ,
All you that have not loved
You would not understand ■• • o |.
I knew the poem from t e w jth
reader and, sotto voce, went in w
Daniel; but Father interrupted
if Daniel was thinking »
family out to get a holding to by
We were crossing the
Carmody’s at the time, with a Bald
coming down the gap Hetwe deeded
Hills and the Sugarloaf; oUt-
not the cold in listening to
burst. , r -itr nut am ooS
“I take my wife and family
FOUR POEMS...
NORTHERN ORIOLE.
By Roland E. Robinson
The tumult ends, the downpour stops;
on broad palm leaves the large warm
drops
cling. That bird calls out again
as though his throat were filled with
rain.
From tree to tree he hides among
the dripping leaves and makes his song.
Now from the poinciana’s bough
sounds his echoing song and now,
• deep within the banyan’s shade,
that bell-like, flute-cool call is made.
High in the orange-flowering gum
his voice is heard, but where I come
he makes no more that blended note
as though the rain had filled his throat.
Swooping, with folded wings, he goes
over the far tree-tops for those
mountains of the clouds and where
the storms let down {heir purple hair.
THE SACRED GROUND.
I crossed through dove-grey grass,
between
reclining forms of hills where light
burned down to amber and blue-green:
a yellow-banded parrotls flight.
Silent, the hills closed round me, some
magpie called in fluted bars;
before me stood the pure ghost-gum,
its branches in a stream of stars.
Like deep clear rainwater I drank
the night in underneath its fire
of outflung nebulae and sank
an ancient thirst, cosmic desire.
The hills gave out a tread-like sound;
primeval forms seemed crouching near;
ventured upon the sacred ground,
I felt myself gone chill with fear.
My feet crashed through dead brush, a
hand
of branches clawed to make me stay;
I stumbled through a hostile land
where sudden night-quail whirred away.
EMU.
Cock-bird, solitary emu pacing
out of the gidgee’s zig-zag
line that traces the dry silted
watercourse to stone-knife jag
of ranges, here I recognise
you: your lust in me compels
this my exile, you ascetic
drinker at the secret wells.
DESERTED HOMESTEAD.
White birds, frightened from silver
grass,
whose blood-rose breasts and wings are
thrown
like petals settling down the pass,
flower the "ruined homestead’s stone.
Rise from the fallen walls and scream,
crested, from the stark dead gum;
shatter the crystal of the morning’s
dream
where I, across your landscape, come.
Roofless, the broken stonework frames
red arid hills, a valley where
the ghost-gums writhe like whitened
flames
and desert-oaks droop their dark hair.
/
And when, in the crucible of the hills
the molten day has died, there stands,
under the blaze of stars that fills
its night, a house not made with hands.


• nonole? Don’t talk damned
the station people
nonsense, Ca ™ r ' lucke d at his horses.
Father due** „at home
"Omey,of high and those of low
with those," own where men
degree. I "uss matters of moment
of standing disca , w : ne •I am listened
over the wlnuts m and deference about
to with m f[f e ’ ontry pub. But is my
the bar of the country fit t 0 take
wife, are th ong the station people? A
their place am g eV en of stand-
fe-alk miserable backwater! That
Steven make a success out of the
I sniffed
in Sne'yVeTh” four trials. You
Cam Y> . gentleman I will not
dSsTi’ve done® my best; but it’s a
discuss 11. must carry on
He fdfsilent, and I thought I heard a
like a man drinking from a bottle.
Sntly he burst forth in recitation
“Life is mostly froth and bubble,
Two things stand like stone :
Kindness in another’s trouble,
Courage in your own.
“Fine sentiment there, Carney, he
muttered. “Great poet, Adam Lindsay
Gordon. Somewhat out of your depth
though, eh!” He was off again:
■‘l’ve had my share of pastime, and I ve
done my share of toil.
And life is short, the longest life a
span;
“That’s true, Carney ; true of me. Iye
certainly had my share of toil. Ihen
suddenly, and with a vigor more like the
Daniel Gibbons I admired: And Ive
had my share of pastime, too, Carney,
with gentlemen and scholars with
fellows like myself who
“Fill the Cup, and in the Fire of Spring
The Winter Garment of Repentance
fling:
The Bird of Time has but a little way
To fly—and Lo! the Bird is on the
Wing.”
He was repeating these lines when we
dropped him at his own sliprails and I
regained the front seat. Father handed
me the reins and got his pipe going again ;
but not until we were swinging into our
own gateway with the kitchen light gleam-
ing just ahead did he give expression to
his thoughts:
"His family not fit to be out among
the station people! Him carrying a heavy
load! Qood God!” And Father
slammed his whip savagely under the seat
as we pulled up at the stable-doors.
J WAS at the Gibbons home for Daniel’s
f next homecoming—his last but one.
We were in the tumbledown stable grad-
ing and storing the rabbit-pelts by the
last light of the autumn day when
Father’s mail-cart rattled over the Creek
bridge and pulled up to unload Daniel
Gibbons.
Barton saw the arrival through the
chinks where slabs had fallen out of the
wall. The look he turned on his brother
was comical yet pathetic.
“Gripes! The old man’s back again!”
He flung a skin into the corner, leapt the
fallen slabs, and scampered for the house
wth Archie hard on his heels. I was
ignored in this annual crisis; nevertheless
i 101 l owed, more sedately. They ran into
the kitchen where the mother was cook-
ing over the open fire. “He’s home, Mum,
. ® home!” they shouted in chorus and
jerked thumbs towards the front of the
house, as the rarely-used front-door was
e ard to scrape across the uneven floor-
mg.
Daniel Gibbons paused in the front
evidentl y to stow his belong-
ing 3nd try the effect °f a hairbrush. A
momtory throat clearing, and he
his family* kdcben and the bosom of
* Evening, wife!” He grasped her by
on S oul ders, implanted a resounding kiss
lerwti/ Ch fl k > tben beld ber off at arm’s
‘‘Ah and beamed °n her.
Tn, Zh Ut S e greyer > a little more worn.
yourself must take more care of
yourselt, my dear.
as tho,?l bbo ? S ’ s hands fluttered timidly
embracpd h She Were wishful to be
iSr re ardentiy; bm ° aniei
ing an a ° h “ f Bnr } nmg b o ys * and grasp-
moulder fac?ng hffii rUSt thera shoulder
men now!’ . Strapping youn B
all giants fu? J, ake after my P eo P’le —
should be mtV-° doa mans w or k now-
mother.” makmg things easier for your
in u his OWn old chair-
travelling f or days? * hungry man f been
stove an? and bustled about the
teaming dSL n y PlaCed before him a
Rabbit- e stew re S?f- “ What > rabbit?
the Bear d of Gn?° and pum P kin ! By
be tter than thS?* T?™"’ can ’ 1 you do
hye” nat - Its a poor way you
He worked himself up to a fine indigna-
tion.
“1 can’t understand it at all. Good
land —good soil as anywhere ; yet you
don’t grow vegetables. Acres could be
cultivated about the place.”
He filled his mouth with a generous
forkful of rabbit and potato, then hastily
put down his knife and fork.
“Grace, Archie! Say grace!” he com-
manded his son.
Archie sprang a plank in the table
with the start he gave; but he buried his
head in his hands and mumbled some-
thing that I couldn’t follow.
DANIEL resumed his theme, pointing
with his fork over his shoulder,
through the front-door and west to the
hills.
“Acres back on the hills could bp
cleared —a thousand sheep grazed, and
a wool cheque to buy you anything you
want. What are you doing, wife, with
these big-limbed sons of mine? They’d
be well off some day if they’d get down
to work now. There’s only one way to
prosperity —hard) work! ” Daniel wagged
his head sagely and explored his plate
pessimistically for a tender morsel.
“No vision, no planning. By the Horns
of Moses, what a place I come back to! ”
He dropped his knife and fork and,
pulling a flask from an inside pocket,
poured into his cup a generous quantity
of liquor which he swallowed noisily.
Mrs. Gibbons had been busy about the
fire. “I’ve cooked you some bacon and
eggs, Daniel,” she said, placing another
plate before him eagerly and a little
timidly.
“Bacon! Ah! A dish fit for any board.
Well cured I hope! ” He sampled a piece,
chewing emphatically.
“It’s from Carneys’. They’re killing
again next week and are cleaning out the
lot. They sent us a flitch.” Mrs. Gibbons
hovered with the teapot.
Daniel seemed to swell. Certainly his
great moustaches protruded, as did his
eyes, “Are we now depending upon
neighbors’ charity? Have you no pride,
woman? And the Carneys!”
But Mrs. Gibbons, alarmed, turned
swiftly to me where I squatted by the
door. “Come in, Terry Carney,” she
called. “Have some tea with us.”
I was waiting for this, for I was
ravenous, and I’d be sitting listening to
Daniel Gibbons a while longer.
He greeted me heartily. “Ah ha, young
Carney. Come in! Sit in to the tea.
Any neighbor is welcome at my table.
Wife, some bacon and eggs for the boy.
He fell to his heaped-up plate of bacon
and eggs. His guest, his wife and his sons
applied themselves to rabbit-stew.
'TEA over, he dragged his chair squarely
I before the open fireplace, where a
large back-log smouldered. “Boys, more
wood, here! Wood all over the paddocks,
and the fire a miserable thing! An
armful of wood now.”
He piled the wood on until the flames
roared up the chimney; then kicked his
boots off and sprawled with his legs out-
spread over the hearth.
“Ah, that’s better.” He eyed his sons
critically as they crouched on the floor
on each side of him. “Still going to
school? You, Barton, let me see-
fourteen, and you, Archie, twelve-
twelve and a half. What class you in?”
he asked sharply.
The boys were both in fifth-class, and,
somewhat reluctantly, told him so.
“A boy of fourteen in fifth!” Daniel
snorted. “At your age I was top of my
class in Euclid and Geometry. Latin I
was good at, too,” he added as though
for greater effect. “What are you up to
in Euclid?”
Barton looked at Archie, who seemed
to be intent on a splinter in his big toe.
Archie was a better scholar than Barton.
“They don’t do Euclid,” the mother
said gently from the bench where she was
washing up,
“No Euclid? In my day—but can’t you
give them some? There are books about
still, I suppose. You couldn’t
teacher like Roberts to get them along.”
“Mr. Roberts was shifted two years
ago,” Archie informed him. “We have
Mr. Herrington now,”
Daniel shifted ground neatly. “Wife,
you might have managed to get these
boys a year or so at the town school; and
you could help them more yourself.”
Mrs. Gibbons looked very troubled.
“I —1 have forgotten nearly all my
schoolwork,” she replied meekly.
“Tchk! Tchk!” Daniel shook his head
in disgust. “Fancy letting yourself fall
back like that. Shameful!”
He turned to me. “What class are you
in?” v
“Sixth,” I told him.
“How old are you?”
“Nearly thirteen.”
“Do you do Euclid,” he asked, “or
Geometry?”
“Mr. Herrington says Euclid is
Geometry,” I replied timorously.
“Bah! That’s what he thinks. Prob-
ably never went to college in his life.”
He helped himself to another swig
from his flask, and his manner took on a
mellowness that foreshadowed entertain-
ment. We were not disappointed. He told
us stories of his own boyhood and college
days, of scrapes he got into, and out of,
by nimble ingenuity ; of pranks played on
teachers, of his prowess in sport (yet in a
deprecating manner I thought noble), the
holidays on their station property, the
wild riding, hunting and shooting, the
picnic races; and through all strode or
rode, in victory, glory and romance, the
dashing figure of Daniel Gibbons.
We boys gathered about his feet, en-
thralled by the tale and the telling of
it; for Daniel told it well. His wife,
busy with her mending, crept closer, too,
listening as we did, with parted lips and
glistening eyes. Looking back now, I’d
say that Mrs. Gibbons’s eyes were glisten-
ing because of tears.
DANIEL GIBBONS spent his time at
home in a friendly, convivial manner,
as befitted a gentleman. He visited all
the neighbors, flattered the womenfolk in
the grand manner ; argued, somewhat
condescendingly, with their men, and
enthralled the youngsters with awesome
tales of ghosts, murders and bushrangers.
The women and children made him wel-
come, had him stay for meals, and the
men suffered him.
Twice a week he had liquor delivered,
per my father, from the town. Invari-
ably his order ended with the instruction.
Book it to the wife’s account. It hap-
pened once that the storekeeper refused
to fill the order, sending word that
Daniel Gibbons would please pay for his
liquor himself, and pay cash.
Mrs. Gibbons went into Burrowa next
day, in Father’s cart, grim-faced with
anger. She paid her account with that
storekeeper, told him with bitter pride
that what Mr. Gibbons ordered was his
own and her business, and took her
custom Over the street to a rival.
She did not, however, share Daniel’s
liquor. That was a treat reserved for
a few special cronies, particularly Martin
O’Keefe and old Jack Berry, on Sunday
evenings. For the rest, Daniel drank
alone and at night, when he declaimed
verses.
With the first hint of spring, and the
wattle a glory along the creek, Daniel
would be off again. On the last occasion
his going coincided with the outbreak of
World War I, Many lads of the district
were going off to active service. The
train did not leave till evening, and
Daniel passed the time in the company
of soldiers, graduating, as the day wore
on, to leadership of the farewelling party.
About train-time I came upon him de-
livering to the gathering, from the
eminence of Dwyer’s butcher-cart, a
patriotic address, in the course of which
he wept over the town as Christ wept
over Jerusalem. I last saw him being
chaired to his train by a roistering band
of troops.
IT was next autumn when Daniel
Gibbons returned to us, this time dead
and seated in his coffin. He had fallen
off the Southern Mail near Cootamundra
on his homeward migration. We buried
him with the appropriate rites.
Chief among those directing the funeral
arrangements was a brother of Mrs.
Gibbons —a tired-eyed, quietly-spoken
man of middle age. When Daniel had
been laid to rest this man rode with
Father and me on the mail-cart out to
the Gibbons home. Father in his quiet
way had words of sympathy and remarks
eulogistic of Daniel.
“He was a gentleman in his way, was
Daniel —well educated. Must have been
well brought up,” he remarked.
The brother-in-law was rolling a cigar-
ette. He licked it, gummed it down,
tidied the ends with care, surveyed it
solemnly for a long moment, then lighted
it.
“Dan Gibbons! Well brought up?
he said then; so quietly that I, lying
among the mailbags, had to wriggle be-
neath the seat to hear him.
“Dan Gibbons was reared down by
Grabben Gullen, the son of a battling
cocky. He was the youngest of eleven,
and the only one that didn’t have to
work like the children of these cockles
usually do. Even his father nicknamed
him ‘the Gentleman.’ He grew up to be
a big strapping young man, able to dress
well and cut a figure without doing any
hard yakker.” He paused and relighted
his cigarette.
“My sister went to Grabben Gullen
as a young teacher. She fell in love
with this young Gibbons, and we could
do nothing about it. It was her savings
that started them on a bit of a selection
along the Crookwell road. She did most
of the work. Dan lay about and read
hqr books. When he got through her
library he had her buy and borrow more.
He read day and night—mainly books
about history and romance.
“He took to drifting away to the
shearing-sheds, taking with him some of
her books. He never brought them back.
He brought back mighty little else, ex-
cept this gentlemanly manner that seemed
to be growing fast, and great stories of
his adventures. My sister seemed to be-
lieve them.
“When my father died, Evelyn was
left a few hundred pounds ; so they came
to Old Man Gunyah Creek and took
up this property. The boys were born
here. I don’t know how she found time
for childbearing with the work she had
to do. Daniel was away the greater
part of the year—‘on business,’ poor
Evelyn used to explain ; but he didn t
exert himself much when he was at home.
“Gentleman? Dan Gibbons knew of
gentlemen only through his wife’s books.
He brought her nothing; he never kept
her; he belittled her in public and in
private. But women! She loved him,
she believed in him more than he believed
in himself. So she ruined him. But
she’ll never be the same without him.
He made an attempt to relight his
cigarette-butt, then flung it into the night.
“I’m going down to get her to sell the
place, and come back home where her
boys will get a chance. She’ll not make
gentlemen of them—not if I can help
it,” he ended savagely.
WE dropped him then at Gibbonses’
broken sliprails. I was glad. 1
didn’t like him. For one thing he was
going to take the Gibbons boys away
from the Creek; but worse, by far, he
had stripped the robes of distinction from
my idol, and shattered him.


RLVS
m,
A
'M
n//A
V.'
wa
::
U'rn
H
mm’
// ■','////1
m
Elastoplast for quick relief or safe
prevention! See how this flesh-
coloured, inconspicuous dressing
safeguards a blistered heel. Elasto-
plast is adhesive, medicated and
elastic. Each tin contains dressings
sized and shaped to suit every need.
At chemists everywhere. (Heel
dressings in large tins only).
IN THE HANDY RED TIN
Elastopta^
the c ° W l°mo mj.
«RSt W d •/ t. /• »*» U.
• A F CR / I4QB
S-T-R-E~T~C m H-€-S WITH THE SKIN
iWJ/S
'V
Pm?trait
until summer is nearly over,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with m
B.I.SUCWOOI
No house, home, office or buUdmg Is modern on
h,.10.y unlM. l! U BJ -
SLAGWOOL.
Insulation
cW?SI:
Si>
’Phones:
MU3506, Brisbane
Perth 83107
A Wedding in the Inn
BY J.E. MURPHY
AJ AN AN GO CENTENARY celebrations begin on April 26. Mr.
*■ * Murphy, who has also written a 170,000-wwd history for the
Centenary Committee, says that “Goode’s Inn’’ was the first name
of Nanango, and that this story is based on a diary beginning in
1855 kept by the father of T. A. Clapperton of Tarong, and in-
formation from Ben Walters, son of Amos Walters, born Goode’s
Inn 1866.
IN the checkered shade of the
giant bunya-tree, mine host
Jacob Goode mopped at
perspiration as his critical
glance raked the low structure
of the inn. From its shingled
roof festoons of bunting draped
motionlessly in the mid-morning
heat-haze. Thickly-foliaged sap-
lings nailed to the slab walls
completed the festive appear-
ance of Goode’s Inn, on Noo-
ganida Waterhole, near the junc-
tion of the Brisbane Valley and
Rosalie Plains routes to Gayn-
dah, on the late summer day of
March 11, 1860. Goode’s Inn
was then the solitary building
on the site of present-day
Nanango, Queensland’s fourth-
oldest town.
Satisfied with his appraisal,
Jacob Goode walked through the
low hall and entered the de-
tached skillion at the rear of the
building where Mrs. Selina Wal-
ters was rotating in turn with a
long fork each of five sheep’s
carcasses suspended over the
white-hot logs in the long, open
fireplace. The bloom of her
Devon complexion, undimmed
by two months’ residence in the
frontier domains of the More-
ton Bay district of her Majesty’s
colony of New South Wales, was
further incarnadined by the heat
of the roasting spits. Not ob-
serving Goode’s entrance, she
wiped her brow with an im-
maculate ’kerchief and turned to
supervise the activities or,
rather, the lack of activities —
of King William, the breech-
clouted and black factotum of
the inn, who had been assigned
to replenishing the fat in a row
of a dozen slush-lamps on the
low bench skirting one wall of
the skillion.
1 ACOB GOODE’S sense of
satisfaction rose as he sur-
veyed the bustling activity in the
skillion. It had been well worth
a three weeks’ dray journey to
Brisbane for the free emigrant
couple, Amos Walters and his
newly-wedded bride. There was
no fear of complaints about
viands, liquor or appointments
at the wedding feast commis-
sioned by Mr, George Clapper-
ton, of Tarong station, for his
trusted employee James Sellens,
stockman, and Mary Cassells,
also an employee of the squat-
tage.
The gesture, typical of the
grand seigneur in the make-up
of the owner of Tarong, would
attract a goodly crowd to the
inn. Simon Scott, of Taromeo,
Willie Oliver, of Nanango, the
Haly brothers, of Taabinga, and
even Henry Stuart Russell from
distant Burrandowan, on the
Stuart River, which he had dis-
covered, who was fighting for
survival against the fiercest tribe
of myalls in the South Burnett,
had declared the occasion a
holiday foe their household ser-
vants, stockmen, shepherds, hut-
keepers and sheep-washers.
The squatters had not yet
arrived, but the workmen had
already begun their celebrations,
which accounted for the polyglot
patronage of the tap-room.
English was the least-heard
tongue as detached groups of
Irish and Scots stockmen and
draymen* German and Chinese
shepherds and Indian coolie hut-
minders conversed in their
respective languages, the Gaelic
of the Irish and Scots pre-
dominating in the babble which
filled the tap-room. The cos-
mopolitan group resulted from
South Burnett sheepmen’s efforts
to cope with the labor shortage
in the Moreton Bay district in
the 1860’s.
The sombre figure drinking
alone was Hyacinthe, reputedly
an escapee from New Caledonia
who had landed from a whale-
boat at Redcliffe, just north of
Brisbane. Straying from his
sheepwashing employment on
Haly Brothers’ Taabinga, the
Frenchman had wandered all
the way to Tarong, where,
almost in extremis, he had been
found in a dry creek-bed by
ten-year-old Jamie O’Neill. On
a high form in a comer of the
bar this Jamie O’Neill, “the
best man on the squattage,” Mr.
George Clapperton always said,
with his bare and bespurred feet
dangling a clear twelve inches
above the floor, seemed over-
awed by the noise of the milling
crowd.
A plenitude of grog brought
a sense of relief to Jacob Goode,
who had unpleasant memories
of the many times when the dray
trains had woven an erratic
course through the scrub to-
wards the inn, despite the decep-
tively virgin appearance of their
cargo of barrels. Through his
foresight in dispatching the
totally abstemious Amos Walters
as supercargo with the last
grog-load from Limestone, the
unbroached appearance of the
barrels had been as warranted as
the chagrin of the perforce sober
draymen who had brought them.
A WIRY little man, known as
the “Irish Giant” because of
his five-foot frame, trailed a
figurative coat when he became
belligerently and unmelodiously
vocal to the air of “The Shan
Van Voght.” He monotonously
repeated the chorus till his per-
formance was interrupted by a
whistled rendition of “The
Battle of the Boyne.” The Irish
Giant ceased singing. His eyes,
flashing fire, roamed the room
in search of the whistler, sud-
denly silent. Again the little
man, trailing his coat in a wider
ambit, reiterated the “Poor Old
Woman’s” prophecy of the cer-
tain decay of the “Red Rose”
when the “Frinch were on the
say.” Again the melody of
Ireland’s Gethsemane trilled
from somewhere in the midst of
the densely-packed throng.
Mad with rage, the Irish
Giant jumped nimbly on to the
high bar-counter and, with an
impassioned yell, “Ye black
Phrodesthint !” launched
himself in the general direction
of the whistle.
The crowd dissolved before
the onslaught as the Very
Reverend Dean Rigney, sweat-
begrimed and saddle-sore from
his long ride from Colinton, en-
tered the bar. Despite his ex-
hausted condition, the Dean
skipped agilely aside to allow
the Irish Giant’s headlong career
to end against the . outer wall of
the tap-room.
THE Reverend Dean Rigney,
the first man of the cloth to
visit the South Burnett since
Archdeacon Glennie had held
the pioneer service in the coffee-
room at Goode’s Inn three years
earlier, had known that this
frontier pastorate of the More-
ton Bay parish of the diocese of
Newcastle would be no sine-
cure. Nevertheless he was un-
prepared for such an exhibi-
tion of blatant bigotry, and
first emotion was of resentment.
The baser impulse dissolved in
mercy as, in the hush that fell
on the tap-room with his entry,
he surveyed the insensible form
of his lately airborne attacker,
“Shall we call the dochtor,
sorr?” asked James Riley, a
Tarong man, struggling man-
fully to maintain an erect
carriage as he twiddled his cab-
bage-tree hat in his hands.
“By all means, if there’s a
medical man about,” replied the
Dean. “But go quickly, man!
This poor fellow is in urgent
need of attention.”
Riley walked to the far corner
of the bar and shook vigorously
the stertorously-breathing occu-
pant of a form, “Wake up,
O’Connor!” he bawled in the
sleeper’s ear. “It’s the Phrode-
stint praste as wants you to do
a bit of dochtoring.”
“Doctor” O’Connor rose un-
steadily, an 4, after gazing un-
comprehendingly round the
room for a few moments, started
automatically for the bar. His
progress was jerked to a halt by
the Dean, who inquired peremp-
tonly Are you a me d ica ,
fcS’Ssn is«h is
could command’’ as J»
says that r m not A " d who
accredited Fellow of th* t? uly '
College of
manded. Onlv at n,; ’ , ne de '
his blurred vision take did
garbofhisinqSor “ thc
“My apologies, sir!” he saia
contritely. “Would vm, a d
the honor of consuming
tion with me?” S a
Then, man,” replied the Dem
impatiently, “as a physician Z
haw a duty , 0 p er f orm n y °“
broken'”' 8 P ° or fellow ’ s ncck is
“I’m afraid your diagnosis in
Se Y ’ S’ ’ [ eplied °’ C onnor as
the suddenly recovered Irish
Giant rose to his feet and, forti-
fying himself from an apparently
ownerless glass on the bar-
counter, broke into “The Shin
Van Voght” as if the song had
never been interrupted. “Indeed
I think a spell of unconsciousness
has rather improved the tune-
fulness of his voice,” O’Connor
continued.
“I’m pleased indeed to admit
that you’re right, sir,” replied
the Dean. But why the poor
fellow should have such a hatred
of the clergy I cannot under-
stand. Can you explain it
Mr. ?”
“Patrick O’Connor, sir, of the
Royal College of Physicians,”
said the doctor. “And now, sir,
will you be joining me in drink-
ing the health of Jimmie Sellens,
my good friend and late fellow-
workman, whose marriage you’ll
be after celebrating prisintly?
It’s plasing indeed to be in con-
versation with an educated man.”
SEEING no avenue of re-
treat, the Dean submitted.
“I’ll take a glass of shandygaff,”
he said. “But, sir, I understood
you to say that you have lately
been employed by Mr. George
Clapperton, of Tarong. To me
that seems a strange situation for
a medical man, as I believe you
to be.”
O’Connor’s reply was inter-
rupted by a meaningful gesture
by Amos Walters, whose inter-
vention, however, was brushed
aside with the lordly instruction
“You’ll please be charging these
to my account.” Clearly in
deference to O’Connor’s reluc-
tant guest, Amos Walters aban-
doned until later his attempt to
obtain a quid pro quo.
“It’s an explanation that I owe


AUSTRALIA’S FINEST
KEROSENE
REFRIGERATOR
m
'.fn
m-.
~ba otz
ih
i
m
M
THE NON-ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR
THAT GIVES MORE OF EVERYTHING!
Years ahead of its time Is the verdict of users
of the new Icemaster Kerosene Refrigerator.
Ahead in beauty of design . . . ahead in features
and capacity . . . ahead in reliability . . .
Icemaster Is the logical choice of those wise
people who always look ahead.
AUSTRALIA'S LATEST AND BEST KEROSENE REFRIGERATOR
LTD IS ?(f o? : Queensland: WILLERS & CO. PTY.
Street rL^f 1 St L eet> Brisbane. E. MARKHAM, 31c Shields
LTD ’m? bL • ?L ew South Wales: BENNETT & WOOD PTY.
trails mcwm, Bathurst Streets, Sydney. Q Western Aus-
sons APPLIANCES LIMITED, c/o Messrs. Nichol-
LTT» S i reet > Per »i. WESTERN FARMERS’ CO-OP.
radio WHnrp^TrScStreet, Perth. • South Australia:
Barrier UMITED ' James Place, Adelaide.
BmkenHllf l^^ 1 APPLIANCES LIMITED, Argent Street.
Wllliamstown S™™* AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
APPLIANCES LIMITED, FINSBURY. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
To safeguard the welfare
of your dependents
A simple procedure
1. Make a list 'of your Assets and your Liabilities—
and of those whom you wish to share in your
Estate.
2. Confer with a Senior Officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited and make a sound plan for your
Estate so that your dependents shall receive the
maximum benefit.
3. Have your Solicitor draw your Will so that it
embodies this plan.
4. Appoint Perpetual
Trustee Company
Limited as your
sole executor —or
jointly with a rela-
tive or friend. The
Company’s 62
years’ experience
and its facilities will
ensure efficient
management of
your Estate—when
it is called upon to
act.
The services offered by
the Company and its
charges are explained in a
booklet, “Your Executor
and Trusteewhich has
been found most helpful
by many men (and
women) with Estates to
bequeath.
Call or write for a
copy today.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C.
(Chairman):
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN!
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director,
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ITAGGA FACGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
DOCTORS • STATESMEN a SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
m*-
m
m
se
100KS0 SMART
/WO SOT
mem/
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
A credit to the company, that’s Bill! He’s the man
with that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. You, too,
can have shaves that look good and feel good . . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
f
FSt/120
only'
18.
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES ® SALESMEN • LAWYERS
- „ O’Connor,
you indeed, f bot h occu-
“but it’s a though never
pations that 1 a , grav itat-
quite at the s: ““ t0 ’ t he other.
ing as I do Iron L~! ■ a « v go od
so to sf & k - 1 m . eq hy y an d
at handling
the plough. nresent
“And what is y £> ean ,
avocation, inq manner j n
shuddering ai
which oConnor a“° r « ler o£
single g“'P
ar °?ot truthful now,” repiied
A’rnnnnr “it’s resting that I am
2“ Mr. George Clappe.
ton, my Ihte emP oyer is
gentlenaan indeed, an emg
a medical man he
forgiveness for ™ . I as P a
posing that 1 was ed
sow when last week 1 coiiapsea
banefufeffects of sunstroke. But
a good man that he is, and
11 be guiding the plough again
fo him before many days. He
always shows contrition tor the
wav he treats me and, not being
a malicious man, I’m always
ready to forgive him.”
“Mr Clapperton is indeed a
charitable gentleman,” said the
Dean. “I’m looking forward to
meeting him.”
“He is that,” replied
O’Connor. “ Tis himself that,
as well as being anxious to
finance a Church of England
chapel for this haythinish dis-
trict, has headed the subscription
that’s .being circulated to get a
similar edifice for the Catholics,
No less' a man than Father
Romani from the Propaganda
College in Rome sent a message
by James Walsh from Limestone
that, thanks to Mr. George Clap-
perton, he’d soon be sayin’
Masses at Goode’s Inn.”
“The Lord’s vineyard is indeed
wide,” rejoined the Dean, “and
Mr. clapperton ’ s charity will go
not unremembered”
“Amen to that,” replied
O’Connor piously at the same
time looking significantly at the
glance £
clergyman, who, however, was
by Jacob Goode’s entry
the embarrassment of having to
re f Use, through motives moral
an d not mercenary, to return the
“Mr. Clapperton sends his
condiments, sir,” sard the
publican, “and would you care
to join the gentlemen in the
Coffee Room?”
“You’ll please excuse me, sir?”
said the Dean, taking his leave
of O’Connor. “I trust I’ll be
seeing you at the ceremony.”
“That you will, indeed, sir,”
replied O’Connor, casting, even
as the Dean departed, an ex-
ploratory glance around the
room with a view to finding a
worthy candidate for the honor
of supplying the hospitality
which had not been forthcoming
from the Dean, Eventually
selecting the Irish group as the
freest-spending, if not the most
socially-presentable, body, , he
joined the circle of drinkers
gathered round James Riley, the
Tarong stockman,
THE Irish group was far
from effusive in its welcome.
The Irish Giant was frankly
hostile. “It’s a foine thing ye’ve
done, O’Connor,” he said trucu-
lently, “pledgin’ ye’r word that
ye’d be at the Phrodestint sar-
vice. It’s dhrinkin’ with the
Sassenach squatters that ye
ought to be and not with dacint
Catholic min!”
“Consider the ignorance of
the omadhaun,” rejoined
O’Connor, absent - mindedly
consuming the remains of a
glass of rum carelessly left on
the counter. “The Dean is a
foine gentleman, though a Black
Protestant I concede ye. And if
ye recollect ye’ll recall that when
I told him he’d be seein’ me at
the service, I did not say that
I’d be at it.”
“Explain yourself, O’Connor,”
put in James Walsh, the dray-
man. “It’s a foine play with
words ye’re makin’ and we don’t
trust ye.”
“If ye’ll consint to be guided
by’ me ye can all be at the
wedding, with no sacrifice of
principles involved,” replied
O’Connor. “In fact, I’ve just been
takin’ a mental census of those
here present and I come to the
conclusion that, if the Irish
don’t attend, the Dean’s congre-
gation will, saving a handful of
squatters, Garmins and Scots-
men, be composed intirely of
haythin Confucianists and
Mohammedans. And I’d not
like to see that happen to Jimmie
Sellens or his bride —or the
Dean, either.”
“Ye know we’d like indeed to
be at the service, O’Connor,” said
James Walsh. “But how can
we do it without denying Mother
Church?”
“Aisy as winking,” rejoined
O’Connor. “The ceremony is to
be held in the Coffee Room.
It’s only a matter of allowing
the contracting parties and their
attendants, the squatters, the
Scotsmen, the Garmins, the
Chineemen and the Hindus to
go in first. They’ll more than
fill the room and it’s no alter-
native we’ll have but to stand
in the hallway outside. By this
prosaydure we’ll be doin’ our
duty to Jimmy Sellens and his
bride and at the same time sav-
ing our principles. D’ ye under-
stand now what I meant when
I told the Dean that he’d be
seeing me at the service?”
IN the Coffee Room Dean
Rigney surveyed with a deal
of satisfaction the dignified-
looking altar contrived with the
aid of the squatters and James
Nash, the carpenter employed on
Nanango who soon afterwards
was to make history by the dis-
covery of the Gympie goldfield.
In his regalia the Dean made an
impressive figure, although his
robes were somewhat crumpled
through long stowage in his
saddle valise.
The squatters, Jacob Goode
and. Amos and Selina Walters,
had already taken their places
on the chairs in the forefront of
the congregation. From the
emptying tap-room the proces-
sion of the lower orders filed in
on to the tightly-packed row of
adzed forms; Scots, Germans,
Indians and Chinese maintaining
their rigidly compartmented
groups. The Coffee Room was
filled to capacity.
From the side doors the bridal
couple made a nervous entry,
Mary Cassells in the flowing
dress which she had brought
with her all the way from Lon-
don, and James Sellens in the
tight-fitting moleskins, polished
jackboots and red Crimean shirt
drawn against wages from the
station store on Tarong.
As the couple joined at the
altar the moving strains of “The
Voice That Breathed O’er Eden”
swelled around the rafters under
the delicately-adzed roofing
shingles of the inn. Dean
Rigney looked up and saw
O’Connor in the hallway with
the accordion.
Before the instrumentalist the
Catholics, with the Irish Giant
in the foreground, were grouped,
their cabbage-tree hats turning
nervously in their hands. The
Dean cut short the instinctive
gesture with which he had in-
tended to wave them into the
crowded Coffee Room. He
nodded at
O’Connor,
O’Connor bowed in dignified
acknowledgment.
“Dearly beloved,” began the
Dean. “We are gathered to-
gether here in the sight of God
and in the face of this congre-
gation” . . .


d
A Great Name in Diamonds”
t. white gold, yellow gold, platinum .
- £
MHm
W-
-441
«
m
From above, reading down , . s
Engraved wedding Bells; yellow gold, £4. White gold, £4/10/-,
All platinum with diamond. Full circle. From £67/10/-.
Diamond-set ring,, £4O. With larger stones, price £65.
(Left) Engraved eternity ring, set with diamonds. Price £25.
Proud's Corner, King and Pm Streets, Sydney. 'Phone BW 2721
mm
mm
IVORY
CANE-ITE
CEILING
reflects the softest white
light and keeps out Heat and Cold •
So easy to remodel that cracked, old ce^|
Prefinished Ivory Cane-ite can be app
right over any cracked surface.
Your new, beautifully punched <cei g
catches and throws back the softest wn e .
—as well as insulating the room from r
heat in summer and coldest conditions in wi '
Inexpensive-easy to erect as
Cane-ite. Enquire from your loca
dealer or timber merchant.
IVORY CAYE-ITE
A Product of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR JifoWWoß
Build no Materials Division
The Mitchell Library
BY M.H.ELLIS
THERE was a man born in
Sydney in 1836 who lived to
prove that nations can do
with dilettanti as well as
with what Labor politicians used
to call “sons of honest toil.”
His name was David Scott
Mitchell. He was the son of a
colonial surgeon whose future
had been assured under the
bountiful arrangements of his
time by a grant of 30,000 acres
of land on the Hunter River.
This provision assured that the
son could become his own
master after he had been
entered as one of the first under-
graduates at Sydney University,
had taken a degree in arts with
honors and had been called to
the Bar.
He therefore decided to devote
himself to the study and collec-
tion of Elizabethan literature,
but finding himself in a restricted
and highly competitive field, he
very opportunely turned to
assembling the literature and
documentation of his country,
then not a century old. He was
the pioneer in that field of
which he kept nearly a monopoly.
The result from a national
viewpoint was eminently satis-
factory. Before he died he had
been able to leave to posterity
and a board of trustees a collec-
tion of 60,000 volumes with
numerous manuscripts and
maps, together with £70,000 for
the maintenance and expansion
of his collection.
As a result no other country
owns so comprehensive a collec-
tion of the evidences and docu-
mentation of its history from the
ground upwards as does New
South Wales through its posses-
sion of the Mitchell collections,
which have grown until at
present they cover something like
200,000 books, manuscripts,
journals, maps and pictures illus-
trative of Australian history
from the moment white men first
sighted Australia till the current
week.
Few other collections of the
same age—the library was
opened to students 40 years ago
this month —have the same
availability through catalogue
facilities and staff service. The
development has been astonish-
ing.
When the Mitchell collection
first qame into public possession
it was unindexed and mainly
unsorted, and there were huge
gaps in the material which then
must have seemed impossible to
fill.
Now most of the main gaps
have been filled. Apart from
considerable extraneous matter
which cannot be classed directly
as Australiana —such as a whole
roomful of the papers and
records of Dr. George Morri-
son, the greatest of “Times”
correspondents on this side of
the world, not yet available to
students —there is a fairly com-
plete and unbroken series of
original documents, printed and
otherwise, telling of the progress
of discovery, settlement and
civilisation in Australasia and its
adjacent regions from the six-
teenth century to the present
time, the printed narratives and
histories illustrated and illu-
minated by huge collections of
State archives, personal docu-
ments and pictures which have
been acquired in profusion by
purchase or gift.
From Prado to Ward
Thus at one end we find the
first vague descriptions of Aus-
tralian geography and of the be-
ginning of every Australian
State and at the other last week’s
political pamphlets. In one
corner, carefully protected by
the art of Chubb and Yale, there
is the priceless manuscript in a
neat Spanish hand in which Don
Diego de Prado y Tovar
describes his voyage with
De Quiros and Torres'across the
Pacific and on from the New
Hebrides to Manila in 1605-6 —
a manuscript described upon its
discovery as “undoubtedly the
most important find of virgin
historical material made in
modern times.”
At the other end, relative to
the Torres region, is a remark-
able work attributable to 1945
entitled “Visit of the Honorable
E. J. Ward to New Guinea” and
containing no fewer than 220
actual photographs of that dis-
tinguished statesman assembled
by the Department of Informa-
tion, bound regardless of ex-
pense and displaying its subject
in every attitude and type of
surroundings in which it is con-
ceivable to picture a travelling
member for East Sydney. The
first picture shows him, hand
tucked in coat exactly like
Napoleon, reviewing native
troops, but posterity will prob-
ably prefer the last, to which
caption reads;
After wading 50 yards to shore
Mr. Ward, Minister for Labor and
External Territories, sits on the beach
in front of a village and
puts on his shoes and socks. Seated
on his right is an Angau officer. D.
of I. picture.
All of which is quite in keep-
ing with the human touch which
runs through the Mitchell col-
lections, though the original of
Bligh’s journal of the Bounty,
the draft pages of Captain
Cook’s journal, the great collec-
tion of Banks’s papers covering
early Australian history for 30
years, the mass of story about
the Rum Rebellion and the Mac-
quarie and the Mitchell papers
can offer no parallel to the
modern instance. No photo-
graphers appear to have been
present when Captain Cook put
on his socks, a fact which
should give rise to some profit-
able meditation on the progress
of the exact science of reporting
over a century and a half.
Pilgrim Father Stories
The Mitchell Library possesses
the Huydecoper manuscript of
Tasman’s voyage of 1642-43,
with the priceless Vischer
map. It has the Bona-
parte Tasman map drawn at
Batavia on the return of the ex-
pedition of 1644, a delightful
piece of cartography, presented
to the library by Princess George
of Greece. This is the map in
which Australia for the first
time takes on some of its familiar
shape, and it has been repro-
duced in mosaic in the entrance
hall of the Public Library and in
, . .. . .
facsimile in. a magnificent piece
of penmanship by one of this
country’s best cartographers,
James Emery, in 1946, just be-
fore his death, so that the faded
tints might be brought up for
printing in a beautiful facsimile
edition.
There is the Corner copy of
Cooks journal written by the
ship’s clerk of the Endeavour
and sent home from Batavia
to the Admiralty in 1770.
There also is the journal of
Sir Joseph Banks, August,
1768, to July 12, 1771, and
a dozen other important
manuscripts dealing with Cook’s
voyages and discoveries in Aus-
tralasia and elsewhere. There is
a rich collection of Flinders’s
manuscripts. There is a wealth
of journals from the First Fleet
--Bradley’s, King’s, the pictur-
esque Ralph Clark’s and that of
Arthur Bowes in which an entry
settles the date of the first re-
ligious service held in Sydney
as February 3, 1788. A series
of letters from Captain Phillip
to Banks throws light on the
feelings of the founder of Aus-
tralian settlement while engaged
on his thankless task.
Lieutenant - Governor King
tells almost completely in his
own handwriting the story of the
foundation of Norfolk Island
settlement. Tne Macquarie
papers cover the initial expan-
sions of exploration and a
yelopment 0 f civilised- de '
tutiom in the Cet?
continents. The oriomli I the
\L L *Z on d and
late the adventures 0 f » t if'
dauntless three” who crossed t
mam range of the n the
tains for the first - Moun ‘
G. W. Evat's jouS “ ]
the picture, while others of I?
notebooks tell . 0 f the f fi hls
] ° u , rney from the
Sydney overland. OxW* .
Cunningham’s, Sturt’s and &
Thomas Mitchell’s versions nf
thetr travels are to £ ?ou„
targely m the original, aiZ
with the records of the joomev!
which took Meehai.
Throsby southward to open un
the country on which Canberra
now stands. erra
Founding a Bank
t I s the mass of
letters and documents, apart
from the vast library of printed
books dealing with every voyage
journey and event in our his-
tory, that one can discover
treasure almost anywhere in the
200 boxes of index-cards kept
up to date on a dictionary cata-
logue system.
The lucky-dip may bring up
almost any facet of history
Turn over the leaves of the faded
diaries of Macquarie and you
discover him obviously very
merry as he receives news that
he is to embark on his first cam-
paign or engages in prepara-
tions to found the town of
Bathurst.
Or you may light on an un-
obtrusive letter, written in the
neat hand of Australia’s first
poet laureate, Mr, Michael
Robinson, and signed with the
ornate flourishes of Mr. J. T.
Campbell, the Governor’s secre-
tary:—
Secretary’s Office,
Tuesday, 19th Novr., 1816.
Sir,
It is proposed that a friendly con-
sultation of the Magistrates and
Principal Merchants of Sydney


send for
•liustrated
uteratore
de TalLs and
erices ON
"eucation
DUPLICATOR
Hat all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of th'olr cost. The
' National” Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
)
Jackson & O’Sullivan pty
m KK'SBANE
'*• won oros. Pty. Ltd-
• VarHnn *. D m . >
J )
Ancestors
of an
Industry
mm
showed the world, for the first time, the
importance of scientific observation and
Roger Bacon
experiment. This remarkable man was born at Ilchester in
Somerset in 12H. After studying at- the University of Oxford
and in Paris and Italy, he eventually returned to Oxford, and
became a Franciscan monk in 1251. In an age when "science”
was largely synonymous with the alchemists’ search for the
philosopher’s stone and attempts to transmute base metals into
gold, Bacon displayed a scientific vision far in advance of his
era. He foresaw the possibility of mechanical flight, the use
of explosives, the improvement of sight by lenses and the
propulsion of ships by engines.
In all his teaching he insisted on the importance of experiment
rather than discussion, and on the necessity for first-hand
practical experience, particularly of such chemical operations
as distillation and calcination. He saw clearly that, without
this practical foundation, natural science was little more than
a collection of words. One result of his insistence on experi-
ment was to enable him to show that air is necessary to sustain
combustion. He has also been credited, but without adequate
evidence, with the discovery of gunpowder. Some explosive
mixture was undoubtedly known in Western Europe in his time
for Bacon complained of the annoyance caused by boys letting
off fireworks outside his study. He died on
the 11th June, 1292, leaving as his contri-
bution to science a way of thought which
still persists all over the world. Roger
Bacon, Englishman, may justly described
as the first modern scientist.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL-45-I4
A Great Australian Manufacturing Achievement!
10,000
have now been produced
A
£
"4
MS \
i ,Mse HoU en has " '
. Mttr test buy, i‘tause
u«* ►<CSS-SSS' Ih—- 1 h—-
CAI* five or s ** without bulk.
n AO m for . roominess
RO Mr « ives service
,♦ Matlon-« w ® *® ovdiabinty-
LOW-C° st H * -and sp<" e P arts
. car value
Austra«a’ s f®f bac Mby
,e s tmonufacture«»f“ r
Wise car buyers who realise the extra value built
into Holden are today ordering for forward delivery.
In spite of the production of the first 10,000 Holdens,
the terrific demand for Holden is still ahead of
General Motors ability to supply. Frankly,
although factory output should reach 20,000 this
year, you must wait for your Holden, but the sooner
you order, the sooner your Dealer will be able to
supply, and it will pay you to wait. Designed and
built for Australia, Holden is the outstanding
value in Australia today.
Visit your nearest Holden Distributor or Dealer
and order now. List Price £750 plus Sales Tax.
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car the ear that’s worth waiting for!
* There’s an “Air Chief” Radio specially designed for Holden.
hint purchase terms are available through G.M.A.C.-General Motors’ own finance company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYD.NEY * MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD. . Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia.
, nlace tomorrow
should ta k t e t he P Chambers of the
(Wednesday) at Advocate at
SC- inters? and importance
is req Thave the honor to be,
voufobt. Honble Send. .
Attached is a list of recipi-
senior judge, one
el ex-hishwayman, several
not,- h y ants and sea
3SS on” who has long
"No, constable, I ain't seen 'im for MUNCE.”
atoned the monetary straying of
his long and youthful fingers
and become a backbone of com-
merce. Also the Governor’s
secretary. And “tomorrow
(Wednesday)” they duly meet in
Judge’s Chambers and lay down
the beginnings of organised Aus-
tralian commerce and finance by
deciding to establish the Bank
of N. S. Wales.*
Alas, one of their number
later takes an early general
manager to the club one night
with nearly disastrous results to
the solvency of the ancient in-
stitution, and there is* an em-
barrassing period of inflation
caused by the failure of a sec-
retary to take a record Of the
banknotes which directors carry
home to sign, his theory being
that it would be an insult to
such honorable men to place a
check on them. Also a director
resigns indignantly because the
bank insults him by refusing to
accept his promissory notes as
cash deposits in his current ac-
count. But all is well in the
end. The bank flourishes and
becomes a national institution.
I ucked away in a corner of
the library are 28 large boxes
of the Bigge Inquiry Evidence—
a unique collection of the
opinions of almost everybody in
the settlement of everybody else
—fortunately not upon oath.
,^ nd . amon S the voluminous
collection of Wentworth papers,
j n a handwriting none too
cgible at any time but now
h f a *" g w ith fury, is the opinion
of W. C. Wentworth, the Aus-
S llan J Patnot, of Mr. Bigge,
• d u es P ite s P ec ific evidence
fra™ L bef °i e - him t 0 the con-
wnrth’ 8 d , esi Bnated8 nat ed kr. Went-
victma 6 Paitnt as a con '
au?hori S ty Ch a s aD ,I contem Pbble
*caveneer v. th l s > llke a P ublic
ail the dirt l6 rakec * together
scandal - and filth - all the
ever c&riiiat 11 !? 16 ® and bes that were
this S ated ? the C010ny....
auseous oleo....that chaotic
and discordant jumble which Mr.
Bigge calls his report.
Statesmen and Finance
All Sir Henry Parkes’s papers
which have survived are in the
Mitchell, many volumes of them.
They are somewhat overpower-
ing, One moment the eye lights
on a letter from Gladstone or
the Queen or Carlyle, or on a
majestic holograph on Federa-
tion ; the next on the querulous
demand of a mercenary . Scot
that the statesman shall make
arrangements to meet two of his
frequentlyKdishonored cheques.
Poor Sir Henry had none of the
business acumen which enabled
William Charles Wentworth to
purchase (fruitlessly, thanks to
Sir George Gipps) the whole of
“Middle Island and Stewart
Island” (N.Z.), about 20,000,000
acres, from eight Maori chiefs
for £240 down and £l2O a year
to be divided among the ex-
owners. The deed under which
this excellent piece of business
was transacted is in the Mitchell.
So are a set of the election
accounts of Mr. Wentworth for
1851 —something to make the
mouth of the modern politician
water as he surveys the total for
the campaign of jfist under £3OO,
including a sop to the Irish vote
in the form of £22 spent on ad-
vertising in the “Freeman’s
Journal” as against only £29
spent in the “Sydney Morning
Herald.”
The literary collections are
magnificent—all the Australian
writers are represented from
Barron Field, the first man to
print his verse in book form here
in 1819 (Kangaroo Kangaroo,
Spirit of Australia), Charles
Tompson, the first Australian-
born to have his verse printed in
his native country, through
Harpur and Kendall and
Gordon to the moderns, many
dozens of their specimens the
original manuscripts of Bulletin
contributions, with side dishes of
R. L. Stevenson and other men
of mark who wandered to the
Pacific. And the versatility of
the library’s range is illustrated
by the presence of the great H.
L. White stamp collection, one
of the world’s most valuable of
its type.
Life 160 Years Ago
It is all fascinating in detail,
but in no aspect is the library
more useful than as a measure
of progress. Who can believe
without difficulty as he delves
into the mass, even with the aid
of teeming eyewitness accounts,
that the length of only two long
lives away there was no white
population at all in Australia?
Yet that is the measure in years
of Australian history. Less than
two lives ago they hung gentle-
men for stealing rations upon
a tree near Circular Quay. Less
than two spans of human life
since the industrial code of
Norfolk Island, no doubt today
a very paradise of ease under
the kindly hand of Mr. Wilson,
was thus set out by Major Ross
of the Marines, the acting com-
mandant :
Any person whatever, either male
or female, who does not to the
utmost of their power continue their
share of labor, will tre adjudged to
suffer death.
But that was at a period when
even among the privileged
Marines “not one of them has
a shoe to his feet or a shirt to
his back, nor a pot to every 12
men, not a bed or a blanket
amongst them,” and some time
before a lady could describe her
life in the commandant’s house
in these words:
Our house was behind a rampart
surmounted with a battery of guns
loaded to the muzzles with bullets,
bits of iron, tenpenny nails and
tenter hooks. By day and night
sentries guarded the doors with
loaded guns and fixed bayonets.
“Kill the Commandant” was always
the first article of agreement these
desperate monsters came to when
they entertained the idea of escape.
During the 12 months we were on
the island 109 were shot by sentries
in self-defence and 63 bayoneted.
There is a tremendous lot of
digestion to be done in the
Mitchell Library, in which all
these tales are stored, before
they can all be made available
to the student without risk to
tender manuscripts and aged
bindings. But the most pertinent
annals are already nearly all
there from the first piece of
known printing done in the
South Seas —a notice to con-
stables printed in Sydney in
1796 —to the latest Government
gazettes.
The record of development is
worthy of beginnings in which
the Governor of 160 years ago,
dwelling eight months’ voyage
from London in a canvas hut
“neither wind- nor weather-
proof,” sat down calmly among
a thousand desperate convicts,
to plan a glittering city in
which the streets were to be
200 ft. wide and no dwelling
allowed to sit on a block of land
less than 60ft. wide by 150 ft.
deep.
That at a time when guests to
dinner at Government House per-
force brought their own bread!


*******
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V-D.
Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM-
F.R.A.C.S. j. R- Faviell
F. B. Fleming
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst, Manager; C. N. P- Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewar
PERMANENT TRUSTEE
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W
pT.12016
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE RUSSIAN-CHINESE TREATY.
Such terms of the Russian-
Chinese Treaty as the parties
chose to divulge were announced
from Moscow on February 14,
after a couple of months of
negotiations; since when over-
seas interpreters of the hatching
have differed on it by the full
distance between Moscow and
Peking.
At the one extreme we have
the generally sound London
“Economist”: “Its terms can
only be regarded as a striking
diplomatic victory for China.”
On the other, O. M. Green, a
recognised expert on the Far
East of long experience, writing
in the “Scotsman” (Edinburgh):
“Unless there is something in the
treaty not disclosed Russia has
scored heavily all along the
line.”
It is, of course, quite incred-
ible that there is not plenty in
the treaty undisclosed. “It would
be naive to assume,” as N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” commented,
“that the published documents
announcing the Soviet - Red
China treaty of alliance embody
the whole results of nine weeks
of intensive negotiation. It does
not require nine weeks to write
a treaty in which one party
offers to the other a $300,000,000
loan and the gracious return of
some part of the loot which it
had previously appropriated
from the other’s territory. Even
on their face, these documents
tell only a part of the story.”
Resorting to metaphor, the
“Herald Tribune” called the
treaty “a straw in the great
winds of history.” The London
“Sunday Times” writer “Scru-
tator” brought it a little closer
to earth; “Time must yet re-
veal the fuller potentialities of
this treaty, which clearly consti-
tutes a major episode in the
world drama.” The “Man-
chester Guardian” dispensed
with flam and nailed the real
sum of it in half a dozen words :
“A new axis has been created.”
The terms divulged can be
summarised under a few heads:
(1) It is a 30-year treaty of
“friendship, alliance and mutual
aid” ; (2) China is to get back
the Changchun railway, which
the Chiang crew agreed to hand
over to Russia in 1945 ; (3)
Russia will withdraw its troops
from Port Arthur; (4) China to
recover the former Japanese
properties in Manchuria (i.e.,
any the Russians didn’t loot);
(5) China to receive long-term
credits for purchase of equip-
ment from Russia. There are
important time and other reser-
vations.
From its view of the treaty
as a diplomatic triumph for
China, the “Economist” went
on to say that the possibility of
China’s following a path such as
Tito has so far successfully fol-
lowed must have been Mao Tse-
tung’s trump card in demanding
from Stalin the abrogation of
the treaty concluded by the
Soviet Union with the Chinese
Nationalist Government and the
retrocession to China of the
rights in Manchuria (Port
Arthur and the trunk railways)
gained by Russia under that
treaty:
“The long duration of the
negotiations suggests that the
Russians were extremely unwil-
ling to surrender these rights
and that, if they were not con-
ceded, Mao Tse-tung was pre-
pared to refuse to sign any
treaty at all. It is true that the
Russians under the new agree-
ment do not have to hand over
in Manchuria until the conclu-
sion of a peace treaty with
Japan or 1952, whichever is the
earlier, and much might happen
in Manchuria before then if the
Chinese Government does not
behave itself sufficiently well
from a Soviet point of view.
Nevertheless, this is perhaps the
most remarkable concession that
any foreign Government has ex-
tracted from the Soviet Union
since the early days of the
Russian Revolution, when the
Bolsheviks made their grand
gesture of renouncing all the im-
perialist gains of the Russian
Tsardom. It indicates both that
the Chinese leaders have played
their hand, with great resolution
and self-confidence and also that
the Kremlin has learnt some-
thing from its experience with
Yugoslavia.
“The section of the treaty
which deals with Manchuria will
undoubtedly strengthen the
political position of the Com-
munists in China. It will re-
move from them the reproach
of tolerating a foreign encroach-
ment on Chinese sovereignty and
will enable them to present the
Russians to the Chinese people
as their true friends....
“Apart from economic terms,
the Soviet Union gets a military
alliance with China, based on
the formula already used for
such treaties with the East Euro-
pean satellites, which names
Germany or Japan as the
potential enemy, but is also
applicable against the Western
Powers in any general war in-
volving the Soviet Union. China
is thus formally and definitely
aligned in the Soviet power bloc,
but has succeeded in exacting
for the commitment a price
which suggests that Peking will
be for Moscow a friendly but
not a satellite capital.”
Quite evidently somebody
wants a new set of glasses (or
something different to put in
’em), since, looking at precisely
the same animal, N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” saw an altogether
different beastie: “On the sur-
face, Mao Tse-tung has sold the
Chinese people to the Soviet dic-
tatorship for the trivial price of
$60,000,000 a year in loans over
the next five years, and a con-
ditional Soviet promise to re-
store the Manchurian railroads,
ports and some of the industrial
machinery which properly be-
long to China, anyway. Bearing
these scarcely munificent gifts,”
Mao would return to Peking “in
a glowing aura of publicity, with
his prestige enhanced and (it is
presumably hoped) his hand
strengthened sufficiently to make
good his part of the transaction
—whatever, precisely, it may
have called for.
“One must not underestimate
the importance of this result. It
clearly kills whatever faint hopes
there may have been of any im-
mediate development of ‘Tito-
ism’ in Mao, The Chinese dic-
tator has fully linked his for-
tunes with the Soviet aggressor
fd
fd
—Minneapolis ( U.S.A .) “Star.”
"RECOGNISE ME, SAM?”
and against the West, and so
established a fixed point in Far
Eastern politics. But one must
not overrate the consequences
either. What Mao may have
promised in return for his treaty
is now less important, perhaps,
than his ability to deliver. It is
by no means clear that his bar-
gain will necessarily appeal to
his countrymen ; China is still a
vast entity, not so easily ‘p u P*
petised’ as a Hungary, a Poland
or a Czechoslovakia, and there
are still teeming forces behind
the Red curtain to which the
West may yet speak with more
hope than can be offered by the
ruthless processes of Russian
imperial absorption.”
It may be worth noting in
passing that the credit amount
which the “Economist” regarded
as “a large sum,” though with
the important qualification that
“it will not go very far to assure
China a rapid industrialisation
unless credits from other sources
are also forthcoming,” and
which the “Herald Tribune” dis-
missed as “trivial,” is stated by
Washington “Star” to be at ex-
actly the same rate—s6o,ooo,ooo
a year—as the sum the U.S. is
annually giving, not lending, to
South Korea alone!
On the treaty in general and
that credit section in particular
the “New York Times’s” finding
was: “The agreement itself is
full of hidden traps, since its
execution depends upon further
agreements on details —a condi-
tion which has always furnished
the Soviets with opportunities to
advance new claims, as shown
repeatedly in Berlin, among
other places. - Finally, the Soviet
credit, which, ironically enough.
is fixed in terms of American
dollars, is scarcely a drop in the
bucket compared with the needs
of a China already suffering from
famine and obligated to repay
the credit in goods at Soviet-
fixed prices.”
As for the rail and port
“concessions” secured by Mao,
what particularly held the in-
terest of Far East authority O.
M. Green, in his “Scotsman”
analysis of the treaty, was the
important elements in Russia’s
grip on Chinese territory not
mentioned in the terms divulged.
On the railway “concession” he
wrote;
“The chief trunk railways in
Manchuria (on which all later
branches depend) consisted
originally of two parts. There
was the Chinese Eastern Railway
running across Northern Man-
churia and connecting the Trans-
Siberian railway with Vladivos-
tok, which was Kniu r
» 1896. Subsequentiv \ RuSsia
forced China to she
and Port Arthur down Dairen
extreme south of? m the
Russia built a furth M anc huria,
Harbin, £ %£%££***
Chinese Eastern pin of the
Cha„gchu n 4or n me f SS.v*J
Japan’s puppet State
chukuo —to the ''’. Man-
named, the whole formJ®'
gigantic T.’ rmin § a
inmf shTt n^ fe ,he d R r ,a
from Changchun to Dairen
rename d it the
South Manchuria Railway. This
IS , tl ? e Changchun railway ,5
Tneaks o"f eW Si "°- Soviet treaty
A ll rCSt of th e T niece
the old Chinese Eastern Rail-
way, in all about 1160 miles
long running through fields and
forests of great value—appears
to remain m Russia’s possession
At least the treaty is silent on
K U r JeCt fact ’ k is hard
to believe that Russia would
give up this railway, the recovery
of which she specially insisted
on at Yalta. Its strategic ad-
vantage alone is obviously
enormous.”
On the port “concession"
aspect, the Alsop brothers, com-
menting in their N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” column last Decem-
ber on the speculations then
going on regarding the Moscow
negotiations, gave forth what
they called “one hard fact
which can be reported on the
highest authority”; that “the
Chinese Communist Govern-
ment, in a Note delivered to the
Kremlin before Mao’s arrival,
politely demanded control of
the city of Dairen.”
If so, Moscow evidently de-
clined, no doubt with equal
Oriental politeness. Green,
noting Russia’s undertaking to
withdraw its troops from Port
Arthur, noted also that there
was no mention of such a with-
drawal from Dairen, whose posi-
tion is to be “further considered”
on conclusion of a peace treaty
with Japan: “Port Arthur
could be a good naval base,
though curiously enough the
Japanese never used it as such,
nor did they attempt to rebuild
the old Russian fortifications
destroyed in the war of 1904-5.
Dairen is the real prize, highly
developed by the Japanese. The
Russians have held it since 1945,
and will apparently continue to
do so.”
Noting further the conspicu-
ous omission from the treaty ot
Sinkiang, or Chinese Turkestan,
the great north-western province
in the heart of Asia, where, with
air-power, Russia retains the
same control as the railways en-
sure for it in Manchuria, Green
described the China C
munists’ recognition of the in-
dependence of Outer Mong >
“which no Chinese Government
had hitherto officially done,
“a severe loss of face, l(R
summing-up was that „ an( j
has won all along the h 1 * , ,
that “her dominance m China
northern territories r™ a '“ ent
great as it was before Mao
to Moscow.” . lbse .
The same writer, m
ciuent London , i
article, allowed,
purely on the surface the Jreaw


BRANDTS famo TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
VITW
Sfß
300
Candle
Power
Order Now —for Winter!
Here’s a safe, reliable Lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and Is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to ope-
rate, this famous British
KEROSENE Pressure - type
Eamp Is moderately priced at
86f-
CAMPING APPLIANCES.
Brandts stock pressure-pattern
Stoves, Hurricane Lamps, Wick
Stoves, etc. All spare parts
supplied.
Mail orders by return mail.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
—371 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 'Phone:
M 4651.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
Regd
WATCH FOR—
“HAPPY’’ MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES:—
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. C.l.
u# ’
g W#
: .V ’• .
REGD.
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
r£ Sd n,S even SS Hber a a \
m ',h d which it is easy to enter
WO “a
“ m „f Which will now be
P oin , h dto Vietnamese waver-
pr£aCbe ™een Bao Dai and Ho
rhi-minh, to the huge Ch.ncse
C „,‘” in Siam, to Burmese
febels y to Communists and near-
Communists in India, to the pro-
Russian faction in Pakistan.
in the “Manchester
Guardian’s” view it should now
“soon be clear where Chinas
outward pressure is to be
directed in the immediate
f. ure.” Indo-Chma, especially,
••will be an area of great inter-
national danger”: “So perhaps
"ay Burma. The Tibetans will
not be able to see much hope
for themselves.... But graver
issues than Tibet will probably
come out of the treaty before
many months have passed.
Jerusalem Botch.
U.N.O.’s Jerusalem botchery
was examined here at length in
B 1/2/’5O, when the position
was that the Trusteeship Council
had been given the job of inter-
nationalising the disputed city,
against the resolve of both Israel
and Jordan (who are in posses-
sion) to permit nothing of the
kind, and in the face of practi-
cal certainty that the effort
must be a sorry flop.
Since then the Trusteeship
Council has arrived nowhere.
First it asked its president, M.
Garreau, to prepare a working
paper, but the president (as
London “Economist” puts it)
found so impossible the drafting
■of a paper on the Assembly’s
wish for total internationalisa-
tion that he produced what was,
in fact, an alternative plan. His
paper set out a scheme for a
small international zone con-
taining some of the major
Christian sites, plus a grant of
the rest of the area to Israel
and Jordan, the whole being,
the while, demilitarised, neutra-
lised and placed under a form
of “economic union” about
which he was none too specific.
His compromise, not acceptable
to either Israel or Jordan, was
shelved.
The reported Israeli argument
(probably supported by Jordan)
is that the division of the city
is de facto, and de jure governed
by an armistice between the two
States, that this armistice has
been recognised by the Security
Council, and that the Assembly
has no powers to behave as if it
were a Parliament with right to
legislate along lines which do
not accord with this armistice
agreement. If the Council ac-
cepts this it will next have to
report back to the Assembly
that the latter’s vote ordering
internationalisation was at best
impracticable and at worst out
of order.
A third choice proposed by
Israel division of the city along
the armistice lines, with inter-
national control for all the Holy
Places is reckoned by the
“Economist” to be “the only
way out,” and “If it were to be
put forward jointly by Israel
and Jordan, the United States
and Britain (whose delegates
have not so far spoken) would
both support it.”
Quayle on Aust.
Australia very much liked
Anthony Quayle when he was
here with his Shakspeare
players; evidently the liking
was mutual and a bit over.
Back in London he wrote for
the “Sunday Times” an article
which old Australian-sunshine
booster Jack Moses (“Nine
Miles From Gundagai”) would
have pasted in, or on, his hat.
A cabled extract, though ac-
curate enough, and quite good
in itself, gave a rather false im-
pression of Quayle on this part
of his travels. It was confined
to his comment on what he took
to be Australian obliviousness
to the menace looming down
from Asia. Himself somewhat
awed by that menace, he com-
mented ; “There are men of
vision and experience who are
alive to it, but for the most part
Australians suffer from the
curses bred of remoteness and
that material prosperity which
they now enjoy. These curses
are insularity, . materialism,
complacency and a demand for
ever-easier living.”’*
On a closer acquaintance he
would probably find a very de-
cided Australian awareness of
that menace ; a discovery that
would probably only double his
dismay over what he sees as
obliviousness to it, but what
might be more accurately diag-
nosed as an equally deadly sort
of national fatalism.
Nor is it explained by present
prosperity; Quayle could have
found the same attitude here in
the depression days.
However, that diagnosing was
only a small portion of Quayle
on Australia, . and there can
hardly be any question about
the merit of the prescribing
after it or the pleasing nature of
the dessert. Confessing “I return
to England after a four-months’
stay in Australia ashamed of my
former ignorance and alarmed
that such ignorance persists,”
Quayle further wrote:
“The achievements of the last
150 years have indeed made his-
tory, but they are as nothing to
the latent possibilities. Food
production, already on a great
scale, could be multiplied four-
fold ; industries are in their in-
fancy ; vast mineral resources
have hardly begun to be tapped.
Here is a great golden continent
waiting to be developed.
“And all this in a country not
hitched to the dollar as Canada
is, not distracted by racial
troubles like South Africa. Here
is a people who are quite literally
more British than the British, a
people whose devotion to the
Crown is heart-rending. The
80-year-old owner of a Queens-
land homestead showed me the
photographs of his family hang-
ing on his bedroom wall. There
was himself at the age of 26,
decorated for gallantry in the
Boer War. From another frame
the shadows of his three sons
gazed out, their young smiles
fixed for ever —all killed in the
Flying Corps in the Great War.
‘Young devils they were,’ he
said. ‘Best riders and best shots
in this valley.’ And with Irish
pride he added, ‘The best damn’
talkers, too.’ In a third frame,
to which was pinned the fading
ribbon of a D.S.C., were his two
grandsons—one killed and one
surviving this last Nameless War.
“Nor is this loyalty and affec-
tion bred only in war-time crisis.
Last year individual Australians
sent ‘home’ no fewer than
2,700,000 food parcels—in most
cases to ‘Pommies’ whbm they
have never seen, nor ever would
see.
“Australia’s dangers can be
averted and her possibilities ful-
filled only by a great increase in
population. Australia needs
workers—workers to construct
houses, to plant forests which
would stem the sinister progress
of soil-erosion, to build dams
and irrigation systems, workers
who will undertake present hard-
ships for the joy of adventuring
into a tremendous future.
“The waiting lists in England
are long, and Australia’s need is
pressing. Then why is only a
comparative trickle of British
immigrants arriving? The total
over the last nine months for
which figures are available was
only 41,269. The official answer
is lack of shipping to carry
them and lack of housing when
they reach Australia. Certainly
these are two serious difficulties,
but their like were overcome
again l and again in the war. The
real answer can only be indiffer-
ence. Australia is left under-
populated and underdeveloped
while a distracted, overpopu-
lated Britain shamefacedly waits
in the queue for charitable dol-
lars.
“Let the British people ponder
this, whether they live beneath
the Plough or the Southern
Cross; and, if they imagine
what their Commonwealth of
Nations could be, if they are
still of the same temper as the
mariners and pioneers who made
England great, let them do more
than ponder —let them act.”
Dragnet Digest.
Go By Helicopter , —ln view of the
part played by the U.S. in develop-
ing helicopters and the considerable
publicity given to their use there,
London “Times” makes a surprising
claim for Britain: that “British
European Airways, which pioneered
the carrying of mails by helicopter in
Britain, is also to be the first air-
line in any country to maintain a
regular passenger service with rotor
aircraft.” It’s to open on June 1
between Liverpool and Cardiff; two
services in each direction every week-
day; fare, £3 10s. single, £5 10s.
return; with a call at Wrexham, the
single fare to which from Liverpool
will be 15s.
* * * *
Acid in Season. —London ‘‘Time
and Tide’s” military correspondent
commenting on reports that Russia
has 25,000 planes in commission, or,
bigger still, is turning out 20,000 of
them a month: “Many of the
revelations come from American
sources, and, whether or not
American Intelligence is better than
ours, those to whom it reveals its
secrets are certainly more loqua-
cious.”
Deciders for the World. —Western
leadership being now a U.S. pigeon,
the N. Y. “Herald Tribune” writers
Joseph and Stewart Alsop see Presi-
dent Truman, Secretary of State
Acheson and Defence Secretary
Johnson as today’s counterparts of
Stanley Baldwin, Neville Chamberlain
and John Simon as deciders of the
world’s fate, with, on the other side,
the Kremlin rulers in the role of
Hitler, “encouraged, just' as Hitler
was, to take larger measures and to
run greater risks” from now on,
because the Russian rearmament
effort has begun to produce solid
results. The writers imply that the
U.S. trio are just as bemused as their
prototypes: “The future would be
more encouraging if so many mem-
bers of the [U.S.] Administration did
not already sound like Lord Baldwin
at his worst.”
* * * *
U.S. Deters Imports. —Not only by
its tariff wall, which is awkward
enough to get over, but by such
hurdles as the Quarantine Act and
the Buy American Act (as these can
be interpreted by officials), most in-
tending exporters to the U.S. find
they have a stiff job ahead of them.
It affects Britain’s dollar drive except
in certain things the U.S. wants. “So
fantastic is the position,” states the
London “Sunday Times” financial
editor, “that the Dollar Exports
Board seriously suggests pilot ship-
ments made with the sole object of
testing the customs regulations.” He
gives as an instance of Quarantine-
Act interpretation that “imported
plants must have their roots
completely free from soil,” which, he
adds with masterly understatement,
“reduces their chance of survival.”
* * * *
Who Leads China? —Perhaps a
little wishfully (like a great deal of
U.S. consideration of China), N." Y.
“Herald Tribune” examines a doubt:
“Is Mao truly the leader of Com-
munist China? No one knows, in-
cluding, it may be suspected, Mao
himself. The enigma of the Com-
munist empire is not its intentions —
those are patent and dangerous. The
real riddle lies in its mechanics ol:
leadership, and while that riddle per-
sists, while the system remains based
upon a secret struggle for power, it
is intrinsically vulnerable.”


FLY TO THE FAIR
by the “Sterling” Route to London In 4 days
BRITAIN welcomes visitors
from thf Empire to the British Industries
Fair at London and Birmingham from
May 8 to May 19, 1950.
Fly there on the “Kangaroo” Service
with no currency problems, and
with your personal comfort in the experienced hands
of Q.E.A.- 8.0.A.C. Enjoy without charge
sight-seeing tours'of Singapore and Rome
Stopover anywhere you wish at no extra
fare. Relax in luxurious air-conditioned 4-engined
Constellations world’s finest international aircraft.
Return tickets at special rebate. Reduced fare
and increased baggage allowance for
round-the-world travellers.
BJ.F
'ears oJT yf
P/uvgtvss A>
iy
i
mm:
sni 07 (
fl f A and B O*A C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
Kis
r
Wk
(X
m
I tl Interlude for light-hearted gaiety and
cheerful chatter, to the accompaniment of ingen-
ious cocktails made with Vickers Gin and simp e
ingredients. Vickers—always excellent, always
satisfying—the universally accepted drink of the
times.
the GIN will he
f
df
df
FAMOUS SINCE 175°
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
T T T ,
“For sale; Trousers, cotton gab,
long.”— Suburban paper.
Not talkie shorts, evidently,
4*
“A child can make an adult’s life
a misery on occasions.”
— Woman’s paper.
Even a babe is liable to
dampen one’s feelings at times.
•F *l*
“I don’t know how the sword-
swallowers manage, but I have never
been able to gulp down the smallest
pill or tablet.” — Woman’s paper.
The sword-swallower has the
edge on her there.
“Lost Black Pup with white socks,
female. Reward.”
—Suburban paper.
Finder should shoe her home
at once.
•F *F 4*
“The majority of woman are just
what man has made them.”
—“New Idea.’’
Hence he should cease ribbing
them.
“The standard ***of hancutting in
Sydney must be the world’s worst.”
—Sydney “D.T
Surely our hairdressers can
trim you with the best!
*|* «F _ *F
“Australian swimmer John
Marshall yesterday smashed American
Bill Smith’s world 220-yards record
by 1-10 second.” — Sydney “D.T.”
Later on he is expected to’
pulverise it by one-fifth and
atomise it by a half-second.
•F *F *F
“Mr, Norman J. Bennett has been
elected president of the N.S.W.
Institution of Surveyors for 1950.”
As usual, of course, the elec-
tion was strictly on the level.
The Tenner of His Thoughts.
“In the Soviet there is no mystical
or obscene treatment of love such as
decadent cosmopolitan poets use.
We sing of how a young man falls
in love with a girl because of her big
industrial output.”
—Soviet poet Stephan Petrovic.
We poets of the Soviet
Don’t moon about and idly fret
For some romantic far-off love
Or swear by all the stars above
While heaving sad and gusty
sighs
That none can match our ladies'
eyes.
What matter if their hair be
straight.
For who seeks beauty in his
mate ?
And only poets decadent
In Western countries are intent
On writing reams of verse
salacious
Concerning woman’s form cur-
vacious.
We rise above such foolish yearn-
ings
And bear in mind potential earn-
ings.
Content to let mere beauty go
In favor of a quid pro quo.
D. H. E.
O.K. for Sound.
“A Hollywood survey reveals that
the three most dramatic sounds are
the Wedding March, the roar of the
surf and the cry of a new-born
babe.”
“Wahl, boys,” said Cyrus Z.
Sizzlesnork, president of Super
Potboilers, Inc., to the assembled
conference of studio executives.
“You’ve all heard the result of
the sur-vcy. Does it add up to
anything?” —and, lighting a
couple of double Coronas and
pushing the forest of phones to
the back of the desk so he could
put his feet up, he leaned back
and waited in comfort for the
avalanche of bright ideas. At
the end of a minute he broke
into the prevailing silence.
“Well, I’ll be hornswoggled
and bromo-seltzered! ” he ex-
claimed, “if the stoodio ain’t
keeping a bunch of dead-domes
on its payroll who ain’t got
brains enough to squeeze water
out of a wet sock”
“I gaht it. Chief!” burst out
the Ace Script Writer excitedly.
“We prodooce a fillum incor-
poratin’ all them sounds —we
can make it the colossalest, mag-
nificentest drammer in the history
of the silver screen, a techni-
colored epic that’ll stack the
fans in the aisles!”
Cyrus Z. beamed on the
A.S.W. “Bud,” he said admir-
ingly, “you shore jerked the
jackpot there. Now we’re gettiri
somewhere. Now take the
HEAOMASryjj
“You stay out of it, Murgatroyd—this is between
old Spencer and me!”
sound, the roar of the surf —
does that suggest anything?”
“Sure thing. Chief,” snapped
the Ace Gag Man. “Your little
woman after she’s caught you
trying to eye off a glamor dame
in a nightspot.”
“That ain’t funny, pinhead!”
barked the Chief. “Now”
“Boiling surf, shipwreck, sur-
vivors man and goil cast up on
desert island,” chanted the Ace
Script Writer almost like an
automaton, as if he had opened
i stock-plot pigeonhole in his 1
>rain and the sequences came
oiling out in their stereotyped
jrder. “Dame’s haughty but
lelpless, product of decayed
iristocracy in a brown-stone
mansion. Grandfather a cotil-
iion-leader of N’ Yoik’s four-
hundred in the ’nineties, old man
is railroad-stock fancier. She’s
so superior she’s nodded to
almost with respect by head-
waiter of Waldorf-Astoria. Co-
castaway is real tough hombre,
opens tins of beer with his teeth
and trims his eyebrows with a
blow-torch. Ship’s greaser, heavy
on sarcasm and muscles, light on
grammar an’ the social graces.
“The dame pulls the high-
falutin stuff but it don’t cut no
ice with the hombre, see? She
wouldn’t have no coconuts or
fish only for the guy, who lets
her know it, pronto. That gets
her mad, but she kaint do no-
thing about it. The guy, after a
bit, treats her like she don’t
exist, and that gets her madder.
Then the lovelight starts to dawn
in her eyes when she tumbles
that he’s mastered her.”
“If we got coconuts and palm-
trees and the sound o’ the surf
we gotta have hula-hula lovelies,
an’ they kaint dance without a
band,” put in the Ace Prodoocer.
“We can use Count Craisie and
his band in some hot Hawaiian
numbers complete with a bailey
doing routines on the sand in
the moonlight. And what about
some hoof-and-howl? Jerry
Homo, the stoodio’s ace groaner,
is hanging out to dry after com-
pleting his last opus —we could
use him.’”
“Yep, that’s okay,” agreed
Cyrus Z. enthusiastically. “He
could insert his chassis into the
sandscape as a previous cast-
away who’s been accepted as the
white king of the fierce abo-
riginal tribe. He aims to add
the goil to his harem. The big
tough bozo protects her. Big
fight sequence here that’ll rock
the fans and”
“Say,” put in the Ace Direc-
tor. “Are you all plumb loco?
A lolly-legged pigeon-chested
yawper in a death-struggle with
a hombre who can bend gas-
pipes around his biceps would
be like a Shirley Temple-Joe
Louis bout. Nope, we have the
big hombre snitched by the tribe.
He’s being lowered into an alli-
gator-pit, and just as the big
lizards are snapping within an
inch of him the goil”
“Why not,” put in the Ace
Prodoocer, “use Onja Benie —
she’s eatin’ up two grand a week
while she’s waiting for another
ice-revue to be scripted. I can
see her and the ice bailey doing
something classical. I got it!
‘Swan Lake.’ Get me? A lake
o’ black ice, stoodio prop swans
glidin’ across it. Then Onja and
the bailey, all dressed in white.
Spectacular! Gibbering abo-
riginals looking on, close-up of
tough hombre cornin’ over all
mushy holding hands with goil
and talking of old man’s rail-
road-stocks.”
“But you couldn’t have a
frozen lake in the same setting
as hula-hulas, coconuts and
tropic sands —they don’t mix.”
“Nerts! ” barked the Chief.
“The fans’ll swallow anything.
and Darzan wrestling * W if h hter
polar-bear in Nicaragua * h a
But where does thp
of the Wedding Marc^ 01^
" m fsHSai
yawper gets religious and build!
fho Ca t bed £ a l 0 V he isl and af e
the tough hombre beats un it
He°anid na th
S strains If jg “{***
March’ played by Count Crah!”®
band and sung by the hula-hula
lovelies just before the rescu,
ship comes.” cue ‘
, ? . about th e cry of the
babe, Chief?” asked the Ace
Director. Ace
Cyrus Z Sizzlesnork waved
his dismissal of the assemblage
Forget her,” he said. “Kaint
we have a discussion without
someone bringing in the tan-
trums of the leadin’ dame?”
Bo.
Hearts of Gold.
My general opinion is that
women are better caretakers of
money than men.”— Melbourne pro.
lessor Dr. G. L. Wood. **
/ have no time for womenfolk
Who take away our liberties
And make us pass beneath the
yoke
Of matrimonial unease.
No more the idle laugh and quip
With old-time cobbers at the
pub
And all such cheerful fellowship
When jobs abound at lawn or
tub.
Yet, though I am inclined to
grouch
About such things as must
debase
Mans mastery. I'll freely vouch
That women have one saving
grace.
BERT.


H Ilf v 999 Vltyy
■■■■■l
If the road had springs you couldn’t get a
smoother, softer ride than you get on Super-
Cushions.
Super-Cushions, exclusive to Goodyear, are the
new kind of tyres that give a new kind of ride . . .
bigger softer tyres that soak up jolts, resist bruises
and cuts- Super-Cushions will fit your present
wheels, so, see your Goodyear Dealer now.
everything a tyre can do
df
df
cioAlon
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out*
Perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother. Safer Ride . . .
Quicker Stop, . . . Greater'Traction
asier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
„ Re P air * •• • More Car Economy ■
f ,f fhls and GREATER
mileage, tooj
“ORE PEOPLE,
THE WORLD OVER,
RIOE OH GOODYEAR TYRES'
THAN OH ANY OTHER mao.
dsf
»L4-t«
n
/
0
w
Blue Gillette
Men who matter, men in the public eye, take no
chances with their daily shave. Others too, with
less conspicuous jobs, know the importance of per-
sonal appearance. A fresh, well-shaven face helps
them to look and feel their best through the hardest
day. It’s not surprising then, that most of these
men shave with Blue Gillette Blades for close,
comfortable shaves and longer blade life.
• SO DURABLE— each
blade gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP— they stroke
your beard away.
9 SO FAMOUS- they have
made the world clean shaven.
<zs<
rs?
-
5 for 1/8
10 for 3/4
20 for 6/8
(in plastic dispenser)
‘Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
4/160
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
cipal dubs in j tripping Melbourne
Syd f y matter oi prizemoney. Blame
jn the \ e h door of the Govern-
is laid at tn victoria, takes a
men L’ wSw’grab of the tote profits
much bigge g a Sydney> an d the
than is lh uent i y , get a correspond-
ed*. ler cut Considering that
SftnSs%Sf'of the racing clubs
hack into racing (save for splen-
fa donations to charity), that the
fiovemment does not contribute a
G °nJTanv shape or form to racing,
55d y that the Government already
get through a variety
very handsome rake-olf from racing,
,t certainly doesnt seem > a fair spin.
Prizemoney for the V.R.C. s
autumn meeting, concluded at
Kipmincton on Saturday, did n
Sare favorably with the money
advertised 1 for the AJ.C.’s autumn
carnival to be held at Rand wick next
month. Total prizemoney distributed
over the four days of the Melbourne
meeting was £40,300 plus a £lOO
trophy for the Australian Cup. Tor
Rand wick, the A.J.C. has allotted
£56,500, and the Sydney Cup winner
will have a £5OO trophy whereby to
remember the occasion.
Breaking the figures down to a few
individual items, the main double at
the V.R.C. fixture was a £3OOO New-
market and a £4OOO Australian Cup.
At Randwick there will be a £5OOO
Doncaster and £lO,OOO Sydney Cup.
The V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
was worth £3ooo—the A.J.C. equiva-
lent £5000; the V.R.C. St. Leger
carries £2soo—the A.J.C. St. Leger
£3OOO. Minimum prize 't the V.R.C.
meeting was £7OO provided for each
of four jumping events; at Randwick
no race will be worth less than £lOOO.
The effect of this comparatively
lowish prizemoney was most notice-
able in connection with the Aus-
tralian Cup. The Cup was the best-
endowed race of the meeting, but it
did not induce connections of any of
the really high-quality Melbourne or
inter-State stayers to give their horses
a gruelling run under handicap con-
ditions. A £lO,OOO Cup might have
brought together Carbon Copy,
Comic Court, the crack three-year-
old Delta and others. But why would
Carbon Copy be put to such a task
(he was weighted at 9.6) for a prize ot
£2BOO when he was able to pocket
£2lOO for the merest exercise gallop
in Saturday’s weight-for-age Carbine
Stakes, finishing order in which was
Carbon Copy, seven lengths to Free
Kick, 10 lengths to Bruin and a fur-
long to Cronides? Similarly with
Delta, who bagged over £3OOO for a
couple of very comfortable wins in
the St. Leger and Wednesday’s
King’s Plate. Delta beat Carbon
Copy by three lengths in the Plate,
Cronides being the only other runner.
Outcome, at any rate, was that the
Australian Cup was contested by just
the usual field of moderates that line
up every Saturday for the distance
handicap. Topweight of the 12 run-
ners was Henley with 8.1; in the
original weights for the Cup 15 horses
had been weighted above Henley.
With the 25-to-l chance High Jip
home and hosed in the Newmarket,
the withdrawal of the early Cup
favorite Sanctus gave doubles book-
makers a virtual skinner, regardless
of what won the Cup. In the
absence of Sanctus the John James
five-year-old Bold John (R. Hutchin-
son) was left to carry the fortunes of
the Theo Lewis stable, and carry
them he did t© good effect. Bruin
made a fair attempt to lead all the
way in the Cup, but he was swamped
at the finish, Bold John winning
comfortably from Lady Vara and
Henley.
Cup Day also saw the champion
filly Chicquita register her best win
to date when she beat a tip-top field
at weight-for-age in the mile C. M.
Lloyd Stakes. An element in many of
Chicquita’s wins has been her sheer
gameness, and again in the Lloyd
Stakes she fought on magnificently
to down St. Razzle by a head, De La
Salle, Ellerslie, Happy Medium and
Vagabond following in that order.
One feature of the autumn meeting
was the definite proving of Delta and
Chicquita as two of the best in the
land.
Form displayed in the Australian
Cup proved rather unreliable over
the remainder of the meeting.
Wednesday saw Bold John beaten
pointless by Westralian (J, Thomp-
son) in the Autumn Handicap (13f.),
a farcical-looking race into which
stewards opened an inquiry, which
had not been completed at time of
writing. Thompson, on Westralian,
opened up a huge lead, and the rest
of the field, seemingly confident that
he would come bade to them, let him
get away with it. Before long it was
evident that Westralian would have
to fall over to lose; he remained on
his feet and beat Bold John by eight
lengths. At his previous start Wes-
tralian had been beaten easily at
Werribee.
Notwithstanding the number of
times it has been misproven, many
punters persist in the belief that a
horse drawn wide out has little
chance over the Flemington straight-
"No, Myrtle—he doesn't get it till he sits up.”
six. Shooting a couple more holes
in this rather tattered theory, the
Newmarket winner High Jip was
drawn No. 30 in a field of
30, and Saturday’s Leonard Stakes
went to Comedy Prince, also
drawn on the utter outer. Winning
by three lengths from Harella and
Gay Saint, Comedy Prince started at
12 to I—a surprisingly generous
quote against a horse of his class.
* * * *
Saturday’s S.T.C. meeting at
Canterbury added to the lately fast-
growing list of meetings ruined by
constant rain and a bog-like track.
Once again there was evidence that
progeny of Midstream take pretty
kindly to heavy going. The grey
filly Susan, by Midstream from Arab
Maid, won the first Ashbury Mixed
by a mere 10 lengths. Of the state
of the track, suffice to say that Susan
clocked 1.19-1: for the 6 furlongs,
which was, by Nsec., the fastest time
recorded from four races over the
distance.
Principal interest of the day lay
in the first Australian appearance ot
the highly-boomed New Zealand colt
Lord Moss. After seeing the New
Zealander deal with the Flying Handi-
cap field bookmakers lowered his
Doncaster price with the avidity of a
stoker tackling a pint.
Heavy scratchings left only eight
opponents for Lord Moss in the
Flying, and they were a weakish
bunch, but the colt could do no
more than win, which he did in royal
fashion. With 8.10, Lord Moss was
handicapped at 41b. over weight-for-
age, and was conceding older horses
1 lib. and upwards; the only other
three-year-old in the field, Sunny
Marsh, was weighted at 7st. Lord
Moss had the pacemaker Journalist
covered all the way, and, running
past him most easily at the top of
the straight, went on to win by four
lengths. Lord Moss is by Lord
Bobs, a son of Nearco, the sire, in
recent years, of two English Derby
winners in Dante and Nimbus, as
well as the St. Leger winner Saya-
jirao and the Oaks winners Masaka
and Musidora.
A number of potential Sydney Cup
candidates made an appearance in
the 9-furlongs Canterbury Cup—
notably Benvolo, Persist, Dark Marne
and the New Zealander Bruce. Per-
sist was a warm favorite, with Ben-
volo next and Wattle also well
backed in memory of past per-
formances on heavy tracks. Wattle
did best of the trio, doing the pace-
making and holding on well at the
finish, but the Dhoti colt Chitral was
a shade more determined, and won
by a neck. Benvolo was a close
third, but Persist was literally all at
sea.
Neville Sellwood, who rode both
Lord Moss and Chitral, made it a
treble when he ran out a six-lengths
winner of the Two-year-old Maiden
on French Cavalier, a son of Gene-
tout having his first start in a race.
A similar event for fillies went to
Serenity, a chestnut daughter of Hua,
and whose only previous outing had
been in the Giracrack Stakes. Sell-
wood, incidentally, has the riders’
premiership pretty thoroughly sewn
up, with 48 winners against his
nearest opponent’s 26.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances); —
Parramatta Mixed: Auburn River,
1; Beau Sandy, 2; Cabaret, 3.
Macarthur Quality Handicap; Le
Dauphin, 1; Even Flow, 2; Fair
Diana, 3. Three- and Four-year-old
Quality (in the absence of Delta):
Benvolo, 1; Chitral, 2; Snowstream,
3. Rawson Stakes: Delta, 1; De La
Salle, 2; Vagabond, 3. Railway
Quality: Hisign, 1; Count Aulone,
2; Dickens, 3. Rosehill Cup: Dark
Mame, 1; Persist, 2; Ballroom, 3.
Welter: Royal Andrew, 1; Jeleprint,
2; Hughenden, 3.
Throughout next week, in various
Sydney arenas, the Army, the Navy
and the Air Force will be joined in
the friendly stoush of the 1950 Inter-
Service Sports. Athletics at Sydney
Sports Ground, swimming at the
Olympic Pool, tennis at White City,
golf at The Lakes, rifle-shooting at
Long Bay and cricket at the S.C.G.
are all on the agenda, but the star
turns will be the pugilistic engage-
ments at Rushcutter Bay Stadium —
Army v. Air Force on Tuesday night,
Navy v. Air Force on Wednesday
night and Army v. Navy on Thursday
night. The slug feasts get under way
at 1930 hours, and proceeds go to
the Legacy War Orphans Appeal.
* * * *
The McWilliams Wines people
have done the competitors and them-
selves proud in organisation for the
£2500 golf tournament at the Aus-
tralian Club’s course (Sydney) this
week. A “souvenir” programme
makes recording the scores in each
day’s play easy, has a plan of the
course with vantage points marked
and decorously advises the crowd on
the etiquette of watching. Gate pro-
ceeds go to Legacy, there will be
refreshments throughout the course
and a broadcast relay of description.
* * * *
“C.S.”: One thing the new rules
issued by the Royal and Ancient did
was to reveal the ignorance of the
old rules among thousands of club
golfers. More than half the alleged
confusion over the new rules was
partly due to this, to the fact that
few had ever read and understood
the old rules, and an astonishing
number couldn’t understand the dis-
tinction between the words “stroke”
and “swing.” All that’s changed
in the old out-of-bounds and lost-
ball rules is the elimination of the
one-stroke penalty, and all the
worriers have to do is to understand
the definition of the word “pro-
visional” as applied to the ball
played when there is doubt about the
one already played. Main object of
the changed rules was to cut out
time-wasting on the course —and any-
body who has fumed while waiting
for the players ahead to finish their
practising should appreciate that. As
for that much-discussed practice putt
after holing out, the Royal and
Ancient is pretty definite that it
doesn’t want players to indulge in
demonstrations of “This is what f
should have done.”
* * * *
After drawing with Western
Province at Capetown—a match
which saw Colin McCool knock up
his first century of the tour —the
Australians in South Africa heaved
something like a sigh of relief as they
moved on for the final match of the
tour v. a South African XI at Ellis
Park, Jo’burg. Although their
matches have been easy, and they
have enjoyed royal entertainment
betimes, the heavy programme and
terrific amount of travelling involved
in S’Africa make for a wearying
time.
* * * *
After a couple of easy victories in
minor matches last week the Aus-
tralian team across the Tasman moved
on to bump some rather tougher
opposition in the unofficial Test v.
New Zealand at Dunedin. In the
earlier matches Australia (568) de-
feated Otago (116 and 96) by an
innings and 356, and, at Invercargill,
downed Southland by an innings and
37 runs —Australia, four for 154
(closed); Southland, 50 and 67. New
Zealand batted first in the Dunedin
Test, and, despite Doug Ring’s effort
of bagging seven wickets for 88, the
Kiwis put up a fairly respectable tally
of 231. The Australians in reply
were doing a bit of a struggle on
Saturday with five down for 120.
* * * *
The Bendigo Thousand, claimed to
be now the world’s richest pedestrian
event, went to Sam Baldwin of
Broken Hill. Running off 8-Jyds.
Baldwin clocked 11.75ec., to equal
John Stoney’s race-record. American
negro Barney Ewell again turned in
some slashing runs at the meeting,
twice cracking the world professional
record for 220yds. Ewell clocked
21sec. in his semi-final and 20.9 sec.
in the final of the 220yds. event.


>
*s
Mr. Man-on-the-land!
Ask yourself
which Pastoral Company
• has always made Service to you
Its first object?
e has kept pace with your great industry's
requirements for 87 years?
• has staffed its organisation with
men alive to your interests?
o offers you the best facilities for sale of
wool, fat stock and hides, purchase of
merchandise, matters of finance and
management, agistment and insurance?
Tht answer to all questions is-
.
87 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
A
L‘.F
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 BHgh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches; — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Oowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Oooma and Beniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd.. Wlnton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
ching time
“p^
titfv
I^'
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
pastoral houses
sd
fds
f
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Doubt on Pastures.
“Longjon”: Though improved
pastures certainly pay in carry-
ing capacity and quality of milk
or meat, whether, over the years,
they improve the soil is an open
question. Soil chemists are be-
ginning to think that p.i. is being
done at the ultimate expense of
the soil.
When the alleged fertility
building by the legumes, sub.-
clover in particular, is examined
critically, they say it becomes
evident that ultimately a con-
tinuous succession of crops will
result in a serious impairment of
the fertility of soils that were
initially strongly acid. None of
those who advocate legumes for
the restoration or maintenance of
soil-fertility has given sufficient
recognition to the fact that the
nitrogen fixed by legumes is a
factor in actually increasing soil-
fertility. All that legumes do at
best is to provide nitrogen, and
in the provision of this nitrogen
soil acidity is increased.
Fertility build - up is not
properly assessed unless account
is taken of the increased outgo
of minerals that is induced, and
this factor provided for and
balanced.
Soils on which lucerne has
been grown at Grafton (N.S.W.)
for a long period are today more
acid, and contain less organic
matter than those on which corn
is grown. Where leaching causes
strongly acid soils, it is usually
found that they contain only a
poor remnant of mineral bases.
Loss of these bases in acid soils
makes the soil more acid. Soils
in the Crookwell (N.S.W.) dis-
trict longest under sub.-clover
have undergone considerable
intensification of acidity, caused
by nitric acid formed by the
nitrogen in the legumes.
Are the virtues of sub.-clover
to be used to exploit the soil
and wring the last gasp of pro-
duction from acid soils? Or
will its demands on certain soils
determine its limitations? The
answer could have a great bear-
ing on future land-production
trends.
Fogging Sheep Pests.
“R. Ney”; It may not be long
before the sheepman, instead of
rounding up the ewes in a corner
of the paddock and holding them
there with his dog while he picks
out the fly-struck, and gets to
work with dagging shears and
fly oil, simply goes out with a
knapsack on his back, points a
nozzle at the sheep, and shoots
a fog over them.
That is what is more or less
embodied, in anew system of
treating sheep for lice and keds
and has distinct possibilities for
blowfly prevention. The method
is to throw a chemical fog over
the sheep, and, assuming that
cost and other things are favor-
able, it looks like dispensing with
bath and spray-dips, and may
even outmode Mulesing, Man-
chestering and all the rest of it.
Fogging has been given pretty
severe tests in both the laboratory
and the field and has stood up to
them. There is no doubt of its
efficiency for lice and keds.
Briefly, the sheep are got to-
gether, the fogging unit opened
“Right, Dad—if he jibs again give us a call!”
up on them and a heavily-
charged fog floats over, above
and around them, impregnating
practically every fibre of the
fleece. By this means 10 gallons
of the fogging fluid becomes the
equivalent of 1000 gallons of
ordinary dipping fluid.
Fumol Pty., Ltd., producers of
the chemical fog, claim that its
application to sheep as a blowfly
preventive will not only destroy
what maggots exist on the sheep,
but give protection against
further strike for a considerable
period.
Too Many Wheats.
“B. Cubbin”: The South Aus-
tralian Committee for the Im-
provement of Wheat has con-
demned the tendency of farmers
to grow poor flour-making
wheats (which are bag-fillers),
and expressed some alarm at the
increase in these wheats both in
S.A. and Victoria, The com-
mittee classified S.A, wheats
thus;
Very weak. —Free Gallipoli, Glu-
club, Gluwari, Gluyas, Gluyas Early,
Magnet, Nawab, Ranee, Ranee 4H
and Sultan.
Weak. —Aussie, Bena, Bencubbm,
Bobin, Bungulla, Currawa, Dan, Day-
light, Diadem, Felix, Geeralymg,
Glenwari, Ghurka, Insignia, King’s
White, Koorda, Major, Marathon,
Merredina, Pindar, Pinnacle, Quad-
rat, Rapier, Rapier 48, Regalia,
Seewari, Sepoy, Sword, Totadgin,
Waratah, Waria Seewari 48 and Ben-
cubbin 48. . , .
Medium strong.—Carrabm, Celebra-
tion, Dundee, Dundee 48, Florence
or Quality, Ford, Javelin 48, Javelin,
Kendee, Koala, Kondut, Minister,
Nabawa, Ridley, Redlep, Scimitar,
Warigo, WI No. 3, Ridley 48,
Scimitar 48.
Strong.—Charter, Comeback, Dirk,
Dirk 48, Eureka, Eureka 11, Frisco,
Gabo, Gular, the Pusas, SHJ, Yalta.
Wheatbreeding is a never-
ending job, the breeders being
constantly in search of wheats
that will not only suit the vary-
ing climatic conditions and soils,
resist drought and pests, and
yield heavily, but will also
satisfy the demands of millers
here and abroad. The South
Australian lists plainly suggest
that there are now too many
varieties. What is wanted is a
way to stop further production
of varieties that have been dis-
placed by better ones.
Ergot Disease.
“Farmer Bill”: This year
hundreds of stock paddocks are
choked with paspalum. Keep
stock off it as the seeds ripen.
It’s then, not at the honey-dew
stage, that it’s affected with the
poisonous fungus called ergot.
All cattle are susceptible, but
those from 14 to 24 months are
likely to suffer most. First
symptoms are swaying of the
hindquarters, high - stepping
movements with the forelegs,
stumbling, defective vision, rapid
breathing. Total paralysis may
occur. Extent of the trouble
depends on the amount of
fungus eaten.
Treat beasts of average size
with a purgative of one pound
of Epsom salts mixed in water.
Young stock need less.
Copper and Cobalt.
“Rooster”: A deficiency of
these minerals is evident on
large tracts of the coastal regions
in southern parts. Swampy
areas generally are deficient in
copper. Decreased copper con-
tent of the blood and liver
creates anaemia, and may cause
degeneration of the heart
muscle ; hence the many cases
of fatal collapse of milking
cows. The same lack causes
marked scouring during spring
months, particularly in swampy
country. Sheep are often simi-
larly affected and develop steely
wool —a loss of the normal
crimpness in the wool fibres.
Lambs contract ataxia, a stag-
gering gait brought about by a
nervous condition involving one
or more legs. Annual losses in-
curred by these deficiencies are
gradually decreasing, thanks to
the untiring work of scientists
in tracing the exact proportions
of copper and cobalt present or
not in the bloodstreams and
livers of affected ruminants.
Where the lack is evident
regular drenching will make up
the specific mineral lack. The
drench is made up from copper
sulphate 10oz., cobalt chloride
20z., water igal. Half a pint of
this solution is added to 8|
pints of water. The drench is
given once a week for several
months at the rate of half a
fluid ounce per sheep and four
fluid ounces for mature cows,
with proportionately smaller
doses for younger animals.
Top-dressing and treatment
of drinking water helps. Top-
dress with copper sulphate at
the rate of 51b. to 101 b. per
acre and cobalt chloride at 11b.
to 21b. per acre every five to
seven years. Keep stock off
treated areas until after a good
soaking rain. Drinking water is
best treated with a solution of
copper sulphate lOoz. and cobalt
chloride soz. to a gallon of
water, half a pint of the solution
to 400 gal. of drinking water, but
only in earthen or concrete
tanks.
Fruit-fly in N.S.W.
“Corbet”.: “Cave” asks (B.
1 1 3/’5O) what the Department of
Agriculture is doing about fruit-
fly. Much of the trouble is due
to neglect of the department’s
advice. The department has
really done a great deal. In its
journal for June, 1949, can be
found an account of a new in-
secticide (E 605) applied to fruit-
trees with the result that none of
the fruit contained maggots.
There is no doubt that the fruit
was stung—-but the eggs were
rendered sterile.
This may not be a final knock-
out for fruit-fly, but it is of.4he
greatest significance. In the
journal for March, 1949, is a
formula which should be used
by all backyard orchards : One
fluid oz. nicotine sulphate, two
fluid oz. 20 per cent. D.D.T,
emulsion, 21b. sugar and 4gal.
water. This bait puts the fly out
of action instantaneously. Other
baits are slow ; they allow the
fly to drink and lay her eggs
before the bait takes effect.
Splints in Horses.
“Equine”: They’re due to in-
flammation of the membrane
(periosteum) surrounding the
surfaces, blows or ? lnp har l
pressure, brushing and cutbf
toes turned either inwards o’
outwards excessively 0 r U
either too far apart or ton J 88
together can cause splints. ° Se
Splints caused bv bln«, c
usually well forward * S E
large bone, while those due to
strain are always on the smaU
bones. When caused by blows
lameness lasts only two or three
weeks but when strained it JJS
go on for several months. Lame!
ness is invariably present and is
more pronounced i n well-bred
horses. Lameness i s morp
noticeable when the horse is
walking on hard ground is
worse when trotting and’in-
creases with exercise.
When examining a horse for
splints pick up the foot, place
the thumb on one side and the
fingers on the other, press firmly
from the knee down along the
junction of the big and small
bones. When splints are form-
ing there will be a slight swel-
ling and the horse will show
pain when the arek is pressed.
The nearer the splint is to the
knee the more serious is the
condition, as the inflammation
may spread to the knee joint,
where a large bony growth may
form.
Rest is essential if the horse
is working and if the condition
is not due to some mechanical
injury. As a rule splints are not
serious in old horses, and are
best left alone, as drastic treat-
ment with acids and irons is
liable to cripple the animal.
Apply hot vinegar with a brush
once daily for two weeks, then
use a mild blister.
Consolidating Cane Setts.
“Beroo”; Consolidation after
planting in the drill is very im-
portant if the sett is to germinate
satisfactorily. It serves to break
up surface clods, and by
squeezing out the air in the loose
soil around the sett provides it
with warmer and moister con-
ditions. Various methods are
used.
A heavy cover, say, 6in. to Sin.
of soil, may be dragged in over
the sett from the sides of the
open drill, and then, when it
has settled by its own weight,
Sin. to 4in. is spun or raked
off; or a cover of 2in. to sin,
of soil is put on and then con-
solidated. A rubber-tyred trac-
tor run down the drills is quite
satisfactory, and wooden
rollers, logs or chains dragge
behind the planter are also used.
All these devices, however, are
awkward or expensive, and
many require the soil in just t
right tilth to be effective.
Cane-farmers will appreciate
a roller developed by J. *•
Casewell, of Glenisla,
Proserpine. It is m aC *


WANTED TO PURCHASE.
ONE POISON "OART. OR POISON ( DART
u attachment.
\ nv person having such a vehicle
nailable is requested to contact the
Secretary, Pastures Protection Board,
Jlcniliquln, N.S.W., giving- a description
ami the price required.
to
|lorhfc
CHAMPIONS
WIN ON-
s'
AMBO
*5
X
' mm
TRADE'
MARK
msmsm
CHAMPION
EZEXE 3
vo/uds FAvmm
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
01 ~ EDO » US.A.; WINDSOR, CAN,
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
S?A d JAN CLIPPER" Ready
from Fi ? e Cut Blended
Packs. Leaf - In 2oz.
Priced 22/- C PCr lb ' ° r lOOSe
tor^-i^s^ rf i I ',* 11 e Cut Ready Rubbed
Packs PrtSd s/ n « Mildn . ess ’ in 2oz -
Priced 22/- Jerib? l ’ or loose
fiSpi;” v£ hat F lne Old Well
c>en better P (- e han llXture that ls now
Per lb Loose 6Ver - Priced *O/-
Ren,ember Winstons. goo a.
I'rite. MAIL ORDER DEPT.
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
clsHwTrp P - o *’ Brisbane.
Spe , ?*>*** mspSS*
QUO 201b S Re o t r ai i e v r e S r For ° rderS
dsf
—■£l*£l-Pty.L.td.kin ff c*
OSB&Cn.P»y
King
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-—recommended for shearing-shed work.
n
£fl ATI N E '( A u ST?
40z., Boz. f Iboz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
Presents the 1950
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
APRIL Ist to APRIL 12th
10 DAYS—B MIGHTS
CAN NOW DELIVER
‘
30HPLANZ
Ctude Oil Ttacfoit
v
....
,, , „ t \
'
.
s*as
* :> ,<?;■
v ' isj
:■ -. ’
LOWEST RUNNING COSTS
OF ANY TRACTOR MADE
Any Lanz or K.L, Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor
owner will tell you how easy it is to save up
to £ISO per year on low cost crude oil oper-
ation. He’ll tell you, too, that the sheer
simplicity of Bulldogs’ single cylinder slow
speed engines, with only 8 main moving parts,
drastically reduce wear and maintenance-
cut repair bills to a fraction those of compli-
cated tractor engines. So, if you are a medium
power user, start enjoying the wonderful
money saving advantages of this 30 H.P.
LANZ Crude Oil Model—ready for delivery
to your property NOW.
Zee your Local ,
BULLDOG Agent
or:-
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Halloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, VICTORIA
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., Melbourne. SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth.
TASMANIA, K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sale* Pty, Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.
LAN 2 & K.L
30,40 &45h,p, Models
KL2I9
• • „ two scuffler wheels to-
joinmg W , s attached per-
§ether tiv to the rear of the
manently _ Constant pres-
plantk’irovided by two spiral
sure Ld the gadget lifts with
° n head -
Jands or travelling
Autumn-sown Pastures,
-Ur ” ■ Provided normal
au ,uron rains fall, March is the
“month for pasture-sowing
Victoria. Soil temperature
s still high, and in warm, moist
conditions the plants get a good
~-rt Sowings in later ana
cooler times often result in poor
establishment. ,
R. I. Newman, B.Agr.Sc., ad-
vocates the use of certified seeds
only, and recommends this mix-
ture for areas in the 25-35 m.
rainfall areas: Perennial rye-
grass 101 b. per acre cocksfoot
41b, Mt. Barker and Tallarook
sub.-clover 21b. each Wjiere
rainfall is sufficient (35m. and
over),include *lb. of New Zea-
land permanent-pasture white
clover. For districts with a ram-
fall of less than 25in., where
perennial rye-grass may not per-
sist, try the following mixture:
Phalaris tuberosa 21b. per acre,
Mt. Barker or Bacchus Marsh
sub.-clover 31b.
Polishing Concrete.
“Gem”: The secret is in the
mix and the hardness of the
aggregate; blue-metal, marble
and granite being the best. Be
sure all forms are true and
make the mix strong, say,
1:2:3 cement, sand and
aggregate, the aggregate mostly
in the form of screenings with
nothing over |in. in mesh.
When pouring, ram as much
aggregate against the surfaces to
be polished as possible, and tap
the forms to get rid of air-
pockets.
After 24 hours, strip the
forms and chip off projecting
edges, rub over with a wooden
float (not using cement wash),
wash and leave for a week. The
surface will then be ready for
polishing, which is done in two
separate processes.
First, using a« carborundum
grinding-stone and cement-paste
of raw cement, water and a little
sand, grind the surface down as
smoothly as possible. As this
is done a scum will form which
should be washed away.
Second, work the surface with a
marble smoothing-block, using
marble dust and water to bring
up a polish.
This result will stand up to
three years’ weathering. For a
permanent result rub a mixture
of graphite and milk well into
the surface hnd polish with a
good floor-polish. The floor-
polish should be applied every
week for several months.
“Milking-machine Udders.”
“Agric”: Development of a
“milking - machine udder” is
claimed at one of the largest
American dairies, which has
bred over the last 12 years for
cows with ability to make high-
producing records under
machine-milking. The “milking-
machine udder” is basin-shaped
rather than extending forward
in a straight line to the middle
of the belly. Most striking, it is
claimed, is the flat floor and
square teat placement. The
udder is wide and strongly
attached. When bagged before
milking it hangs straight from
the high attachment, showing
little or no pear-shaped bulging.
Hints for the Farm.
“Biro”: Where water is
scarce, especially in new ground,
too much artificial fertiliser will
cause burning-off. That is why
natural farm manures and com-
post are more suitable than the
highly-concentrated phosphates
unless the water-supply or rain-
fall is good. Leafy vegetables
require a manure that is rich
in nitrogen therefore they
rotate well with beans and peas.
Root vegetables require super,
and potash. Nitrogen would de-
velop luxuriant tops at the ex-
pense of the roots.
“Moya”: Use of rags for
washing and drying dairy
utensils and separator . parts
causes extra work and helps
spread germs. Use brushes, as
handles and corners can be more
readily cleaned and brushes can
be washed and allowed to dry
thoroughly in the sun.
“Tolive”; Cats on a poultry-
farm may keep rats down (B.
15/2/’5O), but are not as good
as traps. Put traps in out-of-the-
way places and use raw bacon
for bait. It never fails.
“Mema”; An old sheep-
trough makes a good container
for small plants like parsley. It
makes a good-size bed, and being
long and narrow can easily be
fitted in a shady place beneath
a sheltered fence, where the
plants will be protected from
sun and burning winds.
“K.T.”: When pullets start
laying eggs which appear too
large, they are likely to break
down. The best pullet is one that
begins laying a small egg which
gradually increases in size, until
it reaches accepted standard
weight of 2oz. within about two
months. There is nothing to be
gained by eggs from any
hens, as they bring no more than
lighter ones.
“Rooster”: A recipe for
cobbler’s-wax: Melt together
and boil, with continual stirring,
lOoz. of resin and loz. of pitch.
While mixture is boiling stir into
it loz. of melted tallow of good
quality or the same quantity of
sperm-oil and a little beeswax.
Mix thoroughly, and, when the
mixture has cooled to about the
consistency of putty, work it well
between the hands until it be-
comes a dark bronze color. This
wax, used on thin twine, makes
good “wax-end” for sewing
harness or boots.
“Big Billy”; Marrows and the
like are best harvested when
large enough, but if they are
removed when lOin. to 12in. long
they’ll be more palatable and the
plant will produce a larger yield.
“My”: To kill cockchafer
grubs in a lawn topdress in
January or February with lead-
arsenate powder, £lb. to 100
square feet (dusting it on the
lawn with a shaker), or a 50
p.c. wettable D.D.T., 2oz. to the
same area.
“C.S.”: A feature of the
Bushfire Committee’s informa-
tion bureau at Sydney Royal
Show next month will be an ex-
hibit of bushfire-fighting equip-
ment, which includes several
approved spark-arrestors and
power - pumping units. The
bureau will be located in Dairy
Hall, and literature, including a
booklet summarising the provi-
sions of the recently enacted
Bushfires Act, will be available.


FOR RHEUMATISM
sdf
ARTHRITIS, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO. NEURALGIA,
RHEUMATIC GOUT and all
AILMENTS OF THE
RHEUMATIC GROUP
For 30 years Chmy McPherson’s
Mixture has .proved a real blessing
to sufferers from Rheumatic ail-
ments everywhere. Cluny’s is a
scientifically prescribed formula
which quickly strikes at the root of
the trouble, relieves the pain,
restores proper functioning to the
kidneys and tones up the whole
nervous system,
START TAKING CLUNY'S TO-DAY
cluny McPhersons
tIIVTUBE FROM CHEMISTS
mIAIUKC EVERYWHERE
FAMED THESE 30 YEARS
CM. 17.8*
EXECUTOR -
TRUSTEE -
ATTORNEY
H4 fiD
N£^ER
L^4V.
*he
**e£L
C °**s
[This booklet explains wKere
you stand
Before you accept the responsibilities of executorship, you
should knoyr where those obligations begin and end. The
same precaution is essential before you appoint your own
executor. After you have read the new edition of "Hands
That Never Leave the Wheel,” you will realise why
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited can be of great
service to you and your family.
r A complimentary copy of this booklet will be forwarded
on application. If you care to call, a senior officer will be
readily available to discuss important matters with you•
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Erie Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: i. R. OVERTON, F.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.B.W. Parliament
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
T6L. 8U5?0l SOX (43, G.P.O,
•PITM
By JOHN FOUNTAIN.
HE was a great dark and
grey old man, the old
Serb, with long grizzled
moustaches and eyes of
midnight black. He had been in
the T.B. ward at the Austrian
p.-0.-w,. camp for about a fort-
night, and the British in the
ward felt a vague, half-contemp-
tuous, proprietary interest in
him. Those who had been in
Belgrade felt something more,
perhaps, but to most of them he
was an interesting old savage
who shared their Red Cross
parcels and, by the grace of the
senior British medical officer,
was treated like themselves.
From the beginning he was a
problem, because he refused to
wash; and not all the eloquence
of the orderly, backed by the
authority of the doctor, could
alter his obstinate avoidance of
water. He also hated the cold,
and perspired freely, so that his
broad olive face was either
dewed or streaming wet. Yet he
clung to his greasy grey over-
coat with the red facings, de-
spite all the blankets he managed
to scrounge. A long-distance
scrounging, for he didn’t leave
his bed. But the other Serbs
in the lazaret brought him any-
thing he needed ; ya-ya~ eggs ;
cin —cheese; even, it was sus-
pected, rakya, the potent Yugo-
slav spirits. Although how they
managed to get this in the heart
of an enemy country was a dark
Slavonic mystery,
HO he was, precisely, no
VV English-speaking prisoner
knew; but he was a man of
consequence among the Serbs
to be sure. Every day a crowd
of them stood around his bed,
chattering and whispering. And
when he, grandfather Serb,
spoke, there was sudden obse-
quious silence. Passing his bed
sometimes, Joe, the Australian,
who had picked up a few words
of Croato-Serbian in Skopliye
and Belgrade and Nish, would
say ‘-‘Kako’s’ti-vi dynas, Gos-
podin ?”—“How are you today,
sir?”—a polite inquiry which was
always appreciated by the
assembled courtiers, who bowed
and smiled and thanked him —
“ Falla lepur.” But the old man
cleared his throat and said “80l
. , . Boli grudi . . . nye dobro”
in his deep, growling, grumbling
voice. , Not so much a com-
plaint, as Joe understood it, as
a weary contempt for fate.
That was all he ever said to
the doctor, either, on his morn-
ing rounds —Joe interpreting.
That his chest was bad, -and it
was not good. Although one
surprising morning he volun-
teered the information that the
Germans were bad, and God
was good. Then he would sink
back and pull the blankets up
to his chin, the enormous
moustaches hanging over like
long strands of grizzled horse-
hair, and sigh profoundly; like
an old and infinitely weary bear.
In deference to the English
doctor, the old Serb had con-
sented to remove his greatcoat
before the morning rounds. But
as soon as the doctor’s white
back had disappeared through
the doorway, two henchmen
sprang from their beds and
helped the vast hulk into his
gay and greasy apparel. Then
the blankets were pulled up as
before, and he lay there all day.
Then, one sunny morning, the
old Serb got up. He did not
consult the British doctor about
this move, but there was a
vehement discussion among all
the Serbs. Couriers were sent
out to taste the air and came
bustling back with contradic-
tory intelligence. At the height
of the controversy—for one
party apparently opposed the
move; another, just as vigor-
ously, was for it —a young
cavalryman with a bunch of
coal-black curly hair took a
scarlet - breeched, blue - coated
artillery narednift by the throat
and shook him till his eyes
popped. And all this time the
old Serb said nothing, but spat
prodigiously.
At last he raised his hand.
Silence. And slowly, ponder-
ously, he got up with a dozen
arms around him. It was like
watching a tree being helped out
of its bed.
THE old Serb inspected the
hospital grounds, a senior
white-haired warrior supporting
him on his arms, the rest crowd-
ing respectfully behind. He
seemed satisfied with the sun-
shine. He lifted his broad dark
face up to the heavens, crinkled
his black eyes up until they
disappeared, and sniffed. Once
he actually smiled.
Behind the delouser the
Frenchmen were putting the
shot. A showy bunch of sports-
men, these French, medical
orderlies, Petainists, parole men ;
and therefore well fed. There
was the usual noise and bubble.
Temperamental outbursts at
wrong measurements, tragic
mutterings in defeat. Statuesque
posing and deep inhalations.
Andre, the Sulky fair giant, was
good, though. There was no
need for him to posture.
The old Serb and his party
stopped to look as Andre
leisurely stepped into the ring
and stooped to pick up the metal
ball. As soon as he felt its
weight against bis sloping,
muscle-padded shoulder Andre
lost his lassitude. His left leg
swung up rhythmically, he
pivoted, his splendid trained
body uncoiled. He hurled the
shot and cries of admiration
broke from the French before it
hit the ground. Andrd stood,
blond head bent on its sun-
tanned column of neck, while
they measured the distance.
“Bien ! Tres bien !” Andre shook
his head. He could do better.
Then Andrd turned round,
surprised, to find himself ad-
dressed in unfamiliar French. It
was the spindly-legged Serb, a
lawyer from Belgrade. Would
Monsieur be so kind as to allow
one of his countrymen to try his
hand at the sport? Andre
shrugged, not too courteously,
and stepped back out of the
ring. The curly-topped cavalry-
man came forward with his stiff
horseman’s gait, grinning and
tugging at his breeches. He
picked up the shot awkwardly,
the grin disappeared from his
face, leaving it white and deter-
mined, and he threw it with all his
force with a flash of white teeth.
It went a few yards.
There were titters from the
French, and the cavalryman
walked back to his silent com-
patriots, hanging his head.
A NDRE smiled, and the old
Serb’s eyes smouldered.
Andre tossed a witticism over
his broad shoulder and the old
Serb turned angrily to the lawyer
from Belgrade demanding a
translation. The little lawyer
was confused, gestured helplessly.
Perhaps he didn’t know.
A kind of muffled roar came
from the old Serb, and suddenly,
amazingly, like the abrupt
baffling charge of a bull, he was
in the ring. Stooping to take
the metal ball out of Andre’s
reddish-brown, well-nourished
hand.
Enclosing it in his own
~iSsa.S"T£
it- Outof,h P e a^ n ’outon aSKi
mg and despair a! f JonB-
- it seemed. A tremend^ 6
and wholly unorthodofthm 118
accompanied by a g Un , W
see m e d to tear him apart that
High, high, it soared pi; t
tenng in the sun. Then ’dn. '
There was no need to JZI
it, as Andre saw at a glance n
outstripped Andre’s bfst throl
anything Andre would ever u’
capable of, by yards. bc
Shrugging venomously, Andr<s
to f <* off in the direS
of the French compound. And
coughing and wheezing, between
two supporting henchmen, to the
victorious ovation of a deep and
Fitful $l enCe ’ the o] d Serb
hobbled back to his bed
He died in it, at twenty-four
minutes past two, the next
morning.
STORMS IN THE SENATE
By “EK DUM."
(This is the second and concluding instalment of last week’s
article .)
Pearce v. Scullin
The second occasion on which
the Senate really showed its
claws was during the Scullin
regime in 1931. The Senate on
that occasion was Nationalist-
dominated.
It had the advantage of the
leadership of Senator Pearce,
who, as a Labor man, had taken
part in the joyous events of
May-June, 1914, reinforced by
Senator Hal Colebatch and
some others who were equally
doughty fighters, and equally
gifted with the power to generate
indignation and to express it with
invective.
The main bone of contention
was again against preference to
unionists. This time the Senate
disallowed regulations passed by
the Lower House under the
Transport Workers’ Act to
establish preference in employ-
ment on the wharves to the tur-
bulent, and even then Com-
munist - ridden, Waterside
Workers’ Union. The democrats
and Communist-haters of the
Scullin Government responded
by passing a fresh set of regula-
tions which the Senate again dis-
allowed. Mr. Scullin remarked:
“We can produce as many regu-
lations as the Senate can disallow
and . we will keep on producing
them,” which he did, illegally,
even after the High Court had
ruled that the Senate was within
its rights, Mr. Justice Starke re-
marking that “the Government’s
procedure was subversive of the
power of Parliament.” Again
and again regulations were
thrown out, while threats were
issued that the “Senate was play-
ing with fire,” and Senator
Digger Dunn cried out loudly
for its immediate abolition.
But it deferred the second
reading of the Central Reserve
Bank Bill for six months while
the leader of the Government in
the Senate, poor Senator Barnes,
pleaded with the House “not to
hold his head on the block.”
It turned over the Common-
wealth Bank (Amendment) Bill
to give the Treasurer control of
the gold reserve and summoned
the governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, Sir Robert Gibson,
to the Bar to give evidence and
then threw the bill out by 21
votes to four.
Next it amended an already
carved-up Northern Territory
Administration Bill, flung a few
N.T. Industrial Ordinances into
the wastepaper basket, issued a
gloomy warning that “the Gov-
ernment need not expect to get
its new tariff through in its
present form,” and instituted a
practice of mangling the regula-
tion clauses of financial and
other bills in such a way as to
prevent their being operated
over the head of Parliament as
the regulations under the Trans-
port Act were being used. It
began using this technique with
the Debts Conversion Bill, which
was very awkward for the Gov-
ernment.
It flung out the new Concma-
tion and Arbitration Bill and
also a new Wheat Marketing Bill,
initiated a very annoying debate
on Communism, all the time
shouting for an election.
Indeed, in a few months it did
almost as much as Mr. Beasley
and his Lang-party followers to
harass and destroy the Scullin
Government, and, as in 1914, it
had the satisfaction when it went
to the country (though there was
no double-dissolution) of seeing
the electors support its viewpoint,
demonstrate and almost destroy
the Federal Labor party, and
send the Nationalists into power
for a decade.
The Looming Storm
It seems at present that a third
trial of strength is impending.
When it comes it will be a
desperate one, fought tooth and
nail and with an ex-“ Labor”
Premier as Governor-General in
the background. So long as
he follows the lead of Lord
Novar and Sir Isaac Isaacs in
the previous crises there need be
no fear that a double-dissolution
cannot be obtained, if need be,
though Labor, which has firmly
espoused the dictum that the
G.-G. must take the advice of
his Ministers, in case of threat
of appeal to the country, may be
expected to revert to the view-
point of Senator Stewart, who in
1914 demanded indignantly to be
told what was the use of finding
£20,000 a year to pay for a
Governor-General “if he was
merely there to take the advice
of his advisers.”
The real problem of the Gov-
ernment will be to get legislation
through which will reform tn
Senate to prevent a deadlock a
a general election under the p
portional voting system whicn
no section of the House w
like to see destroyed.
The quickest way in the en
would probably be to P ut
ward a bill to amend the
stitution by providing for _ F
manent proportional repr
tion with an °d d nurnb . re .
Senators for each State an
arranged rotation.
This could be submitted to
referendum within six j
and the way prepared to ob
a double-dissolution andl «
cipline the Senate immediajeh
if it does not behave,, th g G<JV .
for an application to the
ernor-General having the
lished concurrently with^^
preparations for the re
Both sides are girding on e
amor for the fray. »
must arise as soon as
ing legislation , or u t down-
Communists is brough
And the fact that the „ s
differ from ooth J b L Govern'
ones, since to oppose the u t 0
menhhe Senate wifl have a
flout a JJSthfc*
given by the elector 0 f Repr 6 '
own and the
sgntatives e Jf^ lo °’ bo J. majors


For Accuracy
and Distinction
lAVMA
Watches
*
S
_ 17
Jewelled
- Swiss Masterpieces
with NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
iAVMA
WATCHES
Founded in 1852
r_ VILLERET, SUISSE _I
ut& cs roteL
FHCIHG 0 PARK
on# thing yon will fauna.
\w notice , w ” en you stay at
“* Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . the absence of
«oUe and hustle. ... The
Wentworth face* a part . . . yej;
# to merely "round the comer"
the centre of the city. The
«oom* are all yo„ wou y W , S J,
“ a
THE WENTWORTH
r n^r, BW 1361 ( ,0 Iln «)
'■ U Mac lurcan. Managing Director
\
WISHES
/ tod soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com*
pteadoa I Use Cuticura
antiser^ oap re^ularl y tts
and medicinal pro-
mate and keen the
SanS?' and
trio cITm 01160 * t^e famous
mp _* fmticura Soap, Oinfc-
nt and Talcum Powder
529
G&a
Missing Friend.
INFORMATION is sought as to the next-
of-kin of WILLIAM ORAW who died un-
married on 21st July, 1949, aged 79 years,
and who resided at 30 Lawler Street,
Subiaco, Western Australia. He was the
son of JAMES CRAW, who was horn at
Edinburgh, Scotland, and whose date
and place of death are unknown, and
JESSIE CRAW nee FRASER, who was
born at Inverness, Scotland, and who died
in Western Australia in 1904. JAMES
CRAW was the son of JAMES CRAW
and ELIZABETH CRAW nee FALCONER.
JESSIE FRASER was the daughter of
ALEXANDER FRASER and MARY
FRASER nee WILSON. The next-of-kin
or persons having any information as to
the whereabouts of the next-of-kin are
requested to contact the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, A.N.A. House, 44 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
AS PURE AS
THE TOBACCO
IT CONTAINS
*t>€-
sM.
m
nqii
&
<S»S®
SB?
“No wonder so many are becoming
Army Club-men again,” said the
Major. “The special ‘filigrained’ rice
paper is one reason. No other
cigarette has paper quite like it.
There’s no ink to spoil the flavour of
that perfect Virginian blend . . . added
to which Army Club are cork-tipped,
encased in protective flip-off foil and
each pack has a quick-zip outer
‘Cellophane’ cellulose film.”
?
1.
Wh
■■51
X
m
r
\
10 for 1/1±; 20 for 2/3
and proudly made in
Australia
n jtrnwClui «
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
a or music only,
- ri S«” Has GO ”
’ oiWin-er U ,n ,u,y
by Bm %ZrX o« Henry Law-
Jf d , S m °e f,:? The y Cap t ain of .he
Push.”— 4795 - , h k 0 f poems
b/wimam Butler Yeat^- 4
chauneuse , Moughton,
gTSiST' vS«
isle of Man, England.)
Information Sought.
How to kill green timber with
Hb. white arsenic and
iih washing soda in one gallon
Jf water, heating without boiling
nntil dissolved. Dilute to 5 gallons
ffi water. “FrifT-ring the tree by
downward cuts of an axe, thereby
making a continuous frill or gutter
around the trunk. From an old
teapot or similar utensil, pour the
solution as prepared above into this
gutter. If carried out in March it
is said to prevent suckering. If a
few trees only are to be killed, it
may be more satisfactory to buy an
arsenical weed-destroyer from a seeds
merchant, etc., and use diluted 1
to 25. The solution is highly
poisonous, and should be handled
with care.
* * * *
What causes corrugations in roads?
The weight of a vehicle depresses
the gravel road-surface under the
wheels. As the-vehicle advances, the
depression moves too, and tends to
roll or push the surface in the direc-
tion the vehicle is moving. The
material pushed in front of the wheel
cannot escape and tends to build up
with increasing movement. This
increases the resistance to further
pushing until a point is reached when
the load rides over this built-up
material and then repeats the action
on the other side. This is the action
that results in corrugation. The
corrugations produced by one vehicle
are minute, but the accumulative
effects of a number of vehicles may
produce marked corrugation. They
vary with the speed and volume of
traffic, climate and the nature of the
material with which the road is paved.
* * * *
(1) Can duck-eggs be incubated,
and is an ordinary electric egg-incu-
bator suitable? (2) Is it necessary to
have a separate gander for each
goose? (3) Cure for thrips on
gladioli ?
(1) Eggs from Muscovy ducks do
not give satisfactory results in incu-
bators. The eggs of other ducks, such
as the Aylesbury and Pekin, and
those of what might be termed laying
ducks, Indian Runners, Khaki Camp-
bells, etc., hatch quite satisfactorily.
(2) Geese form close attachments,
and for this reason additional
females should not be added to the
breeding-pen once geese have been
mated. Three geese can be mated
with a gander. They should be put
together some months before laying.
(3) Dust gladioli bulbs in storage
with 2 p.c. D.D.T. dust. Spray the
growing plants with 0.1 p.c. D.D.T.
spray fortnightly during, the growing
period, commencing when the plants
are 6in. high.
* * * *
An old newspaper clipping in my
possession states that there was a
bridge across the Parramatta River
near Five Dock (N.S.W.) and that
the approaches were still discernible.
Is this correct?
There never was a bridge across
the Parramatta River at the foot of
the Great North-road at Five Dock.
When the road was opened in 1831
a punt service was established at the
point and carried passengers and
vehicles across the stream until about
1871, when it was moved down-river
to the site of the present Gladesville
Bridge. Probably the parts of the
approaches visible when the news-
paper par. was written were the re-
mains of those erected for the punt
service.
Brief Answers.
J.F.: Sydney’s mean annual tempera-
ture is 63.2 deg. Fahr.; mean sum-
mer, 71 deg. Fahr.; mean autumn,
64.3 deg. Fahr.; mean winter, 54.2
deg. Fahr.; and mean spring, 63.3
deg. Fahr. Yearly average rainfall
is 47.5 in C.N.: To obtain good
effects with titanium oxide for color-
ing pottery very, high temperatures
are necessary. The usual tones are
greys, dark-blues and greens, and the
chief beauty of the ware lies in the
fine mottled and cloudy effects pro-
duced in the glaze W. 1.: It would
be better to obtain the prepared
material... .M.G.: Hardwoods of
Australia by R. T. Baker, Pines of
Australia by R. T. Baker and H. G.
Smith, Wood by G. S. Boulger, and
A Textbook of Wood by Herbert
Stone.... W.J.C.: “The Strand”
winds up after the March issue
T.S.; Write N.S.W. Public Service
Board, 19 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
and Department of Public Health, 52
Bridge-street, Sydney A.8.H.: It
would be necessary to check through
the records in the Commonwealth
Patents Office, 18 York-street, Syd-
ney, in order to ascertain the present
status of the patent covering the car.
Their records date from 1904. The
life of a patent is 16 years from the
date of taking it out or of register-
ing any subsequent modification, so
to be quite sure of the status of the
patent it would be necessary to search
right through to the present day
H.H.8.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for Diseases of
Animals Leaflet No. 10, “Contagious
Ophthalmia of Sheep”.... J.W.M.:
General Freyberg gained a third bar
to his D.S.O. in Italy in 1945
S.J.F.: The Australian Book Society,
Box 2781, G.P.0., Sydney
L.M.L. and W.E.T.: N.S.W. Cricket
Association does not keep records of
that description, and the facts could
only be ascertained by a very lengthy
search N.O’S.: Try either
“Buenos Aires Herald,” Rivadauia
767, Buenos Aires, Argentina, or
“South Pacific Mail,” Casilla 40V,
Valparaiso, Chile C.V.G.: The
Royal George, of 108 guns, whilst
undergoing a partial careening in
Portsmouth Harbour, was overset
about 10 a.m. on August 29, 1782.
The total loss of life was believed to
be near 1000. The incident was the
subject of a poem by William Cowper.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
A. 0.: Your ungrateful hoboes
don’t make news to journalists
R.S.A.: A good skeleton with not
enough meat on it... .Z.V.W.:
When you think out a good idea and
then fill it in with people it is not
easy to keep people up to the
design G.F.S.: “Logroller” story
just managed slickly to slide out of
our hands J.M.: We could do
with a good mystery, but it will have
to be a little better than “Jock
Robbyn”... .K.E.: We ran out of
cynical giggles in our adolescence.
J.G.M.: “I’ll feel guilty of the
murder of that Brisbane man as long
as I live” —but we’ll help you
suppress it ... .K.G.L.: We have our
own opinion of little boys who
initiate other little boys into a secret
society with a promise to respect
their parents and help with the wash-
ing-up... .E.S.: “The New House”
is very pretty, but, even in these days
of housing-shortage, not for us
M.T.: Your office boy is careful with
the stamps—he didn’t sent one with
the story M.J.W.: Tiny but
tedious... .T.V.T.: The best snake-
story we ever read was about a snake
that bit a short-story writer and died,
saying “It’s more than I can
swallow” D.M.: “The Mistake”
—no ; it’s a shame to take the
money 0.H.: A man shot a
snake that was about to pounce on a
rabbit —it’s a brilliant plot, anyway.
N.D.D.; Liked your country-
town people, but the story’s obvious.
N.H.: Too much of the con-
ventional lah-di-dah G.FL: Cute.
E.V.C.: Murder without motive
makes story without sale... .A.M.;
All husbands are under their wives’
thumbs, dear sir ; and there let us
leave them H. 8.: Your dyed oat
has Gone Back ; and instead of mix-
ing six or seven themes in a short
story, you should try working out
one for a start R.E.S.: “Two
Heads Are Better Than One”
suggests that you might write a good
farce twenty or thirty stories hence.
.... Bellerive: It reminded us that
our umbrella needs mending:
J.Y.; Sorry to discourage so
much industry, but your style and
your handwriting beat us at the first
page of anything you write
C.A.M.; “George spat neatly”—bit
of a ciss, eh? A.M.McS.:
Although you write about convicts,
no one is ever likely to book you for
consorting. If you want to do
convicts, do a stretch first and get
some inside information R.S.A.:
We have never been able to get over
an aversion from men who kill their
wives to get their money... .A.H.:
We’ve seen you 'do better |han “The
Years Between”; good on facts, you
always tend to overstretch the
probabilities A.J.S.; Much too
boisterous H.M.W.: We won’t
say we read them all, but enough.
. ...G.M.H.: Nearly ; but the end-
ing puzzled us N.T.: “Squatters’
Rest” had its moments, and if you
had kept it more probable than
farcical, it might have been a good
one M. 8.; Maybe it’s original,
but it looks like an old anecdote....
W.M.: The sarcastic scenery might
suit us, but the sentimental story is
for “The Weekly Housemaid,” or
some such.
A RHYME OF RAIN.
Though pleasure is pleasure.
It’s not wise to complain
At the peltering sound
Of showers of rain.
Away up in the north
When the weather* is dry,
Welcomed by farmers are
Dark clouds in the sky.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4½d. per line; all others 2½d. per line.
The North-west
The success of the abattoirs at Glenroy
station, in the Kimberleys (.W.A.), where,
during the season, 1808 cattle were killed
for an average weight of 6401 b. per bul-
lock (the Wyndham meatwork average
was 550ib.), has led to a suggestion
that new abattoirs should be erected at
Fitzroy’s Crossing, Hall’s Creek, Ord
River (W.A.)and at Wave Hill and Vic-
toria River Downs (N.T.).
Each of the abattoirs would be situ-
ated in the middle of an area where there
are plenty of cattle. They would enable
stations to increase their turnover by the
slaughter of cattle from three-year-olds
upwards, including cattle unable to travel
long distances.
These abattoirs would be a great help
towards increasing the prosperity of the
north-west, but they would not greatly
increase the population. Men will not
tolerate for a permanent way of life the
kind of hardships they have to en-
dure in the north-west, where work is
often carried out in temperatures up to
120 degrees, where there is a definite fly
menace, few amenities and very high
living costs.
Although shearers are on a special rate
of taxation and earn high wages, pastoral
workers are on a low wage and must
serve six months in the north-west before
receiving the £l2O-a-year zone allowance.
Conditions for married men are bad —
houses are harder to come by than in the
southern cities, and then they are often
unfit to live in. Some observations by
the commission on the sanitary condi-
tions of the north-west:
In one north-west t6wn two men and a
woman were living in a bush-timber and
corrugated-iron shed 14ft. by 20ft. with 7ft.
walls and rough cement flooring. One
portion of the room was screened off by a
blanket to make a bedroom for the woman.
The kitchen was of bush timber/lined with
rusty tin. There was a rough cement floor.
The summary reported the condition
of houses in the principal north-west
towns: “Roebourne —five dwellings in
bad condition of disrepair, two unfit for
human habitation ; Port Hedland —18
houses sub-standard ; Broome —25 houses
condemned as unfit for human habita-
tion; Derby—l 3 houses in an extreme
state of disrepair and dilapidation, nine
unfit for human habitation ; Wyndham
—l6 houses unfit for human habitation ;
Hall’s Creek —not one building filled the
requirements of the Health Act.”
Before men will really adopt the north-
west as their country living conditions
must be improved and first-class ameni-
ties, hospitals, schools, etc., must be pro-
vided for womenfolk and children. —
F. M. (W.A.).
Farmers Doing Nicely?
Once there was a farmer, land-hungry
like them all, who borrowed money on
the security of his farm to buy a further
640 acres adjoining. His farm was by no
means fully developed or worked to
capacity, but he simply had to have the
extra land. Paying a very full price, he
soon found himself in difficulties. Good
season or bad, the interest went on just
the same.
Came a couple of drought years and a
fall in wheat and wool prices. Many
other farmers found themselves in the
same predicament, with compounding
interest and pressing store bills calling for
payment. Benevolent Governments got
to work, after the proper pressure had
been applied, and there were Drought
Relief payments, reduction in interest
rates, a substantial rise in the London
exchange rate, sundry other handouts and
the setting-up of Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment Boards.
Then came the 1939-45 war with
fabulous increases in the prices of wool
and wheat. Did the farmer then re-
member all his creditors who had accepted
shillings in the pound under Debt Adjust-
ment, those who had to accept lower rates
of interest and the taxpayers who had to
foot the bill for the London exchange
rate and the F.D.A. boards?
Not on your life. His farm free of
encumbrance and reasonable certainty of
high prices for some years to come, he
, still clamors for retention of the
i ridiculous and artificial 25 per cent.
■ premium which the London exchange rate
gives him.
Some cynic said that “gratitude is a
lively sense of favors to come,” so the
cocky, doubtless feeling that further
favors from the taxpayers in general are
sufficiently far off, is putting up through
his, political party a strong fight to retain
the 25 per cent, rate —a rate which cannot
be justified in the face of the high prices
being paid for wheat and wool. It used
to be said that we all lived on the farmer’s
back; the position seems to have been
reversed. — Harry the Horse (Vic.).
Prices
“LK.” is sadly astray when he says
that “Factory-workers can make a very
fair estimate of costs and see the huge
margins obtained” (B. 11/l/’5O). As in-
numerable Arbitration Court hearings
and . round-table conferences between
management and workers prove, they
usually have no idea of the way in which
provision for taxation and depreciation,
overhead expenses, etc., cut down gross
profit. Typical was a conference between
the management ,of a coastal shipping
firm and representatives of the seamen.
One seaman produced figures which he
claimed “showed enormous profits being
socked away as hidden reserves,” The
manager replied “If we didn’t put money
into a reserve fund, how on earth do you
suppose we’d have the cash to buy a new
fBWME BAR,
“A schooner of Evening in Paris ."
ship when the old one had to be
scrapped?”
The seaman hadn’t included the biggest
expense of all in the shipping business.
When he did put it in his “enormous
profits” disappeared.
In production costs the biggest items
are overhead and wages. It is simple
arithmetic that the more goods you
produce for that same sum in over-
head and wages, the cheaper your product
can be sold and the bigger your market
becomes. That’s how increased produc-
tion reduces costs and also raises the
standard of living.
All that shops filled with radio, elec-
trical and plastic goods mean is that
certain lines which don’t suffer from the
current steel shortage (caused by under-
production of coal) are being over-
produced while we cannot get roofing-
nails,’ corrugated-iron, bath-tubs and a
host of other things, houses included.
There isn’t overproduction in general
until there is too much of everything.
Seldom do men or women who have
had a shot at running their own businesses
talk- about “huge profits.” If they go back
to working for wages they usually show
a good understanding of management
problems, simply. because they have
learned in a hard school that the average
worker’s theories about how a business
should be run are all haywire.—H. A. L.
(SA.). __
Victoria’s Bedlams
Victoria’s mental-hygiene institutions
have been raked fore and aft so often
that a new report could hardly add much
to what has already been written on
the subject. The-latest report the Gov-
ernment is considering, however, comes
from a world authority of its own choos-
ing. Last year it brought out Professor
A. Kennedy, of Durham University, a
leading British psychiatrist, and his re-
marks are so devastating that if the
Government does not do more about it
than Governments have done on former
occasions it will mean that it wants its
bedlams.
Among other things, Professor Kennedy
drastically criticised the present system.
He found conditions at Kew “appal-
ling,” the effect of some wards on
visitors “horrifying,” though, because
of the personal initiative of some of the
nurses and attendants, certain wards are
in a better condition than others; but
the apathy of higher officials had actually
prevented parts of the hospital from
being kept even reasonably clean.
Professor Kennedy has suggested an
authority of at least six members who
would be responsible to the Minister for
the conduct of the department; the present
system and also the vast asylum to be
pulled down.
The present system certainly should be
demolished and a modern hospital erected
elsewhere than within the confines of
the city, but there is no need to pull down
the asylum. Kew is a vast place, beauti-
fully constructed, but utterly unsuited
for its present purpose. As a haven for
the mentally sick it is a place of horror,
but it would cost today at least half a
million to erect a similar building, even
if masons and architects could be got to
do it. At small cost it could be
made into a magnificent art gallery or
something of that sort. Its demolition
would be as silly an act as keeping
the present system. — Pawang (Vic.).
“North of Capricorn”
I think that “Ek Bum” is hard on the
N.T. (B. 8/3 / ’5O). Possibly the Territory
has had more attention and consideration
from politicians, than other parts of Aus-
tralia, but where has such consideration
been translated into positive action in the
last 20 years?
No one would defend the site of
Tennant Creek, but Nature nearly always
puts her minerals in desolate places. Any-
way, a Tennant Creek citizen has had
the courage and enterprise to put up a
really good hotel there, and plans are
under way for a first-class hotel at Elliott,
near Newcastle Waters, to take 40 guests.
Capital involved is £75,000.
The N.T. did not ask for the roads
“Ek Bum” refers to, built regardless of
cost in the war years. They were con-
structed for the sole purpose of carrying
military supplies to Darwin in 1942-43
when sea-routes could hot be used. They
are useless in relation to development..
Engineers of the United States Army
desired a railway rushed across the
Barkly Tableland from Mt. Isa, but
there were no steel rails available.
Low rentals 'of pastoral leases do not
matter two hoots —it is security of tenure
that lessees want before they can spend
large sums on fencing, water and build-
ings. They have been after this since
1937, when the Payne Committee recom-
mended development leases with 40 years’
tenure. There were incessant talks be-
tween the Chifley Government and lessees,
and an ordinance granting such leases
was passed, but has not become effective.
Previous leases granted in 1924 ran to
1965, but with a resumption clause that
25 per cent, of the area be surrendered
in 1935 and 25 per cent, in 1945. Lessees
did not know where the 50 per cent,
resumption would apply, and that retarded
development.
With all its disabilities the N.T. has
produced wealth amounting to at least;
£12,000,000 (cattle £8,000,000, minerals
£4,000,000), while the actual public ex-
penditure on the creation of national
aisets, railways, etc., is £8,265,812. Of
course that does not include war-time
expenditure, which is not of much use
now.
The weakness of the
lack of railways. How can 523 Ono- 18 itS
miles of country progress quare
only 500 miles of raiK has
than little “fe la ?
has been the main recommend?l‘ B
every report on N.T develnnm? ! of
1911, including the Payne Repo? 'T
know the treatment that will im?L^ e
pattern, but we won’t give it “ him
1 do agree with “Ek Dum” in hL
conclusion—that the people of thl !
should take the matter into.he™*
hands and solve their own n 1 n
Through the N.T. and S Khnt T'
there is faith in the land. No one wants
to sell out in the Barkly Tableland V?
tona River and Alice Springs districts •
when the veteran Westralian firm of
Connor, Doherty and Durack reSntlv
disposed of their Argyle, Ivanhoe a J
Auvergne properties to two British firms
the price was £260,000. There’s snm
belief in the future there!-C L A a
(N.S.W.). • AA -
Housing Costs
Buying or refraining from buyine
under present conditions, except in
isolated cases, can have no appreciable
effect upon the cost of new homes (B
8 / 2/’5O). No industry, even in a depres-
sion, can continue to sell its product
at a loss, and if the potential buyer is
unable to meet the inflated costs, then
building ceases and the housing position
becomes more acute. The reasons for
high building coMs are elementary. High
wages and openly admitted go-slow tactics,
from the worker who handles initial pro-
duction to the man directly engaged on
the building, have made it impossible
to build at a reasonable price.
The answer to all this, unpalatable as
it may be, is “work.” There is no other
answer.
The end of 1939 saw the completion
of a housing scheme consisting of over
200 homes in a Sydney suburb. These
were two- and three-bedroom types
substantially built of brick with tiled
roofs, complete with fencing, kerbing and
all the usual amenities. They were sold
on exceptionally easy extended terms, and
naturally were quickly snapped up at
prices from £7BO to £B5O. The actual
cost of similar houses today would
approximate £3OOO.
What earthly chance has the average
worker of acquiring his own home under
the present set-up?— Ajax (N.S.W.),
India
“5 G.R.” (B. l/2/’5O) says that India
“might” attain self-sufficiency in food-
stuffs if her population remains stationary,
if plans to restore fertility to the soil work
out, and if the farmer can be “educated. ’
If India’s new leaders really want to
put their grandiose schemes into opera-
tion they must first eradicate the genus
“Shroff” or hereditary banking and
moneylending caste. The principal prey
of the Shroff is the peasant-farmer, and
terms are from 5 per cent, a montn
and upwards. It is safe to say that 75 p
cent, of the freeholdings in India are
mortgaged up to the knocker, and a\
been since Warren Hastings was
subaltern. The Shroff rarely forecloses,
preferring to keep his victim ahy
exploitable, with just enough to b >
unto the third and fourth gene
Under British rule vari°us aUcmpts w
made to clip the claws of this g ’
but both exploiter and victim raised
a howl that the efforts proved ineffect
The Indian Ryot had learned tO ,?l ng
chains, or rather his Shroff, throug
familiarity. t 0 t he
The real menace of S k/°f a t a f te r
land, however, lies in the fact th t
he has taken the crop, and sold
proceeds disappear from
usually in the form of huliiGn. .
What India needs besides
modern agricultural macbm y. j or>
ernment supplies it, it ™ us s^ be body,
in the form of Reasons
The peasant can 1 ****?' shab
already mentioned, and { time
Jehan and Jehangir wasted a lot oi
trying to make the Shroffs g w jU
they didn’t use tax f° t 0 educate
take at least two generations to
the farmer, and I, for one, am
ing about the collapse ° ff _K AS siM
Indian market for foodstuffs, n
Noorbux (Vic-)-
Food Storage shortages of
These recurrent gluts ana ]ack of
foodstuffs are obviously due tQ eX!S t-
storage. Farmers are o en ters the
ing conditions that it on 1 t t«® e
heads of a few of
they spend in growing thl £fl heap when
to be dumped on the rub in build*
there is a surplus could b P getter
ing cool stores, sheds an maintain
still, the local councils could
them. —B. (Vic,).


tremble —and perhaps even deaths among
the guards. . . „ , ~
“The court will sit again, he said.
“Meanwhile you will stay in the cala-
boose.”
HE gave a sign to Koraji; and stood
up and walked to the office without
looking back. Once inside he looked
through the space between the open walls
and the eaves at the little, procession
going to the prison. And then he poured
himself another drink ; realising a little
stupidly that half his last rum still sat
on the court table under the kapok-tree.
He was worried. He could see no
outcome to this case except more death.
He could release the family' to their
death ; or the death of one of them. And
in that event, if Kandarim should kill,
Kandarim would die; and the natives
would condemn the Administration who
had killed a faithful servant. If he kept
the family in the prison, he was keeping
trouble. Perhaps he was bringing death
and trouble to his own boys ; his own
establishment. Well, you could not laugh
at these native witchcraft deaths. They
happened.
If he sent the family for trial, he would
be laughed at for a fool. Worse than
that he would be roundly condemned by
the Administration. There was nothing
with which to charge them.
If he kept them in the calaboose —and
kept them there successfully, which
would be by no means certain—the boy
Kandarim would take the credit to him-
self, the credit of influencing the white
man. If he released them it might be
thought he himself was afraid of their
magic.
He expected the faint noise on the
steps, and he expected to look up and
see Kandarim. And Kandarim was there,
looking hesitantly into the room.
With the glass in his hand he said:
“Well?”
Kandarim said: “Sir, it isn’t good that
these people should stay in the calaboose
here. It would be. better if they went
away for a murder trial.”
Cummings said: “Get out. Quick time,
now.”
He was still worried. But the incident
made up his mind for him. He sent a
boy running for Koraji, and when the
sergeant came he said: “After lunch we
will finish the court.”
Koraji saluted; and he, too, looked
worried. Cummings realised that he
needn’t have sent for him at all at that
juncture. And he wondered whether the
natives would think he was afraid of the
old wizard and his family.
1 N the hour before lunch an insignifi-
cant incident worked on his mind.
One of the untidy drawers of his desk
jammed as he pulled it out. He jerked
at it savagely two or three times before
he took the sensible course of pushing
the accumulation toward the back of the
drawer. At the centre of the jam was his
loaded Webley ; a big naval-issue revolver
in the use of which he kept up a fairly
regular practice. He had two revolvers,
both big and heavy; and fairly useful.
He thought; “I could have shot my-
se . , and though he knew the odds were
against the possibility it was significant
mat his thoughts chased on immediately
to picture the natives believing his death
to have been encompassed by Miropo.
Me went on idly to imagine himself
ge ting mto a state of mind occasioned by
if- u l ernrna witchcraft case in
"mich, at some time, he could pull the
trigger deliberately; and he could hear
the fellows in the Services Club saying:
“Poor old Cummings. He was another
one who went troppo. It gets a lot of
them.”
But he didn’t feel in the least like shoot-
ing himself.
THE afternoon court was very short.
Cummings himself arrived when
everyone was lined up. He said: “There
has been much talk of murder; but it is
the talk of a foolish girl believed by
foolish men.
“This girl Mails was not in any way
responsible for throwing Nona from the
tree. She was not there; and therefore
this is no murder.
“Perhaps the murder was in her heart
as she says. But there was no murder
done. A body is not in itself a sign of
murder. Nor can a woman convict her-
self from her own mouth, for this is not
evidence. And there is no other evidence
except the evidence of the body of the
woman. And the story that tells is that
she committed suicide. Therefore the
arrest of this girl was wrong; and she
will return to her home with her family.
There will be nothing more said.”
The faces were expressionless. He left
the table.
But the story would not leave him. It
stayed with him for three nights in which
he had little sleep, but tossed inter-
minably beneath the three blankets that
the mountain air dictated. He rose
haggard in the mornings, and he seldom
shaved before noon.
On the third day after the day of the
trial Kandarim, and the company he had
brought before, came at noon ; and found
him in this state, unshaved and dishevelled
and hardly master of himself.
D ALIP, with the lip overhanging his
' mouth like the little trunk of a tapir,
spoke; and Kandarim stayed back.
“The woman Malis is dead,” he said.
“She and her family are dead, her father
and her mother and her little brother.
They died by the edge of the river and
are buried.”
It was the way Cummings had expected
it. He had a momentary vision of the
girl with her quick, bright smile, and
the decorated belt round her slim waist,
and a yellow flower in her cropped hair.
“How did they die?” he asked, and
Kandarim stepped forward.
“Sir, I killed them,” he said. “It hap-
pened that while I was asleep the spirit
slipped from my bdtiy and went into the
body of the girl, and I jumped from the
cliff above the gorge where the water
is all broken. And I came back into
the body of the mother, and the body
of the father, and last of all into the
body of the boy. And with all of them
I jumped from the cliff.”
Balip said: “That was the way of it.
In the morning they were dead at the
foot of the cliff; and there are many
here who can say that Kandarim did
not move from his bed in the hut. Yet
in the morning they were all dead.”
“Now this is not easy to believe,”
said Cummings; and he began the long
interrogation. There was a great deal
to do. He must see the bodies —buried
lightly under leaves in the village grove.
He must question and cross-question and
find out.
But in his heart he knew that it was
all over. He would make no report on
the deaths—they would stand as an
accident. He would try to find the truth ;
and everywhere come up agaipst the
simple finality of the statement Balip had
already made.
This was the end of the story. Thus
was a weight lifted from his shoulders.
TALKIES
"The Third Man."
“The Third Man,” a London Films
product at Melbourne Regent, projects an
extraordinarily vivid picture of present-
day Vienna with its four conquering
Powers messing about, with the resident
population frightened of its own shadows.
Considered as a drama, the film tells a
highly emotional story of a young
actress’s love for an English officer who
turns out to be an unmitigated scoundrel
engaged in the blackmarjceting of peni-
cillin, and of his friend, another English-
man, who believes in his integrity and
thinks he is a hero who has been
murdered.
In endeavoring to track down his
murderers, the friend gets inextricably
entangled in international plots and cross-
currents of all descriptions until he dis-
covers his friend alive and in active
pursuit of his nefarious business. There
is an element of melodrama in the opus,
and none of the characters really lives, but
it is so superbly acted (by Orson Welles,
Joseph Gotten and Valli) and the in-
credibly cosmopolitan cast of a dozen
or so races has been so amazingly well
selected that it keeps the interest going
even when it becomes more of a mystery-
murder story than a drama.
Carol Reed was responsible for the
direction of the regiment of phlegmatic
Englishmen, sinister Russians, thieves and
wastrels. One of his most effective devices
is the obbligato played upon a zither.
"Roseanna McCoy."
Though their telling differs somewhat,
and their endings greatly, two famous
love-stories contain the same confounded
anomaly. One of them begins: —
Two households, both alike in dignity,
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny
Where civil blood makes civil hands
unclean.
The other gets away to a more rollick-
ing start; —
Oh the Martins and McCoys,
They wus reckless mountain boys,
And they took up family feudin’ when
they’d meet
As each story unfolds whole heaps of
humanity lie battered and dying before
peace is established —admittedly belated
in the case of Montague v. Capulet—
because a youth and maid belonging to
opposing factions have fallen in love.
What both writers say essentially is that
because the young couple fell in love
then their respective families did more or
less the same. Prospective in-laws bury-
ing the hatchet? In real life they are
more inclined to hone it.
Yet in “Roseanna McCoy” (sighted at
Sydney Mayfair) when the families of
the youth and maid look across their
sights at the couple moving out on to
no-man’s-land, the shooting ceases, and
the audience comes to the end of a dim
show which is so longwinded that the
muzzle-loading Hfles seen early become
obsolete and seem to have been replaced
with pump-action Winchesters for the
final burst.
"December Night."
This latest French import, which had
a comparatively brief run at Sydney Savoy
before giving way to the much-heralded
Italian film, “Shoe Shine,” was disappoint-
ing as French films go.
The idea behind it is a typical and
pleasant French notion. A famous.
pianist has a one-night affair with a
beautiful member of his audience who
immediately disappears; 20 years later
he meets another woman, the image of
the first, falls in love with her and is
about to marry her when her father turns
up from England and, enjoying his
revenge, leaves the pianist with the awful
and insoluble doubt—the young lady’s
mother has since died—as to whether or
not the young lady herself is the result
of his blissful night 20 years ago.
The filmsmiths, however, have been a
little too heavyhanded in their direction
of that bit of Gallic irony, and there is
an awful seriousness about their handling
of it. They also conveniently overlook
the fact that the pianist would almost
certainly have had some doubts about
the young lady’s parentage from the
moment he met her. And, in keeping
with the rather melodramatic treatment
of the proceedings, Pierre Blanchar is
too passionately serious as the love-struck
pianist and Renee St. Cyr a little too
soft and dewy-eyed for a story which is
essentially a slight, ironic laugh.
“December Night” is the first disap-
pointment in a succession of excellent
French films. It might be inviting another
to suggest that the people who are bring-
ing them out should try to get hold of the
filmed version of “Volpone” which has
been showing in New York. But at least
a French version of Jonson’s comedy
should be worth inspecting, even as a
curiosity.
Also heralded overseas as one of the
finest films ever is “Day of Wrath,” a
Danish film which has to do with witch-
craft and superstition. That, by all
accounts, should be well worth import-
ing. And, while on the subject of worth-
while films, the Mexican “Portrait of
Maria, ’ which ran as a support at Sydney
Liberty a year or two ago, could well
be revived for a season at one of the
small Sydney theatres which seem to be
going in for film classics.
The animated-cartoon business has
gone a long way since the days of Felix
the Cat, and most film companies now
turn out their own particular characters,
some of which often seem to have almost
as much histrionic ability as human
players. M.-G.-M. have a very good line
on the doings of Tom and Jerry, Jerry
being a somewhat saintly young mouse
and Tom one of the most cheerfully
villainous tomcats on record, whose sole
and never-to-be-fulfilled aim is to wrap
himself around the mouse. Also in the
series, as a kind of dignified neutral
generally prodded into open belligerence
towards the fummy, is a massive, phleg-
matic bulldog which, no doubt, in the
opinion of bulldogs and fanciers, is a
gross libel on bulldogs. The trio, plus
bulldog junior, are currently going great
guns at Sydney St. James with Tom, as
usual, getting it in the neck and pretty
well everywhere else.
* * * *
“Anna Lucasta,” which has turned up
at Melbourne Plaza, is suffused with the
basically false humanity of the story and
the sentimentality which underlies the
portrayal of the sad and sorry business
of Papa Joe Lucasta’s hatred of his
daughter Anna, who takes to the streets
to earn an honest penny. Joe learns that
his friend’s son Rudolf is arriving with
4000 dollars to start business, and Joe’s
demoralised son and equally demoralised
son-in-law think up the bright idea of
luring Anna home to help swindle Rudolf
out of the boodle. A happy ending is
dragged in feet foremost just as the murk
threatens to become impenetrable.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 61
Across.
I—Snow transport taken by the
truity old-fashioned actors used
for splitting rock. (13)
J-Fpoch. (3)
' > ~~Censure in a backward and crazy
translation. (13) y
J 1 Pull to the west. (3)
Itrl rey like a la y £r - (5)
e renegade joins that woman
more willingly. (6)
hood an (s) haS a Kentuck y false ‘
condition of I when
JB_F£i mise£ J by a mosquito. (5)
ig__S er ., 1S J ow and disorderly. (3)
Af^i ly ' built u antd °P e South
wifh a may b , e got and mutilated
a II V- a . gun - (3)
A httle laughter with a Kipling
name Cte (5) atr ° Ut 3n ° riental b °y’ s
V’" aBai " wi,h < h '
French Northern
2fcS^ ber , tu . ms tbe skins. (5)
2rHa COrgla s fuel - (3)
game' 3 hen eXp ?£ and on e card
another in i ke a , ny cow to
39—Turkish " Sydney district. (13)
iurKisn commander. (3)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
30 —Majestic fellow keeps tfium early
before the principal route is
progressing. (6, 7)
Down.
1 — Close the floating menagerie for
a sandpiper. (7)
2 East has mine element of skin
tissue. (10)
3 Leer about a grass-seed for one
seven-thousandth of a pound. (5)
4 June, of Hollywopd musicals, is
to fire the hiking equipment. (9)
5 Corday assassinated the little rats’
best friend. (5)
6 I had been in the happening
when it’s all plain to see. (7)
7 Dispatched. (4)
8 — Kay not enclosed by a fellow
who thinks he’s very well in-
formed about everything. (7)
14—How the party song describes
the guest-of-honor for Puck. (10)
17 —You have my word for it. (2, 2,5)
19 — Cloth begins with spirits and
ends with pig. (7)
20— Has to punch equipment for
prayers. (7)
22—Asphyxiate the rabbit in France.
(7)
24 —Australian-born captain of an
English Test team. (5)
25 —Italian river on a military estab-
lishment in India. (5)
27 —Imitated a fish turning the
stomachs. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 60.


“THE UNIT OF ”
-
BATTERIES
SUPREME
asispgte”
mms
P^WtfSE#
miTlilftfflT*TTF
WMIMM.
f'-’-, f#
I X‘W 'J '
, v yar>)
iS|S|i
iifc
■ ;; ’ ■
'■»
Hr..-: : ';; ,^*l
fJ - / i|;ps •■■s ‘
uv-'-r- "- ■■"
W- .*1 OT&jftS
yjjm
:••■';•;?■ X.:'--i'
ms
s£& s
v ; .:.|;:
W
::;v
;*3
iIP
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
ISth CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR Alt
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR,
RADIO. LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD*
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE,
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS*
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND* 3
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO*
SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 444 i
