

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—-No. 3680
Wednesday, August 23, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
■pEW towns in England have a longei
history than Dover, which was know®
to the Roman;; as Du brae, and was the
starting-point of Watlihg Street, the great
Roman road to London via Canterbury
Crowning the 375 ft. cliff to the east
of the town and dominating the land-
scape is the famous castle which stands
upon the site of a Roman fortress built
about a.d. 40 in the reign of Emperor
Claudius. Still standing as a relic of this
fortification, within a hundred yards of
the Castle Keep, is the Pharos, or Light-
house, which is one of the most remark-
able Roman structures in Northern
Europe, and is probably the oldest stand-
ing building in Britain, Its original pur-
pose, was that: of watchtower and beacon
to guide Roman shipping into the harbor
below.
The castle, by which is understood the
massive Keep and curtain wall forming
the inner defences, and the Roman and
Saxon earthworks forming the outer de-
fences, was described by Philip of France
as the key of England. The occasion was
that of the siege of the castle in 1216 by
the Dauphin, who, at the invitation of
the barons, had crossed the Channel to
support the rebellion against King John.
The castle w'as successfully defended by
a garrison of 140 men under Hubert de
Burgh.
ill? 6 eep ™ as kuilt during the years
1182-1188, during the reign of Henry 11,
and as an example of Norman Keep it is
considered to bd equalled only by the
Tower of London. Its walls, which have
a thickness of 17 to 22 feet, rise to a
height of 83 feet and are surmounted by
four turrets. Beneath the Keep extends
a maze of underground passages cut in
the solid chalk and dating mainly from
the thirteenth century. A Saxon well
descends to a depth of 293 feet.
It was from Dover Castle that King
John surrendered to the Papal Legate, and
the castle was the frequent residence of
Henry VIII and Queen Elizabeth. Here
f as that the tra § ic Kin § Charles I
(1625-1649) welcomed his French bride,
to whom he had been married by proxy,
and the castle was the scene of their part-
ing fifteen years later. Within the castle
walls, in 1670, Charles II signed a secret
treaty with France negotiated by his
sister, Henrietta of Orleans.
During the Second World War, when
Dover became a front-line town under
cross-Channel bombardment, it earned
the name of Hell Fire Corner.
“THE KEY OF ENGLAND” PHILIP OF FRANCE CALLED DOVER CASTLE
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send', without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney ‘ Bulletin,
My Name r
My Address
S.B, 160 AGE...
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVER*
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O, Box ’’“'d'iU 3 '
N.Z., specialises in rare and current •';"■_»]*! in -
tralian books, also in bookish items w S
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements p 3/-).
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annan ■
Book lists on Mansfleldiana, Caxton £ rc^ i it utftM
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Stewart, wm
and others). Specialised fields for book b uBi
The Red Page
ART IN ARNHEM LAND.
Beautifully produced with many color-
plates by the Hawthorn Press for F. W.
Cheshire Pty., Ltd., and recording, with
a prologue and epilogue from Professor
A. P. Elkin, the discoveries made by
Catherine and Ronald Berndt in 1944-46
and 1946-47, Art in Arnhem Land is,
take it all round, the finest book on
aboriginal art this reviewer has seen.
Like so many books of its kind it is
a little too technical, too severe in
language, too much like a catalogue for
the ordinary reader, and, invaluable
though such a book must be to the
specialist, one will never be quite happy
to see science divorced from life, and
aboriginal lore, which is of so much
interest to all Australians, reserved for
the academic few.
Yet the illustrations alone are fascinat-
ing ; and perhaps, in the present circum-
stances —even though one must wish for
more of the Berndts’ personal experiences,
which must have been very rich indeed —
the book had to be largely a catalogue,
for the fundamental purpose is to list
the paintings brought back from Arnhem
Land and to explain in detail their use
and meaning in ritual and legend. And
certainly these explanations, even if
formidably presented, contain a great deal
to make the book interesting to the
ordinary reader; not only by deepening,
as the authors hope, our knowledge of
aboriginal art, but also because of the
light they throw on native life.
Thus the interpretation of a bark-
painting representing a burial-platform
gives us some extremely grim details
about burial-customs (none of which
details the aborigines omitted from their
paintings), and the commentary attached
to a magic seagull with a long tail like a
cornet reveals, by an extreme contrast,
an altogether charming glimpse of one
form of native courtship. The lover, say
the Berndts, ties the seagull (or some-
times it is ah anchor) to a ball of string.
Then: —
With the help of a companion he unrolls
his ball of string and stretches it from tree
to tree across the main camp. He himself
attaches the lengths of string from one
limb to another, while his companion
rhythmically beats his sticks and sings
songs... .The two men, singing, move from
tree to tree until they reach the girl’s camp,
where she sits demurely, with her relatives
ranged around her; she wears a feathered
string headdress, decorated with drooping
feathered pendants. On arrival at her camp
the lover takes out the anchor and hooks
it. into the. ground in front of the girl.
Then he and his friend retire singing, and,
sitting some distance away, “haul in” the
anchor until finally it is hauled into the
lover’s own camp, bringing with it, so they
say, the girl’s spirit and desire. That same
evening she may come to his camp: if so,
they are acknowledged to be husband and
wife. Results, however, are not always
obtained so easily; a lover may find it
necessary to repeat his ritual several times
before the girl is persuaded to come.
The anchor or the seagull, thus so
prettily employed, may also be used, alas,
for luring away a married woman from
her husband’s camp in the night; while
if you tie the string around your wife’s
head, stretch the loose end taut and cut
it, you have a convenient method of
divorce.
Associations so vivid must inevitably
quicken and deepen our interest in the
Arnhem Land art from a human point
of view; and that is essentially what the
Berndts hope to achieve. Though they
praise their aboriginal artists to the limits
to which praise can reasonably go and
though, in welcome opposition to the
school of thought which maintains that a
primitive artist can paint a picture with-
out an aesthetic impulse, they believe that
aboriginal art manifests aesthetic as well
as magico-religious purposes, they are
primarily, as Professor Elkin puts it,
“social anthropologists concerned with
art as an element in the lives of people
whom we know”:
To us, therefore, the painting or engrav-
ing is a work of art not because it satisfies
in some degree Western canons of form
and color, or because it is pleasing to us,
but because it expresses meaning in the
culture of which it forms a part, and does
so symbolically; if is more than appears on
the surface.
A good deal of nonsense, of course, is
talked about aboriginal art these days,
both by artists influenced by the prevail-
ing cult of primitivism and by people
who mistake their humane and anthro-
pological interest for aesthetic apprecia-
tion. Probably if the Berndts had found
golliwogs and rockinghorses as well as
their anthropologically sensational human
effigies in Arnhem Land, these objects
would have been regarded with equal
reverence not only by anthropologists
whose mission it is to be reverent on such
occasions—but also by artists and critics
who should know better.
The present reviewer recalls, still with
sad wonder, sitting in the coffee-shop
next door to The Bulletin office with
one of the most skilful and sensitive of
contemporary Australian watercolorists
and hearing him say (he was in the throes
of a period of experiment), “The old abo.
is tops as an artist, you know.” But
since for obvious technical reasons, if
for no others, no aborigine from the
dawn of time until Albert Namatjira
came along had even attempted to do
anything remotely approaching in artistic
quality the painter’s own watercolors, it
would surely be much more sensible to
start from the assumption that “the old
abo.” is bottoms as an artist; which,
after all, is to deny neither his measure
of achievement nor his inherent capacity,
for that is precisely what we must say
of our own children.
But if you start from that assumption,
as you look through Art in Arnhem
Land, you will continually be taken by
surprise and pleasure to observe how far
aboriginal art, at its best, has progressed
from the absolute primitive basis —beyond
which there is only chaos. There is, for
instance, the translation of an aboriginal
poem, “one verse of the well-known
Wonguri-Mandjikai song-cycle of , the
Moon-Bone”:
They are sitting about in the camp, among
the branches, along the back of the
camp;
Sitting along in lines in the camp, there in
the shade of the paperbark-trees:
Sitting along in a line, like the new white
spreading clouds ;
In the shade of the paperbarks, they are
sitting resting like clouds.
' People of the clouds, living there like the
mist; like the mist resting with arms
on knees, ...
In here towards the shade, in this place,
in the shadow of paperbarks.
Sitting there in rows, those Wonguri-
Mandjikai people, paperbarks along
like a cloud.
Living on cycad-nut bread; sitting there
with white-stained fingers.
Sitting there resting, those people of the
Sandfly clan ...
Sitting there like mist, at that place of the
Dugong . . . and of the Dugong
entrails ...
Sitting resting there in the place of the
Dugong , . .
In that place of the Moonlight Claypans,
and at the place of the Dugong ...
There at that Dugong place they are sitting
all along.
The poem may not, when all is said,
take us very far; but at least, so far as
it does go, there is no doubt about its
naive charm ; and the same is true of
many of the drawings, sculptures and
decorated ritual objects which Catherine
and Ronald Berndt collected so patiently
and which their publisher has reproduced
so finely. There is not the slightest reason
why one should value, from an artistic
point of view, all examples of aboriginal
art with equal enthusiasm ; and such con-
glomerations as the “Hunting Scene” of
Plate 14, with wooden kangaroos sitting
around in a crude design, are only of
anthropological interest. But many of the
designs, such as “Crocodiles Lying in
Seaweed” (Plate 10a), are really very
delicately worked out and, as Professor
Elkin suggests, could well be used for
textiles.
Most of these reproductions, if they
differ in detail from others we have seen,
are familiar in their broad patterns, but
one of the great merits of Art in Arnhem
Land is that it is all gathered at first-
hand and there are types of aboriginal
art reproduced in it which will be new
to most readers. One must decline, as
one did when they were exhibited in
Sydney some time ago, to find much
artistic merit in the carved and painted
human figures which, because the abo-
rigines were not known to have “sculpted”
human figures in the round, were so
dramatic a discovery in anthropology.
They look like golliwogs ; and that is all
about it. Without presuming to have the
expert knowledge either of the Berndts,
who say that the making of these figures
was probably inspired by Indonesian
voyagers, or of the natives who say that
they invented them themselves, one must
incline to the belief that the Berndts are
right and that what we see here is essen-
tially not aboriginal art but a decadent
form of Indonesian.
But the two sorcerer’s drawings from
Oenpelli, equally new in style to the
present reviewer and infinitely
teresting artistically are another matter.
Stylised and strikingly decorative ,
with feathers or tern-fronds spr° u tng
in all directions from their
of a bird-headed pregnant woman a
drawing apparently intended to
for slaying a girl who has you
married somebody else and t
of a man with some equally sinister sign
ficance, they have a lightness of touch
extremely rare in aboriginal art ana
though very different in style, cou *
compared with the strangely graceful
and sophisticated European cave-drawings
at Altamira.
The present reviewer is not quite sure
to what extent aboriginal sorcerers can
be persuaded to commercialise their art,
nor how much it might degenerate if ey
did, but there can be no doubt that there
is a sound foundation in aesthetics as
well as in humanity for Professor Elkin s
concluding suggestion that some sort o
school of aboriginal painting should be
established in Arnhem Land to produce
designs that could be applied on mm a
wallpapers, dress-materials, neckties,
handbags and other articles.” Obviously
it is both more satisfying and more equit-
able for aboriginal art to be produced
by aborigines than by Australian imita-
tors, and there should be nothing m
such a scheme to prevent some new
Namatjira utterly transcending the limi-
tations of his people either in the native
idiom or the European.
A Prose-prospector .
It must be a great satisfaction to
George Farwell to have got so much of
his travels about Australia on paper in
his Surf Music and Other Stones (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.); it is a satisfac-
tion shared by the reader, of authentic
landscape, from the Murray to the Gulf:
reef-fishing, deepsea fishing, camels in
the sand, pubs 300 miles from railheads,
lonely buses through deserted townships,
country dance-halls, men and managers
at Broken Hill, grape-pickers, philander-
ing wives of artists, old Murray captains
on the beach, munition-workers’ families,
a miner’s wedding.
At first one feels that the people are
good only when they are part of these
landscapes—but then, that is how they
should be good ; that is the peak of
short - story - writing accomplishment.
Moreover, as you get past the title story,
“Surf Music,” which is about the least
successful in the book, and come to
“Mantis at Prayer,” the affair of the
soldier on leave and the artist’s wife
separated from her husband, you find
that Mr. Farwell can be very shrewd
with people ; very shrewd indeed.
What is left, then, is the feeling that
life throughout Australia must be pretty
grim and pretty grey, or that the short-
story prospector finds what he seeks:
into how many outback pubs must Mr.
Farwell have been before he found one
in which the proprietor was decamping
because his wife was doing a line with
the policeman (“The Dingo”)? And here
again, a writer with another cast of mind
might have made a roaring comedy of
the situation ; or a writer who had lived
longer among his characters might have
seen it more gently.
However, we are not dealing with other
writers, but with Mr. Farwell: as he sees
things, he puts them down, and very good
pictures he makes of them.
Donne Again,
One of the conditions upon which
John Donne was revived between the two
world wars was that one might admire
his wit without subscribing to his religion.
None less than T. S. Eliot popularised the
theory of “suspension of disbelief,” by
which one granted an artist’s hypothesis
—his superstition, his religion, his out-
moded or outrageous politics, his anti-
social morality—for the sake of enjoy-
ing his art.
But now M. M. Mahood comes to say,
in a book on Poetry and Humanism
(Cape), that admiration of art is not
enough ; that without an appreciation of
their religious ideas, no appreciation of
Donne, Vaughan, Milton and Traherne
can be complete. His theme is very
simply stated. European man emerged
from the Middle Ages a humanist, a
scientific student of the world and of
himself. But humanism divided into two
schools, distinguished by Maritain as
theocentric and anthropocentric: —
The first kind of humanism recognises
that the centre of man is God the
second believes that man is his own centre.
And the significance of this in art for
Mr. Mahood is that the self-sufficient
humanist is doomed to pessimism and an
illustration of the death-wish in his works,
while the religious humanist is raised by
his faith into a triumph, over the death-
wish and carried on a lively optimism to
the grave itself.
The book is a set of variations on this
theme, very wittily worked out. The
cheerful devotions of George Herbert are
first contrasted with the morbid religi 0us
poetry of Christina Rossetti in which ‘a
more powerful tide of Romantic feel.
ing often thrusts forth great poetry
but never great devotional poetry.” N ext ’
comes a startling tour-de-force in which
Marlowe’s tragedies, in their order
“Tamburlaine,” “Dr. Faustus ,” “The Jew
of Malta” and “Edward the Second,” are
made representative of the exact pro-
gression of Renaissance humanism’s
decay when it is irreligious: the conquests
of Tamburlaine, the learning of Faustus
the wealth of the Jew, constitute for
Mahood a progress which is concluded
in the languid pursuit of pleasure by
Edward XI; an illustration of the progress
of an art and an artist combined, when
deprived of religion, from early creative
power to a desire for death.
Next comes a study of Donne’s struggle
with the ideas of his times, which made
him from a witty and cynical man-about-
town, a writer of love-songs which were
profound but not religious, into the most
powerful preacher of his day and its most
lyrical poet of religion. Here the idea of
the Baroque is brought in to describe
Donne’s preaching: —
The Baroque style is based upon a feeling
for the need to reconcile the seemingly
irreconcilable....
And this same style which served
Donne to unite Science and Religion
might be expected to serve Milton in
justifying the ways of God to Man; thus,
Milton is discussed as a Baroque artist-
in fact, Mr. Mahood may be said to have
written a Baroque book, in which sweep-
ing and enthusiastic designs hold together
a great deal of seemingly irreconcilable
wit and religion, notably: a masterly
survey of the movement and heroes of
“Paradise Lost,” together with Milton’s
debt to one Giles Fletcher; and a fine
chapter on Henry Vaughan, his twin-
brother who wrote in prose, and the
curious symbols of the time, emblemata,
derived a good deal from Jesuit emblem-
books, which had so great an effect upon
the work of the metaphysical poets.
Chambers' Encyclopaedia.
A new (1950) edition of Chambers'
Encyclopaedia, published by „ George
Newnes. Ltd., Ixmdon, has just arrived
ih Australia. The set, completely revised
and brought up to date, consists of 15
volumes, 14 of text and a final volume
with maps, indexes, etc. It includes a
144-page atlas in full color.
Australia is covered in articles dealing
with its physical geography, fauna, agri-
cultural and natural resources, trade and
industries, finance and currency, Govern-
ment and judiciary, armed forces and
defences, religions, population and social
conditions, education, anthropology,
archaeology, exploration and history.
Separate biographies are given to
Barton, Bligh, Bourke, Bruce, Curtin,
Deakin, Eyre, Fisher, Gipps, Griffith,
Hughes, Kingston, Lyons,” Macarthur,
Macquarie, Melba, Mitchell, Parkes,
Phillip, Reid, Syme, Wakefield and Went-
worth. And, of course, mention is made
of Bradman and Ned Kelly.
Marjorie Barnard has contributed
sound article on Australian literature ana
separate biographies on Adam (Lindsay
Gordon, Rolf Boldrewood, Marcus
Clarke, Henry Lawson, Henry Hanfc
Richardson and Tom Collins.
The first edition of Chambers
completed in 1868. Founded on the lot
edition of Brockhaus’s Konversatio -ns-
Lexikon, a famous German encycA 1 '
paedia, of which the Britannica says: h
wor k of reference has been more uscuj
and successful, or more frequently cope*
imitated and translated,” the I®
Chambers was frequently revised, sa
many new editions, and in time, m tn
field of British encyclopaedias, was on >
surpassed by the Encyclopaedia Britanw ■
In 1920 the Britannica became the P
perty of Sears, Roebuck and Co-,
Chicago, largely because of the [ flte ..
which Jules Rosenwald, the philanthropy
then head of that company, had ja
in the work, and is now published by
University of Chicago, leaving Cham
the major reference work of its
produced and published in England
{“Red Page” continued on p<*B e


"TRUTH iß| IN ADVERTISING"
Horderns’
Mill
P
CsC4sM2C,
.
1
ii Hi
■HU
Si
111
The Silent Polarsphere
This unit is hermetically sealed, needs
no adjusting. It is silent in action, needs
no attention—not even oiling in a life-
time—and accounts for the amazingly
low running costs of “Kelvinator.”
This advanced refrigerator
sealed unit is exclusive to
“Kelvinator.” It’s TRULY sealed
. . . needs no oiling ... no attention
whatever. Gives a maximum
performance at the lowest operating
cost, and a five-year
Protection Plan against defect is assured.
Famous
Refrigerators
FOR SALE IN THE METROPOLITAN AREA ONLY
You can purchase your Kelvinator on the easiest of terms . . . order now.
If you are starting to furnish a home or if you have been putting up with out-dated,
inadequate facilities for food preservation, don’t delay any longer.
Crisper Trays, glass covered (two
m AS-7), preserves the crispness.
The Evaporator provides stor-
age for ice cream, frosted foods.
A glass Meat Chest beneath
the evaporator for meat, etc.
3
S
Magic Shelf (AS-7) gives five
shelf arrangements for utility.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ ELECTRICAL DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR. PITT ST. M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


A large, and for ordinary students
perhaps too large, work is Professor
Keith Feiling’s new A History of England
(Macmillan).
Green was 37 when, 76 years
ago, he issued his Shorter History.
He had been curate in charge
of a church at Hoxton, incumbent
of another at Stepney and librarian at
Lambeth Palace, Professor Feiling is a
much older man, widely travelled and ex-
perienced before becoming Chichele Pro-
' fessor of Modern History at Oxford in
succession to Sir Charles Oman, whose
viewpoint, particularly on the Angevin
period, he reorientates.
His work is beautifully proportioned.
He compresses the tale of Britain’s first
1500 years of known development—
perhaps the most fascinating part of the
book—into 316 pages, but he leaves
very little unsaid.
His Saxon occupation is a very dif-
ferent, more cultivated, more civilised
and advanced if not more comfortable
stretch of years than that of the Victorian
historians. His narrative of the rise of
the Angevins provides a more solid and
logical interpretation of decades out of
which so much came that was afterwards
important to the economy and culture of
the country and the liberty of the people
than most versions. His studies of im-
ported humanism as the source of the
institutions which grew up under
William of Normandy’s successors give
a clear vision of what happened in the
century following the Battle of Hastings.
His picture of that time is of an England
whose erudition was integral with Latin
civilisation:
There were schools attached to London
churches like St. Martin’s or the Waltham
Canons and schools in cathedral cities;
there was teaching before 1150 at Canter-
bury and Oxford, each of which might
grow into a university; the Bury monks
had a ■ hostel for poor children; village
priests taught the scriptures and elementary
Latin. English history was kept alive by
monks like William of Malmesbury, of
mixed Anglo-Norman blood, whose learn-
ing was due to the Norman abbots, who
wrote in Latin and whose eyes were fixed
on Rome.
All this was going on 60 or 70 years
before Magna Carta, when, according to
the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, the shires
were “full of castles, and the castles all
full of devils and evil men.” As Professor
Feiling says, “It is not unimportant that
England received its humanispi as a
direct consequence of the Conquest,
which taught her the meaning of law,
political ideas and public opinion and
raised up men competent to execute
Henry IPs legislation, resist Rome and
frame Magna Carta.” ✓
The turbulence of Stephen’s reign—
normally produced as the cardinal fact of
his period when history is taught in
schools —might dissolve government into
temporary anarchy, but from that
anarchy at once England “emerged in a
feudal frame of society, with a central
Government and a catholic mind,” and
for the first time began to evolve as a
single entity knit by a common culture.
Its courses were moulded by the rule of
law. The end of Henry IFs reign saw the
general tendencies “flowing towards
nationality” and the compounding of
Norman and Saxon into a unified race.
The advent of Henry himself, appear-
ing as such characters have the habit of
appearing at the most opportune
moment, had greatly accelerated these
tendencies. Professor Feiling says of this
“stocky, bandy-legged figure, with lion-
face, bloodshot grey eyes and cropped,
reddish hair,” who was “never seated a
minute, who hated ceremony and was
careless of time, meals and personal com-
fort,” that he “embodies the might and
passion of the flesh rather than a lofty
mind and fine spirit,” but that “though
there have been better rulers of England,
there have been none of more individual
genius, and few to whom the nation owes
such a lasting debt.”
His needs compelled him to foster
local liberties and to link them to the
Crown. Thus he laid foundations upon
which the modern structures of Parlia-
ment, the common law and the jury
system came to be built, while his estab-
lishment of even temporary domestic
peace and foreign alliances increased
English wealth, “simultaneously enrich-
ing things of the spirit.” His quarrels
with the Church, leading to the murder
of Becket, were part of his struggle for
control and nationalisation of the law.
It was the impact of the mental attitude
which Henry more than anybody created,
though the seeds from which his form of
government developed were sown by his
grandfather, Henry I, which was re-
sponsible after his death for the
explosions which gave permanent
existence to new shapes of institutions
which he created and which brewed in
Englishmen the urge to assert their rights
in a way which would have been im-
possible in the divided state of the
country a century before Runnymede.
Had Henry followed John instead of
John coming after Henry, the tale might
have been far different. Combination
before Henry against a monarch en-
dowed with “the ferocity of a snake”
might not have been so easy as it proved
to be. In Henry’s reign the English felt
the caress of Freedom and were fiercely
disinclined to part from her. Their sense
of self-preservation and their urge to
see permanence given to the protective
rights so recently conceded the individual
were strengthened by the natural
antipathy felt by all who encountered him
towards John, and by the apprehension
which he created in most men’s minds.
It seems, on Professor Feiiing’s read-
ing of the matter, that ordinary beings
“felt a repulsion for him, as for some-
thing inhuman, distorted and cold to the
touch.” It is not surprising that, with the
war and interdict which his reign brought,
with the immense taxes and with rob-
beries of the monasteries so great that
some of them closed their doors, the
“bridges between the nation and the
executive were broken down,” and that
the incipient national order which had
begun to be established must have seemed
to contemporaries to be threatened with
extinction during most of 60 years of
chaos and revolution which led to the
climax of Runnymede.
The masses of the common people,
since the Conquest almost universally
“King’s men,” opened the gates of
London and of other towns and cities to
the barons and paved the way for Magna
Carta, which is now popularly credited
with being the original charter of British
liberty, and the fountain from which
gushed forth the ideals of Parliamentary
government, individual rights and the
common law.
But these, as Professor Feiling shows,
were of earlier conception. The
salient features of the Charter were very
largely confirmations of rights already
exercised and re-enactments of the rulings
of earlier Angevin kings. Half the
clauses dealt with feudal grievances, and
although free men were assured of
liberty, there was not a line in the docu-
ment which within a decade was de-
scribed as “The Great Charter” to give
protection to the villein, the individual
who most of all needed protection.
The rise of a primitive industrial Eng-
land centralised round the growing towns
changed the old class divisions. England
saw, over the end of the 14th century,
artisans smashing images in the Mid-
lands and Lollards boldly teaching the
“equality of all wretched sinners,” and
shouting that “Christ came of poor folk”
—all this 50 years before Columbus,
Erasmus and Luther, Wolsey and Henry
VII were born to watch the medieval
world die, and anew English life rise
out of a national agony expressed in
revolution. Events shook the title to the
Throne and all securities and brought
100 years of war, but the strife, as in
Angevin times, failed to inhibit and
arrest the march of English civilisa-
tion, progressive and in some way magni-
ficent, which gave us the great colleges
of the older universities and the birth of
English art and modem literature.
To that disturbed age belong Morte
d’Arthur, Fortescue’s Governance of
England, the ballad of “The Nut Brown
Maid,” Caxton, Whittington and an
epidemic of classical learning which did
not abate until the twentieth century was
getting past its first youth.
It was the age, too, of the birth of
elementary capitalist organisation and of
commercial stability and expansion. Yet
all development of that time was born of
a period whose history the writer sum-
marises under the chapter-heading
“National Collapse,” one in which,
during the all-too-much-romanticised
Wars of the Roses, “bloodshed on a scale
unknown since Stephen’s reign filled
English politics,” so that even Speakers
were not safe, and dukes more normally
than otherwise died violently;
If we take Speakers of the Commons as
representative, Tresham was assassinated in
his nadve Northamptonshire, the Lancas-
trian Thorpe killed by the London mob,
a younger Tresham and Wenlock both
killed in battle. Three Beaufort dukes of
Somerset, two Stafford dukes of Bucking-
ham, three Neville earls, a de Vere earl
of Oxford, Owen Tudor, grandfather of
Henry VII, the Lancastrian Prince of
Wales, Richard of York and his son
Clarence, King Edward V and his brother
Richard, all these perished by battle,
murder or sudden death, with a mass of
barons and knights, before the slaughter
ceased.... Thames watermen hunted down
accused politicians like rats, apprentices
battered Flemings and Italians, Norwich
mobs roared “Kill them, head them,” at
County officials. Under cover of the public
quarrel every ruffian in distant provinces
broadcast murder, blackmail and piracy.
Yet, through it all, as later through
Cromwell’s war, the average English con-
tinued to live more or less normal lives.
Business did not suffer much and even
expanded. Law courts were open and
busy. Poets sang and Lollards shouted
until, unfurling the banners of St, George
and Caedwallader at Milford Haven,
Henry VII, heir of the half-legitimated
Beauforts with only the thinnest kind of
title to the throne, conquered England
with 5000 men on Bosworth Field,
which is the only manner in which Eng-
land ever has been conquered —with
the consent of most of the English. On
other occasions of “conquest” the forces
of the successful invader have been little
stronger. William the First’s army was
12,000, William of Orange, at a x time
when the population was immeasurably
greater, landed with 24,000, and a cosmo-
politan lot at that.
From the beginning of the Tudor
period Professor Feiling’s narrative deals
with better-known reigns than those in
the earlier part of his book. It is
illuminated by thumbnail sketches of the
great, made vivid by apt quotation. It
misses little in describing trends and in-
fluences, but it has economy of line and
solidity of substance which occasionally
makes it indigestible save when taken,
like rich cream, in small helpings. Some-
times the diet is all cream for pages to-
gether, yet the reader cannot fail to
understand what is set before him and to
carry away yivid impressions from his
reading.
One retains, perhaps, in the memory a
lifelike portrait of Henry VIII, great
irrespective of virtue, reported by the
Venetians the best-dressed sovereign in
the world and by himself the most
handsome, tallest of all English kings
save two who matched his six-feet-four,
horseman, musician, at home in three
languages, skilled alike in theology and
shipbuilding, an apt Parliamentarian
gifted with ruthless craft, terrible in
wrath, a writer of love-letters which
survive by their own merit, and some-
thing of a poet as well as a patron of the
arts.
Or perhaps the vision is of Elizabeth,
who could address universities in Latin,
and who “combined the brutal Italianate
intellect of the Renaissance with a bluff
pleasure in popularity, progresses among
gaping crowds, jewels and innumerable
dresses,” a lady who described herself
as “mere English,” but who exclaimed:
“If I were turned out of the realm in my
petticoat, I were able to live in any place
in Christendom.”
Or, again, perhaps the student may re-
tain a grasp of the orderly elucidation of
the growth of the mercantile theory out
of crude medieval ideas in which the
author sifts and compresses the com-
plicated facts about how one set of
conditions in the fifteenth century
evolved into those of the new world of
the sixteenth. Or a few sentences turn a
flash of limelight on to some figure who
is not usually noticed as a mainspring of a
great movement or event, as when the
historian makes it clear that it was to
Clarendon that the country chiefly
owed a peaceful restoration when Charles
II came home with his merry court, the
part of that gout-stricken dreamer about
a “return to the good old humor” of the
nation being ordinarily obscured under
the shadow of the doings of Monck,
Duke of Albemarle. Clarendon it was
who saw to it that there was “no break
in the legal order,” and his the will that
moved for disbandment of the Army,
which was causing “a perpetual tremb-
ling in the nation.”
Without allowing his enthusiasms to
run away with him Professor Feiling has
succeeded in clothing those periods of
more recent history which in summary
are usually dry bones with the flesh of a
social and cultural substance. He de-
scribes them in a substantial scenic
environment. He provides again and
again illustrations of how, throughout
the whole stretch of modern as of
medieval history, the English appear
to thrive on tribulation and rise above
their apparent confusions, so that their
misfortunes rarely fail to give rise to
some manifestation of civilised advance-
ment. Light the fires of Smithfield, or
plunge them into the melting-pot of civil
war, apparently ruin them through
foreign wars, and the English, singing
like larks, remould themselves to circum-
stances with a sort of white-hot patriotic
fervor which contemporary years show
to be not yet quite dead. Give them
a futile leader, whether a Henry VI or an
Attlee or a Cripps, and they balance his
deficiencies with an exhibition of
national toughness and resilience which
astonishes an envious world.
The industry with which Professor
Feiling has told his story, and the
ruthlessness with which he has pruned
it down to the essential word and sentence,
are no less matters for admiration than
the courage with which he has dared
bring it right up-to-date into I
period almost contemporary, the con
flicts of which can still raise anerv
passions and abuse. It is for his inte/
pretations of the events of these
nearer periods that historians of th
future may most acclaim him, even
though sometimes his detail is ’a
blurred, and his overseas history subject
to minor inaccuracies. J 1
The author’s trivial errors, however
may be forgiven in the light 0 f
numerous brilliant epitomes, such as that
in which he catalogues the symptoms of
peril and decline in the generation
immediately before World War I with
its sterility among the intellectual circles
of the ruling class in the heyday 0 f
Balfour and Asquith, its lowered codes
its deep and incalculable shifting 0 f
values, in the changed relation of the
sexes; with its unconstructive culture of
which the prophets were “would-be
realists” like Shaw and Wells, its new and
cynical drama, its sometimes brilliant
amorality and its “vast, cheap Press aiming
at circulation before accuracy, and popu-
larity before a standard.” He writes;—
By 1914 the paradox of democracy was
not yet declared in Britain, whose political
forms were not yet totally democratic; the
paradox that equality is apt to destroy
liberty, and that democratic power tends
to coincide with the physical force of
numbers and to find expression in dictator-
ship... .All that could be said in 1914 was
that a moral and material revolution had
demolished nearly all the ideals and arts
of life of our earlier history.
That was just before the British had
nearly 8,000,000 men and 1,000,000
women in the fighting and munition
services in 1914-18, spent £6,000,000,000,
sold all their overseas securities, lent
£1,500,000,000 to their allies, lost over
6,000,000 tons of shipping and found
themselves facing the future and another
war of more than equal effort with
income tax raised from Is. 2d. to 6s. 6d.
in the £, an excess-profits tax of 80 per
cent, on industry, and with wholesale
prices 125 per cent, higher than in 1914.
All men up to 50 had been liable to
military service in 1914-18, and part of
the loss had been 1,000,000 of the
country’s best sons, including 115,000
officer casualties after February, 1915, on
the Western front alone, five-to-two the
German officer casualties in the same
period.
And so to the 1930’5, when the history
comes to “the golden hour of democratic
confusion” represented by the antics of
the League of Nations. Then hardly a
voice in Britain was heard approving a
war to prevent Germany retaking
German soil in the Rhineland. Then the
League, America standing aside, was
proved incapable of saying peace, and,
much against the grain, Britain hurried
on the pace of rearmament. It was a
period of “clinging to the ideal of the
League” in which “deadly contradictions
crippled our policy.” Still clinging to the
League and still so much detesting war
that they would even resist rearmament,
the Left-wing of British politics “saw a
threat to their whole view of life in the
Nazi and Fascist ideologies, and more
and more—ignoring the Slav-Teuton
feud, or the price Russia would ask for
assisting democracy—they looked towards
Moscow ”
The book ends with a succinct and
accurate summary of the policies of the
two British Governments which bore the
burden in those ominous years which
finished in 1938;
On the other side stood the British
Government, under Baldwin until 1937 and
thereafter under Chamberlain, bent on win-
ning time to rearm, sceptical of any real
support from the French, disillusioned as
to the League, and in spirit going back to
the method of Salisbury and Grey.
[they thought] Germany and Italy had real
grievances arising out of the peace treaties,
they must be explored... .They adhered to
Canning’s or Pitt’s view that with tne
internal means of government in otner
countries, however tyrannical, Britain was
not concerned. They were convinced tna
Great Britain, and even more tne
Dominions, ought not to be asked to tign
again unless interests vital to the
wealth’s very life were at stake. Till tna
cause were proved up to the hut, an
every marginal doubt in the [pdace] treaii
had been eliminated, they would continue
work for time, and husband our strength-
Hence, of course, their execration
“appeasers.”
There the historian leaves them m
period of “confusion of thought, m m
dire peril, in these ill-requited, sine
and high intentions,” He does not P ur ,
the story into the current years tF ar f K
by the ascendancy of the mob and ot
companion, the sensational, inane B
which has done so much to render Bn
policy for the time being subject
pseudo-realism which makes even tna
Wells and Shaw sound practical, an
the cunning and treacherous lea( " a
Moscow, launched clandestinely D y,
fifth-column which, in the past two
cades, has introduced an element
centuries foreign to the British way
life. M- H. Ellis.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3680
Wednesday, August 23, 1950
df
FERDINAND-ABOUT TIME HE WOKE UP.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia, for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
MR. MENZIES'S TASK.
All Australians with a sense of the
urgency of the menace of Soviet aggres-
sion overhanging the world —this country
as much as any other—must be aware in
advance of the general nature of the call
Mr. Menzies will now have to make upon
them. It will tax all his resources of
leadership. Nothing less than the single-
minded response of all parties, and of
the whole nation behind them, will permit
of the job ahead being done in time.
Mr. Menzies was obviously impressed
by the atmosphere he found in America,
of “the immense acceleration in the
tempo of world affairs,” even during the
few weeks since he had left Australia.
Korea and a Korean contingent from
Australia as part of a British Common-
wealth expeditionary force are now but
minor details in the national effort re-
quired. The overall picture emerging is:
(1) A probable reconstruction of the
United Nations somehow without the
Soviet’s Communist bloc. Meetings of the
Security Council this month have made
sun-clear that the U.N.O. of the past five
years is unworkable.
(2) The British Prime Minister’s state-
ment calling Britain to a great rearmament
effort and a renewal of “austerity” living
means that Australia cannot rely on Britain
for even that portion of the capital goods
she wants which hitherto has been available.
Financial help to that end must now
increasingly come from the United States.
(3) With the United States carrying
already the burden of supplying all Western
Europe and Britain with dollars, capital
goods, and now the materials of speedy
rearmament, shouldering also the respon-
sibility of defending South Korea, aid for
Formosa, aid for Indo-China, Persia, Tur-
key, Greece and Italy, it is obvious that
the help Australia expects to obtain,
whether try lend-lease, special investment or
direct dollar loan, will exact from the Aus-
tralian Government conditional undertak-
ings of the most stringent kind to put its
own economy and industry in efficient
working order.
The temptation to “Labor” to seek poli-
ticial advantage out of such a situation
is manifest. That is one of the luxuries
Parliament and the country will have to
forgo.
Mr. Menzies left Australia on July 9,
just as the R.A.A.F, Mustang squadron
had gone into action in Central Korea
with the American forces, and the British
Government was making a diplomatic
appeal to Moscow to persuade the North
Korean invaders to withdraw (Moscow
rejected the appeal with every, accom-
paniment of insolence). A week later
Mr. Menzies was sitting-in at, a British
Cabinet-meeting which decided on
military support for South Korea. Next
events:
July 19: President Truman asked Con-
gress for unlimited powers of conscription,
removal of limits on size of U.S. armed
forces, and warned it of imminent war-time
restrictions on civilians.
July 21-24: Taejon fell to the Communist
invaders in Korea. U.N.O. Secretary-Lie
asked Australian Government to provide
ground-troops for Korea. Western Union
Defence Ministers resolved to hasten
rearmament of Europe to meet attack.
Menzies left by sea for New York.
July 26: British, Australian and N.Z.
Governments simultaneously called for
enlistments for forces for Korea.
July 28-August 1: Menzies in Washing-
ton. Invaders on South Korean coast.
Menzies’s addresses in Congress and con-
ference with President Truman. U.N.O.
Security Council met in high Tension for
showdown with Soviet Russia on issue of
refusal to co-operate under U.N. charter.
August 3-5: Menzies negotiating dollar
assistance in New York. Security Council
deadlocked under Russian obstruction. U.S.
authorities in Germany to arm first force
of 16,000 Germans. British Government
announced £3400 million rearmament pro-
gramme and looks for American financial
assistance.
August 6: H.M.A.S. Warramunga left
Sydney for Korea. Chinese Communist
army marching on Tibet. P.M.G. Anthony
said austerity may' have to come in Aus-
tralia, too.
. August 9-12: U.S. forces counter-attack-
ing in S. Korea. Menzies’s speech in Ottawa
outlining new sacrifices to save freedom of
democracies. President Truman asked for
new stringent anti-Communist bill. Chinese
Red armies massing at Mukden. Churchill
at European Assembly called for unified
army of Europe. British Parliament to
meet early September instead of October.
Menzies arrived in Japan.
After tracing through that period the
acceleration of tempo in world affairs of
Mr. Menzies’s description—and it was
registered right round the Russian Iron
Curtain from the Baltic to the Behring—
the Australian at home should be able
to appreciate the development of Mr.
Menzies’s own reactions by comparing his
chief American addresses —those on July
31 in Washington and that on August 9
to the Canadian Club in Ottawa. There
is no mistaking the international effect
during that period of the ructions in the
U.N. Security Council, and the move-
ments in Britain and U.S.A. to prepare
to meet a threat of general war from the
Soviet.
Before Congress at Washington Mr.
Menzies declared:
After full consultation and agreement
with the U.S. authorities, the Australian
Government will, on the basis of the British
Commonwealth Occupation Forces in Japan,
and subject to further recruitment of men
with battle experience, organise, I hope
with New Zealand, a small but first-class
combat group. I should like to see this
group joined with other groups from Britain
and British Commonwealth countries in a
British Commonwealth Division I speak
not only as Australia’s leader, but also as
a representative of the British Common-
wealth, your greatest group-associate and
friend in all things that matter in this
world.
And before the Washington Press Club
at luncheon:
I cannot understand why, for military
supply, Australia, the United States and
Britain should not get together on terms
with each other so that they are not
duplicating their efforts..,. In defence,
foreign policy, economic and financial
policies, co-operation on the most practical
level must he regarded as priority No. 1.
Then, 10 days later, at Ottawa:
Listening to the Soviet’s deputy Foreign
Minister in the Security Council one would
think that U.S.A., aided and abetted by
Australia, Canada and other evilly-disposed
nations, had conspired to commit aggres-
sion. It is the kind of aggression caused
when an opponent hit Joe Louis in the fist
with his solar plexus....
Dictators can devise their wars of nerves
and irritation tactics and in their own time
strike when they want to. Their aim is to
divide us and make us disperse our strength.
The reaction of ' free peoples is slow
because they object to the heavy chain of
economic control. We in the free world
must face up to it. We are only deluding
ourselves if we don’t know there is a threat
of war and where' it comes from.
There must be an immense diversion of
energy to warlike production in Australia
as well as other countries. We must face
three tasks —to prepare against and for
war; to build up our economies with
strength and vigor; and to battle against
inflation and encourage the thrifty to give
them a feeling of security. Critics will
spring up against any leader who attempts
these tasks. But we must at our peril do
all three, Every Government head has the
right to say to his people—as I intend to
tell Australians —that whatever burdens
and change of habits are placed upon them,
these things must be done and shall be
done. I believe Australians will not only
be willing, but before long will say—
“ Get on with the job; there is no other
choice.”
In London, pretty clearly, it was Mr.
Menzies who made the pace, or perhaps
he had made it before he left Australia.
But in America he found a scene of
action that quickened his own. And
none of Mr. Chifley’s “bargaining Aus-
tralian soldiers for dollars,” either.
Back in Australia Mr. Menzies cannot
too early set about the business of ex-
pounding to the public what “burdens
and change of habits” must be Imposed
upon it for the urgent triple task of pre-
paring to meet the challenge of war,
strengthening the national economy, and
checking inflation with thrift as a new
savings appeal. Each of these things will
require, obviously, a revision of the 40-
hour week. It may be that the award
itself can stand, but certainly the unions’
interpretation of it cannot. The visiting
(Socialist) British Minister for Common-
wealth Relations, for instance, said in
Melbourne the other day—“l will make
no comment about Australia, but we in
Britain regard the 40-hour week as a
standard rather for wages than for work-
ing hours. There are few industries [in
Britain] not working many more than 40
hours.”
“Labor” in Australia should hence-
forth be no more able to refuse the
principle of wage-incentives or other
encouragements to higher production
than to continue to oppose the Com-
munist Suppression Bill. There will have
to be some form of insurance-contribu-
tions to pensions, “free”-medicine, and
other “social-security” benefits hitherto
expected as “hand-outs.” There will have
to be some reimposition of controls if
necessary, to correct go-as-I-please be-
havior, in work and in living, of indi-
vidual citizens as well as of trade-unions.
Two years ago when Mr. Chifley as
Prime Minister came back from overseas
he said that the threat to our way of life
as he had seen it in Berlin meant that all
Australians would have to work harder.
But his attitude towards the completely
negative response gave no indication that
he meant it. Mr. Menzies will have to
demonstrate that he does mean it. He
should have some right, too, to expect
co-operation from Mr. Chifley in impres-
sing the general public with the need for
the required effort.
Rebuilding Britain.
Britain, whose capital was once proudly
hailed as the “hub of Empire, is
today far from being the strength and
inspiration to the world that it used to
be. Two world wars and a less-glorious
period of Socialism have taken heavy toll.
And what has fallen from Britain s
hands its Dominions have been reluctant
to take up. In five years there has been
a striking deterioration in British (includ-
ing Dominion) political backbone.
Under the influence of Socialist
management, in three out of the five main
white-ruled sections of the British Com-
monwealth unity of purpose has been
destroyed and party politics have be-
come paramount. Never has there been
so many exhibitions of the truth that
power corrupts as there has been in the
international dealings of the Empire s
Socialist Governments. Arrogant though
they have been in their transactions with
the outside world, they have carried on
their business with their tails between
their legs, ready to run at any sign of
real trouble and to surrender to the pur-
poses of interested rivals and ad-
versaries. Even though the Chifley and
Fraser Socialists have been overthrown
by the electors, great damage has already
been done, and in Britain the Attlees
still rule
Russia began the campaign to get
Britain out of Asia because Britain the
kind of Britain which still existed in the
’twenties of this century —was the
greatest obstacle to Russian world con-
quest. Sections of the United States
Press, even in the days of United States
isolation, seconded this Russian ambi-
tion, Partly this arose from the senti-
mentalism of an ill-informed people
ready to swallow any tale about atrocities
and maltreatment of native populations
which appeared in print, and partly from
a section which was eager to supplant
Britain commercially in Asian trade and
commerce. The supposed British ‘'terror-
ism” against the innocent natives of
India was played to the limit. Every
famine was laid at the door of the slave-
driving British. In the demands that the
British leave India to the Indians, irre-
spective of the fact that such a con-
tingency might mean a bloody civil war
and certainly would mean a decline in
governmental efficiency and a consider-
able increase in tyranny and violence,
the Australian “Labor” party joined in
the chorus, its campaigning being
backed in the war years even, by thf
orators of the Australian Broad-
casting Commission and by the more
raucous Sydney Press.
The disrupters achieved their ambi-
tion, with the result that India is more
starved than ever and its Government is
free to shoot down rioting students (as
it has done within the past week), enjoy
record famines and indulge in friendly
international relationships with the Com-
munist conquerors of China and others
without reproof. Burma is in a similar
condition.
These events are no longer reported in
the Australian Press and are not con-
demned in the British Press or by the
Socialist parties of Britain or of Aus-
tralia. Mr. Chifley, indeed, thinks that
Mr. Nehru, head of the Government
which condones them and the dreadful
atrocities which marked the exchange of
refugees along the India - Pakistan
border, is the greatest man in Asia.
Already India, which in its near-past as
a member of the British Empire was a
source of strength to us as an Asian base,
is in leading-strings with the Communists,
the direction of its aims being to create
an Asia-for-the-Asians policy even
though in that may lie simply Asia for
the Communists and for slave-State rule
of the type which has blacked out Eas-
tern Europe and turned it into a prison.
India is nominally a “democracy” and
part of the British Commonwealth; but
actually it is an Asian republic, an
autocracy with a policy deliberately hos-
tile to the white races. It already is an
embarrassment to many of those who
were so willing to follow Russia’s lead
and help kick the British out and to
Messrs. Attlee and Cripps, who yielded so
readily to their propaganda.
Australia, under Socialist rule, sought
to follow India so far as public opinion
would stand the change. “Labor,” with
its Wards and Calwells as cheer-leaders,
has consistently blackguarded British
“imperialism,” and even in government
it often sounded like an echo of Moscow
—which it was, to some extent, the party
being under influence of the Communist
unions which formed an integral section
of its political organisation and p ro .
vided its Prime Minister with advisee
and confidants.
Under the aegis of the Curtin Gov-
ernment it became the habit of Ministers
to boast of the greatness of Australia
and to assert this greatness by snubbing
the British whenever possible—Dr. Evatt
was an itinerant example—and by pass-
ing legislation which tended to widen
the breach with other parts of the Com-
monwealth. This culminated in the re-
moval of the word “British” f rom
Australian passports and the estab-
lishment of separate Australian citizen-
ship. Both of these measures soon
proved their disadvantages to travellers
The British Socialist Government, still
in power, has shown a feebleness in in-
ternational affairs, apart from its weak-
ness in Asia, which is almost unbeliev-
able. Its airy theorists seem to have had
a vague idea that by dismembering
the Empire they are somehow promoting
the brotherhood of man and cutting the
ground from under the feet of their
critics. But all they have done so far
is to reduce a great nation to a partly-
mendicant State which has surrendered
its position as the leader of the civilised
world to the United States, from which
it at the moment is asking aid for the
defence of Malaya and for the comple-
tion of its defence programme.
Its peoples are taxed deliberately with
the objective of breaking-up their exist-
ing economic structure and of softening-
up all those organisations which have
made the United Kingdom commercially
great. This so that industry can be
readily socialised, a procedure which is
rapidly turning the country into a seed-
bed ready-made for Communism.
There is still plenty of opportunity for
a British Commonwealth built on
closely-knit lines, and there is still
necessity for it. Command of the sea
and of the strategic air-base areas of the
world is vital to the safety of every part
of the British Commonwealth, which
cannot live without trade. That com-
mand cannot be achieved without the
closest co - operation and universal
activity of the British-speaking coun-
tries spread round the world. Behind
the need for it lie the resources of the
United Kingdom and the great
Dominions —resources of land to be
filled with population, of the wealth of
pastures (the wool of Australia, the
Wheat of Canada, the rubber of Malaya)
and of the mines. With these developed
to their utmost, as can be done in a
relatively short space of time, the British
Empire soon could be back on its feet as
the world leader and cease to be just
another bunch of divided nations, each
seeking its parochial ends and each com-
pelled to go hat in hand to Washington
at intervals.
With the Socialists out of office in Aus-
tralia and with the party on the run in
Britain, where a new election is only a
matter of months away, the time is
arriving when a closer-knit relationship
between the United Kingdom and its
Dominions for a common effort to re-
build British pre-eminence should be part
of the accepted policy of every section
of the Empire.
Maoriland's Budget.
From Auckland : On the eve of New
Zealand’s first free-enterprise Budget,
Maorilanders’ hopes of tax-cuts were
damped down in pre-Budget forecasts,
which were given an austerity look under
the lengthened shadow of Korean war-
clouds.
In June, before the flare-up_, the 33| pc-
super-tax on “unearned” income was
wiped out, and tax-ridden Maorilanders
thought at the time it was only a first
instalment of relief, with more to
but the K-force and unknown U.N.U.
commitments changed the outlook over-
night. Most of the £l2 million saved (tor
a full year) by the May cuts in subsidie
on foodstuffs, coal, rail fares and f rel S*?
and woollens will be swallowed up
expanding fighting services, and Jpo.
other possible economies are only in tn
six-figure range or lower. .
Social security, at a round £SO miUio* 1 '
which has towered above national securi y
since demobilisation four or five y ea
ago, is still growing, and wage-rises na
had to be shouldered in the civil servi ■
New Zealand’s lifebuoy at this 1
bank-high export prosperity, which
helped the new Holland Government
get well settled, and a promising start
another production season, after o
the mildest winters for years, should m
it easier for the country to take ■
medicine in the transition from P r ° s
Socialist spending to a pay-as-yP »
basis. But there’s a weakness in ainu^


to level-off on a high plane, as a short-
annual tax-load of £135 million
jodav is enough to keep the big majority
©f Maorilanders close to the break-even
uoint and to leave little margin in family
budgets. It’s an open question whether
taxes or living costs are the worse head-
ache but in the end they merge together,
because taxes, direct or indirect, are the
main item in costs.
Last year (to March 31) total national
receipts—taxes, loans and State trading
profits —reached £179 million, and pay-
ments £205 million, leaving an unbridged
gap of £26 million, which was the cause
of heated exchanges between Socialists
and Nationalists some months ago. This
£26 million was the final draft on Reserve
Bank credit under Socialist money-spin-
ning—at least, the Holland Government
said it would be. The Socialists were
furious at charges that they had been
draining away financial reserves, and
claimed the funds, were all sunk in solid
assets, like State houses, hydroelectric
schemes and other national works. What
they couldn’t, or wouldn’t, see was that
this kind of finance was inflationary, and
that if a halt wasn’t called the N.Z. pound
would shrivel to a mere shadow of its
former self: They had one rule for them-
selves and another for private enterprise,
which sought credit to put into capital
assets, and they tightened the rein on
private borrowers while forcing the pace
to the limit in public spending. No one
but Socialists in Maoriland can under-
stand how borrowing is less inflationary
when the State pulls bank strings.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Nehru and Communism.
Ix is only a few weeks since Mr. Nehru’s
Ambassador to China was warmly wel-
comed in Peking and made a speech about
the brotherhood of Asia’s two greatest
nations (Russia conveniently omitted
from memory), which seemed capable
only of the interpretation that the
Indian Government was prepared to
work in double-harness with the Com-
munists on an Asia-for-the-Asians
policy irrespective of China’s ambitions
for southward advance into British
Malaya and also into Tibet. It was open
to suspicion then, and clear now from
Nehru’s later statements, that in the
Malayan business Nehru must logically
be on the side of the rebels. And it also
has become clear that in some matters
he is not on the same side as his own
fellow-Indian leaders.
Mr. Patel, in the Assembly at Delhi
last week, for instance, said that Com-
munism must, and would, be fought by
whatever.means were necessary in India.
He mentioned the wholesale murders of
Indians in Hyderabad by Communist
bands, and he referred to Communist
plans, specious and diabolical as usual,
with more than ordinary distaste.
Yet a few days afterwards Pandit
Nehru, while admitting in an interview
with the correspondent of the “New
York Times” that there was “a great
deal in it,” said that the average Asian
could not be swept away by thought of
the Communist danger because he had
not much to lose. Asian intellectual
reaction (he said) is not opposed to the
socialistic doctrine of Communism, and
the cry raised against Communism has
not much effect except with certain indi-
viduals.
Therefore, he declared, the West
should abandon condemnation of Com-
munism as such and take up political
economic freedom as a more effective
rallying-cry and compromise with its
opposing ideology, because it was im-
possible and unwise to attempt to
exterminate it.
This would have sounded more con-
vincing if it had not been for Nehru’s
recent interferences in Indonesian affairs
(his visit to Djakarta being almost con-
temporaneous with Soekarno’s recogni-
tion of both Communist China and of
the Indo-Chinese Moscow agent, Ho
Chi-Minh), his demand for the admission
of Communist China to U.N.O.’s
Security Council and his virtual deser-
tion in the Korean affair of those who
secured India’s freedom for him.
Another Soviet Disciple.
If President Soekarno l of Indonesia can
get away with his demand that Dutch
New Guinea shall be added to his re-
public, a claim on Dutch Timor could
easily be the next move, and with
equal lack of justification. He might even
look to take over Australia, which
formerly was New Holland.
Dr. Soekarno’s technique of raising
jnass meetings to hysterical enthusiasm for
•9® return of Dutch New Guinea to one
fold” is a leaf straight out of Hitler’s
book. He has his friends in the wharfies’
federation on the Australian waterfront,
and for the three years of the late
Chifley Government’s regime he was
allowed to presume that Comrade Healy’s
union directed that Government’s foreign
policy. Moreover, he not only saw Aus-
tralia without an army and New Guinea
defenceless, but Mr. Chifley as Prime
Minister was on Dr. Soekarno’s side
against the Dutch and on the side of
Dr. Soekarno’s friend. Pandit Nehru,
against all the world.
It was Mr. Chifley who called for the
U.N. Commission to arbitrate between
Dr. Soekamo’s Javanese Republic and
the Dutch, and on that commission of
three Australia was there as Indonesia’s
backer. The Dutch nominated Belgium,
and the independent chairman was from
U.S.A.
When at the end of last year the round-
table conference at The Hague conducted
by the U.N. Commission broke down,
the Commission got the New Guinea
question postponed for 12 months and
Indonesia was promised the suspended
share of a Dutch Marshall Aid loan—
-40 million dollars. The Indonesian U.N.
delegate asked U.N.O. to allow the
commission to continue mediating “to
help his country gain control of West
New Guinea.” Members of the com-
mission had hardly returned home from
The Hague when the Indonesian delega-
tion’s conference “adviser” spilt the
beans.
He declared that, after Dutch New
Guinea, all the rest of New Guinea
would have to follow, “The people of
Australian New Guinea,” he said, “must
be allowed to choose their own way,’.’ but
the way they would choose was pre-
sumed to be beyond doubt. This wider
aim has never been satisfactorily denied.
In the course of operations against East
Indonesians in the Moluccas (who are
being “persuaded” by force of arms to
join the Javanese republic) Indonesian
troops have already, according to a re-
turned Australian pearl-fisher, occupied
Am and Tenimber islands, lying between
Dutch New Guinea and Darwin.
Not the least offensive feature in the
Indonesian dictator’s behavior is his re-
sort to military aggression in the best
Communist style while basking in the
prestige of U.N. membership (denied
still to Spain and Italy) and claiming aid
from a U.N. commission for his black-
mailing demands.
"Labor's" Chameleon.
After five years’ enjoyment of the Chifley
“golden age,” when they could take the
day’s job as easily as they liked, Austra-
lian unions have now been warned that,
along with the rest of the nation, they
must be recalled to harder work if Aus-
tralia is to join the democracies in the
effort to survive the coming with-
out another world war.
A fair day’s work for the wages and
conditions the unions have achieved would
do a lot to put things right in this Com-
monwealth. *
That chameleon-like spokesman for the
A.L.P., its N.S.W.* branch president, is
showing signs of awareness of the
changed times. He says he thinks the
Australian workers will respond, “if they
are sure it is for the nation’s well-being,”
but that “other sections” must do their
share. Great numbers of workers —the
mass of the community whom Mr. Fer-
guson and his kind do not recognise as
“workers” —have long been working over-
time and bearing the taxation burdens
which Mr. Ferguson’s unionists do their
best to escape, notably by limiting indi-
vidual output.
Mr. Ferguson finds that serious divi-
sions in a national effort are being stimu-
lated by Communists. The Communists
behaved differently during the “previous
war effort” under the Chifley Govern-
ment, he remarks —though with what pur-
pose, save to be ready for any change in
the Trades Hall climate, is not clear. When
the post-war “golden age” began Mr. Fer-
guson was eagerly inviting the local Com-
munists to “disband and come into the
Labor party for a common effort.” No-
thing that happened! throughout the
Chifley era—except the concluding fatal
coal strike —disturbed the impression that
in this advocacy of a “Labor”-Com-
munist merger Mr. Ferguson meant all he
said. The coal strike disappointed him
sorely, and for a brief space he was in-
dignant, as well as angry, that the Com-
munists should have (in their own
fashion) taken him at his word.
But a short time ago he fell back again
towards the old line of talk. He praised
Soviet policy because, he said, Com-
munist Russia is “the only nation that
has given Asia a message of hope.” Even
when the Communists were seen deliver-
ing such a message with 60-ton tanks in
the attack on South Korea, Mr. Fer-
guson still believed that the outcry for
help from that quarter was only the
squealing of “American capitalists,”
which Australian troops ought to ignore.
Now Mr. Ferguson says Australia —
meaning himself —must be “convinced
that the situation is urgent,” meaning that
he suspects what he has been saying
hitherto is fatally wrong. This is the usual
form of words in which Mr. Ferguson and
his ilk prepare for a change of face.
What it shows most clearly is that the
Corns are on the way out in Australian
union management.
"Value and the Pound."
From A. T. Traversi, Sydney: “Student”
(W.A.) has given a very interesting and
graphic description of the “miracle of the
mark” (B. 9/8/’5O). I would, however,
like to take him up On one point. While
he agrees to the necessity of preventing
the present monetary inflation from
“breaking into a gallop,” he says that as
we are not suffering from galloping in-
flation as Germany was, the same remedy
as applied by Dr. Schacht is perhaps not
applicable.
I must differ entirely there. My pro-
position was that the real value of the
currency can be affected in one way only,
namely, by action on the currency itself,
as exemplified by Napoleon and Dr.
Schacht, not to mention others. At the
present moment, the Australian Govern-
ment could definitely stabilise the cur-
rency by making it convertible into coin
again: but this would involve reducing
the size of the sovereign, or injecting
enough alloy to bring it to equality with
the pound-note. On no account must
the 1921-25 error of the British Govern-
ment be repeated—of trying to run an
inferior paper-pound in harness with a
much more valuable sovereign. Gres-
ham’s Law simply operated and drove
out the gold.
The real value of our pound-note may
be about ss. or 65.; and the sovereign
should be reduced accordingly. Once the
gold-standard was again in operation, we
should have an almost politically neutral
and a stable currency fundamentally, as
during the 19th century, with greater
freedom in external trade. Our present
irredeemable paper-currency is the
subject of political fights, the one faction
wanting a stable pound-note and the
other deeming that its interests are best
served by descending towards the ideal of
a stone currency, which would give the
wool-producers untold wealth in stones,
and the manufacturers enormous protec-
tion, the housewife needing a ladder to
help her to scale the price stairway. The
Government would perhaps proceed upon
the idea that greater production would
increase the value of the stones!
A valued friend suggests that my idea
would never be adopted by the economists
surrounding the Government, because it
is too simple, and would stay their flood
of sapient words: which was precisely the
very difficulty that Dr. Schacht encoun-
tered and overcame by quick action.
* * * ♦
“A.J.H.” (Sydney): A. T. Traversi’s
nostalgic reference (B. 2/8/’5O) to our
gold-standard pound of the last century
provokes the comment that in those days,
Britain being on the gold standard, every
Australian credit in London was at all
times available as dollars, any deficiency
being corrected by sterling loans raised by
the Australian colonies and which could
be taken at will in goods, Bank of Eng-
land notes, gold or dollars. Of course, if
our Australian pound-notes again bore
the old-time legend “On demand we
promise to pay one sovereign” (or words
tp that effect) the dollar shortage would
vanish ; but where could Mr. Traversi’s
one man of determined will find the gold,
seeing that there is no one in Australia
today repeating the Reichsbank’s tricks of
the great inflation?
Regarding Dr. Schacht’s liquidation of
the old mark, surely his action amounted
to merely an official registration of the
passing of something that had died. As
F. H. Beardmore (B. 2/8/’5O) says: “The
miracle was not the changeover, but the
continued fall of the money,” while in all
Europe there was not wit or resource
enough to bust up the gigantic swindle the
Germans were putting over.
However, miracles never cease, for here
today, in Australia, as Mr. Traversi con-
cludes, “apparently we are to wait until
the paper money is worthless before re-
form.”
Believe it or not, almost without a kick,
we are drifting into an abyss similar to
that which brought such immense suffer-
ing and lasting ruin to large sections of
the German people.
A Postal "Strike."
Sydney underwent a postal strike last
week. At least, it was told by officials
of the Amalgamated Postal Workers
Union to prepare itself for a strike —not
the usual sort of strike, which would en-
tail posties downing their bags and re-
fusing to deliver letters, but a “regulation
strike” which it was hoped would enable
them to gain their ends without running
the risk of losing their jobs and pension-
rights. A regulation-striker does not dis-
obey orders; he merely obeys them so
meticulously that they defeat their own
purpose and delay his carrying out his
duties. In the case of a postman' it is
almost equivalent to going on his rounds
hobbled in red-tape. That, at any rate,
was the contention of the sponsors of the
“strike”; the P.M.G.’s department
naturally maintained that its regulations
could be strictly observed without any
detriment to the efficiency of the service.
After the first announcement of the in-
tended action, zero hour was postponed a
few days on the ground that the union
couldn’t notify all its members in the
time ; whether this was the inability of the
posties to deliver the notices in time or
just poor staff-work at the union offices
was not disclosed. On Thursday red-tape
hobble»were issued, verbally, to all post-
men. The afternoon papers, with that
mistaken sense of news-value which im-
pels them to print still-life pictures of coal-
miners every time a pit-pony’s halitosis
is made the excuse for a strike, came out
with photographs of regulation-strikers in
action—opening and shutting a mailbag,
wheeling a bicycle which red-tape
allegedly said could not be left unlocked,
easing off the Adam’s Apple a necktie
which officialdom ordained must be worn,
but which presumably was usually left at
home. These and similar actions, it was
alleged, would have the effect of dis-
locating the suburban postal-delivery
service. At the end of the first day both
the union officials and the department
claimed a victory.
Although this ridiculous little flurry
proved abortive, its significance should
npt be overlooked. Postal-workers are
members of the Federal Public Service
and have much to lose in taking part in
a strike. The union scheme was intended
to reap the benefit of strike action with-
out incurring risks. As a union affiliated
with the A.L.P., the Postal Workers’
Union is supposed to be a supporter of
the arbitration system. The “strike” was
a protest against an award of the Arbitra-
tion Court.
The reason for these anomalies is not
hard to find. Secretary of the Postal
Workers’ Union is R. E. Wellard, whose
activities were the subject of questions in
the Federal Parliament two years ago,
when Mr. Chifley, then Prime Minister,
said that Wellard, after doing organising
work for Communist-controlled unions in
Melbourne and Sydney, was appointed
an exempt postman on December 19,
1947, and resigned from the service on
January 29, 1948, two days after he had
been appointed State secretary of the
Amalgamated Postal Workers’ Union,
Mr. Chifley also said that he understood
Wellard had recommended a regulation
strike on August 24, 1948, but that the
“federal executive took charge of the
dispute, which was settled without any
stoppage.”
Last week Wellard apparently had his
way. The good sense of the fank-and-file,
who know Wellard and the Communists
for what they are, defeated the purpose
of the “strike,” but the lesson is surely
clear.
India-rubber Ball.,
Mr. Macmahon Ball, formerly one of
Dr. Evatt’s touring goodwill merchants,
now Professor of Political Science at Mel-
bourne University, has been getting him-
self into trouble again. He has found it
necessary to explain that he was not mis-
reported but misunderstood in a recent
public address on India’s Independence
Day.
There was plenty of room for mis-
understanding, The sort of political
science he was dishing out seems to fit
in with nothing hitherto conceived as a
line for Australia’s foreign policy, except
by Mr. Chifley when descrying in Pandit
Nehru the model for this country’s first
solo flights in the field of international
diplomacy. Mr. Ball bounced off the
deep-end like this:
Nehru is one of the really great states-
men of the last few centuries. He has a
great friendliness, tact, sophistication and
charm that the most highly-trained Western
diplomat might well envy. His wisdom in
trying to achieve unity between East and
West is the most statesmanlike job being
done in the world today. There is no
sounder policy for Australians than to
study and digest and give the greatest
possible attention to every statement made
by Nehru on international affairs.
This is just balderdash. Everybody
knows that Pandit Nehru hates Britain,
and did “a statesmanlike job” in getting
Hindu India set up as a republic owin*
(i Continued on next page)


r
ms
'w.
They satisfy In every way.
CRAVENA"
*«*»%/
SSaveKa
CARRERAS
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALI TV
no allegiance to the King while agreeing
after a Jot of blarney, to remain within
the British Commonwealth —enjoying full
rights but owing no' duties, or, as a
Minister for the Eire republic put it for
his State, “adrift, but not apart.” But
there was nothing very clever in this, for
during the past five years anybody in the
Near, Middle or Far East could shy rocks
with impunity at the Socialist Govern-
ment presiding over the dissolution of
the British Empire in London.
Mr. Ball thinks Nehru’s policy on the
U.N. issue in Korea is the cat’s whiskers.
“Nothing too hurried: he took 36 hours’
consideration, and then gave full support
to the line taken by the United States.”
Verbal support only, of course ; but
words are everything in Mr, Ball’s con-
ception of diplomacy. On the question
of Formosa, however, said Mr. Ball in
tones of admiration, “Nehru completely
dissociated himself from the non-United
Nations action by America.” Mr. Ball’s
erudition in political science appears to
have left aside any examination of the
post-war status of Formosa ex-
Japanese territory surrendered to the
Allied sea-Powers, and by them placed
in temporary charge of Chiang Kai-
shek’s Government until it should be dis-
posed of in the peace settlement with
Japan.
The highlight of Mr. Ball’s address was
his recommendation that Australia’s
policy should follow that of Nehru
blindly into isolation from the white races
—his phrase is “independent neutrality.”
He then produced this astounding piece
of advice;
I can’t imagine that any sensible Aus-
tralian could fail to realise that the future
of this country depends more on our
capacity to form and keep friendships with
East Asia than any other factor in the
modern world.
Not co-operation within the British Com-
monwealth, not co-operation with the
United States —not even that easy lazy
line lately popular, “full support of
U.N.O.” —but just “be friends with East
Asia” and let Pandit Nehru be the guide!
Mr. Ball has gone on record with some
strange notions, but this latest surely
tops the lot. He has previously (on the
“goodwill mission” to S.-E. Asia in 1948)
said about the White Australia policy
(which Nehru also regards as unlikely to
survive): “There is a new consciousness
in Australia. It is very likely that there
will be a change in Australian opinion
in the coming decade. This is my per-
sonal opinion.” Having lost his diplo-
matic employment, he came out in 1949
with a radio broadcast urging the Aus-
tralian Government to prevent any
citizen over 30 from travelling abroad
because over that age nobody, he said,
could benefit by travel. Then, last April,
when Australian assistance of British
efforts to combat Communist terrorists in
Malaya was being canvassed, Mr. Ball
shouted over a national radio hook-up
that “if Australian troops were sent to
Malaya it would fight new flames
throughout the whole of East Asia.”
Mr. Ball anticipated “misunderstand-
ing” over his latest attempt to mould the
Australian popular mind, for he intro-
duced his remarks about being neutral
with Nehru —or anything at all with
Nehru —by saying he was “not speaking
from a tendency to sedition or sentiment,
but as a person capable of using
commonsense. I hope I am a good and
patriotic Australian.” Whatever else he
may be, as an exponent of Australian
policy and sentiment fie is a dunderhead.
POLITICAL POINTS
By the weekend Premier Playford
will have set a record for long service
as a State Premier. Earlier it was thought
that yesterday would do, but a recalcu-
lation of Parkes’s N.S.W. record made
it 11 years and 296 days, so Playford has
to wait a little longer. During his reign
as Premier he has seen South Australia
grow from a purely agricultural to an im-
portant manufacturing State,
September 12 looks like being opening-
day for the N. S. Wales Parliament,
as well as the House of Commons.
Churchill, supported by Liberal-leader
Davies, tried to persuade Attlee to bring
the date forward so as to permit #n early
discussion of defence plans, but the Prime
Minister wouldn’t play. Unlike Attlee,
McGirr doesn’t have to bother himself
with defence, but he shares his British
colleague’s worry of a microscopic
majority. Canberra should also be taking
the shutters down any time after mid-
September. Main topic of the new ses-
sion, as of the old, will be the Anti-Red
Bill; main interest, what influence, if
any, the Korean war has had in awaken-
ing “Labor” caucus to realities.
, Calwell, since his outburst a few weeks
ago in which he managed to* run counter
to his party’s policy and at the same time
give the Menzies Government a punch
below the belt, has been silent on Korea
and foreign affairs, but he’s had quite a
lot to say about things nearer home. It
seems he has been peeping in through
Fadden’s window for a preview of the
Budget. He likes what he thinks he saw
because he reckons the Budget will be
“extremely unpopular,” and, on the
strength of that, he forecasts that the
Government won’t last much longer. He
professes to be eager for an election, which
“Labor is much more happily placed to
meet than its Tory opponents.” The
former Minister for Misinformation is
running true to form if he gives that
advice to the A.L.P. executive.
In Melbourne the dogs are barking that
Arthur has finked up with those Vic-
torian “Labor” members who have all
along advocated support for the Anti-
Red Bill, Suggestion is that they will
urge Caucus to call off the Senate and
allow the bill to go through, appeasing
the rest of the party by giving a guaran-
tee that “Labor” will amend the “onus”
clause when it returns to power. Pre-
sumably it will be Calwell’s job to put
the proposal to the Federal “Labor” Ad-
visory Committee next Tuesday.
There seems more than a likelihood
that New Zealand will introduce Anti-
Red legislation of its own; the Public
Service Commission has asked the Gov-
ernment to strengthen its hand in the
matter of removing Communists and
“persons with like affiliations” from
security positions in the service. It has
already removed some and has had its
action upheld by the courts. What it
wants is an Act to place its power beyond
all doubt.
President Soekamo is at “boiling-point”
over Dutch New Guinea, which, he claims,
belongs to Indonesia “not tomorrow, not
the day after tomorrow, but now, at this
very moment.” What Soekamo needs is a
good cold shower of commonsense. When
he says “a major conflict” will arise if
the Dutch do not yield up the territory
he is obviously threatening to take it by
force. That threat concerns Australia
as much as it does the Dutch, for although
for the moment he professes to have no
interest in our half of the island, not all
his supporters are so discreet. If Indo-
nesia becomes entrenched in the western
end of New Guinea it won’t be long be-
fore there is another howl, from Soe-
karao about “national aspirations which
cannot be blocked or hindered, extin-
guished or crushed,” Australia must not
wait until then; the time to say “Stop”
to Soekamo is now.
Mr. Harold Rich, secretary of the
Democratic Rights Council, says that the
Federal Government’s refusal to allow
Borislov Gebrt, secretary of the Red
W.F.T.U., to visit Australia for the so-
called Assembly for Human Rights to be
held in Melbourne next month “proves
that Australia is living in a police
State.” Well, isn’t that the sort of State
his Communist friends want?
According to a Mr. Gwyther, of the
Victorian Egg Board, eggs are not dear,
but are “cheap when their high food-
value is considered.” He holds that they
should be kept at a price between 3d.
and 4d. each the whole year round. The
next time a policeman becomes bothered
by the sight of a housewife sitting on
the kerb staring entranced at an egg,
.let him realise that what she is doing is
considering its “high food value” and
wondering how on earth she got it so
cheaply.
Sydney’s “Granny Herald” was in her
element last week. Quadruplets were
born to a couple at Bellingen (N.S.W.).
“Granny” couldn’t have been more pos-
sessive had the event occurred in the
Fairfax family.
While the Federal Minister for Ship-
ping and sundry heads of shipping or-
ganisations and wharfies’ unions were
conferring on the scandalous state of
affairs on Australian waterfronts, the
president of a road-carriers’ association
wrote a letter to a Sydney daily:
At the present time, under the 40-hour
week, many factories will not receive goods
after 2 p.m. daily, and in some cases after
11 a.m. on Fridays. No goods at all are
received a Saturday morning... .Many
retail stores and warehouses will not receive
goods before 10 a.m Parking restric-
tions also prohibit the delivery of goods
to many of these premises before 9 a.m.
and after 4.30 p.m. While these restricted
hours are maintained it will be impossible
for the carrying industry to clear the
wharves promptly. The ohly solution is
longer working hours for all concerned,
whether it be by overtime or any other
means.
Heavens, the man is talking sense!
After the Soviets’ crabbing of world
post-war recovery generally, and of
America’s efforts to assist that recovery
in particular, even New York wharfies
thought the recent consignment of 80 tons
of Russian crab-meat which arrived in a
British freighter was an intolerable
affront. They refused to unload it; and
now it will have to go back to Britain,
where (also unwanted) it first arrived
from Russia as a compulsory item in the
Socialist-Communist barter-trade agree-
ment.
One thing puzzling a German (D.P.)
doctor in Bridgewater (S.A.) is that
while the Australian Government will go
to the lengths of sending the R.A.N.
flagship 3000 miles to relieve a “New
Australian” doctor at Heard Island, it
resists all appeals from other “New Aus-
tralian” doctors —fully qualified, and
there are 120 of them —to be allowed to
treat “New Australian” patients who
were patients of theirs in Europe, “We
know their medical background, previous
treatment and prognosis, and, most im-
portant, their language They come to
us daily for treatment and advice, just as
they did in D.P. camps in Germany.”
Yet all appeals of these doctors for recog-
nition of their qualifications to practise
have been in vain. The complainant
seems to have an excellent case; Dr.
Udovikoff, for example, will not be
allowed to practise in Australia. He must
choose between a New Guinea post
or a job as medical-orderly.
As Colin Clark, Director of Queens-
land Bureau of Industry, sees it:
The first principle of public finance is
that a Government will not undertake
extravagant or irresponsible projects because
it knows that it will have to pay for them
by imposing taxation upon its own electors.
This should be one of the simplest and
most necessary principles of Parliamen-
tary government, but in Australia recently
we have made a most dangerous departure
from it.
Correct, though the word “recently”
seems unnecessary.
Applicants for admission to that very
close preserve, the Sydney branch of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation —sevelal
thousand men applied for the, 500
vacancies . are being carefully
“screened” by the union’s officials.
Lang’s “Century” suggests it might be a
good idea if security men screened ’em,
too.
New Zealand’s Legislative Council
voted itself out of existence last Friday,
although the death sentence will not be
carried out until December 31. During
the election campaign last year the
National party pledged itself to abolish
the Upper House, which, thanks to ap-
pointments made under the Fraser regime,
had a big “Labor” majority. Prime
Minister Holland followed the precedent
of Queensland “Labor” and appointed
to the Council a suicide squad pledged to
get the abolition bill through.
If Congress agrees to President
Truman’s latest measures against Com-
munism the Reds are in for a thin time.
One bill requires individual Communists
to register with the Department of Justice
as foreign agents; it denies them jobs
with Federal departments or with firms
holding Government contracts. Failure to
register will bring penalties up to 10
years. Another bill, termed the “Trojan
Horse Act,” provides for protecting the
waterfront from sabotage by giving the
power to ban suspects from the wharves ;
it gives heads of Federal departments
authority to dismiss employees considered
bad security risks, and it empowers the
authorities to exclude from the country
any alien, including diplomats.
The A.L.P. boys are scratching their
heads over a Commo trick in Adelaide,
where the local branch of the Commo-
run Ironworkers’ Union nominated one
L. W. Golding as its delegate to the
Red-organised “World Peace Conference”
in Warsaw. Golding—who declares he’s
anti-Com., is an A.L.P. member and
is going to the conference because he’s
a “firm supporter of' peace”—seems to
be in for an interesting time.
Verdict of the special Federal Court
which considered the charges of sedition
against W, F. Burns, publisher of the
Communist “Tribune,” was that all three
articles on which the charges were based
were seditious and that Burns had pub-
lished them. In two cases Bums was
given the benefit of the doubt as to
seditious intent, but the court held that
intent was proved in regard to the article
in the issue of July 12 headed “Seamen’s
Patriotic Lead. Stop War on Korea.”
Burns was sentenced to nine months’
jail. Leave to appeal was granted.
According to “Manchester' Guardian,”
Moscow “Pravda” carried a message from
women of the Transcarpathian and
Izmail provinces of the Southern
Ukraine to Stalin thanking him for the
benefits they enjoy, and remarking that
the “Kulaks” and “Ukrainian National-
ists” are “filled with a burning hatred of
the people and of collectivisation” and
“are trying to wreck collective farms.”
The ladies assure “Josef Vissaryonovich”
that “together with our husbands, sons
and daughters” they will fight against
these enemies. Which seems to suggest
that all is not secure and safe in the
Workers’ Fatherland.


w
gn
df
MMS
TAIL-HEAVY ALREADY.
“Hey! If he’s going to get on some of you’ll have to get off!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Strict Veg”; Another hallowed
association seems likely soon to be
ousted. Unknown to the customers who
breast the bar in many Melbourne
hostelries. Bung no longer rolls in the
barrel at the back door; Australia’s
national beverage
now arrives in
square steel con-
tainers of 10-
and 18 - gallon
capacity, with
special handgrips.
They are lighter
in weight, are
easier to handle
and can be
cleaned more
quickly than the old oak beer-keg with
its hoops and staves. The solemn
ceremony of driving the spigot into the
bung of the niner will no longer be
the engaging preface to a private party
—you will simply unscrew a metal cap.
The “trade,” whose interests arc sacred,
likes the new container, and tens of
thousands have been made already.
♦ * * *
“Macnell”: Last week the Governor
of N.S.W. unveiled a statue in Newcastle
to merchant seamen of B.H.P. who died
in the war, among them those who went
down in the Iron Knight, off Eden
(N.S.W.), in 1943. Memory stirs —a fairly
dark night, four bells of the middle-
watch, bit of a moon, moderate sea, the
convoy indeterjninate blobs to port,
corvette Mildura astern, our corvette on
the starb’d, seaward, wing—and from the
sea to starb’d the spearheaded track
of a loosened torpedo leaping straight for
our boiler-room. X had never seen a
corvette torpedoed, but, rigid with fright
on the foc’s’le gun, I had a moment to
visualise what 500-odd lb. of T.N.T.
would do to sides which could, possibly,
stop a .303 bullet. The* alarm-bells were
jangling as the spear of smooth water
reached our starb’d side, dead amidships,
and passed under. We were still heeling
on the avoiding turn when Iron Knight
went up in a vehement splash of flame.
Within three minutes, her bilges opened,
she sank like the lump of iron (with her
cargo) she was. Mildura closed to pick
up survivors, and we lumbered ineffec-
tually at our full 13 knots after the Jap,
A torpedo’s wake reaches surface about
40 yards astern of its screws, and the
“fish” had actually passed ahead of us.
Some time later, watching “In Which We
Serve,” I saw the only technical fault in
that film Coward’s torpedo-track
reached right to his destroyer’s side
before exploding,
* * * *
“Grise”: It is not always safe to
blame an appliance that works badly.
Our new kerosene-heater smoked, flared
and looked dangerous; the wick caked
and needed constant trimming and re-
setting. We blamed the heater till some-
body asked “Are you sure you’re not
using power-kerosene? It might ex-
plode if you are.” In spite of the filling-
station’s indignant claim that it knew
better than to sell power-kerosene in mis-
take for the heating and lighting variety,
we played safe by emptying the tin down
the drain and getting a fresh tin from
the grocer. Improvement was slow, but
gradually wick and heater began to be-
have as they should. Then somebody
cut down the discarded tin for domestic
use. At the bottom lay a mass of beauti-
ful golden jelly, which investigation
proved to be a mixture of the best honey
and the finest kerosene. Now we blame
nobody but the person who gave the
filling-station the tin that should have
been returned to the grocer.
* * * *
“Becks”: Propaganda from the anti-
liquor people to the effect that the brew-
ing interests have no souls above filthy
lucre will in future run off me like beer
off a bar-counter. According to a top-
ranking licensed victualler, a Sydney
brewery has cut deliveries of bottled beer
by 25 per cept because of fears that
faulty bottles “might burst when people
are carrying them.” There’s solicitude
for you! Tell me the name of just one
manufacturer of soft drinks, tomato-
sauce, pickles, essence of lemon, hair-oil,
cough-mixture, furniture-polish, soothing-
syrup, ink, paint-remover, liquid-glue,
eye-lotion, fly-spray or weed-killer who
shows similar concern for the safety of
his customers and I’ll swear off bottled
beer for life —or at least until the next
time I can persuade the girl at the corner
pub to sell me a bottle, faulty or other-
wise.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: There is a lady in London
just now who reveals all to the casual
passer-by as well as the interested
observer. Her name is Lumena, and she
is of transparent plastic, illuminated to
show vital organs, veins, etc,, and is in-
tended for students of anatomy. I sup-
pose she’s .the closest any man will ever
get to seeing through a woman; at any
rate she’s an advance on the aloof-looking
dummies which gaze out on us from rag-
shop windows. Their purpose, of course,
is not to show what the human female
form looks like, but what it can be
made to look like if clothed in some-
body’s “foundation garments” and some-
body else’s frocks. It is a rather
chastening thought that whereas man is
always eager for scientific help in his vain
efforts to see through woman, no woman
worth her salt ever needs outside help in
seeing through man. Which is .why it is
just as well—particularly for politicians
and scientists —that they are never
allowed to see into the feminine mind.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Immigration Minister
Holt may be right in his surmise that the
series of fires at migrant hostels may be
due to one or more Doukhobors having
slipped through the immigration sieve ;
but I doubt it. The Doukhobors are
Russian religious non-conformists who
“Must you practise your yoga now, dear?"
are against war, believe in holding pro-
perty and, subject to certain limitations,
wives in common. Under the Tsars they
were savagely persecuted by the Govern-
ment and the Orthodox Church and were
defended by Tolstoy, at whose instance
the Canadian Government sent them an
invitation to migrate to a land of free-
dom. They proved excellent farmers and
flourished in the prairie provinces, but
“My holidays start tonight, missus. I'll finish the job when I get back.”
eventually became a thorn in the side for
the Canucks. When protesting against
regulations contrary to their beliefs, such
as paying train-fares and taxes, they took
the very effective measure of discarding
their clothes, and all the Govern-
ment could do about that was to have
them escorted to the police-station by
blushing John Hops. They adopted this
method not to shock the community, but
to express “helpless, pious indignation.”
They set fire to their homes for the same
reason. What makes me think that
Minister Holt may be mistaken is that
the Doukhobors are not conventional
firebugs; they make overt, not covert,
protests.
* * * *
“Schoolie”: Country schoolteachers
get used to shocks, so I was only mildly
surprised when a P. and C. Association
member, asked to speak at an Anzac Day
ceremony, omitted any reference to the
school’s record of two V.Cs. among its
ex-pupils or to any Anzac, and treated
us to a eulogy of the Red Dean and the
“Peace” Council; but my mouth is still
open over my latest experience. When
asked to write on his favorite game one
youngster described a game which he
called “Cowboys and Indernesians,”
* * * *
“Caballer”: Young soldiers (B.
9/8/’50)? We had an old one in our
1914-18 battalion. Well over 60, he had
joined up because not one of his four sons
would —they claimed they were too old.
He wore a medal ribbon of some for-
gotten battle in Egypt in the ’eighties, and
at a parade at Tel-el-Kebir an elderly
British general recognised it, fell upon
the wearer’s neck and held up the whole
show while they discussed broken squares
and fuzzy-wuzzies. Like most over-
forties, Dad could not stand the wet and
cold of Flanders, and the 1916-17 winter
finished him.
* * * *
“Old Crab”: Visiting conductors (B
2/8/’50)? Some years ago one tried hard
to lick into shape the Brisbane Symphony
Orchestra. During the tough and sus-
tained rehearsals his team began to faint
on him. At first he was very solicitous
but, as they kept going down like flies,
his final reaction amounted to a per-
functory “Take her away.”
* * * *
“Jalna” on Heard Island’s past:
Although Heard Island doesn’t seem to be the
sort of land on which man would willingly
live, there are many signs of occupation long
before the research expedition’s arrival in 1947.
The island appears to have been discovered first
by Kemp in 1833, later rediscovered by Heard
in 1853. The Challenger expedition called in
1873, and an interesting account of the island
is given by Moseley, the biologist. He describes
a party of sealers living in holes in the ground,
roofed with canvas, on Rogers Head. The men
told him they lived mainly on penguin-meat,
cooked over a fire made of penguin-skins. They
led him to believe that they had been several
years on the island, the head man saying that
he had been coming there for 20 years.
They averred there were 40 men on the island,
and sometimes a man would go insane with the
loneliness and have to be shot. Moseley may
have been gullible, but his topographical descrip-
tions and drawings are exact. The German
“Gauss” expedition, Baron Von Drygalaski in
charge, called in 1902, and in 1929 a remarkable
man, E. Aubert de la Rue, with his wife, called
and stayed eight days. They were brought to
the island by Captain Olsen, of the Anglo-
Norwegian sealing expedition, in the ship
Kildalkey and landed at Atlas Cove. De la Rue
says: “I was lucky to find there a survival
depot installed, thanks to the care of the British
Government. This depot consists of a wooden
hut, solidly anchored to the ground by steel
cables so that the wind could not blow it away.
It solved the question for us of where to stay.”
This hut appears to have been established in
1926, and was provisioned. Still in good repair
in 1947, it was used as a cookhouse by the
expedition, and later taken over by the doctor ;
it is still the surgery. Mawson and his col-
leagues stayed several days in it in 1929. When
the expedition arrived in 1947 a whaleboat was
found on the shores of Atlas Cove. It was
neatly stowed keel upwards, with oars and
a kettle and some mugs underneath.
Its back was broken. Later another boat was
found at Lion Island, also with its back broken.
On the shores of Corinthian Bay, about a mile
from the camp, a galvanised-iron shed was dis-
covered, heavily barricaded by a wall of rocks,
It was removed by the doctor and made an
adjunct to his surgery. Excavations showed
that it was erected on the ruins of a P r ® vl
settlement. A pine-wood floor was found, tn®
remains of a stove, a brace, a chisel, nails,
spikes, portion of a shovel, some iron spears
and two large pieces of wood like the rudders
of boats. Three broken iron pots, of capacity
about 120 gallons, were near at hand, also oax
barrel-staves and hoop-iron. About fifty y. ar ~
away were five graves, the wooden headpiece
being much eroded by the wind. Who or wna
these people were is not known, \
Near the base camp two iron pots were
found and, after some excavation, the debris o
a settlement. These people had clay piP® l
used wooden spoons, wore out several hunore
seaboots, lived in a hut, of pine frame cover
with tarred canvas. They left a lot of squa
schiedam bottles. On the shores of South-w
Bay were the ruins of a stone hut, with a brox
stove. Adjacent was a grave, only Ift.
At Lion Island the sealers had lived in a natii
cave, and left surprisingly little refuse, cn
long, narrow spit on the south-east end or
island were traces of a fairly largo hut; »
probably of timber, and was about 20ft■ j ,j
On the shores hereabouts 30 wooden Da
of seal-oil, ready for transportation,
stacked in orderly rows. Saddle Point . .
appears to have had its settlers. Hero
seems to have been a small wood-ana-c
hut with a stove. No doubt these people .
sealers. Their full Story is probably r f ht i eS j
as the characters concerned have dou . t
passed on-; possibly some mention may
in ships’ logs or a diary since forgotten-
PREVIEW.
“Instructions on how to behave during an atom-
bomb attack have been issued by the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission: ‘Roll into a ball . . . Stay put
for ten ... If you can avoid fatal injury
for another minute you have survived.’ ”
Let atom-bombs induce no fright,
They’re not so fearful after all;
You merely dress yourself in white
And roll yourself into a ball;
Two minutes thus, when bombs are sped,
Are the best shield man can contrive;
And then, perhaps, if you’re not dead,
You’ll probably be still alive.
One sees the Sydney citizen
Discarding trousers, coat and bright shirt,
And visiting the haunts of men
«/9. resse< * .* n great-grandfather’s nightshirt,
Well practised during married life
In rojling into ball or rhomb
Or any form that foils a wife—
And then: a vivid flash—The Bomb!
Two minutes later he’s uncurled,
And gazing dreamily about
Where clouds of steaming dust are whirled
Through eerie moonlight in and out,
And other white-robed forms appear
Distractedly parading past—
Our citizen emits a cheer:
“By heaven, I’ve got to Heaven at last!”
But then he hears a well-known voice
Say “This will bring ’em to their senses —
Let’s have a Caucus; call the boys;
We’ll put the blame for this on Menzies!”
Another voice conies grim and curt:
“I’ll charge this under Clause Eleven!”
This citizen says, “Ben and Bert!
Where am I, then? This can’t be Heaven!”
Then voice on quavering voice repeats,
“The light’s gone off and so’s the power.”
“Broken-down tram-cars block the streets;
They haven’t moved for half an hour.”
“The gas supply would make you weep—
They’ve cut it off again, the cows.”
“I’ve got to have a place to sleep—
Won’t someone help me find a house?”
“There’s no pne working on the wharves.”
“Clothing and food have gone sky-high.”
“We’d need to be a race of dwarfs
To live on what we’ve left to buy.”
“Look at the price of lamb and beef!”
“You can’t get brains; you can’t get kidney!”
“Ah,says our citizen, with relief,
“This must be either hell or Sydney!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Sackfair”: For three generations the
Australian male has demonstrated his
degree of larrikinism by the cut of his
pants. In Dad’s heyday the respectable
and law-abiding wore ankle-choking
pants a bare 16in. in circumference; but
the member of a “push” didn’t! He had
his trousers made skin-tight at the knee
with a bell-bottom spread that swished
across the mirrors let-in the toes of his
boots. Time —and the pushes—passed.
When I was a youth it was still impos-
sible to change your pants without first
taking off your boots. But a new trend
was on its way. I remember the way we
stopped and stared unbelievingly at the
first pair of
“Oxford bags”
we saw. Of
course, nobody
but a larrikin or
a “jazz - baby”
would wear
things like that.
“Twin - skirts”
they were;
brushed your
shoes as you
walked and
made a swishing sound —why, you could
take ’em off without undoing your boots!
Who would have believed that the time
would come when people would laugh at
narrow-legged trousers? And now has
come the era of the “Bodgy.” He has
“I DO wish you Were coming too.”
completely reversed the style of grand-
father : his pants are made to almost grip
his ankles, then bell out to ridiculous
widthc r- . • T
Widths at the knee Every time I see a
P^ r GU some pimply-faced Cornel Wilde
1 feel like roaring with laughter—until I
think of those Oxford bags.
* * * *
“Findv”- Controversv n thincr T
shW cVi ii- t„ l ■ a S 7
or, so it is not with the intention of
taking sides that I enter the discussion
whether the pretty little stretch of road
in Kuringai Chase hitherto known as
CoaJ-and-Candle-Creek Drive should or
should not be renamed in honor of
Argentinian hero General San Martin.
Coal and Candle Creek is one of
those quaintly attractive names like
Hen and Chicken Bay, Sow and
Pigs Reef, Flint and Steel Bay and
Longnose Point which remind us that our
forebears were down-to-earth human
beings, and that all the map-making was
not done by Government officials. I can
understand the reluctance of the various
historical societies to accept the change.
Understandable, too, is the desire of the
Argentinian Consul-General to have us
honor the memory of his country’s
liberator. But surely there should be
some reciprocity? I’m not suggesting that
the Andes should be renamed Governor
Phillip Range, but I do think President
Peron should at leas$ call off his
Argentine-ants.
* * * *
“Maxwellton”: Hubert Chitty, till his
death last year bursar of Winchester
College (England), could claim credit for
a piece of detective work worthy of any
of the sleuths of fiction ; after more than
a quarter-century of patient work he
triumphantly finished his investigation of
a crime committed in 1821. In that year
the great east window of Winchester
chapel, a masterpiece of 14th-century
stained-glass, was taken down for repair
by a well-reputed firm of glass experts,
who copied it, returned the copy to the
college and sold the original. About 70
years later the glass became suspect, and
it later became a certainty that the theft
had taken place. In 1912 Mr. Chitty
started to trace the glass. He found
some parts of the window in the Vic-
toria and Albert Museum, most of it
acting as a memorial window in a War-
wickshire church, and five lights in
various parts of America. Before he
died Mr. Chitty had satisfied himself of
the whereabouts of all the glass, and had
arranged that in the end by gift, pur-
chase or bequest it would all go back to
the east window of Wykeham’s chapel.
* * * *
“Plop”: The term “pie-eater” is be-
coming increasingly vague in its insult,
and “custard-guts” is rarely heard now,
yet both were widely applied to R.S.Ms.
a few years back. Doubtless, new expres-
sions have arisen to cover the circum-
stances. On the other hand “a face like
the back of a bus,” of far earlier vintage,
probably would have gone on for ages
had not the circumstances themselves
changed. Once, if that phrase was directed
at young Fatty Grey after he had pushed
your head under a tap, he may have been
flattered in his youthful masculinity.
Look at a Sydney bus’s back today and
see the simile lose its old meaning.
Health-tonic ads. appear, soda-water-
sellers and aspirin-dispensers cry their
wares, and we can even read there that
certain brassieres are “scented now.”
What would Fatty say to that? If they
seek to be ageless, apt expression and
simile composers should turn to Bill Nye.
One of his characters will live as long as
we have clocks. Nye gave him “legs like
half-past six.”
m iXPRESS
“ It's all right, mate. I've got a sleeper booked."
“Fairf”; We are becoming very
“nice” about things. The first radio pro-
.grammes broadcast from behind prison
walls were introduced as “From Goulburn
Penitentiary.” More recent broadcasts
came, we were told, from “Goulburn Re-
formatory.” The latest, however, was
transmitted from “His Majesty’s Training
Centre, Goulburn.” Even the Army
seems to approve this new outlook.
Driving along a road that passes what
used to be known to some as “the military
boob” and to others as the “detention
camp,” my eye couldn’t miss the newly-
painted sign: “Military Corrective Estab-
lishment.” I suppose it’s all right, but
it sounds to me awfully like calling a
spade “an implement used for tilling the
soil with manual effort.”
* * * *
“South Coast”: Male knitters (B.
2/8/’50)? An absconding seaman once
asked Melbourne sculptor J. S. Davie
for a job. All that J.S.D. had to offer
was work as a nude model. Related
Davie; “Of course he sat up like a
stuffed turkey, and in no time he
fainted.” In reply to Davie’s advice not
to take it so hard, the sailor said it
would be easier to relax if he had some-
thing to do with his hands. What could
he do? As a Shetland Islander, he
had always been used to knitting. So
there he sat on the model’s throne day
after day, a great, naked, hairy man
clicking away with his knitting-needles
till a long, black stocking reached at last
to the floor.
* * * *
“5 G.R.”: In my association with the
First A.I.F. I recall only one case of
murder. Two men, both of them sick,
shared a hut; a rifle was fired and one
man died “from a self-inflicted wound.”
That was the verdict of the jury, and the
local John Hop concurred. But the
suspicions of a detective in the A.I.F.
were aroused, and Scotland Yard men
were called in. They screened off the
hut, built a sandbag bullet-stop, carried
in the day’s beef issue and put it in the
bed of the deceased and asked the only
other hut-occupant to tell his story
again. The Government Pathologist
asserted that the dead man could not have
shot himself; that the bullet must have
come from farther than an arm’s-length
and from the angle of a marksman stand-
ing up. While questioning the other man
detectives fired bullets into the beef
carcass from all angles. Finally the
suspect broke down and confessed.
“Scot”: The original “Real Mackay”
was a laird or minor chieftain who fol-
lowed Bonnie Prince Charlie, and was
along with the prince in Edinburgh when
the ladies of the city went wild over his
Royal Highness and his supporters.
Mackay, a stocky, red-headed and
-bearded, vigorous Celt, on his first intro-
duction to the attractions of Edinburgh
society, was in the midst of an admiring
group of ladies when
one of them said,
“So you are Mr.
Mack ay?” “Yes,
indeet,” replied Mac,
“and the Real
Mackay at that,
too.” “Is that a
dagger you wear?”
said the lady. “It iss
my dirrk,” came
Mac’s answer. “Do
you use it?” was the
next query. “Yess,”
he replied. “And I stick my enemies in
the pelly with it.” “You don’t say so!”
the lady cried. “Say so?” spoke up Mac
loudly. “I do not only say so, Ido so.”
A SELECTIVE MODEL.
“At first he was a model husband, always ready to
fall in with my wishes. Then he got a short-wave
radio, and used to sit up half the night listening
to overseas stations, and keeping me awake. That
led to rows.” —Wife in divorce.
When first in Hymen’s bonds they were united
He was the loving husband to the life.
Possessive bliss upon the wight alighted;
She was his very own, his brand-new wife.
A most commendable anticipation
Of any wish of hers he would display,
As well as literal interpretation
Of what he’d vowed in solemn qbligation:
“Love, honor and obey.’’
’Mong Benedicts she deemed him quite a model,
A paragon, a pearl beyond all price.
Toward the corner pub he’d never toddle;
Her company, for him, would e’er suffice.
On mokes and dogs he never splashed the
money;
No other woman interested him.
The furs he bought for her were never bunny;
His disposition was serene and sunny,
He’d neither vice nor whim.
Alas! Into their Eden came invasion
By an ophidian in queerest guise,
And of an irresistible persuasion
For him, a thing to quite demoralise.
A super-set —that was his acquisition;
A slave to it so quickly he became.
After the first night’s agonised audition
His missus had a canny premonition
Things wouldn’t be the same.
Not satisfied to list to local stations,
He needs must of the ether make a sweep;
Nor had her rather strong recriminations
Any effect —the bug had bitten deep.
Wide-eyed, wild-eyed, his spouse tossing and
turning,
Her slumber wrecked by shrieks and whines
and growls;
While turning knobs as low the stars were
burning,
Her lord, the call of Morpheus coldly spurning,
Garnered his crop of howls.
From Prague to Reykjavik, Warsaw to Lisbon
He’d leap, to get distorted music (which
He might have got, and clearer, say, from
Brisbane),
And thence to Oslo or to Berne he’d switch
To lap up yap beyond his understanding.
Well, that was his chosen sport. But here’s
the point:
While with enthusiasm he was “banding,”
And eagerly new stations he was landing,
A dual-wave swamped his joint.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.
From another old colleague: —
J. E. Webb, in his fine tribute (B. 16/8/ ’50)
to the memory of his old friend and colleague
Andree Hayward (“T. the R.” of The
Bulletin), makes reference to Hayward’s
scholarship and mastery of the English language,
During Hayward’s 25 years with the paper he
was regarded by all on the fiterary staff as the
supreme authority m the office on the correct
us £ of the King > s " English . H is scholarly views
on the proper usage of the language, expressed
in countless “Society” pars, were as erudite, as
sound and as well set forth as the contents of
Fowler’s Dictionary of Modern English Usage.
We who knew him still recall with delight his
witty comments on the use of genteelisms,
superfluous words, hybrid derivatives, elegant
variations, hackneyed phrases and other such
props of the mediocre writer. He had the
same commonsense approach to the use of
words as that master of words A. P. Herbert,
of London “Punch,” with whom he had much
in common as a writer of light verse; his know-
ledge of slang would have won the admiration
of Eric Partridge.
Hayward’s first Bulletin paragraph, printed
in 1922, discussed the use of the word “tart,”
meaning, as Australians then used it, and still
do, a girl or sweetheart. Disputing its then
current usage, Hayward observed: “Thirty or
forty years ago ‘tart’ had a perfectly well-
established meaning in English slang, and, well —
there was no fragrance in it.” None in the
office during his time had a better acquaintance
with Shakspeare, the Bible and the Latin
classics. He was reputed to know every line
in the Oxford Book of English Verse, and
knew line-perfect a vast number of other poems
not included in that anthology. Certainly I
never knew him defeated for a quotation, even
during his last long illness. It was the habit of
many of us, when stumped on a question to do
with English history, literature, personalities,
social customs and geography, to go to Hayward
for the answer in preference to consulting a
reference-book. Seldom were we disappointed.
His memory, like that of his friend J. E. Webb,
was extraordinary and dependable, and over a
quarter of a century he saved me innumerable
hours of research. In one sense his
departure is equivalent to me to the closing for
all time of a first-class library.
DEFERRED MESSAGE.
“The Postmaster-General, Mr. H. L. Anthony, said
telegrams from Australia to Pakistan might be de-
layed Telegrams could now be sent to, Shan-
haikwan.”—News item.
Although I’m told a telegram
May meet delay in Pakistan,
Imagine how relieved I am
To find out that at last I can,
Without a threat or fear of ban,
Dispatch a wire to Shanhaikwan.
To Anthony, a big salaam!
For P.M.G. he’s just the man;
I’ll trust him with my cablegram.
That is to say, I think I can —
Though not, of course, to Pakistan;
I’ll send my wire to Shanhaikwan.
I’ve no desire to wire the Cham
Of Tartary—that fabled man
Who lives remote from train or tram
Beyond the bounds of Turkestan
(Or should it be Afghanistan?)—
My message i? for Shanhaikwan.
Let others put their monogram
On cables to Baluchistan!
To me they’re just a hollow sham;
I’ll have no truck with Isfahan
Or Shan, Iran or Hindustan.
For me—a wire to Shanhaikwan!
If told that Hyderabad’s Nizam—
That very wealthy Indian —
Desires from me a telegram,
I’ll tell the dusky nobleman
To get his wires where’er he can.
I’m sending mine to Shanhaikwan.
It poses quite a cryptogram
For Premier Liaquat Ah Khan,
Just why his boys are in a jam.
Perhaps the Fast of Ramadhan,
Observed by each good Mussulman,
Holds up the wires in Pakistan
And turns my thoughts to Shanhaikwan.
With cablegram or telegram
Speed is the thing for which we plan;
Tlie message isn’t worth a damn
If classified as “also ran,”
That’s why I’m dodging Pakistan
And sending wires to —Hold it, man!
Just where the hell is Shanhaikwan?
N.S.W.
JASBY.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Three of us were work-
ing for the same farmer, and we
had to say about the poor tucker he
served up to us would have got us fined
for bad language in any court. The
farmer was impervious to hints and com-
plaints, and the other hand, named Bob,
seemed to be a bit with him. Mat tried
to reason with Bob, feeling sure that if
the three of us could present what he
called a “united front” we might get
somewhere. But Bob wasn’t to be
reasoned with. “Nothin’ much the matter
with a bloke that
feeds his horses
well,” he said,
“an’ y’ can’t say
he don’t feed ’em
well.” Mat and
I hadn’t noticed
it, and we
had a
look. The
horses
were on
chaff,
oats and
crushed
maize.
Mat wore
a wise
look that
night.
Next day
when we got the dinner-call Mat disap-
peared. The farmer wanted to know
where he was. I answered, according to
plan, “He’s havin’ his tucker with the
neddies.” The farmer went to the door
and there was Mat, standing just outside
the stables, with a nosebag over his head
and blowing chaff about. “What sort of
a ruddy joke is this?” the farmer roared.
“Me an’ Mat,” I said, “reckon y’ feed
y’r horses better than y’r men, so Mat’s
eatin’ with them. I would, too, only
chaff disagrees with me.” The farmer
looked at me, but didn’t say anything,
and probably wouldn’t have done any-
thing, only Mat started to neigh and
whinny at him every time he spoke to
Mat, and once or twice snorted and shied
and tried to back-kick him in the equine
manner. Then he did something—fired us.
* * * *
“Tea Tree”: As a bloke who was born
in an S.A. township called Tea Tree
"Let me go, Blondie! Here comes the missus !”
Gully I feel qualified to swell the
evidence on a variously-spelled vegetable
(B. 19/7/’5O). When a youngster I was
always puzzled at the nomenclature of
my native gully, because I associated
“tea-tree” (or ti-tree) with the paper-
bark, Melaleuca glomerata, which is a
northern species, quite foreign to the
little township near Adelaide. Later I
learned that the place took its name from
a Leptospermum, a glorious thing that
grows among moss and fern by quiet
pools of brown water in the Mt. Lofty
Ranges. Reaching from 12ft. to 15ft. in
height, the Leptospermum has an
extremely ornamental form and a pleas-
ing habit of bursting into masses of white
blossom in the height of summer. Since
I left these parts for the land where the
paperbark tea-tree struggles along dry
watercourses under sun-blasted ranges,
the little township has grown up and
devoted jtself to arboreal good works.
But its imagination has run mainly to
such things as Pinus insignis; its lovely
namesake remains just a bush “out in the
scrub.” J. M. Black, in his Flora of
South Australia, lists six “tea-trees”:
three Leptospermum and three Melaleuca
species.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: “Carver’s” discourse on the
rabbit’s ability to twitch its skin was in-
teresting (B. 2/ 8/ ’5O) ; but where has he
been all his life if he hasn’t noticed ex-
pressions in the human eye? The most
sincere condolence I ever received was
unspoken. I happened to be with an
Italian acquaintance when news came that
a very good mate of mine had been
killed in New Guinea. The Italian (a
naturalised Australian) could speak excel-
lent English, but he didn’t say a word ;
he just “looked” it. Nobody could have
expressed so much so eloquently. And
surely “Carver” won’t deny that a man’s
eyes blaze when he is in a rage! The
shine in kids’ eyes as they undo Christ-
mas presents—is that, too, only apparent
to novelists and myself? Then there is
that dreamy, far-away “penny-for-your-
thoughts” look—facial muscles have
nothing whatever to do with that, but
nobody could possibly deny that it exists.
And don’t the eyes really grow misty
when tears are close—or are tears merely
“fictional phooey” also? At one time I
lectured classes in technical subjects;
there was one way, I found, to keep your
finger on the pulse of a class —watch the
students’ eyes. The moment you departed
from the golden rule “Keep it simple”
mystification showed itself in the eyes of
the listeners.
* * * *
“Kopi” looks back:
Ray Mathew’s Verses (B. 9/8/’5O) about the
log hut in the pine country took me straight
back to what Kipling calls “the high and
far-off times,” the days just before the Boer
War, when the bush along the Murray was as
■peaceful and as little-populated aS Central
Australia is now. Beardy hut was on the
far side of the Kopi plain, in the back-country
of Paringa, situate half-way up a sandhill clad
with bush-pines and ice-plant, and it looked
out upon the sunrise and upon the scooped
Beardy dam, known to every beast for miles
around—kangaroos, dingoes and brumbies,
besides the station cattle. If you lay low at
night in the hut, given any sort of a moon,
you could see the brumbies emerge from the
scrub at night beyond the dam and stand a
while gathering courage, in face of the hut,
to make for the drink. They would dribble
up, smelling the ground and snorting, sud-
denly throw up heads at any night sound, or one
of them, stumbling on broken ground, would
startle himself and the rest of the mob, and
they’d turn and gallop back into the trees, to
renew the manoeuvre all over again. The hut
was built- of upright pine logs, the crevices
plastered with dry pug; and the whole of one
end, at the right as you entered, was given
to a fireplace and chimney of limestone and
pug, big enough for four to sit inside it around
the fire, and wide enough, as you looked up,
to see several handfuls of stars. As a youngster
not old enough tp enter men’s company except
on sufferance, I treasure the memory of some
days outback there, mustering cattle in the
dried-out country and droving them into Beardy,
as a privileged member of a company consist-
ing of Penny Ogilvy (lessee), “Breaker Morant
(putting in some time, as I think now, from
up-river in N.S.W.), and a fleeting, here-today-
“Let it go NOW!”
gone-tomorrow sort of cove, an ex-blacksmith,
useful chiefly with a branding-iron. The horses
were not shod in that country. Tire men
charged me with the job of cooking the chops
and making damper for the day while they
roamed Beardy paddock to bring in the
horses, hobbled because of the brumbies in the
adjacent scrub and the rotten state of the
paddock fences. To ride all day after the
store cattle, come back to the hut as the light
waned and read aloud, turn-about, from Huck
Finn or Artemus Ward by lanternlight after
tucker till too drowsy to go on was sheer
romance for this youngster, heightened now
by the setting given by the years to the
memories which Ray Mathew’s lines awaken.
* * * *
“North”: While “The Bunyip” (B.
26/7/’5O) is instructing the locals in the
delights of simple magnification, let him
try this one. Capture one of the hairy
processional caterpillars and mount two
or three of the hairs beside a fine sewing-
needle. He will then get on his screen,
at a magnification of about 400 times,
the image of a great, clumsy bar, rough
and pitted, and coming to an obtuse,
more - or - less rounded termination
(“point” is not the word). Beside this
monstrosity he will gee two or three
smooth, delicate spears, running out to
infinitely sharp points on their shafts.
Then he will never again wonder at the
irritation that succeeds rash meddling
with the hairy insects.
* * * »
“Quorn”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
19/7/’5O) that the dark vertebral stripe
on his brumbies is probably a little re-
minder of a forgotten color-pattern. In
any big mob of horses it’s not uncommon
to find mokes with the spinal stripes,
shoulder-stripes and bars on the upper-
leg. In many cases foals are so marked,
but they disappear with age. Like the
dapples on the young red-deer, the bars
on young brown snakes and the “sub-
merged” fur markings on black cats, these
equine stripes are probably evidence on
the appearance of their ancestors. The
little prehistoric ponies, from which
“G.’s” brumbies are descended, were
largely forest-dwellers. And it seems that
they may have been well-camouflaged in
the fashion still retained in the zebra.
* * * *
“Flinders Range”; If “Tarbush’s”
home “under the ranges” (B. 19/7/’5O) is
near the main nqrthward-running scarps
of S.A.’s Flinders Range there is a
possible explanation of the preference
shown by his golden-web spiders for webs
running east and west. The watercourses
that drain the Flinders run east or west
into semi-desert country, where bushes
of the size favored by Nesophila are
scarce, except along the watercourses
themselves. It seems natural, then, that
the big spiders would spin most of their
nets along the line of creeks, from bush
to bush. This would mean that the
chances would be all in favor of a web
having an east-west axis.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Because foxes often hunt in
pairs, it doesn’t follow that their reason-
ing powers are responsible for the co-
operation that results in an easier catch.
Even when working together it is each
fox for himself, and there’s no such thing
as sharing the prize. The fox is no un-
selfish hero that goes after a young lamb
and is chased off for some little distance
by the ewe, thus allowing his mate to nip
j n from the other side and snatch the
i am b. He is just unlucky in being: th^
Qne S p Qtted by the ewe. Watched a
,/ f f oxe A U ntinir rabbits A.
couple or roxes hunting rabbits the other
day. Obviously they knew a rabbit Was
there, and after they’d worked together
through a small patch of fern thev
travelled towards each other round the
uu ine
edge. Presently one spied the squatting
quarry ; there was a jump, a squeal, then
be dropped down and consumed the catch
, u- t „ t „ f PW varflc ofF
while his mate sat a lew yards off and
watched hungrily. Evidently it was the
boss that had made the catch, for no
attempt was made to snatch a share, and
only after the diner had finished and
moved off did the hungry Johnny creep
in to scavenge the area for stray scraps.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Isn’t the cassowary
the only Australian bird credited with
killing a human being? The incident
occurred near Mossman (N.Q.) when
two boys put up one of the large pink-
and-blue-necked, glisteningly-black, hel-
meted birds. The cassowary took off,
but their dog bailed it up against the
base of a huge fig-tree. The big fowl,
with a lance-like blow from the middle
toe of its foot, quickly maimed the dog,
and, as its owner rushed in to save it
from further injury, the bird struck
again. The blow caught the lad on the
neck and severed his jugular-vein. He
died almost instantly.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: A pet kangaroo
that enjoys luxury is Cassy, a five-year-
old grey doe at Battery Park homestead,
Mansfield (Vio.). Each evening after
dining on biscuits and milk and attend-
ing to her facial make-up in the bath-
room mirror the hopper comes into the
lounge, where she scrutinises all the
trinkets in the room before sprawling on
a huge rug in front of the fire beside a
golden Labrador and a foxie. Later,
when she wants to go to bed —on the
doormat on the veranda —she just hops
over to the door and knocks to be let
out,
♦ * * *
“Wippegong”: A last, lone wasp,
months past his proper season, hovered
over the garden path. He drifted up and
down; then, as if uncertain of his territory,
sideslipped to a lower level, and, with
long legs trailing, landed in the gravel,
fussed about for a few seconds, took off
again and vanished. My thoughts
sped with him . . . Open, rolling country,
not unlike central Riverina without the
gums, and the Bombay-Agra highway
running like a drab ribbon for mile after
dusty mile. A turn into a cobbly side-
road, another dozen or so miles there,
with any odd waterhole full of water-
buffalo, their herds dozing in the shade
of a near-by bush; then a cleft in the
plain, a sudden drop to a beautiful river,
the Newuj, sweeping round a bend over
which old battlements scowl down from a
red stone cliff. This is Rajgarh ;we stop
for lunch, pay courtesy calls, then on
again to a wide dam made by putting a
concrete wall across the head of a swamp
—the town water-supply. We’re being
shown the works when the eye catches
two large, grey objects sailing high over-
head. 'They pass the dam, wheel wide
and come back, side-slip to a lower level,
select their spot, lower the long legs and
land with a bounce: Sarus cranes. With
wings still raised they looked around and
then, as though reading the thoughts or
the three Australians present, tripped a
little measure, confirming their relation-
ship with our brolga. Then down went
the red heads, and they heeded us no
more. It wasn’t the only reminder or
home that day. Back into town, we sat
in a superb garden watching peacocks
climb to roost in lemon-scented gams*
THE ABORIGINE.
I feel him strangely near:
Silent we stand,
Tins ghost and I; as one we stare
Over his land.
Does his'dark memory share
The soft caress
Of sun-gold on the casuarina’s
Grey-green dress;
The parrots’ rainbow frieze
Swift-flashing by;
Nights eerie with the lonely curlew’s
Haunting cry;
The thrush’s call swelling
From deep gullies;
Light glowing on the purple hills
And green valleys? . . .
Will there come one in time
Here to surmise
What beauty touched my. heart.
And held my eyes?
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURGESS.


“B. A. Ker”; The sorrowful-looking
old bloke was carrying his swag—but
he was doing it on a bike. At least, he
had been until “me pedal ’it that stump
near the culvert.” The result was, it
seemed, something had seized in the
centre axle; he’d have to take the ball-
bearings out, but he couldn’t put them
back without vaseline. Could Mum give
him a spoonful? Mum produced the
jar; only the faintest smear was left
around the edges. Well, would Dad lend
him some axle-grease? Dad would have,
willingly—“lf I could find it; the kids
had it to grease the billy-cart and it’s
been missing ever since.” Then Mum
got a brainwave: “Would butter ’do?”
After careful consideration Whiskers
decided that butter “oughter do.” He sat
down in the shade and surrounded him-
self with bike fragments and butter-
coated ball-bearings. Things seemed to
be going reasonably well when Paddy
returned from a ramble. Paddy was the
biggest, .ugliest, most ferocious-looking
and best-natured canine that ever slapped
a stranger across the face with his tongue.
In addition, he was the
greatest stickybeak in
dogdom. He sighted
the seated figure,
pricked up his floppy
ears, and, with banner
held high, trotted up
to investigate. Sud-
denly a terrible cry
came from the
stranger. He leapt to
his feet like a madman,
his pale, watery eyes
protruding and his
mouth working. For a shocked second
he stood in silent, staring horror, then
abruptly dived into howling action.
Pieces of bike were hurtling around the
astonished tyke when Mum came rush-
ing out. “Don’t be frightened of old
Paddy! ” she exclaimed. “He won’t hurt
you.” “Frightened of ’im?” the old
codger bawled. “Frightened of ’im!
Who’s frightened of him? The mong
just et me ball-bearin’s! ”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The old Boileau pub on
the Victorian side of the Murray a few
miles upstream from Echuca witnessed a
sight the other day it had never expected
to see again: a new paddle-steamer on
her trials. She’s the Coonawarra, a side-
wheeler built by the Murray Valley
Coaches tourist firm as a pleasure-cruiser
to replace the burnt-out Mumimbidgee.
Though the new boat is probably pretty
modern inside—she cost £35,000 and has
two 60-h.p. engines—outwardly she is
strictly of Murray River design, with
cabins built almost level with the flat
gunwale, the only difference being that
the funnel-top is flush with the upper-
deck flat roof. She hit seven m.p.h. up-
stream and 10 downstream, fast enough
in a river as twisty as the Murray. One
old river-roamer, looking at her, missed
the pile of wood on the after-deck, and
another gruffly remarked that there
seemed no place to tie a man’s horse
if he was going anywhere on her. I
doubt if any of the passengers she’ll
carry would know what to do with a
horse, anyhow, and though I can think
of many worse ways of putting in a week
or so than taking a boat trip down the
river, much of the old ways would be
missing. There’d be no cases of Peri-
coota oranges stacked aft, no excite-
ment at night landings with the crew
passing wood aboard up a 2ft. plank,
no wool from Murray Downs or toma-
toes from Barham, and no fuming
whaler assaulting the night with language
because her headlights scared, his dogs.
And I don’t suppose a man’d have a
chance of working flis passage from the
Tapalin landing to Renmark for “the
pickin’.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver’s hat might
have gone on for ever if Sandy’s pup
hadn’t fought it in strenuous victory to
a few scattered remnants. Followed suit-
able lamentation and redress, then the old
bloke visited the store and returned
shamefacedly sporting a brand-new lid.
Each time I sighted him during the day
I wondered vaguely who the coot was,
“Any more o’ your back-seat drivin' an' you get off an' Walk!"
till my ears and the next wind-puff in-
formed me. He used the lid as a knee-
pad when we sawed several logs, and at
the deep soak it dipped up a drink for
himself and Blue, before doing duty as
a seat at tucker-time. Returning to the
yards at dusk, the old bloke rubbed down
his sweating nag with the headgear, carted
out three hatfuls of chaff, then, replacing
the chaff with a collection of bark and
chips, he made for the hut. With the
fire smouldering, he again grabbed the
hat to fan the glow, belted the new dog
with it, brought in half a hatful of spuds
and peeled them in the same container.
We’d just started tea when a slight thud
advertised that the old bloke’s lid had
fallen to the floor. He eyed it in silence
and disgust. “Ain’t nothin’ as useless as
a unbroke ’at,” he growled resentfully.
“Still, Gawd knows they cost enough
so” He retrieved the hat and shoved
it back carefully on the pile of hides.
“So I s’pose a bloke better not let the
thing get knocked about yet a while.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Sack”: Strange that “Old Bushman”
should mention all those varieties of
dead-marine (B. 26/7/’5O) yet miss the
one I’ve always regarded as the most
widespread of its day, and certainly the
most utilised. Remember the old-time
beer-bottle with the deep indent in the
bottom? Suburban gardeners seemed to
see something beautiful in that dent; a
thousand central flower-beds were divided
from the lawn by a border of broken
deadies set “bottoms-up,” But in rural dis-
tricts there was a much more important
use. The gate of every fowlhouse and most
light doors to sheds, etc., pivoted on an
inverted beer-bottle. At the foot of the
post the friend in need was let into the
ground. One leg of the rustic gate or
door was left a few inches longer than
the other ; it formed the pivot of the
bottom hinge, with the bottle as the
socket. A piece of hoop-iron looped
around the top served as the other hinge.
The primitive arrangement was surpris-
ingly durable, with the bottom hinge
giving a finger-tip ease of action. But
talking of dead-marines, who was the
Australian who mentioned them in the
presence of distinguished live ones and
was asked to withdraw the insult? He
replied: “It is not an insult; a dead-
marine has nobly carried out its duty and
is prepared to do it again.” The chap’s
name escapes me, but I’ll wager he was
brought up on a poultry-farm.
* * * ♦
“Zake”: Dad and the new-hand were
on a big log with the crosscut. The old
bloke put up with the lack of co-ordina-
tion for a while, thinking the hand would
improve as time went on. Instead, he
got worse. Breaking-point came after
he had to pull like mad to get the saw
through to his side. Dropping the handle,
he put his flaming face over the log and
roared: “Look, you stupid blankard, I
know you think that when I push you
should do the same, an’ I can put up with
that. But when I’m pullin’, can’t y’ run
along with it instead o’ diggin’ y’r blanky
heels in?”
* ♦ * *
“Mac Wallace”: Old Paddy had fished
the Murray for many years. Each morn-
ing he’d paddle his battered dinghy a few
miles upstream, toss out the lines and
work leisurely back to his camp on the
Victorian side by sundown. One day I
was surprised to see his tent pitched on
the New South side, almost directly
opposite his former abode. “What,
migrating?” I asked. “Yair,” he said.
“Me health couldn’t stand another o’
them Victorian winters.”
* * ♦ ♦
“En B”; If “Carver” thinks the
infamy of the pigeon-fancier is confined
to a spot of hawk-hunting (B, 12/7/’5O)
he’s due for disillusionment. According
to a Maoriland writer, the pigeoneers
practise a couple of tricks that would go
down as mental cruelty in any divorce
court. Pigeons show great attachment to
their mates, and one dodge is to put a
strange cock bird into the pen with a
devoted couple, immediately before re-
moving the loving “husband” to a crate
for dispatch to the starting-point of a
race. The poor devil of a bird has a
day or two in the train to think over
what may be happening at home. Con-
sequently he practically leaves his feathers
behind on the return trip. The second
spiel is the incarceration of a live blowfly
in an empty pigeon-egg, which is put in
the nesting-box of a hen just before she
is taken out to race. Excited by the
memory of the rattling and buzzing egg
—which she apparently feels is about to
hatch —the hen strains her machinery to
get home before the hypothetical
fledgling dies of neglect. Pigeons, as
“Carver” says, may be stupid, but these
dodges are a pretty callous exploitation
of their best instincts, those of marital
fidelity and maternal love.
* * * *
“Vet”: Sam has been breaking nags
since he was a kid, and always gets the
district’s tough ’uns shoved on to him.
Not that Sam minds ’em that way. He
has collected as many spills as the next
bloke, and taken a few bad smashes, but
always comes back inviting the horse to
try that one again, Sam lives a good
way out of town, and about six years
ago someone talked him into buying a
car. Mostly the bus is borrowed by one
neighbor or another, but when it happens
to be on his own premises Sam displays
it to visitors, peeps gingerly under the
bonnet and jumps back hurriedly at the
first sign of a splutter. He gets a ride in
his car to district functions if a neighbor
happens to be going along, and never
fails to mention that he must learn to
drive the thing himself some day. He’ll
leam when he gets time, or when the
road is done up, or the car is running
better, or when his arms don’t feel a bit
stiff. There are plenty of teachers offer-
ing when the car-owner is busy, and it’s
bad luck that Sam’s only chances for
learning fall on the rare occasions the
drivers are all away. In the meantime, he
rides his nag 12 miles into the township
twice a week, and if anybody wants a
fight just mention to Sam that he is
scared of that popping motor-engine.
* * ■ * *
“Betcha”: Old “Careful” eyed the
bloke leaning on the bar. “Aren’t you
the chap that’s bought the Roberts’
place?” he inquired. The other nodded.
“Thought you was. You and me’s
neighbors then,” old “Careful” informed
him. “Going in for sheep on that place?
Yair, it’s good enough sheep country,
that strip. Worst trouble you’ll find up
here, me lad,” he continued, “is getting
anybody to help you when you need ’em.
So many jobs a man can’t do on his own.
Tell y’ what . , .” He eyed the newcomer
appraisingly. “Might be a good idea if
you an’ me was to work t’gether, eh?
I’ll come over and help you crutch your
sheep, then you come over and help me
do mine. What about it?” “That’ll
suit me fine,” agreed the other eagerly.
“Righto, that’s settled then,” announced
the old bloke. “And what about shear-
ing, too, and lamb-marking, and dipping?
Might’s well let the arrangement stand
for the lot, eh? Right. Have a drink on
it, before I go.” When Bert entered, the
new bloke was propped on the bar tell-
ing the world about his new neighbor,
and the reciprocal agreejment they had
made. Three months later Bert ran into
him again. He was in the same place, and
on the same subject. “Changed your
tune, haven’t you?” said Bert, ranging
in alongside. “Thought you liked the
arrangement.” “Like it!” came the
growl. “When that bloke’s got three
thousand sheep, and I’ve got fifty!”
* * *. *
“Ginger”: On the look-out for a
survey-peg, we were coasting slowly
down a sandy, little-used track when we
came upon a colony of rabbits feeding
quietly. In the
shallow gutter on the
edge of the track two
kitten bunnies, with
amazing speed, split-
second timing and
apparent enjoyment,
were playing leap-frog.
It was fascinating to
watch; as the bunny
on the bank leapt over
his playmate into the
gutter, the one in the
gutter leapt on to the
bank. Too intent to
notice our approach
the fun waxed fast
and furious until, a
faint rattle betraying
our presence, the gymnasts were down
a nearby burrow in a flash.
* * * *
“Bo”: The shed-hand was improving
the Sabbath morn washing out his
flannels, and voicing loud protests. “I’ve
used damn’ near a bar o’ soap already an’
still can’t get a lather,” he growled, “I
never see such hard water!” Old Rick
looked at the grizzler. “You don’t call
that water hard, do you?” he asked.
“Now if you want water that’s really hard
you want to go up the Paroo country,
where I was raised. It’s so blanky hard
there you gotta belt it inter shape with a
hammer before y’ can drink it!”
“ What's on your mind, Harry?"
THE MOONLESS BAY.
N.s.w.
No moon; the flat sand glides
Into the gloom. The tides,
Murmuring secret sounds,
Make their unending rounds
Over the grey stone’s feet;
Only the ripples’ fleet
Quicksilver lines reveal
Where the dark waters steal
Into the bay. How soon
Will all be lost to noon?
Here in this very bay
I saw but yesterday
The sun’s bright fingers reach
Brown shoulders on the beach,
Brown toes in silver sand
Taking their eager stand,
And saw upon the tide
Many a .surfer ride,
Heard how the laughter rang—
Even the grey stone sang.
But now that sea and stone
In one dark realm are shown,
Night seems to trace a line
Sunlight could not define;
As though beneath the pall
Where shades on shadows fall
Some hidden pattern lay
Far from the naked day
And waiting, half-unfurled,
Another —unknown —world.
LEM.


f
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*
C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydne;
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS!
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.8*
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Have You Made Your Will?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor and Trustee under
your Will, you safeguard your Estate and secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered by Special Acts of
Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out thf following: • Advantages of appointing the
Company, either alone or jointly, with some trusted relative or friend • Moderate and fixed
scale of charges • Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
df
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET,
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve, £966,706
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
1940.. 264,157 7.1p.c.= 141,667 35,000 2,868,706
1941.. 258,110 7.1 „„ 141,667 85,000 2,365,454
1942.. 241,813 6.6 „„ 133,333 25,000 2,364,240
1943.. 241,553 6.6 „„ 133,833 25,000 2,362,766
1944.. 247,025 6.6 „„ 133,333 25,000 2,366,764
1945.. 252,423 7.1 „„ 141,667 25,000 2,367,826
1946.. 262,185 7.5 ~„ 150,000 25,000 2,370,317
1947.. 283,173 8 ~,,160,000 35,000 2,373,796
1948. , 300,798 9 „ „ 180,000 35,000 2,374,900
1949.. 320,636 10 ~,, 200,000 35,000 2,375,842
1960.. 334,796 10 „ ~200,000 35,000 2,390,944
* In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
The outlook for the private trading
banks brightened with the change in
Government at the end of 1949. The
change brought relief, and there is
promise of further relief, from some of
the worst features of our early post-war
Socialist administration. The feeling of
greater freedom has expressed itself in
improved public sentiment and a better
price for bank scrip. The passage of a
bill to repeal Labor’s discredited Bank
Nationalisation Act of 1947, and to place
tho Commonwealth Bank under a board
of directors again, is being hindered by
a “Labor”-dominated Senate for party
reasons. The private trading banks, how-
ever, remain subject to a large measure
of central-bank control in relation to ad-
vances, investments, interest rates and
the freezing of deposits. The broad aim
is to damp down inflation, so far as it is
possible to do so by banking technique.
Although the background to the im-
proved earnings of the banks, and of
other traders, is an expanding economy,
with the emphasis on a vigorous policy
of immigration, developments in the im-
mediate foreground lack balance. The
artificial stimulus of inflation is sending
non-essential consumer-goods industries
ahead faster than the basic and essential
industries. For these and other rea-
sons—including the steep rise in import
incomes, in which wool figures promin-
ently, rapid advance of wholesale and
retail prices, recurrent wage-lifts and a
costs structure that is becoming top-
heavy—the present buoyant trade activity
is not as healthy as it might be. Real
growth and stability depend firstly upon
the quantity of coal won from the mines,
of steel produced by the steelworks and
of power developed in the generators,
all of which would help to bring about
a more balanced output right down the
line from capital to consumer goods.
For the banks it has all meant an in-
creased demand for accommodation from
trade and industry as well as better earn-
ings in the exchange market. C.B.A.’s
gross earnings (£.3,137,027) increased by
£450,124 for the year to . June 30 last.
Exes. (£2,423,413) gobbled £431,110 of
the gain, taking 77.2 p.c. of gross earn-
ings as against 74.1 p.c. and 72.1 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. The tax
bill was £378,818 (up £4854), thus leav-
ing the net result £14,160 stronger at
£334,796, best showing for the lakt 20
years. The £334,796 (£44,022 less than
the taxgatherer made off with) covered
the pref. div. (£84,694) and 12.5 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 11.7, 10.8 and 9.9
p.c. back to 1947. The nominal rate of
dividend, which had advanced by halting
steps from 6.6 p.c. in 1944 to 10 p.c. in
1949, was maintained at the higher level,
and £35,000 of the £50,102 that remained
was written off the book-value of
premises. Actually the dividend is worth
only half the declared rate on all but a
small fraction of the ord. capital, the
major portion having been gathered at a
premium of 100 p.c. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
the year’s profit was only 5.1 p.c.
The year’s growth of £19,578,592 in
the co.’s deposits, etc., which have more
than doubled since 1944, reflects the
inflationary trend, which has become
more pronounced since the Sept., 1949,
currency devaluations and recent world-
wide increase in defence expenditures:
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Preference ..£2,117,350 £2,117,350 £2,117,350
Ordinary .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Notes .. .. 5,103 5,103 5,103
Deposits, etc.*.. 93,331,322 109,362,278 128,940,870
Owed to other
banks .. 39,675 3,094,103 1,928,160
Liquid assets .. 25,916,221 29,999,781 35,176,931
Deposits with Com-
monw’th Bank 31,548,000 35,448,000 36,448,000
Advances .. 40,973,542 52,020,006 64,021,186
Bank premises.. 1,559,935 1,629,286 1,878,657
• Includes provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
The most welcome feature there is the
expansion of £12,001,180 in advances,
which are carefully scrutinised by banks
these days. Liquids (up £5,177,200) in-
clude £4,250,745 (down £131,535) of
Government and local - government
securities and £6,750,000 (up £4,250,000)
of Treasury bills. Deposits frozen on
special account with the Commonwealth
Bank increased by £1,000,000.
The immediate outlook favors a
strengthening of bank earnings, the level
of which partly depends upon central-
bank directives. Since the beginning of
1950 the price of the co.’s f.-p. 10s. ords.
have fluctuated between 275. and 31s. 3d.
in the market. At the current figure of
28s. Id. (235, a year ago) the return is
3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 21s. lid. The £lO 4
p.c. prefs. (cumulative fb 3 p.c.), covered
by £3O 14s. in net tangibles, stand at
par, or thereabouts.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
to Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund, £7OOO .. ■
Written off premises, £5OOO
15,111 741,880
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund, £6OOO .. ■
Written off premises, £5OOO
18,666 760,546
1944 64,558 9 p.c. =. 36,000"
Provident fund, £6OOO .. ■
Written off premises, £5OOO
17,558 778,104
1945.. 67,856 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund, £6OOO .. •
Written off premises, £ 5000
20,855 798,959
1946.. 69,640 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund. £6OOO .. •
Written off premises, £lO,OOO
17,640 816,599
1947.. 66,079 10 p.c. = 40,000',
Provident fund, £6OOO ~J
20,079 836,678
1948.-101,541 12 p.c. = 48,000 1
Provident fund, £6OO . .if
47,541 884,319
From tax reserve, £15,000.. (
1949.: 136,869 12i p.c. = 60,000 ]
101,869 986,088
New capital. £lOO,OOO .. .. 1,086,088
1950. .172,553 12J p.c. = 52,083 120,470 1,206,558
* Including reserves for unexpired risks.
Shareholders in the soundly-established,
72-year-old Mercantile welcomed? the
request for a further 4s. a share on April
30. The call brought in £lOO,OOO, lifting
paid capital to £500,000 in f.-p. £1 shares.
The 12} p.c. div. was maintained, and
there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that it is likely to be interfered
with. On capital as it now stands 12}
p.c. will call for £62,500, more than half
of which was covered by last term’s net
return from investments (£35,037) alone,
and the net underwriting surplus
(£BB,BBB, after allowing for unexpired
risks) was three and a quarter times
greater than the remaining £27,463.
Moreover, the investor who bought the
scrip at 565. a year or so ago, and still
holds his purchase, has nothing to com-
plain about. He has a f.-p. pound share,
that cost him 605., and which was worth
78s. in the market last week as against
71s. at the end of July, The sharp rise
of 7s. a share in the price of the scrip
over the last few weeks is due partly to
the improved showing in the latest
accounts, partly to the fact that the
market likes the way the business is shap-
ing, and partly to the fact that investors
are now prepared to bid up as a hedge
against inflation. At 78s. the return is
only 3.2 p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis. So
the investor at that price who looks for
only 3.8 p.c. on his money counts on the
div. going to 15 p.c., or other benefits.
The co., whose underwriting activities
are confined mainly to the Common-
wealth, has put on a lot of weight since
the war. The management has been more
vigorous in the hunt for business, and
premium income has also been bumped
up by the quick growth in insurable
values, expansion of trade inventories,
growth in the labor force and increase in
the number of motor-vehicles on the
road. At the same time the co. has
enjoyed favorable loss experiences and
kept a tight hold upon controllable out-
goings, which has meant very satisfactory
underwriting results.
Last term gross premiums shot up by
£279,101, reaching a record £1,606,317,
of which 51.4 p.c. (£826,923) was re-
insured, leaving net premium income
£121,567 stronger at £779,394:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 p.c. 44.7 p.c.
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49.7 „
1945.. 349,731 153,486 152,808 43.9 „ 43.7 „
1946.. 378,891 158,588 175,886 41.8 „ 46.4 „
1947.. 443,414 205,995 196,965 46.4 „ 44.4 „
1948.. 536,734 229,615 231,710 42.8 „ 43.1 „
1949.. 657,827 272,576 279,027 41.4 „ 42.4 „
1950.. 779,394 313,692 828,186 40.2 „ 42.1 „
Two other pleasing features of the year’s
underwriting are that the bigger business
was written at 6s. p.c. less costs, and the
loss rate was 245. p.c. lighter, despite un-
profitable third-party risks and heavier
claims under workers’-compensation and
motor-vehicle contracts.
The improvement in the gross under-
writing surplus (£137,516) was £31,292,
and net interest and rents (£35,037)
brought in an extra £4392, making total
profit from all sources £35,684 stronger
at £172,553. That was before allowing
for unexpired risks, which on the usually-
accepted 40 p.c. basis would reduce the
net underwriting profit to £BB,BBB (up
£31,902), and the profit available for dis-
tribution from all sources to £123,925 (up
£26,294), or 24.7 p.c. on capital as it now
stands as against 21.9, 16.2, 10 and 14.5
p.c. back to 1946.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors 456,753 549,473 650,545 718,828
Tax reserve .. 66,225 56,000 77,000 157,000
Freeholds, etc. 454,249 458,555 463,882 697,771
Mortgages .. 24,689 28,810 28,166 26,520
G °etc. Se Urlt !! 8 ’ 791,521 854,825 1,055,061 1,156,792
Book debts .. 75,728 107,662 134,565 149,584
Cash, etc. ~ 66,242 73,840 57,959 78,801
The year’s growth of £233,889 in free-
holds, etc., mainly reflects purchase of a
nine-storeyed building at the corner of
Queen- and Little Collins-streets, Mel-
bourne. Government securities, etc.
(£101,731) include £197,596 (up £89,108)
of shares in other cos. It all augurs well
for an improved return from investments.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 36,634 8 p.c.= 20,000 4,993 11,641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 ~,,20,000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,073 8 „ ~20,000 14,930 325,862
Added insurance reserve, £8325 .. 334 187
1943.. 19,688 8 p.c.= 20,000 2,899 330,976
Added to reserves, £11,675 .. .. 342,651
1944.. 32,037 9 p.c.= 22,500 I „ ...
To staff fund, £5OOO .. f 3,766 801 343 > 45 2
Unexplained addition reserves, £5,800.. 849,252
1945.. 29,590 10ip.c.=:22,500* 1,812 5,278 854,530
1946.. 32,347 13J „ ~ 27,000 1,095 4,252 358,782
1947.. 37,982 14| „ „ 29,000 4,901 4,081 362,863
1948.. 38,479 14| „ ~ 29,000 4,460 5,019 367,882
Unexplained addition reserves, £77,000 444,882
Capital profit, £B3OB 453,190
June,
1949.. 30,457 15 p.c.= 30,000 4,734 448,913
Capital profit, £3448 .. 452,361
1950.. 33,749 15 p.c.= 30,000 4,676 451,434
* 4 p.c. on £250,000 and 6J p.c. on £200,000 of
capital.
The f.-p. 16s. shares in this well-
entrenched Rockhampton merchandis-
ing business, which has strong connec-
tion in the centre and central-west of the
State, advanced from 535. to 58s. i n the
market over the last 12 months. At the
higher figure the return is a satisfactory
4.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, though
according to the published figures, the
15 px. hasn’t been quite earned over the
last two years.
What catches the investor’s eye
is the big pile of reserves (£451,434)
supporting and assisting the £200,000
of share capital, the large amount
invested in subsidiary cos., which
has grown from £49,995 to £500,902
over the last couple of years, and
the fact that the new offshoots have not
yet had an opportunity to contribute
much, if anything, to the pool. Also, the
parent’s own merchandising, agency and
other activities are expanding. The co
recently became closely associated with
the Queensland British Food Corp. i n
the export of grain sorghum, and last
term a modern tinware-manufacturing
department, which began production in
March, was set up at Rockhampton.
Despite the effect of floods and im-
passable roads upon trade, the co.’s turn-
over continued to expand last term, and
“full advantage has been taken of the
current wave of prosperity to consoli-
date investments and strengthen re-
serves,” the chairman says. So too
much notice need not be taken of the
failure of disclosed net earnings to match
the dividend charge. Ever since the
financial blizzard of the 1890’s the
management has followed a policy of
underpinning the structure against eco-
nomic and other misfortunes, and em-
ployment for the large cash reserves
accumulated in the process has now been
found in subsidiary undertakings, about
the nature and location of which the
board is tight-lipped. Over the last 45
years shareholders have never failed to
receive a div., the average being over
10 p.c.
Disregarding a capital profit of £3448,
and after allowing for depreciation
(shown as written off in the table), last
term’s disclosed profit was £3348 better
at £29,071, or 14.5 p.c. on capital as
against 12.8, 17, 16.5, 15.6 and 13.8 p.c.
back to 1945.
All-round expansion is the keynote of
balance-sheet figures:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Sundry creditors 52,567 59,872 77,388 120,275
Tax provision 62,812 69,571 76,645 68,110
Due subside... v — 90,000
Final div. .. 19,000 23,000 20,000 20,000
Freeholds and
plant .. 16,683 17,975 19,995 39,195
Shares subside. 49,995 407,402 500,902
Stocks . . 140,923 198,024 241,529 266,997
Book debts .. 57.940 71,933 94,898 105,946
Cash .. .. 12,503 17,767 26,042 84,501
Investments .. 469,193 364,631 32,581 2,280
During the year the co. received £90,000
from subsidiaries and increased its share-
holding therein by £93,500. The net
growth of £19,200 in fixed assets largely
reflects establishment of the new tinware
department. Stocks increased by £25,468
and book debts by £11,546. To meet the
outlay cash was drawn upon for £30,301
and £42,887 was added to the outside
debt.
.North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ &
1940.. 42,530 9ip.c.= 42,152 378 174,486
1941.. 39,685 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
1942.. 27,529 8i„ „ 37,715 159,615
1943.. 25,169 8 „ „ 35,496 149,288
1944.. 26,692 7 „ „ 31,059 144,921
1945.. 26,824 6 „ „ 26,622 202 145,123
1946.. 27,015 6 „ „ 26,622 393 145,516
1947.. 26,735 6 „ „ 26,622 113 145,629
1948.. 12,258 6 „ „ 26,622 131,265
1949.. 27,330 6 „ „ 26.622 708 131,973
Added replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 141,973
1950.. 27,182 6 p.c. = 26,622 560 142,533
A surprisingly good result considering
the difficulties, chiefly the unprece-
dented rains and floods on the N. S.
Wales North Coast, which interrupted
the timetable of the fleet —four motor-
vessels and five steamers —dislocated


The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
d
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
ADMINISTRATOR
TOP LINE EXECUTIVE WITH
AUSTRALIAN WIDE AND
OVERSEAS EXPERIENCE
/ in-
merchandising. FACTORY
MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION
seeks, in this period of rapid economic expansion, an
opportunity to join an organisation requiring a highly
trained administrator.
BOX 571
G.P.0., SYDNEY
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt,
n n
m
• • m IK
<£> 9^l
for?
cn
o/yni/c^\ojfo/eWice
Open a current account with the Bank
of Australasia, which offers a complete and
modem banking service, covering every type
of financial transaction. The Bank’s widespread
organisation in Australia, New
Zealand and abroad is designed to provide
especially efficient service for customers who
engage in overseas trade or travel.
Established 1855
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand and in London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
BA9-I6
Ancestors
of an
Industry
m
William Gossage’s
name is generally associated
with the mottled soap he patented in 1857. Not so well
known, but far more important, were the “towers which
he invented in 1836 to absorb the hydrogen chloride evolved
during the manufacture of alkali by the Leblanc process.
This gas, liberated in increasing quantities as the industry
expanded, caused great damage in the neighbourhood of
alkali works. By converting it into hydrochloric acid,
Gossage not only ended what tvas becoming a dangerous
nuisance, but enabled an important mineral acid to be made
cheaply and in enormous quantities from what had been
regarded simply as industrial waste.
Born in Lincolnshire in 1799, William Gossage spent his
youth assisting his uncle, a chemist and druggist in Chester-
field. He then went into business for himself in Leamington,
but gave it up to start a salt and alkali works at Stoke Prior,
Worcestershire. In 1850, he moved to Widnes, Lancashire,
where he made soap as well as alkali. His inventive powers
seemed inexhaustible. Starting in 1823, his patents followed
each other in a continuous stream for over forty years.
Nearly all were concerned with improvements in the manu-
facture of heavy chemicals, and some were far ahead o
their time. For example, owing to engineering difficulties,
his method of recovering the manganese dioxide used in
making chlorine did not come into use until
thirty years after he invented it. Gossage
died at Bowden, Cheshire, in 1877. His
practical genius played a very important
part in developing the British heavy
chemical industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
1L66-I4
trade, destroyed crops, etc., and
reduced the backloading of
agricultural products to the
metropolis. On the Macleay
River shoaling prevented pas-
sage to the terminal port of
Kempsey, cargo having to be
discharged on unsuitable small
wharves downstream at addi-
tional cost to both the co. and
consignees. Although officially-
controlled freight - rates were
lifted early in the term the
additional revenue was more
than absorbed by the continued
increase in wage-rates and all
other operating costs, which
were again aggravated by the
industrial troubles on the water-
front and slow turn-round of
the vessels.
The £27 182 of profit was onlv
£560 more ton The 6 do di y
lued”or No was
made for denrecS further
movision being 5 c'onslderedun-
necessary. However, £lO,OOO
was sent to a ship-property re-
placement account before the
profit was arrived at. In
the previous term £lO,OOO was
allowed for depreciation as
against £33,389 on a slightly
larger fleet in 1938. For the
current rate of dividend share-
holders can largely thank the
board for liberal pre-war allow-
anres for denreciation Since
earnings include returns from
£543,248 of Government securi-
ties, it is doubtful whether the
ships could be operated at a
profit at current freight-rates it
“theTa e s?s a Tprrse r nt
UU uic Udhis, Ui pxcscui, icpiakvc
ment costs.
Durmg the years before the
war the co operated m a free-
market, and the length of its
manifests was governed largely
by seasonal conditions, which
affected the volume of farm and
other produce shipped to city
markets and the quantity of
supplies backloaded for store-
keepers and others. Now earn-
mg-power has been impaired by
the growth of Government con-
trols and interference in the in-
dustry, and by go-slow and
other obstructionist tactics on
the waterfront, all of which have
greatly aggravated the steep rise
in operating and other costs.
For the nine years to the close
of last accounts profits averaged
£25,192, or 5.6 p.c. on capital,
r d A?oo ed an average . ° f
£40,389, or 9.1 p.c. on capital,
for the six years before that.
Further floods on the coast
since the close of accounts will
affect the current term’s earn-
ings. All that can be said defi-
nitely is that the co. is well
equipped, financially and other-
wise, to earn whatever profits
are to be won from the trade.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities 67,710 82,581 98,757
Final div... 13,811 26,622 13,311
Ships .. 102,245 68,245 68,490
Freeholds, etc. 8,551 8,100 8,050
Liquids .. 545,190 608,530 621,721
The whole fleet appears in the
books at probably less than the
cost of a single vessel today.
Surplus liquids amount to
£522,964. So shareholders can
see the whole of their capital
and £79,264 besides in Govern-
ment securities.
The market prices the pound
shares, covered by net tangibles
with a book-value of 265. 5d., at
245. 6d. as against 21s. a year
ago and a “high” of 335. 6d. in
1948. The return at 245. 6d. is
4.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Bulolo
With only seven of its eight
dredges at work—No. 5, which
capsized, has been out of com-
mission since Nov., 1949 —Bulolo
Gold Dredging (New Guinea)
handled 25 p.c. more ground for
the year to May 31, 1950, The
bigger yardage helped to offset
a 29 p.c. drop in the average
dollar value of the wash, thus
reducing the shrinkage in the
aggregate quantity of gold re-
covered to 3.3 p.c.:
f —Year to May 81—
1949. 1950.
Dredged, c.y. ~ 10,865,000 13,614,940
Gold, fine oz. .. 73,791 71,395
Value* .. .. $2,582,685 $2,498,825
Value per c.y.*.. 23.77 c. 18.35 c.
*U.S. currency.
In terms of Australian currency,
the effect of the drop of 23960 z.
in the quantity of gold recovered
was more than offset by the lift
in the price of the yellow metal
in Sept., 1949. There has, how-
ever, been a sharp rise in operat-
ing and all other costs, the pre-
cise effects of which will not be
known until the accounts are
presented. The salvaging of No.
5 dredge—it is a big 2500-ton
machine carrying 118 buckets of
Ioi cub, feet each —is well in
hand. First phase of the opera-
tion, that of laying the dredge
on its side, has been completed,
and, so far as can be seen, struc-
tural damage is less extensive
than might have been expected.
During the war No. 5 dredge,
which had been left moored in
a pond, sank, owing to floods,
and its main deck was covered by
26ft. of gravel silt. The original
salvage was a fine piece of en-
gineering skill, and the machine
began digging again in Feb.,
1949, but capsized about nine
months later. Co. paid 50 cents
(about 3s. lid.) per share on
June 12. On the market (Syd-
ney) 60s. is now offered for the
scrip, which fetched 83 s. a
couple of months ago.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) is living up
to the market expectations. The
board announces a profit of
£391,400 for the year to June
30 last, which is over three times
the 1949 figure (£128,494), and
enough to pay the pref. div.
(£21,000) and show 105.8 p.c. on
the £350,000 of ord. capital. It
was written after allowing for
depreciation (£71,568) and pros-
pecting (£42,978), and excludes
a windfall profit of about
£210,000 on sale of gold un-
realised at Sept. 19, 1949, which
has been placed to special re-
serve. A final Is. per 2s. 6d.
share is payable Sept. 30, making
the total for the year 2s. a share,
or 80 p.c. (£280,000). Previous
year’s 6d. div. (20 p.c.) was first
since 1942. It was a bigger
throughput of better-grade ore,
thanks to more diesel shovels and
crushing equipment, together
with better prices for gold and
copper, which put the spring in
the latest profit figure. The in-
vestment possibilities of the scrip
were also enhanced by the recent
drill disclosure of an extension
of the ore-body near the old
Sugarloaf mine. This is ex-
pected to more than double ore
reserves as well as sweeten aver-
age assay values. The market
for the scrip, which had dropped
to 9s. 9d. in July, 1949, stood
at 235. 9d. last week.
***;!>
Higher prices for both gold
and copper have brought New
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), back
into the dividend list with 6d. a
share (10 p.c.), payable August
28. Last previous distribution
was 10 p.c. in May, 1946.
Although the mill crushed nearly
10 p.c. less ore, with a conse-
quent smaller output of gold and
copper, the board has been able
to announce a profit of £96,096
for the year to June 4 last, as
against £55,956 (of which £44,272
was used to wipe out the cost
of geological exploration) for the
previous year. Co. recently filed
a claim against the Common-
wealth Bank in the High Court
for £430,000 in respect of 112,306
ounces fine gold delivered be-
tween Dec., 1946, and May,
1950, and paid for at the official
price. The claim is for the dif-
ference between the official and
unofficial world prices prevail-
ing over the period. It is a test
case which will affect the whole
industry. The market for the
co.’s f.-p. ss. shares slipped from
4s. sd. to 3s. lOd. following an-
nouncement of the div.
* * * *
The f.-p. 4s, shares in Hill 50
(W.A.), which fetched 12s. 6d.
each in December, 1949, were
offered at 6s. last week. Doubt
is whether the mine will live up
to the reputation that chairman
A. E. Weston and others gave it.
A 9d. div. was paid in January,
and there was talk of Is. a share
p.a. thereafter, with an extra 6d.
if everything went well. Now
the new shaft is not expected to
be in operation before available
ore is depleted, and dividend
prospects have faded into the
background meanwhile. The
board says at least 200,000 tons
of pay-ore have been developed
between the 400 ft. and 600 ft.
levels, and the drill has confirmed
continuation of the ore-body to
below 800 ft. The main shaft has
been timbered to 837 ft., and the
plat at 800 ft. has been com-
pleted. When haulage begins
(date not yet scheduled), divs.
should commence to flow, the
chairman says. To pay for plant
and equipment on order, share-
holders are soon to be asked to
dredge up a final 6d. a share
(£9375) on the contribs.


A TZ\
V
Don’t take age for granted
Don't take age for granted where
whisky is concerned. Whisky is
not good whisky until it is 5
years old. Here’s how you can tell
whether the whisky you buy is 5
yeajrs old or not. Look for the word
“OLD" on the label. This is your
protection.
When whisky is bottled under Aus-
tralian and Excise Department Super-
vision, it must not be labelled
“OLD" unless it has been matured
for at least 5 years. Every bottle
of Corio Special Whisky bears the
word “OLD”—every drop of Corio
Special Whisky has been matured for
at least 5 years in oak casks. Insist
on the whisky of outstanding quality
—Australia's finest whisky—“Corio
Special,"
m
i >*
Corio Special ‘OLD' whisky
*«*»..-****
C32'16
FASTEST ROUTE
FROM SYDNEY TO
<&>
'
?\
IM
far»Bigsfl
vy
£3>
HONG KONG
f
LABUAN
df
DARWIN
df
SYDNEY
Shortest, quickest air route to
Hong Kong is by Q.E.A. Ser-
vice via Sydney, Darwin and
Labuan, Comfortable Sky-
masters • operate on a regular
schedule —fly you there in less
than 2 days from Sydney.
First-class steward service—
excellent meals served in the air.
Enquire ► now about special
air-sea Interchange tours.
Consult your travel agent.
Hi
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAVE
QC7A (■ association with British Or or seas Airways Corporatism
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Papuan Oil Developments
“Lemon” : Australasian
Petroleum Co. has made a
further issue of 1,000,000 £1
shares. Of this the D’Arcy Ex-
ploration Co. (Anglo-Iranian)
and the Vacuum Oil Co. have
taken up their proportion of
407,000 shares each and have
expressed their readiness to ac-
quire the balance of 186,000
shares which were under option
to Oil Search, Ltd.
The issued capital of Aus-
tralasian Petroleum will thus be
increased to £7,500,000.
Oil Search, Ltd., without in-
creasing its capital investment,
proposes to exchange 65,000 of
its present holding of 1,209,000
fully-paid £1 shares in the A.P.
Co. for the same number oF
fully-paid shares in Island Ex-
ploration Co.
The Oil Search interest in
A.P., which was automatically
reduced from 18.6 to 16.1 per
cent by the increase in the latter
co.’s capital, will then stand at
15.2 per cent* in A.P, and 10 per
cent, in I.E.
Island Exploration Co. has a
paid-up capital of £507,998,
divided into 351,050 fully-paid
shares of £1 each, and 298,950
shares paid to 10s. 6d. All these
shares are held by D’Arcy and
Vacuum in equal proportions.
Island Exploration holds per-
mit area No. 2, of about 1360
square miles, and permit area
No. 15, of approximately 8125
square miles. They form a con-
tinuous block in the Papuan
Delta area, bounded to the north
and east by the A.P. permits
Nos. 12, 5 and 14, and were
selected after intensive geologi-
cal and geophysical work which
extended westward to the Dutch
border. The first well, shortly
to be drilled at Omati, in per-
mit No. 2 and about three miles
west of its boundary with the
A.P. permit No. 5, will be sunk
to a depth of 7000 ft. if neces-
sary.
If commercial production is
obtained, or even if favorable
indications of petroleum are en-
countered, the Darai anticlinal
structure, on which the test-well
is located, will be thoroughly
drilled, and two other promis-
ing structures —the Barikewa
and lehi anticlines —will come in
for attention. The prospects of
the A.P. permits five and 14, in
addition to the I.E. permit 15,
will also be enhanced.
The proposed redistribution
of its interests is thus definitely
to the advantage of Oil Search,
which will now participate in the
whole of that area of Papua in
which active exploration for
petroleum is in progress. In the
event of commercial oil being
struck by A.P. and not by I.E.
the benefit to Oil Search share-
holders will be less than if the
entire interest were still held in
A.P. alone, but this disadvantage
is counterbalanced by the
spreading of the risk of failure
over a wider area—a policy
which has made the fortunes of
the oil barons.
The offer made by D’Arcy
and Vacuum is not only politi-
cally wise, as regards the Com-
monwealth Government, but
can be described as generous to
Oil Search, as it gives this Aus-
tralian co. a direct interest in,
and partial control of, any
petroleum which may be struck
in all but 75 square miles of
the prospective oil - belt of
Papua.
Recent results in this belt will
be of interest, particularly as the
drift of good oil prospects now
appears to be westwards from
the Gulf to the Delta area.
The A.P. Co. reports that the
bore at Upo i a has been
deepened 56ft., from 5270 ft. to
5326 ft. At Hohoro heaving
strata have caused the abandon-
ment of the well at 4721 ft., in
spite of the employment of the
most modern methods by
experienced and highly-skilled
specialists. The location is now
to be moved about three-
"No; but , confidentially , I’m told the bottom's dropped
out of the market .”
quarters of a mile to the north-
east of the present site, where,
it is hoped, somewhat less com-
plex subsurface conditions will
be encountered. At Wana the
picture is much more hopeful.
Nine and five-eighth inch casing
has been cemented at 5493 ft.,
and the well has been deepened
625 ft. to 6130 ft. during the last
month.
The “heavies” were in full
blast last week on ’Change.
Tutt Bryant, distributor of
earth-moving and similar
machinery, rose to 745. 6d.
(595. 6d. in July), returning 4
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Waugh and Josephson, distribu-
tor of Caterpillar tractors in
N. S. Wales and Queensland,
rattled up to 60s. (scrip came
on the market in May, 1949,
at 255.). British Standard
Machinery jumped 2s. 6d. to
545. 6d., and Britstand Distribu-
tors was sought after at 40s.
Quieter but sustained demand
was recorded for shares in Thirl-
well and McKenzie, Bradford
Kendall, Howard Auto, C. C.
Engineering, William Atkins and
Gibson Battle. In Melbourne
Repco changed hands at 645. 6d.,
A. G. Healing at 19s. and
McPherson’s at 595, 6d. There
is a limit, of course, to
which investors may safely go
in buying “heavy” shares. All
these concerns appear to be
assured of a big demand for
their products for several years
ahead, but each case has to be
considered on its merits. And
even if a dollar loan has been
secured in the U.S.A. it will not
provide unlimited funds for the
purchase of U.S. machinery.
* * * *
With all the new-issue money
in, William Adams and Co.,
Sydney, will have a paid capital
of £725,000 in 1,000,000 14s.
ord. shares and 25,000 £1 prefs.
The ords. later on are to be
converted into 20s. denomina-
tors. Including the new issue,
the fully-paid ords. at present
have a net tangible backing of
225. per 14s, share, and the divi-
dend of 12.8 p.c. looks secure
in relation to earnings, which
were the equivalent of 24 p.c.
on ord. capital last year, and
15.6 p.c. on ord. capital as it
now stands, without allowing
for the assistance that the new
capital should give. At 345. last
week the 14s. ords. gave an im-
mediate yield of £5 ss. sd. per
cent., which is higher than most
similarly - entrenched concerns
return at current prices. The
co. has a number of first-class
agencies, including those for
electrical generators, tractors,
engineering supplies, hardware
and lubricants. All these things
are now in heavy demand, and
are likely to be so for some
years to come, in view of the
widespread reconstruction and
expansion called for in our basic
industries and public works.
• ♦ * *
William Brooks and Co., Ltd.,
an old-established Sydney print-
ing and stationery firm, has sent
out its accounts early this year.
A vacancy which will occur on
the board is being contested by
the retiring director, Bruce Mc-
William, and another candidate,
W. A. Gregg. The annual meet-
ing is being held on August 24.
Earnings disclosed in the ac-
counts show a sudden rise for
the year; a profit of £55,355 is
claimed for the 12 months to
June 30 last, compared witK
£15,713 and £13,558 in the Two
preceding years. The leap i n the
disclosed profit is not explained
in the accounts, though it i s
stated to be “the highest earned
in the company’s history”; also
“sales were well maintained on
those of the previous year ”
After allowing for first-pref. div
requirements, net earnings are
equal to 61.6 p.c. on ord. and
participating pref. capital, com-
pared with 17 p.c. in the p re .
ceding term. New plant cost-
ing “over £40,000” was installed
during the year, carrying book-
value of the item up to £68,509
Depreciation written off ’was
£3705. The div. on ords. and
participating prefs. has risen
from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c. Buyers
last week offered 31s. for the fl
ords. and participating prefs.
Investors will want to know
what chance there is of last
year’s rate of profit being main-
tained.
For the past 10 years The
Bulletin has been a consistent
advocate of investment in in-
dustrial ordinary shares as a
protection against inflation. It
has no special desire to be con-
sidered as a “bullish” factor in
the sharemarkets of Australia;
rather has its counsel been one
of protection of capital against
inflation, and that counsel has
in every way been justified by
market prices. As when the
Korean flare-up shocked the
markets recently, so in previous
crises, extending over a decade,
the advice here was to hold
sound industrials in a falling
market and to buy them when
available. What is happening
to share prices now is not con-
sidered to be an entirely healthy
trend. It is largely a result of
an economic disease —inflation.
That doesn’t deny the great
opportunity awaiting Australian
industry if full productivity—
which means full health-
returns eventually.


Established 1863
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
OSUIMVAff
IWADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
"NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” self-registering tills
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS iIN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT ,
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUI”, BRISBANE
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live,
FI? 17IT Call or Een d stamp for
lxEil-i FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and H days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
|^v
SPRAY SECTIONS
A
* > \ 'V, \ V l -.'
m
■
u
mm
mkm
'
■
4frur
■
ZlHy
MMt,
m
Here's what you gain...
Surging further ahead in the spray irrigation
field, RAINBOW now introduce ALUMINIUM
Sura v Sections. This is just another reason why you
should instal RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION . . . the
system already renowned for such features as the combined
outlet and hydrant, flexible couplings and improved spray-
heads. Rainbow is the only system with a 48-ft, coverage.
ONLY HALF THE WEIGHT;
Rainbow’s new Aluminium Sections are approximately half the weight of normal
piping. This means a further cut in time and labour.
SEAMLESS. 24-FT. SPRAY SECTIONS;
Frictional loss in RAINBOW Aluminium Sections has been reduced by at least
10%. They may be used for all water purposes and are supplied with flexible
couplings or non-flexiblc joins.
COSTS STILL LOW;
Though the cost of a new RAINBOW Aluminium plant is naturally higher than
orevious Rainbow systems— because of the many RAINBOW advantages—-the cost
of our complete plant—WlTH ALUMINIUM SECTIONS—is still comparable with
other systems- Longer life and labour-saving features cost you Ie “ “ ‘“’J*
run. Remember —irrigation is essential—spray irrigation is best—and RAINBOW
make the best spray irrigation.
d
60/83.5
fd
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY, LTD.,
102-124 Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria:
C. BEAUMONT, 64 King St.. Melbourne—MU 5271%
South Australia: RALPH CURRY, 24 Light Sq..
Adelaide. 'Phone: Q 1065.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEADS.
flexible couplings
COMBINED OUT-
LET & HYDRANT.
STURDY STANDS.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It was to be expected that the
deepening shadows of Korea,
obliquely darkening the vast con-
gested area of Greater London,
would abruptly jerk people’s
mind back to thoughts of bomb-
ing’and civil defence. Londoners
don’t pretend to a detached or
objective approach to atomic
fission. They remember the
rockets (V2’s) of 1944, which ex-
ploded before their approach
could be heard, and treat the
newer, more terrible, weapons
with the same fatalistic resigna-
tion.
Yet if most people were to
speak their minds they would
readily admit that what they
dreaded most was not the atom-
bomb, but the return of
austerity, with its debilitating
monotony and its nagging effect
upon the ordering of their daily
lives. In its simplest terms, the
reasoning runs like this: “It’s
still possible,” they say, “to
avoid another war; and even if
we can’t prevent that, the atom-
bomb, like poison-gas in the last
nuisance, may never be used;
but with intensive rearmament
and all that goes with it a return
to hard times is certain.”
The air is now a little clearer.
The Home Office has issued a
civil-defence-training pamphlet
on atomic warfare, which gives
to the devil unknown a recognis-
able shape and defines his limi-
tations. It is the first step to-
wards converting a subconscious
fear into a measurable danger.
And, of course, the Prime
Minister has broadcast to the
nation a speech that has been
generally acclaimed for its quiet
firmness and balanced imparti-
ality. It was certainly overdue.
The effect has been immediately
salutary, for the bulk of the
nation, groping so long for guid-
ance, is reconciled to the tedious
prospect before it; and the old
sense of unity, disturbed by the
“peace” and an excess of frac-
tious party-politics, is again
stirring.
It would nevertheless be quite
false to report that the practical
results of the Prime Minister’s
speech have been considerable.
There has been as yet no fer-
vent rally to the call for volun-
teers to man the civil defence
posts. Perhaps people want to
enjoy their holidays and the
summer while it lasts; perhaps
they are diffident as a result of
their deep-seated post-war frus-
trations ; perhaps they are not
yet convinced and are waiting
for a stronger lead. Good
citizens still tend to regard wars,
action-stations, first-aid classes,
fire-drill and the complexities of
air-raid-precaution manuals as
abnormal and temporary. It is a
profound shock to be reminded
that these may, in our untidy
world, be quite normal occupa-
tions after all.
People will best respond to
such strenuous calls on their
leisure if they feel the urgency
and if their patriotism is fired.
When they are war-jaded and
rather overtried veterans, leader-
ship needs to be the more en-
lightened in order to coax them
into service. Such single-minded
enlightenment has hardly been a
characteristic of the post-war
years. It remains to be seen
whether the growing sense of
emergency will produce it.
An instance of this national
feeling can be quoted in the con-
troversy that has arisen over the
selection of 19-year-old Brian
Close to travel to Australia for
the 1950-1951 Tests. Close, a
conscript in the Army, has been
specially released before the end
of his period of service. The
“Yorkshire Post” reports that,
out of many letters received,
only one supports this action.
Political Patches
In recess until October, Par-
liament has given the impression
that its members are taking a
long holiday. True enough, its
members are on call and fewer
have gone abroad, and M.Ps.
have other important duties
besides waiting for the division
bell. Public opinion would
nevertheless have welcomed a
shorter recess.
It seems to be well understood
that the main reason behind the
continuance of the Precarious
Parliament is that both main
parties share a common belief —
that neither wants a general elec-
tion yet. So strong is this feel-
ing that the fancied date has
shifted from autumn to next
spring, although with the qualifi-
cation that the new defence esti-
mates may yet force the Govern-
ment to introduce a November
Budget that might litefally bring
the House down.
Mr. Strachey is a good neck in
front of Mr, Bevan in the Un-
popularity Stakes. The impres-
sion he gives is one of hard-
bitten defiance —that, come what
may, he’ll hold on to office and
talk himself out of any awkward
situation. Nothing he has said
before has been so provoking of
comment as the statement, made
before an audience of the faith-
ful, that the rich would be
“soaked” to pay the expenses of
another war. Can this back-
stairs approach mean that Mr.
Strachey is less sure of his wel-
come at the front door?
Mr. Attlee must surely have
another embarrassment in the
publication of the resolutions
tabled for the Labor-party con-
ference in October, No one will
believe that the opinions ex-
pressed echo those of the
13,000,000 adults who voted
Labor in February last. If they
do, then there isn’t much hope
for Britain as a wideawake de-
mocracy. The 40-page booklet
shows that the active Socialist
workers are years behind the
times, woolly in thought, self-
centred and selfish in interest,
and living in a phantasy world
of creamy unreality. It will be
interesting to note how the party
oligarchy, trying so hard to im-
press how moderate and adapt-
able it is, will respond to such
pleas as the urgent need to end
the “watering-down” of Social-
ism, to proceed willy-nilly with
further nationalisation, to “bring
down the cost of living” yet
cope with the needs of defence,
and to press for a “United
Socialist States of Europe” when
most European Governments
are not Socialist.
More embarrassing still must
be many of the 27 resolutions
on foreign affairs, especially
those couched in a jargon that
has a too-familiar ring. The
dread of war finds expression in
such phrases as “speaking to the
world in the language of Social-
ism, of peace and of the inter-
national brotherhood of man.”
of “outlawing the atomic bomb,”
of “ending of the cold war” and
of “abolishing conscription.”
America appears to be the po-
tential aggressor, Malaya as the
country whose people we are
fighting and Russia the State with
whom we must press for better
diplomatic relations.
This is “peace-petition” lan-
guage and may, or may not, be
as innocent as it is ingenuous. In
either event it is a depressing
thought that these are the
opinipns of the rank-and-file of
the party behind the present Gov-
ernment.
Displaying the Goods
The visitor who strolls leisurely
from Aldwych to Piccadilly
Circus and round and about can
hardly fail to notice that the dis-
play-cards outside many of the
theatre-shops invite his attention
to rather more than so-and-so in
such-and-such. The beckoning,
sometimes overt and sometimes
implied, is as blatant as the wink
of an eye.
“Always Afternoon” (Garrick
Theatre) is alluringly described
as a “Sexcess,” perhaps to cap-
ture the attention of the holiday
crowds that drift idly along *
Charing Cross-road in the early
evening. They may, no doubt,
spend an entertaining evening
after this meretricious enticement,
but what is provided for them is
neither an excess of sex nor an
astonishingly good play, although
it might have been either with
a little adjustment one way or
the other.
Coolangatta - born Margaret
Johnson, fresh from starring in
films, plays a kind of Hamlet in
reverse with a part nearly as
long. As Laurie, the greying,
sex-conscious escapist of the
arrested upbringing, the child-
like behavior, the petulant tan-
trums and the queer complexes,
she gives a measured study that
often reaches the poignant. In
her psychoneurotic frolics she
is aided by Ernest Thesiger, as
her aged husband and thankful
cuckold, and an Anglo-French
team of three others. All do
very well indeed.
A more sensitive touch to
Frith Banbury’s production
would heighten this performance
and might also transform an
essay in quasi-sophistication into
a worth-while problem play.
Salvation “Yorky”
Dorothy and Campbell
Christie’s play, “His Excellency”
(Princes Theatre), comes boldly
to grips with modern instances
and provides a thoughtful, pro-
vocative, amusing evening.
George Harrison is a York-
shire ex-dockyard-matey who
was spurred into political ac-
tivity by unemployment. His
long-service trade-unionism is
rewarded by the governorship of
Salva, a Mediterranean island
which is also a British naval
base. Replacing an aristocratic
of the dither-and-do-nothing
school, he is determined at all
costs to bring the island to sta-
bility by applying the theories of
the Labor Summer School.
He’s up against it from the
start. His Lieutenant-Governor
(Sebastian Shaw) is a hard-
bitten career diplomat who
knows how to get his own way ;
he meets with the plethoric re-
sistance on social and admini-
strative fronts of a puffy vice-
admiral (lan Fleming); he must
break down the powerful, well-
established graft of the local
junta. When the corrupt police
give way before dockyard riots
he refuses to call out the troops
until it is almost too late and
the struggle with his conscience
has reduced him to nervous ex-
haustion." Against all advice
and even to the extent of plac-
ing the virtuously indignant
admiral under arrest, he goes
down to the dockyard, faces the
angry mob and is belabored with
half-bricks. Finally he wins
them over by a touch of the
football-field, achieved with
courage and humor.
This play is a good deal more
than it seems, and has aroused
no partisan anger among any
political section (excepting only
the extreme Left, who cannot
abide to see their images
smashed). The percipience and
fairness of the authors project
a many-sided view, which leaves
the judgment to the audience;
that judgment may well be that
the central character is a pig-
headed but lovable man who,
because of his fixation, can never
be a good administrator. Politi-
cal observations are few, but
they are astoundingly relevant;
especially the one to the effect
that his Excellency’s kind come
out with fixed ideas and assume
a priori the incompetence of
their predecessors,
Eric Portman speaks the
broad accent of his native
shire and plays the dockie with
a command of expression that
deserves a textbook to explain
it. Here is a true and complete
actor whose return to the stage
has been distinguished by three
dissimilar parts.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The committee of the Sutherland
Homes for Children unwittingly chose a
most appropriate ’day for their annual
meeting, for news had come through that
morning that Princess Elizabeth’s second
child had been born and the whole
Empire was rejoicing. Lady Angliss,
president of the committee, presented
the imposing report. The homes
were full all the year; 43 children
were admitted and 32 returned to
parents or friends. But the homes are
not large enough to accommodate
all the children for whom application was
made. Proposed additions and altera-
tions to the home at Greensborough have
not been possible because of labor short-
age and lack of funds. The building fund
of just under £3OOO isn’t enough, and as
there is no Government grant voluntary
contributions must be sought. The
Sutherland Homes Auxiliary, formed dur-
ing the year, helped financially by spon-
soring a Miss Australia candidate: this
raised over £5OO, whilst £213 was raised
by a card-party organised by the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, and Lady
Wales, Mrs. Ada Wenborn, the Homes’
capable secretary, served afternoon-tea at
the conclusion of the meeting. Lady
Angliss, in black suit and white straw
sailor hat which had a trimming of black
velvet, was hostess. Mrs. L. J. Brown
wore a brown feather-hat with her brown
suit. Mrs. A. G. Warner gained contrast
to her brown-and-beige whipcord suit
with the green pheasant-feathers which
adorned her brown hat. Mrs. Garnet
Curwen was smartly tailored in grey.
Among other devoted workers for this
cause at the meeting were Mrs. John
Whyte, Mrs. Jean Davies, Mrs. H. K.
Ward and Flora Anderson.
Members of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital were
justly proud as they watched their
patroness, Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, hand to Lady
Latham, president of the hospital, a
cheque for £1613, proceeds of the Fourth
of July Ball. This pleasing little ceremony
took place at the auxiliary’s annual meet-
ing in the Venetian Court of the Aus-
tralia, and was followed by afternoon
lea. Hostesses at the meeting were
Mesdames H. Allen and H. Cavenaugh,
co-organisers of the ball, and Mrs. Frank
Callahan. Howard Barrett, secretary and
manager of the hospital, and his wife
were at the meeting ; also representing the
hospital were Mrs. Lamb Smith, presi-
dent of hospital auxiliaries, and Mrs.
Audrey Elford, the auxiliaries secretary.
On behalf of the hospital, life-governor-
ships were presented to Mesdames L. E.
Tewkesbury, F. Faithful, A. M. Coates
and Mrs. Ruth Saulwick. Betty Minor, a
visitor from Tennessee, was present with
Mrs. Charles Norton, hon, sec. of the
American Women’s Auxiliary.
In 1947 the Australian Air Force
Women’s Association launched a scholar-
ship fund for the children of deceased
and incapacitated R.A.A.F. personnel.
Through the generosity of many friends
and the activity of members the fund
now totals £4378. Three trustees, Mrs,
F. M. Bladin and A. E. Chadwick and
Raynes W. A. Dickson, have been
appointed, and the first scholarships are
now operating. The annual ball has be-
come a feature of Melbourne’s social
life; this year if will be held on Sep-
tember 15—the Battle of Britain Ball.
Tickets will be one guinea each, the set-
ting St Kilda Town Hall. Mrs. George
Jones, wife of the Chief of Air Staff, is
chairman of the ball committee, and
president of the association is Mrs, E. C.
Wackett. To launch the ball publicity
Mrs. Wackett was hostess at a buffet-
luncheon party at the Australia. Her
French-grey gabardine suit was worn
with a navy beret. The black hat Mrs.
George Jones wore with her black en-
semble flew a pastel-pink feather. Mrs.
Howard Bennett, who is honorary secre-
tary of the ball committee, was in pale
azure-blue suit and dove-grey felt hat.
Mrs. Frank Bladin’s pale-grey suit was
matched with a hat clustered with
feathers. Mrs. F, Scherger’s grey coat
covered a gold-toned wool frock; there
was a gold taffeta drape on her grey
hat. Mrs. H. W. Mermagen wore a grey
flannel suit and navy cloche hat banded
in white grosgrain. Mrs. Val Hancock’s
navy hat, which she added to her grey
suit, was draped with powder-blue
taffeta. A primrose-yellow felt hat con-
trasted with the slim-fitting black frock
of Mrs. K. Connolly. A black-andr
white-check suit and white straw hat
were the choice of Mrs. A. Woodgate.
Imposing weaving-looms, showcases of
beautiful craftwork and bowls of spring
blossoms formed the background for the
buffet-luncheon-party given by members
of the War Widows’ Craft Guild in their
rooms in honor of the Guild’s honorary
secretary, Mrs. B. Riggall, prior to her
marriage last Friday to Dr. Hubert Smith.
The guests were received by the president,
Mrs. G. A. Vasey, to whom the war
widows look as the great champion of
their rights; she was impeccably tailored
in ink-blue with white pencil stripes, with
small feathered hat to match. The guest-
of-honor’s frock was of elephant’s-breath
duvetyn, her hat of citrus-yellow-and-
grey-striped taffeta. Mrs. Vasey pre-
sented Mrs. Riggall with a set of table-
linen which had been woven by members
of the guild, and Press women with
posies of violets. Those at the luncheon
included Mesdames John Webb, S.
Gahan, M. Shrimpton, A. Ross, R. Staff,
N. Hall, N. Ridgway and E. Falls.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was the
setting for the marriage of Lorraine,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. M.
Winstanley, of North Geelong, and Dr.
Darrell O’Donnell, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. R. G. O’Donnell, of Caulfield. The
Rev. Guy Harmer officiated, the service
being choral. The bride’s gown of em-
bossed satin was embroidered with silver
and worn over a Marie Antoinette crino-
line ; she carried a trail of gardenias to
match the circlet, which held a tulle
veil. The bride’s sister, Jan, and Nancy
Wallace were bridesmaids, and the bride-
groom’s small cousin, Judy Balfe,
flower-girl. The ’maids were in satin-
striped, ice-blue faille, while Judy wore
a blue tulle skirt and matching jacket.
Dr. John Ray was best man and Dr.
John Snell groomsman. Reception was
at No. 9 Darling-street.
Bettine Kauffmann, who was educated
at Lauriston and the University, where
she collected an honors 8.A., is a free-
lance radio artist. She is currently being
heard in variety, and as Dora in “David
Copperfield,” and often appears in
schools broadcasts. Bettine is the
daughter of composer and music-critic
Linda Phillips. Allan Roberts photo.
Sydney producer Doris Fitton was
guest-of-honor at a party given before she
returned to Sydney at the National
Theatre. President of the National
Theatre Movement, knight Robert Knox,
and his lady received the guests, many
representative of music, drama and the
ballet. The foyer, where the party was
staged, was gay with bowls of spring
blossom, daffodils and palms. The guest-
of-honor pinned violets to her jacket-suit
of black gaberdine, which was worn with
a coat of red-fox fur; a sequin-studded
net snood caught back her auburn hair.
Welcome guests were T. T, Hollway and
his wife. During his term of office Mr.
Hollway was most active in his interest
of the arts, and it was his Government
which made the generous grant to the
National Theatre.
Mrs. John Faassen, whose husband is
the “witch-boy” in “Dark of the Moon,”
was in black suit and simple black felt
cloche. Joyce Graham, of the National
Theatre Ballet group, wore a black cock-
tail suit, the jacket being flared, and a
hat carrying large clusters of cocq
feathers. Desmonde Duncan and Ann
Church were in earnest conversation
about stage decor, in which they are both
interested. Kenneth Rowell, who has just
been awarded a British Council scholar-
ship on the Recommendation of Sir
Laurence Olivier and Madame Marie
Rambert, was there —he leaves soon for
England to gain more experience in stage
decor and painting.
From Sydney
Although the Bondi Icebergs gave a
specially hearty toast to the father of the
Bellingen quads (a former member of
the club), they forgot to toast Mrs. Sara.
It looks as though it is a man’s world
after all!
Rosemary Dobson is the editor of the
1950 issue of Angus and Robertson’s
Australian Poetry anthology which will
shortly be decorating the bookstalls and,
it is hoped, the bookcases of the public.
Granddaughter of English poet
Dobson, Rosemary won the “S. M.
Herald” poetry prize in 1947 with “The
Ship of Ice,” later published with 20
other poems. Since then she has been to
England, where she worked as assistant
to the advertising managers of Harrap’s
and the Times r Book Club, paying short
visits in between times to Italy, France
and Switzerland. Her present work on
the editorial staff of Angus and Robert-
son she finds stimulating and enjoyable,
a happy circumstance for a poet.
After leaving Frensham, where she was
educated, Rosemary not only attended
Sydney University for English and other
subjects, but also studied art and paint-
ing. The Renaissance paintings are the
inspiration for the new book of poems
which she is preparing (Bulletin readers
have already seen many of them). This
will be her third book of poetry. In a
Convex Mirror having. appeared earlier.
From the portrait which Norman
Lindsay has painted for her one can sense
the strength and fervor of her nature. To
meet, she gives an impression mainly of
youthfulness, sensibility and delicate
humor.
Lady Northcott will be present at the
Younger Set Conference of the Country
Women’s Association to be held at
C.E.N.E.F. on September 2, and the
Begum Haroon will be one of the
speakers. The afternoon is set apart for
one-hour classes and impromptu reports,
the evening for a play by Joan and Betty
Rayner. On Sunday there will be a
launch picnic and tea at Vaucluse House,
For those who can manage to come, the
weekend looks like providing a com-
plete rest from the floods and worries of
country life at present.
The Country Women’s State president,
Mrs. J. M. Gordon, of Windella, Old
Burren, has been seriously ill, and is in
Jenner Hospital. Although she is
somewhat better, it seems that her
conscientious spirit prevents her from
fully recovering, as l she worries about
having to accept three months’ leave
from her new duties. However, Mrs.
G. L. Brooks, of Jounama, Tumut,
has agreed to act for her during that
period, so it is hoped that Mrs. Gordon
will soon be well again.
When the Catholic Business Girls and
Professional Women’s Association held
its first-birthday party Dr. Tess Car-
michael spoke of the work of the Rachel
Forster Hospital, and Miss Myra Demp-
sey pointed out that this hospital, run
by women, was the only one that was
out of debt. Later Miss Dempsey offered
to debate the proposition put up by Mrs.
Tom Bateman, that when a man and
woman of equal ability each applied for
a job the preference should go to the
man with dependants (unless the woman
had dependants also, of course). This
should be a lively debate if it ever comes
off, as both Myra Dempsey and Beatrice
Bateman are very good speakers. During
the guessing competition the question
“What part of a car is essential to a poli-
tician?” brought the instant reply “gas”
from a member of a prominent political
family.
Everyone is trying to pick a name for
the new baby princess, so this Letter has
a shot with Arabella, which is, after all
a distinguished Stuart name. It’s an out-
side chance, perhaps, but, then, nobody
picked Charles last time.
Calling all button-sellers who would
like to help the Eventide Homes Appeal
sponsored by the Loyal Orange Institu-
tion. Buttons, which may be obtained
from the appeal centre at No. 44 Martin-
place, will be sold throughout N.S.W. on
Friday, September 1. The object is a
sixth cottage for the comfort and ac-
commodation of old people.
Fashion honors this week go to the
dresses worn by the Pakistan women at
the reception given for their country’s
thir d birthday. The Begum Haroon, wife
of the High Commissioner, wore a fairy-
tale gown of sunset silk gauze shot with
gold, the sari bordered with white braided
diamente. Her sister-in-
law, Zeenat Haroon, wore
an equally-beautiful dress
of deep-cream silk, the
wide hem and the border
of her sari being of hand-
embroidered beaten gold,
for which she had drawn
the intricate design herself.
Zeenat later changed to a
spectacular costume for
the traditional dance of
welcome which had been
performed for centuries in
the courts of the Mogul
emperors. An interesting
Pakistan dish called Pullao
was served, consisting
mainly of chicken and rice,
served with burnt
almonds, walnuts, prunes
and salad. Among the
nearly 500 guests were
Sir John Latham and
Mrs. Latham, Sir Leslie
and Lady Morshead, Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. H. A.
Showers, Sir Claude and
Lady Plowman, U.S.
Ambassador Pete Jarman
and Mrs. Jarman (who
comes from Alabama, and
whose accent would need a sounding-line
to check its depth). The dressing of the
guests was very mixed, ranging from
brocade and sables to suits and hats.
However, for spontaneous gaiety and
general bonhomie, this was undoubtedly
the party of the week.
It was most interesting to note at the
annual exhibition of the Arts and Crafts
Society at the Education Department that
more and more emphasis is being put on
line and color in handwork and less on
decorative detail. The Elizabeth Soder-
berg Memorial Prize went to Ethleen
Palmer for her exquisite picture, the
prize for pottery to Clare Pitman (who
also exhibited a striking jar of Korean
design), and the “Rainmakers” of Mrs. J.
O’Neill was placed first in the aboriginal-
motif section. A new trend in embroidery
was evident, exemplified by Mollie
Douglas’s lunch-set, which combined a
printed design of brown on cream with
simple stitchery. Marion Darsow pre-
sented a chaste display of delicate hand-
work, together with photographs by her
husband, the most unusual of which gave
a lovely effect of relief in silver.
Youthful pianist Manfred Clynes must
have' been gratified to see the Town Hall
packed to the doors at his recital. The
audience was too enthusiastic, clapping
at the end of the movements of the
Mozart sonata (instead of coughing!) and
lining up in dozens back-stage for auto-
graphs. He willingly signed them all,
though he must have been exhausted after
a two hours’ brilliantly precise perform-
ance. At a cocktail-party given for him
by Dr. Alphons Silbermann earlier in the
week Manfred said that he “trained” on
raw meat and vegetables before a concert.
He can also teach anyone who wants to
learn (including grandmothers) how to
suck eggs —he does it literally.
Although the task of caring for and
guiding Australia’s future women doctors,
teachers, scientists and lawyers is a par-
ticularly onerous one. Miss Margaret
Piddington, principal of the Womens
College in the University of Queensland,
seems equal to it. At present in
Sydney, Miss Piddington has the extra
worry of raising money for new college
buildings, which are urgently needed. At
prevailing rates, the women’s college win
cost £70,000. The committee is asking
graziers and pastoralists to donate
wool and stock, pointing out that a gnt
which cost the man-on-the-land only £7
would mean £2OO to the appeal. This i
worked out by tax deductions on the one
hand and Government subsidies on tn
other. It seems a neat little sum an
well worth considering.


trxifce
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . •
fd
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
New C. 0., coffers, for the Union Bank
of Australia,. Colonel Arthur Terence
Maxwell; he takes over from Hugh.
Flower, the bank’s chairman for the past
two years and associated with it for the
past 50. Son of the late Brigadier
Arthur Maxwell, A.T. is a governor of
Rugby, his old school, at 24 was called
to the English Bar, left legalising for
private banking, left that as managing-
director of his firm and joined the Union
Bank as a director. In Hitler’s war he
came out of the Staff College to lead the
Ministry of Economic Warfare’s mission
to the Middle East; thereafter to a
colonelcy on Eisenhower’s staff for the
Normandy invasion. Holding, as well,
directorships in Vickers and the Steel Co.
of Wales, Maxwell has had a year as the
Union’s deputy-chairman ; he is married
to the daughter of Sir Austen Chamber-
lain.
Not often seen in Sydney these days,
because he has gone bush up at Kurra-
jong in the N. S. Wales Blue Moun-
tains, Kenneth Mackenzie dropped into
The Bulletin office last week. He was
in town on business connected with his
new novel Dead Men Rising, which is
to be published later this year by Cape
in England and Harpers in New York.
His other two novels, distinguished by
their beautiful prose style, are, of course,
The Young Desire It and Chosen People.
He signs them Seaforth Mackenzie, keep-
ing Kenneth Mackenzie for his poems.
Dead Men Rising has a subject which
will interest all Australians, for it deals
with the outbreak of Japanese prisoners
at Cowra, N. S. Wales, during the war—
an episode seen by Mackenzie while he
was in the Army. Up at Kurrajong the
novelist lives with his wife and two
children in a cottage built with his own
hands, does some gardening and orchard-
ing and, judging by his recent Bulletin
poerhs, observes the robins.
“H.K.,” one-time war correspondent
for the London “Daily Express,” fare-
wells a colleague ;
It was inevitable that lan Morrison should
have died with his boots on —not only did he
follow the relatively hazardous calling of war
correspondent, but he lived a life of high
adventure, as much in the “peace” of post-war
years as in the war itself. Morrison had an
international flavor and background (so have
many men), but he was, as well, a scholar of
some note and considerable commonsense. Son
of “Chinese” Morrison, after whom a street
is named in lovely Peking, where lan was born,
Morrison junior had been Professor of English
at Hokkaido University, Japan, then secretary
to the British Ambassador, later deputy-chief
of the British Ministry of Information in
Singapore, and, when the Pacific pot boiled
over, the “Times” correspondent in Malaya.
Morrison talked so little of himself, and fitted
the popular conception of an adventurer so
badly, that few could believe that the slight
young man with the startlingly blue eyes was
the tough individual he was. He was one
of the most phlegmatic men I have met —
once, trying to reach the beleaguered 2/19th
and 2/29th Australian battalions, trapped at
Parit Sulong, we went to ground behind an
ant-heap on a rubber estate, our car the marker
for three Jap strafing planes. Morrison spent
the time watching the ants, disturbed by the
explosions, climbing up the grass-stalks and
crowding over each other till, top-heavy, they
tumbled away in a ball. Thinking their example
sound, Morrison tumbled into a near-by creek.
With an American correspondent, Morrison was
the last correspondent to leave Singapore,
deliberately passing-up a chance to leave a day
earlier with the excuse that he didn’t have time
to pack. On most occasions he wore an open-
necked shirt, shorts, an enormous calabash
pipe and a Jap-style dilly-bag, like a woman’s
shoulder-strap handbag. He published three
books; one, Malayan Postscript, was an excel-
lent and sober appreciation of the campaign,
despite its suffering through censorship. Never-
theless, the careful Morrison regarded it some-
what ruefully, and occasionally said that he
wished he’d never written it; this was an index
to his modesty and integrity, as was an occasion
in Brisbane when, at a G.H.Q. Press-conference,
he asked: “May we advise our papers that
we consider today’s communique a lie?”
Dropped pick in home-port Perth
after nine years’ absence. Captain G. A.
Paterson, loaded with a cargo of yarns
about his recent adventures blockade-
running off the Chinese coast. Whip-
cord-lean, 60, with a nose which could
serve him if his hands slipped reefing top-
sails, he had command of the Britisher
Cloverlock the night she land-failed
Amoy with fertiliser and diesel-oil from
Hong Kong; she was first to break the
Nationalist blockade of Amoy and Swa-
tow after Britain had authorised trading
with Chinese Communist ports. Chal-
lenged by a Nationalist destroyer, a
former Jap. sub.-chaser fitted with
American guns, Cloverlock beat it for
the open sea. She was shelled and hit
11 times before Paterson hove-to. A
motley mob swarmed aboard, looted the
ship, even personal belongings of the
three European officers, and (heinous
crime) got off with Paterson’s sextant,
with which he’d shot the sun for 41
years. The Europeans were imprisoned
for close on a month, and had their first
square meal when a British destroyer
met them after release. The blue-water
man puts this harsh treatment by the
Nationalists down to Britain’s recognis-
ing Communist China; at the same time
his opinion of the Communists is typi-
cally windjammerish.
In Rotary circles chairmanship of the
foundation trustees of Rotary Inter-
national is regarded as a high honor ; it
has gone to a Melbourne businessman,
Angus C. Mitchell. His job will be ad-
ministering a fund which provides the
cash for all sorts of world-wide educa-
tional, charitable and philanthropic ac-
tivities —in the past five years the fund
has provided half-a-million dollars’
worth of fellowships to 195 young men
and women from 35 countries. An
honorary life-member of the Melbourne
Corn Exchange, a director of the
Y.M.C.A. and vice-president of the
Austin Hospital, the new chairman has
been director, district governor and
honorary trustee of Rotary International,
and last year was president.
Apropos of just what constitutes a
sportsman comes this sketch by Mcßeath
of a Melbourne citizen who knows a good
horse when he sees one and can ride, but
wouldn’t give tuppence to visit a race-
course ; has rarely broken 100 for 18
holes, though his enthusiasm for golf has
inspired hundreds to take it on; and,
though the only scoring shots he ever
made at billiards were flukes, has seen
champs in past years learn on his table.
BROWN, OF MELRAY’S.
Leslie P. Brown, over 60, but looking 40,
was bom at Castlemaine (Vic.), began
life as a draughtsman, turned business-
man and started the Australia-wide Mel-
ray organisation which has peppered the
land with stores which challenge the
Coles empire. Tragically, after hopefully
waiting for over five years, he recently
had to know that his only boy, whose
engine cut-out when flying over Jap.-
held territory in the late war, but who
was seen to make a safe landing, met his
end at the hands of his captors.
Boris drew this likeness at Alice
Springs, when the subject was leaning
against a stockyard fence. It’s Albert
Namatjira, the first aborigine in Austra-
lian history to find his name on the
dedication page of an art-book ; the work
being a survey of abo. art compiled by
Charles Barrett and R. H. Croll, and pub-
lished in Melbourne some years back by
the Bread and Cheese Club. Beginning
in art when he was camel-boy to Rex
Battarbee, who taught him, Namatjira
held his first one-man show at the
swaggerest gallery in Melbourne, and
sold out so quickly that Hermannsburg
NAMATJIRA.
Mission had to be telegraphed for fresh
supplies. Last week the whole of the
erstwhile shearer-fencer-camelboy’s ex-
hibition at Hordern’s Gallery in Sydney
was red-spotted in the first few days.
Sydney University’s new Lecturer in
Italian, C. A. McCormick, naturally
knows a thing or two about the lingo—
which is why, added to a certain fortitude
in the abdominal regions, he was para-
chuted into North Italy as a British Army
saboteur to work with the local under-
ground. With Hitler finished, McCormick
returned to the cloisters, graduating from
Cambridge two years back with double
first-class honors in Modem Languages.
He comes to Sydney from the assistant-
lectureship of Italian Studies in Man-
chester University.
Peter Airey, who died at Birkdale (Q.),
the same day as The Bulletin’s Andree
Hayward, was another old prolific writer
of light verse. For more than half a
century his verse, signed “P. Luftig,”
appeared regularly ip this paper.
Born in Barrow-in-Furness, England,
Airey arrived in Queensland with his
parents, who settled in Bundaberg. He
was for several years a schoolteacher and
later entered Parliament, sitting in both
the Queensland Lower and Upper Houses
—Home Secretary, Minister for Mines
and Minister for Public Works in the
Morgan Ministry and Home Secretary in
the first Kidston Ministry. Six of his
verses found their way into The Bulletin
Reciter and The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse and Recitations. He
was 85.
“C. 8.”: That taipan venom extracted
by David Fleay (B, 9/8/’5O) is, contrary
to Press statements, not the first to be
analysed in Melbourne. Anthropologist
Dr. Donald Thomson, of Eltham, not
only captured half a dozen of the
things during his 20 months’ sojourn
among the nomadic blacks of Cape York
in 1924, but milked them, dehydrated
their venom and preserved it for research
when, as biologist at the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute, he was investigating Aus-
tralian snakes and their poison. His was
claimed to be the first specimen captured
in Australia; previously the taipan was a
native legend, figuring in their myths but
not in their diet. A dog of Thomson’s
was bitten and died in five minutes.
Thomson caught the snake and conducted
a post-mortem on the dog. He was then
certain that the reptile was a female
taipan. It obliged him by laying seven
eggs, thus proving she was oviparous.
Brian Hone, who goes to the head-
mastership of Melbourne Grammar
from Cranbrook School, Sydney, has as
many athletic honors as scholastic. Born
in Adelaide 43 years back, educated at
Prince Alfred’s, he won a bursary to the
University, where he distinguished him-
self in cricket, tennis and football and
landed the 1930 Rhodes scholarship. At
Oxford he took his M.A. degree and
final honors in English language and
literature, captained the Oxford XI, got
his blues for tennis and cricket, became
senior English master at Marlborough
College, then changed to Sydney. He is
the only cricketer to make a double cen-
tury in the annual frenzy between
Adelaide’s St. Peters and Prince Alfred.
Secretary bf the Headmasters’ Conference
of Australia since 1945, he is a Fellow
of St. Paul’s, Sydney University,
Issy Spivakovsky, of the Spivakovsky
brothers, who teaches ’cello and violin
in Melbourne, and who brought along
the baker’s son, John Glickman, the
youthful violin prodigy now under en-
gagement to play with the London Phil-
harmonic, has another on the way—
-15-year-old Henry Wenig, the Mel-
bourne-born Scotch Collegian for whom
Edmund Kurtz predicted a brilliant
future. Henry started lessons at seven,
playing a half-size ’cello, and Kurtz, hav-
ing heard him on a previous visit, waS
anxious to hear him during his recent
season. After listening for an hour and a
half he was amazed at the boy’s progress.
He will probably follow in Glickman’s
footsteps; he makes his first public
appearance at the Assembly Hall shortly.
Professor Alexander Boyce Gibson,
who distinguished himself by succeed-
ing his distinguished father in the Chair
of Philosophy at Melbourne University,
adds a new distinction with appointment
to a similar chair at Birmingham Uni-
versity, where he is known for his
philosophical studies—his father was
known for his standard work on logic.
One of the son’s books is The Philosophy
of Descartes; another has the suggestive
■ title Philosophers Should Be Kings. One
of the most eloquent of Melbourne’s lay-
preachers, Gibson is much sought after
for broadcasting sessions and suburban
pulpits. Born in London in 1900, he was
educated at Melbourne Grammar and
Balliol, Oxford.
Into the Silence;
In Melbourne, Mrs. Ada Kate Monk, mother
of A. E. Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.
In Perth, at 83, Lt.-Colonel Kenneth
McLennan, who went to S. Africa with the
Q. Mounted Infantry and served with the
then Captain Harry Chauvel. Back in Queens-
land, McLennan resumed service with the
Permanent Forces, shifted to W.A., and went
overseas with the 11th Battalion to swap shots
with the Turks on Gallipoli and the Germans
on the Western Front. He ended the war
major, and retired It.-colonel in 1927.
On the same day, also in Perth, Edwin
Corboy, who, with the 28th Battalion, was
wounded twice and had his 21st birthday
in War I. The year of the Armistice he
won the by-election for the Swan seat in
the Representatives, rendered vacant by Lord
Forrest’s death, and so bbcame the youngest
to take a seat in the Federal Parliament; he
established a similar record in the W.A.
Assembly, which he entered as member for
Yilgam in 1921, holding the seat until 1933.
Donning khaki again when Hitler ran amuck,
he did a good job with Intelligence at Western
Command headquarters.
At Kyabram (Vic.), Robert Breen, the man
who could fairly be described as the original
Man from Kyabram. Born in the township,
and active in most civic matters for half a
century, he was the youngest member of the
famous Kyabram Reform Movement.
At 51, in Sydney, Air-Commodore Douglas
Ernest Wilson, Duntroon and Pt. Cook man
who held several important commands in
N.S.W. and Victoria before joining Bomber
Command in War 11. Shot down over Holland,
he was at large six weeks with the Underground
before the Gestapo caught up with him in Paris.
Senior British officer in the p.-0.-w. camp, he
was awarded the Czech Military Cross for his
morale-building there.
Aboard the Strathaird, in Adelaide, at 62,
Herbert Norman Warren, Director of Meteoro-
logical Services since 1940. Beginning in the
Federal electoral department, in 1938 he was
appointed to the weather branch to organise
for defence and aviation. By 1940 he was
director, organised the R.A.A.F. met. service,
and in 1942 became Director of Allied
Meteorological Services, attending conferences
in Batavia, Singapore and Auckland.


THE MONTHLY ACCOUNT
BY
M.G.VINCENT
r\ BOUT midway through eaoh
f \ month Halliday’s account for the
| previous month arrived in the
post. Generally it was delivered
on a Saturday, and was brought home
by the father at midday. If it were
large, its presence marred the whole after-
noon ; if it were very large the shadow
hung over the entire weekend.
At the beginning of winter and of
summer, and after the reopening of
school, the mother and the children
awaited its coming with trepidation, and
a lookout was posted on the front
veranda to herald the father’s approach
as he rounded the corner from Taylor’s
lane. If he walked very slowly, often
hitching his shoulder, it was assumed
he had the “bill,” and that it was large.
Hushed with apprehension, the house
awaited his coming: quarrels were
halted ; chattering ceased. His chair was
drawn up to a freshly-clothed table, and,
in summer, a glass of lemon-juice, with
ice bobbing in it and a sprig of mint,
was placed on the dresser under the net
cover so that it could be whisked out and
held under his nose as soon as he set foot
on the veranda.
On this particular Saturday in Feb-
ruary everyone was on tenterhooks ; even
little Jimmy kept asking, “Will Daddy
bring lollies all the same?” About twelve
o’clock Jane was sent out to watch for
the father. At twelve-fifteen she reported
that he had left the office, and was walk-
ing very quickly.
The mother looked relieved. “Oh,
perhaps it hasn’t come,” she breathed.
Pen, who was standing at her elbow,
seized the opportunity of nipping a large
flap of pastry from the side of the
rolling-pin.
“Mum, Pen’s pinching the pastry,”
cried Jane.
“Tell-tale-tit,” sang Pen, skipping away
from the table.
“You go back on the veranda, and
call out as soon as your father comes
round the bend,” commanded the mother.
“I think you’re silly,” commented Pen
placidly. “It has to come some time.”
‘That’s enough from you, my lady.
It’s half your fault the bill’s going to be
big. New this and new that for Margaret
Johnson’s party. Turning up your nose
at that nice little hat I wanted you to
get, and 1 could’ve trimmed it up just
as nice as that one we had to pay that
ridiculous price for. You’ve got too high
an opinion of yourself, that’s all it is.
You’re a true Venables, and no mistake.
Nothing’s too good for a Venables. Oh,
no! Now you set-to and make that
lemon drink for your father, and no slop-
ping it over everything. And go and tell
Marian to come right away and lay this
table. And tell her to get a clean cloth.
Right away. Just in case.”
A T twelve-thirty Jane came in to
announce that he had rounded the
corner. “And he’s still walking like
mad,” she said.
They all went to the front bedroom
and peered through the window at the
father. It was true. He was walking at
a furious pace, the ledger bumping
against his hip. Puffs of red dust erupted
from each side of his busy shoes and
merged behind him like a trail of exhaust.
“Has he got the lollies?” demanded
Jimmy. But no one
answered him. They all
had a nasty premonition
that rage was the cause of
his unusual speed, and very
thoughtfully they rushed
back to their tasks.
They heard the front-
gate latch click, and Jane,
who rushed out to the
kitchen, just had time to
hiss “He kicked the front
gate” before his heavy
tread descended on the
back veranda.
Hiding her trembling hands under her
apron, the mother, with face smiling as
usual, met him at the back door, “Hello,
darling,” she said.
“Here’s a lemon drink,” said Pen
cheerfully. A philosophical soul, she
was the only calm person in the room.
“I’ll take in your ledger. Daddy,” cried
Marian.
“Out of my way, all of you, you—
you parasites,” said the father fiercely;
and, like Thor stamping to his anvil, he
strode through to the front room. They
heard the heavy ledger thud on to the
top of the piano.
“Oh dear, oh dear,” moaned the
mother, twisting her hands, “I shouldn’t’
have let Jane buy two pairs of shoes, but
she couldn’t wear good shoes to school,
or school shoes to Sunday-school. Oh
dear, and I forgot that present I had to
buy for Auntie Evelyn’s weddings. Oh
no, I asked Mrs. T. to enter it on this
month’s, thank heaven. Glory be.”
As the father rushed into the laundry
to wash his hands, she asked timidly,
“Will I dish up dinner, dear?” There was
no answer, and after a long hesitation
she began spreading out the dishes.
“Did” began Jimmy,
“Sh-h-h,” whispered the mother.
THE first part of the meal was eaten
in complete silence. As they all
lifted their first spoonful of pudding
Jane unconsciously began drumming
gently with her heels against the stool,
and at this sound the father unleashed
his wrath.
“That’s right,” he cried. “Wear out
more shoes. Wear them out as quickly
as you can, and then run down to Halli-
day’s and buy more.” His grey eyes
became black. They were fixed relent-
lessly on Jane, who, despite her pertness,
was a sensitive little girl, and could not
bear her father’s anger. She began to
whimper.
“Cry-baby,” chanted Pen under her
breath.
“It’s no use blubbering, my lady,” con-
tinued the father furiously. “You’ll be
going back into boots. That’s what you’ll
be doing. Six pairs of shoes on last
month’s bill, and I have no doubt some
of them are yours.”
“I won’t wear boots. No one but boys
wear boots now,” muttered Jane tear-
fully.
“Well, you’ll go barefoot. That’s what
you’ll all be doing. And, what’s more,
if bills keep coming in like this one you’ll
probably all end up not having enough
to eat.” He glared at each one of them
in turn, giving a particularly baleful
glance at their mother, who sat rigidly on
the edge of the chair like a startled fowl
on a perch. “Yes, in six months’ time
we’ll all be starving,” he cried; and, as
though this dire aspect gave him a great
pleasure, he repeated it. “Yes, we’ll all
be starving.” He lifted up his spoon
again and disposed of the fragrant apple-
snow and angel’s food with obvious
relish. “Yes,” he said, pushing back his
chair and wiping his mouth with his ser-
viette, “we’ll all be on the dole.”
He rolled up his serviette, thrust it into
its ring, pushed back plates and other
dishes unceremoniously and slapped
Halliday’s awful bill on to the table.
“There it is,” he said, with the air of a
man who has unearthed a particularly
offensive corpse. “Look at it. Five
pages. Sixteen pounds. Just for gro-
ceries and clothes.” He bent over it.
“Now, let me see. Shoes. H’m. One —
two —three —four —five pairs of shoes.
Hats; three hats —no, four. Four hats.
And one of them 15s. 6d. Whose hat is
this for the outrageous amount of
15s. 6d.?”
His ferocious eyes gimleted his squirm-
ing wife.
“Well,” she said, “it was like this” . . .
“Whose hat!”
“Pen’s.”
“Ah. Madam Pen’s. And who does
she think she is to buy a hat for 15s. 6d.?
Don’t you know there’s a depression
On? Haven’t you heard all about the
depression at school? Haven’t you seen
the Todhunters going to school all the
winter without coats, eh? Haven’t you
seen half the children haven’t any shoes?
Eh? Haven’t you?” He did not wait
for an answer. “Take that hat back,”
he thundered.
“I can’t. I’ve worn it.” There was an
unctuous satisfaction in Pen’s voice, and
a complaisant superiority in her lowered
eyelids.
“Yes, I suppose you walked out of the
shop in it, just to make certain of it.
And your darn fool of a mother let you.”
Marian said hotly, “You can’t blame
it all on to Mummy. Pen cried and made
such a fuss in front of Mrs. T. that it
made Mummy look a goat. It made us
look as poor as the Todhunters.”
“Oh, it did, did it? And so we shall
be at this rate. And no more of your
lip, or out you go on your pink ear.”
He tried to quell her rebellion by a
scathing glare ; but when her temper was
up Marian was not to be intimidated by
anyone, and she bore his probing un-
flinchingly. At last he returned to the bill.
“Two dress lengths ; two, four, seven,
ten yards of material! A man has the
same suit year after year, and he has
to be satisfied with it. And don’t think
I don’t notice all these entries on January
first. I’m not blind, even if I have to
work my eyeballs out. I know very well
what goes on. ‘Keep this till next month.
Enter this on next month’s bill.’ Now,
what did you hoard up to carry over to
this month? Eh?”
AVERY deep flush rose instantly to
the mother’s neck, cheeks and fore-
head. Even her eyeballs tingled. She
had to say something, so in desperation
she said, with a vain attempt at tar.tness,
“And did you count up all the crab and
salmon and asparagus?”
He leaned forward. “And whose fault
is that? Who’s always asking ‘What’ll
you have for tea —so-and-so or so-and-
so —or salmon. Or asparagus' A man’s
only human,” he ended up self-
righteously. “When you stick it right
under my nose, you know very well
what’ll happen.”
He stood up, folding the bill and slap-
ping it into his vest pocket. “Now hurry
up and we’ll go down into the bush for
wood. I can’t afford to be buying wood
when I get Halliday’s bills, butcher’s
bills, baker’s bills, milkman’s bills, doc-
tor’s bills and chemist’s bills and Lord
knows what other bills.”
Pen began to grizzle. “I’m going down
to Polly Trimble’s.”
“That’s just where you’re mistaken.
Miss Fifteen-and-sixpenny-hat! Madam,
you’re coming to haul wood, all the after-
noon y
“Well, I’ll have to ring up.”
“Ssssh!” whispered Marian.
But it was too late. The father had
spun around, his face frenzied with the
contortions of an almighty rage. “And
that’s another thing. I am having the
phone cut off. That telephone bill has
been exorbitant. That’s what it’s been.
Exorbitant.” He went through the middle
door, and a few moments later they heard
the rocking-chair begin to creak on the
front veranda.
THE mother did not stir from the table,
and sat looking at the messy plates,
but not seeing them. “Oh dear, oh dear,”
she wailed. “I really think it’s too bad
of your father. He’s given me a simply
dreadful headache, and my stomach is
just turning over and over ... He always
expects us all to look so nice, and you’re
getting older and bigger, and of course
the bills must get bigger and bigger.
And he knows I make all the clothes.
And look at all the things I make over
and let down. Twenty-one joins there
are in that new dress of Marian’s. Mrs.
Moore wouldn’t bother to do anything
like that, and yet I’ll be bound Mr.
Moore doesn’t come home and ramp and
roar. It’s just too bad of him.”
“I wouldn’t like to be a man and go
to work and pay all the bills” began
Marian. But she was interrupted by her
mother, who said angrily, “That’s right.
Stick up for your father. He’s always
right and I’m always wrong.” She left
the table hurriedly. “I’m sick and tired
of it all,” she said, and rushed to the
haven of the spare room, where she sat
in melancholy martyrdom, surveying a
linen-press which she knew- confirmed
very little linen and badly needed
replenishing. “I’ll just have to tell Mrs.
T. I can’t take those sheets and towels
she put away for me. I’ll just have to
make do with these.”
In the kitchen the children still sat at
the table. Marian noticed that Jimmy
was very woebegone and on the verge
of tears, so she said, “You run round
and sit on Daddy’s knee, if he’ll let you,
and we better clear up.”
“I think it’s all silly,” said Pen; but
for once she made no fuss about helping.
Jane said, “I’ll sneak round and see
what Daddy says to Jimmy,”
When she came back, she said, “Jimmy
is sitting on Daddy’s knee all right, and
he asked Daddy why he didn’t go down
and watch the cricket on the rec., and
Daddy said he was too poor to go.” Her
large blue eyes were wide with alarm.
“Do you really think we’ll all be poor
like the Todhunters, and have to eat
bread and dripping all the time, and not
just when we want to?”
Pen began to grizzle. “I don’t want
to be poor like the mangy
she sniffed. “Do you think we will be?’
she demanded.
Marian was fussily stowing things m
the big cupboard. “I don’t know, but
when I get a chance I’ll have a look m
his bankbook,” she said.
“Go and look now,” said Pen.
“I can’t. He’d hear me.”
The door was wrenched open, and they
all turned in alarm to confront their
horrified mother. “Marian,” she said
sternly. “Don’t you dare do such a
dreadful thing as to look in your father s
bankbook. Why, in all the years we’ve
been married I’ve never even thought or
doing such a thing.”
“Ah, poohey, you’re silly,” sald
Marian. “It’s yours as much as his.
“How dare you!” cried the mother.
“You don’t know what you’re talking
about.”
“I do so," said Marian stubbornly. d
says in the marriage ceremony, ‘With an
my worldly goods I thee endow.’ ”
The mother sniffed scornfully. J al ? e
said, “Mr. Carter says that’s just put i Q
for bait. What’s that mean, Mum?’
The mother opened her mouth, them
. crimping it, she hastily turned away. As
she went through the door, she warne
them, “I’m sitting there in the spare room
looking in the linen-press, and I can hea
every word you say.”
WHEN the washing-up was done, and
everything put away, they went
tell their father they were ready to g
for the wood. -,i
“If you hurry,” said Pen, “I can s
go to Trimbles’,” ,
“Ho, will you!” grunted the f atd '
“We’re getting wood all the afterno


madam. We are laying in enough wood
to stoke up your wood-consuming mother
for a month. Now, off with your shoes.
I’m not having toes kicked out and
uppers cut about.”
“But we’ll get prickles,” cried Pen.
“We might get hookworms,” worried
Marian. “And Jimmy can’t, because he
has garlic in his socks for his scarlet
fever. And Jane’ll be sure to get cut,
and then she might get lockjaw. We
might all get lockjaw.”
“Splendid! Splendid! ” cried the father.
“I’ll take off mine, too.”
Marian’s eyes filled with tears.
Hurriedly she crossed her fingers. The
apprehensive fears and superstitions
which were always to cramp her adven-
turous dreams made her quivering voice
urgent and impressive.
“Take it back! Take it back! ” she cried.
The father opened his mouth to say
something to brush aside her protests, but
suddenly the realisation that Marian had
to endure the same burden as he invoked
instantly the comfort which he so will-
ingly bestowed on her. In his lonely
childhood there had been no succor for
him, nor would there ever be. He patted
her on the head.
“Now, don’t be silly,” he said, “I
was only joking. Well, off we go. Put
the axe in the billycart and follow me.”
By the time they passed through the
gate he had recloaked his face with the
impenetrable gloom of displeased parent-
hood.
“And if I see any of you scuffling or
kicking you’ll get your bottoms tanned.”
He took the axe out of the cart and
gave it to Marian. “Here,” he said.
OFF they went into the bush, the father
leading, propelling the billycart
before him with young Jimmy hunched
well down in it like a small, inquisitive
gnome; Marian following, with the axe
dragging behind her ; Jane, hands behind
her back, singing ; and Pen mooching well
in the rear. The afternoon shimmered
with all the glamor of a bountiful
summer. The mountainous blackberry
bushes held to the sun myriads of emerald
green, ruby red and jet-black berries, and
along the path and among the brush the
rambling raspberry bushes clustered,
their pendulous fruit like tiny pears of
scarlet and shell-pink. Further into the
valley they descended, the damp earth
greeting them with the scent of ferns
and moss. The air seemed closer here,
and heavier, and fell on their bare arms
and expectant faces like the cool benison
of mist.
By this time the father had to be
careful not to whistle. Deliberately he
settled his face into grim and melancholy
lines, his brows frowning, his lips turned
down well at the corners.
“We might have to do this for a living
before long,” he stated ominously, “if you
keep on running your mother into buying
things. D’ you hear that, madam?” he
called to Pen. “And you, Miss Clod-
hopper? And you. Miss Fusspot? Eh?”
“Yes, Daddy,” they all replied meekly.
He looked at little Jimmy, sitting so
sprightly upright in the cart. To him he
issued no warning.
They passed through the pellucid pool
of filtered light beneath the group of giant
nettle-trees and came to the two cedars
with their vine-covered trunks and smooth
branches encrusted with staghorns and
birdnest ferns. They stood silent on the
cressy bank of the spring and looked
down into the pebbled pools. In a small
cove, calmed by a weir of jewelled duck-
weed, penny-doctors raced as precipi-
tously as toy speedboats.
“No time, no time for mooching!”
cried the father reluctantly. Over the
stream they went, Pen whimpering as
she shuffled over the wide, flattened log
which had been there as long as they
could remember, but was still firm and
uncrumbled. Over the other side the
father called a halt.
“Ha,” he said. “Ho. This old box
is still here, eh? Now I would have
thought someone would’ve fastened on
to this months ago. Now get right away
while I chop. Marian, you take them
over there and see they stay there. I
don’t want any doctor’s bills and
chemist’s bills for blind eyes or punc-
tured foreheads.”
For fifteen minutes the children feasted
on the raspberries. Pen, Jane and Jimmy
crammed them one after the other into
their mouths, and while the juice over-
flowed their lips and trickled from the
busy corners they gathered more.
Jane’s bright eyes noticed Marian care-
fully opening up each berry before she
placed it in her mouth. “Look at fussy
old Marian,” she cried. “She’s scared
she’ll eat a grub.”
“Fussy old Marian,” sang Pen, splut-
tering juice.
“The grubsTe only full of raspberry,”
shrieked Jane.
“That’s enough gormandising, you
gluttons,” cried the father. “Come here
and pack this wood into the cart.”
The Journey home with the wood took
a long time, because they rested at the
pool, under the cedars, under the nettle-
trees and in the shadow of a mountainous
blackberry bush. This was the longest
spell of all.
“Now I suppose you’ll all get the belly-
ache,” the father said, a little ruefully,
when they left it.
HT HEY were exhausted when they
* arrived home. The children flopped
on to the veranda and cried out how
tired they were. Even little Jimmy joined
in, although he had carried home only
two twigs.
“Well, hurry up and get untired
commanded the father, “because we’re
going back. Marian, make me a lemon
drink.”
The mother appeared at the doorway
with a jug of lemon drink and a plate
of cookies. “I’ll bring out the glasses
in a second,” she said, “Oh, look at their
faces, Ray. They’re like beetroot. And
now, if they get a chill and I have to
buy medicine you’ll blame me.”
“They have to get tough,” stated the
father. “We’ll have to be self-supporting
soon.”
“Oh, now, don’t start on me again,”
cried the mother, and hurried back for
the glasses.
“Will we have to eat bread and
dripping all the time?” asked Jimmy
anxiously.
“I don’t know—yet,” answered the
father. “We might be able to have some-
thing extra on Sundays.” '
Very thoughtfully they ate the cookies
and drank the lemon-juice.
“Now unload that wood,” said the
father. “So far I’ve done practically all
the work, so you can'unload it, and see
how you’ll like to spend the rest of your
lives working ”
THE tramp arrived at the side fence
I as the last blocks were being piled
on the heap. He was a nondescript type,
but he was clean and tidy, and his voice
was well-modulated. He looked over the
fence and said, “Do you think your
mother would have any odd jobs I could
do for a scrap of tucker?”
T . . . .• « T ,,i oc ,v»
The ch.ldren gaped at him. IU ask,
said Marian at last.
As she went to the house she heard
Jimmy say proudly. We re poor. We
have to live on bread and dripping,
except on Sundays.
Ssssh, hissed Pen. We have not,
she said indignantly, in her most genteel
Jimmy is romancering.
Before Marian could slip into the
house to her mother her father accosted
h? r - Who s that. he demanded, raising
himself from the old sagging chair and
leaning forward to peer around the
corner of the veranda, his eyes bright
beneath beetling brows,
A tmmp hes quite nice.
This house is too poor to give any
food to anyone,” came the mother’s tart
voice from the kitchen, where she was
briskly mixing up batter for a toad-in-the-
hole.
“I’ll talk to him,” said the father.
SOME time passed befor? the father
returned. “A decent bloke,” he said
brightly, all his apathy and melancholy
vanished. “He was a linotype-operator
in a suburban printery, but this damn
depression has caught up with him. Now
let’s see —what can we give him?”
“I thought we were supposed to be on
the breadline,” snapped the mother.
“Here I am making up a dish out of bits
of this and bits of that to economise,
and you’re going to raid the pantry. They
get the dole, don’t they?” ,
“The dole," cried the father. “It
wouldn’t feed a flea!”
The mother slapped the wooden spoon
about viciously in the basin. “You might
be interested to know I’m using water-
glass eggs to save you a few pennies.”
“What!” shouted the father, very dis-
gusted. Leaving the cupboard door wide
open, he came to peer into the basin.
“Don’t you dare give me any of that
tack! ”
The mother said sweetly, “I presume
you’ll have the alternative, bread and
dripping?”
He pretended he had not heard her,
and going back to the cupboard stuck
his head right into the top shelf. “What’s
this?” he mumbled in a bemused voice.
a Plum jam. Haven’t you anything better
than plum jam? I’m not going to give
him plum. It’s only for pies and cake.
Where’s some goozcberry?”
Pen, looking very vexed, came on to
the veranda. “Marian, you’ll have to
go out and make Jane and Jimmy come
in, they’re talking to him as though we
know him as well as anything. People’ll
think he’s a relative or something.”
“Come in here, Penelope!” suddenly
bellowed the father.
Pen dawdled into the kitchen, arrang-
ing her hands daintily in an affectation
of nonchalance.
“Now, Madam,” said the father grimly.
“Don’t you dare let me hear any more
of that rot from you.”
“She’s a true Venables,” sniffed the
mother contemptuously.
“That man’s a printer,” announced the
father, sticking his head back into the
cupboard.
“Oh, well, then, just give him every-
thing in the cupboard,” sang the mother
in her most offensively saccharine tone.
“Just ask him to come in, girls, and make
his choice. Throw open the house. Per-
haps he’d like some sheets, too. But
ours mightn’t be good enough.”
“Oh don’t be so silly,” said Pen, and
went into the bedroom to dress herself
up for visiting. She thought if she was
quick about it she might even be able
to walk out wearing the 15s. 6d. hat.
“Ha, some goozeberry! ” announced
the father triumphantly.
“It’s gooSeberry, Daddy,” chided Pen.
“GooZeberry is what vulgar people say.”
“Yes, this gooZZZeberry is just the
thing,” said the father, smacking his lips
together.
MARIAN, sitting on the edge of the
back veranda, by tense concentra-
tion could catch the main trends of the
indoor and the outdoor conversations.
“There’s a real good house on the main
road where you can camp,” Jane was
saying. “They all go there. There’s a
mark up there which means it’s a good
place. Tubby Watkins says it’s a tramp’s
“good” mark. And they’ve put a bad
mark on Mrs. Moore’s gate-post, but she
doesn’t know. That’s because she
skitches the dog on them; and it’ll bite,
too, and they throw their rubbish in her
yard now. Will you put a good mark
on our gate-post —but perhaps you better
not. Mum’d be mad if all of you started
coming in.”
The father came striding out of the
kitchen. In his arms he had tins of
gooseberry jam, peaches, sardines, a bag
of cookies, half a loaf of bread, half a
pound of butter and some tea.
The mother’s voice followed him, tense
with hostility. “Just you dare come back
in here, Ray, stirring me all up about
bills. Just you dare! ”
She clattered the utensils into the tiri
washing-up dish. “Marian,” she called
shrilly. “You come in here and lay this
fire.”
“I want to hear what’s going on,”
mewled Marian.
“Come in her immediately /” cried the
mother, hitting the table violently with
the wooden spoon.
“Oh dear, now Mum’s mad,” thought
Marian; but her heart was light as she
rose to do her mother’s bidding. It was
obvious to her that they weren’t going
to starve after all.
“Poor Daddy!” she thought. “I sup-
pose he just gets tired of working.”
FIVE SONNETS...
AND HERE YOU ARE!
David Campbell
When my grandfather talks of handling horses,
Flying is child’s play. These were the good old days
Of fou r-in-hands and Christmas-buttocked bays:
And life, he'll concede, moved slower—there were the races,
And church, of course—but when did Time run in traces?
Wed meet after breakfast, Sundays, my father in cut-aways,
The girls very fine one especially in lace and stays
I ve in mind—then off like one of your old-fashioned hearses.
For father had Knox by heart, read prayers out loud; —
And I' m touching the lead on the quiet, and closing my eyes,
When heigh! and we’re up a gumtree, all spilt on the road;
And here’s this girl sprawled in my arms. Then father cries,
With book in hand, ‘God damn you, Frederick! Damn you, sir!’
However, I married the girl—and here you are.”
AFTER THE ELOPEMENT.
The tide has dropped these two old people high
And dry among the albums, the silver frames:
Ted and his scooter, Alice, other names
Only remembered when Alice comes to sigh
Over this runaway mother—Think what people say!
And are you really happy?—or Edward fumes,
Laying down wills and virtue; —then the old times
Return, and a bearded portrait lifts an eye.
And the cracked old lady laughs; the dusty room
Is close with presences. So, pouring tea
With careless courtesy —Who cares who hears?—■
She will ask, O malice! of her faded groom,
“Do you take milk and sugar? Two or three?’’
The harbor shakes, the tides lap at the piers.
THE COURTESAN.
She came from a bombed country, had neat brown hair,
And was at times quite plain; her husband was proud,
Brilliant, devoid of grace; but by the fire
With books and their dark children, or in a crowd
Smiling together, they threw a light, the air
—I have heard even wives admit it—glowed.
For there were always men about her, they came to her
Like salmon to a fall. One turned, one bowed.
Ah God! and she was honest. She gave to each
What he desired: let him need mothering,
Then he must mind the children; be light of eye,
She’d stay a night, and go; or let him reach
For love, O hearts lay down in eyes! The spring
Came early, then the snow. The husband sat by.
SUNSET.
The distance gives a world in miniature:
A savage place of round and pointed hills
Cut out in light within the cloudbreak. There
Tornados suck the towns and haggard ills
Point fingerposts to heaven; prophets tread air
Above the crossroads; phoenix-like, their wills
Sweep blazing through the valley; the crooked heir
Marches his slaves to little rooms and kills.
It could not happen here. In this soft light
Sheep nod in shade like loaves of bread; the orchid
Completes her hooded labor and the bird
His note of praise. All move towards delight:
The broom, the plough, the schoolboy. This is the dance,
And evening. But colors rise, the hills advance!
THE BOXER.
The boxer—see his little cup!—is made of iron.
Sits hands on knees; and let a goldfinch cry,
He’ll beat the daylight from a dandelion.
Yet there’s a saving hunger in his eye.
—So matter became flesh; pinched quick by love
And vain to see itself, fell into arms:
And in a desert place the atoms move,
Becoming hedgehog’s eyes and lory’s plumes.
The hare’s brief dance of praise, the spider mind
Spinning his spanning rainbows . . . and do not heed
Top-heavy fools whom staring has struck blind,
For from the mountain’s dreaming sprang the seed.
So matter became flesh, stood in the sun.
Then punched itself back into clay again.


*
#
4
4
t
/
t
I
I
I
I
I
Here’s why vour DAD, too, can..
Shave in 3 minutes
I
% /
I
H
i
a
>1
ONLY
£7's'6
complete with leather zlppered case
Philishave’s ROTARY cutting head reduces shaving
time by minutes. Its rotary action makes
Philishave the only truly modern, electric shaver.
It's the Ideal Father's Day Gift
Buy Dad Philishave for
Father’s Day. Philishave
oulmodes all other shaving
methods. No more shaving
with time-wasting soap,
blades and brush. Dad will
be able to have a quick,
close shave . . . anywhere,
anytime ... at home, in
bed, at the office! He can
fully dressed
because, with Philishave,
there’s no mess—no falling
hairs.
Philishave is available at
most leading radio retailers
and department stores. If
you can persuade Dad to do
it, get him to have a free
demonstration shave at any
of th ese stores before
Father’s Day arrives.
Here’s the secret of
PHUISHAVE’S smooth
CLOSER-SHAVING
efficiency
d
SHAVING HEAD:
The wafer-thin head of
Philishave has scien-
tifically designed, angu-
lated slots which guide
EVERY hair into the
cutter.
0
6-BLADED CUTTER;
The 6-bladed, self-
sharpening. rotary
action cutter whirrs
round at 3,000 r.p.m.
It cuts off every hair—
smoothly, closely—with-
out drag.
GRIP-MOULDED
BODY;
Philishave's grip-
moulded body fits snug-
ly into the hand. You
can shave at any angle
and In any direction.
Throughout the world
this symbol guides
the choice of millions.
y
PHILIPS
The 3-minute
I
ROTARY-ACTION ELECTRIC SHAVER
FAMOUS AS PHILIPS LAMPS
PP7-50
Missing Friend.
TO WILLIAM LESLIE SAYERS formerly
of Preston in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EILEEN
FRANCES SAYERS formerly of 20 Tenny-
son Avenue Preston in the State of Vic-
toria but now of 319 Rae Street North
Fitzroy in the said State Married Woman
has instituted against you for
divorce on the ground that you have
without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted her and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards UNLESS
you enter an Appearance in the Prothono-
tary’s Office of the Supreme Court of the
said State of Victoria Law Courts William
Street Melbourne In the said State on
or before the 21st day of September 1950
and file an Answer in the said office on
or before the 2nd day of October 1950 the
case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs. —F. J.
CORKER, of 108 Queen Street, Melbourne,
in the State of Victoria, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
mm
'A SERVICE
LVALUE
> RINSER AND WRINGER
Just connect to your water tap, it
does the rest. The Spindrier
rinses and wrings all your clothes,
sheets, blankets or anything
ready for the line and, in some
cases, ready for the iron. No
handling or wear and tear what-
ever. Saves the housewife’s hands
and all the labour of rinsing and
wringing. Money back if not
satisfied. Price £7/10/- cash. We
deliver free right to your home
in Sydney or Melbourne.
Write for Detailed > Illustrated Leaflet.
WE ARE SOEE
MANUFACTURERS & AGENTS
QUEENSLAND
PASTORAL
SUPPLIES
Bouien srpTY'IJP b r i s b a n e
refresh' 146
At all times, and
especially In the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio—
CuticuraSoap. Oint-
ment, Talcum
Powder,
.528
2sr
a*
TM
£
fd
AN OLD MASTER
by A.E. STURGES
OLD Owen sits at the saw-
bench, cleaning copper
lugs. Sitting jobs are
few —the drill, the solder-
pot and the winding bench —but
Owen is privileged because of
a gammy knee. As he works his
small bright eyes slide about be-
hind the steel-rimmed glasses;
he likes someone to yarn to,
someone to listen to the tales of
his past or hear his present
troubles. .
He’ll catch my eye and jerk
his head for me to join him.
“Corns are bad today. Art,” he’ll
complain gently. “How about
counter-sinking ’em?” And
down we’ll go to the dim corner
behind the forge, where the bags
of coke lean one against the
other in drunken support, and
steel of all shapes and sizes—
flat, round, angle-iron and chan-
nel —is stacked haphazard
against the wall; Owen will col-
lapse with a contented grunt on
a pile of dusty coke-bags, peel
off boots and sox and thrust a
big pale foot into my hands;
and I, with spilt coke scratching
underfoot, set to work with his
penknife to the accompaniment
of chiacking from the men:
“Look out. Art; you’re taking
a risk in that dark corner,” and
the like. Old Owen yells insults
at them while I
bend forward
over his foot to
hide my burn-
ing face.
Or it’ll be his
knee. “Giving
me hell today,
Art; have to see
about it. Look!” And up’ll
come his trouser-leg, eased
gently over the offending knee
with many grunts, and off’ll
come yards-and yards of soiled
bandage. The flesh about the
knee is unhealthily puffy, and
the big scar looks horribly new,
though it happened thirty, forty
years ago.
The old man had been a
country blacksmith when the
ring of an anvil was a common
sound and off-workers drifted
to the glow of the forge for a
warm and a yarn. He’d been
shoeing a touchy draught, and a
wild kick had ripped open his
knee-cap, giving him a bent leg
for life.
But he still loves the forge and
anvil and keeps his cunning ; it’s
a pleasure to see him; the iron
glowing, the hammer tapping,
the iron taking up the required
shape as though it can read the
old man’s thoughts. And his
voice, still good, breaks into an
old song.
He’d been a musician, too,
member of a brass band, and
now, on his way to the store for
a bar of steel, he’ll blow a cornet
solo with his lips and step out
smartly in time, his head sway-
ing and dipping with the bent
leg. As he swings past the office
clerks pause in their work to
smile. Old Owen’s noises are
well known.
TODAY Owen peers in vain ;
we’re unusually busy. He
gets up with a sigh, walks
stiffly to the forge, unearths his
lunch-case from a pile of bags
and selects a couple of sand-
wiches and a hunk of cake. He
loves eating; all the men’s left-
overs go into his case and every
hour or so he’ll have a snack. As
he eats he rubs the lugs with
emery-cloth. By the time he s
done with them it’s a shame to
tin them, they’re so clean and
bright. It’s typical of Owen ;
his creed is “Do a good job. It
he makes you a scriber it’s not
just a rod of sharpened steel—it’s
a work of art, twisted and orna-
mented like an Eastern dagger,
the point sharp and properly
tempered. See him finishing off
a chisel —a quick dip in the tub,
then an intent peering as the
colors run through the file-
brightened edge, a final plunge
as the right color shows, a swirl-
ing here and there to break the
air-seal round the chisel. Every
movement looks right.
Owen likes to see tools
handled properly. An appren-
tice will swing the sledge, pound-
ing the iron where Owen taps
with his light hammer. “No, no,
no!” he’ll cry and take the
sledge, showing the boy how to
lift without effort, the left arm
thrust straight out and up, the
right hand kept low. The boy
tries again. “Careful!” yells
Owen. “You’re not shooting a
crow.”
Owen rubs the copper and
munches his cake, and his
thoughts wander to the days of
the railway-construction camp;
himself as a nipper, running with
the billies, then tool-sharpener’s
help, then tool-sharpener him-
self. Those were the days. He
sighs and takes a bite of cake.
SUDDENLY his head jerks
up, he stops chewing; the
air at the forge has been turned
on. Beech, an apprentice, is
poking at the fire. Owen
watches him closely, but sits
still; Beechy is one of the few
in the shop who prefers to do
his own blacksmithing, and
more than once he’s brusquely
refused Owen’s offers of help.
He tips out some coke and
shovels it on. * Owen’s mouth
tightens; the fool hasn’t even
crushed it. He shoves a rod
into the fire and taps madden-
ingly on the anvil as he waits.
Owen’s hand still moves over
the lugs, but his whole attention
is fixed on the boy at the forge.
Out comes the rod; Bang!
bang! bang! goes the hammer,
and the iron bends reluctantly.
Owen can’t restrain himself.
“Get it hot!” he yells.
Beechy affects not to hear, but
puts the rod back in the fire
just the same. This time it
comes out an eye-hurting white,
small stars shooting off in all
directions, and now the rod
moves readily, too readily, under
the hammer, and the end has
been eaten away by the heat.
Owen jerks to his feet and
rocks down to the forge,
“Whatcher making? he growls,
“Suspension-rod.” Beechy speaks
abruptly ; pity the old fool can’t
keep out of the way. He pulls
the rod from the fire again and
manoeuvres so he’s between
Owen and the anvil; Owen
shuffles round anxiously. Beechy
looks at the spoilt rod, chucks
it aside and turns to select
another from the corner,
Old Owen mutters to himself,
swallows hard and moves for-
ward; taking the boy by sur-
prise he grabs the hammer and
t^e j ron an d edges Beechy out
wa y_ fje throws down
- ron an d hammer, rakes out
t^e c ji n k er , tips some new coke,
crus j ies an d banks up the fire
an( j t urns U p the air. He rolls
s s i eeves s tiU further, spits
on yg bands and plays with the
iammer w hile the fire is warm-
u
] NTO the fire goes the rod, and
1 as Owen holds it he seems to
listen, and his fingers feel the
iron as a fisherman feels his line,
Out it comes glowing, on to the
anvil. Tap! tap! tap! The
right weight on the right spot,
Plink! plink! The hammer on
the anvil between blows as the
bar is turned. Tap! tap! tap!
plink! plink! And Owen’s
voice rises in song above the
whine of motors and the clatter
of shafts.
And now the old shop is a
brighter, cheerier place: the
glow from the forge chases the
shadows from the corners, the
anvil rings merrily and at the
sound of Owen’s voice men raise
their heads from vices and lathes
and nod and grin to each other
at the old bloke’s song:
y m a nipper. I’m a tipper, I’m
a navvy on the line,
pi ve an d twenty bob a week
beside me overtime,
Q the girls like the navvies and
the navvies like the fun,
Q what shall we do when the
railroad’s done ?


Missing Friends.
MISSING RELATIVE.
BOLLING, Francis Thomas, formerly of
Merton, in the State of Victoria, and
believed to have subsequently resided at
Woodstock and Morwell in the said State,
and also to have visited various places in
New South Wales and South Australia.
WILL any person knowing- the where-
abouts of the abovenamed FRANCIS
THOMAS DOLLING please communicate
with MAL. RYAN. LL.B., Solicitor, Mans-
field, Victoria?
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of FLORENCE ALICE ADELIA
NIXON, nee EDWARDS, formerly of
Normanton and Tully, but last heard of
in Brisbane in 1945, communicate with
the undersigned. MATTER URGENT.—
J. J. BELL & BELL, Solicitors, Box 232,
Tully, North Queensland.
MIETHKE, Vema Haldine, nee McGRATH,
a daughter of FLORENCE JOSEPHINE
McGRATH, and a granddaughter of
JOSEPHINE ANDERSON, late of Royal
Hotel, Spensley Street, Clifton Hill. Would
she or anyone knowing her whereabouts
communicate with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne?
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of FRANCIS WILLIAM MCCLELLAND,
late of Yarraville, but now of parts un-
Known, please communicate with MESSRS.
W- H. JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors,
of 218 Nicholson Street, Footscray f
Public Notices.
TO DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON address unknown Jeweller
and Watchmaker.—TAKE NOTICE that
FRANCES AMY ROBERTSON of 85 Hill
View Road Mt. Lawley in the State of
Western Australia Married Woman claim-
ing to be lawfully married to you has
commenced an action and filed a claim
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 255 of 1950) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your adultery
with JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
Co-Defendant If you desire to defend the
said action you must within FORTY
DAYS (40) clear after the date of the
publication of this Notice file in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a statement of your defence to the
Plaintiff’s Claim or a counterclaim for
any relief to which you are entitled In
default of your so doing the said
FRANCES AMY ROBERTSON may pro-
ceed in thd action and the Court may
hear evidence and judgment may be given
in your absence A copy of the Writ of
Summons with the Statement of Claim
endorsed may be obtained by you free
of charge on application to the under-
mentioned Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Dated the 13th day of July, 1950. —(Sgd.)
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. MESSRS.
SPEED & CANTOR, .Padbury Buildings,
Forrest Place, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff herein.
TO JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
address unknown Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that HORACE EMANUEL
GLOSSOP of Carnarvon in the State of
Western Australia Diesel Engineer claim-
ing to be lawfully married to you has
commenced ah action and filed a claim
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 335 of 1950) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of vour adultery
with DUDLEY WILLIAM . COLLINS
ROBERTSON Co-Defendant If you desire
to defend the said action you must within
FORTY DAYS (40) clear after the date
of the publication of this Notice file in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a Statement of your Defence to
the Plaintiffs Claim or a counterclaim
for any relief to which you are entitled
In default of your so doing the said
HORACE EMANUEL GLOSSOP may pro-
ceed in the action and the Court may hear
evidence and judgment may be given in
your absence A copy of the Writ of
Summons with the Statement of Claim
endorsed may be obtained by you free of
charge on application to the undermen-
tioned Solicitors for the Plaintiff. Dated
the 13th day of July, 1950. —(Sgd.) G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. MESSRS. SPEED
& CANTOR, Padbury Buildings, Forrest
Place, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff
herein.
TO DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON address unknown Jeweller
and Watchmaker.—TAKE NOTICE that
HORACE EMANUEL GLOSSOP of Car-
narvon in the State of Western Australia
Diesel Engineer claiming to be lawfully
married to JOANNA JOSEPHINE
GLOSSOP has commenced an action and
filed a claim against her in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia (Matrimonial
Causes No. 335 of 1950) for a Dissolution
of Marriage on the ground of her adultery
with you DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON Co-Defendant If you desire
to defend the said action you must within
FORTY DAYS (40) clear after the date
of the publication of this Notice file in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a Statement of your Defence to the
Plaintiff’s Claim or counterclaim for any
relief to which you are entitled In
default of your so doing the said HORACE
EMANUEL GLOSSOP may proceed in the
action and the Court may hear evidence
and judgment may be given in your
absence A copy of the Writ of Summons
with the Statement of Claim endorsed may
be obtained by you free of charge on
application to the undermentioned Solici-
tors for the Plaintiff. Dated the ISth day
of July. 1950.—(5gd.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. MESSRS. SPEED & CANTOR,
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
TO JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
address unknown Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that FRANCES AMY ROBERT-
SON of 85 Hill View Road Mt. Lawley
in the State of Western Australia Married
Woman claiming to be lawfully married
to DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS ROB-
ERTSON has commenced an action and
filed a claim against him in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia (Matrimonial
Causes No. 255 of 1950) for a Dissolution
of Marriage on the ground of his adultery
with you JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
Co-Defendant If you desire to defend the
said action you must within FORTY
DAYS (40) clear after the date of the
publication of this Notice file in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court Perth
a Statement of your Defence to the
Plaintiff’s Claim or counterclaim! for any
relief to which you are entitled In default
of your so doing the said FRANCES AMY
ROBERTSON may proceed in the action
and the Court may hear evidence and
judgment may be given in your absence
A copy of the Writ of Summons with the
Statement of Claim endorsed may be
obtained by you free of charge on appli-
cation to the undermentioned Solicitors
for the Plaintiff. Dated the 13th day of
July, 1950.—(5gd.) O. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. MESSRS. SPEED & CNTOR,
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Dark of the Moon."
A New York cable lately re-
ported that a mountaineer
walked into a Tennessee store
and shot two women dead in
order to break a spell of witch-
craft they had put upon him
which had occasioned the death
of his child. So that Puritan
heritage is still extant in Ten-
nessee, if not in Melbourne. In
Melbourne audiences who don’t
believe in witches have been
looking at the witch-play “Dark
of the Moon,” put on by Doris
Fitton, with an all-Australian
cast, at the Comedy Theatre, and
it is being done so well that,
momentarily at least, they can
feel it.
The authors, Howard Richard-
son and William Berney, have
obviously attempted to revitalise
a local folk-tale. It is a diffi-
cult thing to do, as anyone who
has tried must know. Every race
has stories of witches, were-
tigers, werewolves and war-
locks who have united them-
selves to human beings, and the
more robust Greeks made their
gods come down as bulls or
horses and impregnate earthly
maidens.
There is an appropriate touch
of the Puritan, or some-
thing, about Messrs. Richard-
son and Berney’s conjur-woman
inasmuch as the condition she
puts on the witch-boy if he
wants to be a human is that he
shall marry the girl with whom
he has fallen in love and who
is about, to bear him a baby,
and can only stay a human if
she is faithful to him for a
whole year.
Since the church can’t be
desecrated. Preacher Haggler
marries them and pockets the
fee in front of the store. She
bears him a child which is half-
witch, and the horrified villagers
take it out into the backyard and
burn it. Before the year is out
the pact is broken, the wife dies
and the husband goes back to
his eagle on Baldy Mountain. .
The story is told swiftly in
colloquial language to the ac-
companiment of psalm-singing
and Tennessee folk-music which
has an authentic ring about it.
It is all extraordinarily well
done. Nobody was better than
Rosemary Miller as the wild and
wilful Barbara Allen, with her
passionate indifference to the
prejudices of the home folk.
John Faassen gave a queer veri-
similitude to the witch-boy.
John Gray, as the giddy old
Uncle Smelicue, was first-class,
and Kevin Brennan, as the vil-
lage Elmer Gantry, was perfect.
Producer Doris Fitton has done
a wonderful job she has
almost made us believe in
witches. —F. S.
The old anteroom to the
National Gallery in Melbourne,
which used to bristle with spears
and other lethal weapons of
more primitive cultures, has
been reconditioned, rechristened
the Kent Gallery—after H. W.
Kent, the honorary curator and
donor of some of the best items
in the collection —and made the
repository for Chinese ceramics.
Landscape drawings and por-
traits are included, and there is
the same quality of observation
and sensitiveness to Nature in
them as in the Sung and Ming
pottery and porcelain with their
tender glazes. It is repeated
again in the sculpture, which in-
cludes the relaxed and fleshy
Kwan Yin, carved by some
ancient craftsman about the time
of the Norman Conquest.
It is a pity some of the same
quality hasn’t been put into the
lighting and decoration of the
surroundings. If the authorities
concerned had gone out of their
way to show the exhibits off to
the worst advantage they
couldn’t have done better. It
looks like a surgical operating-
theatre.
Klemperer.
Looking like an old and some-
what weary eagle, Otto Klem-
perer mounted the rostrum at the
Melbourne Town Hall for the
sixth of the 1950 Subscription
concerts, gazed noncommittally
at late-comers, raised his baton-
less hands as if to perform a
benediction, and plunged the
Victorian Symphony
Orchestra into the
finest performance it
has given since it be-
came a State organ-
isation. The German
conductor has a.pre-
dilection for German
music, and the pro-
gramme was all-Ger-
man as regards the
names of the corn-
posers, but universal
as regards the con-
tent,
The strings have
never produced a
richer tone than they
did in Handel’s Con-
certo Grosso in A
Minor, Op. 6 No. 4,
one of the 12 which
that extraordinary
composer wrote in
days. His thinkin
about it must have
been done long before
he put it down on
paper, for it flowed
easily from start to
finish like a philo-
sophical discourse.
Schubert’s “Tragic” Sym-
phony, so - called, followed.
Schubert was even more hard-
up than usual when he wrote it.
No doubt he felt the same desire
as other people to grizzle about
his economic conditions, but
whereas most people’s necessity
to grizzle expresses itself in
grizzle, Schubert’s expressed it-
self in a glorious affair of lovely
melodic counter-points and
modulations, restless shifts from
one key to another, pleading
hymn-like tunes and occasional
shouts of laughter, a charming
minuet and trio and a glorious
finale. Coming after this the
singing of tenor Justus Bonn in
“Am Stillen Herd” from “The
Meistersingers” was somewhat
of an anticlimax, though he ex-
pressed the agitation and upset-
ness of Lohengrin in the famous
“Narration” from Wagner’s
opera with much dramatic in-
sight.
Even if nothing had been done
before, the performance of the
Brahms Symphony No, 1 would
have raised the concert to a high
standard. Beethoven’s ghost
makes its appearance in the
finale in the shape of a quotation
from the Ninth Symphony, but
it finds itself in as noble a com-
pany as itself, and there is
nothing incongruous about it.
Manfred Clynes.
Playing of varied quality
marked the Sydney recital of the
22-year-old Melbourne pianist,
though with that of higher
degree preponderating. This was
in greatest evidence in Mozart’s
Sonata in B Flat. In this the
contours were clean-cut, the first
movement was given scholarly
treatment, with the melodic line
firm and clear and the embel-
lishments graceful. A poetic
feeling touched the slow move-
ment. In the final section, how-
ever, more animation and light-
heartedness could have been em-
ployed with profit. And therein
lies a very obvious weakness of
the pianist. He is, very patently,
a most serious young man, and
solemnity informs much of his
playing. Where the leavening of
gaiety is called for he tends to be
found wanting.
His Brahms and Chopin were
quite good, especially in the
Ballades of each composer. In
these he succeeded in building
up massive tone in the climaxes,
giving vivid emphasis to the
heroic qualities inherent in the
works. Here his instinct for
drama was apparent.
The Brahms Intermezzo,
No. 2 of Op. 117, was played
with imagination, with a nice
balance held between its agita-
tion and melancholy. A Chopin
Scherzo had plenty of fire, and
the same composer’s lovely Ber-
ceuse was stated with beautiful
delicacy and refinement, Bach’s
F Minor Fantasia had more of
sheer mechanics in it than there
should have been, though Bach
is usually the pianist’s strong
point.
Debussy’s badly - overplayed
“Reflections in the Water”
gained nothing from another
wearisome repetition; the same
“But, John, he'll be on the Tivoli some day.”
composer’s “Footsteps in the
Snow” —which, for all that the
music conveys, could with equal
aptness have been titled “Pay-
day at a Tannery”—and “Wind
in the Plains,” imagery far from
distinguished, were just Debussy.
In a group of encores the
pianist let himself go, and re-
vealed an astonishing degree of
digital dexterity in “La Cam-
panella” and other similar
pieces.
Clynes is a pianist of great
ability and promise. He has a
feeling for big works. His tech-
nique is first-rate, his ihterpreta-
tional capacity adequate, and
when he is able to play the
vivacious portions of works
with greater abandon and joy-
ousness he will be close to the
top-rung ; he is already well up
the ladder.
North Sydney
Symphony Orchestra.
In its first venture into the
symphonic field this body of
enthusiastic amateurs, which,
under conductor Alan Bell-
house, has previously confined
its efforts to shorter pieces, and
has done sterling service by in-
troducing works by Australian
composers, wisely chose as its
major work a Haydn sym-
phony, “The Clock,” No. 101.
This example of the composer’s
mature style has no complexi-
ties, and its simple grace is ad-
mirably suited to players whose
experience has been necessarily
limited.
The bassoon’s voice was a
conspicuous absentee in the
slow, ascending passage given
out by the strings after the grave
introduction this instrument,
and the horns, should be added
to the orchestra’s complement
as soon as possible.
But there was no lack of
vivacity in the announcement by
the upper strings of the first
theme. Thereafter the orchestra,
showing evidence of good dis-
cipline in rehearsal, was meticu-
lous in attack. In the second
movement, from which the
symphony gets its title, the
pizzicato of the rest of the
strings maintained well the in-
exorable ticking of the clock
while the first violins, which
throughout gave an excellent
account of themselves, wove the
melody. The Minuet and the
sprightly final movement
brought out improved playing
of good cohesion and balance.
Of the string choir the second
violins and violas were the weak
spots.
Elsewhere the orchestra
showed fine promise, though the
brasses spoke with too indi-
vidual a voice at times. Beeth-
oven’s “Prometheus” Overture
had a bold forthrightness and
symmetrical outlines; Handel’s
“Occasional Overture” was not
allowed to “drag,” and in this
the flexibility of the fiddles was
a potent factor, combined with
the alertness and energy of the
conductor. An Old English
Suite of Granville Bantock’s
arranging and comprising airs
by Orlando Gibbons, Dowland
and Byrd was another am-
bitious experiment which paid
dividends, while the rhythms of
a Country Song and a Marching
Song of Gustav Holst were given
quite sparkling treatment.
Some Schubert and Strauss
waltzes and short pieces by Mac-
Dowell and Delibes completed a
programme the ambitions of
which certainly proved not be-
yond the compass of these
players. It was a most en-
couraging start. Noel Warren
raised an easily-produced voice,
which ranges from bass to bari-
tone, in some mellow singing of
Schumann, Bach, Schubert,
Giordani and Charles.
Gyorgy Sandor, the Hungarian
pianist who was a pupil of Bela
Bartok, was soloist in the
Brahms B Flat Major Concerto
at the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra’s fifth concert of the
season at the Melbourne Town
Hall. It may have been his per-
formance which made the rest
of the programme, which in-
cluded the “Leonora” ’ Overture
of Beethoven and the Ninth
Symphony of Shostakovich,
seem a trifle insipid. He made
the piano talk and sing in a
way that it hasn’t sung and
talked for a long time, and the
depth of his playing was re-
flected in the orchestral back-
ground. Henry Krips is a fine
conductor, but he could not get
much enthusiasm out of his
audience for the rest of the pro-
ceedings. Shostakovich may
have written bis symphony in a
dull mood, or it may only have
seemed dull by comparison with
the concerto, but there was little
response to the orchestra’s
efforts.
An Australian
Composer.
John Gilfedder, an Australian
composer, dropped out of a
clear sky on to the Melbourne
Assembly Hall platform the
other evening with a sheaf of
C Continued on page 35.)


No more need to worry
... our affairs
are in safe hands
fd
4 ‘My husband’s father iiamed Burns Philp Trust
Company as his executor, and we’ve found the Company
prompt, considerate and wonderfully efficient.”
You can save your beneficiaries endless anxiety by
taking a similar step. If you are unable to call and
see a senior trust officer, please write for the interesting
booklet, “Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.”
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR TRUSTEE ATTORNEY
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BPI2A-EC
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY EDWARD PETTETT late
of Prexner in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
FLORENCE PETTETT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4313 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
22nd September 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. J. McLAOHLAN HOARE &
CO., Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard Street, Syd-
ney.—j. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN GRAHAM BOOKER late of
Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE that
ANDRENE JEAN BOOKER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 788 of 1948 on
the ground of your adultery with PAT-
RICIA COOKE and is seeking the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under Sec-
tion 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry King Street Sydney by the 25th
day of October 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL & CO., Soli-
citors, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
available NOW . • •
modern APPLIANCES
FOR
fd
fd
QUIRK’S
ELECTRIC DRILL
This hand drill will prove a boon to the
handy man. Suitable for woodwork, light
metal work and plastic work, this drill 1$
compact, light, with an easy grip switch.
32-volt D.C. or 240-volt A.C.
QUIRK’S ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
No water or shaving cream Is
needed, fust plug into your
nearest power point. Avail-
able in 32. 110 and 240 volts.
rs
QUIRK’S Electric Machine Motor
Every woman will appreciate this time and labour saver.
Simple and easy to operate. Quirk's Electric Machine
Motor can be easily attached to your old treadle machine
and will give years of speedy reliable service. Available
in 32, 50, 110 and 240 volts.
OHM’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY . . PHONE M 3114
THE SERVICE MAN
See-saw in Korea.
“Ek Dum”: Reports of the
Korean fighting were dis-
tinguished by the usual hysteria
and exaggeration during the
past week. From delight at the
supposed victories in the south
the correspondents turned to
watch with sorrow the concen-
trations of North Koreans in
the area north-west of Taegu in
the Waegwan region and in the
bridgeheads immediately to the
east of the temporary capital
where the enemy had advanced
far enough to drop shells into
the city and cause a temporary
evacuation of some civilians;
also further south in the angle
of the Naktong River before
Changyong and Yonsan.
On August 16 it was
announced that 99 Super-
fortresses had dropped 950 tons
of bombs on 60,000 North
Korean troops concentrated in
an .area seven miles by 3i miles
—about 40 tons to the square
mile of the concentration area.
Who counted the enemy troops
nobody told. But it appeared
that so impressive was the sight
of the Superfortresses going
over in waves of 10 at 20-
minute intervals that fighting
stopped, even the enemy stand-
ing with mouths open while
“whole ridges seemed to ex-
plode under the weight of
bombs.” The ridges of Korea
appear to be rather fragile
affairs, like the enemy’s 60,000
against which part of a single
U.S. division -was supposed to
be making “significant ground
gains” even before the real thing
started. There was no ack-ack
fire and no clouds.
Attacks in the North
Whatever damage the raid
did it was discovered sadly the
next day both that the weight
of bombs dropped had been
somewhat overrated and that
they “missed the main North
Korean concentrations and did
little material damage.” The
main concentration gaily
launched an attack next day on
a 15-mile line north of Waeg-
wan. The force used in this
operation by the enemy was
described as consisting of three
divisions, “about 30,000 men.”
It would seem that the North
Koreans have built up their
divisions in strength by about
25 per cent, if the manpower
figure is right.
They were faced mainly by
South Koreans as defenders
with the detachments of the
First Cavalry on the southern
flank. The communique issued
in Tokyo on August 17 declared
that there was threat of a major
enemy breakthrough on the
northern face of the front; that
the line from Waegwan to
Kunwi had become the most
critical point of the whole front,
where the North Koreans, “with
reinforcements fed in from their
bridgeheads across the Naktong
River and reserve armor and
troops over the Naktong, have
hit hard down the main high-
way from Kunwi towards Taegu,
pushing forward half a mile in
their initial onslaught.”
Local U.S. Victory
Perhaps as a diversionary
attack and to hold troops, U.S.
forces attacked in the Yongsang
bulge of the Naktong in the
south 20 miles north of the port
of Masan. They encountered
a very solid resistance which
their air support did not help
them to liquidate easily, and
they were reported to be making
only slow progress. The troops
being used were Marines and
detachments from the re-
organised 24th Division.
On August 18 fighting was
fierce in the sector, with the
Marines on the south battering
the North Korean flank success-
fully. Apparently the enemy
concentration was broken up
there. Enemy casualties were
estimated from 1000 to 1500.
This local action was hailed
as “the greatest victory of the
war,” but it did not prevent the
South Korean Government
moving out from Taegu to a
new temporary capital at Fusan
that day.
The taking of Pohang in the
north-east by the South Koreans
served to prove the continued
will-o’-the-wisp nature of the
fighting, which was further em-
phasised by the news that the
South Koreans and the U.S.
First Cavalry had stopped the
alleged 30,000 enemies in the
Waegwan area in their tracks
and pushed them back along the
road they came.
Reds Reel Back
Where all had been gloom on
Wednesday, by Sunday even the
most conservative dailies were
reporting in the biggest head-
lines that could be achieved
without doing rank injustice to
the Bellingen quads; “Reds
Reel Back Five Miles—-3000
enemy dead.”
The N, Koreans had come
within 12 miles of Taegu and
were then suddenly “hurled
back” six or seven miles, pro-
pelled by the U.S. reinforcements
strong in armor and artillery.
And where everybody three days
before had known where 60,000
Communists were concentrated,
intelligence officers were alleged
at the weekend to be trying to
find the North Koreans’ main
forces, of which “at least five
divisions were massed some-
where in the sector,” but were
obviously invisible even to op-
ponents with a monopoly of air-
power and abundant facilities
for reconnaissance,
By next day it was reported
that there were “still 50,000 of
the enemy in the area—at least
five divisions,” though prisoners
gave assurances that many units
were in bad shape and that the
13th Korean Division had been
reduced to 2500 men and had had
no food for three days and no
ammunition for five. And it was
“estimated that on various fronts
8000 of the enemy had been
killed in three days.”
General MacArthur’s
Version
• Amid all the froth of non-
sense about the 300-yard-wide
river colored with the blood of
a multitude of enemy dead, only
the H.Q. military command
seems to have retained its sense
of balance. On August 20 it re-
ported that U.S. forces had lost
contact with the large force
which was supposed to be in the
Waegwan - Kunwi area, and
patrols advancing four to six
miles had reported no resistance,;
but that “an unconfirmed
p.-0.-w. report declared that the
Ist, 3rd, 13th and 15th divisions
were preparing an assault —the
13th being the one supposedly
without food for three or ammu-
nition for five days.
Air recce showed an enemy
build-up 30 miles west of Masan
in the south facing the U.S. 25th
Division, while the enemy was
probing all along the Naktong
River front “in search of soft
spots.”
Regrouping Manoeuvres
The fact seems to be that the
battle is in a transition stage. By
the standards of greater war
there has so far been no major
fighting except in one or two odd
corners by individual units, and
there the battle has been brief
and the results exaggerated in
the reporting of them.
The enemy was reforming at
the end of the week, possibly to
shift the area of his attack, and
it would be surprising if he was
not feeling severe strain in his
lengthy lines of communication
and also in his supply bases,
which are limited and which have
been considerably bombed. The
pendulum is now swinging tem-
porarily to the U.S. side.
It was reported that all North
Koreans between 18 and 40 had
been called up for active service.
If they have not been already,
judging by the tens of thousands
who have been allegedly
slaughtered among their “15-to-
-1” or “18-to-l” majority against
the Americans, they must have
had outside assistance or a good
many legions of South Koreans
must have joined them.
U.N.O.’s Effort
General MacArthur in his re-
port for July has appealed to
the United Nations to make their
help swift. But except for
Britain, Turkey, Canada and
N.Z. the pace is alarmingly slow.
Last week Canada had 3000 of
its 4000-oddenlistments inducted!.
It had appointed as G.O.C.
Brigadier Rockingham, Austra-
lian-born and commander of the
Highland Brigade in the Can-
adian Expeditionary Force ip
World War 11. The brigade is
being enlisted for 18 months’
service, preference being given to
officers who have qualified in the
Canadian Officers’ Training
Corps. The units will be organ-
ised as 2nd Battalions of the
Royal Canadian Regiment, Prin-
cess Patricia’s Regiment and the
Royal 22nd.
The Canadians will be a
brigade at the disposal of U.N.O.
to serve anywhere. But at the
weekend Australia had not yet
decided whether circumstances
would permit British, Australian
and Maoriland troops to serve
as an Anzac Force. They would
not know until Mr, Menzies re-
turns, it seems, what role the
British Commonwealth forces
will assume in Korea. No com-
mander of the Australian force
had been chose'n up to August 21.
On that date it was announced
that the British would meet
General MacArthur’s appeal for
early help by at once sending
some of their meagre defence
force from Hong Kong.
Australian
Defence Moves.
“Ek Dum”: Following con-
ferences at headquarters in
Melbourne, it was announced
lasf week that Lieutenant-
General Sir Edmund Herrins
Chief Justice of Victoria, had
consented to become, for six
months, the Commonwealth
Chief Executive of Recruiting
responsible directly to a Cabinet
committee consisting of the De
fence and Service Ministers'
Messrs. Francis and White ana
Mr. Holt, Minister for Labor
and Industry.
Sir Edmund Herring i s to
have a secretariat consisting 0 f
representatives of each service
and a secretary who will carry
on organising duties. There is
to be a decentralised organisa-
tion, and the help will be sought
of State Governments, municipal
bodies and returned service-
men’s associations.
The deficiencies under the
present inadequate scheme are
13,000 for the Permanent
Forces and 29,000 for all three
services of the Citizen Force.
According to Mr. Fadden the
Citizen Forces will be built up by
an intake of 21,000 a year “as
soon as possible.”
The measures taken and the
detachment of a State Chief
Justice to lead a campaign in-
dicate the seriousness of the
present position, for which a
barometer is provided by the
decline already of men offering
for the Korean force. But it
seems scarcely thinkable in the
present state of the world and
of the measures taken by other
Western nations that Mr.
Menzies and his Ministers are
satisfied with the scope of the
existing 1947 defence scheme as
amended this year, with its
volunteer citizen forces, its few
thousand conscripted youths,
taken in in numbers less than
in Maoriland, and its permanent
“arrfly” which can scarcely
muster a battalion.
However, the “S. M. Herald”
stated on August 20 that the
General Staff was considering a
plan long advocated in these
pages—the raising of a regular
division, capable of operation as
ordinary infantry, and as a
motorised or airborne force.
If this is in contemplation it
is worth all the other patched-up
schemes put together. It will
provide land defence with a
core. It will provide a powerful
formation, capable of being
moved to any part of Australia
at a moment’s notice. And it
will provide, also, a basis for
training which at present does
not exist.
It is impossible to train any
troops effectively for modem


Shave with
RAZORS
§5*2S
A\/OIV
HfiVO*
AH d
CLOCK s
f
• ■■ • ' 'm
KDCfI
A NEW KIND.
OF HEALTH /
Rid your bloodstream of
poisons, and enjoy a NEW
KIND of health ! Headaches,
Rheumatism, Nervousness,
i Depression and other com-
mon ailments vanish. A
small daily dose of R.U.R.
will clear your system and
KEEP It clear. Buy a 2/-
! packet of *‘ready-to-take”
R.U.R. from your chemist
TODAY. “Take R.U.R.
AND RIGHT YOU ARE.”
jm
There's
n 0 friend
like an oU
friend
Cl) Collurra's
Scots (Uhisky
tu«f M f»e«m6c4 mo*)i
The name fs,.
(DOxUum’s
The whiskij is_
CUTS WOBKING COSTS
ALL
fgAR '
i
mums
DRAWBAR
POWER ,
Fordson Major has the power to haul the larger sized ploughs
and other cultivating implements through ‘‘tough spots”
and get the work done on time.
Fordson Major is reducing field operations for many farmers,
thereby saving labour and substantially cutting working costs.
With a maximum 29 h.p. at drawbar, 32.5 h.p. on belt pulley,
and a conveniently located power take off, Fordson Major
provides unlimited opportunities for power application at
every season of the year.
Full particulars and illustrated literature are available from
your Fordson Dealer.
Enquire from your State Distributors:
M.S.W.:—Motor Tractor* Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA:—MaIcoIm
Moore Pty. Ltd., 300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAMD:—Buzacott’s (Q'ld.)
Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie
St., Adelaide. WEST AUST.:—Lyna* Motor* Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay St., Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
df
d
PLOUGHING
fd
DISC HARROWING
-
a
SOWING
I '• J
'i -H *. 1,-,.
HARVESTING
L Lm
mmmy--.
v
HAY BALING
FMB3-27
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC, IN VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG. VIC.
war without a prototype with
which to show them by example
how the job is done. And it is
also vital that officers should
have experience at a divisional
level which they cannot get
with the scrappy and half-
empty organisations which
at present are called “divisions,”
and which actually in organisa-
tion and armament are about as
much like a modern division
with its 20,000-odd weapons and
5000 vehicles, its extensive radio
organisation and its air-transport
arrangements as a horse-plough
is like a bulldozer.
A regular division would pro-
vide a nucleus from which to
expand the land forces to any
extent in case of need by the
quickest possible means.
The position is desperate,
especially in view of the attitude
of the Indian Government and
its leader Nehru, who, as an old
Marxist student, must know in
detail the world revolutionary
plans of Communism, and who
has seen 2500 of his own citizens
murdered recently by Com-
munist bands in Hyderabad, and
yet is putting forward a curious
plea to the Western nations to
“halt their anti-Red cam-
paign,” his request being un-
accompanied by any plea to
Moscow to halt its vast aggres-
sive military preparations for
world conquest.
It has become evident that in
case of a new world war Aus-
tralia and New Zealand will be-
come lonely outposts in the
Asian sphere to which Messrs.
Evatt and Spender have assigned
us, the one possible Asiatic
nation on our side against Com-
munism being Japan ; and that
only if the Japanese situation is
tactfully handled and sufficient
inducements are held out.
Getting Ready.
“Ek Dum”; In spite of the
repeated solemn assurances of
diplomats that a third world
war is unlikely—for a variety
of reasons which differ fan-
tastically—Western nations are
rushing ahead with their defence
plans.
More than anything the recent
Russian manoeuvres in Eastern
Germany appear to have
quickened preparation. These
manoeuvres have just concluded
in a hot, dusty July.
The intelligence reports upon
them agree that the troops used
were trained soldiery, copi-
ously armed and supported by
heavy weapons and an abun-
dance of tanks. The exercise in
which they indulged might well
have been a preliminary to a
descent on Western Germany,
with three forces striking respec-
tively for Hamburg, for the
Ruhr via Hanover and for the
U.S. headquarters at Frankfort.
The Russians have going on for
300,000 men in East Germany
organised in five armies with
some freelance divisions. They
have about 10 armored and 10
motorised divisions.
In Western Germany the
British have what adds up to a
couple of weak divisions, and
the United States has one divi-
sion well below establishment
and a weak police-force. For
“aggressors” the British and
Americans seem to be making
a poor show, and the belated
efforts in progress to remedy
their weaknesses make sad read-
ing.
US. Plans
The United States plans based
on President Truman’s message
to Congress at the end of July
provide for adding 240,000
to the Army, 268,000 to
the Navy and 137,000 to
the Air Force, nearly half
the $10,000,000,000 allotted
being earmarked for the Air
Force for the urgent creation of
21 air-groups to bring the total
up to 69 groups. About
$3,000,000,000 is to be spent on
new Air Force and U.S.N. air-
craft and $2,600,000,000 on
armament, while $4,000,000,000
is to be used to expand the
armament of European allies,
which means the multiplication
of the original plan of assistance
to arm Europe this year by five
or six.
Orders for the U.S. Air Force
requirements have been placed,
and the firms concerned told to
go ahead without waiting for
formal contracts.
The terms of soldiers out of
the United States on service have
been extended. About 80,000
extra men are to be taken in on
the autumn draft. Four National
Guard divisions are to be called-
up, and two Marine divisions
brought up to full strength. The
civilian staff of the Defence De-
partment is to be increased by
237.000.
The new plans will bring the
active establishment of the de-
fence forces to well above
2.000. apart from the
National Guard, which has 27
divisions at low strength and
mostly unmobilised, and about
700.000 on the organised re-
served lists of the three services.
It will be some time before this
immense force can move “off
paper” and into the ranks, much
less into battle.
The immensity of the task of
organising it can be understood
when it is remembered that the
U.S. infantry division needs be-
tween 4000 and 5000 vehicles to
make it mobile, and that it
carries somewhere between
20.000 and 25,000 weapons—and
of course ammunition to burn
in them, not to mention motor-
fuel.
France’s Plans
The French are further be-
hind than they have been in
modern history. M. Pleven, the
Premier, on August 7 gave the
total French strength, including
constabulary, at 659,000, of
which 150,000 are in Indo-
China. France is spending 8
per cent, of her national income
on armament, and has budgeted
for £A2,700,000,000 extra to be
spent in the next three years in
creating new divisions and pro-
viding for rearmament and up-
keep. At the end of three years
the French expect to have 15
new divisions fully equipped,
bringing the total to about 20.
M. Pleven sees this force as part
of a 50-division Western De-
fence Army, the United States
and Britain providing the bulk
of the residue of 30 divisions.
Canada’s Effort
Apart from creating a special
army brigade to serve the
United Nations in Korea, “or
elsewhere,” the Prime Minister
of Canada, Mr. St. Laurent, said
last week that events forced
Canada to be realistic and that
it would therefore expand re-
cruiting for active and reserve
forces, accelerate the production
of jet fighters and step up its
programme for turning out war-
ships, armament and ammuni-
tion. The Canadian permanent
forces are to be built up to
70,000..
Mr. Churchill’s Idea
Meanwhile Western European
defence cbuncils have been sit-
ting regularly in Europe, and at
the Council of Europe meeting
in Strasbourg on August 11 Mr.
Churchill secured the carrying
of a resolution calling for the
“immediate creation of a Euro-
pean army subject to proper uni-
fied democratic control and act-
ing in full co-operation with the
United States and Canada.” The
resolution was carried by 89
votes to five, with 27 absten-
tions, and the most remarkable
feature of the mover’s speech
was his bold handling of the
German question.
He said that he was glad that
the Germans had come to Stras-
bourg to “share our perils and
augment our strength,” adding
that they “should have been
here a year ago,” since
There is no revival of Europe, no
safety or freedom for any of us,
except to stand together, united and
unflinching. I ask this assembly to
assure our German friends that we
shall hold their safety and freedom
as sacred as our own.
He continued:
I have heard it said that if any
Germans except Communists were to
be armed this might be the pretext
of a preventive war by Russia.
Believe me, the long-calculated design
of the Soviet Government will not be
timed or deflected by events of this
order. There is no doubt we are all
in great danger.
The British Government has
called the Parliament together
for September 12 to discuss de-
fence. Originally it had been
intended that it should not meet
until October 17,


m
n
Expert Management of
YOUR AFFAIRS
If impending absence abroad, ill health or pressure of other business
necessitates that you “hand over the reins,” you can place the management
of your affairs with complete confidence in the hands of the Permanent
Trustee Company.
Over sixty years’ experience enables this company to control your affairs
expertly and to conserve your interests, whatever they are and wherever
they may be.
For full details, call in and interview one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for our free booklet —“ Trust
Estates and Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. hfoncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.CH.M., F.R.A.CJS.
]. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permaaeiil Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
pr.ga.w
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FIFTH-COLUMN FREEDOM
Hitler’s fifth-column served
him well, and nobody in his
senses doubts that Stalin’s, when
called upon, will make Hitler’s
look cheap. For Hitler’s were
few and were formidable only in
the countries near Germany;
Stalin’s exist wherever there are
Communists —cells of them in
all countries ready on Kremlin
orders to do their worst against
the countries harboring them.
Yet, though that is everywhere
accepted as the true position,
the Western side, in the name of
the sacred liberties of democracy,
not only allows Communists
generally the full freedoms en-
joyed by the rest of the com-
munity, but still allows them full
freedom of movement through
the “iron curtain” and back
again.
Instance the meeting last
month in the Soviet section of
Berlin at which the Communist
International that is, the
Comintern, as distinct from the
Communist Information Bureau,
or Cominform—was openly set
into action again, the meeting
attended by the Communist
leaders of 25 countries, includ-
ing the main Western countries
bar America.
A perhaps even more striking
instance of fifth-column freedom
allowed in the name of de-
mocracy is given in one of a
series of N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
articles by a staff correspondent
in Berlin:
“With Communist tactics in
Korea constantly in mind, it is
becoming painfully evident that
Western authorities are slumber-
ing in Germany while Soviet
agents continue to plot subver-
sion with comparative freedom.
“Immediate Soviet aims may
be reduced to two: (1) To estab-
lish strong fifth-columns which
would soften up West Berlin and
West Germany politically and
economically and eventually
undermine them militarily. (2)
To exploit them meanwhile by
withdrawing strategic materials
for Soviet rearmament.
“The first aim is facilitated by
an incredible arrangement which
proves Western ineptness in
dealing with Communist infiltra-
tion during the critically im-
portant period preceding a pos-
sible outbreak of warfare. East
Germans are free to come and
go in West Germany both legally
and illegally, but West Germans
are unable to enter East Ger-
many except by special Soviet-
contrri’e 1 permits.
“As a i esult. West Germany is
an open field where Soviet
agents romp at will and make as
much hay as they can, while
East Germany is closed to all
except those who are invited
there to advance the economic
or political interests of the
Soviet Union. While the Wes-
tern Powers have difficulty in
even learning what is going on
in East Germany, German
agents of the Soviet Union roam
about West Germany organising
strikes and plotting subversion.”
The Western authorities, the
correspondent concludes, applic-
ably to the slackness in the
Western countries generally as
much as to that in Germany,
“are so confused about de-
mocracy that they are reluctant
to take measures against those
who are busy destroying it, for
fear they would be impinging on
its freedoms. In the words of
a Berliner who still remembers
the history of the Hitler regime,
this is not democracy but
suicide.”
Reynaud Reminiscence.
Speaking in London, M. Paul
Reynaud recalled some interest-
ing personal history as back-
ground to the Schuman plan:
“At long last a man got an
idea —M. Schuman. I will not
say that he has been rewarded
with universal acclamation in
this country [Britain]. Still, he
has had an idea. In reality, it is
an old idea. After the First
World War, as a young M.P., I
observed that nature had ordered
things very well, as the distance
between the Ruhr coal and the
Lorraine iron-ore was only
about 300 kilometres. But man
had upset this order by tracing
a frontier between the coal and
the steel. And I suggested that
this coal and this steel should
be combined.
“The famous Ruhr magnate,
Hugo Stinnes, asked to meet me
after a speech I had delivered in
the French Chamber on, this
question. I asked M. Poincare’s
opinion. He did not want me
to meet Herr Stinnes. He had
criticised bitterly the Treaty of
Versailles and was afraid to be
criticised himself if he made a
treaty. In my opinion it was a
mistake from a political point of
view as well as an economic
point of view.
“At any rate, the Schuman
plan is greater. It affects all the
coal- and steel-producing coun-
tries of Western Europe. It pro-
poses the creation of a common
high authority which would be
supra-national. Many of our
English friends raise their arms
in horror, saying ‘Are you ask-
ing us to abandon part of our
sovereignty?’ My answer is ‘We
have all lost some of our
sovereignty; no question of de-
fence, of economics, of currency
can be settled by one of our
Governments alone. When Sir
Stafford Cripps wants to devalue
the pound he goes to Washing-
ton.’ Others say ‘We have
managed to erect a fragile struc-
ture which guarantees full em-
ployment. Don’t touch! ’ —just
as a child having built a house
of cards would say ‘Please don’t
knock it down!’ Unfortunately,
one of the cards at the bottom
of the castle is the Marshall-
plan aid which will be pulled
out in two years. So the solu-
tion is not ‘Wait and see’; we
must create something new. We
must make a united Europe. If
you agree, join us.”
Nehru’s India.
The writer of a London “Fort-
nightly” article on the new
Dominion of India would re-
gard the cartoon on this page as
rather optimistic; so, too, might
Australian Justice Owen Dixon,
who (by London “Times” re-
port) struck very tough going in
his India - Pakistan mediation
efforts on U.N.O.’s bqhalf.
The comments add up to a
foreboding picture. Indeed, the
writer asserts that “If avoidable
—Chicago “Sun-Times."
BIG GAME.
human suffering and degradation
could be expressed in per capita
international units, there is little
doubt that ‘non-violent’ India
would top the list.” Here are a
few of his figures:
“Largely as a result of under-
nourishment and lack of medical
aid, about 65 per cent, of India’s
people die before they reach the
age of 30, and no mother has
better than a half chance of
bringing up her child to a wage-
earning age ; every second dead
in this sad country is under 10.
Nor is the picture in the field
of production more cheerful.
While a German or English
farmer produces over 20001 b. of
wheat to the acre, his Indian
counterpart > takes out barely
7001 b. Against the Italian rice-
planter’s 45001 b. production per
acre, or the Egyptian’s 30001 b.,
the Indian hardly manages more
than 12001 b. In cotton, India’s
average output (891 b. per acre)
is only one-seventh of the Egyp-
tian’s and one-third of that of
the United States. The average
milk-yield of the Indian cow is
only a little over 6001 b. per year,
compared to the over 54001 b. of
the British.”
Figures telling the same de-
pressing tale could, the writer
declares, be quoted from any
field of agricultural activity.
Thus the problem of how to
feed the country’s huge and
always-increasing population is,
and must continue to be, the
very serious worry of India’s
leaders. It demands a lasting
state of peace between India and
adjacent Pakistan, if only from
a development-financing point of
view. Yet, “It is one of the
oddest things in a very odd
world that two of the poorest
countries, equally threatened
by social upheaval, should
help the advance of Commun-
ism [which neither of them
favors] by spending more than
half their central revenue on
armaments aimed at each other.”
In 1948 India spent 47 per
cent, and Pakistan 55 per cent, of
central revenue on military ex-
penses ; for the U.S.A. it was
25, for Soviet Russia 17 and for
the United Kingdom 13 per
cent. And it is estimated that
the figure for India today is
close on 60 per cent.
Insisting that it is “no service
to the Indian peoples to indulge
in the repetition of the flamboy-
ant and optimistic statements put
out by some of their leaders for
propaganda purposes,” the writer
gives figures showing a distinct
current decline in both agricul-
tural production and industrial
output, and, on the other hand,
that “Administrative costs are
mounting without visible im-
provement in efficiency, while ex-
ports cannot catch up with im-
ports.”
In short, he shows that the
average Indian is worse off today
than he was even two years ago
—largely thanks to the “guns
rather than rice” policy—and
“certain factors make it un-
likely that his lot will rapidly
improve.” On the contrary,
“unless some dramatic change
intervenes, economic progress is
bound to stagnate, and ideo-
logies advocating violent change
will gain further ground.” Xo
bring about any change in the
economic factors India will have
to carry out considerable re-
forms ; land-reform above all:
“Certain mass-desires are
gropingly formulating them-
selves in India today, and gradu-
ally they must become irresis-
tible. Should India’s revolution-
aries be given the opportunity
to harness these popular desires
no political or police power will
be able to stand in their way.
The similarity between the
Chinese and Indian situations is
most conspicuous in this field.
Congress, like the Kuomintang,
may help the Communists to
popularity and then into power
by handing them over the chance
of gratifying the masses with re-
forms Congress is unwilling or
unable to accomplish.”
As to whether India will fol-
low the road of China, one of
the dangers noted is “a com-
placent belief in a mountain
range as a barrier to explosive
ideas”; and “Without rapid
change in this attitude, and if
India’s more far-sighted leaders
are not able to awaken their self-
satisfied entourage, events will
undoubtedly take their inevitable
course. With suitable outside
help [i.e., from the Chinese Com-
munists and their Soviet
backers], the Red river may
begin to roll down from the
Himalayas, enveloping first
Assam and Bengal, continuing
its slow but sure journey along
the plains of India.”
Possibly “a full rice-bowl and
a certain degree of administrative
efficiency might keep India for
a long time immune from Com-
munism.” Today “the Indian
masses have neither of those re-
quirements” and in the writer’s
view they could not be provided
without aid on a much larger
scale than has so far been
offered: “The question has
to be posed in all earnestness
how much is it worth in cash
to prevent strengthening the
Communist camp with the addi-
tion of one-sixth of humanity to
its cause? It would .have to be
regarded as an international in-
surance against the probability
of another war.”
Cominform Clumsiness.
Com. propaganda generally is
so overdone that it’s a wonder
it impresses even Corns, F.a.q.
instance reported in “Manchester
Guardian” by Alexander
Werth:
“Twenty-five wireless - stations
in the Cominform countries are
blaring anti-Tito, anti-Yugoslav
and (a singular new phenome-
non) specifically anti-Serb propa-
ganda at the Yugoslavs. But
from what dozens of people who
now and then listen to this
propaganda have told me, its
effect is the opposite of what its
authors expect from it.
“True genius is shown by the
Cominform and Soviet propa-
gandists for rubbing every Yugo-
slav listener up the wrong way.
Not every Yugoslav likes Tito,
but the vulgar Insults hurled at
him arouse an inner protest even
among people who are not nor-
mally ‘pro-Tito.’ The deification
of Stalin and of the Soviet
Union by which all Cominform


IXL
This World Famous Brand !«
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—**
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Happy Birthday
m
*
Won’t the kiddies enjoy this party! The sugar in that
cake and icing is a pleasant energy-giving food, which
active and vigorous children heartily enjoy. Healthy
youngsters also need protective foods like milk, butter,
eggs, vegetables and fruit, as well as plenty of exercise
in the fresh air and sunlight.
The sugar which Australians eat in a large number of
healthy, wholesome foods is an exceptionally pure
product. Every step in the complex refining process is
supervised by expert chemists to ensure absolute purity
and to prevent waste. When you eat sugar made in
C.S.R, refineries you can be sure that it is as pure as
any in the world.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
propaganda is marked strikes
most Yugoslavs as rather ridicu-
lous, and frequently produces
the reaction: ‘Well, in Belgrade
at least we don’t have to crawl
on our bellies the way these
Hungarians, Czechs and Bulgars
are doing! ”
U.N.O. Legalistics.
Leading up to his break with
them (which was mentioned in
pables), American Left-winger
Henry A. Wallace staggered
the fellow-travelling fraternity
with his pronouncement on
Korea, that when his country
was at war and the United
Nations had sanctioned that
war “I am on the side of
my country and the United
Nations.”
He further shocked them:
Russia, he said, could have pre-
vented an attack on South
Korea and could stop it when-
ever she wished.
Then, sweeping aside the argu-
ment of the Communists every-
where that the action of the
United Nations in Korea was
illegal because Russia would
have cast a vote against it in the
Security Council, he said Russia
chose not to be present, and
“Under the United Nations
practice a country not present or
abstaining from a vote could not
defeat any important measure.”
Looking into the same ques-
tion of “legality” of the seven-
to-one vote for the American
resolution calling for military
sanctions against North Korea,
London “Economist” mentioned
that, of course, the seven votes
did not “include the concurring
votes of the permanent
members,” as is required under
Article 27 of the Charter, but
commented:
“Because no Russian was
there, the Russians and their
supporters argue that the vote
was illegal. They contend that
it received no more than three
of the five essential votes, since
it also lacked the support of the
Government that is in control of
China.
“There are two arguments
against the Russian case. The
first is that, if precedent counts,
neither absence nor abstention
from voting constitutes a veto.
It did not do so when Russia
abstained in 1946 on a vote
about the North Persian situa-
tion, or when Britain abstained
in three votes on Palestine in
1948, or when Russia was absent
during the vote upon Kashmir
—Minneapolis “Tribune.”
“They’re still arguing about whether this is legal!”
in March of this year. The im-
plication of these events is that
vetoing must be an active and
not simply a passive process.”
Menzies Phrases.
An official U.S. statement on
the visit of Mr. Menzies singles
out some characteristic phrases
from his speeches.
The most important fact about
the U.N. action against Com-
munist aggression in Korea, he
said, was that for the first time
“the entire free world is speak-
ing and acting on behalf of the
free world.” The statement
adds:—
“Menzies was warmly received
here wherever he went, and did
much to augment the strong ties
of friendship already existing
between the United States
and Australia. He referred
frequently and spoke fondly of
his ‘lOO,OOO Ambassadors to
America’ —the G.ls. of World
War II —and assured the people
of the United States That their
‘junior partner’ down under was
striving to be not merely ‘a small
but friendly Power, but to be a
substantial and friendly country.’
“The Prime Minister em-
phasised throughout his visit that
the free countries of the world,
and especially the English-
speaking democracies, have an
enormous responsibility t o
‘work together so that there is
as much organisation, efficiency
and power behind the forces of
freedom as behind the forces of
darkness.’
“He was firmly convinced, he
said, that ‘there is only one
threat coming from one set of
ideas and one people against the
free world. We who are free
have not only the responsibility
to be free with ourselves but
with each other.’ ”
Commonwealth First.
From the British Labor-party
manifesto rejecting the Schuman
plan for the control of Western
Europe’s coal and steel:
“Britain is not just a small
crowded island off die west coast
of Continental Europe. She is
the nerve-centre of a world-wide
Commonwealth ....In every
respect except distance we are
closer to our kinsmen in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand than we
are to Europe.
“We are closer in language
and in origins, in social habits
and institutions, in political out-
look and in economic interest.
“The economies of the Com-
monwealth countries are com-
plementary to that of Britain to
a degree which those of Western
Europe could never equal.”
Dragnet Digest.
V.N.O. Record. —Korea has had
various notable effects on and in
U.N.0., among them a record
demand for admission tickets. The
previous record was 5000; for the
current run of the greatest show on
earth bar none applications topped
20,000. The Security Council chamber
holds about 800,
* * * *
Menzies Citation .« — The citation
accompanying the awarding of the
U.S. Legion of Merit to Mr. Menzies
said he “has displayed exceptional
energy and ability in furthering the
ideals of democratic government based
on individual dignity and freedom.”
* * ♦ ♦
Socialists on Korea. Anyone
puzzled by Australian Socialists’ pro-
nouncements on Korea might find
that they’ve been inspired by a simi-
larly affecting pronouncement of the
Indian Socialist party. As reported
by O. M, Green in the Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” the Indian Socialists, in
conference at Madras, held that North
Korea should have been given an
opportunity “to explain its point of
view before the Security Council
decided on resisting aggression.”
U.S. Labor and Korea. —From a
joint statement issued by America’s
two great Labor bodies, the American
Federation of Labor and the Con-
gress of Industrial Organisations:
“We recognise the serious threat to
world peace and to our country as a
result of Communist aggression. We
vow our complete determination to
give full and united support to our
Government in this time of crisis.
Labor in America is completely
united against Communist aggression
and infiltration.”
* * * *
Red Army. —Various estimates are
made of the size of Red Army; in
his latest book, Defence of the West,
Liddell Hart quotes experts as agree-
ing that the figure is 175 fully-manned
divisions, compared with the eight
that Britain and France have in
Europe. “But the main threat to the
West,” he comments, “lies in Russia’s
18 armored and motorised divisions
that would be the spearhead of
attack. For the Russians have two
armies—the army of quality and the
army of quantity; the spearhead and
the lumbering mass.” Also, Hart
believes the Russians’ 1950 weapons
are likely to be good.
* * ♦ ♦
" Seeing Tito Through.” “Both
financially and politically,” comments
Alexander Werth, in one of a series
of “Manchester Guardian” articles,
“there seems a certain difference
between the American and the British
approach to Yugoslavia. The Ameri-
cans, and especially Mr. George
Allen, the new United States Ambas-
sador in Belgrade, apparently hold
that Yugoslavia is a ‘deserving case’
so long as she is peaceful and not
tied to Russia’s apron-strings; Britain
apparently expects from Yugoslavia
‘more convincing guarantees of
democracy.’ The view held is that if
these are forthcoming it is only in a
form ‘compatible with Yugoslav con-
ditions,’ and not in a manner suffi-
cient to satisfy the Labor-party
purists. Americans in Belgrade
believe, however, that whatever the
formal financial difficulties, ways and
means will be found for ‘seeing Tito
through.’ ”
♦ * * *
Communism’s Two Faces. —Com-
munism (as summed-up by Mr.
Churchill in his recent Plymouth
speech) condemned Christian ethics
and civilisation, as we had known
them, to a formidable struggle, from
which we should emerge, if we did
our best, victorious. The Communists
paid lip-service to the doctrine of
peace, but by peace they meant sub-
mission to their will and system.
They preached the reduction of arma-
ments, but they had more men
organised and trained under arms
than all the rest of the world put
together. They urged the banning of
the atomic bomb, which, in the hands
of the United States, was at this
moment the only physical shield and
protection of the free world, while
they themselves had rejected any
bona fide international control and
inspection and while they were trying
to make those bombs as fast as they
could. Meanwhile, around all the
vast frontiers of Soviet Russia and
her satellite or conquered countries
they maintained a policy of unending
aggression or menace.
* * * *
Schuman Plan Control. —London
“Observer” on the rather awkward
problem of how the “High Authority”
which is to control steel-and-coal
under the Schuman scheme shall itself
be controlled: “An international
authority of the sort envisaged by
the Schuman Plan can only have
power and be responsible to the
voters if it is either Federal or
Confederal. If Federal it derives its
authority from a direct vote of the
people; if Confederal its authority
derives from the agreement of Gov-
ernments, themselves elected by the
people. In a matter as serious as the
control of basic industries it will be
impossible to ignore this maxim of
democratic politics for Ung.”
* ♦ ♦ «
Russia’s Musso Mums. From
“Foreign Affairs”: “Mothers who are
bringing up ten children or more
receive the title ‘Mother-Heroine.’
Mothers of seven to nine children
receive the medal ,of ‘Maternal
Glory,’ while those having five to
six children obtain the medal of
‘Motherhood.’ Bachelors, spinsters,
married people who have only one
or two children, have to pay a special
tax. Mussolini said it, in the ’twen-
ties, in almost identical terms.”
* ♦ * *
French-German Partners. —Holding
the fact that France and Germany
are negotiating directly and as equals
to be a far more important develop-
ment than the eventual terms of the
coal-and-steel agreement under the
Schuman Plan, a staff writer of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” comments: “A
Franco-German partnership is the
crucial element in any European sys-
tem. For what is ‘Europe,’ about
which we [Americans] talk so much,
which we wish to see secure, liberated,
reconstituted as a great force and
influence in the world? Russia
obviously is not Europe. America is
obviously not Europe. And in all
truth neither is Britain. The two
leading European nations are France
and Germany. If they cannot put an
end to their wars and become part-
ners and allies in the business of
Europe, there will be no Europe.”


...
the At
that
tmc
\
r
a\\
u
h*!k
r<S=>
V,
TOOTH'S SHEAF STOUT
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
•a.bMA.ia
Matchless performance!
That's why IMG tORS M [Milled tiOA
more people rlde-the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
fd
fd
A right tyre for each job!
—
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
llil
RIB ALL SERVICE
HI-MILEB
RIB
f
airwheh
The actual over-lhe-road performance records
of truck and bus operators/ the world oven
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
10AL1-H-.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“When a number of ladies live
together in an enclosed space can-
nibalism breaks out.”
-—Commoner Mrs. Jean Mann.
Or, at the very least, back-
biting.
4* 4* 4*
“I’m convinced that some of the
racehorses I’ve supported lately have
been secretly smoking in their stalls.”
—Radio comedian.
They finished up puffing,
4* 4* 4*
Too many nations are inter-
preting U.N.O. as Under No
Obligation.
“Slacks are again to the fore for
casual wear.” — Fashion note.
But it’s aft where appearance
counts.
4* . 4* •!«
“Wanted, Air Force type overcoat,
fit small man in good order.”
—Suburban paper.
Fit for air-crew?
4* 4* 4*
“The housewife has become such a
beast of burden that we have adopted
the camel as our insignia.”— Feminist
Mrs. Preston Stanley Vaughan.
Carrying parcels has given
Mum the hump.
4* 4* 4*
“A Californian wife has won a
divorce by naming her husband’s air-
plane as co-respondent.”
It all sounds a bit air-screwy.
Wrong Number.
“Australians who try to develop
good speech often succeed only in
acquiring phony voices.” Mel-
bourne broadcaster David Worrall.
It’s time the young Australian
lad
Was made to realise how bad
It sounds to hear him on the air
Say “Oi” for "I,” to the despair
Of those of us who’ve noticed
how
He calls our source of milk a
"ceow.”
And yet in fairness I must say
I’ve rarely heard the "die” for
"day”
Or "lice” for "lace” that Yanks
in quips
Attribute to Australian lips.
Whereas I’ve plucked my collar
loose
To swallow down the word
"prodoose,”
And writhed to hear the fancy
"weh”
Broadcasters bid the world
"good-deh”
Not in the accents of the King
But rather with a phony ring.
BERT.
The Parliamentary Drafts-
man Proposes.
“Clarice”
“Yes, John.”
“There is a question, or a
plurality of questions, or a series
of questions, or an interroga-
tion, or perscrutation, or a
plurality, or a series of interro-
gations or perscmtations, or
what may purport to be a
plurality, or series of questions,
interrogations, or perscruta-
tions, which I would like to
address, or otherwise orally
communicate, or convey by such
other means as may hereinafter
be determined by me, who shall
hereinafter be referred to as the
party of the first part, to you,
who shall hereinafter be referred
to as the party of the second
part.
“For some time I have been
considering, or cogitating, or
deliberating, or giving serious
thought to the possibility, or the
likelihood, or the contingency, of
my changing, or altering, or of
effecting impermanence to, the
status quo, or of otherwise
varying the condition in which
up to the present time I have
had my being: to wit, the state
of bachelordom, or of single-
ness, or of oneness, or of being
outside the conjugal condition.”
“Whacko! This is it!”
“I beg your pardon, Clarice?”
m ean. I’m listening,
John.”
“I have been led to this con-
sideration after having pon-
dered, or meditated, by the
application of mature and in-
tensive cerebration that the
party of the second part enjoys.
“These serials always stop just when they're getting
exciting !”
or purports to enjoy, or pre-
tends to enjoy, the similar or
same state, to wit, the condition
of being unwed, as is enjoyed,
or purported to be enjoyed, by
the party of the first part.”
“Oh, John, is this a pro-
posal?”
“That is being incautiously
explicit, Clarice. It may, within
the meaning of the act, or
should I say intention, be more
prudently stated to be a putting
forward, or an enunciatory
statement, or a broaching, or a
setting-forth, or a suggestion
which may, on the option of
the party of the second part, be
accepted, wholly or in part and
upon such conditions and sub-
ject to such specifications as the
proposee may hereinafter deter-
mine, but subject always to their
eventual acceptance, wholly or
in part, by the party of the first
part.”
“Oh, John, so you do love
me!”
“It shall, on the resolution of
the matter hereinbefore referred
to, and which shall be known
hereinafter as the proposal, or
putting forward, or such other
term upon which the party of
the first part and the party of
the second part shall mutually
determine, and to the subse-
quent satisfaction or disposal of
both parties, be taken that the
condition of devotion, or of
affection, or of tenderness, or
what may reasonably be re-
garded as devotion, or affection,
or tenderness, or what such
actions of either party could be
interpreted by any disinterested
person as devotion, or affection,
or tenderness, or any other such
manifestation which, by its
nature, could be taken to be de-
votion, or affection, or tender-
ness, is inherent in the afore-
mentioned proposal, or putting
forward, or enunciatory state-
ment, anything to the contrary
notwithstanding.”
“Oh, John, aren’t you going
to kiss me?”
“Be it enacted that, after the
question of the future status of
both parties shall be determined
to their several satisfactions, to
wit, that the party of the second
part renders to the party of the
first part an answer to the pro-
posal hereinbefore mentioned
either orally or by written word,
or by such other means as she
may determine, to signify assent
to, or compliance with, or ac-
quiescence in, then shall it be
competent for the party of the
first party, with the consent and
approval of the party of the
second part, or for the party of
the second part, with the con-
sent and approval of the party
of the first part, to indicate by
an osculatory act, or by a caress,
or by hugging, or by such other
physical manifestation of affec-
tion compatible with the single
state of the parties, that the
contract for marriage is sealed.
Refusal by either party to fall
in with the wishes of the other
in this respect shall render the
contract null and void.”
“Oh, John, what about ask-
ing Father?”
“And be it further enacted
that nothing so far agreed upon
hereintofore shall be deemed to
be binding on the party of the
first part unless, or until, he
shall seek, or attempt to seek,
or to procure, or to attempt to
procure, either by direct contact
or through the offices of the
party of the second part, the
permission, or the consent, of the
party of the second part’s
maternal or paternal relative, or
guardian, or such other person
as may have at the time legal
guardianship over the party of
the second part. Save that where
the party of the second part is of
age the provisions hereinbefore
set out shall be deemed to have
been complied with.
“And whereas, by and with
the consent of such parents
guardian or other person as is
hereinbefore provided, the pro-
posee signifies her consent by
such moans as has been herein-
before provided the party of the
first part shall be competent to
buy, purchase or otherwise ac-
quire legally a ring in which
has been set a diamond, or
diamonds, or other precious
stones such as this I am holding
at present, I Clarice! This
conduct is most unparliam-
m-m-m”
Bo.
Tense Atmosphere.
He says his form of simplified
English has no irregular verbs, all
participles end in ‘ing’ or ‘ed’ and
no such variations as ‘spoken’ and
‘written.’ He renders the present
tense of the verb to-be as: ‘I am,
you am, he am, she am, we am’
they am.’ ”—Sydney "Sunday Sun/’
The New Australian finds it
tough
To lay aside his mother-tongue
And venture dazedly among
Queer tricks of spelling bad
enough
To test the local lads, and
“blough”
Weak pupils who were brought
(not "brung ”)
Up in this land whose scribes
have sung
(Not “singed”) of sheep and
such-like “stough."
Yet though we all might welcome
here
Such simpler forms of noun and
verb
As recommend this chap’s in-
vention,
His present of "to-be” I fear
Our ingrained habits would
disturb
And prove an "am”-hone of
contention.
D. H. E.


df
r
df
Fill a Sparklets Syphon with
water, “ charge ” it with a
Sparklets Bulb—and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty ‘soda* Is yours!
Refilling takesoniya few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
Of new Standard and Streamline
models, or write for illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
HOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
SPARKLETS
SYPHONS
SPARKLETS LTD., LONDON N. IS
d
S 3
01
BOWLS
A valuable book of
interest to all
bowlers—“ How To
Become a Champion” by R T,
Harrison. Fully illustrated. Send for
your copy to “The Northern Daily
ader,” Tanjworth, N.S.W. 5/-
i
p... one of
the best cars I have ever
Owned • • •
“ ... it is used seven days per
week on city taxi work and has
now run 12,360 miles. The
petrol consumption has averaged
33 m.p.g. over the whole period,
and on one trip to Victor
Harbour showed nearly 38
m.p.g. No mechanical trouble
nor any other sort of trouble
has been experienced, and on
a lot of country trips, six
people have been carried.
The ease of handling and parking
are one of the greatest attributes
of the car, also the feeling of
robustness and solidarity of the
clutch and transmission. This,
to a taxi operator, is one of the
greatest causes of expense, and
I am satisfied now that, as far
as operating expense is con-
cerned, the Holden will prove
one of the best cars I have
ever owned ...”
F. G.P., Kilburn , S.A.
■*-“Air Chief” Radios ate specially designed for
Holden. Air Chief 5-valve with a 6-inch speaker;
oc Air Chief 6-valve with an 8-inch speaker.
■Jt-Convenient hite purchase terms are available
trough G.M.A.C.—General Motors’ own finance
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
List Price: £750 plus sales tax,
subject to alteration without notice
ess
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Buy from jour local authorised Holden Dealer
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA 2808
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Returning to the fray after a
lengthy spell, the champion pair Comic
Court and Chicquita were set a
rather tough pipe-opener when they
tackled the Chesterfield Handicap at
Flemington on Saturday. The Ches-
terfield was run over the straight six;
Comic Court had topweight of 9.10,
Chicquita had 9st., receiving weight
only from Comic Court and Achilles
(9.1); there were 31 other runners
and the track was very heavy. _
Punters anticipated that the sheer
class represented by the three top-
weights would more than counter-
balance the advantage which several
other runners had in the shape of
solid racing condition and good
recent winning form. Chicquita
started favorite at twos, Comic Court
was next in the betting at fours, and
Achilles, also fresh in from a spell,
was backed in from tens to start
third-favorite at 13 to 2. However,
the fancied trio all proved to be in
need of the run. Regal Scout, a
first-class sprinter and a good winner
at his previous start, had the edge
on them in condition, and ran out
a quite comfortable winner from the
50-to-l chance Sefton, who just
shaded Comic Court. In the heavy
going Regal Scout did well to cut
out the journey in 1.13 i,
. If comparative failures at their
first appearance, Comic Court and
Chicquita both showed that they are
likely to be as good, if not better
than ever, this season. Comic Court
fought on in grand style to take
third money from Riptide, who, inci-
dentally, ran an excellent race. Chic-
quita, after meeting with a check at
the start, finished just behind Riptide.
It is worth noting, by the way, that
Chicquita has run unplaced on only
three occasions, and each of these
“failures” has been over the Fleming-
ton straight six.
Irish-bred importation Mulatto
gave connections further cause to
regret not having nominated him for
the Cups when he scored a runaway
win in the 13-furlongs Anniversary
Handicap—his third successive vic-
tory. Mulatto gave jockey A. Burton
an armchair ride to beat Sun Frolic
by two and a half lengths, with
Gallant Gentleman third. It would
not surprise to see imported horses
take a good hand in proceedings
during the coming season. Between
Sydney and Melbourne there is a par-
ticularly promising bunch of importa-
tions on hand at the moment —easily
the best since well back into pre-war
days.
• • • • •
Having burned their fingers by
backing horses fresh in from spelling
to beat others with good recent form
in the Chesterfield Handicap, punters
administered themselves another singe-
ing by reversing the process when it
came to the J. J. Liston Stakes. A
winner at his three previous outings,
Kendee started a warm favorite for
the Liston. On the other hand
Clement, having only his second run
after a spell, was allowed to go out
at 20 to 1. Kendee made a poor
showing; his successes against mode-
rate company had been somewhat
overrated. But Clement staged a splen-
did run in the straight, bullocking
his way through a bunch of horses to
win most comfortably,, from Dupont
and Chatspa. To win as he did at a
mile Clement showed much more
dash than had been remembered of
his performances last season, and,
with this improvement, he might well
enter Caulfield Cup considerations.
# ♦ * *
The splendid win scored by The
Groom in Saturday’s C. S. Icely
Handicap at Rosehill must have
pricked the consciences of those who
chose to cast aspersions when the
same horse, ridden by the American
jockey J. Longden, won the All Aged
Stakes at the A.J.C. Autumn meeting.
Principal event- of the Hawkesbury
Racing Club’s annual meeting, the
Icely Handicap was run under quality
conditions. The Groom carried top-
weight of 9.5 and, conceding 61b.,
won by a neck from Rim Boy, a
winner at his four previous starts,
most recently the Doomben Ten
Thousand over the same journey, and
hot early favorite for the Epsom.
The Groom was ridden by D.
Munro, and ridden, at that, in the
very best Munro fashion. Rim Boy
jumped well to be the early leader,
but the lightly-weighted Botany Bay
soon took up the running, and others
were content to let him do the job.
Rim Boy was bowling along com-
fortably in second place, and, a little
further back ? Munro was concentrat-
ing on beating just one horse —Rim
Boy. In the straight Rim Boy set
out to overhaul the leader, and The
Groom doggedly followed him
through. Settling down to the run
home Munro got to work on The
Groom with the tremendously
vigorous riding that has become his
trade-mark, and gradually but surely
pegged the leader back. It was an
excellent win, and, by the same token,
Rim Boy lost no admirers of his
Epsom prospects—he had, after all,
in some ways, the toughest job, and
made a fine attempt at carrying
through with it.
The second leg of the main double
at Rosehill, the Hawkesbury Grand
Handicap, was won by the English-
bred Marconi (K. Barratt)r Marconi
was prominent all the way, and, hit-
ting the front at the distance, ran
on to win by a length from Yamboon
and Red Loch. It was a good win,
and gave the impression that Satur-
day’s journey of 10 furlongs may be
about Marconi’s pet distance. Finish-
ing strongly from a very long way
back, Yamboon showed improved
form, as did also Red Loch.
* * * «
Saturday’s Hawkesbury Grand
Handicap winner Marconi carried the
red-and-white check silks of F. W.
Hughes, but Hughes did not live to
see his latest importation win its first
Australian race; he died in Sydney
on Friday. Reputedly one of the
wealthiest men in Australia, Hughes
had, of course, made his mark in the
business world, but over recent years
had been most widely known as one
of Australia’s leading owners and
breeders. He took up racing some
few years before the war as a
“hobby” on medical advice. His
notions of a hobby were akin to his
business methods—on a big scale;
since he first entered the game his
colors have been carried probably by
more horses (and more often) than
those of any other owner. Indeed,
he had three different sets of colors,
and it was not altogether rare to see
all three in one race. In addition to
his active racing interests, Hughes
went in for breeding in a big way
at his Kooba Stud. Many owners
have been in the game for years
without winning any of the richer
plums, or, indeed, even a fair share
of races, but it would be almost im-
possible to own as many horses as
did Hughes without striking a few
good 'uns. In the past couple of
seasons the Hughes stable has had
rather less than its usual success, but,
to dte a few seasons prior to that,
Hughes-owned horses won £13,427 in
the 1944-45 season, £17,923 in 1945-
46, £20,656 in, 1946-47 and £27,123
in 1947-48.
• ♦ * •
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Three-year-old Handicap: Niran-
doli, 1; Canning Downs, 2; Folderol,
3, Trial Handicap: Lyndalc, 1;
Gold Trace, 2: Star of the South, 3.
Hobartville Stakes: Panama, 1;
French Cavalier, 2; Niaranga, 3.
Warwick Stakes: San Domenico, 1;
Rim Boy, 2; The Groom, 3.
Campbelltown Handicap; Freedom,
1; Blue Flag, 2; Grey Boots, 3.
Spring Handicap: Yamboon, 1; Blue
Mickie, 2; Red Loch, 3, Glenlee
Handicap: Silverjax, 1; Tornado, 2;
Humming Top, 3.
♦ * * ♦
The first Rugby Union Test, in
Brisbane last Saturday, resulted in an
easy win for the British Isles team.
The convincing manner of the tour-
ists’ wins over N.S.W. and Australia,
all the more meritorious when it is
remembered that in both matches
they lost players through injuries,
gives Australia little hope of winning
the second and final Test to be
played in Sydney next Saturday.
Once again the Isles’ backs proved
too experienced for our boys, who,
“Tallyho!"
although they played fairly well,
lacked the constructive thought neces-
sary to score tries in international
football. The lack of schooling of
our backs in the fundamentals of
the game, the absence of any plan-
ning and thought in their attack and
the crudeness of their technique are
the unhappy weakness of Australian
post-war football. We may attribute
this unfortunate situation to the war
years, which upset the system
whereby, with the exception of one
or two outstanding individuals,
players graduated through a series
of stages before reaching international
status. The immediate post-war Aus-
tralian teams were comprised, in the
main, of backs who, although barely
out of school, had shown good
natural qualities. Here the authorities
erred in not selecting a person
capable of developing this talent;
consequently, on return to Australia,
these players showed no recoghisable
improvement in technique, and it
makes an awkward situation for
those coaches who do know some-
thing of backline play to teach an
international the fundamentals of
handling and positioning. However,
it is a little late to be talking of
such matters; it is to be hoped that
our backs will recognise something
in the British Isles’ three-quarter
play which is lacking in their own.
In the matches in Sydney last
week, Gordon beat Drummoyne, 6-0;
Manly beat Easts, 16-11; Norths
beat University, 14-13 ; Randwick beat
Parramatta, 14-11; and St. George
beat Wests, 8-0. This leaves Gordon,
Manly, Easts and Norths to play off
in the semi-finals.
* * * «
Saturday’s V.F.L. games didn’t
alter the shape of “the four,” but
the adventures of the top teams
showed that Essendon has won the
premiership already, if form is any
guide. Opposed to North Melbourne,
the next-best team in the competition,
the Dons did pretty much as they
liked in the way of tactics and
strategy, and led all the way to a
15.12-13.16 win. By contrast, the
other two of “the four,” Melbourne
and Geelong, were beaten badly by
weaker teams. Fitzroy, well down on
the list, kept Melbourne’s score down
to 6.11 while they kicked 7.10 them-
selves, and Geelong were outplayed
by the unpredictable St. Kilda, which
made it 8.6 to 6.12. Of the others,
Richmond beat Collingwood in a
close game, 15.19-15.10, Footscray
outpaced Carlton for a 13.14-12.7
win, and Hawthorn grimly staved
off a South Melbourne effort
to let them win a game, “Sowth”
being compelled to kick 16.7 to 14.10.
If Richmond beats Geelong next
Saturday fourth place will be de-
cided on percentages, and the first
semi-final will be played on Sep-
tember 2.
* * * *
Cremin, the N.S.W. golf pro. who
has been carrying all before him this
season, had to- give way to A.
Murray, the tall New Zealander, m
the Ampol “thousand” at Royal
Adelaide. Cremin held a command-
ing position for two rounds, but the
Enzedder “turned it on” with a 68
and a 69, and finished with 283,
three strokes up on Cremin.
>■***♦■
Jack Read pays a tribute: —
When 81-year-old Stadium an-
nouncer George Dent passed away
last week Sydney lost one Of its
most popular sporting personalities.
George began announcing main events
at Sydney Stadium a little less than
half-a-century ago, and since then
had become a Stadium tradition. It
was always worth a visit to the
Stadium just for the pleasure of hear-
ing George do his turn, and, in later
years, for the pleasure of seeing the
enjoyment the old chap derived from
the job. Possessed, even in his later
years, of a voice which would do
credit to a regimental sergeant-major,
Dent made his announcement, in turn,
from each side of the ring. His
announcement was a set formula —
“Introducing,” etc., etc., “who will
meet here next Monday ——.” At
which he paused on a note of expec-
tancy as the crowd fairly roared out
the “Night.” Then off went George,
with a half-skipping little trot, to the
next corner to repeat the performance.
My first Stadium contest was with
American Dick Cullen, in 1911.
George did the honors that night,
and I remember him then as looking
not half his 42 years, with dark curly
hair and a very dapper appearance.
For some reason Dent took a fancy
to me, and when he spoke over the
air a few years ago he referred to
me as the most popular boxer of my
time. Whether that was true or not
I don* know, but I was certainly
most flattered to hear such a remark
coming from the man whom I knew
to be the most popular personality
at Sydney Stadium for a couple of
decades past. I recall the manage-
ment’s attempt to dispense with
George a year or so back, when he
was replaced one night by a public-
address system. The crowd nearly
tore the place down, and George was
on the job again “ next Monday
NIGHT.”


Apaiuay u/joaa
inching time > s
Vypovis' time!
f
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
y /// //'//,
THENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
fd
fd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-819t
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs--*-recommended for shearing-shed work*
520
m
4oz. f Boz., 16dz., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
M
sums
Circular Charti for all typ««
of lrutrumants
••r Wf (Imi #♦ HichUt«rf <
or Itulpmont
MfTIR CHARTS • Spaciafcj
mwoM omu van '
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes yo“ r
fancy, write to the Manage r »
who will quote you price f° r
the original.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Melbourne Sheep Show.
“Myrrhee”: In entries (267)
and representation the Merino
display was disappointing. Tas-
mania dominated the superfine
classes. Neither Barunah Plains
nor Murray Downs studs ex-
hibited. Judge in the superfine
section, Bruce Merriman, re-
ported even classes throughout.
Ram championship went to J.
Foster, Pleasant Banks, Evan-
dale (Tas.), with a six-tooth ram,
biggest sheep on the mat. This
handsome animal, which also
won the Melbourne champion-
ship two years ago, is robust,
well - sprung and densely-
fleeced, with that silky-fine,
micro-crimped staple seldom
seen these days on mainland
sheep. Belly-wool, too, was out-
standing. Reserve champion,
owned by R. R. Taylor, Epping
Forest (Tas.), was not quite so
dense nor so good underneath
as the champion; nevertheless,
a worthy second.
First and third under-2|-
years went to Mt. Gow
stud, as did all three places in
the class for unhoused rams.
Pleasant Banks scored in the
aged-ewe class, taking the two
leading places. The winner,
which ultimately emerged as
champion, was smallish, but ex-
cellent in conformation • and
well covered with a high-
quality wool.
Polwarths
Polwarths were well repre-
sented with 165 entries. In Vic-
toria the breed has shown re-
markable improvement, stud-
masters obtaining better lines
and conformation with every
show. J. R. Allen, judge of the
rams, commented on the almost
entire elimination of goose-
rump, and praised the develop-
ment of good thigh-covering
and a nice front without folds.
Honors were distributed be-
tween Kooraweera, Woolon-
goon, Eeyeuk, Lariggan and
Jellalabad studs. The last-
named, owned by Dowling,
Gumming and Co., produced
the champion and reserve
champions in the horned-rams
class, was placed in 11 of the
15 classes, and finished with five
firsts, five seconds and five
thirds. The champion im-
pressed with an excellent topline,
finishing right to the tail; a
shapely animal with an excel-
lent thigh-covering.
’Polled Polwarth ram cham-
pionship went to Noel Thom-
son, Kooraweera, Camperdown,
who also took a first and four
second prizes. His ram was a
well-sprung animal nicely
covered on the points and belly.
Reserve championship in the
polled section went to Eeyeuk
(A. Dennis and Sons, Terang).
Kooraweera, by the way,
achieved a new Australian
record price (450gns.) for a
Polwarth ram in the sales.
Geoff Lawrence, of Cressy
(Tas.), judged a very even bunch
of ewes, selecting as champion
W. Weatherley’s ewe, which also
won the unhoused class under-
2Tyears. Beautifully balanced,
this ewe carried a top-quality
Polwarth fleece. Reserve
championship went to R. L.
Dennis (Lariggan), with his
winner from the aged, unhoused
class.
Comedales
Corriedales made a splendid
display, animals coming from
top Victorian, Tasmanian and
S.A, studs. Quality in the
breed, according to C. H. Mc-
Donald, who judged the rams,
was higher than at any previous
“This Westerly'll dry the flats up bonzer."
Melbourne sheep show. Studs
from northern districts were out
in strength with well-grown,
well-prepared animals shown in
excellent bloom.
Champion ram and also win-
ner of the aged class came from
Winchelsea stud. This ram,
owned by A. H. Dufty, exhibited
wonderful frame and bold
fleece of sire’s quality. The re-
serve went to Booloola stud
(R'. H. R. Baker), whose shapely
four-tooth ram, also winner of
the under-2i-years’ class,
showed a high-quality fleece
which, however, just fell short
of the champion’s covering.
Champion and reserve cham-
pion ewes were from north-
western studs. Winner of the
aged class bred by W. Turnbull
and Sons, Wedderburn, was the
judge’s choice for the cham-
pionship. The runner-up came
from C. G. Gates’s Drung
South stud. In the small-
holders’ division H. P. Herman,
Rosebud, and C. L. Hand,
Warracknabeal, divided honors,
British Breeds
There were 73 entries from 10
breeders. Romney Marsh
classes were well filled. Border
Leicester and Southdown figures
were up slightly, but Ryelands
showed a decrease. The cham-
pion Romney Marsh ram came
from Bolobek stud (O. J. Syme),
with Glentrevor stud (H. J. Yel-
land) in reserve.
Competition in the South-
down section was keen, E. F.
Hancock, Warracknabeal, taking
the championship.
All champion awards in the
Ryelands were taken by J. Mc-
Intosh with six firsts, three
seconds and one third. Strongest
opponent was T. J. Lilford,
Merrigum, who notched three
firsts, three seconds and two
thirds.
Keeping Silage Dry.
“G.R.C.”: In an effort to
overcome the labor shortage last
year I experimented making
silage with a standard automatic
pickup-baler. The silage was
mainly sub.-clover, and when
the stack was opened six months
later it was in excellent condi-
tion and a much better sample
than similar silage made in the
ordinary stack.
Our initial difficulty was to
prevent the bales from bowing
This, to an extent, was over-
come by cutting the hay and
letting it lay until it had started
to lose its look of freshness. It
was then baled—the bales kept
their shape well—and were
carted to the stack.
In making silage it is essential
to exclude all air until the silage
has matured, and, of course,
with a baler it is impossible to
get all the bales / exactly the
same size and shape ; so diffi-
culty was experienced in pack-
ing the bales together. This
was overcome by making a wall
around the stack with wire-
netting and bags, and the space
between the wall and stack was
filled with sand. The top of the
stack was covered with sand to
exclude the air and to weigh the
silage down, but it is my inten-
tion to build two parallel brick
walls to pack the bales between,
leaving only the top to be
covered. A pit could be used
to pack the bales in, but it is
much easier to remove the
silage from above ground than
from below it, and there would
be no drainage problem.
It should be possible to make
a chute to deliver the bale direct
from the baler to the wagon,
but one thing the baler-operator
must guard against is silage
getting between the chains and
the sprockets on the baler.
Renovating Fruit-trees.
“Rooster”: Old and neglected
trees in orchards can be made
profitable. Reclamation must
begin with proper attention to
the soil. It may need drainage.
Grass beneath the trees depletes
the soil of valuable minerals and
manure, without replacement of
any kind. Spraying may not
have been practised for years.
Lack of pruning may be all too
obvious.
One way of pruning an old,
overcrowded orchard is to pull
whole trees out. Provided that
they are planted on the square,
this is easy by simply grubbing
complete rows diagonally. On
a triangular plant more drastic
thinning would be necessary, re-
moving two in every three trees.
In any case, don’t be afraid to
allow every remaining tree the
maximum growth space.
Properly tended they will yield
more fruit than an entire ne-
glected orchard. It is a known
fact that many thousands of
acres of trees are not function-
ing as fully as they might simply
for lack of light.
Remove all dead wood from
the remaining trees. You then
have two alternatives: («) to
head back a number of main
branches so that fresh growths
will be thrown up ;or ( b ) to cut
out completely enough branches
to allow ample space for those
remaining. The first alternative
is best for old trees, the, second
will benefit trees not so old but
overcrowded. Don’t allow main
branches to underlie each other
unless they are at least three feet
apart. Remove crossing branches.
Try to visualise the treetop as
having a number of well-sep’a-
rated branches radiating out,
more orless equally spaced, from
a common centre. Thinning is
best done in annual relays. Any
tree having a tendency to grow
straight up should be “de-
horned,” the vertical branches
being cut down to a side branch
which will direct the energy
more into the horizontal plane.
Pears are notorious offenders in
this respect, and some varieties
of plums.
Large saw-cuts should have
their edges pared down to smooth
undamaged bark, and painted
over with white-lead paint.
Leave as little stub as possible
when removing a limb, so that
the rising sap can early form the
healing callus.
Wool Substitutes.
“Graz”: T. G. Hunter, pro-
fessor of chemical engineering at
Sydney University, recently told
a conference of farmers that the
Du Pont people and Imperial
Chemical Industries were on the
verge of discovering a real sub-
stitute for wool.
A wool-research officer of the
C.5.1.R.0., M. R. Freney, has
now assuaged woolgrowers’ fears
by saying that the. “replacement
of wool by a synthetic product is
like a prospector’s dream—it’s
away over the horizon.” In
Freney’s view wool will never
be replaced by synthetics. The
sheep’s fibre possesses several
characteristics, while synthetics
were developed with a special
character for one specific pur-
pose. The felting ability of wool
is practically unique, and its
scale-like structure has never
been duplicated. Wool absorbs
up to 32 per cent, of its weight
of water without becoming wet
—no substitute can do that. In
World War II Allied soldiers
clad in wool were warm and dry
while Nazis in sodden ersatz
froze to death.
While Freney’s assurances are
welcome we should respect the
great skill of scientists by em-
ploying them to our own ad-
vantage in continuing research
into the means of improving both
the production of better-quality
wool and its uses.
Breeding Geese.
“African”: There are plenty
of profitable outlets for a regu-
lar supply of goose-meat for
home and export markets.
Geese are cheaper to run than
other poultry and will thrive
almost anywhere, though they
prefer the dairying type of
country. They need running
water, and are grazers; require
little or no supplementary feed-
ing when mature and only suffi-
cient shelter to keep them warm
and dry.
Of the more popular breeds
the Chinese are best because
they are not too heavy to handle,
have a good upright appearance,
set better than other breeds and
lay an average of 80 eggs a year.
Set two or three eggs per
bird under broody hens or
ducks. Incubation period is 30
days. When buying the eggs
stipulate that they are for set-
ting ; fresh eggs are more reli-
able. Don’t set geese on their own
eggs because their output per
year is only small and they stop
laying if allowed to go broody.
Little success has been achieved
with incubators.
Rearing the goslings is simple,
but they must not be allowed to
enter water until two weeks after
losing their down. Feed them
twice daily with a fairly wet
mash, giving sufficient to satisfy
them. A suitable mixture is 21b.
of bran, 31b. to 41b. of pollard,
31b. of grain (wheat or oats), Hh-
of meatmeal and a couple of


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HVCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
( Complete self-contained sanitary
system .l
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
fd
■—DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; 0. T. See Kee. Radoleetrix
Sales and Services.
fhe
iMmms
DMOi
f
I
cs«
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTRAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO. 0.5. A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
Cigarette Tcbcccos
Pipe Tcbccco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. »r loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
The Modern
Method
df
of marking
lambs & calves
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
CASTRATOR & TAILER
with the ELASTRATOR RING
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELI I
P.L STONEWALL & CO. PIT. LTD
750 George Street, Sydney
Fractional h.p. mbtors from ito i h.p., 240 volts. Prices on
application.
Three-phase motors from 1 h.p. to 5 h.p., 415 volts. Prices on
application,
25 h.p. —E.C.C. variable speed, 8.8., good order, ,
offered as is, 500/1000 r.p.m., bare .... £145 0 0
50 h.p. —A.E.G. slip-ring, sleeve bearing, rebuilt,
360 r.p.m., bare £474 10 0
50 h.p. —Higgs slip-ring, 8.8. (with starter), new,
580 r.p.m. £697 0 0
50 h.p. —Higgs slip-ring, 8.8., new, 730 r.p.m.,
bare . £495 0 0
50 h.p. —Higgs slip-ring, 8.8., new, 970 r.p.m., bare £435 0 0
60 h.p. —Higgs slip-ring, 8.8., new, 730 r.p.m., bare £585 * 0 0
60 h.p. —Crompton slip-ring, 8.8., with automatic
push-button starter, rebuilt, 485 r.p.m. £577 0 0
60 h.p. —Note: English, slip-ring, 8.8., totally
enclosed, rebuilt, 720 r.p.m., bare ..... £495 0 0
75 h.p. —Higgs slip-ring, 8.8., with starter, new,
730 r.p.m £745 0 0
80 h.p. —Brooks slip-ring, 8.8., new, 960 r.p.m.,
bare ..... ... £469 0 0
80 h.p. —Note: English, slip-ring, 8.8., new, 970
r.p.m., bare
85 h.p. —Metro. Vickers, s/cage, drip-proof, 8.8.,
with starter, as new, 485 r.p.m. .......
100 h.p. —A.E.G., slip-ring, sleeve bearing, rebuilt,
735 r.p.m., bare , '
120 h.p. —Harding Churton, slip-ring, sleeve bear-
ing, rebuilt, 585 r.p.m., bare ..........
130h.p.—Laurence Scott, s/cage, 8.8., with
starter, rebuilt, 980 r.p.m. .. .... /
150 h.p. —G.E.C., slip-ring, sleeve bearing, with
starter, rebuilt, 725 r.p.m. ...............
170 h.p. —L.S. & E., s/cage, high torque, 8.8., with
starter, rebuilt, 980 r.p.m
320 h.p. —G.E.C., s/cage, 8.8., rebuilt, 1475 r.p.m.,
bare
£595 0 0
£539 0 0
£625 0 0
£728 0 0
£695 0 0
£798 0 0
£895 0 0
Phone M 4313
Telegraphic
Address :
“alternaters,
SYDNEY”
Suppliers of All Cl asses
• WELDING EQUIPMENT
• D.C. GENERATORS
• ELECTRICAL MARINE EQUIPMENT
pinches of salt mixed together
with skim-milk. After 10 weeks
they can be left to graze, given
a few handfuls of wheat in the
evening. Run four geese to a
gander. At three months the
birds willl be ready for the
table, but keep them for sox
months before marketing.
Swarming-time.
“Soc”: Swarms —like murder
—will out. With a bit of luck
you can lessen the losses by keep-
ing an eye on certain fundamen-
tal causes of swarming. Look to
your queens, A “bush-black”
will swarm until there’s only a
handful of bees left in the box
—and sometimes they will go,
too. Of the better breeds, the
Carniolan, whether rightly or
not, has the name for excessive
swarming. The Cyprian doesn’t
count, for she is too quick on
the sting to be farmed out here.
The popular Italian has, of them
all, lost to a more marked degree
the tendency to swarm.
An old queen of any breed
is more likely to leave than a
young one. Examine the
brood-nest. At least half a
dozen combs should be carry-
ing eggs and larvae. There
will be another half-dozen
sealed and emerging. Lift
the latter into the supers and re-
place with empty combs. Never
set foundation below. The bees
won’t draw it completely, always
leaving the bottom edge unat-
tached to the bar. Apart from
that fault, foundation has a ten-
dency to throw out of gear the
smooth functioning of the brood-
chamber, and at swarming-time
nothing could be more dangerous
to the economy of the hive.
Look then to the supers. Sealed
honey tends to encourage
swamiing. Extract it or lift to
the third or fourth deck and set
empty combs and foundation
among the combs being filled.
Despite your precautions,
some colonies will swarm. The
bees will tell you by knocking
off work when the other hives
are roaring. The bees will be
packed in the supers—an un-
usual condition during a good
flow —and looking much bigger
than ordinarily because their
abdomens will be distended with
a load of honey in preparation
for the hazardous journey ahead.
Scattered through the hive will
be upwards of 10 to 30 near-
ripe cells. Knocking them down
—as a surprising number of bee-
men do —only defers the point of
departure. Cutting the queen’s
wing has much the same effect,
for though the bees will return
to the hive when the absence of
the queen is noted they stay only
until the first virgin emerges.
The best way out is to make in-
crease by sharing out the brood
combs with adhering bees and
allotting a cell to each “nuke.”
Take the queen out, too, if she
is more than 18 months old. In
eight days or so, the colony will
have a new broodnest and a hive
that will be queenright for an-
other year and a half.
Finally, have plenty of lids
and bottom-boards and supers
on hand —and a swarmcatching
gadget (a kero.-tin tied to a long
pole suffices). If the season is
right for swarming—an abun-
dance of pollen with a light
flow of nectar —you will need
them all.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: When a maiden
apple-tree has been planted in
winter or early spring cut it back
promptly. Any tree planted
later than September is best left
alone for a full year, when the
shoots may be cut back to the
growth-buds, usually located be-
low the fat fruit-buds. Nor-
mally there is no time of the
year when a healthy apple-tree
is damaged by pruning, but
different varieties vary in their
pruning habits, and it pays to
study them.
“Big Billy”: Topping of
broad-beans, practicable only in
the home-garden, will give better
crops off fewer plants. Remove
only the cluster of half-opened
leaves at the terminals of plants
after they are 3ft. to 4ft. high.
If these tops are chopped and
cooked they are palatable. If
first stems are nipped when
12in. to 18in. high they will in-
duce more side stems, upon
which most of the crop is borne.
“Old Crab”: Touching that
flavored-milk hint (B. 2/8/’5O),
our Upper Burnett (Q.) grand-
father always claimed he side-
stepped the flavor in the meat
(we remember the carrot-weed
nuisance) by keeping his “killer”
from food and water 24 hours
before killing.
“Wirra”: To give a horse a
mild blister, ordinary liniment
—as used by most athletes —
containing egg-white, turpen-
tine, camphor and vinegar is
very effective. Rub it well in by
hand and then bandage the part
or cover with a tendon-boot if
on the leg. Be careful to rub in
only the affected part.
“Ngaduri”: Start breaking
heifer calves into the bail as
soon as they expect their bucket
of milk. Erect a set of minia-
ture bails in one panel of the
calf-paddock fence. The calves
very quickly become used to
them and each will select her
own bail. It saves a lot of spilt
milk and knocking about of the
calves. After six months of it
they never forget, and when
they themselves calve they will
accept the cowbail readily.
“C.S.”i To meet the needs of
home-gardeners the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture has re-
vised and reprinted its publica-
tion The Home Vegetable
Garden. This booklet begins at
the beginning—choosing a site
—and explains in detail best
methods of preparing and ferti-
lising the soil. A calendar sets
out clearly what to sow, where
and when, and separate illus-
trated sections are devoted to
the mainstays of the backyard
garden—beans, carrots, lettuce,
onions, potatoes, peas, etc.
“C.A.A.”: Pigs must be care-
fully managed during winter
months. Access to good pasture
is equally as important then as
in other seasons. On fine days
let sow and litter out for a run
as soon as possible after farrow-
ing. Keep them in during col&,
W et weather. Dry, clean earth
j n t jj e pe ns w ffl help to prevent
anaßm j a an d scours. Take ad-
van t age of every bit. of sun-
s hi n e and open all shutters and
to allow sun to penetrate
t 0 a q par ts,
“Sundowner”: Setting is im-
portant in correct use of the
plough. Proper settings are: tip
on point of share should be lin.
lower than the heel of the sole
plate, wing of share should be
fin. higher than the point, point
on the front furrow should be
set to the left when standing be-
hind the plough fin, to the land,
The object of this is to keep the
front furrow-wheel hugging the
wall of the furrow and follow-
ing the furrow. The second
furrow requires a little less than
a quarter-inch and third furrow
less again until the last furrow
is facing a straight line. Any
set to land on the last furrow
would cause the plough to tail
around too much.


r - v-
■
■
■
■
iiiip
1
w
H
■
:
■
■k.
11
' >
..■ <■
: : V.\
COMBINED ROAD AND RAIL VEHICLES, PAT. APPLD. NO. 21758/48.
High-speed monorail surface conveyors. Peculiar features are: Retractable rail wheels,
allowing vehicle to leave railhead, pneumatic traction stabilizers, powered similar to
road vehicle or aeroplane.
Above illustration is modern, but! there is nothing new under the sun.
In 1904 Charles Whiting Baker, Civil Engineer, Broadway, State, County, and City of New York,
patented a similar principle of monorail with road track stabilizers, also Raymond Syners, Engineer,
Rue Defacqz, Bruxelles, Belgium, in 1905 patented a truck similar in principle. Unfortunately
pneumatic tyre traction was unheard of at that particular period, Ordinary flat wheels served as
stabilizers, the rail being used for traction purposes.
No very real progress was ever made on the general adoption of any type of monorail vehicles, it
being considered at that time that the existing Railway System had an unchallengeable supremacy in
all land transport.
Illustrated Model with the compliments of
LAUREL WINDING WIRES
Manufacturers of fine insulated resistance and magnet wires
in silk and cotton, Millinery and Artificial Flower wires, etc.
ADDRESS*:
555 NEW CANTERBURY ROAD, DULWICH HILL, N.S.W-
PHONE: LM 2668
TRICOLOR & COFFEE
BY
DAVID
ROWBOTHAM
"TTHE world has been taken
S to pieces, examined and
L j either rebuilt or left
broken, like Humpty-
Dumpty, there.
It stands in one of those
narrow Sydney laneways which
try to struggle uphill from the
level and the tumult of the
G.P.O. towards the distinction
of Macquarie-street and the
Gardens, and succeed for a
while, until they run into the
impenetrability of the pedes-
trians and traffic in Castlereagh-
street or the unexpected width
of Elizabeth-street, at the sight
of which they hesitate and are
lost.
It is below ground, dark and
deep and small. Nothing, least
of all anything that might re-
semble a flag, flies above its inset
doorway, and it has no claim to
French tastes, for its food is un-
spectacular and its coffee merely
adequate ; yet it dares in firm,
red letters a foot high on one
side of the entrance the name
“Tricolor” and presumes on the
other side, though in lesser
letters (still red), to associate this
with “Coffee” and “Lounge.”
There is coffee, but no lounge—
nevertheless you may lounge,
spread your legs, blow smoke
with a determined nonchalance,
wear a scarf and casual clothes
which may even be old, if you
wish, and an expression of intel-
lectuality and extreme boredom.
CAREFUL of the gladioli in
the wall-recess, which brush
your elbow beside the petrified
and couchant tiger, you descend
the steep stairs and, treading a
zigzag among the roaming
tables, occupy the vacant chair
in the corner underneath the
“oil” of the young man in studio
apparel who broods from the
wall as if he were hatching an in-
describable and revolutionary art.
The sombre light, falling from
yellow, shaded electric-bulbs
either growing from surrealistic
bottles in. the wall-recesses or
sprouting like grotesque lilies
higher up in the wall, breeds, in
summer, incubator temperatures
not the least mitigated by the
presence of the tiny fan, which
doesn’t work, just below the
ceiling’s rim, affixed there in
some manner undiscoverable in
that atmosphere.
The waitress whispers around
you, and gradually, by a unique
form of centripetal force, eddies
to your table, where, against the
circumspect backgrqund of
brown wall, green ceiling, glass-
top table, floral skirt, your order
moves languidly into symbolic
form on a pink check-book
wavering like a foreign leaf of
light in the gloom. Coffee and
sandwiches.
The matronly woman behind
the glass counter facing the stairs
smokes perpetually, which is
very likely the reason for the
cigarette-case at her elbow being
perpetually empty. She keeps a
strict but benevolent eye on the
patrons, many of whom, being
students young and spontaneous
in fashion and speech, know her,
and with the ingenuous
diplomacy of intimacy pester her
for private use of the inner
sanctum at the back of the room,
which, curtained and cave-like,
harbors a mailboard, a round
table and stools for convenience
of student forums, student
parties or student indiscretions.
'T'HERE are flowers in china-
I boats on every table, lord-
ing it like unique argosies over
the red salt-shakers and the
maroon ash-trays darkened with
cigarette-burns and here and
there a violent little chip. The
walls are cemented , and flawed,
the floor almost bare, but tidy.
The young man with the
trumpet-pipe blows impres-
sionistic patterns of smoke above
his orange drink, and pores oyer
Karl Marx or Paul de Sartre with
the air of one studying his score
in rehearsal before he goes forth
to blast the universe with
plagiarised theories of perfec-
tion and prescience. The girl,
hidden but alluring underneath
her black wide-brimmed hat,
gives you an intellectually affec-
tionate glance. The patrons
either pair off or gather in groups
around the Theory of Evolution
or a discussion about Dos-
toievsky. And the oils and the
watercolors, student - created,
bring soldiers crossing a jungle
stream, a bibulous La Gioconda,
a wharf scene and concentric
circles wearing tangents like
bristles, into the midst of every-
thing ...
“It all depends on whether
you believe in determinism or
free will,” the beautifully-
spoken youth dominating the
group beside you is saying.
“Now, I’m a determinist—
which, on my part, is a philo-
sophical presumption but a
social fact. I think that of the
two believers, the determinist is
the more courageous.”
HE modestly lights a
cigarette.
“ ‘And what has all this to do
with my spending money on
things I really can’t afford?’ you
ask. Well, if I believed in free
will, since I am, on the average,
a sensible sort of fellow, I
should have to attribute this par-
ticular excess of mine to indis-
cretion, an artistic temperament
or bad taste; which I don’t. I
think there is no indiscretion,
temperament or bad taste at all
attached to my blowing my
money on a good wine, the best
cigarettes, a taxi if I’m tired of
the crowds or a new suit if I
think it will flatter me more than
my still-serviceable grey.
“There wouldn’t be any neces-
sity for me to say anything about
this business if spending were
not considered an evil, as it is.”
The girl wearing the sweater
wants to interrupt here, but re-
coils under the fierce nomina-
tive of the next piece of rhetoric.
“Who the blazes said spending
was an evil, anyway, in the first
place? Whoever did has done
incomparable harm, because my
parents have got hold of the
idea. Spending is speculation,
and speculation is mentioned as
a virtue in the New Testament
story of the three servants with
the tares.
“Things such as air, water,
sunshine —the great and grave
necessities of life —are free ; but
there are many other things, less
grave, less great, just as im-
portant to living as this trium-
virate, which aren’t free. But
money was made to buy them
with. Do you think I’m going
to die not ever having had a
glass of wine, or a day at the
races, or an electric-shaver? I
can’t afford any of them, least
of all the shaver, but I’m buying
that on the lay-by.
i ‘ A ND if you think I’m get-
ting away from determin-
ism in my dissertation on wine
and shavers you’re wrong r
believe it has been my good f 0l !
tune, as determined by
existence in these times, to have
not acquired but to have been
given a taste or an inclination
for these luxuries. Anyhow
‘luxury’ is a purely comparative
word. A luxury such as a car
to an Australian is merely a
concomitant of living to an
American and an impossibility
to a Zulu. Think of what hav-
ing a free will would deprive
me.”
He pauses for a deep draw on
his cigarette. The group are
thinking.
“If God gave man free will
why didn’t He give him perspi-
cacity to go with it?”
This comes from the- rhetori-
cian as if it had struck him as
a happy phrase, if a specious
and isolated one.
“Anyway, I’m having f un
even though I’m damning my’
self in • my 8 parents’ and my
creditors’ eyes. One, religiously
inept, socially flamboyant,
spendthrift, waster, fool, para-
site, formlessly wise. Have
another beer.”
MORE coffee is called for
and the group disinte-
grates into hubbub, into which
the girl in the sweater at last
pours some theory that cannot
be relished in the mixture of
voices.
As you ascend the stairs and
emerge into the two thin parallel
human streams rushing either
towards the tumult of the
G.P.O. or laboring towards the
distinction of Macquarie-street
perhaps you think that “Tri-
color” is not such a presump-
tion after all; that in that room
underground lives, like the
colors in a tricolor of eternal
youth, the blue that is hope, the
white that is love and the red
that is heart, reaching out to
follow the image men call their
star.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA (DIVORCE).
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY.
TO JACK CARNES formerly of Bothwell
In Tasmania but whose address is now
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer
charges in the Petition of LOLA MAVIS
CARNES of Evandale in Tasmania praying
for a dissolution of her marriage on the
ground of adultery and desertion In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within six weeks after the date of this
publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart in Tasmania or at the Launceston
District Registry Cameron Street Laun-
ceston. (Sgd.) D. W. SHIELDS, Acting
District Registrar. N.B.—Friends of the
ahovenamed JACK CARNES who may see
this advertisement are requested to bring
it under his notice.
Missing Friend.
WILL the descendants of a Manxman
named DAVID HARRISON who left Aus-
tralia and died in the Isle of Man about
P lease communicate with
MRS. MARK HARRISON, Ramsey, Isle of
of
(AO*
\HfW
Every model
tfeaw-Pc/fy cngmerecf
save you money
Every new International Truck in this fully
complete line is heavy-duty engineered to
give you longer truck life, lower main-
tenance and operating costs. The facts
tell the story: The men who buy heavy-
duty trucks buy on a basis of performance.
And the trucks they choose are Interna-
tional Trucks! The same management,
the same engineers, the same test experts
who develop International heavy - duty
trucks develop every new International
Truck. There is no compromise at any
point with passenger car design.
EVERY NEW INTERNATIONAL OFFERS
NEW IMPROVEMENTS THROUGHOUT!
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
NEW
Functional Styling
Outdoor Visibility
Comfo-Vision Cab
Super Manoeuvrability
Engine Accessibility
Triple Diamond series engines
Rear Axles for any job
Brake Systems, hydraulic
Steel-Flex Frames
Cradle-Action Springs
WV
SEE THE NEW
INTERNATIONALS
on display at
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
DISTRICT OFFICES &
METROPOLITAN
DISTRIBUTORS '
Showrooms in Capital
Cities,
or ask your International
Dealer for full
information.
df
Ask for full information regarding the complete new "L" Line International
Tracks of International Harvester District Offices and Metropolitan
Distributors in Capital Cities or from your nearest Country Dealer.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Vie.) - District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities - Works: Geelong & Melbourne
MT29O-40 -
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
■ I
To buy one dozen chaffbags of
rye-huSks by Wyong (N.S.W.) pur-
chaser. —4899. T
To buy books of verse by C. J.
Dennis.—-4900.
To buy copy of The Georgian
Literary Scene by Frank Swinnerton.
—4902. „ ,
To buy copy of Benjamin Franklin
by Van Doren.—49ol.
Clerk, middle-aged, male, able type,
keep simple accounts, seeks position
small N.S.W. country t0wn.—4904.
Words of verse beginning:
He loaded up his bullock dray,
And carelessly he picked his way;
Yet in the grooves his cartwheels made
Ten thousand people tread today.
—4903.
Music for Tennyson’s poem “The
Brook.” —4905.
Information Sought.
What causes heartburn ?
Heartburn is the common name for
a burning sensation in the chest, often
accompanied by a feeling of dis-
comfort in the throat and in the
region of the heart. It is due to
gastric disturbances, and is generally
caused by irritation of the stomach
wall by hyper-acidity of the gastric
contents. The cardiac symptoms,
when present, are generally due to an
over-distended stomach interfering
with the heart’s action. The dis-
comfort is rapidly relieved by a dose
of bicarbonate of soda. The condi-
tion should be treated by ensuring a
simple diet, regular exercise and
regular action of the bowels. Char-
coal 1 and bismuth are also very useful
drugs for heartburn.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
What are freethinkers?
The term is used of all who reject
belief in divine revelation, applied
especially to the deistical writers of
the 17th and 18th centuries in Eng-
land. The name was accepted by the
rationalists as expressing persons who
thought freely for themselves on all
questions, including ecclesiastical and
theological subjects.
* * * *
In English law what is “embra-
cery” ?
The misdemeanor of attempting to
influence a juror corruptly to give
his verdict in favor of one side or
party by promises, persuasions, en-
treaties, money, entertainments or the
like.* A juryman who corruptly
endeavors to influence his fellow-
jurymen to take his view is also guilty
of embracery. The juryman who
consents to give a corrupt verdict is
equally guilty with the person per-
suading. The punishment is fine or
imprisonment, or both.
* * * *
Who were the Abraham-men ?
They were beggars who wandered
about the English countryside, and
existed from the time of Shakspeare.
In order to excite pity or fear they
pretended to be lunatics, dressed
themselves in rags and made them-
selves appear ridiculous. They called
themselves “Poor Tom,”- and when
caught pilfering claimed to be “Tom
o’ Bedlam.” One of the wards in
Bethlehem Hospital, London, was for
lunatic beggars, and was named after
Abraham.
* * * *
Who was Marie Bashkirtseff?
She was a painter and diarist, born
of wealthy parents at Poltava, 1 Russia,
in 1860. At the age of 13 she insti-
tuted a diary, which she continued
to the time of her death, inscribing
in it her joys and sorrows, her
enthusiasms and her ambitions; above
all, her passionate desire for immortal
fame. She was endowed with a
beautiful voice and considerable
literary gifts, but chose painting as
her final expression in the arts, and
her picture “The Meeting” is in the
Luxembourg. She travelled much
throughout Europe, establishing for
herself a reputation as a woman of
society and culture, but when only
24 died of consumption.
* * * *
Difference between Persian, Turkish
and Indian carpets?
Persian carpets are thicker and
softer than ordinary carpets, are of
great durability, and are renowned
tor their beautiful designs. They are
made by knotting woollen yarn on
warp threads, the tufts thus formed
being firmly held in place by the
woof yarn. Turkish carpets are some-
what similar to Persian carpets, being
made in the same fashion, but their
designs are stiffer, and more geomet-
rical in character. The coloring is
very rich. Indian carpets, like Per-
sian, are woven by hand, the design
being formed by knitting into the
warp tufts of woollen threads of the
proper color one after the other. But
modern Indian carpets are much
inferior to the earlier Indian pile
carpets in pattern owing to the debas-
ing influence of Western design.
* * * *
Details about the breed of dog
known as the Dandie Dinmont terrier,
and how did it get its name?
The dog is called after the character
Dandie Dinmont in Walter Scott’s
Guy Mannering. who was founded
on a Border farmer named Davidson,
who helped to introduce the breed.
There are two varieties, pepper and
mustard, the former being slate-blue
in color and the latter yellow. It is
a strong, muscular dog, a fearless
fighter, and somewhat unmanageable.
It has in it some bulldog blood. The
muzzle is deep and the jaws very
strong. The coat is moderately long
and the ears feathered to a point.
Weight, about 201 b.
Brief Answers.
A.R.R.: Frederick Herbert Trench
(1865-1923) was an Irish-born British
poet. His New Poems (1907) contain
the long narrative poem “Apollo and
the Seaman” and other poems of
distinction. He also wrote for the
theatre and produced several plays.
..i.T.H.: The poem “I. Have a
Rendezvous with Death” was written
by Alan Seeger, an American poet,
killed' in action in World War I on
July 4, 1916. His collected poems
were published shortly after his death
with an introduction by William
Archer,.. .E.H.T.: The official open-
ing of the present Sydney (Central)
Station was on Saturday, August 4,
1906. The station was opened to the
public the following day K. 8.:
Articles on William Miller, the
wrestler, appeared in The Bulletin
for February 17, 1937, and April 26,
1939 C.A.: The longest passenger
railway platforms in N. S. Wales are
at Albury (1510 ft.) and Cronulla
(1275 ft.). The longest freight plat-
forms are at Flemington stockyards
(two of 2177 ft. each) and at Albury
(two of 1100 ft. each)... .R.J.K.: The
words are from the poem “The Devil
of Monaro” by Thomas E. Spencer,
printed in The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse and Recitations....
E.J.D.: The Making of a Senti-
mental Bloke (10s. 6d.) by A. H.
Chisholm, published by Georgian
House, Melbourne... .N.R.; Write
Australian Feather Mills Pty., Ltd.,
50a Glebe-road, Glebe (N.S.W.), and
Hygienic Feather Mills Pty., Ltd., 22
Chelmsford-avenue, Botany (N.S.W.).
....H.8.: The Thomas Walker Con-
valescent Hospital, Concord (N.S.W.),
was founded under the provisions of
the will of Thomas Walker (1804-
1886). N.S.W. businessman, one-time
president of the Bank of N.S.W. and
public benefactor 8.L.8.: (1) The
term “Sydney ducks” referred to the
Australians who swarmed to Cali-
fornia in the 1849 gold-rush. (2) A
“frying-pan brand” was a large brand
used by early Australian cattle-thieves
to cover the rightful owner’s brand.
... .C.S.: The Commonwealth rabbit-
skins marketing scheme, which had
operated since June, 1940, was ter-
minated in April, 1949. During the
life of the scheme Australian hat-
manufacturers purchased over 30,000
bales of rabbit-skins and produced
nearly 16 million fur-felt hats for the
fighting services. The Australian
Rabbit Skins Board collected over
£3 million in export levies on
rabbit-skins, which was used to sub-
sidise the Australian hat-manufactur-
ing industry T.McA.: The poem
“Ode to Darwin” was printed on
“The Red Page” of The Bulletin
of August 13, 1941.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor,
J.8.W.: Afraid it can’t “go into
The Bulletin's next Xmas issue” —
or any other issue... .K.D.; The
gloomy* reflections of broken punters
have long lost their freshness
C.S.V.: In the Henry Lawson vein,
but a long way after Lawson....
E.J.: No improvement on the last
batch G.C.: Too involved and
obscure for the average comprehen-
sion. .. .8.A.: Cannot honestly advise
you to keep trying R.L.D.: Not
at home to the brawling female and
her cowed family D.H.: Count it
among your youthful indiscretions.
....K.J.K.: This address is not a
“port of entry” for that poetic dere-
lict E.N.H.: ’Twould have been
better for all had the lady in widow’s
weeds committed suttee F.S.: No
landing-space here for your para-
chutist W.N.D.: The swagman
who rhapsodises about the quivering
willows, the golden-brown gorse and
the sweetly-singing birds is right out-
side of our experience M. 8.: Con-
serve your energy for some easier
pastime N.C.H.: The basket swal-
lowed the whole batch G.R.H.:
The office-boy played the “Dead
March” over its remains T.M.S.:
Sorry, but we couldn’t find space
for an effusion of that length, or a
quarter of it... .G.W.: An antiquated
mother-in-law story tamely t01d....
H.M.: Your shameless submission
caused the Religious Editor’s eye-
brows to lift H.L.8.: It may be
poetry, but the liberties you take
with metre make us shudder
C.S.T.: Fail to recall effort sent
in by you three years ago, but it
could hardly have been worse than
the latest example.., .P.T.: “The
Dying Prospector” has outstayed what
welcome he ever had in these pages.
Bellerive: Sweet is revenge:
. ...J.O’C.; No market here for lot-
tery wins that save the old home and
ring the wedding bells J.McD.:
You make heavy going of it....
F.L.H.: You haven’t much to say
that hasn’t been said before....
H.G.: Good going—a murder, a
robbery, a suicide and a double
wedding, all in fewer than 1000 words.
C.N.A.: Yes, spring is—or
almost is—here again, but the state-
ment repeated six times in 24 lines
seems a trifle superfluous 8.P.:
As pointless as it is rhymeless
R. 8.: Cut down, it might be unloaded
on a local daily A. 5.8.: You
might regard it as free verse; to us
it’s prose cut into disorderly lengths.
B.W.: “Could you find space
for this?” No, nor for any others
like it P.R.W.: We refuse to
read a microscopic scrawl written
on both sides of colored notepaper.
G.B.M.: “The Reformed Drun-
kard” so affected us that we had to
hurry out for a stiff nip K.F.S.:
It reads like a stray from an American
“western” magazine M.M.: So
dead that we suspect it arrived in a
hearse.
THE STAGE VILLIAN.
To and fro he
Did pace the stage
And cursed the hero
In he’s rage.
“I’ll toil the hound,”
He did egaculate.
“By heaven I will
Seal he’s fate.
He robbed me of
My sweet Totlinda.
I’ll throw him out of
He’s top room window.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4½d. per line; all others 2[?]d. per line.
Rice in the North
So the Rice Association has discovered
(1) that large areas of the N.T. and the
Kimberleys are suitable for growing
rice, and (2) that the normal rainfall and
seasonal flooding should provide suffi-
cient water without irrigation (B.
12/7/’5O). Wonderful!
The Territory knew all about rice-
growing more than 70 years ago ; for
at least 50 years (1880-1931) rice was a
staple export from the N.T., and resi-
dents bought locally-grown rice in prefer-
ence to imported stuff. Rice is indi-
genous to the north —it was growing wild
in the Territory before ever Tasman or
Flinders or Stokes sailed here. Even
today, though the growth and cultivation
of rice in the N.T. has been prohibited
since 1931 —when the Murrumbidgee
area was granted a monopoly of rice-
growing—there are areas still known as
“the rice-gardens” at Darwin, Brock’s
Creek, Pine Creek and on the Roper
River, where once rice was grown and
harvested by local growers.
But for the Commonwealth’s short-
sighted policy in limiting rice-growing
to areas requiring heavy expenditure for
water and irrigation channels there
would have been no shortage in the
supply of rice in Australia. The Terri-
tory alone could have grown sufficient
to supply the whole Commonwealth, with
something over for the rest of the world.
Still, now that the Rice Association
has found out something which every
old Territorian has known for a half-
century, farmers in the north may be
permitted to grow a crop which was a
money-spinner in their grandfathers’
day.— Wingella (N.T.).
The New Wool Levy
The Federal Government’s proposal to
make a compulsory levy on the sale of
wool this year would impose an addi-
tional unfair tax on the grower.
The bureaucrats claim that the money
is for a “stabilisation” plan, and the
Minister promises that if in about 18
months the growers do not agree the
money will be refunded. He does not
explain why the growers are not asked
now. The wool-selling agents could
quickly supply growers’ names and
addresses. Nor does the Minister say
whether repayment will be made in full
or subject to “expenses”
If the latter, growers can expect a
huge deduction if the “expenses” are
anything like those charged by the Gov-
ernment 1947-48 oat-pool administered
through the Barley Board.
In the oat-pool all costs, including
transport to the sea, were paid by the
growers, and apparently all the board had
to do was to put the oats on board ship
and collect from Britain. “Final”
dividends have recently been posted, and
growers are astonished that “expenses”
deducted amount to more than 11s. a bag.
Most of the cash should have reached
the board over a year ago, but apparently
it was nobody’s job to see that the large
sums received earned interest until dis-
tributed.
Growers’ organisations or their Parlia-
mentary representatives should insist on
finding out how the huge deduction is
“explained”; and woolgrowers should
be warned to insist that moneys deducted
from their cheques should at least be
invested to earn interest until either a
court decides that the levy is illegal or
the growers (if and when they get a voice
in 18 months’ time) demand their money
back. On top of recent heavy sheep
losses in N.S.W. and Queensland the grab
will be a severe blow to many growers.
It is suspected by some that the Gov-
ernment’s real reasons for “grabbing” are
(1) To get £25,000,000-odd (interest-free)
to spend itself and (2) to curb public
spending. If that is true, why not demand
an interest-free loan for 18 months from
income earned by all the community and
not only a section? Many merchants,
professional men, agents and bureaucrats
have a greater net income than most
woolgrowers.
The Government seeks to excuse the
levy on the ground that, without it, any
stabilisation scheme would not be
guaranteed. At present there appears no
need for a guarantee, but if in a few years
the bottom does fall out of the wool-
market and it is necessary for the Gov-
ernment to help the growers, any money
so spent would be small compared with
the millions the sheepmen have contri-
buted to Government coffers during the
last few years.—Bo-Zo (Vic.).
It is sheer guesswork for anyone to
say what the wool-market of the future
will be. But does anyone believe that
any Government of the day will guarantee
a floor price for any commodity without
having a big say in the control of that
commodity? And if the price of wool
drops does anyone think that J.O. or any
other body can demand even one penny
per lb. over the ruling price?
Some of those who approve of the
scheme are evidently thinking in terms of
“subsidy.” That term has so grown on
the Australian mind in recent years that
it now bears the same relationship as
backsheesh does to the Egyptian.
The only scheme needed is the indi-
vidual one of putting by for a rainy day.
Surely woolgrowers in these times of
high prices are capable of doing that
without help from any Government.
If the scheme in its present form comes
into being woolgrowers will regret it, be-
cause our great industry, which has stood
on its own feet for over a century, will
go into the hands of the politicians and
become a socialised concern. The
Minister has repeatedly stated that no
scheme will be established which is not
approved by woolgrowers. The sooner
this is decided by a vote of all wool-
growers the better. —R. K. (S.A.).
Farmers who have experienced the
“benefits” of the wheat - stabilisation
scheme will hardly welcome similar
bureaucratic control of their wool. All
the wheat scheme has meant up to date
is just another tax, and the right of the
Commonwealth Government to dictate to
growers how and when their wheat should
be sold and who should occupy the
chairmanship of the Australian Wheat
Board.
Like the wheat scheme, the proposed
wool-stabilisation plan is at first sight
nothing more than a compulsory-savings
device. But, whereas growers’ funds in
the wheat-stabilisation scheme will be
paid back in dribs and drabs when wheat
prices fall below a certain level, the wool-
“Now, I ask you—does this story make sense to YOU?”
growers’ money will be used to buy up
their own wool when prices fail to reach
a stipulated reserve price at auction.
The scheme’s advocates suggest the
sum of £3O million as sufficient to under-
write the cost of bolstering-up in this
way a falling wool-market. They
apparently don’t realise that if they met
with a solid buyers’ front it is more than
likely that woolgrowers would be £3O
million worse off, and that the market
would remain low until their funds had
been exhausted and they were left with
that quantity of wool on their hands.
There would then be no guarantee that
the market would rise again ; in fact, the
release of the growers’ wool would prob-
ably depress it still further.
This wool scheme does not emanate
from growers at large, but from a section
dominated by men in office whose minds
have succumbed to the dangerous
doctrines of Socialists and planners.
Some of them have already had trips
to overseas conferences, and it is natural
that they should wish to see the scheme
implemented and their own parts m it
assured. On the other hand, woolmen
who are receiving current high prices
from overseas buyers are generally mte -
ligent enough to realise they must also
accept the market’s less favorable fluctua-
tions. .
Those of them who have seen similar
interference in other industries realise
that once a free market is tampered with
it has an unfortunate tendency to tavor
the buying side, whose resources are
usually strongest in the long run. •
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
So “Graz” thinks the decision to
impose a wool levy was not hastily made.
How then can he explain why both the
Australian Primary Producers’ Union
and the Australian Meat and Wool Pro-
ducers’ Federation refused to hold a
ballot of members to determine their
attitude to the levy? It was mainly the
assurance by those two organisations that
their members unanimously favored a
levy which induced Mr. McEwen to adopt
it. When the Graziers’ Association of
N.S.W. was informed of this develop-
ment just two months ago, ballot-papers
marked “for urgent attention” were
rushed out to its members. A circular
accompanying the papers emphasised the
extreme urgency of the poll, and asked
members to return their papers as soon
as possible. If that does not indicate a
hasty decision, it certainly does not
suggest lengthy discussion.
The truth is that a few men on the
executive councils of some farmers’
organisations committed their members
to this obnoxious idea, and despite
a storm of protest refused to hold a
ballot. The Ironworkers’, Boilermakers’
and other Red-controlled unions have
nothing on some of the pastoral organisa-
tions when it comes to executive domina-
tion of the rank-and-file.
“G.” says that few of the critics know
much about the plan, but the whole tone
of his letter suggests ignorance of what
has happened to farmers and graziers be-
cause of “plans” and “stabilisation
schemes” during the last decade.
Graziers know these things only too well.
“G,” also says that before 1939 there
were no plans, and results were often
disastrous. He surely has not forgotten
the extremely low prices paid under the
war-time stabilisation scheme ; they were
just as low in relation to costs and profits
as during the worst days of the depres-
sion.
In Britain a Socialist Government pays
woolgrowers 27 pence per pound for
wool (compulsorily acquired) under a
plan, and receives 69 pence on the open
market; The balance goes to consolidated
revenue That is why Australian graziers
are determined to throw this plan on to
the rubbish-heap—R. L. S. (N.S.W.).
Rents
No doubt many landlords are thrifty
people who have scrimped and saved
for many years and present-day rents
are not giving them the rewards merited
by their industry and thrift (B.
16/8/’5O). But there’s another side to
the question.
Rents, says “Jindivick,” have in-
creased only one per cent, since 1939,
while groceries, for instance, have shot
up 63 per cent, and clothing 174 per cent.
Does he hope that rents will do like-
wise? Even with only their slight in-
crease rents still represent a sizeable sing
out of the weekly pay-envelope.
That’s a point “J.” forgets. Rent is an
unvarying weekly commitment, whereas
with other items, clothing particularly
one can cut down considerably the
weekly outlay, and cut it out altogether
some weeks.
Anyway, I’m not so sure that all rent-
payers are getting off as lightly as “j»»
thinks. I have the use of but one room
and the rent I pay is far beyond what
would have been asked for similar
accommodation in 1939. —K. R. '(N.S.W)
Transport
Those arguments against Government
control of transport (B. 19/7/’5O) the
attitude of the workers and the attitude
of the Government —are irrefutable, but
there is another side to the question.
In nearly every case where the Govern-
ment has taken over a private-bus run
the service has been improved. The
personal touch between some—only some
—owners and their regulars has been lost
but it has been replaced by a more
efficient, regular and frequent service.
Only the Government bus can run at a
loss and keep a service going.
If city residential areas are to be moved
to less-crowded parts, must transport wait
till the population has settled or will it
help to open up these areas? Even in
these days the would-be buyer of a block
of land first makes inquiries about avail-
able transport. Private buses will not,
and cannot, be put on these routes unless
they show some signs of paying their
way. Government-run transport should
pay its way if possible, but it should also
provide a public service by opening up
the less populated parts.
Private-bus runs lack the first essential
of private enterprise—competition. In
practically every case the private run is
a monopoly, checked only by the
vigilance of the Transport Department.—
R. W. (N.S.W.).
Soldiers’ Gear
Those remarks about the cumbersome
service rifle (B. 5/7/’5O) could be, ex-
tended to cover a lot more of the
infantryman’s equipment. The crux of
the question seems to be the British
Army’s reluctance to regard any personal
weapon or equipment as “expendable.”
The standard equipment, including the
rifle, is strong and practically indestruc-
tible. And it’s heavy. That goes for
webbing, pack, haversack, water-bottle
and all the other miscellaneous items the
unlucky footslogger has to hump through
all conditions of warfare. In theory, any-
way. In practice he will, given the
opportunity, either modify the gear him-
self so as to lighten it, or he will throw
it away, perhaps replacing such essentials
as the water-bottle with lighter types used
by the enemy, who, poor fellows, have
been equipped with “ersatz” gear which'is
far lighter to carry though perhaps not
quite so indestructible.
The rifle could be shortened and also
lightened by cutting away a lot of the
wood, thus making it more of a sporting
model. Before making any alterations
in its calibre it should be remembered
that the tactics of the infantry section
are built aTound the firepower of the
Bren light machinegun. As long as the
Bren can be operated the remainder of
the section —other than the sub-machine-
gunners—are expected to hand over as
many rounds of ammunition as possible
to supply the gun.
So if the calibre of the rifle is changed
a lighter type of Lm.g. would have to be
developed, as it is essential that the l.m g-
and rifle ammo should be* interchange-
able^ —unless, of course, the issue of rin
ammo of a lighter calibre was cut dow
to about 20 rounds, so that the soldi
could still carry his share of rounds to
the Bren as well.
Actually, the rifle is little used by fh®
soldier. It is his weapon on guard duy>
and he may get an occasional sna .P s 7? v
at an enemy target. He will proba y
fire a few rounds now and then to k P
up his morale, but on the whole he kn
that his weapon is subordinate to
l.m.g. and the sub-machineguns. A _
fore, any sort of a light personal weap
would be as useful as the rifle. In a
he will probably use his grenades mP,
ference to his rifle. He will regar
rifle as expendable; a weapon t
dumped in exchange for an s.m.g-
first opportunity. also
The weight of a soldier s gear 1 ,
a factor to be considered in air
port. A few pounds off th
personal equipment means that
man or more supplies can be earn
the plane.—C. R, (N.S.W.).


compositions which ranged from can-
ticles and chorals to works for string
quartets and for ’cello and piano. He
is billed for a further concert in
December of major works, including a
quintet and a sonata.
Busy at present orchestrating one of
his pieces for full orchestra and chorus,
Gilfedder has done all this in two and a
half years, since, after studying medicine
for four years, he decided his real voca-
tion was music. During that time he has
poured out an enormous quantity of
music, some of which was attempted at
the Assembly Hall concert, sometimes
with the shy author at the piano, some-
times singing his own works and some-
times with some reasonably competent
executants of the voice, the ’cello, violin
and bugle doing it for him.
The hopeful thing about Mr, Gilfedder
is that he obviously thinks of himself
first as a composer, but hasn’t forgotten
to learn his trade. His music was simple,
melodious and easy and singularly un-
complex, even when he was writing for
several instruments. When he picked the
notes of a French song out on the piano
he looked like a student playing exer-
cises, but there was sensitiveness about
his playing, and there was feeling in his
Phantasy on an Original Theme for
Strings, which bore the astonishing opus-
number, 53.
Op. 49 was a tone poem with a ’cello
giving the masculine voice and the treble
of the piano the feminine, and parts of
it were very lovely. It took the listener
back to the days of the spinet. In a
series of French songs Gilfedder seemed
not so much to have recapitulated as to
have recaptured the atmosphere of the
courts of the Louises. His future will
depend on how well he maintains his
enthusiasm. His tuition stands to the
credit of Ada Freeman.
TALKIES
"Whisky Galore."
Before considering this film, an Eng-
lish comedy from Ealing studios, and as
rare, excellent and generous as the spirit
that moves it —50,000 cases of Scotch
whisky marked “for export only” but
fortuitously wrecked on the snores of
the very thirsty little island of Todday
in the outer Hebrides—one stops short at
the magnificent ringing simplicity of the
title.
What a cry! It conjures up scenes
that “Fire’s On” or even “Beer’s On”
could never evoke from the imagina-
tion. And what an idea ; a motto ; even,
almost, a campaign-cry and an ambi-
tion. How much more exciting and in-
teresting, for instance, to set up in Syd-
ney Domain under a streaming banner
flaunting the words “Whisky Galore”
than under such dull familiarities as
“Australian Communist Party” or
“Atokism.” What a slogan to chalk on
Sydney’s footpaths like the mysterious
“Eternity” that appears on the kerbstones
overnight, and what a perfect, joyous
retort to “Ban the Atom-bomb,” “Hands
off Korea,” “Pay' Your Fare” or even
the austere “Silence.”
Passing from the title to the film itself
one finds an altogether delightful
comedy; a masterpiece of subtle under-
statement (if 50,000 cases of whisky may
be taken as an understatement) about the
doleful time when the island of Todday
ran out of whisky and how the inhabitants
grieved and even died during the drought
until the ship with its fabulous cargo ran
aground on their shores. Then the small
boats set out in a scene like something
from Dunkirk and returned loaded to
the gunwales with liquid .salvage, the
drought was gloriously broken and the
captain of the Home Guard outwitted
when he tried to set a guard on the
spirits, and even the excise-officers,
despite their speed and thoroughness,
could find nothing but innocence, silence
and the smell of whisky when they
arrived.
The film is practically crowded with
superb characters who look almost as
though they had been caught on the hoof
and held only long enough for the camera
to record their craggy features. The
tamer members of the cast include Basil
Radford, as the Home Guard captain—a
perfect piece of acting; a solemn,
humorless soul shaded with pomposity
and played as only a comedian of the
first water could play him. James
Robertson Justice, as the island’s doctor,
looks like a bearded man of the moun-
tain. Joan Greenwood and Gabrielle
Blunt are the postmaster’s daughters, and
Jean Cadell makes a fearsome old lady
who keeps her son, the Home Guard’s
2/i.c., locked in his room.
The island itself (Barra is reported to
have been the actual setting) is beauti-
fully caught by the camera, and the wild
country, the rolling seas and swirling
mists hold the story and its characters
perfectly. At Sydney State.
"The Cure for Love."
This, at Sydney Embassy, is another
English comedy which, if not up to the
standards of character and humor of
Whisky Galore,” is diverting enough
and very smoothly played by such as
Robert Donat and Renee Asherson
against a Lancashire village background
and with the support of a picturesque
collection of what, from this distance,
look like good Lancashire types. Donat
also directed the film, and, if he shows no
particular subtlety in that capacity, there
is at least a certain honest forthrightness
about his handling of comedy that gets
the laughs where he wants them.
The story has to do with the return
from the wars of a sergeant (Donat) to
his home and the girl to whom he is
engaged, or, more accurately, who has
got herself engaged to him, and diverted
herself with most of the lads of the
village as well as any occupying forces of
the moment. The sergeant’s difficulties
spring from a kindness of heart which
prevents him from breaking the engage-
ment despite the attractions of another
young woman (the Asherson) come to
stay with his mother during his absence.
Everyone makes a lot of light-
hearted fun of the business—Donat,
bright, alert and whimsical; Miss Asher-
son, pert and pretty; and; Marjorie
Rhodes, hard, humorous and human as
the sergeant’s mother. The wench whom
the sergeant wants to shake loose, but
who clings very tenaciously, is played by
Dora Bryan with such gusto that the
noisy, vulgar, sniffling figure she creates
not only makes the sergeant’s anxiety to
escape seem highly commendable: one
also feels after five minutes of her that
it would be a relief to escape from her
presence on the screen.
"The Asphalt Jungle."
Director John Huston, with such
films as “Treasure of Sierra Madre,”
“Key Largo” and “We Were Strangers”
to his credit, seems to be up-and-coming
pretty fast, and his latest effort, “The
Asphalt Jungle,” is well and clearly
starnped with his brand. His brisk,
penetrating and generally unsentimental
handling of character; his flair for get-
ting into the minds of several diverse in-
dividuals ; his un-Hollywooden habit of
leaving the obvious unsaid; and his
recognition of the principle that drama is
more a thing of character than incident
all combine to make lively intelligent
films.
The combination is quite successful in
this current item, at Sydney St. James,
and lifts what would otherwise be
ordinary crime-does-not-pay material to,
at least, a study of crime as “a left-
handed form of human endeavor.” The
particular crime, a jewel-robbery, is
planned with businesslike efficiency by a
misdirected genius of organisation ; the
safebreaker, the bodyguard and the
driver are hired for the job, and the dis-
posal of the jewels arranged. Everything
goes smoothly enough until the usual un-
foreseen hitches occur and, one by one,
the members' of the scheme are* killed or
captured.
There is little in the bare story to make
it any different' from a dozen others, but
the combination of Huston’s directing
and a good deal of capable acting brings
the characters to life and raise the whole
piece from mere mechanics to the
necessary atmosphere of inevitability.
Sam Jaffe’s master-mind gives an
excellent impression of a cool, busy brain
behind his impenetrable, gnomelike
features; that excellent actor, Louis
Calhern, shows very fine form as a
lawyer hiding his bankruptcy behind a
facade of polished manners and ex-
travagant living ; and Sterling Hayden
turns in a surprisingly good performance
as a sullen, vicious-tempered hooligan.
There are also an efficient and credible
police commissioner (John Mclntyre) and
a kind of criminal clearing-agent played
with some force and color by James
Whitmore —the actor who made such a
good job of the sergeant in “Battle-
ground.”
"Sands of Two Jima."
Exept for one or two instances, the
impact of psychology on the fighting man
has been ditched in this film to make
way for red-blooded action, and in this
department nobody can complain of
being underfed. The whole picture
moves around one man: John Wayne as
Sergeant-of-Marines Stryker, a ruthless
disciplinarian whose methods in training
breed hatred among some of his charges,
but whose bearing in action brings respect
from those he has driven unmercifully
in the knowledge, gained in action at
Guadalcanal, that ill-trained soldiers
mean heavier casualties and lost actions.
Wayne is in his element in this kind of
role and makes the most of it.
The battle-scenes are excellent, with
convincing terrain and a refreshing
absence of the Florida-Everglades-
location which marred so many earlier
Pacific-war films.
There is, of course, plenty of banter
and chiacking among the soldiers to
offset the serious stuff, and, apart from
Wayne, a few good character-sketches
of men going into battle for the first time.
The climax when Stryker, the “indestruc-
tible,” gets his “issue” when the battle
for the island is practically won comes
with commendable force.
A bit of romance has been spot-welded
into the story, and this is the one feeble
touch —Julie Bishop as a New Zealand
lass with a Coney Island accent. At
Sydney Plaza.
"Love That Brute."
Such tried comics as Arthur Treacher,
Cesar Romero, Keenan and Joan
Davis are all scattered through this
current offering at Sydney Esquire to
support Paul Douglas, who, as he proved
in “A Letter to Three Wives,” needs
very little support in the matter of
comedy.
Douglas, however, doesn’t get the
opportunities to show himself at his ad-
mirable best. The story is a kind of re-
luctant-dragon tale of prohibition days ip
the U.S. and deals mainly with a soft-
hearted gangster who, despite a carefully-
built-up and terrifying reputation, would
rather feed crumbs to the ducks in the
park than even dream of hurting any-
one—“l started carrying stuff [liquor] on
the side ; then someone started pushing
me around. I pushed back and found
myself running the show.”
The story brings in a pretty young
governess for whom Mr. Douglas falls
so heavily that he adopts a precocious
young brat who needs governing, and,
what with the young lady discovering that
Mr. Douglas is a ravaging monster, a
rival gangster discovering that he isn’t,
Mr. Treacher and Mr. Wynn trying to
keep the cat, or cats, in, or out, of the
bag and Miss Davis displaying her
alarming double-join ted antics, the whole
piece makes up into a lightly amusing
hour or so.
"High Temperature."
xhe above-mentioned opus was re-
vived at the King’s, Melbourne,
apparently to give Mr. Clifford M oils son
an opportunity to display his proficiency
in gymnastics. In the course of the
evening Mr. Mollison jumped in and out
of a double bed, underneath which two
burglars had deposited him after divest-
ing him of everything but his under-
clothing, approximately 499 times. Miss
Avril Wheatley, as Mrs, Betty Neville,
part-owner of the same piece of furni-
ture, attained to nearly the same athletic
record. Sometimes Mr. Mollison was in
the bed and sometimes underneath it,
and sometimes Mr. Mollison and Miss
Wheatley were in the bed together.
The only relief the bed got was when
Mr. Mollison was slamming the hinges
off the doors of (a) a telephone-cabinet,
( b ) a wardrobe, (c) a large box, and id)
the bathroom. John Edmund, as Miss
Wheatley’s medical adviser, coming and
going, slammed the door of the bedroom
on 234 occasions, and Richard Webb, as
Weeks, the butler, clad in shirt, under-
pants and two doormats, performed the
same service more quietly 159 times.
Eric Evans, as the husband, Lily Moore,
as an aunt, Joan Ross and June Clyne
contributed their quota to the exhausting
business. The play raised laughs, but if
Boccaccio had been present he would
have been profoundly puzzled at so much
climbing in and out of beds to such little
purpose.
Avery Hopwood, the American author
responsible for the play, who died in
1928, left most of his money to a fund
to foster all kinds of literary endeavor.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 83
Across.
I—The wine imp on the Victorian
coast. (4, 5)
s—-Blush when attacked by a bull. (5)
7 take the medical graduate to
the French street and drench. (6)
8— Lindsay the Candid —a famous
Philadelphian. (8)
10— Palm of a sunburnt rodent. (6)
11— River-fish has 100 on the nave
of a wheel. (4)
16— Blowing seabird takes the key of
Beethoven’s fourth piano con-
certo. (7)
17— Disorderly article arising from a
musical event. (7)
18— Melody. (3)
19— Time that distinguishes M from
the first working-day of the
week. (7) •
20— A roofing mother backed Galli-
Curci. (7)
21— Thanks about the weed weight
of a vehicle. (4)
22 Can the inexpert player get a
pannikin? (3, 3)
24—Noise of chains provided by the
sovereign of a Caledonian tribe.
(8)
26 — Reach the thanks in a tin. (6)
27 Blushing bachelor of arts is put
in blushworthy condition. (5)
28— A thick clump of papers and I
have 50 per cent, with a town in
Sudan. (4, 5)
Down.
1— Gasp gasp. (4, 2, 5)
2 Bobby, with some precipitation,
gets a poet. (6, 5)
3 Tennis linesman or a carping
critic? (5, 6)
4 Enclosure upset a vehicle. (4)
5 Weapon. (3)
6 Put on a famous river. (3)
9 —Wildcats are merry in a planet. (7)
12 — This Roman lock turner and
lighter sporting contest. (6, 5)
13 — “Rabbits.” (7, 4)
14 — Coin from 28 across, perhaps.
(4, 1,6)
15 — Ambler swallows one of the Pied
Piper’s followers when wayward.
(7)
23 — McMaster, a Shakspearian actor,
is here afresh. (4)
24 Cadet reporter. (3)
25 Rag a child. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 82.


■;iv
i-
■'
Sags
4 »
-;>¥S
SSs£afi
iSSS
' «
&
A
\
■
„ i"
msggm&
iJSS
m i
•■■•■;■:. 4:
t--:,'V
■
;•; ; •.:; .
■■:■ ;
. ..
■
m
■'■■■■ •■’ >.■■.
; ■-■. ?.
■ .■'/ ‘ •
■m
■:•■•: ;■ :
-X.
: ■ :•■
• ■ •■; • ■;> ;>
.
m
88
W: •<.'••
■
I
NEVER BOUGHT
SO MUCH BEFORE!
while stocks last a CKO pair
of slacks is yours for only 6941
CLOTHES
grusaberClotb
E GUARANTEE to you that these famous all-purpose
Stamina Trousers . . . are tailored from pure wool
"Crusader” cloth which never fades or shrinks . , , are
experts to ensure comfort, stylish appearance and perfect
fit (YOUR correct fitting Is available as over 100 different
sizes are tailored) ... are consistently bought by over a
million Australian men and it is only because of this huge
demand that they are still available at 69/II . . . are so
perfectly tailored that they outlast many times, cheaply-
made trousers . . . stand up to the wear and tear of
numerous dry-cleanings as every seam Is serged . . . are
self-supporting and there is no elastic to perish and no
need to buy braces or spend additional money on a belt.
all costs—-cloth, trimmings, wages—are again increasing*
available in 12 popular colours ... are cut by fashion
while the price remains at 69/11. Remember,
ASK FOR
Stamina.
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
AVAILABLE AT All LEADING MEN’S WEAR S TOR M
