

The Bulletin
rhe Bulletin.” Vol. 71—No. 3698
Wednesday, December 27, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
THE STRONG CASTLE OF KING JOHN STILL PROUDLY STANDS
LTMFRTCK the third largest city in the Irish Republic, was original!)
IMERICR, n Ascending the Shannon estuary as far as the
tL’tSjK of
““ ST » ,Wcf fnd S tfm-
accompanying /jlf tration, wdh wll entrusted by King John to the
towers, fifty f Burgh and was connected to the Clare bank by
*spans the Abbey River, a tributary of the Shannon.
Som that tme onward, Limerick grew in importance as a seaport, and was
a rival of Slway for the Spanish and Gascon trade.
In the Civil War, Limerick sustained two sieges, that of whcn lt
was taken by the Irish, and that of 1651, when Hugh O Neill held out fm
six months against Ireton and finally surrendered owing to the presence
plague within the fortress. The most famous siege of Limenck, however
that of 1690, when it was held by the Irish forces under Tyrconnel.against
William 111 after the Battle of the Boyne. The besiegers paused m the
ftackft await the arrival of the siege train from Dublin, but this was blown
up by Patrick Sarsfield. Soon after this delay, however, the bridge was a en
in a fierce attack and five-sixths of the garrison lost their lives To save
further loss of life, Sarsfield surrendered, and on October 3rd 1691, The
Treaty of Limenck was signed on the famous Treaty Stone, shown in the
foreground of the illustration.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
AOELAU,* SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE «£££ Anl B fo ALS^^'SB CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.S


LiSiMi
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
— CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
■ Address
(5.8.150) Age
The Red Page
A FRENCH DETECTIVE.
Detective stories have put real-liJ
detectives on the defensive; the
memoirs, the more honest they are, strik
an apologetic note for the muddle tha
was made of an arrest, the sheerest acci
dent that led to a conviction, the low
life informer who gave them the answe
which the fictionary detective would hav
reached by exercising of his brains, thoug
on this last point ex-Commissioner Tea
Belin, in his book. My Work at th
Surete (Harrap), takes the bull by th
horns; —
Detection in France is largely based on
the full use of informers—delinquents who
have committed some minor misdemeanor
and are let oft, provided that they will
report what they know to the police.
This had a curious sequel when
rivalry sprang up between the Surete
responsible for the maintenance of orde
and suppression of crime throughout the
nation, and the Paris Prefecture, which
duplicated these functions in Paris and it
suburbs:
All of us had our own personal set of
informers, with whom we were in close
contact because of the protection we gave
them. One way in which rivalry between
the two camps was often expressed was by
arresting each other’s informers. To do so
was to hamstring the activities and effective-
ness of the officers concerned, and unfor-
tunately this sort of thing happened only
too often.
But M. Belin can afford such admis-
sions ; he has nothing to be ashamec
of; he has moved among the best
murderers and crooks of his age: the
Bonnot anarchists, Landru, Weidmann
Millet the picture-faker, Stavisky, the
Cagoulards and, during the recent war
the German Gestapo. Indeed, the Landru
case was a bright bit of work; not an
informer’s job at all.
Belin suspected, detected and arrestee
Landru. The case came to him as news
of two women who had disappeared from
the village of Gambais. His inquiries led
him to the conclusion that the men they
had last been seen with were one man
under different names. Against the genial
mockery of his colleagues he went on
asking questions ; he went to great pains
to make friends with a taciturn Parisian
relative of one of the lost women. She
had met the strange man. One day the
relative rang M. Belin and said she had
seen the man and a woman and followed
them to a department store. After that
she had lost them. It was now night.
The store was closed. M. Belin went to
the home of the proprietor, persuaded
him to unlock the store and call in the
assistant from the china department where
the couple had been seen. The assistant
produced the customer’s card —yet an-
other name, with an address in Rue de
Rochechouart. M. Belin went there, and
found that the man’s description tallied
with those given by his other informants,
but that the couple had gone away for a
week. But within a week’s time the
concierge was on the phone: “He’s come
back,” and M. Belin was able to arrest
a man calling himself Guillet on a
warrant made out in the name of Frem-
yet, who had a fragment of an old enve-
lope in a corner of his overcoat pocket
with the name “Landru” written on it.
Here M. Belin becomes delightfully
French:
I had a sudden flush of conscience. I
remembered I had once signed myself by
the name of Landru, instead of my own,
in a hotel register some years before when
I had gone away for a weekend with a
girl-friend. I have often thought of the
complications this trifling incident might
have had for me, or, for that matter, for
Landru.
Enfin ! M. Belin had gone beyond his
powers, even holding the warrant away
so that his arrestee could not read it;
French law gave him twenty-four hours
to establish a case —and on searching
Landru he found a diary, and a pocket-
book with the names of the two missing
women in it, and of 273 other women,
eight of whom —they checked all the
names, but traced only a hundred—were
on the missing list. But granting that the
pocket-book and the diary were lucky,
the work and determination leading up to
them were surely worthy of their object,
“the modern Bluebeard, the greatest
seducer of a 11.... the mass-murderer of
all time.... the man of mystery...
M. Belin’s other cases are not as clear-
cut, but some are even more exciting. A
Burgundian, he hungered and thirsted from
boyhood to be a policeman; but though
he got into the force he was rejected
as detective by Lepine, then Paris Prefect,
because he was five feet eight inches high.
Lepine had set five feet seven as a limit
for a detective, so that he should be in-
conspicuous ; nor must the detective have
red hair, a pot belly, a mole or a scar ;
he must be just an ordinary man. On
the other hand, a policeman had to be
five feet nine—Belin was allowed to stay,
but in an outlying station. Lepine was
evidently a very able old egg ; he stopped
a strike of several thousand workers in
the Paris markets by leading his men
against the mob and then shouting:
“Stop! Stop! I forbid you to attack
these honest men! ” The workers chaired
him and went back to work.
When Clemenceau formed the Garde
Mobile, “precursor of the G-men in the
United States,” Belin joined them, and
drew a little closer to La Gloire, taking
part in the almost-forgotten struggle with
“the Anarchists,” a gang of bank-robbers
and murderers with high ideals, led by
a racing-car driver called Bonnot, which
was twice fought-out with rifles and
sieges. V
After the First World War, a rising
detective in the Surete, Belin came up
against the plotter Chiappe, then head
of the Surete, and later dismissed from
the Prefecture during the Stavisky riots.
Belin gives considerable attention to this
police-chief, who dismissed him for his
conduct of a case which had political
strings tied to it and, on Belin’s being
reinstated by the High Court, banished
him to four years’ service at Versailles.
Later, Belin was in charge of the hunt for
Stavisky, went after him to Milan, heard
he was in Chomonix and sent an
assistant to arrest him. Stavisky
saw the police coming and shot himself.
His suicide set Paris aflame; Chiappe,
who had made himself immensely power-
ful, and was secretly supporting the
Royalists, was dismissed ; police stood by
with folded arms, while the mob milled
around ready to explode into rebellion ;
but La Roque, leader of the Croix de Feu,
“did not appear to have any really clear
idea of what be was aiming at,” a young
officer of the Municipal Guard shouted to
the mob, “If you cross this bridge you
will cross it over my dead body,” and
the mob turned away, and in the evening
went home, tired, to bed. But for the
young officer, and La Roque’s indecision,
France might bave had another King.
M. Belin, who is now eking out his
pension with journalism, makes a stirring
but confused job of those stirring and
confused times, and also of the last
moments and suicide on a railway-line
of Councillor Prince ; gives some account
of his investigations into the murder of
M. Barthou and the King of Yugoslavia
at Marseilles, and of the detection and
arrest of the murderer Weidmann. In
his dissertation on picture swindles, he
mentions an aristocrat, known to the
police, who makes a habit of selling just
the one valuable painting to foreigners
over and over again. To get by the
French law that exacts heavy tribute on
masterpieces going out of the country,
the buyer is persuaded to allow the picture
to be covered with an obviously un-
important painting. But when the picture
arrives in its new home, and is scraped
down, it is found to have only another
undistinguished painting underneath it.
Nor can the buyer go back to France
and tell them that he has been robbed
in conspiring to rob the French Govern-
ment.
The last chapters of the book are the
story of the Cagoule, or Hooded Men, a
French form of Fascism, organised by a
wealthy shipowner called Deloncle, and
backed by such as the dismissed Chiappe ;
to gain Italian support, they murdered
the Roselli brothers, anti-Fascists taking
refuge in France. The details of this
organisation lead into the German occu-
pation of France, when “the Cagoule
became all-powerful at Vichy and practi-
cally dominated Marshal Petain.” And
here we are also introduced to the German
Gestapo Chief, Boemelburg, a little hurt,
on looking through the French police
archives, to find himself in a political
rogues’-gallery compiled by M. Belin.
As a Vichy official, it became M.
Belin’s duty to protect Laval from being
kidnapped by the Germans; later,
brought to book for “passive resistance,”
he resigned, “just about thirty years after
I had joined the force as a young recruit.”
The New Hemingway.
Hemingway’s new book, Across the
River and Into the Trees (Cape—Austra-
lasian), does little to justify the screams
against it; he says Montgomery was a
fifteen-to-one general ; but that was
Napoleon’s idea, too; and he praises
Rommel now, whom Churchill praisec
while he was fighting hirp. Again, he is
to some degree impartial, sneering also at
American “pistol-slappers.” None of the
criticisms one has read mention his com-
ments on women journalists, very scarify-
ing and diverting, in the circumstances,
and maybe the reason for the hysterical
reception of the rest of the book.
But as a book it suggests two possi-
bilities. One is that Mr. Hemingway is
a reporter who has gone all the rounds.
For that is what happens to reporters.
They do all the rounds of the city ; then,
when they have written] everybody up
twice, and can’t bear to see those silly
faces any more, they are promoted to
sub-editorships or editorships, or are
shipped abroad. If shipped abroad, the
new faces, on a higher plane, become
pleasant and exciting for another ten
years, and then they turn silly, too ; and
then the reporter either turns to mat-
making, writing inferior verse, reading
other people’s books, gardening, listening
to music, or he goes bitter.
Hemingway is peculiarly a reporter;
he has deliberately renounced imaginative
writing; and whatever philosophy his
work may have had he has taken from
his times. Nor is he the kind who can
cultivate his garden. And now the news
has failed him, offering him only wars he
has already seen, men he has already
written about, and the girl he standard-
ised more than twenty years ago. So in his
new novel, which is more an expanded
short story, all he can do is make his
standard doll say “Dadda, dadda,” to
which the old colonel responds
“Daughter, daughter,” for, if he cannot
vary his types, he can get a tiny novelty
out of separating their ages; every
few minutes they tell each other they
love one another; she listens lovingly
to his obscene and bitter commentaries
on the recent war, or is admitted into the
imaginary club which he runs with his
old Italian comrade-in-arms, the Venetian
headwaiter, or they play trogpo games
which are maybe meant to be a little
tedious, or they do mysterious things in
a gondola. So that when the old colonel
dies duck-shooting a few days later, of
heart-failure, one is not surprised.
The other possibility is that this novel
has been thrown-off while Hemingway is
working on something really new. The
word was that he was going to be a
literary Bogart of the Stork Club. One
would like to believe it. The only tough
assignment this great American has not
faced is America. But then again, he
said some years ago that something
always happens to American authors in
middle-age. Let us hope it doesn’t happen
to Hemingway: some of our own resili-
ence goes with the collapse of men who
have entertained and inspired us.
Minor Poems.
The strange thing about W. J.
Strachan’s The Season’s Pause (Seeker
and Warburg), Robert Gittings’s Went-
worth Place (Heinemann) and A. J.
McGeoch’s Annus Mirabilis (Heine-
mann)—three small books of verse by
new' or comparatively new writers—is
their thinness.
Mr. Strachan has observed the weather
and the scenery in Cornwall:
The thin habiliment of earth
Deludes not eyes that penetrate
And know the granite rocks beneath
And tombs that patiently can wait.
Mr. McGeoch has seen “Highland
Winter”:
Empty is the snow’s wide stare:
The larder of the hills is bare:
Hind and stag come stumbling down,
And the starved hare, reckless grown,
In pain and anguish to man’s door,
And wait with piteous look before,
Braving the menace of the gun,
Benumbed and helpless, beaten, done,
To beg from him they so despise
The humblest of all charities.
Mr. Gittings, the most ambitious of the
three, writes narrative poems, more-or-
less in the style of Browning’s dramatic
monologues, on Keats and Newton, but
fails to bring either his characterisation
or his drama to the point where it tells
us anything we did not know before:
An apple’s dropped,
And the moon s up, a russet apple-faced
moon—
A falling apple and the harvest moon.
The apple’s drawn to earth, the moon also-
The moon also! In what proportion? By
such
As Kepler found among the planets? By
such as I
Can calculate from this apple’s falling? If
that
Were so, all matter moves in attracted paths
By constant law . . .
Possibly, since all three books are
readily comprehensible, they repress
some sort of counterblast to the moil
difficult poetry usually published i
Faber; but they have not the energy t
sustain the combat. Except for a few of
rhymes by Mr. Strachan they are tect
nically unadventurous—Mr. McGeoc
uses the inversions which Yeats cor
demned —and the general effect is q
Georgian poetry continuing undisturbed
without the flashing delight of Davieses
the rugged strength of Edmund Blunder
However, minor though it is, sues
poetry is always worth publishing: it is
pleasant enough to browse through, |
adds its quota to the beauty of literature
and the refinement of civilisation, and
any of these poets might some day pro.
duce the masterpiece, large or small, that
will have permanent life.
Mr. McGeoch, always attractive in his
pastorals, nearly gets there with a poem
about lions in an air-raid; Mr. Strachan
writes the poem that history obviously
demanded when the bombs started wild,
flowers growing around St. Paul’s; and
Mr. Gittings, besides submitting a poem
about the Argentine Liberator, Genera!
San Martin, which Sydney motorists
might read with mixed feelings while
picnicking on Coal and Candle Creek
Road—recently renamed for the General
—has a promising gift of phrase; he
speaks of Polyphemus’s “puzzled tortoise
thought.”
Morpheus Materialistic .
A few years back, in England, a Mr,
John Godley attained a degree of public
renown and, indirectly, a newspaper job
(ultimately racing correspondent) as a
result of managing to achieve a correla-
tion of the nebulous subconscious
wanderings induced by Morpheus and the
equally nebulous and less-than-sub-
conscious vicissitudes of racing luck. Mr.
Godley, for a period, found himself
dreaming winners which won, an ex-
perience which he has committed to book-
form—Tell Me the Next One (Angus and
Robertson).
Some years prior to the period of Mr.
Godley’s nocturnal crystal-gazing, a then-
Editor of this page (and a keen punter to
boot) dreamed that a nag named St. Oic
had won a race. The aftermath has be-
come a Bulletin legend. A perusal of
entries for the following Saturday re-
vealed no such beast, but he was there all
right—and won. A fairish animal of the
period named Stoic.
The unconvincing feature of what sub-
stance there is in, Godley’s book is that a
fair percentage of his handful of visions
involved considerably greater difficulties
of interpretation than faced our St. Oic
man. Godley dreamed a horse named
Tubermore, and skilfully evading one
Tubbermore, then in action, contrived to
back Tuberose, which won; he dreamed
Monumentor and successfully backed
Men tores; he dreamed The Bogie and,
again showing remarkable perception,
backed The Brogue. As well, Mr. Godley
dreamed five horses, which did win in the
names as dreamed, and two others in re-
gar to which the names were right but
the information was crook. That is the
entire story.
Mr. Godley’s experiences may amount
to the “stuff that dreams are made on,”
but they fall unhappily short of the stuff
that a book is made on —even so slender
a volume as the 130 pages occupied by
Tell Me the Next One.
Reviewed Briefly.
Officer and Gentleman: J. Delves-
Broughton (Faber). Lost in the early
days of the recent war, and now re-
printed, this fine long novel begins with
a portrait of a bad baronet of the last
century —a really bad lot, infamous all
over Europe, and proud of it; old women
plot his downfall, and on his death
transfer their hatred to his son, Quintin
Arrowe, and buy up the mortgages to
the ancestral home, so that young
Quintin goes into smoke, runs a London
gaming-house and, posing as one of his
father’s many illegitimate children, per-
suades the vengeful old women to sell
him back his father’s house at a cut
price. All of this leads up to Quintin’s
taking part in the Charge of the Light
Brigade, in which the husband whose
wife he has given a daughter falls also,
but not before waking up to the situation
and disinheriting his wife should she
marry again. The scenes range all over
Europe, and the storytelling is excellent.
* * * *
Gypsy 4 Sixpence : Edison Marshall ,
(Shakspeare Head). Moony doings in j
India in which an officer of reputed gipsy j
extraction dogs to his death the brother
who betrayed him and married the girl he
had been in love with ; half-way through
you don’t know whether the hero is him-
self or someone else and by the end you
don’t care.


TRUThMiN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
m
WMmm
:
mm WMm. m
»s>
, ■
-
-0
n
1
jfSS
m
mm
Si
i
li
1
ii
a
*i
Isi
■■■:;?;
liSii
%*!>"!■*
.:>■;■
.
#s#
laa
I m
sss
p
m
You feel Better in Up-to-the-minute clothes, so . . .
Wear the Latest
in Menswear
For every occasion—whether you’re going to a
business conference or taking a stroll in the park—you’ll
look better, feel better in the latest most modern clothes.
Men’s Fancy Grey Two-
piece Double-breasted Suits. Made
from superior-quality Worsteds. These
suits available in sizes 4 to 6. Also 4! to £l2/2/6.
Below: The smart, strongly-made “Packard” Derby. Wall
toes in Tan Calf leather or non-slip rubber soles and heels.
Brown Suede with leather soles and heels. 5 to 12. 62/6.
Above Left: Sleep in comfort
with these high-grade Poplin
Pyjamas that feature a turn-
down collar and are available
in assorted stripe designs. Sizes
available are S.M., M. and O.S.
These quality Pyjamas are
priced at 52/6 pair.
Above Right: For relaxing
after a hard day, a handsome
Art Silk Dressing Gown with
attractive figured effect on a
Light Navy or Maroon ground.
Available in sizes 36m. to 44m.
These comfortable Dressing
Gowns are priced at
ANTHONY HORDERNS 1 MENSWEAR DEPT. GROUND FLOOR. GEORGE ST. BOX 27T2C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401


POWER VOU MR DEPEND ON !
■
■
r~
f *> "•' *
KS*z ' - ■*- ;' 1 '"?
*. '.#• ' :
• -Ml
fWiitt
H
■-atl
* 94
S
ms
at^fUS
»•
M '
E i «
■
ms
mm
iinnHHl
a
'■SKSfsar
Pumping
Sawing
Winching
lighting
pushing
Wormnc&
Thats what you want in an engine—and thats
what you’ll get when you install INTERNATIONAL—
THE POWER THAT PAYS.
Each unit is designed to supply a reliable, money
making source of dependable power readily adaptable to
your particular application.
Whether your business embraces pumping, sawing,
winching, crushing or whether you need power for
lighting or power for emergency you will find an
INTERNATIONAL to satisfy your requirements.
e/t Twer tfatTlhif/
mm
WSL
f
z
yr
690 V
A?Z>
&
's^
-7JU i
Z
z
y
/
I llliinllllm
\
liliillii
INDUSTRIAL SALES AND SERVICE
BRISBANE SVQNEV MELBOURNE HDBRRT RDELDIDE PERTH
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS FOR INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL POWER


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3698
Wednesday, December 27, 1950
■ ' JrW^
r /
sdfsdfsd
A BIT BLOATED.
“You’re welcome, young fellow. But Do try to work off some of that fat.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 ; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FIFTY YEARS OLD.
On New Year’s Day 50 years ago
the Commonwealth of Australia, having
been conceived at a referendum—a
political resort which remains to dis-
tinguish the Constitution of our country
from that of every other unit in the
British Empire and Commonwealth —was
born under a royal proclamation which
fixed our birthday and our name among
the nations. The Queen’s writ ran:' —
We therefore by and with the advice of
our Privy Council.... do hereby declare
that on and after the first day of January,
1901, the people of New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and Western Australia shall be
united in a Federal Commonwealth under
the name of the Commonwealth of
Australia.
The birthday then, as now, was cele-
brated officially in Sydney with a week of
festivities, beginning with the inaugura-
tion of the first Governor-General and his
reading the royal proclamation in
Centennial Park. Melbourne had its
week of carnival in the following May,
when the Duke and Duchess of York
(later King George V and Queen Mary)
arrived and opened the first Common-
wealth Parliament in Melbourne, the first
Commonwealth capital, on May 9. Can-
berra will take up that particular jubilee
torch on the due date.
In what are now lamented as the good
old days, when our people behind all the
various State barriers were —under
the leadership largely of The Bulletin,
as on this jubilee might fairly be recorded
—beginning to call themselves Aus-
tralians, and when even in the cities in-
dividuals felt they had more space about
them than today, life was a great deal
more as the citizens and not their Gov-
ernments made it. Though it offered
fewer “amenities,” it was not so restless
and nerve-racking.
The generation of today would not
recognise the Australia of Federa-
tion, when ice in the home was
a novelty, radio-broadcasting was not
thought of, Melbourne had more people
in it than Sydney, bicycles were the rage,
moving pictures were registering the first
advance on the nursery’s kaleidoscope,
and schoolchildren’s boots (when they
wore them) were “jam-tin kickers.” Surf-
bathing on the beaches was a police-court
offence except within limited hours and
under restrictions as to dress which made
even our grandparents revolt; and the
idiotic laws of the day had to give up the
struggle when the police courts were
swamped with offenders who persisted in
going to play in the waves whether the
LawTiked it or not.
Sydney Easter Show had just exhibited
the first motor-car, a thing propelled by
steam-power and made in Victoria, which
was quickly followed by the first petrol-
driven buggies: a Benz from Germany
and a De Dion from France, each of about
3|-horsepower and as temperamental as
mules. Nine years was to elapse before
the first petrol-driven flying-machine left
the ground at Victoria Park racecourse.
Its operator, a Mr. Colin Defries, got it
into the air after much manoeuvring to
catch the humor of a slight breeze, and
then (according to a newspaper report),
“attained a height of from two to fifteen
feet and flew about 115 yards in 5i
seconds; there was every prospect of the
aeroplane soaring aloft had not the engine
worked badly.”
There was plenty of beer at the
price per pint of a modern tram-
ticket, and hotels would provide meals
and drink with them at any hour of the
night that suited the customer. The popu-
lation numbered just short of four million.
When our fathers and grandfathers went
to war it was not because Australia was
in deadly danger—the British Navy took
care of that —but because they did not
want to be left out of it.
The first Commonwealth Ministry was
formed of men who had thrashed out the
compromise of Federation after strenuous
conflict with each other over State
jealousies. The first Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, elected after the Ministry had been
chosen, was the only one in which party
politics gave way to the need for con-
structing national unity. Federal income-
tax was unknown and did not appear until
the first German War, and the Common-
wealth was launched with the assurance
that its annual cost to the united people
per capita would not amount to more
than that of a dog-licence.
The amazement with which today’s
adolescents might regard the city-
life of half a century ago is nothing to
that which would be excited in the Fathers
of Federation at the sight of the States
deprived of all income-tax revenue of
their own levying. But then, of course,
those F. of F. did not foresee two
world wars and the imminent threat of a
third within the first half-century of the
Commonwealth’s life, or the industrial
boom and depression which wrought
disaster throughout the world after the
First World War and threaten to repeat
the same sequence after the second.
They could not have imagined circum-
stances separated by only 10 years in
which, first, woolgrowers complained
that they could not produce wool for
12 pence a pound, and then found them-
selves besieged by buyers offering more
than 20s. a pound for fine wool. They
could not have imagined strikes against
low wages of £lO or more a week for
40 hours’ work, or paying 10s. to 15s.
for a leg of mutton. They could not
have imagined travelling from Sydney to
London in three days by air, while Aus-
tralian trains on the same old railways
still piled up the same old losses on a
system broken by the same old separate
State track-gauges. And for all their old-
fashioned ideas they would not have
thought an increase from four million to
eight million of people in half a century
anything like enough for an Australia
whose overriding problem was then, and
is still, to make the running from well
behind scratch in the race for more people
against all the rest of the new world*
Impressive though the changes of the
past 50 years, there is a core of con-
servatism in the Australian political set-
up obstinately resistant to reform, a
feature upon which the coming genera-
tions will be obliged to spend much
political ingenuity. That is the ill-balance
of the States in the national structure —
originally as partners in a compact, now
as resentful subordinates to the Common-
wealth power—and especially the political
and industrial dominance of New South
Wales. The final pre-Federation
referendum in N.S.W. showed a “Yes”
majority of only 24,000, and the N.S.W.
Parliament’s previous opposition to the
Federal Constitution Bill had led a
cynical fellow to propose in the Sydney
“Herald” of the day a bill of his own in
which he suggested these provisions:
The legislative powers of the Common-
wealth shall be vested in a Federal Parlia-
ment vth.ch shall consist of the Queen, a
Senate and a House of Representatives and
New South Wales.
The Senate shall be composed of six
Senators from each State and as many
Senators, equal to the total number, to
represent New South Wales, who shall have
as many votes as they like.
Whether a subdivision of Australia into
new and smaller States, an agitation half
as old as the Commonwealth, would
correct the position is not certain, with
the city populations swollen as they now
are at the expense of the countryside. But
the modem anti-Canberra sentiments in
the West and South Australia seem, on
analysis, to be grounded chiefly against
the influence of N.S.W., and undoubtedly
the starving of industry in the other
States for the N.S.W. coal on which they
have depended is turning them to hydro-
electric and inferior-coal development for
power-supplies which may radically alter
the industrial centre of gravity. Mean-
while, in nothing is the Australia of 1951
so much like the Australia of 1901 as in
this ranging of the Rest against the
Mother State.
Necessary reforms in the Constitutional
field will probably be only a minor diffi-
culty among those, at home and abroad,
which the Commonwealth will have to
face during its second half-century.
Action, Not Argument.
Called together after months of delay,
argument and sparring for national ad-
vantage by its members, the group of
Atlantic nations at its conference in
Brussels last week at least laid down
the skeleton of a defence plan for Europe.
The reports describe the atmosphere as
one of “grave urgency.” But the only
country which has tackled the matter of
Western defence in that atmosphere so
far is the United States, most of the rest
being concerned with political “angles.”
France, for instance, weak because de-
fence has been a neglected subject since
the collapse of Germany (the large Com-
munist and fellow-traveller parties being
opposed to its development for obvious
reasons), has insisted, and still insists, that
the powerful potential of Western Ger-
many shall not be organised save on the
basis of a type of slave regiments
integrated with other forces and powerless
to move even at divisional level. Others
cannot forget that they were taught at
school that Spain is a Fascist country, a
pariah, and few remember how much that
idea derives from Communist propaganda
or that to exclude .Spain is to split Catholic
opinion on the Continent, still an im-
portant influence. The idea of world sup-
port for South Korea while Spain is ex
eluded because of its principles is laugh-
able.
The Brussels conference has, of course,
been held in a blaze of limelight, and its
decisions are ladled out of the usual boil-
ing-pot of oratory and platitude at a time
when what is most needed is swift,
determined, unspectacular action. This it
seems impossible to get in 1950 without
first emitting large quantities of barnyard
noises to appease the Pressmen, union-
leaders, demagogues and adolescent-
minded scientists who feel competent to
run the world and who bar the way to
unity" and action.
Bismarck about 65 years ago told his
Prussian House of Deputies that policy
was achieved through blood and iron and
the strongest military power, and “not
through speeches and junketings.” But
Bismarck is outmoded. Nothing now can
be done in Europe or elsewhere without
committees, conferences at low and high
level and without a chairman like Mr.
Van Zeeland, of Belgium, first standing
up and shouting that “the hour is ex-
ceptionally grave” as a preliminary to a
palaver among a lot of people who want
to be reported for their own benefit.
There are bushels of phrases, adopted
from the jargon of Communism mainly,
about “integrated forces” and freedom-
loving peoples, coupled with “solemn
warnings” of the need to “keep faith with
the hour.” After which all the divided
peoples settle down to exploit their own
political ends and appease their own
public opinions.
Nobody would imagine, to read the
journalism of last week in Europe and
America, that both in the East and West
civilisation is under direct and imminent
threat of attack by an immense force
directed as by a single brain, undivided in
purpose, unlimited in manpower, utterly
ruthless in execution of its aims and com-
pletely without pity for its enemies or re-
gard for the sufferings or lives of its own
peoples, whom it) looks on merely as the
weapons of policy. Yet that is the fact.
The enemy takes it for granted that he is
going to fight when ready, and he alone
knows when that will be. For the past
three years he has been mobilising his
own forces and devoting his industry
almost entirely to the production of de-
fence material; also he has been drawing
satellite peoples under his military com-
mand, sending marshals to Poland, to
Rumania, to Hungary, to Czecho-
slovakia and possibly to China to drill the
peoples of those countries as instruments
of Russia’s aggression.
On December 13 enough was said at
U.N.O. to drive the threatened countries
of the West into silent unity of action,
even if there had not been a belligerent
Chinese Army, as great as the whole of
the armed forces of Britain and France
put together, poised for attack inside the
Korean border. The words used that
day by Malik, the Soviet Union represen-
tative, could mean only one thing when
he accused the U.N.O. allies of “hypo-
critical camouflage” in putting forward a
cease-fire plan for Korea, especially
since he combined that summary of the
situation with the statement that Messrs.
Truman and Attlee “seek a mad arma-
ment race and preparations for a new
war.”
The Moscow official spokesmen who
utter policy over Moscow Radio and in
“Pravda” cannot be misunderstood when
they shriek that the creation of a defence
pact in Western Europe which stands
vis-a-vis Russia, already armed to the
teeth and snarling abuse and threats with
every breath, is “a sinister event for the
fate of Europe.” Even if the Kremlin
would sincerely like peace, no peace is
possible on the basis that one group of
countries sworn to bring about world
revolution shall be allowed to arm while
the exercise of the right of self-defence by
the sections of the world which they
threaten is dubbed “aggression” and
“provocation” and met with bullying
threats before which no self-respecting
nation would bow.
In this situation Western dangers are
added to fiftyfold by political division
inside and outside co-operating coun-
tries, and by publicising to the
enemy every rift, every argument and
every exhibition of umbrage in the
councils of the Western World. There
may be differences inside the Kremlin,
but if they are serious enough to affect
the strength of Russian military power
they are soon settled in a cellar with a
tommy-gun.
On the Western side most of the diver-
gences of opinion and policy between
President Truman and Mr. Attlee must
be exposed, and the enemy and the
Communist fifth-columns exploit them.
At a moment when the President of the
United States has virtually placed that
country on a war basis the first engage-
ment has been fought openly between
Mr. Dean Acheson and his Republican
opponents. And it is obvious that there
is a dual U.S. policy in the Far East —
or, perhaps, a triple one, since General
MacArthur seems to be forced into the
gymnastic exercise of satisfying President
Truman’s policy, his own policy and
U.N.O. policy, the last a movable festival
to such an extent that U.N.O. is not
always certain what its policy is.
In smaller countries like Australia there
are at least two defence policies—in Aus-
tralia, that of the Government and the
people, and that of the “Labor” Opposi-
tion and the Communist union-leaders and
Communist party. “Labor” and Com-
munism agree entirely on one crucial
point—that the first and vital objective
is not to prepare against external attack
but to promote aggression against the
Government with a view to rendering it
unable to govern and force it to hand
over the reins in time of crisis to parties
which have at least been tolerant of
fifth-columns and which have been partly
integral with them.
The situation is, as every speaker who
can reach a microphone keeps repeating,
“grave.” There are millions of Russians
and Chinese under arms. The West has
been told plainly that if it does certain
things—continues to support Formosan
independence, continues to support the
pretensions of the U.N.0.-created South
Korean Government (of which few
mothers would be proud), continues to
aid countries such as Viet-nam, arms
Western Germany for defence —it must
take “the consequences.” There is only
one answer to that threat: to stop talk-
ing and hasten to provide “blood and
iron” sufficient to ensure against attack.
Sharks and Road Deaths.
On December 16 a shark attacked and
fatally mauled a 20-year-old swimmer at
Palm Beach, south of Brisbane. The
tragedy made “front-page” news in all the
eastern capitals, with pictures of the un-
fortunate youth and the beach where the
tragedy occurred.
Almost every day people of all ages
are killed in road accidents, often suffer-
ing wounds as horrible as those suffered
by shark victims. Yet nothing like the
same publicity is given these tragedies,
and seldom does the death of an
individual on the roads reach the pages
of newspapers in other States.
Net much can be done to prevent shark
tragedies. The seas are wide, the sharks
innumerable, and they are voracious
hunters. Despite all the absurd things
said about them, they are simply hunters
in search of prey and will attack any-
thing edible. Everybody who goes bath-
ing on open beaches knows that there is
some element of danger from sharks.
On the average more people are
killed on the roads in a day
than by sharks in a year. The
roads are a thousand times more
dangerous to human life and limb than
the whole 12,000 miles of the Australian
coastline. Yet one shark tragedy can
become a first-class news “sensation,”
whereas a road death rates no more than
a paragraph.
There is something wrong in this out-
look. It suggests that people have become
so used to road accidents that they take
small interest in them, whereas the rare
shark tragedy seems to -startle them
abnormally. Every time a shark strikes
there are loud agitations to net the
beaches, bomb the sharks or something
else. No comparable agitation follows a
road death, though everyone on the roads
is entitled to expect that every possible
means of ensuring his safety has been
adopted.
The published efforts of Road Safety
Councils and their allied bodies appear
to fall, for the most part, on deaf ears.
Drivers still get drunk, still take stupid
risks, still speed and disobey traffic rules;
pedestrians continue to invite damage
and destruction. It is certain that the
publicity given shark tragedies makes
bathers careful; the publicity given road
dangers seems to have no such effect.
Maybe if the newspapers began to
“feature” road deaths, with the same
detail as they do shark tragedies, people
would become as careful behind the
wheel as they are when bathing in open
waters.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Precept and Example.
It is announced that between June, 1951,
and June, 1957, Australia —that is, Mr.
Spender —is to disburse £31,250,000 of
the Australian taxpayer’s money under
what is now known as the Colombo
Plan, which by a total handout of
£2,335,000,000 by all parties is supposed
to be designed to add about half an ounce
of rice a day to the ration of south-
eastern Asiatics and to wean them from
the evils of Communism by “improving
their economic conditions.”
No Australian seems to worry about it.
What is £31,250,000 to a nation in which
16-year-old boys can earn £8 a week and
wool is any price you care to ask for it?
The idea that by the time the scheme
is half-way through wool may be down
in price, costs may be sky-high,
drought may have struck the country
and we may be plunged up to
the neck in war does not seem to have
occurred to anybody.
The Asiatic countries are free from
attachment to European Nations by
their own wish. They are held up in
U.N.O. as equals of other members.
Their leaders are accepted as equals—
some Australian political leaders are even
prepared to admit that Pandit Nehru is
a greater man than themselves. They
have land, snow-water irrigation systems
and forests organised for them by those
from whom they have broken away. The
contributions of most of them to two
world wars have been small relatively to
population, the countries which colonised
them having gone bankrupt to protect
them. Their national debts are, or should
be, negligible, and their taxation collec-
tions would make an Australian smile.
Yet at a time when this country is
likely to be called on to meet a new tax
burden, and to carry for itself a huge
development programme which is to
cost, on present estimates, nearly
£800,000,000 (though the reality may
be anything up to five times that
amount if inflation continues on
the present scale and the experience
of the last decade is any criterion), Mr.
Spender and his friends are dis-
pensing charity among these nations
under the delusion that their bene-
ficence will somehow cure the ten-
dencies to Communism which exist in
Asia, by destroying poverty, whereas in
fact Communism does not arise from
poverty. It is not a popular movement,
but a dictator movement carried to
fruition by a small and savage minority
holding sway over masses which are just
as subservient when well fed as when not,
because they are controlled by chicanery
and violence.
Australia, by Mr. Spender’s theory,
should be entirely free from Com-
munism, since it is the best-fed, best-
clothed and most-leisured country in the
world.
Yet its industry is almost solidly under
Communist control or under the control
of those who, while professing to hate
Communism, are prepared to adopt Com-
munist methods of conducting the class-
war. And the well-fed, supposedly
literate, freethinking people of this coun-
try go on merrily re-electing Communist
officers in the union movement and
“Labor” Governments under the domina-
tion of those Communist unions.
Perhaps the most curious feature of
Mr. Spender’s proposals is the one which
aims to teach the Asiatics democracy by
voting them 150 free scholarships in Aus-
tralian institutions —25 to Indonesia
(which is threatening us with war over
Western New Guinea), 50 to India, 35
to Pakistan, 15 to Ceylon, eight to Thai-
land, seven to Burma, and three to French
Indo-China —British colonies in Asia get
only seven altogether.
On the day on which the plan was
announced the N. S. Wales Teachers’
Federation, which serves a State whose
Education Minister was once a tutor of
the Communist party, rejected the secret
ballot as a method of electing its prin-
cipal officers, rejected open debate at its
annual meeting with the Press present in
favor of the totalitarian method of doing
business behind closed doors, opposed
anti-Communist legislation, confirmed its
control by a Communist-dominated
executive with a Communist president,
and all this with the support of 50 per
cent, of the conference membership at
least. Most of the teachers involved are
products of the university system which
is going to wean our Asiatic visitors from
Communism and teach them the virtues
and delights of the British system of
government and the Australian way of
life.
It is fortunate that Asiatics are not
noted for their sense of humor. If they
were, Mr. Spender might have to add to
the rest of his outlay at our expense a
small item for the funerals of those of
our young visitors who die laughing as
they contemplate the position here.
Alarm-bell Ringing.
If the Government’s National Security
Resources Board means business, whicn
is not to be doubted, the Australian
people had better get ready at once for
the modified war footing which the board
is charged to prepare. What, under our
Victorian-age Constitution, this or any
other Commonwealth Government can
do by way of implementing recommenda-
tions to such an end is another matter.
Mr. Menzies’s last act before he left
for the defence conference in London was
to preside at the N.S.R.B.’s opening
meeting and tell it what the Government
asks from its speediest survey and report.
In brief words, what’s wanted is an answer
to the question: “Are we overcommitted
in immigration, Government development
schemes and general industrial expansion,
and, if so, how much?” In truth, the
Government knows it is overcommitted ;
there are not the time, money, materials
or manpower to carry out general
national development on the biggest scale
ever planned and simultaneously to pre-
pare for the serious threat of another
world war ; and the N.S.R.B. is required
to tell the Government what cuts and
changes should be made.
Actually, a lot of the necessary survey
has been done already, and the experi-
enced members of the board are taking
up again threads of the work they did
m directing the organisation of national
resources during the late war. Mr.
Menzies has already said that labor and
materials must be diverted from civilian
works to rearmament, and the London
conference in the New Year’s opening
week is scheduled to plan such diversion
on an Empire-wide basis.
For the U.S. Government President
Truman has declared a state of national
emergency, introduced some war-time
controls and asked congress for restora-
tion of others. It is mobilisation by
gradual stages, but mobilisation nonethe-
less. At the Brussels meeting of the
Atlantic Pact Powers the U.S. Secretary
of State has appealed to other pact coun-
tries “to appoint directors of industrial
mobilisation to match similar moves in
the United States.” Undoubtedly this call
will be heard at the British Prime
Ministers’ Conference next week.
“The functions of the N.S.R. Board,”
said Mr. Menzies in his announcement
before the board’s meeting last week, “are
in many respects similar to those of the
U.S. National Security Resources Board,
but drafted with Australian conditions in
mind.” All these intimations sound
clearly enough the alarm-bell.
But “Australian conditions” —consti-
tutional and political alike—present a
considerable snag. Yet if Australia is go-
ing to be in this effort with her friends and
allies overseas, the duration of our present
easygoing indifference, expressed with
such fatuous complacency by N.S.W.
Premier McGirr, cannot be other than
short.
The Voice of Cheer.
Any man who can follow an independent
and original line of thought ought to be
cherished, though whether anybody wants
to cherish Mr. McGirr, the N.S.W.
Premier, is another matter.
Anyhow, Mr. McGirr is an apostle of
light, a banisher of gloom, one of those
bright souls this sad old world could ill
afford to lose. Not for him the crying of
woe in the market-place—or even
Martin-place—or any fears of the wrath
to come. Mr. McGirr is happy and
bursting with optimism, a star in the night
and a lonely voice crying in the wilder-
ness.
Let Prime Ministers and Federal
Treasurers fret themselves weary over
rising costs and falling money-values ; let
economists and financial authorities prove
by statistical table and indisputable fact
that the nation is headed for disaster un-
less inflation is stopped. Let other
Premiers gaze gloomily upon growing
deficits and expanding wages bills and the
public howl to heaven against increased
fares and freights. Let all hands and the
cook, to be brief, unite in warning against
inflation and the troubles now in train—
our Jimmy isn’t impressed. To him
they’re all wrong, for this is “the dawn of
a new era.”
What a wonderful Christmas we are
having! Look where you will there is
prosperity and happiness. It is nut just a
passing phase. It is real and solid. lam
sure it will continue.
In the same newspaper which published
this statement of Mr. McGirr’s, a leader-
writer began an article thus: “There can
be few, if any, people left in Australia
today who are not seriously concerned
about the ever-rising cost of living and
where it is leading us.”
“Few, if any,” apart from Mr. McGirr.
If he is remembered for nothing else in
our history he should be remembered for
this.
Teachers as "Wage-earners."
At its annual conference in Sydney last
week—held behind locked doors and with
the Press excluded —the New South
Wales Teachers’ Federation decided to
continue its affiliation with the Trades and
Labor Council and the A.C.T.U., mainly
on the ground that the federation “had
much to contribute to the trade-union
movement as a whole,” and that teachers
should not consider themselves “as
isolated from other wage- and salary-
earners.”
There’s a flavor of intellectual
snobbery about those reasons, but that is
by the way ; the most disturbing thing
about them is the light they throw on
the federation’s attitude towards the pro-
fession of teaching.
One of the biggest mistakes of the
trade-union movement lies in regarding
its members as wage-earners rather than
as craftsmen, artisans or work-
performers. In many branches of in-
dustry it is argued, when this is pointed
out, that men doing a dull, uninteresting
job cannot be expected to take an interest
in it; they can only regard it as an un-
avoidable accompaniment of the weekly
pay-envelope. There is no excuse for
teachers falling into the same way of
thinking. Theirs is a noble calling and
one of great responsibility. The man who
cannot take a pride in the opportunity
afforded him to mould young minds
should not stay in the profession ; there
are plenty of opportunities outside it for
him to pursue his destiny as a “wage- or
salary-earner.”
Most teachers do take a pride in their
calling, but when the executive con-
sistently adopts a purely trade-union
attitude towards the profession there is
little wonder that four points of the eight-
point plan for 1951 concern pay and con-
ditions, and only one —
to alleviate “the crisis in education” and
to stem efforts to undermine the basis of
the public-school system—
is related to education. Other clauses
speak of promoting the cause of peace—
support given by some of the executive
to the so-called “Peace Council” suggests
whence that one springs—and protecting
the civic rights of teachers.
No one has threatened the civic rights
of teachers, who enjoy the same rights as
all other citizens, so it seems rather
strange that a campaign for the protec-
tion of their civic rights should be
deemed necessary. It has become almost
an axiom in recent years that those who
talk most about civic rights respect them
least; the Communists never cease rant-
ing on the subject. The president of the
federation is a well-known Communist,
and there are other Reds and Pinks on
the executive. So long as they remain
there and are permitted to use the
organisation to support causes which do
not concern teachers as teachers the rank-
and-file members —to use a trade-union
expression—of the profession cannot
complain if they lack public sympathy in
their more legitimate activities.
That opposition to Red control is
growing within the federation is shown
by the fact that a motion to reintroduce
voting by secret ballot for election of the
executive was defeated only by the cast-
ing vote of the president. Yet it is typical
of the muddled thinking that pervades the
federation that the same delegates who
voted for that motion had, only the day
before, endorsed almost unanimously a
resolution condemning the Communist-
party (Dissolution) Act.
An Expert's Advice.
“B. Blazes” harks back:
That advice of Billy’s to Chifley on a sick-bed
of enforced idleness doesn’t ring true. “Relax
and give yourself a show; listen to the little
birds twittering in the trees; forget about the
foaming cataract of events, about politics,
everything.” Especially about having been
Prime Minister-dictator and having lost the
job. I remember Billy being a recently otf-cast
Prime Minister and his being on a bed of
sickness (more than once) while the cataract
of politics was foaming along without him.
Too right, I remember him. He invoked me
often enough.
What he used to say about Bruce must
have left Chifley’s private remarks on Menzies
miles behind. If anybody in those former
grievous emergencies had ventured to tell Billy
to relax and forget (never mind forgive), and
to listen to the chirping little birds, mayhem
would assuredly have resulted. Does anybody
on the scene —and there were a few about —
remember Billy’s scorching retort when some-
body in the Queen’s Hall at Melbourne Parlia-
ment House wanted him to relax, give himself
a rest, and particularly to shake hands with
Granville Ryrie after Billy lost the leadership
at the 1922 elections? Or when Billy broke
his collarbone up on the Clarence, and the
Country-party doctor mended it, but put Billy
to bed for a few days? Billy couldn’t very
well call on poor old Blithering Blazes to slay
him; but the vituperation he launched by
telegram at Percy Deane’s office when, doing
its best to oblige, it parcelled up and sent him
the wrong pair of old pants from Sassafras
lived in one humble servant’s memory for many
a year.
Billy has, as he tells Chifley, “been through
the mill” all right! And he has done his fair
share of putting other people through it. If
he could only give Chifley a blood-transfusion
from his own veins—if it is blood that runs in
them and not red-ant juice—Socialisation’s
trusted champion would have been up and tear-
ing the political world to pieces weeks ago.
But there is only one Billy.
Remember Crete?
From William Martin (formerly of the
Second N.Z.E.F.), care of the British
Consulate, Canea, Crete:
Will you allow me to make an appeal? It is
on behalf of the people of Crete. As your
readers, especially those who fought jn Greece,
will know, every possible assistance was given
to Australian and other British soldiers after
the capitulation of the island on June 1, 1941.
At the risk of their lives they fed and sheltered
some scores of Aussies, often giving their last
crust of bread.
The Germans made them pay dearly for this.
Many villages were completely destroyed; thou-
sands of persons were shot. Today many of
those who befriended Aussies, Kiwis, etc., are
in need. It may be that some Aussies would
like to help their former benefactors, but did
not know, or have forgotten, their names and
addresses.
Because of the high cost of airmail postage
I am unable to enclose lists of names and
addresses, but parcels can, in the first instance,
be addressed to me at the British Consulate,
Canea, Crete, Greece. They will be given to
the most needy families.
Receipt of the parcels will be acknowledged
by the recipients, together, when possible, with
a note from myself. Senders of parcels should
enclose their names, etc., and in block letters.
I may say that any Australian visiting Crete
will meet with a wonderful reception. lire
Cretans idolise Australians and New Zealanders.
I was myself hiding in the mountains of Crete
for some months during the occupation, and 1
know that there were many Aussies there. I
am often shown the names of Australian
soldiers when visiting the mountain villages.
I appeal to Australians to do what they can
to help these wonderful, heroic and kind-
hearted people. By sending gifts of clothing,
etc., they will not only be helping in some
small measure to repay the great debt which
Australia owes the Cretans, but will also make
firm, lifelong friends.
A Modern Fable.
Once upon a time there was a tribe
which lived in a rather choice bit of
country. It was choice because there was
a great deal of it, plenty of room to move
about, and the soil produced wonders of
foodstuffs and raw materials.
After the tribe had lived and multiplied
for about 150 years it became aware that
just across the water was another land
whose tribes were numbered as are the
sands of the sea. There were so many of
them, indeed, that a great many were
perpetually hungry and downtrodden and
given to kicking up a row and occasion-
ally destroying each other in large
quantities.
Then it came to pass that one of these
innumerable tribes became boss of the
others, and presently gathered ships and
aircraft and men and surged out of the
lands to the north and very nearly got
across the water to the choice land of the
first tribe. More by good luck than good
management they were stopped and
eventually beaten tack.
After that the leaders of the tribe
occupying the choice land got an idea and
decided that the innumerable tribes across
the water should be better fed and
taught how to make things and to run
businesses and learn about science and
manufacturing and a lot of other things.
Now the untutored tribes knew little of
hygiene and things like that, and though
millions of them died when young, many
more millions survived, and it was obvious
that if they could be taught about better
food and health and so forth, the death-
rate would fall and their birth-rate in-
crease. “Nevertheless,” said the leaders
of the enlightened tribes, “it is our duty
to help these people, and we will spend
£8 million a year doing it.”
And it was so. And when all this was
done and education and better food and
so forth infected the untutored, they rose
up on their hind legs and said, “Hey!
All these good things are coming from
that choice land across the water, which
must be very choice indeed. And since
we are now multiplying faster than ever
and must go somewhere, let us go across
the water to the choice land.”
And it was so, causing much tribulation
to the inhabitants of the choice land, who
would have been a lot better off if they
had spent the £8 million a year on their
own defences. But nobody seemed to
realise that


6661 E-R
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
mack speeieUltf to
piev&ntsoie tktomts
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
.
mm
'I
m'tm
POLITICAL POINTS
Reminder for optimistic pessimists.
The first half of this century was ushered
in with high hopes of peace and pros-
perity, yet it produced two world wars,
The second half can’t do much worse.
Most sombre note in pre-Christmas
messages was struck by U.S. Admiral
Browning, former Chief of Naval Opera-
tions in the South Pacific, who warned his
countrymen that Russia was more likely
; to attack the United States on Christmas
Day than at any other time. The warning
l brought back disturbing memories of
| Hitler’s liking for weekend action and of
I Mussolini’s Good Friday attack on
| Albania, Browning, was not alone hTfeel-
! ing uneasy about the form Uncle Joe’s
Christmas greetings might take. The fol-
lowing day it was announced that Persia
had “alerted” its frontier guards and
cancelled celebrations for the Shah’s
wedding.
Hearing of the challenge of the Anti-
Red Act was finished last week after 23
days. Judgment of the High Court will
probably be announced early in the New
Year.
Speaking from Cloud-Cuckoo-Land
last week Premier McGirr announced
“the dawn of a new era in New South
Wales” He spoke of “the most pros-
perous Christmas in history,” and felt
sure that the prosperity would continue.
With a customary modesty he did not
grab all the credit for this idyllic state
of affairs:
The Government claims its measure of
credit, but the present situation could not
have been achieved without the co-opera-
tion, the energy and the enterprise of citi-
zens as a whole.
Nor, he might have added, without the
co-operation of a commodity-starved
world willing to pay famine prices for
wool and wheat.
McGirr has said and done so many
fatuous things in his time that it is really
not surprising to find him mistaking
paper-prosperity for the real thing, but
his fantasy won’t go down very well with
his Trades Hall bosses. Their line at
present is that of Federal “Labor” —that
Menzies has beggared the Australian
pound and that the country is wrecked
for the want of a “Labor” Government.
Nelson Lemmon, Chifley’s Minister for
Works and Housing, has been living in
Sydney since he lost the Forrest (W.A.)
seat last year, and his friends have been
flying kites for him in some of the N. S.
Wales electorates. One tip was that Lang
was being earmarked for him if Dan
Mulcahy could be persuaded to retire.
When Lemmon bought a property near
Orange in the Calare electorate, which
abuts the Chifley territory, Macquarie,
tipsters began to make other guesses.
Result: an official statement from
Bathurst “on behalf of the ‘Labor’ party”
to the effect that if any N. S. Wales elec-
torate gets the Lemmon it will be St.
George, in which he is living at present.
They’re talking of the nomination, of
course; to get the seat he would have to
beat Liberal Bruce Graham, a very differ-
ent matter.
Head man of Sydney’s biggest retail-
store thinks “the people would be much
wiser if they didn’t spend so much.”
Probably this is why he has filled one of
his windows with low-priced imported
necessities such as truffles, caviare and
pate de foie gras
History of past wars and rumors of
wars has taught the cynical Germans one
thing—that, whatever their own record
may be, when Britain and America make
treaties they keep their pledged word.
The West Germans now want a security
pact with the West as their price for
helping to save the European society
which the pact-making Hitler broke, and
the Kaiser before him nearly did, in con-
tempt of “a scrap of paper.”
There is something ludicrous about the
way the Comrades howl for the protec-
tion of the institutions they despise as
soon as they strike a spot of bother. The
wandering Willies who went to Warsaw
for the phony “Peace” Congress in de-
fiance of the Federal Government are
now complaining because they are find-
ing it difficult to get passage back home
without the passports they forfeited.
Nearly a week has gone by without
Mr. Finnan, the senior Prices Minister,
swearing to prosecute somebody or
other.
The Bulletin has received the follow-
ing Christmas-card;
Sieetingo anD £Bcat TDiofco
to tin
(Jfgt/ujtnaf Cft'apf*
©lew Sou* tDafco
You may ahvays turn to me Jot help and advice
and / ihall do all I can to assist you
Sxicnd
GLie Sdatl
1950-1951
Well, if it has to be Clive’s friend this
paper would sooner be found in the com-
pany of the aboriginals than among
Clive’s old pals in the Australia-Russia
Society, And, unlike the Communists, it
doesn’t need Clive’s “help” or “advice”
to gain admission to Sydney Town Hall.
The Red-dominated N. S. Wales
Teachers’ Federation at its annual meet-
ing last week approved a resolution
drawn up by its executive condemning
the Menzies Government’s Anti-Com-
munist Act, which was described as
“opposed to the democratic traditions of
Great Britain and Australia.” The meet-
ing at which the resolution was passed
was held behind locked doors, and the
Press was refused admission. This, of
course, is in accordance with the demo-
cratic traditions of—er —what country?
With nine ships held up in Australian
ports through shortage of crews the Sea-
men’s Union refuses to admit new
members to its exclusive ranks “until
seamen’s conditions are improved.” Like
the wharfies, the seamen want to have it
both ways. They claim the right to pick
and choose their ships, yet deny others
the right to man the vessels they shun.
That, of course, is only the half of it.
Vessels “shunned” are significantly
colliers, iron-ore and steel-carrying ships,
immobilisation of which can do most
harm to Australia’s economy. Red Com-
missar Elliott says that the question of
admitting new members is a “domestic
affair” and no concern of the shipowners.
Keeping the ships moving is the concern
of the whole community.
Sir John Anderson, chairman of the
Port of London Authority, had some-
thing to say in Sydney on the subject of
waterfront delays:
Port workers who go slow will ultimately
lower our standards of life all round. This
is well known to those who encourage
them to do so. It is part of the sinister
design of those who wish us ill.
The difficulty is to make the decent
wharfies and seamen realise that they are
being used as dupes in the interests of
this “sinister design.”
A feature of the end-of-year
conditions at Canberra is the number of
sick members, Earle Page and Dame
Enid Lyons have both been ill, Post-
master-General Anthony just recovered.
Army Minister Francis is recently out of
hospital. Mr. Fadden has suffered
severely from the strain of the past few
months. Two young Liberals are heart
cases. Labor has Messrs, Chifley—who is
now expected by some to be back in
February—Lazzarini, James, Rosevear,
Mulcahy, Russell, Holloway and
Lawson, all ailing.
“Full employment” is a misnomer for
the present condition of industry. What
we have is an economy of full payrolls.
What we need is one in which every man
is fully employed,
A.L.P. claims that the party is quite
capable of handling the Communist
menace and that it should be left to deal
wilh the Reds “inside the unions” look
rather ridiculous in the face of recent
union elections. Idris Williams has been
re-elected to leadership of the Miners’
Federation; the northern coalfields are
once again under Communist control;
Communist K. McKeon has just defeated
an A.L.P. attempt to oust him from the
secretaryship of the Sydney branch of
the Ironworkers’ Federation, and Com-
munist Elliott has been re-elected general
secretary of the Seamen’s Union.
In the midst of the political row in
Victoria over the Cabinet’s decision to
hang three murderers, most Victorians
missed the implications of a modest an-
nouncement that the McDonald-Cains are
considering the socialisation of the wood,
coal and coke industry in that State. The
idea is to set up a Ministry of Fuel and
take control of the whole business. Yet
if you accused a Country-party member
of being a Socialist he’d crown you with
a mallee-root.
How would you like a Communist boss
to give your bride a big fur coat?
Coal Industry Tribunal Gallagher,
granting an extra £1 a week to miners in
the four Eastern States, made it clear
that the increase was dependent upon
continuity of work. It goes only to those
who work the full ten days each fort-
night.
Faced with a deficit of £768,000, which
is likely to be a lot more, refused an
increased reimbursement from the
uniform-tax fund by Canberra, and
forced to meet the basic-wage rise,
Queensland Government has launched
“an economy drive.” No, nobody is to
be put off the Government payroll, but {1)
overtime is to be cut out “wherever
possible,” (2) no new cars are to be
bought “except as necessary replace-
ments,” (3) air-travel must not be in-
dulged in “except in exceptional circum-
stances,” and (4) savings made in one
department are not to be transferred to
another. Unless they can find some
heads of departments prepared to admit
that they haven’t already been practising
(1), (2) and t 3) there’ll be no need to
worry about t 4).
Along with the heavy blow struck at
N.S.W. wheat by the summer rains and
floods —the estimate is down 20 million
bushels, and much of what’s left is
pinched and bleached—the Queensland
sugar harvest has taken a knock from
the same cause ; it seems about 100,000
tons of raw sugar will go west. Major
blows like this are more likely to pull up
Australia’s mad money spree than all the
Government devices put together.
Critics of the immigration scheme are
suggesting putting the brakes on until
the country’s economy adjusts itself to
those already here. Strongest argument
is that coal production puts a definite
limit on Australia’s capacity to absorb
migrants. The Obvious solution of putting
some of the migrants to producing more
coal doesn’t seem to occur to the critics,
who are apparently prepared to accept
as final the Miners’ Federation’s right to
dictate the coal-policy of Australia.
Until now only beer had the privilege
of being “off” or “on.” Now it has to
share the distinction with rice.
An experimental crop of tea is to be
mechanically harvested at South John-
stone (N.Q.) shortly, and Queensland
Agricultural Minister Collins says if it is
a success it may be the start of a tea-
growing industry worth £lO million a
year. Mr. Collins holds that there is no
doubt that tea can be grown up there,
but the “problem is to overcome labor
difficulty.” That’s a problem by no
means confined to Queensland tea crops
—if any.
Victorian police record a thumping
year in violent-crime statistics. Up to
last week there had been 34 arrests on
26 murder counts, and for the past three
months more than £20,000-worth of
goods had been stolen from stores. It
rather upsets the fond Labor-Leftist
theory that crime is the result of poverty;
all this (the N.S.W. record of violent
crime for 1950 must be pretty high)
occurred in a time of full employment—
“overfull employment,” as Mr, Menzies
puts it.
Queensland Arbitration Court did not
make any bones about what ought to be
done with the recent Federal Court’s
award on the basic-wage. It answered in
the negative the question “whether there
is any justification for maintaining a basic-
wage in Queensland 4s. higher than the
Federal basic-wage for Brisbane and 7s,
higher than that for the rest of Queens-
land,” and it accordingly raised the State
basic-wage by 155., putting it on a par
with the Federal wage. The court had
no doubt about the absurdity of increas-
ing the female basic-wage by more than
twice the increase of the male:
The present female basic-wage is 63 per
cent, of the male rate. We think that
figure should be raised to 66 per cent., and
this is the greatest amount that can be
justified.
Incidentally, the Queensland judgment
declared that “it can now be correctly
stated that there is not a male adult em-
ployee in Queensland who is not in receipt
of more than the basic-wage.” Through-
out Australia the “man on the basic-
wage” is, as an employer in the south
has said, as much a myth as the Flying
Dutchman.
After 50 years of Federation Aus-
tralia is naturally—and unnaturally-
inflated.
New Year’s Eve musings of a “Labor”
Senator—any or all of ’em:
Throughout the year I’ve done my damnedest
to prevent the Government the people elected
from governing. I held up the child-endow-
ment amendment as long as I dared and I
spragged the Bank Bill by referring it to a
Select Committee, which I knew had no power
to alter it without permission from the A.L.P.
executive. I’m still holding up the second Bank
Bill. I did the same thing with the Constitu-
tional Deadlocks Bill and I magged and bragged
on the Anti-Commo Bill for weeks and weeks
until the party executive, realising we couldn’t
win an election on that issue, gave me the
all-clear. Anyway, I didn’t waste me time; it
still ain’t law.
I held up the National Service Bill by refer-
ring it to the same powerless committee. That
means postponing the first call-up until July
at the earliest. We had to do it to give the
party time to make up its mind on compulsory
training. I wonder how they’ll tell me to vote.
Yes, it’s been a busy year, and I’ve sure
earned me pay—or at least roe endorsement,
which, under Bert Evatt’s Senate scheme, is the
same thing. Here’s to 1951. I’ll admit things
don’t look too good overseas, but there’s always
America.


K As SAYS' HE (6 A U.M.O.
gar I FEAR HE IS AN
AOSTRAUAM, ALPHONSE. "
" UoveUY, Jot. 6ur whaT //
are the strings \
"A South African tourist says soap is
very cheap in Australia owing to
restricted demand, and the Australian
is prone to eat with his hat on.”
"While Mr. Calwell and Mr
Ward have been predicting
an inflationary disaster, their
State liabor colleague, N.S.W.
Premier McGirr, has said:
*What a wonderful Christ-
mas we having! Look
where you will, there is pros-
perity and happiness.' "
fs
"Myriads of large dragonflies
are attacking honey-bees in
the Coonabarabran (N.S.W.)
district."
"Stalin has given a sable coat to the Shah
of Persia's fiancee. Persia has since alerted
its guards along the Russian frontier."
"A Scottish anthropologist says
Sydney's Christmas shoppers are
the rudest in the world. Women
'use their feet, knees, arms, fists
and parcels,' and ‘have no mercy
and no conscience.' "
FANTODS AND FUR-COATS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bethune”; Truth in Advertising. A
Sydney store announced swimming-
trunks at “a perfectly ridiculous price—
-255. 4d.” Presumably the twenty-five
bob is ridiculous and the fourpence makes
it perfectly so.
* * * *
“Uco”; New arrivals and native-born
have been writing to the papers com-
plaining of the rudeness of Australians,
individually and in the mass —particularly
in the mass. As one whose ribs are
“You SAID a bottle party!”
bruised nightly in the hip-and-elbow
scramble at Sydney’s Wynyard station
I’m inclined to agree, but last night I
struck a new angle on the ways of those
who fight to be first on the train. Usually
the aim of the thruster is to make sure
of a seat, but the chap who pushed me
and half a dozen others aside in his
eagerness to be first aboard didn’t worry
about getting a seat; he merely stood in
the space between the two compartments
—a position he could have had without
any argument even if he’d been the last
to board the train.
* * • *
“Pitt St.”: Til never understand these
Sydney people. A possum appeared in
Elizabeth-street the other night. It was
promptly chased, and as promptly
climbed up a poplar-tree. There, sur-
rounded by a crowd which blocked the
traffic, it played about, what time re-
porters and camera-men, police and
public gathered in force. Somebody—
heaven knows why, since the possum
wasn’t hurt or in distress—sent for the
R.S.P.C.A., and a couple of hours later
one of the society’s officials appeared
and tried to capture the thing. As one
paper put it, “The animal leaped to the
ground and made off, scattering watchers
and disorganising traffic.” Next, a man
chased it “200yds. to the St. James
Theatre,” captured it in a doorway and
handed it to the R.S.P.C.A. while “women
screamed.” What the R.S.P.C.A. did with
it isn’t stated. All the possum was doing
was taking a night wander. Left alone, it
would have returned to its home. The
R.S.P.C.A. should have taken the names
of all those who were chasing and harry-
ing it.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: As a casualty-
producer duck-shooting (B. 29/11/’5O)
can’t compare with the kangaroo-drives
which were common around the ranges
near Perth about 30 years ago. The pro-
cedure was for a score or more of “sports-
men” to sally forth on motor-bikes to a
spot some 20-odd miles out and, parking
their vehicles on the side of the road, to
venture into the scrub. They proceeded
on a “front” with about 30yds. between
each gun, and sometimes they’d get as
far as half a mile from the road before
someone blazed away at a movement
directly ahead of him and peppered a
bloke, further down the line, who’d con-
verged on the other wing. They were
always converging. Sometimes both
wings met, there seldom being one in
the team who could set a true course.
Either that or they drifted apart and one
or two would become hopelessly bushed
in an area of a few hundred acres bounded
on all sides by made roads. Shooting-
parties in the ’twenties were to the dailies
what beach near-nudes are now —good,
reliable space-fillers.
* m * *
“Hamer”: My memory holds a
Shakspeare, complete to the sonnets,
illustrated by Tenniel, as the best Christ-
mas present I received in my kid days.
We were struggling with “genteel poverty,”
and “keeping up appearances”—my
mother’s passion—was tough going; but
my mother always had money to spare
for books. That volume must have been
costly according to the standards of the
time; but the illustrations lured my kid
fancy as it would certainly not have been
lured without them, and in a few years
I knew my Shakspeare, cover to cover.
I have been searching hopefully but un-
successfully to find a yolurae that might
work a similar magic with a grandchild;
there are certainly no Tenniels in the
secondhand bookshops, where hope sug-
gested a few might have drifted. Re-
membering my own young days when,
although reputed “a great reader,” the
unillustrated book had small interest for
me, the packed-typed volumes available
are useless for my purpose.
* * * *
“Sam”: For three centuries commenta-
tors puzzled over a passage in “Ihe
Tempest”—the words spoken by Iris in
the Masque of Ceres:
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims
Which spongy April at thy best betrims
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns.
Some commentators declared that pioned
must be a printer’s error for peonied, and
some held twilled really to be lillied. I
have a 19th-century edition of Shaks-
peare’s works in which the line has been
re-written. “Thy banks with peoned and
lillied brims.” In 1946 a schoolmistress
in Stratford-on-Avon solved the
problem. A pupil asked her could she
have leave to pick pionies in the water
meadows. “Pionies! What are they?” ex-
claimed the teacher. They proved to be
the local name for the wild orchises that
grow on the banks of the Avon. “Do you
know what twilled brims are?” asked the
mistress. That, too, was elucidated.
Twilling is, or used to be, the, plaiting of
osiers that once fenced the banks round
the Avon water meadows to protect them
from erosion. Thus the chaste crowns
were garlands of osier sprays wreathed
with orchis,
* * * *
“R.W.”; “Conduct to the prejudice of
good order and military discipline” was
handy to cover most crimes a soldier
could commit, but I still think it was
pretty steep charging my cobber under
it. After months of being pushed around
by the O.C. and 2 i./c. he had just about
had officers, and particularly those two.
He remarked in a letter home, “When
I’m back in Australia and having a drink
in a pub if I see a deadbeat sidling up to
bludge a drink I’ll know he was a cap-
tain, and if a bloke tries to sell me boot-
laces I’ll know he was a major.” Unfor-
tunately the 2 i./c. censored the letter,
and for his slight on the King’s Com-
mission my cobber copped a pound and
seven days c.b.
♦ * * ♦
“F.S.”: Forty-six years ago Alfred
Felton, a bachelor wholesale druggist,
left £500,000 for distribution to charities
and art in Victoria. This year’s distri-
bution to charities amounted to £11,851.
The total distribution amounts to
£1,666,500, and an estimate of the value
of the National Gallery collection of pic-
tures, statuary and objets d’art would
run into millions. I suppose most mil-
lionaires would desire fame, but how
many have gone about getting it as
wisely as the founder of the Felton
Bequest?
♦ * * *
“Smilo”; WeTe all familiar with sales-
man-sponsored words like super-colossal,
super - dynamic, super - toned, super -
creamed and supersonic. We know the
“ette” suffix in such terms as flatette,
kitchenette, dinette, maisonette, stovette
and laundrette. Now some genius has
combined the two. Result: superette,
which looks very much like a grocery-
store. Where do we go from here?
♦ * * *
“Becks”: To help cope with the late
posting-rush during Christmas week,
Sydney G.P.O. installed extra booths for
the sale of stamps. Twice in one day I
visited the G.P.O. On each occasion long
queues stretched out from each of the
new windows, justifying reports in the
evening papers that people had to wait
long and patiently to buy their stamps*
What intrigued me was that while these
people waited long and patiently they had
a clear view of the normal stamp counters,
only a few yards away, at which the
queues were seldom more than eight or
ten long. I suggested to one old dear on
the end of a long queue at one of the
new booths that she might be served
sooner if she switched to one of the old
counters. “Oh, I couldn’t do that,” she
said. “They’re for ordinary mail. I
want stamps to put on a Christmas-card.”
“Eve”: At the fruit-barrow a woman
moved slowly along, methodically feeling
every orange she could lay hands on.
“Well, Mum, found one you like yet?”
snapped the boss at last. She paused, felt
yet another orange and said, “No. They
all feel kind of puffy.” “Soon fix that,
lady,” came back the gent, “Hi, Joe!
Nip into that shop in the arcade and buy
me ten dozen corsets ; I must get me
oranges into better shape.”
* * * *
“Jindivick”; Reports that Mr. Chifley’s
medical advisers have ordered him to
cut out pipe-smoking reminds me of the
case of a friend on whose smoking the
doctor placed a limit of three pipes a
day. By holding his tobacco under
lock and key his
wife was able to
keep the old
man’s smoking in
conformity with
doctor’s orders
while he was in
bed. But as soon
as he was able to
get out and about
he came home
with the biggest
pipe I’ve ever
seen. Sitting in
the sun, he
spent the next few
hours whittling
the inside of the thick bowl until he
had a pipe that would hold the best part
of a couple of ounces of tobacco. Stok-
ing up, he puffed in grand contentment.
“There y’ are,” he told us. “Don’t need
to disobey the quack—in fact, with this
I might be able to keep it down to two
a day.”
* * * *
“Ex-trams”; Transport bosses frown
upon trammies drinking in hotels or even
visiting them whilst on duty. I know a
driver and conductor who had just col-
lected their middies and were about to
lift them to their lips when they saw in
the mirror behind the bar the reflection
of two inspectors. The trammies turned
to two thirsty gentlemen waiting behind
them, and with a “Here’s your drinks,
mates,” pushed the glasses into their
hands. They then beckoned the bar-
maid, ordered four ginger-ales and in-
vited the inspectors to join them.
Another time a conductor, dismissed for
“partaking of intoxicating liquor whilst
on duty,” appealed against the decision
and produced as a surprise witness a
barman. On oath this gentleman testi-
fied that on the day in question (two
months prior to the hearing) the conduc-
tor had been served with sarsaparilla
only. Asked how, among the hundreds
he served every day, he could recall the
instance, he answered; “It’s so seldom
I’m asked for sarsaparilla that when it
does happen I’m not likely to forget it.”
A WORD TO MOTHER.
“Wages of women in most N. S. Wales unions are
to go up by from 245. 6d. to 445. 6d. a week ; and
N. S. Wales Premier McGirr has congratulated the
citizens upon their unrivalled happiness and pros-
perity.’'
The cost of life’s outrageous
From lollies to the flicks;
Now up go women’s wages
By two-pound-four-and-six:
It’s grim to watch the children sigh
And hear their tender voices cry:
“Momma, get out and get work!
Go on, get cracking, Mom,
And find yourself a lurk—
Don’t hang around the home;
We like to have you with us,
But feel we can’t afford
To let you remain
When there’s so much to gain
Under the New Award!”
“Where does it go?” says Poppa.
“Our food is far too dear;
The gas bill’s such a whopper,
There’s nothing left for beer:
Is this the end of love’s young dream?” —
His voice Becomes a nightmare scream:
“Momma, get out and get work
As minder of machines
Or counterhand or clurk,
Or making jellybeans:
You can leave behind your housework,
For one thing is assured,
It won’t fly away
Till you finish the day
Under the New Award!”
“I’m just a Sugar-Pappy,”
Says Premier Jim McGirr,
“For every woman’s happy
Because I smile on her;
And now that I have been so nice,
1 beg to tender this advice:
“Momma, get out and get work!
The wage is so much more
That prices soon will jerk
Up higher than before;
I don’t like people working—
It’s much to be deplored.
But you’d better comply
Or you’ll never get by
Under the New Award.”
“Oh, all right,” says the mater,
“I hate to leave the kids;
It’s against the laws of Nature,
But think of all those quids!
I’ll join Australia’s industry
Because I hear you say to me:
‘“Momma, get out and get work!’
I’ll go because I ought,
Though I wish I’d married a Turk
With a harem doing nought;
I’ll leave off home-production—
A bit too late, by Gord,
For there’s types of men
We won’t need again
Under the New Award!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The startled expres-
sion of the office-wallah in the joke-block
(B. 29/11/’ 50) at the lass’s evident
willingness to exhibit her birthmark as
identification took me back to my island-
trading days. In those times the Binghi
belles had, at missionary inspiration,
taken to concealing their charms in
voluminous Mother Hubbard frocks. At
this stage the Gubmint had sold the
Binghi populace the idea of placing their
earnings from skin-diving for trochus-
shell in savings-bank accounts, with the
result that some of the girls had sizeable
credit balances. I still recall my blushes
on the occasion when, in the presence of
some lady tourist visitors, I asked a
black chastely-gowned 18-year-old client
to produce her bankbook. Unhesitat-
ingly she hoisted aloft the voluminous
Mother Hubbard, and, in all innocence,
drew from beneath the pandanus-fibre
waist-band the required passbook. As
Mother Hubbards rendered foundation
garments redundant, I poignantly re-
member the sudden chill which fell on
the atmosphere ’twixt my guests and me
despite the reigning nor’-west monsoonal
swelter.
* * * *
“Brolga”: Although furniture-removing
is only an occasional —and unpopular —
sideline in my carrying business I’ve had
enough experience to understand why
removalists are such confirmed cynics.
There’s the daily encounter with furniture-
owners —generally of the fair sex —who
think it’s a shame to let a large wardrobe
be moved down three flights of stairs
empty when
they’re so short
of boxes and
trunks. So into
the wardrobe go
a couple of
mattresses and
about two
hundredweight of
papers and books.
Then there’s the
young matron
who picks up a
cot at an auction-
sale. When the
carriers try to
deliver it to a
King’s Cross tenement it takes half an
hour to convince her that a cot 30in.
wide won’t go up a stairway 27in. wide.
Sometimes the cot can be hauled up over
a balcony ; if not, it means collapsing a
non-collapsible article with hammer and
screwdriver. My bitterest memory is of
a lady, allegedly a writer, for whom I
humped a trunk of staggering weight up
steep stairs. From the weight I imagined
it contained piles of manuscripts ; having
some feeling for the lady’s profession I
made no complaint. But when I dumped
the trunk at the top of the stairs I heard
an unmistakable “chink.” She admitted
it. Three dozen. And not a one for me!
* * * *
“Brolga”: “Ek Dum’s” remarks on
recruiting and comforts (B. 15/11 / ’5O)
reminded me that, whatever the Army
Minister’s ideas about comfort for troops
may be, the Army has its own ideas as
well. When our brigade was being re-
formed and trained in the interval be-
tween New Guinea campaigns we were
stationed on the Atherton Tablelands,
where C.Os. of several units tried to
make life a bit pleasanter for their men
by erecting recreation-huts of bush
timber and any roofing material that
could be scrounged. Along came a memo
from Corps H.Q. to the effect that “No
objection is taken to recreation-huts
being erected in unit lines provided that
use of them is not allowed to tend to
make the men become soft.” As Corps
H.Q. was comfortably established in a
former tourist hotel, complete with h.
and c., while we were in leaky tents with
c. supplied by the Tully River, we were
not amused.
“Did I startle you, dear ?”
“Phoongyee”: After a particularly bad
stoushing at Salaita Hill, in the East
African sideshow of the Kaiser’s war, we
retired to Serengeti with the German
Askaris after us all the way. It was a case
of all hands to man the perimeter and
keep a sharp lookout. The order was for
every second man to keep alert for half
an hour, then wake his rhate and be
awakened in turn after another half-hour.
During one of my turns I saw a pinprick
of light which could be read in Morse
as “wacht.” This went on over and over
again. Wacht, wacht, wacht. In
Afrikaans this meant wait and in German
watch. Waking my mate, I told him of
this Morse-lamp signalling ; half an hour
later when he woke me it was still going
on. To fire a shot at this lamp, estimated
to be 800 yards away, would have roused
the jittery camp, so we let it go. Day
broke at 4.30 a.m., revealing the “lamp”
as an incinerator with burning rubbish
flickering through the holes about 20
yards from the perimeter.
* * * *
“R.M.”: She asked the secretary for
her pay ; she wouldn’t be coming any
more. Surprised, for she had worked
reasonably well and seemed content, he
tried to talk her out of leaving. Was she
dissatisfied with the pay? No, she knew
it was more than the usual. She really
had no complaints about anything. She
thought it a lovely firm, one of the
nicest. “Then aren’t you treating us a
little badly by leaving so suddenly?”
She stared at him in wonder. “Badly?
I’ve been here three weeks. Other places
I never stop more than four days.”
* * * *
“E. & 0.E,”: One of Britain’s important
dollar-earners is the humble needle, now
turned out in hundreds of millions. For
the Redditch needles, made by a Mid-
lands organisation with 200 years of ex-
perience behind it, America is the best
customer, though they also go into prac-
tically every other country where quality
counts. The Worshipful Company of
Needlemakers received its first charter
from Cromwell, and Charles II
extended it to give the company control
over this industry, also charging it with
the duty of seeing that all needles offered
for sale were up to standard. Sheffield
steel and good workmanship have done
the rest.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Near-beer? When Lawrence
(N.Z.) voted for prohibition in the Local
Option poll nearly 50 years ago a cordial-
manufacturer put out a compensating
“temperance beer” which soon became
popular. Its fame spread outside the dry
area; soon all M.L. was taking supplies.
It was only when numbers of people who
swore they had drunk nothing but the
soft stuff were convicted of booze
offences that a clamor for an analysis
of the drink bore fruit. Samples taken
showed an alcoholic content slightly over
that of standard intoxicating beer. In
the ensuing rumpus the manufacturer,
who had transferred his now-big business
to a company, professed shocked
innocence. Apparently it was freak
brews of the drink which produced the
overalcoholised stuff and established its
reputation ; with a close watch kept on
its production its popularity went down
like a pricked balloon.
“Laetitia”: The
public’s benevolent
attitude to the tipsy
sailor, as contrasted
with its hostility to
soldiers and airmen
in a similar state,
stems from the days
of the press-gang.
The public sympa-
thised with Jack Tar
for the undoubtedly
harsh conditions
under which he
lived. Jack Ashore
was accepted as re-
acting in a natural
manner during a
brief respite from
what were virtually
galley-slave condi-
tions. The wide-
spread public sym-
pathy which met the
Mutiny at the Nore
is definite evidence
of this. Though the
mutiny was scotched,
the event made such
an impact on public
opinion that it was
really the beginning
of reform on the
lower deck.
* *
“Bamekaw”: At
13 Tiger was a lad
with a personality.
No one ever bet-
tered him in a play-
ground swap, and he was the ack-
nowledged leader in all activities out-
side the class-room ; but, inside, he
had nothing but airy indifference to such
matters as the rivers of Ireland or the
Theorem of Pythagoras. After a class-
test, in which his scholastic value was
rated at something less than 10 per cent.,
the teacher wrathfully took him to task.
“What do you think you’ll be when you
leave school? A street-cleaner?” he
asked. “Huh! Not me,” returned Tiger.
“I’ll be a captain of industry.” The
teacher asked sarcastically “And who’ll
look after such incidental matters as your
ledgers and your correspondence?” Con-
fidently came back “The blokes in the
back row. I’ll have them working for
me.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: In a Sydney journal I read a
“biography” of a young motor-cyclist
who has achieved distinction as a speed-
way rider. In building up a sort of “born-
to-the-saddle” atmosphere its writer in-
formed me that his subject, while still a
schoolboy, used to ride an old “bitza”
motor-bike to the school in his home
town Fairfield (N.S.W.). There he
would career madly around the play-
/Afrit, u,
IhWttv
I souciro/?s
j »i
“But WHY can't I get a divorce? I'm married, aren't I ?”
ground while screaming kids dashed out
of the way and climbed the big fig-trees
for safety. 1 hope the exciting episode
doesn’t inspire other youths at “the silly
age” to attempt similar feats, but there
are several minor flaws in the story. In
the first place, Fairfield school has never
catered for scholars over 16—and boys
under that age are not allowed to own or
ride motorbikes. In the second, the school
has never been staffed by blind, deaf and
absolutely non compos teachers who
might permit such pranks. Finally, it
would have been rather difficult for a
terrified schoolkid to climb one of the
big fig-trees in the playground, the main
reason being that there has never been a
fig-tree growing there.
* * * *
“Helldud”: If any New Zealand city
can claim the title of the most bicycle-
minded town it is
not Dunedin (B.
15/11/’ 50) but
Christ churcli
There, bikes arc
such a part of the
daily life of resi-
dents that con-
tinuous pedalling
has left its mark.
Most Christ-
churchians can be
spotted anywhere
—even when dis-
mounted. Walk-
ing on tiptoe, with
bent knees, heads down, arms forward,
elbows bent, fists clenched, hats on snouts,
and pants tucked into socks, they present
a strange spectacle. Yes, there’s a lot of
bikes in Christchurch.
* * * *
“Kehns”: While the Omsk was at
Fremantle someone whispered to a
reporter, who accepted it as fact, that
the Russian ship was fitted with, among
other things, billiard-tables, for the enter-
tainment of the crew. The fact was
advanced as proof of the amenities pro-
vided for Communist workers. It should
have been taken as a tribute to the
engineering skill of the ship’s makers —
American —who had apparently designed
a non-pitching, non-rolling vessel. I’ve
never seen a ship on which billiards could
be played, but I’ll accept the reporter’s
word that it’s done on the Omsk. Playing
billiards on a storm-tossed ship would be
child’s play to some acrobatic feats we’ve
seen performed by Commos.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: I’d suffered it ever
since I learnt to pedal a bike —hands
frozen numb from holding on to the
handlebars on cold, frosty mornings.
And I probably would have suffered it ill
the bike and I slid apart had the young an
from up the road not pedalled alongside
me one morning as I rode to work
“Cold on the hands,” I complained. “Not
if you do what I do,” he grinned. “Just
fill your handle-bars with hot water and
cork them up before you leave home.
That’ll keep your handle warm till you
get to work.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: He was small, irascible, red in
the face and bore all the symptoms of
apoplexy. After many years of managing
country banks he had his share of worries,
not the least of them a ledger-keeper
who was slowly driving him mad. In-
sufficient funds, faulty signatures,
“stopped” cheques and all the other traps
meant just nothing Jo this budding Roths-
child ; he passed anything that looked
like a cheque. One day I found the
manager more than usually upset. “It’s
that fool on the ledgers,” he yelled.
“He’ll be the death of me.” I
asked why he hadn’t taken steps
to get rid of the fellow. “Get
rid of him?” he screamed, “For years
I’ve been trying to do that. Head office
knows all about him from my reports,
and yet they leave him here. I’ve had
him five years now.” My experience had
always been that the surest way to lose a
good man was to report favorably on
him, so I suggested that the next report
on the cause of all the trouble might in-
dicate that he had made good improve-
ment and was due for a move. It worked
like a charm.
YEAR’S END.
Well, Mister ’Fifty, you’ve had your run,
Gone where the good niggers go ;
With all your hopes and fears and lun,
Gone where the good niggers go.
Three hundred and sixty-five nights and days,
Fifty-two weeks in all;
You go as you came to the wild bells blaze,
And the New Year’s puling bawl.
There’s little to say, all’s done that’s clone,
Gone where the good niggers go.
Errors and losses and victories won,
Gone where the good niggers go.
We drank you in and we’ll drink you out,
The common fate of the years,
We hail the next with hope and doubt
And the firework shines on tears.
There’s little to say, save, ere you flee,
Gone where the good niggers go,
We sometimes thought our world would be
Gone where the good niggers go;
Mongol and Slav in ranks of war,
The sundering atom-blast,
And perhaps one manless planet the more
Ere your little span was past.
And, Mister ’Fifty, a universe gone—
Gone where the good niggers go—
Is a tiny word in space, and anon,
Gone where the good niggers go.
But it’s more than a word to us who live,
Though blind we be and dumb,
So a welcome strong to the New Year give,
For the sake of men to come.
And here’s to you, who’ve reached your end
Gone where the good niggers go.
Of good and bad you gave us a blend,
Gone where the good niggers go.
And as you pass through the splendid skies
Into the days that are done,
We turn, anew, with our hopeful eyes
To the bold young ’Fifty-one.
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ex-Bogan”: I met old Gin Gin
George in Sydney’s crowds and we with-
drew to renew our friendship, formed
years ago in the Coonamble-Cunnamulla
country. “I’m a fugitive from water,”
said George. “You remember how we
had t’ battle for the stuff in them days,
cart it round in waterbags, store it in
kero.-tins, dig for it in sand-soaks along
the Castlereagh? ’Member how a man
could go for ruddy days an’ never see a
drop of it? ’Member the time them six
hundred sheep did a perish out near
Coolabah an’ we nearly lost our horses?
Cripes, every summer it used t’ be a battle
t’ get enough t’ make some tea or have
a shave. What’s it like now? That’s
what I’m tellin’ you; I’m a ruddy fugi-
tive from water. It’s all over the flamin’
place. You can’t move for it. We’ve
had five floods this year. All the way
from Dubbo right out to the Cooper and
up through St. George and back t’
More© she’s like a flamin’ sea. It got me
in the end, so I chucked me job an’ come
down here to get away from it for
a while.” He brooded over his beer.
“Cripes,” he murmured, awed, “who’d
ha’ ever thought a bloke from outback
would run away from water!”
* ♦ » *
“S.H.H.”: We were caught in the hills
near Burrinjuck (N.S.W.) when the
weather turned nasty, and, wet to the skin,
we were glad to accept the hospitality of
two big navvies occupying the top storey
of a ramshackle two-decker. Our hosts
had been having a pretty good lash at
a demijohn of Stockholm and metho,
which we politely declined. Soon they
got into an argument, which culminated
in Joe threatening to blow his mate’s
unprintable lights out. At that Jim
struck an attitude. “If you’re game to do
it I’m game to take it,” he said. And
with folded arms he dramatically draped
himself against a wooden wall. Joe
hobbled over to a
corner, hauled
from it an
ancient gun with
a n octagonal
barrel and a fold-
over breech-
block that had to
take a wallop
from shells which
went about three
to the pound. “Stand still, yer blankard,”
he snarled at Jim, who was beginning to
show some apprehension. Joe rammed
in a bullet, but the breech refused to
close. With a blood-chilling appeal to
the heavenly hosts for assistance he
slammed the block over hard. The old
cannon went off with a roar, filling the
room with blue smoke. The big slug
skidded off the top-plate, chewed a
chunk out of the iron and whined
away in the general direction of
the other side of the dam. Flinging
the smoke aside Joe bounded forward to
peer anxiously at his old mate, who’d
turned completely round, and was
scrabbling at the wall like a frantic
goanna. “I’ve missed him!” bawled the
marksman, joyously turning to us ; but
by then we were half-way down the
stairs.
* * * »
“Gravelsnatcher”: When a Busselton
(W.A.) fisherman hooked a 12ft. ribbon-
fish, locals saw it as a sign that it’ll be a
poor season for herring, and they may
be right. The fish is flat and about Sin.
wide, and is rare enough to excite com-
ment. One of the first to be recorded
in W.A. was washed ashore, with about
half a million of its finny cobbers, on a
beach a few miles north of Perth. There
wasn’t much of a blow, but a peculiar
lightning display preceded a heavy swell
which deposited the dead fish well up
the beach. A hundred years earlier that
visitation would probably have been a
source of considerable joy to Binghi, but
at that time it made the beach uninhabit-
able for weeks. The ribbon-fish was the
most conspicuous of the fish thrown up,
and I’ve formed the opinion that it’s a
deep-water denizen which comes up
usually after some minor underwater dis-
turbance, which, of course, could affect
the herrings.
“Come back tomorrow — he's in town.”
“Old-timer”* I ran into Booberoi in
the city the other day, and, after we’d
irrigated he said “Hey do you remember
Hungry ’ Orlan, used’ t’ knock about
Narromine an’Nyngan an’them places?”
“Yair.” “Well, I sighted him in George-
street the other day an’ we get together
for a few noggins. When we get a bit
“You can't bring him in here. He's not a member."
molo I suddenly remember it’s the first
time I’ve seen him since him and me was
emu-bobbin’ on old Amby Russ’s place
six year ago. Then I remembers that I
lent Hungry a fiver in Trangie that
Christmas and hadn’t seen a hair or hide
of it since. He seems to be well-cashed-
up, so I put it on him. Know what the
cow did? Give me fifty-bob an’ said I
could read in any paper I liked that a
quid in 1944 was only worth ten-bob
today, and it was just as well I’d met him
because in another year or two it would
only have cost him twenty-five-bob t’
square me. It just shows y’ what this
inflation does.” And Booberoi sorrow-
fully buried his face in another schooner.
» * » •
“Salmon Gums”: Well, what do stag-
horns live on (B. 22/11 / ’50)? The wife
has one, growing on a piece of paperbark
attached to a lump of wood. About
once every.three or four months she rams
a banana-skin down between the bark
and the wood. The plant is watered
daily, but otherwise it receives no nourish-
ment. Yet it has grown considerably, and
has contrived to produce quite a family
of youngsters, which are growing equally
vigorously from the same piece of bark.
As far as I can see that bark, with the
assistance of an odd banana-peel, will
support that family indefinitely. It’s the
same with pot-plants. Kentia-palms will
grow from babyhood to 6ft. leafy giants
on the sand contained in a 6in. flower-pot,
without apparently decreasing the con-
tents of the pot. It seems that enough
nourishment for these plants is found in
ordinary rainwater. All they require
apart from that is secure anchorage for
their roots.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Y’ didn’t stay long
up at Hoonie’s,” I said. “No,” Mat
replied. “Y’ see, his eldest daughter
come home from some job she had in
the town an’ started hangin’ round. I
give her the cold shoulder, but it don’t
have much effect, so I could see I’d have
t’ get a bit rough. Me chance came
when a half-grown bull bailed her up in
the cowyard. She has t’ get up on the
tank-stand, an’ she’s standin’ there when
I come along. So I just laughed an’ says
t’ her, ‘Why don’t y’ give him one o’
your smiles?’ She looks at me pretty
savage an’ then she says, ‘You’re just a
worm, anyway.’ So I digs up her ol’
man an’ snatches me time.” He fell
silent. “Well,” I said, “what was y’
scared of? Wasn’t any danger if she
thought y’ was a worm?” “Wasn’t
there, by cripes?” he came back. “She
was the closest likeness I ever saw to
that early bird y’ hear so much about.”
# * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In some localities the
Major Mitchell cockatoo receives its
correct name, in others it is a “wee
juggler.” People talk of black magpies,
currawongs, bell magpies and jackdaws—
four names for one bird. A Sydney news-
paper described the “storm-bird” as the
channel-bill —a giant cuckoo measuring
27in. in length. The storm-bird is the
pallid cuckoo. A bird-call specialist in a
radio contest had in his repertoire a
“moon-bird.” He admitted that he had
never seen the bird, only heard it. His
rendition was unmistakable: it was a
pallid cuckoo. The compere praised the
effort remarked that he was sure hed
heard the moon-bird, and wondered
about its name. A few! minutes later he
was handed a note from a person in the
audience: “The bird is a rufous warbler.”
Wouldn’t it?
* * •
“Solitude”: Hadn’t been back from my
big trip long before I was aware of
rustlings in the roof. Then noises under
the floor became apparent, and presently
a grey head appeared through a crack.
“Where on earth did all the rats come
from?” I growled, as the rustlings con-
tinued. “Down at the station, some of
’em,” reported Seventyfiver. “And the
rest just come. They kill snails, them
things, an’ there’s been gettin’ quite a lot
of snails round here.” “Yes, but , .
I stopped to investigate something on
my neck, and
belted off an
enormous taran-
tula. “Cut it out,
you’ll kill it,”
warned Seventy-
fiver. “And y’
don’t know how
hard them sort o’
insec’s is to get
when y’ want ’em.” “Want!” “Yair,”
he replied. “T eat the flies. Them
little lizards down in the corner lorg
there eats ’em, too. Be good-oh not t’
have no flies, won’t it? There’s still the
ants, o’ course, but except f’r a porcupine
o’ two, I dunno what’d fix ’em.” “Well,
I’m not having these things crawling, over
me all night,” I broke in decidedly,
scowling in turn at the old bloke and
another spider that was shoving out a
hoof for a foothold in my hair.
Seventyfiver heaved a sigh. “Trouble
with you, Sol,” he drawled presently. “Y’
never want t’ make things better. Cripes,
if y’ had your way, the place’d soon be
overrun with flamin’ pests!”
* * *
“Blime”: Dill saw the snake before I
did, and in a flash was off his nag to
grab the wriggler by the tail. “Always
wanted t’ try crackin’ one,” he yelled,
giving the reptile a swing and an ineffec-
tive jerk before bashing it against a log.
“You silly cow,” X growled. “Lucky that
black didn’t bite you.” “Wouldn’t ’ve
mattered,” Dill scoffed. “Couldn’t ’urt.”
He returned to the job of stringing the
cattle over the low bridge, but wasn’t in
time to prevent the jam, nor stop one old
cow being pushed into the flood. The
water rolled her over, and presently she
caught in the branches of a nearly-
submerged tree. There was a splash, and
I turned to find Dill going after her. I
charged along the bank. Dill got to the
cow, pulled her loose, then, caught in
the current, he swirled downstream at a.
great pace. A bend in the stream,
another tree and a sandbank combined
eventually to save him. As he struggled
out, still grinning, I opened up with a
barrage of home-truths. “And you went
in deliberately, you idiot,” I concluded.
“If it hadn’t been for a lucky break, you’d
have been drowned.” “No, I wouldn’t,
he assured me. “There weren’t no risk.
Td get out.” “Yair? What makes you
so sure?” He lowered his voice and came
closer. “I’ll tell y’. Know that bloke
that was around, a while back?” he
grinned. “Well, I give ’im some money,
and he mad© me life insured /'
WHERE THE OLD ROAD RAN.
This is where the road ran long ago
though now there is no trace of road at all.
Too deeply wheels sank in the ruts, and heat
baked the surface pressed by cloven feet.
Rains all through midsummer spread their pall-
wind followed ... an old tale of nature now.
So that today through everlasting green
there gapes this crumbling and eroded waste —
a chasm with narrow floor and fluted walls
between whose columns all day long there falls
here or there a clod to crash with haste
against dark mouldering roots that twist and lean.
So hot the sun at zenith that stock-still
stands each blade and stem; the frailest vine
clamping its luidrils round my cautious hand
seems half-aslccp. Day-dreaming is the land,
somnolent this uneasy heart of mine
that longs to leave, but cannot summon will . . .
And strange upon so fair a noon as this
wraiths of deeds ill-done stalk from the past
mouthing in the gloom among the trees
nameless sins, forgotten revelries.
And passion so molten that it could not last
assumes dread shapes here in the dim abyss,
Part of an old existence, perilous,
zestful, foolhardy, lost to settlers’ heirs.
It was the old way, it is over, done,
will never come again, its gamut run.
Why linger further while its message tears
with unseen fingers at the hearts of us?
Steer away from the old road. It belongs
to times when life moved at wagon-pace,
to changing of coach-horscs along the roads,
bonneted girls, and drays heaped high with loads;
to suffering endured the old-time way,
heady romance, and sentimental songs.
But as we ride, among your heart-strings stow
something that was at core of it; a spring
of fellowship, a fountain of endeavor,
an inner glow that will burn on forever;
an aura that the very breezes fling
around us like a garland as we go.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


AUSTRALIA’S FIRST EIGHT PRIME MINISTERS---FROM BARTON TO BRUCE
By Contemporary "Bulletin” Cartoonists
Edmund Barton, 1901-1903.
(Phil May caricature.)
George Reid, 1904-1905.
(Low.)
Joseph Cook, 1913-1914.
(Low.)
J. C. Watson, 1904.
(Low.)
W. M. Hughes, 1915-1923.
(Low.)
(Next week: Scullin to Menzies.)
Alfred Deakin, 1903-1904, 1905-1908, 1909-1910.
(David Low.)
Andrew Fisher, 1908-1909, 1910-1913, 1914-1915.
(Low.)
S. M. Bruce, 1923-1929.
( Scorfield.)


JUBILEE. YEAR
THE BEST
PLEDGE OF
THE FUTURE
IS FROM
THE PAST
;<jCAJ ND ' Th/g
&
|N SURA><CE
CO
ltd
also marks the CENTENARY YEAR in Australia oj
THE LIVERPOOL & LONDON & GLOBE
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (Incorporated in England)
ioo Years of Progress and Honourable Insurance Practice
• FIRE • ACCIDENT • MOTOR • MARINE
Chief Office for New South Wales, Pacific and South Sea Islands: 62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY W. L. CURREY, Manage*
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G. Mutual Life
Ordinary jjlfe Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’47 5,500,853 785,646 1,752,683 2,902,024 32,479,569
Written off premises, £24,149 . . 32,455,420
’4B 6,089,559 849,171 1,906,248 3,334,140 35,789,560
Written off premises, £19,466 (
To staff fund, £2450 .. .. t
35,767,644
’49 6,735,786 937,020 2,195,073 3,602,693 39,370,337
To staff fund, £2450 .. .. .. 39,367,887
Written off premises, £15,877 .. 39,352.010
’5O 7,438,692 1,037,227 2,208,436 4,193,029 43,545,039
To staff fund, £2450 43,542,589
Written off premises, £18,378 .. ..43,524,211
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’47 4,200,881 1,109,8001,966,818 1,124,263 21,655,628
Written off premises, £17,488 .. 21,638,140
’4B 4,363,554 1,137,928 2,021,432 1,204,194 22,842,334
Written off premises, £12,977 (
To staff fund, £2450 .. .. )
22,826,907
’49 4,506,077 1,189,512 2,087,110 1,229,455 24,056,362
To staff fund, £2450 24,053,912
Written off premises, £10,151 .. 24,043,761
’5O 4,664,271 1,263,651 2,260,648 1,139,972 25,183,733
To staff fund, £2450 25,181,283
Written off premises, £11,264 ..25,170,019
The latest accounts of the 74-year-old
Australasian Temperance and General
Assurance Society, Ltd., which writes
ordinary, industrial and accident con-
tracts throughout the Commonwealth and
New Zealand, present a healthy picture
in all those matters upon which progress
and soundness depend. Moreover,
together with the other big life offices,
the co. represents a system of collective
security which provides both a sheet-
anchor in the realm of domestic finance
as well as a stabilising influence in the
economic and social structure —“save for
security” has always been the appeal
behind life assurance.
Last term the co. wrote £23,193,163
(up £2,797,667) of new ordinary business,
the average amount per policy being £514
as against £497 and £438 for the two
preceding years. Group insurance, infla-
tion and growth of population have been
the main factors which pushed the figures
along. Helpful, too, is a widening recog-
nition of the fact that there is no sub-
stitute for the protection afforded by a
policy with a sound regular-bonus-paying
office—it provides a full measure of finan-
cial cover long before it is ever paid for.
In the industrial section £8,318,773 (up
£23,755) of new business was put on the
books, despite the fact that contracts of
less than 25 years’ duration are eschewed
owing to the rise in costs and drop in
interest rates.
Combining the figures of the two
departments, the years income increased
by £861,100, reaching £12,102,963 —
premiums £9,675,684 (up £697,496) and
interest, rents, etc. £2,427,279 (up
£163,604). 'After paying all legitimate
claims (which were well within expecta-
tion) and exes., as well as sending £4900
to the staff fund and writing £29,642 off
the book-value of premises, a sum of
£5,298,459 remained. That lifted the
assurance funds to £68,694,230, which
substantially exceeded the actuarial lia-
bilities under policies; and there is a
large provision for contingencies
(£1,368,763, up £20,749) as well.
The surplus available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over actuarial
liabilities under policies) increased by
£149,294:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Net surplus—
Ordinary £744,470 £830,518 £850,299 £970,132
Industrial 338,478 366,630 396,404 425,865
Total £1,082,948 £1,197,148 £1,246,703 £1,395,997
After reserving £25,000 in the O.D. and
£20,000 in the I.D. for actuarial con-
tingencies, reversionary bonuses to policy-
holders—there are no shareholders —were
maintained at the same satisfactory rates
as for the previous year.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the assurance funds (after deducting
taxes) was £3 14s. lid. p.c., or only 9d.
p.c. less than for the previous year. In
calculating liabilities under policies, the
actuary assumes that the assurance funds
will turn in no more than 24 p.c. in the
O.D. and a mixed 2 p.c. and 2j p.c. in
the I.D. The margin between these actual
and assumed rates of interest is more
than is usually considered adequate for
maintenance of existing bonus rates.
Owing to the all-round rise in wages
and prices generally, exes, (excluding taxes
and contributions to the staff fund) made
off with 16.9 p.c. of net premiums in the
O.D. and 32.5 p.c. in the I.D. For the
previous year the ratios were 15.2 p.c. and
30.2 p.c. respectively.
In the accident section, which also
continues to expand, extra benefits were
granted to policyholders, and there was a
surplus of income over outgo of £25,400,
of which £20,000 was transferred to con-
tingency reserves in the life department.
Of the £5,363,699 by which assets in-
creased during the year, £3,948,427 was
invested in public securities:
Public 1949. p.c. 1950. p.c.
securities ..£52,109,670 78.3 £56,058,097 78.0
Loans . . . . 10,056,422 15.1 11,087,191 15.4
Freeholds . . 3,492,914 5.3 3,580,276 5.0
Cash, book debts,
etc 841,777 1.3 1,139,018 1.6
Loans include £8,593,186 (up £830,341)
of mortgages, largely in connection with
homes purchased by policyholders. No
credit is taken in the books for overdue
interest, agents’ balances, plant or other
non-interest-bearing items.
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1942.. 125,192 8 p.c. = 72,408 52,784 838,737
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 56,310 395,047
Investment reserve disclosed, £39,695 434,742
1944.. 140,800 9 p.c. = 86,097 51,603 486,345
Added investment reserve, £3,560 . . 489,905
1945.. 142,901 10 p.c. = 98.552 44,349 534,254
1946.. 143,027 8 „ „ 78,842 64,185 598,439
To reserves a/c goodwill telecom-
munications, £1,120,828 .. 1,719,267
Reserves capitalised, £1,120,828.. 598,439
Intangibles disappear, £49,067 .. 647,506
Net surplus a/c tangibles, £60,676.. 708,182
1947.. 82,959 8 p.c. = 33,508 49,451 757,633
1948.. 90,578 12 „ „ 50,261 40,317 797,950
Share premiums, £96,624 .. .. 894,574
1949.. 98,885 12 p.c. = 50,261 48,624 943,198
Share premiums, £78,376 . . . . 1,021,574
1950.. 128,115 Hi p.c. = 66,776 61,339 1,082,913
* After deducting intangibles, now £85,811.
Since the telecommunications section
of the business was passed to the Gov-
ernment in October, 1946, for £1,400,000
(the figure included £1,120,828 for good-
will), the co.’s manufacturing activities,
scientific and technical services and its
subsidiary interests have all continued to
expand, and so have profits. Moreover,
after deducting intangibles (£85,811), free
reserves at June 30 last were approaching
twice the size of paid capital, and
the total provision for depreciation
(£847,564) was equal to 59 p.c. of the
cost of all fixed assets.
The market notes all this, as well as
the co.’s strength in tjie technical field
and the enterprise of the management,
and prices the f.-p. Bs. 6d. shares at 51s.
as against 325. 6d. a year ago. The
immediate return at 51s. is a wink under
2 p.c. on the basis of last term’s 11| p.c.
distribution. So the investor who looks
for approximately 4 p.c. on his money
counts on the div. reaching 24 p.c., or
on a one-for-one gift-scrip issue and 12
p.c. div. (£136,223), or, say, a simul-
taneous one-for-two gift and one-for-five
cash issue at par and a 15 p.c. div.
(£144,736).
The wide variety of equipment turned
out falls under four main headings: (1)
Used goods—broadcast receivers, ampli-
fiers, public-address systems, etc.; (2)
engineering lines—broadcast transmitters,
radar, frequency-modulation apparatus, in-
dustrial aids, etc.; (3) specialised lines —
vehicular-operated traffic signals, marine
and aerial navigation instruments, tele-
phones, etc.; (4) components for other
manufacturers. In addition, the co. is
interested in eight subsidiary and associ-
ated undertakings, operates eight broad-
casting stations, provides technical
services for a lot more and holds some
3000 patents covering radio, radar and
television.
Last term there was a marked improve-
ment in production and sales in all sec-
tions of the business, especially in
Radiolas. Limiting factors were shortages
of materials, skilled labor and factory
accommodation, and public power-
rationing, which has been partly over-
come by installation of emergency plants.
Sales (£2,627,323, up £294,722) increased
by 124 p.c. Including £72,152 (up
£17,521) for depreciation and something
for taxation and other contingencies,
exes. (£2,499,208) took £265,492 of the
gain. That left the net result £29,230
stronger at £128,115. But there was more
capital to feed, the ratio of profit to
average capital being 22.5 p.c. as against
23.6, 21.6 and 19.8 p.c. for the three
preceding years. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was only 7.7 p.c. The dis-
tribution dropped a trifle from 1.025. to
Is. a share, or from 12 p.c. to Ilf p.c.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover. The
question of raising fresh share capital,
and the amount thereof, will partly depend
upon whether the co. is successful in its
tender for erection of the new television
station. It is well-equipped and
ready to construct television receiving-
sets, as soon as the need for them arises.
Introduction of television is not expected
to greatly reduce sales of ordinary broad-
cast receiving-sets.
The financial position strengthened:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £418,845 £500,975 £567.595
Sundry creditors, etc. 1,023,358 1,074,880 964,362
Depreciation reserve 739,743 778,643 847,564
Final div 29,319 29,319 38,953
Freeholds, etc* . , 504,896 558,395 563,595
Plant, etc.* . . 724,480 792,393 870,608
Shares in other cos. 153,679 162,680 184,470
Stocks . . . . 975,220 1,085,623 1,142.960
Book debts . . . . 634,477 687,876 722,211
Cash, etc. . . . . 16,465 40,050 17,545
Patents . . . . 85,811 85,811 85.811
* At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£778,643).
The £144,996 of fresh capital (£66,620)
and share premiums (£78,376) gathered
during the year, together with surplus
earnings, etc., was used to reduce the
outside debt (down £110,518) and add
£110,005 to fixed assets, £57,337 to stocks
and £34,335 to book debts. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£879,401) was £170,051.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.t
1940.. 10,781 54 p.c. = 8,800 1981 66,531
1941.. 10,509 6 „ „ 9,600 909 67,440
1942.. 11,026 6 „ „ 9,600 1426 68,866
1943.. 17,616 7 „ „ 11,200 6416 75,282
1944.. 15,808 7 „ „ 11,200 4608 79,890
1945.. 14,849 7 „ „ 11,200 3649 83,539
1946.. 14,887 8 „ „ 12,800 2087 85,626
1947.. 14,025 8 „ „ 12,800 1225 86,851
1948.. 24,102 12 „ „ 19,200 4902 91,753
1949.. 23,360 12 „ „ 19,200 4160 95,913
1050.. 20,418 12 „ „ 19,200 1218 97,131
t After deducting goodwill ( £30,000).
Here is a co. in the wool trade showing
£2942 less profit last term than for the
preceding one. The apparent anomaly
was due entirely to the smaller amount
recovered in bad debts (£2965, down
£11,096). Including these recoveries,
gross earnings (£87,588) were £l5lO
stronger. Exes. (£67,170) advanced by
only £4452 —they include provision for
taxation (£16,785, up £22), depreciation
(£1345, up £424) and a 25 p.c. rebate
(amount not stated) of commissions on
wool and fat livestock sold. The £20,418
of profit was 12.7 p.c. on capital as
against 14.6, 15, 8.7, 9.3 and 9.2 p.c. back
to 1945. The div. was kept at 12 p.c.,
of which 4 p.c. is labelled bonus, making
average distribution over the last decade
8.5 p.c. The rebate of commissions, how-
ever, makes the declared rate of div.
worth more to shareholders who are also
clients.
Besides handling over 5 p.c. of the
Queensland wool clip, the co.’s activities
embrace livestock, agency, pastoral-
finance and merchandising business as
well. Las! ferm seasonal conditions were
good to excellent; growers’ chief worries
were excessive rains, bogged sheep, flies
and worms. The co. put 26,593 bales
wool (up 5374 bales) under the hammer,
and the average price for the whole State
was £BB 9s. 4d. per bale as against
£66 18s. for the previous clip. Livestock
sales aren’t broadcast, but there was a
sharp rise in prices, and the demand for
merchandise strengthened.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
were mainly on account of the June,
1950, sales, for which settlement was not
due until after the books closed:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £160,000 £160,000 £lOO,OOO
Liabilities* .. 169,424 598,125 329,320 684,503
Final div. .. 8,000 14,400 14,400 14,400
Properties .. 72,750 71,952 71,360 70,775
Plant, etc. . . 3,715 3,164 3,912 5,278
Advances .. 290,347 729,360 311,176 650.619
Stock .. 1,396 3.308 2,194 6.398
Cash, etc. .. 45,860 56,494 211,001 222,964
* Includes provision for taxation and commission
rebates.
A growth of £339,443 in advances was
accompanied by additions of £355,183 to
outside liabilities, etc., and of £11,963 to
cash, etc. Merchandising stocks in-
creased by £4204. More-or-less liquid
assets exceeded liabilities, including the
final div., by £181,078,
Prospects for the current term have
been brightened by another good season
and the rocketing of wool prices. For the
five months to Nov. 30 wool sold at
auction in Australia realised £228,532,000,
an average of £154 12s. Bd. a bale
(figures never before dreamed of) as
against £97,085,433, average £65 17s. sd.
a bale, for the corresponding portion of
the previous season. Current high prices
are a reflection of shortage of supplies
combined with a strong demand.
According to the International Wool
Study Group there is no immediate pros-
pect of a major decline in prices. It is
estimated that world production of the
staple for 1950-51 should support con-
sumption at about 10 p.c. below the rate
at which it was running for the first half
of 1950. Somewhere, sometime, current
prices must do their work of cutting down
consumption until supply and demand are
matched.
Meanwhile, the stimulus of defence
requirements and inflation remains. U.S.
Government suggestions to meet these
requirements by pre-emption of wool
failed to win approval. To help cushion
inflationary effects, the Commonwealth
Government has passed legislation (now
being challenged before the High Court)
to canalise 20 p.c. of the gross amount re-
ceived by growers into the Treasury in
pre-payment of their income-tax. The
levy is expected to turn in about £lO3
million, of which £2O million is to be
used as a subsidy to damp down the
inevitable rise in selling-prices of locally-
manufactured woollen goods.
In the market the co.’s pound shares,
which sold at 375. at end 1949, recently
fetched 445., giving a return of 5.4 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 325. Id.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1940.. 520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 8,232,357
1941.. 575,052 50 „ „ 350,000 225,052 3,457,409
1942.. 462,326 40 „ „ 280,000 182,326 3,639,785
1943.. 368,826 35 „ „ 245,000 123,826 3,763,561
1944.. 365,455 35 „ „ 245,000 120,455 3,884,016
1945.. 327,410 35 „ „ 245,000 82,410 3,966,426
1946.. 536,898 55 „ „ 885,000 151,898 4,118,324
1947.. 1,209,813130 „ „ 910,000 299,813 4,418,137
1948.. 1.008.667.100 „ „ 700,000 308,667 4,726,804
1949. .1,787,451 150 „ 1,050,000 737,451 5,464,255
1950. .1,578,738 120 „ „ 840,000 738,738 6,202,992
The mine is shaping well, the metallur-
gical staff is putting up an excellent per-
formance, and an extra 2315 tons of
high-grade ore was treated last term.
The contraction (£208,713) in net earn-
ings was due to a drop in the price of
lead. In the export market, where about
77 p.c. of the refined metal is sold,
average realised price was £97 15s. 7d.
(down £24 9s, 9d.) a ton. In the Aus-
tralian market, which absorbs the remain-
ing 23 p.c., the controlled price was


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
\Cfliniar
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Campcrdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mining.
Anglo - Westralian Mining Pty.
Limited,
Big Bell, Western Australia,
Require crew of, or individual, con-
tract miners for development work
at Ragged Hills Lead Mine in the
Marble Bar district. Western Australia.
Contract earnings supplemented by
Lead Bonus.
Good single quarters free of charge
and reasonable mess tariff.
Air fares to employment arranged,
bat chargeable unless six months’
satisfactory service completed.
Work commences early in New Year.
Please apply—
General Manager,
BIG BELL 5 s . W,A.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
n
CANBERRA
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
A Church of England Boarding and Day School
for Boys from Primary to Leaving Certificate.
Rural and Agricultural Courses available. Excep-
tionally good Air Communication with all States;
one hour from Sydney. Excellent Climate.
For Prospectus and Particulars apply to
REV. DAVID GARNSEY, B.A. (Syd.), M.A. (Oxon.).
HEADMASTER
steady at £35 a ton. Slightly
better average figures were
obtained for zinc (concentrates
are sold to Electrolytic Zinc) and
for silver (bulk of which is
marketed in London), and invest-
ments turned in an extra £65,617.
Still, the contraction in revenue
from all sources was £613,238:
Revenue — 1949. 1950.
Mine products.. £5,106,989 £4,427,134
Investments .. 221,937 287.554
£5,327,926 £4,714,688
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 2,453,562 2,431.791
P. and 1. items.. 1,161,913 803,664
£3,615,475 £3,235,455
Net profit .. £1,712,451 £1,479,233
The big saving of £358,249 in
the p. and 1. item was due en-
tirely to smaller provision for
taxes and royalties (£661,400,
down £385,100). During the
year the basic-wage, plus war-
loading, averaged £7 12s. Id., and
the lead bonus £8 14s. 9d., total
£l6 6s. lOd. per employee per
week. For the previous year
corresponding figures were £7
Is. 5d., £ll and £lB Is. sd.
respectively. The £1,479,233
(down £233,218) of profit claimed
was equal to 10s. 7d. per ss.
share (211 p.c.) as against 12s.
2|d. per share (244 p.c.) for the
previous term. The div. was
lowered from 7s. 6d. (150 p.c.)
to 6s. (120 p.c.) per share. Profit
in the introductory table in-
cludes provision for depreciation
(£lOO,OOO, up £25,000) and
allows for a small unexplained
reduction (£496) in reserves.
Average head-value of the
332,205 tons (up 2315 tons) ore
milled was 13.8 p.c. lead, 7.10 z.
silver and 11.0 p.c. zinc. A
higher-grade lead concentrate
was produced, and the record
recoveries—97.4 p.c. lead, 92.1
p.c. silver and 87.8 p.c. zinc—
were a feather in the cap of the
metallurgical staff.
Retreatment of low-grade
slimes (assay 5.7 p.c. lead, 3.10 z.
silver and 3.8 p.c. zinc) at the
Junction North began toward the
close of accounts. The work is
profitable with metal prices as
they are, and there is a further
241,000 tons slimes, containing
a little less lead but more zinc,
in the old De Bavay dump.
Proved ore reserves at last two
balancing dates were:
1949. 1950.
Section— Tons. Tons.
North .. .. 4,620,000 4,517.000
British . . . . 204,000 184,000
Junction . . 247,000 221,000
Block 14 . . 80,000 83.000
Total . . . . 5,151,000 5,005,000
Deep developments at the
northern end of the properties,
however, have disclosed what
virtually amounts to a new mine.
To handle ore economically
from this area a new haulage
shaft (No. 3) and a new ventilat-
ing shaft (concrete-lined and
16ft. in diameter) are being sunk.
The work, hampered by short-
ages of skilled labor and
materials, will call for heavy
capital expenditure over the next
few years—£7so,ooo of last
term’s earnings were earmarked
for new plant and development
—and will be a limiting factor
so far as dividends are con-
cerned.
Chief outside interest is the
testing of the old Zeehan field in
conjunction with B.H. South.
Here shaftsinking and cross-
cutting are in progress to test a
lead-zinc load at shallow depth
Finances are robust:
1949. 1950.
Shares in other cos. £2,395,820 £2,632,923
Stores . . . . 212,3.58 364.498
Concentrates on hand 3,0*33 43,008
Debtors .. .. 677,289 1,014,323
Cash, etc. ~ 1,678,221 1,402.346
Liquid assets .. £4,966,721 £5,457.098
Less liabilities* .. 1,527,254 2,013,467
Liquid surplus .. £3,439,407 £3,443.631
* Includes provision for taxation.
The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus was only
£4164, due to heavy expendi-
ture on plant, etc. (up £656,747)
and freeholds, etc. (up £7826).
Debtors’ balances (up £337,034)
are mostly for concentrates. The
increase in shareholdings (up
£237,112) mainly reflect an addi-
tion of 214,229 new £1 ords. to
the holding (751,921 ords. and
32,414 prefs.) in Metal Manu-
facturers, Ltd., and 100,000 £1
shares taken in Courtauld’s
(Aus.), Ltd.
Most striking development
since the close of accounts has
been the upsurge of base-metal
prices, due primarily to the
swelling volume of Government
stockpiling and commercial de-
mand in both America and
Britain. London prices for lead
and zinc, which have kept in
step with the New York market,
have moved in this way:
Avge.,
1950. Lead. Zinc.
.Tune .. £ 595 17 3 £SI2S 1 4
Sept. .. 127 11 11 142 18 0
Nov. . . 137 10 0 151 0 0
In Australia the fixed price for
lead and zinc was raised to £65
a ton each metal from Sept. 18
last. But much of the overall
gain to the big producers at the
Barrier will be offset by the in-
creased quantity of virgin lead
to be released for local con-
sumption, by the increase in the
basic-wage and in the lead-bonus
(£l3 15s. a week for Dec., 1950,
and Jan., 1951) and the inevit-
able rise in all other costs. How
long the boom in metal prices
will continue is anybody’s
guess at the moment; much de-
pends upon the duration of
current world rearmament pro-
grammes and their tempo.
The market for the f.-p. ss.
shares, which has followed the
market for the metals, advanced
from 765. in June to 83s. in
Nov. and to 88s. last week,
following announcement of
partial mobilisation in U.S. At
88s. the immediate return is 6.8
p.c. on a 120 p.c. div. basis, and
the market values the undertak-
ing at £12,020,000, or £8,576,369
more than the book-value of the
liquid surplus at June 30 last.
Tableland Tin, N.L. (Q.)
The dredge, shut down for
three months during the 1949
term owing to shortage of water,
had an uninterrupted run for the
year to June 30 last, with con-
sequent marked improvement in
yardage and recoveries:
1949. 1950.
Dredged, c.y 2,925,000 4.487,000
Recovered, t. 0., tons 484.85 591.24
Assay, p.c. .. .. 71.92 72.45
Yield, lb. per c.y. . . 0.369 0.294
Costs dropped from 10.67 d. to
8.9 d. a yard, thanks to the
bigger throughput, and the
locally-controlled price of the
metal rose from £555 to £556 a
ton in Jan., 1950.
The profit stepped up by
£22,441, reaching £72,070, or
3.195. a share:
f Div. \
June, Profit. Pref. Ord.
8 p.c.
1946 .. £38,594 £6,400 Nil
24 p.c. 8 p.c.
1947 .. 66,938 19,200 £28.800
8 p.c.
1948 .. 101,976 6,400 28,800
1949 49,629 6,400 28.800
1950 , . 72,070 6,400 28,800
» Includes divs. on deferred shares.
The div. was kept at 1.65. a
share. For the four years to
1947 profits were used mainly
to wipe out the overdraft and
overtake arrears of pref. divs. An
all-round 1.65. a share has been
paid since.
There is only about two years’
profitable work ahead of the
dredge at Return Creek. But
the co. has arranged to buy
50,000,000 c.y., check-bored to
average 11.460 z. to. a yard, at
Smith’s Creek, about six miles
away, from Alluvial Prospect-
ors, Ltd., at an unstated figure.
Here it is expected to recover
80 p.c. of bOre values, and there
is about 121 years’ work for the
dredge, which is to be trans-
ferred. Power and water are to
be reticulated to the new site.
At June 30 last cash, debtors,
etc., totalled £53,155, and stores
£63,410. There was a pref.
capital reserve of £24,000 in
Government bonds, and shares
in and advances to a subsidiary
totalled £6223. Including tax
provision (£12,904), current lia-
bilities amounted to £25,098.
Paid capital is £326,000 in
80.000 £1 8 p.c. cum. participat-
ing prefs., 240,000 £1 ords. and
120.000 Is. deferred shares.
Sellers ask 275. for the prefs.
and 235. for the ords.
Loloma (Fiji)
Loloma’s leases adjoin the
Emperor’s on the Tavua field,
Fiji. Last term the co. milled
more lower-grade ore for less
gold and silver:
Ore Recovery--,
Milled, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1949 .. .. 20,353 29,730 9577
1950 .. .. 22,496 21,381 6537
Head-value of the feed was
21.56dwt. as against 30.07dwt.
for 1949, and recoveries were
92.8 p.c. as against 94.1 p.c.
Faster milling reduced working
costs to 925. 4d. a ton (down ss.
6d.).
The saving in costs, rise in the
price of gold, and reduced allow-
ance for depreciation and de-
velopment (£9762, down £30,162)
and taxation (£38,371, down
£9884), together with better re-
ceipts from investments, enabled
£14,767 more profit to be shown;
Profit— 1949. 1950.
Mining .. . . £94,719 £95,461
Divs.—
Gt. Boulder .. 17,632 27,306
Other .. .. 15,732 20,083
Total profit £128,083 £142,850
The div., which was lifted from
lid. to Is. 2d. a share, took
£48,125, making total distribu-
tions to date £807,813, equal to
19s. 7d. a share. Paid capital is
£93,375 in 825,000 ss. shares, of
which 180,000 are f.-p. and the
balance paid to Is. 6d. each.
Ore reserves at end June were :
Assay, Gold,
Ore reserves— Tons. Dwt. Oz.
Positive . . 48,000 20 48,000
Probable .. 20,000 10 10,000
68,000 17 58.000
Drilling and development have
not indicated any important ex-
tension of known ore-bodies.
Outlying parts of the co.’s leases
have yet to be tested. Unlike the
Emperor, Loloma has no massive
ore-bodies, the bulk of the ton-
nage coming from narrow
dipping lodes a few feet wide and
from flat makes. The opencuts
are relatively unimportant.
Nearly all the ore contains tellu-
ride.
Excluding shares in the Tavua
Power Co. (£17,000) and Solo-
mon Gold Exploration (£3375),
the co. had £941,889 invested in
public co. shares, debentures and
Government securities at June
30. On Oct. 9 the market-value
of these holdings was £1,096,493.
Cash figured at £11,873 and
stores, etc., at £51,903. Includ-
ing provisions for royalty and
taxation, current liabilities
totalled £102,747. On the basis
of market-value of investments,
the more-or-less liquid surplus
was thus £1,057,522. At 275. a
share the market values the
undertaking at £1,113,750, and
there is at least three years’
profitable work ahead of the
mill.
T. & G.
Mutual Life Society
RECORD PROGRESS
At the 74th Annual Meeting held on Thursday,
21st December, at the Society’s Head Office, the
Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:
New Business
“I am pleased to report once again
a splendid volume of New Business
in the Life Department, comprising
119,867 policies, assuring £31,511,936.
45,137 Ordinary policies assuring
£23,193,163 and 74,730 Industrial
policies assuring £8,318,773 were
issued, the total exceeding that of the
previous year by £2,821,422. This
volume of New Business is a record
in the Society’s history and was
derived exclusively from Australia and
New Zealand. In the Accident De-
partment, 14,272 policies, assuring
£4,837,792 were issued and Accident
Benefits assuring £8,030,172 were
added to 28,178 Life Policies.
These results reflect great credit on
every member of our splendid Field
Staff. Other contributing factors were
the large increase in the National
Income and the more plentiful supply
of money in circulation. Additional
Assurances were taken out by many
Policyholders who realized that the
amount of their insurance cover may
not prove adequate for the purpose
for which it was originally designed.
Group Assurance Department
operations were again very satisfac-
tory. This Department devotes itself
to the establishment and servicing of
Superannuation schemes under the
Group system whether by Life or
Endowment Assurance, Pension Fund
or other provision for the benefit of
employees. For the preparation of a
suitable scheme there are no advisers
better qualified than the members of
the Society’s trained staff who have
had wide experience in establishing
many of the largest Group schemes
in Australia and New Zealand.
Employers contemplating a retirement
plan would be wise to apply to the
Society for assistance which would be
freely available without obligation.
The subsidised Group system as de-
veloped remarkably and in many
large organizations it has come to be
regarded by employer and employee
alike as an obligation.
Income and Assurance Funds
Income increased by £890,522 to
£12,406,539. Payments to Policy-
holders amounted to £4,599,059 —
more than £BB,OOO per week. The
Funds increased to £68,939,424, a
record increase of £5,303,759. These
Funds are the accumulated savings
from payments both large and small
under more than 1,500,000 policies.
As the Society is mutual they are
held in trust for Policyholders for the
sole purpose of meeting all claims as
they arise. The rapid growth of
Funds makes an enormous amount
of money available every year for
investment. The economic policy of
the Government is one of rapid ex-
pansion of primary and secondary
Industry, immigration and develop-
ment of the country’s resources. The
investment of the Society’s Funds
plays a very important part and the
co-operative nature of the Society’s
business results in a very real con-
tribution to the National Economy.
Assets
Of the Assets, totalling £71,864,582,
78% is in Government and Local
Body Loans and 12% in Mortgage
and Mortgage Debentures. The
safety of the security is regarded by
your Board as the chief consideration
in selecting investments.
The Society’s Home Purchase Plans
have continued to assist Policyholders
in the acquisition of their own homes
by advances repayable in monthly
instalments with Life Assurance cover.
The Society’s Premises Account
stands at £3,580,276. Policyholders
should be proud of the handsome
buildings owned and occupied by the
Society throughout Australia and New
Zealand. The majority were acquired
in pre-war days when costs were com-
paratively low and the present day
value of these buildings exceeds by a
very large sum the value stated in
the Balance Sheet. This constitutes a
substantial reserve. There is no doubt
that the Society’s financial position,
protected by its large reserves, is one
of very great strength.
The Actuaries’ Report
After setting aside the usual
reserves there remains a record sur-
plus of £1,395,997. As the Society
is conducted on the mutual principle,
and there are no shareholders to par-
ticipate, the whole of the divisible
surplus is enjoyed by the members.
The surplus is sufficient to maintain
the same satisfactory Bonus Scales as
last year in the Ordinary and Indus-
trial Departments.
The Accident Department has had
another successful year, the premium
income having increased to £292,280.
This Department makes full use of
the organization of the Life Depart-
ment-yielding results advantageous
to both. Policyholders are again
reminded of the Accidental Death
Benefits attachable to policies in the
Life Department.
Progress Under Voluntary
System
The results disclosed are completely
satisfactory in all Departments. The
country is enjoying a period of pros-
perity which seems likely to continue
and another successful year may be
confidently anticipated.
Your attention is directed to the
Society’s progress over the last 20
years. In 1930 the Income was
£3,856,035; to-day it is £12,406,539.
In 1930 the Assets amounted to
£16,068,017; to-day they total
£71,864,582. In 1930 Assurances in
Force were £55,410,055; to-day they
amount to £214,339,435. The Society
has done its utmost to encourage Life
Assurance under the voluntary system.
In recent years this worthy cause has
been materially assisted by the
Governments of Australia and New
Zealand by extending the allowance,
as a rebate or deduction, in Assess-
ments for Income Tax in respect of
premiums paid by Taxpayers. Con-
tributions by employers to Group
Assurance Schemes have also been
allowed within prescribed limits. This
is very encouraging and the State loses
nothing by such concessions since the
Life Societies are undoubtedly carry-
ing out a valuable service to the com-
munity, without which the State would
be faced with a very heavy load of
responsibility.
The year’s figures demonstrate the
faith of the people in the voluntary
system on the mutual principle as well
as their confidence in the Society.
Staff
Your Society is one of the most
outstanding and progressive Life
Offices in the British Empire, a proud
position which your Directors are
confident of maintaining. In such an
expanding Institution excellent oppor-
tunities are created for boys and girls
seeking a career with interesting work
and ample scope for advancement.
Full information will be gladly given
to those interested.
Before concluding I would like to
pay a special tribute to the excellent
service rendered by our present Staff
and on behalf of the Board and
myself I wish to express to all mem-
bers of the Field and Indoor Staffs
sincere thanks and appreciation of
their loyalty as well as of their valu-
able services to the Policyholders.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. H. W.
Buckley and D. I. Menzies, K.Q.,
and retiring Auditors, Messrs, J. M.
F. Relph and W. M. Scott were
re-elected.


TteiteL iWu'ei 5
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of tbe Art.
Dewar’s famous “White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
Sftmurus SCOTCH 90tushy
H&iteAs V-Ci\sic&J
awar
m
S °MED/ii
50 Gold
50 Gold
out
Prize Mcbola
Prize Mebalsf
JOHN DEWAR A SONS. CTO
BRUSSELS ANTWERP CAIRO
an#®
“White Label”
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE AGE.
4
John Dewar & Sons
DISTILLERS
'““Hon**, Rajmnrtict. S.WI. pe s r c t siland
Im-.'mvnrar /p/ra > aw. .an* .
... . . ’ 0
fsd
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Business.Rollery.Etc.
An Inflationary New Year
Australia can expect continued
inflation in 1951. The Bulle-
tin’s insistent warnings about
the inflation menace over the
past nine years have unfor-
tunately been all to well justi-
fied. Yet on January 28, 1943,
Lazzarini, M.P., as Minister for
Home Security, is on record as
having said:
Why should we be concerned
about damaging: the banking system
if we beat the Japanese? We can
easily mend the banking system
afterwards. The talk of the financial
system and of inflation is all insidi-
ous propaganda; an attempt to
stampede the Labor people against
the Government.
Nowadays “Labor” politicians
are kicking up a great fuss about
the effects of inflation. “When
are you going to put value back
into the pound?” is the stock
interjection from Opposition
members in the House today. Yet
“Labor” laid the foundations of
the present gross inflation in
Australia when it undermined
the nation’s productivity in a
number of ways during the war
and afterwards, principally be-
cause it assisted Communist
sabotage in industry, but also
through its economic policy.
The chief cause of inflation in
Australia today is lack of pro-
duction. Output of coal and
other essential raw materials is
so low —so unreasonably and
unjustifiably low—that all other
production is held up. Large
bodies of workers in other in-
dustries have not pulled their
weight, either. The 40-hour week
is completely unjustified in Aus-
tralia under present trade-union
conditions.
Superimposed on the economy
of a nation whose overall pro-
ductivity is little higher than in
1939 have been a large public-
works programme, a record in-
flux of migrants and a phe-
nomenal income from exports.
The inflationary squeeze at
present is terrific. Consumer
demand has never been greater,
nor has consumer spending. We
need all the public works
planned for, but carrying them
out will mean still less labor and
materials for housing. It is ob-
vious that unless we can import
large quantities of raw materials
and plant, or unless consumer-
demand is curtailed, we shall
never get the capital assets
essential to an increase in our
all-round productive capacity.
Australia at the present time
needs not only bold leadership ;
it needs tough leadership. All
the “political” benefits showered
on wage-earners over the past
five years are turning sour in
their mouths. The wicked,
wanton holding-up of the anti-
communist legislation by the
“Labor” Senate majority has a
great deal to do with the inability
of the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment to cope with the inflation
problem ; but the Ministry itself
should have no delusions about
what the programme ahead of it
calls for as soon as it has legis-
lative freedom in the Senate.
Australia must have much
more coal even if opposition
from the Miners’ Federation
has to be wrecked in order to
get it. Unless other obsti-
nate unions agree to a
higher rate of production
they should be deprived of all
union privileges. Our exchange-
rate should be adjusted, if neces-
sary, purely from the point of
view of the national welfare.
Any other obvious, necessary
action should be taken regardless
of political b'ogys.
If the Menzies Government
successfully arranges a double-
dissolution it should set out on
an unrelenting campaign for
more production and less infla-
tion during the succeeding three
years. Conditions are now so
bad that drastic medicine, so
long as it is the right kind, will
ultimately be appreciated by an
at-present spoilt and bewildered
people,
1950 in New Zealand
At the end of another year of
insulation and isolation, with the
Reserve Bank still holding ex-
change controls, New Zealand
was bulging with investment
funds when business closed
down for 1950. Brokers had to
move smartly to collect all fees
offering in the final rush, and at
times during the year they were
going at the double.
Twas a boom year, thanks to
wool, and good-ranking stocks
recorded an average rise for
the twelvemonth of 10 p.c.
to 15 p.c. Margins be-
tween Maoriland and Aus-
tralian values were narrowed
down to between 5 p.c. and 1\
p.c., against 10 p.c. to \l\ p.c,
a year ago, as Maorilanders
banked on prospects of revalua-
tion, either to sterling level, or
part way. There’s a deep yearn-
ing in Maoriland for a return to
uniformity in the pounds.
Even at sterling parity infla-
tion is bad enough, but it’s a lot
worse at Australia’s rate. It’s
M.L.’s biggest problem, and
there’s no sign that politicians
are handling it with greater skill
than bankers once showed when
credit-regulation was their daily
task.
Once again financial leaders
have tried to rouse Maorilanders
to this and other dangers, above
all the crushing weight of taxes,
which, they say, is killing incen-
tive. If the present drift went on
the time would come when the
"It’s all very grand, dear, but who's going to do
the housework?"
average man wouldn’t be able
to save a penny—some have
reached this stage now—and
there’d be no more reason to put
their backs into the job. Stuart
Hay, chairman of the Auckland
Stock Exchange, said in mid-
December that if all surplus
income were swallowed up in
tax the number of claimants for
State benefits would reach a
point where even Maoriland’s
bountiful social-security scheme
—now costing taxpayers a
million weekly—could not meet
the outlay.
There’s not much scope for
tax relief in the Welfare State,
but this doesn’t mean costs can
be allowed to go on snow-
balling. Perhaps the taxgatherer
has already overstepped the
bounds, and is to some extent
killing the goose. Maorilanders,
therefore, are counting on a
worth-while cut in taxes next
year as a sign that the “free-
enterprise” Government is
awake to the need, and deter-
mined to reverse the Socialistic
trend which it tried to halt in
the past year. If international
weather holds they might be
lucky; but a sudden blast that
sent defence costs rocketing
would spoil everything.
Ford Sherington Holdings
Formed in October to ac-
quire all the shares in Ford
Sherington, Ltd., this concern is
in the process of becoming a
public co. for Stock Exchange
and taxation purposes. Bernard
Curran, a Sydney broker, has
taken firm 133,328 ss. ords.,
which have been offered at
7s. 6d. each. None was avail-
able to the general public.
Total paid capital is to be
£145,550 in 400,000 ss. ords. and
45,550 8 p.c. £1 cum. prefs. The
business was founded in 1911,
and it manufactures “Globite,”
“Fordite” and other brands of
travel goods in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Townsville,
Adelaide, Perth and Launces-
ton. Subsidiaries manufacture
.in Perth (W.A.) and Port Eliza-
beth (South Africa).
In spite of difficulties in
getting adequate labor forces
and supplies of some raw
materials, earnings (after tax)
have averaged £27,121 over the
past five years, equal, after
allowing for pref. divs., to 23.5
p.c. on ord. capital. Over the
past three years there has been
a steep rise in earnings, which
last year, before taxation, were
£68,194.
Tax-free reserves at Dec. 12,
1950, totalled £57,631. The
memorandum from the co.’s
brokers says that “on the basis
of a 10 p.c. dividend the yield
for par at the price of 7s. 6d.
per share would be 6| p.c.” On
the figures shown the co. should
have no difficulty in maintain-
ing that rate. “Tax-free profits
available for distribution will be
sufficient for a period of
approximately six years if the
whole of the dividend is appro-
priated from that source.”
Net tangible assets are equal
to slightly more than 7s. 6d. a
share. Six of the co.’s fac-
tories, including the large Syd-
ney headquarters, are all owned
by the co., and appear in the
accounts at cost, less deprecia-
tion. Plant has been “substan-
tially depreciated since acquisi-
tion,” and book-values look very
conservative.
The co.’s products are prob-
ably the best-known of their
kind in Australia, and have a
high reputation. Competition is
becoming keener than it was, but
the co. appears to be fully hold-
ing its own. Those people who
Steifi able to get the shares at:
7s. 6d. have done well indeed by
present investment - price
standards.
N.Z. Reserve Bank
Maorilanders interested in
sound money are happier over
credit-control since the new
Government carried out its elec-
tion pledge in July last and freed
the Reserve Bank from its
humiliating and dangerous posi-
tion under dictatorial powers
taken by the Socialists. There
wasn’t much danger that Prime
Minister Holland and Co. would
play fast and loose with credit
when they were struggling to
damp-down inflationary fires and
strengthen New Zealand’s pound,
but there was a weakness in the
law that couldn’t be allowed to
remain there. During the
Socialists’ inflationary spree their
autocrat financier, Walter Nash,
had power to go to the R.B.
whenever he pleased for any sum
he wanted, without knowledge
of Parliament, or even of his
other Ministerial team-mates.
The results were a warning to
Maorilanders that no more
dangerous power could be given
to one man.
Among other changes, repeal
of the Reserve Bank’s 25 p.c.
reserve ratio ranked first. This
wasn’t a move Maorilanders
would have applauded if the
Finance Minister had still held
the reins, but with an indepen-
dent bank board, answerable to
Parliament, it was different.
There shouldn’t be much risk of
liquidating N.Z.’s exchange
funds if Parliament is in a posi-
tion to cry “halt.” As things
stood, before the reforms, more
than £3O million of the London
exchange hoard was unusable,
and virtually in permanent cold-
storage, earning only fractional
interest. They were little more
than a “white elephant.” To say
the least, this wasn’t good busi-
ness.
A new order given to the bank
is “to promote and safeguard a
stable internal price-level and
the highest degree of production,
trade and employment that can
be achieved by monetary
action.” High-sounding enough
to give the Dominion the most
robust currency in the world, if
the Government is able to live
up to its pledge. As a gilt-
edged pound is the key to a
flourishing and prosperous
economy, Maorilanders are now
fairly confident that they are at
last headed in the right direction,
but there’s a good deal of hard
work to be done before they
can reach the goal.


t^mW-
A'
Kr.
n
/
■ .
\\
*
m
/
'.LJ*
r
i «
K 7 j
CM?
Only bnanisland
II \4Y
tan you really get away from the world's
\ hurry and worry. Only on Hayman Island
tan you/ holiday in the of the
(crfmW
THE FINEST HOLIDAY RESORT IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
The Royal Hayman is designed for people who
ne tsoyai nay man is uesigneu jur peuym
~kndw how to enjoy life ...a hotel of distinctive
)/ charm and sophisticated comfort ...superb -
Z^ycuisine ~. constant attentive service
with sports and pastimes and gaiety to fill
every golden minute of your holiday. 1
Come to the Royal Hayman Hotel this year.
Contact ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE nowj Jy
for details and reservations.
"{s' -
Melbourne: MU 6921; Sydney: BW 2921; Adelaide: Cen. 2514;
Brisbane: 82291; Hobart: 7470; Launceston: 1760; Cairns:
Canberra: F 390; Townsville: 1150; Wagga: 2036 and all
recognised travel agencies.
It's easy to gel to the Royal Hayman Hotel
luxurious four-engined flying boats fly front
Brisbane direct to Hayman Island, y
FRENCH
[Corn Curel
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
1 Anthony Horderns’!
i
y
s
%
What every
Ex-Serviceman
should know
about
WAR
GRATUITIES
• War gratuities can be collected only through a bank
account.
• Application forms are now available at all post offices.
• When you fill in your form, you will be required to
state the name and branch of the bank into which
you wish your gratuity to be paid.
• If you have no bank account, any branch of the Bank
of New South Wales will be pleased to open an
account for you for the purpose,
• Such an account not only safeguards your funds
while you are deciding how best to employ them,
and provides you with all the advantages of a cheque
account, but places you in touch with a knowledge-
able Bank Manager whose assistance in financial
matters you may welcome.
• Ex-Servicemen are assured of a warm welcome at the
"Wales", for more than 65% of its male staff
served in World War 11.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOEPOBATBD IN NEW BOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5034d
Ancestors of
an Industry
7*
Lord Rutherford was one Q f t h e g rea t pioneers in
the field of atomic physics. In 1911, he put forward the
revolutionary theory that all atoms have a central core or
nucleus, with a positive electrical charge, which accounts
for virtually the entire weight of the atom. This nucleus
is su/rounded by one or more electrons (charges of negative
electricity) revolving in orbits that are relatively enormous
compared with the nucleus.
Further research by physicists working under Rutherford’s
direction showed that the nuclei of all atoms are built up of
a positively charged proton, or nucleus of the hydrogen
atom, and an electrically neutral particle named the
“neutron,” They discovered how to chip off part of the
nucleus, and so to transmute one element into another. They
also established that this chipping liberated vast amounts of
energy “locked up” in the nucleus. At that time, this did not
constitute a method of obtaining useful energy, because the
amount of energy used to break up the nuclei exceeded the
amount given out. It did, however, indicate the possibility,
which has become fact with the fission of the uranium
nucleus. These British discoveries were fundamental, and all
recent developments in the atomic field would have been
impossible without them. Born at Nelson, New Zealand, in
1871, Ernest Rutherford was elected to the Chair of Physics
at McGill University, Montreal, when only 27, and ten years
later to the corresponding post at Victoria University, Man-
chester. In 1919 he succeeded his old master, Sir J. J.
Thomson, In the Cavendish professorship
of Experimental Physics at Cambridge—
the world’s outstanding post in physical
research. He was created a knight in
1914, and a baron six years before bis
death in 1937.
c
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
' ■ I n.jl gy
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The streets, at present humid
with drizzle and murky with
falling December blackness, are
dressed for Christmas. Neon
and Klieg lights, out-of-doors
Christmas-trees and brightly-lit
shop-fronts have a certain take-
a-look-for-the-last-time finality
that is keenly reflected in the
minds of passers-by. Have we
reached the peak of our limited
post-war standards of comfort
and can we now expect a return,
insidiously gradual but quite un-
avoidable, to the harder times of
a few years ago? Most people
are sure of their answer, whether
it concerns the tacit existence
of a third world war or merely
worsening conditions in every-
day life.
Taking the events of a single
week as a yardstick, the prospect
before us seems bleak as a
wintry sky. That disappointing
child of nationalisation the
Coal Board is in trouble again,
having lost its second (and only
remaining) technical member.
Sir Eric Young, who has re-
signed in somewhat conflicting
circumstances. Officials there
are in plenty, it appears, except
at the coal-face; and trade-
union prejudice, unable to
divorce itself from memories of
unemployment in the ’thirties,
refuses to admit foreign workers.
The Electricity Board has the
distinction of being able to show
a substantial profit (£7,000,000)
on the year’s working, but that
is qualified and beset with warn-
ings. Demand so exceeds supply
that, “taking the most favorable
view,” we must expect a con-
tinuance of power-cuts for at
least four years. Independent
experts take the somewhat re-
signed view that more coal from
the pits and a less-embarrassed
grid cannot fairly be expected:
to keep ourselves warm we must
devise other methods of heating
than the traditional coal fire,
which is wasteful to the con-
sumer, and the electric radiator,
which is wasteful to the power-
station. In other words, we
must stay as we are.
Nor is the housewife spared
some knitting of her brows over
such essential commodities as
blankets and hardware. Simul-
taneously with their apparent
disappearance from the shop-
counters, she has learned that
the price of Merino blankets is
shortly to be increased by 50
per cent.; and, while a house-
hold may get along without a
refrigerator, a washing-machine
or new fire-irons, it’s going to be
hard to manage without pots
and pans.
There’s a feeling that Parlia-
ment has qualified for another
adjective frivolous. During
the Prime Minister’s absence
abroad on urgent business, it was
reduced to debating whether it
should be legal, and moral, for
Londoners and their visitors to
watch Punch and Judy shows in
Battersea Park on a Sunday
afternoon. Certainly, legislation
is out of step with practice and
needs clarification. While there
may be much to be said for
theatres and dance-halls, for
instance, being closed to the
public on Sundays, it is absurd
that, by the contrivance of an
easy formality and the payment
of a shilling or two, anyone who
chooses can circumvent the law
as a “private” member of a
club. The objection to the
efforts of Mr. Herbert Morrison
(now courtesy-titled “Lord
Festival”) is that he sought to
secure protection against that
troublesome sneak the common
informer only for a Govern-
ment-sponsored venture. Any-
how, does it matter?
Migrant Thoughts
This Airmail, quite properly,
is concerned only with the not-
inconsiderable migration in re-
verse that causes Australians to
seek in Britain opportunities
which they may feel are inade-
quate in their own country. On
the grounds that, among friends,
a certain laxity in expression
may be allowed at Christmas,
if at no other time, this rule is
here and now broken. What of
British migrants? Do they settle
down? And are they happy?
The official returns indicate
that they stay, but give no indi-
cation of individual reactions.
Assuming an impartiality as
grave as a 8.8. C. announcer be-
fore a political broadcast, I shall
recount some observations of a
friend who burned his boats
comparatively late in life and
settled in . (There I must,
like the inscrutable Piddingtons,
“leave you to judge.”)
The composite first impres-
sions of my friend, (including
his family) cover a whole page of
small writing. In essence, he
likes; The climate, friendliness
and trustfulness of the people,
beauty of the girls, patience of
the shopkeepers, sensible driv-
ing rules, fruit, smartness of
women’s clothing and compul-
sory laundries. The list of his
dislikes is about three times as
long as that of his likes. The
more prominent ones are: The
abominable sanitation (he is
not in a sewered area), im-
patient and reckless motorists,
tough beef and mutton, badness
of men’s tailoring, poor quality
of radio programmes (the com-
mercial ones must be, he says,
“the worst in the world”), uni-
versal gambling instinct, exces-
sive love of sport, some furni-
ture, insects, casual delivery of
newspapers, excessive drunken-
ness (“owing, no doubt, to
wowsers and the ridiculous
licensing laws”) and such diverse
shortcomings as the lack of
French-polishing, the poor de-
sign of sailing-boats and the
difficulty, single-handed, of clos-
ing windows.
But, he goes on to say: “The
curious thing is that I can state
in very definite language the
things that I do not like, but
that I find it very difficult to
describe what I do like; there
is a general *je ne sais quo'i
about the whole country that is
simply delightful, and we all
have no wish whatever to go
back to England,”
Here impartiality ends. My
friend asks me personally to
stress what he considers to be a
fallacy. “There seems to be,”
he states, “a general impression
in many quarters that Aussies
are very different from
Britishers. This is utterly ridicu-
lous as regards . The Aussies
here are very British indeed, with
all our British good points and
bad, and I fail to see any differ-
ence between the two races. If
the last remarks apply equally
elsewhere I think you would do
a good service in hammering the
point home.”
I do so gladly, with the proud
backing of 50,000,000 souls: A
happy New Year to you all.


Fly the shortest way
TO
FESTIVAL
by QEA and BOAC in 4 days
K 49
Vi
a
—the all-Constellation route
—through the colourful Orient
—with three night stops
Plan now to fly to the Festival of Britain, 1951. Everywhere
you’ll be “welcome to Britain” ... to its Exhibitions and
Anniversaries . . . IVlusical and Dramatic . . .
Agricultural Shows and International Sporting Events.
Less time by air, means more to spend there. And the
shortest route, with three restful night stops is the
“Kangaroo” service .. . you fly all-the-w T ay by luxurious
air-conditioned Constellations, world’s finest international
aircraft.
En route, see Singapore, colourful, exotic Crossroads of the
East, and tour magnificent “continental” Rome, as the guest
of Q.E.A.-8.0.A.C. Fly “express” in 4 days or stopover at
these, or other airports—at no extra fare.
Modern hotel accommodation and transport included at all
night stops. Superlative service and excellent food —aloft
and aground.
No currency problems. No tips—no extras to pay.
Five services weekly from Sydney. Regular route
via Calcutta —alternative service via Colombo and
Bombay. Consult your travel agent.
Q£ A and BOAC
QAN TAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
ARE EASY . . .
with the
4-OVEN AGA COOKER
Yes, it’s cleaner . . . cooler . . . easier with an AGA! Here is
a Cooker that is almost automatic no gadgets to watch, no
switches to turn, no matches to strike. Twenty-four hours a
day, its 3 hot-plates and 4 ovens are ready for instant service,
for the AGA burns continuously . . . yet its guaranteed
maximum fuel consumption cannot exceed 3i tons of coke per
year! Each of its 4 ovens automatically maintains an exact
temperature (1) a roasting oven for joints (2) a baking oven
for bread and cakes (3) a
simmering oven for soups, cas-
seroles, porridge, etcetera (4) a
warming oven for keeping food
and plates hot. The vitreous
cream enamel and chrome finish
is easy to keep sparkling.
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE ’AGA’ OR WRITE FOR
FULL PARTICULARS TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 KING ST„ SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE; CNR-
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS: A. £
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD..
— kzjm*
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
British-built, the AGA is guaran-
teed for 10 years against faulty
materials and workmanship.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“ ‘Where do umpires go in the
winter-time? ’ ex-Test-player-cricket-
writer Arthur Mailey asked last
week.” — Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.’’
No doubt where cricketers
tell them to go in the summer-
time.
*F *F
“Origin of the hat-trick is still
obscure.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.’’
It probably originated with
some old bowler.
*F *F *F
“Cycling leads to happy marriages.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Until the young couple get off
their bikes.
•F *F *F
“Big speedboat-drive to aid plastic
centre.”
—Heading in suburban paper.
With models at the wheel, no
doubt.
*F *F *F
“A barber was arguing about
whether shearers or barbers are doing
the better these days.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
In either case the victim is
being well and truly fleeced.
“It’s no good looking at your reflec-
tion in the mirror and wishing.”
— Women’s paper.
Unless, of course, you’ve seen
something you like.
•F *F
“Most middle-aged women go
through a spring-chicken stage.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.
Particularly those who still
have to scratch for themselves.
•j. «F •i'
“For sale, lawnmower standard-
lamp, fair order.” — Suburban paper.
The type that simply burns up
the grass.
►J* »J*
“Why does the police traffic-squad
concentrate only on the speed-hog?
—Melbourne “Argus. ’
Because the latter need some-
one to curb them.
“We are opposed to happiness; the
happiest creatures in the world are
pigs lying in a wallow.”
—Magazine “American Mercury.
Benediction.
Christmas comes but once a
year —
Presents, crackers, tinsel, beer
And bells and holly. Carols,
toys
To wind (and mend), excitement,
noise.
Parties, annual remeetings,
Hand-shakes, back-slaps, sea-
son’s greetings.
Poultry, pudding, cake and
belching.
La-di-da and pious welshing.
Dead-marines and beggared
wad
Betimes —but only once, thank
God!
P.O.M.C.
Cure for Discontent.
Philosophers for years have
vied,
And moralists have vainly tried
To give a definition which
Would cover happiness; not
only
For humble folk and hermits
lonely.
But also for the idle rich.
And if, as some would have us
think,
It means not luxuries and mink,
Or youthful joy and ecstasy.
But rather what is represented
By hogs that lie about contented,
Let’s practise this philosophy.
And yet, before we choose to
shirk
Our human tasks and all the
work
That starts with schooldays and
exams,
Let’s bear in mind that pigs
enacting
A role in life so unexacting
Will one day be so many hams.
D.H.E.
The Bearded Man.
Unfortunately a lull had come
over our life in Baker-street;
Holmes had taken up his violin
again. Anyone who has heard
him absently drawing his bow
across the strings will under-
stand my sudden interruption of
his reverie.
“I say. Holmes, in your copy
of The Bulletin for December
six there is a picture of you
hunting, with a bloodhound, for
the Australian basic - wage
earner. You have not told me
the outcome of that case.”
The violin stopped. Holmes
came in from the other room
and sat in the armchair and
filled his pipe. I recall that he
was seated thus when the two
famed leaders of that nation
“Going far , mate ?”
across the sea had entered our
room and placed the case before
him.
They were both portly, well-
preserved, and the only positive
difference between them was
that one had a wisp of hay pro-
truding somewhat blatantly from
his pocket. I remember that this
latter showed marked interest in
Holmes’s collection of gold and
silver coins, and that the other
gentleman was also moved by their
beauty ; at least, he cried “Art!”
with emphasis as his colleague
and he approached the cabinet.
Holmes blew a cloud of
smoke towards the ceiling.
“Theirs was a singular prob-
lem, Watson. You will recall
that I went back with them to
their country. I had to find this
earner of the basic-wage among
a mere eight million people.
You will be surprised, then,
when I tell you that I almost
failed, Watson.”
“Impossible! ”
“Exactly. Landing in their
country, I assumed the dress of
the working - class, reasoning
that I would find my quarry
there. Hand me that folio
labled ‘Aus.’ Thank you. You
will observe among these ex-
hibits, Watson, this curious
mortar-encrusted teaspoon. It
is my only proof that in my
chequered career I have worked
for a period as a cement-carrier
for a firm of Australian brick-
layers.”
Holmes scattered the objects
of folio “Aus.” and drew from
them a slip of paper. He
studied this as he continued:
“I realised at the end of a
week as I carried my wages
home in a hod that the man I
sought was not a bricklayer. I
looked elsewhere, and once as I
wandered I thought I’d found
him. He was a down-at-heel,
unkempt individual, mourn-
fully surveying his bony frame
in a shop window.
“He gave a hollow laugh when
I asked him, and on this piece
of paper, Watson, I copied what
he said:
“ ‘Basic-wage I
Surely, sir, you’re being funny:
Once a week I bank my money
At The Oaks wherein a honey
Name of Phoebe gin supplies.
She will tell you on inquiry
There among her liquors fiery,
That from classic starving eyrie
Even I soar richer skies.’
“As this man was a poet,
Watson, I must admit that I felt
defeated. Who could earn less
money —earn this confounded
basic-wage?”
“Did it occur to you to try
the wharves, Holmes? Surely in
the area of the waterfront you
would find your man.”
It was one of the few times
that I have seen my friend laugh
outright.
“Yes, Watson, I tried the
waterfront. There were aspects
of that section of my investiga-
tions that reminded me of ‘The
Study in Scarlet.’ Would you
believe that I was almost re-
sponsible for a shipping tie-up
in four ports by merely mention-
ing the words ‘basic-wage’ in
conversation during a morning-
tea break? I looked elsewhere,
and eventually, Watson, I
thought I had my man.
“While he worked for a wage
admittedly a little above the
basic, he was the nearest to it I
encountered. When I found him
he carried a broom in his hand
and was sweeping an office in a
great university. I made a small
error in thinking, for a while,
that he was a cleaner —he proved
to be the dean of the faculty.
“1 told him why and how 1
had found him, and that he was
closest to my objective. He
nodded a little sadly in agree-
ment. 1 was leaving to make
my report to the leaders of the
country when he stayed me.
“‘Mr Holmes,’ he said, ‘I
think you might do better than
just me. The man you really
want is supposed to be about at
this time of the year, but for the
life of me I don’t know how
you are going to catch him.
“ ‘His wages have always
been bad—in fact, they seem to
get a little bit worse every year.
If the total returns for anyone’s
efforts could be classed as basic,
his could. I hear that he will
shortly close down and let his
son try his hand at the business.
I hope the young fellow can
make a better show of things.’
“When I asked the learned
gentleman, Watson, if this man
he spoke of did, by any chance,
wear a long white beard and
carry a scythe across his shoul-
der, and possibly owned to an
hourglass, he nodded. So I left
him, Watson, and made my re-
port.”
“Remarkable, Holmes.”
“Precisely. Now, where have
you hidden my fiddle?”
COL M. WATSON.
Stare-way to Fame.
“The crystal-ball industry has had
the worst years on record.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph
Prophets, since Mother Shi plan’s
day.
Have tried with varying success
To trace the course of things
that lay
Concealed within the coming
years ;
And legion are the fools who’ve
paid
The price required by so-called
seers
To open through astrology,
And reading palms or tea-cup
leaves,
The doorway to futurity.
But these, and mugs who daily
stare
Intently at a crystal-ball.
Are now beginning to despair;
For who today will come across
With cash for tales of things to
come
When prophets all are at a loss ?
BERT.


Established 18GS
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOM 4
O'SUIWVIV
rixmx ~
Cas
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Fergnson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“JAXUI” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
M JACKBUI”, BRISBANE
5 •
PtgMhf m
Scotland
There’s
n 0 friend
like an old
friend /
6fbv&d
Scots (ilhisky
t**Mu«Qwf»ovM&cfci»oy)(tYft»tt
The
nome is_
(OOiUum’s
The whiskij is_
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Song of Norway."
“I understand,” said Myrtle
to the Turtle, “that you have
been playgoing again.”
“Aye,” said the Turtle. “That
I have. It’s a disease that has
afflicted me for 50 years, and I
shall probably die of it.”
“And I also understand that
you have just seen ‘Song of
Norway,’ at Sydney Royal.
What did you think of it?”
“A very comfortable theatre
indeed.”
“No. The play.”
“I was very interested to note
from my programme that the
Firm has several interesting pro-
grammes booked for the near
future.”
“But ‘Song of ”
“At the Empire, for instance,
the current Gilsullivan season
will shortly finish its long and
highly successful run, and all
those delightful people—lvan
Menzies, John Fullard, Richard
Walker, Leslie Rands, Bernard
Manning, Helen Roberts, Mar-
jorie Eyre, Evelyn Gardiner and
the rest of them —will i.iove out
to make room for a return
season of ‘Oklahoma.’ ”
“Isn’t ‘Song of Norway’ based
on the life story of Edvard
Grieg?”
“ ‘Oklahoma,’ you will re-
member, is an excellent musical,
liberally furnished with a num-
ber of light catchy tunes and
containing some impressive
ballet sequences.”
“Isn’t there a ballet in ‘Song
of ”
“Then, after ‘Oklahoma,’ the
Piddingtons are coming to the
Empire.”
“And isn’t all the music
adapted from Grieg?”
“Now, the Piddingtons are a
very interesting couple, par-
ticularly to a turtle. Young Pid-
dington was taken in Singapore
and spent four years in the
hands of the Japs. During that
time he experimented with tele-
pathy, for fun at first and then
with increasing seriousness.
After the war he ‘abandoned ac-
countancy, which he found dull,
and married Lesley Pope, a Syd-
ney actress whom he found en-
chanting.’ The pair of them
went on with telepathy and had
an extraordinarily successful
season in Australia, and then
had an even more spectacular
run in England, Now they are
returning, and I am looking for-
ward to their programme with
the keenest anticipation.”
“That’s all very well, but
what about?”
“And after the Piddingtons
there will be my old friends the
Borovansky Ballet, whom I re-
member with the greatest affec-
tion and admiration, although I
haven’t seen them for ages. You
should have seen their ‘Facade,’
that delightful caricature of
ballet the Ballet Rambert
couldn’t approach them in that
one. Their ‘Giselle’ was en-
chanting and their ‘Coppelia’
charming. And Edna Busse and
Laurel Martyn and Martin
Rubinstein —and the inimitable
“Willy says the alarm Won't Work, Dad."
Boro, himself in ‘Beau Danube,’
‘Facade’ and ‘Coppelia.’ Yes,
I certainly have them on my
list.”
“That’s all very well, but it’s
all a long time ago. I want to
see the Borovanskys, too. But
at the moment I would like to
know what you”
“I was also very pleased to
note that the Firm is bringing
out the band of the Black Watch
Royal Highland Regiment. I
am very fond of bands, especially
pipe-bands. There is something
about that kind of music that
appeals to me.”
“Well, if you like music you
should”
“And I am also slightly in-
terested to note that a comedy
called ‘The Worm’s Eye View'
is showing at the Firm’s Comedy
Theatre in Melbourne and will
doubtless come to Sydney in
due course. I don’t know what
it’s about, but, after all, a
worm’s view must be the
same as a turtle’s outlook,”
“Look! ‘Song of Norway’!
‘Song of Norway’! That’s what
I’m asking you about.”
“I have no wish to speak
about ‘Song of Norway,’ but
since you’re twisting my flipper,
I will say this much. I go to a
lot of shows; the good ones
linger, the others are forgotten
by morning. And, anyway, not
knowing the work and tears and
tempers and hopes and risks that
go into a show, who are we to
criticise? ‘Song of Norway’ may
be an ineffably dull musical
allegedly based on the life of
Edvard Grieg; it may also have
a story of the most saccharine
Hollywood brand; its music
(a whole fjord of it) may rest
rather heavily in its bed—it may
be all of that, but I, for one,
will not say a word against it.
Rather, I will remember that in
one or two moments of ballet
Matt Mattox and Strelsa Heckel-
man achieve the simple realism
of beauty for its own sake, and
that there is a modicum of
poor-but ’’onest humor provided
by Tom Hudson, Bernard Ansell
and R. bert Bernard. May I be
made into soup if I say another
word except to thank the cast
and the management for their
effoft to entertain me and to
state that I shall be waiting on
the doorstep for the Royal’s next
offering.”
“And when will that be?”
“Soon, I fear. Soon.”
"The Tourist Trade."
Sydney Tiv.’s current offering,
“The Tourist Trade,” is pretty
lively fare all the way, with a
couple of particularly good items
in the middle of it. The main-
stay of the evening is Guus
Brox, a diminutive, curly-,
headed comedian with a shyly
insinuating manner and eyes
that slant and roll with such
apparent abandon that they
seem, almost, to be loose in their
sockets. Brox’s comedy is, in
the main, ingratiating and as
simple as it is funny, which is
as it should be, and is liberally
interspersed with so many tricks
and turns, including dancing,
acrobatics and performances on
the piano, clarinet, trumpet,
xylophone, concertina, piano-
accordion and mouth-organ that
one begins to wonder whether
there is a limit to his repertoire.
The other interesting item on
the bill is provided by Max and
Harry Nesbitt, a couple of
rather portly song merchants. It
is not what they sing nor, pre-
cisely, their manner of singing
it, that evokes admiration so
much as the sweating enthusiasm
with which they work to put
their act across. One of the
more interesting things to watch
in vaudeville is the manner and
methods of performers in “put-
ting themselves across” —or
“getting the audience with them,”
if you like. There are some par-
ticularly fortunate Mo and
George Wallace, for instance—
who generally have their audi-
ence with them from the moment
they walk on, and there are
others, like Guus Brox, who
only need a moment or so to
accomplish the same thing. On
the other side there are those
who have to persuade, beat and
almost cudgel an audience be-
fore they can get it their way-
get it across the line from blank
reception to cheerful participa-
tion. Once over the line, of
course, the rest is easy, or, at
least, easier—like coasting down-
hill after the climb —but often
the persuading, etc., is almost as
entertaining as the ride after-
wards.
In that respect the brothers
Nesbitt earned their Christmas
turkey by winning a most ardu-
ous contest with what was, at
first, an almost completely un-
receptive audience. The pair of
them have a year or two on
most song-dispensers, they are
a bit short of most of the fancy
trappings that go with the same
birds, and most of their wares
are very familiar. But they
cavorted and sang and sweated,
and, clap by clap almost, dragged
applause from the audience until,
after one had thought many
times that they would flop, they
finally brought the house around
to singing with them, went off to
a storm of commendation and
were brought back a couple of
times. Altogether an admirable
demonstration of several quali-
ties that go to make good per-
formers.
Along with Brox and the Nes-
bitts in the cause of entertain-
ment are Marquis and Family,
the “family” consisting of four
highly-trained simians, the oldest
of which, when he can be torn
away from peering through a
hole into the dressing-rooms,
rides sundry velocipedes with
uncanny proficiency and winds
up his act by riding around the
stage on a motor-bike with,
apparently, more traffic sense and
control that many human pro-
pellants of similar vehicles.
When he isn’t using his breath
to compere the show in lightly
agreeable fashion, Wally Boag
uses it to inflate odd-shaped bal-
loons which he twists and
manipulates into even odder-
shaped imitations of various
animals; juggler Rob Murray
does some dexterous things with
Indian clubs, golf-sticks and
balls ; Los Briellos spend more
time 20ft. above the stage than
they do on it; and Detroy capers
about on a tightrope with more
comedy and confidence than a
galah on a telegraph-wire.
Babs MacKinnon, “Aus-
tralia’s newest star,” gives out
with a few ditties as though her
life depended on it —if it had
the audience would certainly
have spared it —while the Tiv.
ballet, chorus, lovelies, etc.
show all they are expected to
show. Two ballets, “Willow
Pattern” and “The Voodoo
Story,” seem to show more
imagination than art, but, with
any Tiv. ballet, imagination is a
delightful pastime.
Honorable Mention.
From London: Benn Levy’s
serious comedy, “Return to
Tyassi,” has been reduced to the
straits of poor relation, merely
keeping the newly-decorated
Duke of York’s theatre warm
until Boxing Day, when
Anouilh’s “Point of Departure’*
is to move in. At least, the play
has good points enough to de-
serve a kindly obituary notice.
It has a sound plot, a taut
construction, major and minor
conflicts struggling and strain-
ing, and a good deal of sub-
stance to say. The theme is uni-
versal: can a woman do justice
to herself and her second
husband if she still loves her
first? Perhaps the contrasts are
too overdrawn for comprehen-
sion. There’s a yawning gap
between the tasteful elegance of
Regent’s Park (in Anthony
Holland’s decor, that is) and
Tyassi, the unseen outback of
Anatolia, where Martha (Con-
stance Cummings) had to pig it
with her archaeologist first
choice. There’s no affinity be-
tween the second husband
(Alexander Knox), a permanent
secretary of impeccable style in
speech and dress, and the
brother (John Justin) of her
lately-deceased first husband, a
sharp caricature in corduroy
bags of a rude and acid pedant.
That he should entice her away
while mildly drunk and chill to-
wards her when sober is credible
enough ; but that she should find
sublimation in him at any time
is beyond credence. Add a
fixated mother, an emotionally-
disturbed daughter with ten-
dencies to perversion, complica-
tions arising from her husband’s
different religious beliefs, and
Martha is all prepared for the
suicide which she contemplates
but can’t bring herself to carry
out. By that time nobody cares
very much.
Why? Perhaps because the
author has laid on his serious-
ness too thickly and has ham-
strung his production by tedi-
ously-slow pace. Present-day
audiences aren’t used to de-
liberation. Professional pro-
ducers see to it that they’re kept
hilarious by comic and usually
irrelevant “business.” Also,
wideawake authors have learned
that it pays, when writing prob-
lem plays, to shock the audience
first and let the problem take
care of itself.
“Return to Tyassi,” notwith-
standing some positive qualities,
fulfils neither of these condi-
tions. Not tough enough to live
long, it is nonetheless a pity
that the play is doomed to die
so prematurely. So that, with
an Australian author and two
Canadians in the leading roles,
it cannot unfortunately be
recorded as a triumph for the
Empire.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Measured not by costly gifts but by
simple giving and receiving of greeting-
cards, this was a happy Christmas. For
their card Lord Mayor Disney and his
wife chose a colored reproduction of the
1956 Olympiad setting, which was staged
earlier this year at the Lord Mayor’s
Ball. Only a monogram broke the plain-
ness of the simple but effective card from
“Sheila and Tom Hollway.” “Autumn,
Lane Cove River,” by Lloyd Rees, high-
lighted the card from the L.
nans and daughter Bunty. A water-
color of Sydney Harbor, minus the
Bridge, was the choice of the Alfred
Fowlers, and Daryl Lindsay’s beautiful
ballet scene from “Les Sylphides”
brought seasonal greetings from the
Royden Honeymans—but one would
need the whole issue to acknowledge
them all. Suffice it to say that they fill
one’s room with friendliness and color.
Lady Mayoress Disney was guest-of-
honor at an unusual luncheon in the
banquet-room at Menzies’ hotel. She
had 22 hostesses, who included Lady
Wales, Mrs. Alec Hay, the daughter-in-
law of the guest-of-honor, and social
writers of this city. It was the first time
women scribes have entertained a Lady
Mayoress, and was a tribute to this one’s
charm and personality. During her term
of office the Lady Mayoress has become
the friend of every woman writer, and
this Letter pays its personal tribute for
her friendship and co-operation.
As a “thank-you” for the many parties
she received before going overseas earlier
in the year, Mrs. A. A. Lord gave a
cheery afternoon-tea party at Menzies’
hotel. Fler pretty frock was a Jacqmar
silk in silver-grey tonings and patterned
with green, white and black leaves. With
it was worn a large black ballibuntal
straw hat, with a pleated brim and
trimmed with palest pink lily-of-the-
valley. Among her guests were Lady
Mayoress Disney, most attractive in an
olive-green jacket-suit and small match-
ing feather-trimmed cap, Lady Knox,
Lady Dunstan and Lady Clapp, the latter
smart in a biege suit and hat. Mrs. John
Kaufman wore navy blue, softened with
a long roll collar of white organdie and
a small navy hat finished with veiling
Mrs. E. F. Billson also wore navy blue,
and Mrs. J. Bowen Pain’s choice was a
moss-green frock and wide-brimmed
matching hat. Other guests included
Mrs. Howard Buchanan, Mrs. J. J. Daly
and her daughter Marie, and Mrs. F.
Long. To her guests Mrs. Lord gave
first-hand news of Lord and Lady Dugan,
Lord and Lady Huntingfieid and Lady
Somers, with whom she stayed while in
England. Lady Somers received the
C.B.E. recently for her work with the
Girl Guide movement, and hopes to visit
Australia in the near future.
One of the brightest parties was
the luncheon Mrs. Gilbert Walsh
gave to 20 friends. She wore a
donkey-brown faille duster over her
black frock, and topped it with
a wide-brimmed black hat. Among the
guests were Mrs. Norman Lynch, who
set off her smart black frock and hat
with a blue mink stole, Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell in a white silk frock gaily pat-
terned in red and contrasted with a black
snood, Mrs. Dallas Robertson, who had
ocelot fur edging the lapels of her beech-
brown suit worn with a matching cloche.
Navy and white spotted silk fashioned
the frock worn by Mrs. E. Pirani and
matched with a navy-and-white trimmed
hat, Mrs. C. Russell, who leaves soon for
overseas, chose a frock of black georgette
and a black-and-white tricorne hat, and
Mrs. Ken Luke chose navy-blue and
combined navy-blue and lime-green in
her smart hat. Included were Mesdames
Eric Cottrell and Norman Spry.
All over the world at this time of year
Elizabeth Arden entertains her “family,”
as she calls the young women who sell
her beauty preparations, at a dinner-
party. This year the Melbourne party
was hostessed by Dorothy Ganley, wear-
ing a midnight-blue silk-jersey frock
topped with a gold-trimmed cap. Among
members of the “family” was Mrs. M.
Matthews, whose black dinner frock was
slimly cut, had shoestring straps and a
tiny matching jacket. Mrs. W. Thirsk’s
pretty frock of brown tulle was coin-
spotted in white. Elise Swaby (from
London) chose powder-blue crepe for her
frock and wore a wide-brimmed black-
straw hat. Violet Street wore a smart
black ensemble, and Mamie Hall trimmed
her hat with pink flowers and wore it
with a black frock. Also in black was
Dorothy Bainbridge, but Pat Kearney
chose waterlily-green moire taffeta.
Adele Geard’s black frock was appliqudd
with pink flowers. Black satin was the
choice of Mrs. A. M. Martin.
At the Hotel Windsor buffet luncheon
which followed the quiet wedding of
Marguerite Anne, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. James Mclntyre, of St. Kilda-
road, and Peter Stuart, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Arnold Isaacson, of Sassafras,
Brigadier Sir George Knox proposed the
health of the bride and ’groom and
praised the courage and determination of
Anne in recovering sufficiently from
polio, which she contracted just after
announcing her engagement three years
ago, to marry the man of her choice. He
praised also the courage of Peter, who,
as a Pathfinder pilot, is one of the most
decorated airmen in this country, with
the D.F.C., A.F.C. and D.F.M. Anne
wore an afternoon frock of cinnamon-
toned French lace with head-hugging hat
of the same lovely lace, and she pinned
a spray of orange-blossom in the bodice.
She was unattended, but Peter had John
Knox as best man. Ciel blue self-pat-
terned satin brocade fashioned the frock
worn by Mrs. Mclntyre with a small
matching hat. The ’groom’s mother
chose a smart jacket-suit of natural tus-
sore and a wide-brimmed natural-straw
hat. Among the 180 guests were Minister
for Air White and Mrs. White. She
chose a black pink-patterned frock and
black hat. Trevor Oldham was accom-
panied by his wife, who wore a donkey-
brown tailored frock and matching
cloche with side-drooping feathers. Im-
migration Minister Harold Holt and Mrs.
Holt were there, she attractive in a black-
and-white check suit and small white
grosgrain pill-box hat matched by a
white umbrella.
Years ago, whenever J. C. Williamson’s
did a play with a Chinese amah, an
Indian ayah or any similar role, Jessica
Page would be cast for the role. She
was seen duskily in “The Garden of
Allah,” orientally in “East of Suez,” and
she regards the part of Emilia in Oscar
Asche’s production of “Othello” as one
of her proudest achievements. She also
made a hit in Somerset Maugham’s
“Rain.” She is now playing the dour
North of England landlady in “Worm’s
Eye View” at the Comedy. Photo by
Broothorn.
Youngsters look forward to the Christ-
mas-party genial Walter Ebstein gives at
Claridge’s, his popular nightclub. They
are never disappointed, for Walter gives
them a “super” time, with Father Christ-
mas distributing largesse and all the trim-
mings of balloons, bon-bons, performing
cockatoos and a juggler. The singing of
Christmas carols by the children is a
feature, the girls in party-frocks and the
boys sleeked up. Liz Summons was at
the party with her three sons, Andrew,
David and Nicholas, and husband Dr.
John Summons. Mrs. Norman Lynch
took small daughter Leveda. Col. and
Mrs. Frank Gillespie (he is military
attache for the U.S.A.) had as good a
time as their young sons Frank and
Michael. Mrs. lan Bayles danced with
her son Alistair while her husband danced
with small daughter Aprilla. Mrs.
Richard Faulkner, well-known manne-
quin, danced with her small son.
Henry Danton, English dancer here as
guest artist for the Festival; Ballet season
arranged by the National Theatre, was
welcomed by Sir Robert Knox, president,
at a late-afternoon party in the foyer of
the theatre in Eastern Hill. Lady Knox,
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Lindsay and Ger-
trude Johnson, director of the National
Theatre, were among the guests. Ballet
personalities were there eagerly discussing
next year’s programme. They included
Joyce Graeme, director of the National
Ballet, Margaret Scott, Lynne Golding,
Alison Lee, Rex Reid and Laurel Mar-
tyn, director of the Ballet Guild.
From Sydney
Even with holidays behind and holi-
days ahead, these three days between
Christmas and New Year seem like a
no-man’s-land to the Sydneyites left be-
hind by those who have fled to the seaside
and the country. Still, a Happy New
Year to all. It’s not far off now.
Winner of the Sydney de Vries
Memorial Scholarship Judith Staff is a
contralto whose voice range and quality,
at 17, augur well for her future. Judith
has been studying with Roland Foster
for the past two years, and the scholar-
ship will enable her to continue for
another year. Until she was 15 it was
thought that she would become a colora-
tura soprano, but her voice changed, and
the rich, deep notes that are so prized by
singers began to develop. Judith lives at
Cronulla, and is studying French, Ger-
man and Italian as well as singing. A
knowledge of languages is necessary for
winners of this scholarship, which was
established by Miss Margaret Gillespie
in memory of the famous teacher Sydney
de Vries. Miss Gillespie has also
endowed scholarships in his memory at
the Guildhall, London, and at his old
school, Repton, where the Archbishop
of Canterbury was formerly headmaster,
and where “Goodbye, Mr. Chips” was
made. Photo by Sherlock.
The reunion Christmas-party of the
Lunch-hour Music Club welcomed Judith
Staff as guest-of-honor, when she sang
“Softly Awakes My Heart” and Rossi’s
“O Rendimi.” Assisting artists were Lillian
Beaman and Archie Hamilton, with
accompanist Gwynn Aldis. Tributes
were paid to the hostess, Miss Gillespie,
for her wonderful generosity and en-
couragement to music in Sydney. Mr.
Foster stressed the importance of train-
ing in voice-production, likening the voice
to a violin or any other musical instru-
ment. It is just as necessary to learn to
use the voice as it is to learn to play the
piano. Among the guests were Lady
Anderson, Miss E. Deutcher, Miss Lili
Kolos, Mrs. W. Hope-Gibson and Mrs.
S. C. E. Herring.
At a party earlier in the week Mrs.
Herring was presented with a life-service
badge for the Bellevue Hill branch of
the C.W.A. At this gathering Mrs.
Charles Walton spoke briefly on her
experiences during a three-weeks’ tour
with the Flying Doctor, during which
they covered 2300 miles in the Far West,
examined 500 children’s teeth, filled 1100
teeth and extracted 217. Mrs. Charles
Chauvel, who spoke next, said she and
her husband had covered 10,000 miles in
five months during their film-reconnais-
sance tour of the Northern Territory.
Her descriptions of life in this vast area
were most vivid, and she spoke with
feeling of the generosity and kindness
of the people they met there.
Mrs. Arthur Chauvel was also present.
Now nearly 83, she has painted four
pictures since her exhibition in
September, and is seen at many of the
parties held in town. “I believe in keep-
ing going,” she says, “while the going is
good.”
The Junior Red Cross made a wonder-
ful success of its Christmas-party for 300
children of sick and disabled ex-service-
men. The Christmas-tree was covered
with balloons lit from behind by electric-
lights, and although every child received
a present there were, of course, some
little boys who wanted the decorations
from the tree. Terry Hunt sang for the
kiddies, introducing them to “The
Twelve Days of Christmas” and lead-
ing their baby voices in “Holy
Night” and “Come, All Ye Faith-
ful.” Caps and masks and fancy whistles
made all the youngsters happy and the
noise was most satisfactory. The Punch-
and-Judy show held the kids entranced
and silent, however, so strange a charm
has this tale of wife-beaters, murderers,
hangmen, undertakers and devils for the
young. Perhaps it is that in it retribu-
tion sweeps upon the wrongdoer, or more
likely it is just that children really revel
in the tougher aspects of life, loving
dramatic action more than fairies on the
lawn.
Among the 200 guests at the Christmas-
party of the Overseas League were about
15 cadet-officers of the Chindwara, the
ship which has been “adopted” by the
20th Century Group of the league. Major
and Mrs. Chapman welcomed Captain
Rogers, the commander, whose rosy-
complexioned baby-officers looked like
unimpeachable editions of the Winslow
Boy. The secretary of the league, Kath-
leen Gaden, was helped by the president
of the 20th Century Group, Ruth Germer.
Among the merrymakers were brown-
eyed Jill Richardson, English lass Gay
Morris, Cadet-Officers Michael Corfield
and Graham Kemp Luck, and that un-
mistakable Scot, J. Alexander Fraser.
Talking of Scots, how did it come
about that New Year’s Day has developed
such a Scottish flavor? Everyone sings
about “auld acquaintance,” yet hardly
anyone knows what “auld lang syne”
means (what, precisely, does it mean, by
the way?). The pocket-diaries say that
there are only five holidays p.a. in Scot-
land, so perhaps the folk north of the
border are determined to extract every
ounce of value from those they do have.
Good luck to them, at any rate. There
are few of us who could do without
“Auld Lang Syne” at the first moment of
the year.
A girl with an interesting job is Joyce
Graham, Interior Designer for the
Department of Public Works. Joyce (she
is Mrs. Peter Graham, of Waverton) has
the task of planning all the interior-
decoration for public buildings, schools,
welfare centres, hospitals, etc. Her latest
was designing the interiors for St.
Margaret’s Hospital, which alone seems a
colossal task for one so young. , Joyce
is truly professional in her views on
interior-designing (she dislikes the word
“decoration”), having studied for six
years at the Sydney Technical College,
working in the daytime and doing her
course at night. Difficult color combina-
tions, such as turquoise and chartreuse,
are simple and successful when she
handles them. She must in her designing
consider the materials available, the
amount of money to be spent, and the
psychological effect of the schemes she
draws up. She finds the work most
interesting but onerous, as it frequently
involves travelling to all parts of N.S.W.,
and includes such resporfeible jobs as re-
designing the interior of Government
House for the Royal visit.
One of the most charming gardens in
Sydney belongs to the Arthur Davises,
who live at Cammeray, and who showed
it to members of the Garden Club one
sunny Saturday afternoon recently.
Although the block is large by suburban
standards (it is 150 ft. by 200 ft), so much
skill has gone into designing it that it
comes into the class of more spacious
grounds. Sloping down t'o the water-
front of Middle Harbor, its eastern side
is terraced with little stone paths, en-
croached on by flowered creepers and
shaded by cypress-pines arid many other
lovely trees, including a liquid amber and
a tulip-tree. This side of the garden has
a secret, mysterious quality—there is so
much to discover in it, hydrangeas shelter-
ing beneath a bush, gardenias flanking
the walk, a path that leads to a huge
wattle-tree which overhangs a pool. In
the front of the house (facing the water)
a tall gum shelters citrus-trees, oranges,
mandarins, cumquats in colored tubs. On
the western side is a cool, shaded court
with a lily-pond and a fountain. Above
that is the barbecue, stone enclosed on
three sides and dominated on the fourth
by a gum and a banana-tree.
This is a garden that invites outdoor
living, although the interior of the house
is equally beautiful. In the study dozens
of gloxinias bloom, quaint little bushes
from other parts of the world, and a
holly-bush. Mrs. Davis arranges ivy
trails as decoration from boxes above eye-
level, and the long glass door here brings
the outer garden into the room. Another
decorative plant for indoors is the rubber-
tree, and the cactus on the porch appealed
to many of the visitors, who live in flats.
It is difficult to give a full account of this
garden without pictures, but its chief
charm is its romantic quality and harmony
with Australian living.


■t
when »« **
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1888.
■3/
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in harness as shaper of
S.H.A.P.E. (Supreme Headquarters
Atlantic Pact, Europe), General Eisen-
hower. He’s done a bit of shaping before
—the moulding of eight armies, three air-
forces and upwards of five million men
into the armored flail which beat Nazi
Germany to its knees. At this stage he
probably regrets that so many of his
countrymen have written so many “inside”
stories of his previous job, which involved
so many personalities still on deck. He
also wrote a book himself — Crusade in
Europe.
The Civil Aviation Board gets a good
man back in Arthur McComb, who has
retired as deputy secretary-general of
the International Council Aviation Or-
ganisation, headquartered in Montreal.
He was the C.A.B.’s controller of ground
operations before going to Montreal. A
Brisbane Grammar boy, McComb was at
Gallipoli and in France with the A.I.F.
engineers before becoming an A.F.C.
pilot. He made the Australian overland
survey for Ross and Keith Smith’s
pioneer flight, and has since crossed Aus-
tralia by air at all angles, with a few other
countries added. In 1937 he flew to
London to represent the Commonwealth
in) discussions covering the details of fly-
ing-boat bases between Singapore and
Sydney. Brisbane-born, 58, he was an
original member of the 1.C.A.0. council.
At the end of War II Alfred M.
Gruenther, Eisenhower’s new chief-of-
staff, was the youngest major-general in
the U.S. Army. He’s had some solid staff
experience—chief-of-staff to the sth Army
invading Italy. A West Point graduate,
bom at North Platte (Nebraska), too
young for the Kaiser’s war, he was an
artillery captain tiff July, 1941, after which
came the swift series of promotions. His
hobby was bridge-playing, until, annoyed
at the slovenly way a bridge tournament
in which he was a competitor was run, he
invited civilian experts to a tournament
he conducted at West Point. Thereafter
he became the leading director of bridge-
tournaments in America. Both his sons
are soldiers.
In Melbourne for the festival opening
of the Jubilee year by the National
Theatre, Henry Danton, one of England’s
most distinguished dancers and a
colleague of Robert Helpmann. Danton
began life as a soldier, started dancing on
ice when he was in the Army at Wool-
wich and even continued when he was an
artillery captain in the late war. He
exchanged Army for ballet when he
entered the Sadler’s Wells school, went to
Paris with the famous Ballet des Champs
Elysees and became famous himself when
he danced with Moira Shearer in Bryan
Shaw’s “Symphonic Variations,” the
severest test for the classic dancer. In
Melbourne he will dance in “Swan Lake”
and “Aurora’s Wedding.”
“Fitz”: Said a Sydney poet—a mere stripling
in his seventies —to this writer of occasional
items about Bulletin old-timers: “What hap-
pened to S. W. Jephcott? I remember his
verse in The Bulletin years before I lassoed
Archibald’s eye with some poems of my own,
and I remember Francis Adams, when he was
in Australia, saying that Jephcott was the
‘strongest Australian poetical voice’ writing at
the time. I wouldn’t go that far,” continued
the poet, “but I still know the words of a few
of his poems.” Thereupon my literary friend
(who will recite poetry, preferably his own, at
the drop of a hat) reeled off the whole of
Jephcott’s “A Swan Song” and “White Paper.”
Jephcott was once a regular Bulletin rhymester,
and when the paper celebrated its 50th anniver-
sary, in 1930, S. H. Prior placed his likeness
(in the gallery of photographs which accom-
panied A. G. Stephens’s survey of Bulletin
verse-writers) between Will Lawson and Kath-
leen Walker (now Kathleen Dalziel), both still
writing for The Bulletin. Jephcott appears
there as a trim, grey-bearded, alert-faced man
in his fifties, with a smack of the bush about
him. It is many years since Jephcott made
poetry for The Bulletin, and nearly as long
since the paper’s literary staff last saw his dis-
tinctive handwriting—“No mortal man can
read it,” The Bulletin once said, with playful
exaggeration. It is many years, also, since his
name disappeared from the pages of Who's
Who in Australia, which gave rise to a sugges-
tion that he had gone into the silence; but a
letter addressed “just on spec,” to him at
Kahbionba, Jingellic, on the Upper Murray
(N.S.W.), brought forth a reply written in a
fist suggestive of big timber caught in a cyclone.
“I passed my 86th milestone a fortnight since,”
wrote Jephcott, which makes him one year
older than Arthur Bayldon, the oldest poet
listed in Who’s Who in Australia. In reply
to a request for a story or two about himself
Jephcott wrote: “Story? God bless you, I’ve
none to tell. Not even how these old breeches
were torn in a scuffle, How the old brown
cow, Happiness, kicked me instead of yielding
cream. And how the old black horse. Fortune,
fell with me when I had the cleanskins at the
gate. It don’t seem to make printer’s pie.”
Ever a modest fellow, Jephcott, born at Colac
(Vic.), of Warwickshire stock, brought up in
the bush and entirely self-educated, still wields
a lively pen, even if he is not weaving poetry
these days.
Yet another judge—in the Federal
Arbitration Court this time —has been
chosen from the Adelaide legal firm which
began as Glynn and Parsons and has
been turning out judges and attorney-
generals ever since Federation. The latest
in the list becomes Mr. Justice Wright.
John Poynter, this year’s Victorian
Rhodes Scholar, just beat John Cordner,
of the Victorian football family, whose
brothers and father have all been star
Melbourne players and are all doctors.
Golf and squash are Poynter’s athletic
half of his qualifications—the other half
is a brilliant career at Trinity College in
the Arts division.
Former Pathfinder pilot, A. H. Ham-
mond, brother of singer Joan Hammond,
evidently has a lot of the persistence of
his distinguished sister. He lost a much-
loved cocker spaniel five weeks ago, and,
wanting him back, planned “Operation
Pippo.” Knowing nothing about photo-
graphy he studied up the subject, built a
dark-room and began to enlarge a photo
of the canine. He gradually acquired
facility and ended up with over 4000
prints, which he distributed by pushing
them into letter-boxes in Melbourne
suburbs. This producing no result, he
decided to repeat a war-time propaganda
leaflet raid over Toorak. The other day
thousands of the photos fluttered down
on Melbourne from the hand of an air-
liner pilot.
Are J.C.W. productions among the
world’s best? Charlie White at least,
who has been with the Firm since 1913,
and under whose supervision all scenery
is made, answers an emphatic “Yes,”
Without buying into the argument, Mc-
Beath is prepared to say it would be hard
to find a more interesting collection of
C. WHITE, of the Firm.
autographed photographs of world-known
theatrical celebrities than adorns the entire
walls and ceiling of Charlie’s back-stage
office at Melbourne’s His Majesty’s.
Known to almost all the Melbourne
theatrical world (artists come and go, but
Charlie’s a fixture), as a lad with a flair
for theatricals he was put to the carpenter-
ing trade —his job calls for a sound
knowledge of both professions. Inci-
dentally, the Firm is one of the few
theatrical companies in the world which
makes its own entire productions.
Herewith, Old Digger Maldwyn
Davies, recently retired from the presi-
dency of the Queensland Chamber of
Manufactures. Lambart has captured
the keenness which has got its owner into
some dozen or so Queensland business
concerns, in most of them as managing-
director or chairman. Schooled in Bris-
bane and at Scotch College, Melbourne,
Davies has a main finger in goldmining
and brick-making, and subsidiary digits
in every sort of activity ranging from
national safety (president of the council)
to institutes of management (foundation
president of the Australian Institute).
M. DAVIES, of many firms.
And he’s senior partner in his own com-
pany of insurance attorneys. All his
three sons served in War 11. Now a
lively 57, in his free time he farms and
fishes.
“Trinco”: Enemy No. 1 to Stalin,
Charles E. Wilson, head of the enormous
General Electric Co. and picked by
President Truman to boss America’s new
Central Defence Mobilisation Agency, is
well-rigged for this post. As chairman
of the U.S. War Production Board in
War 11, he was responsible for the astro-
nomical output of America’s war-geared
factories—Stalin may remember his own
toast to Wilson, when he conceded that
without American production the Allies
would have lost the war. Son of an
Irish bookbinder, Wilson joined the
Sprague Electric works as a 12-year-old
office-boy on 150 dollars a year—at 20,
his driving competence had made him
production-manager, and at 54 president
of General Electric, on 175,000 dollars
a year.
At Avalon, near Sydney, 21-year-old
lifesaver John Jones collapsed and died
while swimming in a test for his bronze
medallion —a test which, of course, was
really aimed at increasing his life-saving
efficiency. At Palm Beach, near Brisbane,
20-year-old Desmond Quinlan, training
with his lifesaver mates, missed a wave,
was left behind alone, and almost im-
mediately was taken and fatally savaged
by a shark. Two colleagues at once raced
to his help, but he died soon after they
got him ashore. Australia still breeds
fine youths—and among the finest of
these are her lifesavers.
V. R. Mcßride in his new post may
have his worries, but lack of member-
ship won’t be one of them. President of
the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria,
a Melbourne accountant, he went last
week to the presidency of the Australian
Automobile Association. Dr. Harold
Nome, of the N.R.M.A., hands over.
Apropos of a recent complaint from
New Zealand that the Snowy scheme was
dredging the Fern Land of its scientists
comes news of the appointment of Pro-
fessor T. D. J. Leech (Professor of En-
gineering at Auckland University for the
past 11 years) as head of the scientific
services branch of the scheme. In the
war he did a fine job of deputy-supervis-
ing Maoriland’s engineering development
(C.8.E.); before it he lectured in civil
engineering at Sydney University.
The South Australian Services Canteen
Trust (of which A. S. Blackburn, V.C., is
chairman) last week awarded a scholar-
ship to a brilliant young botanist, Lance
May. Worth £800 a year for three years,
the scholarship will take its winner to
London University to further his studies
on drought-resistance in plants. Prizes
he’ll take with him are the Elsie Cornish
prize for botany and a first-class honors
degree in his subject from Adelaide
University, where he’s now lecturing.
Another qualification for the Trust award
was three-and-a-half years as a flight-
lieutenant with the War II R.A.A.F.
Back from an international conference
in Sweden, A. W. Jessep, Government
Botanist and director of the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens. He saw the botanic
offerings of Stockholm, Goteborg, Copen-
hagen, Berlin, Munich and the world-
famous Kew, but didn’t come across any
that surpass for aesthetic beauty the one
he lives in in Melbourne. European
botanic-gardens are for the most part
laboratories of horticulture, with uni-
versity schools of botany usually set-up
in them. Botanically they are marvellous,
but none has the landscape and natural
qualities which Guilfoyle gave the Mel-
bourne gardens and which later directors
have in the main stuck to. An American
expert told Jessep that he had to travel
almost from the extreme south to the ex-
treme north of U.S.A. to find the same
range of plants* that flourish in the same
beds in Melbourne ; and half of them are
to be found only in hothouses in Europe.
Jessep was born at Maffra (Vic.), educated
at Melbourne University and Mareschal
College, Scotland, and served as an
artillery-lieutenant in the 1914 war. He
is the author of two books on horti-
culture, Cultivation of Herbs and Plant
Hybridisation.
F. Sight”; One of the minor (in size)
instruments of war which will go into
increased production under President
Truman’s armament scheme, and which
is already in the hands of millions of
soldiers (and, according to recent Press
photographs. South Korean women as
well), is the Garand semi-automatic
rifle, invented by a quiet, serious-faced
farmer-machinist from Montreal. John
C. Garand started work sweeping a
cotton-mill; interest in mechanical
gadgets got him promoted to machinist;
enthusiasm for motor-cycling led him to
design his own engine ; being a devotee
of a shooting-gallery his father ran at
night developed him into a crack shot;
and World War I spurred him to develop
a better rifle. The result could have made
him a millionaire from commercial
royalties and foreign rights, but a
common commodity called loyalty led
him to waive these for a job at the famed
Springfield Army Armory, where he still
is. Towards the end of War II Cordell
Hull personally presented him with one
of the first civilian Medals for Merit
awarded in the U.S.
Into the Silence: —
In Melbourne, at 62, S. W. C. Marks, Deputy-
Director of Posts and Telegraphs.- Joining the
Department at Walhalla as a messenger in 1902,
he became superintendent of engineering in
Queensland and deputy-director in S. Australia
before he succeeded C. G. Brown in Melbourne.
He served with the R.A.N. in the 1914 conflict.
In Brisbane, at 71, Thomas Ramsay Hall,
architect and son of one, and a partner in the
firm which, among other major building-
projects in Brisbane, had the City Hall on its
lists. A past-president of Tattersall’s.
At 81, in Sydney, David Stewart, a New
Zealander who settled on the N.S.W. south
coast and edited the “Illawarra Mercury.”
Leaving for the Boer War, he war-corresponded
for Sydney “Herald,” and returned to its
staff, on which he was to serve for over 40
years.
In Adelaide, William James Isbister, at 84
South Australia’s oldest K.C. St. Peter’s
College and Melbourne University man, he was
called to the S.A. Bar 62 years ago and the
English Bar in 1893, two years after winning the
Inner Temple Common Law Scholarship. And
he was the first winner of the common-law
prize of the Council of Legal Education. That
was in 1892. Back in Adelaide, in 1905 he
became a member of the Adelaide University
Council, an association which was to last for
over 40 years. An M.B.E. came his way for
Red Cross work overseas in World War I.


An Investor?
# Then you certainly cannot afford to be
without The “Wild Cat” Monthly. It
contains the most comprehensive investment
analyses of Australia’s leading companies,
economic reviews and mining notes, presented
in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts all
the facts at your fingertips.
2/- a copy; 22/6 a year, post free.
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A “Bulletin” Publication
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH ALEXANDER BENDER late
of Newcastle—TAKE NOTICE that ANN
ELIZABETH BENDER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3055 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance by the 19th day of February
1951 at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor, of Bank
Corner, Wickham, Newcastle, or his Syd-
ney Agent, MR. J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CORAL ELIZABETH DURRANT late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
CHARLES WATERLOO DURRANT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2856 of
1950 on the grounds of your desertion
without just cause for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the sth March 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
R. B. COLEMAN, Solicitor, of 16 Georgs
Street, Parramatta.— J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE SERVICE MAN
Korea's Phantom War.
“Ek Dum”: There is an un-
real atmosphere about the
Korean situation over which a
tight censorship has now been
clamped down, so that the only
versions which escape are the
two official ones.
The only fighting in the past
few days that could be called
by the name has been round the
now almost empty Hungnam
beachhead below Hamhung,
from which U.N.O. troops are
being filtered into positions
covering southern Korea.
Every now and then a little
sporadic activity develops in the
west, but so far this has come
to nothing. The Chinese have
shown no disposition to push
southward, despite the fact that
their radio almost continuously
boasts their intention to drive
these “feeble imperialists,” these
“paper tigers”—who only a few
weeks ago were “savage im-
perialists,” menacing the security
of China in a most desperate
manner—into the sea.
When General MacArthur’s
strange intelligence service
issues any information it con-
sists of the kind which became
so familiar during the Pacific
war. Sometimes its local infor-
mation has to be corrected, as
when during the week it became
necessary to repudiate the asser-
tion of X Corps’ statement that
the Chinese were using gas.
What seems to be happening
is that the Chinese, by their
mere presence, are being used
to hold as big a U.N.O. expedi-
tionary force as possible in
Korea, while the North Korean
remnants, of which three corps
are being built up, are re-
organised to do their own work.
Meanwhile preparations go
ahead in China for the final
blows in Indo-China and the
attack on Formosa and for the
possibility of all-out world war.
There appear to be no
Chinese troops within 60 or 70
miles of the 38th Parallel, and
probing patrols from the Allied
western front have often found
nothing but miles of empty
country in front of them. This
situation, of course, is largely
part of the carefully-planned
political campaign of the totali-
tarian Powers. In nature it is a
truce not unlike Hitler’s “phony
war,” and is being used for the
same purposes but with a dif-
ferent angle—to confuse the
Western people, make them de-
risive of their own side and sup-
port the campaign for a peace
on Communist terms, as was
done in 1940. The next stage
will be found by referring back
to the history of the two months
before Dunkirk. It is quite ob-
vious from the facts that if the
Chinese had wanted to they
could have driven much further
than they have done, but they
are satisfied until their moment
comes to show Asia their
strength and try to make a
laughing-stock of the American
command and shake American
and British public confidence
in it.
The issue of U.N.O. casual-
ties is enough to prove that there
was strength behind the enemy
drive. In the fortnight of their
hurried retreat the U.N. forces
(outside the South Koreans) lost
12,975 killed, wounded and mis-
sing. In all, 11,964 casualties
were suffered by the seven
American divisions, bringing
the total up to about 44,000 for
the war since its beginning.
About 5000 men in the recent
battles were lost by the Marines
retreating from Chosin Reser-
voir, where they were out on a
limb.
The claim of “officers at
General Mac Arthur’s head-
quarters” that the U.N.O. forces
killed “ten times” as many
Chinese and North Koreans may
be discounted. It amounts to a
claim that every Chinese who
made actual contact with the
Americans was wiped out. This
seems improbable.
The Pact and Germany.
“Ek Dum”: Under pressure
of circumstances the Atlantic
Pact countries meeting at
Brussels have decided on the
details of the new European
army which is to meet the
menace of Russian Communism.
It is a real menace brought to
crisis by the statement of the
Kremlin that it will not tolerate
the rearming of Germany, and
will hold Britain and France re-
sponsible for the consequences
of such rearmament.
This threat is not the
emanation of a sudden Russian
brainstorm. It is a considered
decision confirming a similar
threat made in October. It is
the more serious because the
Atlantic Powers have been
unanimous and open in their
decision that Germany must
take part in the defence of the
West, while at the same time
exhibiting certain differences of
opinion between the Western
Allies which the Communists
already are trying to capitalise.
The main one to deal with
is over the status of Germany.
It appears that the West
Germans, as a result of French
views, are to be still regarded as
a conquered people held down
under duress, but they are to be
allowed to become once more a
land, air and sea Power provided
they are ready to help defend
the West. The conference seems
to have confirmed preliminary
agreements that there will be no
German Army, but that the
Germans will be allowed to
provide 100,000 men through
their Labor department, com-
pletely at the disposal of the
Allies, and organised in “combat
teams” or regiments of about
5000 men.
The Germans, of course,
number something like
40,000,000 in Western Germany.
Their manpower capacity is
infinitely greater than 100,000.
Nobody has said what is to
happen to the residue—whether
it is to be used as a sort of
conquered labor to provide
armaments for its conquerors.
No great brain seems to have
calculated what will happen if
the German Government, which
has not been consulted, refuses
the plan, as it says it will any
which does not treat Germany
on a basis of equality, and de-
termines to set-up its own de-
fence system in defiance of the
Allies. The only resource then
would be to suppress this
tendency by force, thus turning
Germany into an unknown
quantity in case of invasion by
the Russians, who would soon
reduce it to Communism. The
great fear in Germany is that
the intention is to make the
Rhine the defence-line of the
West, leaving Germany to be
overrun.
Kirkpatrick Quotes Churchill
The arrangements proposed
seem peculiar though they
have not been fully stated at the
time of writing—in the light of
the call issued to the Germans
by Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, the
British High Commissioner in
Germany, on December 15. In
this speech the Germans were
asked “to heed the seriousness of
the hour, to identify their duty
in their relations with the West.”
The Commissioner asked them
to remember two war-time
speeches of Mr. Churchill, and
apply them to the present situa-
tion —in one he referred to “the
grand human causes which we
have the honor to defend,” and
" That makes us quits, m' sieu .”
in the other had said “that the
most strenuous exertions must
be made by all, though each
partner in the grand alliance
would decide for himself, in
consultation with the others,
what form those exertions
should take,” and that it was
“for the partners to be resolved
to stand by one another and do
their duty.” Sir Ivone added
that “conception of duty was the
root of the matter, and that
Britain and Germany were
bound by ties of common
interest, and recognition of this
would provide a firm basis for
a sound Anglo-German relation-
ship.”
Nobody, he said, would ever
have guessed that Germany
would be restored by 1950 to
her present position, and for the
country’s progress the Federal
Government of Western
Germany was entitled to credit
which it had not received. He
made it clear that British policy
aimed at the early relaxation of
restrictions on German
commerce still in operation, and
that “Britain did not desire to
throttle German competition. If
Germany were unable to com-
pete it would mean the failure
of the whole Allied policy in
restoring the German economy.”
In the face of this the plans of
the Atlantic countries and
Germany’s part in them are not
likely to have an enthusiastic
reception in Germany.
East Germany Passes a Bill
This speech was made
a few hours before Mos-
cow’s threats to Britain and
France, and on the day on which
the Chamber of the East Ger-
man Government passed legisla-
tion for the “protection of
peace.” This measure makes
Mr. Menzies’s Anti-Communist
Bill look like the effort of a
nursery governess. The bill —
passed, of course, at a single
sitting carried a preamble
which accused the Western Allies
of pursuing “an Imperialistic
policy aimed at involving West
Germany in a new war, a threat
to our nation.” The new law
bans all forms of “war propa-
ganda,” which is defined to in-
clude everything save abuse of
the West and insult and threat
to the Atlantic countries’ Gov-
ernments.
Where “war propaganda,”
i.e., any propaganda inimical
to Moscow, is committed on
the “instructions” of States
which are “pursuing a
war agitation against other
nations or an aggressive policy
against peaceful nations”
which, of course, only exist be-
hind the Iron Curtain —the
criminals are not merely
“declared” after the mild
method adopted in Canberra,
which has raised the local Aus-
tralian Communist party to a
pitch of fury at such barbarous
infringements of their liberty,
but are liable to the death-
penalty.
The law applies to persons
who have not even a domicile in
East Germany, being thus ex-
pressed to establish criminal re-
sponsibility in the government of
Western Germany and in
journalists in the western sectors
of Berlin under British-U.S.-
French control.
Nothing shows so clearly the
kind of thing the West is fight-
ing against nor the need for a
supreme effort to defeat it.
Whether it will be defeated de-
pends on the swiftness and effec-
tiveness of the mobilisation of
the European defence forces, of
which General Eisenhower, at
64, and some time out of harness,
has been appointed Commander
in Chief with an American Chief
•of Staff.
There was, according to the
“Times,” much speculation last
week as to whether Field-
Marshal Montgomery would be
appointed deputy commander-
in-chief, but it was suggested
that “the French Government
may wish the commander of the
land forces to be a Frenchman,”
in which case the Attlee Govern-
ment will undoubtedly give way.
When this was written the full
German response to the pro-
posals had not been heard, but
Dr. Adenauer, the German
Chancellor, had made it clear
that Germany intended to
demand to be allowed to return
to nationhood on a basis of
equality and freedom of action,
and to call for inclusion of the
country in a general security
pact with other West European
nations. The way for agree-
ment has been opened by the
announcement by Britain,
France, the United States and
Australia that the state of war
with Germany will very shortly
end.
General Eisenhower will
arrive in Europe next week, and
begin the planning of defence
zones, which it is foreshadowed
will be three in number outside
the sea —Central Europe under
General Eisenhower’s personal
command, North Sea Europe
under a subsidiary command
and the Mediterranean under
British Commonwealth com-
mand.
Australia Waits.
“Ek D.”; The details of
British Commonwealth defence
will be largely settled, all too
belatedly, at the London confer-
ence in January which Mr.
Menzies left on December 22 to
attend.
Australia, like the rest of
British countries outside Asia —
where India in particular lies
helpless—is very gradually being
geared for war as well as is
possible in a country which has
imperceptibly slipped into the
position that Parliament has
ceased to be an independent
legislative authority, the country
being in the hands of an un-
elected dictatorship called the
Australian Labor party, which
exercises its power unconstitu-
tionally through a minority
which happens to have control
of the Senate.
The politbureau of this
governing authority, following
the Russian model, meets only
for two or three days once every
three years, its members repre-
senting nobody but the State
Labor branches.
To one of these rare meetings
on March 1 Mr. Chifley and his
shivering colleagues will go to
receive their orders, and be told
whether they are to allow the
law of the land on compulsory
training to operate or whether
they must defeat the law and
sabotage all efforts of the elected
Government to defend the
country.
The Queensland delegates at
the conference are to put
forward one typical vote-buying
plan compulsory military
training “with a minimum inter-
ference with industry,” trainees
to be available for the area to
which the “Labor” Government
agreed to send them when virtu-
ally dragged to a decision by the
Americans by the scruff of the
neck during World War 11. And
overseas service will be possible
only on a voluntary basis, if
Queensland has its way.
The Victorian A.L.P. branch
will also submit a resolution
supporting a system of com-
pulsory military training, which
“adequately safeguards the
social, economic, educational
and moral interests of Aus-
tralia’s youth,” as “necessary for
the safety of Australia.” If any
system interferes with the right
to loaf, strike and get £8 a week
on leaving school for work that
could be done by an untrained
seal, let the Chinese come.
If they show signs of coming
before March every “Labor”
politician who has had a part
in sabotaging defence over the
past year will be heard shrieking
hoarsely for heads of Ministers
who have left Australia wide-
open to attack. Thus history of
World War II will be repeated,
and more disgracefully, since the
Chifley Government went out of
office knowing, as every other
Government at that time knew,
that within two years at most we
should be on the brink of a new
world war.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TELEVISION JOYS.
Claiming that “nobody above
the level of sub-moron can sub-
mit a report on the current state
of television in America with-
out allowing himself a cry, or at
least a whimper, of alarm,” a
Washington correspondent of
London “News Chronicle” re-
ports :
“So frantic a boom in tele-
vision is occurring here now and
proceeding on such a scale and
at such a pace, that its effects on
the minds, habits and behavior
of the men, the women and
(especially) the children of this
nation can no longer be fore-
seen with any clarity....
“In Washington as I write —
and it is not yet evening—four
different television stations are
simultaneously sending out
vaudeville shows, children’s
shows, newsreels, plays, musical
shows, shopping features, serials,
films, wrestling matches, boxing
matches, night-club parties, in-
terviews and weather forecasts
that will go on until midnight,
and have been going on since
lunch-time.”
An effort was to be made (the
report added) to induce the Gov-
ernment to set aside 25 per cent,
of television frequencies for edu-
cational programmes, but pros-
pects that the effort would suc-
ceed “look problematical.”
As soon as agreement could
be reached on the complicated
technical issues involved there
would be color television in the
U.S., where, also, experiments
with three-dimensional or stereo-
scopic television are proceeding.
“There is indeed,” concluded
the correspondent, “almost no
limit to the promise which tele-
vision holds out for the future
—if promise is the word.”
A development which may be
looked on as an addition to
hilarious entertainment or as a
looming new horror (according
to point of view, or sense of
humor) has been recently noted
by a New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent, casting
back to the re-election of Dewey
as Governor of New York.
“Dewey,” writes the “Herald
Tribune” man, “is the first to ex-
ploit television politically, the
first candidate to understand
how to use television properly.
“There has been a lot of talk
about television’s effect on polit-
ical candidates almost since the
birth of the medium. A great
many politicians have employed
television as a sort of rostrum.
But no one has ever fully under-
stood what television is exactly.
President Roosevelt was a radio
personality, conceivably the
Number One radio personality
of all time. It seems that all
subsequent candidates have used
television as if it were radio.
They stood in front of a micro-
phone and delivered a speech as
mellifluously as possible, hoping
that the pancake make-up would
conceal their double chins.
“Dewey threw the script
away. He answered questions,
as it were, from the floor —the
floor being a dozen street-corners
all over the State of New York.
He spoke extemporaneously ; he
moved from spot to spot, pick-
ing up State reports and docu-
ments ; he sat on the edge of his
desk (never once did he sit be-
hind the desk); he scratched his
head, put his glasses on, took
them off, wiped them ; he posed
for photographs and he intro-
duced his wife when someone
wanted a look at her.
“Essentially, though, he
answered questions —hundreds
of them—questions about State
taxes, housing, veterans’ benefits,
hospitals and a dozen other
complex questions. He answered
them in awe-inspiring detail,
spouting figures and facts with-
out hesitation, and rarely making
mistakes....
“The old-fashioned campaign
speech with a man reading from
a script in front of a hall full of
people is a dead form of oratory
on television. The candidate is
in the voter’s living-room and
the voter doesn’t want oratory
Television throws a merciless
white light on phoniness.”
Giving an even more impressive
idea of the grip television already
has in the U.S., another account
(by a New York correspondent
of the “News Chronicle”) also
indicates that Mr. Dewey has a
serious rival as a TV hero.
Referring to some histrionics due
the next day in U.N.0., the
correspondent reported:
“Twenty-five million Ameri-
cans will switch on their tele-
vision sets tomorrow to watch
Sir Gladwyn Jebb demolish Mr
Malik.”
There would be 11 members
of the Security Council taking
part in the debate (on Korea),
“but the hero of them all will
be the British delegate, with
burly, shrugging shoulders, purs-
ing lips and a tongue of honeyed
mockery.
“How an Englishman of 50,
whose name was quite unknown
to the general public here [in
America] six months ago, has
become the idol of America is
one of the strangest stories of
our very strange times.
“This vast audience that
watches the drama of Lake
Success on its TV screens has
its own American spokesman
there —Mr. Warren Austin. But
ex-Senator Austin loses his
temper, gets hot around the
collar, and indulges in emotional
outbursts which are redolent of
the hustings from which he
sprang.
“For a satisfying cool, witty,
brilliant and bland counter-
attack by the free world against
the Kremlin’s assault they look
to Sir Hubert Miles Gladwyn
Jebb, K.C.M.G., C.B. They
hear the Russians’ upside-down
language of pretence and fantasy
(Jebb’s own phrase) torn to
ribbons with intellectual inctstve-
ness, swift humor and the cutting
edge of scorn.”
So, in this assessment, the
Englishman has become to U.S.
television audiences the “central
figure of the world’s conflict,” as
the U.N.O. debates are carried
“to almost one-fifth of the
American population.”
Soviet German Aim.
“Can the method of manu-
facturing satellites be applied
even to an ex-enemy country
the population of which hates
its Russian conquerors and has
been horribly ill-treated by
them?”
Raymond Aron puts that
question in one of a series of
self-evidently expert articles in
the “Manchester Guardian,”
and proceeds to work out an
answer with reference to
Eastern Germany:
“One must not forget that
nowhere else did the Russian
troops profit in the same degree
by the rights of pillage and of
loot which were in the past the
conquering warrior’s privilege.
There has been considerable re-
quisitioning of industrial equip-
ment. The standard of living
has fallen farther than in any
other country. Reparations
account for a large part of
current production, and the
major industrial businesses
(covering 50 per cent, of
potential capacity) have become
Soviet companies. East Prussia
has been annexed and russified,
and the lands east of the Oder-
Neisse Line have been taken
J
tfit
Newark ( U.S.A .) "News."
"GIMMEE!”
over by Poland and their
German population expelled.
“If we think along Western
lines we can have no doubts
but that Russia is not interested
in winning over the Germans,
and that she relies on her
strength as a victor and on the
weakness of the vanquished.
“There is apparently such a
contradiction between the
rigorous treatment meted out to
Germany and any attempt to
draw her into the Soviet camp
that Western observers have
wondered again and again in
recent years at the real aims of
Soviet diplomacy. Was Russia
perhaps preparing a sensational
about-turn? Was she going to
return to Germany the lands
annexed by Poland, and to re-
enact the surprise decisions of
Rapallo and of the Hitler-Soviet
pact? The reality was much
more simple. The sovietisation
of the Eastern zone marked the
first stage of the Rapallo policy
adapted to the present balance
of power.
“Undoubtedly Stalin wants
Germany’s potential to belong
to the Soviet camp, but Germany
is not to be treated on an equal
footing. It is no longer a ques-
tion of an alliance between
Great Powers. Germany will
become a satellite like Poland.
In short, the Kremlin is satisfied
that a satellite State can be fabri-
cated even in a country in which
95 per cent, of the population,
at the outset, detest Communism
and Russia.”
To which it might be added
that the Russians have already
committed so many blunders
since the war that they’re prob-
ably capable of one even of that
magnitude, in which case
history, and particularly Ger-
man history, will be proved a
highly misleading jade if the
Bear doesn’t one day get the
greatest shock of its life, and it
has had a few in its time.
East Still East.
Bret Harte’s dictum that “the
heathen Chinee is peculiar"
apparently holds good for what-
ever the Chinese may be said to
be now. At any rate, the “Wash-
ington Post,” looking into China
trade, has found plenty that
could be so described.
Stating that it would help
legislators to understand many
things about China if they kept
in mind that “in some respects
political organisation there is
about three or four centuries be-
hind the times,” the “Post” gave
a few examples:
“The war-making in China in
the Second World War was
medieval in the sense that it did
not interfere very much with
trade between China and Japan.
The same easygoing commercial
relation persists between Com-
munist and Nationalist China ;
trade, indeed, is flourishing be-
tween Formosa and Commit"
China. Some of it is direct be-
tween Communist Shanghai and
Keelung, north Formosa ; Hong
Kong is the port of tranship-
ment for other commerce. Nor
is the trade a kind of bootleg-
ging, for, according to the Asso-
ciated Press, ‘despite the bitter-
ness of civil war, both the Com-
munist and the Chinese
Nationalist regimes approve of
what is going on [and] have set
up specific regulations concern-
ing trade dealings between the
two Chinas.’ ”
Gambling Good and
Bad.
Finding of the Social and In-
dustrial Commission of the
Church Assembly, in a report
published by the Church Infor-
mation Board in London:
“The gambling contract is in
itself a permissible contract: that
is to say, one into which a man
may enter without necessarily
committing sin.”
The report, however, adds that
“It by no means follows that all
forms of gambling are permis-
sible, or that all gamblers
gamble innocently. There are
gambles which gamblers them-
selves find morally offensive.”
Going into various views of
gambling—e.g., whether it or
drunkenness is now the greatest
of social evils ; whether, as some
hold, “gambling is a major
cause of larceny, or, as others
see it, gambling more often
“follows upon the dishonesty
and is an attempt to recover the
sums stolen or embezzled” —the
report comments; “But such
differences do not touch the
general conclusion, at any rate
among Christians, that the con-
sequences of gambling are to-
day extremely grave. It is
agreed, moreover, that the
growth of organised gambling
in recent years is a factor that
calls for special consideration
and legislative action.”
While “gambling is permis-
sible as an amusement,” the find-
ing is that whenever it ceases to
be an amusement it becomes in-
defensible, and indeed danger-
ous: “The principal condition
of innocent gambling:, therefore,
is that it be kept strictly within
the province of entertainment.”
The report further holds that
the existence of a gambling trade
was in principle justifiable, but
in its present inflated condition
the trade undoubtedly did much
harm. Football pools, as now
operated in Britain, presented a
moral difficulty, “Because they
are on so vast a scale, enormous
prizes arc obtainable—prizes
capable of altering the whole
manner of life of the winners.
Such prizes are quite incon-
sistent with the nature of a
game ; they lift the pool contract
right out of the field of amuse-
ment and make it a matter of
serious concern,...
“The modern gambling habit
is the diversion of enfeebled
spirits and frustrated minds. It
is 'ersatz enterprise,’ a substitute
for living.... Whatever short-
term prohibitions and restrictions
may be thought advisable and
practicable, the only genuine
remedy is recovery of the
Christian interpretation of life
and work.”
Submitted to the Church
Assembly the report was any-
thing but enthusiastically re-
ceived. The Assembly finding
on its finding was that it was
“not fully representative of the
mind and conscience of the
Church of England as a whole,”
the objection in particular being
to the idea that “gambling is
permissible as an amusement.
Dragnet Digest.
Fewer Miners, More Coal. —No
nationalisation outfit being complete
without a “plan,” Britain’s National
Coal Board has duly hatched one.
Main aim: by 1965 some 80,000
fewer miners producing from fever
pits some 80,000,000 tons more deep-
mined coal a year. Cost (estimated),
£635,000,000.
* * * *
Fear, a "Vested Interest.” —“The
fear of attack,” comments "Washing-
ton Post,” "has become in itself a
vested interest within the Soviet State.
It is the dialectical justification of the
enormous armies, of the übiquitous
and tyrannical secret police, of the
vast slave-labor industry. The Soviet
leaders, indeed, are in a position
where, if the danger of an attack docs
not exist, such a danger must be
invented.”
* * * •
US. "Disgrace.” —“You know, one
of the most disgraceful things that
ever happened to this country (U.S.J
was to find that 34 per cent, of the
young men and young women were
not physically and mentally fit to
serve the country.” Commenting on
this Truman statement, “New York
Times” made it even worse; “Mr.
Truman apparently was referring to
the World War II rate of draft rejec-
tions on health grounds—3s.B per
cent. The situation in the current
draft is more ‘disgraceful’—though
probably exaggerated because of a
large proportion of those examined
being World War II rejectees. The
rejection rates were 60 per cent,
in July, 50 per cent, in August, 40-50
per cent, in September.”
* « * *
Jets for Joe. —Cabled that R.A.F.
heads have been a trifle angry over
the damage being done to the U.N.
side by a Russian brand of jet-plane
let loose in Korea. London “Daily
Express” has reported that in 1947
Britain, “aiming at a high export
target," sold Stalin 55 Rolls-Royce
jet-engines, “25 Nencs and 30 Der-
wents.” It was “against the advice
of the Air Ministry” and much to
the “displeasure of the Americans,”
but; “Opposition was crushed try top-
of-the-Cabinet intervention, and the
sale went on. Out went Britain's
secret engines; in came the roubles.”
• * * *
Commonwealth Conference •
“Times” editorial preview of the
coming meeting of the Prime Minis-
ters in London: "Commonwealth
consultation —like the Commonwealth
itself —is continuous and flexible. It
goes on day by day through the High
Commissioners in all the Common-
wealth capitals and through personal
telegrams from one Prime Minister to
another. Yet nothing can lake the
place of these special meetings at
critical times. The purpose is not
to devise any strikingly new policy
common to all members, but rather
to bring about closer understanding
on the basis of attitudes already
known.”


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-t-recommended for shearing-shed work.
wm
IS
40x.. Boz.. 16dz., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
■ :-.-r^
Esdaile's 2*x
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT, £l6/5/-
# Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
Q Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
highest power rifles.
# Very long eye relief.
# Easily mounted.
Specifications: Magnifica-
tion 2}x —Eye relief 3|in.
to siin. Exit pupil 7mm.
—Relative luminosity 49.
Field of view 23£ft. per
100 yards.
Telegrams:;
“Esdailson,’
Sydney.
BW 8631.
42 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb Sires.
“Nedrium”; Although the
Border Leicester is the most
popular ram breed used in the
Victorian Mallee for fat lambs,
the Dorset Horn is a more valu-
able proposition.
Waipeup Research Station
figures, based on production over
1940-43, show that average lamb
returns (1949-50 export prices)
for Dorset-fathered lambs were
52s. and for Border lambs 51s.
3d. Merino ewes were shown to
be the most profitable mothers
for use with Dorset rams.
The Dorset is used by farmers
who want early rams. The time
difference between Dorset and
Border cross lambs is extremely
important. The extra two or
three weeks is often the time
when grass-seeds are picked up.
A Dorset ewe usually cuts 71b.
of wool, which brings double the
price per pound than the 101b.
from the Border ewe. Although
the Dorset’s lambing percentage
is disappointing (80 p.c.), there
is often a high twinning figure.
The Dorset comes to repro-
ductive maturity early in its life,
and it continues as a potent
father later than most other
breeds. It is a hardy, active,
long-bodied, lean meat sheep,
with one main drawback —there
is no polled variety. It would be
worth £10,000 for anyone to
produce a pure polled Dorset.
To remove the Dorset’s horns
by a Ryeland cross would
destroy the early maturity which
is its main virtue. A better
cross, one recommended by
sheep expert Beveridge, of
Dubbo (N.S.W.), is a | Dorset-
i Romney—thus retaining the
early-maturity factor.
Zebu Hybrids.
“Archaps”; Even breeders of
British breeds of beef cattle are
inclined to agree that there is a
definite place for the zebu
hybrid in Queensland, parti-
cularly along the tropical and
subtropical coasts, provided
there is no indiscriminate cross-
breeding to prevent this. An
official standard should be set,
comprising the percentage of
zebu blood to give the desirable
all-round beast, taking into con-
sideration hardiness, tick re-
sistance, conformation and beef
texture, also the best British
breed for crossing.
The Aberdeen - Angus is
favored by L. Lansberg,
manager of Waverley station, on
the Central Queensland coast,
and also by R. J. Beak (Wilangi
station) in the same district, this
breed having given a degree of
uniformity in color, with a ten-
dency to shorten the legs and
give body depth.
One breeder of English breeds
contends that unless the zebu
hybrid is consolidated on a
definite English breed, breeders
of the hybrid might find their
market restricted should normal
marketing arrangements be re-
stored, as southern store cattle-
buyers would look with sus-
picion on the hotch-potch of
color and types at present being
produced in some districts.
It appears that only a small
infusion of zebu blood would
be necessary to give the desired
type of hybrid. At Wairuna and
Mungalla, the Atkinson brothers
are working with Poll Short-
horns in an effort to consolidate
the quarter-zebu blood, but
there is plenty of scope for work
of this nature. There is also
plenty of scope for bull
breeders, using the best zebu
blood and the English breed
selected, to supply sires of the
desired percentage of zebu blood
for commercial herds.
At present buyers are forced
to take any sire so long as he
has zebu blood in him. While
the hybrids are thought to have
a place on the coast, however,
it is doubtful whether they
would be a success outback
unless the areas are small and
the cattle well-handled. In
scrub country they promise to
establish a better and faster type
of scrubber at a time when man-
power for scrubber-running is
at a minimum.
Against Stripping.
“Ohinemuri”: Left lone-
handed early in the war, with a
herd of 80 cows and all farm
work to do, I decided to try non-
stripping the cows. They were
mostly young and appeared to
do as well —it was particularly
successful with first calvers. The
absence of “teat-tugging” made
them easier to handle, and I was
able to dispense with leg-ropes
and only had to chain an odd
one.
Tests on N.Z. Government
experimental farms favor non-
stripping. Allowing that strip-
pings usually give a higher test
is it not reasonable to expect that
these strippings, if left in, will
increase the test of the next milk-
ing?
Has anyone ever seen a calf
running with a cow milk her
out in one go? I put two calves
on a cow whose bag was too
awkward for machines. She
made a good job of them for six
months and was sold empty. The
buyer used her for a house cow
for another eight months and she
kept a family of five in milk,
butter and cream.
Minerals for Livestock.
“A.M.M.”: The following
mineral elements are absolutely
essential to maintain growth and
life in animals: calcium, phos-
phorus, potassium, sulphur,
sodium, chlorine, magnesium,
iron and iodine.
High - pressure farming
methods, where cattle are forced
for early growth and maturity as
well as for heavy milk produc-
tion, have changed feeding re-
quirements. Because of the
extra demand made on them for
high milk production, dairy-
cows have to utilise large
amounts of mineral elements
from their own bodies.
The skeleton of a 10001 b. cow
contains about 401 b. of mineral
matter or ash, of which about
301 b. is calcium and phosphorus.
About 4 per cent, of the body
is made up of mineral matter.
This means that a high-produc-
ing cow will give off with every
60001 b, of milk a volume of
mineral ash equal to the amount
of which her skeleton is com-
posed. Unless mineral ash is
supplied with the food the
amount in the cow’s skeleton
must therefore become depleted.
Any cow producing more
than 101 b. (a gallon) of milk per
day should get a generous supply
of mineral matter, either as a
supplement to her food or by
liberal top-dressing of her pas-
ture, or both.
Sterility, abortion, white-scour
and other diseases seem to be
connected with mineral defi-
ciencies. “Show” animals often
fail to breed, caused by a
mineral deficiency.
U.S.A. Government experi-
ments showed that, by the addi-
tion of calcium and phosphorus
in the feed of a dairy herd, an
increase in production of 37.9
pc. was obtained in the follow-
ing lactation period.
Top-dressing alone is not
enough, as not all animals can
assimilate their food properly.
Mineral licks should always be
“Stop being coy, Mat, and git the young lady a
billy o’ Water."
available, either in the bail or
in the paddock. The animals
can then take what they require
to maintain themselves in good
health.
The best type of lick depends
on the district. For those who
wish to make their own lick the
following has been well tested:
801 b, of agric. salt, 101 b, of
limonite, 101 b. of bone-flour,
31b. of Epsom salts, a quart of
cod-liver oil, loz. of pot.
iodide and 2gal, of molasses.
Dissolve the pot. iodide in warm
water and pour the mixture into
the oil. Mix this with the dry
ingredients and then add the
molasses.
Firewood Benches.
Many farmers
with small sawbenches cannot
get best results owing to lack of
knowledge of sawfiling, etc. A
good gauge for a general-pur-
pose saw is nine, with a diameter
of anything from 26in. to 32in.
and having 54 or 56 teeth. Have
the saw (if not new) properly
done up by a saw-doctor for a
start. Old saws bought from
mills have been worn down
from a bigger size, and as the
diameter decreases the tension
of the saw is affected, and it
should be rehammered to in-
structions ; that is, tell the saw-
doctor that you require the saw
for use on a plain-top bench for
rough work.
If possible, have the saw
resharpened on a gulleting
machine each time it needs it.
“Touching-up” with a file is
unavoidable sometimes, but it
alters the bevel and tends to
“bring the backs up”—i.e., by
filing down the tooth the top is
made longer, and the back is
higher in proportion, often to
the exfent of preventing the
tooth immediately following it
from cutting.
Exaggerated set is bad policy,
and the thickness of a penny is
ample for cross-cutting. Halve
this for ripping. File the set-
gauge down until a penny can
be slipped tightly between it and
the plain face of the saw.
Hook is important, and for
general purposes should not be
excessive or the saw will grab.
Lay a straightedge along the
breast of the tooth, pointing
down towards the belly of the
saw, and, extending the line of
the breast exactly by means of
the straightedge, see where the
other end of the straightedge
finishes up. Count the number
of teeth between the two ends
of the straightedge in the smaller
segment. If it’s a 54-tooth saw,
then for general purposes, fire-
wood bench work, with occa-
sional rough ripping, etc., there
should be no fewer than 21
teeth in the segment, or more
according to experience. Half
the saw, or 27 teeth in the seg-
ment, would represent no hook
at all, and this is used with
swinging dockers, where the cut
is below the boss.
Eighteen teeth in the segment
on a 54-tooth saw represents
the correct angle for ripping,
but with small saws this can be
safely reduced a tooth or so.
Do not pack a firewood saw,
but do not expect to rip success-
fully without packing, so have a
spare bench-top with a packing-
box cut in. A water-spray by
means of a simple tin-and-
petrol-pipe arrangement is handy
for green timber.
Run the spray either direct
into the gullets, or, better still,
have a pipe on each side of saw
below the gullets and at the back
of the sajv.
Keeping Veges.
“Peter B.”: Wrap that half-
cabbage or cauli. in two sheets
of newspaper and it will keep
fresh for four or five days ; put
greaseproof paper on the cut
surface of pumpkin or marrow,
etc.; plant a few shallots and
avoid the large onion for soup
and stews; carrots and parsnips
can be placed in a shallow
trench in the shade of a shrub
and covered with sand; shell
the broadbeans into a screw-top
jar and pop them in the fridge.
Too many cabbages maturing
at the one time should be pulled
by the roots and planted upside-
down with just the roots show-
ing. If sparingly watered they
will keep for weeks. Cauli. cut
nearly through at ground-level
and pushed over will last some
days. I have grown Mignonette
lettuce at Wau (N.G.), Wagga
(N.S.W.) and Pakenham (Vic.)
with equal success, and they are
just right for a small family.
Car Hood Repairs.
“Nubis”; If the fabric is
rotten or perished get a new
cover. If the fabric is good look
for abrasions. Weak spots are
usually caused by wear against
stanchions or cross-members.
Adjust the stanchions so that
they do not touch the hood.
Cement a protective strip of
vulcanising rubber on the under-
surface of the hood above the
cross-members.
Now clean the upper surface
of the hood. Fill all pin-holes
and abraded patches with hood
dressing. Allow to dry. Then
paint the complete surface. Use
plenty of dressing on the brush
and apply fast and vigorously.
If you are changing the color of
the hood you will need about
31b. of dressing. If the hood is
American cloth, or if it is new
and the same color as the dres-
sing, about lib. may be suffici-
ent.
If, when finished, the hood
looks patchy, touch-up the thin
spots with dressing.
Antidotes for Poison.
“Wilco”: For poisoning with
the toxic mineral and vegetable
acids the best antidote is burnt
magnesia, chalk or lime dis-
solved in water. Mineral acids
are represented by sulphuric
acid and hydrochloric acid.
Poisonous vegetable acids in-
clude oxalic acid and tartaric
acid.
Carbolic - acid poisoning
should be treated by making the
patient vomit and giving white
of egg or milk in large quanti-
ties.
Caustic soda, caustic potash
and ammonia preparations are
alkaline in character. The
poisoning they cause may be
counteracted by giving such
acids as lemon-juice or vinegar,
which will cause vomiting.
Arsenic is best treated with
such an emetic as salt and
water, followed by magnesia
solution. If necessary, vomiting
may be caused by tickling the
back of the patient’s throat
with a finger.
Mustard dissolved in warm
water given in time will usually
cause vomiting and relieve
poisoning by strychnine.
Testing the Air.
“Obsar”; When testing for
foul air at the bottom of a shaft
or well, the average farmer is
far too casual. Very commonly
a light is lowered, and its ability
to burn is taken to prove that
all is well. Once, when I needed
more light at the bottom of a
40ft. well, I found that the hurri-
cane-lamp lowered to me went
out 10ft, above me and could


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
{Complete eel]-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material Is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away Into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
f
" DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd.. 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
Bt., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrlx
Sales and Services.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Racks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
32/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane,
sd
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
■'National'' Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Jiatributlng Agent* —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C Penfold * Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Ply Ltd.
• Vardon & Sons Ltd
. Docket Book Co. (Aost.)
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® U6taHx»n
ofVOtigRUPTWt.
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Otfer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
m
2
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
OFFER A FREE ADVISORY SERVICE
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. B 0538
And all other States
Important Announcement
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY, AND BRANCHES, and DALGETY & CO. LTD.,
MELBOURNE, AND BRANCHES
Announce that under instructions from Messrs. F. S. FALKINEK &
SONS PTY. LTD., and following the notice in the Government Gazette
under date of Bth December, 1950, withdrawing proclamation for
Closer Settlement, will offer by PUBLIC AUCTION at SCOTT’S
HOTEL,, MELBOURNE, on FRIDAY, 2ND MARCH, 1951, at 11.30 A.M,
the well-known Riverina property:—
“MOONBRIA STATION,” JERILDERIE
IN SUBDIVISION
BLOCK C.
BLOCK D.
BLOCK E.
BLOCK G.
BLOCK 11.
HOMESTEAD BLOCK
BUROKA PADDOCK
ADJOINING BLOCK C
YANKO CREEK FRONTAGE
YANKO CREEK FRONTAGE
Approx. 11,607 acres
„ 6,626 acres
„ 8,055 acres
~ 11,076 acres
„ 9,118 acres
Full details vrill appear in later advertisements.
Agents Note: 20% of total commission on sale of respective blocks at N.S.W.
Rates will be paid to Agents introducing successful buyers in writing and
arranging inspections prior to the sale.
For further details or arrangements to inspect contact: —
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.,
(Incorporated in England in 1863)
SYDNEY, AND BRANCHES
DALGETY & CO. LTD.—MELBOURNE AND BRANCHES
(Incorporated in England)
(Agents in conjunction)
NOTE: Surplus Station plant, furniture and fittings will be offered for sale
at Auction on “Moonbria” Station at a date to be announced following the
sale of the land. Watch for full details in later advertisements.
not be lit at the bottom. Yet I
had barely felt the slightest trace
of headache.
Some 20 miles away, in a
well where carbon - monoxide
showed up instead of carbon-
dioxide, one man fell from the
bucket unconscious and his
mate died in the attempt to save
him. It is hard to believe that
a light would be extinguished
by the five parts carbon-mon-
oxide per million of air that is
enough to kill.
The reliable test is to lower a
cat in a sack to the bottom. If
puss can stand several minutes,
then it is safe. And remember
that a poisonous concentration
can develop overnight in a
newly-sunk well.
Tree Windbreaks.
“Myrrhee”: In Victorian dis-
tricts with a rainfall of more
than 25in. Pinus radiata does
well. Planted 10 or 15ft. apart,
it grows rapidly and provides a
good break for orchard or farm-
stead, Another vigorous grower,
Cupressus lambertiana horizon-
talis, makes an excellent home
shelterer. Planted 15 to 20ft.
apart, the trees make a solid
break in the course of three or
four years. As a paddock shel-
ter the sugar-gum ( E. cladocalyx )
takes some beating. It’s hardy
and well suited to warmer dis-
tricts. Plant 10ft. apart, and,
after four or five years, lop
every second tree to fill the gaps
between the taller trees. Another
eucalypt, the mahogany-gum
(E. botryoides ), is a fast grower
with dense bushy growth.
Planted alone (10ft. or 12ft.
apart) or interplanted with
sugar-gums, they make an excel-
lent stock shelter, but need to
have their tops taken off after
three or four years.
Main factors in establishing a
break are to keep the soil well
cultivated around the trees, pro-
tect them from stock and, for
the first year or two at least,
amply water them.
Distemper.
“M.”: Immunisation against
it is meeting with fair success in
Victoria. First a virus is in-
jected, then a couple of hours
later a serum to control the
virus, which actually produces
mild distemper.
E. M. Brough, B.V.Sc., said
that distemper mainly attacked
dogs of a few months to one
year old, though occasionally
mature animals were infected.
Weakly-conditioned puppies and
pampered, overfed or exhausted
animals were more open to attack
than dogs raised under more
natural conditions.
Both serum and virus, which
are made by the Commonwealth
Serum Laboratories, Parkville
(Vic.), can be obtained only by
a qualified vet. Brough advises
isolation of the treated animal
for two or three weeks as a pre-
caution against transmitting the
mild form of the disease con-
tracted from the virus injection.
T ussock-eradication.
“Beau Forte”: The silver-
grass tussock and the pointed-
rush type are two kinds trouble-
some in wetter Victorian dis-
tricts. Both are likely to grow
strongly in low-lying and badly-
drained soils, especially if there
is no competitive growth of pas-
tures.
Mowing in late spring is
worth while, as it prevents seed-
ing and saps the food-supply of
the tough, fibrous, matted root-
system. Liberal dressings of
superphosphate to encourage
pasture-growth and heavy stock-
ings will defeat tussocks in most
districts in a few years.
Ploughing and grubbing are
the usual alternatives, but they
mean harder work and are not
always successful grubbing
usually leaves big holes in the
ground. This treatment must
also be followed up with sow-
ing of pasture-seed and liberal
top-dressing.
Tree-falling.
“Bodd”: Trees won’t always
fall downhill, the two main de-
ciding factors being lean and
top-hamper. Nowadays, how-
ever, the technique of falling is
different from the hand-tool
days, and with a power-saw the
faller cannot do much but fol-
low the inclination of the tree
and hope he is on the far side
when the crash comes. With
hand-tools, wedges and elbow-
grease, axe-scarfs, etc., could
coax a tree several degrees out
of normal every time if neces-
sary.
Saw-doctoring.
“R.H.G.”: It is true that
when hand-saws become buckled
(B. 8/11/’5O) some attention
with hammer and anvil is neces-
sary, but the principle of ham-
mering relates almost purely to
centrifugal force, and therefore
applies only to circular-saws.
The accepted regulation speed
for circular-saws is 10,000 rim
feet per minute, which can be
reduced or extended about a
thousand or so each way accord-
ing to individual tastes and
specific conditions. In order
that the saw, of whatever
diameter, shall stand up at its
correct rim-speed, the saw-doc-
tor hammers differing tensions
into the plate, working from the
centre out to the circumference,
A loosely - hammered saw,
when stood up between the
fingers and wobbled sharply,
will give at the centre, with a
slight movement discernible to
the naked eye. Tightly-ham-
mered saws are fairly rigid and
designed to stand up in the
bench at speeds well below their
standard, or handle rough work,
such as a power-saw does in the
bush, where it has no support
from a packing-box as on the
bench.
Big twins, up to 6ft. in
diameter, are generally ham-
mered fairly tightly, but high-
speed rip-saws on smaller
benches doing their full revs are
at less tension cold, to make
allowance for great increase in
surface temperature when
operating, which has the effect
of tightening at the saw centre.
It is this effect of temperature
increase that the hammering is
designed to offset, as well as the
action of centrifugal force.
Needless to say, none of these
factors applies in the smallest de-
gree to hand-driven saws.
Copper Deficiency.
“Noosa”: Prolonged wet
weather has emphasised lack of
trace elements in soil of cer-
tain coastal districts of South
Queensland. In some instances
cattle have rapidly lost condi-
tion, although there is plenty of
grass. Lack of copper seems to
be the chief trouble, particularly
in paspalum country.
Besides losing condition,
milkers on paspalum lose a con-
siderable amount of hair and
suffer from scours, where there
is a deficiency of copper.
In extreme cases cattle should
be moved to a change of coun-
try, even poor forest land being
preferable.
In my case the administra-
tion of one-tenth of an ounce
of copper-sulphate weekly (in
two doses) checked the decline
and brought up the milk-supply.
Use the “snow” (powdered)
copper-sulphate sprinkled on
feed. There is no danger in
overdosing, although too much
would render the feed unpalat-
able. A little extra is beneficial
for worm-infestation.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Agricultural ex-
perts warn against spraying table
vegetables with D.D.T. because
of possible ill-effects. If this is
unavoidable, they suggest that a
month be left between last spray-
ing and harvesting. For toma-
toes a week is sufficient.
“W. Court”: Pineapples are
exceptional among fruit in that
they require an acid soil. The
best way to keep the soil right
for them is to use sulphate of
ammonia or nitrate of soda at
frequent intervals. Pineapples
are very hardy, and every
northern farmer should have a
few suckers to provide hot-
weather fruit for his family.
“Sarina”: A good supply of
potash is needed by all root
vegetables. Tomatoes also re-
quire it to make good fruit.
Hollow seed in a sunflower crop
is caused by its absence. It is
safe to say that if beets, spuds
and similar veges have under-
sized roots beneath healthy and
vigorous tops the land needs a
dressing of sulphate or muriate
of potash.
“Sundowner”: Lice in cattle
can be stopped by dusting with
a preparation containing D.D.T.,
denis or pyrethrum. Effective
sprays contain a water dis-
persable D.D.T. solution or a
kerosene emulsion (11b. of soft-
soap, one pint of kerosene and
one gallon of water). Also effec-
tive is a dipping mixture com-
prised of carbolic 1 per cent, or
nicotine .06 per cent. Two treat-
ments may be necessary.
“Myrr”: It is* better to put 80
day-old chicks under a 100-chick
brooder than put in the full
number and lose half of them
through overcrowding. Chickens
will rear better on wire floors,
which allow air to circulate and
eliminate sweating. These floors
also keep the chicks clear of
droppings and damp spots, which
invariably develop under the
hover when chicks are brooded
on a bare floor.
“Waverly”: When tomatoes
are fruiting they need more fre-
quent waterings and occasional
applications of liquid manure or
side-dressings of sulphate of
ammonia. Early fruits should be
picked when nicely colored but
before they are fully ripe;
maturing fruit on the plants
delays later trusses. Early
January isn’t too late to make a
final planting of late-variety
tomato seedlings.
“A-Jay”: The success oi
failure of summer vegetables if
to a large extent dependent
on the proper preparation of the
beds for them. At the end of the
winter months, especially in
cold, wet districts, the soil needs
aeration and sweetening by being
dug over and, at the same time,
turning under all weed-growth
so that it rots down in time to
become available for the
summer crops.
“Plane Creek”: An old ash-
heap is a capital place for a
sweet-potato patch. The tubers
grow to a huge size in the
potash-rich stuff. Some soil
mixed with the ash and charcoal
in an old stump-hole, makes a
great bed for a few sets.
Pumpkins like a similar posi-
tion with an old dry bush to
climb over, but the best crop of
pumpkins I ever saw came from
a couple of self-sown vines in
an abandoned pig-sty.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
These estimates are made on the basis of the cyclical
theory 'of weather control as developed in Crohamhurst
Observatory by the present Director, Inigo Jones, are
entirely for the guidance of the man on the land, and are
in no way to be considered as in conflict with the Weather
Bureau, to whose constant help the observatory desires to
acknowledge its indebtedness and gratitude.
The final factor is the immediate sunspot position. This
cannot be predicted, but it may alter the results at times,
though not to alter finally their incidence on rural con-
ditions.
The sun at present has declined in sunspot energy so
that a quiet period is likely, and this should result in mild,
normal summer weather for Christmas and New Year, with
possibly an occasional light storm and a gradually rising
temperature. January should open quietly with little rain,
but about the 11th the rains in the tropical North may set
in, and there is a danger of a heavy gale, which was near
Cooktown in the former cycle in 1879. Further south the
first rains may come after the 20th or later, while along
the southern littoral and adjoining inland very little rain
seems indicated in January or February; but in south-west
West Australia there may be some early rains, and this
year should not he dry there early like last year. Generally
speaking, the coming year should have much more normal
characters than those of 1950, and the winter should be
open and cold.


Julie and the 500 MILER
by Teresa Clark.
“I'T-N HO fed the pigeons
\i /tonight?” asked Jack,
y y coming up the back
steps into the kitchen
with the torch in his hand.
Julie began to clear away the
dinner dishes, at the same time
drawing her small, slim figure
up to its full height, getting ready
for an argument. “I did,” she
answered. “Why?”
“Too much feed again. How
many times have I asked you to
see that they have none left over!
You know that’s not the way to
feed them.”
“If you think that I have
nothing else to do but stand and
watch pigeons eat you’d better
think again.” She gave the
plates a vicious crack as she
stacked them up ready to be
washed.
Jack mumbled something she
did not quite catch, but she let
it go and said nothing. He put
the torch away on a shelf and
went into the living-room. There
he lowered himself into an easy-
chair, spread his long legs out
in front of him and buried his
head in “Pigeon Weekly.”
SHE did not take much notice
of Jack’s pigeon arguments —
she was pretty well used to them,
and, besides, no matter what she
did, she was always in trouble,
letting his young ones out or
getting the flyers mixed up with
the breeders.
It was not that she hated
pigeons; she liked them, really,
but she also liked to keep her
home clean and tidy, and with
three growing children to care
for there was not much time to
spare.
Still, she stood out in the yard
and trained them for him night
and morning. Not the hour she
was supposed to, certainly; that
depended on how much work
she had to do ; but as long as
she kept them flying for a while
at least she could say yes when
Jack asked her after he came
home from work.
In the summer he trained and
fed them himself, but in the
winter he caught the early bus,
and it was too dark for him to
feed them when he came home
at night. He was a keen fancier,
his cups and trophies were
steadily mounting each year, and
his pile of certificates was quite
a foot high.
In bad weather, or on long-
distance flies, Julie often had to
trap them in when they came
home from a race, which meant:
wait for the bird to land in
the trap, chase it around until
she caught it, take the rubber-
ring off its leg, check the number,
put it in a clock thimble, put
file thimble in a special clock,
and start the clock going.
Jack looked up from his paper
and called out. “Don’t forget
the big race is on next week-
end. I might want you to trap
in for me.”
“No,” answered Julie, out-
wardly calm, running her hand
over her dark hair. “I won’t
forget.” That meant there would
be some time wasted waiting for
them. The race was open six
days, and she liked to plan her
work ahead.
“Did you say the big race?
A hundred pounds is the first
prize, isn’t it?” she said more
graciously.
“Yes.”
“I’ll keep a close lookout for
that one. What I could do with
a hundred pounds just now! ” As
she put the dishes away, mentally
she spent it . . . the instalments
on their new home that had
fallen behind when Jack had
been ill for so long last year . . .
new curtains, clothes for them
all ... the coat she had gone
back to try on . . .
Jack got up off the chair,
folded the paper carefully, and
put it away. Then he took the
torch again and went to see that
all the pigeons were safely tucked
away for the night. As he came
back he said, “By the looks of
the moon, I think we’re going to
have a wet weekend.”
NEXT evening Jack took the
pigeons to the clubroom
to be basketed and sent on their
five-hundred-mile journey. Julie
had to exercise and feed them
early that afternoon in case any
of them became frightened. The
slightest strange noise was
enough to keep them flying all
night. Sometimes they bumped
into wires and got hurt; then
she was in trouble again. They
were such timid things.
Saturday morning came, dull
and cloudy, and it seemed as
though Jack’s prediction would
come true. He was up at day-
break, cleaned his lofts, and
ordered dinner for twelve o’clock
sharp, in case a pigeon should
arrive early, although he knew
one could not possibly get home
before late afternoon.
The children were forbidden
to play, or bring anyone into the
yard, the dog was chained up
and not 'allowed to bark. When-
ever Jack won a race the thrill
was always the same. The look
of pride and pleasure on his face
was something like that on a
small boy’s when he wears his
first long pants or gets his first
bicycle.
“You switch the wireless on,
Julie, and see if they were liber-
ated. See you don’t miss the
announcement.” Jack took the
old cane-chair on to the lawn
and settled down to an after-
noon’s wait. The sky was still
cloudy, but the threatened rain
had kept off.
At twelve-thirty it came.
Pigeons held over owing to bad
weather. Released at same time
tomorrow morning, if fine.
“That looks like the end of
it for today,” Jack said when she
told him.
As he turned to go inside Fred
Jones walked in through the gate,
followed by four men Julie did
not know. But she gathered
from their talk that they were
pigeon-fanciers. They held a
meeting out in the yard. The
weather was discussed and
argued about from every angle
until even Jupiter Pluvius must
have felt a little ashamed of him-
self. Then they talked and
argued about pigeons until at
times Julie was afraid she must
ask them to leave the house
because of the language they
used. It was almost tea-time
when they left, and as there was
nothing more to be done for the
pigeons that night, Jack took
Julie and the children to the
pictures.
ON Sunday morning he was
out of bed in plenty of time
to hear the radio-announcer say
the weather was favorable, and
that the birds had been released.
He mowed the lawns, did some
gardening, and took up his posi-
tion in the yard again after
dinner.
Julie took the children and me
dog to her sister's home to keep
them out of trouble. “Good
luck, see you trap the winner,”
she said as they went out the
gate.
Hour after hour Jack sat,
patiently watching, but at night-
fall there was still no sign of a
pigeon. When he came inside
his eyes were so red from star-
ing at the sky that Julie thought
he might have burst a small
blood-vessel.
After tea he went to the club-
room to find out if any other
members had trapped in. He
came back in an extra good
humor. There were no birds
home, so he still had a chance.
AS he left for work on Mon-
day morning he said, “It’s
up to you now, Julie. Don’t
miss it whatever you do, I’ve
left the numbers written on a
piece of paper on the kitchen-
table. Are you sure you know
which way the thimble goes in?”
“Yes, I know.” She thought
of the pile of washing waiting to
be done, but for a hundred
pounds it would be well worth
while leaving it.
She put the clock in the loft.
hurried through the housework,
and dressed the two girls for
school while Bill, her twelve-
year-old son, watched for the
pigeons,
“It’s my turn now,” she smiled,
handing him his school-bag.
“Trap the winner, Mum, then
I can have that new bike,” he
said as he went out the gate.
Julie’s tiring watch began. She
waited hour after hour, afraid
to go into the house even for a
cup of tea. Then, far away in
the sky, appeared a small speck.
On it came, flying so high that
every few seconds she would
lose sight of it altogether.
Thrilled and excited she
watched it. It circled twice
round the loft, then folded its
wings, gracefully descended and
landed on the trap. She felt
that the first-prize was almost
within her grasp. There it sat,
leisurely preening its feathers,
then it talked around, peering
into the loft at its companions,
through first one square and
then another.
Julie thought of all the
language Jack used whep the
same thing happened to him,
and how much she also would
like to get a gun and shoot it.
With a sinking heart she counted
the precious seconds, and saw
the prizemoney slowly slipping
away.
At last it made up its mind to
enter. Thank goodness for
that! She gave a sigh of relief.
Now to catch it.
She pushed open the door,
rushed into the loft, thimble in
hand. She chased the bird round
and round, pulling out quite a
few feathers as she made one
grab after another, before she
finally caught it.
T N her excitement she had
I dropped the thimble, and lost
quite a few seconds before she
found it again. Taking the
rubber ring off its leg, she
pushed it into the thimble, then
stopped suddenly to consider.
She could not think which way
Jack had told her to put it in
the clock.
She had been certain she
knew, but now that she had
the ring in the thimble she was
not so sure. The wrong way
meant that Jack’s clock would
be disqualified, and if that hap-
pened her life would not be
worth living. He had shown her
so often, but she always forgot.
Shs was losing time thinking it
over, so she decided to take a
chance. Dropping it into the
slot, she turned the key, and
started, the clock.
But there had been so much
time lost that, unless the pigeon
was minutes ahead of the other
flyers’ birds. Jack would not
stand a chance.
As she set the clock on the
dining-room table she was
already beginning to worry.
She was almost sure now that
she should have put the thimble
in the opposite way. Right or
wrong, it’s too late now, she
sighed to herself.
Julie had made some terrible
mistakes trapping-in on several
previous occasions. The last
time she had seen a pigeon land
in the trap she had rushed in,
taken its rubber ring off, and in
her excitement had forgotten to
check its number. The pigeon
was a stray one from another
club.
Then there was the time Jack
had left celluloid rings on his
racing pigeons. He was flying in
two clubs at the time, and had
written on paper one certain
color to go in each particular
clock. Julie had trapped in with
the celluloid rings.
He had taken a long time to
get over that mistake, and she
very nearly left home. As one
pigeon-flyer put it, the air was
blue for weeks, and he could
hear the language at his home in
the next street.
I ACK came home a bus
earlier than usual. His eyes
sought the clock before anybody
or anything else, and the light
that shone in them when he saw
that it had been trapped was
worth going a long way to see.
“What time did you trap-in? ”
He picked the clock up and
examined it. “Did you trap my
little blue bar?” he asked
excitedly. “I hope I’m in the
prizemoney ; then I can buy that
kit of carpenter’s tools I’ve
been wanting.”
She wished she could share
his enthusiasm, but it was with
a heavy heart she answered, “I
hope so, too,” not daring to
ask if she had made a mistake.
He put the clock back on the
table, hung his hat and coat on
a peg in the back hallway and
went into the bathroom to wash
for dinner.
Julie heard the familiar pigeon
whistle out in the yard. She
went to the door. Fred Jones
and Bob Evans stood there,
pigeon clocks in their hands.
“Good evening, Mrs. Brown.
Did you get your bird? What
time did you trap-in? Did you
have much trouble?”
“About three o’clock,”
answered Julie, when she got a
chance to speak.
“Did you lose much time?”
they asked all the same ques-
tions that Jack had asked a few
minutes previously. Then they
told her all the experiences their
wives had had trapping-in. She
wondered if they were as
worried as she was at the present
moment.
Jack came to the door wiping
his hands, and the whole busi-
ness was related again. If I
only knew, she thought.
The three men went back to
the loft, where Jack’s bird
was caught and examined
thoroughly, and all the merits
of his and the other men’s birds
were repeated.
They waited outside while he
put on his coat and hat.
“Where are you going? Your
dinner’s ready.” Julie was get-
ting out of patience with him.
“To the clubroom. I’ll have
it when I get back; I won’t be
long.” He kissed her as he went
away.
What’s the use? she thought,
as she put the children’s dinner
on the table.
“Aren’t you going to have
yours?” asked Bill.
“I’ll have mine when your
father comes.”
“Mummy, can I have a new
doll’s pram if daddy wins?”
asked June.
“And can I have a walking
doll?” chimed in Joy.
“I’ll see.” Julie went to the
work-basket, took out her wool
and needles, and began to knit
furiously.
What kind of humor would
Jack be in when he came back?
If his pigeon was first home and
he was disqualified because
of her mistake—the suspense
was making her feel ill as she
waited.
HE came in about two hours
later, and before he spoke
she searched his face for the
anger she was sure must be
there. . . „ ,
“You’ve done it agam, he
said quietly, closing the door,
and from his tone she could not
judge what he meant, but in a
very small voice said “Have I,
Jack?”
“Don’t you realise what
you’ve done, Julie? Youve
trapped the five-hundred-mile
winner. That little bird was out
on its own,” he said proudly.
He walked across to her chair
and put an arm around her.
“Does that mean—oh, Jack, 1
thought . , . " Happy tears
filled her eyes ; she felt as proud
as if she had ridden the winner
of the Melbourne Cup.
THE GATE’S OPEN.
The paddock’s a lonely space to stay inside
When the gate’s open to the whole world wide.
Td step outside, were I Macpherson’s bull,
And bluff the world at large. How wonderful
To bail up Jock Macpherson on the road.
Make him remember God, and all Jock owed;
Then stamp the mushrooms after August rain
Like organ-stops; hear early thunder, plain;
And roar, and scrape the dust, and bust a fence
To raise the cost of beef, and damn expense I
Always a quiet flat where clover, late
In the winter, blossoms with an earthy spate
Of scent and discontent for cows—ah, cows,
The women that I love! forget the vows,
Devotion to the breed cooped at! the stud.
And let us mix a little earth with blood.
QUEENSLAND.
JONG BLIGHT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Western New Guinea
Australia, the country most concerned
in the matter of Dutch New Guinea, has
apparently been content to have no
active part in the proceedings at The
Hague. Actually, both in the interests
of her own defence and of the natives,
Australia has a better claim to Western
New Guinea than either of the two dis-
putants, Holland and Indonesia.
Holland, ten thousand miles away on
the other side of the world, stands to lose
some oil royalties and a bundle of
administrative headaches, Indonesia
stands to acquire a country to which it
has no real right on any grounds what-
ever, which it doesn’t really need and
which it probably would not administer
properly, let alone develop. On the other
hand, Australia’s existence cap be
threatened by whoever holds New
Guinea, only one hour’s flying time from
our northern coasts.
With the exception of the four-year
break during the Pacific War, the Dutch
have been in continuous occupation of
Western New Guinea for over 120 years,
since the annexation of 1828. Their
record there is not impressive. From the
first they regarded the country as the end
of their colonial world, and treated it as
such. For over 100 years, practically
nothing was done to develop the territory.
Attempts at colonisation consisted mainly
in planting small garrisons at points along
the coast and after a few wretched fever-
stricken years withdrawing what was left
of them.
During the present century, New
Guinea has been used as a dump for
political prisoners and as an outlet for a
small fraction of the unwanted, unhappy
Eurasians of Java. Agriculture was
mainly a matter of coconuts, and until
1949 copra in very moderate amounts was
the only export item worth mentioning.
The tiny European population of a few
hundreds was made up mostly of officials.
The 400,000 or so natives were, and con-
tinue in large part to be, bone-in-the-nose
savages. The interior is still largely un-
known, The discovery of payable oil in
the Vogelkop peninsula, and the com-
mencement of its export last year,
brightened up this Cinderella’s future.
For the first time the 152,000 square miles
of jungles, mountains and malarial
swamps became worth arguing over. Now,
with the loss of the fabulous Indies, the
Dutch are clinging desperately to the last
fragment of their Empire, which, what-
ever way The Hague decision goes, they
can hardly hold much longer. Hie first
attack in any strength would spell their
doom.
The Indonesians base their claim to
New Guinea on the apparent fact that it,
or some part of it, was at one time in-
cluded in an Indies Empire which
flourished some 600 or 700 years ago.
On that ground Italy could lay claim to
England and France and the Icelanders
to New York. Their other claims are as
nonsensical. Geographically New Guinea
is part of Australia. Its Papuan, Mela-
nesian and Negrito inhabitants the
“fuzziest” of “fuzzy-wuzzies” have
nothing at all in common with the Malay-
sian Indonesians, but a great deal in
common with the natives of Australian
New Guinea. As to “living space,” the
Indonesians have plenty of it in their
great half-empty islands of Borneo and
Sumatra.
Australia is at the moment engaged in
the urgent job of trying to fortify her
eastern half of New Guinea. This,
badly as it is needed, is worse than useless
if the western half is to fall into un-
friendly hands. Merauke is as near Aus-
tralia as Port Moresby. The problems
affecting the health, education and
advancement of the natives of both New
Guineas are substantially the sßpie, and
Australia is in a position to do a better
job here than either Holland or Indo-
nesia. Apart from that she could do a
better job of development. Her record
in her New, Guinea territories is open to
a lot of criticism. But at least big-scale
copra, gold and rubber industries have
been established. The interior has been
systematically explored and brought under
control. There are same hundreds of
miles of roads. There is a determined
“They’re your children —remember , Santa Claus?”
and continuous, if expensive and not
always well-advised, effort to bring about
native advancement generally. This com-
pares more than favorably with the Dutch
performance. About the Indonesians in
this respect the less said the better, for
they have a rough way with weaker
peoples, as Ambon shows only too
graphically.
As things stand the Western New
Guinea territory is a vacuum the Dutch
cannot fill and which the Indonesians,
from our point of view, must not be
allowed to fill. If the Dutch remain in
control Australia should make them a
reasonable offer to transfer their
sovereignty to her, or at least to insist
on being allowed to co-operate in
strengthening the territory’s defences. In
this latter case we would also have to
ensure that no oil found its way to un-
friendly Powers. Should the Indonesians
take over there would be only one clear
course for this country to take for its
own safety. Lacking American interven-
tion—and that can’t be expected, after
the Manus affair—the Australian flag, by
whatever means, would have to fly over
Western New Guinea. The times are too
dangerous to leave our back door wide-
open. — K. A. Saxby (N.S.W.).
Abolition of Local Autho kiv*
“J.S.” (B. 15/11 /’5O) says day wUI
come when local-government
will be abolished. He might vxU
say that about any othei
authority in the Empire.
Shire clerks (or some of th i) are not
the only employees who faw,, uioixopw-
polistic Government control. No com-
petent shire clerk need lose any sleep
about his position, because there is always
a majority in any L.A. council to uphold
the claims of all reliable employees.
The areas over which shire councils
exercise control are very large, and under
the present system, with allotments
assigned to each councillor, the work is
well done by men elected by the people
in respective divisions at a low overhead
cost to the ratepayers—whose claims
surely far transcend those of a few dis-
gruntled shire clerks.
“J.S.” would have more boards, more
centralisation and control by highly-paid
Government servants. In some cases he
would make the shire clerk the sole
dictator.
We, in the country, have had lots of
experience of the delays and procrasti-
nations of Government departments, and
we know where we would be about roads,
bridges and washaways under the sole
direction of a central one-man authority
who could not be conversant with the
varying needs of local-authority areas
embracing thousands of square miles.
No. Local authorities will not be
abolished unless the socialisation craze is
permitted to spread its rot throughout the
country. —H. I. C. (Q.).
That wholesale abolition of local
government which “J.S.” visualises (B.
15/11/ ’5O) wouldn’t work out. It
smacks too much of the commissar
system for one thing, and is redolent of
the astonishing superstition that “the
Guv’ment” is at all times wise beyond
the ken of ordinary mortals.
True, local government has its faults,
although “J.S.’s” sweeping assertions do
less than justice to the thousands of good
citizens who have served their districts
all over the Commonwealth with no
thought of reward and often at consider-
able trouble to themselves. “J.S.” also
ignores the very vital principle involved —
“No taxation without representation.”
Where are these gifted Government
types to come from, to be sent hither and
thither to administer areas full of cranky
and suspicious country-folk? The prin-
ciple that local affairs should be ad-
rrii.v ...tea by ial men is an ideal that
” m very - in this country of vast
... f h , at all. Whatever their
al councillors are prepared to
s. i m with the district, to put
thi ' into it, liv ■’> in it and raise
the. ;;a ’s. tf>ere. How could settle-
ment, oi th>. outb;ak be sensibly
encourage a e very met who had the
courage to c o> there in the first place
weren’t give f he responsibility of de-
velopment Progress? R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Independent Speaker
Sticking to nf traditions has
caused quite a Sot trouble in this
country. One of those traditions is the
appointment of a Sp v House of
Representatives from he members of the
winning party. Sun the diViity of
Parliament could be much be- n 'pre-
served and the business of F.vrhbment
carried on in a much mors efficient
manner if we had a specialty rained in-
dependent Speaker, who woo be civil
servant, specially trained in Pa
procedure.
Human nature being what it
rarely possible for any Speaker to
absolutely impartial all the time —w.
seen some glaring examples in u
years. Further, when a Speaker
appointed from the ranks of members, tL
electorate sending the chosen man to
Parliament is deprived of a true repre-
sentative in Parliament, An independent
Speaker would be better for all concerned.
— Eureka (N.S.W.)
Training in Agriculture
I agree with “Retired Teacher” (B.
15/11/’5O) that, until the prejudice and
apathy are wiped from the minds of
parents of schoolchildren, Australia will
continue to remain deficient in people
technically trained to assist in the im-
provement of our country. But there is
a more scientific manner of tackling the
problem than the expensive publicity
campaign he seems to suggest.
Here in New Zealand an experiment
is being carried out by the headmaster of
Pukekohe High School, L. V. Bryant.
After visiting many schools to look over
the attractive features of their agricul-
tural courses, he decided that agriculture
must be made sufficiently exclusive to
catch the eye of prospective trainees.
Bryant believes that running a large
farm, on which pupils are used as farm
laborers to keep it operating, is wrong.
Consequently he only allows seven acres
to be worked at the Pukekohe High
School. These are divided up into small
experimental sections which are fenced
off with the latest type of fencing—con-
crete posts and barbed-wire. Such a
small unit costs less in upkeep, leaving
more to be spent on improvements and
expensive experiments, and looks like an
agricultural laboratory. The important
point is that only those taking agriculture
are allowed to enter the area.
Also on the property is a shearing-shed,
and it is proposed to employ a first-class
shearer to give instruction in all phases
of shearing. As Bryant says, “the im-
portant thing is to teach pupils how to
shear, not how to get sheep shorn, as
they would learn at home and on neigh-
boring farms.”
Another point held by Bryant is that if
a pupil is to be successful in agriculture,
he must have a proper academic educa-
tion. Hence he allows agriculture to be
taken as a subject only by fourth- and
fifth-year students.
To encourage Bryant in his experiment
some of the big farmers’ organisations
have granted bursaries to enable out-
standing students to spend their holidays
at such places as the Massey Agricultural
College.—N.Z. Aussie (N.Z.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 101
Across.
I—Racecourse joint with a seed-
case on the Eternal City. (10)
s—Beat5 —Beat game backwards. (4)
9—S.S., not s.s., for such liberality.
(7)
11 — No ring but 550 directions for
floury food. (7)
12 — Laying siege to exist with a three-
mile telephone. (12)
14 — Racecourse urger on the way to
Guido’s keynote. (4)
15 — Blushing vassal foamed at the
mouth. (8)
18 — The girl with Heflin, I see, is
pertaining to chemically-produced
electric current. (8)
19 — It is the finish of many an ill-
ness. (4)
23 —The more bankrupt stand-in may
go off pop, (6, 6)
25 — A high wind ripped fuss. (7)
26 — Illness is keeping mum before
50 get an operatic song. (7)
27 — Tidings of a bridge four? (4)
28 — Glenelg is an example of this
cobber in the airport. (10)
Down.
1 — The first is Henry I and the last
is but a fish. (7)
2 Elfin Costello joins the crafty in
a dangerous way. (10)
3 Open the Abyssinian vizier in
musical works. (6)
4 Train carries a fellow baboon. (8)
6 Behold the French trouble-maker
in “Cavalleria Rusticana.” (4)
7 Asphyxiate the partner for a
French boy. (7)
8 — Turn a blind eye towards little
Constance when she swallows
five. (7)
10 —Punch one of the beneficiaries of
your gardening. (4)
13 —King ate up the apparel on
nothing but an actress. (5, 5)
16 — Oriental structures make father
idol-like. (7)
17 — A derisive cry, not clearly
defined, on the French town in
' Victoria. (8)
18 — A tingle provided by this cook-
ing substance makes Greek earth
Roman. (7)
20 — A vessel in the same monicker. (7)
21— About the morning quantity of
paper. (4)
22 —Seabird stands over Edward
when hoaxed. (6)
24 —Sketch coppers uncooked. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 100.


That
boy of
yours
r
mm
m
'' v i > c> )sjs* r
X A
m
- 4
; : ' ' :
ill" I
::
zm
■ ■
SB®
Is
m
SxS.*
:' : ■
vi: ->'■
' . ' '
;
' ;
liilli
■m
mvfA
m
x,-
£ A:
vs. ' '■ -- ■>
■ss®.;>3
■
pill
111
Ixi '■ II lyS 1:1 ,; f S
>'?. ... -A '%• ' : .. >X <
- AX'
il
■ saw
•yS. ' ■. ' ' ' . ■
Wimm Mm Ullll
ill
wm
*'
mm-m
-
X : : ;
ss«:s
| - Isfi Isl
•y ' . I
TIE will carry on your name. You have
brought him up with affection and care,
and you want him to have the best possible start
for his career ... a position in the steel
industry.
He will keep that happy outlook as oppor-
tunities open up before him ... as the industry’s
Staff Training Scheme fits him for promotion.
Australia’s ever-developing steel industry has
big plans for the future, plans in which your
boy can take a successful and secure part. Give
him this chance.
There are vacancies available now for
technical and commercial trainees to start in
1951.
Call, write or phone The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. Ltd. today for further details
at any of the offices or works at Melbourne,
Newcastle, Whyalla, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Perth.
Your local B.H.P. manager will be glad to
help your boy plan an interest-packed career as
an engineer, metallurgist, chemist or on the
commercial side of the steel industry.
There’s a future for him in the steel industry
