

The Bulletin
nfhe Bulletin,” Vol. 71 —No. 3675
Wednesday, July 19, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Wells Cathedral,
a Medieval Masterpiece
in Stone
AT the foot of the green slopes of the
Mendip Hills in Somerset is the
beautiful cathedral city and market town
of Wells. According to tradition, a
church was founded there in the year 704
by King Ine near the springs which have
given the city its name. Since 909 Wells
has been the seat of a Bishop, but the
present Cathedral dates from the twelfth
century, and its west front is reputed to
be the finest existing example of early
English ecclesiastical architecture.
Of the Cathedral’s many unusual fea-
tures the west facade is particularly note-
worthy because of its elaborate carving,
which includes some six hundred statues
of prophets, kings and martyrs, many of
which are life-size or larger. The, superb
Statuary, carried across the whole facade
in six tiers, was the work of a local school
of craftsmen, and is considered to be the
finest collection of medieval sculpture in
England. During the Monmouth Rebel-
lion in 1685 the Cathedral was damaged
and some of the statues were decapi-
tated.
An unusual feature of the interior is
the inverted arch in the nave, inserted in
1338 to strengthen the tower. Here also
may be seen a mechanical fourteenth-
century clock which, in addition to
recording the time, shows the day of the
month and phases of the moon.
Mechanical figures in this famous clock
show four knights on horseback which
revolve every hour, one of the knights
being unhorsed; the figure, known as
“Jack Blandiver,” kicks a bell with his
heels and strikes the hour with a hammer ;
the quarter-hours are struck by two
knights in armour on the outside wall.
The Bishop’s thirteenth-century Palace
is surrounded by a moat in which swans
have been trained to ring a bell beside
the gatehouse when they are hungry.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
ebSEBB®
EUiUJulfl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining hotu to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE
The Red Page
FLYING SQUIDS.
Nothing is impossible in this world if
squids can fly ; and, skimming across the
Pacific in their raft the Kon-Tiki, Messrs.
Thor Heyerdahl, Knut Haugland, Bengt
Danielsson, Erik Hesselberg, Torstein
Raaby and Herman Watzinger were con-
vinced that these creatures, so placid and
unenterprising by repute, took to the air
all round them.
They kept finding squids—or should
one say, in correct sporting terminology,
squid?’ —on the roof of their bamboo
cabin or lying about on the deck with the
flying-fish that stranded themselves there
every night to be eaten for breakfast.
But squids don’t fly. This was a puzzle.
And, since there was some danger that
they might themselves be eaten by some
giant member of the squid family, of
exceptional interest. So they began squid-
watching. And one morning they saw
a whole shoal of them in the air, like
large rain-drops; and they discovered
that the squid, which normally gets along
by rocket-propulsion, can shoot itself
clean out of the water:
They pump sea-water through themselves
till they get up a terrific speed, and then
they steer up at an angle from the surface
by unfolding the pieces of skin like wings.
Like the flying-fish, they make a glider
flight over the waves for as far as their
speed can carry them. After that, we
often saw them sailing along for fifty to
sixty yards, singly and in twos and threes.
The fact that cuttlefish can “glide” has
been a novelty to all the zoologists we have
met.
Flying-saucers, then, though Thor
Heyerdahl excludes them from the other
marvels in The Kon-Tiki Expedition
(Allen and Unwin ; Angus and Robert-
son), are obviously giant cuttlefish. These
are bred in the clouds, having been ger-
minated and stimulated to enormous size
by the atomic-bomb and . . ,
But one does not wish to have one's
deepest and most tender convictions de-
rided.
Thor Heyerdahl, at any rate, proved
one of his own theories to be perfectly
feasible. Just as squids couldn’t fly till
he saw them doing it, so nobodv could
possibly cross the Pacific from Peru to
Polynesia on a raft of balsa-wood logs
until he and his Viking companions did
it. Everybody, especially naval men and
sailors, told him he would certainly be
drowned. The logs would become water-
logged and sink. The ropes binding them
together—not a single nail was used in
the Kon-Tiki—would fray and snap.
Storms would wash the voyagers over-
board.
But they sailed right across from Callao
to the Tuamotu Archipelago, where, not
very far from Tahiti, they crashed into
Raroia Reef and spilled themselves over
into the lagoon. And, though one is not
tempted by the account of their voyage to
set off in a raft even so far as Manly,
they did it with amazingly little trouble."
For a start, and again towards the end,
they had storm and rough seas; but the
raft rode the waves and what water came
aboard generously ran off again. As
Heyerdahl says, the more a raft leaks the
better. The logs became waterlogged to
a certain extent, but, because they had
cut themselves green timber from the
Peruvian jungle—where they had a lot
of fun with ants, scorpions and snakes—
the sap prevented too much water soak-
ing in. The ropes, instead of fraying to
pieces as the logs ran creaking and rub-
bing over the ocean, cut into the soft
wood and there, in their own grooves, lay
safe.
They didn’t run short of food because
though they were at sea 97 days, they had
plenty of fruit, tinned stuff and Army
rations and, for the whole journey, shoals
of obliging fish swam around and under
them and, every day, in all shapes and
sizes, flew, leapt or rolled on board with-
out even having to be hooked. More-
over, as Tlior Heyerdahl points out, often
they were sailing through seas of fish-soup
plankton which less scientific
voyagers, adrift and starving, must many
times have ignored but which they, like
the great whales that live on these masses
of fish-eggs, vegetable-spores and minute
shrimps, very sensibly netted and ate.
One must remember plankton, next
time one is adrift; and Thor Heyerdahl,
though some of his companions scorned
it, says it sometimes tasted like fish-paste
and sometimes like oysters—the vegetable
part is not so good.
Apart from the few days of storm and
the final desperate scramble on to the
reef among the breakers they did, of
course, have their moments of peril. They
weren’t washed overboard at night or
when they were taking their turn at the
big steering-oar astern, where the waves
were always around their feet, because
they tied themselves on. But once a man
fell overboard and, since the raft couldn’t
possibly be stopped or turned once the
trade-wind had it—if the wind did blow
it round it simply kept on sailing, back-
to-front —he nearly got left behind in a
very large ocean: Knut Haugland dived
over for him with a rope. And once,
when some of the crew were strolling
about the ocean on a calm day in their
rubber dinghy, a wind sprang up and
blew the raft away from them . . .
But, take it all round, it was an amaz-
ingly easy trip—so far as ease is com-
patible with living on a heap of rolling
logs “like a cork steamroller” in the
middle of the Pacific Ocean, With their
attendant pilot-fish swimming beneath
them under the impression that they were
a particularly interesting kind of shark,
with their weeds and barnacles clinging
to the underside of their logs and the little
crabs making homes for themselves in
the deck, they glided steadily to Poly-
nesia just as Thor Heyerdahl believed
that Kon-Tiki and the other bearded
white refugees from South America had
sailed centuries and centuries ago to be-
come the ancestors and gods and fairies
—the red-headed, fair-skinned, urukehu
people—of the Maoris.
A Book Society choice, a “Daily Mail”
book-of-the-month and an “S. M.
Herald” serial, The Kon-Tiki Expedition
has possibly been enough publicised
already. Yet let us, at least, award it
the Red Page’s special gold-plated bottle-
opener as the fishing-book of the century.
For, sailing along so placidly day after
day, Thor Heyerdahl’s Vikings had really
nothing to do but catch fish and watch
fish: and what fish, from the plankton
to the lordly whale, they caught and saw!
Flying-fish smacking cold and wet and
hard-into their faces ; sharks following
them day and night with their pilot-fish ;
dolphins racing and leaping around
them; golden-finned tunny in a shoal;
the rare snake-mackerel ( Gempylus ),
which was thought to live at great depths
because nobody had ever seen it alive,
wriggling one night in Torstein Raaby’s
sleeping-bag ; the monstrous whale-shark,
with the grin of a gigantic bulldog,
circling under the helmsman’s feet until
they harpooned it; the same Torstein,
while sitting at dinner on the deck, sud-
denly plunging his hand in the water
and pulling out—attached to a line it
had broken a few days before—a big
dolphin; remora—the sucker-fish that
attaches itself to the shark —hauled in
and reminding Thor Heyerdahl of “the
natives’ old trick” of catching fish by
tying a line to a remora's tail and letting
it swim out and attach itself to the first
fish it came across; flying squids ; flying-
saucers . . As Spenser put it:
And all the griesly Monsters of the See
Stood gaping at their gate, and wondred
them to see.
Well, it was a world of marvels and
monstrosities. As Heyerdahl says, when
you are sitting on a raft instead of
plunging through the ocean on a big
steamer you are like the naturalist who
sits quietly in the bush and waits for its
creatures to come and look at him. And
all day and all night the sea’s creatures
came to look at the Kon-Tiki:
When night had fallen, and the stars
were twinkling in the dark tropical sky,
the phosphorescence flashed around us in
rivalry with the stars, and single glowing
plankton resembled round live coals so
vividly that we involuntarily drew in our
bare legs when the glowing pellets were
washed up round our feet at the raft’s
stern. When we caught them we saw that
they were a brightly shining species of
shrimp.
On such nights we were sometimes scared
when two round shining eyes suddenly rose
out of the sea right alongside the raft and
glared at us with an unblinking hypnotic
stare —it might have been the Old Man of
the Sea himself. These were often big
squids which came up and floated on the
surface with devilish green eyes shining in
the dark like phosphorus. But sometimes
they were the shining eyes of deep-water
fish, which came up only at night, and lay
staring, fascinated by the glimmer of light
before them. Several times when the sea
was calm, the black water round the raft
was suddenly full of round heads two or
three feet in diameter, lying motionless and
staring at us with great glowing eyes. On
other nights balls of light three feet and
more in diameter would be visible down in
the water, flashing at irregular intervals like
electric lights turned on for a moment.
We gradually grew accustomed to having
these subterranean or submarine creatures
under the floor, but nevertheless we were
just as surprised every time a new version
appeared. At two o’clock on a cloudy
night the man at the helm.... caught sight
of a faint illumination which slowly took
the shape of a large animal Finally
there were three of these large, shining .
phantoms wandering round in slow circles
under us. We all quickly collected on
deck and followed the ghost-dance. It
went on for hour after hour, following the
course of the raft. Mysterious and noise-
less, our shining companions kept a good
way beneath the surface... .The glimmer
of light on their backs revealed that the
beasts were bigger than elephants, but they
were not whales, for they never came up
to breathe. Were they giant ray-fish which
changed shape when they turned over on
their sides?....We never got a proper
explanation of this nocturnal visit.
All things indeed are possible: flying
squids, monsters, and a raft-voyage from
Callao to Raroia Reef. Thor Heyerdahl
has certainly proved that Kon-Tiki (if
he existed) could have travelled by raft
in this way, and so he has answered one
formidable, academic objection to his
theory, which was that the “white gods”
who inhabited South America before the
Incas had no boats but only “un-
seaworthy” balsa-wood rafts. But
whether or not Heyerdahl has proved
that they did make the great voyage is
another matter.
It is a good theory, and there is much
to be said for it. It all ties up very
neatly. It is certain that the Incas had
a legend that their primitive forefathers
had been taught their arts, crafts and
sciences by a race of superior white
people who had come from overseas and
afterwards disappeared over the seas
again—that was one reason why the Incas
submitted so readily to the Spaniards ;
they believed that their i rt *
rulers had returned. g ‘ 1 w hite
And it is also a fact that th ~
voyagers in the Pacific saw man v »
, r ; eople among the browner p 0 n wflJte ”
Hie fair-skinned, red-haireri V Slans-
persist among the Maoris to tv
neither albinos nor half-castes W day;
blooded native people who are n? • I>Ure '
survivors of the urukehu race wb. T
in all Polynesian mythology as f a ° bgUre
demons, “people of the mist.” mes °r
Plavmg established white peonlp .
Peru and m Polynesia, He V eS J n
problem is to show they are on yerc * a W’s
same. One point of
been recognised: the fact {St lo .? 8
kumara, or sweet-potato a staniJ * tlle
throughout Polynesia, appears^ lV™
native of Peru. It has bSm I be a
that Polynesians went over there in S tk ted
canoes and got it; also that th P their
floated to Polynesia of *£
Heyerdahl says a potato would LS J?'
water if left to make so long a *
under its own power, and wiih age
answering the other suggestion d 5° Ut
toKon-Tikt took the 8 L
Kon-Tiki, according to In™
was the white ruler who, afte?
been defeated in battle by the
an island in Lake Titicaca, escS ?
sea with the remnants of his people £
was also the sun-king in the P wua
people’s sun-worshipping religion. Thd
m Polynesian mythology, was the first
human being, and was descended f ro m
laSher
Heyerdahl thinks that Kon-TiH
floated on his raft to Easter Island thp
nearest point to Peru, where he and hk
people built the gigantic stone statue
(resembling the statues found i nth '
jungle in Peru). Eventually, after fiS
race had spread through the Pacific, the
Eastei island people were massacred bv
brown-skinned invaders, but their women
ano children survived to continue the
urukehu strain. And Kon-Tiki’s memory
Adam ed t 0 beCOme Tiki > the Maori
The theory is all the better in that it
does not necessarily conflict with the
most widely-accepted opinion that the
Polynesians came from around the
Persian Gulf and Arabia; if the urukehu
wen - indeed a separate race, then the white
Polynesians might well have come from
Peru and the brown men from Arabia,
through India and Indonesia, as the
standard authorities have it
But there vere other names besides
Tiki's in Polynesian mythology; and
though Heyerdahl says he christened his
logs i j, Kane, Kama, Ho, Mauri, Ra,
Rang.. Papa, Taranga, Kura, Kukara and
Hit! in honor of Polynesian legendary
figures whose names had once been borne
with Tiki over the sea from Peru” he
quotes no authorities, he submits not a
word of linguistic evidence to support so
challenging a statement. A far more de-
tailed investigation is needed before the
theory is anything more than a fascinat-
ing theory. >
P. is pity that Heyerdahl has not sub-
mit! •' rle more evidence. There are
not even photographs of the Easter Island
and t • American monoliths for com-
parison. And ope would like very much
to know whether it is possible to trace
any connection between these stone
sculptures and the mysterious “Koro-
tangi,” which is a beautifully carved
stone bird, not of Maori workmanship,
supposed to have been brought to New
Ze. land in the Tainui canoe and which,
according to James Cowan, resembles
“an ancient Japanese bronze bird in a
New Zealand museum”: it could be an
exceptionally tangible, if not a conclusive,
piece of evidence one way or the other.
No doubt we shall hear from Heyerdahl
in more detail later. The Kon-Tiki
Expedition seems to be chiefly intended
to establish the one great fact that the
raft-voyage from Peru was possible. It
was. And the story of it, excellently
translated by F. H. Lyon and alive with
high spirits, fish and salt-water not to
mention flying cuttlefish —makes a book
in a thousand.
THE CICADAS.
On yellow days in summer when the early heat
presses like hands, hardening the sown earth
into stillness, when after sunrise birds fall quiet
and streams sink in their beds and in silence meet,
then underground the blind nymphs waken and move.
They must begin at last to struggle towards love.
For a whole life they have crouched alone and dumb,
in patient ugliness enduring the humble dark.
Nothing has shaken that world below the world
except the far-off thunder, the strain of roots in storm.
Sunk in an airless night they neither slept nor woke
but hanging on the tree’s blood dreamed vaguely the dreams
of the tree
and put on wavering leaves, wing-veined, too delicate to see.
Now, now in terror overhead their day of dying breaks.
The trumpet of the rising sun bursts into sound
and the implacable unborn stir and reply.
In the hard shell an unmade body wakes
and fights to break from its motherly-enclosing ground.
These dead must dig their upward grave in fear
to cast the living into the naked air.
Terrible is the pressure of light into the heart.
The womb is withered and cracked, the birth is begun,
and shuddering and groaning to break that iron grasp
the new is delivered as the old is torn apart.
O love whose unmerciful blade has pierced us through,
we struggle naked from our death in search of you.
This is the wild light that our dreams foretold
while unaware we prepared these eyes and wings—
while in our sleep we learned the song the world sings.
Sing now, my brothers; climb to that intolerable gold.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Dreams in Prose .
Our dreams by night avenge the pcr-
juries of our day: that has always been
the reason for the poet’s licence, ana ui
source of his prophetic power ; and no
days a great deal of the world s dre
imagery is being separated from song f
printed as prose, much to its preOT
advantage, since poetry hardly sells,
—we have grown-up in the belie
poetry lasts longer. \r; o ht-
After reading such books as S
wood, by Djuna Barnes (Faber),
of Night, by Truman Capote
mann), and The Dreams, by Ann® Seb
tien (Cape), vre might well contrast th
clarity and poetic force of then P
(Continued on inside bock covetd


TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony
Horderns’
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES’
11-J
mm
WALK FROM TOWN HALL STATION
Wm
&4> i C
&
m
U'
HI
r
r
k
-
• !
3 " • yjl -
-.
<&ki
Waai
a
- "
■tf.vl
D
V
Bring an air of old world charm to the home
emi-Period Dining Suite
eight-piece semi-period Dining Suite is designed on graceful lines. The setting
brings an air of old world charm to the home. Beautifully constructed of
selected timbers and finished in a Rich Cedar colour. Seats are of attractive
regency pattern tapestry of Green and Rose. Price, £73/14/3.
£l7/18/3
vVV
£lB/19/6
CEDAR OCCASIONAL TABLE
-'This beautifully proportioned Occasional Table is just the thing for
the lounge room. 18in. high and 26in. top. Priced at only £H/8/-.
CEDAR VENEER COFFEE TABLE
This Cedar Veneer Coffee Table is ideal for a low lounge suite or settee.
15in. high, 33in. x 17£in. top. Anthony Horderns’ price is only £lB/19/6.
BRVm TABLE
An attractively designed Drum Table with hide top. Ideal for lounge
room. It has four drawers, 28in. high, 25in, top. Priced at £49/19/6.
CHIPPENDALE STYLE CHINA CABINET
This Cabinet has three glass shelves and an attractive mirror back,
finished in Cedar colour. 55in. high, 36in. wide. Priced at £4O/4/-,
CEDAR FINISH CHINA CABINET
Available in three types. 43in. high, 37in, wide, plain back, price,
£l7/12/3; fabric back, price, £lB/18/6; mirror back, price, £2l/4/9.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—THIRD FLOOR.
1a
sS
I u lll 'niM,i i^i
L ii.iai
7
£4O/4/-
£ll/8/-
THONE; M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEX


PRO DUCTS OF TH E
ROOTES
CROUP
sdfs
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
*3 ,
HILLMAN MINX
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
I
V
r~zz
k
HVJWBtR
COMMtR
ĥ df
CONNER
sd
COMMER
-
(CARRIER
backed by a vast world wide organisation
fs
\ THE
ROOTES GROUP
The first United Kingdom Motor Manufacturer to establish a Factory in Australia.
The great factories of the Rootes Group are producing a complete range of motor vehicles bearing names that have
famous since the earliest days of motoring—Humber—Hillman—Sunbeam-Talbot—Commer and Karrier. The high r
tions behind these names are being faithfully honoured In the Australian plant at Fishermen’s Bend where cars and tr
designed for the roads of the world are being built by Australians for Australians, at the rate of over 15,000 per yea .


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3675
Wednesday, July 19, 1950
THE SPREADING WEB.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K, Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Cqjlins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SHOWDOWN IN U.N.O.
The theory is being circulated that the
U.N.O. Security Council is showing itself,
over Korea, to be after all a virile body
and able to perform its designed func-
tions. Maybe—so long as Russia is not
present.
Australian airmen fighting in Korea
with the Americans under General
MacArthur are not engaged in war, says
Dr, Evatt, but in “a police action” to
“maintain peace.” They are there, he
supposes, not to oppose an implacable
enemy of this country—whose fifth-
column here, already moving into action,
is being given extended liberty by grace
of Dr. Evatt’s party in Parliament —but
to “support U.N.0.”
If this is not war, then it is a
sufficiently colorable imitation to have
aroused universal apprehension of its
throwing the world into war’s own con-
vlusions. The peace Dr. Evatt speaks of
being “maintained” is in Korea already
shattered. The only member-States really
supporting the Security Council, which
can’t secure anything (as Dr. Evatt has
himself already declared), and a United
Nations as disunited as the Australian
“Labor” party, are so far U.S.A., Aus-
tralia, Britain and, coming up, Canada
and Holland with more naval units. The
only allies Korea and America have in
the actual land fighting are Australian
airmen. With U.N.O. in this fashion of
“collective action” trying to stop war in
East Asia, every Asiatic member of
U.N.O. is merely looking on, indifferently
neutral-
On the European marches of the Soviet,
Germany and Austria are kept divided
by Russia just as Korea has been, and in
our own seas the pro-Soviet ruler of
Indonesia demands that New Guinea
shall be divided also. Supposing, on the
Korean precedent, Sovietised East
Germany should attack West Germany—
and the preparations are fairly obvious
—Dr, Evatt would presumably hold that
this also would entail not war but
“U.N.O. police action.” And if Indo-
nesia could get into position in Dutch
New Guinea with another Soviet-trained
“merdeka” force to attack Papua, would
Dr. Evatt wave his U.N.O. flag, or would
he howl, as in 1942, for 25 divisions from
Britain or America to save us?
Whether General MacArthur can hold
on to Korea or not, some immediate con-
sequences will be presented for settle-
ment by U.N.O. itself and by none else.
On these consequences Dr. Evatt is so
far silent. The Government of the South
Korean Republic, returned from general
elections conducted under U.N.O. super-
vision, has been recognised as the Gov-
ernment of Korea by U.N.0., whose
commission is still in the country. North
Korea is a separate territory only by
grace of Soviet opposition to the U.N.O.
decision. The invaders are trained
and armed by Russia and spearheaded by
the latest Russian tanks —a Russian army
in all but name. Its attack could not
have been launched without Moscow’s
approval, direction and diplomatic sup-
port. It could be halted dead in its tracks
by one word from the Soviet Govern-
ment. As a member of the Security
Council, and pledged to join in prevent-
ing a breach of the peace, it is the Soviet’s
duty by the U.N. Charter to speak that
word. The Soviet has refused to do so
in reply to requests from U.N.O. head-
quarters and from both the American
and British Governments direct. It
grounds its refusal on the allegation that
the South Koreans began the hostilities,
a facsimile of /Esop’s upstream wolf's
complaint that the downstream lamb had
muddied the wolfs drink.
In the result the offence is against much
more than the Korean republic. It is
outright defiance by Russia of the
authority of U.N.O. and of Russia’s
pledges, taken in common with other
members of the Security Council, to
uphold the rule of law instead of armed
might in the society of nations. If Korea
goes undeq, U.N.O. as constituted can
hardly survive; and if U.N.O. is worth
anything it may as well fight to the last
for the principles it expresses. Korea
should be the final evidence wanted of
the Soviet’s bad faith, and honest
members of U.N.O, must either take
corrective action or put the show into
liquidation. The plain ugly truth is that
under Soviet Russia’s tactics of calculated
disruption, its breach of elementary
pledges and its sheer brawling defiance,
U.N.O. today is impotent and a menace
to any small State which relies upon it to
restrain an aggressor.
The U.N. General Assembly should be
summoned at once to proceed under
Article 6 of the Charter:
A member of the United Nations which
has persistently violated the principles con-
tained in the present Charter may be
t expelled from the organisation by the
General Assembly upon the recommenda-
tion of the Security Council.
The Security Council could make that
recommendation forthwith, and it would
be as valid in the Soviet delegate’s
absence as (according to Dr. Evatt) is its
recent resolution, passed with Russia not
in attendance, declaring the attack on
South Korea to be aggression in breach
of the Charter. Soviet Russia has been
refusing to attend the Security Council
because the Council has declined to admit
Communist China to the permanent seat
held by Nationalist China. The Soviet
could, of course, swallow its words on
this point and attend in order to veto a
motion for its own expulsion; and it
might also veto ratification of any recom-
mendation by the General Assembly
(under Article 109) for a review of the
Charter, which recommendation would
have to be endorsed by the Council.
But the Soviet’s right to attend and
vote at all could, surely, be challenged
under Article 2:
All members, in order to ensure to all
of them the rights and benefits resulting
from membership, shall fulfil in good faith
the obligations assumed by them in accord-
ance with the present Charter.
In short terms, if the Soviet refuses to
attend, then let the Security Council
expel it in absentia; if it does attend,
then let its delegate be required at the
outset to endorse the previous resolutions
on Korea, in proof of willingness to fulfil
obligations, before being allowed to
assert any privileges, or indeed to be
further admitted. The Soviet, if it objects,
could be told to take a case to the World
Court. If U.N.O. and the Powers of the
Atlantic Pact should let the case of Korea
go by default, they would not only be
providing the precedent for a Soviet
attack across the Rhine —they would be
inviting it. It is not sufficient to clean
up Korea; the loyal majority in U.N.O.
must also clean up the Security Council.
Of course, Russia may thus be “pro-
voked” to action of her own. So far as
Australia is concerned, any citizen who
approves the Federal Government’s Anti-
Communist Bill cannot well balk at the
risk of offending Moscow on the higher
level. Evidence has accumulated that the
Soviet remains in U.N.O. only to disrupt
it, just as in 1931 it accepted membership
in a special European Commission of, the
old League of Nations in order to wreck
it, as was subsequently admitted officially.
The 1948 report of the U.S. House of
Representatives’ Committee of Foreign
Affairs on “The Strategy and Tactics of
World Communism” declared on docu-
mented evidence that the Soviet does not
believe in the possibility of world peace
“before the revolution,” and acts accord-
ingly. Treaties are made in order to bind
the hands of the other party, not
Russia:
The Soviets’ membership in the United
Nations and their permanent seat with veto
in the Security Council are worth more
to them in the balance of power than any
of the territories they have annexed or the
satellites they dominate They hope the
weakened institutions of Western Europe
can be broken. They know how to increase
the strains and they have announced that
they will use all means to do so Infiltra-
tion of organisations and underground
politics the development of a Red Army
in Korea (see Byrnes, Speaking Frankly),
the espionage activities in Canada revealed
by the Canadian spy trials in February,
1946, and the development of Greek
guerrilla forces based upon aid from north
of the Greek frontier are all pieces from
the same cloth.
General Walter Bedell Smith, American
Ambassador at Moscow 1946-49, in his
book on his experiences in that post,
quotes as outstanding in the Soviet’s
malice towards America the utterly
villainous and abusive radio propaganda
which is the Soviet Government’s daily
commentary upon its leading colleague
in the guidance of the world into secured
peace. He says that if another world war
depended upon the Soviet’s own wishes
and hatred it might be regarded as a
certainty; that “we [all democracies, not
only Americans] are being forced into a
continuing struggle for a free way of
life that may extend over many years,”
but that if we keep strong, lay our course
with good heart and stick to it resolutely
we can get peace and security despite the
Soviet.
If the nations so minded should make
a start by getting tough with Russia in
the Security Council they mignt produce
unexpectedly valuable results. At least
we ought to be sure of what we are sup-
porting in U.N.O.
Out on a Limb.
A third world war seems not only pos-
sible but certain unless one of two things
happens—either the Communist regime
in Russia collapses or the Russians
succeed in obtaining their objective,
which is the conquest of the world
through universal revolution by means of
the internal operations of fifth-columns.
All the fifth-column plans have been
made. The instructions have been issued
to Communist parties. They are in print,
and have been for more than 20 years.
And yet, though nation after nation goes
behind the Iron Curtain and the red
stain of Communism spreads ever nearer
to us, the attitude in Australia continues
to be that basically Communism is a
local matter which can be dealt with
under the law of the land.
Thus, this year Parliament has con-
cerned itself for most of the session with
a bitter fight to secure the passing of the
Communist Party Dissolution Bill —vital
as this measure is—while only after the
session ended was any plan put forward
to deal with an equally pressing aspect of
the Communist danger; the necessity for
military, naval and air defence.
As far back as a year ago Mr. Fraser,
a Socialist Prime Minister in New
Zealand, who had everything to lose poli-
tically by raising the question, forced con-
scription on an unwilling trade-union
movement. He did this on the basis of
information obtained in England during
his previous visit. He did it with the
backing of the Maoriland Labor party,
and, with only one exception, with the
full support of his Ministry.
At the end of May last year Mr.
Fraser informed the annual trade-union
congress that it was his innermost con-
viction that if there is an opportunity for
certain Powers to overrun the world they
would do so; that the attack was “a
matter of timing, not of principle,” and
that if there was a difference of opinion
anywhere about the facts it was as to
whether “it was humanly possible to
raise the force which might be required
in time.”
Mr. Fraser said:
This country must trust the Government
and empower it to bring in national ser-
vice. If Shanghai falls [which it did
immediately afterwards], and if Hong Kong
falls, too, there are still thousands of miles
of water before we are reached; but we
would need to do our bit together with
the British Commonwealth and the United
Nations.
A year afterwards, with the Socialist
Chifley Government out of office, Aus-
tralia has been asked to “do its bit”;
and if that bit had been crucial to the
safety of the country, it would have been
so small as to be completely valueless.
Yet the new Government, admittedly
harassed by a wanton “Labor” Opposi-
tion and governing by the grace of a
larrikin “Labor” Senate majority, has
been slow to do more than its predecessors
did. A few thousand naval reservists are
to be called up. Some time next year, if
there is accommodation and suitable
facilities, 15,000 youths over 18 years old
will be enrolled for a citizen-force effort
which bulks about half the size of that of
New Zealand, which has a quarter of
Australia’s population. It is hoped that
in four years the annual number of
youths inducted (for a* very limited train-
ing) will be 21,000.
With present labor shortages, provided
the country is to continue on its present
luxury basis and the defence forces to
be run with top-heavy staffs of civilians,
universal military training is very difficult
to consider as a practical possibility. In
North Korea every man seems to have
been trained and most of them multiplied
by two in the process. In Russia
this year defence expenditure totals
£17,500,000,000 on the Budget presented
two months ago, against £760,000,000, or
one-twentieth of the Russian allotment,
by the United Kingdom and £70,000,000
sterling by Australia.
But in Australia the general attitude
of mind appears to be that everything
will turn out all right. The United States
will come to light at the right time and so
will the British, along with all Mr.
Spender’s friends in South-East Asia,
not one of whom shows any sign
of rallying to the help of the United
Nations in Korea.
It is not all right. With war on the
doorstep this country could not muster
a fighting brigade on short notice. The
meagre force planned under the existing
scheme for the R.A.A.F.—92 operating
machines, two long - range fighter
squadrons, three heavy - bomber
squadrons, two transport squadrons,
a tactical recce squadron—i s on i v
somebody’s pipedream, and at tv! y
end of last year the R.A.A.F. was at T P ir!
3000 below the strength which it SS
designed to reach under the 1947 nlan
and much weaker on the basis 5
machines. The R.A.N. was then in even
worse plight, from a manpower point nf
view. 01
Current new plans are certainly not
emanation from the heads of the serviced
unless they have been persuaded that tW
must cut their coats to meet Mr. Faddenv
financial views. If there is any
tion by Mr. Fadden he should be ov*'
ridden. A million spent soberly on d P
fence now is worth 10 million spent in
the extravagant chaos of war-tinJ
urgency. Defence expenditure is, after
all, merely an insurance premium’ Th P
problem is not primarily a financial one
m any case. If the question of necessity
is decided in the affirmative, then the
next thing to be considered is manpower
and materials. If these two items are
available-—and necessity will decide their
availability—then the money can alwav<j
be found. *
If it is felt that men cannot be
spared from their employment for camps
then at least the Government might take
some steps to see that a few of them are
spared from Saturday League football
and the arduous duty of “listening to the
races so that they can be taught
the bare rudiments of soldiering. And
certainly some attempt should be made
to build up a prototype military force of
at least divisional strength, equipped with
the newest accessories of modern warfare
which could go anywhere when needed
for active service, and which, in the
meantime, could form the nucleus from
which the land defence forces could be
expanded and act as an exemplar for
training citizen forces.
At present the Army especially has not
sufficient machinery for teaching a large
body of recruits and new officers what a
well-trained unit, fit for battle, looks like,
how it works, what it does and how it
travels.
Should the next war reach these shores,
every able-bodied person, male, female’
aged and juvenile, will be involved and
on service, as were virtually all the
British in World War 11, whether they
have industrial duties or not. If anybody
has the comfortable feeling that armor
and push-button warfare will substitute
for manpower, the idea can be put aside
as wholly fallacious. Nobody in
authority has ever accepted it save the
Chifleys and the Evatts, who persist in
adopting every purposeful Communist
illusion which is launched into the world.
It is time that public opinion was
aroused about the dangers which beset
us. There is no certainty, if there is 'a.
war in Europe or China, that either the
United States or the Socialist-governed
United Kingdom would be able to defend
us or even help us. As Mr. W. Kent
Hughes remarked in the Federal Parlia-
ment, “If we were'out on a limb in 1939,
we are now clinging to the last autumn
leaf.” If we won’t help ourselves, nobody
else will.
Literature and Politics.
“C.”: Adelaide section of the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers has changed its
name to the South Australian Writers’
Club because it is convinced that the
F.A.W., as constituted in the “eastern
States,” is a “Red movement,” with which
Adelaideans don’t want to be associated.
A great many “eastern States” writers
have also dissociated themselves from the
F.A.W. in recent years. They, unlike
their S.A. brethren, have intimate per-
sonal knowledge of The thing, and what
they know they don’t like. For too long
now the F.A.W. has done more to push
the Communist line than it has furthered
Australian literary interests.
What cured the Adelaide people was a
letter from Sydney branch of the F.A.W.
asking them to support it in a letter to
the U.S. Consul protesting against con-
viction of sundry “Red writers who re-
fused to give the American Government
information in court.” Th ® Ad £ la .
made it clear to the F.A.W. that
organisation has no intention or te &
any foreign Power how to run its busi-
ness.” .
Apart altogether from Communism,
poets, short-story writers and no veil s
prostitute their art when they beco®
political propagandists of any sort ■ M*
writings. It may be answered that Henry
Lawson was a Labor-party advocate
True enough; but the partofL , d
work that lives is that which had n
politics Ip it. The same is true of every
remembered writer of the past.
As for Communism, no true artiste
distinguish it from Fascism or any
form of mental and physical tyranny.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Farewell to a Comrade.
Comrade Ernest Thornton, of the Iron-
workers’ Federation, who has been absent
from Australia for some time, is going to
settle in Peking, where he will sit on
the Liaison Bureau of the World Federa-
tion of Trade Unions. This is the suc-
cessor of the Red International, and the
field army of the Cominform.
Some believe that Comrade Thornton
is deserting the sinking ship of Aus-
tralian Communism. But Communists
are not allowed freedom of choice as to
where they go and what they do, as
Thornton learned to his cost quite early
in his career. Since then, when Joe
turned over, Thornton has turned over.
Thornton came to Australia many years
ago with the Big-Brother Movement, and
Australia was kind to him; but he has
opposed everything that Australia stands
for including the Constitution, which has
allowed him freedom to foul the British
system with abuse.
In April, 1940, he said that he hoped
that the scabs of Downing-street would
be defeated as he hoped that Hitler would
be defeated. But he was all for a victory
by Soviet Russia.
In September, 1941, he was instru-
mental in helping to organise strikes in
munition factories in order to try to force
the release of two fellow-Communist
ruffians who had been caught helping to
organise for insurrection. In June, 1942,
when this country was in dire peril of
invasion and when the Communist party,
of which he was the agent, had spent
months “demanding” the internment of
“red-baiters” who caused “disruption,” he
boasted that his union had made strikes
its business, and had used the war to
blackmail employers for higher wages—
until Soviet Russia had been double-
crossed by its German ally, after which,
of course, the war became a “democratic”
war which had to be supported.
They Need It All.
When this went to the printer contribu-
tions to two Sydney appeals for cash
donations for the relief of flood victims
on the N.S.W. North Coast were head-
ing for the £ 150,000-mark, and there was
word of more money to come from ap-
peals in country and inter-State centres.
All of which is very warming, and
proves, if it needed proving, that the
Australian is all there when practical
sympathy and help are needed. Distri-
butions from the funds have been going
out to the distressed people, and their
feelings can be better imagined than
described.
This money, though of great assistance,
will provide little more than temporary
relief for the flood victims, who have
lost homes, businesses, farms, furniture
and jobs. Total losses in the affected
areas, if ever they can be finally assessed,
will run into millions, and for many of
the victims years must pass before they
recover from the blow.
The disasters of the northern rivers
are continuing ones, and, generously as
people have opened their hearts and
purses, they must keep them open, re-
peating donations wherever possible and
carrying the appeal to others. People
always give royally in the first flush of
sympathy; in this case the call is for
prolonged giving.
No Change at the F.O.
From London: Mr. Attlee hasn't
silenced the grumbling murmur of protest
by his forthright statement that he intends
to make no change at the Foreign Office.
The flare-up in Korea has only added to
the general concern that Britain has a
Foreign Secretary who is an invalid. All
who respect Mr. Bevin’s indomitable
spirits and bluff personality—and they
vastly exceed the number, both outside
an d inside his party, who admire his
policy—rejoice that he’s convalescent
a fter a second spell in hospital. Quite
genuinely, they feel that he’s earned his
retirement. He’s 69, has been in office
continuously for 10 heavy years, and is
comparable to a “walking casualty” at
action-stations.
It may be that Mr. Attlee’s announce-
ment was intended to put at rest the
minds of the hopefuls whose names
have been recurring with astonishing
frequency. Mr. Dalton is known to be
willing, but his “brown study” on Euro-
pean unity must surely have damned him
for all time. Mr. Bevan wouldn’t say
No.” gif Hartley Shawcross was at one
time a firm fancy who seemed to be
grooming himself for a place. He
dropped out of the running in favor of
Mr. Hector McNeil. Then there was that
able “silver-spoon” Socialist, Mr. Kenneth
Younger (Mr. Bevin’s Under-Secretary),
who became joint favorite with a
mysterious back-bencher by the name of
Davies.
The opinion now held is that Mr.
Attlee is clearly his own Foreign Secre-
tary. It may be that he can’t find anyone
of high-enough prestige who can be
spared, or it may be that he doesn’t want
a change. Mr. Bevin’s influence in
Labor’s powerfjil sponsors, the trade-
unions, can hardly be replaced; and his
removal might lead to serious faction
within the party.
The question that is being asked is:
“If Mr. Attlee is virtually responsible for
the Foreign Office, why doesn’t he take
it over and call himself Foreign Secretary,
so that we know where we are?” That
would seem to be the solution were it
not for the skeleton in the Labor-party
cupboard. ‘‘There is a precedent, and it
is not one that is cherished. It is hardly
likely that Mr. Attlee would wish to have
an old parallel case recalled—Labor’s
first Prime Minister, Ramsay MacDonald,
also held office as Foreign Secretary.
"'Labor's" Conference.
The disturbance within the Labor party
is indicated by the fact that 542 resolu-
tions were submitted behind closed doors
for debate at the A.UP.’s N. S. Wales
conference from July 14 to 16, some by
branches which subscribe openly to the
Communist party.
Sydney branch and the Ironworkers’
(the general secretary of the central body
of that union is about to go to Peking
and the Communist W.F.T.U.), the Water-
side Workers’, the Ship Painters and
Dockers’ and other branches which follow
the Communist line implicitly were among
those which brought forward subjects for
discussion. All the resolutions, however,
were not discussed. A device called an
“agenda committee,” developed into its
present “Labor”-party guise with the help
of a Communist-party prototype, enables
the leaders of the conference to select
whatever resolutions suit it for discussion.
The report of the debates as issued con-
sisted in the main of resumes of the
speeches of Mr. J. A. Ferguson, the
president, and Mr. Chifley, the leader of
the Federal Opposition.
Mr.- Chifley, in his role of prophet,
assured the conference that the Korean
War was unlikely to develop into a third
world war, that attitude being necessary
to his uncompromising opposition to
compulsory military training, but he gave
lip-service to the United Nations, which
he and Dr. Evatt appear to believe to
have been “Labor’s” own invention.
It would have been too much to expect
him to ask for unity of action by the
people of this country in a crisis in which
its squadrons, air and naval, are involved,
irrespective of the politics of those who
are fighting for Mr. Chifley’s ideals. He
made it clear that “Labor” had decided to
give all assistance “not to the Menzies
Government or the American Govern-
ment, but to the United Nations,” an
entity some of whose principal members
are on the enemy side, some bargaining
with Moscow, and the rest, save for the
United States and Britain, Australia,
Canada, Maoriland and the Dutch, doing
nothing whatever,
Mr. Ferguson exhibited the chameleon-
like quality of “Labor” and its leaders.
It was only in 1946 that Mr. Ferguson,
from the presidential chair of the con-
ference, invited the Communist party to
“disband, withdraw its candidates from
the political field and come into the
Labor party for a common effort.”
Last year he was saying that
there was “little difference between
the Communist party and the Liberal
party, in that both are vicious
in their opposition to Labor” —the only
criterion, apparently, on which he judges
a party —and urging action inside the
trade-unions because “the Communist
party’s strength is derived from its
spurious connection with and use of the
trade-unions.”
This year he made a declaration, form-
ally adopted by the conference, which
said that “Soviet policy is succeeding in
Asia because the Soviet Union extends
them a friendly hand,” and our “answer
to its methods should be bread to Asia
and clothing to Asia and security to
Asia,” because so far “the Soviet Union
is the only nation which has given them
a message of hope.”
At the weekend Mr. Ferguson, sup-
porting (like Mr. Chifley) the United
Nations, “branded North Korea as the
aggressor and Soviet Russia, as the insti-
gator” of the latest Communist threat
to world peace.
Money and Prices.
From Auckland: One of Maoriland’s
leading advocates of sound money and
a stable internal price-level, Henry J.
Kelliher, managing-director of Dominion
Breweries, Ltd., ex-director of the Bank
of New Zealand, proprietor and editor of
a monthly journal and a leading breeder
of pedigree cattle, took up the cudgels
again early in July on the side of the
Holland Government; but it was mainly
shadow-sparring, for the Socialists, who
were the opponents in years gone by, had
been virtually knocked out eight months
earlier. In the same week Prime Minister
Sid Holland claimed the new manage-
ment had stemmed the flood of inflation
within six months of getting into the
saddle, but most Maorilanders, particu-
larly housewives, weren’t so sure.
Kelliher, viewing the “legacy of mone-
tary inflation,” said: “The tremendous
stockpile of paper currency and bank-
created credit, a result of unprincipled
issuance of money unequated by goods
and services, is a threat and a menace to
the prosperity we have achieved. Further-
more, this continuous issuance of new
money into circulation depreciates the
purchasing-power of money already in
existence, lowers the money-value of
wages, forces up prices and increases the
cost of living. Above everything else, it
is a tax on wage-earners of the utmost
severity, and falls on pensioners and those
living on fixed incomes with cruel and
devastating effect.”
All Maoriland free enterprises applaud
Holland and Co.’s move to liberate the
Reserve Bank, and probably agree with
Kelliher that proposed legislative re-
form to give the bank full power over
credit and currency is a “most vital step”
towards a “more realistic and balanced
national economy,”
Another Kelliher thrust is: “Currency-
and credit-control play an important
strategic role in our economic life, par-
ticularly in relation to inflation and defla-
tion To the extent that monetary
policy can be made effective, other more
objectionable types of controls can be
more easily avoided or eliminated.”
Since the days when he was a friendly
barracker for the Socialists, before he
woke up to the dangers, Kelliher, along
with many other now-disillusioned
Maorilanders, has regained faith in the
virtues of the free-price system, and has
learned from the lessons of the last
decade that “there is no known system of
control ‘from above’ capable of doing
what the free-price system does auto-
matically, without form-filling, regimenta-
tion or proclamation,” if only it is linked
up with “a just and true measure of
value.”
Imported Ready-to-wears.
The Federal mission which went abroad
looking for prefabricated houses, hous-
ing schemes and anything else in that
line it could pick up got back last week
with the cheerful news that Australia
could get 40,000 houses a year from
overseas after the end of next year.
Mr, Casey, the Federal Housing
Minister, made what he called three im-
portant points. These were that overseas
firms would supply and erect houses com-
plete with foundations, paths, fences and
drainage; some would prepare the sites,
including engineering services; the price
of the ready-to-wears would be accept-
able. (If only they could supply per-
manent gas and electricity!)
It ought to sting whatever national
pride we have that a nation of 8,000,000
people, living in a country of 3,000,000
square miles amply supplied with build-
ing materials of all kinds, has got down
to sending officials to places 10,000 and
more miles away in search of ready-to-
wear homes. This in a country whose
fathers distinguished themselves as home-
builders, even unto the far deserts, often
depending on their own brawn and skill
to produce the materials they wanted.
Housing itself has become a political
football. Communists have been allowed
to dominate both the building unions and
those whose members make building
materials, the private builder has been
condemned as an “exploiter” (if he wants
to build homes as an investment he is so
hampered by Government authorities and
union demands that he often tosses it in
and sits on his capital instead), and in
almost every State are Housing Commis-
sions which employ hundreds of non-
builders whose chief job seems to be to
stop anyone else from building. All in
the mistaken notion that the Australian
people are a helpless, untrustworthy
lot who ought to be coddled and nursed
and generally protected from their innate
initiative and resource.
But the worst conception of the lot is
that houses must be built only for the
“poor”—or the class which, though most
of it enjoys wages and conditions far
superior, comparatively, to those en-
joyed by the giiddle-class, is still re-
garded by “Labor” politicians as the
“poor.” For their especial benefit hous-
ing sites are “declared” and cottages and
flats begun all over the place. Where
they are finished —an astounding number
never seem to get past the half-finished
stage —the eye is confronted with rows
of box-like dwellings or stark blocks of
flats (flats are even making country towns
hideous) whose barrack-like appearance
repels the genuine home-maker who
naturally wants to express his individual-
ism in his home. These constructions
shout to the heavens their identity, and
only desperate home-seekers or persons
without pride would like to live in them.
There was a time when any man in a
permanent job could go out, select a
block of land, buy it for cash or terms,
see a building-contractor, arrange finance,
and, without consulting planners or hous-
ing commissions and {without fear of
having a “priority” clamped on his site
or his material, start getting a home built
to his own ideas, so long as they didn’t
offend local-government rules. Until such
times return —or something like them —
housing will remain the tragedy it is.
The Red-tape Worm.
As an apologist for rising Common-
wealth Government peace-time expendi-
ture Mr. Fadden will have to do a bit
better.
True, the Chifley Government left him
with a deficit as a legacy. It won’t be
quite as big a deficit as Mr. Chifley esti-
mated, and, of course, last winter’s coal
strike made hay of departmental plans
for pruning of expenditure. Mr. Fadden
says he was deceived by the late Govern-
ment’s concealment of the drift in
Treasury outgoings, so that he may not
be able to reduce direct taxation after
all. Nevertheless, coming down to facts,
such relief depends on reduction of Gov-
ernment expenditure, and that in turn
depends largely upon reduction in Gov-
ernment employment figures. Mr. Fad-
den says these have risen, but that com-
plaints on that score ignore the facts that
the increase is in works and services and
that the numbers in administrative depart-
ments “actually decreased by 484 in the
first four months of 1950.” The net in-
crease during May was 1116, caused by
the taking-on of 869 new postal em-
ployees and 467 in building and construc-
tion.
The total number of Commonwealth
employees at April 30, 1950, was 201,611,
four times the figure as it stood in
1939. On December 31, 1949, that total
had been 196,798 —revealing an average
increase under the Menzies Government
of 1200 a month. This is better than the
increase noted during the Chifley regime.
But it is a long way from heralding any
reduction of this swollen Government
pay-roll and, consequently, from any
relief to the taxpayer.
Mr. Fadden has had an advisory com-
mittee reviewing the public service. Evi-
dently that committee is throwing up its
hands in despair. Chairman of the Pub-
lic Service Board says he can foresee “no
early reduction in public-service staffs.”
Questions the public will want to have
answered are:
Is the post-office to be compelled to pay
its way or is it to continue, as last year
(for the first time in history), to lose £5
million a year? Was it really necessary
to enlist in rural districts new swarms of
letter-carriers?
Is income-tax assessment to be simplified
so that taxpayers can compute with ease
their liabilities and some of the vast
departmental staffs required to calculate
complicated assessments can be transferred
into commercial employment?
Seeing that there are some 120,000 vacant
jobs in the land crying out for labor, is
it necessary to maintain expensive labor-
exchange staffs all over the Common-
wealth?
Where socialistic activities are shut down,
as with the abandonment of petrol, tea and
butter rationing, are the staffs enlisted
under “Labor” for administration of these
controls being discharged and made avail-
able for the ordinary and starved labor
market?
Must all the housing, works and other
plans involving employment of labor be
conducted as Government concerns and not
carried out by commercial contractors?
Mr. Fadden must not fence with ques-
tions like this. During the past three years
he rightly refused to accept Mr. Chifley’s
fencing with them.


asmssSSßs ’
m
fiSSiSii
■ ■
wws;®;
H
CRAVENS
yonr
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10 9 s & 20’sr
CARRERAS LTD. ■ OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALIT
-
Stf.
sdR!
Vis'
A
g744-B
POLITICAL POINTS
Because Federal Cabinet is attempting
to use the Crimes Act against Com-
munist Seamen’s Union officials who are
out to sprag Australian participation in
U.N, action in Korea, a section of
“Labor” opinion is saying that this proves
that the Anti-Red bill was unnecessary,
and that the Comrades can be dealt with
under that Act. While it remains to be
proved that Elliott and his fellow-ruffians
can be brought to book under the Crimes
Act it is surely obvious that if the Senate
had passed the Menzies bill the Moscow
puppets would not have been in the posi-
tion to proclaim a policy for the Sea-
men’s Union.
At the A.L.P. conference Chifley
denied that “Labor” amendments to the
bill had prevented the Government from
dealing with the Reds. He did not deny
that he himself was opposed to the whole
principle of the bill.
Strachey, the British Socialist who, for
being a washout as Food Minister, was
given the job of War Minister, in which
he distinguished himself by going to
Malaya and returning to say that the
British Socialist Government would settle
the Malaya business by indoctrinating the
natives with trade-unionism or some-
thing, has run into more bother. He
implied that the Schuman Plan for
merging Western European steel and coal
was a capitalist plot. Carpeted by Prime
Minister Attlee he denied it and ex-
plained that what he did say was that
the British Conservatives’ “exploitation
of the Schuman Plan” was a plot. Then
Maxwell-Fyfe fell upon him in the
Commons, and Strachey was last seen
looking for a hole to pull in round him-
self. The mystery is why Attlee keeps
the man at all.
A phantom body calling itself the
McGirr Government flitted through New
South Wales Parliament House one day
last week, re-elected as Speaker a man
who promised he would never let the
bhoys down and flitted out again. Date
of the next flitter or flutter not yet
announced.
Commerce Minister McEwen put it
pretty straight to advocates of a wool-
stabilisation” plan when they com-
plained about the p.c. levy the Can-
berra Government fixed to finance any
such plan. These people had cried out
for a plan which called for a Government
guarantee. The Government is prepared
to give a guarantee if the growers accept
the levy as a means of financing the plan.
Every Australian ought to be interested
in the vague “stabilisation” plan which a
section of woolgrowers-proposes to in-
troduce to succeed the Joint Organisa-
tion. For the first 11 months of 1949- 50
Australia received nearly £292 million for
wool sold abroad. That was under an
open system of auction selling, admittedly
during a boom period in raw-material
prices, but free of Government control.
The “stabilisation” notion carries the seed
of Government control. It is the Govern-
ment-control part‘that is objectionable.
Compulsory saving itself, by means of
“stabilisation” or otherwise, against the
day when lower prices or higher costs
arrive isn’t a bad thing.
Unless Army Minister Josh Francis
and Repat. Minister Cooper are merely
pleasantly speculating, it seems that the
flying of the U.N.O. flag over our (and
American) forces in Korea means
that they will get special U.N.O.
pay and allowances. The notion
that all “moral supporters” of U.N.O.
should weigh-in for those who supply
the actual “police force” is maybe
something that (say) Israel had not
thought of, and perhaps neutrals like
Burma would positively resist. But the
best joke would be getting the Soviet’s
contribution from Moscow-
Cranedriver members of the F.E.D.F.A.
have been among the foremost practi-
tioners of the Communist technique of
“strikes on the cheap,” which throws idle
a factory by pulling out a few key men.
Sydney metal-trade employees suffered a
lot from the practice a year or so ago ;
now the B.H.P. men are the victims of
the same insidious plot. In Newcastle
the B.H.P. has been forced to close
down several mills through a strike of
18 cranedrivers who refused to accept the
judgment of Mr. Justice Cantor on a
matter in dispute. Several hundred men
have already been thrown out of work,
and the jobs of thousands are immediately
threatened, but of course that doesn’t
worry the Reds ; their purpose is to hold
up production and if anyone gets hurt in
the process—well, that’s the fault of the
“capitalist system.”
According to the “Tribune,” the accept-
ance by Balance-Sheet Thornton of a job
as Communist stooge in Peiping is “in the
best interests of workers in Australia and
of members of the Ironworkers’ Union.”
If this means that Australian workers
will be better off without him it is one of
the few true statements in the current
issup of the Red rag.
Still, the Comrades will not be able
to keep up much longer the pretence that
they have any regard for the welfare of
the Australian worker. The Seamen's
Union executive’s call for a ban on ships
carrying arms or men to Korea is meet-
ing with a reception which must be very
disappointing to the men of Moscow.
Accustomed as they are to being blindly
obeyed by rank-and-file members, they
could hardly believe their ears last week
when they heard on all sides demands
for the opportunity to reject the
treacherous order at a mass meeting. The
Communist official organ denied that any
crews had held protest meetings, but
almost before the paper was on the streets
the executive had bowed to the storm
and agreed to call a mass meeting.
British B.M.A-’s annual meeting at
Southport, England, the other day heard
the national “free” health service de-
scribed as showing “every sign of being
the most costly and complete fiasco in
our social history.” Earle Page may be
taking some time about preparing his
alternative scheme —of which he is now
putting out the planned first stages —but
at least he is doing the country a good
turn by standing fast against the ruin-
ously extravagant scheme with which the
Socialists would have headed Australia
straight for bankruptcy.
The McGirr lott’ry made a profit of
£2,382,000 for the year ended June 30.
The excuse for this legalised gamble is
that the money is needed for hospitals.
Those who run the hospitals have no
illusions about it.
The United States Senate in Washing-
ton was startled the other day when a
grey-veiled woman stood up and shouted,
“I am a phantom from the past.” She
was taken away for observation. Most of
the phantoms that haunt the Australian
Senate wear red veils. '
A rabbit war to cost £si million a year
is proposed by the Australian Primary
Producers’ Union. It’s to be run by a
“non-political authority of six” which
would have power to levy 2d. an acre on
all land over 10 acres, 2s. 6d. a head
on all owners of more than i-acre and
less than 10 acres, id. an acre on
all Crown land, a £-for-£ subsidy on
State and Federal Governments, This is
estimated to bring in the £si million a
year, which woujd be thrown at the
rabbits in a blitz of extermination. The
threat so far hasn’t wrung the withers of
any rabbits.
The Twelve Farmers of Spring-street
(Melbourne) last week appointed a Par-
liamentary delegation to attend a “moral
rearmament” shivoo in Switzerland. No
other Australian Parliament is sending a
team. Perhaps no other feels so much
in need of treatment.
Latest Australian aspirants for the
Order of Lenin —the leaders of the
F.E.D.F.A. action who have caused the
B.H.P. to order closing-down of the
Newcastle steelworks; the waterside
member of the clerks’ union and the
wharfies’ delegate who held up for 24
hours the loading of aircraft engines for
the R.A.A-F. squadron in Japan ; and the
Communist-run Seamen’s executive in
Sydney and railway executive in Victoria,*
which have both declared “black” Aus-
tralian forces in the Far East.
Professor Portus, who used to teach
political science and history at Adelaide
Uni., told an Adelaide audience the other
night that few unionists realised the debt
they owed to Francis Place, author of the
nineteenth-century Reform Bill, which
gave them the right to form upions.
Communists want unionists to believe
their political father was Lenin.
Bruce, warning the British that their
living standards and social progress were
in “deadly peril,” said that increased
charges for nationalised coal and nation-
alised transport had forced prices up, and
that though the unnationalised steel in-
dustry had managed to absorb rising
costs so far, the results of nationalised
coal and transport would catch up with
them in the end. In this kind of thing
Nemesis has nothing on Socialism.
While Hollway was holidaying in the
prospective new State of Carpentaria in
N. Queensland, his L.C.P. party in Mel-
bourne got a bit rattled. Several group-
leaders were canvassing last week the
possibility of one or other of them suc-
ceeding to the leadership if Hollway
should decide he’d had enough. Their
ground for indignation was Hollway’s
vain offer, without consulting them and
during the final hours of his Ministry, to
legislate for adult franchise for the Leg.
Council; and the sign, of their being npt
fully responsible for their actions was a
proposal that the reformed Upper House
should be of an even number (40) and
elected by P.R.
Will those in authority in N. S. Wales
explain why retailers are charging a 20
to 25 per cent, “surcharge” on many
building materials, what the surcharge
is for, and why it should remain?
A small war is proceeding on the
fringes of Australian territory, the
“army” of Dr. Soekarno having invaded
the territories of the South Molucca Re-
public—Amboina, Buru, Ceram, Haruku
and Saparua—which was proclaimed by
its inhabitants on April 1. Ceram is less
than JOO miles from the Dutch New
Guinea coast.
General MacArthur, who “purged”
Communist leaders a few weeks ago
in Japan, has now been forced to issue
warrants for the arrest of nine of them
for promoting riots “in the interests of
freedom” on the 28th anniversary of the
establishment of the Japanese Communist
party under the auspices of the Comin-
tern’s Eastern Bureau, of which J o
Garden was one of the more photnoL-
members. Mr. Garden was not prestS?S
the recent celebrations. a *
Difficulties experienced by Bunnero
in maintaining power-output again!
increasing maintenance troubles with
inferior grades of coal are reported
Britain also. A leading engi n J?
addressing the British Electric p OWp ’
Convention at Harrogate at the end S
June, said coal now being supplied S
power-stations would have been lareelv
unsaleable 30 years ago, and gave figure
showing that uncleaned coal supplied
over 17 million tons out of 24i million S
There seems to be some diffidence
among Ministers in Victoria in accepting
a recommendation by the State’s Railway
Commissioners that all motorists should
be compelled to stop when arriving at a
level-crossing, whether signalled or not
Considering the number of accidents
from collisions with trains at these out-
standing danger-spots, the reluctance— it
is proposed as an amending provision in
the Motor Car Act —is hard to under-
stand. How else can motorists be
“educated” —the suggested alternative?
Cushiest job of the year has gone to
“Labor” Senators Ashley, McKenna
Courtice, Sheehan, Arnold, Nash and
Findlay, whom the Senate Opposition
appointed a select committee to consider
the Avoidance of Deadlocks Bill
Officially their task is to review the bill
and make recommendations not later
than September 27 ; in reality their job
is to sit on the bill so as to delay a
possible Government move for a double-
dissolution. The idea is that by referring
the measure to a select committee the
Senate shelves the question of rejection
and thereby prevents the Government
from resubmitting the bill. Whether the
move is proof against Government action
on the grounds of “failure to pass” is
another matter.
The world’s champion bubble-blower
is a man named Plastere, of Indiana
(U.S.A.). He blew a bubble that lasted
for 200 days before it burst. Australia
can produce some bubble-blowers of its
own, but the bubbles seldom last more
than a few days after an election.
The North Korean “Government” has
recognised in U.N.O. at least a right to
ask questions. It has replied with a form
of assent to the Secretary-General’s
request that they should treat prisoners-
of-war humanely.
Overheard at a Wynyard-station turn-
stile, where the N.S.W.G.R.’s women
ticket-checkers converse with each other
in public all day long: “Tm feeling like
a bit of a holiday break myself, so I
think I’ll get a doctor’s certificate for a
bit of sick-leave.” Sick-leave clauses in
awards were introduced to protect
workers when they were sick. Whole-
sale abuse of the privilege is reducing
working-time and increasing living costs.
In their latest outbreak of scrawled
slogans on walls and footpaths the Com-
rades have been spelling the Prime
Minister’s name with a dollar sign instead
of the final “s.” Although the Reds don t
mean it that way, optimists are seeing in
it a happy augury for the success of
Menzies’s dollar hunt.
If the Korean war does nothing else
it should convince Chifley and other advo-
cates of push-button warfare that they
have been talking through their hats.
But they won’t admit it; all that push-
button talk was designed to bolster up
the pretence that large bodies of men ar
not needed for modern war. That,m
turn, is conditioned by what Caoo
calls its “traditional opposition to con-
scription.”


PROMOTION.
“Following the bringing-down of the Communist-party Dissolution Bill in Canberra, Communist Ernest Thornton, formerly national secretary of the Federated
Ironworkers, has left Australia and joined the Peking Liaison Bureau of the Communist-controlled World Federation of Trade Unions.”
“And now, Comrade Thornton —the Order of the Rat, First Class!”


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Casca”: Ever since the early days of
colonisation in New Guinea, white
women have lived there, contending with
the conditions, often displaying consider-
able fortitude, without occasioning much
comment; but when a bunch of typists
arrived in Manus to work with the War
Crimes Commission, their reactions to
the conditions were described in a full-
page blurb in a morning newspaper.
That’s news! White women have
tramped over the mountains, sailed in
small boats and travelled in canoes, re-
garding the experience as merely an
incident in their lives ; but when a couple
of tourists found that their canoe was
leaking their breathless story of a narrow
escape made the headlines. That, too,
was news, although it was a laugh in
poilu had threatened that if he persisted
in waking him up he’d kill him. Three-
stripes persisted and was shot dead. The
private will doubtless pay the penalty,
but no one who has ever been aroused
in the middle of the night to go on guard
will fail to find a pang a sympathy for
him. Nobody loves the knocker-upper ;
next to the cooks the bugler cops more
abuse than anyone else in the Army—
Irving Berlin spoke for millions when he
wrote “Some day I’m going to murder
the bugler.” But I recall one knocker-
upper worse than all the buglers. Our
regiment, wintering near Atherton (Q.)
in 1944, sported a public-address system
with amplifiers over which gramophone
records were broadcast for our entertain-
ment during leisure hours. That was the
original idea, but some genius soon
thought up a fiendish use for the
apparatus. Accordingly, every morning
a split-second after reveille, the amplifiers
burst put in full blast with “The Kerry
Dance.” It was no good hiding your
head under the blankets; the din pene-
trated everywhere. I understand “The
Kerry Dance” is much loved and highly
esteemed in many quarters; in our camp
it was a signal for cursing and execra-
tion. Even today I can’t hear it without
fighting down a desire to smash my
radio.
“Bo”; Being civic-minded, I have been
over with my tape-measure the shelters
for bus-travellers which Sydney’s trans-
port people have been putting up. With
the worthy object of keeping the annual
deficit within the threequarters-of-a-
million limit, there has been some
economy exercised in their construction.
Still, if it rains and there isn’t the slightest
zephyr blowing, the prospective pas-
senger, should he or she stand dead-
centre under the roof, will miss the down-
pour fore and aft by approximately
2iin. The gent, with a bow-window or
the large-bosomed woman standing under
it may, by turning side-on, avoid a
drenching, though this will probably be
resented by the two intending passengers
which this manoeuvre will automatically
push out of the shelter into the elements.
Any wind, except w.-s.-w., blowing at
more than 10 m.p.h. and less than 25
m.pdi. should not wet any passenger
standing directly under the shelters above
his or her waist —a vital consideration,
this, for those with weak chests. In gales
or cyclones, of course, bus-passengers
can shelter in near-by buildings. But per-
haps the Transport Department is arrang-
ing for only straight-down rain to fall in
future. Still, they must have saved at
least 30-bob’s-worth of material on each
one. I expect they paid a £10 bonus to
someone for suggesting the economy.
* # * *
“B. A. Ker”: Old Tom long
passed into the silence, but the houses
he built in the district still stand solid
and plumb as monuments to his work-
manship and honesty. X recall a conver-
“Blast you and your jets!”
New Guinea, where all canoes are leaky
but unsinkable. But when white women,
whose husbands were murdered by the
Japs, return to New Guinea to rebuild
their lives, to take on their own frail
shoulders the task of re-establishing
plantations, to combat, unaided, the diffi-
culties of post-war settlement in New
Guinea—that’s not news. No, that’s
merely heroism.
* * * ♦
“Jasby”: A French soldier recently
shot his sergeant. It appears the sarge
had called him to go on guard. The
sation he had with my Dad nearly 30
years ago: “I dunno, Charlie, the way
materials are going up I’m ashamed to
hand people, a tender. Last night I gave
old Jack Jones a price for a back
veranda —twenty-two quid, labor and
material. He didn’t say anything at first
—just stood there looking at the tender.
Then he called his missus out. ‘How
much d’ you think your veranda would
cost?’ he asks her. ‘Aw, about ten
pound,’ she guesses. ‘More,’ he says.
‘Twelve pound ten,’ she says, looking a
bit shocked, ‘More,’ he says. ‘Fifteen
pound!’ she says, like somebody who
can’t believe it. ‘More!’ he says. And
that’s when I walked out.” A rueful grin
softened the rather stern-looking face,
“You know, Charlie, I’m thinking of
getting a bottle of smelling-salts to give
’em when I hand ’em the tender.” Poor,
conscientious old Tom! If he were alive
today to see what it costs to have a
veranda built, I guess he’d be needing
the smelling-salts.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: Two of the most
interesting exhibits in the Institute of
Anatomy, Canberra, are a cast of the
head of murderer Deeming, whom the
“Better do something quick, Nobby. You're losing face.”
late director, Colin McKenzie, considered
a man who lived in the modem age with
the mentality of “early man,” and the
bottled dissection of the tummy of “Billy
Bluegum,” whose appendix is 6ft. to Bft.
long and still works for the digestion of
gum-leaves, etc., stored in it. Modem
man’s appendix is now only a useless
vestigial relic about the length of the little
finger and a source of worry to the owner
when it gets inflamed and a profit to the
surgeon who removes it.
# * * *
“Jim O’Keefe”: A Brisbane detective
looks like having a puzzle on his hands,
His brother, who looks very like him,
attended a function in a posh pubbery,
and a high-ranking police officer from
another State invited him to have a drink.
Brother had three without mentioning the
mistaken identity; he also smoked, one
of the visitors cigars. There U be a
certain amount of bewilderment when
the visitor meets the real detective again ;
he s a strict teetotaller and never smokes,
(tr * „ * ~ * , ,
‘Ex-C.O.’: Melbourne has been
intrigued by a first-class: row of an un-
usual kind Pubs and saloons popped up
the price of wines and spirits by the glass
and bottle, whereupon the Wine and
Spirit Advisory Panel formed of whole-
salers, denounced the increases and,
through large advertisements in the
papers, urged tipplers not to pay them.
The local Prices Branch, invited to in-
tervene, coyly declined, saying it was a
matter for the Prime Minister. The two
sides were still arguing when this was
written, and Melbourne, in the throes of
discussing whether or not Essendon will
go on to the football premiership, sud-
denly found itself likely to become a
beneficiary—it must be nearly the first
time wholesalers and retailers have come
into open conflict on how much is a fair
thing to charge the public. Wonders will
never cease. # # ,
“Fairf”: With philatelists all over the
world breaking their necks to buy any
new issue of postage-stamps, the Aus-
tralian habit of striking a new tuppenny-
ha’penny every three weeks or so must
pay handsome dividends. One thought
had me worried for a long time: when
all our worthy men have been immor-
talised, what will we do to keep the
coffers-full? Now I realise I worried
needlessly; a genius has come to the
rescue and the next issue is to be a stamp
to commemorate the first “stick-on”
stamp. Now, when the Treasury begins
to look as though it won’t be able to pay
the retired members’ pension, all we’ve
got to do is strike a stamp to
memorate the stamp that commemo C °( n !i
the first stamp. After that, of L5 ated
there could be a stamp to com m em UrSe ’
the stamp that commemorated—
on. What a genius the man who
of it must be! We should strike a s tq L
to commemorate him. am P
*, * * *
C. 8.”: The centenaries of two French
literary giants are due to be celebrated
next month—the death of Balzac and the
birth of Maupassant. Balzac was a pro
digious worker. He slept a couple of
hours after dinner, then worked all nieht
drinking gallons of coffee. He died at
51, having written over 100 novels in 20
years. Maupassant was also a tremendous
worker. In his short life of 43 years he
wrote 300 stories, though he started late
after spending 10 years as a clerk in the
French Navy. Flaubert was his god-
father, and put him on the right path
with the sort of advice he would never
have got from the literary professors who
admire him. He asked the author of
Madame Bovary what he should do in
order to become a writer. “Go out and
see what you can write about that old
horse tied to the veranda-post opposite,”
said Flaubert, pointing through the
window of his study. Marcus Clarke,
incidentally, was probably the first in
Australia to recognise Balzac’s greatness,
An article, “Balzac and Modern Litera-
ture,” is in his memorial edition,
* * * *
“Mac Wallace”: I’m not the man who
broke the bank> but x have my share of
luck The other nig]lt j was hurrying
home when a towering mountain of man
jerked me to an abrupt halt, demanding
i. wh at about a quid? ” “j haV en’ t got a
jd „ , lied H as convincing as a
t 4 oba cconist claiming no smokes. ‘That’s
to bad £ mate ”he growled, rais-
ing a maiive dock. I was about to dive
chunk o£ road . met al when a
Iler fi darted from th e shadows
d abbed the upraised arm. “That’s
J; ,*> he said inting at .‘He’s
be f ligerent one paused m
niid . swine . then wit h the little bloke at
off! I don’t know who Jim
j Monicker happens to be Mac.
’ J % * * *
„„ p „. <t p p „ descr j p tion of a man
Y f mate rial by touch (B.
28/6/’5O) brings to mind another man
who 'has trained his fingers to take the
° h f hi J B lipde d in the Kaiser’s
P , ■ J. ‘ of a p o Ued Shorthorn
war,
Show. By running his fingers over the
coat of a beast he can tell e
colors of the ha-ij* an Conformation,
Picture of th % an ™ Q al se at Gatton
While doing a C.R.T.S. 0 £ us
Agricultural College (Q.) B jjttle
were taken to see *} IS _ ’ s ;tivity of
incident demonstrated th a s hed con-
his fingers. He took us started to
tainmg three young bull mr ticular
explain the points ot one
animal. Slightly u P se^ n J aroun d. The
the animals started to n lO b e had
owner felt each beast m tkiued with
the same beast again an had
his explanation as JI
happened.
A SIMPLE QUIZ.
( [Go easy on Latin, hoys; it’s two-and-six a pound.)
“Ten-year-old Garry Lush, son of the cricketer
Ointy Lush, won £llB in Jack Davey’s ‘Give It a
Go’ quiz, explaining such matters as ‘Ornithorhyncus
anatinus/ and ‘digitigrade,’ as applied to cows. ‘I
know a lot of the scientific names for animals, birds
and insects, but not all of them,’ he said.”
The ten-years-old Australian boy
Should be his parents’ pride and joy
Who spends his days without regrets
Observing common household pets.
One sees them writing in their diaries:
“To-day our Canis familiaris
Was chasing Felis llbyca
Domestica —a friendly spar—
When both gave way to scratching heavily
At their respective Ctenocephali:
‘Ah,’ said our boy, ‘that in this spirit, man’s
Wars could be stopped by Pulex irritans!’ ”
Or: “Watching the twittering Passer domesticus,
Our lad remarked, ‘He’s quite a chesty cuss;
He’d deafen us were he as big as
The cachinnating Dacelo gigasT "
Or: “Men of much arboreal delicacy
(Homines sapientes, Homines salicaci )
Expect their sons to show assurance,
Faced with Acacia decurrens.
And not confuse it, like some slow fella,
With the Acacia tetragonophylla /'
Ah, how birds, animals and wildwood
Bring back memories of our childhood!
The simple names suffice to link us —•
The furry little Ornithorhyncus,
Also known as anatinus.
Reminds us he has never seen us.
Trichosurus vulpecnla
Recalls cathedrals somewhat secular
Of sunlit gumtrees, hills and rocks,
And apples baiting a petrol-box—
We trapped them, but they’re all the same,
Almost impossible to tame.
If you could climb, there was another,
Trichosurus’s little brother,
In trees in gullies mossed and cool:
He went, inside our shirts, to school,
The prettiest mite our country shows us,
The Pseudochirus laniginosus ....
To think they pay in Davey’s quiz
For knowing simple things like this!
Dogs and cats, two kinds of fleas,
Sparrows, jacks and willow-trees,
Wattles with two kinds of blossom,
The platypus, the grey opossum,
And finally, his ringtailed brother —
“Give us a go! Ask us another!”
People are saying, “That Jack Davey
Is pretty liberal with the gravy!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


* * * *
“Findy”: I had often wondered just
what criterion governed the challenging
of jurymen, and when I was called for
service I welcomed the opportunity to
find out at first hand. The first two jurors
called were harmless-looking citizens;
they went unchallenged. Next came a
middle-aged bloke with intelligence
written all over his face. The accused
challenged him, and he was followed by
the owner of a mug that wouldn’t have
looked out of place in the dock. The
Crown outed him. My turn came next.
,1 endeavored to look intelligent, but was
apparently only partly successful. The
accused challenged me all right, but not
quickly enough to avoid a dead-heat with
the Crown. I went back to my seat not
knowing just how to rate myself. Next
day I had another chance. The chap in
the dock was throwing around challenges
with the gay abandon of a knight at a
tournament. Of the first dozen called
he threw out six ; from the appearance of
the ones left he seemed to be intent on
securing a panel of inoffensive types.
Crown was sitting back, letting things
take their course. Accused challenged
two more good men and true. By this
time I was ready to feel insulted if not
challenged. My name was called. As I
walked over to take the Book the judge
informed the accused that he had ex-
hausted his quota of challenges. So I
still don’t know,
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Our suburb has
had a ghost scare; moreover, I have
seen the ghost. , As I passed a clump of
trees it came- towards me out of the
blackberries—a luminosity with out-
stretched arms. Naturally I assured
myself that there was no such thing as a
ghost; equally naturally, with this horror
close at hand, I didn’t believe myself.
Without actually breaking into a run, I
passed the spot at a quickened pace.
Later I discovered that everyone was
discussing “the ghost.” Women had
screamed and fled and one had fainted
on the spot; men had taken to crossing
to the other side of the street before
passing the “haunted” area. The non-
chalance of my admission of having seen
“something a superstitious person might
think was a ghost” pooled me into a
leading role in a party of investigation.
Ghost-hunting is not a really enjoyable
sport, and I got a genuine shock of terror
when, as we pushed into that clump of
shadow, something cold and clammy
wrapped itself about me. But a call for
torches soon settled the ghost. Their
glare showed that a number of huge
spider-webs, dampened by the rains, had
caught all the light that penetrated into
the darkness. The spiders had evidently
decided to get as well out of the rain as
they could, or that it was a good place
for business with the insects that wanted
to keep out of the wet. The bellying of
the webs in the wind had given that im-
pression of springing forward that many
had sworn to. It was a really excellent
ghost while it lasted.
* * * *
“The Murphy”: It’s a sad thing it is
that July 12 is no longer the diverting
day it used to be. “The Battle of the
Boyne,” if not an almost forgotten air,
is voiced or whistled only in select
gatherings and not on the streets as it
once was. This is an injustice to my clan,
which will surely degenerate if the
“A little more starch in me collar, Mum; the party's formal tonight.”
younger members are thus deprived of a
yearly stimulus. We of this generation
have only Uncle Dan’s nostalgic yams to
let us know that there were once glorious
occasions like that on which a lone
stranger, sporting on his breast an outsize
orange lily, strolled down a back
thoroughfare in Belfast known as Bally-
macarraty-street. Too chivalrous to
suspect that the stranger’s presence was
possibly due to a mistaken sense of direc-
tion, Uncle Dan and the boys were deeply
appreciative of the sporting chance
offered them, and did their best to appor-
tion equitably one Orangeman among six
of them. “But,” said Uncle Dan, “we
were too trusting. The varmint wasn’t
a sporting gintleman after all. No sooner
had we started to give him the lacing he
richly desarved whin the bigoted blay-
gard started to shout for the polis.” On
the subject of the Battle of the Boyne,
I’ll wager that very few Irish-Australians
know that “The Wearin’ of the Green”
was instituted on that day when William’s
troops wore sprigs of green in their head-
dress. Tyrcojmel’s men sported the white
cockade.
“We've lost the saw."
“C.Q.”: That indefatigable essayist
Professor Murdoch was a trifle off the
beam when he told his public that nearly
all the great creative masterpieces have
been the work of men less than 40 years
old. As evidence to the contrary may
be cited Archimedes, Newton, Darwin,
Euripides, Rabelais, Shakspeare, Vol-
taire, Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci,
Michelangelo, Beethoven, Wagner,
Brahms, Tolstoy, Handel, Haydn,
Galileo, Kant, Shaw, and the daddy of
them all —Titian —who painted master-
pieces after he was 90. All these pro-
duced great creative work after they
were 40. Keats’s genius developed early,
and Shelley and Byron wrote some of
their best poems between the ages of 20
and 30; the whole of Shelley’s thought
was already committed to paper in the
notes to “Queen Mab” written when he
was 19. What differentiates the genius
from the ordinary individual is not the
speed at which he grows, but the fact
that he is completely focused and never
loses his focus.
# ♦ Jt »
“Cauboy”: The most regrettable thing
Tschaikowsky ever did was to put an un-
musical effect into his “1812 Over-
ture.” Beethoven put a lark into his
“Pastoral Symphony,” but you can’t do
much with a lark. Tschaikowsky put a
16-volley cannonade into his overture, and
conductors ever since have been vying
with one another to give point to an
inartistic detail. A short time ago
Eugene Gbossens deployed the overture
in Sydney with a real artillery accom-
paniment of four 25-pounders; a milder
shot was made at it in Melbourne last
year. The Americans, going one
better, recently unlimbered eight 77mm.
howitzers with union musicians standing
by the non-union artillerymen. One day
someone will probably try it with an
atom-bomb. It’s a childish business, but
if it has to be done at all it might as well
be done as Jan Rubini did it at the
Capitol Theatre, Melbourne, 15 years
ago. He not only let off a lot of fire-
arms, but completely demolished the
walls of Moscow. When the walls
crashed to the stage a row of beauteous
lovelies stood revealed, dressed as
guardsmen.
« * * *
“Sackville St.”: Those people who love
to attribute natural phenomena to man’s
mistakes, follies or iniquities are blam-
ing the atom-bomb for the excessive rain
N.S.W. has experienced in the last two
years. They may be strengthened in their
belief by the thought that they have allies
in England. A cable reports that freak,
four-headed tulips have bloomed in a
Reading public park, and some Britons
are blaming the British Atomic Research
Station at Harwell for the horticultural
gymnastics. On the other hand, a Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) paper reports that snow
several inches deep fell in Parramatta on
June 28. Conclusive proof that the
seasons have been upset by the atom-
bomb? Well, hardly. The same thing
happened on the same day of the same
month, 1837.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“D.A.”: A wicked racket being worked
in Sydney at present r An engagement is
announced*, parents of both parties, with
their addresses, being advertised. A
traveller with dress materials and house-
linen calls on the boy’s mother, saying
that he has been sent by the girl’s mother.
Simultaneously another salesman calls on
the girl’s mother, saying a call was sug-
gested by the boy’s people, with whom he
has dealt “for years.” Both families feel
obliged, in the circumstances, to buy
something, usually unwanted. And a
romance is off to an awkward start.
♦ * * *
“Zake-san”: Pleasings to observe com-
patriot also home-spun scientist one
Ichura Haichi of Kyoto prefecture
achievingly celebratedhess after divers
years of unremittingness of yakka by
evolvings of honorable snail (common or
garden, possibly latter) with spiral of shell
running anti - clockwise, thus being
extreme oppositeness of self-houses of
old-type members of family Gasteropoda
and also gurglings of bathwater down
honorable sinks in Southern Hemispheres.
Evidence of non-military democratiye-'
ness of ace Nip scientists as encouraging
by MacArthur-san. World may wonder-
ings why Ichura bend convolutions of
grey matter upon task thuswise, id est,
the breedings of mortal foe of gardener.
Cunning. Honorable snail, aware some-
things extremely wrong overhead, will
now take up major time at disposal
ponderings on vital problem, thus hav-
ings fewer of Anno Domini to rush
around gorgingly on bamboo-shoot and
similarly valuable wittles. Cheers!
* * * *
“M.8.M.”: That Bathurst concert of
the youthful Melba was not cancelled (B.
5/7/’5O), although it is true the audience
was disappointingly small. My mother,
who was present, can vouch that a con-
centrated and beautiful programme was
given in order not to disappoint those who
had come. Lemmone was the flautist of
the party; the trip was arranged by
another musician, probably Huenerbein.
* * ♦ ♦
“Sixenate”: The yams about
silhouettes on the sides of tents and other
places reminds me of “The Shadow on
the Blind” case which many years ago
gave Sydney newspapers a sensation last-
ing for weeks. A woman was knifed to
death in an upper-story room of a house
in Burton-street. After the body had
been found, several people testified to
having seen, shadowed on the blind, an
arm .with a knife or dagger in the hand
in the act of striking. Their excuses for
not having informed the police earlier
were on the lines of “I thought someone
else was bound to do that.” The
murderer, thus given a good start, gave
the law a long chase before he was
arrested. Elis subsequent hanging
brought a record,crowd to the little green
park between St. Vincent’s Hospital
and what was then the Darlinghurst jail.
A crowd, despite the fact that 6 a.m. was
the recognised execution hour, and
nothing could be seen, always attended
the hangings to wait for the tolling of
the bell in the comer tower which pro-
claimed that the turning-off had gone
through to schedule.
* * * *
“Eve”: Pointing to a picture in the
daily paper, I said to my antique-shop
friend: “Aren’t you envious when you
hear that a rival firm has bought a yalu- *
able painting for uncouple of quid?”
“Not on your life,” he said. “I like to
read that sort of thing because the
public’s so optimistic that, for about a
fortnight after, I can sell off every dud
painting I’ve got in the shop. And the
funny thing is that the uglier the picture
the more valuable the public thinks it
might turn out to be!”
* * * ♦
“Looby”: I always thought that if
you wanted a room in a residential you
just banged on the door and made
inquiries. George has put me wise, thus:
“It’s my holidays, so I can go room-
hunting again. I work at the slaughter-
house ; that’s no good. In this fortnight
off. Til take a temporary job that I know
is going down at the cosmetic factory.
I’ll get a room easily enough while I’m
working there.” “But why change your
job before trying for a room?” I asked,
George grinned. “Use your head. Can
you imagine a landlady expecting
samples from a slaughter-house?”
A WELCOME CHANGE.
«0f a number of young , men interviewed by
Sydney ‘Herald,’ all expressed approval of the im-
minent compulsory military training scheme. Among
variety of reasons given, one was that it would
afford 'a break away from routine.’ ”
It’s right on the tick of six-thirty,
The notes of reveille ring out.
Defiant? At first getting shirty?
Forget it —the sergeant’s about.
You roll out, the old Rise and Shine,
A sluice, and you’re out on parade
To “dress by the right” in the line;
Automaton-like you’ve obeyed.
Monotonous, daily for weeks?
Don’t be silly! Who knows but that Keith
(The trumpeter) may
Take a deep breath one day
And blow out a few of his teeth?
And for breakfast, the daily burgoo.
If you like the stuff, though, it’s quite nice.
Ah! But take the concomitant brew.
There is something, you’ll find, will add spice
And a change from the home-stuff you get.
Why! One day, if like cocoa it looks
And like coffee it tastes, you may bet
That it’s tea, and be beating the books.
The next morning, though, you decide,
After tasting, you’d bet against tea,
’Cause like coffee it looked.
But you then might be “rooked”
When it’s cocoa it turned out to be.
There’s the p.t.; the drill with the rifle,
Going over and over again
The same motions. It’s really a trifle,
And couldn’t be classed as a bane.
Some look on a march with much dread,
Although on the pigskin they’re drumming.
Monotonous, someone has said.
Why? You break it by going and coming!
At bayonet practice you lunge
At a figure, and viciously jab it
For hours. Does it pall?
Square up, Dig. Not at all;
There’s no danger of forming a habit.
Yes, the Army’s a grand institution.
A good life, when all’s said and done.
You get used to the early ablution,
Provided you treat it as fun.
And there’s something about spit-and-polish
You take to, as duck to a pond;
While the more tins of stuff you demolish
The more of the sport you are fond.
But the Army’s most obvious merit
Is the change—which will quickly be seen—
From the hopeless, the awesome,
The horribly boresome
The killing old civvy routine I
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
t t
“Billy S.”: So “Billy T.” spent some
time in Chittagong (B. 7/6/’5O). He and
I must have chased each other over
Bengal like a pair of dachshunds. I’d
like to take him to my club one night
and give him a chance to spend one of
his Bulletin cheques and swap yarns
and recall how the Naga Hill tribesmen
eat their rice on special occasions. I
won’t inflict the story at length on
Bulletin readers; dog-lovers among
them wouldn’t like it, as the tribesmen
use a hound as a kind of specialised
middleman —and each dog can be used
only once. Then I’ll tell him of my time
in Burma and the honey some villagers
wanted us to buy. We had almost reached
a price when someone recollected that
honey in that part of Burma was used to
embalm the departed. We didn’t fancy
the idea of spreading Grandma on our
dog-biscuits. Then I’d sit back and give
“Billy T.” a turn.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Port Davey, that
lonely, awe-inspiring, fiord-like harbor
on the little-explored southern portion
of Tasmania’s rugged west coast, has now
the first sign of settlement —a woman
resident. She is the wife of Don King,
who has joined his father at his lonely
camp on the Malaluca River south of
Bathurst Harbor. There for years
Charlie King has had an alluvial-tin show
—through the war he worked it alone.
He humped his stores dverland from
Cox’s Bight on the south coast, \. here
they were dropped, surf permitting, at
bi-monthly intervals by the fishing-boat
mail, to desolate Maatsuyker Island light.
With 30 to 40 miles of jagged mountains
and almost impenetrable scrub between
him and the nearest settlements, the life
of “The King”—as he is known—was
then the loneliest in all Australia. But a
great bushman, miner and philosopher,
and gardener, he loved it and also his
garden, which produces vegetables and
fruits. Today his connecting link with
civilisation is the large fishing-smack
Arlie D (skipper Clyde Clayton is a son-
in-law) which comes up the river to the
mine and ships away the ore. The Kings’
hobby is exploring each Sunday every
nook of immense Port Davey in a motor-
boat which they built themselves. On
no part of this continent has there been
bestowed more of the unusual than in
the sou’-west corner of Tassie —today
the vast unchallenged realm of this sturdy
pioneering family.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Beau Forte”: The bloke who engaged
me to give him a hand at post-splitting
showed good form until we struck a big,
twisty box-tree. After pounding away
at the wedge with the maul for about five
minutes, with the log showing no signs
of yielding, he suddenly lost his temper,
and axes, maul, wedges, saw, waterbag
and billycan
were hurled
down the slope
into the gully.
After this had
happened
several times
during the day
I decided that
I’d had enough,
and when he
let fly again I added to the col-
lection by hurling the axe I was using
do\vn with the rest of the tools —and
then I walked off. “Leavin’ a bloke, are
y’?” he roared as I made my way down
the hill. “Well, I ’spose a man’s better
off without a mad-headed coot like you—
slingin’ y’r axe about like that!”
* * * •
“Wonk”: I strolled into the hut and
found Bob and Baldy eyeing each other
warily over’ a card-game, while Ted
watched from the fireplace. Slowly and
deliberately Bob shuffled and dealt, and,
sensing the tension that reigns when stakes
are big, I drew close as each bloke picked
up his cards. “It’s draw,” announced
Bob curtly. Baldy’s eyes narrowed. “It
was draw we were playin’ before,” Bob
reminded. “Awright.” Bob drew three
cards. A moment, then Baldy drew two,
“And it’s the best two hands out o’
three,” came Bob’s voice again. “But”
“That’s what we said.” “Awright,”
Baldy won the first hand and in silence
gathered the cards for a fresh deal. Ted
touched my arm. “Have a drink,” he
invited. He poured out half a glass,
passed it over and drained the bottle into
another glass for himself. I returned to
the players as the next hand evened the
score. “This is it,” announced Bob
gravely, shuffling and offering the pack
for a cut. “Yair.” Baldy ran his tongue
over dry lips. Again Ted touched my
arm. “We’ll be goin’,” he muttered. I
shook my head. “Half a jiff.” Ted
wouldn’t listen and reluctantly I allowed
myself to be herded out the door. “Cripes,
can’t you wait a minute?” I growled.
“I want to see what happens.” “Oh, no
y’ don’t,” he answered assuredly. “The
silly cows ’re playin’ for the whisky that
was in that bottle. It’s all we had.”
♦ * * ♦
“Kelms”: Twin joeys aren’t common,
but they are found occasionally. A few
years back a ’roo-shooter out from
Geraldton (W.A.) found twins in a pouch
and thought he’d struck a miracle until
the resultant publicity brought to light
other known cases. Can’t think why twins
are so rare, since the does are consti-
tutionally capable of multiple concep-
tions, unless it’s that one is overlooked
in the transfer to*the pouch.
“Gravelsnatcher”: M. H. Ellis’s “The
Horse” (B. 21/6/’5O) has revived an
ancient controversy in this neck of the
woods: Were there horses in W.A. before
the adven*; of the whites? In maintain-
ing that there were none I’m supported
by an encyclopaedia—which is all right
for “blokes who’ll believe ennerthing they
read in books” —and a youngster of 30-
odd summers who doesn’t count because
he only knows what he’s been taught in
“silly flamin’ universities.” The two
oldsters, Ted and Pompey, claim that the
horse was a native of the State, and they
back their contention with tales of big
herds of brumbies that were wild —“an’
dam’ wild, let me tell y’ ” —when they
were kids 70 years ago. I remember
those brumbies, and I don’t blame the
oldsters for thinking them natives. They
were as free as ’roos and a darned sight
harder to approach. They were tougher
"This must be the place.”
than most native animals, and they
thrived on the native shrubs and grasses,
Moreover, they developed a characteristic
which seemed to stamp their native
origin—they pawed the ground as they
fed, as though seeking food in the shape
of edible roots. Most horses will stamp
the ground as they feed from a box, but
the brumby literally dug himself in. The
mobs which roamed the hills behind Perth
weren’t all runts —they carried a dash of
blood introduced by mares and entires
which escaped from the Belmont racing
stables and went bush. At least one
mare. Mural, took With her a dash of
Carbine’s blood. Brumby-running was
quite an industry early in the century,
and many a good bushman made a living
at it. It jvasn’t a mug’s game, and one
rider, Charlie Duncan, made good money
“Try and look more dignified when we're coming into a station
at it. He had the rights of the Dongarra
coast, and after each round-up he
released selected stallions to return to the
mobs. As a result, his horses enjoyed a
local fame. Ted and Pompey are both
old brumby-runners, and they’ve got one
argument that I can’t get over. Tire true
brumby, no matter what his color, had
a dark, almost black, stripe about 2in.
wide along his backbone. I remember
that “donkey stripe,” as we called it.
They reckon it denotes the brumby’s
native origin, I don’t. But what does it
denote, if anything?
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Derwent”: A golden-cream brush
possum has just come into possession of
the City Park, Launceston (Tas.). So
far as the superintendent of reserves
there knows there is only one other albino
possum in captivity—at the Healesville
sanctuary in Victoria, That one also
came from Tasmania.
♦ * * ♦
“Solitude”: We strung the mob
through the cutting by the township,
checked our count and discovered we
were two short. “Must’ve poked off
inter the scrub while we was helpin’ that
other bloke,” decided Seventyfiver.
“Here’s a car cornin’. I’ll ask if they
seen ’em.” “X beg your pardon?” replied
the tourist. “Two steers? Oh, er, like
the animals in your herd there? Why?
Did you lose them on the way? My
word, that’s bad luck. Where are you
taking them? Now, I wonder if we
passed any. Er —yes, I think Ido re-
member some cows somewhere. On a
big flat place I think. You know where
the road turns a corner and .. . But no,
no, that wouldn’t be it. That was the
other road, near the blue Holden with
the missing wheel-cap. Well er let m
see now. Cows—er— cows”- - Aft 6
a while the old bloke broke free h
glanced at me, looked helpless, touched
his forehead pityingly and shrugged ut
was turning to the mob when he
a truck pulling in at the garaee
Gripes, there’s Bruiser,” he announced
as a cove with a stockwhip slid off the
back, “Hey, Bruiser, seen a coupler
steers?” Bruiser glanced back, jerked a
thumb at the sunset, sloped a hand and
called “Shady” as he disappeared into
the garage. “That’s luck, Sol,” chuckled
Seventyfiver. “He sez they’re on that
long stretch o’ hill this side o’ Shady
Gorge, an’ travellin’ this way at a decent
bat, so we’ll just stick around a while
till they catch up.”
* * * *
“Derwent”: Dogs are destroying
so many sheep in Tasmania that
legislative action is being Urged.
A number of sheepmen have set
poison, which has produced the usual
crop of cruelty assertions and statements
that innocent pet dogs are being
slaughtered. It is not necessarily the
hounds
and curs
that are
the worst
—one man
instances a
jaunty
Scotch
terrier, a
lady’s lap-dog, as being the worst killer
he has known outside dingoes. Remedies
suggested are increase of dog licences to
£1 a head; destruction of roving and
unwanted dogs; police prosecution of
owners whose dogs are trapped, shot or
poispned on other people’s farms; and a
curfew throughout the State so that any
dog at large at night should be outlawed.
It is well-known that innocent-looking
little animals which prance round the
house by day develop a blood-lust that
will often take them 10 or a dozen miles
away at night, to return before dawn
with a record of kills or manglings.
• ♦ * •
“Old-timer”: That morning the whole
bend seemed mighty excited about some-
thing. The soldier-birds shrieked their
heads off and gathered reinforcements
from afar, the magpies lost their usual
cold aloofness and dived agitatedly
among the gums, rock-pebblers and ring-
necks fled across the river in flashes ox
color, duck fluttered and swam uneasily
out in the billabong, two pelicans took
to the deep water and manoeuvred there
watchfully, and crows and smaller
feathered fry shrieked and flitted in ail
directions, while the peewees took to tne
high tree-tops. Our house-cattle trotte
uneasily in half-circles, tails out, aud tu
work-horses bunched together and the
flew apart. A startled rabbit came up me
bank and shot, panicky, into the tool-
shed and hid, completely ignored by
dogs* who whined and trotted uneas y
about the hut. We went forth and
examined the alarmed scene, but
see nothing unusual. All through
fast we had an expectant feeimg,
nothing unusual occurred and we
to work. By lunch-time everything
normal again. We talked 11 °ve .
weeks, advancing a multitude of th »
but got nowhere until White Bob _ m
over from Kulkyne, five mdes ups rea
on the other bank. “Hear about tne
circus?” he asked. “Got slewed after i
left Nowhingi an’ camped at our p
the other night. Makin’ for Mddura 1
was. Gripes, I never knew them
an’ things stunk like that. tha t
knew what had disturbed the
morning.
FAIRY MARTINS.
Trees’ pencilled limbs all flow
Across the flat-washed sky,
And fairy martins lilting go,
Playing lightly as they fly.
And the small ducks drift and dream,
While white ibis, harsh with greed,
Stalk the coolness of the stream
For soft things in the water-weed.
Now a young wind wakes and springs.
And stops, unspent. Too fragile this,
The creek, these sleepy, quiet things,
For his youth’s hot, lustful kiss.
Perhaps a thousand years float by;
Time is a thing not understood.
The joyful martins arc the sky,
Finding its golden splendor good.
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


ONE PUFF mdum
NIHROD
Ready-to-rod
CIGARETTE
TOBACCO
“NIMROD” ready-to-roll cigarette tobacco is tops in smoking
pleasure. Made from extra high-grade leaf, it provides a cool
and fragrant smoke that is pleasing to the most discerning
palate. We believe that you will get greater smoking satisfaction
with “NIMROD,” the tobacco that retains its flavour right to
the last.
Sole Distributors:
“NIMROD” special ready-to-roll cigarette
mixture is exclusive to Andrew MoOee,
Sydney’s foremost tobacconist. Write or
call for your supply. 2oz. pack 3/3J. Please
add postage —l/6 per lb. N.S.W.j 2/- per lb,
other States,
Andrew M-Gee
1 CASTLEREAGH STREET and 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
53
N
N
\
.
“Billy T.”: Bert, our barber, is
usually a most reliable tradesman. No
flash cuts, no silly talk about thin patches
or shampoos—no talk at all if he saw
you felt that way: just a quiet friendly
understanding. Nothing seemed to
ruffle him, but this week he’s been shaky ;
he was due to become a grandfather. To
make it worse, his cobber Barney was
about to become a father-in-law, and the
day before the
wedding he
went in and got
his hair cut.
That was all
right, but next
morning when
he called for a
shave they both
got straight into
their domestic
worries, sharing
and suffering
each other’s agony, until about 10
minutes later Bert gasped “ ’Struth, Barn,
it was a shave you wanted, wasn’t it?
Here I am cuttin 8 your flamin’ hair
again!” Barney got his shave, but if he
hasn’t a cold before the wedding warms
him up it will be a wonder, I hadn’t
heard of this in time, or I’d never have
dropped in that evening for a clip. Bert
seemed not himself; he swayed gently
before the big mirror, picked up several
tools and put them down again before
getting the right one ; then, after cutting
a swathe or two, would become lost in
thought. We were about half-shorn when
he put down the scissors, faced me, and
spake; “Billy, I’m a grandfather. A boy
—l’ve cot a grandson, and [this in a tone
of strictest confidence] I’ve had a couple.
I wonder if you’d mind slipping hack in
the morning and I’ll finish you then?”
Slipping was right. Going home with a
head like a crazy clown wasn’t so bad---
it was dark; but next morning I cursed
the lo’ng-standing custom of hailing and
being hailed by everyone I knew. I’d
never have believed that our back-lanes
could Ife so populous,
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: If the schoolie in
“George Barwick’s” district (B. 28/6/’5O)
is as resourceful as his colleague in our
valley, he should have no trouble getting
value from his new projector, even if he
mns out of film strips. The wing of a
fly, bee or dragon-fly, placed between
thin glass or perspex and projected, is
not only a flung of beauty in itself, but
a perfect example of the ideas behind
the build of aircraft wings; the strong,
thick leading edge, the rugged junction
with the body, the rounded tip and the
delicate trailing edge are all there. A
leaf that has been reduced to a skeleton
by the beetle which specialises in that
operation provides just as interesting a
picture. For movies, get a weevil from
your oatmeal, turn him on his back on
a speck of gum placed on your glass
slide, and throw him on the screen; the
magnification of 400 diameters or more
provides a monster as fearsome as any
the kids will see in their comics. A little
“Sorry, old chap.”
ant can be shown this way, too; but the
show doesn’t last long as the heat of
the lamp kills the subject—l’m told that
the emotions stirred by the wog’s death-
struggles are not unlike those evident
during butchery at the stadium. Then,
take a few strands of fine Merino wool
of good staple and place between the
glasses with a hair from the curliest
nipper in the class, and they’ll begin to
see what fine wool really means; next,
have a thread tied to the end of the
wool and, making sure that the glasses
aren’t pressed too tightly together, stretch
it. On releasing the thread, the crimp
will come back, illustrating the wonder-
ful elasticity for which wool is unsur-
passed among fibres. A thin smear of
retouching-gum over a glass slide and you
can lay it over a map or picture and
with pen or pencil trace same for pro-
jection—and with those for a start he
can work further ideas out for himself.
“Helldud”: So “B. A. Ker” “reads with
delight that industrialists have found a
use for tea-tree.” This timber —the larger
varieties, of course —has been highly
regarded by Australian boat- and ship-
builders for upwards of 100 years, and a
timber has yet to be discovered in any
part of the world surpassing it for use as
stems and knees. Though varying in
color from pale- to dark-brown, all tea-
trees are similar in texture. The darker-
colored timber resembles and is equal in
quality to French and Italian walnut.
Beautifully figured, it is ideal for wood-
carVing and cabinet-making, and for
veneer cannot be surpassed. For bridge-
flooring it surpasses brush-box, and its
weather- and water-resisting qualities are
remarkable, but don’t let anyone tell you
that it is an ideal building timber. Its
durability is unquestioned, it planes up
beautifully, but wait until you try to drive
a nail into it. I’ve tested everf com-
mercially-used hardwood from ironbark
to raspberry-jam, but they’re soft com-
pared with tea-tree. Every spike must be
bored for or it will either double up or
bounce back with every clout.
* * * *
“Bo”; The tractor salesman, still
“doing” the district, dropped in on old
Sanderson to check up and see if the
machine he’d sold there a few weeks
before was going all right. He was a bit
taken aback to see Sanderson behind a
single-furrow plough drawn by a light
draught. “Don’t tell me your tractor’s
gone bung on you?” he greeted. “Or is
is it just that you’ve run out of juice?”
Sanderson “Whoa’d,” then out came his
pipe. “No, young feller,” he replied.
“Tractor’s goin’ good-oh. Should ’a’ got
one long ago. It was Prince here. Been
screwin’ over the fence every time I've
had the tractor on the job, an’ I can tell
by the look on his dial he’s bin thinkin’
he can still do as good a job as the
machine. Now when horses start thinkin’
like that they get' a bit too cocky, an’ in
the end git so full o’ their own importance
y’ can’t live with ’em, like the boys when
they come back from college thinkin’
they know more about life than you do.
So I puts old Prince in the plough today
just to show him he ain’t as good as the
tractor. I guarantee that tomorrow he’ll
be looking at it with respect!”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Westralian cray-
fisherraen want to know how a cray
enters a pot —head-first or tail-first. The
crustacean walks forwards and swims
backwards, and they don’t know which
method it employs when going for the
bait. It won’t enter the pot if the bait
is at the bottom —it must be suspended—
and to get at it the cray passes through
a cane funnel heading inwards from the
top of the pot. If it walks in forwards
its feelers would get in the way, unless
they can fold back. Anyone know?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I nearly took up with
a girl once,” Mat said, “Met her sittin’
in a sulky on the Thule-road, one
mornin’ just after sun-up. The sulky’s
got a broken shaft an’ there ain’t no horse
an’ she’s sittin’ there. Nobody else in
sight ‘You in trouble.?’ I says. ‘Not
me,’ she says, ‘but I reckon me father
is.’ ‘Where’s he?’ X says. ‘Aw,’ she says,
‘we was drivin’ along here last night an’
somethin’ made the horse jump an’ it
broke a shaft an’ kicked itself out o’ the
harness an’ bolted in the dark. Me father
told me t’ stay here an’ he went after it.
He ain’t back yet’ ‘When was this?’ I
says. ‘Aw,’ she says, ‘must ha’ bin about
ten o’clock last night.’ ‘Gripes,’ I says.
‘that’s ten hours ago. Where y’ reckon
he is?’ ‘Aw,’ she says, ‘I reckon he got t’
Whymoul or Storm’s or somewhere an’
stopped the night. He’ll be back.’ ‘What
about you?’ I says. ‘Wouldn’t he worry
about you?’ ‘Aw,’ she says, ‘he wouldn’t
have t’ worry about me. He knows I’ll
be here when he gets back.’ ” Mat fell
silent. “What happened?” I asked. “Her
old man turned up then,” he answered.
“With a fresh horse, an’ we spliced the
shaft an’ they drove off.” “How old was
she?” “Who? The girl. Aw, about
twenty, I reckon.” “Was she good-
lookin’?” Mat gave me a surprised look.
“I don’t remember,” he said. “But you
said you nearly took up with her?” He
frowned at my denseness. “ ’Course I
did. Y’ don’t meet many wimmen that
y’ could tell t’ stay in one place an’ then
come back next day an’ find her still
there, do y’?”
* ♦ * ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: A “royal”
boomerang was included in a collection
of aboriginal relics presented by H. M.
Eastman, of Old Morago, to the Denili-
quin (N.S.W.) council, as a nucleus of an
aboriginal museum. The weapon was
made years ago by Billy Ingram to give
an exhibition of boomerang-throwing in
Echuca before the former Governor, Lord
Stradbroke. Its history is told briefly but
pithily by Billy, one of the last of the
Murray blacks: “Me gibbit this fella
boomerang along soldier bloke” (tile
Governor). “He gibbit along his missus.
She gibbit along Prince of Wales. Prince
pfella he take it along England, learnem
father throw it, . , It got broke on him.
So King he sendem it back. Me givem
King new fella.” The other day old Billy
stitched the broken curved stick together
so that it could form part of the Denili-
quin collection, which includes portion
of a box-tree trunk on which has been
hacked out with a stone tomahawk the
perfect carving of a possum.
* * * *
“Tarbush”: The big greenish-grey
golden web-spiders are nowhere common
in this rather naked slab of northern S.A.,
but odd specimens sling their great nets
between prickly acacias in swampy flats,
while others can occasionally be seen in
scrubby watercourses under the ranges.
The other day the nipper brought one
home in a jam-tin and insisted on settling
it down round the house. We picked the
west veranda, where a large gap in a
battered old creeper looked like an ideal
spot for a web, especially as such a web
would intercept the thousands of flying
things which visit the lighted window just
across the veranda on warm nights. Mrs.
Golden Web stayed there that night and
the next day. After that she disappeared,
and we had given her up for lost when,
a week later, she was seen on the south
veranda, high up under the bungalow
roof, where she had already built a large
web parallel with the'wall. Now, the
south veranda is exposed to flaying winter
winds, it faces on to a naked plain, and
it has no shrubs or creepers for web-
supports, as well as no lighted window at
night. Puzzling, it occurred to me that, on
the west veranda, the axis of the web
would have run north and south; on the
south veranda the web’s axis is east and
west. All the webs I’ve seen hereabouts
are lined up east and west.
THE MOONLIGHT FLIT.
.►The sight of empty houses with “to let” boards
no now seems like a dream of the past.”
w —Daily paper.
All secret in the dead of night,
With neither moon nor stars too bright,
Or match or lantern lit, /
And ne’er a whisper, cough or sneeze,
Working to a plan that ran with ease—
Ah, the romance of it,
The moonlight flit.
Ssh! As the pale moon drank each cloud,
With sneaking steps, no stumble loud,
Our boots from off our feet,
Ears well pricked, eyes left, to right,
All hands on deck, without respite.
We moved the bedroom suite
Into the street
And in the shadows filled the van,
Without a sound of pot or pan
Or careless bump or smash
Of dining-suite (it was t.-p.),
Sewing-machine, glass, crockery,
That are so apt to clash
With movements rash,
Then softly pulled the dim front door,
The while we heard our neighbors snore
And cats their loved-ones meet,
What time the stars each winked an eye
And chimneys nodded on the sly;
Oh, hushed with joy we left
Landlords bereft!
Ah, gone for aye those wondrous nights
When tenants made their secret flights—
Adventure long has quit:
We have to pay our rent, for (woe!)
iliere is no empty place to go.
We can but dream of it—
The moonlight flit.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Easing the Burden of
Property Problems
during your lifetime and after
>i
M
AS the management of Estates and Invest-
ments becomes more difficult, there are
increasing advantages to be gained by appoint-
ing the Union Trustee Company to act as your
advisor during your lifetime and as the
Executor of your Will.
(Thus is assured, at moderate cost, efficient
handling of your business or personal affairs,
with continuity of service and sympathetic
understanding in the administration of your
Estate.
Discussion of your needs—in complete confi-
dence —is cordially invited. Call or write for a
complimentary copy of “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.
the UNION TRUSTEE
_ . , , . -i •« nor
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
333 Collins St,Melbourne; 2 O'Connell stsydnSl'MMol Queen St,Brisbane; amatAibur^Townsviie,xoewoomba a'dßockhamptra
The only Trustee B company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States V ictoria, ew out i
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
t Dividends N
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
Mch.. Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £ £ i
1942. 84,225 8000 14 p.c.= 70,000 6,225 265,778
To provident fund, £4192 .. .. 261,586
1943 79.968 8000 13 p.c.= 66.000 1 6)9 68 267,554
Patriotic donations, £lOOO \
1944.102,858 8000 16| p.c.= 83,750 1 9 808 277,362
Patriotic donations, £l3OO J ’
1945.106,081 8000 17i p.c.= 87,500 10,531 287,893
1946.106,271 8000 18| „„ 93,750 4,521 292,414
1947.130,843 8000 20 ~,,100,000 22,843 315,257
From inner reserves, £14,000 .. .. 329,258
From tax reserve, £70,000 .. .. 399,258
1948.158,651 8000 20 p.c.= 100,000 50,651 449,909
1949.162,417 8000 20 „ „ 100,000 54,417 504,327
Revaluation N.Z. properties, £24,759.. 529,086
Currency exchange profit, £20,434 .. 549,520
1950.152,449 8000 20 p.C.= 100,000 44,449 593,969
The thing that interested the share-
market most happened since the close
of last accounts. It was the capitalisation
of £150,000 of reserves in a three-for-10
bonus-share issue to those on the ord.
register at June 23, and was provided
from the surplus on revaluation of land
and buildings in Australia (£130,241) and
New Zealand (£24,759). Tie Australian
revaluation didn’t take place until after
the books were ruled off. All the pro-
perties still appear at well below their
market values. The gift has lifted paid
capital to £750,000 in f.-p. ss. shares, of
which 400,000 are 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
the balance ords. On that lot the pref.
div. and 20 p.c. to the ords. would call
for £138,000, or £14,449 less profit than
was claimed last term.
The co. is well entrenched in the adver-
tising and wholesale newsagency business
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
and is a large importer of newsprint and
printing machinery as well as periodicals,
books, stationery and fancygoods, etc.
Ever since the present co. amalgamated
the old Gordon and Gotch businesses
over 30 years ago, the board has pursued
a careful and progressive policy,
financially and otherwise, which has
enabled the co, to gather some rich
harvests from the post-war boom. Profits
shot up from £79,968 in 1943 to £162,417
in 1949, an increase of 103 p.c., and the
div. climbed from 13 p.c. to 20 p.c., with
widening margins.
At the beginning of last term there
were signs of an approaching buyer’s
market, in which prices were showing a
tendency to ease. But the Sept., 1949,
currency devaluations altered the picture,
and demand and prices have since
strengthened. Over the twelvemonth
more periodicals were imported from the
sterling area, a number of new Australian
journals, some of which are distributed
by the co., came on to the market, and
sales of paper, printing machinery,
stationery and technical and educational
books, etc.,, increased, too.
So, despite the dollar problem, and
consequent embargo on importation of
American publications for general dis-
tribution, there was an improvement of
£97,929 in the co.’s gross earnings:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Gross profit .. .. £941,349 £941,314 £1,039,243
Exes 782,698 778,897 886,794
Net profit .. .. £158,651 £162,417 £152,449
Exes, (up £107,897) gobbled all the gain
and £9968 besides. That was because of
a 20 p.c. rise in the payroll total (due
largely to overtime following introduc-
tion of the 40-hour week), a 49 p.c. lift
in rail-freight, cartage and other costs
and a heavier allowance for depreciation
(£30,343, up The increase in
the last-mentioned item exceeded the drop
in net earnings. The £152,449 of profit
covered the pref. div. and 28.8 p.c. on
the half-million of ord. capital as against
30.8, 30.1, 24.5, 19.6, 19.6 and 18.9 p.c.
back to 1944. The 20 p.c. div. was re-
peated for the fourth year in succession.
All that excludes an exchange windfall
of £20,434 on transfer of N.Z. profits
earned prior to Aug., 1948, and the
surplus on revaluation of N.Z, assets
already referred to.
This revaluation accounts for only
about one-third of the year’s growth of
£71,966 in fixed assets, the balance being
on account of general expansion, which
is further reflected in the growth of
£106,031 in book-debts:
Mar.,'39. Mar.,’4B. Mar.,’49. Mar.,’so.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors .. 139,421 418,051 446,084 553,669
Tax reserve .. 48,350 289,451 156,013 192,109
Freeholds .. 194,118 195,246 223,223 261,272
Leaseholds .. 16,024 13,868 13,024 28,464
Plant, etc. .. 30,298 27,412 89,079 57,556
Stock.. .. 285,265 679,699 546,824 476,438
Book debts .. 398,953 796,149 624,721 730,752
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 204,478 99,038 313,553 439,265
Despite rising prices, stocks were down
£70,386, while £107,585 was added to
the trade debt and £125,712 to cash, etc,,
which includes £175,000 (up £100,000) of
Commonwealth bonds. After allowing
for the final div., the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£846,677) was £17,676 stronger.
The market, which sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky, lifted its bid for the ords. from
255. 6d. in Feb. to 30s. 6d. just before
the bonus issue. Last week the figure
stood at 245. 6d. (ex-rights), giving a
return of 4.1 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 9s. lid. yield 4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is Bs. lid. per share, pref.
and ord. combined.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
r* Dividends To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1941. .34,502 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 82,500 2,002 242,063
1942.. 31.145 6 „ 8f „ 29,375 1,770 243,833
1943.. 42.258 6 „ 7i „ 26,250 16,008 259,841
1944.. 35.686 6 „ 7i „ 26,250 9,486 269,277
1945.. 33.389 6 „ 7i „ 26,250 7,139 276,416
Reserves disappear, £8196 .. .. ’268,220
1946. .38,269 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 32,500 ? . ... 071 qqq
To staff fund, £2OOO ..J 8,769 271,989
Restored to reserves, £196 .. .. 272,185
1947. 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 38,750 15,657 287,842
1948.. 43.336 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 10,836 298,678
1949.. 44.368 6 „ 10 „ 82,500 11,868 310,546
Deferred lease premiums, £25,123.. 335,669
1950.. 49,145 6 p.c. 12J p.c. 38,760 10,395 346,064
The brewery is at Ballarat (Vic.) and
the business, which includes 90-odd of
the co.’s own hotels, extends throughout
western Victoria and oyer the border to
Mt. Gambier (S. Aus.) and to the N. S.
Wales Riverina. Since war ended a lot
of attention has been given to modern-
ising plant, etc., and further replacements
and additions are to be made as soon as
the necessary equipment becomes avail-
able. This is part of the board’s un-
remitting war against rising wage, raw-
material and other costs, which have
lately threatened to gobble the benefits,
and more besides, from expanding turn-
over.
To help relieve the position the Vic-
torian price-control authorities granted
an increase of 3d. a gallon in the selling-
price of bulk beer from the beginning of
Sept., 1949, making the increase sd. a
gallon (the amount originally asked for)
over the last two years. Another factor
which contributed to the improvement in
last term’s earnings was a further rise
(about 4 p.c.) in the output and consump-
tion of beer. The growth in gross earn-
ings from brewing was £26,886, and
rents, etc., turned in an extra £6223,
making the improvement in gross earn-
ings from all sources £33,109:
Gross profit— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Brewing .. £127,850 £183,653 £160,758 £177,644
Rent, etc... 40,171 46,685 46,587 52,760
Total .. £168,021 £180,338 £197,295 £230,404
Exes 121,614 187,002 152,927 181,269
Profit.. .. £46,407 £43,336 £44,368 £49,145
Including allowances of £22,652 (up
£10,066) for depreciation—the figure in-
cludes 40 p.c. on new plant—and £46,000
(up £4000) for taxation, exes, swallowed
£28,332 of the gain. The net result was
thus £4777 stronger at £49,145, and only
once since the public became interested
in 1936 has better been shown. It was
enough to pay the pref. div. (£7500) and
show 16.6 p.c. on the £250,000 of ord.
capital as against 14.7, 14.3, 18.7, 12.3
and 10 p.c. back to 1945. The div. was
lifted from 10 p.c. to 12| p.c., which was
the rate paid for the three pre-war years
and again in 1947.
Prospects of the 12£ p.c. being main-
tained for the current term are encourag-
ing so far as turnover is concerned —
employment looks like remaining at a
high level, wages are still rising and the
recent price-increase operated for only
two-thirds of the last term. Actual
results will be governed mainly by the
extent of rises in prices for labor, raw
materials, transport, etc.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1946. 1948. 1949. 1950.
- £ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 375.U00 376,000 375,000 375,000
Mortgages ~ 94,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft ~ 11,961 10,378 37,878
Sundry creditors 32,413 21,607 20,456 25,272
Prepayments, etc. 21,776 26,199 25,931* 30,727*
Tax reserve ~ 32,500 39,000 42,000 46,000
Brewery, hotels,
'etc 580,876 579,575 586,081 587,728
Plant, etc, .. 50,136 56,789 57,152 64,912
Stock.. .. 29,749 37,586 38,873 46,645
Sundry debtors .. 125,882 137,407 154,994 196,226
Shares other cos. 346 346 347 347
Cash, etc. . . 58,939 28,241 17,262 15,084
* Includes provision for final div.
Chief movement in the figures last term
was the growth of £41,232 in the debtors
item, of which £102,388 (up £27,875)
represented advances secured by mort-
gages on hotel and other freeholds.
Stocks increased by £7772, and fixed
assets by £9407 net, while £32,316 was
added to the outside debt, mainly to (he
overdraft. Taking the tax reserve and
prepayments, etc., into the reckoning,
the more-or-less liquid surplus was
£5714 stronger at £68,425. When
materials and labor become available, a
lot of money is to be spent on modernis-
ing the co.’s own hotel properties.
At 635. (555. 6d. a year ago) the ords.
return 3.9 p.c. on a 12|- p.c. div, basis.
The prefs. at 295. 6d. yield 4 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £5 15s. 4d.
prefs. and 475. Bd. ords.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Dividends.— N
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. serves. serves.
& £ £ £
1944 .. 13,018 6,600 5,600 1,818 17,135
Si p.c.
1946 .. 5,774 6,600 2,800 14,509
2J p.c.
1946 .. 7,993 5,600 2,000 393 14,902
Unexplained addition res., £12,567 .. 27,469
Prom “Special Depreciation Reserve,”
£52,015 79,484
7 p.c.
1947 .. 16,247 5,600 5,600 5,047 84,531
Compensation, Darwin service, £18,440 102,971
1948 .. 16,599 5,600 5,300 6,399 108,370
Profits prior years, £15,000 .. .. 123,370
1949 .. 12,814 5,600 5,600 1,114 124,484
1950 ~ 14,754 5,600 6,600 3,554 128,038
After a successful career in the develop-
ment of air-transport, first in New
Guinea and then on the Adelaide-Darwin
route, this co.’s flying activities are now
confined to South Australia and the
Lower Darling area, and that through
no fault of its own. The co.’s future in
the air depends mainly upon the policy
of the Federal Government in connection
with its own air-line. Until the position
in this respect becomes clear, the board
has decided to “sit-tight” on the co.’s big
pile of liquid resources, so as to be in a
position to take advantage of any oppor-
tunity that might offer. The question of
establishing new services to Port
Augusta, Leigh Creek and Naracoorte are
now being dicussed with the Government.
Last term a new air-route to Renmark
(S.A.) and Mildura (Vic.) was opened up,
the number of passengers carried on all
the co.’s routes increased from 45,998 to
53,922 and the volume of freight grew
from 829,0001 b. to over 1,000,0001 b.
After allowing £17,152 (up £424) for de-
preciation, the profit was £26,726, of
which £15,285 (up £4510) was from
flying and £11,441 (up £3077) from in-
vestments. Provision for taxation
(£11,972, up £5147) left the net result
from all sources £2440 stronger at
£14,754. That was 9.2 p.c. on the
£160,000 of paid capital (half 7 p.c. par-
ticipating prefs. and the other half ords.)
as against 7.7, 10.3 and 101 nc
three preceding years. The’aii? th ?
7 p.c. distribution was reneated
the future of the business takSf’m 1111
definite shape, it is doubtful whether *° re
alteration in the dividend rate mSi
looked for. e( * be
Here is the financial set-up as the
lished accounts show it: puD ~
. 1947. 1948. 1949
al< | capltaL - £l6O - 000 £160 . 0 00£i60,060£i6o 5 0°60
Tux proven! Solo 24’m 48 ’ 97 ?
Fixed assets.. 70,993 48’4qi f’ 550
c i aims - • 3 !i 941
shares, etc, -1 ss’loi i0 8 ’ 706
oash > etc - ’ ••_ 247,351 250’036 237’iso 22i’ 99 3
Cash, etc., includes £192,080 of Common
wealth 3i p.c. bonds. Shareholdings
consist chiefly of 5 p.c. preference
Or T SCr4 P io Australian
iNau cmai Motels pty, (Hobart). The
more-01-IeSS liquid surplus (£262 4fim imo
£lB2 406 more than remLpnt ( , aS
. “I 016 *“ an repayment of the
prei. capital would call for. But before
that step can be taken consent of hnlfWe
75 nc n f *l,- chili, .I’ll
, P. OI PTGI- Shares Will have to
be obtained. Their capital and minimum
7 nc div are hnth mnm nr l ac ,o IUUIAI
*7 .‘ QlV ’ ff® hOm mOre-Or-foSS assured.
and it would be difficult to find employ-
ment for the money elsewhere that would
offer equally favorable terms in respect
of both income and capital security,
The market, which sooner or later
expects some adjustment of the capital
account, prices the ords. at 31s. and the
prefs. at 265. 9d., at which figures the
return is 4.5 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively
at last term’s rate of distribution. Net
tangible cover is 725. prefs. and 525. ords.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. to r c - r 6.
Mar -* FTQ^ t ' ah Shares. serves, serves,
1940.. 9,597 11.1 P . c .» 4,626 4,971 49^93
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,215 ss’eii
1942 * 13,875 16.7 ~ „ 9,253 4,622 60,236
1943.. 11,037 13.9 „ „ 7,710 3327 63 563
1944.. 11,744 13.9 „ „ 7,710 4,034 67)597
1945 •• 9 > 295 13 9 » » 7 > 710 1.585 69,182
1946-- 9 290 13 9 7 710 1 680 7
1947.. 14,386 ie.6 „ „ 9,253 5,133 75395
staff fund, £l2OO ~ ~ ~ 74,695
1948 > 17 441 22.2 P . c .= 13,236 4,205 73 900
1949.. 22,329 22.2 „ „ 16,383 5,946 84,846
Assets revaluation reserve, £162,911 247,757
1950.. 34,927 22.2 p.c. = 18,919 16,008 268,765
The dazzling results won during the
post-war years have been achieved
und , er . exceptional conditions which
contain the seeds of future trouble. Since
1939 this co.’s unit costs for materials
have increased nearly fourfold and unit
labor costs nearly threefold. The con-
elusion, the chairman says, is that “if the
vicious spiral of costs cannot be arrested
before it HSCS fo insupportable heights, a
catastrophe of the first magmtude will
our economic structure ” The
board s declared policy is, therefore, one
of caution, the creation of adequate re-
serves to withstand an economic setback,
and of trading mainly within the co.’s
own resources. They are sound aims
which should serve shareholders’ interests
well in the long-run.
The co. produces about one-tenth of
Australia’s total output of knitted under-
wear from a well-equipped mill at Mary-
borough (Vic.) and three auxiliary plants
at Dunolly, Talbot and Avoca. Demand
continues to run ahead of output, which
is less than plant capacity, owing t°
shortages of labor and some raw
materials. It was expanding turnover,
both in volume and value, together with
a tight hold upon controllable outgoings,
that put the spring of £12,598 into last
term’s net earnings, raising the fagure to
a record £34,927. That was equal to a
juicy 40.9 p.c. on average capital (pre .
and ord. combined) as against 30.2, 29.2,
25.9, 16.7 and 16.7 px;. back to 19 .
So repetition of the 22.2 P; c * Idistribution, 1 distribution,
of which 5.6 p.c. is labelled bonus, De-
came an easier matter. . ..
Following independent valuations,
freeholds and plm have beep ijp
in the books by mm and.flM.OlO
respectively, and £! 62,91 I has
credited to an assets revaluation res •
Both items had been written down
severely in tfie early 193° s when! is.w
slashed off each pref. and ord. share,


FOR
m ee?
RHEUMATISM, ARTHRITIS,
SCIATICA, FIBROSITIS, GOUT,
LUMBAGO, JOINT & MUSCULAR
PAINS arising from any condition
Clursy’s is a prescribed scientific formula which, taken as
directed, quickly strikes at the cause of your pain and
exhaustion, it restores proper functioning of the kidneys
and immediately eases the agonising pain and tones up
the whole nervous system—get back t® good health and
well being with
i
CM. 16 A. 8
cluny McPhersons
aaiv t 11 Bl C FROM CHEMISTS
MIXTURE EVERYWHERE
FAMED THESE 30 YEARS
FOR SALE
“Where is as is”
LAKEWOOD, NEAR KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Two “O” Class Locomotives
3ft. 6in. Gge.
Wheels 2.8.0
8-Wheel Tenders
Wood fired
conditioning ■
- No side tanks Partly dismantled for repairs and re-
• Boiler Inspector’s Reports and Estimates of Repair Cost
available to potential buyers.
-Also-
Spare Boiler (1601 b. Working Pressure) and other spares including 2 sets
Engine Wheels and 1 Set Bogie and Tender Wheels.
Enquiries to;
Goldfields Firewood Supply Pty. Ltd.
Box LBB3, G.P.0., PERTH, or Tel. 82024.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.'— Adtt.
m
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
O Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools e Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. 9 All types
Saw Repairs.
Public Notices.
I, ANTHONY CASTANOS, of Greek
nationality, bom at lsl. of Greece,
resident 26 years in Australia, now re-
siding at 1 Rosebank Street, King’s Cross,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948. ,
I, JAN WILENSKI, of Polish nationality,
bom at Warsaw, Poland, resident four
years in Australia, now residing at 7
Springfield Avenue, Potts Point, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
i
/
?s
8 o<» e
si
tTO
•
Whether you are thinking
of buying a washer —or practic-
ally any major domestic appliance
for that matter —you must know before-
hand what is UNDERNEATH the porccljfin
enamel. If you receive the assurance that the appliance is
built with COMROL STEEL . . . you can buy
with absolute confidence. An ap-
pliance constructed from COMROL
Sheet will stand up to everything
the years will bring. It’s the steel
that gives stamina.
M P *
a
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
MILLS PIT. LTD.
Head Office and Works:
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED—GENERAL SALES AGENTS
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place, MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon Street. South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham Street*. WELLINGTON.
N.Z.: John Lvtaght's Bristol Works Limited
MS?
Ifrusaber
mim
IMM
SSSii
NS
■
■
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
TODAYS
PROTECTION
TOMORROWS
SECURITY
ammTfihoufti tfie
I
*w
i
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD
HUNTER AND BIICH STREET SYDNEY
reducing their face-value to 9s.
each. Meanwhile substantial
additions have been made to
these items, especially plant (the
chief earning asset), and paid
for out of earnings and then
from the same source substan-
tially written down However,
the adjustment of book-values
will not affect eai rung-power one
way or the other, but it will place
profits in a truer ratio to actual
funds belonging to shareholders
which are employed in the busi-
ness. Last terms profit was
equal to 9 3 p.c on shareholders’
funds at March 31, which sug-
gests that the wntmg-up has not
been overdone, fhe chairman
says that, at the moment, there
is no intention of capitalising
any of the reserves (now heaped
more than twice the height of
paid capital) in a bonus-share
issue.
During the year £31,317 of
fresh capital was gatnered at par,
and the money went mainly into
stocks (hp £-5,569) and book
debts (up £16,816): -
capital .. & 67J355 £79,794 fiiiifiii
Liabilities* 78,455 84,768 78,951
Freeholds .. 16,355 21,579 65,606
Plant, etc. 18,468 16,362 135,587
Stocks .. 132,131 146,281 171,877
Debtors .. 59,870 70,156 £6,774
Shares .. s,ooo 3,000 7,057
Cash, etc... 14,422 14,413 11,845
* including tax provision.
The additions to freeholds (up
£44,027) and plant (up £119,225)
mainly reflect the writing-up
already referred to. The year’s
improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£198,602) was
£49 520.
At 30s. (265. a year ago) the
f-p 9s ords. return 6.6 p.c. on a
22.2 p.c. distribution, or 4.5 p.c.
should the rate drop to 15 p.c.
The cover is 355. lid. in net
tangibles. The prefs., covered
by £7 2s. lid. in net tangibles.
seldom appear on the market.
They carry a cumulative 8 p.c.,
advance with the ords. beyond
that rate, but do not share in
surplus assets.
Nechi Consolidated Dredging Ltd.
After many frustrations and
delays, due first to war and then
to post-war scarcity of equip-
ment, etc., this big offshoot of
Placer Development got its first
dredge operating on the Nechi
River, Colombia (S. America),
early in Sept, 1949. It is a com-
paratively new secondhand
machine of 4,000,000-c.y.-p.a.
capacity which was bought in
Montana (U.S.) for $400,000 in
Sept., 1947, It was dismantled,
railed to New Orleans, partly re-
assembled, towed across the
Caribbeari Sea and then up the
Magdalena River to the prepared
site on the Nechi —a commend-
able achievement.
For the 114 days to Dec. 31,
1949, the machine handled
1.262.000 c.y. for 8113 oz. fine
gold, worth $312,364 (Canadian),
an average of 24.75 cents a yard.
Including royalties ($20,902), de-
velopment ($3738) and insurance
($3137), all-in working costs
amounted to $267,536 (21.2 cents
a yard), leaving the profit on
dredging, account at $44,828. The
surplus on sale of exchange
securities ($119,187) lifted the
total profit figure to $164,015,
of which Colombian taxes took
$11,193 and depreciation, etc.,
$129,229, leaving net available
profit at $23,593.
For the three months to the
end of March, 1950, 890,000 c.y.
were handled for 41500 z. fine
gold, an average of 17.9 cents
(Canadian) per yard, which is
about the average value of the
210.319.000 c.y. of ground which
has been close-bored. There is a
further 60,010,000 c.y. scout-
drilled to average 15 cents, as
well as a large area of potential
dredging ground yet to be tested.
The cost per yard of
Colombian taxes is roughly pro-
portional to the yield per yard,
and average working and ad-
ministrative costs can be ex-
pected to decrease as the yard-
age increases. So present dredge
capacity is to be lifted to
5,000,000 c.y. p.a., and, if con-
ditions (capital and working
costs especially) warrant, a
second dredge, and maybe a
third, is to be installed. Im-
mediately up-stream Pato,
another Placer offshoot, paid 15
' p.c. last year, with a wide mar-
gin, from a turnover of 16.8 mil-
lion c.y., averaging 27.5 cents
and with all-in costs at 21.8
cents a yard.
At Dec. 31, 1949, Nechi had
current assets totalling $1,050,087
and current liabilities amounting
to $721,803, of which $629,014
(substantially reduced since the
close of accounts) was coming to
Pato.
Tongkah Compound No. 4 N.L.
This Melbourne-controlled co.,
operating at Lamley, Takuapa
district, Siam, is giving a good
account of itself. It got its
150,000-c.y.-p.a. dredge, bought
from New Kopah Tin in 1938,
going again about the middle of
Dec., 1948. For the 9£ months
to end Sept., 1949, it treated
1,056,000 c.y. of 0.621 b. dirt for
293 tons t.o. Approximate value,
production cost and profit per
yard were 28.32 d., 10.98 d, arid
17.34 d. respectively. Including
£2835 of sundry income, net
profit amounted to £74,826, equal
to 49.8 p.c. on the £150,000 of
paid capital, and two divs. of Is.
a share each, total 10 p.c.
(£15,000), were paid. In addi-
tion £74,453 was received in
settlement of the co.’s claim for
tin ore taken from the property
during the Jap. occupation. This
has been credited to a special
reserve.
For the year to Sept. 30 last
the London price of tin was
steady at approximately £5569
per ton. The spot figure shot up
to £8750 following the Sept, de-
valuation of sterling, fell to an
average of £8590 for April, 1950,
and then advanced sharply fol-
lowing the outbreak of hostili-
ties in Korea, reaching £5659 ss.
last week, with very small back-
wardation.
For the eight months since the
close of accounts, to May 31,
1950, 1,071,000 c.y. were handled
for 27H tons t.o. and a profit
of about £43,000, of which three
divs. of Is. each (last paid May
30) took £22,500. With four
months of the terrii still to run
the co. promises to make another
very satisfactory showing at
Sept. 30 next, despite the sharp
rise in costs and heavy bleeding
by the Siamese Government.
At Sept. 30, 1949, co.’s current
assets totalled £154,184 and
current liabilities £52,015, of
which £35,662 was a Govern-
ment rehabilitation loan. Pre-
sently the co. is to receive a cash
payment of £539,456 in full
settlement of its war-damage
claims; this in addition to the
rehabilitation loan just men-
tioned. Expenditure on re-
habilitation account at Sept. 30
last appeared at £84,867.
There seems to be six years
work, or more, ahead of the
dredge in ground originally bored
to average 0.91 b. t. 0., and there
is a large area yet to be
thoroughly tested. The co.’s
pound shares, which have had a
fairly steady market just under
the 305.-mark, have not appeared
on ’Change for the last few
weeks.


>(Osl
.w.'-T
■P
*0
%
%
The importance of
Keeping your Will
up-to-date
Failure to keep your
Will up to date may result in
much anxiety, endless trouble
and legal costs for those whose
welfare you have at heart.
Changes in family conditions,
deaths births marriages,
changes in assets; changes in
economic conditions necessitate
alterations to a Will so that it
expresses the real intentions of
the Testator.
Make a point of looking over
your Will to-day; when doing
so it will be wise to consider
carefully your choice of Execu-
tor and Trustee.
vi
1 P-nt* 5Fn.
-r'r'Z r. ~ £ Kr
feQS-g 1 W K rfrr
' OOT*'^ T '
•j ~ p,
ia
SJ
kk
JtiL
3-=
sfe^sSß
Consider the advantages of the services rendered in
this capacity by Perpetual Trustee Company Limited.
The Company is specially constituted to undertake its
duties. Its service is perpetual. It is not subject to
the disadvantages of illness or old age. It is never
absent but always available for consultation. Its capital
and reserves, amounting to over .£500,000, provide tang-
ible security for its integrity. Its uncalled capital of
£BOO,OOO is an additional safeguard.
’Phone B 0377 or write for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee”—that describes the Com-
pany’s service and charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSEN- •
TEES AND OTHERS, AD-
MINISTRATOR, Etc.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUND
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.. Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA. TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business Rollery etc.
Federal Spending
Mr, Chifley budgeted for a
deficit of £35 million in the
year, which closed on June 30.
Mr. Fadden finished it with a
deficit of £25.5 million. Though
revenue was £36 million greater
than Budget estimates (taxation
at £504 million being an all-
time record), expenditure was
also £27 million greater.
Revenue was £26,3 million more
than the actual figure for the pre-
ceding year, <and expenditure was
£51.8 million greater, largely be-
cause of increased payments to
the States, appropriations to the
National Welfare Fund, and out-
lay on capital works and services
Total Budget spending of £606
million, including £lOl million
passed on to the States, repre-
sents about 30 p.c. of the national
income, and excludes ordinary
works programmes for which
borrowing provides.
In the year just closed Aus-
tralian Governments spent more
of the people’s money than in
any previous peace-time period.
It was, indeed, a year of record
national income, as income is
expressed in the inflated currency
and prices of the day. The peak
may now have been reached —
unless another war sends prices
on a further jag. But from a
money and manpower point of
view, Australian Governments
have taken just about as much
from private enterprise as any
competitive peace-time economy
can stand. Hopes generally are
for a contraction in the bureau-
cratic and “Welfare State” bal-
loons.
Sharemarket Firmer
Australian Stock Exchange
prices recovered some lost
ground last week, leading indus-
trials being sought after, while
increased overseas prices for base
metals, caused by prospects of
greater military demand, brought
keener inquiry for tin and silver-
lead shares. Mt. Isa, the subject
of recent market disappointment,
rose to 38s. 6d.
There is good reason, in all the
circumstances, for support, around
present prices, for most sound
Australian industrial stocks.
Retailers, on the other hand,
are now feeling a pinch. Sales
are steadying while costs are still
rising. Newspaper concerns are
also being hit badly by higher
newsprint charges and inflated
wages bills.
Capital-profits Tax?
There are rumors about that
the Federal Government is con-
sidering imposing a tax on any
“profit” made on share invest-
ments, regardless of whether the
owner is an investor or a trader,
and regardless of how long the
scrip has been held. Presumably
the same action is intended in
relation to “profits” from the
sale (or resale) of property.
The Taxation Department
already has the right to declare
any person a “trader” in shares
or other property. It has not
been over-ready to treat investors
as traders even though they may
have had a number of share-
transactions in a year. Any in-
vestor is likely to have several
changes in his portfolio during
a year, and that should not be
regarded as trading. The depart-
ment hasn’t considered it to be
so, as a rule, but has, rightly,
taxed the investor at the property
rate on his dividends. If he
were a trader, all income,
whether capital profits or divs.,
should be taxed at the personal-
exertion rate.
Current rumor has it that a
flat-rate tax of about ss. in the
£ may be imposed on “profits”
from all share-dealings.
This would be extremely un-
just, especially to those who have
held shares since before the war.
Inflation in costs has been of the
order of 80 p.c.-100 p.c. since
1939, and the person who bought
a share at 255, in 1939 and now
sells it for 40s. has not even
held his own, let alone made a
real “profit.”
Investors as a whole have not
reaped their fair proportion of
“You’ve never really grown up, Feather stone.”
the seeming expansion in the
national income since 1939. Divi-
dends have not increased at the
same rate as the basic wage, let
alone living costs; price-control
and other things have seen to
that. Further, there is nowa-
days no rebate of tax to share-
holders in regard to tax already
paid by a company.
Thrift has taken many body-
blows over the past decade, and
the taxation of casual investment
“profits” would be most unfortu-
nate.
Dollars and a Bureau
“Abdul Assiz”: The statement
that the Ministry for National
Development is buying two air
borne magnetometers from
U.S.A., at a high dollar cost, will
come as a surprise to Australians
affected by dollar restrictions.
The magnetometers, it is
stated, will be operated in speci-
ally demagnetised aeroplanes by
officers of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources.
The expenditure of dollars on
this bureau has already been
considerable, and its past record
does not lend any great hopes
of return, in dollars or other
currency, from its activities. Its
geophysical work, in particular,
has not met with any notable
success. The bureau’s search for
the extension of silver-lead-zinc
ore-bodies in the Broken Hill
may be quoted as an example,
and the work, in this case, was
handed over to a commercial
geophysical organisation.
In the search for uranium the
data collected by the bureau
proved so disappointing that the
Government encouraged private
investigation, under the stimulus
of substantialrewards if successful.
At Leigh Creek (S.A.) the
bureau’s survey for coal pro-
duced a map duplicating the one
already available from the non-
conjectural results of close-
boring. At Collie (W.A.), which
has not been so closely bored,
much the same result was
obtained, out the bureau claims
to have established the full ex-
tent of the coal basin “with con-
siderable success,” although it
qualifies that deduction by re-
commending the sinking of seven
boreholes “to provide adequate
control data for the geophysical
work.”
In the highly specialised search
for oil, which countries with
much greater technical resources
and experience than Australia
are content to leave to non-
Governmental specialist organi-
sations, the value of the bureau’s
work has not been tested by the
drill.
The bureau is a child of the
late “Labor” Government;
its sire was the Common-
wealth Geological Survey—
a small and comparatively inex-
pensive organisation—but it has
grown, in less than five years,
into a very costly body boasting
a director and an assistant-
director who control, in turn, a
large and increasing number of
senior and junior technical
officers.
Few would quarrel with this
rapid development if it had not
adversely affected the work of
the geological surveys in the
several States. These surveys
have always been starved for
funds, and would have benefited
from some part of the grants
which have been made to the
bureau. In addition, the bureau
. —owing to its ability to pay
higher salaries —has attracted
trained members of the States
Geological Departments to its
ranks as well as recruits who
would be available, normally to
replace the transferred geologist?
“Value and the Pound”
“Erg”: A. T. Traversi m
s n / 7 /’f), in his comment £
David Adams s article “Vain*
and the Pound” (B. 21/6/’5O)
says that production does not
govern the “absolute value of
the pound-note, as judged by
what it will purchase in the wav
ot , g °i d or dollars ” which cZ
only be affected by “action o?
the currency. u
TT^ oald Mr - Traversi say that
U.S. action on the currency”
was responsible for the present
demand for U.S. dollam S
freely convertible into gold) bv
other countries, or that they were
in demand because of the gold
entombed at Fort Knox, Ken-
tucky? I don’t think that US
dollars are sought after for any
other reason but that the world
is urgently needing U.S. goods
which are produced so abun-
dantly and cheaply in terms of
man-hours. Australia, certainly
is not seeking to hoard dollars
and South Africa seems quite
glad to convert its gold pro-
duction into dollar goods.
Of course, none of the immedi-'
ate attractions here mentioned
may relate to the “absolute” value
of the dollar. These are times
of goods-scarcity, and the “abso-
lute” value of a currency may
be difficult to determine. How-
ever, the production (or under-
production) problem does appear
to be the one of most immediate
concern outside the dollar area.
“A.J.H.”: After some very
penetrating and striking remarks,
A. T. Traversi (B. 5/ 7/ ’5O)
mentioned “ ‘the miracle of the
mark’ brought about after the
First World War by Dr.
Schacht.”
My question is: What was this
“action on the currency” by Dr.
Schacht, what was its effect, and
what section of the community,
so to speak, got it in the neck?


□
Vi-.
1
mw*
Fill a Sparklets Syphon with
water, charge ” it lS with a
Sparklets Bulb-rand in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty * soda’ is yours 1
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
of new Standard,and Streamline
models, or write for illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
NOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for
V//A
SPARKLETS LTD,, LONDON N. 18
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
-
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6k YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
c lk&
UNION BANK
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England )
It Is essential to our own as well as to the
Interest of our customers that we maintain
the highest standards of efficiency. . .
That is good business.
It is natural that customers should seek the
advantages of an efficient organization. . •
That is sound judgment.
As a result of these factors the Bank's circle
of customers is ever widening and its ser-
vice constantly improving. . .
That is a matter of record.
of
A U
4*
Established 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZEtt-
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager-
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
m
¥
-a
A
A
It’s the same in Pitt Street
as in Piccadilly . . .
all eyes follow the
SHEERLINE I
}O.
Even in the heart of London’s fashionable
West End—side hy side with the world’s most famous cars —the Austin
“Sheerline” is outstanding A 4-litre, 6-cylinder, 125 h.p.
overhead valve engine; independent front suspension; steering column
gear control; hypoid rear axle; sound insulated body; Dunlopillo
cushions; leather upholstery; walnut veneer interior; concealed
reading lamps; built-in heating and windscreen demisting; power
jacking—-those are just a few of the “Sheerline’s” luxury features—
features which, combined, mean sheer beauty, sheer luxury,
sheer quality in every detail.
More Frequent Shipments Mean Earlier Delivery
The Incomparable
df
> tARKE HOSKIWS
h ofj
N.S.W. Distributors: LARKE, HOSKINS & CO. LTD., 207 William Street, Sydney. FA 8111
AC 18.83
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
On first impressions one can’t
be sure whether the general
reaction to the news from
Korea is patient calm or fata-
listic resignation. Perhaps it’s
a mixture of both, with a touch
of relief at the readiness and
quickness of the draw. People
certainly don’t talk much about
the technicalities of the inci-
dent. Their allusions are in-
direct, and the phrase “inter-
national situation permitting” is
once again a cautious pre-
liminary to all but immediate
planning.
That is not to say that the,
effect on our daily lives was not
direct or personal. When
3,000,000 Z-class reservists are
brought suddenly to the realisa-
tion that they are still on in-
definite leave they and their
wives and families can scarcely
remain unmoved.
Meanwhile London goes
about its business, which, in the
height and brilliance of a sum-
mer season, is by no means all
work-a-day. Sport offers tennis
at Wimbledon, the entertaining
West Indians at cricket and row-
ing at Henley. There are bands
in the parks and chamber
orchestras in the orangeries at
Hampton Court, Ken Wood
House and in the courtyard of
the Victoria and Albert Museum.
Glyndebourne is again devoted
to Mozart. The theatres have
much of quality to offer.
The gradual but invidious
rise in prices has markedly cut
down pocket-money, and many
families are finding that they
must spend their holidays at
home. It is, just now, an
especially interesting and attrac-
tive home.
Whitehall Peanuts
In the closing scenes of the
play reviewed in this “Airmail”
a character returns from a
distant, primitive country which
he has visited as a member of a
commission. He is pointedly
asked: “What were you investi-
gating ?” Instead
of the spontaneous roar of
laughter that was obviously in-
tended, all that was heard was
an anaemic titter in half-hearted
recognition of the line’s topi-
cality. That reaction epitomises
the attitude of the British pub-
lic to the peanuts scandal. It
sees nothing to laugh at.
The causes of this inhibited
self-consciousness can be found
in Alan Wood’s book The
Groundnut Affair (The Bodley
Head, 12s. 6d.), which gives us,
in wellrinfomied detail, all that
we’d rather forget and all that
we wish had never happened. As
an object-lesson of profligate
muddle the book has value,
although it may cause every
good Briton to hide his face and
tear his hair. Yet there is rea-
son for satisfaction in its ap-
pearance, for the manuscript
was rejected by Mr. Gollancz,
the original publisher, on the
advice of Mr. Strachey, when it
had reached an advanced stage
of production.
Mr. Wood, himself a fervent
Socialist, writes clearly and in
good style, making an honest
and objective approach to the
personalities and problems of
the venture. He resigned from
his appointment as head of the
Information Division because he
felt, “particularly as a Socialist,
that the case for public enter-
prises became untenable if,
when things went wrong, the
public were not immediately
given the full facts and those
responsible removed.” “Those
responsible,” as we now know,
were well dug-in. Comment
upon the fact that the Minister
of Food and his henchman were
able to hold out for so long has
been bitter and angry. Mr.
Strachey ceased to have control
immediately after the general
election, when he was trans-
ferred to that sanctuary for
Ministerial failures, the War
Office. His old friend and co-
propagandist, Sir Leslie
Plummer, “resigned” from the
board some three months later,
with a promise of £BOOO in com-
pensation and a knighthood,
received earlier.
The passages in the book that
deal, hypothetically, with the
dual personality of a man whose
duty to the community as head
of a nationalised concern con-
flicts with his political tactics
make awesome reading. One is
compelled to wonder if, in fact,
the instance is purely hypotheti-
cal.
The author points out that
millions of pounds of the tax-
payer’s money might have been
saved had “one man been sent
with a bucket and spade to take
a sample of the soil for mechani-
cal analysis for clay content.”
He also thinks that a small pilot
project would have been advis-
able. So did many people, right
from the start, but, then, they
had no political considerations
to bear in mind.
Gin and Eliot
A good deal of airy nonsense
has been written about poet-
dramatists from Shakspeare
downwards. The scholarly
gentlemen who apply so much
patient erudition in tracing plot-
sources, explaining contemporary
allusions and discovering hidden
meanings in straightforward
dramatic sequences, certainly
have their function; but it is a
subordinate function only. The
play’s the thing, after all—or it
should be.
So many legends, fancies,
deeply significant interpretations
and intellectual improvisations
hang about “The Cocktail
Party” (New Theatre, London,
and Henry Miller Theatre,
N.Y.) that its author, T. S. Eliot,
must already be earmarked as
a subject for such dramaturgic
scholarship.
This critic has studiously
avoided reading the play, and
has shut his ears to discussion
of it solely in order to approach
the theatrical sensation of the
year with a fresh mind. All he
knew was that Mr. Eliot had
designed a form of verse
specially for this piece and that
he wanted “people to be able to
forget that they are listening to
a poetic play.” And all he
knows now is that Mr. Eliot has
proved that he can, without
shallow acerbity, write a pass-
able drawing-room comedy of
the Lonsdale-Coward type.
The finely-tailored, meticu-
lously-spoken characters are old
acquaintances, brought out unre-
freshingly from stock: the
elderly society busybody; the
man-about-town with “useful
connections”; the well-bred
young gal; the slightly stupid
host (so close to type as to be,
vaguely, a successful barrister);
his waspish wife, who loves him,
leaves him and finally loves him
again; and the Mysterious
Stranger with a hint of the
supernatural who (here in the
guise of a Harley-street psychia-
trist) rearranges their lives for
them.
In his benign innocence this
listener attuned his ear to poetry
and was twice moved to aesthetic
response; “Strangled with
knotted memories” opened a
stop; so did “mirror to mirror,
reflecting vanity.” But when at
other times the actors had long
sentences to speak the impres-
sion was that they were using
their experience to make wordily
pretentious lines sound easy.
Which is only to say that people
can easily forget they are listen-
ing to poetry when they are
merely listening to prose—and
rather prosy prose at that.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney’s first-nighters, accustomed now
to the idea of being blown like drifts of
damp leaves into overcrowded theatre
foyers, strengthen their morale with good
dressing and jewelled accessories. They
did when they turned up in force for the
premiere of “A Streetcar Named
Desire” at the Royal, and great was the
speculation as to this much-discussed
play. Discussion was rife afterwards, and
nothing but sympathy could be felt for
one bewildered man who, when the four
enthusiastic young things with him began
explaining their reactions across and
around him, pathetically put in that his
only desire was for supper. It was
noticeable at this premiere how the little-
theatre skull-cap is increasing in popu-
larity. It made its appearance in some
variety, ranging from plain black velvet,
very flattering to grey and silver hair, to
beaded and sequined white satin. Many
eyes were turned to a particularly fetch-
ing teal velvet one trimmed with an edging
of tiny black feathers. Conspicuous
among the good-dressers were Madame
Roberta Regala, wife of the Minister for
the Philippines, Mrs. K. H. Rahman, wife
of the Trade Commissioner for Pakistan
(both in national costume), Mr. Robert
Noss, Mrs. Graham Pratten, Miss Claudia
Beazley, Mrs. Selwyn Wadell and Mrs.
John Carruthers.
The enterprising committee of the
Town and Country Ball is already
organising to defray the expenses of the
ball, which will take place at Romano’s
on October 7, coinciding with race-
week. First move was a cosy little cock-
tail-party at the Pickwick Club last week,
at which tickets were sold for a sort of
lucky-number competition; luck taking
the form of two miniature motor-cars.
Not too miniature, either; they can be
guaranteed to delight the hearts of young
motorists under 12 years, and both are
so handsome that guests of all ages
enthused over their snappy finish. Presi-
dent of the committee, Mrs. Sheila Plater,
in fine black wool with a matching cloche
finished with a cheek-hugging sweep of
cockfeathers, received the guests assisted
by Ken Youdale, whose fiancee, Pat Gale,
fought off a seasonable bout of ’flu to
drape herself in snug brown corduroy
and assist the good work. The newly-
married Paddy Griffins were there, Mrs.
Paddy setting off her sleek gold hair and
really lovely skin with well-chosen black.
The frock had a particularly becoming
wide and deeply-cut neckline. Among
others noticed sipping a drink were Mr.
and Mrs. John Carl, Mrs. Carl elegant
in navy spotted pink faille topped with a
tiny cloche made entirely frompink rose-
buds, Dr. and Mrs. Denis Rowe, Mr.
and Mrs. Claude Conrick, returned very
recently from tripping abroad, and Mr.
and Mrs. Jim Barnes —she is remembered
as Ania Boikov, ballerina. Proceeds
from the Town and Country go to the
Smith Family.
There was a big roll-up at Pax-Hill to
the cocktail-party arranged to farewell
Captain Hartley Mac Allister, who is re-
tiring after 25 years as Commissioner for
Scout Training in N.S.W. Mac, who is
responsible for designing and building the
Pennant Hills camp, made it one of the
friendliest and most hospitable places in
Sydney. Friends in the association are
showing their appreciation of his good
work and lovable character by sending
him off to England for a six-months’ holi-
day, and he leaves on this happy jaunt on
August 18. Major-General H. W. Lloyd
said the words of appreciation which ex-
pressed everyone’s sentiments, and these
were backed up by Colonel J. A.
Maughan, who for many years was Com-
missioner of Scouts. Among those who
came to wish him a happy holiday were
Major-General J. D. Richardson, Briga-
dier F. G. Galleghan and Mrs. Galleghan,
Colonel “Blue” Allen and Mrs. Allen,
Colonel Bob Savage, Colonel R. Pilcher
and Squadron-Leader C. R. Chaseling and
Mrs. Chaseling.
The Begum Haroon, wife of the High
Commissioner for Pakistan, and her
sister-in-law, Miss Haroon, were guests
at a buffet luncheon given by members
and board of the Y.W.C.A. The visitors’
costumes made bright and lovely spots in
the crowded board-room. The Begum,
a fluent speaker, gracefully adjusted an
orchid-pink sari before telling 'of the
terrific influx of Moslem refugees after
partition, and of how the women of Paki-
s*an organised themselves to deal with
the problem. She spoke feelingly of the
efforts the women’s organisations were
making to bring literacy and hygiene to
the villages, and of the lovely handcrafts
practised by the people of her country.
The charming Miss Haroonwas draped
in a white sari patterned with pastel
flowers worn over a mist-blue woollen
top, and held a white camellia in her
slender hands as she listened to the Be-
gum tell of the women’s auxiliary of
which she herself had been a member.
The guests were received by Mrs, C. P.
Johnson, president of Y.W.C.A., and
Miss L. Gillespie, the executive director.
Vice-presidents Mrs. Neville Harding and
Mrs. F. Stafford and Miss W, A.
Curruthers, the Melbourne secretary of
Y.W.C.A. migration, were among the 70
or more guests.
Mrs. C. M. Croft, wife of the Canadian
Trade Commissioner, will be guest-of-
honor today at the Royal Empire Society.
The ladies’ auxiliary of the society is
holding the monthly “at-home” at the
club-rooms in Bligh-street, with hostesses
Mrs. Alan Williams and Mrs. David
Lindsay. The feature of today’s enter-
tainment will be a showing of special
films, followed by afternoon-tea.
Those who go along to the Conser-
vatorium tonight to hear a coloratura
soprano which has been heard in Europe’s
musical centres in such distinguished
company as Tauber, Kiepura and
Schmidt won’t need to listen with averted
eyes, as the accompanying photo of its
owner will attest. She is Bianca Mascolo,
an Italian who is making her home in
Australia. The great Richard Strauss,
who died some months ago, accompanied
her at her first concert. Covent Garden
thinks so highly of her that she is booked
there to sing in Cimarosa’s opera-buffa,
“The Secret Wedding.” Daniel Koletz
will be her associate artist. Photo by
Robert Johnstone.
The State ballroom was gay with big
bunches of brightly-colored balloons for
the annual ball* of the Newman Society
of Sydney University. President of the
ball committee, Mrs. Tom Bateman, wear-
ing beige Chantilly lace with bat-wing
sleeves nicely set off with jade earrings,
received the 300 guests, husband Dr. Tom
lending valuable support. Included in
the official party was Miss Letty Wil-
liams, Mr. and Mrs. Alex Reichel and
the vice-rector of St. John’s College,
Father J. Cantwell. Guests-of-honor were
Bishop Eris O’Brien, Auxiliary Bishop of
Sydney, Dr. Tom Roberts, of Brisbane,
who has just returned from a visit to
Rome, and Father W. Higgins, of Notre
Dame University, U.S.A. Miss Ann
Daniel, who represented Santa Sophia,
wore a sequined pastej-bhie gown with
a matching stole. Susan McGrath’s mul-
berry taffetas were teamed with a fine
cashmere shawl of soft blue, and secre-
tary Joan Gates’s full-skirted cream
marquisette featured the picture shoulder-
line. An unusual cold-shoulder model of
ivory satin stamped with blue and gold
bows set off Nonna McGirr’s blonde
looks to advantage.
When Elizabeth Northcott went to
welcome the new Barnardo girls who
arrived here in Maloja she was received
at the Burwood home by Miss Elizabeth
Plummer and Mrs. W. A. Henderson,
members of the N.S.W. Barnardo com-
mittee, the Mayoress of Burwood, Mrs.
L. R. McDonald, and Matron N. Dobbie.
After an inspection of the premises the
visitors welcomed the afternoon-tea
served them by girls already resident at
the home. Welcoming speeches were
made and some apposite remarks made
by Miss K. Poole-Connor, the vocational-
guidance officer who came out from
England with the girls,-and, having de-
livered her charges safe and sound, is
returning in Maloja.
On July 14, France’s national day,
M. Jean Strauss, Consul-General for
France, laid a wreath at La Perouse and
afterwards received, with Mme Strauss,
a stream of guests at the Consulate.
Earlier in the week the French com-
munity had celebrated with a ball at the
Wentworth. M. Roger Auffray, presi-
dent of the French Chamber of Com-
merce in Sydney and manager of the
Comptoir National D’Escompte de Paris,
with Mme Auffray greeted, to the strains
of the “Marseillaise,” the official guests.
These included the Consul-General for
France, M. Jean Strauss, and Mme
Strauss, the Vice-Consul, M. J. Ortoli,
and Mme Ortoli, the Consul-General for
Greece, Dr. E. C. Vrisakis, and Mrs.
Vrisakis, and the president of the Alliance
Franfaise, M, Louis Blanc, and Mme
Blanc, More than 400 guests attended
the celebrations.
The musically-inclined among Sydney’s
lunch-hour crowds are offered some
good-class fare next Tuesday, the 25th,
when the young pianist Igor Hmelnitsky,
in collaboration with the Phyllis Mc-
Donald String Orchestra, will present a
programme which will include a Bach
concerto, and works by Purcell, Saint-
Saens and Bartok. It will be at the
Town Hall in two sessions: 12 noon and
1 p.m. For a modest two-shillings it looks
like a feast.
From Melbourne
There were over 200 dancers at the
Alliance Fran?aise Ball which celebrated
France’s National Day, and which had as
its setting the lower Town Hall. French,
British and Australian flags were hung
around the walls, and down the centre of
the official table were three large baskets
filled with ned poinsettias, camellias and
toning flowers. Earlier in the day the
Frencji Vice-Consul, M. Roger Loubere,
had received members of the French
community at Shipley House, South
Yarra. Among the guests were U.S.
Consul-General Samuel Fletcher and his
wife, the Chinese Consul, Martin Wang,
and Mrs. Wang, Air-Commodore E. M.
Lewis and Mrs. Lewis, Professor Maurice
Belz and Mrs. Belz, Professor A. E.
Chisholm, Lady Scott, Madame A. Gay
(she is president of the Alliance
Franfaise), and her daughter Lilliane.
Madame M, Cockerton, with M. Loubere,
received the guests.
Members of many branches of the
Country Women’s Association came by
car, train and bus to tiny, picturesque
Dookie to attend the 21st birthday cele-
brations of this branch of the Goulburn
Valley group. Foundation members were
presented with posies, and every guest
received a key tied with green and gold
ribbon, the colors of the C.W.A. There
W'as a large birthday-cake, of course, also
decked in the same hues. Mrs. Tom
Ryan, the branch’s first elected presi-
dent, was present to see the State presi-
dent, Mrs, Dorward, cut the cake. Also
present'was the branch’s first secretary,
Mrs. Henderson, who read the minutes
she had written so long ago. Mrs. P. J.
Ryan, the present president of the branch
—smart in black gaberdine suit and dusty-
pink felt cloche —read many telegrams of
congratulations, among which was one
signed “neglected husband.”
Vice-president of the branch, Jean
Fish, chose grey for suit and hat. The
hon. secretary, Mrs. A. C. Rowlands,
wore a matching hat with her suit of
bottle-green facecloth. Mrs. R. Teagle
combined black suit and small feather-
trimmed hat. A black coq feather was
draped on one side of the small black
cloche Mrs. Alan Matheson wore with
her black suit. Members of the Dookie
Agricultural College teaching staff staged
an amusing “waxworks” show during the
afternoon; among them Mrs. C. P.
Denton, whose husband is 0.1. C. of the
college’s rural training centre. The
wife of the Premier, Mrs. J, G. Mc-
Donald, came from Shepparton for the
celebrations, and from Katandra came
Mrs. W. Cato, who is acting president of
the C.W.A. branch in that district. You-
anmite representatives included Mesdames
J. Westwood, R. J. Fraser and R. Chap-
man. Among other representatives were
Mrs, W. Kelly and Mrs. H. Wallace.
The picturesque church of St.
Michael’s, Mt. Dandenong, was the set-
ting for the marriage of Gloria, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Mellody,
of Elwood, and Raymond Milroy, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. Ray A. Holland, of
Toorak. The bride, who was unattended,
wore a heavy white satin gown fashioned
with a mandarin collar and plunging
neckline Her fingertip-length tulle veil
wa|held m place with a Giselle ring of
gardenias and she carried a trail of tS
same flowers. Paul Mellody, the bride's
brother, was best man. Reception was
held at the home of the bride’s parents
The last English mail brought a letter
from Betty Stewart, who is globetrotting
Of course, the theatre is all important to
her for she was in the publicity office of
J. C. Williamsons for some years Shp
is enthusiastic about Ivor
“King’s Rhapsody.” Betty was in Rome
for the Corpus Christi festivals. A visit
to Tara Barry, remembered here was
another thrill—Tara had just returned to
London from Amsterdam, where she had
sung at the festival. In Paris Betty saw
all the important fashion-shows and
reports that skirts are just below the
knees; the nipped-in waist is still the
vogue, and suits are worn from mornina
till night. But she left Paris convinced
that Australia can hold its own with
fashions.
Wearing a black suit and small feather-
trimmed black hat with an orchid-pink
blouse, Mrs. Olive Hicken was hostess at
an afternoon party at Scott’s Hotel—as
leader of the Victorian delegation of the
Country Women’s Association she leaves
soon to attend a conference at Copen-
hagen of the Associated Country Women
of tfie World. Mrs. J. G. B. McDonald,
wife of the Premier, was there in beech-
brown suit and matching hat which
carried beige plumage. Lady Bouchier
chose grey for her trim suit. Lady
Sewell’s black seal coat had collar and
cuffs of grey squirrel. The State president
of C.W.A., Mrs. G. Dorward, came from
Geelong. Among those who wished the
hostess bon voyage were Mrs. R. T. A.
McDonald, in cinnamon-brown tailored
suit and matching feathered hat, Mrs. A.
Lenne, secretary of the Goulburn Valley
Group, Mesdames W. Cato, D, Gunson,
J. C. Griffin, Lemuel Smith, Charles
McKenzie, H. Rowe, H. D. Burns and
Marjorie Strong. 4
Marjorie Cooke succeeds in suppressing
her natural sparkling vivacity for her
role of the rather sad and serious Nina
Hagerup, who marries Edvard Grieg in
“Song of Norway.” A fine
Marjorie sang Nina for 12 months in
America prior to coming here. She also
sang Margot in “The Desert Song” there.
The premiere of “Song of Norway” at
His Majesty’s brought out many gowns
of glamor and elegance. The Governor
was there with his wife and daughter.
Lady Brooks added a blue-fox cape to
her black evening gown. Jeanette Brooks
was in burgundy satin. In the vice-regal
party were the Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S.
Disney, and Mrs. Disney, she in soft
floral faille draped in front, a wide panel
of diamente and pearls making a glitter-
ing finish, Mrs. R. W. Spraggett, her
choice powder-blue silk jersey, and ner
daughter, ** Elizabeth Anne, in primrose
taffeta. Mrs. Frank Tait’s billowy gown
of beech-brown tulle was contrasted wit
lime-green gloves. Cecil Tait’s rose-pin ,
blue-spotted faille was fashioned with me
skirt draped to the back to form a bustle
and short train. Mrs. Philip Dare, wore
cape stole of platina fox over black. Mrs.
Neil Rogers’s short evening gown was tu
stiff, white faille, embroidered all over in
a design of crystal beads. Soft dove-g y
Chantilly lace formed Hilda Corbet
gown ; with it went a tiny shoulder- P®
of lace embroidered in diamente.
long black velvet coat worn by Mrs.
Garnet Curwen had white Arctic-t
sleeves. Mrs. S. G, W, Hormblows
tailored coat was of black velvet.
K. Knappett teamed a grey-and-su
brocade jacket with a full skirt.o
crepe. Over soft grey chiffon
George Besant wore a grey squirrel c
Midnight-blue satin was the cnoic
Mrs, Gordon Tail. Bkck-and-vrtrUJ
striped taffetas made striking effect
Mrs. C. B. Hearn.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
0
o
PERSONAL ITEMS
In 1946 Gordon Steege resigned from
the R.A.A.F. (which he had joined as a
cadet in 1937) for patrol-officering in New
Guinea. Commanding a flight of No. 3
Squadron in the Middle East, he col-
lected jD.F.C. and downed seven enemy
planes. He increased the tally to nine
before transferring his attention to Nips
Against them he saw action at Moresby,
Kiriwina in the Trobriands, added
D.S.O. to his initials and was sent as
group-captain to command R.A.A.F.
forces at Manus. He liked what he saw
of the islands so much that he decided
to see more of them with the Royal
Papuan Constabulary, Now (with events
in Korea the possible urger) he’s come
back to his first love, and last week
donned uniform again, wing-commander.
The R.A.A.F. could use plenty of his sort
of experience.
The new constitution which has been
accepted by the Australian Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union was the work of a blind
man, lan Thomas Serjeant. Injured by
a road-mine near Benghazi when he was
with the A.1.F., he had to face the doc-
tors’ verdict that he would be completely
blind in a few years. He had been a
noted racing motorist, had studied
medicine, had given that up for Law and
had been called to the Bar in 1937. When
his sight went he chose sheep-raising,
and selected a 1000-acre property near
Benalla. Then he joined the A.P.P.U.,
and interested his restless energy in its
affairs. <
Passed on in Adelaide, at 93, dapper
little Edward Lucas, who represented the
Midland district in the South Australian
Legislative Council from 1900-18, and
was S.A. Agent-General in London for
seven years after, that, his final term
requiring the endorsement of a special
Act of Parliament. He did a lot of
home-front work in two wars—vice-
chairman of the State Recruiting Com-
mittee and member of the State War
Council in the Kaiser’s affair and presi-
dent of the State Navy League (many of
whose young members go on to the
senior service) in Hitler’s. Born in
County Cavan, he arrived in S. Australia
in 1878 to set-up a men’s mercery busi-
ness, and rose Sir Edward at Buckingham
Palace in 1921.
“Maenell”: Added his fourth purple-
edged ring to the three already on his
sleeve, Kenneth McKenzie Urquhart,
now chief of Williamstown naval dock-
yard, who has been among turbines
for the past 24 years, since he first
sweated into his present leanness in
cruiser Adelaide’s engine-rooms as a
sub-lieutenant. Water was his element
in another respect—five years represent-
ing the British Navy at swimming, and
winner, in 1926, of the inter-services
100yds. freestyle championship. In the
first 3j years of the late war many Aus-
tralian and British seafighters slid their
tired lengths alongside Garden Island to
have their teeth and claws seen to —
Urquhart, as head of the gunmounting
depot, sharpened ’em. As well, he gave
the Queen Mary something to hit back
with. He shifted to blue water in cruiser
Hobart, felt her jerk to a Jap. torpedo
striking aft off the Solomons, and,
with the six-incher temporarily finished,
transhipped to destroyer Arunta, his job
to see that her 44,000 horses did what
the wheelhouse telegraphs wanted them
to round Arawe and Cape Gloucester.
Then Warramunga (Hollandia, Biak and
other hot-spots) and, finally, destroyer
Napier (Burma and, with the 8.P.F.,
right up to Japan). With a name like
his, it’s natural he should play the bag-
pipes— probably the only officer in the
confined spaces of the Navy game enough
to do so.
Melbourne National Gallery trustee H.
W. Kent, who clashed with director Daryl
Lindsay over whether gallery treasures
should be used by advertisers (a cigarette
firm had been permitted to use a photo
of a T’ang Dynasty horse), has an unusual
position. He is honorary curator of
Chinese ceramics, and the ceramics he
cares for, including the gee-gee, are
largely his own—or once were. Educated
at Melbourne Grammar, he became a
shipping clerk, and then joined one of
the old China firms which date from
John Company’s days. Out of the
savings from a meagre salary he suc-
ceeded in making a collection of ancient
Ming and T’ang ware which American
millionaires might have envied. The period
following the Boxer rebellion and the
revolution was a gblden time for the
collector. Graves were uprooted, family
vaults robbed, and thousands of pots and
jars went onto the market. By the time
he left China to settle down in Mel-
bourne, Kent had a collection estimated
to be worth £20,000. He presented the
lot to the National Gallery, it made
him honorary curator, and he has a
fascinating job for life and can still live
amongst his treasures.
Victoria’s Healesville sanctuary gets
a new chairman in Major-General Victor
Paul Stantke, one-time schoolmaster at
Brighton Grammar, who exchanged one
kind of mortar for another as far back
as 1911. In War I adjutant of the 29th
Battalion, at the outbreak of the second
brigadier in charge of administering
Eastern Command, he succeeded* Major-
General Miles as Adjutant-General,
A.M.F., in 1940. In between wars he
kept Old Diggers" in touch with their
fore- and back-sights through directorship
of rifle-clubs and associations. Now 64,
recently G.O.C. Queensland’s L. of C.
Area, he adds the Healesville flora-fauna
to another recent interest, secretarying the
War Nurses’ Memorial Centre.
The Bulletin first got to know
Hubert Lawrence Anthony about 16
years ago, when they jointly exposed
a subsequently litigious “banana-bond”
company-promotion racket. Over a
longer period his quiet confidence and
driving competence have lifted him
from P.M.G. messenger to plain P.M.G.
A telegraphist at Peak Hill (N.S.W.) when
he enlisted for War I, he took his com-
munications know-how into the 2nd
Signal Troop and exercised it in Egypt
and through the gullies of Gallipoli.
Returning to a soldier-settlement block
near Tweed Heads, he built it into one
THE P.M.G.
of the finest banana, pineapple and dairy-
ing properties on the North Coast,
became the foundation chairman of the
Banana Growers’ Federation, chairman
of the Tweed District Hospital Board and
secretary of Byron Electorate Council.
A yen for politics, first tasted in the last-
named post, developed into Federal rep-
resentation of Richmond in 1937, a
function he’s performed ably ever since.
A vigorous 53, Anthony’s particular baby
of the moment is television.
Herewith by Lambart, Russell F.
Roberts, chairman of Electricity and
Transport in Brisbane’s City Council: 56,
humorous, one-time musician, sales-
manager, publicity expert and broadcast-
ing-station manager, councillor since
1940 and proud of his city’s com-
paratively low tram-fares and the absence
of red in its balance-sheets. Born in
Buranda, now its alderman (and the only
non-Labor public man to be elected in
is area for half a century), he finished
schooling m England, got a job on the
London Stock Exchange, and left it for
the home-careers already listed. As chair-
man of the Civic Musical Advisory
Council (possibly the widest and most
RUSSELL ROBERTS, of Brisbane C.C.
successful civic musical sponsorship in
the Empire) he finds his Tobias Matthany
and Trinity College musical training of
tremendops value, and as hon. treasurer
of the Royal Q, Aero Club and technical
adviser to the State’s Flying Doctor ser-
vice keeps the finances of the one and
the wireless communication of the other
in healthy shape. Also, lately elected to
the executive of the Queensland section
of the Arts Council of Australia, about
to extend its good work to the State’s
outback.
Died in England on July 6, Admiral
Percival John Hall-Thompson, C. 8.,
C.M.G., who entered the R.N. at 13 in
1887, and was a lieutenant at 20, with five
first-class certificates to his name. He
was a well-known figure in Australian
Naval circles before World War I, and
in 1914 went to Maoriland a captain,
as Naval Adviser to the Government.
He was captain of Philomel in various
oceans during the war, and after it com-
manded the battleship Erin and the ill-
fated Royal Oak, reaching flag rank in
1923 when he was lent to the Common-
wealth as First Naval Member. During
1927-28 he was Vice-Admiral Command-
ing the Third Battle Squadron, Atlantic
Fleet, and later commanded the Reserve
Fleet. He became an admiral in 1932,
and retired voluntarily a few months
later.
A 60,000-word book of verse originally
written on tiny scraps of paper in a
Japanese p.-0.-w. camp has been pre-
sented by the Australian High Commis-
sioner’s office to the Canadian Parlia-
mentary library. It isn’t the first effort
of its author, Colonel W. S, Kent Hughes,
M.V.0., M.C., and M.H.R. for Chisholm
(Vic.) —his Modern Crusaders of the Sky,
a history of the Air Force, was written
after War I, when he went from a Rhodes
Scholarship at Oxford into the Army,
and won his M.C. and four “mentions.”
Colonel in 1942, he was a Jap war-
prisoner for 3i years, was shifted to
Korea and Nippon, and kept himself
solaced by writing his lengthy, epic
Slaves of the Samurai, keeping the scraps
of paper hidden from his guards in all
sorts of extraordinary places.
Lecturer in pathology at Adelaide
University, Cambridge man and son of a
London medico, Dr. John Orde Poynton
goes to the directorship of the Institute
of Medical and Veterinary Science.
After holding down several big appoint-
ments in London hospitals, he specialised*
in pathology, and put theory into prac-
tice in Malaya for 10 years, pathologist
at the Institute for Medical Research, in
the thick of some of the world’s dreariest
diseases. What he learnt was put into
three books and won him Cambridge’s
Horton Smith prize. Coming to Adelaide
in 1946, he soon became deputy-director
of the institute he now bosses; away
from the microscope he fences and col-
lects prints. He’s 44,
Calling it a day after 21 years on
Maoriland’s Supreme Court bench,
Robert Kennedy, senior puisne judge.
Bom in Southland 63 years ago, polished
at Wellington’s Victoria College to M.A.
and LL.M., with first-class honors, he
was admitted to the Bar in Wellington
in 1909. Having been president of the,
city’s District Law Society and councillor
of the M.L. Law Society, he leaves court
with a reputation for sound judgments
which the Court of Appeal has seldom
found quarrel with, A knighthood came
his way last year.
If old Van Tromp himself, with his
broom lashed to the masthead, had sailed
into Port Phillip Bay he couldn’t have
caused a greater sensation than did
Captain Kalkman, the 60-year-old com-
modore of a Dutch flotilla and captain
of tug Humber-, the other morning. The
flotilla was headed by the 387-ton
Humber, towing two hopper barges, and
was completed by tug Noordzee tailing
a smaller tug and a dumb-hopper barge
aboard which stowed another tug and
rowing-boats of all shapes and sizes.
They had just done a voyage of 154 days
and 13,000 miles, which wasn’t without
adventure, but which left Captain Kalk-
man unperturbed—he has done dozens
of such trips in the course of his 40 years’
experience of tug work. His next job
will be to tow a ship from Maoriland to
Hong Kong. The Dutch are specialists
in dredging, and the queerly-assorted fleet
is in Melbourne to gouge the site of the
new River Entrance Docks, at a cost of
£li million.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 82, A. J. Sapsford, one of
tne city s oldest inhabitants, with a memory of
it going back nearly 70 years. One of the first
members of the Queensland Flying Squadron,
he was at one time the State’s amateur billiards
champion.
At Ilfracombe, North Devon, Dr. Hugh
Bunnett Lewers, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., of Melbourne.
He took part in the Gallipoli landing and served
in France on the staff of the Director-General
of Medical Services. Captain of Melbourne
Grammar and of its cricket team in 1907, he
got his cricket blue at Melbourne University.
In Perth, at 57, Squadron-Leader Preston
Williams, private secretary to the Governor.
Joining the British Army as a gunner in War I,
he was a major with M.C. and Bar when it
finished. In the next war he had five years
with the R.A.A.F.
In Melbourne, Miss Ada May Plante, one
of Victoria’s leading women painters. Born in
Maoriland, she studied with Bernard Hall at
the National Gallery in Melbourne, was
influenced by Max Meldrum, went to Paris and
London and returned to Melbourne to help
found the Contemporary Art Group.
In London, at 80, grand old soldier Field-
Marshal Lord Chetwode, after 61 years in
uniform, possibly the longest record of any
British Army officer. Son of a colonel, brother
of an admiral, he started soldiering in the
Chin Hills of Burma, was in the Boer War
lor its duration (D.S.O. and two “mentions”),
began the Kaiser’s war in command of the sth
Cavalry Division, was wounded, returned to
fight through Palestine and Syria, saw Jeru-
salem captured, and ended in command of
the 20th Army Corps, with eleven “mentions.”
He was C,-in-C. Indian Army before returning
to London to chair the Red Cross executive
committee in Hitler’s war.
In Townsville (Q.), at 83, Herbert Bradford,
one-time health inspector of the Wangaratta-
Collinsvilie district and one of the last Aus-
tralian links with the Boxer Rebellion, which
he had a hand in quelling with the .Royal Navy.
Later he was a member of the Benin punitive
expedition, and saw more modern methods
with the Ist A.I.F.
At 31, victim of polio, Wolfe Seymour
Fairbridge, C.5.1.R.0. scientist, poet and son of
Kingsley Fairbridge, founder of the Farm
Schools. In 1947 his poem “Denial and
Riposte” won second prize in the Sydney
“Herald” verse-competitions; he also con-
tributed to periodicals, and is represented in
anthologies. A sustained sonnet-cycle on the
life of Darwin forms the principal part of a
collection of his verse which is to be published
under the Commonwealth Literary Fund.


WP&eKm*
&JRP7Ct.
%
r-
O
7
T
css
t\
X
m
>
<n
fcv.
ei-
• Jm
w
df'
SB
«6r
4"'»*
it'
V
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady Bubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Beady Bubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs. Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Pine Old WeU
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s K®« d *
Writes MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Vailed P. 0., Brisbane.
f
Iz
loves
HSSSiSSI
Cuticura Soap»
keeps his teaaertSß*
healthy ahd«*j
quisitely eaSV
etaA velvety- ~
Dne of the famous
um Powder-
ħ sd
fs
h df
THE FOOTBALL MATCH
BY GEOFF BINGHAM
ONCE in the country you
are liable to pass any-
thing with the possible
exception of Devon
Teas, hot scones and cream, and
honey and jam. Not as delect-
able, perhaps, but to me quite
as irresistible, is a country foot-
ball match, and more especially
an informal one. You are likely
to come across one of this sort
anywhere, usually on a piece of
pasture that has been grazed
upon during the week, and con-
sequently is dotted with cow-
pods which make the play
slightly more swervacious.
The particular match which
halted me was on such a piece
of ground, and its popularity was
in strong evidence by the num-
bers of cars, trucks, utilities,
sulkies and single horses which
were parked or tethered and tied
to some spotted gums. From
this mass of vehicles and stock
emerged to greet me an old man
with a leathery face and hands,
grimness shown upon his
features and a tract in his hand.
“This,” he told me as he thrust
the paper towards me, “is the day
that the Lord hath made.” He
seemed to bear no malice to-
wards the ungodly footballers
who were tearing up and down
the spotted turf.
The game in progress was
apparently second- or third-
grade, and not at all strong meat.
The crowd on the sidelines
seemed to be deriving a great
deal of entertainment from it,
but I gathered the sporting
magnum opus was yet to be
played. However, there was a
bald-headed man who kept run-
ning up and down the sidelines
saying, “It’s a good game!”
And, rubbing his hands, repeat-
ing, “Oh, it’s a good game.”
I could see, after a time, that
the match was more for the spec-
tators than the actual players.
Each moment was savored by
the former, friends were recog-
nised with guarded but pleased
explanations. “Hullo, Bill,”
“Goodday there, Fred.” “Well,
if it isn’t Harold. How are you,
Harold?” Bill, Fred and Harold
in good health. Strangely
enough, also, no talk of pigs or
cows or crops, not even furtively.
The children showed little in-
terest in game or adults, being
busy at a stall where they could
buy ice-cream and soft-drinks,
provided they firstly handed
over their coin to a dark-featured
and suspicious man who per-
petually held out his hand.
More dark-featured were the
black folk who had come, prob-
ably from some reserve. They
showed a great interest in the
game, and were voluble in their
comments, which had a strong
“blue” bias, and the small
children, clad in outsized and
outlandish garments, cheered
with grown-up intention.
BUT the match had finished
and they were impatient for
the new to begin. This was not
to be without ceremony, for the.
delayed commencement of the
main match was intentional. It
was a time of savoring, when
the players champed and pranced
as warhorses do before the
fray. They assembled into mock-
scrums, broke and re-assembled,
as though this was a necessary
rite and the match-to-come,
without the ceremony, would
certainly be lost.
After a time I was convinced
that the blues were the home
side, and as in this grade the
reds were superior in weight I
had a natural sympathy for the
blues which was to get altogether
out of control as the match pro-
ceeded, and become as definite a
bias as that of the dark people.
Added to a natural sympathy
for the small fellow was a slight
annoyance with the reds for their
too apparent savoir-faire. It was
almost indecently that they
carried on their own prancings.
They had, too, a mascot, a
miniature of a fellow who
must have led them on to the
field, as though, by contrast,
you could see what mighty
fellows they were. The red
team lumbered nonchalantly
after him. The referee, neatly
tricked out in white, waited
courteously at the centre-line.
He talked to them quietly as a
senior prefect to juniors. The
coin was tossed, won by the reds,
the captain meditating over
wind, sun’s rays and the slope
of the field, finally deciding to
run down to the east.
A lone old cocky-farmer made
it his business to stand beside
me while the game was in play,
and each time I was caught up
in general excitement and moved
down the sideline, he followed
me. Backwards and forwards we
swayed with every exciting pitch
and toss of the match, and rarely
we exchanged words. Once,
however, he said, quite gloomily.
“No lime in the soil.”
The old bald-headed man who
had thought the previous match
a good one was not saying so
this time. He kept clasping his
hands together and rubbing them
anxiously, it was sheer sorrow,
almost, which peered from his
eyes. He was taking it very
much to heart. “His boy Bruce’s
playing,” the cocky confided.
And, as though that were the
signal for shouting to begin, a
shrill feminine volice shrieked,
“Brucy. Brewcey. Bru-cee! ”
and there, tearing up the field,
his short legs working like the
arms ©f an outdated locomotive,'
was Bruce, with only a sturdy
full-back in his path. Silence
settled over the field, a deep
sorrowful hush which broke and
burst into a cascade of “Ahs” as
the full-back narrowly missed
Brucee.
Only for a moment, however,
and the most excited cry of all
mankind welled into a roar.
Such a cry did Horatius hear.
“Brucee!” was taken up by a
hundred voices, and groans and
anguished cries came from the
red supporters as Bruce swept
over the line, swerved towards
the goal-posts, and there mid-
between, but a trifle to the rear,
placed his ball.
MEN whose faces were
seamed with heavy farm-
work, women who had long ago
become accustomed to the joys
and sorrows of life, now gave
way to uninhibited delight.
They told Bruce he was pretty
good, and that was the stuff to
give ’em.
The old farmer at my side did
seem slightly elevated from his
former gloom, but he was
cautious and maintained dog-
gedly that there was no lime in
the soil, which so annoyed me
that I asked him what he meant.
“Look,” he said, pointing to
the blues. “All little fellows.
No lime in the soil, that’s why.
To build the big fellows you
have to have that lime. Now
that there referee was reared on
this soil when there was lime
in it. He was one of the old
blues,”
The try was converted, which
again caused a terrific outbreak
of savage joy among the blue
supporters. The red players ex-
changed significant glances.
The old fellow informed me
that the blues had never yet won
a match, lime deficiency pre-
sumably being the cause. The
reds, who also knew about the
blues never having won a match,
were determined to cut short
this rot. But that they were un-
able to do. Try as they might
they could not persuade the
blues that they, the reds, were
, terrible fellows and to be feared,
whereas they, the blues, would
soon be enveloped in defeat and
disgrace. Until half-time the
blues prevented the reds from
scoring, and the reds refused to
allow the blues a repetition of
their former triumph.
Half-time, and the spectators
went into action on the side-
lines, They replayed the first
half for the players and thereby
imparted much valuable informa-
tion. Tliere was quite a manoeuv-
ring to get alongside the great,
to hail a player known, and
bottles of cordial were distri-
buted, and oranges; until I felt
quite out of things and would
not have knocked back the
opportunity of claiming even
remote relationship with a red
Cordialed, oranged, and advised
the teams trooped again to the
field, this time for pure busi-
ness.
'T HE reds conveyed the im-
pression of pure business as
they ran on to the field, and
there was determination in every
large chin, firmly set. The
blues seemed to think it was a
matter for joking, as though they
didn’t care anyway, but they
did. They attacked the reds in
a positive fury, as ants will attack
lumbering beetles. Not so
lumbering, however, was the
clean-limbed winger who re-
trieved the ball from the ruck
and flew down the field with it.
The furious blues pursued him
and the watching, waiting full-
back crouched to receive and
tackle, but the winger swerved,
threw out his hand, swerved
again, reached the line and
tapped the ball behind it.
The red supporters were taken
almost completely . by surprise.
Then they burst into a roar
against which the insults of the
embittered black children were
as cries in a great storm. Reds
and supporters straightened
themselves with relief, as though,
after all, they had just com-
menced playing Advice was
shouted to the players who were
watching the ball soar over the
goal. Another roar and the
game was away.
The field developed into a
battleground in which each red
was marked intently and inten-
tionally by a corresponding
blue, so that should a red re-
ceive the ball he was promptly
tackled and dumped. The ref.
became quite excited and
(Continued on page 32.)


Shave with
GEM
RAZORS
Do
A V/0/P
H&VOW
10C* S
'sdc
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.
TO MAXWELL ARTHUR TIPTON late
of 24 Storey Street, Parkville, Melbourne.
—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH
GILDER TIPTON has filed Petition No.
202 of 1950 in which she prays for a
divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may file an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 3rd October 1960 and obtain a
copy, of the Petition from LESLIE
RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO JACK WALLACE late of Morpeth.
—TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE MAY
WALLACE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4269 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards IP you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance on
or before the Twentieth day of September
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from W. J. ENRIGHT &
SON, Solicitors, 467 High Street, Mait-
land, or their Agents, TAYLOR,
KEARNEY & REED, City Mutual Build-
ing, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OteUUJVAN
t-a, Hi® ,
M mS
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL.” BRISBANE
SUNDRY SHOWS
LANCE SOLOMON.
It is no wonder that connois-
seurs have been almost tumbling
over each other to buy Lance
Solomon’s paintings at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries: for here —
going for 60, 50 and as low as
15 guineas—are masterpieces of
landscape which in a very few
years will double their value and
the best of which, judging by the
present prices of Gruners and
Streetons, will eventually be
worth much more still.
“Masterpieces” is, of course, a
large word to use ; but one really
does not know what other to
apply to paintings so dexterous
in technique, so meticulous in
observation, so large and strong
in concept, so poetic in feeling,
so beautiful in their total effect.
There is “A Big Sea,” a great
tempestuous picture of foam and
light and charging white waves,
exquisite in its observation of
seawater streaming back from
the wet rocks. There is, for an
extreme contrast, “Red Earth,”
in which one may note that the
dead gum-tree, for once in a
contemporary Australian land-
scape, is neither a stove-pipe nor
a skeleton but a thing of delicate
and sunlit grace, intimately
observed and fit for magpies to
sing on; where the foreground
is not the usual snlear of paint
but the naked red Australian
earth where the meat-ants walk ;
and where a hot, golden noon
makes warm the tops of the sur-
rounding saplings.
And between these extremes
of foaming, translucent sea and
solid, vital red. earth the rest of
the paintings take their stations:
always quietly, always with
fidelity of artistry and observa-
tion, always with that final effect
of reality transformed into
beauty which one finds in the
poetry of Wordsworth, W. H.
Davies or Judith Wright, in
the prose of Hardy or Eve Lang-
ley, and in the art of Constable,
of Corot and of Gruner. The
small seapiece “Wet Weather”
and the big landscapes such as
“Hills Near Camden,” “Old
Road,” “A Summer’s Day,”
“Stormy • Weather,” “Away to
the Hills,” “On the Hillside” and
“Farmhouse Near Scone” are all
of this very high quality.
Unexpectedly, there is not a
single painting in this exhibition
of the kind with which Lance
Solomon first made his reputa-
tion : those close-up, intimate
studies of the bush where he
found a path of light through
the wilderness of gum-trees and
—since Gruner and Streeton pre-
ferred the open spaces, and most
contemporary painters prefer
their gum-trees conveniently
dead —he broke entirely new
ground in Australian art. One
misses these paintings; but
Lance Solomon does well not to
repeat himself; and in his sea-
pieces he has done the same
thing in a different way, for once
again, close up to the charge of
the wave, the burst of the spray
and the intricate patterns of the
foam, he has discovered and
turned into sensitive poetry a
hitherto uncharted reality of the
Australian scene ... for Gruner
painted his lovely rhythms of
wave-edges and wet sand from a
distant hilltop, and no contempo-
rary artist —if there is one with
the capacity, the patience and the
vision—has mastered in this
way the wild surf beating on our
coasts.
There is, too, in “On the Hill-
side” and “Stormy Weather,”
though it is a different, more
broken kind of bush, the same
marvellous simplicity among
diversity that distinguished the
earlier bush paintings: the cen-
tralisation on the point where
sunlight strikes tree or track or
gully-side. And it is not that
facile simplicity to be won by
pattern-making and distortion
but a unity attained by patient
and comprehensive orchestration.
For pure, solid quality this is
a better show than the one Lance
Solomon held a couple of years
ago. His seapieces are new ; his
skies —particularly the depth of
light in “Old Road” —are coming
far closer to the subtlety of
Gruner, Streeton and Percy
Lindsay; his observation is as
fine as ever, his paint more
powerfully and smoothly laid
on. He has a lot to do yet in
range of subject-matter and
scope of canvas before he can
rank equal with the great land-
scapists of the Australian tradi-
tion, but, except for such tours-
de-force as “Fire’s On” and
“Spring Frosts,” there are land-
scapes in his exhibition as good
as any ever painted in this coun-
try, justifying the highest hopes
for his future.
Color and Gloom.
There are still good paintings
to be found at the Australian
Watercolor Institute’s 27th
annual exhibition at the N. S.
Wales Education Department
Gallery: Norman Lindsay’s
“Vivandieres,” for example,
glowing with robust life; Mary
Edwards’s “Telopea” like a swirl
of delicate flame; Ronald
Steuart’s “Autumn Paddock”
with its Chinese delicacy of
drawing; G. K. Townshend’s
“5.10 p.m., Winter” ; Margaret
Coen’s flowerpiece “Ballerinas” ;
John Eldershaw’s “Timeless
Land” from somewhere up in
the tropics ; Yvonne du Moulin’s
“Rain Mist”; Arthur Murch’s
“Wet Children” ; and, in a minor
way, Eileen Berndt’s “Farm at
Dundas,” R, H. Moppett’s
“Shearing Shed” and Max
Angus’s “Hobart Bridge.”
But, take it all round, it is not
exactly a heartening show to in-
spect in a time of freezing rain
and gas-rationing The few
paintings with a rich note of
color are dispersed in remote
corners; the majority of the out-
standing works, such as Town-
shend’s and Ronald Steuart’s,
are sombre; and the general
effect is of a drab, monotonous
mediocrity.
There is no doubt that the In-
stitute increasingly falls away
from its old high standard. Far
too many inferior pictures, look-
ing like the works of students
and amateurs, are being ad-
mitted ; there are far too many
paintings by people of more im-
portance in art-politics than in
the art of watercolor; some fine
watercolorists from other States,
such as Hans Heysen and
Namatjira, are missing; painters
such as John Eldershaw, Kenneth
Macqueen and Enid Cambridge,
who would once have shown a
panel of half a dozen large
watercolors, are represented by
only one or two examples; and
on many of the notable exhibi-
tors of former years, whose
work might have been expected
to compensate for these lapses
and absences, there seems to
have fallen a general blight of
blackness.
George Duncan.
Those who know George
Duncan’s paintings only from
the period when, possibly under
the influence of Paul Nash, he
was wandering among dead
gum-trees in black sunsets will
be astonished by the color and
brilliance of his new oils at Syd-
ney Macquarie Galleries; but
in point of fact his contributions
to mixed shows have for some
time indicated which way the
wind was blowing.
He seems now to have found
out, far more surely than be-
fore, what he wants to do and
what he can do, and he comes
to Nature boldly and confidently,
enriching her colors, intensifying
her light, rearranging her trees
and hills to conform to his own
striking ideas of significant
rhythm and pattern.
It is an approach which has
obvious dangers, and sometimes
Mr. Duncan succumbs to them:
“Passing of Summer” is stylised
to the point of fairytale senti-
mentality ; “Trees by the Winge-
carribee” is confused; “The
Crest of the Valley” is cum-
brous. And always where you
dispose of the earth as mere
pattern and color there is the
risk of painting a shallow
decoration rather than a revela-
tion of truth. Paradoxically, the
supremely realistic blossom-
trees in Gruner’s “Spring
Frosts,” because of the delicacy
of his brushwork and the in-
tensity of his response to beauty,
have an unearthly, a spiritual
quality; whereas the blossoms
of George Duncan’s “Hillside in
Spring,” thickly laid on with the
palette-knife, remain fast on this
earth as a decoration.
But the decorative quality in
this painting and in the dark
“River .at Windsor” is certainly
dramatic; worth while, indeed
remarkable, in its own field. And
the same must be said of such
brilliant, vivid, scintillating
landscapes as “The Crossroads”
and “Barns and Outhouses,”
with their flicks of light like a
development of the pointillist
technique of Pissarro or the
open-air watercolors of Norman
Lindsay, their fiery color, their
rich masses of foliage and their
dazzling sunlight.
“Annie Get Your Gun”
(Empire) and “A Streetcar
Named Desire” (Royal)—each
already reviewed twice in The
Bulletin —both turned up in
Sydney last week, the sharp-
shooting lady for the second
time, the odd-named vehicle for
the first. “Annie,” as bright as
ever, produced no reactions other
than amusement and apprecia-
tion ; “Streetcar,” on the other
hand, seemed to divide the city
into two camps, one led by the
Rev. Alan Tory proclaiming the
play “the work of a gifted artist
who treats his theme with seri-
ousness and integrity,” the other
led by the Rev. Alan Walker
describing the piece as “sordid,
poor art and quite immoral.”
Both critics, however, took
the view that the play should
not be censored, an exhibi-
tion of commonsense which
seems to be shared by N. S.
Wales Chief Secretary Evatt,
who announced before the
opening night that he would
not send a policeman or other
Government official to judge the
play but would (a) send a “well-
known playwright-minister”
who was none other than the
Rev. Alan Tory—and (b) go
along himself.
Bach Festival.
There is a certain irony in the
fact that the bi-centenary of
Johann Sebastian Bach is being
celebrated in Melbourne by a
gigantic series of concerts,
recitals, masses, lectures and
heaven knows what else, all on
the bounty of the late Sidney
Myer, and the music-lovers are
rolling up in their thousands to
Town Hall and Cathedral to
partake of the free banquet.
Bach and Myer were both
obsessed men, and Myer’s obses-
sion culminated in the largest
emporium in the Southern Hemi-
sphere and a handsome bequest
which, in the future, will no
doubt give tens of thousands
easy access to Bach’s music.
Bach’s musical obsession
gained him posts as organist at
various small churches, and on
one occasion he obtained leave
of absence and walked to Lubeck
and back, a distance of 225
miles, to hear the organ and
choir music of an older master.
He brought up a lot of children,
taught them music and wrote a
lot of music, died and was com-
pletely forgotten until he was
resurrected by Mendelssohn 100
years later.
Bach wrote his mighty Mass
in B Minor apparently for his
own pleasure and never heard it
played himself. It was too long
to be played at a church service.
He made some use of it, how-
ever. He wrote an imploring
letter to the most illustrious
Prince and Lord, the Lord
Friedrich August, King and
Prince of Poland and Lithuania,
etc., asking him to deign to cast
his gracious eye over his ignoble
composition in the hope and ex-
pectation that it might stimulate
his Kingly Majesty to give him
a- job—musicians were ranked
as servants in those days. The
adjectives Bach showered on his
royal patron are now seen to
have been more applicable to
himself as a king of music, and
certainly nothing the Lord Fried-
rich ever did is likely to be the
subject of a festival in Mel-
bourne or anywhere else.
The Victorian Symphony
Orchestra and the Melbourne
Philharmonics, assisted by Man-
cell Kilby (continue) and
Frederick Earle at the organ,
with soloists Thea Philips,
Muriel Luyk, Joan Jones,
William Herbert and Alan Eddy,
and with Charles Groves deputis-
ing for Professor Heinze, made
an impressive onslaught on the
Mass at the Town Hall. It was
all sensitively and beautifully
sung and played, but nothing
was done better than the Bene-
dicts, with Bertha Jorgensen
providing the violin accompani-
ment to William Herbert’s tenor.
Mr. Herbert is an artist. His
singing sounded faultless. The
Philharmonics came in magni-
ficently in the Crucifixus chorus.
A later highlight \vas the first
performance in Australia of
“The Four Seasons,” one of
Bach’s 200-odd cantatas written
for a royal birthday. From the
point of view of subject-matter
it is a curious production. Three
rivers, the Vistula, the Elbe and
the Danube, vie with each other
to sing the praises of the mon-
arch tiff the Pleisse comes in
and disposes of the claims of all
the others to the king’s favor
and establishes itself as the most
loyal of his subjects: then all
four raise their voices in har-
mony and rivalry is forgotten.
Finding this a trifle trite a sub-
sequent librettist turned the four
rivers into seasons without mak-
ing any difference to the content,
which is one of Bach’s loveliest
nature-pictures.
The 120 voices of the Myer
Choir, the Bach Festival
Orchestra and soloists William
Herbert, Keith Neilson and Etta
Barnard, under Leslie Cumow’s
baton, gave a sensitive perform-
ance, and the final choral out-
burst ended the evening in a
blaze of glory.
Alfredo Campoli was the
soloist in William Walton’s
Violin Concerto with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. This
work leans to the classical
school in the sense that emphasis
is laid on the virtuosity of the
solo instrument, yet it is quite
modern in treatment —the general
poverty of the melodic line is a
guarantee of that. Campoli
stroked his way through the
technical maze with fluency and
a beautiful tone, his cadenza
work being full of the virtues.
The orchestral part of this work
is in Walton’s best vein, and
Eugene Goossens and his forces
did it full justice. A piece given
its Australian premiere was Bela
Bartok’s “Music for Strings,
Celeste and Percussion” —it
should be “Noise for Strings,
Etc.” Mendelssohn’s Fourth
Symphony, with its joyous, light-
hearted Italian dance rhythms,
and the Polka and Fugue from
Weinberger’s “Schwanda the
Bagpiper” found the orchestra
in zestful mood.
* * * *
In his two concerts with the
Queensland Symphony Orchestra
Alceo Galliera drove the orch-
estra with tremendous gusto, and
whatever he touched seemed to
sparkle. Even Queensland’s
favorite warhorse, the Polovtsian
Dances of Borodin, glittered in
its new trappings. At the fourth
subscription concert, his per-
formance of the Beethoven
Fourth Symphony, exciting
though it was, suffered a little
from the impact of such a per-
sonality upon music well able to
speak for itself. Soloist for the
concert was violinist Alfredo
Campoli, whose popularity with
Queenslanders seems to have
required him to double his com-
mitments in this State. In the
Mendelssohn Violin Concerto
both Galliera and Campoli were
at their best, and the work was
a triumph of gaiety and lyricism.
Highlights of the Youth concert
were a presentation of Mozart’s
Symphony No. 39 with fiery
splendor, and a quiet, well-
balanced reading of the Sieg-
fried Idyll, in which Galliera re-
vealed a tenderness not always
apparent in other works on his
programmes.


Divorce Notice-
TO LORRAINE YVONNE ALLEN of Syd-
ney Australia Married Woman also known
as YVONNE LORRAINE BROOTHER,
EVON LORAINE BROOKER and JUDITH
AIRMAN.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband LEO STUART ALLEN has filed
in the Supreme Court of New Zealand
a Petition No. D. 909/48 against you for
Divorce on the ground of adultery A
copy of the Petition and Notice will be
supplied to you on your applying for the
same at my office Unless you file an
answer (having first given an address for
service as provided by the Rules of Court)
in the said Court at Auckland on or
before the 21st day of September 1950 the
said Petition will be heard and determined
in your absence Unless you give an
address for service the Petitioner is not
required to serve you with any further
documents and you are not entitled to
receive any further notice in connection
with these proceedings If a decree for
divorce is made such decree is a decree
nisi in the first place and until upon
further application the decree is made
absolute the^ marriage is not dissolved and
a decree nisi is not a defence to a charge
of bigamy.—DATED at Auckland this sth
day of July, 1950.—J. M. CARROLL,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to her the foregoing
* Bem e n t. EDWARD LEWIS
THWAITES is the Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, whose address for service is at the
office of MESSIEURS THWAITES,
O’CONNELL & ROBINSON, Professional
Chambers, 9 High Street, Auckland, New
Zealand.
Legal Notice.
IN the Estate of MARY ANN BROWN
deceased and MARY HELEN DEVINE
BROWN, both formerly of Thornwood
Estate, Mlanje, Nyasaland. —PURSUANT
to an Order of His Majesty’s High Court
of Justice in Nyasaland made on the 12th
day of April 1950 and directing that
enquiries be made as to possible claimants
in the matter of the Estate of Mary
Helen Devine Brown deceased Cause No. 9
of 1947 and in the matter of the Estate
of Mary Ann Brown deceased Cause No.
10 of 1947 persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Helen
Devine Brown late of Mlanje in the Nyasa-
land Protectorate living at the time or
the death of the said Mary Helen Devine
Brown on the Twenty fourth day of
November One thousand nine hundred ana
forty six and persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Ann Brown
deceased late of Mlanje aforesaid hying
at the time of the death of the said Mary
Ann Brown on the Nineteenth day
August One thousand nine hundred and
forty six or persons claiming to be ne
of kin according to the Statutes
the distribution of intestate estates of the
said Mary Helen Devine Brown and/or
the said Mary Ann Brown hying at th
time of their respective deaths asaforesaM
or to be the legal personal representatna
of such of the said next of km as
now dead or persons eiainUng .
titled under the Wills and Codicils of tne
abovenamed 'deceased or Charitable In
tutions and persons claiming
entitled under the Wilis a C u .
of the said deceaseds ARE by ™ ,
cLrs on or before the Thirteenth dayj
November One thousand nine hu daims
fifty to come in and prove oe the
at the Chambers of B High
Chief Justice for Nyasaland at
Court of Blantyre or in
they shall be peremptorily Monday
the benefit of the shid Order. thou .
the Fifteenth day of January at 9
sand nine hundred and fifty said
o’clock of the f ? r f n °°l r the hearing
Chambers is appointedl, r Dated
and adjudicating upon thh claims g
this Twelfth day of q^ n^ ft y.-(Sgd.)
sand nine hundred an CoU rt of
M. J. COW. Registrar, Uig
Nyasaland.
Life in the Party
By a
Trade-Union
Official
~ "T* HE transformation of
the world,” said Joseph
I Stalin, “is a great, com-
plicated and painful
process.”
He might have added, in the
case of the ordinary run-of-the-
mill Communist-party ticket-
holder whose task it is to help
bring this “transformation”
about, that it is also not much
fun.
Membership of the Australian
Communist party, for many of
its 11,000 members, is a full-time
occupation requiring him to eat,
drink, talk, think, make love to
and propagate the tenets of the
Soviet myth twenty-four hours a
day.
It implies the obligation of un-
deviating loyalty to “The Cause”
(which means, of course, un-
questioning acceptance of every
bewildering zig-zag in the party
“line”), maximum activity in the
fulfilment of all “immediate
tasks” (which may include any-
thing from “penetrating” the
local branch of the Parents and
Citizens’ Association to peddling
the party paper outside the
local public-house on Saturday
morning), together with an obli-
gation to contribute not merely
to the support of the organisa-
tion, but also to the various
“funds” and “appeals” which,
somehow or other, the party
seems to be constantly sponsor-
ing.
That this in itself is no pinch-
penny obligation is evidenced by
the fact that, of the various
appeals launched last year, the
party claims to have netted
£115,000—£72,110 in cash and
£42,890 in “pledges” still out-
standing when the party organ
last mentioned it —from the
“fighting fund” alone.
On top of this, members are
required to pay monthly dues,
and while these may amount to
very little —not much more than
sixpence a week —that sixpence
is like the one you pay for ad-
mission to a “fun park”; the
first of the good few.
To it is added the compulsory
levies which, from time to time,
the party strikes to meet “im-
mediate requirements”—assessed
on a sliding scale based on in-
come, they may amount to as
much as £1 for a member on the
basic wage—while certain books,
pamphlets, periodicals and news-
papers are regarded as required
reading, and, of course, must be
bought.
Underground Arm
While membership of the party
implies complete and unquestion-
ing acceptance of its discipline,
certain exemptions from duty are
granted in special cases, particu-
larly among wealthy members
and those figuring in higher-
income groupings, where open
party activity would seriously in-
terfere with the member’s ability
to remain in that grouping.
(A building contractor who
died recently, leaving his £7771
estate to the Victorian State
Committee of the Australian
Communist party, had, without
even his closest associates sus-
pecting it, been a secret member
for many years.)
Secret-membership lists—the
best answer to the dangerous
illusion that the party attracts
only social misfits —include a
liberal, sprinkling of people from
the professional classes, among
them doctors, lawyers, architects,
engineers, economists and well-
to-do businessmen, as well as at
least one well-known Australian
writer.
They have no direct affiliation
with their local units, whose
members know them, if they
know them at all, merely as
being “sympathetic.” To justify
their membership they have only
to contribute (substantially) to
the party funds and toe the line
ideologically.
The genuine Marxists-Lenin-
ists look upon this element as
“petty-bourgeois opportunists”
intent on buying indulgences
against the future ; they are the
true fifth-columnists —in the ori-
ginal sense of the term —with one
foot in each camp, ready to
jump whichever way the wind
blows.
Also on the secret list, but for
different reasons, is the “under-
ground arm” made up of
members holding “key” positions
in the public service and in Gov-
ernment departments, certain
trade-union officials and
members operating as white-ants
inside the Labor party. For
these, too —for very obvious
reasons —certain “allowances”
are made ; they are much too
valuable to be thrown into the
hurly-burly of everyday activity.
Not so for the ordinary
member.
For him, party membership is
a routine of rigorous activity
played out in an atmosphere of
stage-managed clandestinity and
mutual suspicion.
Party members are constantly
urged to spy on each other;
directives emphasise “the need
for every member of the Com-
munist party to be eternally vigi-
lant about the conduct of [other]
members.”
“Individuals are easily detect-
able,” ran a warning in the party
Press recently, “provided there is
a consciousness of the problem.
The conduct of each party
member is the concern of the
whole party.”
At the head of this infamous
system are the control commis-
sions ; they act as the central
committee’s security service and
court system. All intending
members are “investigated,” their
antecedents examined, their
“working - class affiliations”
probed. Once fully committed,
the member’s whole life, his
choice of a job or even of a
wife, comes under the scrutiny
of the control commission. Dos-
siers are kept on all members, as
well as on “friends” and
“enemies” of the party. Some
members are terrified of the
records compiled by this gestapo.
Some, even when fed-up and
secretly hostile to the party, dare
not speak because of the “ex-
posures” that could follow.
In this atmosphere the party
member attends his branch
and utiion meetings, actively par-
ticipates in the organisation of
“demonstrations,” “protest meet-
ings” and political “rallies,” as
well as in the thousand-and-one
other “tasks” designed to “draw
the mass of the workers into
struggle.”
Psychology of Clandestinity
Organisationally, the party is
broken up into “districts,” each
“district” subdivided into hun-
dreds of tiny “branches.” The
Sydney district alone comprises
200 such branches, which are
organised on both a local and in-
dustrial basis.
(For instance, most large in-
dustrial establishments have what
is called an “industrial” branch
—they are “cells” or “nuclei”
really—members of which also
belong to their “local” branch
and participate in the activities
of both.)
Membership of these
“branches” ranges from a mere
handful up to 20 or 30, but the
average membership seems to
centre around a dozen.
Each branch meets at least
once a week, “local” meetings
being held in members’ homes,
the local party “bookshop,” or,
if the membership warrants it,
in some small, cheap, preferably
inconspicuous and out-of-the-
way local hall.
Earmark of such meetings is
the unvarying air of conspiracy
that surrounds them ; members
approaching the local meeting-
place by tram usually get off at
different stops and converge on
the appointed rendezvous in a
manner reminiscent of the best
Hollywood cloak - and - dagger
traditions.
This is partly the result of a
“psychology of clandestinity”
that has grown out of working
in a hostile environment
members like to think of them-
selves as part of a platoon behind
“the enemy lines”—but it is also
deliberately cultivated (under the
heading of “practising illegal
tactics”) as valuable training for
a possible period of illegality.
(Workshop “branches” break-
ing up into gropps of five when
attending their lunch-break pow-
wows is an indication that the
party is at the present time “prac-
tising illegal tactics.” It also in-
dicates that the unit of five
members—which the party has
used in the past —will again con-
stitute a “cell” when, and if, the
movement “atomises under pres-
sure” that is, goes under-
ground.)
Local branch meetings are
marked by the usual laudatory
testimonials as to “progress,”
etc., reports are received on job
and union activities, “study
groups” arranged, paper sales
planned, “concentration tasks”
allotted, and roneoed matter
handed out for distribution at
the various work centres.
One of the principal “concen-
tration tasks” is directed toward
the raising of funds. How these
are raised depends on the energy
and to some extent —within
certain narrowly-defined limits —
on the initiative of the branch
concerned.
Some groups sponsor “house
parties” (to which admission is
charged), “musical evenings,”
“socials”/and “high teas,” while
others concentrate on “cottage
lectures” at which one of the
better-known party members is
usually billed to speak (these,
in the winter months, invariably
feature “log-fire and supper,”
and a donation is called for or a
collection taken up). Advertise-
ments for these appear regularly
in the party Press, though some
branches seem to depend solely
on word-of-mouth promotion,
perhaps from a variety of
reasons;
Importance of “Media”
Newspaper sales-promotion is
an integral part of all branch
activity, each branch having a
team of sellers operating locally,
usually in the main shopping
centres on Saturday mornings.
Enterprising branches are re-
warded with an encouraging puff
in the party paper, while crack
sellers sometimes graduate to
having their photographs printed,
a quaint form of incentive-pay-
ment aimed to whip-up rivalry
between competing branches and
stimulate sales.
Smarting under the dis-
approval of party dignitary J.
D. Blake, who recently com-
plained that “members of the
party in Melbourne are able to
sell more ‘Guardians’ than Syd-
ney party members are able to
sell ‘Tribunes,’ although there
are many more Communists in
Sydney than in Melbourne,”
local branches have launched an
all-out sales offensive—an under-
taking which the central com-
mittee, in a moment of somewhat
amusing ideological confusion,
recently described as the “No. 1
task of ffie party at all levels.”
(The A.C.P., in line with all
Communist parties abroad, pays
great attention to the tactical
importance of the channels of
propaganda, the so-called
“media.” The German Com-
munists, at grave risk, printed
and distributed “Rote Fahne”
right through the Nazi regime.
However, to describe the selling
of “Tribunes” as “No. 1 task of
the party at all levels” seems to
be something of an overstate-
ment.)
Of the local branches, Illa-
warra district—covering all the
main centres on the busy Illa-
warra line —claims to top the
poll with a net sales of some 260
copies weekly. Of these, about
a hundred go in street sales in
Hurstville each Saturday morn-
ing. Sutherland, Crown-street
(Woolloomooloo), Surry Hills
(which concentrates on Sunday
morning house-to-house canvass-
ing), Darlinghurst and Stanmore
branches also claim to be pretty
busy, but on the whole few
branches average more than two
or three dozen copies weekly.
Newsagents and city street
vendors, where they handle it at
ail, rarely take more than a
dozen copies, half of which often
remain unsold. In the meantime
the paper continues to run at a
loss, which members must foot
themselves, through contribu-
tions to the party funds.
Racing sweeps “blind-
double” cards are another
means by which the party seeks
to swell the exchequer. Work-
shops form the main channel of
distribution ; cards sell ' at three-
pence each, and the winner—if
there happens to be a winner—•
gets a pound.
Actually, the double-card
racket does the party more harm
than good ; workers tend to look
upon it as a form of exploita-
tion, and are alienated by it more
effectively than by many of the
more spectacular party “stunts.”
For instance, it places the party
in a bad light compared with
other minority Roupings which,
even if they have little use for
them politically, workers tend to
respect as operating on a higher
plane.
Accent on Youth
The recruiting of new
members, never spectacularly
successful, has flopped badly in
recent years—party membership
has almost halved sk.ce the war
—so much so that this particular
aspect of its activities is now
soft-pedalled.
Today it prefers to rely on
such puppet organisations as the
Eureka Youth League (formerly
the Y.C.L.) for roping-in new
converts. At the moment it is
planning to extend its activities
in this direction by forming a
Junior Eureka Youth League to
concentrate on the “education”
of youngsters between the ages
of nine and fifteen!
(Inaugural meeting of the
Junior League was set down in
Sydney for January 14, and be-
fore the royal commission on
Communism a Comrade swore
that such a body last year was
actually in existence.)
What the early Fabians called
“alert permeation”—the tech-
nique of the termite by which
members join all sorts of local
bodies, get themselves elected on
committees and proceed to use
the organisation as a “front”
for Communist activities —is, of
course, another standard task
for all members.
But important as all th*
activities undoubtedly are th ®
are nevertheless merely
dental and subsidiary to the tw
task—the real “No. 1
ate] task of the
levels”-the defence a S
strengthening of the So v w
Union as the official base and
planning-centre for world revn
lution. ACVO “
Whether it be the occupation
of China or a “Peace” demon
stration in Pitt-street, this
task to which all Coram u ‘? s
activities in all countries are a
this period consciously directed
Beside it, the party’s lone
range commitment to promofe
the establishment of Commun-
ism in this country ranks a poor
second. F ur
Whether the Comrades act
tough or act flabby depends not
on any set of revolutionary tac
tics or principles, or even upon
its own requirements as a poli-
tical party in the domestic scene
but upon what tactics Soviet
foreign policy (pronounced
Maim ) considers necessary in
order to blackmail effectively
the “imperialists” into new con-
cessions or a favorable Soviet.
Western “deal.”
Under the heading of “De-
fence of the Soviet Union” comes
every form of disruptive activity
from fomenting and exploiting
every racial, religious, political
and economic conflict inherent
in the social fabric—pitting the
aborigine against the Australian
(“Communists Are Aboriginals’
Only Friends” is a typical
party-Press headline), Aus-
tralian against Balt, Protest-
ant against Catholic, unionist
against Unionist, worker
against worker-—up to organising
what Ernest Thornton in his
booklet “The Trade Unions and
the War” called “deliberately-
planned strikes,” cunningly en-
gineered to put the home-front
in order (which means, of course,
disorder) for “the struggle
ahead.”
The struggle ahead is the
struggle for the. world, and the
way to win it is by playing the
old game of “confuse and
weaken, divide and conquer,” by
which Hitler was able to seize
power in Germany, and by which
the Communists themselves
(nee Bolsheviks) were able to
overthrow the Kerensky Govern-
ment after the “successful”
bourgeois revolution in Russia
in 1917.
For the average party member
it is a pretty rigorous game, but
especially when one re-
members that he has only the
vaguest notion of the true nature
of the game, which is not to
solve Australia’s problems but to«
render them insoluble —it has to
be admitted that he plays it pretty
well.


on
Here are two fine examples of young
Australians who have made the Regu-
lar Army their profession.
“I was a Soldier in World War II”,
says Private Pick, “and following a
period in civil life, decided to join up
again in the ‘Regulars’. I like the
free, active life that an army career
gives you. Every nation must have a
Regular Army, and it is a duty that
must be borne by her active men. There
are excellent opportunities for a man
with ability and the keenness to learn.”
Corroborating his team mate’s state-
ment, Private Rankin says . . .
“I am 20 years of age and come from
South Australia. I like the variety of
life as a Regular Army Soldier. For
instance, 1 have done quite a lot of
travelling in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia as a member of the Forces. I’m
making the Army my career and avail-
ing myself of the opportunities for
advancement.”
THERE’S A PUCE FOR YOU IN THE A.R.A.
• Minimum age 18 years
• Initial engagement 6 years
• Opportunities for re-engagement
• Vacancies for technicians and
Specialists
• £l2O gratuity on completion 6 years
service
• £360 gratuity on completion 12 years
service
• Life pension on completion 20 years
service
Aist
i si
R
iiliii
Call and have a* talk with the Officer In charge at your nearest Army
Training Depot, or send the coupon below to Army Command Headquarters
In your capital city for further details.
NAME
ADDRESS’
J
RAV. 13.83.70
When i Met Susie
BY WILL LAIVSON
I WAS at youth’s imaginative
age when this happened—
just rising sixteen. Maybe
I was a bit ratty then,
rattier than I am now, I mean.
I used to sit and dream in church
while the parson pounded out
his sermon. I would be a knight
fighting dragons to save a lovely
maiden, or a fireman rescuing
them from the flames, or a life-
boatman bringing poor
passengers ashore from ships.
Susie used to be in those dreams.
The odd thing about it was
that nobody knew I had fallen
in love with Susie —not even
Susie. But I knew her father a
bit; that was something. He
was in charge of the men and
horses who collected mails from
letterboxes and ships and
trains, and took them to the
G.P.O. in Brisbane, Likewise
they worked in the reverse
direction. I knew one of the
mail-boys and used to ride with
him round certain districts on
this job. I used to wish I could
be a mail-boy. The one I knew
had the best collection of ghost
stories, which he said his father,
who was a stockman, told him.
But all I remember now of them
is that after every raid the
ghosts all “simmered back into
their graves.”
But it was not while with my
friend that I met Susie, though
she lived at the back of the
G.P.O. It was in Sunday
school. I was a choir-boy, too,
then. I remember when I passed
by the windows of Susie’s home,
which were high up inside a
wall, in Elizabeth-street, I used
to gaze rapturously at them
hoping she would come and look
out. If by any chance she had
appeared, I would have ridden
for my life. So it took a very
long time for me to let Susie
know how things were.
I tell you, none of the modern
Susies are a patch on. my Susie.
She had nice short dresses and
lovely long legs and such a
figure, with long brown hair
hanging down her back. I think
she was fifteen, as far as I can
recall over the years. A party
of us including Susie used to go
into the Botanical Gardens after
Sunday school, and fool around.
One pastime was to give one an-
other “conversation lollies” —
large, flat, white sweets with
messages on them, such as
“Somebody loves you. Guess
who?” That was on the first
one that I handed to Susie. And
she sent me one back, like
this, “You’re not so ugly,
really,”
ONE day I screwed up
courage, while on foot, to
whistle under Susie’s window. I
/ almost died of nervousness, in
case somebody else came, but it
■ was Susie. She looked very sur-
prised, talked a few moments
then vanished, I waited, but she
never came back.
Then I conceived a brilliant
idea. I had been given a Chinese
com. Turn King, the Chinese
who gave it to me, said it was
rare and valuable. On the next
Sunday afternoon, I got Susie
by herself for a few seconds and
showed her the coin. She
thought it wonderful. Then
I screwed up courage and said:
“I’ll give you that, if you’ll
give me . . .” Then my nerve
failed.
She stared as if I was mad.
“If I give you what?” she de-
manded.
“If you’ll give me a kiss,” I
blurted out.
For a second she stared with
wide brown eyes, then she yelled
with laughter.
“What do you think?” she
asked the crowd. “William
wants to buy a kiss with a
Chinky coin.”
I suppose I went red. I know
I felt mad. But I said:
“What’s wrong with that?
It’s a good coin.”
That made them laugh more,
while they crowded round me to
see the coin; and in the crowd-
ing Susie gave my arm a
squeeze, so I didn’t feel so bad
then. And I gave her the coin,
without any strings to it. Maybe
she would give me the kiss later,
I thought.
The next time I whistled under
Susie’s window, it was in the
forenoon, in school hours. But
I wasn’t wagging-it that day—l
often did to watch the horse
sales in the Albert-street sale-
yard. No, I was out on a legiti-
mate occasion, having attended
my music master in the Valley,
learning to play the violin. And
I decided to hop off the tram at
Creek-street, run behind the
G.P.O. and show Susie my
fiddle. That was if she was in,
and came to the window.
SHE came to the window all
right when I whistled; saw
the case, and gave a little shriek.
“Whatever is it —a baby’s
coffin?” she asked.
“No,” I said scornfully. “It’s
a violin-case.”
“You mean there’s a fiddle in-
side it? Can you play it?”
“A bit,” I said in an important
way.
Suddenly she put her finger to
her lips and whispered, “Wait!”
In a few seconds she was back
and said softly:
“Go round by the big gate.
Nobody is about, then you can
show me your fiddle.”
I knew the big gate. Often
I had waited there, before I’d
seen Susie, for my mail-boy
mate, I got behind the gate,
between it and the wall, and
soon Susie came, looking lovely
in a blue dress and her hair in
long curls down her back.
“Now, show me the fi ... I
mean the violin,” she said. When
I opened the case, she gasped at
sight of the violin and bows rest-
ing on blue plush lining.
“Isn’t it grand!” she
whispered. “X wish you would
play it now . . . no, no, don’t,”
as I made to take up a bow.
Then she stood fair in front of
me, with my hands holding
things, and suddenly she kissed
me, fair on the lips and I got in
a quick one in return before
she could run away. She didn’t
move, just gasped, so I kissed
her again. Then she was gone,
with a flutter of her short skirts,
and I was left to go home and
explain my lateness, I was only
allowed two hours from school
for my lessons with Herr Blau-
mann. What a man will do for
a woman!
I caught a West End tram. It
was one like our Sydney trams
today, but with a cross-seat at
the back by the guard. I sat
there, and the young guard,
after opening my case and ex-
amining the violin, said :
,“Let me play somet’ihg.”
He was German, and could he
play! I wished Susie had been
there. The driver looked
through the tram windows to us
and waved his enjoyment. We
had crossed the bridge and there
were no other passengers. I
rode right up to the terminus
in Vulture-street, while he
played. When I got out on the
return run, he handed me the
case and said: “It made me
think I was back in Berlin,
where I used ito play.”
By this time, what with Susie
and the guard, I was just about
in time for dinner —very late
indeed—so I told my mother the
truth about the guard—not
about Susie, and she said, in her
kind way: “Poor fellow. He
must have been homesick.”
She used to be very homesick
herself for Newcastle-on-Tyne,
where we had come from ten
years before.
I STILL whistled under the
* window for Susie; and often
wondered who was behind her
in the room. And one day I
got a shock. The curtain be-
hind Susie was brushed aside
and a man with whiskers
appeared, and said: “Why don’t
you bring your friend inside,
girl? Come in, lad, round by the
big gate—you know the way?”
“Yes, sir,” I said, my heart
doing somersaults and I
imagining in my mind all sorts
of things he might do to me.
Susie met me at the door,
shaking her head till her curls
shook, too, trying to warn me.
to be careful. She knew her
father, which I did not. He was
sitting by the window now,
smoking his pipe, just come in
from a rush of work to have a
cup of tea. He looked at me
with twinkling blue eyes.
“Well, young man,” he said,
taking his pipe out of his mouth.
“So you want to marry my
daughter?”
Even Susie was startled. I
saw a grave look come over her
face. The twinkle in his eyes
might have reassured her. But
I was not aware of anything
wrong. You see, I was in love
with Susie.
“Yes, sir,” I said, “as soon as
I can earn enough money to buy
her a carriage and pair.”
He roared laughing. So did
Susie . . , But I wasn’t trying to
be funny. I meant it. She
gave me an encouraging nod,
and went and stood by her
father. They must have been a
happy family,
“And what are your politics,
young man —are you for
Griffiths or Mcllwraith?”
“Oh, Mcllwraith,” I said
glibly, thinking myself on easy
street. But Susie’s father looked
shocked.
“Mcllwraith? You are?
Impossible!” he said. “Tell me
why.”
I set to work then, to tell him
all the political points in favor
of the Conservatives, which I
had heard my father propound
at home so often. Susie’s father
shook his head slowly, as if
amazed.
“You certainly have all the
facts,” he said solemnly; but
I saw him wink at Susie. “How-
ever,” he went on, “you should
study up the Griffiths side a bit.
Well,” he rose to his feet and
knocked the ash from his pipe
on the window-ledge, “I must
go back to work. Now, Susie,
give Willie a cup of tea. Your
mother will be in and she’ll
want one. So long, young man.
I trust you not to elope with
Susie before you get her
that carriage and pair.”
“No, sir,” I said seriously. He
laughed again. Then Susie’s
mother came in and we talked
on safer lines. I must have
been a funny kid, the way they
laughed at my ideas. But Susie
came to the gate with me, and
gave me a big kiss, so that was
all right.
NOT far .from Susie’s home
was Petrie’s Bight, where
the river took a sharp turn
round Kangaroo Point on the
Bulimba, In Petrie’s Bight,
low down below the level of
Queen-street, were the wharves
where the coastal steamers lay.
There were scores of them then.
These wharves attracted me on
Saturday mornings, because
many of my friends —my rag-
tag friends my father called
(Continued on page 32.)


ĥ sd
Field Glasses (imp.)
“Faliez” - France
A new draft of field glasses has been imported
to Proud’s Optical Department, First Floor.
By “Faliez”, out of France, they’re bred to
give a longer life of service in all sporting
fields. Lenses are bloomed, i-bloomed or clear.
Now available in three magnifications: 8 x 26,
8 x 30 and 8 x 32. Complete in a neat
leather case with detachable lanyard. Prices
range from £l2/10/- to £lB/10/-*
Available in
magnifications:
8 * 26, 8 x 30. 8 x 32
• Also up for inspection at Proud’s Optical
Department is a range of field glasses which
includes other world-famous names. All are in
a full range of magnifications and prices.
fs
ro lid's
Proud 1 s Limited, Comer of King and Pitt Streets, Sydney. Telephone, BW 2721.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
a
U
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
#
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY,
THE SERVICE MAN
CRISIS IN KOREA.
“Ek Dum”: Round July 12,
for the first time, the fighting in
Korea seemed as if it might
assume a definite shape and a
definite plan. Save for the first
48 hours, when optimists hoped
that the Han River line in the
Seoul Valley would be held or
recovered, there has appeared to
be form and overall purpose only
in the North Korean Army. On
the American and South Korean
side the whole “front-line” tactics
have been gusty and improvised
to cover establishment and
logistical operations further to
the rear.
The North Korean plan was
to roll as fast as possible down
the four road-systems, denying
the defenders as many ports as
possible and aiming to get to
Fusan and the south before the
Americans could establish
themselves at a firm base.
The operations which were
developing round the middle of
the week were designed to hold
the Kum River line in the west
and stop up the central and
eastern roads on the left flank
of the main N. Korean advance
before it reached the Taejon-
Taegu-Fusan railway and road
and the other railway and road
which run down on the
west side past the port of Kun-
san (Gunzan) to Mokpo
(Moppo). These two avenues of
communication join with the
Seoul main road and rail at Tae-
jon, and they hang on Taejon
southward like a snake over a
stick.
Taejon had been a U.S. H.Q,
for some days. It lies about 10
miles south of the Kum River.
This turbulent and winding
stream starts in the southern
hills about 25 miles from the
south coast and about the same
distance from the west coast.
Then it wriggles northwards
half-way to the 37th parallel and
just south of Chonan, sweeps
round south-westerly, running
into a long estuary which flows
into the sea on the 36th parallel,
about 120 miles by crow-flight
from the border which the North
Koreans crossed on June 25.
Upon reaching the Kum River
north of Taejon the North
Koreans would have covered
about half their journey to the
Korean Strait. The Americans
therefore had about 100 miles
leeway, and, provided over-
whelmingly unexpected forces
were not launched against
them, it seemed that the
time when the tide would have
a chance of being at least
stemmed was approaching.
The North Koreans, however,
soon succeeded in crossing the
Kum and establishing bridge-
heads on the south side. They
took advantage of their numbers
and of the conformation and
nature of the river to attempt a
surrounding movement directed
against the American front-line
forces in the Taejon area. They
chose the western flank of the
Americans for early assault be-
cause, as the river widens out
there it becomes shallower and
because communications on the
west of the terrain are more
favorable. While holding forces
on the east they appear on
July 17 to have driven across the
river and taken Nonsan on the
main road to Pusan, thus out-
flanking Taejon and threatening
forces in the extreme northern
river bend with envelopment.
Late in the week the North
Koreans on the east took
Chungju, an important road
junction, and Tanyang. The
holding of these two towns and
of the port of Utchin, which
they captured earlier, gives them
road access to the east coast right
across the peninsula below the
37th parallel, a facility which
might be important in view of
the fact that die speed and versa-
tility of their drive, combined
with persistent strafing of the
roads, even by a limited number
of aircraft, must have taken a
considerable toll of their sup-
plies and ammunition, and they
must be due for some thorough
consolidation in the face of the
now-rapidly-increasing Ameri-
can strength. Their lateral com-
munications, however, will be of
much less use to them in the
future with B-29s on the wing
and with strafing stepped up,
although the country provides
plenty of protection and is of a
nature which makes it difficult
for aircraft to get at the narrow
roads, especially in rain and mist.
That sufficient resources and
materiel had been brought for-
ward to enable more cohesive
operations in defence was shown
when Lieutenant-General W. H.
Walker, G.O.C. of General Mac-
Arthur’s land forces (Eighth
Army) in Japan, assumed
Korean field command from
midnight on July 12.
Contemporaneously with
General Walker’s arrival,
General Collins, U.S. Chief of
the Army Staff, and General
Vandenberg, Chief of the Air
Staff, visited Korea to discuss
future plans. The day of their
arrival proved the most hopeful
for some time, since it heralded
the advent of the first help
organised direct from the United
States—a group of 50 B-29s
which had been transferred
from the U.S. coast and brought
to operation point within eight
days from the initiation of plans
for them. They have the range
to work to North Korea with
full loads from any point at
Tokyo or nearer, with comfort-
able margins of mileage. Their
first strike with 500 tons of
bombs was from Tokyo area
against a road junction in North
Korea. The crews were the first
war-experienced American men
in action.
So far the war has consisted of
surprise after surprise. The
initial strength, discipline and
armament of the North Koreans
was a shock to many observers,
but nothing like the shocks since
experienced. It has become clear
that the numbers of the northern
invaders are beyond all early cal-
culation and beyond the capa-
city of North Korea, unless in-
dustries have been denuded of
manpower for months for train-
ing, or Russian or Chinese troops
are involved.
It was known that the
North Koreans had 35-ton
“T” tanks. Now 60-ton heavy
Russian tanks have appeared.
Also Russian jeeps of the newest
vintage, while every North
Korean appears to carry an auto-
matic weapon. However, the
stories of the bloodiness of the
fighting have usually been exag-
gerated, as General MacArthur
pointed out on July 13, due to
flagrant outbursts by the usual
flock of imaginative correspon-
dents.
General MacArthur gave the
casualties for the first 17 days’
fighting as 42 Americans killed,
190 wounded and 256 missing.
He instanced as a case of par-
ticularly wild-eyed reporting the
reports of the supposed “anni-
hilation” of the 34th Battalion,
which actually had two killed,
seven wounded and 12 missing.
The Americans, whom the
Russian Press and radio con-
tinue to accuse of being the
aggressors brutal warmongers
who attacked unarmed North
Korea —have been without heavy
guns at most points. They have
had, until early in the week,
nothing to cope even with the
medium tanks. They frequently
found themselves fighting armor
with rifles and grenades. And
they have been short in the
frontal areas of all sorts of sup-
. plies, no less than of men, and
particularly of experienced men,
since a great proportion of their
forces are made up of compara-
tively raw draftees.
General Collins, U.S. C.-of-S.,
however, said that he was con-
fident that the situation would
be stabilised before very long
and that the United States
would probably retain a sub-
stantial Korean area sufficient to
organise a base from which to
throw back the enemy. General
MacArthur’s communique on
July 16 declared that by adher-
ing to sound tactics the defend-
ing forces made the enemy pay
dearly for gained ground, while
at the'same time giving time for
the U.S. to build up in the rear.
He said that the North Koreans
suffered heavy casualties in cros-
sing the Kum River with troops
and tanks on ferries and impro-
vised craft, three or four ferries
being sunk by air action, which
was being accelerated both in the
front line and over enemy bases.
The situation was much more
hopeful on July 17 than it had
been, though it is still “touch-
and-go,” The Kum line is ob-
viously broken, but the pace of
the enemy advance becomes
slower and his communication
lines are less well filled as he
advances and as his bases are
blasted by Superfortresses and
his roads harried by Australian
Mustangs and U.S. Shooting
Stars, which General Collins
has declared to be effective in
spite of reports to the contrary.
General MacArthur, however,
is exceedingly lucky in being an
American. If his name had been
Percival the whole Sydney and
American Press would by this
time have been yelling for his
scalp, and perhaps demanding
that somebody send for Timo-
shenko to show him how to
fight, he having been caught
through force of circumstances
just as unprepared as the British
were in Malaya in 1942,
The Americans will need a
very much larger force than
they command at present, prob-
ably five or six divisions, before
they can hope to turn the tables,
and six divisions take more than
a little assembling 8000 miles
from their main base, with all
requisite air and naval support
to threaten the enemy’s rear and
sea communications. But, given
time, there is no doubt that they
will be ultimately available unless
needed in other areas, as they
might well be.
In China the Communists
were reported to be moving
“500,000 troops” towards the
Korean border. They may be,
but who counted them and told
has not been revealed by the
sponsors of the story. Perhaps
the same reliable authorities
who were convinced that the
French had 500,000 troops in
Syria early in 1940, At any
rate, even if 50,000 troops are
being moved to the Korean
border it is a matter of moment
in the existing situation.
Some eyes are fixed on For-
mosa, which is outside the zone
of operations of the United
Nations in Korea, but within the
zone of operations of the com-
mander of the U.N, forces which
are operating in Korea, since he
also holds the American Far
East command. This is a fine
example of the awful muddle in
which affairs in the Chinese-
Japanese zone are being con-
ducted.
It is very difficult to see what
the Chinese can do about the
invasion of the island with the
Seventh U.S. Fleet in the chan-
nel. If an attempt is made it
must be within the next few
weeks before the tornado season
starts.
Danger in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: Whistling to keep
their courage up, some Western
leaders have been asserting day
after day that there is little
danger of a world war arising
from the Korean affair. Each
day, however, they have had
reason to become less confident,
except in London, where Mr.
Attlee’s flatulent Socialist Gov-
ernment has been dickering with
Moscow, heedless of the lessons
of 1939, and in India, where
Nehru issued a statement on
July 5 which showed how little
help anybody but the Com-
munist bloc can look forward to
receiving from him. He later
communicated a suggestion to
Moscow, which replied with sus-
picious alacrity.
Meanwhile the ominous move-
ments which have been reported
for months round the Soviet
Union perimeter are developing
even more ominously. How
many troops the Russians have
in Europe, apart from the Balkan
satellite armies, nobody knows.
The last authentic pronounce-
ment was that made by Stalin on
October 28, 1946, when he said
that in the West, that „ „
Germany Austria, Hungary
Bulgaria, Rumania and Poland’
the u ? ion has S;
in all 60 divisions (infantry and
armor together), mostly below
full complement,” but that at the
end of the year, “when the last
stage of demobilisation is nut
into effect,” 40 divisions would
remain in the abovementioned
countries. '
This is about twice as manv
divisions as the British and the
Dominions were able to build
up in the front-line with during
the peak of World War 11. h
If they have been reduced
since, the reductions have been
more than made up by re
cruiting of the satellite countries
Poland has a standing army of
500,000 organised by Marshal
Rokossovsky of the Red Army
who has become Poland’s “Minis-
ter for Defence.” No doubt
Hungary, Bulgaria and the
Czechs have also been armed, or
at least trained, on the -same
scale. Even the East German
army has been revived under a
former Nazi commander. About
the time of the K*orean invasion
an access of Russian armor in
the East German zone was re-
ported—five divisions.
For months there have been
reports of the building of a huge
“defence” line like Hitler’s West
Wall along the Hungarian border
of Austria and of the massing of
troops and supplies in the
Rumanian Timisoara area, which
is a railway concentration point
and communication channel near
the Yugoslav border.
In the first week in July, Mos-
cow demanded the withdrawal
of Western troops from Trieste
just at the point at which the
Yugoslavs reported the entry into
their territory of Bulgarian
patrols, seemingly on reconnais-
sance in the region of the Drago-
man Pass, through which the
main route between Sofia and
Belgrade runs.
Within three or four days
Yugoslavia was in a state of
nerves. On July 13 Tito’s official
organ, Barba, declared that
there v/as a “state of war” on
the Yugoslav-Hungarian border;
that Bulgarian troops and armor
were on the move westward;
that Rumania had imposed a
curfew in its border regions. At
the same time Tito himself left
Belgrade for the island of Brionj,
in the Adriatic, 60 miles from
Trieste, guarded by what seems
to be the whole Yugoslav Navy
and police, force.
The statements were suffi-
ciently specific and impressive to
lead Mr. Acheson, the United
States Secretary of State, to take
notice of them, suggest the pos-
sibility of war in the Balkans,
and warn Russia that any further
aggression by Communism any-
where in the world probably
would touch off a Third World
War, And even Mr. Shinwell,
the British Secretary for Defence,
admits that the situation is very
tense.” And he had scarcely


RESIDENCE
FORSALE
WAVEETON-7 mins, rail t<
Wynyard (Sydney)
Spacious older-type home (modern
ised), with extra large lounge, open
ing on to enclosed sun room —dining
room, breakfast nook and 5 bed
rooms. Most rooms have polished
floors. De-luxe bathroom, and room'
kitchen with electric stove. Land is
approx. 83ft. by 137 ft. Lawns and
garden and garage.
Price, £7BOO, or near offer.
Ring owner: XB 1747
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” take* your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
C.S.R. Co.’s Report
Chairman’s Address to Shareholders
Addressing C.S.R. shareholders in Sydney at the
C.S.R. Company’s annual meeting on 7tK June, the
Chairman, Mr. E. R. Knox, gave the reasons why the
Company needed more money to carry on its business.
The Company recently
announced the issue of
117,000 new shares,
whi c jh will add
£3,159,000 to the Com-
pany’s capital resources.
Mr. Knox’s speech in-
cluded the following
points:
More money needed
to meet expansion.
More money was needed
to run the C.S.R. Com-
pany for a number of
reasons. The main ones
were: the lowered buy-
ing power of the £1; the
larger factory capacity
needed to meet de-
mands for sugar from an
increasing population;
additional plant neces-
sary to maintain produc-
tion in the shorter
working week; and the
expansion of the Com-
pany’s activities, par-
ticularly sugar milling,
and development along
natural lines in building
materials and chemicals.
Cane-ite insulating and
building board is made
from megass, the fibres
of the cane left after the
juice is crushed out;
and the production of
various chemicals is also
developing—mainly by
using alcohol produced
from molasses to make
acetic acid, acetic-anhy-
dride and cellulose ace-
tate, a plastic moulding
powder.
The following graph, and
the diagram below, show
how the Company’s busi-
ness has expanded during
the last fifteen years. The
value of output in 1935
was £18,800,000; last
year it was £51,300,000.
Bigger Exports enable
expansion of industry.
In order to produce the
larger export quota of
600,000 tons recently
negotiated in London the
Queensland Government
has allotted larger pro-
duction quotas to
Queensland raw sugar
mills. Additional cane
lands and new farms will
come under cultivation.
The share of the increase
for the Company’s four
mills in Queensland is in
line with the general in-
crease in the far north.
C.S.R. will open
up new district
for cane farmers.
The new developments
include a settlement
scheme for 200 new
farmers to grow cane in
the Herbert River area.
The C.S.R. Company will
extendi the present light
railway servicing its Vic-
toria mill a further 15
miles up the river. This
new line will bring in
about 200,000 tons of
cane. Cost of the new
line and additions to the
mill are estimated at
million.
N.S.W. sugar industry
not prosperous.
The cane growing and
milling industries in,
N.S.W., where the Com-
pany has three mills, are
not prosperous.
The mills have not been
remunerative undertak-
ings for some years now,
but we intend to carry
on in these districts. We
expect conditions to im-
prove, with a continu-
ation of co - operation
between growers and
millers, and an apprecia-
tion by farm and mill
labour of the difficult
position of the industry.
Raw and refined
sugar production.
The Company’s seven
Australian raw sugar
mills produced 191,000
tons of the total 902,000
tons produced by all
Australia’s 35 mills. Re-
fined sugar sales in Aus-
tralia were about the
same as last year. Raw
sugar production at the
Company’s five mills in
Fiji was 125,000 tons.
In New Zealand refined
sugar deliveries from our
Auckland refinery were
considerably greater
than the previous record.
Liquid sugar
being tested.
The production and bulk
transport of liquid refined
sugar to manufacturers are
being tested in Sydney. If
the present tests are satisfac-
tory and indicate that a
regular demand can be ex-
pected, the Company will
conduct a survey of the
requirements of industrial
users, with a view to
developing the production
and sale of sugar in this
form.
Demand high for
building materials.
To help our distributors to
maintain regular supplies
while additions to our hard-
board factory were being
completed, we imported con-
siderable quantities of hard-
board. The Cane-ite factory
is overtaking outstanding
orders.
Our asphalt floor-tile factory
at Conco’rd is working well,
and these new tiles have
had an enthusiastic recep-
tion. The factory has ample
capacity to cater for all
Australian requirements.
Chemicals and
pharmaceuticals.
Acetic acid is being made
by C.S.R. Chemicals Ltd. at
Rhodes. Acetic anhydfide
and cellulose acetate will be
produced as soon as the
factory is completed. CelSioß
moulding powder is now
used in many plastic articles
in everyday use. Vitamin C,
Sorbose and Para-amino-
salicylic Acid are being
manufactured. Development
work is being continued on
Vitamin 81.
Debentures popular
with C.S.R. employees.
Employee Debentures have
proved popular, £120,000
having been issued since
the plan commenced in
December, 1949.
Housing advances
to employees.
We assist employees to own
their own homes; the
amount now on loan as
Housing Advances to em-
ployees, at a low interest
rate, stands at £230,000.
Copies of Report
Available
Copies of the full report
may be obtained by
writing to the Head
Office of the Company,
1 O’Connell St., Sydney.
o
Australia
The Development of
the C.S.R. Company
over the last 15 years
//^Zealand
Fiji
C>
RAW SUGAR
C.S.R. makes raw sugar from cane sup-
plied by farmers. The company owns 7
of Australia's 35 raw sugar mills, and 5
in Fiji. These 12 mills produced 316,000
tons of raw sugar last season.
REFINED SUGAR
C.S.R. has 5 refineries in Australia, and
one in New Zealand. Plant extensions
continue in order to supply the refined
sugar for the increasing population.
DISTILLERY PRODUCTS
C.S.R. Distilleries in Sydney and Mel-
bourne convert molasses into alcohol and
carbon di-oxide. Molasses is a by-
product of the raw sugar mills.
BUILDING MATERIALS
C.S.R. Cane-ite is made from the fibre
of the cane. The Company olso owns
gypsum and asbestos mines and factories
for hardboard, plaster, asbestos sheets
and floor tiles.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
C.S.R. uses alcohol, made at its dis-
tilleries, in making various basic chemi-
cals. Its fine chemicals section makes
pharmaceuticals and vitamins C and Bi.
df
PRODUCTS
Raw Sugar
Refined sugars
Golden Syrup
Treacle
Industrial spirit
Medical alcohol
Methylated spirits
Rum
Carbon dioxide
Cane-ite Insulating
boards
Cane-ite
Acousti-Tiles
Hard board
Gyprock Wallboard
Building, dental &
pottery plaster
Sheets
Fibrobestos Roofing
Asphalt Floor Tiles
CelSioß moulding
powder
Acetic acid
Vitamin C.
Sorbose
Para-aminosalicylic
acid
Canned pineapples
Shipping services
OTHER
ACTIVITIES
\<*h=*
Snipping
& Ships
Pineapple
Ctnoerjft Fiji
Agents for[
Q’land CotU
Engineering
work#
lnvos&meiitt
Note: Symbol* in diagram illustrate the growth of main divisions of the Company's business
based on financial turnover! and do aot show relative importance of different activities.
spoken when Hungary an-
nounced the closing of several
miles of border fronting Yugo-
slavia.
Foreign Affairs Departments
can lose nothing from a close
study of the Russian attitude of
1939 and other periods. There
is a tendency in some quarters,
particularly in Canberra, to be-
lieve that the U.S.S.R. has com-
pletely abandoned its European
policies except as a sideline and
has decided to become primarily
Asian.
In the ultimate this is likely
to be far from the truth. Ger-
many is the powerhouse of Con-
tinental Europe. Germany is,
therefore, the focal point of
Russian policy. Given control
of Germany and Italy the
Russians feel that they will have
the means of dominating the
world. And they might be right.
A union of the strength of Ger-
many, which the whole world
has been hard put to it to beat
down twice in a generation, with
almost unlimited Russian man-
power, all of it schooled for war
and devoid of freewill, would
produce a combination in a few
years which might be almost in-
vincible, especially with a dither-
ing Socialist Administration in
power in Britain.
Universal Training.
Details of the new Common-
wealth “universal training”
issued on July 14 showed that it
is estimated to cost, “when fully
developed,” a whole £7,750,000
out of the £70,000,000 which is
being spent on defence, and that
out of the 55,000 youngsters
arriving at the age of 18 each
year, 13,500 will be called up the
first year, 15,500 the second,
19,000 in the third and 21,000 in
the fourth, of whom 1000 will go
to the R.A.N., 15,000 to the
Army and 5000 to the R.A.A.F.
The plans: In the first year
Naval trainees will serve 124
days continuously, with 13 days
in each of four following years.
The Army quota will be 98 days
the first year, 14 days in camp
and 12 days’ drill in each of the
next three years, with three years
following on the reserve with-
out training. The R.A.A.F. men
will do 176 days’ continuous
training the first year and then
will go on reserve. Most people
who know the situation will agree
with Lt.-Gen. Sir Stanley Savige,
who says the number to be called
up is “ridiculously low,” and
that the scheme shows “neither
courage nor vision.”
"The Bulletin" Trophy.
The fourth shoot for The
Bulletin Cadet Trophy was
won this year by the Scots Col-
lege, Sydney, after Woodiawn
had won three times successively.
No fewer than 76 schools took
part, and Lieutenant-General
Berryman, G.0.C., Eastern Com-
mand, remarks that “competi-
tion for the trophy is keen, and
that it assists in improving the
standard of rifle - shooting
throughout the Cadet Corps.”
Last year only 49 schools com-
peted, and the year before 51.
iScots this year made the highest
winning score on record, save
that for Woodlawn’s 1139 last
year, and all round there were
better general results, though
the shooting of some big public
f nd hl « h scho ° ls is **
low a reasonable level and does
not suggest that ver Y S rea t efforts
are being made to improve it
IlJ P luve “•
mere Was a dllterence in score
f . 2 . . ,
oi ,°, , P om l s 111 the first tour
Schools, but after the first 10
’ ",
, re was a sad arm. Almost
half the entiants-35-scored
less than 50 p,c. of the points of
the winner. And in this categc"
were not only smaller schools,
but Newington, Newcastle Tech-
nical Hioh Cr-Finnl Parra motto
meal Hign ocnool, Parramatta
High School. Manlv Hieh School
„Jj „ .7 Yngn , nOQI
and others m the same class.
The hasir rnmnetifinn is fnr
ine Dasic competition is tor
a team of 10 firers on the basis
of 1250 points, ties to be de-
cided at Practice No. 4 (con-
trolled application).
The placing of the first 30
contestants was as follows:
I—The Scots’ College, 1072; 2
st. John’s, woodiawn, 1056; 3
Sydney Church of England Grammar
School, 1044; 4-The King’s School,
1043; s— North Sydney Boys’ High,
961 1 6—Sydney Grammar School,
899 . 7_ Cranbrook school, 887 ; 8—
waveriey college, 851; 9—Knox
Aioysius college, 765;, 12-North syd-
iVik’S; SS*SR
jfc
street High. 676; is-ca«berra High,
670; 19—All Saints’, Bathurst, 666;
20— chevalier college, 660; 21—
Katoomba High, 657 ; 22 — Newcastle
Boys’ High, 656; 23—Barker College,
656; 24— Canterbury High, 644; 25
Coff’s Harbor High, 642 ; 26 —M.8.,
Bandwick, 626 ; 27—Taree High, 624 ;
28—c.b.c., Chatswood, 623; 29
“ 6:


DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
EDITORS
■
WM
m
m
fit
x /
3SSSSS
Me
womsmer
am tor
mmU
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t win her "by a whisker” . . . it’s his
smooth, clean-shaven look! You, too, can have
shaves that look good and feel good , . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ONLY
ft
PS2/120
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
*€<Mbh/Cls
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of bu»ine»* H record*
ail Sale*. Credit*. Payout* etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE ,
ADELAIDE .
PERTH a
W. C. Penfold A Co. Ply. Ltd.
t Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
I Vardon A Sons Ltd.
S Docket Book C. IAo.tJ
f
mm
f
&
m
Mr. Executor can relax
at last
Although retired, Mr. Executor soon found that looking after
other people’s affairs was an exacting job. Very wisely he decided
to share unsought responsibilities with Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. This Company’s officers are thoroughly conversant with
the management of estates. Beneficiaries are protected at every
turn. A senior trust officer will be glad to answer your questions.
If you are unable to call, write for the booklet, “Hands That
Never Leave the Wheel.”
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell Pi LW. Black Eric Priestley Lea
MANAGER; L S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. F.F.I.A#
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
“Executor, Trustee, Agent”
/ BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.Or
ħ sd
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KOREA TO THE OUTBREAK.
The background story of
Korea, from 1943 to the aggres-
sion from the north, as related
to a Press gathering by U.S.
Secretary of State Acheson:
“In the Cairo declaration of
December, 1943, the United
States, the United Kingdom and
China pledged their determina-
tion that Korea would become
free and independent. This
pledge was reaffirmed in the
Potsdam declaration of July 26,
1945, and was subscribed to *by
the Soviet Union when it entered
the war against Japan 13 days
later,
“On the day following the
first Japanese offer of surrender,
which was made on August 10,
1945, the Secretary of War sub-
mitted to the Secretary of State
a plan for the arrangements to
be followed in accepting the sur-
render of Japanese troops in
various places. To meet the im-
mediate problem it was proposed
that the near-by Soviet troops
accept the surrender of Japanese
armed forces in Korea down to
the 38th parallel and that Ameri-
can troops be brought up from
Okinawa and the Philippines to
accept the surrender of Japanese
troops in the southern part of
Korea. This arrangement, after
it had been accepted by General-
issimo Stalin, was incorporated
in the first general order to be
issued by General MacArthur as
Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers on September 2,
1945.
“In the meantime, however,
Soviet troops had occupied the
northern part of Korea on
August 12; the Soviet-desired
intention to put troops into
Korea had been made evident
at the Potsdam discussions, one
month before. On September 8,
American troops had been
landed to accept the surrender of
the Japanese in the southern part
of Korea, and we be£an efforts
to negotiate with the Soviet
Union for the unification and in-
dependence of the country.
“W© soon found, however,
that the Soviet Union considered
the 38th parallel not as a line
drawn on a map for the sake of
administrative convenience, but
as a wall around their preserve.
“At the Moscow meeting of
Foreign Ministers in December,
1945, a joint commission for the
unity and independence of Korea
was agreed to between the Soviet
.Union and ourselves, but we
found that every effort to give
<>V\
>0
AND NOW!
—“Nashville Tennessean" (U.S.A.).
effect to this agreement and
previous agreements was blocked
by Soviet intransigence.
“The United States was un-
willing to permit this situation
to delay further the realisation
of Korean independence. This
Government therefore laid the
question of Korean independence
before the United Nations. The
General Assembly of the United
Nations in November, 1947,
called for an election in Korea,
under the observation of a
United Nations Commission, to
choose a representative national
Assembly for the purpose of
drafting a democratic constitu-
tion and establishing a national
Government. ♦
“The Soviet Union refused to
allow the United Nations Com-
mission to enter its zone. Con-
sequently, the right of the Korean
people to participate in a free
election to establish a free
Government was confined to
Southern Korea. The election
was held there, and the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Korea
was established on August 15,
1948.
“It has been the aim of the
United States to provide the
people of the republic of Korea
with sufficient assistance and
support to enable them to pro-
gress through their own efforts
toward freedom and indepen-
dence. The transfer of func-
tions from the U.S. Army Mili-
tary Government to Korean
agencies was carried out pro-
gressively from the moment of
the establishment of the Re-
public. The U.S. has continued
to give assistance and support to
the Republic both within the
framework of the United Nations
and directly. We have trained
and equipped Korean defence
forces, we have extended eco-
nomic aid, technical advice,
fostered exchange of students and
professors and, in general, done
everything possible to help the
people of Korea in establishing
a democratic, political and eco-
nomic structure responsive to
their needs.
“The Government of the Re-
public of Korea was accepted by
the United Nations in December,
1948, as the validly elected, law-
ful Government of the area in
which elections were permitted
>—and the only such Govern-
ment in Korea. The General
Assembly established a recon-
stituted commission to continue
to work for the unification of
Korea and [for] a representative
Government for the entire coun-
try.
“The United States recognised
the new Government on January
1, 1949. Many other members
of the United Nations have since
done the same. Membership of
the Republic of Korea in the
United Nations has been blocked
by the Soviet veto.
“Meanwhile, the 38th parallel
had become a part of the ‘lron
Curtain.’ Behind that curtain,
the Soviet Union established a
Communist regime. The formal
creation of this regime was pro-
claimed on September 9, 1948,
as the so-called democratic
people’s republic of Korea,
claiming jurisdiction over the
entire country. This regime has
lived as it was created, in com-
plete defiance of the United
Nations.
“The great single fact which
stands out from this summary
history is that a peaceful people,
ruled by a sovereign Government
of their own choosing, brought
into being by the United Nations
and recognised by the great
majority of the free nations of
the world, was attacked in a
cynical and brutal act of aggres-
sion.
.. We are confr<mted with a
direct challenge to t he United
Nations . whether this organise-
f ’ • nt „ r , at i nnn i j , ,
““S ce Indfree
° p a this test will
u °m can survive mis lest win
depend upon the vigor with
which it answers the challenge
and the support which it receives
from the free nations.”
"Times" on Korea.
In overseas comment on
Korea, London “Times” must
have gone close to the prize for
the least realistic, r
The “Times’s” first attempt to
face up to the issue amounted to
little more than wishing it all on
to America. Virtually represent-
mg it as a matter between the
U.S. and North Korea, the
Times” commented: “If South
Korea had been allowed to fall
without any American move to
help it, the blow to American
standing in the whole Pacific
area would certainly have been
heavy.”
It certainly would have been
—not only to American stand-
ing. “All must now wait and see ”
further commented the “Times”
—that is, whether American
“cover and support” would do
the job.
“In one sense,” said the
“Times” in this remarkable
approach, “it may be said that
the United States, in deciding to
meet Communist-led aggression
in Korea, is doing no more than
Britain and France have already
done in Malaya and Indo-
China.”
The “Times” slightly qualified
that, as well it might. Both
Britain and France, of course,
have been trying to hold what
has been their own in those
places, and, especially Britain,
in an area that is nothing short
of vital, both strategically and
economically: it contributes
(London “Economist” report)
“no less than a fifth of all the
sterling area’s dollar earnings.”
The “Times” next day had an-
other shot at assessing the issue,
the British Government having
meanwhile decided that Korea
was as important to London as
to Washington. The decision'to
join in, the “Times” now saw,
had been made “in the sure
knowledge that a defeat for
United States interests in the
Pacific would be no less a defeat
for British interests,”
There was this further com-
ment also: “To have let South
Korea go unaided, when the
Communist-led forces crossed the
border in arms, set on conquest,
would have been a disastrous
blow to all that the Western


£-0 ik an
fi FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney's
leading hotels, tut different to
every otter in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
Bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IHE WENTWORTH
m
netf
Thone BV7 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Mu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NTT liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL win re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934.
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name.
Address.
B. 19/7/’5O
h
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol Hocse,
3*7 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250.
s
“I think I’d like
- ;: ; . ■ 'c: •; ■■ . : v ,v. - ■ ! ■
a White Horse
better than anything”
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
“A. pleasure to remember a joy to find again. ”
AB9A
fsd
powers stand for in the Pacific.”
On which it might be felt that
the disaster would not have been
confined to the Pacific. The
effects in France and elsewhere
in Western Europe and through-
out the Western organisation
might equally well have been
disastrous. Air-mail issues of
overseas papers have shown that
there has for some time been a
rather strong movement, origin-
ating in France, for trying to
make Western Europe a neutral
zone. Naturally, it has had keen
Communist support. A walk-
out in Korea would probably
have rushed it forward. The
effects in the Indian sub-con-
tinent, in Burma and along the
southern Asian fringe would, of
course, have been ruinous.
In subsequent issues this
month, when things in Korea
were looking extremely nasty, the
“Times” ruled it out of editorial
comment altogether, reserving
its thunder ( e.g ., July 4 air-mail
“Times”) for such momentous
targets as landlords and tenants,
Colarado beetles and the nine-
teenth centenary of Colchester.
War Prospects.
“Washington Post” makes the
frank appraisal that “Certainly
in the minds of many Ameri-
cans, perhaps even a majority,
the idea of bloody and destruc-
tive war with the Soviet Union
has now passed from the cate-
gory of probability to that of
certainty.”
This conviction, it adds,
“seems to permeate” a good
deal of current thinking in both
military and Government
quarters, the expectation being
that “the transition from cold
war to flaming war” would
come with some “sudden, para-
lysing blow at some vital
centre.”
The Washington paper, how-
ever, takes a line of comfort
with a certain application (so
far) to the kind of aggression in
Korea: —
ux T ,
JNo nation ever launched an
aggressive war unless its states-
men and military leaders were
confident of an easy victory,
buch confidence, of course, is
often mistaken, and the story
of Hitler is merely the most re-
cent of the hi
cent or me innumerable histon-
cal instances of such mistakes.
“The question whether the
men in the Kremlin have de-
luded or may delude them-
selves that they can achieve a
quick and easy victory over the
United States cannot be
answered categorically. But the
fact that Stalin and his associ-
ates have not yet involved their
own military forces (as dis-
tinguished from Communist
guerrilla forces) in any aggres-
sive action against the West sug-
gests that their confidence of
victory is by no means com-
plete.”
Slim’s Visit.
In the course of m Edinburgh
“Scotsman” article, Patrick Mait-
land states that a main cause of
Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim’s recent visit here was some
doubting representations to the
British Government by Canberra
concerning the defence of the
Suez Canal.
Canberra’s concern, the cor-
respondent considers, arose from
a statement by War Minister
Strachey in the Commons on
March 20, to the effect that
British forces in the Canal zone
were to be reduced to increase
Britain’s combat power at home
and in Europe.
That statement, according to
Maitland, “caused Australia to
insist just lately that her own
part in any future conflict would
inevitably be affected, probably
determined, by the security of
the Commonwealth communica-
tions through the canal; in
short, Australia was gravely un-
easy at the line evidently being
developed in Whitehall.”
Hence Sir William Slim’s
visits, first to Egypt for discus-
then to Australia, and
again Egypt, after having here
discussed “the whole problem of
dispersing already inadequate
man-power,” and “investigating
Australia’s anticipated capacity
‘next time’ to help in the Middle
East.”
That capacity, the correspon-
dent adds, cannot be taken for
granted: “For Australia adjoins
an area pregnant with Com-
munist dangers. When the Aus-
tralian Imperial Force was
pledged to the Middle East in
the last war Japan was still at
peace with the West. Now Aus-
tralia faces the certainty that
there will be simultaneous com-
plications in South-east Asia and
possibly in the Pacific from the
start. Can she undertake to
spare anything to help hold what
she acknowledges to be vital
near the canal?”
Joe Demands.
According to a Washington
correspondent of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune,” what U.N.O.’s Trygve
Lie had to tell the Western Gov-
ernments after his much-publi-
cised visit to Moscow was rather
different from the optimistic
generalities which Lie made
public.
Lie, says the report, had to
listen to particular emphasis be-
ing put on Soviet demands for
a German settlement on the
identical lines last put forward
at the abortive Paris meeting
when the Berlin blockade was
on:
“The meaning of these de-
mands is that the Kremlin will
only be satisfied with concessions
permitting the early capture of
Germany by the Soviet Union.
The capture of Germany, of
course, would in turn lead to
the eventual Russian capture of
all of Western Europe. In short,
what the Kremlin insists upon in
Europe is another infinitely
vaster Munich, sure to be fol-
lowed by infinitely more terrible
consequences. This fact must
be weighed, furthermore, with
the complementary fact of the
Soviet drive for Asia.”
Asserting that as Secretary-
General of the United Nations
Tie has been decidedly sympa-
thetic ,to the Soviets, the cor-
respondent points out that Lie
went to Moscow at the height
of a Kremlin “peace offensive”
With every Communist party and
Communist front in Europe
bellowing for “peace” day and
night.
Hence, “If the Kremlin in-
tended to make proposals for an
honorable and practical world
settlement to anyone at all. Lie
should have been that man,
“Instead Soviet Imperialism
proved to be as strong as ever,
and piecemeal surrender was
suggested as the right way for
the Western world to make peace
with Moscow. The U.N. Secre-
tary-General, who does not like
to put hard facts in blunt
language, will no doubt dislike
and may probably deny this de-
scription of his experience. But
if Lie’s statements in Paris and
London are to be trusted, the
bleak truth remains. After Lie’s
journey, we know, better than
ever, exactly where we stand.”
Dragnet Digest.
Another Churchill Prophecy. —This
one, the cold war! Referring to the
serialised war memoirs of Admiral
Leahy (for a long term President
Roosevelt’s chief military adviser), a
New York correspondent of “Man-
chester Guardian” notes how Leahy
tells of the outrage felt by Joseph
Davies, former American Ambassador
to Moscow, right after the war when
he listened to Churchill gloomily pre-
dict the cold war. Davies mistook
this for a profession of ill will to
the Soviet Union in any circum-
stances, and tartly told Churchill he
was surprised he had not come out
sooner on the side of Hitler and
Goebbels. The correspondent quotes
N. Y. “Daily News” as commenting
that Churchill was dead right, and
Roosevelt and his advisers, Acheson
included, were not much better than
starry-eyed appeasers of a Power as
dangerous as Hitler’s.
* * * *
Soviet War Preparations. Any
starting of war now by the Kremlin
would be with Russia not fully pre-
pared, according to widely-quoted
U.S. official views. In N. Y. “Herald
Tribune,” for instance, Joseph Alsop
has stated that “it can now be
disclosed” that Acheson gave the
Western conferences in London the
estimate that the Russian war prepara-
tions would “reach preliminary
climax” in 1953-54, which estimate
was accepted. From it, the comfort-
ing (or optimistic) conclusion: “Im-
mediate war, it must be understood,
is not the danger. It will be three
years, after all, before the Soviet
rearmament programme is completed.
For the present, our atomic weapons
and strategic aviation, our troops in
Germany and other factors still con-
tinue to serve as decisive deterrents
to Soviet aggression.”
* * * *
Exit Krupps, Etc. —Report by a
correspondent in Germany of Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” states that West
Germany’s steel industry will enter
the Schuman Plan rid of the incubus
of the giant pre-war combines and
organised in more efficient units. “By
the time the plan takes effect, which
German experts expect to be by the
end of this year, West German steel-
production, with its estimated £425
million worth of plant and 300,000
workers, will be set up in some 20
new companies, and the old names
of Krupp, Kloeckner, Mannesmann
and Vereineigte Stahlwerke will have
finally disappeared.” This, if it holds,
will be an occupation achievement,
since the struggle to wind up those
combines has been going on ever
since the Western Allies moved in.
* * * *
No Savvee Tito. —In the course of
a lengthy report on Communist China,
London “Times’s” Hong Kong cor-
respondent notes the continued warm
professions to follow the Russian line
undeviatingly; a warmth “only
equalled by the bitterness of the con-
tinued antagonism voiced towards
America and, to a lesser extent, Great
Britain. So far there has been no
‘Titoism,’ which many of the foreign
experts on China predicted would be
the inevitable outcome in the inter-
national sphere of a domestic move-
ment of ‘agrarian reform.’ It may
still come; but it has not come yet,
and there are no signs of it coming
in the foreseeable future.”
* * * *
With the Greatest of Ease. —Maybe
one German circus-owner is an ex-
trapeze artist; anyhow he has shown
that the border can apparently be
crossed with remarkable ease. Ac-
cording to N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
report he smuggled his entire circus,
including wild animals, from the
Soviet Zone to West Germany. There
is nc a single tiger left in the Soviet
Zone, he told reporters —he said he
had smuggled out the last one. He
had brought across elephants, bears,
horses and even circus wagons. And
the other day an entire football team
strolled across.
* * * *
Shares in Defence. —Stating that
America’s allies can’t be accused of
being niggardly in defence allotments,
St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch”
gives the following Budget percen-
tages: U.S., 6.4; Britain, 7.6; France,
4.9; Holland, 7.7; Italy, 6.3.
sic * * *
General Motors Records. —A few
records chalked up by “New York
Times” to the credit of U.S. General
Motors Corporation: It is the largest
manufacturing corporation in the
United States. It has 400,000 em-
ployees, 18,000 independent dealers,
435,000 stockholders. It set a record
last year for the number of cars and
trucks sold by any one company—
-2,764,347. In the first quarter of
1950 it made one and one-half times
as many cars and trucks as in the
first quarter of 1949, Its net profit
last year was the largest in American
corporate hi5t0ry—5656,434,238, on a
total sales income of $5,700,835,141.
In the first quarter of 1950 its net
profit was more than one and one-
half times as large as that for the
same months of 1949.
* * * ♦
Russia-Britain Closer. —’Edinburgh
“Scotsman” hails a remarkable dis-
“A Russian astronomer has
discovered an error of one 100th of
a second in the accepted longitude of
the Pulkovo Observatory in Lenin-
grad. This means that Russia and
Britain are nearer to one another
than might have appeared—by a good
80 inches.”
* * * *
Annexed Sinkiang. —British and U.S.
reports agree that the vast province
of Sinkiang, north of Kashmir and
Tibet, has now virtually been annexed
by Russia, “Communist China being
no more exempt from paying heavy
tribute to the Kremlin than any other
country setting its course by the Red
Star.” Thus London “Daily Tele-
graph” comments on the annexation,
adding; “Russian control over this
strategic province already goes far
beyond the joint exploitation of its
rich mineral resources envisaged in.
the agreement signed last March in
Moscow by the Peking Government’s
Ambassador. The exploitation, as
was to be expected, is entirely one-
sided : uranium, coal, oil, iron,
chromium and many other products
are already going westwards to feed
the industries of Russia. China is
getting no more than did Mother
Hubbard’s dog.”


Matchless performance!
That's why more tons are tiauled and
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
A right tyre for each job!
Here gre the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
HI-MILER
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
ALL SERVICE
AIRWHEEL
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
-- 10AL1-18.
FIY IN TWO DAYS TO
AND IN ONE DAY TO MANILA
u
’t
For a sight-seeing tour or
a business trip, Japan is
now reached by Q.E.A.
Service in two days from
Sydney—and Manila in
less than 24 hours.
Comfortable, modern
Skymasters, with excellent
steward service and meals
in the quick-frozen
manner served hot in the
air, add enjoyment to a
quick air trip that gives
you more leisure for
pleasure.
Stop-overs at Manila can
be arranged. Consult your
travel agent.
Enquire about special air-
sea interchange tours.
FLY THERE BY
CSK
i A H T A S £ H P ( B £ AIK WAYS
Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S Np. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
4* 4* 4*
“Don’t you know that woman was
the cause of man’s downfall in the
beginning of this world?”
—Sydney “D.T”
But he hasn’t taken a tumble
yet.
4* 4* 4*
“Drunkenness is an illness which
neither drugs nor good resolutions
can cure.” — Melbourne “Herald:’’
It is always liable to break out
in a fresh spot.
“Neck wrinkles sometimes come
very gradually.”— Woman’s paper.
But in no time they have you
by the throat.
4* 4 1 4*
“Kissing beautiful women, Davis
said, pays much better than digging
ditches.” — Film blurb.
And one, in return, merely
pays lip-service.
4* 4* 4*
“I’m amazed at you wanting to
banish your sisters from heaven by
making jockeys out of them.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
The stewards would be sure
to give them hell.
4* 4*
Unorthodox.
“Crows are continuing to worry
golfers at Manilla (N.S.W.). The
local crack-shots have been commis-
sioned to lie in ambush.”
—Radio sports session.
I had just stepped up and hit
a screamer from the first tee, and
the ball had not proceeded for
more than 200 yards and was
still rising when stone me if
a crow didn’t catch it in mid-
flight and, with a derisive caw,
disappear into a covey on the left
of the fairway!
Incensed, I grabbed my shot-
gun, which I always carry in my
bag, heavily disguised myself as
a eucalyptus-gum, and lay in
ambush. Sure enough, after a
while the crow came out, looked
furtively around, and started to
have a few practice swings with
a little driver he had ingeniously
fashioned from a twig of a per-
simmon-tree. At first glance
he appeared to have too much
of his weight on his back claw,
and there was distinct evidence
of a loose piccolo-grip at the
top of his back-swing. Then he
darted into the covey, and I drew
back the trigger and took careful
aim, but dash me if he didn’t
come out again, tee up my very
ball, play a few short approaches
on to an ant-hill, do a bit of
putting, and then try out a
couple of pitch-shots. The next
shot he fluffed, looked up early,
spotted me and was darting for
cover when I fired.
On my way back to the club-
house I couldn’t help but feel
a bit sorry for him. But, honestly,
he’d never have done any good
with that lousy swing of his.
Jonas Dill.
Pleasant Diversion.
“One workman told me men come
to the Snowy Mountains for one of
three reasons —to get a home, to get
away from something, usually their
wives, or to make money.”
—“S. M. Herald”
What sends our young men
flocking down
To Jindabyne and cold
Kiandra
From dairyfarms by Lismore
town
And timber-mills at wee Ben-
andra ?
Is it that youth must have its
day
And heed the call of wild
adventures
Backed up by thoughts of lavish
pay
_ Invested, say, in good deben-
tures ?
Some thinkers solemnly aver
That there is evidence con-
clusive
That, disappointed by McGirr,
These lads are seeking homes
elusive.
My theory is, these fellows roam
To flee from marriage-ties that
fetter,
Convinced that with the wife at
home
Old Jindabyne's a dam site
better.
D. H. E.
Korean Kaleidoscope.
The following brilliant dis-
patch from Rastus Guph, whose
sensational story, flashed to
“Don't take any notice of him , sir. He's the squadron
entertainer."
A.S.S. Press, of how a patriotic
90-year-old South Korean
farmer lured 40 North Korean
tanks over a 2000 ft. precipice
gained him world fame over-
night, serves to demonstrate why
the public back home has been
able to get such a vividly clear
picture of the strategic set-up in
South Korea.
“The weight of armor being
thrown in by the South Koreans
is nothing short of stupendous—
it can safely be said that never
in the history of warfare has
anything like it been seen. No-
thing in the last war, I feel sure,
could match this for sheer
mechanised weight used in a
single paralysing punch.
“I had a dress-circle seat to
watch the fighting. Except for
heavy fog the morning was clear,
and with the aid of powerful
binoculars I was able to see the
invading hosts streaming along
a road near Chopstik, 40 miles
away. It was either North
Korean tanks or lorries advanc-
ing or South Korean trucks re-
treating. As there was also a line
of vehicles going the other way I
deduced that these were either
North Korean tanks going back
for fuel or orders, or American
armored units advancing. Any-
way, it gave me an ineffable
thrill at the thought that here I
was virtually face to face with a
barbarous, ruthless and implac-
able foe!
“That the enemy was deadly
efficient was plain by the manner
in which he swung his tank guns
this way and that as he nosed
along at terrific speed on the
mud highway. Later I asked a
top-sergeant of artillery if the
Russian-built tanks were tough.
“Buddy,” he said. “They sure
are. We got a direct hit at point-
blank range with an armor-
piercing sixteen-inch shell we
fired from a naval gun mounted
on a railway truck. When the
smoke and dust cleared from the
burst we saw the tank stop, then
the lid opened, the tank captain
got out and looked at the small
dent it had made, and he says,
‘Democlatic ammunition no
good, by Cli! ’ This surely
shows that the Russians have left
us far behind in the battle for
tank supremacy.
“I have now been able to piece
together the story of the platoon
that was lost for five days, near
Jinjajar, having been fortunate
enough to meet Miklos Dob-
honkel, a private from Galves-
ton, Texas, who had been in the
thick of the fight.
“Miklos and his buddy were
in a jeep when they sighted an
80-ton North Korean tank com-
ing around a bend —it is believed
this Russian-built type is atom-
powered and fitted with a
Snorkel device to allow it to
stay submerged in the South
Korean mud for long periods.
Their bazooka-fire proving in-
effective, they were forced to
surrender. Miklos succeeded in
exchanging his cigarette-lighter
—the North Korean tank captain
hadn’t seen one before —for the
tank, with which he proceeded
to rescue his scattered buddies.
This particular incident, by the
way, supports my theory that
the North Korean army is com-
posed of mercenaries.
“I predicted yesterday there
would be a titanic clash this
morning between North Korean
and American armored columns,
which were approaching each
other at terrific speed on the
same coastal road. I had taken
up my position at a Base
Records dugout to get a bird’s-
eye view of the battle, but all I
heard, or thought I heard, was
one short burst of light machine-
gun fire. There was some slight
confusion about this, however
as some South Koreans ww’
lettmg off crackers to appease
some god or other. I can only
surmise the tanks went past 1,
such fearful speed they missed
seeing each other. This would
have decided the fate 0 f the
vital communication centre nf
Ginsling. Ui
“Aerial activity today Was
terrific, completely shading any
thing in the last war. Two Yaks
flew low over Slangwang and the
pilot of one threw a hand
grenade which exploded n er i
lously close to a mountain T
could hear, or almost hear ‘our
medium-bombers strafing troon
concentrations 17 valleys away
° ” e J Superfortress staggered
back to base with a nfle-bullet
buried in one wing. After
terrific dogfight another chased
a Stormovik towards Vla'divos-
“The general picture as I see
it is this: We are definitely com
mitted to a long, difficult and
costly struggle no matter what
happens. The term ‘natural de-
fence barrier’ now has no
further meaning, Russian tanks
haying completely altered the
entire concept of modern war-
fare. The South Koreans’
morale has leapt since yesterday
and they are now fighting-mad’
When they are rounded up from
the extremity of the southern
peninsula where they are now
concentrated I feel they will alter
the whole complexion of the
campaign. If MacArthur effects
a strategic coup by an am-
phibious landing immediately i n
North Korea and cutting off the
invaders’ supply-lines, as I sug-
gested, the war could be won in
a few weeks. I asked one top
staff-man if he thought the
present fluid situation would
alter soon. His answer was
typically cryptic; he said it
would if we got a strong drying
wind and sun.”
BO.


iAvm
77 JEWELLED
SWISS MASTERPIECES
with the
non*magnetis
escapement
17
0
13#
unmw/t
WATCHES
Founded 1852
VILLIERT * SUISSE
■'
LWS
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. sTou will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babkere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
a
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bmsox Za Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
\he name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
\ 111
I tins of 20
* 3/.
6T APPOINTMENT
TS TO
MAJEST? THB
KING
woio
SPORTIN NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
Apart from gladdening the hearts
meteorologists by re-writing their
record books, the freak weather
descendant upon Sydney in recent
weeks has inscribed an entry or two
r the annals of the Turf. Rain
since the beginning of June has
caused more postponements of Syd-
ney race meetings than had been
achieved by the collective weather of
the previous decade or so. Latest
casualty, the S.T.C. meeting to have
been held at Canterbury last Satur-
day but put off to today (Wednes-
day) weather permitting.
* * * *
In Melbourne, per contrast, the
weather was delightful for the Oak-
lands Hunt Club’s meeting at Moonee
Valley, and attendance was well up
to the mark. Principal interest in
the six flat events lay in jockey J.
purtell’s chance of beating Billy
Duncan’s record of 58 winners for a
season. For followers of the jump-
ing game there were two steeple-
chases, with amateur riders getting a
chance of showing their mettle against
the pros in the Victorian Hunt Club’s
Cup.
Weights for the Hunt Cup were
framed on a lOst. minimum, and
horses ridden by professional hoops
were penalised 71b.; consequently,
with B. R. Smith up, topweight Glen-
ashley carried a thumping plaster of
13.4. Despite this, Glenashley started
a 5-to-4 favorite, and gave his sup-
porters a grand run for their money
before being beaten a bare head by
the 7-to-l chance Philogea, who,
with his part-owner B. Noseda in
the saddle, was in receipt of 411 b.
from the favorite. Third money went
to Ponsardin, also ridden by his
owner, A. McClement.
With a marked increase in the
number of horses being bred in recent
years, not the least of- the troubles
which beset an owner between pur-
chasing his yearling and getting the
youngster started in its first race is
the problem of finding an acceptable
name. Some owners have submitted
a dozen and more suggestions, and
had them all rejected on one count
or another. Possibly a desperation
born of this situation led to the
coining of one name noted on Satur-
day—Myobb, reportedly a contrac-
tion of the good old Australian
phrase “Mind your own b busi-
ness.” Demonstrating an aloofness
appropriate to his title, Myobb
finished stone last in the Arundel
Handicap, a position he had occupied
also at his only previous outing.
Winner of the Arundel, a mile
test for two-year-old colts and geld-
ings, was favorite Gay Ghost (B.
Jenkins), just scraping home from
Qustar, who was a trifle unlucky in
veering right off the course in the
straight. Third in the Arundel was
Andvari, ridden by Purtell, and that
was the closest Purtell went during
the day to overhauling Duncan’s
record. Purtell has been having com-
paratively lean luck in recent weeks,
and it stuck with him on Saturday,
although, it must be confessed, he
didn’t have an outstandingly promis-
ing bunch of mounts; they included
only one favorite, while several
started at double-figure odds. How-
ever, there are still a couple of meet-
ings before the end of the season,
and Purtell’s present score is 57 win-
ners and two deadbeats.
Making his first Melbourne appear-
ance after doing his previous racing
in Adelaide and Perth, St. Falcon
(G. Bougoure) was an impressive
winner of the first Springbank Handi-
cap (6f.). There were some smart
sprinters engaged in the race, but
St. Falcon gave them his dust all
the way, and had a clear margin
over All Hope and Copperlake at
the finish. Owned in Westralia, St.
Falcon is raced on lease by O. R.
Porter; a liberal application of the
Porter shekels sent the colt out
second-favorite at threes for his first-
up win. The second division of the
Springbank saw the St. Magnus filly
Glow (K. Tresize) pretty much
neglected in the betting, but too
nippy for Dusky Jewel and Black
Rajah. Other winners were Novitiate
(S. Ralph), beating two-yeajr-old
fillies in the Gowrie Handicap (6f.),
and the well-fancied pair Vantage
(W. Williamson) and Epsom Boy (A.
Burton), taking, respectively, the
Inverness Handicap (13f.) and the
Glendewar Handicap.
* * * *
The N.S.W. North Coast town of
Grafton was one of the worst-
stricken by the recent disastrous
floods, but the Clarence River Jockey
Club’s competent secretary, Miss K.
O’Mara, managed to cope with the
innumerable difficulties involved, and
the Club’s July meeting, with the
traditional double of Ramornie
Handicap and Grafton Cup, pro-
ceeded to schedule last week.
A somewhat surprising winner of
the 6-furlongs Ramornie was the
1946 Queensland St. Leger winner
Wild Buck. , Following his classic
success Wild Buck lost all form, and
finally found his way to a country
saleyard, where his present owner-
trainer, J. L. Mazzer, picked him up
for 60 guineas. A good spell, with
a short season at stud, evidently
righted Wild Buck, whose Ramornie
victory was his fifth in six starts for
Mazzer. The 10jr-furlongs Grafton
Cup went to the Sydney performer
and solid favorite Au Secour, a rather
aptly-named son of MacArthur.
* * * #
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances): —
Corinthian Handicap: Fresteem, 1;
Collisun, 2; Sir Marcher, 3. Two-
year-old Handicap: Panama, 1;
Manstride, 2; Nirandoli, 3. Merry-
lands Mixed: Matinee, 1; Valiant
Step, 2; School Star, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Dinanda, 1; Port Rion, 2;
Tahlee, 3. Winter Handicap: Cognac,
1; Brazier, 2; Heroic Sovereign, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Buonarroti Boy,
1; Blue Mickie, 2; Bolivia, 3.
Welter: Red Loch, 1; Golden Tan,
2; Sodium, 3.
«**. * . .
The Australian tennis tourists
tackled their first Davis Cup hurdle
last week, and had little difficulty in
disposing of Canada. Sedgman was,
naturally, our first string for the
singles, and, after beginning slowly,
as is his unfortunate habit, he
warmed up to beat Brendan Macken,
7-5, 6-2, 6-1. The other singles.berth
was filled by young McGregor, who
made a tip-top showing in his first
experience of Davis Cup play. Re-
versing Sedgman’s winning score,
McGregor licked Lome Main, an
exponent of the fancy double-handed
game, 6-1, 6-2, 7-5. It required then
only a doubles victory to clinch the
tie, and this Sedgman and Bromwich
supplied by downing Henri Rochon
and George Robinson, 6-2, 6-4, 6-4.
Australia next meets Mexico in the
American zone final; provided they
survive not so much the Mexicans’
play as the climatic evils of the
country, the final hurdle prior to the
challenge round will be then the
inter-zone final. Sweden is one of
the finalists in the European zone;
the other was being decided at time
of writing, with Denmark leading
Italy after winning two singles and
losing the doubles.
* * ♦ *
Pickworth, the Melbourne golf pro.,
got some compensation for his
hitherto disappointing wanderings
about the British Isles when he “took
out” the Irish Open with an aggre-
gate 287, the final round played in
shocking weather. South African
Locke was missing from this, the
third-most-important British golf
tourney, but had he been in he’d
have had to turn on something out
of the box to beat the big ex-Manly
man, who seems to have struck the
form he’s been looking for. The
Irish affair was mainly an Australian
affair: Pickworth, 1; Von Nida and
Panton (Scot.), 2; Shankland (ex-
Australian footballer), 4.
Meantime, at home, Cremin, the
only Australian top pro. who hasn’t
gone chasing dollars or sterling, is
master of all he, surveys in his field.
He added the Lakes (N.S.W.) Open
to a string of 1949-5 d scalps, and
looks like gathering in most qf the
good events open to him this year.
♦ * * *
The International Cricket Confer-
ence has recently announced a list
of arrangements for international
tours up to 1957. The list promises
Australian fans some interesting
cricket, but it leaves one stjll wonder-
ing if we are ever again to have the
opportunity of seeing that cricketing
delight, a West Indies team. How-
ever, for the record, the list is:
M.C.C. to Australia and N-Z.,
“Pull your head in, mug!”
1950-51; S’Africa to England, 1951;
M.C.C. to India, 1951-52; Australia
to N.Z., 1951-52; India to England,
1952; S’Africa to Australia, 1952-53;
India to West Indies, 1952-53; Aus-
tralia to England, 1953 ; M.C.C. to
West Indies, 1953-54; M.C.C. to Aus-
tralia and N.Z., 1954-55; S’Africa to
England, 1955; Australia to England,
1956 ; M.C.C. to S’Africa, 1956-57.
Speaking of the West Indians,
England at present is being delighted
by their breezy cricket. Leastwise,
English spectators are;"for opposing
bowlers and fieldsmen they must rep-
resent a monumental nightmare.
Typical of their hurricane scoring, in
a match v. Leicestershire last week
the West Indians knocked up 651
in a day and closed the innings at
two for 682 —Worrell, 241 n. 0.;
Weekes, 200 n. 0.; Marshall, 188.
* * ♦ *
A fair athletic performance reported
from Perth on Saturday: With
the Cottesloe Athletic Club finding
itself unable to rake up the necessary
team of seven for a 12-miles relay
race from Perth to Fremantle, one
member of the club, Bob Magnall,
undertook to tackle the job solo.
The one-man team finished third,
clocking 67min. 20sec.; the winning
team, with full complement of seven
runners, took 60min. 27sec. for the
trip.
* * * «
Last Saturday’s Rugby Union saw
the Gordon lads suffer their first
defeat of the season; but as they
seem assured of a place in the semi-
finals, they should benefit from the
loss, and, with the removal of the
psychological strain of maintaining
an unbeaten record, they shquld turn
out a re-invigorated team next week.
It was pleasing to see Eastwood, the
youngest team in the competition,
gain the honor of being the first team
to beat Gordon. Eastwood plays the
same brand of football as Gordon: it
is based on solid defence, with three
loose back-row forwards racing
across the field and worrying the
opposing centres into errors from
which scoring opportunities are pre-
sented. When in possession they
prefer kicks to the open spaces to
the passing game, and here, again,
they are quick to capitalise on oppo-
nents’ mistakes. To defeat such
tactics requires a degree of co-ordina-
tion of play between backs and
forwards which appears to be beyond
the capacity of our clubs today.
Eastwood got the break of an eight-
points lead, and, with the kicking of
the inside backs and sound play by
fullback Smallwood, Gordon was
forced to create its own opportunities
for tries; in this unusual role its
efforts were naive, and it managed
to pierce the solid Eastwood defence
only once. The final score was 8-3.
In other matches, Wests surprised
in beating the other leading team,
Easts, 6-5; St. George showed that
it is still a force to be reckoned with
by drawing with Manly, 8-all; Uni-
versity beat Randwick, 14-8; Norths
beat Drummoyne, 11-3; and Parra-
matta had the bye.
* * * *
A three-point win over Footscray
(10.19-11.10) squeezed Geelong into
the V.F.L. “four” on Saturday,
behind Essendon, Melbourne and
North Melbourne. Next Saturday’s
games are reduced to three because
of the carnival in Brisbane, but
Geelong has to go against Essendon,
and its intrusion into the “four’
scans to be temporary. St. Kilda’s
wounded feelings were salved a little
on Saturday by being handed Haw-
thorn to slaughter, though the Hawks
were in no complacent mood, and
booted 10.11 to Saints’ 12.12. Nearly
40,000 went to M.C.G. for what they
thought would be the match of the
day, but Richmond Tigers became
somewhat motheaten, and Melbourne
chewed them up to the tune of 13.16-
9.10. At South Melbourne, Essendon
bofedly booted 22.17, and permitted
the locals to acquire 8.9; there was
more interest in the North Mel-
bourne-Carlton game, where Carlton
“led to the turn” and then went
down, 12.18-11.14; and at Fitzroy
the two sides of Smith-street met for
’Roy to down Collingwood by 16.12
to 12.13.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
About the only noteworthy out-
come of the .burlesque Rugby League
match played in mud and slush at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday,
with England beating N.S.W. 10-0,
was that the touring players at
last unearthed a referee who meets
with their approval; they have com-
plained to high heaven about every
other encountered throughout their
tour. The evident master of dip-
lomacy in question is Tom McMahon,
who will now have the handling of
next Saturday’s third and deciding
Test at S.C.G., after which he should
be seconded to U.N.O. without delay.


Ofrvs is.
SsS&fSsS
DIS
IHOVIRO*
•**s
&r
SiHH
GW
6.®^iSS
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI.
Tanqucray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Qua/efa
spwz}s
suopion
7m' / ' /
/''
3
V/
W
mum.
%
V'
/,
y/
<::v
SI&GWOOI
wm
'A
&LZ
mz
■■■■:■'':t
'A
m
m
ii
m
wait until . /
Winters almost gen A
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulars call, write or phone • • •
[8.1.C21
yjb /
Ihsuuuwn
PTT.
LTD.
Phones: SYDNEY. PX5:«*; MELBOURNE. H ''
R?6W 8.1. (i\.) ITD. ADEt»> n _
r e r. '■’lf: P.l. (w A.) (Tn 'PERTH lV n
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'S WORRY, I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS
Getting More Wool.
“Outback”: According to
Adrian Slade, Glenelg, Warwick,
who produces one of the highest-
priced Queensland clips, the first
essential is to select the right
type of sheep for your particular
country.
On his country sheep from
the mulga country and south-
western district seemed to do
well. Overstocking he considers
fatal to the production of high-
priced wool as sheep must not
have any setback. Sheep
should not be mustered too often,
and they should not be yarded
through dusty gateways and in
dusty sheep-yards. It is a good
plan to water yards at the wool-,
shed during shearing.
Health of sheep must be
studied, with judicious stocking,
and the feeding of salt in
troughs, in limited quantities,
for the control of worm trouble.
Careful and efficient classing is
essential, and every care must be
taken with the general get-up of
a clip.
Slade comes of a pioneering
sheep-breeding family, his father,
the late W. B. Slade, owning
Glengallan stud in the days be-
fore dairying became the staple
industry of the Darling Downs.
His now-defunct stud was
founded on Rosenthal stock by
John Deuchax, who, in 1860,
expanded it by personally select-
ing 10 rams and 10 ewes from
the flock of Baron von Mati-
zahn, Mecklenburg, Germany.
Erosion Revealed.
“He-Ne”: At this stage it is
impossible to estimate the dam-
age the N.S.W. floods have done
to homes, fences, outbuildings,
stock, crops and pastures. All
this is tragic enough, but it can
be repaired.
The worst feature is not so
much the damage the floods
have done but the damage they
reveal. When low pastures were
flooded and men looked for
higher grazing ground, it was
to find that, despite a run of
good seasons, much of it was
barren of anything save clay and
gravel.
It would be no exaggeration
to say that probably 20 per cent,
of the once-fertile Hunter River
Valley is ruined for all time by
erosion. It is impossible to drive
very far without seeing evidence
of it. Good upland country
that has obviously been over-
stocked for years is now abso-
lutely bare of vegetative cover
or even soil.
In spite of good seasons these
lands have not grassed them-
selves at all. This means that
thousands of acres of what was
some of the richest soils in New
South Wales are ruined.
Bertrand Russell estimates
that Australia needs a popula-
tion of at least 50,000,000 whites
before the danger of being over-
whelmed by Asia can be dimin-
ished. If erosion continues
everywhere at the same rate as
in the Hunter Valley Australia
will never support 50,000,000
people at present living
standards. Erosion is more than
a challenge to farmers and
graziers: it is a challenge to the
whole community.
Pasture Grubs.
“Myrrhee”: Control measures
advocated by R. J. Newman,
B.Agr.Sc., of Vic. Department
of Agriculture, to deal with the
Tasmanian grass-grub, now
troubling graziers in the Vic.
western district, include broad-
casting 21b. of D.D.T. insecticide
mixed with super, over land
where the grubs are active.
Approximate cost of the insecti-
cide is 10s. per acre.
After the grubs have been
dealt with, restore pastures by
ploughing and growing either a
cereal crop or sowing a pasture
of perennial rye grasses under an
oat cover crop. On loose, rich
soils, add a few pounds of
Italian-rye-grass seed to provide
some quick feed. If the affected
areas are too large to plough
economically, combine a pasture
mixture straight into the paddock
with a light seeding of oats.
As Phalaris tuberosa is resist-
ant to attack by both the grass-
grub and the cockchafer, New-
man strongly advises a spring
sowing of this grass. Better
establishment is obtained by
prior cultivation to prepare the
seed-bed, but where this is im-
practicable, a double combine
working, followed by surface
sowing, will do an effective job.
In the seed mixture include 11b,
of rape and ilb. of mustard to
provide summer grazing.
Pasture Furrows.
“W. Court”: Pasture furrow-
ing is a splendid method ot
stopping run-off from grassed
hillsides. The soil takes in more
moisture, thus preparing for dry
times, and little of the topsoil is
lost through erosion. Starting
at the base of the hill, the soil is
thrown upward in a good deep
furrow across the slope. An-
other furrow is opened just above
this and the soil thrown down-
wards.
The double furrows separated
by banks are opened at 10ft.
intervals to the hill top, and
water running down after rain
is held in the ditches and soaks
“She cuts just enough fuel to keep her going!”
in beneath the turned soi).
Scatter seed of pasture legumes
or good grasses over the turned
soil.
The ditches are gradually filled
in with grass refuse, humus and
stock manure, but the pastures
are so much improved by the
increased water intake that it
is no trouble to reopen them
again as necessary.
Cape Tulip.
“Mich”: A method of dealing
with it is offered by A. J. K.
Walkef, an agronomist at the
Waite Research Institute in South
Australia, who has been investi-
gating the weed since pre-war
days. Walker says that if
ploughing is delayed until the
flowering stage the formation of
new corms is not prevented. On
the other hand, if cultivation is
done very early in the pieces—
when the leaves are about four
to six inches high—there is still
sufficient food material in the
old corm to allow it to send up
a fresh shoot.
Ploughing, therefore, is most
effective when the parent corm
has begun to shrivel, but before
the development of Jhe new
corm has proceeded very far.
This stage can be determined
only by digging up corms
periodically and seeing how they
are progressing. The best time to
plough is usually about mid-
June to the end of July.
To Kill Water Weed.
“Horseless H.”: To poison
water weeds in a dam so that
the water will not harm stock,
use copper sulphate (bluestone)
in the ratio of not more than
lib. to 200,000ga1. of water —
lib. to 250,000ga1. is safer, and
it will kill the weeds in about
three days.
First find the capacity of the
dam in cubic feet and multiply
this by 6i (the number of
gallons in a cub. ft. of water) to
bring it to gallons. Next, if it
is a smallish dam or swamp,
dissolve the bluestone in a drum,
and then squirt the mixture with
a spray-gun over the surface.
Don’t stir the surface of the
water —the bluestone will find
its own way to the bottom —but
it is necessary to distribute the
chemical fairly evenly over the
surface.
In big reservoirs the job is
done with raw bluestone held in
onion-sacks behind boats which
steer a zigzag epurse.
While this formula is uni-
versally used for killing all kinds
of water weeds it is not suitable
for coping with algae.
Collar-rot in Citrus.
“Beau Forte”: Collar-rot —an
attack by soil-inhabiting organ-
isms on the bark in the “collar”
region where the butts of the
main roots and the base of the
stem fuse at ground-level—is a
common disease in citrus-trees.
’ If unattended, the tree is “ring-
barked” and will die.
First signs are the yellowing
and sparseness of the foliage.
Scraping away of the soil at the
base of the trunk will reveal
cracking and scaling-off of the
bark.
To control, remove the soil
from around the trunk and ex-
pose the tops of the main roots
near the diseased area. Cut
away all dead tissue with a sharp
knife and paint with a paste of
11b of copper sulphate, 21b. 0 f
water-slaked lime and l ea J of
water. s 01
Using a Hacksaw
“Taswegian”; A tool fre-
quently misused is the hack
saw ; the old saying “more haste
less speed” applies, for a saw
used at the correct speed will cut
faster than one pushed too
quickly. It is more economical
too, as quick pushing soon ruins
a blade—so strokes a minute is
a good working speed.
The blade should be selected
according to what is being cut-
ler mild steel rounds, flats and
square, use blades with 14 teeth
to the inch ; for cast-iron and tool
steel 18 ; angle iron, brass and
copper tube, iron pipe, and extra-
hard steel 22 ; and for conduit
thin tubing, sheet-metal and
stainless steel 32.
Petrol Blockage.
“Nubis”: With about a gallon
in the tank, disconnect the inlet
line to the fuel pump and blow
back into the tank. Drain the
tank and allow the petrol to
settle —the sediment will g 0 to
the bottom in a few seconds
then pour off the clean spirit and
put it back into the tank. Drain
again and repeat until there is
no sediment left.
Then thoroughly clean the
filter-bowl and fuel-pump, re-
placing gauzes if neces-
sary, and reconnect the
inlet line. Disconnect
the line to the carburet-
tor, and work the starter
(make sure the ignition
is turned off) until
petrol runs out. Let
about a pint run
through to flush out the
fuel line. Remove car-
burettor-bowl, take out
and clean the jets and
booster-pump. Don’t
use wire on the jets—
blow through them. If
necessary, use a straw
from a “whisk”-broom
to clean the idling-jet.
Wash the jets several times
in an eggcupful of methylated
spirits until no sediment can be
detected. Half-fill the bowl with
metho and, after shaking vigor-
ously, pour off into another con-
tainer. Repeat several times
until no sediment is left. Re-
place defective gauzes, re-
assemble carburettor, first wash-
ing the float and replace on car.
Examine and, if necessary, clean
the air-cleaner.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
an;
1
mg
:
i>: i
":‘ff nr i? ! i)in
!:ilx i I !■'pil |n |
i
mimWW
Wimm
LjU'
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 9/0 per night
Double Rooms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
THE
EASIEST
way to
CASTRATE
CALVES!
ELASTiUTOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Wooibrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Time too is flyingl
When you have to count the minutest
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
ail over the world —including those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-1 ranian Oil Company, Ltd,
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE*. TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “AIRBEEPEE” MELBOURNE
Q7&nt
Trees for Dry Places.
“pat Ater”: Few trees, even
the athel, will grow and prosper
after planting-out unless given
attention and water during the
first couple of years of growth.
A good season arid good
preparation will put the athel
on its way, and do a lot towards
establishing peppercorns, red-
gums and others in dry country.
But usually the rainfall isn’t
enough.
By dry country an average
rainfall of lOin, to 15in. is indi-
cated. Ordinary kurrajongs
don’t take to the minimum very
well, but the inland variety
might do instead.
At Broken Hill, where Albert
Morris started his famous green-
belt and put river redgums on
the map in a 9in. rainfall, there
was plenty of water to start
them from the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s washings.
Seedling redgums were
coddled, potted and tinned and
went into that porous soil well
started. They got attention
and more water and mulching
till established. By that time
roots were deep enough to
laugh at surface heat and dyy-
ness. It was no hit-and-miss
affair.
Later came the athel, an acci-
dental discovery. It comes from
Persia, is a denizen of riverbeds
and waterways, which indicates
that it likes moisture to begin its
life job. Now it has shown
itself adaptable to farm use as
a windbreak. Cuttings can be
struck under rough nursery
conditions and put out to fight
their way when rooted.
But they need to be watered
till established. Then they
grow rapidly.
Best way to ensure results
from tree-planting in a dry belt
is to use tubes of 18in. to 36in,
long as containers when rais-
ing the seedlings. Young plants
are put in these tubes, and the
tubes are jammed close together
in a nursery-bed, plunged almost
to their full depth in the soil.
The roots go down deep, and
there will be no fear of surface
fibrous roots being scorched and
dried. The tubes can be made
from old tin and tied with wire.
Loosen this at planting-time.
The soil for their permanent
stand in open ground needs to
be well dug, so that the full
depth of tube-grown taproots
can be utilised. If an explosive
charge can be put in hard dry
soil, so much the better. It does
more than loosen subsoil; seems
to add nitrates.
Plant when the soil is fairly
moist. After-care consists mainly
of mulching to prevent evapora-
tion, and anything you can
press into service for that work
will do. Keep the water up to
the young trees.
Duckling Feed.
“C.H.” ; For ducklings up to
three weeks the best ration is
one-third bran and two-thirds
pollard mixed with just enough
skim-milk, semi-solid butter-
milk or meat-soup to make it
crumbly. An ounce of bone-
meal to every pound of mash
helps. Give them as much as
they can eat five times a day.
From three to seven weeks re-
duce the feeds first to four, then
to three a day. Chaffed lucerne,
clover or barley is needed, but it
should not exceed one-fifth of
the total weight of ration; de-
crease three weeks before
market-day. Alternate the shell-
grit regularly with sand and
ashes.
Watch the water-supply. If
this runs out, the ducklings may
guzzle at the refilled trough
after their feed. Then staggers
will set in.
Bracken-fern.
“Derwent”: The Agricultural
Department in Tasmania is in-
vestigating bracken as an aid to
soil - fertility, and experiments
indicate that something of
potential value has been largely
overlooked.
Farmers who have ploughed-
in bracken and then sown clover
find that the growth has been
twice that of bracken-free areas ;
pumpkin-growers have had good
results and other crops sown in
bracken-treated land did well.
Burnt bracken produces ash with
a much larger percentage of
potash than ordinary wood-ash.
The experiments are of interest
to those on whose land bracken
has increased tremendously
after the timber has been
cleared; there are many
bracken-infested properties now
which years ago showed very
little sign of the pest, particularly
in dairying areas.
Care of a Saw.
“Helldud”: That advice (B.
2/11/’49) to oil a saw after-use
to keep it in good condition and
prevent rusting is sound, but
why oil after use?
An occasional oiling during
use will result in a saw retain-
ing its keenness for a surpris-
ingly long time.
Best plan is to get a circular-
shaped 2oz. tobacco-tin. Cut a
strip of felt —hessian will do at
a pinch—a |in. wider than the
depth of the tin and roll into a
circular flat pad to fit tightly
into the tin. After half-filling
the tin with oil insert pad and
pour more oil over exposed sur-
face. A rub with the oil-pad
every time a fresh cut is made
will result in sweeter sawing and
a long-lasting, keen saw.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Plots for broad-
beans should be dug deeply, and,
if previously manured, will need
only loz. of sulphate of potash
to the square yard. A month
after sowing dress with equal
parts of blood-and-bone and
super, at lib, to each 12ft. of
row. Pinch the top off each
stem when the first flowers
appear to induce lateral growth
and ensure better setting of
pods. If pods are gathered as
they mature, strength of plant is
maintained and bearing period
prolonged.
“Rooster”: Don’t water vine
vegetables with overhead
sprinklers where climatic con-
ditions bring about high
humidity. Adopt the furrow-
irrigation method. This will
prevent mildew. Should mildew
appear dust immediately with
sulphur. Half-strength Bordeaux
mixture (2-2-20) can be used on
cucurbits other than rock-
melons or cucumbers. The latter
are prone to Bordeaux injury.
Sucking insects like aphids and
jassids can be controlled by
nicotine sprays. Avoid the use
of D.D.T. for this purpose, as
it is liable to injure the vege-
tables.
“Myrr”: In southern home
gardens July is one of the best
months to sow peas, except in
the coldest districts. The peas
will be finished in good time to
replant with summer vegetables.
Try the early variety, Melbourne
Market, for colder areas and
Greenfeast for the others. Pro-
vide some support in the form
of brushwood or by tying hori-
zohtal strings to stakes along the
rows. Sow in full sun as they’re
apt to develop mildew in partial
shade.
“Sundowner”: Now is the
time to get extra apiary equip-
ment. Have at least four hive
boxes complete with sufficient
frames for each hive. It is also
the best time to sort bee-combs
and discard excess drone brood.
After extraction clean all uten-
sils thoroughly and check equip-
ment before storing it. See that
all covers are waterproof and
that hives are tilted forward to
ensure drainage of condensed
moisture. Hives short of stores
should be fed with sugar syrup
or honey.
“C.S.”: The Australian Wool
Board has issued a new and en-
larged edition of its publication
Handbook for Woolgrowers,
which was originally published
m 1941. The book sets out the
latest information concerning
major sheep problems in Aus-
tralia, especially in relation to
the control of disease,
“M.”; A new, revised edition
of The Sheep Industry, the Vic.
Department of Agriculture’s
official bulletin on sheep-raising,
contains 185 pages of reading
matter, many photographs and
three color-plates. Methods of
countering attack by the sheep
blowfly are outlined, while selec-
tion of ewes and rams, classing
the clip, baling and pressing wool
and the raising of fat lambs are
dealt with in detail.


fo? ofi
Si
L
*
pe*
rf* £
OtVMSt
SOOZ JusfarAart .. CAa/np/o/rs of Me ffoaof
h fs
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE * RUBBER CO, ITU-
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2-& posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
'NOW J.ETS
have a scenes
/
L
ax
S
f
mm
mm
i. •;•
t
t S/sS,
»
J'A\
4S^c.
3©
ya^YS
When you call for Brandy
make sure you say
scenes
BRAN D V
•THE UMPIRE CUAHPIOyr
omi
Yl
*
fc v*v£
DA.IO
Distilled.qjjd Bottled South. Auikolto
09
%
(jBJRjSE WtollNW
who (so they say) s
Could never tell a lie.
Was in the larder feeling gay,
With cake and apple-pie.
"What have you taken?” asked his dad;
"You’ll tell the truth. I’m sure!
"I took,” replied the famous lad,
"Some Woods’ Great Pepper-
mint Cure.”
shouted incessantly “Back blues.
Play the ball, reds,” in a sort
of chant. Then he watched the
blues to see they kept their five
yards distance, which they were
most careful to do, knowing
their ref., but the reds were not
as observant, and were
frequently penalised, much to
their disgust.
Then, in the midst of this fury
and hurly-burly, a collarbone
was broken. It belonged to a
red, and being a gentleman he
did not even writhe. He lay
like a silent fox, and waited for
examination. He was carried in
careful manner from the field.
The old man, being either short-
sighted or color-blind, said
excitedly “What did I tell you?
No lime in the soil. Bone
broken. What did I tell you?”
“A red,” I shouted, and he
seemed surprised.
“Serve him right,” he said.
He had plenty of lime.”
The blues held the reds right
up until the last ten minutes of
the game. Then they appeared
to tire. Bruce’s father almost
twisted his hands off in his
anxiety. Towards the last few
minutes of the game he was tear-
ing at his wrists. “What do you
know? What do you know?”
he kept asking spectators. The
old fellow beside me had lapsed
into a coma. I could see the
reds would sweep over at any
moment, and knowing the game
was almost ended I asked him
had he any lime interests.
That appeared to rouse some
indignation, as though I had be-
lieved his utterances to be
purely propaganda. “No, sir,”
he said forcefully and with dig-
nity. “I own this field, see, and
it hasn’t no lime in it, either.
One day you won’t be able to
rear man or beast upon it.” He
stared resentfully at his fellow-
spectators. “Brains, brains,” he
muttered. “They ain’t got any.”
“But you don’t lime, either,”
I said, with one eye to the blues.
“No,” he admitted sadly,” but
you need money.”
Then the reds scored. They
had been wrestling heavily near
the him line and suddenly had
gone over. The white referee,
reared on good lime soil, gave
the verdict. Red supporters
nearly screamed themselves
hoarse, but I preferred to believe
the blues had had the moral
victory, lime deficiency even ex-
eluded, and that was all that
mattered, I cheered the blues.
“Once,” said the old man, as
though in a dream, “it was all
lime. Good soft grass. Fat red
cows. Plenty of milk. That was
when we had our own butter
and cheese factory. All finished
now. No lime, of course.”
I FELT really sorry for the old
1 fellow, him with his memories.
As though through his eyes I
could see. these brown fields as
they had been, knee-deep in rich
green grasses, the fat-bellied
stock on it, and the farmers and
the farm-children sturdy and
strong like the reds, but then I
was not at all sure I was sorry
for the tough little blues and
the tough turf.
“Look,” said the old fellow
beside me suddenly. “George has
the ball.”
Not Bruce this time, but
George. “Jorje!” shrieked an
excited female, but the rest were
too breathless to commit their
hopes to utterance.
“Oh, Jawge!” the female
ahridcedagato. almost W «p in „
And George was away to®'
out of the pack, past
backs who had beSf
surprise past, even, the
full-back who waited with stS
confidence, missing his oppS
only by a hair’s-breadC
George was away to a goal that
would have brought the score to
equal had it been converted bur
no, the ref. had blown fos
whist e immediately followin'
rtf tr 7> /nd the blues werf
cheated of their equalling points
Plead as they might, the reds
were not permitted to allow their
opponents a sporting chance
which shows what lime will do
to a referee, and the old fellow
beside me had forgotten all
about that stuff, and with the
rest of the crowd was swept un
into the crying that billowed and
flowed and fell and rose until
black children and white, and
reds and blues, and wrists and
tracts and lime and no lime were
caught up into such a fellowship
of feeling that has made me
vow permanently that wherever
there is tough dry turf and small
tough players I shall pay my
entrance-fee without quibble
and be prepared to put up with
come-what-may.
them when they sneaked up be-
hind me on Sundays, when I
was walking to church with him,
and tugged at the peak of my
Eton jacket, which I had to
wear on Sundays—many of
these friends went to sea in the
school holidays as ship’s-boys
(bell-hops they are called now).
They always wanted me to go,
too. But I never got leave to
go. But I used to go down on
Saturdays and meet them, and
hear their stories.
One Saturday morning I went
round by Susie’s for a word with
her. We were talking through
her window when the Vicar of
St. John’s, where I sang in the
choir, drove along in his buggy.
He saw me; a shocked look
came over his face, and he
reined in his horse,
“I’m going your way, Willie,”
he said. “Jump in.”
Susie gasped. Her Willie in-
vited to drive with the vicar!
But I didn’t move.
“No, thank you, sir,” I said.
“I have to meet a friend.”
The vicar frowned and drove
on. Susie said:
“Why ever did you do that?”
“Because the other day, while
I was at School, he called and
saw my row of sixty sunflowers,
right along our fence. And he
took the lot for Thanksgiving
Sunday or something. They
were all dead by Monday—and
I wanted the seed for my
parrots.”
“Poor Willie! Never mind, I’ll
meet you after Sunday school
tomorrow.”
BLTT we never met. The vicar
drove straight to my home
and told what he had seen.
Willie talking to a girl in brazen
daylight. I was kept at home all
next day, working, cleaning
harness and washing the buggy.
But in the afternoon my father
called me to the veranda where
he sat and read.
“Who is this girl the vicar
saw you with?” he asked.
“Susie Johnston. I know her
father. He is a Griffiths man.”
I expected him to be angry,
but he said: “How do you
know?”
“Because he took me into his
house and Susie gave me tea,
and he asked me which side I
was on in politics,”
“Was he teasing you?”
“No, he meant it. And he
said I can marry Susie when I
grow up and can buy her a
carriage and pair.”
My father laughed, and called
to my mother. “You didn’t
know you had a Don Juan for
a son, did you?”
“Don’t tease the boy,” she
said;
“I’m not. He says her father
will let him marry her when he
can buy her a carriage and pair.
That’s pretty definite, eh?”
We left Brisbane soon after
that to go to New Zealand. I
remember that day yet. Susie
and her sister Ettie came down
to say “good-bye.” Her father
sent me a message, too. When
we swung out from the wharf
where Susie stood in her white
dress with a red sash, I could
have wept. But I waved and
waved till Kangaroo Point be-
gan to close in and shut out the
view of the wharf..
A man near by said: “What
are you fretting about? Another
big flood and this place will be
a duck-farm. Cairns will be the
capital.”
I knew then he was a
northerner and a Conservative
and began to argue with him,
using all the arguments Susie’s
father had taught me. And
when I turned to wave again,
Susie was gone —shut off by the
point.
And I never saw her agam.
Twenty-one years later, I went
back to Brisbane, but she didn’t
live behind the G.P.O. any
more. Nobody seemed to re-
member her much, though one
man told me she had married
and gone into the bush.
And yesterday it all came
back ,to me, when Ernie our
postman, who always n asl a
string of children and dogs after
him, brought a P retty . ’ nd
brown-eyed girl to oui gat
said: . ~
“Bill, this is Susie.
It gave me a shock.


Missing Friend.
O’MEARA, Sarah.—Will anyone knowing
the whereabouts of SARAH O’MEARA
(formerly Simper) please communicate
with J. McNEILL SIMPSON, Solicitor,
Hay.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE OGDEN late of Paddington.
—TAKE NOTICE that PEARL SYLVIA
OGDEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2470 of 1950 on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 25th day of Septem-
ber 1960 and you may obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from HENRY,
PEEDOM & CHAPMAN, Solicitors, Crown
Street, Wollongong. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The Manufacturers, Distributors and
-a
SS
■
The World’s Most Economical Tractors announce a
Sensational Price Reduction
Lao
N>-T
ti
&
V\
I
llllllllHlllllllllllHllllM 111 "
r.
A
Now You Can START Saving Money!
SAVE FIRST ON PURCHASE PRICE . . . THEN KEEP
ON SAYING AT THE RATE OF £l5O EVERY YEAR
This is the way fo do if!
QUTPUT at our Springvale plant has reached, and will continue to maintain,
a record high level. As a result, costs on a maximum production basis
have been revised to permit the passing of a SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION
IN KX. BULLDOG’S SELLING PRICE. Thus, in these days of shortages
and high prices in so many lines, K.L. has taken the lead to bring within the
reach of every farmer the unique money-saving features for which the simple
single cylinder, crude oil BULLDOG engine is world famous.
So take this opportunity to save right from the very moment you purchase your
new KX. BULLDOG. Save a big lump sum on the initial purchase price.
Then, year after year, enjoy the benefits of saving from £l5O to £lBO per year
on the running costs of kerosene, petrol and diesel tractors. For KX.
BULLDOG is no less than a wonderful investment that pays back your initial
outlay, in actual cash saved on running costs, in from 7 to 10 years of operation.
FREE
12 MONTHS SERVICE BY SPECIALISTS
In addition to a big price reduction, the manufacturers offer
12 months FREE service on your new K.L. BULLDOG
Crude Oil Tractor. This includes initial starting and
operating instructions on your property, and maintenance
and repair service, under the conditions of the warranty,
carried out by a competent staff 'of BULLDOG Tractor
specialists.
The News is Out! The rush is on NOW
for early deliveries! See your Local Agent
or: —
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
NJ3.W.; Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney.
VICTORIA: K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 301 Spencer St., Melb.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St.,
Adelaide. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty.
Ltd., 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA: K.L. Distributors Pty.
Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart. QUEENSLAND: K.L. Tractor
Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of poems “By and By” and
“Anthony Hordern’s Fire.” —4876.
To buy copies of books by Will
H. Ogilvie,— 4877.
To buy Australian Literature (2
vols.) by E. Morris Miller. —4878.
Information Sought.
Details concerning the Palomino
breed of horse?
There is some controversy about
the actual origin of the Palomino.
Some claim that it originated in the
North of Africa, along the Mediter-
ranean coast, while others say that it
was evolved in the United States of
America. At all events, the Palomino
is not a breed, but it is a type of
saddle-horse with distinctive color
and coming up to certain specifica-
tions as regards conformation. Color
in the Palomino is most important,
and the body must be a golden color
and as near as possible to the color
of a freshly-minted golden coin. The
mane and tail are white. There are
some Palominos in this country, and
an association has been formed to
popularise this type of horse. For
information, write to the secretary of
the association, Mr. N. F. Porter,
Belah-gardens, Vaucluse, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Is a soldier who served in
World War II on home-defence
entitled to the benefits of soldier land-
settlement schemes? (2) To qualify
for ballots of land must he have
served with the A.I.F. overseas?
(1) A person who, during the 1939-
45 war, served in the Permanent
Forces, A.I.F. or was called up or
enlisted for continuous service in the
Citizen Forces and after six months’
service received an honorable dis-
charge, will, generally speaking, be
eligible on war service to participate
in the war-service land-settlement
scheme. Fitness and experience are,
however, also factors to be con-
sidered. He must apply for a quali-
fication certificate from Department
of Lands, Sydney, before lodging
application for admission *to ballots.
(2) No.
* * * *
Is the slang term “push,” meaning
a gang of larrikins, of American or
English origin ?
R. H. Thornton, American Glos-
sary (1912), notes the U.S. use of
“push” for “a combination of low
politicians.” He adds that “The term
is derived from Australia, where it is
applied to gangs of rowdies and
young criminals.” However, it can
be noted that, as J. H. Vaux observes
m his Vocabulary of the Flash
Language (1812)—“push” was old
English cant for “a concourse of
people, a crowd,” and it probably
arrived in both America and Aus-
tralia direct from England.
* * * *
A spray for downy mildew?
This spray will check downy
mildew, aphis and other pests: Dis-
solve 2oz. of bluestone in a gallon
of warm water. Slake 2oz. of lime
m a small quantity of water, and
then make up the water to two pints.
Strain this into the bluestone water.
Dissolve a small piece of soap in a
tablespoon of kerosene and stir this
into the mixture. Make sure the spray
gets on to the underside of the leaves.
*s* * *
Original meaning of the terms
Whig” and "Tory”?
The Oxford English Dictionary
explains the terms as follows: “Whig
(origin obscure; probably shortening
of Whiggamore).—An adherent of the
Presbyterian cause in Scotland in
the 17th century. Applied to the
Exclusioners, who opposed the succes-
sion of James, Duke of York, to the
crown, on the ground of his being
a Roman Catholic. Tory (Anglicised
spelling of Irish Toraidhe, ‘pursuer’).
—Applied to an Irish Papist or
Royalist in arms. A nickname given,
1679-80, by the Exclusioners to those
opposed to the exclusion of James,
Duke of York (a Roman Catholic)
from the succession to the crown.”
* * * *
Solution to retard rot in sacks and
hessian ?
Dissolve 2ilb. bluestone in 9gal.
water in a wooden tub or barrel. In
another vessel dissolve 31b. washing-
soda crystals in Hgal. of water.
While stirring add the soda solution
slowly to the bluestone solution.
Immerse the bags one by one until
fabric and stitching are thoroughly
wet. Dip twine to be used for stitch-
ing the bags. Run the bags through
a clothes-wringer and hang out to
dry.
* * * *
Where is Lourdes, and for what is
the town famous? *
A town on the Gave de Pan, in
the department Hautes-Pyr&iees,
France, one of the chief centres of
Roman Catholic pilgrimages because
of a grotto located there in which
the Virgin Mary, according to tradi-
tion, appeared in 1858 to the local
peasant girl Bernadette Soubirous
and revealed to her the miraculous
properties of a spring. Lourdes is
the title of a novel by Emile Zola
published in 1894, and Franz Werfel
made Bernadette Soubirous and her
visions the subject of his best-selling
novel The Song of Bernadette.
* * * ♦
What was the “English Pale” ?
The name given in the 15th century
to that part of Ireland which had
been colonised in the 12th century
by Henry 11, viz., the districts of
Cork, Dublin, Drogheda, Waterford
and Wexford. It was only in these
districts that the English law pre-
vailed, hence the phrases “within the
pale” and “outside the pale.” They
are often used figuratively of the
social conventions.
Brief Answers,
M-W.D.: (1) A peasant is a
countryman, either working for others
or owning or renting and working
by his own labor a small plot of
ground. (2) See article “Peasant
Movement,” page 425, vol. 17,
Encyclopaedia Britannica (1944 edi-
tion), available Public Library of
N.S.W., Sydney.... H.H.: Georgian
House Pty., Ltd., 431 Bourke-street,
Melbourne P.R.S.: D. Raymond,
Numismatist and Philatelist, 128
Bathurst-street, Sydney, will classify
and value your collection of coins.
.... J.T.H.: A replica of the bust of
Adam Lindsay Gordon by the sculp-
tress Kathleen Scott, which was
placed in the Poets’ Corner of West-
minster Abbey, was unveiled by Chief
Justice Sir John Latham in the
King’s Hall, Parliament House, Can-
berra, on June 13, 1950 J.C.:
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, U.S.A.,
specialises in neuro-diagnosis and
treatment. Writ© the registrar for
particulars. Similar work in Aus-
tralia, through medium of clinics at
larger public hospitals. Repatriation
Department provides for post-war
cases J.D.: Argon tubes of stated
type not obtainable. Mercury vapor
tubes suggested. For particulars,
Watson Electro-medical Coy., 9
Bligh-street, Sydney. State type and
size of apparatus... .X.X.: War-
neurosis patient best treated through
Repatriation Department. Provision
is made for individual case-adjust-
ment and re-education combined with
medical treatment if required....
C.A.A.: The quotation is from
“Othello,” scene 3, act 3 H.B.
and H.D.: Letters forwarded to the
Nanango Centenary and South Bur-
nett Historical Committee, Nanango
(Q.) P.G.: Write Age Pensions
Branch, Department of Social Ser-
vices, 52 Carrington-street, Sydney.
.... .J.M.C.: No information is
available on the subject. All fisher-
men use rule-of-thumb methods in
N.S.W., the strength of the tan-
ning solution has not been subjected
to investigation A.S.L.: It is
understood that very dilute formalin
is incorporated with other ingredients
in the* preservation of fish-bait, but,
although inquiries have been made,
it has not been possible to obtain any
details. The formula appears to be
kept as a trade-secret.. , .J.R.C.:
Australia has an area of 2,974,581
square miles. U.S.A., excluding
Alaska, has an area of 3,022,387
square miles, of which 2,977,128
square miles represent land area....
R.R.: Write Winchcombe Carson,
Ltd., 99 Eagle-street, Brisbane....
A.W.J.: Write Lewis Berger and
Sons, Box 23, Burwood (N.S.W.).
L.T.S.: Alfred Lawrence and Cos.,
Ltd., 439 Kent-street, Sydney, can
supply the machines D.G.A.:
Write Cement and Concrete Associa-
tion of Australia, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
JJ.A.: Not quite our meat....
1.T.; “So she’s put her head in a
gas oven.” You’ve been reading
about these surprise openings....
M.F.: After all, people don’t have
to be daft to be virtuous,.. .S.G.:
“The White Lady” hadn’t as much
kick as some we’ve known... .P.M.:
You’ve got something in “Lost Illu-
sion,” but not enough J.T.:
Sorry, but they give the illusion of
being fiction... .T.P.M.: Slight....
G.S.H.: Too long, too stiff and too
Irish, or not enough L. 8.: Hardly
our fie1d....D.8.: Afraid it’s too
long for a sketch, at this distance.
Bellerive: ’Twas a famous vic-
tory :
....P.L.: It would make a good
surprise, but it didn’t surprise us
enough H.G.8.: Vague D. 8.:
“Dad’s Mind Made Up”; your story
turned down... .E.W.S.: No plea-
sure to us to enter into the mind of
a boxer being beaten... .G.W.: So
many sad short stories and sorrowful
marriages might be averted by a sense
of humor.,. .C.H.: Never send a
synopsis—yours saved us reading the
story C.R.: The bad woman is
too goo,d for your 5t0ry....!.: Felt
“A Night in the Hut” would never end.
.•. .8.D.: That dropped roll of notes
again!... .F.H.F.: “I don’t know
anything about writing, but I under-
stand life.” As we, also, find your
writing difficult, we’ll let it go at that.
N.A.D.: Heavyweight humor....
E.H.: Much too exciting E.P.:
Not quite, but it certainly kept us
reading... .K.R.: Temper, temper!
... .P.H.8.; The things people think
of doing!... .8.H.: Thin... .M.M.:
Well quoted, Miss; well quoted!....
G.P.: Maybe it’s easieU to laugh at
such things in New Zealand....
D. : Articles on wills might be
more acceptable if we thought any-
thing would be left to us to leave.
....J.G.’: It had color, but no point.
... .L.H.C.: Such sordid murders we
get, when we like them nice and
clean.,. .H.A.L.: The people are all
right, but something doesn’t seem
to happen L.H.C.: ‘‘Fires of
Byamee” are out; the conclusion of
“Green Thoughts and Green Fingers”
is a bit of a strain on our well-known
credulity K.H.H.: Not bad, not
good enough—and why do authors
ending a story with a quotation from
the marriage service always get it
wrong? W.M.: Anyway, Uncle
Tom got better.. . .J.T.: A bit long
for a skit, and as a rule we don’t
like stories about writers R.J.G.
You’ve got a long way to g 0....
R. 8.: A bit philosophical... .A.P.:
No transferring your “Conscience”
to us D.P.S.: Hoopygoop
E. ; You really don’t have to
murder people just for the sake of a
story... .C.M.: Not too bad, but
working the old twin-brother gag on
dogs doesn’t help.
WHEN THE GRAFTER WON THE CUP.
From a clear blue sky
Beamed down the sun
When the Melbourne Cup
By The Grafter waa won.
Pass the fine leaders
The great stayer sped;
Thrilled were the crowd,
When to victory he led.
Out into the open
From Skinner’s booth
Punters did surge
To learn the truth.
Bouts did ensue and
Things became rough.
The Grafter had won
The Melbourne Cup,


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2f d. per line.
Westralian Crayfishing
A new business, which is
rapidly growing into a valuable dollar-
eaming concern, is the processing and
snap-freezing of crayfish-tails for export
to the U.S.A. —it brought in over 500,000
dollars last year. In answer to a trade
inquiry from America in 1946 some
samples were sent over ; they were so
satisfactory that an order was placed for
half a million pounds’ weight of tails
yearly.
The business was pioneered by the
Kingfisher Trawling Company with its
refrigerated fishing vessel. Kingfisher 11,
operating at Lancelin Island, 75 miles
north of Fremantle, in 1947. The success
of this ship attracted others, until by
mid-December, 1949 (height of the
season), there were about 40 catcher-boats
and four factory-ships based at Lancelin
Island and Cervantes Island, 35 miles
further north.
The four factory-ships, the Echero,
Kingfisher 11, Eureka and Bluefin, are
manned and owned by returned service-
men. Built during the war as auxiliary
craft for the Navy, they are ideal for the
crayfish business. They cost about
£lO,OOO and, after conversion to refrigera-
tion, their capital value, all told, is
£BO,OOO.
A typical factory-ship, the Bluefin, has
a displacement of 80 tons, is 60ft. long
and is diesel-driven with a speed of 81-
knots. Radio-telephone equipment en-
ables her to keep twice-daily schedules
with her sister-ships and with Perth. An
auxiliary diesel plant drives a seven-ton
compressor capable of snap-freezing to
18 degrees F. (14 degrees below freezing-
point) within 10 hours of starting to
freeze the daily catch. To achieve this
desired regulation temperature, the
ammonia system of refrigeration is used
in conjunction with air-blasts —electric-
fans are used in the freezing chamber to
circulate cold air. Should the oil-pressure
drop or the water-temperature rise in the
auxiliary plant, or should tne compressor
develop a fault, a klaxon in the wheel-
house automatically sounds the alarm.
■ Each ship is worked by partners, gener-
ally about five. Extra hands are some-
times employed and paid wages and a
bonus for every box of processed tails.
Ihe catcher-boats are under contract to
the exporter, who, in turn, employs the
factory-ships to process, freeze and pack
the catch.
Knowing that close co-operation will
be the best for the industry, the sep-
arately-owned factory-ships have formed
their own association, which aims to keep
the quality of the product as high as pos-
sible, to improve processing methods, and
to work in harmony with the Department
of Commerce and Agriculture, which is
the Government inspecting body for all
exported foodstuffs.
The best feature of these mobile factory-
ships is that they can process at will
wherever a suitable anchorage exists for
the catcher boats. Future operations will
extend to Wedge Island, Green Island,
Jurein Bay and the Fishermen Islands.—
F. M. (W.A.).
Good Jobs?
One of the pitfalls of the present boom
lies in the high wages offering to
youngsters, male and female, for unskilled
labor. Any 18-year-old boy can earn
between £7 and £8 a week as an unskilled
worker in a factory, or in a retail store
as junior salesman. As a result, many
of them don’t give a second thought to
an apprenticeship at £2 or £3 a week.
What these young people forget—and
what parents and other responsible
authorities should bring home to them—
is tljat a few years doing the essential,
hard and dirty work in an apprenticeship
generally leads to the security of a well-
paid position with the backing of a skilled
trade.
In a depression it is the unskilled
worker who is hit first and hardest. He
then learns his lesson too late. He is
first to go and he is at the very bottom
of the labor market when it comes to
looking for a job. And, even when he
gets one eventually, he generally realises
by then, with some bitterness and dis-
illusion, that he’s in the unskilled field
for life with little prospect of advance-
ment in the way of experience, job or
income.
For the benefit of present-day youth
—still a little unsettled by the effects of
the war —it cannot be overemphasised
that high wages are paid to unskilled
workers because of the long-run in-
security involved. Otherwise the demand
for that kind of labor would never be
met. The way to a comfortable future
lies, not in the get-rich-quick jobs, but in
slow, steady improvement through know-
ledge to be gained in the technical schools
and colleges which are available to every
adolescent in Australia. — Ricki (N.S.W.).
Coal Independence
Victoria is flat-out to make itself in-
dependent of the uncertain supply of
black coal from N. S, Wales, and in five
to seven years it should just about realise
that ambition.
The State’s Electricity Commission is
making more and more briquettes to
feed the furnaces of thermal power-
stations, and has been so successful this
winter that there have been few black-
outs and then rarely of more than 10
minutes’ duration.
During the financial year just ended
“Is my blue teasel all right, George?”
gj- q production G f briquettes broke all
records Working the clock round for
se ven days a week, the S.E.C. factory
at yalloum produced 590,000 tons of
br } quettes These small neat pieces of
dr £ d and pressed brown coal give a
remarkable heat and are almost as good
as best Maitland coal .
Although most of the fuel is needed
for P ower production, 128,000 tons was
diverted to essential industries during the
year because of the general fuel short-
a S e > especially during the coal strike last
Another tons was su PP lied
to householders with registered briquette
h °t-water services, the commission being
obUgation to supply ten
The main task of the S.E.C. today is
to produce more and more briquettes to
save the Victorian Government import-
ing dearer coal from overseas. To do
this it is striving to accelerate the com-
om°Ste. Pr °' eCt ’
V commission’s consultant engineer,
E. Bate, is m England negotiating with
an engineering firm to erect both the new
Morwell factories, which will annually
produce more than twice the 1949-50
total. It is proposed that the company
should bring out its own construction
equipment and provide its own labor.
Orders totalling £9 million were placed
overseas last year for complete plant and
equipment for the two factories. Nearly
2000 tons of structural steel for the fac-
tories has already arrived from the
manufacturers’ works at Dusseldorf in
Germany
Excellent progress is being made by
the contractors in U.K. and Germany
with the manufacture of briquette-making
plant of the most up-to-date design,
large electric generators, boilers, electric
locomotives and special narrow-gauge
railway rolling-stock to handle millions
of tons of brown coal and overburden.
Since work began on the Morwell site
a little over a year ago, hundreds of men
bave been engaged on the excavations for
the new opencut, preparing the site of
the two new briquette factories and
building stores, roads and hostel accom-
modation. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
The Wharfies
How much longer is the Wharflaborers’
Union to be permitted to control Aus-
tralia’s exports and imports? A week
or two ago, although 6000 men were
allegedly assigned to jobs on vessels,
there was a shortage of 7600 men, and 70
ships went short of labor in Sydney
Harbor.
Except for a few key men to each
vessel, wharflaboring is laboring pure and
simple, and not too strenuous at that. It
can be done by any man of average
physical fitness, and the pay is better than
a skilled artisan receives.
In other trade-unions admission to
membership is normally granted to any
applicant of good character, possessing
the required standard of skill, but unless
an intending wharflaborer is regarded
favorably by a few influential truck-
trundlers, he has scant hope of joining
the elite.
Most astonishing is the fact that this
union is permitted by law to restrict its
membership in numbers. What would be
the position if all other unions were
allowed to act similarly?
The waterside workers should be
forced to open their ranks to any decent
physically-fit applicant. A little competi-
tion in their ranks, plus an infusion of
moderates, would work wonders.—Pongo
(N.S.W.),
:
Mental Hospitals
Remembering all the publicity ac-
corded such places a while ago , j visited
Gladesville Mental Hospital the other day
with some mis gi vin g S .
I was as surprised as I was pleased,
At the gate I was courteously received
and provided with an escort to show me
where to go. I was taken to my patient
in a freshly-painted ward with staifiless-
steel fittings and everything bright and
cheerful.* The radio provided soft
music . i saw tables prepared for lunch
touted with good food and plenty of
butter on each plate.
When I left I was escorted to the ward
door and given a courteous good after-
noon. I went away with the impression
0 f kindness, gentleness and humanity
expected to see.
°° N r
A Sense of Proportion
Gables have lately been telling with
great gusto how far we are ahead of the
Americans and everybody else in the use
of air travel. Few articles on Australia
appear complete without some reference
to our airmindedness, and the now-defunct
handout of the Department of Informa-
tion, which seldom mentioned wool or
blowflies or rabbits, never failed to
devote at least a quarter of its space to
aviation. Quite obviously the flying and
using of other peoples’ aircraft has be-
come one of our most important in-
dustries. Even The Bulletin has been
moved to remark—somewhat ruefully in
view of the ever-mounting cost to the
taxpayer—that air transport has become
a daily necessity.
The danger lies in the fact that this
“airmindedness” has led to a shocking
neglect of our basic carriers, which are
as bad as the airways are undoubtedly
good. And these basic carriers are more
than a daily necessity; they’re absolutely
vital to ojrr economic existence. There’s
not one important industry from
growing to housebuilding which T heat '
hamstrung by shortage of transport
it s not quarter-million-pound P nd
they need but ordinary, chean J 01 *?
rail-trucks, of which we used to
an ample sufficiency. Today v£ r ° duce
build them. Anyone goin^tfTp^u lll
men’s Bend, for instance, with an !f!? r '
for a thousand bulk wheat-tmrif 11 order
be laughed at, S o the State
way finances have been serioudv »ff fl-
- Federal-subsidised air com„s? ted
have had to pay blackntLket pS°?’
Europe for their essential requiremS, “
By all means let those people ts '
prepared to pay enjoy the w-? V 9
amenities the air-age has given
for Heavens sake let us keep a semp r,t
proportion.— I Transporticus (Singapore/
Transport
I doubt if transport services will p VPf
be satisfactory while under collS
Government control, the two mo-
troubles being the attitude of the GoS*
ment worker towards his job and th*
attitude of the Government towards the
Australian as an individual. 1116
As far as the Government worker k
concerned his service is infected by a dk
claimer of responsibility from the ton
man down. A typical example from a
bus-timetable: “The Commissioner do e !
not guarantee the departure or arriva
of omnibuses at the times stated, nor wil
he be responsible for delay or any con
sequences arising therefrom.” In other
words the Commissioner states that buses
should be on time, but if they are not-.
well, that’s just too bad.
How long would a private concern de
pending on public patronage and battlinsr
against competition, last if it adopted a
similar attitude?
It has become accepted practice with
our Governments to treat the Australian
as a rugged individual—one who is either
scarcely refined or civilised enough to
appreciate, or who is scornful of, modem
ideas of personal comfort. The man in
the street stoically endures this concep-
tion of himself rather than think of him-
self as a softie. And while that notion
prevails, individual comfort is hardly
likely to be a marked feature of any im-
provements in the services. —R P
(N.S.W.).
Pests and Pea-rifles
I much suspect these complaints about
shortage of .22 ammunition hamper-
ing farmers in their efforts to check foxes
and rabbits. The .22 rifle has never
played a major role in beating the bunny;
the few farmers I’ve met patrolling their
paddocks with a pea-rifle were out mainly
for a bit of sport or “for a bunny or two
for the dogs.”
The reason why rabbits retain their
hold on many properties is that the
landholder, after a major offensive,
lets up and considers he has done an
excellent job. Generally he misses
a few breeders, which build up another
horde for the future. Very few land-
holders keep pegging away after those
last few rabbits.
As for foxes, a .22 will knock them,
though a heavier calibre is better, but
most fox-shooters like the 12-gauge shot-
gun. Still, not so long ago, when 12-gauge
cartridges were scarce, and farmers com-
plained that they were being hampered
in the destruction of foxes and rabbits,
I noticed that most of them, when they
did manage to get hold of some 12-gauge
ammo, hoarded it for the duck or
quail seasons. — Beau Forte (Vic.).
Mr. Evatt’s Walls
From reading Mr. Clive Evatt’s objec-
tion to the S.A. building scheme using
brick-on-edge construction for internal
walls for cottages, one would assume that
such a practice is not followed by the
N. S. Wales Housing Commission.
Yet brick-on-edge internal walls seem
to be standard equipment for Commis-
sion homes in the Sydney metropohta
area. I have lately inspected two com-
mission settlements at Lane Cove a
Chatswood, and every house had bricx-
on-edge internal walls. —J. C. (N.S.W.).
“Save for Security”
These advertisements infuriate me.
For whose Security should one saver
Not that of the saver certamly-his aw
ings will be taxed and will deprive him
of the old-age pension. He wiU save
the security of the man who ;
his money on horses, dogs and
he will save for the security of th
ernment with its swollen B^ d f et ,
save for the security of member
gant and self-appointed pennons. *
puts money into r^- e ? tate ’
are its masters more than the
° W Save for the other
would be a more appropriate &
Rhogam (N.S.W.)-


ĥ sd
Announcing
the NEW CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOP/EDIA
• 15 VOLUMES ® 4,000 ILLUSTRATIONS
• 14,500,000 WORDS • 2,500 CONTRIBUTORS
The first ENTIRELY NEW encyclopaedia on a great scale for over twenty years.
Post-war in outlook and treatment, and BRITISH. His Majesty the King has
graciously accepted the dedication. No work can compare with the New
CHAMBERS'S for accuracy, completeness, authority or price. Write now for full
details and copies of British press reviews.
AVAILABLE FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS
GEORGE NEWNES (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. , dn y e ? R n.sw:
BRING THE BOOKSHOP
INTO YOUR HOME !
By receiving Dymock’s catalogue of new and recent
books every month. Includes books for the whole family.
• AN EXCELLENT GUIDE TO READING
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List
Mail Orders promptly attended to.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE 8L3611.
YOU can order—on approval
ďfgd
• “Diseases of Livestock,” by Hungerford (42/-)
• “Merino Wool,” by Fegan (17/6)
• “Tire Merino, Past, Present and Probable,” by
Austin (37/6)
from
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
A New and Fascinating Novel . . .
THE CHINESE CAMELLIA
HELEN HENEY
This is a novel of character that records the impact made by the
arrival of a Chinese girl in an unhappy family. The Camellia, as she
comes to be called, is a silent figure, remote and serene, but her coming
to the Bent household is explosive in its effects. The secret turmoils in
each of them are brought to the surface by her influence. By gesture and
motion, by her clothes and her painted face, are revealed the charm,
subtlety and power of her alien presence.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS —9/6d.
COLLINS
AUSTRALIA’S FRONTIER PROVINCE
by C. L. A. ABBOTT
A critical survey of the Northern Territory from its early
days to the present time, by a former Federal Minister
and Administrator for the area. Illustrated. Price 16/-.
Publishers
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
EFG ■ ■ENGLISH AND FOREIGN BOOKSHOP
English and Italian Dictionary (E.F.G. Series) 6/3 post 6d.
English-Russian Dictionary 12/- post 6d.
German and English Dictionary 5/6 post 6d.
Bnglish-Gkrainian Dictionary 15/9 post 6d.
German and English Pocket Dictionary 9/6 post 6d.
Stanislawskl: English and Polish Dictionary 31/6 post Bd.
The Practical System (Hungarian Grammar by Welsh).. 17/3 post 4d.
The Situation in Asia, by Owen Eattimore 27/6 post Bd.
Africa, Britain’s Third fempire 9/- post 6d.
Art in Arnhem Eand 42/- post Bd.
Flowers (Subjects in Painting) 46/6 post Bd.
Movie Parade (Pictorial Survey of World Cinema) 42/- post 1/-
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W. Phone EW 9807
and A.M.P. DANE, OFF EDWARDS STREET, BRISBANE.
with the withered obscurity of most con-
temporary verse, and the fullness of their
stories with the contemporary versified
vacuum. In reviewing The Dreams (B.
24/5/’5O) one suggested that Miss Sebas-
tien had got off on a new tack; but of
course these writers have the imagery of
all great poetry behind them, and in prose
the work of such as Joyce, Kafka and the
surrealists.
Nightwood is the story of a young
French girl, small-witted and half-
demented, who becomes the wife of a
wealthy Italian Jew whose father faked a
German barony for the family ; she is
stolen from him by a rich young
American woman of Bohemian and
circus tastes, and then from her by a rich
American widow living in Paris; but in
his introduction T. S. Eliot warns the
reader against considering the book a
“psychopathic study”:
The miseries that people suffer through
their particular abnormalities of tempera-
ment are visible on the surface; the deeper
design is that of the human misery and
bondage which is universal.
The “deeper design” is reserved for an
American doctor, living in Paris, who
wards off the woes of the sorrowful Jew
and the young Bohemian with long, witty,
profound, and often scatological, mono-
logues on love, life and destiny, which
sometimes remind one of the objection
raised to Webster, the dramatist, that
many of his' purple passages merely
repeat the thought again and .again in
different images without progressing, and
at other times remind one of the
eighteenth-century jibes at authors who
kept commonplace-books from which to
load literary rifts with ore.
. At the same time, there are some well-
drawn scenes ; the wealthy : widow in a
jealous rage leaning across the carriage
to scratch the young French girl’s face ;
and the deserted baron with his mother-
less son spending night after night drink-
ing in a Vienna restaurant; and many
more marvellous passages of description,
as of the young girl first seen collapsed
in her room in a Paris hotel:
Like a painting by the douanier
Rousseau, she seemed to lie in a jungle
trapped in a drawing-room (in the appre-
hension of which the walls have made their
escape), thrown in among the carnivorous
flowers as their ration; the set, the property
of an unseen dompteur [lion-tamer], half
lord, half promoter, over which one expects
to bear the strains of an orchestra of wood-
wind render a serenade which will popu-
larise the wilderness
It is brilliant and alive, but it shares
with the rest of the book a feeling of
being a little as though translated from
the French ; a mind accustomed to think-
ing in prose forcing itself to think in
poetry.
This is not the effect one gets from
the stories in A Tree of Night, which
would hardly supply one such solidly
quotable passage of poetry, but whose
total effect is more purely that of poetry.
This is because most of Capote’s poetry
is in the action or the situation ; a girl
sells her dreams and, unable to buy them
back, finds she has nothing to live for ; a
little girl comes to stay at a boarding-
house, wins a Hollywood trial at a concert
organised by a confidence-trickster, and
then organises the village and has the
trickster arrested; a bom double-crosser
creates the situations which ruin him ; a
little country boy guesses the exact num-
ber of nickels in a jug; an art dealer is
haunted by a girl painter who is convinced
she must be the victim of his murder ; a
young girl is overpowex-ed in a railway
carriage by the intangible threats of a
grotesque sideshow couple . . .
The simplicity of Capote’s stories
approaches that of the fairy-tale ; they
never depart from the idiom of the ordi-
nary run-of-the-mill American story ; and
yet they bloom like flowers. Whether,
lacking the singing quality of their un-
doubted poetry, they will die like flowers
is a matter one would be more prepared
to discuss a hundred years from now.
A Book of the Turf,
Australia has produced, or, rather,
nurtured, a poet who is perpetually
enshrined in the pages of Miller’s Sport-
ing Annual in commemoration of his feat
of having ridden three steeplechase-
winners in one day at Flemington. Or,
as it could be put, the Australian Turf
has been graced by a cross-country jockey
who is . perpetually enshrined in the
Poet’s Corner of Westminster Abbey.
Either way, it gives Australia a surely
unique association of literature with the
Turf.
Certainly racing inspired Adam Lind-
say Gordon to some of his best, or best-
appreciated, contributions to Australian
literature. And one would think that a
cpuntry in the development and enter-
tainment of which horses have played
such an important part would have pro-
duced far more literature of the Turf
than is the case.
Consequently, any addition to the
sparsely-occupied shelves of our Turf
library is welcome ; the latest to han(J,
Clive Inglis’s Horse Sense (Halstead
Press), is particularly so in that it is a
volume principally of Turf reminiscences,
and that shelf is all but bare.
Member of a family associated with
racing for several generations, Inglis has
been in close touch with racing and
racing folk since his youngest days; and
being on the inside of the game, as it
were, his reminiscences of racing per-
sonalities cannot help but be interesting.
Some of the identities with whom he
deals are long since gone, but most are
known, though often by little more than
name, to any present-day follower of
racing, and the closer personal glimpses
of some of these will come rather as reve-
lations to most readers.
It will be new to many to learn, for
instance, that one personality with whose
name (with a sir before it) one had been
familiar for years as the head of a big
newspaper concern and as the owner of
a succession of great horses had adopted
that name by deed-poll at a compara-
tively early age because his much-publi-
cised racing successes were becoming em-
barrassing to his uncle, who had the same
name but was a strict churchman. And
it is enlightening to read of another
identity, widely known as one of the
country’s leading breeders, that for years
he did not speak to his also well-known
brother unless a third person was present
through whom the conversation could be
conducted.
The book is full of equally spirited
anecdote. Inglis’s literary style is some-
thing short of polished, but it is concise,
compact and bright. Prefaces are usually
items which can be best done without,
but Inglis’s, titled “Barrier Rise,” is
acceptable in stating his aim with ad-
mirable brevity. Follows then a book
broadly divided into seven parts, the
titles of which will indicate the scheme:
Cavalcade of Champions; Purely Per-
sonal ; Humans Professionally Associated
with Horses; Spotlight on the Studs;
Agents and Auctioneers; Echoes from
Everywhere; and Academic Aspects of
Horse History.
Winding up with what might be termed
a brief epilogue under the title “Weigh
In,” the author hopes “you have become
better acquainted with some great horses
and the humans associated with them.”,
Mr. Inglis can rest reasonably assured.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 78
Across,
I—-Nothing upset the district attorney
to mend a measure actress on
celluloid. (5, 7)
B—Trees are placed all over again. (5)
10 — Shut up the east with the price
of Whitsunday. (9)
11 — Mode of address. (3)
12— Pop to obtain one of Henry
VIITs statesmen. (5)
14— Plant found at the end of a
continent. (5)
15— Mother marsupial and Edward
are cast adrift. (8)
17— Kate is out of order in the
wood. (4)
18— Kind of shoe turns up with a
legislator. (4)
20 —What nervy people are on with
the sage? (8)
24 A spiral staircase revolves about
this column. (5)
25 — Refuse from a stew. (5)
26 Sinbad found its company elevat-
ing, Patricia. (3)
27 How- a poet might apostrophise
the beach numbers. (9)
29 — Pertaining to the people of Asia
Minor in court. (5)
30— Famous jumping race on the
riverside institution backed by a
Government. (8, 4)
Down.
1— The French about the beach
enclosure swallowed the south
household gods. (5, 3,7)
2 Cure for noisy piano-playing? (7)
3 It might be seen either in Caucus
or Caucasus. (3)
4 A song for nine voices and a
former Test umpire on the
steamer evenso. (11)
5 A piece of dishonesty upset
Marxist songs in Germany. (6)
6 People who wish they could live
their lives over again would like
to do this advice to a thief from
a jeweller’s shop. (3, 4,3, 5)
7 Symptom of an inefficient liver
in an Arctic explorer. (6)
9 —Candle upset a Government de-
partment, (5)
13 —Continue, Diana, to twist one
town in Queensland. (11)
16 — Serpent. (3)
17— Sit up? (3)
19—Stomachs on an Antarctic ex-
plorer. (6)
21— Clumsy writer turned up in it. (5)
22 -True air of Tuscany and part of
Umbria. (7)
23 — Albert is to invite a U.S. terri-
tory. (6)
28 —Daughter’s brother. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 77.


1
t
m
m
m
-s
\
Swr?
J
IP
,>T fv*
::va
mm
:
■r
1
i«S»
H
fl*
*<€
....
«S#
:
m
wm
a
w
i
-v
« V
: .
i
«
MR
m
fg
