

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3663
Wednesday, April 26, 1960
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FROM OXFORD'S CORPUS CHRISTI CAME MANY OF ENGLAND'S GREAT
A S might be expected in a town whose growth has been so gradual, the
buildings of Oxford present a pageant of architectural examples covering
every period from the Saxon times. Here may be seen the main characteristics
of the various styles, from Norman to Perpendicular, which were gradually
evolved from the eleventh to the seventeenth century, long after the
Renaissance had destroyed the last traces of Gothic spirit on the continent
of Europe.
Corpus Christi College, standing between Merton and Christ Church,
was founded in 1516 by Richard Fox, Bishop of Winchester, for secular
clergy only. He appointed University lecturers on Greek, Latin and Hebrew,
and the College has. always remained a centre of classical scholarship.
The original college buildings are in the Front Quadrangle, illustrated
here, and in the centre of which stands a picturesque sundial, which was
set up in 1581 by Charles Turnbull; it has a perpetual calendar on the pillar,
a square block carved with heraldry above this, arid on the top is a pelican,
the college symbol.
Corpus Christi’s roll of fame has on it the names of two of the most
remarkable of all churchmen —Richard Hooker and Bishop Jewel* The
latter, driven into exile by Mary Tudor’s accession, in 1553, was one of the
heroic spirits of English Protestantism, and was made Bishop of Salisbury
by Queen Elizabeth. Also at Corpus Christi was John Keble, who won a
scholarship and reached Oxford at the age of fifteen. Another distinguished
member was General James Oglethorpe, prison reformer and founder of the
American State of Georgia. John Ruskin was welcomed as a Fellow, and
he made Corpus Christi an intellectual centre and a subject of conversation
all over the land.
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE O E SEPPELI


Learn
Story Writing
vJ U*t V| at HOffE
This Book FREE to YOU*
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
Please send without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin»
My Name
My Address
ff '* 2so AGE
The Red page
A RILKE RHAPSODY.
Magda von Hattingberg’s Rilke and
Benvenuta (Heinemann), subtitled “a book
of thanks” and translated from the
German by Cyrus Brooks, tells, in the
words of the dust-jacket, “the true and
poignant love-story of poet and pianist
based on Rilke’s unpublished letters and
poems—now revealed for the first time.
Magda von Hattingberg, a concert per-
former with a European reputation, is
the pianist, whom Rilke called “Ben-
venuta” ; and the poet, of course, is the
German Rainer Maria Rilke who died in
1926 from leuchaemia, “a rare and tortur-
ing disease due to an excess of white,
corpuscles in the blood” which became
apparent after he had scratched his hand
while gathering roses.
In his sensitive and elegant existence of
50 years, exquisitely tormented and
exquisitely rewarded, Rilke seems to have
gathered, in a pale and ethereal way,
almost as many roses in the shape of
female adorers as, more tempestuously,
did D. H. Lawrence. And, in fact,
though Lawrence had by far the more
virile personality, there is a distinct simi-
larity in their careers, springing from the
fact that both writers were victims of
the passion of the twentieth century to
invent a new religion and that both, not
because they were Don Juans, but be-
cause of the emotional hysteria so readily
evoked by the prophet of a new religion,
found extraordinary favor with women.
On Rilke’s grave, as on Lawrence’s, has
fallen a tempest of books —letters from
Rilke to women ; letters from women to
Rilke ; adoring books seeing the poet as
a prophet, a mystic and a great lover ;
angry books by lady authors rejecting the
claims of other ladies to have been the
great love of the poet’s life; angrier
books by other ladies debunking him as
a lover ; and, angriest of all. Professor
Eliza Marian Butler’s Rainer Maria Rilke,
published by the Cambridge Press in
1941, debunking him as a lover, a
prophet, a mystic and a man, while re-
taining an indignant appreciation of his
poetry.
Professor Butler’s book was too violent
to remain the standard authority. As an
instance of its obvious unfairness, one
may note that the professor throughout
the book refers to Rilke’s “grudge-bear-
ing” tendencies; he could never forgive
an injury, she says. But when Rilke was
dismissed from his post as Rodin’s secre-
tary, and did not bear a grudge against
the great sculptor, he is guilty of “failing
to show a proper pride.” The professor
really can’t have it both ways.
A biography so hostile remains, never-
theless, useful as a corrective to such a
book as Magda von Hattingberg’s ; for
the pianist, in thanking the poet for having
been chastely in love with her for three
months early in 1914, adopts a tone so
rhapsodic as to be quite as unreliable,
in its own way, as Professor Butler’s. If
one cannot quite believe Professor Butler
when she tells us that the poet’s mind
was a “sink”—
During the early period it was his
curious and distressing practice to use
prose for fantasies so ugly and at the same
time so sodden with sentiment, aesthetically-
speaking so perverse, that if one knew
only these writings one could argue with
some show of reason that his mind was
like a sink His effort to rid himself of
horrible memories stirred up - malodorous
dregs—
one funds it equally difficult to accept fully
Magda von Hattingberg’s picture of the
“sink” as an angel;
What kind of a man is Rilke?—l think
I could only answer: He is not a man, he
is an apparition, a being here among us
from other worlds. That he was married
and has a child seems to me as inexplicable
as though an archangel had a human
destiny He has the gift of knowing
what takes place behind phenomena, the
gift of expressing the apparently inexpress-
ible, till one contemplates the depth, the
goodness, the purity of his noble mind as
though it were a miracle.
Simply as an exercise in the art of
invective Professor Butler’s book is so
spirited—and so strange to return to after
Magda von Hattingberg’s exercise in the
art of adoration —that one is tempted to
quote more from it. The professor
quotes with joy a description of the poet
by one disillusioned lady as “dyspeptic
and covered with boils” ; she says that
Rilke is “a tigerish elegist snarling over
his ghostly kill” ; a “poetical sadist” ; he
is full of “maudlin tenderness towards
himself”; he is “greenery-yaliery” and
“ghoulish and girlish” ; he “prowls around
childbirth” and the professor’s teeth are
“set on edge” ; he exhibits “sickly ele-
gance” ; he is a “jackdaw” ; he “pokes
in rubbish-tips”; and finally, on his
deathbed, he suffers, without noticeable
regret from the professor, “the tortures
Of the damned.”
This is not merely a literary denuncia-
tion of works with a sickly tendency but
a most bitter personal attack, for Pro-
fessor Butler has a theory, for which she
produces no evidence whatsoever, that
Rilke committed some horrible and un-
nameable crime against a woman in
Venice ; and also she accuses him, again
with only theoretical evidence, of want-
ing to murder the artist Paula Becker,
who, while he was in love with her,
married another man: “He may even
have felt that she w 7 as in danger from
himself when he wished a virgin’s death
on her in the Fragment.”
If all this is useful as a corrective to
Magda von Hattingberg’s adulation,
at the same time, of course, Rilke and
Benvenuta is useful as a corrective to
Rainer Maria Rilke. At least it adds a
few facts, for in the professor’s biography
the name of Magda von Hattingberg does
not appear. Presumably, if she is not
the “intimate friend” mentioned in the
introduction who thought it “irreverent”
to say how long she had known the poet
and how many of his letters she pos-
sessed, she is certainly the “unknown
woman” mentioned later “about whom he
wrote so desperately to Lou and for
whose sake he had actually been con-
templating a divorce from Clara in the
spring of 1914” ; and now she tells how
she wrote to Rilke praising his work;
how she came to meet him in Berlin;
how they travelled to Paris and Venice
and how they lived at Duino, the castle
of the Princess Marie Thum and Taxis,
where the poet, some years earlier, had
begun the famous Duino Elegies ,
Magda von Hattingberg is able to add
to the professor’s biography, too, an
atmosphere of grace and elegance.
Whether or not Rilke was all that Pro-
fessor Butler says, his life did not take
place, as her insistence on his worst
qualities seems almost to suggest, in a
butcher’s shop or a morgue, but against
this sort of background:
The piano stood under a bower of roses
and wistaria, with which the pergola is
nearly smothered. A mass of purple, red
and yellow buds, interlaced witn full-
blown flowers, hung along the whole length
of the terrace. The air was full of the
sweetest scent. And here we played
Befelhoven, Mozart, Schumann and Dvorak.
The surge of the sea came up to us; little
birds among the flower-laden sprays sang
their small, melodious solos in the midst
of a scherzo or an adagio. We could not
stop playing, and our listeners did not
tire. The sun went down, the sky turned
golden, a light breeze shook the leaves
of the pergola and tossed rose-petals oh to
the piano, and still we went on playing,
till the first pale stars shone out in the
sky and the rosy clouds paled over the sea.
It was a dream of flowers, music, scent
and the songs of birds, set on a rock-
based castle on the sea, against a back-
ground of enchanting country. Finally
the musicians played the adagio from a
later string quartette of Beethoven: the
last chords died out in the twilight with
almost supernatural beauty.
The figure of Rilke, so battered by
Professor Butler, takes on some of the
enchantment of this setting; and there
are incidents, not so much when he is
among people as when he is spending a
whole morning watching a beetle, in
which he almost becomes human —which
he never does in the professor’s bio-
graphy.
But-you would never guess from Rilke
and Benvenuta that Rilke’s visit to
Tolstoi, so reverently mentioned here,
was in reality such a frost that Tolstoi
afterwards denied that he ever met him ;
you would never know that Marthe, the
Parisian waif he befriends so nobly, was
in reality, according to Professor Butler,
the mistress with whom he careered round
the nightclubs till dawn; you would
hardly, except from an occasional acid
paragraph, guess that there were dozens
of women in Rilke’s life before and after
the apparently passionless affair which
the publishers describe as “a love story
which can be compared with the great
love stories of literature” ; and indeed
there are so many evasions, so many gaps,
so many sentimental and highfalutin un-
realities in this story that inevitably you
are driven back to Professor Butler for
a more exact account of how Rilke
thought, acted and wrote.
And the most curious, the most signi-
ficant thing about Rilke and Benvenuta
is that Magda von Hattingberg herself is
finally driven back to Professor Butler’s
position ; if not to open attack, at least to
profound disquiet. There was an occa-
sion at Duino when Rilke read her his
celebrated essay on dolls:
They are without individual judgment,
submissive to any numbskull, and yet,
once he becomes their property, possessing
him in a very special way; they are lazy,
complacent, unclean, dragged through the
changing emotions of the day.... a horrid
alien object on which we had wasted our
purest affection; the dripping, superficially
bedizened corpse, which let itself be lifted
and borne by the floods of our tenderness,
till we were dry again and left it lying
in some bush —
and from that reading of a work at once
absurd, sensitive and satanic, which Pro-
fessor Butler regards as Rilke’s most
striking piece of prose, Magda von Hat-
tingberg dates her estrangement from the
poet. She found it “horrifying.” Read-
ing between the lines, one wonders from
this point on whether her account of
Rilke, in spite of its professions of adora-e
tion, is not really, deep down, more bitte r
than Professor Butler’s.
Literary Circles.
Edward Sackville-West’s Inclinations
(Seeker and Warburg) brings the good
old tag “literary circles” to mind not
only because the author is dealing with
the better-class literature of England,
Germany and France but also because
his manner of dealing with it, even when
the authors are so approachable as
Dickens and Conrad, is rarefied and
circumambient, like the progress of a
traveller bushed among mountains.
This is what Mr. Sackville-West him-
self implies when he admits in his fore-
word that he adopts an ' “oblique
approach.” The phrase sounds well, but
what it means in practice is that you
entitle an essay “Dickens and the World
of Childhood,” begin by talking about
Oliver Twist, Paul 'Dombey and Little
Nell, and end by comparing Edith
Dombey with Emma Bovary and Anna
Karenina; which conclusion, however
interesting in itself, is remote from the
theme of Dickens’s dreadful children.
Or, you begin your article on Shelley
by stating that “There are some writers
(they are usually poets) whose views
seem more fully justified by what
happened after —sometimes long after—
their death than by the state of affairs
against which they actually inveighed” ;
and then, instead of elaborating this
theme and showing how Shelley’s polities
are more significant in our own time than
they were in Castlereagh’s (if that is
what Mr. Sackville-West had in mind),
you proceed to talk about Shelley’s
peculiar enthusiasm for sharing his lady-
loves with Hogg.
Or again, you entitle your essay on
Conrad “The Moment of Silence,” begin
by suggesting that both Conrad and
Henry James constructed their novels to
lead up to “a peak of silence,” wherein
is expressed power or poetry beyond the
scope of words; and you end with a
personal reminiscence of Conrad
“hunched like a wary bird in his upright
chair, his face a triangular mirror always
tilted towards the light,” in which the
connection with original theme, which
might easily have been restored, is not
made manifest.
Mr. Sackville-West has other ways of
being oblique. Sometimes, as when he
approves of the characterisation of Little
Nell, you feel that he likes to take up
some quite impossible position in order
to show how brilliantly he can defend it.
Or, as in “skeltering water,” he will
choose, in order to be odd, an odd
phraseology. Or, as in his review of
Professor E. M. Butler’s biography of
Rilke, he will astonish the reader by not
talking about his subject at all.
There is, to be sure, a good deal about
Rilke in this article, including the re-
freshing statement that Mr, Sackville-
West, though his taste is for writing
which is “difficult, highly-organised,
‘late,’ ” finds / the Duino Elegies
excessively obscure; but about Miss
Butler’s irate biography, except for the
one misleading description of it as
“clear-sighted,” there is hardly a word.
The present reviewer always inclines to
the opinion that a review of a book
about, say, crocodiles should not be a
discussion about, say, the philosophy of
Plotinus ; nor even, to come closer to Mr.
Sackville-West’s method, an account of
the reviewer’s personal experiences with,
and views on, crocodiles. It should be a
review of the book.
But, to return to Mr. Sackville-West’s
book —for one must not be led astray
into a dissertation on crocodiles—if there
are no perceptible merits in his oblique
approach as such and if his essays are
so badly constructed as hardly to deserve
the title, being rather what one would
call papers,” there is a great ,
profit to be gleaned by the of
Mr. Sackville-West is lost e ‘ U
mountains he is never the
And it is clear from his prefa ce *° h rch>
he sets out his fundaiSntal’cSS
beliefs on the novel and attackf ?
proletarian school of Hemin the
“The chief persons must
appreciable education and/or sens hiiif
.. . .The dialogue must proceed at a A
above that of everyday life”—m | eV if
does not stray from any lack nf -L- e
principles but from a love o/bvmS!
and, perhaps, from indolence * b>P bs
He has wit, exemplified in his reproof
of Dickens for “harping on Mr CaS-
teeth” and in his picture of the^f n s
person little Paul Dombey PP W “2
probably have become had Dickens
mercifully killed him in his infancy He
has honesty, exemplified in his confession
that the Did no Elegies ' are too much
for him. In spite of his preference for
fne rare, the difficult and the “l ate ”
of the authors he deals with’ from
Meieditn to Zola, are comparatively
popular, quite easy and quite “early.”
He has the aristocratic outlook, shown
not only m his distaste for the Heroine-
way school but in his observation in the
course of his analysis of Bleak’House
and Dombey and Son, that Dickens
whose ideal of mortal existence was “a
stuffy cosiness,” seemed “never to have
been visited by an inkling that money is
desirable for what it can buy,” and that
“he could never have understood
Disraeli’s pleasure in the mere spectacle
of a life in which money is no object.”
He has, beyond that, an extremely
sensitive critical talent, and in the Conrad
article, if his slightness or indolence
makes him far less impressive than was
John Cowper Powys on Conrad’s
silences, and if it is a little “oblique” to
prefer The Shadow Line to The Nigger
of the Narcissus, there are some memor-
able observations: —
An acute sense of the human mystery,
which has landed so many novelists of
today in despair and contempt of life, led
Conrad to a high opinion of men and
women....In The Shadow Line [as com-
pared with The Nigger of the Narcissus]
there is everywhere a greater ease and
fluency, a clearer outline, and a lack of
emphasis which exactly balances character
against event in a design of great poetic
power. And as an essay in symbolism the
story is a masterpiece, for the planes of
reality are kept level to the end.
Above all, Edward Sackville-West has
knowledge. He is at home in three
languages, and equally at home in art as
in literature. There is an essay on
Delacroix, and the writers he discusses
include, besides those mentioned,
Stendhal, Stefan George, Goethe, Andre
Malraux, Kafka, Barbellion and (as a
critic) Cecil Day Lewis.
What Is a Poem?
Theory of Literature by Austin
Warren and Rend Wellek (C^P e l
summarises the main efforts wnic>
have been made to study literati ,
especially during the past twenty or tnu y
years. The authors are concerned, n
with what can be taught of
history of books or biography of■ wrI . |
but with what can be learned a
literature by some method approxima S
the scientific. From the b e o in f ’
although they do not mention the nwue
until page 251, they are up aga
small difficulty: —
Most philosophers since Kant and
men seriously concerned with {ure
agree that the fine arts, including
have a unique character and value
cannot, says Theodore Greene, fo m^re
“reduce artistic quality , t0 ° th ! n - “the
primitive qualities”; and nl , a K ty 0 f
unique character of the art J? tl( ; n tuited,
a work can only be immediately (e( j )
and though it can be exlnbited . -^d.”
it cannot be defined or even desenbeo
Having thus < determined to
phrase, that it is impossible w hat
to know anything about art P have
he likes, the authors wffi be s ® e lately
either a severely limited, or a ture .
unlimited, field for the s hHy j
Either they can look at - t or
satisfied barbarously to in u
they can push around bu:si V r °.
anything they can about Jt r J r i s ing
fessors of literature, it js n , ot „. •; their
to find them pushing around, as
chapter on “The Analysis of the L«
Work of Art.” tr - ntica i with
What is a poem? Is it or
the black lines of ink on vvhite P a P s
parchment?” No, beg 8 * 1 ? . t jj C reading
have never been printed. Is - oD ly
or saying of the words- N » . wh at
a performance of the poem- xoer ience o f
I. A. Richards said, an exp becalise
the right kind of reader • > ■ ein into
this “puts the essence ot ™f f eve n the
a momentary experience re peat
right kind of
(Continued on inside back covert


-fg.
k
m
m
S-.,
■
***
A
-
XI
i.
a
m
*
mmw
B
What the well dressed Man will wear this Season
.siwpjOH &nopu
..ONISUHHAQV NllfHinai..
E
A
“Woodrow" English Hats. Cut edge
brims 2|in., 2|in. Bound edge 2|in.
Satin lined. Light, Medium or Dark
Grey, Fawn, Brown. 3in. brims.
Unlined. Fawn or Brown .... 59/6
B
“Henderson” Royal Standard quality featuring
smart style in Grey, Blue, Fawn, Brown. 35/-.
C
F'ayrefield Hats. Blue Ribbon Quality. Plain
or Bound edge brims, Satin lining. In Greys,
Blue Greys, Fawn and Brown. 35/-.
D
Akubra Hats. Pure fur felt, cut edge brims of
various widths. Greys, Blues and Browns. High
quality, 31/6. Super Fine Quality, price 37/-.
Polished Figured Ebony, Silver Band and
Mount, 37/6. Polished English woods with
Silver Band, price 26/6. Ash with Natural root
nose, ruggedly handsome. Priced at 15/6.
Men’s Wear. Ground Floor, George Street.
G
V
E
Men’s Scarves by “Tootal.” In Fancy Rayon,
richly patterned in smart figured and Paisley
designs. Priced at 18/9 each.
G
Men’s Gloves in Tan Leather, fleecy lined, with
dome fastener. Sizes Sin. to 2l- pair.
F
Also in a finer quality made in England in sizes
Bin. to 9£in. Priced 27/9 pair.
English
Walking
Sticks
26/6
15/6
37/6
umm
B
* ■
It.
; > f !
I
r /
m
.
i .
~ •*.


THE BREECH.BOLT'S SNICK
By
JOHN FOUNTAIN
PRIVATE Norm Rees peered at the
other black figure, amorphous in
the giant blackness thrown from
the orange orchard.
“That you, Mitch?” he said, scarcely
above a whisper.
“M-m. Y-ai-res.” It was a real
whisper. But it was also Mitch’s voice,
Norm came closer. There should be no
mistaking that voice, prematurely strained
barking at country sideshows and scream-
ing “Nit! Coppers!” in various Sydney
lanes. Mitch, at 19, was a man of parts,
But a voice sounds funny, different,
coming out of darkness.
“What are you doing, Mitch?”
“Sh!” A compelling sound. Norm
stopped. But he could see Mitch now —
could see his eyes gleaming under the
tin hat —and his grip on
the rifle relaxed. Not that
he had been worried; not
really. A Wog or two,
perhaps reconnoitring
the army of empty tents.
They were rare thieves, the
Wogs. But that. Norm
supposed, was the nature of Wogs, as it
was natural for Mitch and himself to
try to stop them. Short of shooting.
Norm didn’t think he could come at shoot-
ing an unarmed Wog for the sake of a
tent-fly.
True, they had had clear instructions
before leaving Beit Jirja. Challenge.
Halt! Who-goes-there? Then, quick and
lively, “Stanna Swa!” which was
alleged to mean much the same thing in
Palestinian Arabic. “If they don’t stop
then —let ’em have it! ” Thus Lieutenant
Franky Murray, who a couple of months
before had been a corporal at Greta, and
before that a navvy. He added thought-
fully, “Aim low.”
Norm didn’t like Lieutenant Franky
Murray ; and neither did Mitch.
A T first Norm had been prepared to
look up to Sergeant Brown as a
last-war man; something of the same
feeling as he had for Robby, also a
sergeant, and a D.C.M. and M.M. But
l?e had begun to wonder if Sergeant
Brown really had an oaken resolution
concealed behind his hawk nose and wry
mouth and weary eye ; or just a wooden
brain. And Sergeant Brown had been
picking on him.
“Look, Sergeant, you’re picking on
me! ” —he’d told him so, only that morn-
ing, wagging his finger at him. A wild
Welsh passion carrying him into
eloquence. “And let me tell you, ser-
geant, we all make mistakes —tired and
all! Just you make a mistake, Sergeant,
and see how you get on. I’ll put you in,
Sergeant. By God I will!” '•
Sergeant Brown looked at him coldly
and repeated his orders ; adding a couple
of riders. Norm obeyed, of course.
Orders were orders.
Orders or no orders, he wouldn’t shoot
a Wog; and neither, he felt sure, would
Mitch. Mitch had done so much thieving
himself in civilian life that he might
reasonably be suspected of sympathy for
nocturnal Wogs. Although he had
bayoneted a Wog—in the thigh—for
cruelty to a donkey, aggravated by
cheekiness. The act did the donkey no
ultimate good, probably ; the Arabs
seemed naturally cruel, and unlikely to
be reformed. But it showed Mitch’s
tender heart, and his contempt for Wogs,
TJie other business —Pooh! —that was
childishness; a child’s fear of the dark.
Part, too, of the imaginative Welsh Norm
who sang in canteens. Not fear, exactly,
but a kind of wild, creeping excitement
Willing to call monsters and marvels out
of the night.
Here was Mitch, good old Mitch, firm
A short story
that is a
long roll - call
in the darkness; and no Arab was going
to spring out of the blackened orange-
trees, a white ghost, like those assassins
the legendary Old Man of the Mountains
used to send down from Lebanon, and
stick a knife in him, just for the fun of
the thing. No fear; not likely. Not
with a .303 rifle in his hands and a handy
length of steel on the end of the rifle,
Anyway, these Wogs seemed harmless ;
walking down the Gaza road, or riding
their donkeys, small sons dangling brown
legs in front, wives, dusty black crows,
shuffling behind. Always a smile and a
“Saieeda, George,” for the Australian
soldiers guarding the legions of tents.
And a quick, dark, bright, curious, glance
from the women, without turning the
head: veils make for mystery, and
feminine allure. But you
only had to look down at
the naked black feet in
the white dust to lose a lot
of romantic ideas.
Not all, of course; and
not all the Arab women
shuffled. Some of them
walked like gazelles going to water, and
with a beautiful, backward-swaying,
vibrating carriage. You could guess at
beauty under the shapeless black robes.
But, on the other hand, you would re-
member things: the smell of mud-walled
villages, blind eyes, carcasses on butchers’
stalls black with flies, beggars, and the
winding, narrow, slimy cobbled streets
of Old Jerusalem. The tight masculine
life that enclosed them, the round of
parades and guards, showers and air-mail
letters, grapefruit juice and beer, seemed
very comforting in comparison.
The gang breaking stone down near
the bottom of the orchard seemed
friendly, too. Glaring white stone, white
skullcaps, baggy trousers, brown, pock-
pitted faces. No beauties, some of those
fellows, with their tusky, carious smiles.
But —and this was the main thing —they
were friendly; and so, too, for that
matter, were the camp Wogs at Beit
Jirja: tailors, barbers and the like.
Although, perhaps, you could hardly
count these polyglot echoes of the West.
THEY had seen the real thing the
other day, though—a horseman
riding out of the sunset. A wonderful,
violent, Palestine sunset, staining the
desert red for miles, and man and horse
coming out of the heart of it so quietly
and rapidly that they were almost abreast
of Franky Murray before the Australians
saw them. When they saw the mare they
stopped. No word of command; just a
concerted, involuntary halt. She had
borrowed light from the sun, but on her
own showing she was a glorious crea-
ture: bay, with short back, deep girth,
flat bone, slender legs ; all the orthodox
good points which, anyway, were inade-
quate to describe her grace and symmetry
and life.
The man, without touching the reins,
halted her, and the two stood facing the
platoon. The man, a narrow, dark, intelli-
gent face under the desert headdress, a
slight beard, and steady dark eyes; the
mare, tossing her head, blowing deli-
cately, pursing her velvet lips; inspect-
ing them with wide, dark, fiery-soft eyes.
Franky Murray walked a couple of
steps towards them. They seemed to
expect it.
“Not a bad horse you’ve got there,”
he said. Significantly, he didn’t call the
Arab “George.”
“No, not bad,” the Arab said. Sur-
prisingly, he spoke good English.
Franky tilted his hard, red, high-
cheeked face under the wide felt hat,
studying her, blue eyes slitted.
“How much do you want for her?” he
said.
“How much would you give for her?”
“A thousand ackers.”
The Arab smiled,
“Two thousand?”
“No more?”
Franky drew himself up to his full
height. Six feet two inches of lean tough-
ness. “Look here —I’ll give you a good
price for that mare.”
“How much?”
Franky was very red in the face. The
words tumbled out through tight lips.
“Look —I’ll give you—l’ll give you five
hundred Palestine pounds for that mare! ”
“Gawd!” Mitch breathed admir-
ingly. “Wouldn’t y’ swear he had it?”
The Arab bent his head and said some-
thing to the mare ; then he looked at
Franky, his eyes very bright and mock-
ing, and laughed softly. And horse and
man, with no further farewell, wheeled
and cantered away.
“I wonder who the hell he is?”
Franky muttered, staring after them.
“A fifth-columnist, most likely,” Mitch
said. “Why didn’t y’ arrest him, lieu-
tenant?”
“Shut up, Mitchell!” Franky said
viciously. Later he saw fit to explain
that he hadn’t really intended to buy the
mare; just wanted an idea on values.
What was Mitch doing there in the
darkness? Crouching? Sitting?
“What are you doing, Mitch?”
“Shut up r
OH, well, there could be no harm in
it, whatever it was. Mitch liked
being mysterious. It wasn’t as though
there was anything here in the darkness
to hurt a man. Only an odd Wog. And
the Wogs were harmless.
Harmless? Then what about that
Black Watch man they found in the
village near Barbara? Dead, of course.
But he had died in a peculiar and
atrocious way.
He had been in an Arab village him-
self that day ; not a village, really, a mere
encampment, donkeys, tethered camels,
sprawling dark tents on a shelf of sand.
He had stumbled on it trying to find a
short-cut to the coast.
He’d felt quite an adventurer sitting on
greasy cushions, sipping coffee with the
Mukhtar, and watching a knife-fighting
exhibition. The actors were two tribes-
men, one, long and rangy, with a beard
and bare feet, the other short and swart,
with a wall-eye and elastic-side boots. It
was a good exhibition, with honors just
about even. The tall one kept creeping
round on his enemy’s blind side, and the
swart one retaliated by foully stamping
on his bare feet.
He’d had enough sense not to look at
the women. A young scholar in a night-
gown acted as interpreter.
He put his hand in his shirt pocket for
some reason —and discovered the twenty
pounds Mitch had given him to mind had
gone. He tried the other pockets, shirt,
shorts, money-belt. No, the money had
gone. He opened his mouth to speak—
“Oh, Sheik” —something like that.
Norm opened his mouth —a large one,
incidentally, with handsome, white, rather
large teeth —his black brows met and his
large dark eyes flashed Welsh fire. Then
he became aware of the Mukhtar’s beady
eyes watching him very intently. The
Mukhtar pointed to the locked and pant-
ing actors and their dangerous toys, and
smiled, black and grey whiskers quivering
over a million dirty wrinkles, a yellow
tooth gleaming against blackness. A smile
that grew and grew; not, by any ad-
venture of the imagination, a pleasant
smile.
“George, George,” the young scholar
was plucking at his sleeve, “The
Mukhtar says he will show you—the
knife game—l interpret ...” The
Mukhtar shot his arm out and held a
dagger under Norm’s eyes. A plain,
business-like dagger, none too clean and
bound with thin copper-wire.
“I interpret . . , ” The boy gabbled.
He seemed a decent sort of a lad; prob-
ably hadn’t cut many infidels’ throats
yet. “Feel it,” the boy urged. Norm
felt the dagger. It was sharp. The
Mukhtar’s brown, sinewy, surprisingly
young-looking hand closed over the
handle lightly, tightly, twitched and
turned with furious nervous energy. The
points of the game were explained. You
slide the blade along—so—that cuts the
sinews of the wrist; only it can be
parried— so—and you slash for the belly
—ah!
The Mukhtar was all smiles when
Norm left. Come again ... Any time...
Come to think of it, he wouldn’t mind
shooting that Mukhtar.
1 T had been awkward telling Mitch. A
1 lot of money, twenty Palestine pounds;
more money, certainly, than he had any
hope of raking up for a long time. As it
was, he lived on a mere mercy pittance—
the luxury of telling a corporal what to
do on parade accounted for the rest.
Twenty-eight days’ pay. Conduct to the
prejudice of good order and military
discipline ; all that for a piece of.fantasuc
advice offered gratis to an oV ® r^o^ t 1
corporal. But he supposed he had b
lucky to escape Jerusalem. Major Shey
would have sent'him there, nothing su •
He had found himself disliking that q
voiced, eggshell-browed, efficient •
Although he could understand his P°
of view, too. . Wnll ]d
Twenty Palestine pounds worn
Mitch believe him? It was, after >
unlikely story. There were Mitch
cedents to consider, too. The
civilian world Mitch came from
make for scepticism. we ii
He didn’t know Mitch so veI Y *J a
either. They had been in camp .
together—where Norm p rU m a n;
thought Mitch a horrible Y where
they had come over on a troop P Stable
Mitch had been partner m a JZ om 's
crown-and-anchor business; an
opinion had been substantially
changed. Then they had c f
Beit Jirja on this guard, < a h t as it
friendship had sprung up; overnign
W He told Mitch when he armed
Mitch looked at him hard untu
finished speaking, and then s
it. I won it at swy, anyway. , p, aC k,
Suddenly throwing jus cur y kafooza leni,
Mitch began to howl Hi, h°> „ die
kafoozalum, kafoozalem • • * Q 0 inter-
outraged sky, and would■ “ dea } t with
ruption until he had faitfif Y future
every verse and each scandalous ao
of the terrible lady from fta chment f° r
Mitch had a sentimental JiaVe for
the song, as gentler nat J! t tf o me \
such melodies as Home, and
or, perhaps, for Mitch, it e vo *
summarised the East. Norm it was
Songs can do that. W dm l^5
“The Road to Mandalay . a
(I Continued on pas e 20^


The Bulletin
''y^TT^oTsees
Wednesday, April 26, 1950
2?' GV W
wag$ s
W<?OSr
7 Or
L/V/A/q i
? /• 1
“DON’T LOOK NOW, BUT I THINK WE’RE BEING FOLLOWED!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" SHOWS ITS HAND.
With the opening of the second half of
the first session of the enlarged Federal
Parliament “Labor” has begun to show
its hand clearly. It is evident that the
obstruction which has been going on ever
since the Parliament was constituted on
February 22 is not merely the emanation
of the high spirits of irresponsible
members • of the rank-and-file of the
“Labor” Opposition, but a calculated plan
carried out under the guidance of Mr.
Chifley and his outfit.
The position has more serious implica-
tions than are obvious in the isolated acts
of those involved. In the light of Mr.
Chifley’s recent admission that the policy
of his party is Socialism pure and simple,
an idea which previously he pooh-
poohed, only one interpretation can be
placed on the actions of his party.
Socialism and the Parliamentary system
cannot exist together in any case. But
the socialisation which “Labor” proposes
specifically aims to destroy Parliament.
The “Labor” objective, when it was
framed in 1921, was deliberately linked
with the replacement of the present
system of constitutional government by
a class dictatorship implemented under a
Supreme Economic Council chosen only
by classes of persons approved by the
rulers of the country —the victorious
“proletariat.” This scheme was not put
forward merely by such members of the
drafting committee as Mr. J. S. Garden,
now in jail, but by his colleagues Messrs.
Scullin, Holloway and Curtin.
The objective of Socialism has stood
on the “Labor” platform for 28 years.
It is “Labor’s” only stated objective. It
has been maintained furtively, and when-
ever it has been suggested that it is any-
thing more than a theoretic ambition
“Labor” until recently has laughed
loudly, though the evidence is that the
custodians of it have been merely waiting
for the golden chance presented by the
election of an all-“ Labor” Government
controlling both Houses and backed by a
“Labor” politician foisted into 'the office
of Governor-General.
The first time this situation offered,
“Labor” at once tried to use its oppor-
tunity. The passing of the Bank Bill of
1947 proved its intentions. And the acts
of the Opposition at present in a Parlia-
ment in which they have been incon-
tinently thrown from power proves that
the fight is now on in the open. The
country is involved in a contest to decide
whether the present system shall survive,
or whether it shall be replaced by a con-
dition of affairs in which “Labor,”
whose dominating ingredient is really the
big bloc of Communist-led unions which
are allowed to infest the A.L.P., is placed
permanently in the saddle, all those whom
it disapproves being ruthlessly suppressed.
The present Government at Canberra
was elected by an overwhelming majority
at the elections. It was elected on a
franchise and in electorates designed
under a. “Labor” Government which was
complete master of the country. It was
given a mandate the details of which were
clear and unmistakable. Yet from the
beginning it is plain that “Labor” has
decided to make Parliament unworkable
so long as any other party is in power.
It proposes to use its Senate majority for
this purpose, apart from letting loose the
larrikin elements of the party in the
House of Representatives in sorties aimed
at the prestige of the Speakership, and in
condemnation of the Menzies Govern-
ment for administration which “Labor”
itself instituted and which the new Min-
istry has not yet had the opportunity
to change. There has been a strange sub-
sidence in the leadership of “Labor,” Mr.
Chifley and Dr. Evatt until recently hav-
ing left the main brunt of preliminary
action to the skirmishers, the little, noisy
men of the Fraser-Daly-Beazley types
whose company - officers have been
Messrs. Rosevear, Calwell and Burke, the
last Mr. Chifley’s Youth Leader.
The battle is now on with the generals
in the field, and the Government will
need the support of the whole country if
it is to carry out the policy which it was
elected to carry out, in the face of a
hostile and unscrupulous Senate majority
some of the “Labor” leaders of which
learned their technique in the I.W.W. No
Government should ever be immune from
criticism, and none is ever so perfect that
there is not plenty of ground upon which
to criticise it. Criticism is, in fact, part
of the process of government. But in this
country the stage has been reached at
which there has developed a dangerous
atmosphere in which it has become almost
second nature to pull down whatever has
been built up.
Mr. Menzies came to the Government
with greater difficulties than have faced
any other Prime Minister in history. He
had a new and enlarged following con-
sisting in the main of able youngish
men, most of them complete neophytes
in both Parliamentarianism and in
administration. He was presented with
a civil service which has been flagrantly
inflated during the past half-decade on a
spoils-to-the-victor policy, many of the
departments being headed by men who
were not trained civil servants, but who
had been pitchforked into office because
their neaf-Communist views ran with the
political objective of “Labor.” The Gov-
ernment’s financial policy, and particu-
larly its banking policy, it found in the
hands of a man who, Mr. Gullett, the
Government Whip, has declared had been
appointed governor of the Commonwealth
Bank because he was a “doctrinaire
Socialist,” a “fellow-traveller with
‘Labor’s’ policy,” and the only man
available who was capable of socialising
banking and industry and willing to do
it.
Mr. Menzies has to govern a country
which' has been accustomed to wicked
squandering irrespective of the price
which may have to be paid ultimately—
and of which the whole administrative
system needs a complete overhaul to re-
form it to a condition consistent with
reasonable economy.
It is altogether too much in the circum-
stances to expect hasty implementation
of policies and promises. The situation
calls for reasonable patience and apprecia-
tion that what has been done already
is a sufficient earnest that a great effort
is being made to return the Common-
wealth to a level keel. The Govern-
ment’s development policy is clearly de-
fined in detail, and the preliminaries are
well under way. The effect on production
of its restoration of a policy of free enter-
prise is already obvious in the great
variety of goods which are coming into
the shops. The taxation position has
been placed under review, and the work
of the committee which has undertaken
the job is well enough advanced to assure
that there will be substantial results from
it observable in the next Budget.
The revolution which the removal of
petrol-rationing has brought about needs
no comment. The new banking legisla-
tion, though far from satisfactory, re-
moves some of the dangers which hung
over commerce and industry until last
December. And though it has not been
introduced as yet, the Government’s de-
termination to introduce legislation to
deal with Communism and its promised
use of the Crimes Act in the interim have
contributed largely towards producing in-
dustrial peace in crucial industries and
imposing discipline on lawless elements.
Already Mr. Menzies has proved . that a
firm Government which is insistent that
the law must be obeyed can always
establish industrial order.
The virtue which the electors most
need to practice at the moment is
patience, combined with a realisation that
complete socialisation is the inevitable
alternative to Liberal-C.P. Government.
Mr. Menzies cannot introduce many of his
major proposals until the Budget has
been framed. And, not being Mr.
Chifley, he cannot frame his Budget until
he knows where he stands on taxation,
and whether he can count on industrial
peace and the continued and reasonable
support by the Senate of the proposals
which he has a mandate to implement.
Socialist Logic.
li\ is generally held by Socialists that
theirs is a logical creed, and, arguing from
that premise, devotees have been en-
couraged to believe in, to speak of and
to write about “the inevitability of
Socialism.” Critics have often tended to
take the Socialists at their own valuation
and accept the argument in part —before
Attlee it was a common saying that the
British, being essentially an illogical race,
would never accept Socialism —while
maintaining that the Socialists in their
passion for a logical society ignored
human values and overlooked the incon-
sistencies of human nature. Such critics
are guilty of a prime error. Socialists,
certainly the Australian practitioners of
the cult, are not governed by logic ; their
actions and their utterances are often the
reverse of logical.
Senator Donald Cameron, who has been
an avowed Socialist for longer than most
of the tribe —in the long-ago he was
secretary of the Victorian Socialist party
—recently explained why the “Labor”-
Socialists had not succeeded in winning
the Australian people to the cause of
Socialism. A couple of years ago, when
the Senator, then Postmaster-General, was
blithely offering to take over “surplus”
branches of the trading banks for con-
version into post-offices and telephone-
exchanges and to absorb “surplus” bank
clerks into his department, he was appa-
rently of the opinion that the people had
already been won to Socialism, but
December 10, 1949, had a message capable
of penetrating even the most case-
hardened Socialist skull.
According to the Senator, socialisation
is not sufficiently understood, and it must
be explained to the people more fully
than it has been. “People are the
prisoners of phrases, and the only effec-
tive antidote is education.” There is a
deal of truth in the last sentence, but the
old Senator’s assumption that education
would mean more converts to Socialism
is very poor logic. Perhaps he is con-
fusing education with indoctrination.
Mr. Chifley recently admitted that
socialisation was the main issue in the
last Federal elections. On that occasion
a majority of the electors voted against
“Labor” ; they rejected socialisation. In
the view of Senator Cameron this was
because socialisation had not been fully
explained to the people—they had not
been sufficiently educated to appreciate
its merits. The Cameronian argument
surely includes a corollary; those who
voted for “Labor” must be presumed to
be, on the whole, better educated and
possessed of a fuller understanding of
socialisation than those who opposed it.
Actually, there is far stronger ground for
arguing that the reverse is the case.
The great majority of “Labor’s” 47
membe -s of the House of Representatives
were sent to Canberra by the electors of
the crowded industrial suburbs of the
capital cities. It is in these areas, as
“Labor” members themselves in their
appeals on behalf of the “underprivileged”
are the first to admit, that the blessings
of education are least apparent. It would
be unkind to argue from this that
“Labor’s” best chance of regaining office
depend* on less, rather than more, educa-
tion, but that is a more logical conclusion
to draw from the facts than the one
Senator Cameron has arrived at. In
claiming, as he does in effect, that if those
who voted against “Labor” last December
were better educated in the meaning of
socialisation they would then vote for his
party, he is really saying that further
education would bring the anti-Socialist
majority of Australian electors to the
same conclusion that the “Labor”-voting
minority has already reached by instinct.
It may be Cameronian logic, but it isn’t
sense.
Australia's Hoodoo Town.
Darwin is the unluckiest town in Aus-
tralia. It was the only one where there
was heavy loss of life through enemy
action and where the Japs did consider-
able damage. It now stands desolate and
unrepaired, first because it has no hope
of getting adequate supplies of building
material, and, secondly, because it is the
victim of a fantastic and impossible Town
Plan, pushed on it, willy-nilly, by the now
defunct department of Post-war Recon-
struction.
It has taken knocks through the last
40 years. There was nothing wrong with
the site chosen: nature had done her best
here, and the town lay along the low
headlands fronting Fanny Bay and
swinging east round Fort Hill to Stokes’
Hill. The harbor is beautiful, clear and
sparkling, and the copper-colored cliffs
used to be crowned with high shade trees.
Used to be, because in the war years,
when the town was occupied by the
Services, artillery fire-control officers
decreed that these trees interfered with
their fields of fire, so down they came —
mangoes, coconut-palms, milkwoods and
the like. Even in the distant Botanic
Gardens, built up so carefully by the
Holtzes in the ’eighties, then neglected
and, just before the war, coming back
to what they had been, the Army went in
with the axe and firestick.
South Australia’s best-known Surveyor-
General, W. G- Goyder, went north 70-
odd years ago and laid out the town. He
planned in the usual rectangular manner
and named the streets after his surveyors
and chainmen Smith, Kavanagh,
Schultze, McMinn and so on. Darwin
plugged along under South Australian
control without much incident, and it
was not till nearly a decade after the
Commonwealth took control that the
hoodoo showed. This was when the
British meat firm of Vesteys decided to
build meatworks there, estimated by them
to cost £200,000, but which Australian
labor and costs, plus the war a .
to over £900,000. ar> s “°ved up
Operations began in 1917
in 1918 and 1919. Then i a h« ntinued
overwhelmed the firm and th troub les
closed, and, except for a
down period in 1926, neverroboillnB-
- machinery has gone th* l J°S ened .-
are sadly out of replh ’an d > lldin B s
now required for a suburb s th?? Slte ls
Darwin Plan. m the fant astic
But the aftermath to Darwin
when the works closed the decentf*
went off and agitators and extreiS?”
mamed to infect Darwin citizens
was not long before trouble came ’ The
first Commonwealth
Dr. Gilruth a rugged Scot
by a mob in front of the ?
dency, and leading Government offiS'
including the then judge, were forced * n
to a steamer bound south The A ”
trahan cruiser Brisbane was returning
from overseas service, and she Z
ordered to remain in the harbor, but to
anchor well away from the town ami
keep out of trouble. The old hands tell
however, that a detachment of blue’
jackets with an officer were sent to the
Residency under cover of night when the
extremists had decided to have another
go at Dr Gilruth. With their loud-
mouthed leaders at their head they
marched down to the Residency when to
their horror, the sailors doubled out with
fixed bayonets. The leaders turned and
literally, ran over their followers!
Gilruth’s term ended, the new Adminis-
trator was Urquhart, a former Queens-
land Police Commissioner. His first report
(1921) said that “the doctrine of extreme
unionism [was] vigorously inculcated by
the local union-leaders and enforced by
every subtle tyrannical’ device their none-
too-scrupulous minds could conceive.”
Urquhart quietened things down—not
the least successful of his methods being
the habit he had of strolling about the
town with a double-barrelled shotgun
lying in the crook of his arm. But the
Communists stopped any chance of town-
development. Darwin’s industrial up-
heavals became notorious beyond Aus-
tralia. In 1931, when the Scullin Govern-
ment was in, Red agitators led a mob
through the streets who took up their
quarters on the verandas of the Govern-
ment offices, where they put up the Red
flag. It flew for two days while the Gov-
ernment at Canberra vacillated. At last
action was taken by the Chief Medical
Officer, Dr. Cecil Cook, one of the
most outstanding men who have been in
the Territory. The flag infuriated him
and he walked through some 50 or 60
Reds, tore the rag down and took it
away. Then the police charged with
batons and the mob ran.
Communists overawed the Town
Council. They refused to pay rates, and,
when the council proceeded in court, boy-
cotted the premises of the business
members. In 1936 the council appealed
to the Minister for the Interior and asked
that the Administration take it over. This
was done. For a while, except for odd
strikes, the town was quiet, and c ona>‘
tions improved. Allotments were tidied,
streets were kerbed and guttered, an exce -
lent water-supply was installed, and a
first-class modern hotel was built. ih £
came war.
In the first raid in February, 1942, W
90 Japanese Zeros and bombers, Darw
waterfront went up. By then •
had been evacuated, and their h
lay open to all. .By 1945
town had been demolished by a s
mysterious fires, white-ants were m
of the remaining dwellings, and, •
Darwin residents returned, many
no vestige of their former homes
a few concrete piles on whicn th
had stood. . , J no
Now came the most crushing
of all. The Government resumed &
town area, and this might ha neW
good thing if the planning o .
town had been on a rea ? on ne oa rtnient
but this was not to be. The 1D P
of Post-war Reconstruction ha g. ’ ust
de mortuis —and, also, in faun » - wJI
be said that the designers ot tbe
Plan were shockingly ml^T ne ths and
Services’ estimates of future str g
requirements. woU id
The Army insisted that 3000 the
be maintained in the Jar and
Air Force said it would h e ha jf
the Navy, more modest, vn- - ed and
of this strength would be nWn -planners
would require homes. rnOOO tb e
finally made a populahon of 30.w0
basis for their plans. th co m-
That was in 1945. Today,
bined strength of t eXC eed 500,
Force in Darwin docs; not , stafld-
and a Darwin resident oi
war, All hope so.
c.L. A. ABBOTT.


PLAIN ENGLISH
“Arrant Humbug."
A(f _ KT 7rrs though more fit for bed
feT S, made one of the best
‘ h ,f a i g speeches heard for a long rime
d b ‘‘lfbor’s” motion to censure the
on Mr A. G. Cameron, for having
2 e a statement from the Chair
“referring to his relat.onsh.ps w.th the
“■SS I siatement had been pro-
Jed by an obviously hostrle and
nlfiilated question by Mr. Fraser, of
oi « Unnaro—“a clever, unctuous and
Evocative question delivered with all the
Intolerable self-righteousness.that charac-
wi4s * the honorable member, as Mr.
Menzies said, adding that Uriah Keep
could scarcely have done better. Mr.
Menzies spoke only the obvious when
he said that this question was part of a
“deliberate campaign of baiting and pro-
voking the Speaker and to create, by
hook or by crook, a public impression
that he was unfair”; a campaign which
had been “going on for weeks,” and m
the course of which, incidentally, the
asker of the question, Mr. Fraser, along
with Mr. Chifley’s Man Friday, Mr.
Burke,-had been suspended from service
of the House.
On’the facts as they emerged, the
worst that could be said about the
Speaker was that he was so sensitive as
to refuse, a few years after the event, to
accept private hospitality some-
body who had described him as “black-
mailing” and “vile,” and angry enough
to state the fact when challenged.
Since the House had voted his statement
to be in order, what the Speaker had
said, Mr. Menzies declared—while medi-
tating that perhaps the only fault of the
Speaker was that he fell into a
deliberately laid “Labor” trap—was
“purely a matter for his individual judg-
ment.”
Mr. Menzies added:
The Opposition dragged his Excellency
into the debate and not the Speaker. The
Opposition goaded the Speaker into defend-
ing himself, and now it raises pious hands ’
of horror at the success of its own scheme.
Could any humbug be more magnificent?
Dr. Evatt’s argument that the Speaker
had no right to communicate with the
Governor-General on a matter of private
social relationships without the permis-
sion of the House was the kind of rubbish
whjph formed a fitting addendum to Mr.
/Chifley’s allegation that Mr. Cameron’s
plain, unembroidered statement of his
reasons for not wishing to associate
privately with the Governor-General was
was an outcome of his “hatred and
jealousy” of “Labor’s” political appointee
to the Governor-Generalship.
Regret has been general that the inci-
dent should have occurred at a moment
when greater issues were under discus-
sion. Possibly it was fomented by
“Labor” for the very reason that these
issues were to be debated. Whatever
was behind it, “Labor” had the worst
of its encounter with Mr. Cameron.
After Mr. Menzies had spoken the cen-
sure motion was defeated by 67 votes
to 38.
Lotteries and Hospitals.
Some well-meaning Melbourne man sug-
StC i j the city’s Press that, Victoria
, Bh ?u d run a State lottery, and do away
street-begging” for hospital funds,
Whereupon the church made indignant
noises in protest; but Melbourne’s Lud
Mayor Disney gave the notion qualified
support:
c J2 Untar y giving is falling down. If it
Up i: nuC j t 0 do .so, some other means must
r rn to ma intain our hospitals.
„'ll say, in spite of criticism, that it
inif fu eat cP lty taat so much money is leav-
rpvrJ,. . sta te for other lotteries, whose
matmrn IS . V sed to Provide and maintain
magnificent hospitals.
Intwfj u ot ?Bree with the principle of
of cr, 65 ’ bU u * am definitely not in favor
Stato t oapney pouring out of the
tions t 0 the detr iment of our own institu-
money is pouring”
Wpsf a W -’ .Queensland, Tasmania and
tarv V str alia for lottery-tickets volun-
But S"2B * s dymg, out i n every State.
Would* 10 i Sta te Tottery in Melbourne
imnrrv,- y to existing evils without
5S g th * situation o£ public
Jjj f ound tde Sydney lottery office
half-era 2a CVery week-day struggles a
violent , impatient and frequently
is feefid Y d of ticket-buyers. The place
and if . days, steams in the winter,
in it thet-Jn u Catc hes fire with a crowd
flankina f, a flr st-dass tragedy. And
are seller* * e T ery alle yway and corner,
several tickets in “art-unions” of
wages int? •’ In these times of high
’ lle nes are drawn almost every
day, and vast sums are paid by hundreds
of thousands for the enrichment of dis-
proportionately few “lucky” buyers.
N.S.W. people, who’ve had their lottery
for nearly 20 years, have waited in vain
all that time for the “magnificent hos-
pitals” which Councillor Disney imagines
dot the landscape north of the Murray.
Hospitals and hospitalisation in the
biggest lottery State are a long-standing
scandal. Not a public hospital but is
starved for funds and sadly needs equip-
ment, repairs, extensions and staff.
Sydney still has its hospital “button” days.
The position of country hospitals is
shocking. In cities and towns the pro-
vision of hospital beds and clinics is hope-
lessly behind requirements.
Nobody buys tickets in a State lottery
to help the hospitals. Lotteries are a
wasteful and demoralising way of dis-
guising the inevitable cost to the public
of health services. Canadians pay in
taxes for their hospitals, and therefore
pay less. There are no charity collections
and no lotteries in Canada.
Fairy-floss.
Everyone who has visited an agricultural
show, from Royal Sydney down to the
smallest country-town turnout, is familiar
with the fairy-floss man. His stock-in-
trade is a small machine into which he
throws a pinch of sugar and a few drops
of red coloring-matter. The only other
ingredient is air, and the product is a
gossamer-like sweet, as
unsubstantial as an elf’s
whiskers, which dissipates
itself into a mere taste-
memory as soon as it
touches the tongue.
Grown-ups pass it by,
but children are ever
eager to pass over their
sixpences for the pinkish
cloud of airy nothing.
Dr. Hewlett Johnson,
Dean of Canterbury, is
at present peddling fairy-
floss in Australia. He
uses no machine, but his
ingredients are much the
same as those used by
the fellows who follow
the shows ; the product
is identical, even to the
color. A few grains of
fact, some Red coloring
and plenty of hot yet
saintly air. And the im-
mature in mind lap it up
and ask for more.
A Bulletin man
sampled the Dean’s
fairy-floss at a Press con-
ference last week. The
Dean had previously
described as a lie reports
that there are millions of
people in concentration
camps in Russia. The
Bulletin asked him
whether, if the words
“forced-labor” were sub-
stituted for “concentra-
tion,” his reply would
be the same. Com-
menting that “forced-
labor” was a question-
begging word, the Dean
gave a reply which
followed closely the
standard recipe for fairy-
floss. A few grains of
fact: There was what
might be called a
forced-labor camp next
door to his deanery at
home. Then the Red
coloring: From what
he had seen of them he
would say the young
men in them enjoyed less
fresh air and less free-
dom than those he had
seen in prison-camps in
Russia. Then the airy-
fairy pinkish cloud: he
had seen no signs of
slave - camps in his
travels; no one he had
met had ever mentioned
them; anyway, the
thought of transporting
millions of people
thousands of miles over
one double-track of rail-
way was absurd; Alaric
Jacobs, of the London
“Daily Express,” had
written that he had
never met with a single
shred' of reputable evi-
dence to support the story.
The deprecating air
with which the Dean
dispensed his wares im-
plied that the slave-camp
reports were a myth
which had been dis-
proved so often as to be
hardly worth a reasoning man’s notice.
He made no reference to the charges
brought against Russia at U.N.O. last
year by the British Under-secretary for
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Mayhew—charges
which named specific camps and gave
estimates of the number of inmates, run-
ning into millions. The charges were re-
peated by Mr. Corley Smith, U.K. dele-
gate to U.N. Economic and Social Coun-
cil, only two months ago; the Dean
passed no comment on that.
Not satisfied with his first six-penn’orth
of fairy-floss, The Bulletin man held
out his hand for more. He asked:
“Have you any firsthand knowledge, or
has Alaiic Jacobs or any Pressman or
„ i■ ... , } , ,
anyone else with whom you have spoken,
had any firsthand knowledge of the
Dalstroi region of Siberia or the Kolyma
goldfields?” Apparently the supply of
sugar, cochineal or air had run out for
the moment; the Dean replied “No.”
Dalstroi and the Kolyma might be
described as the very heart and centre
of the slave-labor charges against the
Soviet. It, knowing nothing about them,
the Dean is prepared to stigmatise the
reports as lies, he cannot complain if ms
entire gospel is regarded as phony. That
simple No, the only answer m a 50-
minutes conference not wrapped m pink
mist, should earn him immediate expul-
sion from the Worshipful Order of Fairy-
floss Purveyors.
A Vintage Festival.
.
Well over 100 years ago the South Aus-
tralian Company imported a Professor
Menge to examine the mineral prospects
of the country. Among other things he
discovered the Barossa Valley, through
which flows the Gawler River, some 50
miles north of Adelaide, and for it he
forecast a future: “We shall see orchards
and fields of com throughout New
Silesia will furnish the province with such
a quantity of wine that we shall drink
it as cheap as in Cape Town.”
New Silesia because it reminded
j?! m . en P russ i an province of
?' ksia ”^ s if“ f °T ff,?T US
though the Barossa is full of German
name s s xhere flocked to it Jast century
hundreds of Lutheran refugees, whose
descendants today are Australians, often
the children of men who fought in the
old A.1.F., and themselves ex-servicemen
and -women of the 1939-45 war. In the
Barossa, as in the Wimmera, the Mallee,
the Riverina, the N.S.W. North Coast and
in Queensland those old German settlers
renutadon
production and citonship.
The Barossa Valley has just celebrated
]ts f our th annual Vintage Festival, for
t^e names in wine—Seppelt,
p en f o |d, Hardy, Gramp, Reynell,
Smith and the rest—early found
( Continued on next page.)
r >'*■
t
COME IN, SUCKERS!


7741 E/R
nfc ee P to
CBAVBSA
TtevebvaAi*/
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
m
out its qualities of sun and soil in
wine-making, and it is now the largest
producer of wine-grapes in Australia. It
has made South Australia famous for
wines, and of the national investment of
about £35 million in the wine industry,
80 p.c, is in S.A., and the 20-miles-by-five
Barossa Valley produces 60 p.c. of S.A.
wines, which make up two-thirds of the
entire Commonwealth output.
The valley is not limited to wine-pro-
duction. In and around the three main
towns of Tanunda, Nuriootpa and
Angaston are produced dried and fresh
fruits, wool, wheat, lambs, butter, eggs,
honey, olive-oil, leather, timber and
marble. Last year Nuriootpa cannery
sent over a million Christmas-puddings to
Britain; the S.A. Parliament House in
Adelaide is built of Barossa marble.
At this fourth Vintage Festival, during
which the whole valley indulged in
carnival, 50,000 visitors attended, and a
significant feature was the participation
of many New Australians to whom the
vineyards on the slopes must seem like
a touch of the lands they left. The festival
has grown in four years to a near-national
celebration which attracts the attention
of all Australia. Inter-State newspapers
which at first merely reported it in para-
graphs now send special reporters and
cameramen to the carnival, and it is
featured in radio broadcasts.
All this is to the good for the Aus-
tralian wine industry, which, just now, is
not finding the going so good with exports.
Whereas in 1940 we exported over
3,500,000 gallons of wine, the quantity
had fallen to under 2,000,000 gallon
last year. The decrease is mainly w
sales to Britain; exports to otnei
countries have increased, but noten 8
to bridge the gap. British duties
made Australian wine in Britain a
for ordinary people. Before the
when Empire port and sherry pai
gallon duty, they were sold to a a
3s. 6d. a bottle ; today the duty is 4U .
gallon and the bottle price ,15s. . fl
Apart from our national mvestmen
the wine industry and the value o c
munities like that of the Barossa, A
tralian wines stand for qMW L t 0
others. Australians haven t 1 n afe in
appreciate them fully, tho^ 8 . t J, US ands
the process of doing so, andl the»
of visitors who went to Baro
and will go in future years,
spread that appreciation. —.
POINTS
Tomorrow night the Prime Minister
will introduce a bill to ban the Reds. It
is hard to say whether its advent is being
awaited with more trepidation by the
Communist party or by Federal Caucus.
The policy of Chiflfey “Labor” towards
Communism was one of bold words and
weak action; members of the last Gov-
ernment sheltered behind the plea that
to drive Communism underground would
be to strengthen it. On this basis they
may be expected to oppose the legisla-
tion, and many members of the party
have also voiced opposition already on
the grounds that a ban on Communism
is a disguised attack on the trade-unions.
If the whole party believed this its tactics
would be simple—“ Labor’s” Senate majo-
rity would reject the bill. But among
tile new “Labor” men at Canberra are
who have no illusions about Com-
munism and who have spoken in the past
in favor of a ban on the Red brethren.
Caucus meetings should be rather warm
this* week.
Melbourne’s tram strike collapsed sud-
denly at the weekend, when a back-to-
work motion was carried at a mass meet-
ing against the wishes and advice of the
union’s Communist-led executive. A pre-
vious mass-meeting had appointed a rank-
and-file man, Mr. Port, to accompany the
executive on a deputation to the Tram-
ways Board. When the board rejected the
executive’s plan for ending the strike —
it gieant capitulation to the Reds and
virtual abandonment of arbitration —
Port produced his own plan, which the
board accepted. The main point of
difference is that the case for marginal
increases will be left to the court instead
of, as the executive had urged, a “con-
sent award” being merely submitted to
the court for endorsement. Comrade
O’Shea, secretary of the union, was very
bitter about Port’s action, which he
claimed “would gain us exactly noth-
ing.” At Sunday’s mass meeting the
trammies thought otherwise. Trams re-
sumed running on Monday morning.
Queensland goes to the polls on Satur-
day to decide whether “Labor’s” long
run as Government party is to continue
or whether it is time for a change. De-
spite “Labor’s” poor showing at the
Federal elections last December the
Liberal and Country parties have an up-
hill job—Opposition members claim that
the electoral set-iip gives the Government
a flying start and the inside running—but
Hanlon isn’t feeling excessively cocky,
North Queensland probably holds the key
to. the result, and the three party leaders
have spent quite a lot of time and breath
there. Last-minute reports find the
Liberal and Country-party camps more
optimistic than for years ; “Labor” more
anxious than it ever dreamed it could
be.
The Queensland election has been
clouded with talk*of a mythical Burdekin
Dam, which exists only in the Hanlon
imagination. True, a “Burdekin River
Development Act” was passed in the
Queensland House in December, but this
was on Hanlon’s assurance that the Chifley
Government would finance the scheme on
a 50/50 basis. It now turns out that all
Chifley promised was financial help pro-
vided the report of an expert committee
was favorable. All the committee has
done so far is to state, in an interim
report, that a dam costing the estimated
£3O million was not justified on the irri-
gation proposals placed before it. Federal
Treasurer Fadden has made it clear that
the present Federal Government won’t
look at the scheme until a much more
convincing argument for it is produced
by the Hanlons.
When the leader of the Opposition
gave notice last Wednesday of his motion
of censure on the Speaker the Prime
Minister asked him to proceed with it
immediately, but Chifley replied, “No,
tomorrow.” His intention obviously was
to ensure that the debate was heard by
the public; the Senate was on the air on
Wednesday, the Reps, on Thursday. By
the time the debate was concluded on
Thursday he was probably regretting hav-
ing chosen so large an audience; the
Speaker emerged from the affair un-
scathed, Menzies with a perfect little gem
to add to his collection of notable
speeches, Chifley and Evatt with the joint
and several label of “arrant humbugs.”
In view of the general eagerness of
Federal “Labor” men to describe almost
anything that appears in the “capitalist”
Press as lies and distortions their willing-
ness to accept as truth an isolated account
of the Yarralumla incident is strange, to
say the least —particularly as many of
them had been present at Government
House and must have been able to check
the accuracy of the report from their own
recollection. After hearing Menzies’s
story of what actually happened at Yarra-
lumla on March 22 it appears that
“Labor” members do not trust their own
recollection of what happens at such
gatherings.
Few Australians can approach the
Prime Minister in the matter of the
spoken word, but a mistake he made in the
course of the censure debate suggests that
before he makes his next excursion into
the intricacies of slang some of his col-
leagues should take him aside and school
him up a little. This might save him
from repeating such a slip as “From the
day you took the Chair, Mr. Speaker, the
Opposition has been pitching for you.”
Gunning for you is probably the idiom
Menzies had in mind; the Americanism
he used conveys exactly the opposite
meaning.
Sydney Trades and Labor Council has
decided not to hold a May Day march
this year, having belatedly discovered
that the procession has been used by
Communists as a means of propaganda.
The march was turned down by 106 votes
to 55, but after the meeting 79 Left-wing
delegates met and decided to hold a
mooch of their own. Going, Eddie?
Victorian Country-party leader Mc-
Donald told Shepparton people in his
policy speech that he would not support
a Liberal Government: “If you want me
to support such a Government, I, person-
ally, would rather not return to Parlia-
ment.” Nor will he support a “Labor”
Government: “Not under any circum-
stances would we countenance the policy
of any party whose objective is the social-
ising of industry, production, distribution
and exchange.” McDonald’s real hope
is apparently reflected in his reference to
the “Country party’s record of providing
10i years of stable government.” At
no time in that period did the C.P. have
a majority in the House ; it governed by
walking the tightrope between Liberals
and “Labor.” Victorians have no reason
to expect that a minority Government
under McDonald or Cain would be any
more stable than one under Hollway.
What is needed is a Government with a
majority sufficient to enable it to get on
with the job of governing. The Liberals
are the only party with a hope of winning
an absolute majority. If they don’t man-
age it a Liberal-C.P. coalition is the only
answer —if the present leaders cannot
arrange it others will have to be found.
On the authority of Douglas Sinclair,
of the Lawson Labor College, contribu-
tor of a weekly article to the “Standard,”
organ of the A.L.P. in N. S. Wales,
“Never before in the history of the Aus-
tralian Labor party have Labor’s real
forces faced a general election campaign
in a greater degree of unity.” Almost
while he was writing it Seiffert, “Labor”
member for Monaro, one of the four
M.L.As. whose endorsement was can-
celled by the A.LJP. executive, was giv-
ing notice of his intention to press for a
royal commission into the conduct of
Legislative Council elections. Seiffert and
his three partners in disfavor have an-
nounced their intention of standing
against the official “Labor” starters at
the election, and it looks as if there will
be some unpicked runners in some of the
other electorates. Never before, etc.?
Unity comes in strange shapes.
Queensland Opposition-leader Nicklin
gave a striking illustration of the decline
in the real value of money in refuting
“Labor’s” claim to have boosted living
standards:
In 1914 the workers’-compensation pay-
able to an employee’s widow was 400
sovereigns. That would buy her a solidly-
built, three-bedroom house, containing
1890 square feet. The present compensa-
tion would pay only a small deposit on
such a home and leave £1350 still to pay.
The year 1914 was not picked out at
random; it was the year before the long
run of “Labor” Governments began in
Queensland.
“The more houses brought from over-
seas the sooner the market for houses
will come down to a more reasonable
level.” Thus Queenland’s Housing
Minister Power. The truth of the state-
ment is undeniable, but it falls strangely
from a “Labor” Minister’s lips.
McGirr’s Prices Minister, Finnan, has
been threatening to send to Siberia, or
thereabouts, butchers who sell mutton as
lamb. If they’re doing it they’re follow-
ing a distinguished example—isn’t Mr.
Finnan’s leader trotting out the same old,
fly-blown, wrinkled, U-necked, broken-
mouthed “Labor” policy-wether ineffec-
tively disguised as election lamb?
Adelaide “ Tiser” published a picture
of a railway engine taking in oil fuel,, and
another of 9000 tons of coal stacked in
a railway-yard and suggested that the
“S.A. Railways faces the winter with
greater assurance than in any winter since
World War II.” It then remarks that
before that war the State railways used to
hold reserves of up to 80,000 tons of coal.
The present reserve (12 days’ supply)
came mostly from South Africa. It shows
how even a great newspaper can be grate-
ful for small mercies.
From S. Ick-Hewins, secretary,
Graziers’ Association of N. S. Wales:
I would like to make it clear that there is
no row on between the N. S. Wales Minister
for Lands and,this association over allotment
of parts of travelling stock-routes and reserves
to soldier-settlers (B, 29/3/’5O). Our criticism
was directed exclusively to the fact that, con-
trary to the recommendation of the Dubbo
Land Board, the Minister granted special lease
of the Weemabah Reserve to Mr. Alex Moss,
who is not a returned soldier, but who has for
many years been president of the Narromine
branch of the A.L.P. This lease closes a
substantial area to stock and adds a day or
more of bad stock-travelling in an area which
is an essential part of the scheme ®f stock-
routes linking Victoria, Riverina and the mid-
west with the Queensland border.
The Bulletin has received, so far, 27
complaints from people named Dean,
Dein, Deene and O’Deen who think it a
poor joke for friends to greet them with
“You aren’t the Red Dean, I hope.”
Spender, welcoming delegates to an
Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council in Sydney,
had something to say about “more effec-
tive methods of exploiting Indian and
Pacific Ocean fisheries helping the food
supply of South-east Asian areas” a
Sydney man he shouldn’t need Av a
that it wouldn’t be a bad idea to stoE 8
making fish available to Australia by
reasonable instead of luxury pS^ 5 at
One of the sayings of Dean
is that the Russians “plan thbk I? 8 ® 11
and speak peace.” It is conceit Ki de l ire
the old boy has heard spokesmen oVfhe
Kremlin speak in favor of peace „
sible, too, that they have told hinf of
their plans for peace. But how can he E
any other man claim to know what tE
Russians think or what they
Those who have been comnia.-„-
that nothing has been happening at S
berra since the new Government to ok
over will have to change their tune ] Z
week there was the motion of censure S,
the Speaker, the Bank-bill argument be
gan in the Reps, and the “Labor”
majority in the Senate tried out its
strength in a minor skirmish on the Child
Endowment bill. Both fights will be
continued this week, with the bill to deal
with the Communists due to jostle them
aside at any moment. m
According to John Hood, “Australia’s
first Ambassador to Indonesia,” Australia
is “vitally interested in putting Indo-
nesia’s economy on a sustaining basis.”
Australia’s first job is to put its own eco-
nomy on such a basis.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Thpre’s a bit of the man they couldn’t
™'Scut Major Bill Jordan, War II
tops w ho in Brisbane’s recent mvesti-
S’had his M.C. and M.B.E. pinned
’ One of those special operators in
Snnarison with whom fiction cloak-and-
Srmen are about as guileless as a glass
f rn il k Jordan was trained as commando,
°fhoteur and parachutist, dropped into
rS at the end of 1942, and for two
«ars sabotaged and struck by stealth
lith the local underground. Germans
weren’t the only enemies ; in an attack
nn his own mob by the Communist under-
ground, Jordan’s 2/i.c, was murdered
and with his American interpreter and
British wireless-operator, Jordan was
taken prisoner. Twice the trio were up
against a brick wall before a firing-party,
and twice they were reprieved before the
“Fire” As well as the British recogni-
tion of his highly unhealthy work, he
was rewarded by the Greek Government
with the Greek Golden Order of Valor
and the Greek Military Cross. He’s now
a Brisbane journalist.
Italian - born, English - bred violinist
Alfredo Campoli, who has started his
tour in Melbourne, has reversed the usual
routine of young virtuosi who start off with
dreams of being a Paganini and end up
in a suburban cinema playing boogie-
woogie. Campoli was an infant prodigy
in 1920, found in the depression there
was no money in serious music, set up a
saloon orchestra which became world-
famous by 1938, and had made such a
packet out of jazz that he was able to
disband his jazzers and return to the three
B’s. But he asserts that what he learnt
technically from playing swing, plus his
acquaintance with Hungarian folk music,
is the thing that has made connoisseurs
contend that he plays the third movement
of the Brahms concerto as few other
violinists have. Campoli relaxes from
music into sport, and sport of no mean
order. He has played bridge, tennis and
table-tennis with international champions,
leamt billiards from Melbourne Inman,
won the South London Amateur Cup in
1938 and beat the Welsh champion, Ken
Hyde, at table-tennis.
Kindly remembered by Diggers are the
Red Shield mobile units of the Salvation
Army, which seemed to penetrate, with
the pertinacity of an armored unit, to
pretty well everywhere the Digger pulled
up to rest after an advance. In Sydney
to look over Australia, General Albert
Orsborn, overall commander of the 3000-
odd officers who, during the late fracas,
brought spiritual solace as well as solid
sustenance to fighters from London’s blitz
to the Kokoda Trail. Since his election
to the supreme command in 1946, the
General has made that distance look like
a hop-step-and-jump, touring as he has
through Norway and Finland to Holland,
Switzerland and Germany; across to
32,000 miles of Canada, the U.S., the
West Indies and South America; also
French Guiana, where he dropped in on
the Army’s officers engaged in repatriat-
ing prisoners from closed-down Devil’s
Island. And he’s just come from India
and adjacent States. Now 63, with the
yigor of an alert intelligence concentrated
m his eyes, a strong jaw and a straight
nne for mouth, he looks as much the
general of matters military as spiritual.
His wife, the daughter of General Higgins,
accompanies.
Roseworthy Agricultural College, out
t can assume it has some
standing in the world of wine—for the
past year, as a student of oenology (to non-
the study of wine-making), it has
nad Phocas Vryonides, senior instructor
in viticulture in the Cyprus Department
Agriculture. The pat on the back stems
°ni the fact that from days b.c. Cyprus
as been one of the homes of viticulture,
stl ll is, and for its Government to
frn lts . ex P er t to learn more of his trade
nt Australia indicates the advance-
cnts made here on the technical side of
f e science. Xhe Cypriot leaves shortly
ern horne ’ , to take charge of the Gov-
a nt . w * nes section ;he takes as well
vint ° esome respect for Australian
trai; ners over tOO cuttingsi of S. Aus-
tralian vines.
wnHH° r^anc^ . ma Y he heading into a
Doido s Pptlight of publicity — Frank
in» •’• * our ist Minister there, hav-
H r\ ed his old Fleet-street friend,
n orn -Morton, to perform for the
othpr lon w hat that traveller has done for
Doidp C °v ntr * es * n his “In Search” series.
knnJr . lrnse lf was once almost as well-
distinm ln , t h e Street of Adventure as his
Beavprk lS^ fri e n d—2o years ago he was
of npu , °°h' s right-hand link in his chain
* ne Wspapers.
Paraded for his 90th birthday, in Perth,
John Wood, Boer War veteran and oldest
active member of the R.S.L. in Westralia.
Born in England, he first tasted salt water
at 12, without parental consent, made a
second voyage with it, then enlisted in
the Royal Horse Artillery. Malaria from
service in India caused his discharge
from there and arrival in the West to
recuperate; with the exception of a visit
to Kruger’s war as R.S.M. of the 4th
Imperial Bushmen, he’s remained there
since. Among other things, the oldster
has been first stationmaster and post-
master at Gin Gin and Moora, police-
man, Government House orderly, and,
with Hitler on the loose, soldier again
in the V.D.C. Short, and still burly,
with an enviable forest still on top, his
one concession to Father Time is his
recent wearing of glasses.
Albert Dunstan (B. 19/4/’5O) was
commonly accorded the distinction of being the
shrewdest politician in Victorian history. Some
called him the Victorian Machiavelli and others
the father of the Country party, with principles
as strong as granite; but his opponents, who
next week might be his supporters, respected his
astuteness as much as,his supporters, who next
week might be his opponents. What he didn’t
know about political manoeuvring couldn’t be
found in textbooks, and he performed the
feat of keeping the minority Country party in
office for 10 years and himself Premier for
that long also, a Victorian record. The only
interregnum was the four days of glory of the
Cain Labor Government, which he put into
office and turned out again so quickly that a
Minister of the Crown who was opening an
art show at the National Gallery became a
private member before his speech was finished.
Premier Cain was so unaccustomed to his new
position and so accustomed to Dunstan’s that
he continued to call him the Right Honorable
the Premier, to that imperturbable gentleman’s
amusement. Albert Dunstan was born at Cope
Cope, with farming in his blood, and wa% as
successful a farmer as he was politician. Sec-
retary to the C.P. for six years, he formed the
breakaway Country Progressive party, which
held the balance of power for four years of
Labor office, then united with the C.P. to
become the United C.P. Dunstan became
deputy leader, a Minister under the Liberal
Argyle, then upset his chief and formed a
Government of C.Ps. A similar split between
him and Hollway was attributed by the latter
to the Dunstan habit of “intriguing” and of
bringing in unauthorised legislation during the
Premier’s absence in England. Out of office
and only a private member of the C.P.,
Dunstan continued to dominate that party up
to his death. Apart from these negative achieve-
ments in the political arena his positive achieve-
ments were the building of the new Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital and the turning of Fishermen s
Bend into a hive of motor-body building and
aircraft construction.
Here’s Frank Ecker, a young cove who
really knows his ekker where running a
hotel’s concerned. Inheriting the knack
from his father, who put the New
Treasury, Melbourne, on the map, and
whose guiding principle was that a good
hotel is only as good as its manager makes
it, young Ecker made his name at Albury
on the Murray, where the Globe was a
household word throughout Australia for
its wines and its food and its amazing
cellar, in which pretty well every vintage
known could be found. A first-rate
PUBLICAN.
amateur photographer, while at Albury
he produced a 10,000 edition of a splen-
didly illustrated tourist book of the city
and environs, most of the photos from
his own negs. The book found homes in
most parts of the world. Two years ago
when it was learned that he was taking
over the old ancestral Hotel Nepean at
Portsea bookings jumped to a waiting-
list as long as a Melbourne winter,
and Melbourne society went into
mourning when it was recently announced
that he was leaving to take over the
Carlton, Geelong. Temperate by habit,
coupled to an unassuming manner, his
gods are good music, good food and good
wine.
A weather-beaten weather-seer, down
in Sydney to see the deluge which, as far
back as ,1944, ha had predicted for early
1950, Inigo Jones was caught by Prior
at a convention of the Long-Range
Weather Forecasting Trust, which, since
July, 1942, has been offering farmers,
graziers, bankers, milk-bar proprietors
and the scores of others interested a long-
range preview of what the skies will de-
liver. From his Crohamhurst observatory
near Brisbane, Inigo prophesied summer
wetness in the east, dryness in the west,
for this year—and so it came to pass.
Now nudging 80, with a string of scientific
labels after his name as long as a wet
week, Inigo matriculated and because in
PLUVIUS.
those days universities could teach him
little on his subject, plumped for the prac-
tical experience of a cadetship under
Queensland’s Clement Wragge. He leamt
all that the man Queensland will always
remember could teach him, and on
Wragge’s death, already with a reputation
in hjs own right, continued his work.
When the Weather Trust (present trustees,
J. W. Allen, chairman; E. J. Barnett, or
Dalgety’s, grazier; C. C. Bradly; J. L.
Shute, of the Primary Producers; and T.
J. McDougall, Farmers and Settlers’) was
formed, Inigo was a moral for its Re-
search Director, the technical authority.
He has written serials for the “Queens-
lander,” and numbers among his recrea-
tions oil-painting, music and breeding stud
Jersey cattle.
Exchanging blue-water for Brisbane,
Captain C. Zawada, who, while com-
manding the Polish freighter Narvik,
made one of War IPs biggest mass-
rescues at sea. Out of the white opacity
of a South Atlantic fog off Capetown in
1942 speared a U-boat’s torpedo ; it ripped
old Orcades’ plates open to the sea. Into
the cold fog were precipitated over 1000
of Orcades’ company, preceded by a wire-
lessed call for help. At top speed Narvik
answered it, and for 12 hours lingered
from boat to boat, hauling their loads
aboard, regardless of the fact that from
a boat in which were huddled 19 Aus-
tralian airmen shipping from Aden to
London had been sighted the periscope of
the attacking submarine‘so yards away.
But the fog turned ally, and Zawada
offloaded, his pick-ups in Capetown. He
won 0.8. E. and Lloyd’s bravery medal.
His transport to Brisbane this time was
the new Orcades, many of whose crew he
first saw in that fog, and who recognised
him —there was some talk of favored
attention by the ship’s stewards to a
certain passenger.
Photography and skating have been the
passports to three years of foreign travel
for Stephen Henty, back in Melbourne
with the Ice Follie Co., which opened at
His Majesty’s recently. A freelance
photographer working for the dailies,
Henty married, and his wife happened
to be a skater. She taught him,
and in England they joined a troupe
which “did” the U.K. Henty skated by
night and photographed in the daytime,
and his unusual work soon found a
market. The co. went to Spain, where
Henty browsed round the Prado with its
miles of pictures, taking photos of
Espano-Moorish architecture, bringing
his camera to bear on Toledo,
where El Greco’s house still
stands and the atmosphere is still as blue
as it is in his famous landscape. So with
Barcelona and other legendary places,
and on to Portugal and Lisbon; then the
company disbanded. Henty and his wife
moved next to Italy, whence a stream of
photos went to his agents in London. An
Italian skating troupe gave them the
opportunity of seeing Italy from end to
end, and when they were wondering what
next to do the management unexpectedly
got a cable from J.C.W. offering a
season in Australia. So Mr. and Mrs.
Henty found themselves back in their
home-town. He is a descendant of the
Hentys who started Portland.
Russell Grimwade, who gave Victoria
the Cook cottage in Fitzroy
Gardens, Melbourne, has been the re-
cipient of an unusual honor from the
B.M.A, Second man in Australia so
honored, he has been made a compli-
mentary member in recognition of his
gifts to medical research and education
—the last was £50,000 to the
biochemistry school at the University.
Edward Wilson, who endowed the chair
of obstetrics, was the other holder of the
distinction.
Sold his Windsor Park (M.L.) stud and
returning home to Australia, Edward
Steele, who in the past 12 years collected
some horse names of note in M.L.—
among them the imported stallions Finis
and Termie, First Cast (by the St. Leger
winner Salmon Trout), Blue Cast (who
ran an Australian and New Zealand
record five furlongs in 57| seconds). Blue
Trout and Karlova. Windsor Park lies
alongside Elderslie, another famous stud,
where some years ago Night Raid
sired a neddy named Phar Lap.
“Friday Island*’: Lismore (N.S.W.)
doctor Hugh Wall, who passed on earlier
this month, was one of the old R.A.N.’s
most lovable medicoes. An Old Fortian,
he signed on in 1915 as one of
“Kitchener’s Hundred” Dominion doctors,
practised with the 8.E.F., and was one of
the few R.A.M.C. officers given a farewell
dinner leaving Lemnos ; his career nearly
ended there, when he fell through a holed
jetty on the way home. After doctoring at
St. Vincent’s, Sydney, he signed on for
more, this time in the Navy as m.o. of the
Australian flotilla of River-class destroyers
sweeping the Adriatic for Austrian sub-
marines. Though attached to flagship
Parramatta, he hardly knew which ship
he would sleep in, as pressgang scouts
from each destroyer invariably waylaid
and shanghaied him aboard their own
craft to share his jovial company at sea.
A long-weekend hobby was to visit the
Italian front to watch the Latins fight—
which conceivably engendered the rumor
that the Allies’ shortage of men compelled
them to use sailors in the trenches.
Widely-read and a remembered dit-
spinner, he believed (and vocally) that
one of the most important influences on;
Australian literature was A. G- Stephens,
of the Red Page.
Into the Silence:
In London, at 73, George Warwick Deeping,
who produced at least one book every year
between 1916 and 1947, as well as being one
of the big short-story names of the old “Strand”
magazine; some other titles were 8.A., M.A.
and M. 8., all from Cambridge. He practised
as a doctor for a year, and in 1915 exchanged
that for an R.A.M.C. one covering Gallipoli,
Egypt and France.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 88, H. G. Williams,
snapping a link with one of M.L.’s earliest
missionaries. Grandson of Archdeacon Henry
Williams, of Waimate North, he was the lone
survivor of the first directors of the Wellington
Publishing Co., publishers of the “Dominion.”
Only a few days previously, Charles Westwood
Earle, managing-director of the “Dominion”
since its establishment in 1907, had preceded
him into the silence (at 79), A big figure at
newspaper conferences, both managerial and
journalistic, Earle was one-time chairman of
the N.Z. Press Association, president of the
Journalists’ Association, and for 27 years
president of the N.Z, Newspaper Proprietors’
Association. A brother edits the Nelson
“Evening Mail.”
At 57, in Melbourne, Major “Johnny” Cole-
man, asst, secretary to the Department of
Defence. A Gallipoli veteran whom Old
Diggers who took their demob, in London will
recall as the genial, helpful cove who gave it
them, he returned home as first secretary of
the old Air Board, and stayed with it when it
grew into the Dept, of Air. His next-war
contribution was secretaryship of the Defence
Council.
In Sydney, at 53, Old Digger textile expert
Dr. Frederick Peirce. Specialising in cotton,
he went to England for research under Sir
William Braff, came back to Sydney with a
Doctorate of Philosophy from London Univer-
sity, got his D.Sc. from Sydney in 1931, and
returned to London in time to make, at the
height of the blitz, the A.R.P. people’s hoses
from cotton, in lieu of then-unprocurable flax.
He crossed to the U.S., by invitation; as a
result, many Americans wore uniform fabric
of his design in most war theatres. While there
he accepted the Professorship of Textile Tech-
nology in the University of North Carolina.
He was retired at Dee Why (N.S.W.) at the end.
In Brisbane, at 89, Edward Cullen, one-time
chief engineer of the Harbors and Marine
Department, who took the Brisbane River m
hand when it was a string of deep pools barred
down its length by sandbanks. When he a
finished it was a clear waterway 14 miles long,
up to 600 ft. wide, with its new bed laid JUtt.
beneath low water-level, ready for bhie-water
liners, in which he had gained a large share
of his experience. He was one of the most
likeable of men. A son, in the same game, w
secretary of the Brisbane. advisory committee
of London’s Institute of Civil Engineers.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMB LES INKS'
“Speaking on the motion to censure the Speaker,
Mr. Menzies said that the Speaker, Mr. Archie
Cameron, had been deliberately goaded into his com-
ments on the Governor-General by the ‘intolerable
self-righteousness’ of Mr. Alan Fraser’s questions.
Mr. Fraser, from a borderline electorate, holds
borderline ‘Labor’ views, and broadcasts regular talks
from a country station.”
“X.M.0.”: It appeared on the window
of our town’s Digger-run butcher’s shop:
“This shop will be closed on Tuesday,
Anzac Day, and probably Wednesday,”
* * * *
“Col M.”: The habitual strap-hanger
soon builds a mental index of the
localised aches that strike him as he sways
and reads his paper. He even learns to
recognise some as seasonal. The slightly
duller pain of a galosh-covered shoe upon
his toe is commoner in winter ; long hat-
feathers stabbing at his eyes usually mean
spring. As one of the breed myself I
thought I knew the whole lot, but I struck
a new one last week. It began with a
feeling of coolness in the small of the
back as if my shirt had escaped from my
trousers. As the chill spread through my
body I realised that it came from the
string-bag of a homing shopper rest-
ing against me. I think I am the
first to have correctly classified this
phenomenon as snap-frozen vegetables.
* * * sN
“Cauboy”: I have had to wait 25 years
to see somebody do what I have feared I
might do myself every time I enter a
darkened theatre. This dread assails me
"I think we'd better have this one X-rayed.”
most when I enter the dress-circle of the
©omedy in Melbourne, whose angle of
raj is so great that it was, so he said,
me compelling factor in making an elderly
ramauc critic of my acquaintance go
T ,° retlreme [ l t. At His Majesty’s
atre ; ai ? us nerette who is also a ballet-
in^V 0 ? a header over the circle rail-
thp*f° the u tai S ’ urged thereto by a
o. re Boer who stumbled against her.
InnrWi r . • a . somer ‘ sai dt in mid-air, and
nf iJ?, nght ld tke * ap a de nizen
er regions. Both unhurt, he
went on looking at the show and she went
back to her usheretting.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”; The origin of the word
“larrikin” has been argued often enough,
but I was recently surprised to find that
it was already being argued 75 years ago.
In the Maryborough (Vic.) “Advertiser”
of 1875 discussion developed on defini-
tion when a Chinese charged with
resistin’-the-p’leece pleaded that he
thought the jonop was a larrikin, mean-
ing a bad man. Upon this the magistrate
weighed in with the opinion that a
larrikin was not a bad man but a bad
youth, and the lawyer in the case (who,
possibly, had private reasons for being
precise) suggested that the best definition
was “a young man of neglected educa-
tion who edited a scurrilous print,” The
son of China said “no savee” to that one,
but reinforced his earlier definition with
the opinion that a larrikin was a man
who ran away with another man’s wife!
The academic discussion ended at that
stage, but in 1876 the “Advertiser” gave
the general subject an international
flavor in a sub-leader on youthful
brawlers. “It is,” declared the paper,
“a neck-and-neck race between the larri-
kins of Melbourne, the b’hoys of New
York, the hoodlums of San Francisco
and the youthful blueskins of Boston,
U.S., as to which shall be reputed the
most precocious in rascality.”
* * * »
“Pontius Penwiper”: Some well-wisher
might suggest to Bob Menzies’s publicity-
man the need for getting artists to find
some line of caricature which will gain
general recognition and acceptance. The
straight-line representation cuts no ice
with people who like their public
characters to be “characters.” The best
stayers amongst politicians have always
been the ones lucky enough to lend to
the cartoonists features which seem to
make them, their butts but give the
“victims” valuable publicity. Harry
Parkes, George Reid and Billy Hughes are
outstanding examples.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: It was somewhat
ironical that an hour after viewing the
N.S.W. Railways’ exhibit at the Sydney
Show I was following the command:
“Travel by train. Safe. Efficient.” I
counted 46 heads crowded around me in
the entrance “lobby” of the electric
carriage—a space measuring about sft.
by 9ft. Those in the middle of the mess
of humanity were certainly safe; they
couldn’t possibly have fallen out —nor
could they have fallen down in a faint.
We on the outskirts were less fortunate;
when the train rounded a curve the whole
46 sardines swayed. If the sway was to
the right it was the other side’s bad luck ;
but when the combined weight shifted to
the left it was a case of grip your
stanchion and hang on. My right-hand
dragged down with sample-bags that had
been cleverly passed over to my keeping,
I was enduring the torture stoically when
a hand seemed to move towards my fob-
pocket. I thought of my watch, but to
let go the stanchion would have been
suicide, and in any case I could not have
slipped a hand down to investigate. Just
as the cramp in my hand had become un-
bearable the train slowed down and
stopped at a station. Nobody got out,
but not having to hang on to save my
life I was able to work my left-hand
down through the press to see if I still
owned a watch. To my great relief I
did Three seconds afterwards the chap
being ground against me released his grip
on the stanchion and slowly worked his
hand down out of sight. Suddenly I
realised what was in his mind; he thought
I’d picked his pocket.
“Watch your head , Lil ."
‘“Zake”: Before the days when their
Red Masters ordered the wage-plugs to
believe that “a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay” was a cunning catchcry coined
by the capitalistic octopus to enslave
them, bricks were so cheap and plentiful
that our outer-suburban shire council
bought millions of them and laid them
down as footpaths. Every summer the
gaps between the bricks sprout a fine
crop of paspalum. After rain has stimu-
lated the growth to such an extent that
those who venture to walk along the
alleged footpath have to go by dead-
reckoning to find their way back to the
road, a motor-mower gives it a once-over
and the bricks become faintly discernible
again. In paspalumless winter the “foot-
path” looks as if the bricks had been
laid by dropping them from a height and
hoping for the best. If all the bricks
were ripped up there’d be enough “com-
mons” almost to settle the housing prob-
lem, and it’s so long since they were laid
that householders could be kidded to
cough up again to pay for a new concrete
path. They’d pay willingly—they would
save it in the cost of broken shoes,
* * * *
“Young Here”: Easter traffic was solid
from Albury to Melbourne. Driving my
10-ton diesel and semi-trailer back from
the border city, I pulled in to give aid to
an ancient car sitting forlorn on Prospect
Hill. The owner, a vintage model to
match his vehicle, waved one piston dis-
consolately to reinforce his claim on my
horsepower. My ropes being fully in use,
I let the old-timer hitch his star to my
wagon with hemp of his own. The take-
off was smooth, and the big diesel oozed
away on its six steady cylinders. At
Kilmore I stopped to check the tow. All
was sweet; the gnarled grin of the veteran
was all I needed, so I pressed on. Pretty
Sally came and went. The diesel seemed
to have a new smugness in its tic-a-tac
purr. The big load screened the old bus
from view. I hoped her brakes had held
coming down the Divide. Arriving in
Coburg, I used the shop-windows to give
a non-stop view. Mirrored in them were
the diesel and the semi., all O.K. as usual.
I still wonder where the old bus came
adrift, and whether her owner got home
for Easter.
* * * *
“Clooter”: A Mr, Herford,
president of the Federal Council of
Leathergoods Manufacturers of Aus-
tralia, warns me that the decline
in Queensland cattle-slaughtering by
20,000 head a year means that 250,000
fewer shoes can be made because there
is a loss of a million feet of
I presume he means square feet. It re-
minds me that a lot of these shortages,
together with a certain deterioration in
the quality of factory-made goods, arise
from what we are pleased to caff pro-
gress. In my youth we wore *
good, thick-soled, no-fanev-W. b ,
-which literally lasted tov years
though more leather went im* ’ , and
than into a shoe, the former^ 0 a boot
quality meant that a maHS
on probably two pairs of boots fo? then
four pairs of shoes he buyTSdal® S**
ever, I’ve no wish to go back to K i ° W ‘
but there is a somewhat frightening oolB ’
pect in the gentleman’s prognosticatkS
The ladies, bless ’em, have taken to wear-
ing footwear made of wood, plastic, string,
rope and a lot of other material. About
the cities I frequently observe male feet
clad in this sort of gear. Is it to be our
fate in the atomic age to revert to the
rope sandals in which the early preachers
of Christianity tramped about the Middle
East?
* * * *
“Kelms”: The action of a Kalgoorlie
man whose bicycle was stolen recently
should go far to refute the suggestion that
chivalry is dead. Did he go to the police?
Did he offer a reward for the bike’s
return? He did not. He advertised in
the “Kalgoorlie Miner”: “If the person
who removed my bicycle from the Inland
City Hotel on Saturday night has the
courage to nominate, I will fight him to
see who has the bicycle. Wm.
O’Donoghue.” Local opinion holds that
if the fight doesn’t take place the bike
was pinched by a “foreigner”— probably
from Perth.
* * * * .
“Jaydee”: When floodwaters hit
Eugowra (N.S.W.) on Palm Sunday
torrent poured through the local n
agency and, bursting in the strong i
door, scattered far and wide dolls, P >
watches and the library. Sole sur
of the dispersal of the books was a
volume deposited on the front wi
sill, its title Troubled Waters.
| jj- 5jC
“Lower Tops!”: Another extraordinary
tragedy of the southern seas (b- ■>! I ,
was that of the 1000-ton ship
Grant, which, on May 13, 18 ,
days after clearing Melbourne w
gold and a complement of 7 .
ashore in a calm on the ulh P 0 f
Auckland Islands, 200 boW .
New Zealand. Near midnight
sprit struck the precipitous efi s pe
vessel, swinging broadside to.? along the
would a wharf, started to dm tra jght
cliff-face. Had the shore been
she might have worked clear, p u t
wash kept the ship off the ’
unfortunately she was earned 1 As
an immense cave, zbuit. yjf k tabbed
seas drove her further in the m s 0 f
the roof, bringing down gr? drove
rock on deck, and then a H bottom*
the mainmast through die sn p up
As the vessel sank the flares . ds 0 f
the great cavern disturbed V cries
roosting seabirds, whose p groans
played the accompaniment ainS of
of maimed seamen and th boat W itb
women passengers. The fi - nst the
40 on board was smashed as ne wly-
cave side, and only 18 (retting asho re
married couple succeeded B mont hs l at f r
in the ship’s gig. d only
the sealing brig Amherst loan
seven castaways alive.
VISPERS.*
Little Boy clutches the big microphone.
Speaking so cleverly all on his own.
Hush ! Hush! Let us be fair !
Little Al Fraser has gone on the air.
God bless Chiffo. I know that’s right.
Weren’t I a one in the House last night!
Blowing so cold, and blowing so hot,
For sometimes I’m Labor, and sometimes I’m
not.
If I walk on the tightrope a little bit more,
The public may think me all kinds of a bore;
Some bully should push me; then they’ll be sad.
Oh! God damn Archie and make him bad!
I’ll raise a few matters of ifs and of whys,
And pull the wool over old Cameron’s eyes,
Then look as if Archie had made me feel small,
And people will think I was wronged, after all.
Oh! Thank you for making me such a nice
boy!
And what other cliche had I to employ?
I said “Bless Chiffo,” so what can it he?
Oh! Now I remember it. God bless ME.
Little Boy clutches the big microphone.
Speaking so cleverly all on his own.
Hush ! Hush ! Nobody cares —
Uncle Bob Menzies has kicked him downstairs.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
[Acknowledgments to A. A. Milne and “Beach-
comber.”]


“Statistic. •f t di - v 1 i?„! U ' MrthSiS Impale
“jV*** 1 P ' C '” •" '
“Jay”: An American film depicting a
mangled version of the Burma campaign
was in progress at the suburban cinema.
Errol Flynn and his compatriots, wild-
eyed and bathed in perspiration, were
retreating through the jungle pursued by
Japs. After a lot of crouching and
scurrying from tree to tree, with harrow-
ing close-ups of facial expressions, they
won their way to the top of a hill and
settled themselves in the undergrowth,
eyes strained to watch the approaches to
the hill-top. Someone in the back stalls,
either overcome by emotion or fed up
with the profound quiet, enveloped his
nose in a handkerchief and blew a
trumpeting blast. Errol Flynn’s tense
face appeared from the middle of a bush.
“Ljsten, I heard something,” he rapped.
It’s just as well screen-actors can’t see
their audiences. If Errol had heard the
gale of laughter that greeted his remark
he would have given the game away.
* * * *
“Den”: Brutal assaults by thugs —
mostly youthful ruffians —have become
sufficiently serious in Britain for demands
to be made in both Commons and Lords
that corporal punishment —abolished in
1948—be reintroduced for this species of
crime. When corporal punishment was
proposed as remedy for a similar wave of
brutal assaults in mid-19th-century Eng-
land Charles Dickens protested spiritedly.
His arguments were much the same as
those of modem opponents, but, unlike
them, he faced up squarely to the problem
of a satisfactory alternative. He showed
no sentimentality towards the criminal,
whom I hold in far lower estimation
than a mad wolf.” His suggestion was
abolition of fining, which he described as
a barbarous device, as much out of date
as wager by battle, the quadrupling, at
kast, of the term of imprisonment for
aggravated assaults, “and above all let
us have no pet reasoning, vain-glorifying,
strong soup and roasted meats but hard
work ; and one unchanging and uncom-
promising dietary of bread and water,
We ll or ill.” This procedure might be
worth trying as alternative to the lash,
a it i S Sa^e to say that it would be quite
as likely to arouse the opposition of most
rnent rn a^^orrers corporal punish-
, ~****
. l An example of supreme
I™ 15111 * s the belief expressed by a
for the D’Oyly Carte family
, at . the fact that W. S. Gilbert’s copy-
-0,,.: S , hus 11 years to go will save
pj va ns music from exploitation by Tin
fan This belief is based on the
oaraKi mus ‘ history offers no com-
nerfpVi ° ase °/ wor< ls and music being so
tc r r and . inseparably wed, but it fails
Tpl ckon w hh the utter ruthlessness of
the f en it comes to cashing-in on
the e , , Senius. For those who love
seem lm g music of Sullivan it will
as sac rilege to have such an air
luimhr-’ , or Wandering One” yawped
“new” IOUS i y hy a groaner to a set of
which revoltingly sentimental words
a mnn Wl lnev itably contain a June and
“1 imJ 1 ’ a ma yhe and a baby and an
with th y , ew -” Hut T.P.A. is concerned
e teenagers, who buy millions of
records, who don’t appreciate or know
Gilsullivan and who wouldn’t see any
harm in the desecration anyway. He
would be a bold better who laid odds
against the Andrews Sisters in the near
future howling “Three Little Maids” (to
words by A 1 Finkelbaum), or Spike Jones
employing a concrete-mixer, a cowbell,, a
klaxon horn and a whistling kettle to im-
prove “Dear Little Buttercup,” But the
arrangers will have their work cut out to
slow the tempo of songs by the Lord
Chancellor and Major-General Stanley
to make them still distinguishable when
whinged by some lugubrious crooner.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: In his story of
Rommel, Brigadier Desmond Young de-
scribes how the German general visited
a British forward hospital and was mis-
taken for a Polish officer. That doesn’t
sound like Rommel to me. He had a
strict sense of honor, and seemed to take
it for granted that his adversaries were
as honest and chivalrous js he was; I
don’t think it would have occurred to
him to conceal his identity from a hos-
pital staff. He certainly didn’t when he
visited the 14 C.C.S. He would have
been recognised in any case, but he intro-
duced himself. He inspected the hospital,
watched approvingly an operation on a
German soldier, and distributed cigarettes
“Like my new hair-do , Joan ?”
impartially to Allied and German
wounded. He walked away from the
hospital with the air of a man to whom
it wouldn’t occur that he might be shot
in the back.
* * * *
“MeEmma”: Marvellous how the
tendency for people to swear that well-
worn tales are experiences of their own
never diminishes. I have heard Henry
Lawson’s “Loaded Dog” story retailed by
people who were “actually there” so
many times that I am beginning to believe
I witnessed the incident myself. But my
foundations have been thoroughly rocked
over the past few weeks. The first story
I read in The Bulletin’s 70-Year Pageant
was Edward Dyson’s “The Golden
Shanty”—about the improvident Irish-
man’s pub being built of gold-bearing
bricks —which first appeared in 1887.
Travelling up to town the following week
the service-bus conductor, noting me read-
ing an historical work on gold, told me
Dyson’s story with his grandfather as
the central figure. Then, to cap every-
thing, over the radio last night I’m darned
if that grand Australian Chips Rafferty
didn’t recount a slightly modified version
as yet another experience. I’ll say this
for Chips, though, even if he didn’t alter
the name of the Shamrock pub, he did
change the publican’s name from Doyle
to Hennessy.
* * * *
“Plop”: “Julius Caesar —by William
Shakspeare” is being featured in comic-
strip form in a series called “Classics
Illustrated.” The Caesar depicted is grim,
Brutus fair and handsome, and Mark
Antony looks like a bank-manager in a
leopardskin. Shakspeare has been filmed,
broadcast, televised,and put on to records
to be played in the home. Despite all
this and despite cockeyed censorship and
sacrilegious pruning, he has so far won
through; but I’m wondering how he’ll
stand coming, balloon-fashion, out of his
characters’ mouth.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Why should Sydneysiders
bother to go to their own museum (B.
29/3/’50)? It’s dull, overcrowded and
badly arranged. When I lived in Sydney
I went there several times; keenly
interested in aboriginal weapons and
curios, I could have spent many an hour
among the specimens. But everything
was crowded together, with no rest
for the eye or the brain. One-fifth of
the collections, if arranged to show the
real use for the weapons and the utensils
and the household articles, would have
won much more interest and much more
attention. The display in the Sydney
emporium was spaced carefully, and the
eye was not wearied by an over-plus of
curios huddled one upon the other and
differing little in type the one from the
other. Also, if the Museum had large
show-windows, opening on to the street
and dressed by experienced window-.
dressers, they would excite attention and
help to entice more spectators into the
Museum.
♦ * * *
“1.M.”: These days every inland town
is clamoring for an aerodrome in the
interests of “progress.” Old-timers who
still live in the decaying villages which
were ruined by the motor-car are wonder-
ing how long it will be before local
businessmen now sitting on “aerodrome
investigation committees” are lamenting
the sight of their best customers stepping
aboard an airliner on their way, complete
with cheque-books, to the city.
Hf * * *
“R.M.”; Our lift-driver declares he
was one of the worst sufferers during the
recent prolonged rains. People entering
the lift feel it incumbent upon them to
be sociable and say something, and the
rain becomes the constant topic hundreds
.of times daily. At the end of a day he
is all wet; a week of it and he feels like
a drip. After a month he longs for a
murder in the building to change the
subject.
* ♦ ♦ *
“J. Mason”: “Findy’s” surprise at find-
ing tenterhooks common enough to be
loaded in guns on Norfolk Island, to-
gether with bullets, iron and tenpenny
nails, is the fault of the dictionary. In
the early days of Australian settlement
all provisions, and most other commodi-
ties, were kept in barrels or casks, the
metal hoops of which were held on tight
by a kind of clout nail, the head bent at
right-angles to the shank. These were
tenterhooks, and would be most effective
missiles.
* * * *
“Tohung a”; “Sherlocker” (B.
15/3/’5O) wonders why a concrete-works
should make washing-coppers. In M.L.
there is an abundance of the volcanic
scoria known as pumice, which, when
crushed, is used as aggregate for making
a concrete of remarkable properties. It
is very light, strong and much more fire-
resistant than ordinary concrete; also it
is a much better heat-insulator. Because
of these properties wash-boiler stands
made from pumice-concrete have entirely
superseded the older cast-iron wash-boiler
stand in New Zealand; the only metal
parts of the portable stands are the copper
bowl and the iron firedoor. The body,
firebox and even the chimnev are centri-
fugally cast in a factory from pumice
concrete ; the iron firedoors are especially
cast at a foundry, and usually bear the
name of the concrete works —which does
the bulk of the job.
* * * «
“T. McN.”: The music critic of a
Sydney' daily paper greeted the playing
of Liszt’s “Faust” symphony in that city
thus:
its first outing in Sydney last night
after waiting nearly 100 years for the event.
If the shades of Franz Liszt have been
troubled by this neglect they will now be
at peace.
The imagined spectacle of Liszt’s ghost
being troubled for a century because a
piece of his was not performed in a stone
hall in a big town on the Parramatta
River (N.S.W.) takes the cake for
parochial vanity.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The suggestion that encores
might be permitted in straight plays
touches the whole mechanics of stage-
craft ; all the same, encores have been
permitted; one notable instance being in
“My Lady’s Dress” at the Sydney
Criterion, Australian actress Marie la
Varre being the lady whose performance
in one of the scenes evoked a demand
for a repetition. But that play was a
compartmented one, and any of its scenes
could be regarded as a separate entity.
The stage director who regards his work
as an art considers continuity the great
desideratum ; the encore suggestion would
be anathema to him. His main idea is
to train his players to take up their cues
instantaneously, pauses being permitted
only when the applause and laughter or
the audience forces them. Others, how-
ever, whom the artistic one views as the
doctor regards charlatans, fish for noises
of public approval. Their rehearsals are
punctuated with orders to “Wait for the
laugh”—or “applause”; and audiences,
being tractable, usually fill iu the gaps
suggested by the pauses. The charlatans
methods usually win; a majority of the
audience going away with the memory
of the frequent bursts of laughter and
applause without realising that they have
been more or less forced to give them.
QUITE A CHANGE.
c when W im noneymoon behind,
Time was wh ’ | sing one another
A cOU P Ie soberness, might find
With unro SSment caused a spot of bother.
That maladjustment unkindj
He £ whTch Vr/ straightway tear off home to
motl ! er hit and proudly beat his chest,
A crawl back, chained, to the
nest.
»jjfiSaSi“th“teetof' ThSTswif'tly
hollow.
■n ie ’ would thus get bluer, till, perforce,
tSS whole thing finished up in a divorce.
Well, nowadays all that’s been changed-at
According to the statistician’s figure.
According j. wood-heap now has ceased
T rn m house this special and malignant nigger.
To nouse reason w hy it has decreased —
°Thi > s U mn’ning home, with Ma-in-law the rigger
Of rows that sprang therefrom and rocked the
ot married’bliss —is that the pair live with ’em!
tainted,
"SfiS&WSf'S lon/S’s been parnted,
The lady so formidable of jaw. . ,
1 These days is almost looked upon as sainted.
nn ‘ L henien as gentle summer rains, .
who fmm “putting in her bib” refrains.
Well anyway, the fact that she will be
No longer just a synonym for brawling,
and appalling.
“fsnon'g 0 to his .calling.
For jokes he’ll now fall back on butcher s meat,
Forgetful plumbers and policemen s feet.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wilken”: The past summer has been
a phenomenal one for marine growths in
Sydney Harbor. Around Christmas the
seabed near the foreshores was thick
with a vivid green growth of ribbon-like
weed, whilst boats freshly slipped were
covered with a varied assortment of
aquatic flora ranging from dangling
clusters of orange-red sausages to dark-
brown short scrubby growth, the latter
alive with what appeared to be prawns
in their infancy, so numerous that the
growth seemed to be animated. There
were few barnacles and very little coral.
Read that one again, warder, where they lived happy ever after”
A month later the green ribbon miracu-
lously dissolved, leaving a residue which,
as a scum on the surface, fouled the nets
professional prawn fishermen and
y ac htsmen’s curses. More or less
ann! coral growth began to
ppear in quantity on boat hulls. I saw
• s hpped after only eight weeks
in the water. The growth was like a field
ot cauliflowers, the heads being 3in. thick
m places A peculiarity of this coral
g owtn is that it is thickest on those parts
l “e dull exposed, through the water, to
might. The coral is quite soft and is
easily crushed in the hand. Old boat-
shed hands say that coral was never seen
in Sydney waters until warships down
from the tropics introduced the pest. The
nuisance can be appreciated when it is
remembered that three or four weeks of
growth on a propeller reduces speed by
nearly half, and a few cauliflowers of
coral on a hull can turn a lively boat into
a sluggish barge.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was camped in
the ancient hut on the far. run when the
wet weather set in. On the first day he
made things snug with everything from a
chaff-bag to an old boot shoved over the
holes in the top, but the night brought a
blow which, bit by bit, took every sheet
of bark from the roof. It rained steadily.
By daylight the old bloke was collecting
the roofing, picking out the pieces not
too badly smashed, and hammering them
on again. Hours he worked; then, with
one end finished, he dragged his bunk
under the narrow shelter, shook his head
over the rest of the bark, and decided on
a trip into the bush for a fresh supply.
But first a feed. He battled a while with
the first, propped the door open to let out
the water that wasn’t getting away
through the cracks, and found himself a
squelchy bag of skins for a seat. Then,
when the billy bubbled, he chucked the
rain out of a mug, pulled his hat down
further, and dropped into the smoke-
cloud for a few minutes’ rest and comfort,
Relentlessly the rain hammered down.
Leaning against the part-shelter of the
chimney, Seventyfiver paused to stare at
old Blue, squatting out on the step. The
dog was drenched and thoroughly fed up.
“Well, of all the silly flamin’ goats!”
came the old bloke’s snort. “Gripes, why
don’tcha come in out o’ the blasted wet?”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: After a long dry
summer, W.A. now faces the driest winter
in its history. This prediction made in
local dailies is based on plant and animal
behavior and blackfellow prognostica-
tions. As I’ve said before, the percentage
of blacks with outstanding powers of
observation is rather lower than amongst
white bushmen, but if you strike an in-
telligent full-blooded abo. he’s worth
listening to. But you don’t strike him
around Perth, and a jadius of 50 miles
seems to have been the limit of the
intrepid reporters’ search. Plant and
animal behavior is different, although I
can’t explain it. I suppose the weather
we’ll get during the next few months is
determined by conditions which are
already prevalent, and could be altered
only by some major cataclysm. And
plants, which live in the earth, and
animals, which live close to it, may be
affected by those conditions, and react in
a manner that can be interpreted by com-
petent observers. Trees —native trees in
particular—blossom in varying degrees
of profuseness and lateness each year,
and may indicate the coming season. On
the other hand, they may be reacting to
the past season. Of all indications, the
most reliable is ant activity. They
build high, for no immediately obvious
reason, in the autumn before a heavy
winter. And I’ve never seen ants flooded
out yet.
* * * *
“1.M.”; A Cowra (N.S.W.) beekeeper
who last saw his hives floating down the
Lachlan in the recent floods has gamely
announced that he will start all over
again. This time, though, he intends to
place the hives on hilltops where there
will be no danger of floods. But isn’t
there something to the effect that heavily-
laden bees can’t carry their burden back
to their hives uphill? Or is another
picturesque illusion waiting to be shat-
tered?
* * * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: The Cerberus, the
former H.M.A. pinnace at Flinders Naval
Depot on which almost every war-time
naval rating and “wavy” officer did his
initial sea-training, is being converted into
“Give me flying-fish any day for real sport.”
a topsail-schooner. Launched at Williams-
town in 1919, the vessel —she is only 70ft.
long with a beam of 14ft. and a loaded
draught of 9ft. 6in. —began her career as
a naval-tug and was the first diesel ship
in the R.A.N, Sixteen months ago
Cerberus was bought from Disposals by
a St. Kilda man, Noble Kerby, since
when it has made a trip to Botany Bay
and the rugged Bass Strait islands. Now
he, his wife and his son, Colin, a diver
from New Guinea waters, will sail it
around the world, going around the Horn.
Her 140 Allen diesel, once the pride of
her engineroom, has been removed, and
in the Yarra her now red-oxided hull is
being stripped of its deckhousing. Her
new rig is to be identical with that of the
well-known Maoriland schooner Huia,
except that her masts, topmast and 27ft.
bowsprit will be of tubular steel. The
main truck will be 70ft. above deck-level.
A 12-h.p. engine for manoeuvring in con-
fined waters, radar direction-finding gear
and an automatic pilot for self-steering
are features. Before the war Kerby lived
in Rabaul, where he commanded
schooners. He served with the Army
Water Transport during the war.
* * * ♦
“R.H.G.”: It’s certainly hard to
figure out how the insect world puts two
aid two together. Left a full waterbag
on the front bumper of a truck in the
bush for the weekend, and on Monday
it was covered with bees —the bush had
recently been burnt out, and our district
has had no rain so far this year. Although
I’ve found them pretty harmless while
chasing water, I cautiously removed the
loaded bag with a longish stick, setting
it down about a chain away. Many of
the bees still hung around the front
bumper. All that day the truck was
used for log-loading, after which it was
returned to much the same place from
which it was first moved. Soon there
wasn’t a bee anywhere near the water-
bag—they were all concentrated around
the bumper-bar—in short, at the actual
spot where they had first found water.
Apparently the changed position of the
water itself didn’t mean a thing to them.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It’s a long time ago, the
vehicle is rust and the boss is dust, but
every time I see anybody fussing about
with a new car I think of that one. It
was the first ever seen in those parts;
you drove it with a foot-pedal which
worked clutch-bands, and the petrol was
in a tank up behind the driver. When
we heard the boss had bought it there
was a first-class debate on that station,
and it was with a mixture of excitement,
suspicion and awe that, on receipt of a
telephone message from the town that he
was on the way, we gathered in front
of the homestead to await the marvel.
It was a bright, hot day, and presently,
what with the waiting and the general
air of excitement, together with the act of
the boss’s son in opening the cellar once
or twice, it soon became a picnic. Our
hacks hung on their bridle-reins along
the fence, for those were da™, L
never walked more than 50 you
dogs lolled or chiaS our
made short excursions into JL or
scrub, and we swapped yams c neai : by
at flies and assistedTo reX “i Smacked
Twice in two hours ft
anxiously phoned the town • all tS. , Wlfe
in there was that he had
caused Jim Taylor’s sulky hoSfto S
and smash the sulky and Tim , to bo,t
being revived a, ff-K
were getting worried when aW« 8S
afoot, appeared on the crest of the^and-
hill over which the road ran. We
mounted and raced up there. The boss
lifted a tired, dusty face. “Get the dray
mare, Bob, an’ some trace-chains, I got
her nearly to the second gate but the
bitch wouldn’t answer the rein and tried
to jump it. Reckon she must ha’ busted
a surcingle or something. Hope you
cows haven’t drunk all my beer.”
* Hs * *
“Carver”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
5/4/’5O) need have little fear that the
S.A. museum party will fail to catch
“bicycle lizards.” The leader of the ex-
pedition specialises in heavy artillery—
from .303 rifles to that unpronounceable
implement called a machete —and it is
understood he aims to throw such a
scare into the lacertilian speedsters they’ll
lose their balance and fall off.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Among the nomadic
tribes of the Territory human hair is a
valuable commodity, its uses including
bracelets, fishing-lines and -nets. It seems
rather strange, therefore, that one or
Binghi’s tribal laws decrees that, on tne
death of a husband, the widow must cu
off her hair and bum it, its place being
taken by a cap of kangaroo-skin, pos-
sibly the tribe knows that the spirit 0
the dead man is watching to see that ms
widow carries out the mourning n
according to law. It is certain, also,
if she didn’t mourn sufficiently ne
would return as a spirit and make i
darned unpleasant for the rest 0
tribe. * * *
“L.T.”: Around the Victorian coast
oars made of quondong are no
extensively, since Oregon paddle tive
the market, and fine blades th
wood makes. Eight-feet lengths
limit, however. Anyone know w P
of the inland they from l #
“Veteran”: With the Srvbrn
Gilly decided to burn off the
tussocks that were m a corner 01 , d d
paddock. He lit the first tussock sbiem
it carefully, and stood by to wateh m
didn’t spread to the surroun S
The flame flared and went ou •
ing dried leaves and twigs, d f or
again, but again the flame , o ut on
a while, burnt the leaves and e
the tussock. Gilly went f §he
flammable material. For sev fl ha if a
persisted ; then with no more g ste dly
dozen tussocks demolished, ft _ a nd
abandoned his last smoulden g . even j n g
took himself over the hill to ft > fae
chores. “Getting very short or x
announced after tea. ‘ Tried toda y, in
coarse tussocks in the far gu V t on
the hope I’d get a too
them for the cattle, but t y ddo ck
green to burn. Thats ffie as inter-
left with any grass in. n* , dragge d
rupted by the phone-bell gjjj ”he
himself up. “Hello Oh,heHo, * F irf!
answered the call. ~ c vt Y air ’
Where? In my back paddo> 0e
yair, I know—my tussocky
grass paddock gone! Strum.
OUTBACK GARDEN.
This spring the vine of purple-flowering bean
Climbs with the ripening pods of milky green
Where towering shelter from the north wind
stands —
The native brush —and from his outstretched
hands
Pours down its flowing green in constant
showers.
The grey, dead brush, that once held living
flowers
That lit the dusty green with fragile lamps,
Encloses moving shadows now, where daily
camps
The tender gecko, spotted like a leaf,
Hunting among the silver beet in brief
Sporadic bursts to catch small, thoughtless
things
Before they yet have dried their newborn wings.
And here the rusty dragon, and the skink
With fierce bright eyes, hunt those swift things
that sink
Into the earth. Armed with his savage horn
The harmless beetle feeds where he was born;
Here parsley thickets hide the spider-holes,
And ants and beetles scuttle when there rolls
A border stone, and, maddened by the bright
Spears of the sun, the centipede shuns light.
And here, from streams of blue Salvation Jane,
Seeking this shelter from the gibber plain,
The white moth with the frail, soot-spotted
wings
Her fragile cargo of the new life brings.
She cannot know the orange wasp hunts here,
Hovering for tender grubs that she may rear
Her unhatched eggs which soon must all be laid
In the round cells that from this earth were
made.
No passing snake but darts an envious tongue,
Finding no sheltering leaves to lie among,
No stone to hide a coldly glimmering coil,
No garden-place where he can lurk to spoil
Green-shadowed peace. Out from the saltbush
creep
The jewelled beetle, weevil, grub, to steep
In the rich dampness that a garden makes
Set on an endless plain of heat-haze lakes.
Here, trim as any flower, the finches come
Safe from the planing kestrel. Sounds the hum
Of bees —from hives unknown in treeless land
Inherited by saltbush and the sand —
Coming from desert-varnished rocks to seek
Hofley from bean-flowers, tiring of the creek
Blazing in sunlight, though the best nectar runs
Through that blue Jane born of the northern
suns.
The skylark now with joy of morning swells
This day with song more lovely than the bells
Of churches —singing for no immortal grace,
Only for love of this sun-stricken place.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


*
“Mat’s Mate”: Our lines trailed in the
fioulburn River near Echuca, and Mat
fell into philosophy. “One of the big
differences between a bloke an a woman,
he murmured, “is in this here fishin . Y
see a bloke can sit on a river-bank for
hours an’ not get a bite an’ be happy
on his own, or if he’s got a mate the
pair of ’em can sit an’ yarn or drowse
an’ not give a damn. But a woman!
She’s got t’ be bobbin’ about all over
the place, tryin’ here an’ tryin’ there,
upsettin’ the fish an’ the birds an’ talkin’
an’ wonderin’ if her nose is gettin’ red.
I’ve noticed that plenty o’ women’ll go
fishin’ with their husband or some bloke
they want for a husband or in a party
of blokes an’ girls, but how many times
d’ y’ see a woman fishin’ on her own or
with some other woman?” He paused.
WESTERN LINE
VALEEV
“Phone’s shtill out of order!”
azUy turned on his back and tipped his
at over his eyes. “Biggest row I ever
“w’ u Went on ’ fr° m under the hat,
A if- 8 , Wecn & bloke an’ his missus over
, 8 ln • They was on a hole in the Ovens,
th wn near Whorouly—ever bin down
re ,- -ft’ B in the Kelly country, y’ know
p n she gets sick o’ sittin’ there an’
fh P VT/ oun d bend an’ strike me if
don t land a big perch. She comes
flyin’ back with the thing, shriekin’ and
yellin’ an’ goin’ on at him to come round
the bend. He don’t say nothin’, just gets
up an’ takes the fish an’ heaves it into
the river. T told y’ before,’ he roars at
her, ‘when y’ come fishin’ with me y’
got t’ keep quiet!’ Well, they had a
real ding-dong go, no holds barred. But
it shows y’ the difference ; a man, if he’d
done what she did, he wouldn’t say
nothin’, just go on catchin’ a few more
an’ laughin’ up his sleeve at his mate
sleepin’ his head off back at the dead hole.
No, women ain’t real fishermen.”
Hi * Hi Hi
“Taswegian”: “Diba Tau” need not
write of the Fly River headhunters in
the past tense (B, 5/4/’50); an oil
engineer I know who works east of the*
Fly River reckons the headhunters are
still following their trade —recently a
head was brought in from 10 miles out
to a police post established 60 years ago.
White men are fairly safe, because the
natives regard a tribe of albinos there
with awe, and apparently whites are
classed as “super albino.”
* H! Hi *
“S.H.H.”: Mention was made in these
pages some months ago about the tenacity
of the case-moth in dragging itself across
the hot tar of a road in mid-summer.
Here’s further evidence of its fortitude.
One has fastened itself to a front tyre
of my car, about an inch below the tread.
As I make bi-weekly trips through half
a mile of mud, slush and gravel in places
several inches deep, with skids and figure-
eights common occurences, it beats me
how he manages to stay put. So far the
gent, with the portable pre-fab, has sur-
vived several trips, and his grip seems as
strong as ever,
* * * *
“Blime”: Hal received word of a trans-
fer at a certain date, into a new office and
residence in a town in southern Victoria ;
then, as the time drew near without
further notification, he ventured on a
trip of investigation. Arriving at the town,
he made inquiries, and at length located
the site of his new quarters. The road
was a bush track, while the sole furnish-
ings of his corner allotment was a patch
of scrub. He returned, feeling sure there
would be no shift for many months.
Four days later his Sabbath peace was dis-
turbed by a strangel*. “Just looked you
up about a few minor details to the
premises of your new appointment,” he
explained, pulling out a sheaf of papers.
“No hurry about those,” Hal returned,
“The building isn’t started. Why, even
the road in front isn’t made yet.” The
bloke contradicted, and soon Hal found
himself in a car bound for the town in
question. There, he discovered the road
"Omelettes , omelettes—nothing but omelettes! Cant you think of any-
thing else for breakfast?”
formed, graded and complete, while on
the corner block was the framework of
the new pre-fab. premises. “Did the road
the day before yesterday,” announced the
big contractor. “The gang will arrive
with the lorries in the morning to finish
the building, and I understand you are to
shift in the day after. That right?”
Probably it’s only a matter of time and
Hal will get that silly look off his face.
sfc * *
“Tarbush”: “Bughouse’s” biology (B.
5/4/’5O) is astray. A plant, like any
other living organism, needs food for two
purposes; as a source of energy, and as
a source of growth materials. A plant
synthesises most of its energy-store from
carbon dioxide and water, changing these
in the leaves, in the presence of chloro-
phyll and sunlight, to glucose. And a
glucose molecule is mainly a parcel of
easily accessible sun energy. On the other
hand, most of the plant’s growth-materials
come from the soil. Now, if the air of
“Bughouse’s” Carboniferous period were
solid soot it could not have provided
growth-material for the swamp forests.
In hydroponic vegetable-culture the fluid
in,which the plants’ rootlets clabble is a
correctly-balanced solution of those sub-
stances which are essential for the build-
ing of protoplasm and its non-living
derivatives.
♦ * * *
“Tohunga”: The abo. method of
“anchoring” sheep by breaking their legs
till they are wanted for the pot (B.
15/3/’5O) recalls a method Maoris used
with wild “Captain Cookers.” When the
unsophisticated Maori chanced upon a
litter of small piglets he would pierce their
eyes with a pointed stick and release
them. As pigs find their food entirely by
scent, blindness did not prevent them
from thriving, but it did stop them
wandering off the country where they
were found. So the Maori always knew
where to find a pig and, moreover, one
which could, because of disability, be
easily caught. Some white station-hands,
as savage as the savages, later adopted
the same practice, but added the refine-
ment of barrowing the young boars. Thus
they knew not only where to find a pig
but a choice barrow as well; barrows,
of course, yielding better and fatter meat
than either boars or sows,
* * * *
“Zake”: I had heard of lightning only
as an agent of destruction in the bush —
until simultaneously I happened to run
into an orchardist and a storm. He was
contemplating the disturbed heavens with
great satisfaction, so I said something
about the beneficial effect of the rain for
his trees. “I’m not interested in the
rain so much,” he replied, “as in that” —
and he pointed to the streaks of chain-
lightning that were coming fast and thick.
“The best thing out for the blight, and
the treatment costs me neither time nor
money,” Don’t know how badly infested
his trees were beforehand, but I passed
that way again two days later and his
trees were completely free of disease.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Unless it is properly con-
structed, especially in regard to water-
proofing, a cellar can be a disadvantage
(B. 29/3/’5O). A leaking cellar altered
my whole mental outlook. We were kids,
going swimming, when our nearest
neighbor roped us in. The cellar under
her house was half-full of water, she
informed us, the croakings of the frogs
there kept her awake, and she was
frightened that snakes would come to eat
the frogs, and would we put on our
swimmin’ trousers and catch the frogs
and take them away? We had never
swum in a cellar before ; the novelty was
appealing. When the last frog was im-
prisoned the grateful lady presented each
of us with a green boiled lolly, and
seemed to think she had treated us pretty
handsomely. It was then that the latent
scientist in me drew attention to itself.
Why were these frogs brown, when the
frogs in our well were green? The
answer was, I concluded: because the
water in the cellar was as brown as tea—
the frogs matched the water. By that
reckoning, I reasoned, a brown frog
dropped in our well should revert back
to his natural color! There was only
one way to find out. Surreptitiously I
began the experiment, and from then on
peered down the trapdoor every day. But
no piebald frog was to be seen ; neither
was a brown one. A fortnight later I had
convinced myself that the frog must have
changed color overnight, when Dad
pulled up a bucket of drinking water;
in it floated what had once been my
brown frog. Alas, if I’d only had sense
enough to keep quiet instead of rushing
in to surmise whether the change of water
or the green frogs had killed him! Dad’s
mind ran in a very practical groove. A
potential - scientist died that day.
BARGO RAILWAT BRIDGE.
A nnhle cove, this old red bridge is
A And beautiful, when in the dusk
Wesee the dancing of the midges
W Within each arch’s hoary husk .. .
There is no sentiment about him—
A railway bridge, and nothing more;
And yet what would we do without him
When down the tracks expresses roar?
Thev could not swim across the river’s
Th Rough, rocky bed between high banks,
Nor fly, where soft the moonlight shivers,
'Feral! their mighty wheels and cranks.
Surely they were the proudest builders
Who set him there and ordered him,
No matter what uproar bewilders,
To hang on tight with purpose grim.
No matter how the wheels may thunder
And mighty engines hurl their weight
On his tough back to beat him under
He sees they travel swift and straight.
When in the dusk the dancing midges
Are sunlit motes against the sky
A noble cove this railway bridge is,
Upon whose back the mails go by.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
Gadgets on
radio receivers
and claims for the
gadgets are in
season again,
aeain tu- Every now and
the ttlIS occurs and it is nearly always
smitten t r r nanu^actu rer who gets
but v disease first —sometimes,
more S rely ’ one the older and
toueh e f ta Wished manufacturers gets a
Bv./' 1 but not very often,
attache d ® ets ’ we * n the Trade mean the
some r> en ! • or implied attachment of
e lectnVa? ntr i l^arice ’ cither mechanical or
She to t V w^lc h the maker advertises will
this n ar t‘ Purchaser a performance with
by othe ICU ar w hich is not enjoyed
can see may somet hing you
J tt may be something you can
twiddle or some difference which the
average ear is supposed to be capable of
detecting when you are listening to your
favorite programme. It is our opinion
that few of these extravagant claims can
be justified and under laboratory con-
ditions would prove to be utter nonsense.
But unhappily our buying public is often
influenced to such an extent by the adver-
tisements which they read that they firmly
believe that this “added something” really
exists in the set which they have been per-
suaded to buy, and, of course, if they are
content in this, then good luck to them.
But I would sound a note of warning
on this point, that great radio manufac-
turers of the world have constantly em-
ployed literally thousands of skilled and
renowned scientists who, day by day,
week by week and year by year, relent-
lessly endeavor to improve the stations
that transmit your programmes and the
instruments which receive them and
should any epoch making discovery
eventuate, then you and the rest of the
world will certainly hear about it in no
uncertain terms.
Actually, what happens is that every
now and again laboratories of these Con-
cerns do find ways by which the goodness
of your receiver can be improved to some
degree and in many cases, methods are
involved of giving you more for the
money you spend. However, these im-
provements being mainly electronic in
nature, are most difficult to explain to the
layman who possesses little, if any, tech-
nical knowledge and because of the
vagaries of the human ear, they are often
difficult to identify. To the trained
engineer however, and the trained listener,
they are certainly there. Then again, im-
provements are constantly being made in
the quality of all the bits and pieces that
go to make up the modern radio receiver
so that they can give longer and better
service without the possibility of break-
downs and the buying public, whilst re-
ceiving the benefit of these improvements,
are often as not entirely unaware of them.
When you read therefore, in the modest
claim made by a world Concern such
as the Mullard Company, that they have
produced a better radio receiver, please
don’t expect them to advertise their claim
extravagantly, but be assured that what
they do claim will be borne put in fact
and in practice. The real truth is that
nothing very revolutionary has emerged
in radio since the end of the war and
nothing revolutionary is in sight, but the
radio sets you can buy from these great
and long established organisations, such
as MuUard, are vast improvements, in
many directions, over the radios you
bought (certainly for less money) before
the war, but compared with other com-
modities and bearing in mind the in-
creased cost of producing anything these
days, brand line radios are great value,
particularly the World Famous Mullard
Brand.— Advt.


fs
BOARD OB DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J, Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John C&dwatlader; Sir Leslie Morihead, K.C.8., K. 8.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Full time Service
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, _’ onl }nd
inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to the provision of prompt, efficient an
service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
• Its charges are fixed and moderate.
I Vrife or call for free booklet. .1
l Pi<
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve, £966,706
The [?] COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 7i p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£/ £> £,£>£*
1941.. 85,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves, £91,675 1,361,904
1945.. 159,695 75,000 Nil 84,695 1,446,599
5 p.c.
1946.. 346,872 75,000 235,000 36,872 1,483,471
1947.. 418,570 75,000 Nil 343,570 1,827,041
1948.. 278,206 75,000 Nil 203,026 2,030,067
1949.. 210,884 75,000 Nil 135,884 2,165,941
Tax-provision account, £72,212 .. 2,092,739
The iron and steel industry in Australia
is distinguished for its technical achieve-
ments and continued development of
plant and productive capacity. Over the
last 10 years the B.H.P. group, of which
A.I. and S. is the biggest subsidiary, has
spent well over £25,000,000 on the exten-
sion, improvement and maintenance of
plant and other fixed assets. Yet Aus-
tralian production of iron and steel for
1948-49 was below the 1938-39 level.
Here are the Federal statistician’s figures:
Blooms and
Pig-iron, Billets. Ingot Steel.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1938-39 ~ 1105 1120 1168
1946- . . 1143 1250 1312
1947- .. 1236 1212 1343
Production of ingots for 1948-49 was
621,000 tons (37.3 p.c.) below plant
capacity Costs in this heavily-capitalised
industry, perhaps more than in any other,
are affected by the level of output. For
the first quarter of 1949-50 the ingot out-
put at Newcastle and Port Kembla
(171,700 tons) was no less than 71 p.c.
below capacity. For this the Communist-
inspired coal strike was responsible. It
brought plant at both centres almost to
a standstill for a period of eight weeks.
Interfere with the production of iron
and steel and you retard national output
and maximum efficiency all along the line
from capital to consumption goods. In
an attempt to mitigate these evil effects
many sections of trade and industry have
recently imported structural steel from
U.K., where the price in Australian
currency is about 34 p.c. above the
figure for the Australian-made article.
The overall effect upon the national in-
come and costs is obvious, and there is
a hidden threat to employment in the
future, too.
Further evidence of retarded output
and mounting costs is the contraction of
£67,322 in the co.’s latest net earnings,
making the shrinkage £207,686 over the
last two years. The £210,884 of profit
claimed was written after allowing
£913,866 (up £56,240) for depreciation
and something for taxation. It covered
the pref. div. and a mere 1.9 p.c. on the
£7,000,000 of ord. capital as against 4.3
p.c. and 7.3 p.c. for two preceding terms.
8.H.P., which put up an extra £2,300,000
of ord. capital last term, and will soon
substantially increase its holding, has re-
ceived only one div. (5 p.c.) during the
14 years since it took control. By thus
placing national requirements in front of
its own immediate interests, B.H.P. has
given practical recognition to the demo-
cratic truth that production is a com-
munity effort from which all will benefit
and to which all must contribute. Com-
munist-led labor groups have annihilated
the benefit. Hence the urgent need to
render the Communists and their idiocy
impotent.
Continued electrification and mechani-
sation of the co.’s five collieries have
lifted coal output a little, but it is still
woefully short of requirements. Iron-
ore from the high-|rade deposits on
Cockatoo Island, Yampi Sound (W.A.),
where development is well advanced, will
soon replace supplies from Iron Monarch
(S. Aus.). One of the two blast furnaces,
which had been out of commission for
nearly three years, was blown in again
last year; the new battery of 48 coke
ovens came into operation a couple of
months after the close of accounts ; and
additions and improvements were made
to the rolling mills —the new merchant-
bar, rod and strip section is now working
three shifts.
New works in hand include a further
24 by-product coke-ovens, a third blast-
furnace and additional open-hearth
furnaces. Construction of the big
milliqn-ton-a-year hot- and cold-strip
mill and tinplate plant, which are being
installed (in association with 8.H.P.)
alongside the steelworks at Kembla, is
proceeding as fast as labor and materials
will allow —it will take a few years to
bring this project to completion.
The year’s net addition to the book-
value of fixed assets was £3,138,040, after
allowing for depreciation ; total expen-
diture thereon was thus £4,051,906:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £5,700,007 £5,700,007 £8,000,000
Sundry creditors,
etc.f .. .. 3,273,231 4,038,700 5,478,864
Fixed assets .. 7,321,163 9,142,457 12,280,497
Shares in subsidiary 386,498 386,498 886,497
Stocks .. .. 1,466,433 1,743,306 2,076,596
Bock debts . . 765,837 512,980 844,412
Cash, Gov’ment bonds 897,848 21,033 21,101
f Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks increased by £333,290, book
debts by £331,423 and £1,440,164 was
added to the amount coming to outsiders,
» Public investment interest is confined
to a million £1 7* p.c. prefs., which the
market prices at 385., giving a yield of
3.9 p.c. Net tangible cover is £lO 15s. lOd.
(book-value).
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 65,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 63,720 12 ~ ~48.000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ „ 40,000 14,552 159,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ ~ 40,000 15,751 176,034
1945.. 63,360 10 „ ~ 40,000 23,360 198,394
1946.. 64,504 10 „ „ 40,000 24,504 222,898
1947.. 66,124 10 „ ~40,000 26,124 249,022
1948.. 65,986 10 „ ~40,000 25,986 275,008
Share premiums, £47,706 .. .. 322,714
1949.. 82,301 12$ p.c. = 50,000 32,301 355,015
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,524 at Sept. 30, 1949.
Steady progress, which has been reflected
in earning-power, and a well-balanced
financial structure and efficient plant, are
among the outstanding features in the
financial history of this 38-year-old
manufacturing organisation. It turns out
a wide range of canned foods, jams, con-
diments, etc., from three factories in
Victoria, two in N, S. Wales, one in South
Australia and another in Tasmania.
Last term saw a sharp contrac-
tion in overseas demand for Aus-
tralian jams, and there was a drop
in selling-prices. The Australian out-
put of jam for 1948-49 was 32.5 p.c.
lower at 59,800 tons, which suggests
that local producers lost no time in
trimming sail to the altered trade-winds;
and an unexpected revival in U.K. demand
toward the close of the term removed
the threat of glut from the local market.
Increased sales of tinned fruits and
other canned foods, etc., to which the
co.’s new tomato-processing factory at
Tatura (Vic.) contributed for the first
time, took up the slack and more besides.
And a better supply of tinplate enabled a
wider range of small-sized packs to be
marketed. The overall increase in the
year’s sales (amount not stated) was 20
p.c., which more than took care of the
rise in wage, fruit, sugar, fuel, transport
and other outgoings. Gross earnings
shot up by £158,103 (46.6 p.c.), reaching
£497,310. After allowing something for
taxation and an extra £9199 for deprecia-
tion (£32,761), the net result benefited by
£16,315 of the gain. The £82,301 of
profit claimed was the best yet, being
20.5 p.c. on capital as against 16.5, 16.5,
16.1, 15.8, 13.9 and 13.6 p.c. back to
1943. The div., steady at 10 p.c. for the
preceding six years, was lifted to 12y p.c.,
making the average distribution over the
last 30 years a shade over 11 p.c.
Because the co. has always traded well
within its own resources, and because
much of today’s bigger trading is expected •
to be permanent, 100,000 new £1 ords.
were issued at a premium of 10s. each
shortly before the close of accounts. The
premium makes 12£ p.c. worth no more
than 8.6 p.c. on the new issue, of which
only £4589 of capital and £4294 of share
premiums were outstanding at September
'3O last. On a half-million of capital 12|
p.c. will call for £62,500 (£19,800 less
profit than was shown last term), or 7.£
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), whereas 11.6 p.c. was
earned on these funds last year.
No early or marked improvement in
the export of jams is anticipated. But
overseas demand for our canned fruits
exceeds the production capacity of Aus-
tralian canneries, and there is a strong
and growing local market for all the co.’s
lines, thanks to the high level of employ-
ment and incomes and growth'in popula-
tion, hastened by immigration. Greatest
danger lies in rising costs, which are less
flexible than selling-prices. The-increase
in freight-rates alone has already caused
the management to review its present
policy of concentrating production of one
line in a specific factory.
The new money put up by shareholders
was mostly used to reduce the over-
draft (£63,938, down £60,533) and carry
more stocks (up £137,027);
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949-
Capital .. £400.000 £400,000 £400,000 £495,411
S’dry creditors* 277,268 180,898 307,208 301,212
Property .. 204,778 221,248 252,128 280,190
Plant, etc. .. 80,437 91,696 118,373 126,199
Stock .. 285,217 311,611 474,632 611,658
Debtors , .. 111,245 92,159 146,265 152,733
Cash, etc. .. 227,965 122,682 287 349
Goodwill, etc. 30,531 30,531 30,531 80,508
* Includes “provisions.”
Net additions to freeholds and plant were
£28,062 and £7826 respectively. Allowing
for the div., the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£413,528) was £139,552 stronger.
The market counts on the 12-£ p.c. div.
being maintained and prices the scrip at
555. to return 4.5 p.c. Cover is visibly
345. 4d. in net tangibles.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To He- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744 .. 250,235
1942.. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Added replacement reserve, £16,211 .. 275,355
1943.. 7,376 H P-c. = 16,006 266,725
Added replacement reserve, £13,919 .. 280,644
1944.. 34,525 5 p.c. = 24,625 9,900 290,544
Added replacement reserve, £13,901 .. 304,445
1945.. 43,749 7 p.c. = 34,475 9,274 313,719
Added replacement reserve, £5809 .. 319,528
1946.. 2,192 5 p.c. = 24,625 297,095
Added replacement reserve, £4072,. 301,167
Written off war damage, £lO,OOO .. 391,167
1947.. 54,705 8 p.c. ■= 39,400 15,305 306,472
Reserves disappear, £913 .. 805,559
Share premiums, £2268 .. .. 307,827
Added replacement reserve, £29,219. . 337,044
1948.. 78,824 12 p.c. = 59,562 19,262 356,306
Written off war-damage, £lO,OOO .. 346,306
From revaluation assets account,
£285,475 631,781
Added replacement reserve, £30,229 662,010
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 664,510
1949.. 108,511 12 p.c. = 59,892 48,619 713,129
* Includes replacement reserve, £350,527 at
t 31/12/’49.
Not since the co. took over the sugar
interests of the Young family in the
Bundaberg district (Q.) about 37 .years
ago has its plate been piled so high. An
exceptional season, more plentiful supply
of fertiliser and easier labor position
brought a record crushing of cane and
outturn of mill raws, which sold at better
prices in both home and export markets.
A lift in mill peaks from an aggregate
737,000 tons to 848,000 tons in lune last
helped, too —output in excess of peaks
is paid for at a lower price, the object
being to discourage overproduction.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its milling
figures, but the following table shows
what happened in the industry as a whole
since the previous record harvest of 1939;
Australian Australian Exportable
Production. Consumption. Surplus.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1939 .. 928.147 383,453 544,694
1946 .. 552,158 463,732 88,426
1947 605.054 498,551 106,503
1948 .. 942,893 499,821 443,072
1949 .. 944,000 f * *
t Estimate. * Not yet available.
The important feature there is the recent
growth in the export snmi,™
year realised about £A2B l ss \ as!
ton as against £A23 l os . (up 9ft I 3 *) a
for sugar consumed locally ThV ton
average price for the year' I ° Verall
mately £A26 (up 10s.) a ton Thf o?i '
dustry has relied mainly unon th h ln '
market (where the price w £ eXport
£5 a ton better than toVhome ”
for the last three years) to cover
advance m costs since war ended P
After allowing £31,222 (up £1978) f„ r
depreciation and an unspecified amouM
£29 Pr ° flt £lO8 > 511 («P
iD.y, 11.1, 0.4, 8.8 and 7.1 p.c hack tn
1944, Since money is likely to Ik wanted
m the business the div. was kept at 12 n c
making average distribution over the last
nine years 6.6 p.c., compared with an
average of 9.6 p.c. for the eight years
before that. Excluded from the reckoning
are a new insurance reserve of £2500 and
£30,229 added to the replacement reserve
(now £350,527), some of which might be
genuine profit. Reserves also benefited
by a further £285,475 on account of re-
valuation of the sugar-mills, etc., the
book-value of which has been written-up
accordingly. Including provision for re-
placements, reserves now total £713,129
or 28s. 6d. a share.
The co. is also interested in a Copra
plantation in the Solomon Islands, where
shipping, labor and other troubles have
delayed rehabilitation, and in a Hereford
stud farm, for extension of which the
board is on the hunt for a suitable
property in N. S. Wales. To what extent,
if any, last year’s figures benefited from
either of these sources isn’t ascertainable
from the published accounts.
The financial position improved:—
19 46. 19 4 7. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £492,500 £492,500 £494,500 £500,000
Liabilities* .. 186,995 323,642 389,605 276,539
Estates . . 338,786 323,288 327,875 330,762
Factories, etc. 1 kiq rno 1 515,264 837,264
Livestock J 519,502 |
Stocks, etc... 56,654 72,862 89,343 133,384
Book debts .. 56,528 208,591 260,834 142,942
Cash, etc. . . 5,487 6,576 7,752 9,221
Island-rehabili-
tation . . 22,082 41,196 26,821
* Including provision for taxation.
The growth of £322,000 in factories, etc.,
mainly reflects the writing-up already
referred to. The drop of £117,892 in
book debts and of £114,066 in outside
liabilities, etc., are interrelated, being
chiefly on account of sugar sales. When
the books were ruled off the more-or-less
liquid surplus amounted to £45,153, an
improvement of £64,307 over the twelve-
month.
As for the outlook, the worst of the
industry’s war-time troubles have been
left behind, another good season is m
prospect, the Nov., 1949, lift of a halt-
penny a pound in the local selling-price
of fines should help to stiffen returns
from the home market, and the new
sugar agreement with U.K. augurs weu
for both increased production and sales
in the export market. Results will oe
governed largely by the course of seasons
QT% H
Britain is to taka A«tra»
export surplus of sugar under exist g
arrangements until end 1952. For
next five years she will take wns
Australian export quota of 600,000
raws-—under the old international g
agreement the quota was 400,000 tons
p.a.—one half at a guaranteed price w
be fixed annually, and the °j^ er w
the ruling price in the London m >
where Empire producers en 3°y . t ri g
preference Before the war his
preference was the only price a
enjoyed by Empire sugar proou < ein
this has arisen out of the dollar P
persistence of which has the ; r su gar
consumers to draw the bulk of
requirements from sterling so * .
At 475. 6d. (40s. a year ago)
f-P- Pound shares give an
return of 5 p.c. on a 12 p.c.


♦Plan for Blgggf
Wool Chernies—
Invest in
Haddon Rig Blood
No one can forecast exactly what his clip will be
worth in the years ahead. But the pastoralist who
invests in Haddon Rig Blood leaves nothing to
guesswork; he is determined to profit by 68 years
of intensive and skilled line breeding. In this way,
ne makes certain that the quantity and quality of
nis clip will increase year by year.
Haddon Rig Rams, mated with reasonably classed
owes, produce a dense, uniform fleece of good
colour and softness. High lambing percentages
ensure that their progeny will fill the bales with
top-price wool. Both in Queensland and New
Wales, the highest-priced wethers come from
nocks enriched with Haddon Rig Blood.
At the 1949 Sydney Ram Sales, 6 Haddon Rig
Special Stud Rams averaged 1,275 guineas per
strong, the Haddon Rig team averaged
per head to realise £27,415 —a total never
>eiore equalled by any stud. In Brisbane, all
Haddon Rig Rams offered were sold under the
oaminer, 20 Selected Flock Rams averaging 47
guineas.
The marked demand for Haddon Rig Flock Rams
calls for immediate bookings for 1951 deliveries,
you are unable to visit Haddon Rig, Malcolm
cLeod or Frank Laird will select rams for you.
HADDON RIG STUD
WARREN . . . tf.S.W. Phone: Warren 74
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Abvt.
A ' , ■"V ; '
SB
m
What a pen to have
and to hold . . , the
magnificent Swan!
Clean in performance,
handsome in design, it
writes smoothly and
well, with a nib pre-
cisely suited to your
hand. At all Stationers,
j ewellers, stores —priced
from 37/3 to 88/9.
SWAN
PENS
2/120
SWAN INKS
BREWED
—not merely mixed
4 brilliant colours and the
famous blue-black! Swan Inks
are clear and free-flowing, and
do not fade, thicken or
corrode.
MABIE, TODD & CO.
(aust.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61, YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
McDowell* Ltd. (Sydney)
"* ——Dividends —, Re-
- , Profit. Pref- Ord. Total, serves.
Feb*, * p.c. p.c. £
„ 788 8 m 37,891 201,796
1940 •' fil 286 8 15' 44,709 215,373
1341 „’d inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
s*ss
T ° St 59 2^7 nd ’B £ 15 0 ’ ( 44 0 ,709 250,895
1945 ’' si 830 815 44,709 258,016
194 •• 61.83 0 » 15 44>709 289 , ( 33 5
1947 " 87 737 8 15 44,709 332,663
1948 .. 87,787 8 10 3 77,4 8 4
S ; : 70,868 8 15 44,709 403,643
To celebrate the diamond jubilee
of the foundation of the busi-
ness by John McDowell in 1889,
a modest £58,545 of reserves is
to be capitalised in the form of
a one-for-five bonus-scrip issue
to those on the register at April
28 Excess provision for taxa-
tion during the war years is to
be drawn upon for the purpose,
leaving the large free accumula-
tions (they will still be £42,372
in excess of paid capital) un-
disturbed. The gift is the first
thing of its kind since the present
co. took over from McDowell
and Hughes, Ltd., in 1920, and
eight f.-p. ords. were handed
out for every five held in the
old co. It will lift paid capital
to £361,271 in 10,000 8 p.c.
prefs. and 351,271 ords., and 12i
p.c. on the ords. will then be
equal to 15 p.c. on ord. capital
as it now stands. However,
under existing conditions, 15 p.c,
on the increased ord capital
should be an easy matter.
Together with the small pref.
div. (£800), it would call for
£53,490, and only once in the
last half-dozen years has less
profit than that been shown.
After exercising the rights to
the bonus issue and allowing for
brokerage, the ords. at 71s. 6d.
are worth 60s. net. The return
at 60s. would be 5 p.c. on a 15
p.c. div. basis, and shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) need turn in only 7 p.c.
to cover it, whereas last term’s
profit was, 9.2 p.c. on these
funds. Ne*t tangible cover (in-
cluding the bonus issue) is visibly
445. lid. The well-protected
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
The co. has been one of the
best profit-earners and highest
dividend-payers in the retail
trading group. It has never
failed to make an annual distri-
bution, the average being 12.9
p.c. over the last 30 years, the
rate being steady at 15 p.c., with
comfortable margins, for the six
years to end 1949. The shop is
at one of the busiest intersec-
tions in the city, facing King-
and George-street, and the man-
agement has won a reputation
for shrewd buying and careful
budgeting.
Despite a setback in the
middle of the term, due to the
coal strike, turnover for the year
again rose sharply. It was the
official cut in gross margins,
combined with a stinging in-
crease in operating costs, that
brought net earnings back by
£18,662. However, the £70,868
of profit claimed—written after
allowing £60,000 (down £15,000)
for taxation and the usual £4200
for depreciation—covered the
pref. div. and 23.9 p.c, on the
£292,726 of ord, capital as
against 30.3, 29.7, 25.8 and 17.4
р. back to 1946.
The financial position further
improved:
1948. 1949. 1950.
££ ■ £
Paid capital .. 302,726 302,726 302,726
Overdraft .. 38,843 15,619 20,808
Sundry
creditors .. 135,292 200,177 165,970
Tax reserve.. 187,120 129,425 122,509
Final div. .. 29,673 29,673 29,673
Freeholds, etc. 372,417 371,836 378,330
Stocks . . 395,962 344,829 350,271
Book debts . . 102,034 192,299 166,730
Investments . . 57,237 47,502 47,400
Osh, etc. . . 7,764 7,735 11,694
Shares subsid.. . 90,903 90,903 90,903
Excluding shares in the cash-
order subsidiary (W. T. Waters
and Co. Pty.) the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£237,135) was
£19,664 stronger than at the
previous balance; and assets are
known to be well worth their
book-value. The post-war re-
stocking period appears to have
ended about mid-1948. Last
term’s growth (£5442) in the in-
ventory total was much less than
the rate of advance in the whole-
sale price index,
Kuala Lumpur Tin, N.L.
This Melbourne - controlled
co., operating at Selangor,
Malaya, has a paid capital of
£130,800 in 200,400 £1 shares of
which 113,400 are fully paid and
the balance paid to 4s. each.
For the year to Sept. 30, 1949,
co. netted £44,689 (up £27,663),
or 2s. 11.7 d. a share. No pro-
vision was made for deprecia-
tion, but £7196 (up £5395) was
set aside for taxation. Two divs.,
each of Is. a share, took £20,040,
and two more, also of Is. a share
each, have gone out since the
close of accounts, making total
divs. paid to date £401,218.
The improvement in last
year’s earnings was due mainly
to a bigger output of tin oxide,
following rehabilitation of No.
1 dredge, and a better price for
tin! The London average for
the metal was £SS4B Is. lOd. a
ton, 1948, and £S6O6 7s. lid. a
ton, 1949. For the first 81
months of 1949 the figure was
steady at £5569 a ton ; it then
shot up to £8750 a ton after de-
valuation in September last, but
has fallen sharply in the free
market since, spot and forward
quotes last week being £8589
15s. and £8591 12s. 6d. respec-
tively.
Co. got its No. 2 dredge (capa-
city 150,000 c.y. a month) into
commercial production again in
July, 1947. Last term it handled
1,755,886 c.y. (up 299,000 c.y.)
for 200.98 tons (up 7.24 tons)
t.o. No. 1 dredge (capacity
90.000 c.y. a month), which
didn’t set in again until Feb.,
1949, treated 626,622 c.y. (in-
cluding 37,600 c.y. tailings) for
111.68 tons to. The oxide from
each dredge assayed 74.3 p.c.
metallic tin.
The value, cost and profit
per c.y. of ground handled by
each dredge compare as follows;
Year,
Sept. f Per c.y.
Dredge. 30, Value. Cost. Profit.
■v. „ 11948 .. 10.48 d. 7.29 d. 3.14 d.
JNO - £ I 1949 .. 8.94 d. 6.36 d. 2.58 d.
No. 1 1949 .. 14.56 d. 6.83 d. 7.73 d.
For the five months since the
close of accounts No. 2 has dug
593.000 c.y. (including 137,000
с. tailings) for 103 i tons t.o,
and a profit of £816,649, and No.
1 441,000 c.y. for 81 tons t.o.
and a profit of £816,169. Dredg-
able. ground ahead of No. 2 is
10,179,888 c.y. and of No. 1
626,133 c,y., with a potential
73.3 acres held under agricultural
titles and not yet test-bored.
When the books closed
£11,023 was coming to sundry
creditors, and there was £47,066
in cash and book debts to meet
it. War loss and rehabilitation
claims stood at £33,640, stores at
£11,497 and the mine plant, etc.,
at £179,595.
Last week the Australian mar-
ket priced the f.-p. shares at
21s. lOd. and the contribs. at 18s.
With present working costs of
6d. a yard and gold at £l5 9s.
lOd. an ounce, Central Victoria
Gold Dredging (Vic.) expects
that its two dredges will yield an
aggregate profit of about
£150,000 p.a. Proved life of the
co.’s properties on prospectus
figures was about 10 years.
Since the prospectus was issued
options have been exercised over
a lease upstream on the Amphi-
theatre area, and further ground
downstream is expected to war-
rant digging. The Jim Crow
dredge, which recently set in, is
a new 2,000,000-c.y.-p.a. machine
which embodies all the latest
technical devices. On leases
adjoining the Jim Crow property
Victoria Gold Dredging treated
20.000. c.y. for 117,22 loz.
gold, and distributed 51s. 6d. on
each of its 10s. shares. When
its reconstruction is complete, the
Amphitheatre dredge, bought for
Victoria Gold Dredging, will
also be capable of handling
2.000. c.y. p.a.
* * * ♦
New Coolgardie Gold Mines,
N.L., one of the Western Min-
ing Corp. group, which took
over the leases and options held
by the parent in the Hampton
Plains and Burbanks areas on
the Coolgardie field (W.A.), has
just bought another property
from the W.M.C., the Callion
mine, about 74 miles north of
Coolgardie. Here pre-war pros-
pecting by the vendor disclosed
a long, flat quartz vein in a
shear in the greenstone, carrying
values of from 9.3dwt. to
12.6dwt. at shallow depths. Ore
reserves are estimated at 63,000
tons averaging lOdwt. The ore
is to be transported by road to
Bayley’s mill at Coolgardie.
Price of the property, including
some plant, is £26,000, payable
in f.-p, 10s. shares, plus £6500
payable from gold won.
$ $ *
Developments at Mount
Charlotte, at the northern end
of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.) and over which Wiluna
holds an option, have disclosed
extensive and wide but low-grade
ore-bodies. On the 300 ft. level
the northern body has been
proved for a length of 685 ft.
over an average width of 125 ft.,
the assay being 3.6dwt. per ton.
On the 500 ft. level a crosscut
has exposed some 3.6dwt. stuff,
and at 850 ft. 3.9dwt. ore has
been met with. The northern
ore-body alone is reckoned to
be capable of yielding 70,000
tons a month of 3.65dwt. ore,
but a lot more work has to be
done before total tonnage avail-
able is known. Some surface
equipment has been installed,
and development is going ahead
as fast as labor and materials
will allow. The continued rise
in costs and doubts about what
might happen to the price of
■gold make the future of this
property speculative at the
moment. „
♦ * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated
(W.A.), which has failed to live
up to expectations, has just
applied to the Kalgoorlie War-
den’s Court for another three-
months’ exemption. Co. is on
the hunt for £lO,OOO to finance
further development of Mc-
Kenzie’s lease, and a plan for
reconstruction of the finances is
to be placed before shareholders,
if, and when, the Commonwealth
Government, which holds an
£lB,OOO mortgage over the pro-
perty, agrees to the board’s pro-
posals. Buyers are prepared to
speculate in the f.-p. ss. shares
at each.


■sf.
m
dm
■<&s>>.
%
yfA^
t
IVfARINE ENGINEERS AND ENGINE
DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering and
desirous of passing examinations for ad-
vancement, write for prospectus regarding
Engineering Correspondence Courses,
Tuition for Engineers and Engine Drivers'
Examinations, also Special Courses for
Engineer Apprentices.
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, 0.1.
P.O. Box 904 NEW ZEALAND.
77TS7J?
- M ■■
zfmt
FRANK IREDALE FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
BATSMAN WASCAU6HT S TIMES IN A FIRST
GRADE INNINGS AGAINST PETERSHAM MARCH
10? 1917 HE WAS CAUGHT BY WICKET KEEPER
QUINEY -NO BALL.HE WAS AGAIN'CAUGHT BY
QUINEY - NO BAILMENT HE WAS CAUGHT AT,
SLIP-NO BALLNEXT BALI THE WICKET KEEPER
AGAIN HELD A CATCH-NO BALL.WHEN CAUGHU,
A FIFTH TIME OFF SIOWBOWIER BASSETT,NE WAS GIVEN OUT.
BROTHERS H.B.AND C,
VAUGHAN PLAYING AT CRICHEI PARK
(fcwfisjJHALVED THE I7BYP FOURTH
HOLE IN ONE .SEVERAL INSTANCES HAVE p
OCQURED OF HOLES BEING HALVED IN ’
ONE, BUT THIS PERFORMANCE BY TWO
BROTHERS HAS NEVER BEEN EOUALLED.
imsL
*
'A
X
5772 D-11.49
: CHOICE OF SMOKKKo
APPRECIATE A REALLYSATISFYI N 6
SMOKE.AVAILABLE IN
RUBBED Oft FLAKE MRJ
IT IS TRULY...
! v
iiiiiiiiii
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the hp
Business. Rollery. etc.
Sharemarket Active
After a rise to a record “high”
of Thursday of last week, Aus-
tralian sharemarkets relaxed
on Friday, though the price-level
generally was still at a near-
record height.
During the week B.H.P. fully-
paids touched 575. cum div.,
later slackening to under 445.
3d. ex div. Tooth rose to the
record figure of 935. 9d., and in
Melbourne Carlton touched 775.
6d. Melbourne “Herald” ss.
shares went to 205., Myer Em-
porium to 145., A.C.I. to 575. ex
rights, Drug Houses to 445. 3d.
and Yarra Falls to 70s. 6d.
Sydney brokers saw £76 12s, 6d.
paid for C.S.R., 565, 3d. for
British Tobacco, 50s. for Felt
and Textiles, 795, 6d. for
Electro. Zinc, £5 15s. for Queens-
land Insurance, and buyers
offered 98s. in vain for Burns
Philp scrip. Woolworths, ex
rights, sold at 275. 6d., G. J.
Coles at 225. 6d., and Selfridges
at £5 ss. Among newer listings
Waugh and Josephson changed
hands at 545. (down on the recent
peak, but firming last week),
Tutt Bryant was still advancing
at 60s. 3d., Thirwell and Mc-
Kenzie, with a new issue com-
ing, sold at 28s. 6d., and Gibson
Battle, ex div., was stronger at
28s. 3d.
Though advances in the price
of some industrials have been
the most spectacular, pastoral
stocks since January have shown
the greatest advance of any sec-
tion of the share-list. This has
been the result of the persistent
advance in the price of wool.
Barrier mines, on the other hand,
have by no means recovered
the ground lost last year.
Prevailing buoyancy in the
sharemarket is the result of a
number of factors. One, of
course, is the high (and rising)
price of wool. Another is the
recent strength of the New York
Stock Exchange. Widespread in-
flation in all Australian prices
accounts for much of the general
buoyancy, and the transfer of
British money to this country
for investment has been an in-
fluence on prices paid for market
leaders. (Australian London
funds recently passed £5OO mil-
lion.)
The outstanding general influ-
ence of all is probably that of
inflation. There is a vast
amount of paper money in cir-
culation and in the banks, and
new avenues for investment are
being sought every day. Last
year the market slumped because
of sharemarket indigestion fol-
lowing a rush of new issues.
Investors now appear to have
thoroughly digested the new-
issue offerings and are looking
for more. If house-property
could be built without much
trouble a lot of money would
find its way into that type of
investment; but at the moment
building is difficult, costly, and
in the case of pre-war flat-
buildings rents are generally
pegged at far below a figure that
would give an adequate return
on present-day market values.
Hence a concentration of funds
in the sharemarket, where in-
vestment is easy and readily
negotiable, and where the worries
are narrowed down to prices and
returns.
It is difficult indeed to assess
the real value of shares today.
Whilst it may be taken for
granted that prices lower than
those prevailing last week will
be seen sooner or later for a
number of stocks, there can be
no certainty that the real value
of sound industrial and other in-
vestments will not be, ultimately,
higher in terms of present-day
• currency. The fall in the value
of our national currency, as in-
dicated by the rising cost of
living and the inflating basic
wage, puts a correspondingly
higher figure on assets represent-
ing intrinsic values. There is no
SMYftE
smW
CHAitnuo
Aaownwis
&
AUDITOR.(
Hr Slhvtut
“I hate to be a tell-tale, sir, but Slather and Whack are
showing a deficiency of £30,000.”
doubt that the cost of re-equip-
ping many industries today
would involve a capital outlay
greater than present market-
value of the shares issued by
many companies concerned.
But, on the other hand, these
industries, whatever the paper-
money value of their assets, have
so far been unable to earn
profits in keeping with the in-
flated value of their undertakings
or the rising cost of living.
Profits earned by most industrial
investments today, because of
arbitrary controls, have not
risen in anything like the same
proportion as the basic wage.
And so we find, concurrently
with record prices for shares, re-
turns to investors as low as 2.3
p.c. in the case of Colonial
Sugar, 3 p.c. 3.2 p.c.
Tooth, 3.1 p.c. A.C.1., 2.2 p.c.
Queensland Insurance, 3.4 p.c.
G. J. Coles, 2.7 p.c. Woolworths,
3.6 p.c, Myer Emporium, and
3.4 p.c. David Jones. Before
the war the yield acceptable
from these stocks was invariably
much higher.
One reason for present low
returns is, of course, the fact
that the general interest rate is
lower than it was before the
war. But nobody accepts 3 p.c,
on an investment in an indus-
trial concern unless he expects,
ultimately, to get a much better
return by way of increased divi-
dends or market appreciation.
And so present sharemarket
buoyancy depends a great deal
upon the shape of things to
come.
Costs are rising steeply- in a
number of industries. But if a
more regular supply of coal and
electric power is obtained, then
costs in many cases can be off-
set by a more even and uninter-
rupted flow of production. And
on a wider turnover the profit-
making scope of many industries
would be greatly increased. Up
till now industry has been made
to bear more than its share of
the costs-inflation that has been
a feature of our war-time and
post-war life. Price-control has
seen to that.
The time is not far distant
when it will be essential that in-
dustry be allowed to recover, as
profit, a fairer proportion of the
national income. It may be
assisted in this regard by the
general expansion in the national
economy. But output of basic
commodities such as coal and
steel will have to be increased
before industry as a whole can
be expected to function with full
efficiency.
Investors are advised to watch
carefully the indexes of basic
production. With raw-material
and fuel output improving, and
with a freer economy generally,
Australia’s long-term industrial
prospect would be very promis-
ing.
Metropolitan Cement
Up to December 31 last capi-
tal outlay by Metropolitan Port-
land Cement (Sydney) had been
£525,054 greater than the pros-
pectus estimate (£697,000) at
£1,222,054. Construction then
was still going on, and . the over-
draft with the Rural Bank of
£487,821. W Other all- t risen to
owed £39,206 Issueri 1 * 0 * 5 - Were
£BOO,OOO. •
represented by brokerS re
underwriting £30,000 formal
charges £9635. Shares f? tlon
crated cos. are in at asso '
debtors, etc.,
The amount by which « .
expenditure had Exceeded prof
pectus estimates up to P /°
months ago amounted I afe
75 p.c. Dated April 17 the
annual report says that all the
large construction work at he
principal plant site at Maldon
has been completed. Staff »
now engaged in the “final instal
iation of smaller assemblies and
making the necessary connec
tions, etc” The colliery £
Berrima is reported almost readv
for production. At the Marulan
quarries the installation of a
large jaw-crusher, secondary
crushers and the overhead rope-
way is proceeding. F
The directors, explaining the
unpredicted largeness of the
capital outlay, say that they have
rehabilitated the second-hand
plant bought from the Ford Co
(U.S.A.), and contend that it will
be the equivalent of a new
plant; also, the limestone
quarry, coalmine and the Maldon
plant, “with the addition only of
producing units such as kilns
and mills, is now adequate for
production increases” estimated
at 150 p.c. or more. And
although prospectus estimates in-
cluded cost of some generating
equipment bought from the
Ford Co., outlay on a power-
house has run into a great deal
more money, and has become
one of the “major capital-expen-
diture items of the company.”
Shortage and higher cost of
materials, rising wages and
abnormal wet weather are also
blamed for the higher-than-esti-
mated cost of plant-establish-
ment.
Arnold S. Taylor, whose
association with the float was


( &
I*
BABY
LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-Iik'e lather of
CutScura Soap* If
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-'
qoisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
Wo-Cuticara Soap.
Ointment and td*
cum Powdec.
830
df
Gte*
••• 8»i tl i’”* 01 ho,,ne *» *• retorda
• le »«ini Id P ‘ yo,, “ «*■ Mronyly built,
PPe V*.“ ce ’ Bend fo, »“*• dotalla
a *^D.<„! DNEY AND BRISBANE
■«t*bHi BNE • W. c Pinfold A Co, Ply. Ltd.
"UELAIDg ’ Mormon Bros, Ply. Ltd.
* Vardon A Sou Lid.
_ • Botket Book Co. AAoitJ
Machinery
People
sd
• eg#
Sts Melbourne ‘ MU 2321
J°° k - • Portable
OircoJar ana%,!^ Working Machines.
l itSS: #AUt^
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO RONALD CHARLES THOMPSON.—
TAKE NOTICE that EDNA MARGARET
THOMPSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1398 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend .the suit you may enter an
appearance on or before the 10th July
1950 at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney. A True copy
of the petition may be had without charge
from J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES PHILLIPS late
of 60 Carrington Street Randwiek.—
TAKE NOTICE that PEGGY ELEANOR
PHILLIPS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 990 of 1950 on the ground of
* desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 26th June
1960 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from ALAN E. BARNES,
Solicitor, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established JB7S
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Viee-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
EXECUTOR -
TRUSTEE -
ATTORNEY
*
That
TUP
*»£
[This booklet explains whertf
you stand
Before you accept the responsibilities of executorship, yoS
should know where those obligations begin and end. The
same precaution is essential before you appoint your own
executor. After you have read the new edition of Hands
That Never Leave the Wheel,” you will realise why
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited can be of great
service to you and your family.
A complimentary copy of this booklet will be forwarded
on application. If you care to call, a senior officer will be
readily available to discuss important matters with yotu
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Erie Priestley Lea
MANAGER; L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. OVERTON, F.F.I.A*
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
'Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office; T BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. BU 5904 BOX 643. G.P.O. v
UPI7A-4V
After making his
new Australian film,
“Bitter Springs” at
Quorn, S.A.
TOMMY
THIN or*
IviiJM:—
• ***
rp **
'/•". -*
C^
**
H „
ur
."■)
thl> subject of considerable com-
at the'time of flotation
no 48) has been appointed man-
Sdhector of the company.
The enterprise has widely-dis-
persed. production units The
limestone quarry is at Marulan,
the coalmine is at Bernma, the
principal cement plant is at Mal-
Jon, and there are silos and a
bagging plant at Granville.
The co is committed to the
purchase of the shares in Lime-
stone Holdings, Ltd., before
April 19, 1951. This may in-
volve the issue of more capital.
Production, which was origi-
nally forecast to be in full blast
in 1949» noW anticipated to
start in “a few weeks.” Original
profits estimates were based on
a production of 150,000 tons of
cement a year. The shares are
at 225. 6d. on the market; the
management has yet to justify
that price. It certainly had many
unusual difficulties, including the
coal and labor* position and the
wet weather, to contend with
during the past 12 months. And
its, problems are by no means
over.
Import Control
There’s so much “spring-
cleaning” to be done in New
Zealand’s overgrown, creaking
and cumbersome import-licens-
ing system that the Holland
Government hardly knows where
to begin. Five months have
slipped by without any outward
sign of change, and importers
are getting fidgety, while the
general public wonders what’s
wrong at the helm. On a close-
up view Maoriland trade seems
so bound up by controls that it
can only shuffle, and the new
management is up against such
a shortage of funds at the
London end that it can’t let busi-
ness loose on a spending spree
to stock up. The Dominion
needs a superman to help it cast
off the toils after 11 years of
Socialistic form - filling, log-
rolling and drift.
With the costliest and slowest
system of overseas buying ever
invented, M.L. has been caught
by innumerable price-rises and
has missed the bus for trade-dis-
counts and special price-lines in
overseas markets so often that
traders reckon the loss would
run into several million annually
and would add up to £3O million
or more on the £9OO million of
goods and equipment bought
abroad since imports were forced
into the straitjacket. Bargain
buying from John Bull or any-
one else, knocked on the head
by officialdom under Labor-
Socialism, can’t be resumed until
“free enterprise,” now nominally
restored in N.Z., becomes a
reality again.
Boiled down, it’s not more
funds but better use of them that
is the key to the Dominion’s
future on the importing front.
Dominion traders who have been
kept waiting on the doorstep
while buyers from other
countries have been able to dash
in and make a clean sweep of
all keenly-priced goods won’t be
able to do better until they are
on equal competitive terms once
more. Business has been buying
what it didn’t always want, at
top prices, lest licences might
not be forthcoming later-when
the public asked for the goods;
so surpluses and shortages'have
marched side by side, and it has
been sheer luck if stocks ever
reached a proper balance.
A board of trade is promised
to liberate business from politics,
but if nothing is done until its
birth importers will be kicking
their heels and tearing their hair
for months yet. They’re not
asking for the right to spend
more funds than are there, but
want better value. The public,
in the background, would share
in the gain by having more to
buy at lower prices. It’s a
realistic approach, which aims at
cutting away a lot of red-tape,
putting licences on a group basis
through the banks and switching
a small army of clerical workers
from time-wasting employment
into useful channels. There
would be a blow to inflation, too,
if goods qould be started rolling
more freely while a tight rein
was held on money.
Chain-store scrip has been in
demand lately following an-
nouncements of projected
mergers. Coles with Selfridges
and Woolworths with. Macduffs
(N.Z.). Coles scrip is being
bought to yield 3.4 p.c. if the
15 p.c. div. continues, 2.2 p.c.
if it drops to 10 p.c., Woolworths
2.7 p.c. There is a glitter from
the past still attached to these
stocks, particularly Woolworths,
but they should be appraised
more on the basis of present and
prospective earning-power. The
multiplication of the share-
register total, by bonus issues
and otherwise,’ that occurred in
the case of Woolworths in past
years isn’t going to be repeated.
In N. S, Wales and Victoria the
various chain-stores have by now
bracketed their targets —the
urban and suburban shopping
centres —pretty well with shops ;
true, they haven’t been able to
build freely over the past 10
years, but cities and most suburbs
and large country towns now
have a Woolworths, Coles, Sel-
fridges or other chain-store.
There may be another 30 p.c. of
the population to serve in the
Commonwealth, but scope for
branching out is not the same
as it was. On the other hand,
chain-stores have a very regular
income, sometimes stimulated
during a depression, and moder-
ate expansion is guaranteed
while the population keeps on
growing. Prospects of the large
chajn-store organisations, as a
general thing, promise to be less
spectacular, but solid.
* * * *
Tiitt Bryant ords. were sold at
60s. 3d. last week, the yield on a
15 p.c. div. basis being 5 p.c.
In the term to June 30, 1949,
profits were equal to 56.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital. This Sydney-
headquartered business, which is
of the construction-equipment
type, dates back to 1938 only;
by 1943 capital was no more
than £12,000. In 1947 it was
only £40,000. From then on a
financial bulldozer appears to
have been at work ; turnover has
expanded rapidly, and issued
capital was £300,000 on June 30
last. Since then 75,000 prefs. and
112,500 new ords. have been put
out, carrying issued capital up to
£487,500, of which £150,000 is
in 5 p.c. prefs. On the enlarged
capital, allowing for pref. re-
quirements, last year’s earnings
would equal nearly 28 p.c. Since
the new one-for-two ord. issue
was allotted on March 31 the
market ex-rights price has risen
above the cwm-rights quote of a
few weeks earlier. The co. is
agent for bulldozers, scrapers,
loaders, as well as road-surfac-
ing, concrete-construction and
truck-lift equipment, dredging
buckets and refuse-collecting
units. Subsidiary cos. have been,
set up in all the mainland States.
Agencies total upwards of 30,
and include Le Tourneau associ-
ations. Tutt Bryant represents
one of those vigorous enterprises
at present cashing-in on the
accumulated demand for con-
struction equipment and the
delayed development of Com-
monwealth heavy industries and
essential services. The co. has
only a small investment in plant
itself; main asset is stocks. Pros-
pective investors, while admiring
the enterprise and energy of the
management, should not forget
the nature of the business, and
should value the scrip on a basis
which promises a comparatively
quick reimbursement of their
capital investment.
* * ♦ *
Cement interests in New
Zealand have been caught in the
net of Associated Portland
Cement Manufacturers, U.K.,
following the combine’s pur-
chase of a controlling share
in Commonwealth Portland
Cement Co., Ltd., Australia, last
year. The British group will now
be the power behind N.Z.’s
Golden Bay Cement Co., a sub-
sidiary of British Standard Port-
land Cement, Ltd., and the first
move will be to speed-up trans-
port of the output by bulk ship-
menf. ‘Expansion in plant won’t
be far behind. This should help
to bring nearer Maoriland’s goal
of 450,000 tons of cement
annually, against 280,000 tons
today, and should put M.L. in
the lead as greatest per capita
producer of cement in the world.
The development programme is
planned to cover three years.
Other concerns building bigger
works are Wilsons (N.Z.) Port-
land Cement Co., Ltd., Auck-
land, and Milburn Lime and
Cement Co., Ltd., Dunedin. To-
day the Auckland co. is easily in
the lead, and is making a big
bid to hold its place by spending
£750,000 to lift production from
100,000 tons annually to 260,000
tons by 1952. The biggest “if”
at the moment is coal and power.
Lately M.L. has been buying
cement on the other side of the
world to keep Government
works, contractors, builders and
other users supplied. Cement is
No. 1 bottleneck.


Women’s letters
You may have fo go to the bottom of
a well for truth, but you will find honesty
in the basement of 5 Elizabeth-street.
No. 5 is the home of the Society for the
Deaf and Dumb, and just now it is trans-
formed. Its corridors and passages are
avenues of branchy-pine, its rooms are
patios and penthouses, and garden
arrangements that extend from China to
Peru, or at least its near-neighbor the
Argentine. Honesty, that delicate little
shrub, has been cleverly intermixed with
trails of silvery leaves by Mrs. Charles
Lloyd Jones in one of the wall niches in
the long basement-room (ordinarily the
billiard-room for the deaf and dumb
members). Wal Taylor has done a
wall decoration that embodies medieval
Italy. Here is a graceful crystal
Madonna, a pair of small but heavy
sconces, and set below a Venetian mirror
of great age are two opulent wax
candles. Artist Paul Jones’s and Dorothy
Thornhill’s flower decors caught the
eye; so did Mrs, R. Boyer’s bowl, the
rich and overflowing Harvest Home an
outpouring by Beatrice Stewart —real
grapes and pears and apples in this dis-
play.
The red lacquer and the valuable and
spreading Ming plant of the Chinese
garden room, the central cone-like plot
bordered in its turnings by upturned
bottles—the general effect very artistic—
the mother-of-pearl lamp, the bluey-
green frog and the tall banana-tree in the
Philippines garden room, the Ameri-
can penthouse, the glimpses into
Finland’s and Israel’s garden interiors are
stimulating to the fancy. So is the
Argentine “ranch” set about with pictures
of the vivid and pictorial life of the in-
habitants. Jockey Longden couldn’t do
better than the rider, his steed chasing
arrow-swift across the Pampas after an
ostrich-like bird. The hunter is just about
to cast his coiled rope with the leaden
weight which will entangle the feet of
the bird flying down the wind. There
were toilers- drinking mate and a
reproduction of a bust of Argentine’s
liberator against the Spanish regime.
General Jose San Martin, the hundredth
anniversary of whose death occurs in
August. Answering inquiries were the
Consular Mr. and Mrs. Fernandez Yayle,
as down in the Philippines room were
Mrs. Regala, Mrs. Baja, and Mrs. Yango,
lovely embroidered butterfly sleeves on
their exotic silk frocks. Against a back-
ground of Piccadilly Circus a London
flower girl sold posies.
There were a Greek garden, an
Austrian hunting-lodge complete with
horn, feathered hat, a heart cut in the
woodwork, and a view beyond reminding
of the backcloth in “Autumn Crocus,”
There was a French pavement cafe,
and here were met Mrs. O’Malley
Wood, Mrs. C. C. Ridley, Mrs.
Baldock, the last jaunty in red-
and-white-checked apron and saucy hat.
Here was the Countess Pietra Santa
Sauvaigue, whose glorious Canadian
blue-fox cape was more than knee-length
and satin-soft. The accompanying muff
was large enough to curl up inside and
go to sleep. The Governor, Lieut.-General
Northcott, declared the show open last
Wednesday.
Honors for the party of the week go
to Colonel Spain and daughter Mrs.
Russell. They were joint host and hostess
at a lunch at which the guests constituted
a brains trust of stratospheric voltage,
and the setting was one of the loveliest
in Sydney: the Yacht Squadron at Kirri-
billi, Guests-of-honor were Dr. Oscar
Diethelm, whose head is the type a sculp-
tor dreams of, his wife, and Kathleen
Cobcroft, very trig and smartly tailored
tor the extraordinary weather Sydney is
Sydney Hospital’s knight Nor-
man Paul and Lady Paul were in the
company; so were Dr. Sevier and his
wife.
.At foot of the long polished table
® the south lounge of the club sat
Colonel Russell, and hearing his experi-
ences in and previous to World War II
** rather like an exciting secret-service
novel. Colonel Spain, whose memory of
the harbor front goes back to boyhood
days, brought back the Sydney of the
’nineties. The vivid touch of yellow in
Mrs. Russell’s hat lit up the toning of
her brown and off-white printed-silk
frock. Mrs. Peter Russell and Mr.
Wolfenden were other guests. In the rare
bright sunlight of the day the lawns, with
their gay flower borders, seen through the
bay windows, stretched smooth and green.
There is no more eloquent tongue in
Sydney than that of Dr. F. A. Maguire,
and when he has a cause like the Anti-
T.B. Campaign to advocate he stirs the
least imaginative of his hearers into a
burning zeal. He spoke in the Wentworth'
Hotel last week at the lunch with which
the Anti-T.B. crusade opened its 1950
campaign. There were 200 present, and
his words implanted in every listener
dread of this insidious and often-secret
enemy. In brief,. £170,000 is needed —
£50,000 for expenses and £120,000 for a
diagnosis clinic.
Following up the lunch there was the
next afternoon a great rally of women
at the Trocadero. Matron Shaw, of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital, told
how the enemy could be defeated and
banished from babe and grown-up if
attacked at the beginning-stages.
Herewith one of our brilliant young
pianists. She is Judy Yardley, graduate
of Sydney Con., whose work has
gained commendation from Director
Eugene Goossens. Judy has already been
heard in broadcasts over the A.B.C, Her
mother, Mrs. Eric Harrison, is on her
way by,ocean wave to London, to which
centre Mr. (Harrison flew last week to
take up his duties as Acting Resident
Minister and Acting High Commissioner.
Photograph by Clarice Boyce.
With about 80 other guests of almost
every churchly creed, this Letter went
along to the Town Hall one afternoon
last week to drink' a dish of tea with
General Albert W. T. Orsborn, C.8.E.,
of the Salvation Army, and Mrs. Orsborn.
Lord Mayor O’Dea and Mayoress Mrs.
O’Dea were obviously pleased with their
guests-of-honor, and really it would have
been hard not to like the pleasant and
friendly couple. There were a number
of women followers of the Salvation
Army present, some of them ranking as
colonels, and once again the thought
arose that the Salvation Army bonnet,
in its present streamlined form, is hard to
beat as millinery. In spite of all its
demureness (or because of it) it has that
second-glance allure.
The Eastern Command Women’s
Auxiliary now possesses a monster map
of England on which each city is embel-
lished with its coat-of-arms. The citation
accompanying this gift was read by former
Lord Mayor Bartley. It read; “Sent by
the committee of the Food for Britain
Fund in England, thanking Eastern Com-
mand for contributions to the fund.”
The presentation was the big moment at
the auxiliary’s meeting at Victoria
Barracks last week. Tea on the veranda
of the officers’ mess was drunk to the
dashing strains of a military band.
Pretty as any beauty queen, her words
clear and distinct, and showing a know-
ledge of the Empire that might astonish
even Winston Churchill, Doreen Pennell
was the magnetic girl of the Victoria
League party last week. Doreen, who is
,a member of the Women’s Junior Air
Corps (she won a flight from England to
Australia) gave a graphic account of her
flight to, and her tour of, this land.
Mrs. Roland Foster arranged the pro-
gramme and was one of the soloists at
the afternoon given by the women’s
auxiliary of the Royal Empire Society
last week. Other artists were Marjorie
Conley, Olga Krasnik, Ron Jackson,
Lance Lloyd and Kathleen O’Carroll.
From Melbourne
The investiture at Government House
was a simple but at times a moving
ceremony. On the dais with the Gover-
nor were Lady Brooks, who wore a silver-
fox fur wrap with her pastel-blue crepe
frock, and Jeanette Brooks, whose teal
blue frock had a full skirt and portrait
neckline. Eleven women were decorated.
For outstanding devotion to duty three
nursing sisters were invested with the
Royal Red Cross. They were Alice
Adcock and Mrs. Clive Newnham, who
were both captains with the A.M.F., and
Sister Martin, a Westralian who served
for five years in England at an R.A.F.
hospital. The Angliss lady and Mrs.
J. J, Daly received the C.B.E. Mrs. Daly
is the president of the C.W.0., and is on
the Fat-for-Britain appeal committee and
U.N.A.C. The matrons of two large
metropolitan hospitals received the C.B.E.
They were Miss H. D. Grey of the Royal
Melbourne, who is also president of the
Australian Nursing Federation, and Miss
A. Morgan of Prince Henry’s. Mrs.
Sidney B, Myer also received this decora-
tion. For her work among the poor in
Fitzroy, which extended over 50 years,
Mrs. M. Roach received the M.B.E.
(civil division). With Mrs. E. V. A.
Baxter, who received the Military Medal
awarded to her late husband, Private
B. A. Baxter, A.M.F., were her 10-year-
old daughter Cecily and her mother-in-
law, Mrs. L. Baxter.
Mrs. W. Adcock, who came from
Tocumwal (N.S.W.) with! her son Robert
for her daughter’s investiture, was hostess
at a late-afternoon party at Pasadena
Mansions in St. Kilda-road. The hostess
wore a crepe frock in midnight-blue.
Her daughter pinned her newly-acquired
decoration in the bodice of her black
moire taffeta ballerina frock. Among
the guests were Sisters McCrumm and
Crouch, who served in the same unit
during the war with the guest-of-honor.
With Dr. H. Harvie was his wife, who
contrasted her black frock with a prim-
rose j’acket and small matching hat. Mrs.
Alec Hills, Mrs. E. King and Mrs. W.
Clarke favored the black ensemble. A
French-grey gaberdine tailored coat was
the choice of Dulcie Fraser. Lorraine
Voigt’s wool crepe frock was in hyacinth-
blue toning. Sylvia Jolly’s cinnamon-
brown frock had gold accessories. Mavis
Hotmer’s slim fitting frock was of silver-
grey moire taffeta. You’d have noticed
English visitor Elizabeth Lewis’s little
egg-shell hat. Of cerise satin, it was
covered with black lace and finished with
a coq feather.
By generously donating the use of the
reception-rooms at Kenilworth, South
Yarra, and providing afternoon tea, Fred
McConaghy and Harry Mallett greatly
assisted in making the card-afternoon
arranged by the Sutherland Homes
Auxiliary a most successful affair. Dur-
ing the afternoon an orchid donated by
Mrs. Alwyn Spicer was disposed of, and
brought in a comfortable sum of money
to the funds. Ticket-secretaries for the
card-party were Mesdames C. Ashley and
J. Robertson; the former in a black
frock and smart black hat in which
waved matching aigrettes, the latter wear-
ing a dusty-pink tailored frock with, navy
accessories. A brown white-patterned
frock was the choice of the Auxiliary’s
secretary, Mrs. J. Whyte. The treasurer,
Mrs. Garnet Curwen, had a grey felt hat
as company for her grey suit. The small
black cloche hat that topped Mrs. Russell
Coldham’s black frock was banded in
powder-blue.
For the coming State elections the
L.C.P. has endorsed two women candi-
dates. Mrs. Kathleen Richardson, who
will contest Mildura, is the mother of
10 children, of which three are still at
school. She is a member of the Mildura
Council and vice-president of the Mildura
Community Centre. Apparently inspired
by the example set by the other capable
mother of a large family, Dame Enid
Lyons, Mrs. Richardson is relying on the
older members of her family to see her
through to success, politically as well as
domestically. The other aspirant for poli-
tical honors is Mrs. Madge James, of
Malvern, who carries the party banner
for Sunshine. A widow with a 20-year-
old son, she modestly describes herself
as a housewife who has first-hand know-
ledge of the problems which most house-
wives have had to face in recent years.
Mrs, James is very interested in kinder-
garten work and has been a member of
the committee of the Keele-street kinder-
garten for many years.
The Coral Sea Ball, which will be held
early next month in St. Kilda Town Hall,
will have as official host and hostess Mr.
and Mrs. R. G. Casey. Mrs. Casey is
president of the Womens o™,
Australian-American Assort a r° Up the
the official enclosure will be°a‘ t ßeh . ind
island centred with a volcano in t fe al
cess of erupting. The foyer will L P
with waving palms, and fragrant f b set
pam will perfume the dance^i-nL^ 81 '
and will be used en masse inVfcS?
tions. Among the important
the ball will be Admiraf W W El ?
Of the us. Navy, and Mk
they will arrive here on April 30. S'
who have not already booked tables nS
make a reservation by telephoning
Kennedy Blair (LA4466) or Mrs r t
Norton (XM1020). Rese™fc„ s C ma E y
also be made at the Government ToS
Bureau in Colhns-street. 1
Dorrie O’Neill, who hails f rom
Bendigo, attended the P.L.C. before
joining the A.B C.’s concert departs
in Melbourne. Now, as concert manager
she handles with skill and aplomb ev e ™
A.B.C. celebrity concert throughout the
State. A keen golfer, Dorrie is also a
sporadic racegoer when time permits.
Photo by Athol Shmith.
The memorial service to the late Mrs.
Jane McMillan, which the Rev. M. Mc-
Kenzie conducted recently, advanced
striking evidence of the affection with
which this lovable woman was held by
the host of people with whom she was for
so long associated. Mrs. McMillan was
a woman of amazing energy, and almost
up to the time of her death gave un-
sparingly of her genius for organisation to
many causes. Her good works go back
over the years. With Mrs. Alfred Deakin
during the First World War she founded
the famous Anzac Buffet. Later the two
collaborated in launching the Free Kin-
dergarten Movement. With Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, who spoke with deep feeling
of the loss of her bid friend and co-
worker, Mrs. McMillan founded the
International Club and was its organising
secretary for 16 years. She was also
associated with District Nursing and tne
United Nations Association of trust-
Her great work for the Internationa
Club will be honored by an avenue o
trees which will be planted in Palestine
and which will carry her name.
Yvonne Whittam, who is visiting all the
famous milliners in London and ar,
has been sending to her sister the
news and trends. The cloche hat wi
worn ; so wild the cap, hood and P .
hat. The wide sailor hat, the scoop hg
the hat with side-width or those w
go forward will all be; popular,
hats will show the hair-line, s° m , s
tilt sidewise, but the choice is
individual. A springtime helmet wdi
fashioned of yellow daffodils, a
lacy white straw, side-tilted an
veil, will make a becoming hat cart .
noons. Perfect with silk suits
wheel hat in blue baku straw, a sU j t
a feminine look with a man-ta • r( j,
is the white straw or grosgram r
tilted cloche with a rose-petal im wQm
a sheer veil. With a bn*® . al * d with a
a straw sailor hat simply h . printed-
ribbon band and veiling. Fo P a j n
silk frocks is a scoop-brim P
black, navy or pastel tones. e
For her wedding at tty blonde
Grammar School chapel, pretty , R
Maureen, only .child of Mr.. boU ffant
Matchett, of Bendigo, wore ao had
bridal gown of white silk J U liet
satin-cuffed cap-sleeves. A »
cap edged with orange-blo waS of
tulle veil in place. Her bouquet
white nerines and steph p er ßins
bride’s attendants were Mr • A oope r was
and Mavis Keys, and Hel ; v v-leaves an< !
flower-girl. Circlets of V f ro cks oI
tuberoses contrasted jmro se taffeta
white organdie made ° ve LP br i de grooU',
with matching stoles. * t^e second
Richard Alexander, wh r U( jlipp, 0 *
son of Mr. and Mn-JJv “ best fflf
Brighton, had Keith Betteson “ We
and John Carson as . pa.
reception was at the Aus
From Sydney
Dawn Service, 1950.
To wind and sun and all things glad
The Sydney girl is blithely wed,
She moves *on slim feet, brightly clad
Like flittering butterfly outspread.
Nor could she loiter mournfully
Nor wail disconsolate for her Dead.
Yet still she keeps her tryst with me
Though more than thirty years have sped.
ANZAC.


Make sure you buy a genuine
B • •
The pen that makes
hall point writing reliable
First and finest of bail-point pens is the
BVitish Biro. The New Biro carries on this
fine tradition. It is a graceful, stream-lined
P«n which you will admire and use with
pleasure. Sold in attractive maroon, dove-
grey or black cases, with a special non-
slip clip. The New Biro carries the
famous Magnum refill.
But be sure you get a Biro and
Biro refills. Look for the name
a nd make sure of satisfaction.
fds
tfcc ***
New Biro
34/6
Magnum refill
3/9
Throughout Australia and
the world, there’s a Biro refill service.
OTHER
biro
MODELS
BIRO MINOR —red, blue, black or green ink. 6/-.
BIROETTE —for pocket or handbag. . . • 15/-.
BIROMATIC —with retractable point. 42/-, 55/-.
BIRO de LUXE —the presentation pen. .. £6/10/0.
e pen for yoiir thoughts
2ft. Nog. 17.2073 —8 Dec.. 1943. 133163—31 Dec.. 1943 e/i«
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— -In Divorce.
TO STANLEY EDWARD PETTETT late
of Premer in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
FLORENCE PETTETT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4313 of l£ft9 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 25th June 195(1 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. A. J. McLAOHLAN HOARE &
CO., Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard Street, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL MURPHY late of Railway
Parade Mortdale near Sydney in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that FLORENCE ISOBEL MURPHY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3686 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 26th June 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from SAMUEL H. SIMBLIST & CO.,
Solicitors, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
Public Notice.
f, KATHLEEN DREXLER, of Hungarian
nationality, born at Budapest, and resi-
dent three years in Australia, now residing
at 63 Alt Street, Bondi Junction,' N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
See this Engineering
Victory!
sag
The "trim size” JAVELIN
WITH THE LARGE-CAR FEATURES
I
zmS.
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 tecs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
A streamlined beauty with room
for up to 6 passengers and
luggage. A car that will give
you a smoother road-hugging
ride, 35 m.p.g. economy, and
amazing acceleration. You have
to drive the Javelin over the
worst roads you know to feel
the miracle of its torsion bar
suspension and to enjoy real
shockless steering. Once tried
you’ll say “I’d rather go by
Javelin 1”
* Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.B.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Ed B echff.
Victor*: Liberty tf** St.. Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 43 "S' William St., Adelaide.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argjle Street. UODart.
THE i| LITRE
JOWETTi
iSTOAYT
t*&e «#ood took yen
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Minerva.
A dead horse finally lay
down last week when it was an-
nounced that the Minerva a
i ee it. theatre since it opened in
10*10 will go over to films from
next Saturday. M.-G.-M who
bought the theatre in 1948 for
£B7 000 and who failed last year
to gain an eviction order against
the occupants, Pan-Australasian
Theatres, will move in at the
end of this week with “The For-
syte Saga,” currently showing at
the Liberty in the city. The
film concern intends to show
films simultaneously at the
Minerva and at its two city
theatres, the St. James and
Liberty.
In rejecting M.-G.-M.’s appli-
cation for an eviction order last
December the magistrate con-
sidered .that Pan-Australasian
Theatres should be given an
opportunity to recoup some of
the money , they had lost in the
theatre—£73,ooo altogether, in-
cluding a loss of £65,000 by Miss
Kathleen Robinson, the principal
director and shareholder. Appa-
rently more than that opporumty
was needed, Miss Robinson stat-
ing last week that, because of its
position at the Cross, the
Minerva could not attract
enough legit, patrons from all
parts of Sydney.
Much as one mourns the pas-
sing of a legit, theatre, and with
it the opportunities for writers,
actors and others who have to
earn, or try to earn, a living
from the stage, and much as one
must commend the enthusiasm
of anyone who pours out £73,000
in an effort to keep it alive, it
must be noted that other things
besides its position contributed
largely to the decline and fall of
the Minerva. Of late years it
fell into the habit of presenting
pretty much the same faces in
innocuous little dramas and
comedies which, with very few
exceptions, were the kind of
thing to be expected from ama-
teur groups—safe little plays in
which you can’t go far wrong,
but also ones in which you can’t
go far in any direction.
A theatre can’t exist —if it has
to pay its way—on that sort of
thing indefinitely, as was proven
a few years ago when the legit,
tried to play safe in face of op-
position from the talkies and
took a frightful beating. The
passing of the Minerva is only
a repetition of that story. Had
it adopted a different policy —
of presenting only good plays,
of rooting itself in culture as the
Independents and Metropoli-
tans have done and of opening
its doors to the best work of
Sydney’s main repertory groups
—it might have prospered. It
might, on the other hand, have
come to the same end, but it
would have been better to have
lost £73,000 on worth-while
material than to have done it on
dramatic trivia. It would then,
at least, have left some slightly
more memorable mark on Aus-
tralian theatrical history instead
of accomplishing the remarkable
feat of folding up at a time when
the rest of the stage seems to be
achieving an extraordinary re-
covery.
"Rusty Bugles."
Sydney Tatler, which gave up
showing films a while ago be-
cause they were too expensive
and went into vaudeville, has
now gone over to full-time legit.,
kicking off with Doris Fitton’s
production of Sumner Locke-
Elliott’s keen, humorous obser-
vations of a group of very bored
soldiers at an Ordnance depot
in the Northern Territory.
Since it was first presented at
the Independent Theatre in 1948,
the play has shown successfully
in Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Kalgoorlie, Ballarat, Bendigo,
Hobart and Launceston. Time
and the censor have done little
to mark it, and the changes in
the cast, if slightly disconcerting
at first because of the extra-
ordinary familiarity of the
originals, detract only a little
from it for those who have seen
it before and nothing for those
who haven’t. It remains not
only a humorous observation of
a handful of Australians, but a
very sharp observation of the
honest Elizabethan quality of a
lot of Australian humor.
This commentator, who sat
out a year or so of the war in
very similar circumstances to
those depicted by the author,
can, with only one exception,
identify every one of the play’s
characters with men he knew,
and knew well, in camp. And
the identification is not difficult;
it is uncannily easy.
"The Girl Who Couldn't
Quite."
Melbourne Princess put on
this play by Leo Marks during
the tram strike. That may have
accounted for the poorness of
the houses, but even under nor-
mal conditions it is doubtful if
the fantasy, or whatever it
is, would have succeeded. The
modern psychological movie has
made audiences a bit too tough
to accept the girl (Avril Wheat-
ley), presented in the sentimental
J. M. Barrie or A. A. Milne
manner, as a delicate fey crea-
ture who thinks the Cotswold
fog is entering her parents’
country house to devour her ; or
her Cockney friend Tim (Clif-
ford Mollison) as her protector
from her bogies ; or her family
as a callous lot of people who
didn’t understand her.
Modern audiences would tend
to think that she was a psycho-
pathic case who was tyrannising
over her family with her
neurosis, and who should be sent
to a psychoanalyst for treat-
ment. Our grandmothers, who,
fortunately or unfortunately,
never heard of Freud, would no
doubt have thought her charm-
ing, but no amount of good act-
ing on the part of Mr. Mollison
or Miss Wheatley could make
her seem real in these days.
i
William Herbert.
Before William Herbert, the
young Melbourne tenor, left for
England three years ago, Dr.
Floyd said of him that he was
the finest artist Australia had
produced. As the veteran choir-
master had something to do with
his artistic education his opinion
could be biased, but Eugene
Goossens said much the same
thing.
After a phenomenally quick
rise overseas, the singer himself
was back on the Melbourne
Town Hall platform last week
providing some justification for
the judgments. His pure, clear,
aseptic voice, utterly unlike
Italian tenors, was heard best in
the simple, touching melodies of
Caccini, Monteverde and Scar-
latti, and he sang their songs as
those sixteenth-century com-
posers would probably have liked
them to be sung. His Handel
was delightful, and in his
Schubert panel there was what
might be called musical emotion
rather than sentiment.
Herbert seems to be one of
those singers who can’t help sing-
ing. During his early days in
Melbourne scarcely a day passed
when he wasn’t on the air or on
the platform. He hasn’t been
often off them in the U.K., where
he broke a remarkable continuity
of engagements to return to Aus-
tralia.
Erna Berger.
There was noted in the colora-
tura’s voice at her first Sydney
recital last Friday night a distinct
strengthening of the lower
register—her low notes have
taken on a warm richness more
common to the lyric soprano.
The stratospheric sphere remains
unchanged—she rises to the
maximum to which the feminine
voice may go with the same
effortlessness and the same per-
fect breath-control that marked
her first appearance here two
years ago.
But it is not the superb tech-
nical equipment that charms the
listener so much as the sheer
artistry with which it is used —
the singer’s ability to adapt her
own personality so well to the
various moods of her songs, or
of several moods in the one song,
as in Schubert’s “Laughing and
Weeping.”
Where serenity is called for,
as in Purcell’s “Music For a
While,” with which the pro-
gramme opened, her legato was
an even-flowing stream regulated
over a spillway.
Some of the night’s most satis-
fying singing went into a Mozart
group which, besides such a well-
known song as “The Violet,” in-
cluded “The Conjuror,” invested
with a delightful coquettishness,
and the nostalgic “Thoughts at
Eventide” —sung with rare deli-
cacy.
Some songs by the contem-
porary German composer Max
Lothan had some strength in the
song-line, but the accompani-
ments would have made Schubert
shudder. Two of the Benjamin
Britten Michelangelo Sonnets,
Stravinsky’s “Pastorale,” the
“Depuis le Jour” from Char-
pentier’s “Louise’’ —this aria
most beautifully delivered —and
a fascinating imitation of a
nightingale completed a pro-
gramme which had something
for everybody.
Despite the fact that Campoli
now has to do his practice on a
housetop, the City Fathers hav-
ing clamped a fee of £lO on the
use of the hall for rehearsals,
the visiting violinist showed a
sensitive appreciation of the
acoustics of Melbourne Town
Hall in the Brahms Concerto in
D Major, Op. 77, and made his
fiddle sing even more deliciously
than he did in the Beethoven
concerto of a previous occasion.
There was, as well, more robust-
ness in his playing. His peculiar
quality is, however, sweetness,
and in this case it was deployed
on one of the tenderest adagios
in the literature of music and
gave it even more charm.
Scriabin’s “Poem of Ecstasy,”
well-named, the “Beatrice and
Benedict” overture of Berlioz
and the Fourth Symphony of
Schumann rounded off the pro-
gramme.


and the black lock of hair would fall over
his forehead, his aquiline nose would
seem to bend from his altered breathing,
and his big dark eyes would smoulder.
He would rap on the table. “Quiet,
bastards” —and a tipsy stranger in the
corner of the canteen would look up
belligerently. But Mitch, Yorky,'Ma-in-
law and the rest would fall into an
expectant silence. Then his rich, true
baritone would roll out —“Somewhere
East of Suez ...” And the indignant
stranger would sit down. “Where the
best is like the worst ...” A gift of the
gods, song, and with the inestimable ad-
vantage of being immediately appreciated.
“Where there ain’t no Ten Command-
ments . . The bloke from the other
battalion, who a few minutes before had
been threatening to “wreck the joint,”
would be leaning forward now, a vacant
smile on his hard face. “And a man can
raise a thirst.” Thirst raised, and success-
fully quenched with Tiger beer, the artist
would be rewarded. “Sing us another
one. Dig,” the stranger would urge.
“Gawd, he can sing” Mitch would say,
wagging his head admiringly. “You can
sing. Norm —if you can do nothing else,”
Yorky would say. A spiteful character,
in some ways, Yorky.
All praise is sweet. But Norm would
reach a stage where singing was its own
reward—the song, and the pictures it con-
jured up. The troopship drifting into
Bombay at sunset—Bombay, with its hint
of dark jungle, the first naked fisherman,
white buildings, trim Government launch,
Towers of Silence and Malabar Hill.
Bombay, where the silver flying-fish was
jumping and splashing. Bombay, which
for him was the East, seen with the
startled, receptive eyes of nineteen.
The ballad measure, the common
words, seemed to suggest a lot, too. The
hot night, street-sleepers, the smell that
was in the essence of Bombay and the
cages in Grant-road. Greens, the Taj
Mahal Hotel, and the kind English lady
who took him home with her.
They were crowding the bows in that
odd silence that holds a shipload, just
before berthing. Soldiers, officers and a
handful of nurses. The Brigadier on the
bridge with the Captain. Quite naturally
Norm began to sing “The Road to
Mandalay.” It seemed fitting.
“Of ill-repute, a prostitute,” Mitch sang
stridently, under the shower. He waved
his tattooed arms and shook his gleam-
ing wet curls.
“The pride of—all—Jer-u-sal-em ...”
I—f ARD slaps sent water cascading- from
A 1 the astonishing ridges of muscle run-
ning down Mitch’s brown, hard, limber
young body. “Norm,” he glanced at
Norm, beat his chest and pranced. “Don’t
worry about that dough. Gawd, I know
y’re too soft to put anything over.”
A backhanded compliment; but, in the
circumstances, comforting. It was decent
of Mitch. He’d pay him back, of course
in time—but, apart from everything
else, it had been decent. Whatever queer
things he had done, there was something
reliable about Mitch. Solid. There were
some things you could bet your last
piastre Mitch wouldn’t do. Like robbing
a mate, for instance. For the purposes of
the definition mateship \yas pretty elastic
a sort of general amnesty covering the
Second A.I.F. And he hated cruelty-
as witness the affair of the donkey and
the damaged Wog.
. no getting away from it, around
it, or finally avoiding it, there was a dark
side to Mitch. Occasionally it wouid show
and well, Norm didn’t recoil in horror,
exactly ; he had been in the A.I.F. nearly
a year—but he would shut his mind to
it; change the conversation.
Then there was patriotism. Norm
didn’t hold with the noisy kind of
patriotism himself ; and in the Army that
was exotic, anyway ; left to the civilians.
But, well, in the final analysis, they had
joined the Army to fight—hadn’t they?
And Mitch was emphatic that he had
joined for a different purpose. “Fight?
Me? And get killed? Not on your
bloody life. Listen, sport, when they
start using live ammunition you’ll see
something going past like a flamin’
comet. That’ll be me—Private Gordon
Mitchell, I came for the trip.”
Norm didn’t altogether believe it.
Gault might say that—only Gault never
did—and he would believe it implicitly.
And didn t Mitch show his superiority to
creatures like Gault by his contempt for
them? An active contempt. “Sexo ”
Mitch said when Gault first moved into
their tent at Beit Jirja: making his posi-
tion plain, once and for all. “You stink.
In fact, I don’t think you’re fit to be alive.
And for half a deenar I’ll do you over
now, just for the fun of it.”
Gault, a stone heavier and an ex-
prelim. boy, backed down.
No, Norm finally decided, Mitch was
too noisy about his protestations of
cowardice. He’d be there, as Yorky
rhetorically put it, when the whips were
cracking. And when would that be?
And then how would he, son of OWen
Rees of Swansea and Sydney, Gallipoli
and France, acquit himself?
Norm stamped and shivered under the
greatcoat. The Palestine night was cold.
Cold work, peering into the dark face of
fate.
Mitch probably never thought of such
things. Mitch —hullo, where was Mitch?
Mitch had gone.
ALL at once Norm was conscious of
his quick shallow breathing, , the
warm beat of his pulse, and the hard feel
of his teeth on his lower-lip. And the
orange orchard, which had been a mere
background for his thoughts,
seemed to stand up and
assault his senses. The thin
confetti of moonlight on
leaves, shadows, melting and
merging and growing
grotesquely between the rows
of orange-trees and the trees,
themselves shadows, with an
independent sharp life advanc-
ing like infantry; or so it
seemed when the moon
moved. The heavy citrus
smell, the harsh smell of the
dry soil mingled with some-
thing else —a kind of circus
scent —which hung about all
Wog habitations. And in the
circus of his head strange beasts pursued
each other. The horrible smile of the
Mukhtar, the dingy knife, the remains
of the Black Watch man ; Norm had
a vivid image of a white sleeve
coming out of the orange-scented dark-
ness, wrapping itself round Mitcns
mouth, choking a cry. The injured Wog
come back, perhaps, with brothers and
cousins and uncles to help him. A knife
being pushed into the right place, the
exact spot—ah!—a cousin catching the
body and the vile old Mukhtar clucking:
“Softly does it —ah! —now down —the
boy shows promise, eh, Ali? The head—
you, Mahmoud, grab his heels. Weil
cart him up the orchard a bit. What’s
this —money? Good, Any postcards?”
And while he had been dissecting
Mitch’s character, Mitch, the real Mitch,
the flesh-and-blood Mitch with curly hair
and nigger-brown eyes and tattooed arms,
was being quietly butchered.
Hold on now, not so fast. There was
no evidence. Nothing more than a feel-
ing, a sharpened perception of shadows
and odors and of his own body’s func-
tions. And, of course, Mitch gone. But
the Wogs, poor devils, were being given
a sinister and ridiculous importance.
After all, they were men, liable to slip
and stumble and sneeze in the dark. And
would they dare —to avenge an injured
thigh?
A slight breeze set the orange-leaves
thinly singing, and Norm was aware of a
delicate thread of moonlight; skipping
the foresight of his rifle and playini
whimsically about a round black shape,
a pumpkin, a curiously oscillating
pumpkin, a human head.
Click went the safety-catch and, almost
simultaneously, snick went the well-oiled
breech-bolt. One movement, thumb and
hand. And the nervous finger felt the
delicate trigger. Almost . . . But Norm
gave the challenge. “Halt, who goes
there?” —sharp, ripping the muted noises
of wind and leaf, the myriad tiny sounds
of the night. He couldn’t miss: there was
no faint possibility of his missing at that
range, after he steadied the sight on the
pumpkin that soon—quicker than he
could think of those lines of Kipling’s
that absurdly went jangling through his
head—“the breech-bolt’s snick”—would
be a burst pumpkin. Yorky was wrong,
There was something else he could do —
shoot. He was master of his weapon, and
of himself ’
And since he was so completely
superior, superbly in control of the
destiny of that agitated pumpkin in the
darkness, he would be fair. He would
give it a sporting chance. So he said
“Stanna swa.”
The reply came distinctly: “Mitch! ”
“That was a silly thing to do,” Norm
said grimly when Mitch loomed out of
the darkness. Mitch spat a piece of
orange-peel out of his mouth. “Took a
while getting these. All the good ’uns—
up in the middle. Here, try one.”
'"F HEY had turned their backs on the
* hlack shadow of the orange \ orchard,
and were pacing slowly up the slight rise
parallel with the gleaming curve of the
railway-lines. The camp, with its array
of empty tents, its dark huts—barracks,
kitchen, canteen, administrative build-
ings—lay below them, between the rail-
way-line and the road. A gleam of light
showed here and there, faintly, through
the canvas of the occupied tents; Franky
Murray would be awake, perhaps, writ-
ing letters by lantern-light; or one of the
sergeants. A three-quarter moon was rid-
ing over the high hill on the far side of
the road, bleaching the sand and throw-
ing the long hill beyond the railway-line
into sharp relief; a sandhill whose shape
altered from day to day. Now it looked
as though a giant had blown along it, and
then poked his finger in the middle.
A little rectangle of yellow light glared
out, and disappeared with the bang of a
shut door. That would be the canteen
sergeant, or his Jewish offsider. “Sweet
job he’s got,” Mitch murmured morosely.
A moment later they heard him being
challenged by the sentry.
The moon sailed high and clear over
the hill that was bare and red in daytime.
Bare to the eye, anyway ; although there
must have been some sort of vegetation
there, because every day a
shepherd led his fat-tailed flock
across it, diagonally, man and
sheep crawling against the dry
red background like tiny slow
insects on a galvanised roof.
Norm had timed them; at
3.30 they came out of the
crooked wadi with the snake’s
tongue; at five minutes to
five they disappeared over the
rim of the hill.
Now and again the shepherd
would stop and look down at
the white tents neatly stacked
between the long tan Army
hut and the bell-tent behind
it, looking one way, and the
dark-green orchard; narrowly bounded
by the steel railway-lines and the dazzling
white stones of the Gaza road. Norm
sometimes wondered what he thought.
The tents had only been there a few
weeks. The shepherd, on the other hand,
had been there for a thousand years.
SUPERFICIALLY Norm and Mitch
looked alike, side by side in the moon-
light; both dark, about the same height
and weight; neither of them large, both
young and active.
But there the resemblance ceased.
Norm’s hair was straight and black,
Mitch’s curly, brown with a bronze tint.
Norm’s face was long, splitting into a
white, toothy, rather foolish grin when
amused, seeming to grow even longer
when pensive. Mitch had two moods —
laughter and excitement —and they were
sometimes dangerously blended. His face
was square,- strong-boned, and when he
smiled he seemed to clench his small,
irregular teeth and his brown eyes seemed
to crackle. Norm had spells of
melancholy ; Mitch was as monotonously
lively as a cricket.
Norm’s nose, in keeping with the rest
of his face, was long; Mitch’s nose was
short and had an interesting scar, in-
flicted, Mitch said, by a friend with a
bicycle-chain. Mitch often fingered it,
and sighed over the good old days. A
misunderstanding over sheilas led to the
wound —outraged friendship coupled with
the advantages of surprise and a dark
alley. Mitch loved telling the story.
“Stars? Did I see stars? I saw the
bloody cosmic system ...” “That’s a
big word for you, Mitch,” someone
would say, and Mitch would blink at
him amiably. “Me mate told me,” he
would say, jerking his curly head towards
Norm. “He’s educated —a retired school-
boy. But when this bloke hit me —stars!
Don’t talk to me about stars. Only for
a jiffy, though. I shook my head. Then
—bang! The old left. Let him have it —
bang, bang”—Mitch pranced and de-
monstrated —“and then —boong! The
old one-two.”
“You must be a hell of a good fighter,
Mitch,” someone—Yorky, perhaps—
would say lazily.
“The very best,” Mitch always said,
simply.
No one believed him, of course; and
no one resented his boasting, which was
simple, childlike, without the sting of
arrogance. Mitch had, of course, bluffed
Gault. But a sound instinct told most
of them that Gault would be easy to
bluff. Dangerous, of course, with his'
boxer’s tricks. But hollow. Evil, as it
were, working in a small circle, until there
was nothing left, not even pride in
strength and confidence in cunning. It
was not pleasant to have such a man in
your tent, odious to think of him as an
Australian. But he was. Private Claude
Gault, from Sydney, part of their self-
contained military life, circumscribed and
protected by the same laws. And at the
same time a recognition of the man’s
emptiness made this easier to bear. There
was, Norm instinctively felt, something
unhealthy about taking Gault seriously,
about paying him the compliment of
hatred. You would as soon feel serious
personal enmity for a rat. Gault, despite
his big muscles and boxer’* *
a facial resemblance to b <>re
face, narrow nose, narrow « .harrow
narrow hazel eyes a kif/"? 8 U P».
sighted fantasy made Nom d i( y 0f clear '
other physical characteristics . his
now, whenever he looked at rfu that
really saw a rat—repulsivemL? U ’ he
vicious. A rat with a man’s warS mted ’
hgence. Only i, didn’t do TO*
S dnifferent-
midable. If Gault was evil S r°'‘
penter was bad—largely W C ? r ‘
successfully bad. A L f 10Usl y>
paunchy man with a declptive°!ir rtl, f
good-nature, a fattish, seamed” coarse
Mitch, who seemed to know eve
about such matters, assured No™ g
Peter Carpenter was a criminal in dvr*
life. At first Norm didn’t believe it tS
man wasn’t flamboyant: he didn’t flou
discipline ; his manner, if you had ° a
describe it, could only be called mild an ,i
genial But Norm began to nouSt
to hear scraps of information, in anv
tough gathering Peter Carpenter was un-
obtrusively the leader. He was behind
the, not on the troopship, although other
men were court-martialled for if and
men were afraid of him. Little Ma-in-law
had been knocked unconscious one night
ana robbed of his two-up winnings He
told Norm he was sure Peter Carpenter
did it. ■
“Why don’t you report it?” Norm
asked. ‘ Just say what you think—they’ll
work on it from there.”
Ma-in-law touched his skinned face
ruefully. “I’m alive—ain’t I? I mightn’t
be if I did that.”
Peter Carpenter went his heavy
powerful way, surrounded by boon com-
panions, drinking vast quantities of beer
—which made his heavy face red, and
caused his pouchy eyes to blink, but
otherwise left him unaffected—obeying
orders. He had reached a sort of maturity
of violence, and didn’t waste time over
trifles. Authority, if it was aware of his
sinister reputation, gave no sign.
Franky Murray had thrashed him back
at Greta, when Franky was a corporal,
and compelled the brute’s respect. But
Franky was the sort of man who fights
for relaxation. A sort of tigerish strength
was concealed in Franky’s lean length-
something swift and surprising, freakish.
Fighting, possibly, had helped Franky
along the first steps to promotion—lifted
him out of the ruck —and the joyous
spirit in which he fought helped to
cement men’s liking. Even though he
was hard as nails on parade, men
reasoned, there couldn’t be much wrong
with a fellow who drank with you and
hammered you in such an impartial and
unran corous manner. Peter Carpenter
was different: Peter Carpenter, they felt,
even if they had no positive proof to
support the feeling, would probably kick
you after he knocked you down.
Topping an officers’ school put the seal
on Franky’s promotion. And since
Franky became an officer he drank more
and fought less frequently; and although
fights outside canteens were common
enough, men carefully avoided offending
slow-moving, heavy Peter Carpenter.
It v/as Peter Carpenter Mitch had seen
fit to offend the other night. Norm
missed the beginning of the affair—ne
hed been lying on his bunk, reading the
Army quarterly he had thoughtfully take
from the periodical-room at the risn
Library before sailing—and Mitch n
been playing cards with Peter Carpen ,
Gault and the rest of Carpenters gang
on a blanket in the middle of the n •
Norm had been half-aware of an *
volume of voices, but he was smiling
himself, intent on the article on
mechanised warfare, written by a 0 _
expert and annotated by a ,
authority, with which he had h
keen pleasure of confounding L’e
Donald Crisp. The review tad
commonly useful to Norm , for
it was reading-mhtter: and aft®. 0 f
months of the thoughtless r
soldiering he had a thirst, a grec
printed word, like a smoker cu
tobacco. By reading abou uj e to
science, too, Norm felt he w anC j
raise his head above the mer ngs
noise—have a glance, at lea ’ tbin o else
as a whole. And apart from a y
there was the pleasure aki o^cers
intellectual joy—of proving _ as
wrong. Franky, unfortunat y, mind
cult, wary: Frankys outside
balked at discussion of anyJ““L ercr of
his experience. But Crisp, the clev
the two, was vain of his clev cal ie d
Lieutenant DonaW Cn P s _ He
“The Boy Genius’ in all l three nger ,
was only twenty-two, and l . jjUfnor-
small, pink-cheeked, neat, . detected in
less. His background could
his person. A home m {, r jghl al
urbs, hardworking ? ar i‘\jlitia.
school, a commission m the mw


rp a nd a chance to telescope
the AX ir e had been sent to a school
officers at Poona, and had
Norm thought, returning
? favorite intellectual activity: com-
to Persons and wondering how they
pan m react to the fierce glare of action-
's fussiness, Crisp will probably
right: make a good officer Con-
'Vntious Showed he had guts, during
If Riot In the meantime there was no
hann, and considerable innocent fun, in
pulling his leg.
\IORM had successfully ignored the
N rising voices ; now there was silence
and he looked up. The blanket was still
nn the floor, cards and money strewn all
over it. Faces, pale under the electric
light were turned up, staring at Mitch,
who’ stood, hands on hips, curly head
thrown back theatrically. Sergeant Brown
had just come in and stood before the
closed door, arms folded, watching
intently under his cocked hat.
“Well —what are y’ waiting for?
Mitch’s voice crackled in the dead
silence. “If y’ think I’m that easy—have
a g 0 —y’ big baboon.”
“Eh?” It is doubtful whether Peter
Carpenter believed his hairy ears. He
stared at Mitch, his shaggy eyebrows high
on his peculiarly creased forehead, the
whites showing around his small blue
eyes. Beside him was his jackal, Gault,
his mouth a long O of astonishment.
“Y’ heard me,” Mitch said calmly.
Peter Carpenter’s eyebrows shot down,
his face flooded with red, and he got up,
stumbling in his haste. Gault began to
smile. All along the hut men were sitting
on their bunks, watching, some smoking,
all silent,
Mitch took off his shirt and grey Army
flannel. He had been wearing shorts, and
now stood in bare feet, tattooed arms
folded over copper chest, head thrown
back a little, as though posing for a
picture, Peter Carpenter had hands like
mallets. They trembled slightly now as
he tore and reefed at his shirt, hisj hairy
neck bent in a line almost level with the
back of his head. The identity disks got
tangled in the shirt, and with a sudden
wrench Carpenter snapped the cord. The
brute really was dangerous, Norm
thought, watching the heavy muscles
move under the white skin and coarse
hair; a powerful brute ; and not so fat
as he appeared. He would weigh,
probably, 16 stone. Mitch would be
about Norm’s own weight—lo+ to 11
stone.
David and Goliath. In books, of
course, David always won. In real life
that rarely happened. There was a crush-
lnS> brute malevolence about Peter
Carpenter. You could see it in the serious,
almost solemn lines of his hard, fat face,
the mouth tight and the long lines bitten
deep into the cheeks; the cold intentness
ot the blue eyes. Such a man wouldn’t
be content with beating you. He would
maim you.
A/rv C l er Carpenter plodded over towards
Mitch. Mitch pointed to his feet.
.Take them off,” he said.
„ • ’ Peter Carpenter didn’t seem to
nderstand him. He kept his pale-blue
yes staring into Mitch’s face, his huge
hands twitched. “Eh?” he said again. He
~°f c a vast breath and Norm could see
at the paunch wasn’t sheer fat —more
of the barrel chest,
nff Atl ®, boot s” Mitch said. “Take ’em
wight knock me down —or I
ght slip. I know what y’ did to that
poor in Redfern.”
s c tran Be, low stream of obscenity
flert om Carpenter’s tight lips, and a
sabva a Ppeared at their creased
bp ® rs> , He still stared at Mitch, and
hackedavT ° n M.itch
o JDon’t dingo it, Mitch!” Gault sang
sa!H T S? i your boots off, Peter,” Mitch
“ P f ietl y> still backing away.
slow JPf?ter! ” Carpenter wheeled round
vonr y k tbe P ara de-ground voice. “Take
Bi S °r' Car P“‘«” Sergeant
dullv fr> Said ‘ Carpenter stared at him
began t r , a mome nt, then sat down and
“Nni » tUg at his boots-
steady nn u Pe l er Carpenter breathed,
Mitch safri hIS J bare feet - “Now, Peter,”
ing a Wt ■ and ste Pped in quickly, flash-
“ Kill . IDtO ,he A“hy
“Shut Peter >” Gault screeched.
“All riokf Sergeant Brown said.
of fensive w a y arj ’” Gault tittered > in his
ki^Mhct! h °c4 ht Pet . er Carpenter might
he cut m f 1 00 why doesn’t
mu rmured C T at fancy stu ff?” Yorky
surprise ii r° rm Synced at him in
in, hadn’t i- adnt noticed Yorky come
by s id e y S ed they vtere standing side
Leeton Yor ky, a rice-farmer from
played Omt P re l ty tough himself ;he had
row forward eek: football, as a front-
rd - And Norm agreed with
him ; Mitch was prancing and dancing in
a ridiculous manner. Only the serious-
ness of the business stilled laughter. Every
now and again Mitch hit Carpenter—
and Carpenter kept missing. But he kept
closing in patiently, and sooner or later
one of his tremendous blows would land.
Then ... But Mitch pranced and pivoted,
ducked and weaved. All very scientific,
no doubt. But he would probably tire
himself more than his opponent. It was
like piling-up boxing points against a
bull. The thing to do with a bull was
stop it —preferably with a gun.
“Good Lord!” Yorky’s pleasant,
slightly affected voice held mild astonish-
ment. “He’s showing off!”
It was true, Mitch’s hard, bright,
brown eyes kept turning triumphantly, a
slithering glance, towards the audience.
He ducked and weaved like one possessed.
And all the time Peter Carpenter, his face
implacable and bloody, pursued him.
Peter Carpenter was still dangerous.
But Ma-in-law was the first to sense the
end. “Give it to ’im, Mitch! ” he shrilled
suddenly. The little man, the civilian
cook who had refused to prostitute his
art by becoming an Army cook, was
hopping up and down on the same spot,
small fists working. His face, no matter
what his emotions, remained a droll mask.
“You got ’im beat, Mitch!” Beside him-
self with excitement, the little man turned
on Gault. “I’ll do you, too, y’ animal.
Might as well make a job of all s
tonight.” Gault sneered and took a step
forward; discovered Yorky’s green eyes
regarding him coldly and took a step
back. And Ma-in-law continued to
scream “Mitch, Mitch, give it to ’im,
Mitch,” his face stiff and the blue veins
starting out from his scraggy neck, while
Peter Carpenter’s breath came in heavy
sobs, Mitch hissed theatrically through
his teeth, and, against all reason and
probability, continued to evade and
punish the giant who was dangerous as
long as he was conscious.
Peter Carpenter made a sudden rush —
his face was horrible now, all blood and
puffy flesh —and his staring eyes were
quite mad. M.itch had been consistently
slipping to Peter’s left. Now he went to
his right—across him —a complicated,
deft movement. Mitch’s right foot slid
back, and forward again, his body and
right hand moving on a single spring. He
hit Peter Carpenter on the chin, and
Goliath dropped.
It was perfect. It was almost too
perfect, like a trick. Everyone stared.
“Well,” Mitch said, puffing, and wiping
his wet torso with his shirt, “what d’ y’
reckon now? Youse always reckoned I
couldn’t fight my way out of a paper-
bag.”
THAT was two nights ago. Since then
Franky Murray had begun to look
at Mitch with a speculative glint in his
blue eyes. There was a queer chivalry
about Franky Murray —he tried to fit the
weapons to the man. He would never
dream, for instance, of fighting Norm.
Norm was not a fighting man, so Franky
relied on his rank and his tongue: that
had been his method with Mitch, too.
They came to the little heap of stones
that marked the division of their
territories, and stopped. They were doing
a sort of limited prowler guard; Norm’s
responsibility lay from here to the hut
or.n th* hpll-tent: Mitch’s back to the
ana me ucu-icm,
orchard and following it down
to the road. Both wandered
in and out of the rows of
tents, more or less hap-
hazardly—there were other
guards around the circum-
ference of the camp, on
shorter and more rigid
Mitch and Norm
had fallen into the habit of
doing their patrols together—
it amounted to just about the
same thing, anyway and the
practice gave Norm the oppor-
tunity of listening to yarns of
lawless deeds in Sydney ; they
were all. or nearly all, lies.
Norm realised. But they were interest- it out.
\Vhat was the one Mitch was telling
him the other night? Oh, yes, about the
policeman. Mitch’s attitude towards
Sydney police was peculiar. A sort or
sporting rivalry. And he had the deepest
respect, affection, almost, for a terrible
plainclothes-man who, when he wasn t
arresting him, apparently, was engaged
in beating him up. “A white man
though,” Mitch had said earnestly. He
wouldn’t do anything dirty.” The sort of
man. Norm gathered, who after fractur-
ing your jaw would pay your hospital
expenses and take your children to the
P 1 Another hero of Mitch’s was his
brother-in-law, Big Alec. Well, not his
brother-in-law, exactly: his girl’s brother.
Mitch’s girl was a shadowy personality
whose exact relations with Mitch Norm
found it impossible to define. Apparently
they lived in a state of blameless sin. “A
good kid,” Mitch said emphatically,
“Not a harlot.” For one who had so
much to do with harlots, black, white and
brindle, Mitch showed an ungrateful con-
tempt for the profession.
His girl wasn’t that sort at all. And
Mitch not only loved her —he loved her
entire family. Her mother —“beaut soup
she makes”—the . “Old Man”—“y’ve
heard of the tote-ticket racket? Well, he
was in on that’’—and the brother, a peer-
less youth of incredible strength and
cunning.
As Mitch outlined it, here was a snug
underworld Eden. And, after the manner
of Edens, there was a snake. “A bloke,”
Mitch said, weighing his words, “some-
thing like Gault.” Mitch was away in the
country. Big Alec was in Long Bay for
manslaughter, when the villain began to
pester Mitch’s girl; nay, worse, boasted
of success. Mitch was in Cowra when he
heard the news, broke—“l was never
in the Big Time, y’ know, Norm. Strip-
ping cars or going through a flat was
about my limit. Y’ see,” Mitch sighed,
“I never had no education. Be different
when I go back, of Course. Travel
broadens a man’s mind.” ‘
“How did you feel, Mitch, when you
heard this —er —story?”
How did he feel? Indignant, of course.
Horrified. “To think,” Mitch said, “a
girl goes straight all those years, and a
snake like that goes round saying things
like that about her.” He jumped the
rattler to Sydney, visited a few pubs,
made inquiries. That night Mjtch placed
several small pieces of metal in the foot
of a sock, tied a knot at the ankle, and
visited the slanderer. He described what
happened in frightful detail.
“A good job I did it, too,” Mitch con-
cluded. “Y* know, next week her brother
—Big Alec —was coming out! of Long
Bay. He’d have killed him.”
MITCH lit a cigarette, the flare of the
match illuminating the scar on his
nose, the strong eyebrows.
“Beaut night”
Norm looked around. It was a beau-
tiful night. Soft shadows below them,
and the clear moonlight dappling tents
and sand-ridges, hill, wadi and road.
From this point they could see for miles.
The crispness of the air, the clearness of
the night, seemed to stir up a subtle
excitement, a sweet and thrilling ill-ease.
The night seemed to demand action of
some sort.
Two bright eyes came sweeping down
the road from Gaza ; a car, travelling
fast. They watched it in silence. There
was a Tommy roadblock a quarter of a
mile down. The car would have to pull
up soon. It didn’t; the two fiery eyes
swept past the roadblock, on and on,
dwindling into darkness. “Must be a
staff-car,” Mitch said. “It must be a
pretty important one,” Norm said slowly,
staring after it. There—he caught a
glint of light again—lost immediately.
There seemed something fateful and
mysterious about the staff-car sweeping
swiftly through the night. Something
important.
The night whitened. Mitch pulled a
piece of paper out of his Bren pouch,
held it up before his face, put it down
again. “You can read by it,”
he said. “Here” —he held it
out —“have a look at it. From
the girl.”
Norm peered at the letter. It
was possible to make out the
words: but it hurt his eyes.
That wasn’t the reason he
handed it back, though, after
only a few moments. It was
—pathetic. Sentimental, un-
grammatical, sincere. The
ready-made phrases somehow
managed to give a clear picture
of the writer. As Mitch said,
she was a good girl.
“I wrote to her today,”
Mitch said. “Here, I’ll read
Know it, just about, any-
way. ‘My dear,’ —I’ll skip that bit
—nothing much been happening.’ ”
Norm smiled. ‘“l’ve been very good,
haven’t got in any fights or trouble like
that, and expecting letters from you
every day. I miss’ —I’ll skip that —
here’s where I come to you —‘I have a
new mate, a bloke called Norm Rees.
He is a university student, and boy, does
he know the law. At first I thought he
was a real mother’s darling’”—Mitch
smiled apologetically and went on—
“ ‘but I found he isn’t. We have an
officer here, a long ginger —— called
Franky Murray’ ”...
“Hey!” Norm said, startled. “Franky
will have to censor that letter, you
know.” . .
Mitch looked up, pushed his tin-hat
back, scratched his head. “So he will.
Still, it won’t do any harm to let him
know what I think” . . .
“Like hell it won’t! You can’t get
away with that, Mitch.”
“Oh, well. P’raps I’d better leave that
out then. Whatever you think. Norm.”
Norm stared at him. He was embar-
rassed and touched by the reference to
himself. Embarrassed, because there had
been too much talk of him as a “bush
lawyer,” beginning with “Digger” Roche
and cropping up again over this court-
martial business. No use explaining to
Mitch that he hadn’t been a law student,
that his knowledge of military law was
of the most casual kind, picked up here
and there. Mitch had it firmly fixed in
his head that Norm was an authority.
Hadn’t he talked himself out of a court-
martial? Hadn’t he pulled up Franky
Murray on parade, told him to address
him as “ Private Rees”? More, Mitch
was convinced that Norm had the
makings of a brilliant criminal lawyer ;
and, as such, could be important to
Mitch’s future.
MITCH’S first reaction to the infor-
mation that Norm had been a
university student was startling. He
began to question him about the wealth
of students. Norm admitted that some
students had money; others not, Mitch
kept returning to the wealthy ones, talk-
ing in parables; about the advantages of
education, missed opportunities, the im-
portance of contacts. Finally, Norm dis-
covered what he was driving at: he
thought it would be a good idea if
Norm introduced him to people in
civilian life whom he, Mitch, could rob
at leisure; or, perhaps, draw plans of
houses —an “inside man,”
Norm was too amused to be indignant.
He had brief, delightful visions of Mitch
at the Union, talking to one of the
impermanent editors of “Honi Soil” ; at
a college or faculty ball discussing
Havelock Ellis with a serious woman-
student —would Mitch be so very much
out of place, after all? And it was with
some difficulty that he set himself to the
task of seriously objecting to Mitch s
scheme. He didn’t want to hurt Mitch s
feelings; and each point had to be met
on its merits. . . ,
Mitch could understand about friends
—that wouldn’t be right at all. But what
about blokes he just knew? And weren t
there any blokes he didn’t like? It ail
took up a deal of time)? .
At last Mitch said: “I get it. At
would cruel your own pitch,”
“That’s about it,” Norm said.
It was an over-simplification of social
behaviour, but Mitch seemed satisfied.
Now Norm stared at Mitch in the
moonlight, vaguely ashamed. In a queer
way, quite unconnected with Mitch s
plans for the future, Mitch liked and
admired him. And he felt he had mis
used his advantages of education, and
whatever else it was, that gave him the
ascendancy. This bush-lawyer business—
that was nothing to be proud of. But,
by God, it had pursued him. An erratic
sense of humor, perhaps, had been hair
the trouble; that, and a moodiness, a
pettiness, perhaps, was the harder and
truer word, that made him bite bacK.
Something wild and unstable m him
somewhere, he told himself gloorm y,
and while he thought it he knew there
was nothing he could do about it. . -
Except, perhaps, get drunk. Or sing.
Norm threw his head back and began
to sing:
“The minstrel boy to the war few gone,
In ranks of death you will find him.
His father’s sword he has girded o-on.
His wild harp slung behi-md him.
“You’ll wake the camp,” Mitch
Sa Norm glanced at him: “What fi: I
do?” This admiration business rot.
Mitch was the stronger character. Mitcn
was a man of action. He was-what?
“Land of Song, said the warrior-bard.
Though all the world betray thee
When they were little his sister used
to play this on the piano, practising tor
hours— . , . „
“One sword, at least, thy rights shall
guard, , „
One faithful harp shall praise thee.
WAR should be like that; fine, poetic,
free. Not fatigues and peeling
potatoes and guards, but swords and
music. No wonderful imitations of
officers like Digger Roche to write reports
that followed you half round the world,
but —but it was the lost cause that was
poetic. And he couldn’t altogether blame
Digger Roche.
A wonderful imitation of an officer,
Digger Roche. An N number, physically
fit, training them at Greta. Knew they
called him “Digger” and thought it was
a compliment. Shaking hands with them
(Continued on next page.)


as they filed up the gangway—“ Would
to God” —large moist hand reaching out
of the darkness, reaching for the next
man. Eyes moist, too —from whisky.
“Would to God, boy, I was going with
you.” Probably meant, it, too —at the
time.
Other memories of Digger Roche.
Lieutenant Stanley Roche, in charge of a
training company. The funny little
civilian-in-uniform who made a ruthless
speech. Use the bayonet, advised Digger ;
use it on everything, prisoners, wounded
and all. Leave nothing alive behind you.
Then, when they see you, they’ll sing out
“The Aussies are coming”—and run. As
simple as that.
If it hadn’t been for Digger he’d have
had a commission. He’d marched into
Greta with all the advan-
tages. Militia training—S.U.R.
—most of the boys were pretty
raw then. Militia training
was something. Digger hadn’t
liked him, though; and he
hadn’t liked Digger. Not that
Digger was so regimental—
the other way, rather. Anxious
to be one of the boys. Only
the boys Digger took under
his wing were usually no-
hopers whom he could
patronise.
Then Norm took a drunk
behind a hut one morning
to be out of the road at
parade, was late for parade
himself. Digger found tUe drunk, charged
them both with the same thing. Careless.
He’d cross-examined Digger in front of
the camp C.O. Being a solicitor, Digger
hadn’t liked that. Case dismissed.
After that, of course, it had been his
own fault. He’d gone sour on the idea
of promotion, gone a.w.l. Digger made
the next charge fit, and piled up the bad
points. Scribbled like mad. From then
on he’d drifted. It was pleasant to drift.
Drifting wasn’t so bad. You rubbed up
against some fascinating human stuff.
Mitch, for instance.
“Mitch!”
“Yair?”
“Why, do you reckon, most men join
the Army?”
“Same reasons’s they fight. Booze and
women.”
“That wasn’t why you fought Peter
Carpenter.”
“No.”
I wonder if he knows the reason, Norm
thought, looking at him. A kind of giant-
killer complex. In his own eyes, Mitch
was always a hero; outwitting the
police; outmanoeuvring a rival push;
defending injured innocence ; protecting a
donkey. If the facts didn’t tally with the
belief he altered the facts.
“That doesn’t explain them all,” Norm
said.
'T' ONIGHT he felt a need to turn them
*■ all over in his mind ; all these strange
and familiar faces that had come crowd-
ing into his life; indissoluble parts of
their compact world. A world, as it
were, in layers. On the top, the C. 0.,
“The Black Prince.” Lieutenant-Colonel
Joseph Oliver, D. 5.0., M.C. and Bar. A
tremendous personality, “The Black
Prince.” The name suited him. He was
black —black hair, black jowls—he'd
need to shave twice a day—black hair
sprouting from the open collar of the
freshly-laundered shirt with the ribbons,
that day he came up from Egypt to
look over the reinforcements. He’d
bulked tremendous on the parade-ground,
dwarfing the others, Major Shelley,
Captain Donovan, even Franky. Some-
thing like a gorilla. And, funnily enough,
his eyes didn’t belong to the face. They
were large, dark, rather fine.
“The Black Prince”; something
theatrical about the name. That suited
him, too. And there was a princely
coarseness about his speech—looking
back to the days when princes led their
men into battle —a royal magnetism in
his person. He’d told them what he’d
thought of their parade, very plainly. The
originals were proud of him. A hard
man, they said, and boasted of his hard-
ness. But fair. Dealt out punishments
heavily, but inevitably. Didn’t preach. A
good soldier. A leader.
Norm had met the Black Prince once
in civilian life. The Black Prince was a
business acquaintance of his father’s.
They had known each other in the last
show, too; not the same battalion but
the same brigade. The Black Prince
should have got a V.C., Owen Rees said
—Black Joe, as he was then. Corporal
Black Joe. He came back Major Joseph
Oliver, D.S.O. and the rest. The Black
Prince.
Mr. Oliver was different—the Black
Prince didn’t call himself major—quieter,
less flamboyant. Neatly-dressed, returned-
soldiers’ badge, courteous. The parade-
ground showman was also a gentleman.
He dominated that mixed bag of civilians
-- businessmen, women, politicians—as
completely as he ruled the battalion;
allowing for differences in time and
opportunity.
Norm didn’t think it likely that the
Black Prince would recognise him; for
his part, he would as soon dream of
claiming acquaintance with God.
They called Major Shelley “The Young
Master”—and that was appropriate, too.
Major Shelley was lean, youngish, some-
thing big in business. He couldn’t inspire
men like the Black Prince, but he could
direct them. Norm had an uncomfortable
memory of being marched before Major
Shelley by the bull-necked r.s.m.; meet-
ing the major’s cold grey eyes,
bracing himself to encounter
a powerful and unsympathetic
intellect.
Major Shelley would have
sent him to Jerusalem. Norm
had a sharp fear of military
prisons, a dread of Jerusalem.
Once he went down there, he
felt, he might never get up
again. No knowing where it
would end. Being sent home
as an undesirable, perhaps.
Owen Rees could stand a lot,
but he wouldn’t be able to
take that.
/CAPTAIN DONOVAN, with the in-
cidental aid of Major Shelley’s keep-
ing his word, had saved him from
Jerusalem.
Telling the corporal what to do started
it —not that he blamed Ted. Ted, in fact,
had tried to save him when he realised
what awful wheels he had started work-
ing. If Ted hadn’t been tired he wouldn’t
have reported him ; and if he hadn’t been
tired he wouldn’t have answered back.
Too much guard duty, as he’d explained
to Captain Donovan when the charge was
read.
Captain Donovan said: “I’m sorry,
Rees, Frankly, I’m sorry. But it’s out
of my hands. There’s been too much ' —
he glanced at the charge-sheet—“too
much of this sort of thing. Pretty poor
vocabulary, anyway. You’ll have to
front Major Shelley. He’s going to make
an example of you.”
An example, eh? That was a bit
ironical —considering what a small fish
he was in a general turbulent sea. Why
didn’t they make an example of Peter
Carpenter?
Captain Donovan lit a cigarette. “It’ll
mean Jerusalem, you know-all right,
sar’-major, you can go now—you’re a
bloody fool, Rees. Your record is bad,
from Australia ...”
Digger Roche, Norm thought grimly.
Aloud he said: “That was Australia.”
“Yes, I know. But it counts. And
you’ve been insubordinate here, too —in
little ways. In fact, if I’d cared to treat
you like a number —not a man at all,
just an Army number —it would have
gone hard with you before this. Why
don’t you take a leaf from Sergeant
Davenport’s book? There’s a man should
be an officer —and a damn’ good one,
too —only, unfortunately, he’s too old.
He doesn’t go round trying to prove how
smart he is. He knuckles down —does the
job. The Army doesn’t exist for your
convenience, you know.”
Captain Donovan smiled, a crooked,
attractive smile splitting his sunburnt
face. Norm clearly recognised that
Captain Donovan enjoyed talking. But
he was a decent fellow; humane, cap-
able. The originals called him “Granny,”
but lik;ed him. The originals, anyway,
were too damned arrogant—too proud of
being originals. It wasn’t as though they
had been in action. That was the test.
Captain Donovan had made a mistake
himself—only a small one —and that was
the reason why he was back at the base
camp instead of with the battalion. The
Black Prince didn’t tolerate mistakes—by
officers.
There was truth in what Captain
Donovan said. Not the complete truth,
perhaps, but enough. Sergeant Daven-
port was a good example. Sergeant
Davenport was a poet and a gentleman,
a lean, dark man with a grey and black
moustache. Norm had read his poetry.
It was good. Sergeant Davenport had
travelled, seen the great cities, London,
Paris, Vienna, New York. Not on poetry,
of course. He was a journalist. And
never, by a hairsbreadth, did Sergeant
Davenport presume on his poetry, his ex-
perience, or his gentility. He set out to
learn the trade of soldiering and suc-
ceeded. He was the ideal sergeant.
A decent bloke, Captain Donovan.
Norm hoped he got his chance. He had
his weaknesses, of course ; amiable pre-
tensions. From his conversation one
gathered that he was a grazier, one of
the old-fashioned sort, with a run from
here to Kingdom Come, bloodstock in the
paddock and a bottle of whisky and a
bottle of rum put on the tankstand every
day for passing drovers and sundowners
—they could drink water if they liked.
Actually, he worked in a bank.
“Well, it’s out of my hands now,”
Captain Donovan said wearily.
Probably Captain Donovan had talked
to him like that because he knew he was
going to Jerusalem. Out of the world of
the living, as it were.
“Hi, ho, Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
Jerusalem . . , ” sang Mitch, and told him
fearsome tales of “Jerusalem screws.”
All big blokes, Mitch said, and cruel as
hell. The coming ordeal gave him prestige
in Mitch’s eyes. Like Big Alec.
] ERUSALEM .- . Example ... That
gave Norm an idea. When the big
r.s.m. marched him before Major Shelley,
he had made up his mind. He wouldn’t
take his punishment.
As nearly as such a self-contained man
could, Major Shelley looked surprised
when he put the routine question, and
Norm said “No.” He gave no reasons;
just said he would go for a court-martial.
Time passed. Summary of evidence.
The lieutenant who took it, a lawyer, had
been in the S.U.R. with him, and looked
at him curiously, Ted gave his version,
very embarrassed, trying to break it down.
A week later Donovan sent for him,
talked to hipi seriously. What made him
think he could beat a court-martial?
Norm told him. The offence was trifling.
If Major Shelley had dealt with it —it
was prejudged. For the sake of an
example. Tough, in a way, taking ad-
vantage of Donovan’s friendly remarks.
But he was determined. He wasn’t going
to Jerusalem. Captain Donovan looked
thoughtful.
A few days later Captain Donovan
came into the Y.M.C.A. tent where be
was reading, asked him td come outside,
offered him a cigarette. Norm didn’t
smoke, but Captain Donovan lit one him-
self. About this court-martial . . . The
thing was complicated —took up time.
And did he realise that there was a stigma
attached to a court-martial —even if he
got out of it?
Norm was silent. He hadn’t thought
of that.
“I’ll tell you what,” Captain Donovan
said. I’ll have you paraded before
Major Shelley again. If you take his
punishment, you won’t go to Jerusalem.
How’s that?” His grey eyes looked at
Norm keenly under the peak of his
jauntily-tilted cap.
Norm hesitated. He felt he could trust
Captain Donovan. But what about Major
Shelley? It was a risk . . . “All right,”
he said.
“Good,” Captain Donovan said briskly.
“Tomorrow, after morning parade, out-
side C.H.Q. Sar’-major Bourke will warn
you of the time to be at B.H.Q. Field-
dress, hat, gaiters, webbing-belt.”
The big r.s.m., who looked something
between a wrestler and a butler, and who
was a whisky-traveller in civilian life,
marched him in again, barking in a
terrifying fashion. Tore his hat off as
though he hated him ; and Norm was
acutely aware of Major Shelley’s cold
eyes. The question was put, and
answered.
“Yes, sir.”
Major Shelley smiled, and slewed round
in his chair, played with pencil. And
Norm thought, “I’ve been a fool.” Put
not thy trust in princes. From Major
Shelley’s exalted viewpoint, it would
probably be legitimate. An individual
must not clog up the works. Discipline
justifies the means. He was probably
deliberating whether to send him to
Jerusalem or Devil’s Island.
“Well, Rees” —Major Shelley’s voice
came from a distance, a considerable
height—“l think you’ve learnt your
lesson.” He paused, and Norm sighed
with relief. “Twenty-eight days’ pay.”
“Ten-shun!” roared the sergeant-
major. “Right wheel —quick march! ”
He was still paying off the fine. It
seemed a small enough price to pay for
reprieve.
THEY were wandering among the tents
now. Norm’s mind dived back to its
former problem. Why had they joined
the Army—all these men? Jim Lane
had given him a reason, as they sailed
through the Heads, the city sinking into
the grey morning, a sullen wave beating
in from the sea. Jim was a stocky, active
man with greying hair, a farmer from the
North Coast, a married man, a family
man. “It makes you think,” Jim said
slowly, staring back, “Hits you all of a
sudden —doesn’t it?”
Norm said yes. He felt the mood, too ;
something grave and a little frightening.
But he felt himself quite incapable of
entering into Jim’s feelings. “Seems a
funny thing to do”—T.m ,
himself—“ Lease the farm to
school. Peg's gone at
for a while— she and the bahv sister
to this, 1 suppose. A man hl> Cornes
he Th S '? t ‘ he right t 0 wear trousers" ShOW
That answer was true-fo, tj '%
Halt who goes there?” 111
challenged. e> Mitch
“Sergeant Robinson,” the dark a
said. It came forward into m gUre
light. “Hullo, Mitch Clo \r moon -
Robby had an unhu?d ed wTk”
somehow, gave an impression „£ S'
ness. Cool strength. 1 c ° ol '
R° bb y>” they said, pleased t
encounter him. Everyone was £2 0
see Robby, and to rely on h m J
shouWers, fortunately, were broad H ‘ S
An-, l are you P r °wling rotmd fnr?»
Mitch demanded. tor?
“Just taking the air. Had a bit nf u a
news Wife crook.” Robby K
cigarette smaH ruddy shadows ere L,
up the steep nose, the lines running to
the corners of the saturnine mouth § the
eyes chiseUed m threads of light under
the high forehead that was white in day-
time while the rest was reddish-brown
Short grey hair, bony cheekbones chin
narrow but aggressive, strong neck.’ Ike
face of a Roman Emperor; or more
justly, the face of a Roman general be-
fore the empire began to depend on
mercenaries. A type of face common in
Australia, especially in the bush
Robby glanced at their sympathetic
silence. “She’ll get over it,” he said
shortly. He inhaled greedily, his long
face a shadow behind the glowing tip of
the cigarette. “What’ve y’ been doing to
Browny?” he asked suddenly.
“To Browny?”
“He was in the mess tonight. Said
‘Well, if you hear a shot tonight y’li
know what’s up. Rees’ll have shot me.’ ”
“He was joking?”
Robby shook his head. “Seemed
serious. Said y’ threatened to do him in
this morning. ’Course, he’d been
drinkin’.”
Norm shouted with laughter. It sud-
denly seemed the most delightful, absurd
freak of fate that Sergeant Brown should
think he was going to shoot him.
“I said I was going to put him in-
report him —if he didn’t leave me alone.
It’d be easy enough—he was blind last
night, on his rounds.”
Robby nodded. “Thought it might’ve
been something like that. Poor old
Browny. He’ll be in the horrors if Ke
doesn’t leave the hard stuff alone. Beer’s
all right. Y’ can sweat it out. But too
much whisky don’t do y’ any good, night
after night. Especially on guard.”
“If you hear a shot,” Norm said,
“you’ll know what it is. Me and Mitch
having a bit of target practice with a
petrol-tin, up on the rise.”
Robby grinned sympathetically:
“Franky doesn’t wake up?”
“He wakes up all right. That’s the
idea. Mitch thinks he has too much
sleep. But he doesn’t seem to realise
what’s going on. Doesn’t let on if he
does, anyway.”
“How d’ y’ work it?”
“Toss up. Whoever loses the bet takes
his boots and socks off, leaves plenty or
footprints round, loosens a few ropes,
gets the tin. Then we yell, good and
clear, “Halt-who-goes-there Stann
swa! ” —and let ’em go. Six rounds rapr •
We’re getting quite good.” ,
“I know. I’ve heard y’,” Robby sai
dryly.
“Accurate, I mean. Gripes,
need the practice. I was in a rifle-
before the war. Since I’ve been m
A.I.F. I’ve only fired about thie
courses.” „ « u P
Robby frowned. “Reinforcement,
said slowly. “There’s always that ns-
They rush ’em through. Have tQ-
light on all anyway. Did
a Bren until lately.” r t „?
Norm chuckled. “Remember .
Climbing up Molly Morgan with * |
stick —that was a Lewis-gun. ® g as
kerosene-tin with another stick
rapid-fire.” „ Kobbv said.
“Things 11 improve, R ooo *
“They always do.” d a ]itt le
Norm grinned again. We h
practice last night, hranxy to id
Browny hot on his heels. - . cba j,
him the yarn—saw something h
lenged it, opened fire. be said,
quite pleased. Any bloo • g ee if
‘Sergeant, have a look aro
there’s any blood.’ ” . for prac-
"And that's why y’ do it- lor 11
“Partly. It breaks the on t ? t0 tb e main
“It wakes Franky up-thats
thing,” said Mitch, , W ake me
Robby yawned: ea rly”
up tonight. I’ve got f,° b Up rom ised.
“We won t, they P
“Good night, sarj. t, a ck with
They watched his ret^ ing we re pr° ud
respect and affection. y M-M* a ° d
of Robby— proud to have “•


_,«■ : n their company. If Robby had
p.C.M. 10 thCgr . t wQuld have been a
136611 to salute him. Norm always
pl Ta Wtot of saluting First War
The others, the young ones, he
offi wlined to look at with a question
Wa li dark Welsh eyes. An Australian
queslion-how did get a commis-
sion? .
WIOLENCE, ex-sergeant-major Jock
V Cameron used to say, is natural to
AiKtralians. Norm always grinned when
u hZrd him. Jock had been m the
nLk Watch, and from what he had seen
B Sack Watch laddies on leave, quite
Irt from their splendid battle record,
S w«e no lambs. But lock always
defended his statement: “Discipline,’he
id “Y’ve got discipline in the British
Army You know where you are. You
can take any likely lad—you for
instance, Norm, or Yorky here, make him
Z officer and he’s got a straight road m
front of him. He can be a fool his
sergeant will put him right. He doesn t
have to fight with every Tom, Dick and
Harry like that loon Franky Murray.”
Jock meant violence in a general way—
a total foreign and confused state of
affairs The state of the A.I.F. so dis-
tressed him that he surrendered his rank.
They were passing Franky’s tent, and
through the canvas they could see the
dim glow of the hurricane-lamp. Franky
was working late—there must be some
extraordinary reason for it. Franky
could work when he wanted to ; but the
desire had grown noticeably less strong
of late. . ......
Norm sometimes found himself liking
Franky. He had admirable qualities.
Something admirable about the way he
said he was a navvy in civilian life;
quite casually. Neither boasting or
apologising. Norm thought he would
probably miss Franky Murray if anything
ever happened to him.
They were coming back, to the pile of
stones. “How’s the time, Mitch?”
Mitch peered at his wristlet-watch.
“Ten to.”
“Just about time Browny showed up.
Fancy the old coot thinking I was going
to shoot him, eh?”
Mitch spat. “Stupid old
“He must be mad.”
“Mad drunk.”
Here were the stones. They stopped,
rested their rifles. The moon went under
a cloud.
“I say, Mitch ...”
“Yair?”
“It would be funny—a hell of a good
joke— to send a couple of shots over his
head-just for fun.” '
“My oath.”
They contemplated the funniness of
this in silence. Then Mitch grabbed
Norm’s arm. “Hear that?”
“Eh?”
They listened, and heard a hoarse cry,
‘L.lnnd of rhythm—“Ser-geant-of-the-
GUA-rd!”
Like a Wog singing,” said Mitch.
He never does that,” said Norm,
they exchanged a smiling glance of
triumph in the darkness. “It’s true!
“virn l wind-up properly, eh?”
xr/l 1 et a shot go—in the air?”
Mitch whispered.
think?” 61 ' not ’ iere he, do you
in Ihe marquee. He’ll come out
m a jiffy,”
A light appeared behind the
tinai a v°i W the marquee. “Lead
lantern ” Bht ” Said Norm - “ Hes B ot a
, h Zl ing no risks,” said Mitch, “with
tnem there wild soldiers.”
Yon , and licentious soldiery, eh?‘
llcen tious lately, Mitch?”
feel kr. M Too short of chips; But I
<! T .rytal as beggary.”
Listen to him!”
reeuin B^ ant ,® rown was still crying, at
GUA rd!” mtemls ’ “Ser-geant-of-the
itch ’ that here comes
sergeant of the guard.”
“Mavk! ° olc a Lit that way.”
“Mavkf. We sllou lfl fire a salute.”
TV r w® should.”
and SerSi o fked , and seem ed to fall,
them. heartiL BroWn ? volce floated U P to
, swearing.
A diabnr sa , id . ,^i tc h simply.
°f the wicked n; d £f Came to Norm ’ out
mind of Mif u nigkt ’ or °nt °f the fertile
niunicationof i^ rllai>S — a wordless com "
SUr prisedZ t didn’t look the least
round, 1 T ha ; L e did: emptied the
« his nfle ’ and pUt them
first to maVA C ° at ' poc^et > counting them
°ne up thf. SUre ’ wou ldn’t do to leave
much of a irm°+ t ' That might be too
survive, nlo „ P° or old Browny to
as a il that a e 1 he wasn’t so old
a ncient tn u, A last-war man looks a bit
°ld, Norm • e 7 e f of nineteen. Not too
MitchhK t 0 tak <= a joke.
’ ar L handsome devil by his
side, smiled approval of all pleasant evil.
Sounds carry a long way in a silent
night. Silent? Wasn’t that the shudder-
ing maniacal howl of a jackal? It was.
But when it ceased it left the silence —a
kind of quivering, live silence.
In the silence no soldier could mistake
the significant sounds of a safety-catch
being released; the smooth sound of
polished metal as the breech-bolt slipped
into place. That would mean that a
round had gone up the spout, was ready
to fire at the mere impulse of a nervous
finger. No soldier would mistake the
meaning of these sounds; certainly no
old soldier. Least of all Browny.
Only, of course, there were no rounds
in the rifle —they were safe in his pocket.
So there was no harm in the joke—just
innocent fun. Only Browny didn’t know
that.
“There was rock to the right and rock
to the left and low lean thorn between,”
quoted Norm, waving the rifle in the
general direction of the bobbing lantern.
There wasn’t, but no matter. Browny
would hear him, and think the words
were mad mutterings. “And you may
hear a breech-bolt —click was it, or
snick? —no matter, the right sound was
snick, so snick let it be — “Snick, and never
a man be seen.” Only, of course, Browny
could see him—a vague, menacing shape
on the rise. Norm hoped he could see
the rifle. Ah, that was better —a glint of
moonlight. Browny would see that, all
right.
Browny did. “Sergeant of the
GUARD!” he bawled. Norm thought
he could detect a note of —what? —fear?
—desperation?
Norm’s thumb fiddled with the safety-
catch, but he restrained himself. No, not
yet. Wait till you see the whites of their
eyes. The lantern was toiling up the rise.
Sergeant Brown had hardly drawn breath
—he must be finding it heavy going,
climbing and swinging the lantern—he
was swinging it now, as though to flash
out a message to the heavens —and shout-
ing. He would wait until Browny stopped
yelling, A pity to waste those significant
sounds.
What was it that lecturer said? You
must cultivate an experimental approach?
And wasn’t he doing just that —experi-
menting—on the noblest of material —
Man? It seemed to Norm that he had
been grossly misunderstood. Instead of
writing reports on him, and trying to
send him to Jerusalem they should have
given him a laboratory or something
where he could experiment on sergeants
and lieutenants at his leisure. For the
general good.
Ah! He had stopped now. Good.
Norm felt a thrilling, a godlike, an alto-
gether evil sensation of power as he
clicked the safety-catch. Snick went the
breech-bolt. “ ’Tis only by favor of mine
that ye lived so long,” he said.
One thing about Browny, Norm
thought swiftly, he keeps coming. The
old fellow must have courage. An oaken
resolution. Or a wooden brain? Or,
perhaps, wood alcohol.
< I pv ON’T do it! ” Mitch said suddenly.
Norm glanced at him, startled.
What’s up with you? ... But Mitch
seized his arm, shook it. “My God, Rees,
don’t do it,” he pleaded. “It’s murder!”
His voice carried thrillingly through the
night.
Norm grinned. Mitch was improving
his act. “I’ll do it,” he said roughly. “I’ll
do it.” Imagination flagged—he couldn’t
compete with Mitch’s histrionics. “I’ll
do it!” He shouted wildly. He waved
rifle and arms in the air, strode up and
down on the rise of the sand. He was
getting the spirit of the thing now.
“Make bunks. Sweep out huts. Do
guards. Do fatigues. Pick, pick, pick.”
His voice had turned into a wild Welsh
chant. “Pick on a man, all the time, do
this, do that, a man isn’t a mouse, sweat
and strain. I’ll do it!” he hissed.
Mitch pranced beside him, screeched
like a banshee. “Don’t do it, don’t do it!
Gawd, Norm, don’t do it. It’s murder,
it’s murder X say, it’s murder. It’s ’orrible
cold-blooded bloody murder!”
“Ser-GEANT of the GUARD!” bel-
lowed Browny indomitably.
“There is rock to the right and rock to
the left and low lean thorn between,”
thundered Norm, striding up and down.
“No, Mitch, my mind is made up. He’s
old anyway, and has rheumatism. Prob-
ably beats his wife. It’ll be a happy re-
lc3SG
“But it’s murder!” wailed Mitch.
“And you may hear a breech-bolt snick
though never a man be seen —Mitch, I
like you, you’re a good cobber and all
that, but’if you carry on like this I’ll have
to shoot you, too. Just one shot, Mitch.
Through the heart. Or, if you prefer it,
through the forehead. It won’t hurt
m “Y’re a mur- derer,” sobbed Mitch
brokenly. “A cold-b-blooded b-bloody
murdering m-murderer.
“Sergeant of the guard! ”
“Ah! I’m a killer. Can’t help it —
just a killer. And I love killing sergeants.”
Throwing-his head back he began to sing:
“John Brown’s body lies a-moul-d’ring
in the grave ...” •
“Don’t do it!” begged Mitch.
They sang and capered in the moon-
light, two young animals intoxicated by
the night. Wild Welsh ancestors who
sang and plundered by torchlight peering
out from Norm’s dark eyes; whatever an-
cestors Mitch had, highwaymen, brigands,
Australian bushrangers—wild, all of them,
indubitably—blazing from his. A couple
of humorists howling at their humor.
Two Sydney larrikins.
Mitch sobered first. “Here he is,” he
said quickly. He stepped forward, point-
ing the rifle. “Halt—who —goes —there.”
“Sergeant of the guard,” Browny said
briefly. He stepped forward, dangling
the lantern. “Didn’t you hear me?”
“We did hear something, sarj. You
hear it, Norm?”
Norm said he had heard something—
a sort of croaking.
Sergeant Brown was puffing slightly,
his face was damp. He ran the palm of
his hand over his creased neck and his
eyes—pale-blue, and bulging slightly over
folds of flesh —stared steadily and expres-
sionlessly at Norm. Norm began to feel
uncomfortable. Was it such a good joke
—after all?
“Private Mitchell!” Sergeant Brown
Waved a leathery hand. “Go for a walk.”
“Where, sergeant?” Mitch’s brown eyes
were wide and innocent.
Sergeant’s Brown’s* hand seesawed
irritably.
“Over there! Anywhere! Goon! I
want a private talk with Private Rees.”
All the time he was looking at Norm,
Mitch slouched off reluctantly.
Browny had a queer dignity, Norm
thought. He began to feel rather ashamed
of himself. How would he have liked it
—advancing, unarmed, in the dark, hear-
ing the sinister mechanism of death? Ad-
vancing, too. Suppose it had been him-
self, and someone who hated him, Gault
for instance —no, Gault wouldn’t have the
nerve —Peter Carpenter, say, sitting up
here with a loaded rifle —how would he
have felt?
Only he didn’t hate Sergeant Brown.
At the moment he almost loved him. A
game old cock
And the rifle wasn’t loaded. And he
wasn’t Peter Carpenter. Sergeant Brown
had been punished for forgetting that.
Sergeant Brown’s unwavering, fishy
eyes held him. “Come here, lad,”
Sergeant Brown said. Norm walked over
to him, thinking. I’ll show him my empty
magazine, now; the rounds in my pocket.
The joke’s gone far enough.
“Son,” Sergeant Brown said heavily.
“It’s not for my sake I say this. It’s not
for yours. But you come from a decent
family, I imagine. How are your parents
going to feel when they know their son
is a murderer?”
IT was unexpected. It was startling.
Norm’s first reaction was laughter.
“That —that was just a joke, sarj,” he
said, choking back the sudden explosive
snorts of laughter. His dark eyes were
wet with merriment. He pulled the slim
yellow rounds out of his pocket, counted
them into his left hand, held them under
Sergeant Brown’s nose. “See?” He
pulled back the breech-bolt, tapped the
empty spring. Even removed the
magazine and presented it to Sergeant
Brown’s dull eye. “See?” He was sud-
denly contrite. “It was a cow of a thing
to do. Must have given you a bit of a
fright. I apologise.”
Sergeant Brown looked at him sternly.
“What made you think of doing it?”
“Oh, well, you were picking on me a
bit. That wasn’t the reason though. You
saying I was going to do you
in, when I only said I was
going to put you in. See?”
Something strange about
Sergeant Brown’s eye made
him hurry on. “I wouldn’t
do a thing like that—good
Lord, no!”
Sergeant Brown held up a
commanding hand. “That’s
enough! You’re only making
it worse!” His breath smelt
of whisky but he was, Norm
felt certain, sober. “Mind
you, I’m not apologising. Shoot
me, if that’s the way you feel.
Only what I said about your
family—it’s a terrible thing
to have a murderer in the family.”
A horrible cold panic seized Norm.
He didn’t believe him ... All this talk of
families ... A real court-martial this
time . . . for, of all things, attempted
murder ... He had sudden vivid visions
of Owen Rees’s face when he read the
news, his mother’s, his sisters’ . . . and
shut his eyes tightly, the visions were so
painfull . . . Stigma attached to a court-
martial, Donovan said, even if you got
out of it . . . Attempted murder —that
was different to being rude to a corporal
.. . and —he mightn’t get out of it. . .
It couldn’t be as bad as that though
because —well it just couldn’t be. This
old fool was pulling his leg. Revenging
himself for his own horrible fright. A
good joke, too —ha-ha- 1 He seized
Sergeant Brown by the arm, shook it
roughly. “Yes, I know, sergeant, you’ve
had your joke, and you gave me a hell of
a fright. Now listen to me! You know
I didn’t try to shoot you—didn’t even
have rounds in my rifle. They wene here
—in my pocket—all the time —see?”
Sergeant Brown threw his head back.
“I’m not apologising—see? To you or
anyone else. I do my duty, shooting or
no shooting. No! ” He held up his hand.
“It’s no use you talking. I know you
would have shot me if it hadn’t been for
Mitchell. I heard you. But for Mitchell
you’d be a murderer this night.”
Mitch! Where was Mitch? “Mitch!”
called Norm. “Come and tell this ...”
Mitch was lurking around somewhere
near. He came immediately. “Mitch,”
Norm said. “Sergeant Brown thinks I
was going to shoot him.” Put that way it
sounded funny. Norm laughed. A weak
laugh. “Tell him it was all a joke.”
“That’s right, sarj,” Mitch said. “It
wasn’t fair dinkum. A bit of a joke, like.”
Norm stared at him ; it didn't sound very
convincing.
“If you want to shoot me, Rees,”
Sergeant Brown said heavily, “you
should wait till we go into action. You
can get away with it then. That’s
better than your family being saddled
with the disgrace of a murderer.”
“Damn and blast it,” raged Norm,
almost weeping, “I’m not a murderer.”
“He ain’t a murderer, sarj,” Mitch said
agreeably.
“He’s a killer,” Sergeant Brown said.
He nodded his cocked hat solemnly. “I
know ’em —seen ’em before. A killer.”
He addressed Mitch. “He said so him-
self, a while back.”
“Aw, gam, sarj, he was only kiddin’,”
Mitch wheedled.
Sergeant Brown looked at Mitch
silently, approvingly. He seemed to be
saying. There, there, son, I respect your
loyalty. Mistaken loyalty, though. And
you just saved my life, I’m not forgetting
that. Sergeant Brown didn’t actually say
this, but his silence spoke plainly. And
Mitch, damn him, looked coy.
NORM had been thinking, Well, if the
worst comes to the worst, there’s
always Mitch. Witness for the defence.
And what sort of a witness would Mitch
make —he was so damn suggestible.
You’d only have to flatter Mitch and
he’d react like a peacock. A talkative
peacock. He wouldn’t say Norm was
going to shoot Sergeant Brown, of course.
He’d be loyal. But he’d tell so many
outrageous lies that they’d trip him up.
And if he told the truth . . . Norm could
imagine the terrible questions:
“Then what did the defendant say ?”
—“He said he was going to shoot —but
he didn’t mean it”
“How do you know he didn’t mean
it ?” —“His rifle wasn’t loaded.”
“How do you know it wasn’t loaded ?”
—“I saw him unload it.”
“How dark was it? Where were you
standing ?”
There was Mitch’s record, too. Red
writing in Mitch’s paybook as well as
his own. And, very probably, a civilian
criminal record as well ...
His own record: “This man has been in
trouble before ... Greta ... Beit Jirja ...
Conduct to the prejudice of good order
and military discipline ... bush lawyer .. .
Tile questions addressed to himself:
“It seems an extraordinary thing to do
—for a joke • . .” Raised eyebrows from
the president of the court-
martial. Yes, a pretty rum sort
of a joke. This fellow Rees
looked bad, shifty . . . “You
say you had a grudge against
Sergeant Brown ?”
It all sounded utterly
damning: hopelessly, circum-
stantially bad. And even if a
miracle happened, and he got
out of it, there would always
be the doubt, hanging over
him . . .
Unless . . .
“Sergeant,” Norm said
desperately. “You’ve got to
believe me. I didn’t try to
shoot you. Mitch can bear me
out. Swear it, if necessary, anywhere.
Everything’s against it. I’m not violent—
not vindictive. Got plenty of red lines in
my paybook, but nothing serious. You
were drunk tonight—see? I can smell
whisky on you now. You’ll look a bit
of a fool if you go saying your men tried
to shoot you when you * were drunk,
sergeant. Drunk on duty. They’ll say
(Continued on page 32.)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIV T
OSUUJYAv
tv mtm * ,
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
bead office and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
lithographic printers
typographers
Monotype and linotype
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ; ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MEN OF ANZAC
By M.H.ELLIS
I r is 35 years since the landing
* at Anzac Cove, and to men
and women over 50 years of age
it is still subject-matter for
exciting memories. To the
younger generation, however, the
wall of World War II stands
across the vision. It is almost as
far away in years today as was
the Franco-Prussian war from
the beginning of the Gallipoli
campaign.
There is a general impression
among youth that Gallipoli was
a sort of sideshow in outmoded
war, lacking the terror of the
modern battlefield with its 88s,
its Stukas, its rocket-firing Zeros
and Mustangs, its tanks and
Flammenwerfer, its Twentyfives
and Brens.
Actually the reverse is the
truth. The most terrible battles
of the nineteenth century were
fought with weapons primitive
beside those today, lacking as
a main essential the capacity for
rapid and heavy fire at long
ranges. But since projectiles and
intensive attack could not be
carried over long distances to
the enemy, the enemy in the
older battles obligingly came
within reach. If he did not, he
was unable to reach his
opponents with his own pro-
jectiles,
Anzac belonged to the twilight
of the old age and to the dawn-
ing of the new. It had the
salient features of both periods—
newly-developed rapid-fire long-
range weapons and the old con-
ception of close combat to go
with it. On Gallipoli there was
no such thing as “mobile war,”
conducted according to the fight-
and-run-like-blazes school. The
same factors ruled as cost Wel-
lington 3990 British troops out
of 8200 at Albuera and 7000 out
of 24,000 at Waterloo.
The “Six-bob Tourists”
Probably no force has ever
gone into such an adventure in
so adverse an atmosphere as did
the Australians and Maori-
landers of Anzac. They had
come from a country so remote
from Europe that the wars of
that continent seemed to many
of them unreal. The bulk
of the Australian-born had never
before been out of their own
country. The great - majority of
all of them had handled a
service rifle for the first time only
a few months before. Australia
itself regarded their exodus in
uniform with a kind of good-
natured tolerance.
The ill-disposed described
them as “six-bob-a.-day tourists,”
and opined that the trip abroad
would do them good and enable
them to see the world in luxury.
Those with more respect for
them believed that they would
repeat the experience of the
Sudan campaign. Originally
twice the strength of Xenophon’s
Ten Thousand, they represented
a “gesture of loyalty,” but true
Britons in Australia, their con-
fidence sharper on a distant
view, were convinced that once
the British really tackled him
there was little hope for Kaiser
Bill. Kitchener would do him
down as he had with the other
fuzzy-wuzzies, *
The British Government be-
haved toward the Anzac
Division in the beginning much
“H’m, as I thought— a seizure."
like a householder who has been
presented with a baby hippo-
potamus and does not know
what to do With it.
News from Turkey
The first idea was to bring the
Australians in the convoy which
left Albany on November 1,
1914, to England and to camp
them down on Salisbury Plain.
But George Reid, then High
Commissioner, who doubtless
had enough Australian history
to his name to remember that
the last and the only previous
Australian force sent to England
in the winter —it was the old
Rum Corps (102nd Regiment)
brought to the United Kingdom
after the Bligh Rebellion—lost
every woman and child and
native-born soldier in the winter
of 1810-11.
Just as Egypt had been chosen
as their habitat, the Anzacs
were ordered to steer a course
for Durban to suppress the Boer
rebellion. But Botha having
done their work for them, within
a week they were once more on
the way to Egypt and —four
months later —to Gallipoli,
where one morning in pitch
darkness they found themselves,
silent and loaded down like
camels, sitting in skittering
whaleboats towed by racing R.N.
lavfhches and headed for an in-
hospitable beach beyond which,
over suddenly-revealed masses
of stunted valonia-oak and
arbutus clinging to apparently
unscaleable cliffs, odd Turkish
searchlights played.
Perhaps the most significant
moment in Australian history
was not when some Australians
died in the boats, on the beach,
curling close to the cliffs or
floundering bravely on the
slopes among the prickly valonia-
oaks, but that when the news of
their sacrifices reached this
country. Even cities were com-
paratively small in those days.
In Brisbane, for instance, every-
one knew everybody. One can
remember the stunned sense of
tragedy which struck that little
city when the news began to
come through: “Turkey invaded
—six Queenslanders in casualty-
list.” The population which was
not moved a year later to vote
for conscription by the news
from Pozieres stood staggered
and a little frightened at what
was happening.
It was easy enough to believe
in Napoleon or Kitchener charg-
ing up a slope under Turkish
fire, and getting killed in the
heroic manner. But it did not
seem real that the boy with
whom you shared a room only
two or three years ago, red-
headed, so shortsighted that he
was never without pince-nez, who
had gone because he was that
rare bird in those days who
knew which end of a machine-
gun was which, should have died
beside his Lewis on a scrubby
hillside after having pushed
fearlessly on beyond all his
fellows in a bullet-swept landing
on a foreign strand.
Who could believe that the
bank-manager’s son, still an
undergraduate in engineering,
lay cold in a Turkish grave? It
seemed like murder. If the
Turks and the Germans could
get away with this sort of thing,
nobody was safe.
There was a rush for the
recruiting offices to avenge these
outrages, and it took some time
before it sank into the minds of
Australians that their -fellow-
countrymen, trained only a few
months, led by youngsters from
Bobby Gross’s smart Cadet
Corps at Brisbane Grammar
School and other schools, had
proved themselves on test to be
superlative soldiers, the equal of
the best, superior in dash and
the ability to hang on in the face
of casualties, and full of initia-
tive and enterprise in the most
discouraging and disorganised
situations.
If the new A.I.F. had not had
the qualities of first-class soldiers
and an instinct for battle, April
25, 1915, would be celebrated
not as a day of pride, but as a
day of massacre. Never was an
invading force less organised as
a whole, or its units and per-
sonnel more individually inde-
pendent than the Anzacs on Gal-
lipoli. Never was there a greater
call for. endurance or a greater
determination among individual
soldiers to succeed in the face
of discouragement and hardship.
It has been said that the only
strategic success in the Gallipoli
campaign was the skilful and
Woodless withdrawal —an opera-
tion without parallel in history,
seeing that 80,000 troops and 200
guns were involved, that they
were dug-in right under the
noses of their enemies, who could
smell what they were having for
breakfast, and that they had to
leave across an open sea. But if
the rest was failure in a tactical
and strategic sense, it was also a
glorious success in that it forged
and hardened a nucleus for the
Australian fighting army in
France, seasoning their officers,
teaching all Tanks discipline and
co-operation and producing a
tradition and a military confi-
dence which can never be lost
to the Commonwealth.
The Surprise that Failed
It is astonishing how good
were the first flight of men who
went ashore, and how many of
the handful who clung close to
the scrub-edges in the dawn
twilight of the first Anzac Day
have survived to rise to
high places and whose names did
not die with the general forget-
fulness of the details of the
operation known to posterity as
“The Landing.”
Rarely were circumstances
better calculated to break the
hearts of new troops. In an
operation which needed absolute
surprise for success, apart from
superior reserves, there was no
surprise, since the Royal Navy
had been poking at the enemy
along the Narrows and stirring
him up since February 19. In a
landing which called for exact pin-
pointing of objectives, there was
no previous briefing of officers
who were to do the job with
scale-models or by reconnais-
sance. There was no air-cover
or air-recce. There was no pre-
liminary barrage in the fashion
of I wo, Jirna, no protected
landing-ships.
It was intended that the
Anzacs 'should go ashore just
to the north of Gaba Tepe,
while the British 29th Division
further south made its landing in
the Helles region, aiming to cap-
ture Achi Baba and the Killid
Bair Plateau, which the Anzac
attack was to isolate. At the
neck of the Peninsula, shielding
the left of the Anzacs, the Royal
Naval Division was to feint at
the lines of Bulair; at* the right
of the British Division. Some of
General D’Amade’s French were
to feint at the Asiatic shore.
In fact, because of the offshore
current and the lack of know-
ledge of the shore-line, the
Anzacs landed a mile further
north than they intended, with
McCay’s Second Brigade, which
was to be their left flank guard,
on top of them, just at the time
when it was needed as reserves.
Far from its real objectives,
the gallant remains of the Aus-
tralian brigades pushed on, driv-
ing the Turks before them, fac-
ing incessant counter-attacks.
Though there were few in the
ranks who had seen a dead body
or heard a wounded man scream,
they pushed on doggedly inland,
taking their casualties as they
came. At the end of the first
afternoon there were 13,00*0
Anzacs safely ashore. Some
penetrated that day to points
2000 yards from the beach.
McLaurin’s First Brigade sup-
ported the Second Brigade. The
Anzacs stormed Plugge’s Plateau
and Walkers’ Ridge. The Second
and Third Brigades—the latter
the covering party which made
the first landing—were as
far as Battleship Hill and
almost as far as Gun Ridge,
which was astonishing progress
considering the precipitous
nature of the country and the
utter absence of effective maps,
guidance or experience of war
among all but a small section of
officers and other ranks.
Five-days Price
By the end of five days these
three pioneer brigades, in battle
casualties SUstain ed
those of the W -' th
assaults of the NanoW- BnUsh
The Third BriSe ol CM : ars-
11th and 12thBaSoufth%’
being the old Moreto ns 2 h
first ashore, lost 62 officers kilS
and wounded togSg*
1803 other ranks between a WI S
25 and April 30. n
The battalions had smn o •
the landing averaging fo n/* 0
■and 940 men. ThVsfh
m its first five days l„ s f
than half its strength-w ‘ « ore
““ men. k£,
and missing. I n the 12th ft?
tahon all 30 officers except nit
were casualties, beside 484 other
ranks. The respective losses of
the First and Second Brigade?
were 60 officers and 132? m en
i 57 officers and 1624 ors
killed, wounded and missing
t The sreatest loss suffered was
that of the 7th Battalion, which
came out short by 17 officers and
5-4 men. The three brigades
were short by 179 officers and
thefS ’ ° f whom 457 were
The Gallant Parade
Yet the Official War History
could thus describe their de-
meanor at the end of the first
five-day phase:
The packs they had piled were in
many cases long since rifled or scat-
tered, for the sentries guarding them
had been rounded up on the first
night and sent to the firing line. But
men met friends and mates whom
they had little thought to see again.
Often each group imagined itself to
comprise all the survivors of the
battalion. The concentration area
was under intermittent shrapnel and
sprayed with a desultory fire from
unaimed or distant rifles. But they
heeded all this less than the drops of
a summer shower. All day'the men
swam, washed, mended their clothes
and gave one another the benefit of
their experiences.
Even the roll-call did not daunt
them with its reminders of terri-
fying gaps. They plugged on
fighting to the welcome end in
December, 1915, of an operation
which stood out as one of the
greatest successes in gallantry of
the whole war, and the greatest
failure in a strategic sense. The
adventure had cost the British
Empire and France 33,532 killed
and 78,518 wounded, of whom
the killed included 8587 Aus-
tralians and the wounded 19,367
Australians,
The loss in first-class officers
had been dire. Some, like Major
Hawley, 2 i/c of the 12th Bat-
talion, had been so badly
wounded in the boats that they
were out of the war for good
before they touched the beaches.
Major Hawley himself was
struck in the spine by a bullet
while still in the boat. He still
lives —for 35 years an invalid
and an inspiration in fortitude
and cheerfulness to his old
comrades. Others survived, and
their continued exposure through
four years of subsequent inten-
sive fighting, under heavy
artillery fire, is a queer com-
mentary on how fate preserves
its own. A little after he received
his issue, the 12th’s gal
Colonel Clarke, 53 years old,,
died on the slopes.
Pioneer Deeds
A few pioneer deeds of t a
first day of battle are worth re
calling.
The first battalion ashore wa
the Ninth. Lieutenant Chapma ,
a native of Maryborough (W,
afterwards killed by shellfi e
Pozieres, August 6, 1916, was
the first man ashore The
officer killed was Captain
Annear, a master pnn 4 q
area-officer of Perth ( • j^ rat
years old a native o jf th a nd
His battalion was the Im h
he died in the assault on
Plateau. Nobody knows
was first killed in the ’ was
But the astonishing thingw^
how so many survive on
since made history, on num bered
which the casualtie n bat .
about the strength ot deS>
talions among three brg
Those Who Lived were
Of those who lived, ® of
so wounded as to be f ,
war for the duration but
theless later were fit to
valuable service in


Missing Friends.
RR d A Er) WARD TE BRAMBLE
bramble in ri ohard Joseph
®ext-of-kin gj?2 rn England ’ or *eir
It', J - PUrcet t communicate with
Strefi t. Sydney L ’ Sollcit °r. 66 King
Lvi its pruw it off f/oiii* farm...
NO JOB TOO TOUCH
FOR THE
mo
I
K
CRAWLER
25/33 H.P. 32/40 H.P.
TRACTOR
Before making any decisions about a new fract or... see your nearest
Loyd distributor,,.ask him to arrange a Loyd demonstration under
your own conditions ...on your own farm. Let us say right here , such
a demonstration places you under no obligation whatsoever.
The Loyd is an all-weather, all-the-year-
round tractor. Mud, sand, clay, under-
growth, roots or saplings make no differ-
ence to its broad tracks. Maximum speed
of 7 m.p.h. . . . ample power to do every
job under the worst conditions... economy
of fuel as low as three quarters of a gallon
of Diesel fuel per hour . . • the Loyd
Crawler is the ideal tractor for the
Australian farmer.
Every class of broadacre farming,
orchard work, breaking new country, cane
farming, logging, dozing, grading, scrap-
ing, loading, back-filling, excavating,
winching or road building, the Loyd
Crawler will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
The Loyd will outpull any other tractor of
equivalent horsepower!
See or write to your nearest Loyd Distributor.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 82a Parramatta Rd., Camperdown.
QUEENSLAND: Norton Toothill Pty. Ltd., 12 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Power Handling (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 61 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: John Chambers & Son Ltd., Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service available throughout Australasia.
COMMONWEALTH FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
•_ world War 11. One of
these wounded became C.G.S.
nf the Allied Land Forces in the
South-West Pacific, Lieutenant-
fieneral NorthcotV now Gov-
ernor of New South Wales
fnd adjutant of the 12th Bat-
talion from its formation in
August, 1914.
Talbot Smith, who brought the
10th Battalion scouts out of the
boats with a quiet: “Come on,
boys, they can’t hit you,” and
helped assail the precipitous side
of Plugge’s Plateau, died on
April 30, as gallant an officer as
ever led a charge ; but fate pre-
served many others during that
first fateful day. These in-
cluded a certain Lieutenant
Morshead, schoolmaster from
Armidale, who saw poor Lalor
killed on the spur beyond
Malone’s Gully as he rose to
call the men of the 12th
Battalion to the charge.
Morshead lived through that
first day and many more to
command the Ninth Division at
El Alamein and an Army in the
Pacific. There were saved, too,
among the first flights of landing-
parties that day, Lieutenant-
General John Withara, whose
service stretched from the S.
African to World War 11, in the
early years of which he held the
Southern Command in the Com-
monwealth.
Saved also was Gordon
Bennett, whose demeanor his
men ever afterwards remem-
bered, who became commander
of the Eighth Division in Malaya
in the retreat to Singapore, and
who afterwards had command
of the crucial Westralian de-
fence network when the Com-
hionwealth stood threatened with
Japanese invasion in 1942.
Lieutenant George Wootten was
spared to do almost more in
front-line action than any other
general in driving the Japanese
from New Guinea. There
were also Major-General
Drake-Brockman, who died
as president of the Federal
Arbitration Court, and A. S.
Blackburn (10th), who penetrated
further than any other with a
companion on scout on the first
day, won a V.C. at Pozieres,
spent most of World War II a
prisoner of the Japanese, after
having taken part in the capture
of Damascus, and is now a Com-
monwealth Conciliation Com-
missioner.
A. J. Boase, a 9th Bat-
talion Duntrooner and Bris-
bane Grammar School boy, sur-
vived 400 Plateau to command
a Militia division in New
Guinea, and to be G.O.C.
Western Command after the war
and Australian Army represen-
tative in London. There was
bir Raymond Leane, who com-
manded the 11th Battalion, and
who became Commissioner of
rohce and first president of
Legacy in Adelaide. R. G.
Casey, who was with Major-
Ceneral Bridges when he made
ms perfious survey of the Baby
w operation on landing-day,
, vnth him when stragglers
ei ? t down like ninepins as he
gathered them between M’Cay’s
f Dd l he Dip next day, is
oni? 1S i er for Deve lopment, the
omy Australian to hold office as
inff n ufd Kingdom Minister dur-
“» Worid War 11, and later
Governor of Bengal.
CW® , Indefatigable Brand, a
Queenslander from Bundaberg,
L of the fine train-
and 3rd Bri e a de was due,
Mena h t° J? as rem embered at
donkL about on his
instruct d ° mg the work of an
a staff s fS ea nt-major and
fame 5 , rose fi uick] y to
Africa i? sad5 ad been through S.
mancnV S. ad ,oined the Per-
from the ° rC€a • and bad gone
Command P ° sltlOD of Acting-
become 10 S ' Austra, ia to
bngade m^ he 3rd Brigade’s
gade-major. He afterwards
commanded the 4th Brigade,
won a C.B. and C.M.G., was
wounded twice and mentioned in
dispatches eight times, and ended
his active life a major-general.
second Chief of the General
Staff and a Senator.
Price Weir, who commanded
the 10th Battalion, was retired to
his native Adelaide in 1917,
bem § then 50 years old, and next
year became a S. Australian
Pubhc Service Commissioner,
T , n . , D . ,
The Th,rd Br, S ade
This partial list takes no
account of the multitude of men
among non-coms and in the
ranks who rose later to eminence
and comma nd or to glory on
French battlefields. Sinclair-
McL agan’s Third Brigade in par-
ticular > whose men went first
asbore > had a technique and
a morale of their own,
P art ty due to the fact that
a large proportion of them
were husky miners from the
fields of Queensland, Tasmania
and Westralia—Mt. Morgan,
Broken Hill, Moonta, Kalgoorlie
—and partly because they were
dowered in the beginning with
officers who, while a little old
for battle, gained in understand-
ing and experience in the art of
handling men what they lost in
physical aptitude for fights,
There was an individual tradi-
hon of initiative in the brigade
which made it a thing apart:
When it was necessary to de-
cide which brigade should first
if,*'?,! General
Bnd B® s chose the 3rd.
And > lt had had its choice
on any occasion, the 3rd would
probably have chosen Bridges
himself to be with it. That
harsh, humorless Scot, who lies
upon the hill at Duntroon, which
his maternal ancestor Charles
Throsby was perhaps the first
white man to see, still casting
the shadow of his grimness and
discipline upon the college tradi-
tion, was the very Spirit of
Anzac.
He it was who fashioned the
A.1.F., and insisted that it should
national in character and
under Australian control. He
commanded the Ist Division for
nine months. He dominated the
field wherever he appeared,
literally dragging tired men into
the fight when a n else failed to
make them lift their feet. He
inf use d a grimness into the Aus-
tralhm conception of soldiering
which the Diggers have never
quite lost. He was the driving
force of Anzac all through the
first perilous 10 days on the
Peninsula, rarely out of the most
imminent danger, for which he
had not the slightest regard.
Early on May 15, as he went
with R. G. Casey and Brudenell
White to visit Chauvel’s H.Q. in
the much-sniped Monash Valley,
he met Sir William Glasgow,
then still a major, but later in
command of the First Division,
“Be careful at the next
corner,” said Glasgow. “I lost
five men there today.”
A few minutes afterwards
Bridges was mortally hit as he
disappeared round a traverse out
of sight of his staff,
“Don’t carry me down ” he
said. “I don’t want the stretcher-
bearers hit.” They took him to
a hospital-ship and he died be-
fore reaching port He was one
c f those destined from the be-
ginning to make the greatest
sacrifice, for he was utterly
without fear and treated cover
with contempt. He was 54 years
old, but had he lived he would
still have had time to do great
things.


4m
Trusade
K
m
■3
■
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
m
m
5g
m
m
; - :vjA
f
*?■-jtt
MBS
n
■v«
% 1
kk
special
3
with
TOILETS in the cupboard
you’ve a doctor in the house
A bottle of Tolley’s'in the house is an invaluable
aid in an emergency. Since 1858, Tolley s has
been famous as a fine brandy and a P ur _ e ’
reliable stimulant. No home should be without it.
TOLLEY'S
SPECIAL
B 9
BRANDY
HOSP • T A t
Famous for 90 years.
~TU a CO. LIMITED
MEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH t ct.B.<L.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
“PEACE OFFENSIVE.”
There could hardly be a more
accurately descriptive com-
mentary on the present state of
things than the way in which
ostensible moves towards peace
are promptly classified as “peace
offensives” and viewed with the
greatest suspicion by both sides,
Over the last month or two
there have been various signs
of such moves. On the Soviet
side, the “Scotsman” (Edinburgh)
reports, “Russia is ready to
begin talking with the West
again, or else the Soviet Govern-
me (ff tf l ® West to think
so.” pie ‘or else is typical of
how the ostensible Soviet moves
are taken; with good enough
reason.
Of the Western side, the same
report states that “both the U.S.
State Department and Whitehall
admit that the pressure of public
opinion for a new peace effort
cannot be ignored. But:
“Though the United States as
well as the British Government
are together seeking ways of
slackening the tension both on
principle and to ease public
pressure for appeasement,
nobody is misled about the
general tenor of the Soviet feelers
and propositions. It could be
read to mean sincerity, or the
biggest smokescreen of all, like
that of the Japanese before the
attack on Pearl Harbor.”
Moscow has similarly treated
Mr. Churchill’s persistently re-
peated suggestion for one more
meeting of the countries’ leaders
on the lines of the big war-
time conferences. It is no
anomaly, but merely in the
nature of the whole “peace-
offensive” business that Soviet
disciples have at the same time
been holding “peace congresses”
at various chosen points. Last
month there was a particularly
demonstrative one at Stockholm,
with leading Russian figures
giving out what amount to
orders on strategy and tactics,
Australia, of course, has had its
own specimen.
On the feelers, or what seem
like feelers, emanating from the
Kremlin a variety of views, none
of them very complimentary,
have been expressed in America.
The main ones (as summarised
from the “New York Times”):
(1) Increasing war talk has
caused jitters inside Russia and
her satellites. The Russian
leaders are trying to calm the
jitters of their own people.
(2) The Russians are attempt-
ing a propaganda coup—by put-
ting the U.S. on the spot as being
opposed to peace.
(3) The Politburo may have
learned that the real “father” of
the Marshall Plan is Joseph
Stalin —because E.R.P. was a
reaction to tough Kremlin
tactics. Now the Soviet hopes
that if it talks peace, the U.S.
Congress may cut into aid for
Western Europe.
(4) Moscow wants to make a
“spheres of influence” deal with
the U.S., under which Washing-
ton would promise to keep a
hands-off policy toward Com-
munist countries. That would
leave the U.S.S.R. free to
eliminate Tito —to whom the
U.S, is now giving economic
help—and generally to prepare
for the next phase of the struggle
with the West.
The most significant U.S. re-
action to this latest Moscow
peace “offensive,” however, has
been that Secretary of State
Acheson was impelled thereby to
make his most important foreign-
policy speech since taking over
from General Marshall. Under
its diplomatic veneer the speech
amounted to a statement that the
U.S., at least, has had more than
a fill of Kremlin deceit and
obstruction, but that Russia has
only to give convincing evidence
of a change of heart in that
respect and America will be
found willing enough. That is to
say, the door is still open for
negotiations, the condition being
proof by the Russians that they
mean business.
Giving as his theme the ques-
tion “If the two systems are to
live together what is it which
the leaders of international Com-
munism could do to make such
co-existence more tolerable to
everyone?” Acheson dealt first
with the already belated peace
treaties. He recalled that the last
meeting of the Big Four Foreign
Ministers (May 21-June 20, 1949)
to write a German peace treaty
failed. Now two rival German
States exist. One, the Federal
Republic of Germany, sponsored
by the Western Powers, came
into being last September 7. The
other, the German Democratic
Republic, sponsored by Russia,
was set up a month later. On
an Austrian treaty, the Foreign
Ministers’ deputies held their
251st meeting on March 1 ; they
are conferring again this month,
On Japan, there has been dis-
agreement between Russia and
the U.S. about what countries
should take part in the treaty-
writing.
“With regard to Germany,”
said Acheson, “unification under
a Government chosen in free
elections under international
Partisans)
I f
\_WEACrJ
— "Candido,” Milan.
THE TROJAN DOVE.
observation is a basic element in
an acceptable settlement. With
regard to Austria, the Soviet
leaders are determined to main-
tain their forces and special in-
terests in Eastern Austria. With
regard to Japan,, we feel that the
Soviet leaders could refrain from
insisting on procedures which
block progress toward a treaty,”
Concerning Eastern Europe he
pointed out that most of the
Communist Governments there
had been set up during occupa-
tion of the countries by the
Soviet Army. “The Soviet
leaders,” he said, “could with-
draw their military and police
force, and refrain from using the
shadow of that force to keep in
power persons or regimes which
do not command the confidence
of the respective peoples.” He,
however, added: “We do not
insist that these Governments
have any particular political or
social complexion.” \
On U.N.0., he said that since
that world body had been set up
the Soviet Union had been con-
sistently in the minority on
almost every issue. Russia has
been boycotting U.N.O. organs
in which representatives of
Nationalist China sit. “The
Soviet leaders could drop their
policy of obstruction. Their
policy of walk-out and boycott
is a policy that undermines the
concept of majority decision.”
Regarding the important issue
of control of atomic energy, he
stated that there had been no
progress since the American and
Russian plans were first put out
more than three years ago. He
contrasted those plans in two
revealing sentences: (1) The U.S.
plan calls for an international
vetoless body to operate all
atomic-energy facilities, with full
power of inspection. (2) Under
Russia’s plan the agency would
have no authority over peaceful
uses of atomic energy, the veto
would apply, and inspections
would be only periodic. “The
Soviet leaders,” he said, “could
join us in seeking realistic and
effective arrangements. We
know that it is not easy for them
to contemplate the functioning
on their territory of an authority
in which people would partici-
pate who are not of their poli-
tical persuasion.”
In this connection it is worth
noting that prior to Acheson’s
speech a U.S. Senator suggested
a new U.S. approach offering
general economic aid and help
to all countries, including Russia,
and asking in exchange general
acceptance of an effective pro-
gramme for international control
of atomic energy. To that
Acheson said: “If we could
reach our goal by agreement
[with Russia] that would be
highly desirable, and the simplest
and easiest way to do it. But
I think four years of experience
have brought us the realisation
that that is not possible.”
On Russian aggressions at
large, Acheson insisted that the
actions of Communist parties
outside Russia have been in
accordance with the aims of
Soviet foreign policy. Notable
examples were Communist-led
strikes in France and Italy
directed against the Marshall
Plan. “The Kremlin,” he sug-
gested, “could refrain from using
the Communist apparatus con-
trolled by it throughout the
world to attempt to overthrow,
by subversive means, established
Governments with which the
Soviet Government stands in an
outward state of friendship and
respect.”
On one other important issue
—the drive to eliminate Western
influence from the Soviet sphere
G f Eastern Europe by the haras-
sing and persecuting of Western
diplomats, which some interpret
a s actual preparation for launch-
ffig war—Acheson said: “The
Soviet leaders could
with us to the end operate
official representatives t the
countries are treated ever? 1 l a 1
with decericy and resnert“S®
now find our represent r
treated as criminals.” atlves
On the whole Soviet “
offensive,” he stated- “W? ° e
peace, but not at any mice w*
are ready to negotiate but We
at the expence of arousing fai
hopes which would be dashed?
new failures. We are equally h
termined to support all
efforts for peaceful settlement
and to resist aggression.” lS
The Acheson proposals—sn
apparently vague, yet s °
pointedly significant when care°
fully analysed—received just a
heated a reception in Moscow as
the Churchill suggestion I
London “Spectator,” Harold
Nicolson described the Kremlin
reaction as “discouraging in the
extreme”:
“The full blare of Soviet
propaganda was turned on to
denounce these temperate sug-
gestions as flagrant instances of
capitalist warmongering; no
correct Communist could hesi-
tate for one moment to reject
them as typical of the cunning
hypocrisy of the bourgeois mind.
“It cannot be denied that the
American Secretary of State
made a carefully considered and
temperate offer, and that it was
publicly rejected in the most
abusive terms. Those thought-
less people whose minds are
affected by proverbs may repeat
the adage, ‘lt takes two to ma e


<2,
I
NOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against HEAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for ail
time against extremes of weather. No home is
truly modern which is stifling in summer and
unpleasantly cold In winter. You save on
heating costs too! Even if your home is com-
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULATE.
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modern
insulator— B. I. SLAGWOOL
M 81G.20
)SMD /
tnsuumon
PTY.
LTD.
Phones: SYDNEY, 8X5584: MELBOURNE. HU 3506
BRISBANE 83604: 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257: BA. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
New Methods
moke
ELASTRATOR
FASTEST
LAMB-MARKER
Simpler and more effective methods of
using ELASTRATOR have been devised by
the experience of over 20,000 users through-
out Australia. For the practised operator,
there is now no faster method of marking
lambs or calves than ELASTRATOR. And
NO other method offering the advantages
of speed, safety, humaneness and avoidance
of ill-effects. For better lambing percen-
tages, for greater marking ease, cleanliness
and speed, use ELASTRATOR this year.
ELASTRATOR
‘ ;REGD. TRADE MARK)
for Bloodless, Safe, Humane
CASTRATION & TAILING
OF
LAMBS & CALVES
From station suppliers, woolbrokers, chemists
and stores. Instrument , £5/5/-; Anteefrt'C
Latex Rings , 25/- per box of 500 (Capital
City Prices.)
Distributed in N.S.W. by
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORA-
TORIES, ELLIOTTS & AUST.
DRUG PTY. LTD.,
35 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Distributed in Victoria, Southern
Eiverina and Tasmania by
D. G. OFFICER PTY., LTD..
90 William Street, Melbourne, and
123 a Charles Street, Launceston.
Distributed in South Australia by
BENNETT & FISHER, LTD.,
4 Currie St., Adelaide, and Branches.
Distributed in Queensland by
TAYLORS ELLIOTTS PTY.,
LTD.,
Brisbane —Rockhampton—Townsville.
Distributed in West Australia by
DAVID GRAY & CO.. LTD.,
2-10 Railway Parade, West Perth.
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY., LTD.
EL2
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a
cold water and telephone in all rooms.
ftfiS
mil
a
moderate tariff. Hot and
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
boom-onxy bates
Single Rooms —
From 8/- per night
Double Booms —
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless :
" METROPOLE /’
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
orrel ’ We all know very
3 That in fact, it only takes
' But ft does take two to
make friends. And it is clear
"fL y further evidence were
Lired) from this crude rejec-
; eq „ ‘ f the Acheson olive-branch
hat the Russians, so far from
Sing to make friends, desire
to prolong and envenom am-
LsUy. Stalin m the past has
Sd that there is no reason
Sy the two systems should ncff
coexist. The reply returned to
Sr Acheson does not suggest to
u that this statement has bitten
very deep into the consciousness
of the Politburo. The vim ence
of their rejoinder can only leave
us in a mood of anxious despair.”
Making what can be taken as
a most widely typical American
comment, N. Y. Hera d
Tribune” has asked whether any-
one could argue that the United
States could accept any peace
settlement which did not provide
at least these [Acheson s]
minimum conditions of assuage-
ment and stability”:
“They are, as the Secretary
himself warns, conditions which
the Kremlin has shown no
desire of meeting. But can the
West offer, within the limits im-
posed by the necessity of main-
taining its freedom and its safety,
anything which might change the
Politburo’s mind?
“Those who so argue put
themselves under a grave obliga-
tion to suggest just what such
offers might contain. Unfortun-
ately, it is one of the worst diffi-
culties of the problem that the
Kremlin today is quite satisfied
with things as they are. Its
tactics of infiltration and propa-
ganda are doing well enough ; it
is under no breaking economic
strain; it is not terrorised by
atomic fears ; it is under no par-
ticular pressure to make peace.
It would probably be pleased if
Western rearmament were halted
and could doubtless use Western
capital if it were offered in vast
amounts, but it has given no hint
that it needs these things badly
enough to make any real changes
of policy in return for them.
“The truth is that Cold war is
in large measure a necessary
‘way of life’ for the SoViet dic-
tatorship, and to convince the
Politburo that it had better be
abandoned is not an easy
problem.
“ ‘Our attitude,’ says Mr.
Acheson, ‘is. not inflexible, our
opinions are not frozen, our posi-
tions are not and will not be
obstacles to peace. But it takes
more than one to co-operate.’
And no suggestion for bringing
the Kremlin to believe that co-
operation will serve its own in-
terest has yet been advanced that
gives as much actual promise as
the Secretary’s policy—a policy
of firmness, of strength, of
freedom, of courage to sustain
the cold-war burdens and unity
in holding firm for a real peace.
The only alternative yet to be
advanced is that which the Secre-
tary mentions —‘to allow the free
nations to succumb one by one
to the erosive and encroaching
processes of Soviet expansion.’ ”
So fy from taking the osten-
sible peace moves from the
Kremlin at face value, U.S.
diplomatic missions throughout
Europe (the “Herald Tribune”
reports) “are undertaking a re-
examination of the basic
problems of the ‘cold war’ in an
effort to arrive at plans to meet
what is regarded as a fresh Soviet
offensive in the making.
“Although the present state of
East-West relations is marked
by ‘peace feelers’ from the
Soviet side, these are familiar to
Intelligence and political officers
in West Germany as the propa-
ganda stage setting for subse-
quent assault. The Communist-
sponsored riots in Italy and
strikes in France are con-
sidered to be part of the
‘offensive-in-the-making’ picture.
It is generally agreed among
American diplomats in Europe
and in the State Department,
however, that Berlin is the key
to the situation, and that Berlin
must be held if Western Europe
is to be held.”
Moreover, the “Herald
Tribune” reports that a steady
re-equipping and regrouping of
Soviet troops has been going on
in the East zone, and that the
emergence of a full-fledged
“people’s army” in Eastern
Germany is expected as one of
the moves of the period of the
summer offensive..
A later “Herald Tribune” re-
port, from a staff correspondent
in Berlin, is even more doubtful
of the so-called “peace” moves :
“This sad, beleagured city is
the best place in Europe, at the
moment, to test the sincerity of
the Kremlin’s hints of settlement
of the world conflict, that have
so excited wishful thinkers every-
where. Berlin is the test of the
new peace offensive.
“The test reveals that while
the Kremlin talks of peace, the
Soviet high command in Ger-
many is actually preparing an-
other major cold-war offensive
that will be more dangerous, and
will involve more direct military
provocation, than any in the
past.”
Divided Britain.
London “Economist,” which
has a particularly sharp eye for
the sort of fallacious conclusions
that notoriously can be drawn
from almost any lot of figures,
makes a very interesting point in
commenting on “one potentially
dangerous false conclusion”
widely adopted in post-mortems
on the British elections —“the
belief that the country is not
only sharply divided into two
almost equal halves, which is
true enough, but that each of
these halves is geographically
compact and socially homogene-
ous” :
“On the one side, it is being
said, are the large cities and the
industrial areas, which are solidly
Labor. On the other side are
the middle-class residential dis-
tricts and the agricultural areas,
which are no less solidly Conser-
vative.
“If this were true, it would
be very alarming,, as it would
portend the sort of sharp fissure
that leads eventually to civil
strife. But it is not true. The
M.Ps. elected fall clearly enough
into these two groups: such
areas as South Wales and Dur-
ham are solidly Labor in their
representation; Southern Eng-
land, outside London and a few
other towns, returns nothing but
Conservatives. But the popular
vote, even in these party strong-
holds, is much more evenly
divided. In Durham and Tees-
side, which sent back a solid
block of Labor members, the
Labor poll was only 60 per cent,
of the total; in the Yorkshire
woollen district it was only the
merest fraction over half; in
the Black Country it was less
than 54 per cent.; even in the
industrial area of South Wales
it was less than two-thirds of the
whole.
“It is simply not true that the
industrial working-class voted
solidly for Labor ; it did so by
a narrow majority only. Simi-
larly, on the other side, in none
of 25 regions did the Conserva-
tives poll more than 55.1 per
cent, (except for the special case
of Northern Ireland, and even
there the figure was no more
than 62.7 per cent.). Apart from
the other special case of
non-industrial Wales (where
there is a large Liberal vote) the
only areas where they fell just
below one-third were the York-
shire coal and steel district,
Durham and South Wales.
“It is a remarkable thing that
very nearly one voter in three
in South Wales is a Tory and on
the south coast is a Socialist.
The country is sharply divided,
but neither by classes nor by
areas.” ___
Dragnet Digest.
The Word “ Commonwealth —
British Overseas Airways chairman
Sir Miles Thomas wrote in London
“Sunday Times” after his recent visit
to these parts: “Businessmen realise
that Sydney, that virile centre ot
Empire development (the word Com-
monwealth is not popular with Aus-
tralians), is only as far in terms of
time from London by air as is New
York from London by sea. He
could more accurately have said that
the word Commonwealth is very popu-
lar with Australians —for their own
country. In fact, until it was pinched
for the wider use it was invariably
the first synonym for Australia, and
in all but exact geographical usage
the best term, since it embraced Tas-
mania, which the word Australia
doesn’t seem to do. Actually, Aus-
tralians would seem to like the term
British Commonwealth; no doubt
some of the less firmly attached
members don’t.
* * * *
Factor Joe Forgot. —Noting that
“What Tito is doing is flaunting the
strength of successful nationalism: he
is flourishing it in the face of Mos-
cow and the satellites,” a London
“News Chronicle” writer holds this
to be the one factor the Kremlin
overlooked: “Titos may arise in other
countries to exploit the natural and
patriotic feelings of the people, and
the flame, once lighted, is hard to
extinguish. Empires have fallen trying
to do it. Napoleon’s power began to
crumble before the rise of Spanish
patriotism. The Habsb’urg empire
dwindled and the Turkish empire died
with the realisation of nationalism by
their subject peoples. Is Russia sure
that history has a different fate m
store for her?.”-
£ ' F ™' ou ß k ri '“
general g in t he British Army
is interpreted by a London “Daily
Telegraph” writer as pointing to “a
new approach to Anglo-Egyptian rela-
tions shortly to be taken in hand.”
J n J94 6> t h e writer states, Mr. Bevin
was prepared to contemplate evacua-
tion * f P British forces from Egypt as
a cardinal feature of a revised Anglo-
Egyptian treaty; now he regards their,
continued presence as vital to the
maintenance of security in the Middle
East. What is now being sought is
“ along the lines of integrated Anglo-
Egyptian armed forces.”
* * * *
Shaky Poles. —For all the bluster
from Warsaw to the "contrary, various
reports indicate that Poles are already
fearing Nemesis in the shape of a
revived Germany wanriag back old
aSa‘fel P °ny
thing but secure, and (notes London
“Economist”) that feeling is not
lessened by the frequent and flattering
protestations of friendship that pas v
between the Soviet Union and Eastern
Germany: “Stalin’s message to Presi
dent Pieck last October suggesting
that the Russians and the Germans
were destined to share enterprises ot
world importance caused much con-
sternation in Poland, even in the
Communist party It was a matter
of common knowledge that the whole
flirtation has caused near-pame
among the new Polish settlers m
Silesia and Pomerapia. Many
peasants slackened off in their farm-
mg effort, and the Government was
forced to send down special propa-
ganda agents to counteract disillusion
and fear.”


/'Nbr-n
IV
(iJh
''QS^
C 3
C?=fe
r M
*
Sj
\jJ^
ft
V
%
L
a?
£
??i
ft
=S^
&
more and more motorists
are buying
ramt
TYRES
Jus/raAcw ... CAamjo/b/fs of Me ffoac/
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & ROBBER CO. LTD.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH DAVID JONES late of
Amcliffe.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
JORIE ELIZABETH JONES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4466 of 1949 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
30th June 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from GEOFFREY
SEE & CO., Solicitors, of 18 Martin
Place, Sydney.—(p.s.) J. DOUGH AN,
Registrar in Divorce.
«, Mewy#/
:;-'vAv>
'2
aAa/y/sd*
Blue Gillette
Men who matter, men in the public eye, take no
chances with their daily shave. Others too, wit
less conspicuous jobs, know the importance of p e
sonal appearance. A fresh, well-shaven face help
them to look and feel their best through the harde
day. It’s not surprising then, that most of thes
men shave with Blue Gillette Blades f° r
comfortable shaves and longer blade life*
• SO DURABLE —each
blade gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP —they stroke
your beard away,
• SO FAMOUS— they have
made the world clean shaven.
%
5 for 1/8
10 for 3 /f
30 for ®/?
plcstic disposer)
6 Good mornings 9 begin with GiH 4/160
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
Thp No. I Drink
hr wise men
“Henry and Miss Sonia
became separated from the rest of
the party and were lost in the woo
for more than twelve hours.”
—Country paper.
Just courting trouble.
•P 4*
“Lost: Curly-haired puppy, tan
and brown, Sunday with leather
collar.”— Suburban paper.
Sunday was his day off.
4* 4*
“Teams of villagers in the county
of Sussex met to play off the British
marbles championship for the 362nd
consecutive year.”
It’s good to see someone
knuckling down to work.
“A resistance movement against
chopped, cropped and ultra-short
hair-styles, cut to a standard mass
model, is gaining ground overseas.”
— Women’s paper.
It’s sure to make headway
here, too.
Paradox.
“Beer, wine and whisky soon may
officially become ‘food’ in the
United States.”
There was a time I couldn’t
move
A foot without the need to prove
To satisfaction of my spouse
That nowhere near a public-
house
Did I intend to wend my way
When shadows marked the wane
of day,
But now with righteousness im-
bued
I merely claim the right to food.
And so I answer the appeal
Of that which makes a three-
course meal,
Some beer, some whisky and a
port,
Or sherry—as an afterthought.
Ah, happy day ! Ah, lucky fate !
Oh provender of gods I Yet
wait!
With food to burn, I dread to
think
There’s only water left to drink !
BERT.
Flight of Fancy.
“People still practise sorcery—or
pretend to practise it —even in this
Atomic Age.” —Sydney “D.T
The days have gone of witches’
brews
And all the dark and loath-
some lot
Of objects hags were wont to
choose
For boiling in a mystic pot.
And sorcerers no longer mould
Those waxen shapes to pierce
with pins
So dear to heirs in days of old
When murder was the least of
sins.
Such superstition’s out of date,
Yet one strange thing that now
occurs
Must presuppose at any rate
The work of flying-saucerers!
D.H.E.
A Touch of Tergiversation.
“Professor G, Sawyer, Professor of
Law at the Australian National
University, says Australian lawyers
talk too much. As in America, they
should be made to come straight to
the point.”
Before Mr. Justice Hore-Sair
and jury of four.
Counsel for plaintiff co.; Mr.
Yapp, K.C.
Counsel for defendant co,:
Mr. Spinout, K.C.
Argument has already been
proceeding for four days on the
question whether barbers’
clippers fall within the category
of a machine or an implement.
Mr. Yapp: The matter raised
by my learned friend is one
which I am confident in the light
of fresh argument I shall adduce
can be resolved to the complete
satisfaction of the court in a
minimum of the court’s valuable
time. In confirmation of our
claim that barbers’ clippers are
a machine, one need only go to
the lexicographer. If I know
my Webster, a machine is “an
engine; an instrument of
force.” Dryden says: “With
inward arms the dire machine
they load.” A barber operat-
ing his clippers on a cus-
tomer must ipso facto hold
his arms inward when negotiat-
“Well, Mum, I retire from work tomorrow,"
ing the lower portion of the neck
and around the ears.
Mr. Spinout: An engine can
also mean a fire-engine—that
is, an engine of fire. Does my
learned friend suggest that a
barber uses in conjunction with
his clippers, or as a substitute,
or in a supernumerary capacity,
for the purpose of removing or
retarding any hirsute cranial
growths, an engine of fire such
as a blow-lamp?
Mr. Yapp: A blow-lamp can-
not be said strictly to be an
engine of force, except in the
stages of its preparation for the
specific task allotted it —that is,
when it is being pumped up prior
to its being ignited. After that,
and until such time as it needs
the necessary muscular action
by its operator for the purpose of
stimulating the flame to a more
intense thermal capacity, its
action is purely involuntary.
Mr. Justice Hore-Sair
(mildly): There appears to be
enough heated blowing going on
at the bar-table to sear the paint
off the entire court-room.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Spinout: On the other
hand, Webster gives also as a
definition of a machine “an in-
strument or organisation by
which power is applied and made
effective,” Landor says some-
where “The whole machine of
government might tend to bear
upon the people with a weight
too heavy and oppressive.” It is
clear from this, then, that an
organisation can be a machine.
Does my learned friend suggest
that a pair of barbers’ clippers
are capable of passing resolu-
tions and taking minutes?
Mr. Justice Hore-Sair
(mildly): Perhaps counsel might
be prevailed upon, regarding the
penultimate and ultimate words
of the latter submission, to take
an appropriate hint. (Laughter.)
Mr. Yapp: Regarding the
word “implement,” this could
mean simply “to accomplish.”
Sir Walter Scott referred to a
certain thing “executed and im-
plemented by the hand of Van-
beest Brown.” Cannot it be
said, therefore, to mean some-
thing to be carried out?
Mr. Spinout: A boxer is
carried out after he has led with
his chin at his opponent’s strong
uppercut. Does my learned
friend suggest that a prizefighter
and a pair of barbers’ clippers
have the same motivating power,
or that the former is prone to
taking the latter into the ring
with him as an auxiliary imple-
ment?
Mr. Justice Hore-Sair: The
boxer referred to would be
prone, anyway. (Laughter.)
Mr. Spinout: But let us take
up this question of barbers’
clippers being an alleged
machine. It is, my learned friend
will readily admit, a small object.
Ergo, it is by my friend’s own
showing a “trivial machine.” So
far, so good. The dictionary has
an apt word to cover that —
“gimcrack.”
Mr. Yapp; A “gimcrack” can
also be a “toy,” a “pretty thing,”
a “spruce girl.” I submit,
Yerroner, that “spruce” obviously
means to dress in an affected
manner. The connection be-
tween machine and barbers’
clippers is made crystal-clear. A
barber dresses the hair of his
customers. The spruce girl
dresses affectedly!
Mr. Spinout: Spruce is also a
valuable northern p
timber obtained f rom^ opean
green coniferous tree °* eVer '
genus picea. If my 4"" of f . the
suggests that barbe?? ?, fnend
are made of wood l
I have never had the Say
of Being inflicted wflh £? ence
Whde getting a hataft
I aware of any known ■ am
of a barber having 2\r ance
white-ants in &S*SS?
uses in separating his S r he
his customers from the fill!
scalps. Br ° WS front rtleij
Mr. Yapp; My learned fnVna
seems to be very f on d o ]f* nd
ducmg timber as-if I
»-a prop for legal
We also have his submission as
to the word gimcrack.” Has the
court not heard of the
Gimcrack Stakes”? i t ; s ™
valued time by saying that
everyone knows the GiUck
Stakes is a race for two-year-old
fillies run at Randwick. A stake
can also be a pointed piece of
wood such as gardeners use to
tie their dahlias to. I n short
it is timber. My learned friend
is hoist with his own petard!
Mr. Spinout; A petard was an
engine of war in medieval times
made of metal,. So are barbers’’
clippers. Does my learned friend
base his premise on the assump-
tion that a barbers’ clippers
could be an implement of war?
Mr. Yapp: Metal can also be
the substance used by railways
to carry the sleepers and rails
on which our trains run.
Mr. Justice Hore-Sair
(mildly): Does counsel make so
bold as to imply that our trains
have got beyond the crawling
stage? (Laughter.)
Court adjourns for lunch,
during which Mr. Yapp and
Mr. Spinout will, over a friendly
beer, congratulate each other on
their respective efforts to speed
up the process of the Law.
BO.


, Jr***
CARS
• ..
OH-
n
p
\
m
TRADE MARK
woms
FAYmw
FACTORIES; FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, 0.5. A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
e _ New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
latsst Invention by Dr. L. Barrere
new S L^. r^ pture 'mSererg an entirely
40 d of .control, the result of
P ra ctieo and improvements,
? c °wpletely successful by all
Tho 'I?!® trled it-
hand acts like the
oriflrp Wll^ n Placed flat upon the
effort and Y ? n JT 111 at once > without
i n t p + , and i n all movements, hold the
intestine In Its cavity.
nl 1 ® today for FREE LITERATURE,
nt. ® RE Distribution co.
t 6pt 27b >. 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
y
js A
■
a
%
//
<S,
V
v> W
\
groD o'
DODD
DOdp
ODOTl
•ft
/7 _
<5T*
r%
!****!
6T APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE AIN6
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bensonmd Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
A lifetime of study may he
given to the art of
choosing the appropriate
from so much which is
just very good . Yet, where
cigarettes are concerned
the name i( Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99
is an unfailing guide~~
for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
In
tins of 20
3/-
f
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
.. r . h t he big southern autumn
Wlth ‘ nf the way (though maybe
ra -n in hest kept well in mind), the
St ‘ tlieht swings north, to the Strad-
and Brisbane Cup double over
br ° t ke weekend and then, later on,
neXt .npctacular Doomben double.
There Sd be an improvement in
of pnzemoney for
•nr events on the programmes for
r'fh thSse meetings, but even as it
, b s Queensland is fairly established as
|he winter-racing Mecca it should be.
In the Stradbroke, and even more
so in the Cup, the handicapper was
not altogether flattering to Queens-
fnrin the sprint event six
southerners were weighted above the
S good Brisbane performer Lucky
Ring-good enough to win the same
race last year lumping 41b. over-
weight, as well as running second m
the Doomben sprint, after getting
into strife. This year he has 8.7 in
the Stradbroke, at which he s likely
to start topweight, giving southerner
Buzmark 11b., and this pure sprinter,
with High Jip, on Bst., and Dornoch
from Melbourne, may offer most
opposition. High Jip has the form
to win. ....
In the Cup no fewer than 19 were
weighted above the first local horse,
Garriola, who was given 8.2, the same
weight as Hurry Up. On recent
Sydney form Hurry Up or Playboy'
(8 3) should take a lot of beating.
Of the two, Hurry Up had the harder
races at Randwick. However, for the
Cup: Hurry Up, 1; Playboy, 2;
Persist, 3.
* * * *
Though most of the class horses
were gone —some to Brisbane for the
late-autumn and winter meetings
coming up; some put away till their
spring training starts —the City Tatter-
sail’s fixture at Randwick on Satur-
day was just the right sort of finale
to the recent big racing there. The
day as pleasant as anyone could hope
to lose money on; quite a large
crowd; the racing altogether very
good to look at, and one race in
particular an absolute clinker.
The thriller was turned on by the
three-year-olds in'the mile Members’
Handicap. The time was slow, but
that was only the track; the race
was on all the way, and very much
so between Dizzy and Ferocious Lass
throughout the last half-mile. At the
finish there was less than a horse’s
head to cut up between five of them;
the camera sorting it out as Ferocious
Lass, 1; Dizzy, 2; Gayriol, 3; Mur-
rumbidgee, 4; Pyramid, 5: a nose, a
nose, a nose and a nose. They
couldn’t do better in Israel itself.
The honors of war in this battle of
the noses were with Dizzy (appro-
priately enough, historically speaking).
For one thing, this Whirlaway colt
had had pretty solid racing in recent
weeks, and not all his share of the
luck in them, either. He was beaten
in one race only through being
pocketed; then in one he did win
he had to get out of a pocket to
land the money. At his start after
that he took Johnny Longden for a
rare old ride; bolted, in fact; and
even then managed a place. In last
Saturday’s race he was giving every-
thing in the photo a heap of weight
(only 11b. short of 2st. to Ferocious
Lass, who had 71b.-apprentice B.
Killian up). Also, he was passed
near the Leger; looked like dropping
back, but came again; and it takes
a good one to do that at any time,
and especially when giving away so
much poundage.
Dizzy should be beating much
stronger company before he’s through.
Of the other placegetters, Pyramid’s
run looked the most promising for
a mile or a bit further. She came
from last at the turn, and looks a
very nice galloper.
In the first leg of the day’s main
double, the Denham Stakes, the Rim-
veil four-year-old gelding Rim Boy,
who hails from the bush via New-
castle, gave quite a passable field of
Sydney sprinters a galloping lesson.
Well ridden by B. Moon (an out-
standingly capable youngster), he
found an anticipated opening and
won comfortably, though both Frey-
berg and Valiant Lee put in good
finishes. Rim Boy carved out the
six furlongs in 1.12|, not bad in the
heavy grass; Serenity (Cook) occu-
pied 1.14 i in winning the Nursery
for fillies, while French Cavalidr
(Sellwood) took 1.14 in landing the
Juvenile for colts and geldings.
Serenity, a bold finisher, was six
lengths clear of Red Ribbon, giving
this Helios filly plenty of weight, but
Dashing Romeo, also with a big
weight-pull, gave French Cavalier a
close run for it.
At 10 furlongs—short for a main
event —the other leg of the day’s
double, City Tattersall’s Handicap,
gave the New Zealander Great Trek
(Sellwood) a belated but very easy
win; Lordly and Silver Buzz in the
places. Dickens tried to lead all the
way, but tired, and King’s Coin
looked another to have bad enough
and a bit over for the present. The
McCarten stable usually has a useful
winter handicapper, and Great Trek
could be the one this time. The
four-year-old Fairholme (Barratt) kept
up the repute of the grey Nizamis
and brought off a nice betting coup
(backed from twenties down to eights)
in the Novice (Simbex, second, ran a
race worth noting), and favorite Chief
Mohican did the right thing in the
concluding Welter.
* * * *
Successive Saturdays of Melbourne
racing have emphasised the big loss
to Australian breeding through the
accidental end of imported Yorkshire
Hussar soon after he got here. Last
Saturday’s winner of the breed,
Laurie Hussar (from Lorrient), led all
the way in the seven-furlongs
, Katandra Handicap, winning by
lengths from fopweight Slick Chick,
Qustar and other fairly well-performed
two-year-olds. There were two others
for the youngsters on the card, a
divided Maiden Handicap; and, for
all his extraordinary success on them
throughout this season, Williamson’s
mount in the first, Shahrina, was
allowed to go out at 16 to 1; Great
Scout (Lott) collecting the other.
Shahrina makes one of the rarest
sort of entries in the racebooks —
she’s a roan, by Pherozshah from
Tirea.
In keeping with the policy of
regular encouragement of stayers—a
first-rate notion, which Victorian
racing has on its own —the main
event at Caulfield, the St. Kilda
Handicap, was at two miles; the
improving new stayer Peerless Fox (a
four-year-old gelding by N.Z. sire
Foxbridge) equalling the course
record of 3.26 in downing Chilperic,
Sanctus and the rest.
The days’ only actual favorite
(though Peerless Fox was a well-
backed second-favorite) was Steeple
winner Jevington. Carnage again
proved the best of the current
sprinters by lumping 9.12 to victory
in the seven-furlongs Welter; the
other race on the card, a mile Trial,
going to the St. Magnus four-year-
old gelding St. Valens.
* * * *
On appeal, the A.J.C. cleared Mel-
bourne jockey R. Hutchinson, whose
two-months’ disqualification for inter-
ference at Randwick this page had
described as copping it a bit hot.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) : * ‘
Two-year-old (fillies): Flagstaff, 1;
Queen Ajax, 2; American Edition, 3.
Two-year-old (colts and geldings);
Oversight, 1; Apex, 2; Dashing
Romeo, 3. Parramatta Mixed Stakes :
Brighton, 1; Erpingham, 2; Pro-
hibition, 3. Maiden Stakes; Tele-
print, 1; Thunderer, 2; Golden Tan,
3. Auburn Mixed: Gayriol, 1; Beau
China, 2; Red Loch, 3. Flying:
Freyberg, 1; Hisign, 2; Heroic
Sovereign, 3. Rosehill Handicap:
Lordly or Golden Bird, 1; Lady
Finis, 2; Roman Step, 3. Welter:
Pyramid, 1; Bold Archer, 2; Marine
Victory, 3.
* * * *
Rugby Union knows no politics.
Despite the political division, Irish
teams are still chosen jointly from the
Republic arid the North. The only
repercussion that the emergence of 26
counties as the Irish Republic has
had on Rugby Union is that the tour-
“They’ve instructions to dig ’emselves in."
ing side, which sailed for N.Z. and
Australia on April 1, is officially
designated “The British Isles Rugby
Touring Team” and not “The British
Rugby Touring Team,” as on pre-
vious tours.
• i • • •
Actually, some of the players
chosen in the Union touring team
are no longer British subjects, and
one of these, Irish captain Dr. Karl
Mullen, has been appointed captain
for the tour. There’s nothing of
politics about this: a check of British
form reveals that Mullen, a 23-year-
old hooker, who has won 17 inter-
national “caps” and has successfully
captained Ireland for the last three
seasons, is the outstanding Rugby
captain of the four Home countries.
London “Sunday Times,” featuring
Mullen as its “portrait” of the week,
said of him: “He is a manifest
leader of men: as a speaker, com-
manding as well as witty and tactful.
Tact, with leadership on the field and
playing skill, is the third essential
quality for the successful touring
captain that he will surely prove.”
In the Rugby Union play in Sydney
last Saturday, Easts beat Randwick,
Gordon beat Eastwood, Norths beat
Manly, Wests beat St. George and
Parramatta beat Drummoyne. The
bye went to University.
* * * *
Despite the tram strike, 120,000 got
to the six opening V.F.L. games;
another 22,000 saw the Association
matches. Biggest crowd was at
M.C.G., where Melbourne and Carl-
ton met in a solid game livened by
high marking and fast passing, Mel-
bourne having the edge all the way
to make it 13.13 to 10.11. At South
Melbourne the locals bolted from
Collingwood until the third quarter,
when ’Wood, playing like their old
selves, drew level, only to fade again;
“Sowth” by 14.12 to 11.10. Poor
shooting cost Footscray the game
against St. Kilda, which unexpectedly
started the season with a 12.11-9.20
win; Richmond raced away from
North Melbourne, but couldn’t stay
the distance and went down, 11.8 to
9.10; Geelong paralysed Hawthorn,
who could manage only 4.15 against
Geelong’s 18.11; and at Fitzroy the
Maroons played the game of the day
against Essendon and lost by six
points, 9.16-9.10.
* * * *
Postponed to last Saturday because
the Nepean had been full of flood-
water and what goes with it, and
hence a bit off for boating in any-
thing frailer than an Army duck,
Sydney’s Head of the River regatta
went close to being a clean-sweep by
Shore. Its typically fine crew won
the championship eights in the record
time of 7m. 40sec. for the mile-and-
a-half, getting there with over a length
to spare from Scots, with Kings next,
and then High. Shore also won the
first fours, deadheated with Joeys in
the third fours, and got there again
in the fourth fours, a particularly fine
finish. High landed the other fours.
The heats disposed of during the
week, Geelong Grammar made a
complete scoop of the Victorian
Head of the River, downing Scotch
College and Wesley in the main event
(one of the closest and finest in the
whole history of these splashes), and
delivering the goods also with the
second and third crews.
* * * *
Some of the most familiar names
in Australian boating records figured
in Saturday’s paddling up at Evans
Head on the N.S.W. North Coast.
Paddon (who wears the same front
name as the Head itself) had no
trouble demonstrating that his pre-
vious defeat on those home waters
of his was the pure accident every-
body knew it was; he took the world
sculling title back from Sydneysider
George Cook with whole acres of
water to spare. Paddon cut out the
three miles in 21.58|. Bob Kemp
beat Jim Saul for the Australian title.
* * * *
“Boy” Brooks, of Manila, found
Singapore’s Happy World Stadium
just about the worst-named place on
earth, Cave Sands dealing him out
such a fierce pasting there in the first
three rounds that, game as he is, he
signified he’d had enough. Very
tough, Brooks fought, or at any rate
stood up, through the third round
though badly gashed. It amounted to
a perpendicular k.o.


TIPPET
No. 9 of
a Series
"IMPORTERS may come
and go, but the 'Austral'
goes on for ever!"
When the founders of the
Ronaldson - Tippett enter-
prise made that brave
statement, they made it
come true by building
their "Austral" Engines
even better than the im-
ported article at a time
when most engines were
imported.
' Australs" built over forty years
ago and the scores of thousands
built since are eloquent testimony
of the quality, endurance and
economical running built into
every Ronaldson-Tippett Engine.
| RELIABILITY |
1 LONG-LIFE 1
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
>
Bead Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bonrke St.. Mel-
c?- 8 r : W S Distributors; Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
linage at., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Old.)
rty.. Ltd., Scottish Union House. 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ronhidson-tippitt
ENGINES
21
da
VA
&
t>*
STlH*
ov?
00
m
ws
ySM.
J?rtcoTnjb*t/Ut6&
BY APPOINTMENT
gin distillers
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VL
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. lw.
Gordons
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Lime for Sheep.
“R.N.”: Importance of lime
supplements with cereal grain
for drought-feeding of sheep is
stressed in C.5.1.R.0. Bulletin
No. 240. It describes detailed
research on the effect of cereal
diets, which have relatively high
phosphorus and low calcium
content.
Young sheep or weaners fed
on these relatively calcium-
deficient rations fail to develop
normally. Their growth is
stunted, their teeth do not form
properly and they may suffer
heavy mortality. Adult sheep
may also be affected adversely,
particularly lactating ewes. Bad
results are likely to occur when
grain or grain by-products form
a large part of the ration for
long periods.
Addition of calcium - rich
foodstuffs such as leguminous
hay or chaff, or a mineral
supplement such as finely-
ground limestone, allows normal
development to take place and
restores normal mineral meta-
bolism. Exercise is important.
Sheep suffering from relatively
low calcium intake may show
no outward symptoms when
resting, but even moderate exer-
cise can cause collapse.
Zebu Hybrids.
“Oxo”; A non-competitive
pen of three well-finished Zebu
hybrids attracted favorable atten-
tion at Toowoomba (Q.) show.
They were the property of W. L.
Bishop, Rocky Glen, Cooyar,
and the judge of the fat cattle
said if they had been in the
competitive classes they would
certainly have won. His opinion
was confirmed later by buyers,
who paid £39 15s. for the hybrids
as against £35 for the champion
bullock of the show.
Half-crosses on the Hereford,
the hybrids had weight, fleshing
and bloom, and carried their beef
in the right places at three years
of age; they were almost with-
out the hump, and were very
quiet. Bishop claims that the
hybrids are hardier and earlier-
maturing than straight beef
breeds. He has a herd of 30
half-bred cows and heifers, on
Dont worry, i'm sending it to
Grazcos."
which Poll Shorthorns are being
used. At Goomeri, Bishop Bros,
have a good-quality Hereford
herd into which they intend to
introduce Zebu blood.
Twilight of the Clydesdale.
“He-Ne”: One solitary
Clydesdale stallion faced the
judge at Sydney R.A.S. Show;
two breeders, Long m i r e
Brothers, of Narrandera, and
E. G. Fisher, of Weethalle, were
kept away by floods. Even had
“Let your back tyres down , mate; they'll grip better."
arr i ve d the number of
wouW have been piti .
tbat was
y . * n - k , Farleton
S and the
, , t-. tractor and
[^Teav?mo tor”orrv have re-
SLdThe heawS Without
P ? , .Y? f Australia
havl been wrmen
might not have been .
Dick^ s has been breeding
Clydesdales for over 50 years
and will be 70 in May. Situa-
tion of breeders like him and the
Clydesdale was deplored at a
meeting of the Clydesdale Horse
Society, and W. J, Dawkins, of
South Australia, Clydesdale
breeder and judge, let himself
go;
“We are drifting into a
dangerous situation. What
would happen if a world war
cut off Australia’s petrol-supply?
We could not breed the farm-
horse back, even if we had the
mares, in under four or five
years. What would do the work
of our farms in the meantime if
the tractors had to stand idle?
Today many of our best horses
are going to feed dogs. I am
a member of the Australian
Meat Board, and recently we
were discussing sending horse-
flesh to feed the hungry people
of Europe. It seems a terrible
thing to do, but surely it would
be better to do that and let
human beings have the horse-
flesh than feed the horses to
mongrels which cater for the
lowest gambling tastes of the
community. Recently three-year-
old Clydesdales, lovely animals,
sold in Adelaide for 355. each —
you know what for —certainly
not for farming.”
Dawkins suggested that a
Clydesdale be put in a museum
so our grandsons can see what
farm-horses used to be like.
E. B. Comans said that 70 per
cent, of the draught-horses sold
at auction are destined for the
knackers’ yards—a shameful
end for a faithful animal never
intended for food, either for
humans or canine.
Fourteen years ago there were
over 400 members of the N.S.W.
branch of the society, at the end
of 1949 there were only 90.
What can be done to save the
Clydesdale? At present Aus-
tralia’s land industries are enjoy-
ing high prosperity, but there
may come a day when prices
are low and money scarce. Who
will provide the horse-teams
which may be wanted then?
Sydney Show Ends.
“Longjon” with a few items:
Dairy cattle at Sydney R.A.S.
show this year weren’t up to last
year in numbers and quality, probably
because the floods affected entries, as
did restricted accommodation. What’s
more, last year’s showing was a
pretty good one, and it isn’t easy to
keep on being better. Tops were
good this year, but the tail in most
classes was pretty poor.
On the whole, A.I.S. made the best
showing of all breeds, a fair effort
when it is recalled what the Kempsey
floods did to A.I.S. herds in that
district. For the records, here are
the winners: A. 1.5., champion bull,
J. E. Hammond and Son’s Oxleigh
Victor, reserve, O. Maher’s Park
View Security; champ, cow, Richard-
son Bros.’ Tabbagong Ruth 49th,
reserve, G. E. Chittick’s Alne Bank
Dorothy 34th. Oxleigh V.’s win
broke a succession of Chittick cham-
pionships, that stud having won at
the. previous three shows. Jersey,
champ, bull, Kameruka’s Glenavon
Golden King, reserve, R. G. Green-
away’s Gunawah True Blue; champ,
cow, Mutton and Son’s Belvedon
Lily, reserve, Jersey Farms’ (Dapto)
Blytheswood Royal Promise. Ayr-
shire, champ, bull, Facey and Sons’
(MilHcpnt, S.A.) Glengowrie Flash
Baron 2nd, resenve, Mclntosh Bros.’
Uroonda Master Jean; champ, cow,
McNab Bros.’ (Tullamarine, Vic.)
Oakbank Bud Again, reserve, Mc-
Intosh’s Denbigh Colleen. Guernsey,
champ, bull, H. C. Cooke’s Moongi
Pleasant Laddie, reserve, J. C. Mc-
Intosh’s Moongi Brightest Boy;
champ, cow, W. G. Simpson’s Ever-
more Thelma, reserve, same owner’s
Evermore Trixie. Friesian, champ,
bull, Smith and Sons’ Wattle Bank
Segis Woodcrest, reserve, Buckley
Bros.’ Waite’s Kaplee Star; champ.
cow, V. J. Lamond’s Brundee Dam-
sel’s Pride 4th, reserve, D. J. Edwards
and Sons’ Brundee Damsel’s Rose
2nd.
In the pig section, where the entry
was of all-round high quality, Wes-
sex Saddlebacks appeared for the first
time since 1941. The Berks were a
splendid lot, champion boar coming
from Minister for Agriculture
E. H. Graham’s stud at Wagga.
Large Whites were described by the
Queensland judge as the best he has
ever seen at Sydney. An outstanding
Middle White was the champion sow,
Millside Win sth, bred by A. J. and
R. Miller, of Whittlesea (Vic.), which
has been Sydney champion for three
years. Generally, in Tamworths the
sows were better than the boars.
Wessex Saddleback champion boar
was A. Andrews’s Windrest Happy
Boy, and champion sow S. R. Card-
well’s Marshland Venus sth.
Sydney R.A.S. is thinking of
running a separate fat-cattle
show, president Colin Sinclair
holding that the cutting-up of
big runs has brought the small
cattleman into prominence and
it would be necessary to keep up
the standard of beef quality in
small herds.
The right kind of steers at a
fat-cattle show would demon-
strate to the younger men, espe-
dally soldier-settlers, what is
a , dded h""
traha will have to produce more
beef on improved pastures in
smafler areas. There is a
difference of opinion among
breeders as to the best time for
the fat-cattle show, but the
general opinion appears to be
that the show should be held.
A 20-year-old proposal to
take the best exhibits from
Sydney for showing abroad has
been revived. The Federal Gov-
emment is be j n g asked to
finance the notion. Thnn«u
pretty well everybody comm! ?
it. the trouble wool/be
mg some of the best ar.,l K
striking exhibits in fresh co“f
tion. Anyone can stage a sho»
of manufactured goods and m
serves, but getting fresh fS
and animals in full show bl«m
to London would call for”
magician. 1 a
Wheat entries were lower and
the standard below C yeT
Almost all the prizes went to
entries from the Riverina and
tiie Western N.S.W. districts
Linseed standards were disan
pointing in view of the many ex'
cellent crops last season Corn
ears were below 1949 standard
but gram exhibits were particu’
larly good.
Care of Truck Tyres.
“R.H G.”: The cover doesn’t
carry the load-the air inside
does that. Don’t be afraid of
overinflation, as the worst that
can happen from it is excess
wear in the middle of the tread.
Considerably worse trouble
comes from underinflation.
The old high-pressure tyre
(34 x 7, 36 x 8) could work com-
fortably on pressures of 1001 b.
Their modern equivalent, the so-
called “balloons,” have official
pressures of 561 b. upwards, but
with the inevitable overloading,
7.50-20, 8.25-20 and 9.00-20 can
work at 65-701 b. with far better
results, and can take more with-
out danger.
Tyres can stand enormous
overload and terrific heat, but
they won’t stand both for any
length of time. The enemy of
tyre-walls is flex. Constant
movement back and forth be-
tween the fingers will snap a
stout piece of fencing-wire. It
is this movement against which
tyre fabric must battle through-
out its working life. Under-
inflation, as well as overloading,
causes flexing of the walls, but
with underinflation only damage
is of a cumulative nature. Given
very hot weather, overloading +
underinflation + overheating
= blowout, an equation that
seldom fails.
Some carters adopt the
practice of “bleeding” tyres on
the road. This idea is based on
the mistaken theory that too
much pressure will blow a tyre.
Only a fault in the fabric will
result in a blowout, though if
a tyre has been staked or bruised
it will blow in time. But the air-
compressor hasn’t been built that
could Wow a sound 12-ply tyre.
“Bleeding”—the letting-out ot


KUCHING’S
travel goods
SPECIALISTS
A
Pi
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
i/flate ’ than,
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’*
leading Hotels, Hut different to
every otH ( er in many things, The
Wentworth, for .instance, has eyer
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noisei and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
Hit WtHTWORIH
Lit
■s.
f" 7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
thlTu Po ," r R E -NU Liquid UfU-METAI
Orough plug holes. NU-METAL will re
conaiUon y °ur motor while you drive
Sn . ly films P‘ ts and scores. End
tecri "in'nnn®”'!. lost compression. Guarar
' e “„ '°.ooo miles, and harmless to fines
tested 6 '. HU-MET AL has been proved an
rnnmf by over 100.000 user* since 1934
°^“ ers having used NU-METAI
NTT mpt a r OUr tlnles 1° the same engine
ate tnh, f L co ® es to Ton in a sepal
ins for ea . ch cylinder, thus elimlnal
EnehSrf 8 , Work - Municipal Councils
w,!' ne " s - ftc.. use NU-METAL. Treatmcr
37/6 4V 1 ’ o’,, 6 ’ 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-
Mah cti Call, write> or Phone MA72SC
Postal Charges. P ° St COD ’ s
ORDER FORM
METAT® ,„ f T wa l d me hy return NL
CyUDder EDBin(
descrihfnt 386 ~s end . mc illustrated Folde
escribing action of NU-METAL.
Name..,.
Address
B - 26/4/’5O
RKTO i L t J IRAniNG COMPANY
147 E B jLl h FI ”°r> Bristol House,
■zabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
Rubbed 0 a AN CLIPPER” Read
Ton °n at i? Fine Cut Blende
Packs r °^. Q « alit y Leaf. In 2o:
P«ced 22/- IC per 2 lbr lb *' lO ° S
. Fine Cut R eady Rubbe
Packs P^ Ctl ? n and Mildness, in 2o;
Priced M/ lced 3/ - » er or loos
Per lb.
R aS?JPSf; A? hat Fine Cld We
even betw®+t Mixture that is no'
Per lb. Loose 30 GVer ' Priced 20/
Remember WINSTONS. It’s gooc
M«te: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
VA Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
WITH ORDER.
s PROMPT DESPATCH,
C 3 Retailers For Order
-bibs, or Over.
Your next move
A
m
for better prices, consign
A.MX.&F. specialists handle your
wool skilfully from its arrival in
store to the fall of the hammer—
with greater returns and less worry
for you! There’s a network of
Branches throughout the pastoral
areas—consult the A.M.L.&F.
man at your nearest Branch
and get the best cheque possible
in any season!
87 Years in the Service of the Man an the Land.
dip jhoA
AMLI
Inc. In England, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND S FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane. *
Country Branches; — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Oooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Yeness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
v«
&
<ro
5?
Qm ItoiNsioN
who (so they say),
Could never tell a lie.
Was in the larder feeling gay.
With cake and apple-pie. •
"What have you taken?” asked his dad;
"You’ll tell the truth, I’m sure!”
"I took,” replied the famous lad,
"Some Woods’ Great Pepper-
mint Cure.”
H/e can non deliver
30H.P. LANZ
Crude Oil TmdoM
■»&ml »;#$&; W&
m
' / •
>.•;■ </sfg*S ® : " ’’ • •* hie
.v
a&s*
ss«;
KL2I9
LANZ & K.L.
30,40 St 45h,p, Models
LOWEST RUNNING COSTS
OF ANY TRACTOR MADE
Any Lanz or K.L. Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor
owner will tell you how easy it is to save up
to £l5O per year on low cost crude oil oper*
ation. He'll tell you, too, that the sheer
simplicity of Bulldogs’ single cylinder stow
speed engines, with only 8 main moving parts,
drastically reduce wear and maintenance-
cut repair bills to a fraction those of compli.
cated tractor engines. So, if you area medium
power user, start enjoying the wonderful
money saving advantages of this 30 H.P,
LANZ Crude Oil Model—ready for delivery
CO your property NOW.
£ee your Local
BULLDOG Agent or :
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, VICTORIA
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., Melbourne. SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA. Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie St.. Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth.
TASMANIA, K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., IZI Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.
air-pressure—simply invites fresh
flexing. The air temperature
builds up again, and with it the
pressure, until the bleeding is re-
peated, with more flexing. Next
morning, when cold, the tyres
are almost flat, and must be
pumped up again—silly, isn’t it?
Manufacturers assert that the
balloon tyre can stand a lot of
flexing, and so it can, hence
their official pressure figures—•
but tyres seldom, if ever, work
within the prescribed maximum
loading capacity.
Under unfair working condi-
tions, bleeding only aggravates
matters. Pressure will build up,
on hot days, on bitumen, or with
overloading, but it can only get
to a certain point, and then the
tyres tend to throw off as much
extra heat as they generate.
Bleeding interrupts this natural
function, and starts a vicious
circle of repeat build-ups.
Truck-owners doing heavy
hauling should note that present-
day tyres are only rated at such-
and-such a ply—they do not
actually contain the number, be-
cause the new fabric, rayon, has
introduced fresh strength factors
in valuation. High-tensile steel
wire will be used before long in
fabric-making, and then, one
hopes, our troubles should just
about be over. To be on the
safe side, get 12-ply rated covers
for rugged work, and keep the
pressure in them.
Long table-top bodies, with
excessive rear overhang, spell
trouble if not loaded forward.
The up-and-down surge of a
loaded tail aft of the rear-axle
will blow tyres quicker than any-
thing. Avoid bumps, or dips, as
they have the same effect as over-
loading, only more so. Trucks
loaded to capacity and over can
be seen racing along at 40 m.p h.
and more, but if you want to
make any money at the game
keep below 30. High speeds
have an amazing effect on tem-
perature, and what seems a nice
cruising bat on a good road is
actually cooking the tyres.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”; Peanuts may be
fed to pigs of any age. They
may, however, produce soft, oily
bacon, unless eliminated from
the ration about six weeks before
sending to market. The animals
fatten quickly on them, but un-
less in a locality where the crop
thrives best (warm climates) it
may not prove economical.
Barley is a good alternative.
“Sarina”: We get rid of fruit-
fly larvae by throwing “stung”
fruit into a waterhole. The trees
want frequent shaking to dis-
lodge infested fruit so that none
ever remains long on the ground.
A neighbor solved the problem
by penning Muscovy ducks in his
orchard whilst the fruit-flies were
active. The ducks cleaned up
pulp and grubs as fast as “stung”
fruit fell.
“Bill C.”; Every homestead
should have a couple of grape-
vines. They can be run along
the side of a veranda or on a
specially-made trellis. They like a
naturally rich soil, and should
have water in dry seasons. Prun-
ing consists of cutting back the
vines after cropping and causing
new wood to develop. There
are many splendid varieties, and
it pays to let the nurseryman
select the best kinds for your
particular climate.
“Baroona”: When living out-
back cost of linoleum and the
probability of its being badly
damaged in transit make it sen-
sible to corisider using one of the
paving paints. These have a
gloss surface and come in ex-
cellent colors which may be
chosen from a color-chart.
This paint is highly suited to
coloring cement floors, too.
Paving paint is easier to clean
than stained boards, if used at
the edges of a linoleum square—
saves much labor, and is attrac-
tive.
“Tow”: As yet in its infancy,
Claredale, a Queensland 'State
Government experimental farm-
ing settlement, promises to be-
come a big tobacco producer.
Soldier - settlers, now tilling
blocks prepared by the Govern-
ment on the Lower Burdekin
about 20 miles up from Ayr,
have produced an average of
10001 b. of cured leaf to the acre.
By the middle of the year the
best part of 40 farms will be
equipped with irrigation. A per-
manent experimental farm will
be retained, and other crops will
be tried. Peanuts, pineapples and
potatoes are at least three that
should repay planting in the
Claredale area.
“Quorn”: wfien growing
bulbs in fibre remember that they
cannot store up food for the
bulbs to flower next year. Put
them out in the garden to re-
cuperate for a season or two, and
replant the fibre bowls.
“Billjim”: To combat nutri-
tional anaemia, a frequent cause
of unthriftiness and death among
young pigs, Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture advises rear-
ing in the paddock. If this isn’t
possible and sow and litter have
to be confined, d spadeful of soil
taken from an area not traversed
by pigs and placed in the pen
daily should provide ample pro-
tection. An alternative is dosing
at six days of age with reduced
iron obtainable at chemists.
Enough to cover a threepenny
piece, placed on the back of the
tongue, is sufficient.
“C.S.”: Soils, climate and
geography of Australia in rela-
tion to the development of agri-
cultural and animal industries is
the theme of The Australian
Environment, just published by
C.5.1.R.0. Copiously illustrated,
the book contains four colored
maps : a map of Australia show-
ing orographical features, rail
communications and main place-
names referred to in the text; a
soils map, a vegetation map and
a pasture map. Price of the book
is 10s. 6d.


DESIGN No. 6
New Beautiful Designs
FOR PROMPT DELIVERY
*
For new Home, choose one of the new
Terra-Cotta Surrounds. They are available to
suit open fireplaces, gas fires or Wonderheat
and Kosi stoves, in a delightful mottled cream-
buff ceramic glaze that is everlasting and will
not stain or discolour, and is easy to clean.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'Phone
MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney for
illustrated Booklet of designs.
Fireplace surrounds
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Time too is flying!
When you have to count the minutes,
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
ail over the world—including those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-1 ranian Oil Company, Ltd.
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE*, TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “AIRBEEPEE”. MELBOURNE
C73/9621
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divoem
TO GEORGE NAIRNE late °f Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that CARL CLETUB
EDWARD FRASER has filed a Petito
for Divorce No. 808 of 1960 g
RUBY FRASER on the g roun
adultery with you and you
joined as co-respondent If ? n ance a t
defend you may enter an a PP“ r t R in g
the Divorce Office Supreme Court
Street Sydney by the 15th day m
1950 and obtain a copy of P®,_ K .
without charge from _. A q? ree t Sydney.
Divorce.
urtc. __ ——
.. THE SUPREME COURT
SOUTH WALES—In
CO REGINALD JAMES CLARKE Y
if Oessnock. — TAKE Jnuii petition for
10REEN CLARK bas filed the grounds
livorce No. 647 of 195 or g^se
,f desertion without Just caus yo u wish
or three years and upwards D y^
o defend the suit you.. 26th day of
ippearance on or before e Registry
rune 1950 at the £j°f| y(lne y A
supreme Court King be ba d with-
;opy of the petition ™ ay H^LLA M, Soli*
mt charge from F. * Cessnock,
;itor, 58 Vincent Street, e qN(
rom his City Agent, MK J dne y.--
)iS7N. —wwu , _ informal
it whe^ a ? T °m^ R WILDBN or W»
rnmg WALTER Rainbow, Via
LAVINA, who left « of their
about 1911. 0 j^qNA
FRANCES, aio wltb
-,5! e ”'r.„S”i“, SolioB"' •'
re _ pieu.
SS I iAFS&~’
The Australian
dman’S mirß° r
init %%ihcX ‘
alth Talk. Mother" 3 ' 1
rU I, Short Stone. "A
Special Article.
in sale every*’*"
Price 4d.
you were in the horrors. They’ll
send you home.”
He waited, trembling inwardly.
Sergeant Brown looked away,
down at the ghostly-white tents
and. the gleaming silver road.
His voice w#s sad: “Wait till
we get into action, son, You
can shoot a man then.”
Norm stared at him. What
did he mean?
“Here comes your relief,”
Sergeant Brown said suddenly.
“I’ll go and have a word with
them.”
Was he going to order them
to put him under arrest? Norm
listened breathlessly, but he could
only hear Sergeant Brown giving
them routine instructions.
Soon they were relieved. Norm
and Mitch marched silently back
towards the hut. At last Norm
spoke; “Well,” he said, and
again, “Well. This is crook.”
Mitch was philosophical. He
could afford to be.
Norm lay down on the bed-
boards and went to sleep immedi-
ately ; a sleep troubled by
dreams.
1 T was worse in the morning.
1 Much worse. There was, first
of all, that familiar sensation of
waking to think it was a bad
dream. And the crushing reali-
sation that it was no dream but
dreadful fact, sharp-edged in
the strong sunlight. Mitch sang
blithely under the showers and
Norm started nervously at every
voice. He saw Franky Murray
walking towards him, tall and
ruddy and cheerful—and was
sure he was going to place him
under arrest. He met Sergeant
Browns dull eye and shud-
aered.
0 And uncertainty. Was
Sergeant Brow going to lay a
c h ar S e - And if he didnt that
was fij® l , as bad *.. wou ] d
sr sra
about hi§ terrifying experience;
casua Hy. “Bloke tried to shoot
me last night. Rees. Only far
Mitchell I wouldn’t be here.”
Some action would have to be
taken then.
It all looked worse in the
blazing Palestine daylight.
A few drinks, and Sergeant
Brown would talk. He couldn’t
help it. And, anyway, why
shouldn’t he? He hadn’t come
so badly out of the business.
And once those terrible wheels
started moving no one, not even
Sergeant Brown, if he thought
twice about it, could stop them.
Only a miracle could have him.
A MIRACLE did. Before
midday mess Captain Dono-
van’s camouflage-streaked staff
car pulled up in a cloud of fine
dust outside the administrative
hut. Five minutes later Donovan
and Franky Murray walked out,
talking and laughing excitedly,
climbed into the back seat and
the driver wheeled the car round
towards Beit Jirja. An Old-and-
Bold guard marched in, motor-
transport was waiting and the
guard, Sergeant Brown, Robby,
Norm, Mitch, Ma-in-law, Yorky,
Gault, Peter Carpenter and the
rest, were driven furiously back
to the base camp.
The Libyan campaign had
started.
Quartermasters went mad,
sergeants and corporals flew
around with pieces of paper,
everyone talked at once, Gault
reported sick.
At midnight they moved. Final
parade in the darkness, Captain
Donovan holding a torch for
Sar’-major Bourke to read the
names out, Sar’-major Bourke’s
face shining like a great red
moon. Everyone going, this was
the real thing. Everything ready,
waterbottles full. Every kit by
m.t. Donovan himself going—
his face was one grin. He’d been
forgiven.
They fell out in new platoons.
Norm’s platoon-commander was
Lieutenant Jack Reid. A
pleasant, blue-eyed, f r e c k led
young man, Jack Reid. He had
been a stock-and-station agent
at Hay. Norm could readily
imagine him in pork-pie hat,
checked sports-coat, elastic-sided
boots; sitting on a rail with a
long knobbly stick. Sergeant
Davenport. Corporals. Mitch’s
platoon-commander was Lieu-
tenant George Hammond. A
nice young man with a big
moustache, who owed his pro-
motion, presumably, to the fact
that he went to the right school.
Donovan had sent him off
parade once for being improperly
dressed. An amiable young man
with a liking for football and
beer. The men called him Boof-
head.
The funny train jolted and
started, and at last they were
tearing through the night. Boots
everywhere. Men everywhere.
Rifles in your face. Kantara,
and over the canal into the land
of Egypt, ships sailing through
the sand, glimpses of black soil,
water-buffaloes, fellaheen. A
different country
KS*?S"2i
L according f U ac ( teJ . :
of his staff carTJuple of ? m out
carrying out personal Sf"®*
naissance ahead of the Wr 011 '
Not a C.O.’s job
things like that made fom I?
Black Prince. hlm
Pranky Murray distinguished
himself. Lieutenant Jack Rplh
got the Military Cross and bS
to grow a moustache. UeutoS
Donald Crisp missed the promo
tion he deserved by tire so S
pointing out his superiors’ mis-
takes he couldn’t entirely for
get that school at Poona. Captain
Donovan made no more m i s
takes. Lieutenant George Ham
mond, under the cool eye of
Robby, found it impossible to
make any.
Sar’-major Bourke was killed
Ex-Sar-’major Jock Cameron
was given stripes, and began to
speak favorably of the A.I.F.
Sergeant Davenport was
wounded.
Mitch behaved gallantly, and
was arrested for drunkenness
Peter Carpenter fought, and was
killed, like a wild beast. Gault
deserted. Norm, Yorky, Ma-in-
law and others discovered, with
varying feelings of relief, that
they could do their job.
AND here they were, back in
an Egyptian train, going
from Ikingi-Marut to Alex-
andria. Ahead lay Greece. A
new C. 0., now—the Black
Prince was a brigadier. And a
reinforcements-officer to replace
Franky Murray, who had been
sent home for fighting with the
men.
“Cigarette, sarj?” Norm held
the packet out to Sergeant
Brown. Norm smoked a lot
now. As Sergeant Brown fished
for a cigarette Norm thought:
Die old boy stands up to it pretty
well. Hard as nails. Idly, his
thoughts drifted back to the
business of the breech-bolt . ..
court-martials . . . panic . . .
But it was no good. It was
all hazy in his mind. As though
a knife had cut two parts of his
life in half. The present was the
hot day, the rattling train. Ahead
lay Greece.


DEFEAT THAT
DEVIL
OLD
DANDRUFF
with Lustre Creme America's
leading Hair Dressing
American men have proved Lustre
Creme banishes dandruff scales,
relieves dry, itching scalp, keeps
hair glossy and healthy. It’s
America’s favourite Hair Dress-
ing. Now it can be yours!
(fame
(WITH LANOLIN)
THE INSTANT AID
JO HANDSOME HAIR
A little Lustre Creme a few
seconds combing and you’ve
handsome hair all day! No
plastered down” look! Lustre
Lreme has a high quality Lanolin
base, best for your scalp, best
tor your hair. Lustre Creme has
double action, it spreads and
Penetrates double-quick!
IT’S HANDIER IN A TUBE-
THV IT TO-DAY!
(jftemi
(with Lanolin]
hairdressing
AMERICAN
INSTAKT AID TO
WELL broomed hair
• Relieve* dry icalp
Remove* loose dandruff
• U ** re *° dull, unruly hair
Min » S a ' r healt *>y ane l hand*ome u
8! ALL CHEMISTS AM STORES 2/-
K*7 Daumit Preparation
w
usm
m
sr
m
mm
L.H9/110
GOLDEN LEAF
BY SUN,
BY TIME *
m
g?if^
m
.:
iSai
1
w&
JP^
Army Club are
Proudly Made
in Australia.
“Everything about Army Club is Just as you
remember it,” said the Major. “The original
flavour of rich golden leaf ripened by sun,
mellowed by time, and the original rice paper
. . . ‘filigrained’ to avoid the taste of printer’s
ink. Added to which the outer ‘Cellophane 1
cellulose film has a trigger-quick zip. You’ll
enjoy your re-union with Army Club”
BE AN
Enjoy a re-union with the Major Cigarette
HAM
AC-849
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To toy cow and B “ ers
by Tarlton Rayment.— 4Bl7.
Information Sought.
What is cataract of the eye, and
can the complaint be effectively
'7/ifa form of opacity or clouding
nf oart of the eye known as the
crystalline lens. With properties and
shfpe similar to an ordinary magmfy-
ingPglass, the latter is Situated behind
he iris, or colored part of the eye,
and behind the pupil. The cataract
occurs behind the outer eye; in ad-
vanced stages the pupil appears white
instead of black. With early diagnosis
and treatment much can be done for
relief Fear of blindness is unneces-
sary' in skilled hands the danger
from operation, with removal qf the
lens is reduced to a minimum.
Special glasses perform all functions
of the lens.
* * * *
Preparations that can be used to
destroy cockroaches? .
Sodium fluoride mixed m equal
proportions with cocoa, flour or
powdered sugar is recommended.
The substance should be handled with
care, as it is poisonous. Other
mixtures are: Borax in a pure state,
mixed with two parts of powdered
chocolate, cocoa, cornflour or similar
substances; pyrethrum used in the
pure state; D.D.T, at a strength of
not less than 4 p.c. in a liquid or
powdered mixture; and gammexane
in the form of smoke generators or
in dust or emulsion sprays.
* * * *
If an Australian boxing champion
meets a contender, and both are
within the weight-limit of their
division, does the contender win
championship when he knocks out
champion? What rule, or authority,
applies in this case ?
Sydney Stadium rules say contender
wins championship, if both he and
champion are within weight-limit of
their division, by knocking out the
champion. In event of contest not
being billed as championship, over
15 three-minute rounds, and the con-
tender only wins on points, the
champion retains his title.
* * * *
Details of contests between Les
Darcy and Fritz Holland?
Les Darcy and Fritz Holland
fought four times. Holland out-
pointed Darcy (20 rounds) at Sydney
Stadium on July 18, 1914. Darcy
then lost on foul (round 18) to
Holland at Sydney Stadium on Sep-
tember 12, 1914. Darcy outpointed
Holland (20 rounds) in Sydney on
March 13, 1915, and stopped him
(round 13) in Melbourne on May 1,
1915.
♦ * * *
Particulars of one-act play competi-
tion being organised by the Ballarat
(Vic.) branch of the Victorian
National Theatre Movement ?
The prizes to be awarded are:
Ist prize, £2O; 2nd prize, £10; and
3rd prize, £5. Plays to be the
original, unpublished and unproduced
work of the competitor. Play to be
in one act and of approximately 5000
words. Entries to be signed with a
pen-name only. A sealed envelope,
bearing on the outside the pen-name
and containing the author’s name
and address, to be attached to the
entry. Copyright will remain the
property of the author, but the right
of initial production of the winning
plays is to be vested in the Ballarat
branch - of National Theatre Move-
ment. Entries to be typewritten, on
one side of sheet only. There is no
restriction as to the number or type
of characters used, but it is suggested
that competitors keep in mind the
limits of practical production.
Manuscripts will be returned if
postage is enclosed for that purpose.
The entries are to reach Mr. I.
Mclvor, secretary, Ballarat branch,
National Theatre Movement, 37
Lydiard-street South, Ballarat (Vic.),
on or before June 30, 1950,
Brief Answers.
T.A.: The wooden bridge across
Middle Harbor (Sydney), at the Spit,
was built in 1924 by the Sydney
Harbor Trust for the Manly Muni-
cipal Council. Tolls were levied to
defray the cost. In 1930, when ex-
penses had been paid in full, the
bridge was transferred to the Govern-
ment L.M.W.: Best time to plant
out evergreen shrubs and trees in
Sydney is in March and April, in
order to get the advantage of the
warm soil; always stake them firmly
to ensure upright growth R.H.8.;
Arthur Gilligan was captain of the
English cricket team that toured Aus-
tralia in 1924-25... .J.M.: Run a
gentle stream of water .through the
pond with a hose. This should clear
it in a day or so, but if it should
become muddy again clean every-
thing out and plant it with aquatic
plants, such as Anacharis or Vaffis-
neria in well-washed Nepean sand.
C.M.: Easter Sunday is always
the first Sunday after the full moon
which happens upon or next after
March 21. If the full moon falls on
a Sunday, Easter Sunday is the Sun-
day after. Church of England prayer
bopk contains tables by which Easter
can be calculated up to the year 2199.
, ...G.C.: The practice in N.S.W. is
not to have a disconnecting trap or
boundary trap between the w.c.
pedestal-pan and the septic tank.
The pedestal pan is trapped in the
fitting J.D.; Power to hypnotise
is a natural aptitude, but study and
experiment are essential to full
development in its use. Hypnotic
methods differ widely; it is generally
accepted that some co-operation, at
least, is given by the patient. This
may not be a yoluntary acceptance of
suggestive action, but a passive non-
resistance is evident in most cases.
Hence the choice of a “suitable” sub-
ject. Le Cron’s Hypnotism Today
gives full details... .A. 8.: P.M.G.
Department advises that, at the
present time, when abnormally heavy
demands are being made on their
resources of manpower and material,
the diversion of their effort in the
direction suggested could not be
justified A.G.: In the valuation of
grazing country it is the practice to
determine value on the basis of stock-
carrying capacity, expressed as a
beast-area value, that is, in the case
of fattening country, the area which
will maintain and fatten a bullock;
the value to be ascribed to such an
area would depend upon what sales
of country in the locality indicated.
A.J.G.: Henry Lawson was born
on the Weddin Mountain diggings,
outside of Grenfell (N.S.W.), on
June 17, 1867... .E.F.McD.: A
nurse who qualifies as a Member of
the Forces within the meaning of
the Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation
Act is eligible for treatment of
disabilities accepted as due to war
service. Treatment at a Repatriation
General Hospital is authorised when
necessary... .P. 8,: Tenant is at
liberty to refuse inspection. If rent
is in arrear for statutory period a
notice to quit may be given and evic-
tion proceedings brought in the Petty
Sessions Court J.S.: (1) Yes. (2)
Approx. £4O. (3) Where husband is
domiciled. (4) No. She would also
be guilty of bigamy.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Marne and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
addressed to the Editor.
__ _ “ . . .
. J P.: Political poem true enough,
but no £JUL. = Rooney
J»s. Jus po.nts rather thm
A.M.A . Write. aMut som a y
doser to m bme place t
■ JSfom elementary WR:
“Shouldlt fail axe if * Well you
a l d for it CF • VresSmsto
besomething them ] bm whatever it is
oe sonueinmg iucjtc, dul wijw
of A Austraha was
P°P^ atloa gunmy and longs
born ’ n back to it RST.: The
g OlSt about the ball is your own:
Merest EliotL LH'• Well you’ve
w hv Knu-uah Rav ■
bad bLt dthfr EG W ’
foxes lack animation ’ DK •
vour face with alrown?”
A^ h ?, reading aU th ose poems en-
, “<smilpt” that does that to us
tltled R v- With all thSf fadle
Wlth all tnose i acii e
rhymes “Sleepy Hollow” might have
been written in your sleep... .J.W.:
“I wonder was I on a goer yester-
day.” You’re certainly on a loser
today 8.5.: “Caddy” and “The
Race” lack the feeling of your pre-
vious effort; but we’re willing to
face some more... .W.R.: There’s a
refreshing sincerity about “Pine
Tree,” but you mar it by hackneyed
phrases and by going on too long,
~..Bellerive: Step into the ring:—
.c.S.McK.: But precisely which
“modern poets,” who “don’t use
rhyme and rhythm,” did you have in
mind?... .J.M.: All lightweights....
P.G.: You seem to know something
_ hnllt f m ir-nickinsr but “Have you
ever been down with the picker’s
itch?” is an excessively impolite
question with which to open your
poem... .K.G.W.: “Sea Spray” blew
away... .N.W.: “Rhapsody” too
lone and too loose N.S.: Nearly,
See if gu can make it tighter and
more pictorial... .H.H.M.: No space
for reviews of that kind....AC.:
Knocking about the bush you’ve
knocked your verse about, too; try
ySw Abo. pars.. .
your nanu <u auu. y
Pleasant, without getting anywhere in
particular D.M.: “Cop this.” Cop
that E.M.: Not so much a poem
as the bare bones of a poem
c.N.: “Is this the work of Satan?”
jt could be M.J.T.: You exag-
gerate the affection of the cherry-tree
f or t he m00n... .C.K.: If it’s a
“mindless land” why do you people
j t w itti so many apparently intelligent
inhabitants? J.G.: Very glad to
learn that you are a member of the
Atomic Ark Society... .T.F.: Cheer
up....D.8. (N.Z.): Promising if you
are y oun „ . J.p.: “Fancy’s Flights
and p a y s »’ ‘ f a ]j s every time it flies
RT W- But whv on earth or
in the air above it are a million star-
hug 6 '
G f a million perches”!... .K.R.:
Y p<t hut what made the call?
LR B • Exceot for the line “Ktais
eggs andthinkft
grand” it is not memorable....
A.G.A.: Surely he didn’t live on
damper every day, all his life,
wherever he went, even at the North
P01e?... J.G.; Nearly... .Aquarius:
No place here for children’s verses.
... .R.D.M.: Interested in your letter,
Mr Jones, of course, departs
R.C.G.: Utterly unable to make out
what Maloney’s monkey was up to.
....W.L.H.: Fair for your age.
Read some of this century’s poetry.
....S.P.: “Believe it or not, it is
only two months since I have even
attempted to write verse.” We
believe it.,. .C.8.E.: “I must go
back to the hills.” If all the other
poets have kept their word, you’ll be
deafened by the singing and crowded
out by the company. Stay in town,
RECOLLECTIONS OF DONALD DINNI[?] AND
PROFESSOR MILLER, FORMER FAMOUS
WRESTLERS.
Scotch Donald Dinnie,
Of the wrestling mat,
nfiic^af^cat 1
eoS? with Milier
Big crowds did draw
At the Exhibition in
The days of yore .
And popula^ in’
our Victorian State.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
War-widows* Housing
As an estate-agent I am only too aware
of the housing problem, but I was still
amazed to discover the state of war-
widows’ housing. :
A war widow who recently asked me
to find her the tenancy of a cottage is
at present living in a room in her parents’
home, already overcrowded. She keeps
her two children, with the help of Legacy,
at boarding-school, mainly because there
is no room at home for them. To pay
for their- schooling she works five days
a week. During school holidays she is
much embarrassed by not being able to
bring the kiddies home; she depends on
friends and relations to look after them
and take them visiting at exeat periods.
The children get no home life. She ex-
plained that if she could get a house in
the area in which she works she would
be able to take the children away from
boarding-school and care for them in her
own home.
As the woman is a war widow with two
children I considered that she must be
entitled to a home, or assistance to buy
one, through Repat. I rang the R.S.L.
for advice and was referred to the War-
widows’ Guild.
I learned from the secretary of the
guild that it has a special allotment from
the Housing Commission of one house per
month. It has over 80 “desperate” cases
wanting houses and another 250 appli-
cants with a degree of hardship somewhat
parallel to the one I have described. The
guild estimates that there are another 250
war widows who are not registered with
it, and who have fairly pressing housing
needs.
While I was away with the A.I.F. it
was my earnest belief that if I did not
return my dependants would be well and
truly cared for by the Government. In
fact, that was told to us many times.
I know there is a shortage of homes,
but I also know that there are at present
snore than enough homes for sale in this
city and suburbs to accommodate all
needy war widows. These homes of
course, priced outside the reach of these
people.
There was no thought of cost or price,
however, when a soldier went into battle ;
it was a matter of duty on his part. Surely
it is now a matter of duty on our part
to house the dependants of those who died
in action, and surely it is not much to
ask that these people’s needs be attended
to before those of the ordinary civilian.—
N. G. Tucker (N.S.W.).
North Queensland
Brisbane politicians have been upset by
the stand of a North Queensland Labor
outfit which claims to represent the for-
gotten north in the State elections.
Sundry Cabinet Ministers have mounted
the box to chastise the angry northerners
for not appreciating the vast improve-
ments affected by the Brisbane Govern-
ment over the years—new roads through-
out the sugar country and over a good
slice of the Atherton Tableland, new
(or rehashed) schemes for harnessing the
waters of the Tally Falls and an ambi-
tious attempt to dam Old Man Burdekin,
the rogue river that plays old Harry with
low-level coastal farmland every few
years.
The majority of the roads were laid
under Army direction during the war,
the State Government accepting respon-
sibility for their maintenance, a far
simpler job than building them.
The Tully Falls hydro, job, when com-
pleted, will certainly provide cheap power
for a vast area and will possibly attract
secondary industry, but at present it is
only just past the blueprint stage and
likely to be further delayed by the stock
excuse of “Labor and material short-
age.” The Burdekin Dam, also, is years
off yet, and when operating-will benefit
only a small area of the north.
What city politicians don’t realise is
that the north is stagnating in spite of
good markets for sugar, cattle and wool.
Money is certainly being syphoned into
the north, but it is just as quickly drawn
off to bring the necessities of life from
the south. There is no worth-while manu-
facture of goods north of Rockhampton,
and the reason is not hard to find—the
inability of manufacturers to operate
successfully under the load of taxation
and high wages obtaining in those parts.
To attract mills it will be necessary
to offer cheap power, commonsense cart-
age rates and liberal tax exemption, plus
a willingness by Government and
local authority to co-operate with the
new in cl istries.
Most northerners agree that, given those
conditions, a new era would open for the
forgotten half of Queensland. —D. J. H.
(Q-). .
Bread
What do the bakers put in bread be-
sides flour, water and yeast?
Thirty years ago bread would keep for
many days. On bush-work we would buy
a .dozen lor. . as for 2s. 6d. (9s. now), wrap
them in uni 'cached calico and keep in a
tin-trunk. They would be quite palatable
for four or five days, after which toasting
was popular. After about a week the
bread would show signs of blue mould
and out it went to the horses.
The bread I get today turns bitter on
the second day, and grows a furry beard
when three or four days old. After that
it’s almost too foul to put in a decent
garbage-tin.-
Perhaps my memory is bad, but I
seem to recall also that, in the old days,
bacon took six weeks to cure and would
PERKJMES
“ Five guineas! How much back on the
bole ?”
last until it was hacked to the last bit,
even up to six months. Now the smart
fellows cure it in 20 minutes and it lasts
about as long as fresh steak. —O. T.
(N.S.W.).
Travelling-stock Routes
The Bulletin is wrong in its assump-
tion (B. 29 / 3 / ’5O) that most of the inland
(N. S Wales) sheep are being shifted by
motor transport, and that the drovei is
dying out because there isn’t work for
him. Most big lots of stock are still
shifted by t.s.r. and thence by rail. As
for the drover dying out, he is in heavy
demand and knows it. One drover in
this district has three plants going, and
would have more if he could find men to
run them.
From a grazier’s point of view the t.s.r.
is generally the best aqd most economical
way to shift sheep or cattle, particularly
ewes in lamb or wool-growing wethers.
Last year I sent 1800 wethers to a sale by
t.s.r. and they cost £lOO to land in the
yards, which are 100 miles from here.
By motor transport the cost would have
been £270 Or 3s. per sheep, and they would
not have landed as well. Three shillings
is not much when an off-shears wether
makes 455., but it is a lot when a wether
makes 18s. to 205,, as it will do if the
market falls.
I also sold 1600 fattening-age cattle to
a Cootamundra man. They were walked
the 400 miles home and landed in first-
class order. The cost was approximately
£BOO, or 10s, per head. By motor-lorry,
thence rail, it would have cost £1760 for
the n\otor-lorry alone.
Graying in this country depends on
stock-r\mtes for a good deal of its pros-
perity—^‘they are the arteries that allow
the easy movement of stock. Motor
transport does a wonderful job in shift-
ing stock over dry or waterless stages,
and is first-rate for taking truck lots of
fat stock to railheads or markets, but
for shifting big lots of stock in normal
times it is too expensive and hard on
stock
There are a lot of returned men
from both wars settled on grazing land,
and it is in their interests that the t.s.rs.
be retained and watering facilities im-
proved on them. A good deal of t.s.r.
has been taken up in the past, and it
would be dangerous to take any more
of it. ,
I have used motor transport a good
deal, as well as t.s.r. and rail. I have
based on motor-transport costs on the
present current rate of 4s. 6d. a mile one
way for the ordinary 32ft. double-decker
transport. About 90 per cent, of stock
in this district is moved by t.s.r., and mobs
of 2000 to 5000 sheep and 500-head of
cattle are a common sight.—H. R. W.
(N.S.W.).
Trams and Buses
I agree with “Karrimba” (B. 1/2/’5O)
on the virtues of the trolley-bus, which
combines the best (and the worst) features
of both tram and bus, but I don’t agree
that the “capital cost of a trolley-bus
system does not approach the enormous
outlay on a tramway.”
What are the essential requirements of
the three systems? Vehicle costs are
roughly similar, although favoring the
electric vehicle. All three require a heavy,
well-laid and well-maintained track—none
can operate without it. The electric jobs
require, in addition, an overhead wiring
system from which to draw their energy,
single and relatively simple in the case of
the tram, double and in-
fernally complicated in
the case of the trolley-
bus.
That the track used by
the tram differs construc-
tionally from that of the
others should have no
bearing on the matter of
capital cost. Yet a com-
pletely outworn tradition
insists that a tramway
must not only carry the
entire capital cost of lay-
ing down and maintain-
ing its own track, but
also, where the route lies
along a street, must pro-
vide and maintain the
surface of that street out
to the edge of the
sleepers, a possible dist-
ance of 22ft. Of that,
the tram wears a maxi-
mum of Ift., so the rest
is being maintained free
for the use of other
traffic.
Turn to the bus-
trolley or other. It
builds, maintains and is
responsible for nothing.
It gets its track for a
fixed annual payment
Which allows it to run
once a week or 24 hours a day. There
is absolutely no connection between that
payment and the cost of building and
maintaining the road, and there is seldom
even so much as a direct economic con-
nection between the body which runs the
vehicle and that which looks after the
road. Unlike the car-owner, who pays a
heavy petrol-tax, the diesel-bus pays a
trifling fuel-tax and the trolley-bus none
at all.
It is impossible to obtain any useful
figure for the relative costs of the three
types of vehicle unless you can bring them
all to a common basis. You obviously
can’t ask a bus to maintain portion of the
road, but there’s no reason why the cost
of laying tram-tracks should not be in-
cluded in the overall cost of laying the
road and each tram taxed in the same
manner as the bus. As the tram can com-
pete on a fare basis under the present
stupid system, it would be very interesting
to see to what degree of cheapness it
could go under the alternative conditions.
—Transporticus (Q.).
Profits and Wages
“L.K.” (B. 19/4/’5O) declines to
accept published reports by manufactur-
ing companies as to their profits, prefer-
ring. to take his own deductions “as an
employee of various concerns and as a
businessman.” But he is prepared, appar-
ently,* to accept other reports when they
suit’ his argument; he says “It’s idle
asking workers to increase their output
while their wages are two jumps behind
the cost of living, and while the papers
are full of reports of record dividends,
bonus issues of shares and much watering
of capital.”
If he goes to the trouble to investigate
he’ll find that, since 1939, dividend rates
of public companies as a whole have by
no means increased in the same ratio as
the basic wage, which has risen about
70 jp.c., and which carries added margins
im' 8 ™" ” many more iobs ‘taa fa
Investors have been hit by rising i ivinil
costs more than any other section Ana
those recent bonus-share issues: i n neaS?,
every case they will be found to be
capitalisation of premiums which he
C u hlfl l y^ G ° Ve iPT nt landed that
shareholders should put up when
capital was issued b/publS ggJJ
Conversion of these premiums into cap S
is simply calling them by their nrS
name. No “profit” or discing of profi
is myolved.—Fair Go (N.S.W.). 1
Brisbane Buses
I don’t agree with “Bamekau’s” report
of the bus service given by the' Brisbane
City Council (B. 5/4/’5O). In the days of
privately-owned services, buses were
rarely in a decent state of repair seats
were often little better than upholstered
boards and anyone taller, than about sft
lOin. could not stand erect.
Today we have ; larger buses, all look-
ing smart and invariably in first-class con-
dition. There are at least 4in. to spare
above my 6ft. 2in„ and drivers, I notice
always wait for people running to catch
the bus, unless, of course, there is anpther
following a minute or two later.—Z Y
(Q.).
Housing Costs
I can’t agree that refraining from buy-
ing houses under present conditions will
not reduce the cost of new houses (B.
22/3/’5O), By far the larger number of
houses for sale are anything up to 30
years old, and a steady refusal to buy
must mean a return of sanity for the
real-estate market.
According to an announcement by the
Department ojE National Development
(Housing Division), builders’ basic wages
have risen 53.6 per cent, in Queensland
since 1939 and that, combined with the
40-hour week and other retarding influ-
ences, has increased the effective cost of
housing by 100 per cent.
It is almost impossible, however, to
buy even an old house for double its pre-
war value; indeed, anyone who can get
it for less than three times the 1939 price
is exceptionally lucky. With new homes,
the difference between actual cost and
price asked by builders indicates how
buyers can be soaked. Houses are scarce
and the demand is brisk; consequently
their price is not governed by their cost
but by the buyer’s eagerness to get one.
This situation would certainly be eased
if everyone gave the same return for his
money as he did in 1939, but while there
is no surplus labor available there is little
likelihood of any increased activity m
that direction. . •
Not until our overseas markets begin
to dwindle or world prices for our mam
exports begin to fall can any real chg
be expected in our internal economy.
Until that happens the man who has
thing to sell —and that mcludes labor
will have things all his own way.-bEA
HAWK (Q.). _______
T prom the vantage of a hospital veranda
I have been entertained during ?fJ ng
few weeks by a gang of workers re layj
a section of Adelaide s traml • «
100 men toil almost elbow
assisted by many ponderous 1 .
machines. Every few minutes
gang is held up by a passL n f co 3erable
loss of working-time must be sloW ,
and progress is almost mcriwy^
The cost for wages proportion
machines must be out or an p v
to the work done. done
In other cities similar! Rowing-
without any waste of time j oye d
down of traffic
only on night shift when t ■ machines
and streets deserted. Nlen _ and
are organised to work hours ahead
gangers are able to plan f° , can be
Ld know exactly how “uchja
accomplished before
appears. —Fares (S.A.).
New Stales . . lete . Had it
The new-State idea is obs a burn-
achieved its objective’when'« it might
ipg question some 30 y& rs ° g u t our
have proved a useful
problems today c^j/ or states should
whole set-up. Th®
broken up into dlstrl . c r % whi C h, as wel J
local-government overall1 eDt
as handling art 0 f m
functions, should rest shod?
present State obhgaßon*, ® Rail «a«
be ceded to
for instance, *oUjd comer Minist eB
control. There iwW?
development and h > divided coflt
is subject to a disrup brings awj
Any major industrial , jnterventr ,
spread squeal for f . j g o vei®m j
Lands could go to the d.«n« * *
and other -
as found most suitau. ;
(N.S.W.).


” Is it the “experience of the
“lor’® Here, we might feel we were
on firm ground at last, but no:
Anlv in parenthesis, we may dismiss the
y i at the poem is the experience of the
Sof atany time of his life after the
creation of his work, when he rereads it
hp obviously has then become simply a
reader of his work and is liable to errors
S misinterpretations of his own work
almost as much as any other reader. Many
distances of glaring misinterpretations by
an author of his own work could be
collected
Moreover, a tighter statement of the
unfortunate author’s responsibility, that
his poem is “the total experience, con-
scious and unconscious, during the time
of creation” is “unsatisfactory,” because
it puts the problem “into a completely
inaccessible and purely hypothetical x
which we have no means of recon-
structing or even of exploring.” These
beggars - for - finding - out - things continue
the search:
A better way is obviously in the direc-
tion of defining the work of art in terms
of social and collective experience We
may say that the work of art is the sum
of all past and possible experiences of
the poem: a solution which leaves us
with an infinity of irrelevant individual
experiences, bad and false readings, and
perversions Another answer solves the
question by stating that the genuine poem
is the experience common to all the ex-
periences of the poem. But this answer
would obviously reduce the work of art
to the (lowest) common denominator of
all these experiences... .(and) completely
impoverish the total meaning of a work
of art.
The authors, then proceed to put their
money on “a set of norms or standards”
which “have to be extracted from every
individual experience of a work of art
and together make up the genuine work
of art as a whole”:
The work of art, then, appears as an
object of knowledge sui generis which has
a special ontological status. It is neither
real (like a statue) nor mental (like the
experience of light or pain) nor ideal (like
a triangle). It is a system of norms of
ideal concepts which are intersubjective.
They must be assumed to exist in collec-
tive ideology, changing with it, accessible
only through individual mental experiences
based on the sound-structure of its sen-
tences.
So there is what a poem is, and if the
reader says. Well, that hardly helps me
to understand The Ancient Mariner, then
the answer is that that is not what Messrs.
Warren and Wellek are trying to do.
They are merely trying to define the
indefinable, which has always been a
legitimate object of philosophy : by dis-
covering what we don’t know we learn a
great deal; especially by the wayside, as,
for instance, in the poetic use of sounds
to suggest objects, or onomatopoeia:
It can be shown, as John Crowe Ransom
has amusingly done, that the sound-effect
of a line like “the murmuring of innumer-
able bees” is really dependent on the mean-
ing. If we make only a slight phonetic
change to “murdering of innumerable
beeves” we destroy the imitative effect
completely.
With 47 pages of notes and 40 pages
of bibliography, the book should be a
valuable textbook for all interested in
the most recent developments in literary
study in America, England, Germany,
Russia and France.
in Arnhem Land .
Sometimes you find romance in the
most unexpected places. The formidable
title of Dr. Donald F. Thomson’s
economic Structure and the Ceremonial
exchange Cycle in Arnhem Land (Mac-
millan) would never lead you to suppose
mat, right in the middle of it, like a poetic
image, and the Exhibit A which proves
1S theory of the influence exerted on
the aborigines by Malayan voyagers,
there stands a square bottle of gin.
This estimable object, the original of
which has presumably long been lost, is
now, carved in a Wooden effigy, a totem
of the Mildjingi clan of the Clyde River.
The original, known as a butulo, was
brought to our shores by Macassar sea-
farers “in ancestral times.”
There is no gin, alas, in the sacred
ironwood effigy; but what a dis-
tillation of poetry and adventure
is there to replace it! And how
easy it is for Dr. Thomson, with this
bottle in his hand, to prove that the
Malays did indeed affect the culture of
Arnhem Land; what a weapon it is,
wielded in the courteous way of scholars,
to knock out Professor W. Lloyd Warner,
who in A Black Civilisation unguardedly
referred to “the strong resistance of the
Murngin culture to outside influence.”
Further to correct Professor Warner, Dr.
Thomson says that when he made a long
patrol on foot across Arnhem Land in
1935 he saw, on the wall of a rock-shelter
far inland, the drawing of an iron axe of
the kind brought in former times by the
Macassar voyagers.
When there is material so romantic as
this, and when Dr. Thomson has walked
through Arnhem Land and lived four
years among its aborigines, watching the
women leave the camp for their morning's
work or learning from a native informant
that a crooked spear might be better
than a straight one because it possessed
stronger marr (or mana) from its back-
ground and association, it seems a pity
that Economic Structure (etc.) should
mainly be intended for professional
anthropologists. Of all the sciences none
comes nearer to the ordinary reader than
anthropology which is concerned,
simply, with the habits of human beings
—and it should, surely, not be a private
preserve for the experts and the high-
priests.
However, it is no use reviewing a scien-
tific book merely by saying that it is not
“popular.” Perhaps Dr. Thomson could
be induced to write in that style later.
And in the meantime Economic Structure
(etc.) is not so formidable as to be alto-
gether beyond the ordinary reader.
From time to time an aboriginal
emerges as a personality. There are in-
teresting descriptions of hunting and pre-
paring food—soaking the poison out of
the cycad fruit, for instance, and baking
it in a cake. There are surprising facts,
such as that the Arnhem Landers eat
chiefly a vegetarian diet, using over 60
food-plants, that they are “industrious,”
and that —Dr. Thomson is emphatic about
this—they do not live in a state of
“primitive Communism.” And the
account of how commerce is carried on,
by a system of continual gifts, is fascinat-
ing.
Briefly, the system is that everybody is
obliged, by immemorial custom, to make
certain gifts to somebody else; and the
somebody else is obliged, usually at his
leisure, to make a gift in return ; and there
are types of gifts which must always be
handed on in one direction, so that stone
spearheads from the famous flint quarries
find their way to the sea, and treasures of
iron or glass—this was how the Malays
stimulated economic and social life-find
their way inland from the coast. Failure
to discharge the obligations is “unthink-
able” because of the danger of ritual
visitation and the loss of social prestige.
As a. scientific work the book carries
the recommendation of Professor G. L.
Wood, Dean of the Faculty of Economics
and Commerce at the University of Mel-
bourne, where Dr. Thomson is a Research
' Fellow. It was awarded the Higinbotham
Prize for 1949 by the University of Mel-
bourne, and formed part of the work for
which the Royal Geographical Society of
London awarded the author the Cuthbert
Peake Grant for 1948.
Reviewed Briefly*
You Can Call It A Day : Peter Cheyney
(Collins). Mr. Cheyney’s tough-guys are
losing their vigor ; Johnny Vallon, having
been once seduced in Ihe early part of this
book, thereafter renounces four or five
immoral beauties half-undressed by Mr.
Cheyney’s masterful society-page report-
age and, sticking to whisky, and avoid-
ing fisticuffs and rough-ups, is pleased
enough at the end of 192 pages to crawl
into matrimony. Maybe printing Mr.
Cheyney’s portrait on the back of the
cover is a mistake ; big and bald with a
face like a hard-bitten quince, he tends to
become confused with his hero in the
mind of the reader: is this the face, says
the reader, that loosed a thousand slips?
***!!'
The First Ship Up The Neva ; Jef Last
(Seeker and Warburg). Translated from
the Dutch, this is a simple story of the in-
credible Tsar Peter, who built Petersburg
on a marsh, and offered a prize to the first
captain who, evading the English and
Swedish blockade, would sail up the
Neva to his new city. Auke Wybes, cap-
tain, and son of a Dutch clergyman, who
has been expelled from Hindeloopen for
falling in love with a daughter of one of
the town regents, is first up the river.
The Tsar’s portrait is done with great
vigor, and the simplicity of the story is of
a large subject powerfully, and to a
certain degree symbolically, handled.
* # * *
To Icefield Papers, Old and New : Frank
Swinnerton (Hamish Hamilton). First
published in 1927, these essays are en-
riched by additions, one on Wells (1946),
one on Bennett (1931), both his friends ;
and especially by “A Farewell to Review-
ing,” broadcast in 1948. For some years,
as publisher’s reader and reviewer, he
read a thousand manuscripts a year and
reviewed from three to six printed books
a week ; of authors, he says, “my feeling
for them all is one of compassion mixed
with weariness,” and finds it impossible
“to see them as anything but pathetic
children.” The charm of these essays is
their soundness; you feel that Mr.
Swinnerton does not deliver himself of an
opinion until he has lived with it for a
long time ; thus he discusses cats, feeling
inferior, life at forty, life at sixty, gossip,
Christmas reading, the evolution of the
heroine, charladies, etc.
* * * *
Beyond Tahiti: Frank Fishman (Hall-
craft). Wild doings on an “exotic island
in the South Seas,” where Jim, an Aus-
tralian seeking peace, marries a girl called
Suva and encounters a scheming Syrian
and “a wealthy adventuress.” The
adventuress (can there be such a thing as
a wealthy adventuress?) comes to the
island with a painter, but having cast her
eye upon Jim, proposes to cut the painter.
Then the scheming Syrian takes up paint-
ing in an effort to outdo the visiting
painter, George Hogg. One concludes
that Makura is not a good place for
painters to go to.
* * * ♦
Poems for Speaking : Richard Church
(Dent). An anthology ranging from early
ballads and songs, through the standard
English poets, to such contemporaries as
Louis MacNeice and Dylan Thomas, Mr.
Church has the idea that, largely by
means of the radio, people are being led
back to poetry through the spoken word,
and these poems are selected for their
speakability.
IN THE ORCHARD .... Kenneth Mackenzie
We two worked the orchard together: the
old man,
in whom the pride of flesh had long since
ebbed and gone,
carefully stumbling along through the re-
splendent weather,
through morning's mounting and excited
crowd of gold
to the fine coronation of October noon
and on down the wistful slopes of the
afternoon,
the reminiscent aftermath, towards his
dreams.
Wit-h his grey whittled hands*, strong still
as a bird’s, that
symbolise the grasp on life of what must
live,
he touched the leaves, the young leaves of
the orange-trees,
and round his head the burning fruit hung
ponderous,—
proud in its bursting juices, essences of
summer.
But in him all liquid pride of flesh had
gone,
he had no self now save in retrospective
dreams.
Plainly I saw that day where all his being
was:
he was the trees. So pure, so innocent
and young,
rooted in earth and bearing on their
crowns the sky’s
pitiless weight of blue, ranked like a young
army
they were to him more real and beautiful
than all •
His many grandchildren, more near to him
than 1
who worked treading his shadow in the
October weather.
Each tree his eye observed stood suddenly
alone,
clear, dark, attentive on his clouding
scrutiny
that groped into his unimaginative heart
to feel the fluid and mysterious pulse work-
ing,
the being of that life, magically made
strong,
perfect, vivid, bitter, fruitfully unique
from the insentient chemistry of air and
earth.
There in his very fingers ruffling through
the leaves,
testing the spring and weight, there in his
cracked hands
was, to be felt and at a distance smiled
upon,
selfhood and youth, a stirring again of the
old dreams,
now long since dispassionately pure like
air
moving among the glades of brown and
green and gold
in the perfection of the hot October
weather.
I with my heart uplifted and aflame with
the sun,
my greed and pride and self, pity and envy
and
hope that I too might, one day, one bright
afternoon
of the next century, walk without pain
among
the still and powerful orange-trees, and be
of them.
He hands me fruit and does not know
This is my flesh,
my blood; but it is true.
The sharded rind I cover
with a kick of earth, and follow him
through time.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 66
i Across
"-American soldier pianissimo de-
-B—p CS t^ese Victorians. (12)
American warship takes
v. Scottish johnny’s Europeans
I. I~ but they’re probably red. (5, 8)
it?r eraBe ’ (3>
ma ke jockeys idle with you
ttle Reamer with financial
allowances. (11)
itS nasts - < 9 .)
wiftu°i, cup * es three positions in
ethalle, Koo-Wee-Rup, and
itJ; arrawee - 0)
]o.v°, Umam Party. (3)
tin? l^ 6 t 0 k. c a Pawnbroker get-
-22 8 3 Bem mflammation. (9)
25-Zo° Vel *4 < 6 > 5)
export from Jamaica. (3)
vehicle P ?j te S N to g 0 north in this
27—tr ' ’ w
the dtv d ? arn , ay a Package from
e city of publication. (6, 6)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1 — Greed to surfeit a boy. (8)
2 Hand hands fruit. (7)
3 Apparel urges clubs to proceed
through deep water. (8)
4 Testifies. (5)
5 Oppose the disorderly daughter
of my father and mother. (6)
6 Beasts of burden south of what
tax-collectors do. (6)
7 -This is a Nobel Prize winner
thanks to the blood label on un-
refined mineral. (6)
9 —Ruses that disturb employers. (5)
13—It is sometimes White, Red,
Black and Yellow —but always
much the same color. (3)
15— Some New Zealand thrushes have
a revue act on the city of the
Taj Mahal. (8)
16— Camp ’em in minced Red Indian
food. (8)
18— Permit Henry to be deadly. (6)
19 — Intimidate an area between Syd-
ney and the Hawkesbury. (5)
20 — Firm singer turned up with a
tiara. (7)
21— Steamer in the pottery material
is of high quality, but see why
the girl separates them? (6)
23 — The people, clergymen excepted,
show what the egg-producer can
do about it. (5)
24 Fleshy as my feed inside. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 65.


m
m
v*r
m
■
m
i
I : :
■■ -
:
<:<Ji4
.
: '»««s®l|*
B‘ il
1
MM^Mpil,
■ iX
■iKiiiilWiW lii
illllllll
sapsgril
v##||
|p£f . WSst sEs|i
pfe
sg fmxm-m SSSPS m W!m
I *5 .^5#2S
IHHI
■
iMBS
lili
H*** :
«
SSSSigiilS^^
»'•' I
:?
• lIP
fds
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a
mark of quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is
the symbol of the Radio Age, representing the
knowledge gained from research and engineering
over more than 35 years*
fds
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the
A.W.A. laboratories, which have advanced radio in
the home, on the highways, at sea, and in the air.
As one of Australia’s key industrial organisations,
A.W.A. recognises the value of scientific research
and its important role in peace and security.
• BROADCASTING AND RECORDING.
Producing a Play at A.W.A. Studios.
§ Driver of vehicle fitted with A.W.A, Frequency
Modulated Radio-Telephone Equipment answering
a call.
m A.W.A. Air-Mite V.H.F. Trans-
ceiver and Inter-Communica-
tion Unit for light aircraft
-■ ; > :
iw
MM
■
A.W.A. manufactures: Broadcasting stations, broadcasting studio equipment, communication transmitters
and receivers, mobile radio equipment, marine transmitters and receivers, direction finders, automatic alarm
apparatus, radar, air navigation beacons and distance measuring equipment, instrument landing systems,
aeradio stations, telephone terminal equipment, micro-wave links, radio programme recordings, military
communication equipment, transmitting and receiving radio valves, broadcast receivers, etc.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
