

The bulletin
«The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 —No. 365 '
Wednesday, March 15, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
pROM cast, west, north and south the
A oldest trackways of southern England
all converge towards Salisbury Plain, a
vast expanse of rolling hills and wind-
swept grasslands which is still probably
little _ changed in appearance from pre-
historic times. No other part of Britain
is so redolent with mystery, so deeply
charged with the spirit of the past. Here
are to be found Stonehenge, Silbury Hill
and Avebury Circle and over two
thousand “barrows,” which clearly indi-
cate the sacred associations this district
must have had for prehistoric man.
Stonehenge is, of course, the most
famous prehistoric relic in Britain, but
it is surpassed in size by Avebury Circle,
near Marlborough, which is the largest
monument of its kind in the world. It
was constructed probably by the same
people who built Stonehenge, and it has
been compared to the latter “as a
cathedral to a parish church.” The
Circle, which is three-quarters of a mile
m circumference, is composed of enor-
mous unhewn blocks of stone. Within it
are two smaller circles, the innermost
avmg in its centre a single standing
stone weighing about sixty tons. Sur-
rounding the whole monument is a vast
ampart of earth fifteen feet high and with
fh- f tC f ° r SSe wb ieh was originally
y sCet5 Cet dee P on * ts inner side, thus
ggestmg a religious rather than a de-
ensive Qbjcct for the entrenchment. Some
laea of the great size of the circle is evi-
Av n i, fron l. the fact that the village of
stnS 7 i l£S mSide ib An avenue Of
vino ® n C f a Sl s °nth-eastwards towards the
of f West Kennet. During the course
falipn < ? entUnes rnany of the stones have
erected Ut .f 1 * ny ° f tbese have been re '
impression** Avebur y . toda y gives a fair
The arm ori Smal appearance,
only a Dordn any f m ! • P ho tograph shows
ment. ° n 1S tremendous monu-
ton ? excavati ons disclosed the skele-
tal! ofn! ,an ; aa,denta]J y killed by the
From the
a barber wh-i h lm he was evidently
dated him to the Iw C ° ins in his pouch
teenth centurv ? rst K quarter of the four-
are renuteri /’ Avebur y and Stonehenge
least as I d haV£ been in exis tence at
and thev ea r rly as 2000 to 1500 b.c.,
firchaeologicafm 311 ! today the Breatest
glcal mystery of Britain.
UNKNOWN STILL IS THE ANSWER TO THE RIDDLE OF AVEBURY CIRCLE
extra dry solero
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
ia<!Hm wtagn
ramEM
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New'
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name r*
My Address
S.B. 250 ...
,AOB.
The Red Page
PINTO OF PORTUGAL.
Introduced on the cover as “the first
biography in any language of Fernao
Mendes Pinto,” The Grand Peregrination
by Maurice Collis (Faber) is for the most
part a precis, with running commentary',
of Pinto’s Peregrinagam ; first published
in Lisbon in 1614; translated for the first
and only time into English in 1653 by
Henry Cogan. The full title of the
English translation puts it in a nutshell:
» The voyages and Adventures of Ferdinand
Mendez Pinto, a Portugal. During his
Travels for the space of one and twenty
years in the Kingdoms of Ethiopia, China,
Tartaria, Cauchin-china, Calaminham, Siam,
Pegu, Japan and a great part of the East
Indies. With a relation and description
of most of the places thereof; the
Religion, Laws, Riches, Customs, and
Government in the time of Peace and War.
Where he five times suffered Shipwrack,
was sixteen times sold, and thirteen times
made a slave. Written originally by him-
self in the Portugal Tongue, and Dedicated
to the Majesty of Philip King of Spain.
Pinto’s book was late appearing; ne
left his manuscript to a Lisbon institution
for fallen women ; it did not get published
until 31 years after his death in 1583, and
60 to 80 years after the events it de-
scribed: thus, voyaging and trading in
India, China, Sumatra, Burma, Siam,
Malaya and Japan from 1537 to 1557, “he
anticipated by a generation all our great
Elizabethans, and visited those countries
afterwards to be incorporated in our
Empire, long before any of our pioneers
reached them.”
That is his first distinction ; his second
is his book, which in its day was as
famous as Don Quixote, and as widely
disbelieved as it was widely read, one of
Congreve’s characters saying, “Ferdinand
Mendes Pinto was but a type of thee,
thou liar of the first magnitude.” But
recent research, Mr. Collis says, shows
Pinto to have been a remarkably reliable
author. His literary method was to
dramatise himself as observer and actor
in scenes he may or may not have wit-
nessed ; but his scenes, facts and people
are, as far as they can be checked, correct.
And not only is he informative and reli-
able, but, says Mr. Collis, he is a stylist
and story-teller of the first-class ; his book
is better than the Lusiad of Camoens, and
probably Portugal’s greatest book.
All of which puts Mr. Collis in an un-
fortunate position ; the more his praise of
Pinto as a writer, the more he tells of
Pinto’s adventures, the more the reader
must say, “But why not produce the
original? Why get between us and
Pinto?” Such is the fate of all popu-
larises. Readers who might not other-
wise have met their heroes quickly dis-
card the introducers as parasitical hacks.
And if Pinto were retranslated in English
he might still be as hard for the contem-
porary reader to get on with as Claren-
don’s History of the Civil War.
Certainly that charge cannot be brought
against Mr. Collis. His main difficulty,
in compressing Pinto’s 300,000-word
narrative, is an embarrassment of excite-
ments. Born poor ljut noble about 1509,
Pinto became a lady’s page, ran away to
sea, aged 13 or 14, was captured by
French pirates, put ashore naked at
Mr ies, became valet to Dom Jorge,
die tin:ate son of > e King of Portugal,
and at the age of 28 sailed for India to
make his fortune. Within a fortnight of
r|his arrival a‘ Dtu in India, Pinto joined
an expedition to spy on the Turks in the
Red a, helped capture an Arab dhow,
trav aed by mule into Abyssinia and,
rete.ning to his snip, was taken prisoner
; : r a desperate fight with Turkish
gakeys, dragged in chains through Mocha,
T Oki to a brutal Greek, and resold to a
Jew, who sold him to the captain of the
Portuguese fortress at Ormuz for thirty
pounds.
A little more soldiering-on for the
' tU § U j Se - at oa ’ d ur i n g which he was
wcunded m action against Turks, and
Pmto was off again, as a soldier, to
Malacca where he had charge of negotia-
tions with the King of Batak in Sumatra
a i L Ca^ 8 r f A ln , and resin - The wi nd
hkSL ff / he ¥ alay State of Ked ah on
his return trip, he went ashore to pay his
arrested H° ' he Salta " of who
arrested him, and the next mnrnino
taTcounvard 3 " <tephaat, welc omed him
and head"S" 1 '™ ks - “■»*
Sudan’s father, SHemeT £
h!s C ‘son 3 - Ut the rdations of his wife and
paid him evSTffliafdmy!" said tteSuton
i/nM s.. what a -Assa
Early in 1540 Pinto was put in charge
°1 » car 8° to Pahang on the east coast
of Malaya, and after some exciting trad-
ing adventures agreed with a merchant
called Antonio to sell cottons at Ligor
where Turkish pirates surprised his ship’
took the cargo, sank the vessel and killed
all except three of her company. Antonio
equipped a vessel to chase the pirates,
captured two pirates and took their
cargoes, valued at some £lOO,OOO ; cap-
tured another pirate cargo worth 40,000
ounces of silver, kidnapped a bride on
her way to her wedding, tortured prisoners
by twisting ropes around their heads until
their brains burst out, and late in the
year lost the lot in a shipwreck on what
Pinto called “‘The Isle of Thieves,” from
which they escaped by boarding a Chinese
junk which came close inshore while its
crew were collecting wood and water.
Finally they found the pirates they were
seeking in the Strait of Formosa, and
after fierce fighting killed them all and
took their huge booty, and sacked a
Chinese town to free the pirates’ Portu-
guese prisoners. After various Chinese
adventures, Antonio went down with his
ship in a typhoon, while Pinto’s ship ran
ashore, and Pinto was left to beg and
relax in Chinese prisons.
And thus it goes on; adventure
crowded upon adventure ; the Burmese
king hanging the princess of a beaten
viceroy with the wives of her husband’s
principal commanders and their children
140 women and three or four hundred
children by the feet until they were dead;
a description of a Juggernaut festival;
Pinto s first visit to Japan. It seems that
three Portuguese passengers on a Chinese
junk were the first Europeans to visit
Japan, and that, if Pinto was not one of
them, his account of the visit is to a large
extent accurate ; how Lord Tokitaka was
impressed by the Portuguese arquebus;
how he had his smiths immediately copy
it by the hundred while one of the visitors,
Zeimoto, told him how to make gun-
powder ; how Yoshinaga, son of the Duke
or Bungo, filled Pinto’s arquebus with
powder to the muzzle and discharged it,
almost blowing his head off and injuring
his thumb ; how Pinto doctored the boy’s
thumb, etc.
!n September, 1551, Pinto was making
his third visit to Japan, and was on the
merchant ship which took Francis Xavier,
Saint Xavier, off from a missionary visit
to convert the Japanese, and so was
aboard when the Saint performed the
miracle of retrieving a lost ship’s-boat
and all the men in it; he developed a
great respect for Xavier and counted him
his friend.
So that in 1553, when he was preparing
to retire to Portugal with the equivalent
of some twenty thousand English pounds
—worth more then than now-he called
at the Jesuit College at Goa to find out
if Xavier had written him a letter before
his death in China a year or so earlier.
The kindness of the college authorities
turned hisnnnd to missionarying; and in
1554 he freed his many slaves at Goa
CU j. . 1S fortune in half to finance his ex-
pedition, and set out for Japan. There,
although he was received with immense
politeness the highly-civilised and
sophisticated family scene in the home of
the Duke of Bungo is one of his best and
most charming—his attempt to convert
the Japanese from their own well-
established faith was a failure;
Missionaries in Japan would have to
strive patiently, undergo hardships, brave
dangers and be satisfied with converting a
traction of the natives. Pinto admired such
missionaries, but he knew that he himself
could never settle down to a life which
paid such low dividends.
In February, 1557* he was back in
Goa, and by September, 1558, was in
Lisbon, where the Regent, Queen
Catherine, promised an award which did
not materialise until, in the last year of
his life, he was granted an annual rental
of two hogsheads of corn, equal to three
loaves of bread a day.
Poetic Clockwork.
It may be taken as a compliment to
Mr. R. G. Howarth’s Notes on Modem
Poetic Technique, English and Aus-
tralian (Angus and Robertson) that the
present reviewer, though fairly well read
in poetry and, indeed, the author of some
pieces of verse, had to read it twice
before he could understand it, and even
then was not quite certain whether or not
he agreed with Mr. Howarth on all points.
One who invariably failed in algebra
and who has driven a car for twenty years
with a determination never to find out
what makes it go is not altogether a suit-
able reviewer for a textbook which looks
rather like the dismembered works of a
clock.
Perhaps Mr. Howarth, who has written
gracefully in both verse and prose, should
have brought more of the climate of
poetry, the sweetness and the light, into
his booklet. For instance, when Louis
MacNeice described some of Stephen
Spender’s far-too-vague rhymes such as
“concrete” and “secret” as “ghosts of
rhymes,” we are still in the climate of
poetry. There is a touch of magic in the
phrase, and even these phantom rhymes
are enlivened by it. And when Mr.
tells us that the ghosts are,
strictly, “assonance and consonance and
assonance and consonance between
stressed and unstressed syllables (near-
assonance and near-consonance)” one is
certainly brought back with a jolt to the
classroom.
And then, in his opening chapter, Mr.
Howarth plunges his reader into the in-
variably bewildering territory of a dis-
cussion on the fundamental nature of the
universe ; or, at least, the reader must
plunge into it if he wishes to question
Mr. Howarth’s obviously challenging
assertions that “rhythm is not essential”
and that “poetry may exist in a single
monosyllabic word.”
Mr. Howarth thinks that “image
is the essence of poetry” ; the reviewer
thinks that rhythm and image in
indissoluble fusion are the essence. Mr.
Howarth thinks that poetry “reflects the
universe” ; the reviewer thinks that it also
embodies the rhythm of the universe. Mr.
Howarth thinks that “a poem can consist
of images alone”; the reviewer thinks
that a poem consisting of images alone,
not moulded into form by rhythm, is a
pillar of nothingness which will fall to
chaos at a touch.
Mr. Howarth, finally, seems obliged
to maintain, if poetry may exist in a single
monosyllabic word, that the word “cow”
is poetry; the reviewer regards a cow as
the raw material for poetry. Mr. Howarth
would reply that he didn’t say a cow was
a poem, only that it was poetry; the re-
viewer must retort that—well, he will let
Mr. Howarth have the last word on this
unfortunate animal. One must at any
rate be grateful for an extremely lucid
analysis of the poetic image.
So, too, should one be grateful for Mr.
Howarth’s technicalities. Someone must,
after all, be able to take a clock to pieces,
label its parts and tell us what makes it
tick ; and Mr. Howarth—who is forced
by the scheme of his booklet into l a com-
pact and technical terminology—has per-
formed a valuable service not only for the
students who, for the mortification of
their souls, are obliged to study the
mechanics of verse-craft but, more im-
portantly, for all those young versifiers
who so often write to The Bulletin in-
quiring how to become a genius.
Most teachers of art these days advise
their pupils first to become a genius and
then to learn to draw ; but poets, who are
compelled in any case to learn the English
language before they attempt to write,
are still advised by Kenneth Slessor,
quoted by Mr. Howarth, to master their
trade before they play tricks with it:
The traditional grammar of rhyme, metre
and formality must be learnt by any poet as
earnestly as the pianist learns his five-finger
exercises. But he must not be shackled
by academic rules once he has learnt his
discipline. The color and texture of vowel-
sounds, the infinite rhythms of consonants,
the emotional effects obtained by avoiding
a rhyme, approaching a rhyme or by
subtly altering it—all these are experiments
in anarchy of which poets today know very
little except by intuitive feeling.
Mr. Howarth, then, sets out to discuss
and analyse this “traditional grammar” ;
and, particularly, to examine and cata-
logue the variations which modern poets
in England and Australia, since Hopkins
rediscovered the techniques of Beowulf,
Piers Plowman and Skelton, have played
upon the strict grammar. By so doing,
in his capacity as Reader in English
Literature at Sydney University and
Occasional Commonwealth Literary Fund
Lecturer in Australian Literature, he
extends, as it were, the “academic rules”
until they are no longer academic ; or, to
put it another way, he makes the experi-
ments respectable.
There are one or two points, besides
the terrible problem of the cow, which
seem debatable. One finds it hard to
understand why Mr. Howarth thinks that
Hopkins’s “sprung rhythm” consists of
“successive unspaced stresses” when
Hopkins himself said it was “measured
by feet of from one to four syllables,
regularly, and for particular effects any
number of weak or slack syllables may
be used,”
Again, it is surely misleading to describe
Kenneth Slessor as “a disciple of T. S.
Eliot” ; possibly Eliot has had some in-
direct influence on Slessor, as he has had
on nearly all writers of this generation,
but he has certainly had no direct in-
fluence that could justify Mr. Howarth in
placing Slessor in the company of Joseph
O’Dwyer, Bertram Higgins and Edgar
Holt. Mr. Howarth’s tabulations and
classifications of Australian poets, inci-
dentally, in the lists on pages 7, 49
and 61 seem haphazard to the point of
meaninglessness. Why, for instance,
does John Thompson figure twice in these
lists of “modernists” and “experimenters,”
T. Inglis Moore three times, Judith
Wright and Rosemary Dobson only once
and Kenneth Mackenzie and Francis
Webb not at all?
Mr Howarth has confined himself to
a discussion of rhyme, rhythm and
imagery, and this leads him into giving
rather an unfair impression of Amt i-
poetry as a whole, which he sav?
be more - “adventurous ” r„* y k s sh °uld
about in the style of,Hopkins k
only way in which poetry can
spmt of adventure. It is shown
trahan poetry from “Captain ri D , Us '
“Heemskirck Shoals” an d “X S° ok “>
Ben Boyd” by the chofee o? trS
adventurous themes; by the vsr ? ,ls
these poems have made on the d ™'?"'
monologue of Browning- hv ? atlc '
Wright’s explorations into the
earth and the profundities of hum!** 11
penence; even, paradoxically
return to form and reenlaL at
modified, of course, by the ass m iL'T
of contemporary technique--whehu
Howarth seems to regret. Mr.
Finally, one views with certain min-
ings Mr. Howarth’s advice to AuS*
poets to go in for “contextual a &
ness -“There are memorable phraTt
Harpur, Gordon, Kendall and later m ,
which could be recalled in verse S
new effect.” Mr. Howarth him elf ?
witness his strictures on Bertram jSL?
is well aware of the danger of this &
but he does not consider the point 2
its use by Eliot, however legitimate and
however effective, is still an indication
of weakness, of a talent more critical than
creative. It is better, surely, to £
your own phrases than to make an
anthology of other men’s.
But against these debatable matters
must be set specifically, Mr. Howarth’s
brilliant analysis of the poetic image ■ his
clear statement on what constitutes' the
best diction for poetry; his painstaking
definition of the different kinds of
imagery, rhyme and rhythm; and, gener-
ally, the scholarly comprehensiveness of
the survey, and the pleasure one feels at
seeing Australian poets discussed natur-
ally and appreciatively in the company
of their English contemporaries. Besides
however much one may disagree about
Definitions, imagist poetry and contextual
allusion, one never doubts finally that Mr.
Howarth knows what poetry is. The poet,
he tells us, creates images which reflect
the universe and, being sensitive, may
have “a further range of perception than
others.” Reality stretches beyond our
senses, and “this is proved by the extra
perceptions of some animals and by the
mechanical detection of sound, such as
the shriek of the bat, which is above the
range of human ears,”
Random Reminiscences.
The title of P. A. Jacobs’s A Lawyer
Tells (F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd.) promises,
surely, law for a start and then interesting,
even startling, revelations : and it is a
little disconcerting to open the book and
find Mr. Jacobs harmlessly relating the
history of the Melbourne suburb of St.
Kilda.
On the other hand, if a prudent instinct
guides you to open the book near the
end, Mr. Jacobs has not only a fairly ex-
tensive account of the murderer
Deeming—as Poe might have said,
His eyes had. all the seeming
Of a Deeming that is dreaming—
but is able to correct Marshall Hall’s
biographer, Majoribanks, on his report of
the case. Majoribanks relates a pretty
legend that when Geoghegan, Deeming’s
counsel, was addressing the Privy Council
on the murderer’s behalf, a telegram
arrived from the prison chaplain in Aus-
tralia to say that Deeming had been
hanged that morning. Marshall Hall,
said Majoribanks, was Geoghegan’s
junior in the case and tried in vain to
interrupt his useless flow of eloquence to
read him the telegram.
It is a pity to spoil a good story, but it
is a relief, perhaps, to be assured that we
do not hang murderers in Australia while
they are still being defended before the
Privy Council. . Mr. Jacobs says, firstly,
that the official report shows that
Geoghegan’s junior was not Marshall
Hall but Lawless ; and, secondly, that the
same report discloses that the appeal was
dismissed by the Privy Council on May
19th, 1892, and that Deeming was hanged
on May 23rd.
In spite of this and one or two other
case-histories —the Whiteley murder ia


TRUTH*IN ADVERTISING.
f
V
CCf
O
73
1
a
mm.
;
Xf
U 3
z©
o
ss
30
z
mO
£5
X
o
$
CZ
o
■
— yh
o
V“
w
o
n
L 4
ii
ii
i
m
A few gallons of paint
i
makes all the difference!
Freshly painted, your house is more than just beautiful, it’s actually worth
more! These paints cover better, prevent decay and last
longer. They give measurably greater protection and beauty to your
house. They emphasize that it always costs more not to paint.
Borthwicks A.B. Paint (< '
Ordinary colours, 1 gal., 40/7; \ gal., 21/-; 1 qrt., 11/3; 1 pt., 6/-. Greens,
1 gal., 42/8; 4 gal., 22/1; 1 qrt., 11/11; 1 pt., 6/4, Orange and Mid Chrome,
1 gal., 44/4; \ gal., 23/-; 1 qrt., 12/4; 1 pint, 6/6. Brilliant Red, 1 gal.,
price 54/4; r gal., price 27/10; 1 quart, price 14/8; 1 pint, price 7/9.
Borthwicks Ruoool Roof Paint
Designed to impart a high degree of protection to galvanised iron and all
steel surfaces. Red, 1 gal., price 37/3; j gal., price 19/5. Li-Slate, 1 gal.,
price 42/2; i gal., price 21/11. Green, 1 gal., price 47/10; \ gal., price 24/9.
Mpah Paving Paint
F° r paths, steps, bathroom and laundry floors. Red and Black, 1 gal., 28/3;
2 gal-, 14/10; 1 qrt., 8/1; 1 pt., 4/1; i pt., 2/6. Brown, Green, Blue, Cream,
1 gallon, 38/4; gallon, 19/10; 1 quart, 10/6; 1 pint, 5/8; \ pint, 3/-.
Taubman’s Dynainel for Cupboards, etc.
S Y to apply, quick drying to a glossy durable finish. In brilliant colours,
gallon, 47/5; i gallon, 24/5; 1 quart, 12/11; 1 pint, 6/10; } pint, 3/9.
e\
;V4
irN
/A
ry*
Ws
—it
.¥>. '.V'\
U
I 0
L_J
t .'/?■=:
«M£
sr
zT^T'Q.V
/«
- tv
.
HORDERNS’ PAINT DEPARTMENT—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


a Seven Oaks Seandel
<<| jERBERT! I must go now —bus
fl at the top in two minutes.”
I I “Good, Min. Yes, Min, you’d
better hurry then.”
“The pot’s on the stove —in the cosy.
It’ll stand more water if you want a cup
of tea. The kettle’s on the simmerer.”
“Thanks, Min. I’ll be 0.K.”
“You can make fresh, Herbert, if you
really want it —only we have to go easy
with the coupons till next week.”
“That’s all right, Min, the —the other”
(he nearly said “stale stuff” but checked
himself in time) —“the other will do.”
“That Your sister is not likely
to come up this afternoon?”
“I don’t think so, Min. I don’t know.
Hardly likely though. I don’t think so,
Min.”
“Well, I must go. Look after your-
self, Herbert.”
“0.K., Min. Have a good time.”
SATURDAY afternoon, in the golden
greens of mid-October. Seven Oaks
never looked better—Seven Oaks was
always like that. “Seven Oaks,” said
Mr. Bingley-Scutt, “is the gem of the
Line.” Mr. Bingley-Scutt said this with
the confidence of a parson who had inner
knowledge of Heaven. It was sheer
poetry, the gem part of it, anyway. It
may possibly have been exaggeration, but
then poets and estate-agents have special
licence in that way.
Mr. Bingley-Scutt was the estate-agent
of Seven Oaks, long established in what
is rather resentfully called a “tidy busi-
ness” or a “tidy little business.” He
found the “gem” useful: people like to
come to, or live in, a gem of a place.
Privately, however, Mr. Bingley-Scutt said
Seven Oaks was a “hole,” or a “dead
hole.” Years of wrathful reflection had
led to this conclusion. It even led to
the extremely vulgar declaration that
Seven Oaks was “a of a place.”
And it wasn’t based on business, but on
the uneven, slippery rungs of the social
ladder.
Upstanding, sixteen stone and fine
figure and all, with a face that was as
pontifical as estate-agency could allow
it to be, Mr. Bingley-Scutt counted for
little in Seven Oaks and Mrs. 8.-S.
counted .for very little more. It was
tough, to be sure, and struck deep at
the very roots of self-esteem. But so
it wa£, in Seven Oaks, anyway. Fancy—
an estate-agent! I wonder what next!
The butcher, or the milkman! Or -an
unspoken word to indicate the grim
absurdity of the dustman. That—the
fancy and the wonder—was years ago,
when Mr. and Mrs. Bingley-Scutt were
surveying with upturned eyes the uneven
and slippery ladder. And the rigid laws
were just as stiff then as now. Seven
Oaks had then savored the hyphenation
and sniffed. Mrs. Bingley-Scutt had
silently pleaded their accumulation of
money. Seven Oaks liked money, but
let it be seen that money wasn’t every-
thing. As proof of this there were the
two Miss Devonshires. Heaven knows
they had nothing; starving really. But
they ‘ belonged,” they had access “every-
where.” They were “equal.”
So Seven Oaks was at once a gem
and a hole.
The history of Bingley-Scutt is im-
portant. It had in a way to do with
the history of Mr. Ponsett; and Mr.
Ponsett is that Herbert
who was at liberty to
regale himself with the
stale tea on the stove.
Not that Mr. Bingley-
Scutt and Mr. Ponsett
were great friends.
They weren’t. Mostly
just passed-the-time-of-
day sort of thing, and
said it was windy, or
fine, or cold, according
to the vagaries of the
weather. The weather,
and more rarely the
proposed duplication of
the line, was the com-
mon bond between
them.
Mr. Ponsett Her-
bert, that is—was 52.
And 52 is probably the
most hopeless age a
man can be. A dreary
desert of an age. No man can be any-
thing at 52 unless he has already been
something. Mr. Ponsett hadn’t. And
after 52 there is nothing.
And Mr. Ponsett didn’t look much.
He was Average—which, apart from the
petty and minor differences, meant he
was dead level. You wouldn’t look at
him twice. He was sparely built and
middle height, and no real Seven Oaks
look about him. Slightly bald, clean-
shaven, very ordinary face but clear and
healthy enough, too, long thin arms, and
braces that tended to slip from his
shoulders. He would like to wear a belt
and shorts and singlet. But Mrs. Pon-
sett was firm on such matters. Unreason-
able and bigoted, perhaps. She had said
—once, and once only—“ Belt! Herbert!
Surely!” After that there could be no
belt. Similarly was ban placed on shorts:
“Shorts! Herbert! Shorts !”
C? O this Saturday in mid-October we
find Mr. Ponsett in grey flannel
slacks that “would hardly do any more,
you know,” long-sleeved khaki shirt and
braces, mowing the front lawn. Shaving
it. It was a nice lawn, even as lawns
go in Seven Oaks. Not as big as many,
but none so well kept. It was of fine
couch, tended with slavish care, and, with
all the combativeness there was in Mr.
Ponsett, guarded against the intrusiveness
of paspalum and Parramatta-grass. If
there weren’t so many good lawns in
Seven Oaks, you might well stop and
gaze at the Ponsett lawn. Socially
speaking, that lawn might move on terms
of perfect equality with the lawns of
Seven Oaks. And so could the
tuck - pointed house, semi - bungalow
in build, topped off with glazed
and matched tiles. And so could
the bordering beds of poppies and
anemones, the daffodils —just finished
now —the new outlay of antirrhinums
(just “snaps” to the vulgar) and zinnias
—lushly growing in dark rich composted
soil. And so could the larger growths of
Geraldton-wax and mint-bush in the
glories of their spring bloom, the Coota-
mundra and Queensland wattles by the
sides, and, further back, the fire-tree and
the calistemon (mere bottlebrush in the
all-too-familiar parlance).
Yes, indeed, a house may, and yet a
man mayn’t. Certainly a house did
count, but it was not everything. A
septic-tank counted in unsewered Seven
Oaks, but a septic-tank was not every-
thing. Mr. Ponsett had a septic-tank, and
the Miss Devonshires had to depend on
a little square building, beautifully draped
and disguised in bignonia, and the weekly
visitation of a huge black van. And the
Miss Devonshires had no sort of house
to speak of. A mere weatherboard, neat
admittedly, and colorfully set in those
old-fashioned flower-beds that have so
much suggestion of England in them —
care and taste and a sort of riotous
neglect. Plants and flowers were English
in savor, especially the dark green holly,
the ivy on the wall, the honeysuckle on
the porch, the tall hollyhocks that claimed
two comers for their own ; geranium and
lavender.
The Miss Devonshires were English,
very English. Not exactly bom in Eng-
land. But they were very English, and
that counted. They suffered Australia,
and that counted, too. In the cold hard
record of fact they had been born in
Ashfield, and had lived their young days
there, in the days when the address,
Liverpool-road, Ashfield, was eminently
considerable. Just as in earlier and more
spacious days you could live in Balmain
or Botany, or, yes, Surry Hills and still
be Somebody . . .
4 - clickety, click - click -
click! ” said the mower in the sharp
metallic rhythms that could still
harmonise with the soft and mellow air
of October.
“Clickety-click,” answered a com-
panionable mower from across the way.
And another down the road somewhere.
And, faintly clear in the distance, another
across the gully . . , “Snip-snip, snip-snip-
snip, snip” .went somebody’s big two-
handed hedge-shears. And again their
doubles or ghosts in further places. Like
roosters, in duty bound, answering him
who first crows in the dawn.
Mr. Ponsett wiped the mistiness from
his glasses, a deliberate and carefully per-
formed operation. Without his glasses
he was owi-in-daylight. His poor vision
was at once an affliction and a pride. Mr.
Ponsett often said, “I’m nearly as blind
as a bat without glasses.” But Mrs,
Ponsett did not sink or rise to such petty
vanity.
“All I can say, Herbert, you had better
get those glasses changed.”
“Oh, they’re all right—yet.”
“Well, if they are, why complain of
them?”
“I wasn’t complaining— not really, I
was only saying.”
But Mrs. Ponsett was no longer listen-
ing. There is a fallacy, or at least a truth
in need of qualification, that a woman
always has the last word. Mrs. Ponsett
seldom bothered to have the last word
with Herbert. She just let him taper off
or fade out. And she persisted in
“Herbert.” Other Herberts are “Bert” or
“Herb,” or, in the greater waves of affec-
tion, “Herby.” But not so Mr. Ponsett.
He was Herbert always. And it was
significant. It meant first of all some-
thing of severity and reproach—that Mr.
Ponsett should be what he was and how
he was. There was a hardness in the
very lines of the name and the enuncia-
tion of it. Then, in this freedom from
the familiarity of diminutives, there was
a certain respectability, a giving of some-
thing to live up to —if Mr. Ponsett could.
Mrs. Ponsett was ambitious —for herself,
with Herbert as adjunct or aid.
In the first blush and bloom of their
marriage they had come to Seven Oaks,
and Mrs. Ponsett had visions of cutting
some figure in the stratosphere of that
select suburb. The vision perforce had
to fade. It reached its pinnacle in croquet,
whither Mrs. Ponsett was going this
October day. And Mrs. Ponsett blamed
Seven Oaks and Herbert. Seven Oaks for
its uppityness and snobbery, and Herbert
for being incapable of living up to that
same uppityness and snobbery. In
common fairness she didn’t blame herself.
She was all right.
Mrs. Ponsett was “Min.” Mr. Ponsett
always “Minned” her, though her name
was Margaret. Mr. Ponsett had long
since forgotten that it was Margaret. She
was “Min.” And that was significant,
too; for all the world like that caressing
and placating note that one uses to
approach an unknown dog of uncertain
temper.
MR. PONSETT readjusted the wiped
glasses and hitched his braces to
correct alignment. He went to the front
gate, his shoes crunching the Bowral
gravel on the path. Nice red gravel. He
looked up and down the street —Waratah-
avenue. There was no one in sight on
the road. Only a parked car about a
hundred yards along. And a dog asleep
in the middle of the road; Dawson’s
dog, that was, a foxie of quite impeccable
ancestry, but his line came to an end with
him. In Seven Oaks parlance Caesar had
been “fixed.” Seven Oaks had reasonable
objections to the untidy, noisy, normal
behavior of dogs. But it liked dogs, too.
So the penalty of canine existence in
Seven Oaks was “fixing.” But, after all,
dogs can’t have everything. The same
applied to a race of noble-looking, home-
loving, lethargic cats. Their interest in
feline friends was as fleeting as it was
respectable.
Then Mr. Ponsett returned to a*
mower. His survey of the road had bl
rather meaningless, or perhaps it
vague fear that his sister might after*,
be coming up” that afternoon Fin *
the sister, and she was years older than
Mr. Ponsett, very much unmarried con
siderably given to management She S
with the “other sister” It. Croydon U
•‘Other sister” didn't count-S «
other by nature, or at least by train!
and association. But Flo had undertaken
the custody of the family conscience Tn
all matters, spiritual, mundane, marita
she guided, governed, advised. She
in consequence feared, hated and wher?
possible, avoided. Her affection ’was as
awful as anything about her; it was based
on Duty and a by-product of her love of
God She was religious, and got a grim
comfort from the painfulness and the
everlastingness of hell. All the people
she didn’t like were going straight to hell
The front lawn having been shaven
Mr. Ponsett turned the mower on to its
back, and with the blades in neutral
rattled up the gravel drive. There was
the back lawn to cut, and he made the
momentous decision of cutting that before
he trimmed the edges of the front. The
decision, simple enough in all seeming,
was momentous to Mr. Ponsett. Any
decision independently arrived at was so.
The back was a big rectangle of lawn,
flanked by red drive (Bowral gravel) on
one side with a narrow strip of
hydrangeas between it and the high paling
fence; and on the other by fruit-trees—
trim and strictly disciplined trees; an
orange with its late valencias still hang-
ing like golden lampsa lemon, with its
quota of all-season fruit upon it; a Bell’s
November peach, the peaches already as
large as walnuts and preparing for that
final rush to “beat the fly”; a Wilson
plum also hastening to outwit that same
scourge . . . Trim, neat trees, like souls
that had been saved in advance. Like
Flo.
At the end of the yard was a narrow
fowl-run wherein a dozen Rhode Island
Reds, bought over a year ago as day-old
chicks from a famous stock-poultry-
farm, roamed up and down, or scratched
with vigor where the earth was sott
enough, or picked at each other. A sad
sisterhood, condemned to the production
of virgin and infertile eggs, with never a
proud and strutting chanticleer to worry
and bless their existence . . . Like Flo.
Mr. Ponsett began on the fine couch
of the back lawn. Not the long up-and-
downs that took the grass in easy
swathes, a method long since condemned
by Mrs. Ponsett, perhaps because it
looked too easy, but on the grounds that
it didn’t make so good a job. So he
jabbed the mower into the grass. Then
pulled it back. Then jabbed it again.
Back and forth it went, a heap of
accumulating in one spot.
< ‘ LJ EY, Herb, you are hard at it.
H Mr. Ponsett knew the voice, but
the mistiness of his glasses prevents
location of it. A cheerful voice it wa •
with some indefinable temptation in J ■
Why there should be, or why one shou
suspect it, was impossible to say. - ;
Ponsett took the old silk handkerc
from the hip-pocket of the grey flan
and wiped his glasses once more.
“That you, Harry—you home mi
afternoon?” '
“I’m home all right,” said H ■
none other than the Bingley-Scutt. .
Mr. Ponsett left his mower and w
over to the hydrangea bushes. The r
face of Mr. Bingley-Scutt was ab0 v
paling fence, and looked like a
sort of moon just appearing ° v ther
ocean rim. They dissected the w .
and as a result declared it soun
good. , u lf r will
“No doubt about it, Herb, but i
say this for you—you do keep T° f u | ace .’’
trim. Not a blade of grass out ot P
“It’s a lot of work, and it does tie y
down. I’ll admit.” a . IPT get
“Too much ; too much— you n
a minute for anything else.”
Mr. Ponsett dimly pondered . fCj
thing-else. What anything-else
anyway? . indirect
Mr. Bingley-Scutt went on m
enlightenment: T cll0 pose.
“Well enough in its way, A ' n m y
But I tell you this. Herb, it A
(Continued on page 20-}


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—1 So. 3657
Wednesday, March 15, 1950
np
%
VALUE CHART
1940
I9A-Z
1944
IQAb
l ml
1950
THE AILING £.
"A sweat-transfusion from you fellows and it’ll be back on its feet in no time."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
Under the Chifley regime the emphasis
in Canberra policy was upon soraething-
for-nothing combined with something-
for-Evatt.
First leg of the Socialist policy was ex-
pressed in the huge social-service schemes
under which the industrious and frugal
section of the community, most of it
burdened with its own provisions for old
age and death in the shape of life-assur-
ance premiums, was made to part with
eighteenpence in the £ to provide for the
feckless loafer, too selfish and too lazy
to provide for his own future. Some-
thing-for-Evatt involved huge interfer-
ences with other people’s business to the
great advertisement of the planner of them
but not to the advantage of the country.
Where there were development plans in
operation they were usually obviously
designed either for vote-buying in the
right quarter or as an excuse to enable
the Government to use the defence power
to vest a little more totalitarian authority
in itself.
The new Government has begun a
steady programme which involves a return
to normal. It has committed itself to an
attempt to “put more value in the
pound” and to what Mr. Fadden calls a
“dynamic, full-blooded programme of tax-
reduction,” with simplification of taxa-
tion-forms, a whittling-away of social-
service imposts, and a medical-benefits
scheme not so glittering as the old one,
but equitable and based on return for
value received. The expensive Informa-
tion Department is to be wiped out, as it
should be, and replaced by a modest non-
political bureau in the Department of the
Interior, whose function will be to adver-
tise the country, not the Government.
And the whole of the changes so far
announced are linked with an investiga-
tion of all Government employment and
expenditure and with a widespread scheme
of development on a sane basis under
w r hich, apart from large Government
spending, is designed to encourage local
free effort and overseas investment.
The scope of the development scheme
which Mr. Casey has put forward is as
wide as it could be under all the circum-
stances. It includes the development of
coal production and of other mineral
resources —for example, gold, uranium
and mica; the extension of water-conser-
vation and irrigation; the speeding-up
and expansion of housing projects, in-
cluding the importation of prefabricated
houses and buildings. It envisages a
policy of decentralisation of indus-
try and the development of inland and
northern Australian projects to secure a
balance between capital-city and country
population.
The emphasis all the time will be on
local and free enterprise within the frame-
work of the national plan. Special efforts
will be made to attract American capital
through concessions on company taxes
and the negotiation of a double-taxation
agreement, such as already exists between
the Commonwealth and the United King-
dom. Local and general encouragement
will include aid in the way of roadbuild-
ing and power provision where necessary.
The control of the new schemes will
be achieved by a reorganisation of the
scattered departments, each of which has
been a law unto itself, and their group-
ing under a Ministry of National
Development which will embrace the
Works and Housing Department, the
Division of Industrial Development, the
Bureau of Mineral Resources and the
C.5.1.R.0.
Works which are purely defence works
will be separated and placed under a
Ministry of Defence Development, so
that there can be no confusion of schemes
and no suspicion of misuse of defence
powers by the National Development
Ministry proper, as there certainly was
under the old arrangement. The division
of authority should obviate confusion be-
tween works which must be done with
a certain secrecy and without regard to
future profit and those which are
designed to add to the eaming-power of
the national economy.
The country presents plenty of oppor-
tunities for decentralisation and growth.
A whole series of water-supply, irrigation
and hydroelectricity schemes already
examined await implementation along the
eastern coast from the Clarence to the
‘Barron. The problem of inland conserva-
tion of water and its distribution needs
to be tackled in a large way and its
feasibility settled once and for all, now
that the Bradfield Scheme and others of
the same kind have been officially pro-
nounced impracticable by technical
authorities.
Apart from natural increase, which can
be expected to expand with the importa-
tion of Europeans who have not yet
learned to restrict their families, the flow
of 200,000 immigrants a year which
the Government envisages will pose a
pretty problem in supply. At present the
advent of immigrants is doing little to
add to the output of primary production,
which is being restricted both by short-
ages of material and fuel, by the loss of
young female cattle and sheep due to
abnormal war-time killing and disposal,
in part the result of temptations offered
by high prices, and by the rising cost of
labor and the dwindling of its output.
One of the first necessities is a thorough
reorganisation of the rural way of life
in Australia so as to reduce the urge
which now besets young people on farms
and stations to leave the land for the
easy life of the city where the “cows”
can be depended on not to die if the
worker takes a Communist-sponsored
rest for a few weeks. The task calls for
the creation of large numbers of little
district capitals, similar to those which
exist in U.S. and Canada, replete with
all the main material comforts and
advantages which only the big cities can
now offer. It also calls for growth of
output based on the getting of more out of
the land with available labor to make
the rewards of rural industry, primary
and secondary, attractive enough to pro-
duce the spread of population.
Given a reasonable support from the
electors and in return giving plenty of
latitude and encouragement to free enter-
prise, which hitherto has been strangling
under a deliberately conceived Socialistic
oppression, there is no reason why great
things should not come out of the next
few years of development.
But Mr. Casey’s plan will not succeed
unless it sticks rigidly to principles of
decentralisation and regional develop-
ment and is freed as far as possible from
intimate Canberra control. And this
policy must be combined with firm but
friendly imposition of industrial discipline
under whiQh it is made clear that the
freedom of trade-unions to manage their
own affairs must depend on their willing-
ness to co-operate, to keep their members
working and to expel the treacherous
agents of an enemy Power whom “Labor”
has insisted on harboring and protecting
even while they are admittedly sabotag-
ing the development of the Common-
wealth,
A Winning Hand.
Mr. Chifley’s cocky young Parlia-
mentary protege from Fremantle got his
due reply from the Minister for Labor
the other night. With a sneer in his voice
Mr. Beazley had asked just when the
Prime Minister was going to “put value
back into the pound,” and cited half a
dozen ways of “doing it.” His attitude
was, in effect: “The Socialist Government
was for three post-war years in office and
its leader, despite efforts throughout that
time to get increased industrial output,
failed ingloriously. In Opposition, we
expect you to do it at once. Why don’t
you show us what you’re made of?”
Regarding this important political task,
young Mr. Beazley was during all the
last Parliament singularly indifferent.
Along with his party and his leader he
was quite content with “the class-war,”
saw nothing wrong in the Communists’
fomentation of it, and supported the
Chifley Ministry loyally in every move
that accepted the thing as endemic in our
society. He watched unmoved the Com-
munists’ nine-weeks blockade of Queens-
land with their transport-strike early in
1947. He saw the effort to repeat the
performance in Victoria 10 months later,
the shortage of goods thereby increased
still further, and a lot more of Australia’s
rationed dollar-petrol wasted —and still
without protest. He accepted as quite in
the nature of things under “Labor” —
the only party capable, he believes, of
guiding Australia to prosperity and con-
tentment —the disgraceful sabotage of
coal-production during all those three
years, which culminated in a general coal
strike midway during the last of them.
Throughout the same period of post-
war Socialist rule he heard —he could not
help hearing it —every annual A.L.P.
conference in eastern Australia appeal to
the Government and party he served to
ban the Communists and help free the
unions from their control. There is no
space to quote all the evidence, but as a
sample of what Mr. Beasley and all the
hypocritical Socialist gang now in Oppo-
sition affect to forget, let the proceedings
of the 1948 A.L.P. industrial groups’ con-
ference in Sydney be quoted. This
gathering of union representatives, en-
couraged to organise against the Reds by
the Chifley Ministry, appealed to the
Federal and State “Labor” Governments
to order a public inquiry into the Com-
munist party’s activities, and its president,
Mr. Junor of the tramways—the same
who is about to be tested on whether he
will throw in his union’s lot with that
of the Communist-bossed trammies’
strike in Victoria —declared: —-
If Labor is to remain in office,
Communists must be crushed If they
are allowed to get away with their plans
for chaos and disruption, our Govern-
ments will fall. Our greatest problem is
the soaring cost of living. Our only hope
of solving it is by resolute Government
action The Healys, Thorntons and
Rowes pull on strikes without consulting
other unions. Do they help production by
tying up industry as they are doing? These
arrogant Communist coxcombs must be
put in their place.
The Chifley Government did not even
go through the motions of considering
any action; it simply refused to do any-
thing. Action against these wreckers was
“the only hope of solving the problem of
the soaring cost of living.” Yet Mr.
Chifley could only call it “futile,” or,
alternatively, “crucifying the workers.”
The truth, of course, is that so long as
the party that Mr. Beazley adorns seeks
to obtain office through “the class-war,”
for so long must it regard Communist
machinations with tolerant approval.
Occasionally “Labor” gets severely hurt.
This is how Queensland’s Mr. Hanlon
turned on the “class-war” artists in the
1947 strike:
The Communist strike-leaders have
decreed that the law shall be violated and
that their will shall prevail, not the will
of Parliament. They threaten violence to
anyone who dares to obey an order of the
court This challenge to constituted gov-
ernment has all the elements of civil war.
Mr. Chifley, in Canberra, took no notice
whatever. But when the wreckers went
for him in the 1949 coal strike, he was
just as vehement in his language—“a
revolt against the whole community,” he
called it, and “reckless sabotage of in-
dustry” ; and his Fuel Minister, Senator
“Fixer” Ashley, used the very charge
against the strikemongers that Mr. Hanlon
had made: that they were agents of a
malignant foreign Power.
Even the admissions by the Com-
munist executive, published in July,
1948, over the name of Com-
munist-agent Thornton, of the Iron-
workers, could not galvanise “Labor”
into action. Wrote Thornton:
The policy of the Ironworkers’ union is
decided in consultation with the leaders of
the Communist party. The same thing in
many ways applies to the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, the Miners’ Federa-
tion, the Seamen’s Union, and soon will
apply to many other unions such as the
A.E.U. and the A.R.U.
Still the Chifley Government’s creed,
even after the disastrous coal strike had
sentenced it to political death, was that
to ban the Communists would be futile.
Mr. Chifley had hardly reiterated this
belief in reply to the A.L.P. industrial
groups’ appeal when a “converted Com-
munist,” one McGillick, told a public
meeting in Melbourne that he had fallen
out with “the men who give their bodies
and souls to a totalitarian Power,” and
that “because they had not banned these
international gangsters the Prime Minister
[Mr. Chifley] and his party are frustrated
people,”
It is just 12 months since Mr. Menzies,
then in Opposition, put new hope
into the Australian electorate when he
went to the coalfields and at a series of
crowded meetings declared militant Com-
munism to be “anti-British, anti-Austra-
lian, and anti-democratic,” and on behalf
of his party pledged it, if returned to
power, to “take the strongest possible
action against the Communist party.” “It
is,” he said, “the fifth-column of Russia,
now engaged in active war against the
Allied nations by blockading Berlin.”
Mr. Holt, reproving the late complacent
and now repentant member for Fre-
mantle, said the Government would carry
out its policy for restoring full produc-
tion not by any single and spectacular
measure, but with a series of reforms.
The job cannot be done in a hurry, but
a resolute Government can undoubtedly
do it, and Mr. Menzies will be justified
in asking for the full support of “Labor”
in the first and essential step. The agents
in this country for Moscow’s “cold war”
are already going into action on the
wharves, in. the coalfields, and in the
transport services to repeat that insolent
defiance of authority in the Menzies
Government which they previously
showed to that led by Mr pma
case in Socialist Britain
Klaus Fuchs shows clearlv trait ° r
treachery that every accenfel Cn“ W °'' l
party member is expeS to™’ UOist '
■•S* £ e pe °P le °f Ws adopted S*
Mr. Menzies, invitine all w ° UI %
unite in defeating inflaS„ StS ,0
not get “Labor” support Tr! £ *
'•Labor” seems to awl? fr* **
production even on the basis If t full
mutual sharing of the profits
His appeal would entail his ureffia?
aft“er tr hk aS Chifley him “lf wled j
after his instructive visit to TWr •
salvation Standing m the place ?
Menzies holds now, Mr. Chifley addressed
his exhortation to all Australians: -L d
buf The En responsibility oTe°ve?J a£
trahan, if we are to survive. USr
But will he say it again now, or will h 6
prefer the class-war”? “There k ,
chance, said Mr. Holt, in his apl|
for this new Parliament to
people that the doctrine of the class-war
18 a bc W and has no place in Australia.”
That is the policy by which this Gov-
erTl|nt’„ sta nding to it resolutely
will finally succeed. It has begun confi’
dently by avoiding tactics making for
dissension. If “Labor,” whose failure in
this matter brought about its defeat
chugs to the “class-war,” the Govern-
ment need not fear to press its own reso-
lute policy to another general election.
The Wine of Australia.
Those articles (B. 8/3/’5O) on wine and
wine-judging bring back memories of
other continents and revive my feeling of
astonishment that the sales of Australian
wines are so ismall.
. One reason for this seems to be that
most Australian vintners are more con-
cerned with developing exotic beverages,
to gain prizes at shows, than to produce
really sound table wines (corresponding
to the “vins ordinaires” of France) at a
price competitive with that of beer.
Prior to 1914 sound Australian wine
could be bought, retail, in Sydney at 4s,
and less a gallon ; in 1939 the same wine
cost 6s, ; now 12s. is asked for much in-
ferior beverages. There is still a cellar or
two where one can obtain, on occasion, i
good, cheap draught wine, but these take
a lot of finding, and the wine is seldom
of consistent quality and flavor from tun
to tun. After much searching, and at
great risk to my stomach, I have dis-
covered a cellar where a sound white
wine is sold at Bs. a gallon. I cannot pay
this nectar a higher compliment than to
say that it reminds me of Capri Bianco in
a good year, I have had sips from many
a tun, but it still succeeds in recalling the
cantinas of that delicious isle. It is sold
as “hock,” but wild horses will not drag
the name of the celiarman from me!
I have failed to trace a moderately-
priced Australian “claret” which would
even remotely recall Bordeaux, nor a
“burgundy” reminiscent of Bourgogne.
In my search I have tasted some miracu-
lous wines, which are faultless —except
for the label.
It is ridiculous to claim that the Aus-
tralian public will, not buy good Austra-
lian wines labelled according to the
district in which the grapes were grown.
It has already been done successfully
a small extent, and South Africa
growers use local names very extensi
for wines which are cheap and sound an
popular.
Among Australian wines there ar
vintages which would satisfy
connoisseur —until he looks at the a
and the prices of such wines are 1°
present-day European standards,
and this should be emphasised—-! ey
a distinctive Australian c^ ara , c . ter ’ nVP a
if properly publicised, should p
strong selling-point. .
Some of even the more
wines, however, suffer fron* * e hnuCT ht a
inconsistency. At times I have g afl( j
bottle of wine which intngu a
have returned a few days 1
dozen. On opening the bo‘te I
found in that dozen at least tou f , 0 j;
all of which, I admit, were ge j(
but they were not what attra
the first place. ■ tners should
To sum-up, Australian vin t coD .
concentrate on producmg g c onv
sistently flavored taWe^wme^at^^
petitive price. Any loss 01 . se d con-
would be compensated by', d at-
sumption, which, m .priced
courage a taste for v : n t n ers
bottled wines. Then the ] a bel i»'
have to make certain j ha • ° an d one
dicated one distmctiv . ev : ta ble annual
only, except for the m t quaUt y
fluctuations which shouici
but not type. yiNQ rEL PAIS.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Spender and Reality.
U > feature of Mr. Spenders
The. basic f of Dr E vatt s, is a
fore, g n & » which he says is not a
“Pacific P»2» „ thoU gh surrounded in
new conceptio , t de g al Q f confusion.
t he p # st b y should be “ a defen-
HIS arrangement having as its
sive mifit ar y reemen t between countries
basis a firm " nterest in the stability
that have a v i I p * cific and wb ich are
of Asia and capable of undertaking
at the same tone> capame
military comm tme Kingdom and
‘‘ A . UStr rommonwealdi countries might
? ther * nudeus and that such other coun-
f as wish to do so should be given
hf opportunity of associating themselves
th provided that they are capable
of contributing military commitments.
Al l havffn mind particularly the United
Stales of America, whose participate
“‘“.if, eive the pact such substance that
it would otherwise lack. Indeed, it would
be meaningless without her.
But surely the obligation of mutual
defence is already inherent in the idea
of a British Commonwealth, whose navies
are virtually integrated, whose secrets and
effort in the realm of air defence are
shared from rocket-experiment ranges
downward and whose military planning is
carried out in detailed liaison.
Since the only menace in sight is Russia
and her satellites bent on world revolu-
tion and basing their foreign policy on
the slogan that “peace is indivisible, revo-
lution is indivisible, imperialism cannot
be destroyed unless it is destroyed
throughout the world,” localised pacts
are likely to be neither effective nor
practicable.
The great Powers involved already have
a pact which essentially covers world
defensive—the Atlantic Pact, which refers
not so much to the area of defence as
to the area of agreement. Its objectives
are not, and cannot be, limited to the
local defence of Europe. The partici-
pants in it must fight wherever anything
of major moment occurs which is part of
the global war of Communism against
them..
Mr, Spender, therefore, may have his
Pacific Pact by merely negotiating the
addition of Australia to a working agree-
ment already in existence in which the
defence of Australia and its trade-routes
is just as vital as the defence of Paris
or London. By adopting that course
Australia would take her place among
the nations of Western civilisation instead
of in the local dogfight of South-East
Asia, and a useful purpose could be served
in urging, as part of the only plan in
which the great nations appear at the
moment interested, the need for attention
to Pacific affairs.
There would be less limelight for the
Minister for External Affairs in this pro-
cedure, but more safety, especially if the
Commonwealth abandoned the policy of
hghting with words which has become
fashionable in the last few years and
made a real contribution to national and
international defence by the prompt
building-up of actual defensive power.
In its present defensive state this coun-
try could scarcely ward off an invasion
°y a couple of effectively-equipped bat-
. °ns backed by three or four assorted
air squadrons.
Wesfralian Elections.
Three years ago “Labor’s” long run
dS top dog in Westralian politics came to
ignominious end. Since 1924 “Labor”
,Q-,A e 5 n out of office for only one term,
aided by out-of-date elec-
j no . ‘‘boundary maps, the party was look-
WEp t0 UT man y more years of power.
nm ° Labor” men complain of a dis-
tn J 3 r * 10 ? between the number of elec-
of rhL n c- lty and country seats in some
ralia States, they don’t mention West-
er; vf a » tlle time the lust election
district* f° r *u held seats ’ mostl y mining
than tK ’ toget ber contained fewer electors
bv a t seat, Nedlands, held
PUbara * L our °f these —Roebourne,
“Lahn ” C c S i a thousa nd each,
faced tk r 1 fairl Y confident, when it
its e e * ors in March, 1947, that
Part of t ? u d c °ntinue. A considerable
the sam f must have had
»«altowedtf B; , at any rate - “ Labor ”
with is ~ to get awa y to a flying start
Premier mem A^ r s, including
WestraliaA a and four Ministers. The
so that 4 sse ,mhiy runs to 50 members,
of the contest ne f ded to win onl y 11
managed o^iv d Se u ts to retam office - 11
where* with tL 61 !? 1 ’ mcludin 8 Phbara,
the SI 500 P 60 ? 16
as decided on the returning-
officer’s casting vote. In the debacle
seats like Bunbury and Geraldton, which
had been “Labor” for 30 years, were
lost; even the seats the party retained
were, with a couple of exceptions, won
with considerably reduced majorities.
Obviously the electors had had their fill
of “Labor” and were determined to give
the Liberal-Country-party alliance under
McLarty and Watts a trial.
On Saturday week the McLarty Gov-
ernment will face the electors again. Its
three years of office have not been spec-
tacular, but to “Labor’s” criticism it can
justly reply that it can hardly be expected
to undo in three years the accumulated
effects of nearly 20 years of “Labor”
rule. A South African expert called m
by Premier McLarty to report on the West-
ralian railways said, “I do not know of
any other railway in the civilised world
that is in such a bad state as yours,” and
the joint report of the royal commission
of which he was a member expressed
surprise “that anybody failed to take
energetic action to prevent the railways
from falling into their present state of
near-breakdown.” The present Govern-
ment, as a result of the royal comfnission,
has earmarked £9,000,000 to bring the
railways into a reasonably efficient con-
dition ; but naturally this can’t'be accom-
plished overnight. A similar legacy was
inherited in respect of electrical power;
an outside expert was very critical of the
Wise Administration’s powerhouse policy.
Mr. McLarty can also point to greatly-
improved coal output in the three years
since he took office.
A long-overdue redistribution, carried
out by an Electoral Commission, has
eliminated the more glaring inequalities
among the Assembly seats so that the
scales are no longer weighted in “Labor’s”
favor.
J.C.B. Chairman Resigns.
When Sir Charles Reid, author of the
U.K. war-time Government’s report
on reconstruction of the coal industry,
and an original member of the U.K.
National Coal Board (1946), resigned in
May, 1948, he gave as his reasons his
repugnance to the board’s “cumbersome
and uninspired organisation, the indis-
cipline in the mines, the board’s inability
to keep an effective check on production
costs, and a lack of confident and effec-
tive leadership to management or men.”
He said he believed “State-ownership to
be necessary to achieve full technical
reconstruction,” but this would also
require full responsibility for manage-
ment at every level, absenteeism to be re-
duced, and manpower effectively directed,
His whole career, he said, had been de-
voted to the success and modern develop-
ment of the industry ; but as for the Gov-
ernment Coal Board—he had had it.
Mr. Keith Cameron, just resigned from
chairmanship of the Australian Joint Coal
Board—run by not one Government, but
two—might be inclined to say the same
—even more so. His experience as an
engineer and an administrator in the
general mining industry, here and over-
seas, speaks for itself. So does the eager-
ness of commercial mining interests to
repossess his services. Mr. Cameron ex-
plains that his reasons for resignation
from the Joint-Governmental Coal Board
are “purely private.” Probably he is to
be congratulated on restraining himself
for so long from yielding to his private
feelings. That will be the sentiment of
most observers of Mr. Cameron’s heroic
attempts to fulfil the board’s task, which
is primarily to expand coal production,
Like Charles Reid in U.K., his mission in
life was to establish an efficient industry ;
to be balked at every turn by political
interests from Governmental or union
quarters must greatly encourage “private
reasons”—such as concern about one’s
professional reputation—for getting out.
The J.C.B.’s report for its second year
of operations, 1948-49, is not yet pub-
fished. The report for the previous 18
months—Jan., 1947, to June, 1948 re-
corded the losses through indiscipline m
the mines as completely disheartening,
Some estimates from a later review were
recently published forecasting that, even
1
with the best efforts of all concerned (and
the miners’ Communist bosses, have de-
clared there’ll be no best efforts from
them), Australian coal shortages will not
be overcome till 1953 at earliest, and the
Federal Government may have to import
1,000,000 tons this year from India.
That importing of colored-labor coal is
necessary even to keep up famine rations
in this country ought to stir the possum
in every Australian of whatever party.
The loss through wanton stoppages,
absenteeism and irritation strikes since
coal-getting was resumed in January has
been at a rate which will limit industry to
less than 70 per cent, of its minimum re-
quirements. Never yet have the New-
castle steelworks faced the closing-down
of a plant so early in the year.
The Joint Coal Board reported nearly
two years ago that the miners’ leaders
are unwilling or unable to control their
own members, and that their undertak-
ings for disciplined running of the in-
dustry “are of no value whatever.”
Revolutionised Transport.
A revolution in automobile traction has
apparently arrived with the advent of
the gas turbine, product of British brains.
The first car to run on paraffin gas was
watched over a test course at Northamp-
ton by engineers from all over the world.
It follows application of jet propulsion
to aircraft, under which planes have
reached speeds up to 700 m.p.h. The jet,
however, as an elaboration of the rocket
principle, was not feasible for road
vehicles because of the long tail of burn-
ing gas from the exhaust. But the gas
jet turning the vanes of a turbine is a
different matter.
The Rover motor-car firm, producers
of the new engine, say that some time
ago they stumbled somewhat accidentally
on the solution of a problem that was
holding up practical use of the engine.
Every important motor firm in Britain
((Continued on next page.)
o^r
(•/
ROLLING STRIKE.


m
M
h
6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATIOH FOR QUALITY
A
m
and the British Government as well there-
upon placed their best engineering brains
at the service of the Rover firm. A
team of six designers and 12 engineers
finally produced, at a cost of more than
£lOO,OOO, the prototype demonstrated.
Some of the claims made for it:—
Engine runs on paraffin gas, develops
100 h.p/, fits the standard Rover chassis.
The car will be cheaper to buy, cheaper to
run and be more powerful than any cai
now made. There is no vibration, almost
complete silence; little oil is needed, since
there are few working parts; remarkable
acceleration, no gear-changing; the engine
is 2001 b. lighter than the Rover 1W
piston engine and is only 36in. long by
18in. wide and 20in. deep.
This doesn’t answer all questions,
but it’s sufficient to foreshadow the end
of the piston engine ; and for a count! \
like Australia there is tremendous signifi-
cance in a vehicle that will run
paraffin gas. There is significance, also,
for the great motor-manufacturing ai
petrol-refining companies of the won .
which thousands of millions of P°
are invested and which employ mi
of people, , nW , llt
The steam engine had a run of a
100 years before being beaten as a
port medium by the internal-corn
piston engine ; the piston engine sp {
able successor has appeared in na
time. It is rather steadying to i/ a r
the first got its stimulus from Worta
I, within a generation World War
stimulated production of the seC °Jf’ tioD
science is now seeking the app
of atomic energy as a motive to
POLITICAL POINTS
There’s a great game of “ins and
outs” going on in N. S. Wales “Labor,”
with pre-selection ballots being conducted
in the spirit of carefree abandon that
characterises an Arnhem Land ♦bone-
pointing gymkhana. Caucus is still
struggling to save four of its chickens
from the central-executive axe, and last
Friday McGirr, supported by three
henchmen, petitioned the Trades Hall
on bended knee begging a reprieve for
them. The executive said “No,”
emphasising rather than softening the
blow by expressing confidence in
McGirr’s “leadership.” The four con-
demned ones aren’t taking their sentence
in the proper martyr-spirit; nor are their
electoral councils. Seiffert’s supporters in
Monaro are threatening an injunction
against the executive ; the Barwon council
has given it a week to lift its ban on
Hcfcren; electoral committees in North
Sydney and Lakemba also seem inclined
to stick to their present members.
Weekend pre-selection ballots brought
another batch of upsets —this time the
other way round, as sitting members got
their marching-orders from their own
councils. A. R. B. Powell’s career as
“Labor” member for the N. S. Wales
Assembly seat of Wollongong-Kembla
looks like being as short as the head he
won by in last month’s by-election ; on
Saturday he lost the pre-selection ballot
for the A.L.P. nomination. Other
M.L.As. given a one-way pass-out check
were Gorman, Dwyer, Hamilton and
Mrs. Quirk. Hamilton’s seat, Namoi,
having been sunk without trace under
Redistribution, he was having a try for
Bankstown, which the McGirr is vacat-
ing in favor of Liverpool. The dropping
of Mrs. Quirk is something of a shock;
She has represented Balmain since 1939,
and her husband was there for 16 years
before that.
What with these five members and the
four whom the executive had already
cast out into the wilderness the N. S.
Wales caucus must be a very bright and
cheerful body these days.
McGag is in a cleft stick over his
election-time Press ban. The Concord
and Wollongong by-elections convinced
most caucus members that the ridiculous:
piece of petty tyranny loses the party
more votes than it gains, but the problem
is whether to go on or draw back. Many
“Labor” members feel that retaining the
ban will cost the party thousands of votes
at the general election; to rescind it is
equivalent to admitting that it was purely
a political trick and that all the high-
falutin nonsense they spouted about it a
few months ago was sheer hypocrisy.
Doubtless McGag would like to drop it,
but he can’t..
Stigmatising the proposed anti-Com-
munist legislation as “a heresy hunt after
a few Communists who don’t matter” —
his leader and most of his colleagues had
different views on this point eight months
ago—the ageing Senator Cameron told
the Uppah Chambah that “practically
every strike had its origin in unnecessary,
provocative, or completely incompetent
management.” He went on to blame
Hollway for the Melbourne tram strike.
The old boy has apparently forgotten
that transport strikes were one of the
major headaches of the Cain “Labor”
Government which preceded Hollway’s.
Irrespective of who caused the Mel-
bourne tram strike it begins to look as
if the main sufferers will be the ttammies
themselves. The business of the city
seems to be going along all right without
the trams, and people are beginning to
ask whether, given an efficient train
system which Melbourne has and
adequate feeder-bus services, the things
couldn’t be dispensed with altogether.
Two tugs-of-war have been going on
in Melbourne —one between the Commo-
boss of the State branch of the Tram-
ways Union and the anti-Commo Federal
secretary of the union from Sydney, about
whether a mass meeting should be called
(it would probably decide to return to
work); and the other between Premier
Hollway and the Commos over the pro-
clamation of the Essential Services Act,
in which, it is claimed, the Commos have
found a flaw if it be applied to a tram-
way, and not to a railway, hold-up.
Hollway apparently wishes to see the
tram union first deregistered (process
fixed for Thursday) if he has to apply
the E.S. Act. Whether Commo head-
quarters would call for a general stop-
page on the issue hinged, when
this page went to press, on whether the
Wonthaggi miners could induce the
Miners’ Central Council in N.S.W. to
nail the strike flag to the Red masthead.
Attlee’s over-all majority in the Com-
mons was reduced to six last week when
the postponed poll in the Moss Side divi-
sion of Manchester gave the Conservative
candidate Florence Horsburgh 25,347
votes to the “Labor” man’s 16,769 ; the
Liberal ran a bad third with 2607 and
a lost deposit. The smallness of the
Liberal vote is significant. Since 1945
the seat has been much enlarged, and
more than twice as many votes were
recorded this time as five years ago.
Conservative vote is up nearly 18,000,
Labor 6600, but the Liberals have gained
only 100 votes on the 1945 figures. And
Manchester was once a stronghold of
Liberalism.
In Townsville (N.Q.) the other day a
deputation of New Staters got hold of
Premier Hanlon, and asked him to see
about a new State of North Queensland.
The answer;
You want to get your economics clear
before you go in for new States. It would
pay South Queensland handsomely to give
you a new State now. It would cost you
£4 a head additional taxation to meet pre-
sent loan expenditure. I do not think the
people would have it. They are not so
silly.
The suggestion that the north is a
financial burden on the south, but that
the south would sooner carry the burden
than let the north separate, purely be-
cause the south loves the north or some-
thing, is a bit too much.
Minister for Development Casey has
promised favorable consideration of
Earle Page’s Clarence water scheme, and
about time, too. The scheme should
have had preference over the Snowy River
project, which cannot be brought to any-
thing like effective production for a
decade, whereas the Clarence scheme
could be producing within four or five
years enough electricity to affect the coal-
fields’ will to work and, in a couple more,
enough to change the whole industrial
and water-supply outlook of the N. S.
Wales North Coast.
With the general election getting nearer
the McGirr Government is bursting with
“development” plans. A fortnight ago
came a proposal to bring all the
electricity-generating plants of the State
under one commission—possibly with the
idea that if you are going to smash eggs
you might as well put ’em all in one
basket. Last week’s rabbit was a Trans-
port and Highways Commission to
control all transport by road, rail, air,
sea and inland waterways. Next week’s?
Probably a commission to control the
commissions.
In the opinion of Rowley James, instead
of planning to ban the Communist party
the Government “should have let the
unions deal with it.” Apart from the
fact that Chifley tried that method with
lamentable results the main objection to
this is that too many unions’ idea of
dealing with Communism is to make a
deal with it.
James’s other contribution to this
problem was to emphasise the necessity
of out-thinking the Communists. That
clicking noise heard sometimes during
Parliamentary broadcasts is not static
after all; it’s Rowley trying to out-think
a Commo.
When the new Parliamentary Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs which Spender
proposes to establish meets it should
begin operations by pointing out that the
basis of influence is strength, and that it
will he time enough for Spender to begin
his wanderings to instruct backward
countries in the Pacific, and make
bargains with the strong ones when we
have an example to back our precepts
and material in hand to bargain with.
Meantime, he might devote a little time
to cutting down the expenses of the
mushroom diplomatic service which has
come into existence in the past few years,
and in which inexperience and idleness
are higher paid than in any other branch
of Australian industry.
The Misinformation Department is to
follqw its late master into the discard.
Does that mean that “Labor” members
will now have to write their own
speeches?
Little now reaches Australia about
India, but the position grows worse every
day. Between February 13 and 20 nearly
800 persons were killed in communal
riots in one small district of East Bengal
alone, and tension is growing between
India and Pakistan. Last week all mili-
tary leave was cancelled in India and
unit commanders ordered not to leave
their posts. Pakistan is much in the same
condition, Burma and Malaya are in
chaos, and Viet-nam has Ordered a call-
up of all males of military age in its con-
trol areas. Meanwhile, Australia hopes
to call up 20,000 youths for three months’
compulsory training next January.
If there’s any truth in the “Labor”
argument that a movement is strengthened
by being driven underground democracy
must be pretty powerful in Russia by
now.
“Explaining” the trade-union moven
ment’s objection to incentive payments,
R, R. Broadby, secretary of the A.C.T.U.,
told the Melbourne “Herald” that the
movement had bitter memories of the
depression, and that that was why it re-
fused even to consider incentive-payment
schemes; the movement contended that
the best system of employment was that
based on “from each according to his
capacity ; to each according to his needs.”
He is wrong. Trade-union practice
recognises only the second of those two
Marxian tenets, as many a man has found
out when he has tried to do an honest
day’s work according to his own capacity
instead of according to the capacity of
the slowest of his mates.
According to External Affairs Minister
Spender “There is no logical reason why
democracy and Communism (as distinct
from Communist imperialism) should not
be able to live together in the world.”
That is bandying with words. Com-
munism is not distinct from Communist
imperialism; you can’t apply logic to a
case where one system is sworn to destroy
the other by any means possible, and
there is about as much hope of democracy
and Communism living together as there
would be of tigers and sheep. The u j
of Communism Spender talks about 1? d
mg with exists only in the mi nds
visionaries. s
N.S.W. Minister for AsricnU
Graham told his State’s wheaLm tUre
the other day that he would cStndS
for the construction of 12 new count™
wheat silos “soon.” As his leader S
have put it: “Eddy, this election’s S
to be tough. You’ve got to promise S
wheat fellows something .” ese
Without comment, Brisbane “Courier-
Mail published a picture of 26 n !£
houses in the Brisbane suburb of Norm.!
Park. “Forty houses in the block hav!
been completed in the last 16 months hv
a private contractor.” The 40 are as aliU
as 40 matchboxes, they are in two rowT
and the 40 privies stand back to back in
all their stark—er—utility. The picture
is a shocking commentary on what hous-
ing in this great, open country has come
to. These housing schemes are redSt
us to a nation of dwellers in ugliness.
“Labor’s” Leslie Haylen ought to be
captured by the N.S.W. Liberals for the
forthcoming State election. He told the
Federal Parliament last week that N.S W
was in the grip of racketeers in food
distribution, instancing the Sydney
vegetable- and fish-markets as full 0 f
“forestalled, racketeers and go-getters”
He didn’t mention that the first was con-
trolled by “Labor” aldermen and the
second by a “Labor” Government, but
that’s how it is.
The Menzies Government needs to step
very warily amidst the pressure being
exerted by textile interests to have the
textile-labelling regulations withdrawn.
Compulsory labelling of textiles with the
names and percentages of fibres they con-
tain was overdue when the Chifley Gov-
ernment introduced it; it is the public’s
guarantee against being palmed off with
shoddy material.
Sydney Royal Show opens on April
1. Just as well the R.A.S. got in well
ahead of the N.S.W. elections, or it might
have found its show banned on the ground
that it contained election propaganda in
showing what a non-socialised people can
produce.


INCE 1847
s
MAKERS
OF GOOD WING
MORE THAN
A CENTURY
FOR
PERSONAL ITEMS
• In tofbikrs’aTdtmctms manufactured
of m °/nnHon firm of which he is manag-
to celebrate his
v Kaye Don, land-sea-and-
i9th b*M»y. “J 1 5 h - e aded, but still
“Sind genial with eyes habitually
rob 1 a Don already had a name in
Dar tm W bfke racing when he took to racing
mot ‘air aeainst the Kaiser’s Pfalzes and
m the a c ’i g Taking on cars in 1920, he
Albat [ h Of Tourist Trophy race in Ulster
w 0? was to cover 100 m.p.h.
?om a standing start. From then on the
0 orcw—over 134 m.p.h. at Brook-
S d 1 29 136 in 1930, and, with his
hift ng to water the next year 103 m p.h.
n Miss England. In her sister-craft he
beat his own record by half amule on the
Parana River, in Brazil notched it up to
II mph. on Italy’s Lake Garda, and
added another 8 m.p.h, on Loch Lomond,
present record is 141 m.p.h. Don s
hobby—golf.
“Macnell”: Headed for U.K. as Inter-
Service Technical Officer with Australia’s
defence representative. Commodore John
Armstrong, lately Director of Ordnance
and Underwater Weapons at Navy Office.
A Jean, weather-darkened six-footer,
irreverently known to some as “Black
Jack,” and son of a Darlinghurst
(Sydney) medico, Armstrong was a
snotty with the Grand Fleet in War I, and
in the next commanded the Australia,
Manoora and Westralia in northern
waters. Earlier, as executive officer of
Australia, he gave an indication of why
senior officers effortlessly exact rigid
discipline—in naval action, the Admiral
runs the same risks as the ordinary sea-
man—when, three rings notwithstanding,
he was one of the first overboard on a
line into the freezing frenzy of the
Atlantic to haul aboard the struggling
crew of a Sunderland, While over that
way he commanded two of those decked-
over merchantmen, called escort-carriers,
which did much to beat the life out of
the U-boat menace by bombing with
their own planes, or sooling a destroyer
pack on to what they’d sighted sub-
surface. He took the bridge of his old
ship in time to direct her 8-inch roars at
Lingayen and Luzon, which returned
him D.S.O. and the second-highest U.S.
gallantry award, the Navy Cross. Captain
Dowling, our first carrier-captain, takes
over the post at Navy Office.
A camera-like eye for a nose-and-nose
finish closed for good when Dudley
Arabia Smith passed on in Sydney.
A-Jf judge from 1921 till retirement in
1948, he hailed from Molong (N.S.W.),
m the days when every second man there-
abouts was a centaur. Sent to Brent-
wood Grammar, thence to a great English
public school, Felsted, he matriculated
,P™ “J ere to go abroad with the First
Horse in 1914 to do a continuation
course around Gallipoli, Sinai, Egypt and
Palestine. He came home in 1918,
lieutenant-colonel, D.S.O. As well as
rpaE ng 22 years, he had been deputy
registrar of racehorses.
FHiott, passed on in
SSSn always re S retted that he
school at n Cen J , edu?atlon > leaving State
he wonlH I 1 ’ a moot P° int whether
a fpu, ~ r , at Hi he was in busmess,
the Mnrr^ rS la i e . r began his interest in
ian m 1928 he was a Victor-
Press wr.ru and a power In the country-
learnt ew mon ths it was
organ vw bou Sht some new provincial
late ThpAH g father-in-law, the
“Wp° r fj Ftpk, then boss of Mel-
circulation ra l\- m tbe number, if not the
Passion iL 0f J , ou ™ als - In the de-
his Emnirp right-hand man in
borne with th?fi m ? Ven^ nt ’ he returned
caravan in 6 radl ° electioneering-
scheme wac f operatlon - Beaverbrook’s
.. torpedoed by the war, but
Elliott was again summoned to the great
man’s aid, to become his assistant ini the
Ministry of Aircraft Production. On his
first visit to England Elliott got
acquainted with Orpen, became enamored
of his work and acquired the largest
collection of Orpens in the southern
hemisphere. He deeded many paintings
(Orpens and Augustus Johns among
them) to Mildura, which will build a
gallery round them. One of the most
forthright trustees of Melbourne’s
National Gallery, he was 63.
“K.H.H.”: When they get into the
North-terrace Parliament in South
Australia they hang tenaciously to their
seats. Playford should break in August
the record for having been the longest-
serving Premier, established by Henry
Parkes. Whereas Sir Henry’s 11 years
and 290 days were accumulated over five
separate terms in office, Playford’s
record will have been amassed continu-
ously from the day he took office on
November 5, 1938. Another L.C.L. man
who claims an Australian record is S.A.
Works, Railways, Local Government and
Marine Minister, Malcolm Mclntosh,
who has notched his 20th year in the
State’s Cabinet. The L.C.L. boys, how-
ever, have to hand it to T. G. Stott,
member for Ridley, who is.claiming a
world record for an Independent-—he has
begun his 17th year. Incidentally, these
three must have what’s needed —they
were all returned unopposed.
For those music-mixers who know
only the impeccably-tailored back of
maestro Joseph Post, here he is
as seen by Dik, till lately one
of his orchestra. With his second
name of Mozart (his brother, a ’cello-
player in the same qrchestra, owns to
Verdi), young Post was detailed off, as
it were, for a musical career—and rightly
so, it appears, for at 19 he was pro-
fessor of piano and oboe at Sydney Con-
servatorium. Now 43, a Jiminy Cricket
of the Rostrum whose nipping alertness
is a pointer to the powerhouse of musical
BATONS.
energy held in his slight frame, Post is
associate-conductor of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, batoned it for six years,
and before that, for 11 years, the A.B.C.
combination. He leaves shortly for the
U.K., on six-months’ exchange to the
8.8. C. Northern Orchestra in Manchester,
his place on Sydney’s rostrum being
taken over by Charles Groves. Dik
wonders how Joseph’s favorite exclama-
tion of approval and exhortation will go
down with the Manchestermen. It’s
“Whacko!”
Herewith genial Instructor-Captain
John Rednall, head of the Navy’s
“schoolies,” that non-executive branch
whose college-staff are the influence behind
every sunsight and navigational bearing
taken by the Fleet’s officers of the watch,
and whose seagoing members perform a
list of functions ranging from coaching
ordinary seamen to decoding crypto-
graphs, plotting aircraft and making
meteorological observations. An Oxford
graduate who joined the R.N, in
1915, Rednall served the rest of that
BLACKBOARDS.
war with the Grand Fleet in the
super-dreadnought Thunderer, successor
to old Thunderer, one of the
Navy’s last muzzle-loaders. With the
Kaiser kyboshed, he shifted to the R.A.N.,
and when Hitler took up the cudgels
was Squadron Met. Officer in cruiser
Canberra, responsible for whatever the
squadron wished to know about weather ;
he remained with that ship till she lost
all interest in proceedings off Savo Island
in 1942. Finishing the war in charge of
a navigation school at Balmoral Naval
Depot, he succeeded Captain Moyes in
1946 as Director of Education at Navy
Office, his present job.
Robert Gillman Allen Jackson is a
natural for bis new job of secretary to
the Ministry of National Development—
development being, as it were, what he
whets his teeth on. Melbourne-born 39
years ago, he began working-life with
the white braid of a paymaster cadet on
his lapels, and in 1937 transferred to the
Naval Staff, Malta. When war hit Mare
Nostrum and the long travail of Malta
began, Jackson showed in double-quick
time his genius for supply, which, after
supplying that George Cross island with
submarines, got him an appointment
to Cairo. Here he had the gigantic job
of developing a vast scheme of produc-
tion from Iran to Cairo, aimed not only
at making the Middle East self-support-:
ing for both civilians and armies, but of
laying the foundations for an Oriental
renaissance like unto the days when the
Tigris and Euphrates were as fertilising
as the Nile. When U.N.R.R.A. was set
up, Jackson was a moral for its deputy
Director-Generalship, and in 1946 be-
came the first non-American to testify
before the Congressional Committee,
when he got extra financial aid for
U.N.R.R.A. Long, elegant and as sharp
as a needle, he swept to the forefront
of the British Civil Service, which has
merely loaned him here for, among
other things, the spending of £2OO million,
“Dick Turpin”; The Inky Way lost a
noted old member last week when
Aubrey de Rune Barclay passed on in
Sydney. Born in Northern Ireland and
educated in Maoriland, he served his
apprenticeship on the Wellington “Even-
ing Post” under Gresley Lukin, and
the Southland “Times” (Invercargill), on
which he rose to be acting-editor. Cross-
ing the Tasman in 1913 to join the staff
of the old Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” he
became editor of the “Sunday Times”
and the “Referee” during Hugh D.
Mclntosh’s regime. Leaving professional
journalism in 1924, he helped to form the
Sane Democracy League of Australia
and became its first and, till his death,
only secretary. He carried on the
S.D.C.’s fight against Communism and
Socialism till a few weeks before his
death, Barclay was the sixth son of
Captain William Malo de Rune Barclay,
24th Regiment, who settled at Tauranga,
in Maoriland’s Bay of Plenty, in 1881,
after service in Burma, and a grandson
of Sir David William Barclay, 10th
Baronet of Peirston, Ayrshire, Scotland.
His only son, Capt. Peter Barclay (2/Ist.
Battalion, A.1.F.), was killed in action at
Ovi, in New Guinea, in 1943. As “Inver
G.” Barclay contributed verse and prose
to The Bulletin for many years. He
was 70 at the end.
There is more than the academician
about Professor Alexander Kennedy, the
British psychiatrist who has just laid a
bombshell on the Victorian State Govern-
ment’s doorstep anent its mental institu-
tions. During the late war he began in-
vestigating the psychology of guerrilla
warfare —his researches led him into
some queer situations. Some of his in-
formation he gathered by making para-
chute descents behind enemy lines; he
was as tough as many of the guerrilla
fighters he examined, being a British
Olympic boxer, British universities’ box-
ing champion and an international water-
polo-player.
Off to Oxford on a Nuffield Foundation
Dominion travelling scholarship, bright
young Adelaide medico W. R. Adey, who
graduated in medicine in 1943 at 20, top-
ping his year. Finishing the rest of the
war years with the R.A.N., he returned to
Adelaide ’Varsity as lecturer in anatomy,
in between taking his Doctor of Medicine
degree. The nervous system is his par-
ticular interest; he will develop it at
Oxford. William Adey, one-time South
Australian Director of Education, is his
father, ,
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 72, Charles Baxter, M.L.C. for
East Province since 1914, one-time Minister for
Agriculture, Chief Secretary and an early mover
in Westralia’s Country party. His unopposed
re-election in 1946 gave him a Dominion record
for unopposed nominations —six „ times for
Council elections and twice for Ministerial by-
elections. Victorian-born, he trekked West in
the gold boom of 1896, and helped erect the
overland telegraph before, in addition to
politics, he interested himself in cattle and trig
business. At the end he was director of two
Perth businesses, owned a cattle-station in the
north-west and a farm at Waeel, in the wheat-
belt.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Beatrice Charlotte
Blandy, granddaughter of James Henty, the
founder of Portland. She was one of the first
members of the Australian Comforts Fund in
World War I and for her services was awarded
the C.B.E,
In Sydney, on his 73rd birthday, F. L. Row,
for 14 years manager of the ’Wales Tattersall
branch and universally known as “Banger."
Always a battler for the junior bank-officer, he
ranked among the great Rugby Union centre-
threequarters, captain of an Australian team
against Great Britain in 1899, and for years
front-ranker in inter-State games. He was one-
time president of Manly R.U, Club, and a life-
member.
At Heidelberg (Vic.) Military Hospital, at
55, Bill Davidson, friend to lighthousemen in
three States. As maintenance engineer he ser-
viced lights in the West, North Australia and
Victoria for 25 years and helped to install
radio in all the Bass Strait lighthouses. An
R.A,N. man in the 1914 war, he served in the
next with the V.D.C.
In Melbourne, at 46, Frederick Sheppard
Grimwade, of the Grimwade family, well-
known in Victorian business. Born in Geelong,
he was a director of Industrial Engineering,
Bayley and Brimster (electrical manufacturers)
and head of Grimwade Castings. He had just
been appointed alternate director of Common-
wealth Industrial Gases, and attended the In-
dustrial Management conference in Stockholm
in 1946. His wide racing interests brought him
membership of the V.R.C. and V.A.T.C.
In Melbourne, at 77, Old Digger Dr. Gerald
Weigall, in 1933 president of the Victorian
branch of the B.M.A. At the end M.O. of
Stonnington Military Hospital (Vic.), in 1934
he looked after the Duke of Gloucester’s health
on his Victorian tour.
In Hobart, at 71, Norman Parr Booth, who
joined Cadbury’s in England in 1901, pioneered
chocolate-making in Tasmania and retired in
1939 managing-director.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLESINKS"
“J.R.D.”: At this time of the year
people write to the papers asking how the
date of Easter is determined, and they
are usually told “The first Sunday after
the first full moon on or after March 21
is Easter Sunday”—an answer lacking in
precision and dignity. Isn’t it time mis
problem was answered without reference
to moons? Here’s how: Divide the
number of the year by 19 ; call remainder
a. Divide the number of the year by
four; call remainder b. Divide the
number of the year by seven ; call re-
mainder c. Divide (19 x d) + 24
by 30; call remainder d. Divide
(2 x b) + (4 x c) + (6 x d) + 5 by 7 ;
call remainder e. Then Easter Sunday
will be the (22 + d + e) day of March,
unless this value is greater than 31, in
which case it will be the {d + e — 9) day
of April. Quite simple; no full moon or
calendar needed and no apparatus except
a pencil and a few large sheets of paper.
Gauss, the German mathematician,
worked it out, but I don’t know why.
* * * *
“Sackfair”; The motorist who shared a
Tatt.’s prize with the policeman who
booked him (B. 8/2/’50) recalls another
syndicate. I once found a wristlet-watch
while waiting for a bus to take me to a
new job. There was nothing on the time-
piece to indicate who owned it, but, think-
ing it might have been lost by somebody
employed at the same place, I made
inquiries. Coming home that night a
fellow was pointed out to me as a bloke
who had lost his watch and was offering
a reward of £1. Approached, he described
the watch I had in my pocket. I restored
it to him. “Look,” he suggested. “I was
the luckiest thing alive to get it back ; I
tell you what I’ll do —I was offering a
quid reward, but instead I’ll buy a quid’s-
WOf th of lottery tickets between us,
O.K.?” “Keep your quid and buy one
ticket,” I advised him. So “Honesty
Syndicate” was formed. The ticket won
a fiver. I’m still waiting for my half.
***:(:
Becks” : My high esteem for Queen
Boadicea is equalled only by my regard
for the excellent wines purveyed by the
firm which honored her memory on the
cover of B. 1 / 3 / ’50 ; but I cannot believe
that when the warrior queen stormed Col-
chester and Verulamium “some 70
thousand Roman soldiers were killed.”
1 m not blaming the man who wrote the
advertisement—Haydn’s Dictionary of
Dates supports him in quoting that figure
and also states that when Suetonius
crushed the rebellion 80,000 Britons were
Siam. Both figures are probably greatly
exaggerated ; it is doubtful whether there
were ever as many as 70,000 Roman
soldiers in Britain at any one time and
incredible that if that number were killed
in one battle Suetonius could have shortly
afterwards mustered sufficient forces to
crush the rebellion. The conquest of
Britain was apparently achieved by four
legions the Second, Ninth, Fourteenth
and Twentieth—which, including auxili-
aries, may have totalled 40,000 men. At
the time of Boadicea’s rising the majority
of the troops were campaigning in Wales
and Anglesey; it was their absence that
encouraged the revolt. I can only assume
that the scribes who recorded the statistics
in those days were the ancestors of some
of those who reported the German
casualties on the Eastern front in 1941-42.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: While working out a
Bulletin crossword, I almost took the
count from the past tense of the good old
Australian verb “to job.” In my school-
days, when a cop was still a trap, and
the penalty for truanting was a lamming
for playing the wag, if someone offended
you, you jobbed him, provided you were
big enough. Since then, during the course
of a somewhat aggressive youth, followed
by a series of Army boxing-contests, I’ve
been plugged, biffed, walloped, socked,
stoushed, donged, clocked and otherwise
assaulted; but it’s nearly 50 years since
I’ve heard of anyone being jobbed. I
wonder if the good old verb is still con-
jugated in the active voice in any of the
places I no longer visit.
• * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne weather officials
have dug out from their statistics incon-
trovertible evidence that the weather is
in conspiracy with the exploiters against
striking tram and train men. In the last
three years Melbourne has had 28 tram-
less or trainless days and they have also
been rainless —or, at any rate, if rain
fell, it carefully selected times when the
mob wasn’t travelling. This year started
with 17 days of rain in 50 days. Then
“WHAT on earth are you doing, Henry?”
the tram strike started and the rain
stopped. As I write the strike is entering
on its fourth week with no rain in pros-
pect.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Any scrap of paper con-
nected with the great is important, and a
laundry bill of Shakspeare’s would be a
rare find. Mr. McCallum, chief librarian
of the Melbourne Public Library, re-
cently found a letter written by Marcus
Clarke in 1880. Written in fine, old-style,
artistic calligraphy and couched in flow-
ing English worthy of the author of For
the Term of His Natural Life, it was an
application for the job of principal
librarian in the' institution in which he
had been sub-librarian for seven years.
Marcus stated that he was well read in
Greek and Latin, spoke French, Italian
and Spanish and had translated German
and French works. It didn’t get him the
position, which went to a man with LL.B.
after his name. That’s the way with
official positions. If Socrates turned up
in these parts seeking a professorship of
philosophy his application would prob-
ably fare no better.
* * * *
“T.L.M.”: On a visit to Sydney in
1912 I spent an afternoon at bowls with
“Hop,” so I was not surprised to read
Norman Lindsay’s reference to his taci-
turnity (B. 1/2/’5O). We played in a
two-rink match. Journalists v. Commer-
cial Travellers’ Club, and the other two
players were Percy Reay, editor of the
“Evening News,” and the advertising
manager of The Bulletin, William
Macleod was skip of the other rink.
Throughout the afternoon “Hop” laid the
mat and I chalked the score after each
head, sitting beside each other when not
playing our two bowls. It was a very
long contest —28 ends on the slickest
green I had ever experienced—yet during
that lengthy period my gaunt colleague
did not say one word to me!
After the game was over I said as
I shook hands, “Well, Mr. Hopkins, you
certainly are the most, silent opposite
I’ve ever turned a bowl with —but it
was a rare game!” Taking out of his
mouth a pipe that had never gone cold,
he grinned and said; “Now you mention
it, I guess it was so. Can you come
to my studio at two o’clock tomorrow
afternoon? Then we’ll have a yarn to
make up for my vast silence today.”
Next day he gave me an hour of his
time and showed me samples of his work,
outstanding among which I recall an un-
finished sculptured bust of “My very great
friend and colleague, William Macleod.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Blessed is the tonsorial artist —
as distinct from the common-or-garden
barber —when one of the flapper dailies
unleashes a stickful or two of blurb about
the latest coiffures for “men.” What
looked like a cigarette-issue queue out-
side an establishment near Sydney’s
King’s Cross seemed to be stationary for
too long; a closer inspection revealed
that it was composed almost entirely of
pimpled gallants and older ones of the
spiv, persuasion, nearly all affecting such
refinements as honey-colored corded
velvet jackets, eye-searing ties and, of
course, hair-dos as close to that of Cornel
Wilde and other of their heroes as the
shape of their domes and the texture of
their fibre allowed. Apparently these
pink-blooded he-girls, whose combined
muscle-power must, I estimated, be almost
capable of withstanding an onslaught by
any 12-year-old, were content to spend
an entire Saturday morning in the hope
that a scissors artist could render them
even more effeminate than the job nature
had already done. I didn’t stop to see if
one of them emerged with his new hair-
do protected from the wilful zephyrs with
bobby-pins—l hate to be sick in public.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The discovery of a second
“Mona Lisa” in U.S. should be received
with caution. Nothing is more likely
than that Leonardo made replicas of his
own pictures—all the Old Masters did
that —and his famous picture might even
have been copied by other masters.
When Rubens was ambassador in Spain
he spent a lot of time copying the Velas-
quez portraits in the Prado, He did this
in order to find out how the Spanish
master got his effects, and as he was a
great artist it would be difficult to dis-
tinguish between original and copy. For
generations the “Mona Lisa” in the
Louvre has been copied by myriads of
artists, good, bad and indifferent, so
there must be hundreds of “Mona Lisas”
knocking about the ateliers and junk
stores of Europe. The American expert
may have run up against a genuine
Leonardo, but lots of European experts
thought they had run up against six
genuine Vermeers, one of which they
described as the greatest Vermeer Ver-
meer ever painted. The pictures were
painted by Van Meegeren, a con-
temporary Dutch painter whom they all
despised.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; The decline in the number
of Melbourne’s pawnshops, noted by
“H.W.M.” (B. 22/2/’5O), makes me
wonder why some of our Socialist Gov-
ernments don’t start one. The Dutch
used to have them in Java, and very useful
they were to the native. They were a
means of obtaining credit to tide you over
until the rice-crop ripened, and the
weekly auctions of unredeemed pledges
were a godsend. Councils m!oU ,
sider running them. Inmy vi f o '
15 agricultural machinery of tif ther e
mouldering in the paddocks So «s
utensils and furniture that the are
no use for and material of an a Shave
tions of which there is a generaL
An official auction week if wS f ° rta § e ’
ffiis stuff in from people w ho "In u haU
ashamed to be seen talking to Unclf be
“Sherlocker”: OnitP „ *
whether the alleged brand onX A fr ° m
land lassie’s leg (B. 8/3/’soi JL u Auck '
front or insidl'out anotS
the story worries me. The Conner ft ut
was stated to- bear the imS f olJer
manufacturer: the “Mnnrll °/
Concrete Works.” How“ e heck dM "
concrete-works produce a copper^, 1
“Taswegian”: A couple of mnntho
two men appeared in the Hobart^? 20
court on vagrancy charges; theirt
bmed records covered nearly five nIL
of foolscap, and, according to a detect ?
inspector, one man’s covered ?!
everything imaginable,” and he had i ly
convicted in every State of the
wealth. The police magistrate released
both men on a two-year bond Li
ordered them to leave Hobart for n
months Now, if these men are not fit
to be at large m one city, why should thlv
be allowed to go free in another city?
Apparently there are criminals beinir
kicked from one State to another com
miffing crimes in each place they visit'
It sounds very much like passing the
buck; police magistrates should have
the courage to deal with these men when
and where they act.
* * * #
K.E.8.”: The problem seemed simple
enough to the examiner who set it for the
1950 Matric., Sydney University:—
A bag contains 50 coins worth £l4
altogether. There are sovereigns, three
tunes as many half-sovereigns, and the
rest are shillings. Find the number of
each.
There were 200 candidates, teen-agers
presumably drawn from a more-than-
averagely intelligent section of the
community. Of these, ten assumed a
sovereign to be equal to five shillings.
Others offered solutions treating it as ten
bob and even a guinea. The sovereign
has, of course, never been current coinage
during the lifetime of those examined.
There were few in circulation at the
beginning of the Depression and none at
all after 1931. On the other hand, in
1937 and 1938, when the candidates were
about six or seven years old, Australia
minted crown-pieces, which perhaps
accounts for the confusion in the
youngsters’ minds.
* * * •
“Tarbush”: Does “Bughouse” (B.
25/1/’5O) imagine that the fact that
Carboniferous fireclays will not now
support plant life indicates that such
clays never did? According to Watts’s
Geology, fireclay is “a clay from which
all the alkalies (potash and soda) have
been removed as if by the growth of
vegetation ” The first traces of land
plants can be detected in Silurian rocks,
laid down some 90-million years before
the coal measures. And a long succession
of lowly ancestors —liverworts and
mosses—paved the way and prepared the
soil for the later maintenance of the great
coal-swamp forests,
“C. 8.”: Newspaper - throwers (B
22/2/’50)? The best I have ever seen
was the old fellow who used to P eda J “
bike about Adelaide’s suburbs in
’nineties, and whose “Piper-piper ,
quite superfluous—both his leu* m
right-hand shots landed the “Register
“ Tiser” with a resounding bang wn
in the middle of the front-door. j
morning I tried to emulate
opened the door of my parents bear •
took quick aim at the foot of the beo
shouted “Piper!” There was a crash, an
my mother’s best crystal kerosene s
lamp with glass shade flew into
ments.
jj. ,
“Swegn”: My daily paper
that Rome’s Christian Democrat 8
“II Popolo” censured HoUywoojs
attack on the Bergman-Rossellini 1
“Stromboli” with Christ’s words to
Pharisees: “Let he among y° u , ne ”
without sin cast the first .g e( j
Whether Hollywood’s attack was ]
I neither know nor care; nor arn j 0 ’ S ”
cerned to argue whether U r. j n
claim that there is nothing scan
the film is true or not. But I d ° D Dpo se
with the quote; it’s wrong. 1 F j, a ve
different versions of The nsU jted
different renderings ; the one 1 verS e
gave it (St. John, chapter eig ’ oD g
seven): “He that is without sin >f g ut
you, let him cast a stone at u •
however many versions there ar > . ,
surprised if any of them read L al
cast the first stone.” It ain’t gratm*
THE BAN-GAGGERS.
Labor member told N. S. Wales State caucus
that there would be no need for the ban on the Press
if newspapers could be forced to allocate equal space
to all political parties in which to reply to criticism.”
— “S.M.H.”
How beautiful it is to find
A Labor member, though anonymous,
Of kindly and impartial mind,
A worshipper of the autonomous,
Who valiantly condemns duress
And in McGag’s own party preaches:
“There’ll be no need to ban the Press
If we can make them print our speeches.”
To Labor members has belonged
The privilege, in and out of season,
Of being always right and wronged
In any cause, for any reason;
Calwell and Codings, Amour and Ward,
And men of similar sobriety,
Early and late have all deplored
The daily papers’ impropriety.
They only blew Canberran gales;
Twas left to him to give directions
Who put the wails in New South Wales
To ban the Press before elections,
- Which proved a weapon true and stout
As any suicidal dagger—
It split his party, cut his vote —
McGag became his own best gagger.
So, anxious only to forget,
His caucus is of disposition,
With just the slightest hint of threat,
To lift the ban on one condition;
But many a tired newspaperman,
Busily at his desk inditing,
Will murmur, “Please don’t gag our ban—
It’s so much better than our writing!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Red Fox”: Just four centuries ago
a gentleman of the German family of
Fuchs Leonhard of that ilk, made a
name for himself in a scientific study of
botany. From him we got the fuchsia,
and that in turn has given the name
fuchsine to “a beautiful aniline color,
magenta or red” (according to my dic-
tionary), widely used for dyeing purposes,
especially in reds. Much earlier the
Romans knew all about red disguises,
and they also had something of the same
word for red, deceit, and disguise —fucus
was a rock-lichen and hence a red color,
especially rouge as a paint; fucosus,
painted counterfeit, spurious ; fucare, to
dye; fucatus, falsified, whence our
language has derived the adjective fucate
or fucated, meaning to disguise with paint
or any false show. And now it appears
that a modern Klaus Fuchs, a German
and known to be a Communist eight or
nine years ago, has for most of the war
and four years of post-war been allowed
to take part in top-secret research-work
on atomic energy, and has been regu-
larly passing on to Moscow’s agents the
results of these researches. And every-
body of intelligence who had anything
to do with him during all that time—
especially those whose duty was to
screen” him, as the modern idiom has
it—have had Fuchs’s name and origin to
warn them, to say nothing of Cicero’s
now 2000-year-old advice about fucata
ct simulate a sinceris atque veris inter-
noscere, or distinguishing the false from
ne true. If someone named J. Iscariot
were to appear on the Harwell research
tatt : would nobody have any stirring of
suspicion about him?
* i) * * ♦
b„ t Dead men ma Y tell no tales,
_ , e strange power of selectivity seems
a m° be derde d them. Three times in
emS y b day / 1 have h . eard this, or its
comm en S fr P m disk-jockeys on the
T next artist is Richard
little «, ai l d be bas chosen a charming
point £r be V tC -” 111611 the needle-
One can fi Were s and tke son S commences,
face Hpq 10081I 0081 - v'sualise the late Richard’s
lence n frt. lng pleasure a t the excel-
f the choice he has just made.
15/2/^so)°*vr Ci | e ” : r x - S ” is right (B.
means nivtY 10 enC if- ln fi - m ’ son § or stor y
rale thev Lv otblng to kiddies. As a
h * ad any experience of
tion of .th ere f° re have no concep-
had tht h m^ nce really is - W a nipper
violence anTt & - power to appreciate
in a confimS a “? S ? nd effects he ’ d live
We stern civilkaf Whirl of horror under
earliest nurd™ 1 ? 0 anyway ’ Most of his
a good manv of h^ eS ' Stories ’ and
based on J° f j hose that follow, are
the Giant B Kfti &nd ? rror ’ From Jack
suicide by rbni™ an ° gre to
t 0 Hansefand P r 8 ?i S bel J y with a knife
her own oven Gret i C °° klng a Wltch in
SCr eams fufiv / ven the death-
wreak everv L e -u? rd u d ’ tbe characters
sible way and th? e b^ VOC in every pos "
their stride j;£ cMdr ™ take it all in
their personal c everythm g else outside
firings beton? L Sensory experience these
-the w 0 a ”n nt ! r6ly separate world
e *e rt ainrn find
[9 connect them £ Ut any attempt
kids know it ™ l ,* tke world as the
lau ghter. So it k l Y ui bn^ gs SCOrn or
comics and film. ltk hlood-and-thunder
agers whose mentals Maybe s °me teen-
11.might be S y -i S n °l as stable as
Wl th Sorn f to identify themselves
°t the slather-and-whack
characters, and are tempted to try a spot
of imitative violence themselves. But for
little kids? Forget it. They do.
* * * *
“Clooter”: When an insurance com-
pany did me the inestimable honor of
presenting me with a calendar featuring
a map of the world, little did it know
that on being solemnly informed by the
C.5.1.R.0. that Captain Cook was right
when he gave his crew Kerguelen cab-
“How’s your appetite?”
bage to eat to prevent scurvy, I would
find the map most useful. It is, in that
it shows me where Kerguelen Island is.
Without this knowledge I feel that the
efforts of the Heard Island expedition
in bringing some of the weed to Australia,
and the efforts of the C.5.1.R.0. in test-
ing it for anti-scorbutic properties, would
have been utterly wasted —as far as I’m
concerned. Therefore leam that Cook’s
people ate the stuff both raw and boiled
and liked it, that subsequent English and
American sailors visiting the place also
liked it, but that the pernickety French
thought it had “a most rank and bitter
taste.” It appears the French boiled it
twice, a serious mistake, in the opinion
of the C.5.1.R.0., because that reduced its
ascorbic-acid content. All this, however,
should not lead the suffering Australian
housewife into supposing that a supply
of cheap vegetables has been found —all
the C.5.1.R.0. can say at this stage is
that “this cabbage from an island set far
in the Antarctic Ocean would provide
ships visiting the island with an excel-
lent weapon in the fight against scurvy,”
The next time anybody grumbles, “What
do we pay taxes for?.” let him think of
that.
"Who’ll We pay this Week— the landlord, the butcher
or the egg-man?"
“8.A.K.”: Hypnotic showmen seem to
be enjoying a vogue again. Twenty to
30 years ago they wore out their wel-
come with most Australian audiences.
There was “The Great McEwen,” “The
Great Diamond,” “The Great Ramond”
and five or six others, each doing the
same old stuff and each “The only
genuine hypnotist showing in Australia
today.” Whether any or all were genuine
was the subject of many a debate, until
the public became too blase to care. I
knew chaps who vowed no recollection
of the asinine things they did on the stage,
and others who assured me that it was
the easiest money they ever earned. And
now the old rigmarole is being resurrected
again—even to the woman put to sleep
in a shop-window. This apparently
essential adjunct to the performance
once severely shook my faith in hypnotic
powers. With due ceremony the lady had
been laid to rest in the local barber’s
window, to be awakened at eight p.m.
in the School of Arts (popular prices;
children half-price). Our way home
from school took Skinny Coleman and
myself past the shop. Skinny owned a
powerful magnifying-glass, the sun was
just at the right angle. Hypnosis may
produce sleep, but it obviously didn’t
make the subject immune from pain—or
temper.
* * * *
“Pat”: Train-travellers are accustomed
to the sight of womenfolk knitting, read-
ing, gossiping or merely staring into
space. But I struck a new one the other
day—a woman shelling peas. “Of
course,” she confided, “my family
wouldn’t own me if they could see me
now. But why should I waste time?”
She didn’t. When she alighted she had
shelled a pound and a half of peas into
a brown-paper bag. The railway depart-
ment was left the pods.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: How true it is that “Aus-
tralians have strangely avoided the sea”
(B. 1/2/’5O) is exemplified by the coming
to Albany of two British trawlers, with
the transfer of the necessary fishermen
and their families. The native fishing-
fleet comprised little more than a dinghy
or two, yet their catches were often suffi-
cient to make respectable quantities of
fish for the goldfields’ shops ; Perth rarely
saw anything of it. Now it’s different,
and among other things the “new” in-
dustry of organised fishing on a scale of
Old Country fishing is the iced-packed
fish, boned and all that, ready for trans-
ferring into the batter and fat—and at
the substantial price of 4s. 6d. a pound.
What fishing industry exists at Fremantle
is in the hands of non-Australians —ex-
cept for naturalised citizens. The tang
of the briny makes little appeal to the
average Australian lad beyond a desire
to lave his body in the water.
* * * *
“Slim Jim”: Westralia has had its
hottest summer for 17 years. After a
fortnight of high temperatures, during
which the mercury topped the century
several times, a change set in, bringing
light rains and cool breezes. To the
harassed firemen of Perth this looked
good, for the hot spell had meant con-
tinuous calls to suburban grass-fires and
bushfires in outlying districts. However,
before they could get their feet up, the
bells started ringing again—ls times in
one night. The light rain falling on the
coatings of dust accumulated on power
terminals had caused short-circuits that
set fire to the tops and crossbars of the
; power-poles. Some years ago a similar
occurrence resulted in 50 pole-fires in one
night.
* ♦ * *
“Byramine”: In his list of human
annoyances (B. 22/2/’5O) “Bo” missed
one that is nearly unbearable—the man
who thinks it smart to speak with a
cigarette in his mouth. The chap who
holds it in the corner of his mouth, like
the cigar of the American gangster, is bad
enough, but the bloke who produces
weird ventriloquial gurgles while holding
the fag in the centre of his lips deserves
no mercy.
* * * *
“Mullum”: Bearing U.S. stamps, the
letter was addressed: “Opposite the Town
Hall, Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Lismore.” Lismore being the last name
on the list, the letter was sent there. Then
the chase began. Lismore has no Town
Hall, so the postman thought of the
Council Chambers, but opposite that
building is only a wide street. Eventually
delivered to the Council Chambers the
letter was opened and the mysterious
address became clear. The letter was
intended for a furniture-firm which adver-
tises ; “Opposite the Town Hall in Sydney.
Also at Newcastle, Wollongong and Lis-
more.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: Watching Jennifer Jones’s
death-throes in the “Madame Bovary”
film I heard a young man, possibly a
medical student, murmur to his girl-friend
with a note of authority; “That’s not
arsenical poisoning; that’s strychnine.”
The girl was more interested in the emo-
tional situation of poor Madame Bovary
than in factual accuracy, but as Flaubert
was not only a magnificent observer of
human nature with a marvellous capacity
to identify himself with anybody, from
an aristocrat to a peasant, but an acute
observer of ordinary things and took
enormous pains to get his background
right, I looked up the novel and found
that his description of the death scene
exactly paralleled Miss Jones’s acting of
it. So I don’t know who’s right and
would be glad of information on the
subject.
* * * *
“Faiff”: Dad had yet another use
for sulphur (B. 14/12/’49) —one that
never failed to attract a ring of juvenile
spectators. For such jobs as fixing an
eye-bolt in the concrete wall of the stable
or hinges in the brick pier that was to
carry the new front-gate, he first made a
hole (a little bigger than the metal to be
inserted), placed sulphur in a tin over
a slow fire, then made a clay funnel
around the hole containing the proposed
fixture. In a surprisingly short time the
powder melted into a liquid; it was then
poured in the clay funnel and thus around
the gadget in the hole. “A team of
wild horses couldn’t pull that out when
the stuff sets,” Dad used to declare.
That might have been an exaggeration—
but a team of wild kids couldn’t.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The Australian
may not have the sloppy servility of the
American towards the other sex, but
Mrs. Australia has her husband pretty
well trained. During a period one Satur-
day in which I was held up by an appoint-
ment near one of the washing-machine
depots that have become popular in the
suburbs, only one of the 30 customers
who passed in or out was female.
Apparently taking the laundry to the
automatic-washers is regarded as the
male’s job. At the beach on another
Saturday a young Hercules was re-
proached for his non-attendance at some
morning training stunt. “Couldn’t make
it; the missus wanted me to take the
washing to the washing-machine place,”
he said, quite unashamed of the chore.
EXCEPTION.
t0 ltd to practically any spher _ Radio lectU rer.
Zip - -W- or - —
Fromhobnailed “* ’
you an D d %> and that without a
cheque proper duffer
Undoubtedly you d dy t0 wrec k
Your We by do f s simply say:
K n gerti?g be«er V better every day!
Bn. is *''3 STta Ser Mds“nvoke7
At F WS3i irqSite spiritless and weary.
He’s backcd. wi h ga t bullock in its yoke.
U sMnn e ® The rent, but swift will joy impart
And. ***** g S te ocSy? aTmly "tap
Than such Jealiy-slow perambulation
Tom” 5 10 >«ad of queue you close the gap.
, a uLVr fhe brutal observation
%«So more cigarettes!” Don't be a
sap nRpftpr I am,” it’s good to say,
ftS When I was six back yesterday!”
Nn, even Coue (though with it quite a wizard).
N Whene’er some peccadillo that he’d wrought
<:tnrk fast inside his irate spouses' gizzard
S And S o! his defenceless head had brought
A veritable matrimonial blizzard.
To use his own pet theory would have thought.
How futile, when before that storm he d cower,
To murmur: “It gets better every hour!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Sunday afternoon, and
we were having a quiet game of whisky-
poker in the parlor when there was a
light sound and a thump outside. Jones
got up and looked through the door.
“Hughie’s dog,” he said briefly. I was
new to the place and, as I played, kept
waiting to hear the mysterious Hughie.
He didn’t come. During an interval in
the game I had a look at the dog. A
Queensland heeler, he lay on the veranda
in that half-dozing attitude of the dog
who awaits. “Dog’s still there,” I said
curiously. One or two of the players
looked at me strangely, as though
astonished that I should remark on it. TTie
game broke up for tea. As we took our
places in the dining-room Jones said to
the waitress, “Hughie’s dog’s there.”
“All right,” she said. Later I saw her
going through the passage to the
yeranda with some meat scraps on a
plate. I became the more anxious to see
this Hughie, who could exercise such a
powerful influence through his dog. Cards
Were resumed after tea and I forgot about
Hughie in the excitement of the game.
We broke up about 11 p.m., and before
going to bunk I went to the veranda for
a breath of air. Hughie’s dog got up,
smelt my boots and lay down again. On
the way in I encountered Jones. “Hughie’s
dog’s still there,” I said. “Yair,” he said
indifferently. I couldn’t stand it any
longer. “Look,” I said. “Who is this
Hughie, anyway?” Jones leaned against
Jhe wall. “I wouldn’t know,” he said
carefully. “Y’ see, I’ve only bin here
about a year. Hughie’s dog was here
when I come. I never run into Hughie;
he was drowned in the river about three
years ago.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: There was a little private
feud between Seventyfiver and a broken-
horned bally. Slyly the bullock would
work to the outer edge of the mob, watch
his chance to stop behind any screen that
offered, then turn quickly and make back.
After a brief run Seventyfiver would turn
him and dust his hide with the whip.
"Black;
“Must be a fair while since your last trim-up, sir ?”
We were easing the fats slowly down the
bush road, the old bloke’s threats growing
more lurid each time he chased broken-
horn. Then we hit Plugalong, and a
bloke from the pub came to ask would
we cut out a beast for the local butcher
and leave it in his yards, half a mile on?
“Chopper couldn’t wait to see you,” ex-
plained the bloke. “Called away urgent,
so he left this note to give you.” Seventy-
fiver glanced at the note and nodded.
“Awright, we’ll leave ’im one.” Coming
to the yards, I turned back the lead and
held them round a bend, while Seventy-
fiver selected a killer and shot him
through the gate. We moved on. Half an
hour later I missed the broken-horned
bullock and became suspicious. “Hey,
you didn’t leave the mad beggar for
Chopper, did you?” I yelled. “That thing
was falling off. Run about too much.
He 7 d be tough.” Seventyfiver flicked his
whip lazily and felt for his matches, “I
left ’im what ’e asked for, Sol,” he
drawled easily. “He said t’ pick ’im out
the one I’d most like t’ sink me teeth in.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Way back in the days before
ironmongers had learned to laugh sar-
donically at most requests, I asked a raw
shop-assistant for half a dozen scutch-
combs. The young fellow looked
stumped. “I’m afraid we don’t stock
them, sir,” he apologised. I was sure they
did. “I’ve bought ’em here. They’re little
steel things abouf an inch and a half
wide and the same long ; both ends have
teeth cut in and they fit in a scutch—a
tool like a miniature mattock. Bricklayers
use them for trimming bricks.” The de-
scription didn’t convey anything. “What
did you say the name was?” asked the
youth. “Scutch-combs. Your boss would
know what they are.” “The boss has gone
to town on business. But I’ll look down
the index. Let’s see, S Sa. Sc: Scales,
Scissors, Scythes. No ; no scutch-combs,
sir.” It seemed like a deadlock. Sud-
denly memory heaved off its cobwebs.
“Wait a minute, I don’t think you people
call ’em scutch-combs. You call them —
what is it now? Claw —claw-bits!” The
assistant dived for the index again.
“Claw-bits, Oh, yes, we have them.” Yes,
as “Channo” says (B. 15/2/’5O), the old,
torn diminishing catalogue hung from its
rusty nail provided a source of informa-
tion that endured for many, many years
after.
*'* * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were having a blow
on our swags about four miles on the
Stockinbingal side of Cootamundra when
a saddled and bridled but riderless horse
came cantering towards us. “Some
bloke’s got chucked off,” I said. The
horse let us catch it. “Came from
Coota.,” Mat said. “We better make
back that way.” We loaded our swags
on the nag and started. We saw nobody
until we got to the town, so we took the
horse to the Albion Hotel and put it in a
stall. Then we went to the local police
and told them what we’d found. The
police told us to hang round, got in their'
motor-car and went searching round the
town and district for the rider. We
hung around, certain there’d be a beer
or two in it for us. Later, a constable
came to us and said, “That horse was
only going home. His owner got a lift
in a neighbor’s car. He says he often
does that and the horse just goes home.
He seems to think you coves ought to
mind your own business. The sergeant
thinks so, too. You’ve had us running
about in all directions, upsetting people.
What are you hanging round here for,
anyway?” Mat looked at him. “We
ain’t,” he said. “We’re on our way to
Temora; they tell me the people out
there’ll even say ‘Good-day’ to a ruddy
man.” The constable was debating
whether we’d been guilty of offensive
behavior when we pulled out.
“Howie Wing”: Snakes don’t
grow as big as they once did;
probably closer-settlement kills
them before they reach maturity.
Back in 1904 I noticed a wriggler’s
tail sticking out from under the
veranda. As the house was built low
to the ground on that end, I went around
to the far side to get a look at him. Blow
me if his head wasn’t protruding a yard
from the other veranda! After dis-
patching him, I went back to the tail-end
to drag him out, but couldn’t move the
corpse an inch; the middle part was
coiled three times around the bottom of
the chimney.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: If Europeans are sceptical
concerning the last resting-place of the
Tainui canoe, which brought the ancestors
of the Maori from Tahiti 600 years ago,
it is because they haven’t read the pre-
European history of New Z e *u nA
preserved in legend. Ethnologist as
these legends are accurate in S\
details. The anchor-stones of thrw ?A 0r
canoes are still in existence • th a 7 I
Matahorua in the Dominion Uul the
that of the Tokomaru in iff"?*
Plymouth Museum, that of th e t • w
now firmly set in concrete close
road two miles north of Mokau a he
logical examination of all three'cnniP 0 ’
that they were brought from the *5??
Islands, as the legends claim. All the y
it is a pity that Maori leaders such" 16 ’
Princess Te Puea, have set their minds
against an excavation on the spot w£
the Tamm was buried. There are e [ c
of precedents. In Scandinavia the rem? y
of Norse long-ships have been du* unin
the same way, and the knowledge & ca irW
concerning their build, etc., has blen of
great value to science. RecentlyV
Catholic Church allowed the tomb of Jf
Peter to be opened in order to set the
seal of authenticity upon the last restin '
place of the apostle. By now the Tainui
has probably rotted away, but there
should still be sufficient traces to show
her size, the way she was built and other
data of great ethnological value. If the
task were entrusted to the Polynesian
Society, the Maori people could rest
assured that it would not only be done
with the great care used in archeological
work, but also with all the reverence due
to a spot which has great sentimental
value as well as scientific interest. The
tapu on the spot could be lifted while the
work was being done, then it could be re-
imposed. With the data thus obtained it
would be possible to build an exact copy
of the craft which brought the ancestors
of Tangata Maori from Tahiti to Aotea-
Roa ; the copy could be used in a pageant
which would re-enact the landing of the
emigrants in the year 1350. The Maori
leaders should give the scheme earnest
consideration.
* * * ♦
“Rooster”: “Spotter” (B. 22/2/’5O)
evidently interrupted preparations for a
marriage-flight of ants. With most species
there usually is this display of excitement,
the workers rushing about, urging the
winged males and females to take off.
The workers, being wingless, care not a
jot about these future progenitors. A
warm, still day is always chosen. When
one considers the extremely fragile texture
of the temporary wings, and that large
numbers of the flying-ants fall victims to
predaceous insects and birds, the hesitancy
in taking-off can partly be understood.
What few fertilised females survive
normally drop to the ground, cut off their
flimsy wings, each seeking a place to start
their new homes. What surprised me in
“S.’s” par. was that he spotted all this in
the morning. It’s almost a rule that these
marriage-flights are evening affairs.
3jc * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: Two Albany (W.A.) resi-
dents have proved that plantains, though
a tropical fruit, can be grown in the
climate, which is something like that ot
Western Tasmania. One spaced his plants
at intervals ; the other grew them m a
clump, and the plantains have reached
a height of about 12ft. One, planted m
loam about 12 years ago, has continue
to flourish. This season it produced mo: t
than four dozen stems of fruit, each co -
taining clusters of about 10 plantains.
' ♦ jjc ♦ *
“Warrandyte”: “Old Bushman
15/2/’5O) is wide of the mark in hi
summary of the effect of the record
spring in the Yarra Valley as APP 11 > t
the failure of the fruit crop. One resu
of the long wet spring was the very
frosts, and thrip do not thrive in tn •
What did cause the big loss of stone--
was tfie splitting and consequent sp
as a result of too much ram. 1
gave most plums, peaches and ch
attack of “wet feet,” notwithstan S
good drainage of our slopes, and in on the
even the foliage suffered. C. ltlUS > we t
other hand, seemed to enjoy
season, *
“Zake”: The skinny horse was
to a stop by its whiskered drive
cart he was on had two outsl , stuC k
and the shafts were so long t J p ro m
out beyond the horse for abou _ t 2 ap tion
this obviously home-made v^
the ancient hirsute one hopped
prising agility, and, flicking a aS |ced
a portable grindstone in the .i gate
the cocky standing by h is . sC j ss ors
if his missus wanted any kniv jn-
ground. The agriculturist was m
terested in the weird jn
grinder had come in, howe >
the sharpening of implements. . long
the idea,” he asked, “of^having n * ke( j sur-
shafts?” The whiskered one K> 4lhaven ’t
prised. “Gripes,” he exclaim », a
you got on to that lurk of in „JR
go straight without usin , oU t in
sees the two straight hries g a na rrer
front of him an’ he thinks he at
lane, so he just follers it
all!”
WE DRANK TO NED.
I met old Bill outside a pub, his bearded face
was drawn.
His keen blue eyes were misty grey, like sand-
hills in the dawn.
He shook his head, to me he said,
“Me greatest mate has gawn.
“Remember Ned? Me old mate Ned, me pal
since first we came
As young lads through the border fence, and
left behind our name,
i And rode the pad for good or bad 1
Ah 1 Life today is tame.
“I mind the time the cattle rushed upon the
Rankin plain,
Me night-horse fell, I only knew a sense of
burning pain,
And heard the beat of charging feet
, Like thunder in the rain.
“But louder than the roar of hooves I heard
Ned’s stockwhip crack,
He rode their wing, I sensed him swing the
maddened leaders back.
And I am here . . • Yes, mine’s a beer I
She’s dusty on the track.”
[We drank to Ned, we laid his shade with other
bushmen, too;
We called the names of places from the Alice
to the ’Loo,
Of dogs and whips and droving trips,
And as we boozed these grew.
And then I spoke. “What’s all this fuss about
our old pal Ned?
He’s broke his hobble-chains and gone to meet
the other dead.
For you and I the open sky
With shady tree ahead.”
Then Bill grew sad. “I promised Ned I’d lay
him down to rest
Beside the track where stockwhips crack as
herds come from the west;
A lonely grave, where lancewoods wave,
By Nature’s hand caressed.
“But I have failed, he died of thirst, and dingoes
dined off Ned;
And by them dogs me old mate passed from
creek to watershed.
Oh, far and wide Ned’s bones lie dried,
That’s why I wet his head.”
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


for greater
smoking
pleasure
Choose a
NIMROD Drysmoker
Fitted with the famous hygienic filter, the
Nimrod Drysmoker is a Milder, Cleaner, Cooler
Pipe. Bowl stays dry. Tobacco burns evenly.
Flavour is improved. No waste. The carbonised
bowl is already broken in for instant comfort-
able smoking. Order your particular shape-
straight or bent—by mail, from Andrew McGee.
■
1
df
963
to
23 Shapes
choose from
890
941
936
iS8
PRICE
27/
• Plus 9d for Postage
ENGLISH BRIAR
PIPE
i
-
Obtainable from Sydney’s
foremost tobacconist
Est. 1887
ANDREW
McGEE
1 Castlereagh Street, 70 Pitt Street, Sydney
ttt>n” • Half an hour after Dreamy,
, hand had been put on to chipping
K the boss, coming up from the
cries glanced over and saw the hand
Sng on the hoe gazing into space
S hour later, emerging from the
harness-shed he happened to look across,
a his employee was still doing the
stawe act. Givfng him the benefit of the
doubt-after all, Dreamy could have
Adopted the stance only a minute or so
aC o following a prolonged session with
his implement—the boss went into the
house. Coming out some time afterwards
he again espied the hand, still in the
same position, his eyes focused on to
something far beyond the horizon. Go-
ing over to Dreamy, without a word he
leaned across, picked something delicately
of! his employee’s ear, flicked at an object
that appeared to be half-way between the
top of the hoe-handle and the hand’s
car on to the ground and stamped on it.
As Dreamy, coining to from his reverie,
looked on at these mysterious proceed-
ings with gaping mouth, the boss said
tersely: “Y’ want to watch those red-
backs. That one’d nearly spun its web
across to your ear—another hour or so
standin’ there an’ you might’ve bin
bitten!”
« * * *
“Snobby”: The goats which inhabit the
islands off the N.Q. coast are the
descendants of . those originally brought
from the mainland about 60 years ago.
But. although they have no natural
enemies—there are no dingoes on the
islands—the immunity they have long
enjoyed hasn’t blunted an age-old instinct.
Without exception, when two goats make
camp, they lie head to tail, one facing
north, the other south. Nor is there any
chewing of the cud, which is the usual
prelude to slumber, each alert for the
enemy none of them has known.
* <l= * *
Bughouse”: Though it is comforting
to believe that the core of the globe is
a solid, the evidence, despite the theories
of seismologists, is much the other way.
h is generally accepted that the earth
e gan as a molten ball, over which a
crust formed and thickened. That the
interior is still molten is shown by molten
matter being squeezed out at many
widely-separated points of the present
rust: Mexico, Alaska, Italy, Antarctica
0 mention a few. It would be foolish
tha( SU^e u t tkat tke su b-crust reservoirs
at mother these eruptions are of purely
■ i' o [?P n> As . f° r the central core re-
0n.,,,! » a s ° lid in transmitting earth-
stul e a tre T/ S ’ has “ J A -H(B. 15/2/’5O)
a so,id. m °T ten lro - n? ? s m °lten iron still
thou oh ii i! C l rta i nl X * snt a liquid, even
pressure f ay du i d - Under tremendous
a solid ' may ta , ke on the Properties of
standv’hi I ° n I e ease from pressure in-
has Ln fluuk Som£ thing like this
diamonds f ied m l^ e effort to Produce
theory" is a l° m cast ' lron - And since one
Ported bv in 8 °° d T 35 another when sup-
of the earth° gIC! 1 f uggest that the core
.snotty m that condition. There
that the c nr l SU^ port the theory, though,
pourings frn S ° f ' r ? n and nickeL ° ut -
Presenf are f nnt Vol . car ! oes > Past and
the reverse Nn /markedly ferric— rather
acting as aml d °f S tke aCt tke ear th
iron-core glVe support to the
retboory, since iron, even when
heated only to redness, becomes non-
magnetic. The present 40-mile crust is,
of course, pretty rigid, but it often
buckles.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: We had to dig out the
loganberries at the old place because of
blackbirds (B. 22/2/’5O), but owing to an
inability to withhold credit where it’s due
I still think they can sing—just as I enjoy
the gurgles of old Jack, though his
legendary control of snakes is a poor
offset to his savage marauding of nest-
lings. But how many of the things around
us are unmixed blessings? At present I’m
trying to carve a bit of cultivation out
of a maddening mass of tangled paspalum
(and if I took time off to “sit on my
veranda” to view the problem there’d be
no crop in this autumn), but they tell me
that on the N.S.W. North Coast the
accursed stuff is the grass with the golden
touch. Your worthy blacklist omitted
blackfellows; of course there aren’t
enough of them left to be a pest, but I
sometimes think that the shades of the
humorists amongst them must be
chuckling at the sight of their white
dfs
“I don't WANT to go to bed!”
successors struggling to keep under
control things like the rabbit, boxthorn,
the worts and others which were originally
imported with the idea of improving the
local scene.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: I’ve heard the
magpie’s praises sung for almost every-
thing except that for which I appreciate
him most —supplying me with pipe-
cleaners. At any paddock-gate in maggie
country you’ll always find a couple of
6in.-long black, brown and white feathers
—texture of which makes them ideal for
the pipe-smoker.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Silver-gulls
breed in great numbers 200 miles inland
at Lake Tyrrell in the Victorian Malice,
which is twice the distance that Natimuk
is from the sea (B. 1/ 3 / ’5O). And at Sea
Lake town near by, their snowy-white
forms dot the main street, and thereabouts
in winter it is not unusual to see a flock
following the plough. During one big
August gale I saw a few birds at Bal-
ranald on the ’Bidgee, a further 50 miles
in from the coast. Once I used to consider
that these red-legged scavengers—inci-
dentally, they are more a bird of the sea-
shore than of the sea—bred mostly on
the seagirt islands of Bass Strait. Yet one
finds their greyish, greenish-splotched
eggs in ground-nests in most islands on
saltwater lakes and inlets in the Cabbage
Garden from Bird Isle at Mallacoota
around to the huge colony at Lake Coran-
gamite in the western district, where more
than 10,000 breed. The strangest place
I’ve seen seagulls, even though they were
taken there, was in pre-war years at an
old-world Chinese garden on the Darling
River at Wilcannia. The Chinamen told
me that, as well as being grub-chasers,
the gulls were watchdogs, for their shrill,
resonant cries warned them when boys
were stealing fruit.
* * * *
“E.”: Mum hurriedly helped herself to
a slice of bread and picked up her knife.
“Pass the jam, please, Dad.” She
snatched a glance at the clock, tapped the
table urgently with the knife-blade, and
tried again. “Pass the jam, Dad, will
you?” “Eh?” The old bloke looked up
from the paper he was reading. “Jam?
Yes, awright. Which jam?” Mum
fidgeted, and again glanced at the clock.
“There’s only one jam on the table,” she
assured him, a trifle impatiently. ‘‘Yah?”
Dad took careful stock of the array be-
fore him. “That’s right, so there is,” he
agreed. “Well, pass it, Dad.” “Eh? Aw,
y’ want it passed.” Slowly he put down
his cup, reached for the jam and caught
his cuff in the cup'-handle. “Darn’ near
spilt the lot on the cloth,” he growled.
“An’ you with all them visitors cornin’
t'day. Bloke better be careful.” Me
pushed the cup back out of the danger
zone, shoved another piece of bread into
his mouth, glanced again at the paper
while he groped for the jam. “Not bad
jam this, either,” he remarked, helping
himself to a bit more. “Here y’ are,
Mum, an’ Aw, cripes,” he snorted.
“Y’ ask a man t’ pass the flamin’ stuff,
then y’ straightway go an’ put honey on
instead. Hanged if I know why it is
women can’t make up their minds about
things!”
* * * ♦
“Tillie Twirp”: Old Barney had done
quite a lot of odd jobs for Mrs. Bung,
and except for a few free beers had re-
ceived nothing in the way of payment.
Then someone dropped an inkling that
Barney’s birthday was near. When the
day arrived Barney came into town to
celebrate. Mrs. Bung gave him as much
free grog as he could drink, and when he
was ready to go back to his humpy she
handed him a parcel. “Just a little
somethin’ f’r y’r birthday, Barney.” Safe
in his humpy Barney opened the parcel.
“ ’Struth! ” he ejaculated. “Winder cur-
tains! Jest wot I need f’r me winders.
Bit gawdy they are, but they’ll keep th’
stickybeaks from lookin’ through.” He
staggered to the two openings in his
humpy, and under great difficulties
managed to arrange the gaudy pyjama-
trousers at ope and the equally-gaudy
coat at the other.
* * * *
“Hopper”: I’ve suffered in silence fer
years ; I’ve looked at other illustrations
and forgiven them on account of their
ignorance ; but when my pet artist makes
a mockery of anatomy then I hop in to
protest. Ted Scorfield imparts life to all
his drawings. When, some time ago, he
drew a ’roo offering its pouch as a cradle
for the infant son of Princess Elizabeth, I
condoned that as a patriotic gesture. In
the last copy of The Bulletin he drew a
proud mother with her joey in the pouch,
and the old doe shows her cleverness by
exclaiming, “Look —no hands!” I
grinned at that. It was clever. But why
does he make the opening of the pouch
horizontal when it’s vertical?
* * * #
“Lower Tops’!”: Lunar rainbows? On
a moonlit night just before the war a mate
and myself stopped the car at Carwarp
on the Calder highway to look at a double
lunar rainbow. Although there had been
a passing shower it was then a clear sky,
and those two ’bows were so perfect
that I’ve never seen a sky-decorator even
in daylight to equal them. Yet at sea
during the war and in all sorts of places
since, whenever 1 mention this, people
look unusually dubious. Last week, after
an absence of 11 years, I met my Carwarp
mate, and the first thing he asked was
whether I remembered that phenomenon,
adding that no one will believe him either.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: I erred when I
said there wasn’t a bullock-team left in
Gippsland (B. 22/2/’5O). There are two.
A. Hodgson, of Hedley, still yokes up 14
workers and W. A. Gale, of Fish Creek,
20, and both are at present breaking down
coastal scrub in the Cape Liptrap area.
Until the war this swamp ti-tree and
black-wattle scrub was looked on as waste
land, but today, after being broken up
and established with improved pastures,
it’s three-sheep-to-the-acre country.
# * * *
“North-west”: Charlie and Mary, the
abo. servants, lost their baby in a fire.
They went on a “walkabout” and didn’t
reappear for weeks. Then we had a
sudden thunderstorm. Next day the two
arrived with beaming smiles and the ex-
planation : “Rain come. Wash away
tears. Work again now.”
* * * ♦
“C.H.R.”: Our Uncle Hi was a crack
shot, but skited too much, and when he
claimed that, shooting from the hip, he
could knock over the first three hares
that he saw next moonlight night we boys
decided to fix him. We took out the shot
from the cartridges, inserted saltpetre,
and went along to see the fun. Up started
a hare, bang went the gun, but the hare
kept running. Same with hares two and
three. Uncle Hi couldn’t understand it,
until we owned up. He forgave us, pro-
vided we promised not to doctor the
cartridges next night. We agreed, and Hi
made good next time. But 1 often wonder
what the first hares thought.
* * * *
“Mulga Maggie” : Night was closing in
when South missed one of his prize
milkers. “Muster slipped through th’ hole in
th’ fence,” he reported to his wife. “S’pose
I’d better go an’ look f’r her b’fore it gets
too dark. Won’t be long.” He located
the cow in the dry river-bed near Andy
Cooper’s place. With Strawberry turned
for home, South decided to have a pitch
with Andy, whom he hadn’t seen for
weeks. Andy was glad to see him. The
two swam no end of flooded rivers,
erected fences and dams, shore millions
of sheep, relived childhood days, until an
alarm-clock buzzed. “Struth!” exclaimed
Andy. “That’s three o’clock. I’ll have t’
go and call me man. Want him t get th
milkin’ done early this mornin’.”
yawned and stretched himself. “Guess
I’ll have t’ be movin’, too, Andy,” he
said. “Told the missus I wouldn’t be
long. She worries if I stay out late.”
ON NYNGAN.
Do you I dr|«§ht,
The ra^ b °^ b^r t h e stillness when the birds
D ° sentinels for death’s lookout?
Leaving crow
. tpr fl00 d may take the pasture,
S'. S ed trom under as
' n , d “ “ITctner of the lifting wheat,.
S, S W ’ nees Sndered b, the ItBh.mng a
sword.
j be mounts of sorrow,
Before this mist-filled valley fills-
But all my h f,\ l old Nyngan striding
S ‘Across 'the Shoulders of these southern hills.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Consolidated Press (Sydney)
, Dividends ->
Ist 2nd Nominal
March Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
Parent Company’s Profits.
1937 .. 11,950 6i Nil 5,958 5,992
1938 .. 29,076 6| —■ Nil 6,500 28,568
1939 .. 57,016 61 Nil 6,500 £9,084
1940 .. 25,427 6| 6i 20,875 £5,636
1941 .. 43,346 6| 7 46,750 80,232
1942 .. 45.671 6| - 10* 66,875 59,028
Net reduction in reserves, £13,690 .. 45,338
1943 . . 32,652 6i 3 23,750 64.240
1944 :. 94,327 6 | - 3 23.750 124,817
H Nil' 11,274 lll'S
1946 .. 57,022 6J 5i Nil 14.750 227,892
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1947 .. 55,763 6i 51 6 49,250 262,126
Ills I. 65,600 el 5| 8 60,750 266,876
Written off intangibles, £3500 .. 263,376
1949 .. 19,038 6l 5i 8 60,750 221,664
Above reserves are subject to intangible assets,
which now total £552,816 in the combined accounts.
Over three-fifths of the new share-issue
by Consolidated Press will be taken up
by Sydney Newspapers Pty., Ltd., which
thus keeps a controlling interest. Sydney
Newspapers itself practically belongs to
the Theodore and Packer families, and is
the nucleus from which Consolidated
Press was formed; it started publishing
the “Australian Women’s Weekly” in
1933, then played with the idea of an
evening paper to compete against the
Sydney “Sun” until Associated News-
papers, Ltd., paid it “compensation” for
refraining. Finally, in 1936, Sydney
Newspapers arranged to buy the morning
“Daily Telegraph” from Associated News-
papers, and transferred all its publishing
interests to the new Consolidated Press.
For the “Telegraph” and plant. Associated
News took £160,000 of the Consolidated
Press ordinary scrip ; most of the balance
went to Sydney Newspapers.
It is only 15. months since private in-
vestors became interested in this ordinary
scrip. That was after Sydney Newspapers
bought out the Associated interest for an
undisclosed price (the previous share-fink
between the two had not prevented brisk
rivalry in the Sunday and women’s
field), and then resold the shares to the
public at 355. apiece. Their present
market value is only 30s. ex rights, as
several clouds have come over the horizon
since December, 1948.
In order of appearance, the new factors
have been: advent of the “Sunday
Herald” (January, 1949), which is under-
cutting the price of other Sunday sheets ;
the necessity to raise the price of the
“Women’s Weekly” (April, 1949) in an
enlarged field of competitors ; higher cost
of newsprint following the currency de-
valuation in September; and the need to
lift the morning “Telegraph’s” price
above its rival, the “Herald” (November,
1949).
None of these factors had time to show
much effect on the last accounts of Con-
solidated Press, which were presented in
December but relate back to the term
ended 12 months ago. The last two factors
are probably the most serious. Average
net sales of the “Sunday Telegraph” rose
by 20,000 to 447,691 in the final six
months of the term, and, despite the new
competitor, are said to have since moved
up to 500,000 copies. In the case of the
women’s paper, sales were at the rate of
725,000 copies per issue last December,
as against 810,000 a year previously,
but it is still ahead of all competitors (a
remarkable seller, by any standards, on
a population basis), and revenue will have
the benefit of the substantial price jump
from 4d. to 6d.
Of the other publications, the monthly
“A M,” is said to be “maintaining” its
circulation (the figure touched 250,000
copies late in 1948), whilst “Daily Tele-
graph” sales were “practically unaffected”
in the first couple of weeks after the price
rose from 2d. to 3d. last November. Its
circulation of 364,000 then compared
with about 340,000 a year previously—
and with 90,000 when Consolidated Press
took over the paper in 1936. The greatest
problems are increased costs and the com-
petitive battle for advertising revenue.
Profits shown in the 1948-49 accounts
are ambiguous. For the parent com-
pany, the net figure of £71,264 was
£43,953 less than in 1947-48, after allow-
ing £9500 more for tax (£61,200) and
£6227 more depreciation (£21,029). In
the case of the consolidated profits, includ-
ing the Conpress Printing and Shake-
speare Head subsidiaries, a drop of
£46,462 left the net figure at only £19,038.
This was due to abnormally large tax
provision (more than double 1948), for
which the board offers no explanation:
Combined Profits.
(After eliminating outside interests.)
1947. 1948. 1919-
Profits before tax £95,013 £129,494 £150,005
Less tax .. 39,250 63,994 130,967
Net profit .. 55,763 65,500 19,038
The maim subsidiary, Conpress Printing,
shows in its separate accounts that it
actually earned more than in 1948, after
paying £l2Ol less tax.
Outstanding movement in the balance-
sheet was the increase iif fixed assets
(£323,444) arising from new plant instal-
lations by Conpress. Debtors’ balances
were higher by £281,064 and stocks by
£112,051. To meet these outlays, the
board reduced cash holdings by £141,928,
went to the bank for £411,718 extra over-
draft and to other creditors for £182,162:
Combined Accounts.
1947. 1948. 1949.
.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ordinary .. 575,000 575,000 575,000
Reserves .. 224,772 195,414 176,514
P. and 1. balance 573 99,712 27,900
Outside share in-
terests in sub-
sidiary .. 300,787 300,000 300,000
Bank overdraft.. 714,756 841,568 1,253,286
Creditors and tax
provision .. 294,169 853,497 535,659
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 152,589 210,224 241,758
Plant, fittings .. 159,768 234,449 526,359
Stocks .. . . 586,265 750,323 862,374
Debtors . . 365,910 874,631 655,695
Investments .. 48,082 95,540 69,793
Cash .. .. 544,750 397,492 255,564
Intangibles—-
Goodwill .. 393,773 393,713 393,653
Establishm e n t
expenses, etc. 108,920 158,819 159,163
On balance, current assets exceeded
liabilities by £B4Bl at balancing-date,
which was £414,446 less than a year
previously. The new ordinary issue of
287,500 £1 shares (one-for-two) at a 2s.
3d. premium will improve the liquid posi-
tion by £319,844, less expenses.
After the issue, net tangible asset back-
ing for each ord. will be about 13s. At
the seller’s price of 30s. (ex final div.
and rights) the yield is 5.3 p.c. on an
8 p.c. dividend basis. Rights to the new
issue (which rank equally for future divi-
dends) are, comparatively, much lower at
2s. 6d.
Preference capital is in two classes:
the 6i p.c. firsts (backed five times by
assets) yield 5.2 p.c, at 255. each; the
5i p.c. seconds (backed three times) yield
5.4 p.c. if bought at 20s. 3d. Dividend
requirements are £6500 and £8250 respec-
tively,
Non-Metallics, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
June 30, Loss. Deficit.
£ p.c. £
1942 .. 3,742 Nil 8,000
Profit,
1943 157 Nil 7,843
1944 .. 88 Nil . 7,745
1945 .. 899 Nil 6,846
Loss.
1946 .. 1,009 Nil 7,855
Profit.
1947 .. 4,228 5 1,075 4,702
1948 .. 3,587 7 1,717 2,832
1949 .. 2,894 8 2,523 2,461
This deficit is also subject to intangible assets (at
present £6091).
The business of Non-Metallics, Ltd., is
quarrying and smelting not for metals
but mineral earths. Output consists
mostly of magnesite and dolomite, two
forms of magnesium carbonate that are
used in lining furnaces against high-
temperatures —especially the big steel
furnaces at Newcastle and Pt. Kembla.
Most of the crude ore seems to be
coming from the company’s own mag-
nesite leases at Thaddungra, near Young,
and from adjoining properties. Other
leases bought in the past at Cudgegong
and elsewhere in N. S. Wales —and even
inter-State —aren’t mentioned much in
recent reports. From Young the ore is
railed to smelting-works at Granville
(near Sydney) for final treatment.
Being floated early in 1939, Non-
Metallics had to establish’ itself under
difficulties, and didn’t quite raise the
original £13,500 asked from the public.
As full payment to the vendor of the
mining leases, L. V. Ellis, the company
undertook to issue £2500 of its scrip after
the first year that net profits equalled
8 p.c. on its capital. Mr. Ellis was
appointed manager (not a director) at the
start.
Production began during 1941-42, but
that term produced a loss of £3742, while
a new issue at par raised capital to
£21,500. After three years of small
profits, there was another loss in 1945-46,
caused in part by power breakdowns and
“the restrictions on railway goods-move-
ments due to coal shortages.” Thereupon
the board overhauled the business, and
appointed C. R, Stainer to take over as
general manager. In the next year they
reported a net profit representing 19 p.c.
on capital; Mr. Ellis was issued with his
£2500 of scrip, and for the first time
in seven years Non-Metallic shares
ceased being traded at a discount on
’Change.
That high earning-rate has not been
maintained. Allowing for a further
capital issue of £BOOO, in February, 1948,
net profit represented 14.6 p.c. on average
capital in 1947-48 and only 9 p.c. last
term, when the coal strike upset output
and caused a loss of £lOOO profit, as the
board estimates. Moreover, controlled
selling-prices were slow to allow for
rising costs. Nevertheless, the dividend
was lifted a point to 8 p.c., and the board
was hopeful about prospects in the
current term.
Some of the new capital still lies in
cash balances, as the proposed factory
extensions are held up by lack of build-
ing materials. Net increase in fixed assets
was £B6O last year, after allowing £712
for depreciation. Debtors rose £2089
and there was a small rise in stocks:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £21,500 £28,449 £32,000
Creditors—
Secured ... .. 2,500 6,500 6,533
Unsecured .. .. 6,634 2,603 2,031
Tax provision .. .. 200 902
Proposed dividend .. 1,075 997 1,280
Land and buildings .. 6,022 6,012 6,436
Plant, fittings .. ~ 10,028 9,906 10,342
Stocks on hand .. 3,256 3,116 3,887
Debtors .. .. 3,571 4,482 6,571
Cash 690 6,368 6,958
Intangibles—
Property development
a/c. .. .. 1,532 4,125 4,183
Brokerage, formation
expenses .. .. 1,908 1,907 1,907
Profit and loss deficit -.. 4,702 2,833 2,462
Capital is in ss, shares fully-paid, each of
which has tangible backing of 3s. Bd.
Their market price, which touched 9s. in
1948, has been fairly steady around 7s.
for the past 18 months. On an 8 p.c.
dividend basis the yield is 5.7 p.c.
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd.
Consolidated Profits.
Dividends N
ABO- Nominal
June, Profit. Pref. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.£. p.c. £ £
1938.. 59,117 6 5 Nil Nil 66,500 203,766
1939.. 92,431 6 5 Nil Nil 66,500 229,697
1940. .124,883 6 5 Nil Nil 66,500 288,080
1941. 8 7 Nil Nil 63,500 466,482
Reserves of new subsidiary, £7040 .. 473,522
1942. .121,594 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 546,116
1943.. 147,170 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 638,286
Reserves of new subsidiaries, £55,360 693,646
1944. 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 797,173
Reserves of new subsidiary, £11,289.. 808,462
Written off leaseholds, £50,621 .. 757,841
1945. .186,046 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 888,887
Credit tax adjustment, £75,000 .. 963,887
Reserves of new subsidiary, £16,582.. 980,469
1946. .179,201 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 1,104,670
Reserve of new subsidiary, £791 ~ 1,105,461
1947. .189,052 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 1,239,513
From tax provision, £16,500 ..1,256,013
Reserves of new subsidiary, £1613 .. 1,257,626
Unexplained addition, £6500 .. 1,264,126
1948. .208,113 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 1,417,239
From tax provision, £1,691 .. 1,418,930
1949. .215,012 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 1,678,942
Above reserves are subject to £1,503,721 intangible
assets.
Both classes of Hoyts’ cumulative
preference shares are currently priced
by the market to return a yield of 5 p.c.
The total requirement for annual divi-
dends, £55,000, has been very easily
covered since the early war years, as the
profits table shows.
These are the only shares in which
Australian investors have much concern.
Most of the C (non-cumulative) prefer-
ence scrip and the ordinaries, which
confer control over Hoyts’ trading
policy, belong to American interests. The
Fox Film Corporation came to the
financial rescue of Hoyts and acquired
a large interest during the 1930 slump,
when the company had overstretched
itself by building expensive new theatres
in the capital cities.
The American shareholders have been
self-denying in the matter of dividends;
in fact, they have never taken anything
for either the C prefs. or the ordi-
naries, although more than £1,000,000 has
been available from profits earned since
1940. In this way, reserves have been
accumulated to offset the large intangible
assets carried in the books and to provide
funds for extending the Hoyts chain of
theatres. Of course, the American film
interests are benefiting from the assured
market for their releases which the chain
gives them, and from the film rents paid
by Hoyts. Half of these annual rentals,
however, are at present “frozen” in Aus-
tralia because of the dollar situation.
Representatives of Fox are coming here
shortly to see about “expanding the com-
pany’s theatre holdings and thawing its
frozen credits.”
Hoyts already owns vacant land in
expanding suburban areas for the build-
ing of theatres when conditions permit.
The present circuit numbers nearly 150
theatres ; of these, 24 are in capital cities,
the rest mostly in the suburbs of Sydney
(where Hoyts is, numerically, not quite as
strong as its rival, the Greater Union
circuit) and of Melbourne (where it is
much stronger than Greater Union). Out-
side of the capital cities, Hoyts owns the
freeholds of most of its theatres; whilst
in the capitals it has freehold possession
of the Regent and Plaza (Melbourne),
the Plaza and Esquire (Sydney), and the
Prince of Wales (Hobart).
There were no additions to the circuit
last financial term, and balance-sheet
movements were subdued, apart fmm ~
big rise of £180,469 in cash Hi?'
which absorbed the undistributed SmfiP
giblesf— reSCrVeS * kad ° Ver ali '"S
Hoyts Theatres, and Subsidiaries
Paid capital— 1947. 1943
A and B preference £850,000 £B5O 000 j>a!l 9 ’
C preference .. 935’,000 DSMOO 0
Ordinary .. .. 25,000 ,s’S 90
Outsiders’ interest in «iOOO
subsidiaries .. 108,795 108 387 or.
Debentures .. 200,000 200 S) 200 non
Mortgages, etc. .. 477,085 525 358 soi’»2®
Creditors .. .. 31.688 55,605 s «’H 3
Tax and contingencies o»>d6l
P rovision 731.022 589,328 5 60 la,
Freeholds .. .. 1,936,329 2,042,051 2 090 00,
Leaseholds . . . . 202,325 218,002 lls’a^
Plant • ■ • ■ 226,805 289,214 27?
Shares in other cos. 183,240 179,497 m’i;?
S." :: 246 i 70 27 ? S * S
Sribi™-- ■■ 322 ’ 246 18s: « «SS
Goodwill .. .. 834,157 834,157 aoi,„
Excess cost of sub- * ,l3 ‘
sidiary shares over
par .. .. 674,122 680,593 669,564
Gross revenue (mostly box-office receipts)
amounted to £3,243,000, or £250,000
more than in 1947-48. Income from in-
vestments showed little change at £26,800.
Trading had the benefit of a full year’s
operation from the Princess theatre in
Melbourne, which had been open only
for six months in the previous term after
fire repairs. Also, Hoyts had extended
its confectionery-vending interests within
the circuit; and last year’s accounts
covered 53 weeks under the weekly
accounting system.
However, all but £6900 of the higher
revenue was swallowed by greater ex-
penses, leaving the net profit at £215,012.
Salaries and wages increased, and their
“high ratio to total operational costs is
being given careful study.” The board
says that, in view of the economies
already effected, “an expanded income
may be the only way in which this addi-
tional expense can be absorbed.” Whether
that means higher admission charges or
extensions of the company’s interests, or
both, is not said.
The current year may be a compara-
tively difficult one for cinemas (Hoyts’
board expects film supplies to be “reason-
ably adequate”), and further ahead the
industry faces some interesting problems
vis-a-vis television. But local investors
in Hoyts are solidly protected both as to
dividends and asset security ; the A prefs.
are backed over four times by tangible
assets, the Bs three times.
Evans, Deakin & Co., Ltd. (Brisbane)
( Dividends \
Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c* £
1938 .. 15,189 n\ 7J 7,810 25,276
1939 .. 14,888 7| 71 7,810 32,354
1940 . . 17,413 7i Vi 7,810 41,957
1941 .. 17,433 7i 7i 7,810 51,580
1942 . . 10,777 7| 7i 8,69 7 63,660
Unexplained addition to reserves,
£ll 891 ~ •• •• 65,00 i
1943 . . ’ 35,201 7* H 8,934 91,818
1944 . . 44,467 7| 7i 9,373 126,91-
To reserves, from writing up of
assets, £20,755
194 5 .. 19,690 1 0 10 1 2,550 164,807
194 6 .. 34,803 10 10 12,550 177,060
1947 .. 26,378 10 12i 14,687 188,761
1948 .. 47,051 10 12i 14,685 221,117
1949 .. 60,968 10 15 16,825 265,250
Depreciation reserve (now £105,527) not inc u‘ ‘'
above.
Remembering that the capital of this
Brisbane engineer and shipbuilder w
virtually unchanged at £125,500 over
whole period covered by the foregoi g
table, a record of great progress
obvious at a glance. Last year s P >
after allowing for taxation and the p ■
dividend, represented no less than
p.c. on the ordinary capital. ,
But on total ordinary shareholders
funds the rate was only about lo P- •
Evans, Deakin owes its present earning
power to an abstemious dividend pow
over the last decade, when 7,
third of profits was distributed ana
serves far greater than the issue, p m .
were accumulated. In this way t
pany financed a large-scale cn ry
shipbuilding and other extent
quadrupled the scale of fixed asse -
From a zero start in 1940, the c P at
seven-acre shipyard on Crown
Kangaroo Point had by the o jj.
war launched 11 corvettes, an d
lighters, three small' mereban tlic
other vessels ; peace-time orde st iU
Australian Shipbuilding Board are
keeping the yards fully engag • ks
The company’s structural-s 1 ai
are at Rocklea, while the arcin
engineering works and of
South Brisbane. All
rolling-stock appears to hav with
ferred recently to a
£lOO,OOO capital, of which Evan , eaßh
holds a quarter, and tg®
Engineering Co., Ltd., the b intere sts.
Besides its manufacturing
Evans, Deakin _ has . en gioee6'
agencies for a growing range s large#
ing lines, and this departmen j Ufll p m
responsible for last year s 30 P*-
taxable profits. fixe d, assets
The year’s increase* m fi and debts
(£68,759), stocks (£41,30u;


I 6 ?*, Collins L^ ISO A Patent Attor -
Australian and n treet ’ Melbourn e, 0.1.
Tr »de Markfl!l Al >v T V . erßeaS Patents
the rec
busines 8 . 1948 . 1949.
P si dcaP;f7. £85,000 £85,000 £B5 000
Ordinal •• 40 ,000 40,0uu >
preference • 30,737 -
Overdraft •• 146j 593 170,259 j 2 55,265
Creditors 45 goO 45,000 )
Tax provision.
freeholds and 307i346 834.805
Stock". 1 work in 211,941 253,241
progress j'£ 765 117,010 153,617
Shares in other 4 5,944 |,9|6
cos. 32,735 32,735 43,482
Cub ’ end of the term
Iftoard issued 60,000 new 5
lh nrefs at par, and these have
P' C - P f. Hv paid balance-
r f CapiS gearing n now
nOOOOO preference to £85,500
£ E Despite the new issue
Aboard had actually been in-
aSt holding of Govern-
ment bonds (earning 3* P*c. m
S). and these now amount
S 500. Current and liquid
sits exceeded liabilities by
£95,500 at balancing-date.
Last year’s 15 p.c. dividend
(including 2? P-c. bonus_)
should be easily covered again
this time. At 605.-each, the
ordinary shares would yield 5
n.c. on that dividend. Their net
asset backing on book-values is
about 665. each.
The first prefs. (backed 11
times by assets) are priced at
425., yielding 4.8 p.c. from their
present 10 p.c. dividend, or 3.6
pc. on their cumulative rate of
jl p.c. The second prefs.
(backed six times) at 225. 3d.
yield 4.5 p.c. on their fixed 5
p.c. dividend rate.
Western Mining Corporation, Ltd.
By absorbing the Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance Co. last
December this big holding co,
(paid capital £698,588) burst the
bounds of its title. Of its seven
major investments now, three
are in Victoria (face-value total-
ling £340,000) and four in the
West (£1,003,000). Other mis-
cellaneous assets are given a net
bookwalue of £240,000.
Largest investment is still in
Central Norseman Gold Corp,
(W.A.), amounting to £328,125,
or slightly more than a half-
interest. Central Norseman’s
ss. shares are currently priced
around 18s. on the market. Since
the first dividend in 1943 dis-
tributions have totalled £780,000,
including last December’s 9d.
div. On the Mararoa vein,
which has been the main source
of production so far, a new
main shaft has just started
operating at 2500 ft. The Prin-
cess Royal and Lady Miller
mines are starting to contribute
ore to the central mill, which is
being extended for a capacity
°i 200,000 tons per annum,
compared with the present
130,000 tons.
Western Mining Corp.’s
second - largest holding is
L 50.000 in f.-p. 10s. shares of
Ueat Western Consolidated,
w nch is scheduled to start pro-
mnL * ~ three y ears (B.
/,./ Great Western’s capi-
3 d onn £ „ 568 ’ 000 ’ including the
3,00°,°00 25.-paids placed with
. ;i , P u bhc last month, which are
, 1 at a 6d. discount on
Change.
The other two W.A. invest-
in° n holding co. are
(£24onnn Cool B ardie G.M.
(£240,000, or 60 p.c. of total
to Pl !f ) ~ fo - rmed two Years ago
into production the
mpton and Burbanks groups
0 f p as f south-east and south
year I , e T and in the 16 "
,aoorhi d r G °l d Mines of Kal-
f° V l . (ln which Western Min-
in’ as . a P- c - holding). The
is ? f these t wo concerns
and iS d^ y the market at 9s.
18s. sd, respectively,
shari Ct r°S4 ater ? sts are a half-
toria 5 7 ’ in Centr al Vic-
£3?^ d§ ‘ ng; a 62 P- c - Merest
AmtrVi 2) ln , Gold Mines of
(£55*3001 a " d a 44 p - c - Elding
» Victorian GolS
The 10s - shares of Central
Victoria are worth about 28s. 6d.
on the market. Yardage de-
veloped to date in this com-
pany’s selected areas is
37,500,000 c.y.; allowing 15 p.c.
for losses, the board reckons
recovery should be 2.04 grains
per cubic yard. When in full
swing an annual turnover of
4,000,000 c.y. is aimed at, giv-
ing a “proved life” just short of
10 years. The board is sanguine
about profits, reckoning on an
annual £150,000 (38 p.c. on
capital) during the life of the
dredges, for which it also ex-
pects an “appreciable extension”
on the proved figure.
Victorian Gold Dredging
shares, paid to 10s., are valued
at 13 s. 9d. on the market.
Principal asset is a holding of
125,000 shares in Central Vic-
torian —in which Western Min-
ing therefore has really a 64 p.c.
interest all told.
The 2s. 6d. shares of Gold
Mines of Australia, a prospect-
ing and development concern
that confers subscription rights
on its members, are priced
around 7s. on ’Change.
The total market value of
Western Mining’s shareholdings
(taking in the Great Western
fully-paids at par) is therefore
around £2,720,089, or about
19s. 7d. per Western Mining ss.
share which compares with
their own market price of
about 12s. 6d, each. Last divi-
dend was 6d. a share in
February, preceded by 2s. 6d. in
April, 1948,
The Australian Gas Light Company
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS AT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF PROPRIETORS
At the annual meeting of proprietors of The Australian Gas Light Company held on
March 9, 1950, in Sydney, the Chairman of Directors, O. G. Vickery, Esq., said.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
On former occasions when it has been
the privilege of the Chairmen of the
Board of Directors to address shareholders
the substance of their remarks has been
mainly concerned with the your
Company has made as a public utility in
the service of the community, and it has
been their pleasure in concluding their
addresses to move the payment of a divi-
dend. As you know, however, from the
report which has been sent to you, the
Company has sustained a loss on its trad-
ing operations for the year 1949 which
amounts to £2,492/13/9. As a con-
sequence, for the first time in the history
of the Company, no dividend can be
paid. Because of this unprecedented posi-
tion I propose on this occasion to deal
in the main with the financial aspects of
your Company’s operations and the several
factors which have operated to produce
the year’s results.
The financial position of the Company
for the year under review derives from
the effect of two factors. Firstly, the
delays of the State Government in respect
to essential adjustments of selling prices
for gas, and secondly, the effect of the
strike of coal miners which lasted from
June 27 to August 15, as a result of
which it was necessary to ration severely
the use of gas. Both of these factors,
as you will appreciate, were beyond the
control of the Company, although their
effect presented many problems with
which I shall- deal later.
With respect to the first factor, I
never envisaged when I was elected to
your Board —and I know that my views
in this respect are shared by my colleagues
—that this great public utility would be
subjected to the disgraceful treatment it
has received from the present Government.
This treatment has jeopardised the in-
terests of approximately 1,300,000 persons
whom the Company serves, those of over
3,300 employees and nearly 8,000 share-
holders who have subscribed capital of
over £5,000,000, all of whose future is
bound up with stability and progress of
the Company. Today approximately 55%,
or 4,250 of our shareholders hold 50
shares or less, 24% or 1,850 hold between
51 and 100 shares, and as an aggregate
92% or 7,100 shareholders hold 200 shares
or less. 60% of our shareholders are
spinsters, married women and widows.
Why investors should be deprived of their
just return on their investments in our
Company is beyond my comprehension.
It is evident that they are the victims of
circumvention, disappointment and frus-
tration when, as a matter of fact, such
shareholders at the time of their purchase
only sought the security of a modest, but
sound investment for their savings.
On several occasions my predecessors
and I have emphasised publicly that our
basic policy is a maintenance of a balance
of rights as between customers, employees
and shareholders. We have adopted and
stated publicly this policy because we
feel that it is the only one upon which a
great public utility sqjh as ours can ever
hope to function successfully and make
healthy progress. Perhaps we are wrong
in our concepts, but, if we are right, then
the Government must be wrong in acting
as it has, and not only wrong, but lacking
in vision and a sense of responsibility to
the three groups to which I have referred.
You will be familiar with some of the
history of our relations with the Govern-
ment on the matter of selling prices
because of the circular I sent out early
in August last year. In that circular I
referred to the fact that the recommenda-
tions of a Board of Inquiry, which were
made in November, 1948, and which were
based on previous unavoidable increases
in costs, were not given effect to until
August, 1949, eight months later, and that
during the period of delay levels of costs
had continued to ascend at an alarming
rate. I shall now carry on our history.
Because of further unavoidable increases
in costs, mainly of wages and materials,
we were forced to apply for another Board
of Inquiry on September 5 last. In
making this application we felt that in
view of what had gone before we would
have at least been granted this Board
without hesitation. Vfe were, however,
apparently over optimistic, for although
we pressed our case personally to the
Premier the Government introduced a new
obstacle by having the Gas and Elec-
tricity Act amended by removing the
automatic right of the Company to have
its selling prices reviewed. After the
amendment had become law the Company
re-submitted its application for a Board
and after further delays its request was
granted on February 10, the total delay
being no less than five months. The Board
of Inquiry, as you may know from the
Press, held its first meeting last Monday.
If you add what I have just told you
to our previous experiences you can see
how frustrated and concerned we feel.
Yet there has been nothing, so far as we
can see, that we could have done or can
do without vitally affecting the interests
of all whom I referred to earlier. We
have always endeavoured to work amicably
with the Government of the day, but, in
the case of the present Government our
efforts have been rewarded by what we
feel td be deliberately conceived obstructive
tactics. I think that the time has come
when we should plainly recognise this
position. I do not know the reasons for
these tactics, but, I think you will agree
with me that the sooner the Government
states precisely what they are, the better
for all concerned.
If the Company is to perform its task,
as we envisage it, then a solemn obliga-
tion rests upon the Government to jjive
it such help as is within its power, irre-
gpective of what it may consider _to be
politically expedient. All we ask is that
the Government take the long range view
as we have always endeavoured to do.
From what I have just told you it will
be seen how impossible it has been for
the Company to earn a return on the
capital shareholders have invested, par-
ticularly if you will remember, that dur-
ing all the lengthy delays, costs of materials
and labour have constantly increased.
Putting it bluntly, with the delaying
tactics of the Government on the one hand
and rapidly increasing costs on the other,
the Company has faced a hopeless task in
endeavouring to earn a dividend on its
capital.
Throughout the year we have kept
developments continuously under review
and all possible courses of action to
secure correction of the Company’s por-
tion by one way or another have been
examined and re-examined. We have come
to the final conclusion, however, that just
treatment of the Company by the Govern-
ment is ultimately unavoidable, and that
the basic policy I have stated earlier is
sound and will be recognised as such, in
due course, by all who exercise any
measure of control over its destiny. We
have, therefore, taken the attitude, and
propose to maintain it, that we shall not
be diverted from that policy by what we
feel to be temporary attitudes based on
passing and sectional motives, and that
so long as the Company can carry on
along the path of service which it has
traditionally followed we are determined
that it shall do so.
I know that the obvious thing to do
when revenue is inadequate to meet costs
of operations is to examine these costs.
In this connection I can assure you we
are satisfied that nothing could have been
done in this direction, which would have
remedied the present financial position of
the Company, without doing irreparable
harm to it, and, consequently, to your
interests, and the interests also of our
customers and employees. As I have
already stated we have no doubt that the
Company’s position must be _ corrected,
and that at the same time it will be
recognised by the Government that cus-
tomers cannot receive a service without
paying for it and that the longer the
impact of rising costs is delayed by
evasion of responsibility the greater will
be the final impact.
In short I would say, that alarmed and
frustrated as we feel at the course ot
events, we have faith in the future and
the basic stability of our Company, know-
ing that the alternative to this attitude
would be one of despair resulting in the
disintegration of an organisation which
has served and is still serving the com-
munity magnificently.
As you know, concurrent with our
difficulties regarding price, the operations
of the Company and those of the North
Shore Gas Company Ltd., were the sub-
ject of examination by a Royal Commis-
sion which sat from July 16, 161“, to
December 7, 1948, and subsequently in
respect of extended Terms of Reference,
from March 11, 1949, to May 3, 1949.
The Commission was most searching in
its inquiries, and its conclusions have
been admirably summarised in a Press
statement made by the Premier in the
course of which he said that both the
Commission’s reports contained unanimous
findings, and were notable for the entire
absence of adverse criticism of either the
Australian Gas Light Company or the
North Shore Gas Company. Stated
succinctly my impressions of the Com-
mission’s inquiries are that they were
exhaustive and all embracing and its
findings were conclusive in the Company s
favour. This must be very gratifying to
you all even in the present unfortunate
circumstances. The organisation and
administration of the Company were en-
dorsed in as much that no fault was
found, and none of its practices in its
various fields of activities were adversely
criticised. While we had complete con-
fidence as to the nature of the conclu-
sions the Commission would reach, we
were nevertheless happy to receive them
as an endorsement of the policies and
methods the Company has pursued. _ In
thd light of the Commission’s conclusions
and the statement by the Premier regard-
ing them, you must be as perplexed as X
am at the action of the Government in
respect to our application of September
last for a new Board of Inquiry.
Now I would like to comment briefly
on certain features of the accounts for
the year 1949 which are in your hands.
When it is borne in mind that betwcen
the year ended December, 1939, and Feb-
ruary 1960, the delivered price of coall
per ton has increased by 164/o ; that the
cost of wages has increased by 62/o and
that the price of gas has increased by
only 30%; and when one bears in mind
the* increases which have occurred in the
prices of other commodities, can anyone
doubt the reasonableness of tbe
claim for a price adjustment which win
still leave the increased price of gas less
than 50% over the pre-war figure.
As I have indicated we have no control
over the rates of wages and costa of
materials or selling prices for S a ®
by-products. All that we can
respect to the former is to satisfy our
selves as to efficient organisation and
management, and as I have pomted out
in respect to selling prices, an overriding
control rests with the Government. In
respect to the Special Pur P os f av^ c
and Depreciation, however, we have, unde
the Gas and Electricity .Act, the nght to
exercise our discretion as to annual
amounts of appropriation within the
maxima set out m the Act. In this
regard we have ordered that full pro-
vision be made for Depreciation as in
previous years because for obvious rea-
sons, and despite the present circum-
stapces, we feel we would be unrealistic
had we not done so. As you will see
from the accounts in your possession the
Company has £8,772,579 invested in
fixed assets and so far as the Gas and
Electricity Act permits we must legislate
for the extinguishment of the costs of
these over their useful life in order that
the interests of shareholders and cus-
tomers may be protected.
With regard to the Special Purposes
Account you will notice that no appro-
priation has been made in respect of the
year under review and that the balance
at the credit of the account is now only
£116,106. I wish to refer particularly
to this Account because of misconcep-
tions which seem to exist regarding its
purpose. As was made clear before the
Royal Commission, it acts as a buffer,
absorbing the impact of certain episodic
and unusual costs. Thus you will see
that during the year it absorbed costs
arising from one cause or another, but
principally the coal strike, amounting to
£81,579, Had there been no Special
Purposes Account these costs would have
been met from revenue which would have
had the effect of increasing the deficit on
the year’s operations from £2,492 to
£84,071. That earnings during the year
were insufficient to make an appropria-
tion to the account has only tended to
bring the day nearer when costs of this
character will have to be borne by cus-
tomers as they occur, assuming, of course,
equitable and prompt price adjustments
are made.
A third matter to which I desire to
direct your attention concerns the items
“discounts” and “revenue from sales of
gas.” In previous annual accounts quite
substantial figures have appeared under
the heading of “discounts,” and 'the
amounts shown as revenue from sales of
gas have been gross amounts calculated
by multiplying the number of units sold
by the maximum price charged per unit
by the Company. This method of presen-
tation has created false impressions in
some quarters, as was evidenced at the
Royal Commission, that the Company
grants discounts as such, to certain of
its customers. This is not so. The.
position is that while for a number of
years prior to 1938 the Company actually
gave discounts to certain classes of cus-
tomers designed to take into consideration
the cost of supplying gas to them, the
practice was diseotitinued in that year
when a system of special rates was intro-
duced, with the approval of the Govern-
ment, designed to give greater recogni-
tion to the difference in costs of supplying
gas to various classes of customers having
regard, also, to the quantities used. For
reasons which I need not go into here
the selling prices for gas under the various
rates were fixed by expressing them, as a
percentage reduction on the maximum
price charged by the Company, and with
the introduction of the new rates the
practice of showing revenue at a “gross”
figure was continued. Naturally the
figure shown against “discounts” has
grown as business under the various rates
has increased. We have given deep con-
sideration to this form of presentation
and, after taking legal advice and so that
there may be no misconceptions in the
future as to the position, we have decided
to show as revenue, the sum of actual
amounts charged to customers, so elimi-
nating any figure against the item “dis-
counts.” I would like you to know also
that had we followed previous practice an
amount of £272,088 would have been
shown compared with £270,092 for the
year 1948.
In the foregoing I have dealt with the
causes of the Company’s present financial
position, also, certain items in the ac-
counts, and I have expressed your Direc-
tors’ views on certain aspects thereof.
I would now like to refer to the recent
issue of debentures regarding which I am
sure you would desire to have some
information. The flotation was primarily
designed to provide for the redemption
on February 1 of this year of the issue
of £750,000 at 5% made in 1940. In
connection with this transaction and
because of the depressed state of the
Company’s share values on the market,
due to causes already given, it was felt
an additional £250,000 of new funds
should also be sought by way of deben-
tures to finance extensions of plant to
which the Company had committed itself.
After careful inquiries in Sydney and
Melbourne, we found that the most favour-
able rate at which we could expect to
obtain our requirements was 4%_ and we
decided to proceed on this basis. Ihe
issue of £1,000,000 was opened for
public subscription on January 16, with
a tentative closing date fixed at January
81 The immediate response was of such
magnitude, that we decided to take the
opportunity of securing sufficient addi-
tional funds to meet requirements for the
current year. In consequence we ceased
taking • applications on Friday, January
20, when £1,650,000 had been sub-
scribed. In making the decision to take
up this amount we were again actuated
by our faith in the ultimate restoration
of the Company’s financial stability
through an adjustment of selling prices
commensurate with increases in costs ot
production and distribution.
The organisation and methods of the
Company have, as always, received par-
ticular attention. We have not been con-
tent to rest on the findings of the Royal
Commission or our own satisfaction with
past performance, splendid as it has
been. The Company ia a large organisa-
tion —the fifth largest of its description
in the British Commonwealth —and we
are well aware that in an organisation
of such dimensions faults may arise. In
this regard you have our assurance that
the excellent provisions in the Company's
organisation for research in both the
technical and commercial fields of our
activities, which were laid down some
fifteen years ago, provide for continuous
examination of every avenue which may
lead to the promotion of greater efficiency
and that in these two fields the Company
is pursuing progress diligently.
During the year sales of gas were
1,721 million units. This quantity rep-
resents a decrease in sales of 2.8% com-
pared with those for 1948, but the sole
cause of this decrease was the rationing
of gas during the period of the coal
miners’ strike due to the inadequacy of
supplies of coal. Had there been no
rationing I have every reason to believe
that we could have expected a substantial
increase in sales over those for 1948.
We continue to receive abundant evi-
dence that the Company enjoys a high
place in public favour, and although I
do not desire to return to a subject which
I have already dealt with I feel that this
position will not be diminished by any
fair increases in selling prices of gas
because our progress ia primarily based
on the concept of service and I feel that
our customers appreciate this fact. In
this connection I should like to acknow-
ledge the excellent work done by our
Sales Department. Although the Depart-
ment has not had quite as good a year
as during 1948 which was an all-time
record, we must remember that times are
changing and we have noted a clear turn
from a sellers’ to a buyers’ market. We
must also recognise that the absorptive
capacity of the community for additional
appliances and uses of gas must diminish
as saturation is approached, and in this
connection I am sure you will be glad to
hear that we estimate that at the present
time approximately one in every four
of our domestic customers possesses a
gas operated refrigerator. You will agree
with me that this is a very fine perform-
ance and although I have no data to
support my opinion I feel that our record
in this connection must be unrivalled by
any other Australian gas company and
probably by any other company similar
to ours in the world, except perhaps some
in the U.S.A.
In order to keep apace with the require-
ments of new customers and the present
and future requirements of our expanding
area of supply, 36 miles of new mains
and 31 miles of service pipe were laid
during the year. In this field of activity
we have been severely hampered by lack
of adequate supplies of pipe, although
shortage of labour has also been a limit-
ing factor. We havei been informed by
our suppliers that considerably greater
quantities of pipe will become available
to us this year and we, therefore, hope
to be able to give new customers a better
service than was possible last year; but
should estimates of deliveries not
materialise it may be necessary for us to
import pipe from abroaij, although we are
reluctant to take this course because of
the greater cost involved.
At the production plant at Mortiake
substantial replacements of and additions
to plant are in progress. We are, of
course, experiencing the difficulties re-
garding v availability of labour and
materials Which are the common ex-
perience of industry today. Programmes
to which I referred last year may there-
fore prove incapable of achievement, but
as in other spheres of our activities we
are doing our best to ensure that our
code of sen ice shall remain unbroken so
far as it is within our power to main-
tain it.
In brief summary you can see that we
have had a year characterised by con-
tradictions and obstructions. On our part
and on your behalf we have pursued a
course of action laid down by our pre-
decessors and endorsed by us: a course
based on a policy of public service with
regard to the rights of all involved and
which we feel to be in the ultimate
interests of all concerned: a course which
is the only possible one which a great
public utility such as ours should pursue.
In contradistinction we have experienced
no help in our task or appreciation of
our objectives, but rather the converse,
from the Government which, in effect,
exercises an overriding control over the
financial stability of the Company. We
have experienced an unwillingness on its
part to face up to facts which the sooner
they are acknowledged and recognised the
better for the community. In concluding,
however, I repeat that, in my opinion,
although it is a dispiriting situation in
which we find ourselves today, neverthe-
less just treatment must surely be forth-
coming to the Company.
And finally, in closing my address to
you I would like to express on behalf of
my colleagues and myself our mincer
appreciation of the painstaking and loyal
service given by the staff of the Company
nanv’s position must be as perturbed as
we are about it, for whatever order we
put them in with shareholders and cus-
tomers they are indeed a vitally interested
group.
I now move: —
“That the Statement of Accounts
for the past year be *9“
that the Report of the Directors W
adopted.”


7ke Wme-IMUe
■Cctrk uptcr ■
m.
m
V
'V'
f
Crr
N
A
jj
\
\
W
;
A
a e . B rV •***’
ot
ro veS - v,ien4 oi
„. s osS-Si-^'
ssssi^ —r^T^ f '
t u* virB
* %•
A'
CAPSTAN
'THE
EMPIRE’S: FA VOUREH^CieAB# 111
713DJ$4L
A Fair Day’s Work
Several years ago, foreseeing
the position in which the coun-
try would ultimately find itself
under Socialist government and
financial and industrial admini-
stration, The Bulletin offered
the opinion that, apart from the
control of monetary inflation by
the Treasury, the thing most
I desirable in order to stop price-
inflation and an increase in the
cost of living generally was the
adoption by all sections of in-
dustry the economic principle:
“A fair day’s work for a fair
' day’s pay.”
The Bulletin has repeated its
i argument and its formula many
| times since, and it was pleased to
hear Mr. Holt, Minister for
i Labor and National Services,
i take it up last week in his
j Address-in-Reply speech. More
than ever before the solution of
lour economic problems, more
j particularly the basic one of
| “putting value back into the
j pound,” rests in what is im-
| plied in that brief summing-up :
j “A fair day’s work for a fair
i day’s pay.” All sound economic
arguments revolving round the
•inflationary problem boil down
|to that same thing. And as it
1 represents an expression of few
1 words with a volume of mean-
ing, it might be used with effect
in all debates and negotiations
j towards the end of increasing
j living standards, halting costs,
l maintaining the worth of savings
I and “putting value back into the
1 pound.” The most indifferent
| economist among all the wage-
-1 earning community should
} understand what it means, and,
\ ultimately, how necessary a fair
day’s work is if the housewife
is to be able, when spending her
husband’s pay, to say that it
is a living wage.
Listening to the debates at
Canberra it is easy to see that
the Socialists, who were in office
for eight years, have little regard
for the principle enunciated
here. With one or two excep-
tions—and none of the excep-
tions formerly in the “Labor”
Ministry—was there any regard
for the principle of production-
value for wage-value shown by
the Opposition side of the
House. Indeed, the “Labor”
party, despite the gravity of the
present industrial situation,
seems more wedded to class-
war principles than it ever was,
and still bases its ideas of wage-
earners’ prosperity on money-
wages, at the same time advocat-
ing “pegged prices,” but not
pegged wages. One without the
other, of course, only adds con-
fusion and obstruction to an
already chaotic position.
We have seen what happens
when the nation as a whole does
not give a fair day’s work in re-
turn for fair pay. We have seen
it for at least six of the eight
years during which “Labor” was
in office. Including four post-
war years, we have seen less
and less given by wage-earners
in return for more and more
paper money. It is probably true
to say today that, even if no
profits were allowed to be made
by public companies, the aver-
age standard of living of each
member of the community
would be lower than it was in
1939. Certainly the output of
butter and meat is lower than
it was in 1938-39, and the pro-
duction of coal and steel per
head of the population has
fallen. Some other items have
risen—beer and ice-cream being
items towards which a “Labor”
Minister not so long ago pointed
with pride—but though the out-
turn of cement is now higher
than before the war, production
of bricks is still lower than in
1938-39, and only recently have
tiles reached a volume com-
parable with the figures of 10
or 12 years ago. In the mean-
time the basic wage has risen
from 795. to about 1355. a week,
but its buying-power has really
diminished.
It is no longer any use trying
to raise living standards by a
“You should hear it, Mrs. McCracken—
Pom-pom-tiddly-om-pom-pom .’”
“redistribution” of the “national
income.” More production is
required from industry,
especially on the coalfields.
Without more coal it will be im-
possible to accelerate industrial
production to the required ex-
tent. In N, S. Walks most in-
dustries are still subject to a 30
p.c. cut in their permissible
power consumption because of
the inadequacy of coal supplies,
and this particularly affects the
heavy industries and the brick-
yards, as well as essential trans-
port services. Until all industry
is able to work the 40-hour week
all the year round our produc-
tivity will be hamstrung, and
there will be great difficulty in
getting that desired value back
into the pound. In fact, until
more coal is available it is likely
that the pound will continue to
lose value, subject to any
temporary checks that may be
available of a financial nature.
Looking back for a moment,
it will be realised that the “full
employment” about which
“Labor,” while in office, was so
fond of boasting was of a
superficial nature only. It
brought no corresponding in-
dustrial expansion—no com-
mensurate production of the
capital goods and consumer
goods on which the standard of
living of the community depends.
Labor, obviously, as directed by
the Socialists, did not give a fair
day’s work for fair pay. And
this condition of affairs has de-
veloped into one in which all
those things which Socialist
theorists and sophists held out
as bait to the electors have been
jeopardised. The buying-power
of savings has been increasingly
eaten away by an inflation that
arose directly from “Labor”
political, industrial and eco-
nomic policy. Rising costs are
threatening not only industrial
and financial security but also
that “social security” of which
such a mouthful was made over
the years by the Canberra
Socialists.
Socialism, and all the eco-
nomic plans of the Socialist
planners, have given the coun-
try no more than a wider spread
of the country’s reduced produc-
tion, have eaten up past sav-
ings, have allowed unparalleled
depreciation of heavy industry
to take place, have given us a
process of inflation that grows
continuingly in its momentum,
have taken away the incentives
to produce and with them the
volume of production, have
allowed the trade-unions to be-
come the prey of Communist
jackals and have left a heavy
taxation burden on all the com-
munity.
The task ahead of the new
Government is a big one. It
has to help the trade-union
movement to sober up after a
long inflationary jag—a jag in
which many brains have become
scrambled by Socialist sophis-
tries. Some sections of trade-
unionism won’t want to sober
up. But the Government will
have its feet firmly on the ground
at all times if it bases its pro-
gramme fundamentally on the
principle of a fair day’s work
for fair pay.
Papuan Apinaipi
“Lemon”; In December,
1949, Papuan Apinaipi stated
that the location of a major
test-well for oil had been de-
cided upon. It was then pointed
out (B. 7/12/’49) that any well
located on the Lesi structure
would suffer certain disabilities,
particularly with reference to
depth and the nature of the
structure.
The co. has now circularised
its shareholders, stating that:
“.....the description of the
area in the company’s permit is
being amended to remove the
ambiguity which existed owing
to the unreliable nature of the
maps which were available at
the time when the anr.r •
was first lodged. PPtoation
The way is now entirelv h
for your directors to n ear
With the preparation of roceed
prehensive plan f or th ° m '
drilling of this area Thl test '
which has now
menced. and which
completed about the m 2 1,6
the year, will *
tion by experts of the I ga ‘
ments of drilling machinT’
roads, water and land t?an «
Wing, labor aSd S’"'
generally, and when com£ a
will enable your directors to'm
before the shareholders full •"
formation as to the finance Z
quired to carry out this work -
If by “test-drilling” (which
term is also ambiguous) the c "
means that it is going to sink
yet another series of slim holes
it may be pointed odt that any
borehole on the Lesi structure
will have to be sunk to below
1000 ft. before it can arrive
strata below those corresponding
to what can be studied in
greater detail, and at much less
expense, at outcrop quite near
Lesi, and yet another 2000 ft at
least before beds stratigraphi-
cally lower than those pe ne .
trated in the two major bore-
holes at Oiapu could be reached
From the Press reports of the
slim-hole drilling carried out
during 1939 on the Oiapu struc-
ture it would appear that the
practical limit of depth which
could be reached by the co.’s
equipment is not much in ex-
cess of 600 ft. Slim-hole drilling
on the Lesi structure would
therefore appear to be futile.
In any case, the estimates by
an expert with a sound know-
ledge of Papuan conditions as
to the cost of “drilling
machinery, roads, water and
land transport, housing, labor and
supplies generally” are certain to
be so high as to give P.A.P.
shareholders a severe shock.


'Pk. 2
Wii.
R FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney's
leading hotels, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
m
St
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines) \
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Is Civilization
Doomed?
Would an all-out atomic
and germ war destroy us?
Can a democracy develop
great military strength
without distorting its true
nature?
March Reader’s Digest
brings you an 18-page con-
densation from the impor-
tant and hopeful book,
“Modern Arms and* Free
Men.” Here, famed scien-
tist Vannevar Bush gives
bis dramatic answers.
Don’t miss The Reader’s
Digest for March; packed
with more than 30 articles
m lasting interest, con-
densed from leading maga-
zines, current books. Now
°?. e shilling and sixpence,
an Newsagents and Book-
stalls.
protect
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
Properly covered? Now is
* e time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
osses can result on private
and busmess premises that
are unproperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
•nsurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Machinery
People
.;••• ''
281 Latrobe St m„iu
• Engineers’ v . Melbourne - MU 2321
Eiectrio Tools J ools - • Portable
• and B a l d % d a W w o s rki *| Machines.
Saw Repairs.’ * All ty » ea
awosv
r
//a
g?
{S3
i
M
w.
i
© © 2a ©
The first gold discovery in Australia was in
1823 six years after the founding of the
Bank of New South Wales.
In 1851 gold was found near Bathurst,
Ballarat and Bendigo, and Australia was soon
in the grip of a chaotic "gold fever," many
early settlers abandoning their holdings for
the diggings. Much misery and hardship cul-
minated in the Eureka Stockade.
Nowadays, highly mechanized equipment
makes the gold mining both of the mainland
and of New Guinea and Papua one of the
nation's important industries and a valuable
earner of dollars.
The gold industry is another of the great
industries, the development of which has been
fostered by the "Wales."
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new sooth wales with limited liability)
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
m
\m.
HA
1
mm
T*s
a
v v
s
4>
W^l 1
W%->. ■'r : ?^L
PP
. /A
k>
S® SP
s? <*
0 <
<s>
£
ifl i
m
*
eg ei>
* <#J3s
e-
CD
_ Ci>
C~
\!
I O v.~S Ilf
•> •
if G/^
gi4i y Dy ;
NOW let's have
a scenes
fs
When you cull lor Brandy
make sure vou sn\
stones
BRANDY
•THE EMPIRE CHAMPION."
Ofctfllafl Qnd Bgt tied ANGOV£S &u|h Australia
OAJ
«✓
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
rhp new British Parliament,
P ,inTthe elections, has met
which give rise
in o mass of speculation. And
1 U Principal characters con-
ned whether they happen to
or Liberal, have
b i food for thought.
m 'rooking back, the general
L ■ Lc until the exeit-
hours—a drab, matter-
K affair that was as sober
", chess tournament. From
he record poll ,(83.5 p.c.) and
...neral observation rt seems to
have been equally thoughtful.
There are two main reasons
whv Britons went quietly about
their business without seeming to
be much concerned about the
campaign: most of them had
probably made up their minds
long before the political sales-
men set about peddling their
wares; and, much more im-
portant, radio brought the issues
and leading protagonists to their
own firesides in a way that has
never previously been known in
this country.
One of these broadcasts may
well prove to be the most
damaging assault that Socialism
has yet suffered. Dr. Charles
Hill (the Radio Doctor), in his
half-hour of down -to - earth
bluntness, probably swung more
votes away from Labor even
than Mr. Aneurin Sevan’s ob-
sessional malevolence against
any kind of threat to his party’s
—• and his own continued
power.
The Hustings
Speakers of all parties seemed
rather more restrained than they
were even a year ago. The
Tories certainly lacked nothing
in punch and vigor when deal-
ing with the Labor Govern-
ment’s record, nationalisation,
food, the cost of living and
housing. The Australian and
New Zealand elections gave
their addresses either a forceful
beginning or a portentous end.
The pledged continuance of the
Welfare State sometimes con-
flicted with the promise of re-
duced taxation, rather as if one
might tend to exclude the
other; and questions on reduc-
tion in the food subsidies often
proved embarrassing. There was
an earnestness about many of
the younger men that pumped
new and lively blood into mori-
bund political argument and left
its impression on the audiences.
“Never mind about what hap-
pened in 1910,” they said.
“What about 1950?”
The Socialists seemed less
aggressive than formerly and
plainly defensive. The old cock-
sureness was a little forced, a
little heavy - handed. While
“public ownership” was heard
now and then, “nationalisation”
was glossed over. And, for the
most part, it was the same old
stuff, only more repetitive and
maudlin. Not only did they
choose to live in the past but
they were noticed to dig very
deeply into remote hedges and
gutters to substantiate their
arguments. The day must surely
come, and soon, when the
greater electorate will cease to
be fobbed off with emotional
appeals based on fear.
The partisan jeers and ridi-
cule quickly disclosed the vul-
nerable spots in the Socialist de-
fence. The mention of peanuts
evoked* a scream of abuse from
the ranks of the fervent and a
clatter of thankful applause
when the candidate acclaimed
the venture as a bold and worth-
while experiment in Empire
building and a triumph of
pioneering. A similar cry of
scorn drowned allusion to the
Radio Doctor’s speech.
Liberals’ meetings were
generally badly attended and a
clear indication, to all except
themselves, of what was to
come.
This Other England
All in all, England has not
been a happy country these past
4\ years. If a graph could be
prepared showing, say, the co-
efficient of irritation in the heart
and mind of the average good
citizen it would show a steady
rise, particularly over the last
two years. Which is only to
say that Socialism has proved
to be unworkable in this dense
and substantially urban coun-
try. The people have seemed
listless and apathetic, in distres-
sing contrast to their war-time
vigor.
Their quiet and thoughtful
mien during the election reveals
that their minds have been
active enough. It must not be
forgotten that, in 1945, a Labor
Government was not only wel-
comed as a new order but was
widely thought to be what was
needed to bring Britain back to
strength. At least the non-
Tories thought that it should be
given a trial.
How their experience of dis-
illusionment has chastened them
is plain from the result of the
poll, which doesn’t necessarily
prove that two-party government
has come to stay in Britain.
What it does show is that the
electorate has chosen between
the State as master and the State
as servant; that is to say,
directly for or against Social-
ism, The annihilation of the
Liberals and the heavy loss of
deposit-money and prestige they
have sustained doesn’t mean that
English men and women are
any less moderate in thought.
They hate extremes as much as
ever. But they knew the
Liberals were talking nonsense
and that the resurgence of
Liberalism, however worthy and
desirable, was of less import-
ance than stopping the drift to-
wards the complete Socialist
State, with its bulldozer
nationalisation, party favor and
relentless levelling-out. Nor is
the Liberal party ever again
likely to be A 1 at Lloyd’s.
What Lies Ahead?
One thing seems certain —
another general election in a few
months. The Conservative party,
which can never have confi-
dently expected to sweep the
country, may indeed be thank-
ful for their slight minority. It
is they who now hold the
initiative, not the Labor party,
which is faced with a precarious
situation. Moreover, the state
of the electorate indicates that
a more pronounced swing away
from Socialism may follow next
time. Labor is shown to be
solid only in the industrial areas,
and this solidarity is achieved
only by consolidating the apathy
latent in the working-class areas.
Previously this has been done
either by promising the moon
or by threatening perdition.
Both are expedients that sooner
or later wear threadbare.
The governing factor behind
this transitional stage in the
denial of Socialism in Great
Britain has been the attitude of
the rural areas and the small
towns, where the Conservative
“nurses” have been active and
vigilant. It remains for the
Tories to show that they are
capable of winning the confi-
dence of the people in the cities
and large towns as they are in
yeoman England.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Sydney University Settlement
Annual Ball will be held on Friday,
April 14, 1950, in the presence of his
Excellency Lieut.-General Northcott and
Mrs. Northcott, who will receive the
debutantes in the Great Hall of the Uni-
versity at 8,30 p.m. After that it will be
on with the dance in the Union Refectory
until 1 a.m. Mrs. F. A. Bland, wife of
Professor Bland, the president of the
Sydney University Settlement Council,
will be matron-of-honor. Mrs. J„ Mac-
donald Holmes, wife of Professor Mac-
donald Holmes, is chairman of the ball
committee; Mrs. G. P. Stuckey, hon.
secretary, and Mrs. J. C. Fischer, hon,
treasurer. For tickets and reservations
telephone Mrs. Fischer, FX5548.
Guest - of - honor at the Empire
Society’s Women’s Auxiliary “at-home”
today will be Mrs. R. G. Menzies,
wife of the Prime Minister. Mrs.
P. C. Spender and Mrs. F, E. Manning
will receive the guests in the Royal
Empire Society’s drawing-room, 17 Bligh-
street.
At least one of his listeners was glad
that Jack Percival’s story of experiences
in a Japanese prison-camp was not a pro-
logue to the lunch given in his honor
by the Institute of Journalists. It was
such a tale of horror (though told in the
most matter-of-fact tone) as human flesh
shrank and the spirit dwindled to hear.
There was an occasional flash of light-
ness in the tale just as there was an occa-
sional reflection of sunlight through the
clouds that hemmed in the grey day.
Mr. Percival told that his way to his
daily duties as a p.-o.-w, led him past a
pig-sty, and each day he saw the young
sucking-pjgs grow plumper and plumper.
Finally, when the need for it was no
longer pressing, he obtained from medical
supplies a large hypodermic of anaesthetic.
Then in the dead of night by many and
devious twistings and turnings, he reached
the pig-sty and plunged the hypo, into the
shoulder of the plumpest of the Bacon
family. The poor thing was then led to
the slaughter without one squeak. A
group of p.-o.-w. buried the carcass in a
pit of sawdust, the camp was close to a
sawmill, and it lasted them for many
weeks.
He told how he had been forced to
look on while three of his companions,
recaptured in flight, were made to dig
their own graves, and then, sitting in
them, were taken pot-shots at by the Japs.
And, at the end, how the officer com-
manding the executioners had, with
sadistic contempt, plucked a hibiscus and
tossed it on the burial spot. The
Institute’s president, Alec Wilkie, made
apt introduction. He was accompanied
by Mrs. Wilkie.
Nothing could keep the girls back from
the P.L.C. Old Girls’ Union dance last
week. On one of Sydney’s wettest nights
over 1000 girls and their escorts made for
the Trocadero. It was the Union’s annual
ball, and the atmosphere was as charged
with voltage as a fresh siphon off soda-
water. Dominating the room was the
only decoration —a large-size reproduction
of the school badge painted by Marianne
Stentson. Mrs. Clive Evatt was among
the former pupils present. Many of the
girls had come from the country and
some had come front other States.
Principal of the P.L.C. Council J. M.
Vicars and Mrs. Vicars entertained the
principal of the college. Miss Dorothy
Knox, and Dr. and Mrs. Addison (presi-
dent of the Exes Union) at dinner in the
Australian Club before the ball. Very
attractive was Alison Nield, secretary of
the Ex-Students’ Union, whose full-
skirted frock was of ivory-corded silk.
Loreto Ex-Students’ Dance brought
about 900 trooping to the Troc. last
Monday night. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
O’Dea, came to receive the 20 debs., and
wore a shimmering satin frock, burnt-
orange in color, and tailored in line.
President of the Union and of the dance.
Dr. Theresa Carmichael, received the
official guests, and looked graceful in
black tulle, through which pink satin
gleamed palely. The effect is what haute
couture term Silhouette, Dr. Tom Bate-
man and his sparkling wife entertained
a party. Mrs. Bateman is vice-president
of the Union. Filmy lime-green Chantilly
lace over olive-green satin, rather like
camphor-laurel leaves in the spring, made
her off-the-shoulder frock, which featured
a scarf neckline of the lace. Newly-
engaged Sheila Denton (she’s associate to
Mr. Justice Sugerman) and Bill Churchill
were among the dancers; so were Joan
and Elizabeth Rhodes, who soon go off
to Brisbane, where father. Captain
“Dusty” Rhodes, has been appointed
private secretary to the Governor of
Queensland. Guests-of-honor were Dr.
H. Coombs (Commonwealth Bank chief-
tain) and Mrs. Coombs. Believe it or
not, he was one of the best and most con-
stant dancers present.
The Lyceum Club had quite a big gun
to open the season’s club activities. She
was Evelyn Cheeseman, entomologist of
renown, who is one of the research
workers for the British Museum, and
whose books on New Guinea, the New
Hebrides and Norfolk Island are a joy
to children as Well as to grown-ups. In
Miss Cheeseman’s slight figure lives an
intrepid spirit. Standing very straight in
a pink-patterned silk suit, she told her
audience at the Lyceum Club about the
native tribes —the people of New Guinea
and the Polynesians with whom, in the
pursuit of her butterflies and tropical in-
sects, she spends much of her life. The
first thing you do when you are arrang-
ing your groups of workers is to ask,
through the Head-boy, are you of the
people of the forest, or are you of the
people of the sea? Then you take
care to keep the groups separate.
These primitive people educate their
children as carefully as civilised parents.
But the children of the people of the
forest are taught from earliest infancy
everything about forest lore, while the
young of the people of the sea are taught
all about tides and winds and shells and
fish.
Probably 1000 women viewed the
parade of clothes at the much-talked-of
Fashion Forecast. This kept the atmos-
phere seething at Prince’s last Thursday
and Friday afternoons. Prize exhibit was
a mink coat valued at £2OOO, though if
that was a true forecast as to the fur
coat 99 per cent, of the women present
will wear in 1950, this bunny-wearer will
be surprised,
Mrs. Orsen Nielsen, wife of the Consul-
General for the U.S.A., made opening
speech, and Sydney’s Lady Mayoress Mrs,
O’Dea was among the vast audience.
Joint hon. secretaries were Mrs. C. M.
Guiney and J. Hardy. Newly-returned
from overseas Max Oldaker added notes,
as rich as the furs, as soaring as the
prices, to the afternoon. The Lady
Mayoress’s Fund and the Australian-
American Ex-Servicemen’s Club benefited,
Doreen Pennell, Unit Commander
in the British Women’s Junior Air Corps,
arrived in Australia by 8.0.A.C./Qantas
last Monday. She is the winner of the
Corps’ “Flight to Australia” Competition
which was open to any officer or cadet
between the ages of 19 and 25 who had
two years’ service in the W.J.A.C., an
Air Ability Badge, first-class health, and
the education, character and personality
to satisfy a panel of judges that she
would be a worthy representative of
Britain and of the Corps.
Doreen will visit Canberra and each
State in the Commonwealth, and the Vic-
toria League has been asked to arrange
for her visit.
That grand friend of the blind men
and women of his State, H. W. Thomp-
son, goes off with Mrs, Thompson in the
Dominion Monarch on the twentieth of
this month. They will be 18 months
overseas, and they take a whole cargo
of good wishes with them. For 40 years
Mr. Thompson has been voluntary
librarian at the Braille Transcribers’
Association of N. S, Wales. He was fare-
welled by nearly 100 members of the
Association midway through last week.
The party was in the blinded soldiers’
clubrooms in William-street
From Melbourne
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
gave a late-afternoon party in her suite
at the Town Hall, to say goodbye to
Grace Hunter before she left in Orontes
on the seven-months’ visit to England and
the Continent. Mrs. Disney’s junior-navy
jacket-suit had lapels and cuffs of navy-
and-white-striped taffeta ;* her small white
hat carried notable plumage. The guest-
of-honor wore a smart black ensemble,
Mrs. James Bowen Pain’s dove-grey
frock featured white lapels which matched
her small straw hat. The Wales lady wore
a jacket, frock and hat, all in navy. Mrs.
Dick Noone contrasted her navy jacket-
suit with a Chartreuse blouse and small
matching hat with Chartreuse flower-
trimming; Mrs. J. W. Ferguson was in
pastel-pink-and-white-printed chiffons.
Mrs. Peter de Wolff’s black velvet cap
was sequin-trimmed, her suit blue. Mrs.
Ross Stable teamed a pink linen swing-
back jacket, navy skirt and matching
rough straw hat, Mrs. John Gabriel
topped her cinnamon-brown-striped voile
frock with a deep-cream stitched hat.
Barbara Hughes had two black quills in
the small black cap she wore with her
black crepe frock, which had a swathing
of black satin at the hip-line.
Broothofn made this study of Mrs.
Arnold Isaacson, executive officer of the
British Memorial Fund, who has had a
varied career in journalism. Her son
Peter, an R.A.A.F. man, won the D.F.C.
and A.F.C. Her daughter Jean is
married and has two children. Mrs.
Isaacson has gathered about her a strong
committee, which is working hard to
make the British Memorial Fund a
success.
The Victoria League Clubrooms were
gay with bowls of green and blue
hydrangeas mixed with copper-toned
prunus-leaves when the Australian trustees
of the Northcote Children’s Emigration
Fund entertained at a late-afternoon party
Miss Vera Grenfell, secretary of the
English trustees of the fund, who is visit-
ing this country. The guest-of-honor
wore a reversible navy-and-white animal-
print jacket-suit and a navy-and-white-
striped taffeta hat. The chairman of the
Australian trustees, Sir Harold Luxton,
and Lady Luxton received the guests,
she in a black crepe" frock and matching
jacket trimmed with black Persian-lamb
and a feather-quill-trimmed black velour
hat. Mrs. Guy Bakewell’s Chinese-red
crepe frock was patterned in green, beige
and white leaves and worn with a large
matching scarlet straw taffeta-trimmed
hat. Mrs. A. W. Coles wore under her
junior-navy coat a floral frock; feather
ospreys trimmed her junior-navy straw
hat. Mrs. M. O. Phillips, wife of the
principal of the Northcote Training
School at Bacchus Marsh, added a cocq-
feather-trimmed black velvet skull-cap to
her powder-blue crepe frock, which had
an embroidered collar. Mrs. H. D. Giddy
was in grey-and-white-spotted silks.
Margaret Bell’s floral chiffons were
covered with a lime-green wool crepe coat.
Xavier Chapel, Kew, was the setting
for the wedding of Patricia, only daughter
of Mr. G. J. Rankin, of Kew, and the
late Mrs, Rankin, and Michael, only son
of Mr. and Mrs, M. J, Commons, of
Middle Park. The bridal gown of
shimmering satin was made with a yoke
of marquisette scalloped on to the bodice,
which was embellished with Italian
quilting. The long sleeves were detach-
able, and the full skirt ended in a flowing
train. The tulle veil was held with a
circlet of white carnations, arid the
bouquet was of gardenias and tree lily-
of-the-valley. Attending the bride were
Joy Bertrand and Peggy Bell, frocked
alike in pastel-pink marquisette. Bouf-
fant skirts were allied to bodices which
had fichu collars which extended into
sleeves. Their tiny broken “eggshell”
caps of pink satin were finished with small
ostrich-feather mounts. Deen •
formed their bouquets, Thf roses
was John Fleming and »rr, roan
Fleming. Ration
Da f h^f- Street , where the bridl’ H°* 9
and Mr. and Mrs rvTl b ldes father
the guests. Mrs. CommoT° nS rece ived
of black georgette
finished with cocq feathers! 1 hat Was
In the fashion parade bpid
rooms of La Petite, the clnthl th , e sh°w-
by Mrs. Neil Rogers desi 8 ne <i
of what Australian designed reve * at ‘°n
do. Velvet
worsted suit. A moss-green and ' 11 "^
greatcoat could be worn d ‘ emon
white crochet A
white linen skirt for deck we" a
lace Peter Pan collar and cuffs adH
to a little simple navy frock A d Cblc
of surprise came from L
a mannequin showed a white slin^ n
satin beaded cocktail frock whicfe
worn under a matching white satin Zl
trimmed with Kolinsky furThei tS
was a jungle-green slipper-satin ! h re
embroidered in gold and pearls IhuS
Pink chiffon gown made thing
m smartness by the addition of verv
Le" S klace C of S ief e S TV" d a ch °S
necklace of jet, a tan lace and tulle
beaded ball gown, and a lime-green
chenille velvet spotted faille evening
gown worn with a matching satin coat
All the embroidery and beading were exe-
xlr ted xT b M Australians from designs by
Mrs. Neil Rogers. 1
lan Miller lent his lovely Malvern
home to the committee of the British
Memorial Fund for a dance. The warm
night was just right for the wearing of
gowns that bared shoulders and arms
The Governor’s daughter, Jeanette
wore a sea-green-and-white-patterned
chiffon gown with an off-the-shoulder top
and a deep frill highlighting the skirt
She was accompanied by Betty Everard,
whose chiffon gown was scarlet, and
Capt. John Taplin and Lieut. Robin
Byrne, A.D.Cs. to the Governor. Mrs.
lan Miller was in white chiffons. Mrs.
Geoff Grim wade’s white linen gown had
linen embroidery outlining the deep neck-
line ; inset bands of matching embroidery
were featured on the slim skirt. A
peach-bloom-pink chiffon fashioned the
gown worn by Mrs. Dick Noone. Mrs.
Charles Napier’s pale-olive-green satin
gown was worn with a matching stole.
Mrs. W. O. Winter Irving had a white
satin top to her pastel-blue satin skirt
and bound them together with a sash
of crimson satin.
Masses of flowers outlined the
decollete top of Mrs. Maurice Nicholas’s
blue satin gown. Pearl embroidery was
splashed over the pannier gown of white
taffeta worn by Mrs. Geoffrey Smith.
Mrs. Harold Holt also wore white taffeta.
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh’s deep-cream lace
gown had the pattern outlined with
glittering sequins. Amber-toned taffetas
were worn by Constance Day. Carol
Newton’s pewter-grey satins were in the
shorter fashion. Kathleen Lascelles chose
rust-toned taffetas. Jennifer Haggard
wore a simple white marquisette gown.
Iris Clarke’s pink frock carried pink-and-
white-organdie flowers at the neckline.
The Newmarket meeting at Fleming-
ton brought out a dazzling display ot
printed chiffons, linens, silks, shantung
and big straw hats. Lady Brooks’s pale-
beige silk frock carried a muted blac
pattern ; her large natural chip straw hat
was finished with black velvet ribbon.
Wife of the V.R.C. chairman, Mrs. i.
C. Manifold, wore a navy-blue crepe trocx
which had touches of white-and-navy-
striped silk, which also formed her s
hat. With Mrs. Sidney B. Myer, who
beige silk frock was etched with bl .
were American visitors Orville Cald -
deputy-Mayor of Los Angeles, aa
wife. Mrs. Caldwell added a small bro
straw hat to her leaf-green silk , J
Mrs. Ken Myer’s white lawn fioc
bands of insertion in the bodice and >
her small white cap was covered_w,l»
rouleaux. From S.A. came M .
Murray, whose frock was P a * . her
royal blue, white and rose P >
large hat was of grey straw ’ NS vV.,
Neville Armytage, of Cornago, • • . fl
was in a frock of white silk P j
navy. Mrs. W. Hill Smith, of S.A.
in powder-blue linen and a rs>
navy hat, was with her
Robert Lane, whose navy f f navy .
ing panels and a deep col j a n
and-white-checked grosgrain. £ rock
Bayles contrasted her green and
with a flowered red hat and 8
shoes. Mrs. G. J. Ch sb ° * n d-g£y
Murray) wore a r°y abb . { Mrs.
floral frock with her black nela nd. wore
Tim Jones, just back from
a black picture-hat with her white
which had a petunia-pink- con. the
grosgrain formed the wid c GeorgeS
black frock worn by Madam
Arnaud.


Divorce Notices.
IN Til E SUPREME OOURT - NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MYRA NEREDAH GOODFELLOW
late of 13 Addison Road Marrickville.—
TAKE NOTICE that WALLACE GOOD-
FELLOW has filed a Petition for Divorce
No, 150 of 1950 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
S tree t Sydney by the 15th May
19o0 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. A. J.
McLACHLAN HOARE & CO., Solicitors,
W } ?,? ard Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
POLQHAN. Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
to tVALES—In Divorce.
TO HUGH HENRY DAVIS late of 16
£“water Avenue Cessnock. — TAKE
NOTKIE that ALICE MARIE DAVIS has
iqiq Petition for Divorce No. 2090 of
,, ,° on the ground of desertion without
lust cause or excuse for three years and
pwards If you wish to defend you may
emer an appearance in the Divorce
R gistry Supreme Court King Street
>,dney by the 15th May 1950 and obtain
copy of the Petition without charge
A. J. McLACHLAN
St * 5 00 •> Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard
wV Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
COURT OP NEW
TO JFn tVALES.—In Divorce.
7 Rr.a RER T HILDER formerly of No.
PHY ® treet A nbum AND TO
Adripr/ HACKETT formerly of No. 8
S LJr 1 North Lidcombe.-
HiLnpo°J IC p, t, hat KATHLEEN MAUD
C v' -..hag ®ted a Petition for Divorce
vou th n 8 1949 ) on the ground that
have ;!L ab ?I C " amed ALBERT HILDER
ahovont 0 ” 1 ? adultery with you the
vou tho 1 p HYLLIS HACKETT If
wish abovenamed ALBERT HILDER
appearinna defe nd you may enter an
Court Kin ln oF e Hivorce Office Supreme
Mav & Str . eet Sydney by the 15th
PHYITiq ii ?"t.y° u the abovenamed
Court to ilF C I K ? TT may a PPty to the
as vou on 6 ln *° defend the charge
obtain / 0 desir ! Ea ch of you may
ch arge from P mvo/o® PetItion without
k DAVIS o MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER
of 35o nL Solicitors for the Petitioner,
DOUGHAN n 0 S F eet ’ Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
Registrar in Divorce.
T south UP wales c ? w ur / of new
TO FLOfiuitriB 1 • — In Divorce.
of BrisW N n E M f UD FERGUSON late
that JOHN mt? 0 d '/ AKE NOTICE
filed a Petiti ER f NCE ? FERGUSON has
1949 on thp f j Hivorce No. 2415 of
Just cause trS. °+u lds of desertion without
H Jou wfJ°F th r , ee ,years and upwards
a PPearance h a t the f fn d y ° U ™ ay enter aD
Court Kins- <Jt~* D l V0 , rce 0fflce Supreme
Mav i95 0 s ret Sydney by the 22nd
Petition without J?. btain - a c °P- y of th <
COHEN *■ lrom HADDOCKS
tl« C Solicitors, 88 Mar-
ifSwSr" 0 J - D0UGHAN -
Do you operate
nmmipum
or
Dimi
EQUIPMENT?
The difference between a rough-running, power-
robbed diesel unit and smooth, even pulling-power is
the difference between using ordinary fuels and the
highly refined spirit —Caltex Distillate. Caltex
Distillate ensures a smooth, even flow of power with
minimum consumption. It atomises completely,
giving you easy starting, keeping injectors and fuel
pump clean and considerably extending their life.
df
CAI-6#
CALTEX
DISTILLATE
FOR MORE POWER AND
LOWER RUNNING COSTS
SUNDRY SHOWS
Elsie Findlay.
For the opening number of
thf recital she gave at Sydney
rv™ before leaving for Europe
Svdneysoprano Elsie Findlay set
. prself a severe test in legato
staging with Bach’s “Liebster
S” Her naturally reposeful
style was admirably suited by an
!ria which calls not only for de-
votional serenity but a punish-
ing control of breathing. A
that last happens to be Miss
Findlay’s particular strength, t
result was excellent singing, made
more authoritative by the natural
ease of her delivery and the
complete absence of strain
throughout the gamut of the
aria. In Purcell’s “The Blessed
Virgin’s Expostulation” the
singer succeeded in capturing
something of the inherent
anxiety. .
The “Un Moto di Gioja from
“The Marriage of Figaro” cap-
tured the grace and refinement
of the Mozart music, though
more animation would have en-
hanced the rendering. An in-
fusion of emotion would have
improved lieder by Hugo Wolf
and Richard Strauss and songs
by Rachmaninoff, Faure and
Duparc—the only chink in Miss
Findlay’s musicaj, armor is her
reluctance to “let herself go,”
Her range is adequate, her de-
livery fluent and facile, her
enunciation practically flawless
and her control on the half-voice
admirable; yet when represent-
ing hate or love or longing she
doesn’t succeed in stirring the
listener. Thet she is capable of
overcoming this defect she de-
monstrated in one of the final
encores: Richard Strauss’s
“Standchen.”
Leo Demant was the unob-
trusive and artistic accom-
panist.
Musica Viva gave alluring
evidence that it has developed
out of all proportion in the open-
ing concert of its fifth season at
Melbourne Assembly Hall. The
memory would have to go a long
way back to recapture a more
delicate performance than the
two violins, two violas and
’cello gave in Mozart’s String
Quintet in C, and for sheer
unadulterated beauty it would
be hard to equal the unrolling
of the Schubert String Quintet
in C major with its delicious
slow movement where the ’cello
talks, so to speak, offstage. First
violin was Robert Pikler, second
violin Edward Cockman, viola
William Krasnik, with Theo
Salzman and Loiis Simpson
fingering their ’cellos. Maureen
Jones, pianist, and Pikler and
Salzman supplied a lovely full-
stop to the sensitive perform-
ance with their playing of
Beethoven’s “Ghost” Trio in D
major.
The concert, repeated in Syd-
ney, seemed an earnest of
Musica Viva’s policy of giving
the public an opportunity of
hearing the finest of chamber-
music. Nothing that this fine
ensemble has given yet has-
equalled its work in the Schubert
masterpiece, where the sugges-
tion of brooding tragedy in the
slow movement against the
pizzicato background was
beautifully sustained.
*•* * *
Jean Bellette’s paintings at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
leave two conflicting impres-
sions—of some fineness of tech-
nique shown in a black-and-
white portrait and a couple of
slight landscape sketches, and
of coarseness of technique in the
oils —but cfiiefly they leave an
absence of impression, a blank.
The exhibition consists for the
most part Of Miss Bellette’s
characteristic scenes from Greek
mythology, in which the figures
look crudely sculptured rather
than painted, and which, what-
ever incident from Euripides or
iEschylus they may illustrate,
neither carry in themselves any
quality of life or drama nor
transmit any perceptible com-
ment on antiquity. It is as if the
artist were trying to express a
mysticism which does not exist;
or, at best, that she is groping
through masses of crude oil-
paint towards some idea of
classic repose and simplicity, at
present very distantly appre-
hended. Except for “Dry Coun-
try,” which looks like a combina-
tion of the methods of Drysdale
and Lloyd Rees and is attractive
in its warm coloring, some
lumpy still-lifes and a couple of
elementary oil-portraits, it all
seems not only remote from
Australia but remote from life.
♦ ♦ * ♦
The latest patron of the arts in
Australia is Dunlop Rubber
Australia Ltd., which is offering
prizes totalling £B5O for paint-
ings—oils, water or any other
permanent medium; subject-
matter to be landscape, landscape
with figures, figure composition
or any subject other than pure
portraiture. The prizemoney is
to be divided into a first
prize of £250, two seconds of
£lOO each, two thirds of £75
each, three fourths of £5O each,
and four fifths of £25 each.
Judges will be Daryl Lindsay,
director of the Victorian
National Gallery, Hal Missing-
ham, director of the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, Lawrence
Thomas, assistant director of the
Victorian National Gallery, and
Prof. J. Burke, Professor of Fine
Arts, Melbourne University.
Entry forms, rules and other par-
ticulars of the competition, which
closes on May 27, 1950, may be
obtained from State galleries,
societies or other art bodies, or
from any Dunlop branch in the
principal cities.
* * * *
One of the strangest mysteries
of the institution known as the
ballet is where the ballerinas get
their inspiration. Kenneth
Rowell, who is showing paint-
ings and theatre designs at
George’s Gallery, is apparently
one of the fountain-heads of this
inspiration, for he has designed
many costumes and decors for
local ballet. In his pictures the
lissom ladies look as stiff as
buckram, as hard as steel and
anatomically resemble stick-
insects and mosquitoes. The line
of his drawings is as common-
place and conventional as the
average architectural draughts-
man’s, yet somehow or other
Miss Joyce Graeme, for instance,
can look at these fashion-plate
concoctions and crystallise them
into an airy faery vision of light
and movement, and a Miss Gil-
mour can even turn them into
something human. If the corps
de ballet debouched on the stage
looking like Mr. Rowell’s
drawings of them the audience
would bolt for the exits.
* ♦ ♦ *
Ludmilla Meillerts, the Latvian
painter who served her appren-
ticeship to Australia at the
Heidelberg Military Hospital,
has another exhibition at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum. As in her
first show, she puts the emphasis
on color in a series of high-
keyed landscapes which, seen
collectively, seem to sing a rather
shrill note. She is best judged by
her still-life. The color is all
there, but there is a lack of
penetration, and the absence of
tone tends to give roses and lilies
the same texture as cannas and
chrysanthemums and gladioli.
“Professor’s Corner, Heidel-
berg,” has more body in it.
♦ * p *
Shivaram’s second programme
of Indian temple dances at Mel-
bourne National Theatre con-
firmed the opinion that the lithe
young man is one of the most
sensitive and intelligent dancers
seen for a long time in Mel-
bourne, and that his female part-
ner, Janaki, isn’t far behind him.
“Kamadeva,” the languorous
dance of the Hindu Cupid in
springtime when love is most
powerful, was perfectly sugges-
tive, and there was grace and
humor in the Kite dance from
Rajputana and the story of
Krishna, the divine flute-player,
stealing the clothes of a gopi—
whatever a gopi is—when she
goes to bathe.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Unless they have natural
comedy talent about the place,
which very few of them have,
repertory groups should, as a
general rule, leave comedy alone
in preference for the simpler re-
quirements of drama. And,
unless they are exceptionally
gifted with natural, finished
comedians, which practically
none of them are, they should
walk very wide of the polished
manners of Congreve, whose
“Old Bachelor” is currently
presenting the Mosman Theatre
Guild with more problems than
it can handle. The performance
is most studied and con-
scientious, but, in a rather frantic
hustle to toss off the dialogue in
the manner it requires, the male
muster of the cast is too often
unintelligible, while the ladies
rarely get past being lovely to
look at—although they do all of
that naturally enough.


way I’d abolish lawns. People whose
hearts are set v on such things could have
green concrete. Permanent. Never needs
cutting. Always heat.”
“Um!” said Mr. Ponsett at this heresy*:
“Urn!”
“Listen!” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
Mr. Ponsett listened. The click and
whizz of a dozen mowers came through
the golden light like the shrilling of
crickets at dusk.
“That’s what I mean —there they are,
all of them at it. And what for? What
good does it do? Why shouldn’t grass
grow if it wants to? Same with trees —
why should they be mangled and emascu-
lated? Why shouldn’t they be let grow
as they want to? Tell me that. Herb.”
“Well—I”
“That’s just it. Herb. No clear-cut
answer at all. Except perhaps that it
keeps you out of mischief,”
“Mischief! Oh, I say, rather
strong”
“I said mischief.” Mr. Bingley-Scutt
elucidated no further. Instead, with seem-
ing irrelevance he nodded towards the
tiles of the Ponsett home —matched in
reds and greens. “Out?” he asked.
“Yes, indeed. Mrs. Ponsett plays
croquet, you know.”
“So’s she.” Mr. Bingley-Scutt gave a
half-backward jerk of the head towards
the glazed tiles of his own home. He
apologised for the “she’s” by adding,
“Mrs. 8.-S. is out, too. Bowls. It’s a
wonder. Herb, you don’t join the bowls.”
“Haven’t time really—with a place like
this.”
It wasn’t convincing as an excuse. Mr.
Ponsett wasn’t in the Bowling Club be-
cause he wasn’t up to it. He wasn’t
wanted in the club, and he knew it. Years
ago Mrs, Ponsett had urged him to join
the club, to bestir himself, to take his
place, to mix . . . but when a club has
such a rarefied being as Sir Lucas Dal-
wood as patron, Mr. Cherwell as presi-
dent and the rest suitably scaled down,
there no niche for a Ponsett. Mr.
Ponsett knew that. Even if he had been
only a parson he might have squeezed in.
“Clickety-click! ” went the mowers.
“Snip - snip - snip! ” went the two-
handled shears.
<<CHE’S just a hole of a place. A
bloody dump. That’s what she is.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt was speaking as a
private citizen.
It was terrible to hear this condemna-
tion of Seven Oaks uttered in the calm-
ness of half-humorous bitterness. And
worse than that, it spoke the thought that
Mr. Ponsett would never have dared to
speak even to himself. Afr. Ponsett really
felt guilty.
“I’m telling you. Herb. What is there
to it, when all’s said and done?”
“Oh, I don’t know, Harry. You know
there’s more —what I mean is”
“I know what you mean —too well, I
do.”
“Still and all”
“Redfern’s better. I was brought up
in Meagher-street, Chippendale. I often
wish I was back there.”
“Meagher-street!” Mr. Ponsett re-
peated ffie name in uncertainty and con-
fusion. “Meagher-street! ”
“That’s it. There was a bit of life
there. And no bloody lawns and hedges
either , . . That’s your bell, isn’t it?”
IT was Mr. Ponsett’s bell. Mr. Ponsett
* had already heard it, but seemed to
lack the power to move. Now he came
to action. The bell often upset him like
that. Still, it couldn’t be his sister. She
never rang the bell; always came round
the side in a sort of flanking movement,
to take the Ponsetts in the rear, as it
were.
He was back in. little more than a
minute. “Young lady collecting for the
Salvation Army. There goes yours now.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt, with all his sixteen
stone, moved easily and comfortably. As
he did so now, he felt in his pocket for a
coin, jingling the silver as he did so.
‘You know, Herb,” he said on his
return, “that lass was a regular little
peach.”
Mr. Ponsett had dimly noticed that, but
had not admitted so much to himself.
The only peaches he was allowed were
Bell’s November, for he had the tree
growing in the yard.
“These lassies always remind me of
Meagher-street,” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt
reminiscently. “And the pubs in Regent
and Abercrombie and Cleveland.
Damned long time ago, though it might
have been yesterday.”
“I often wonder about the Army”
*4: “Not in a place like this, you don’t.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt left the cryptic utterance
at that. “Look,” he said after a pause.
“I was half expecting a client to call this
afternoon. Too late now. Was to get
here at two or not at all. But I can run
the car out just the same. As far as
North Devon and back. What about it?”
“Oh, I say” Mr. Ponsett looked at
the small mown section of the back lawn.
“That will keep—do it all the better for
a bit of a blow.”
“Oh, I don’t know. Really. My sister,
you know”
“She’ll keep, like the lawn.”
“And then, there’s”
“0.K.! Hop round.”
“Oh, I say, Harry—not like this.” Mr.
Ponsett cast his eye downwards at the
grey flannels, the sandshoes, taking en
route the khaki shirt.
“Rubbish! You’re all right. Herb, my
boy.”
Why Mr. Ponsett should have worried
about personal appearance in Seven Oaks
that had so rejected him could not be
explained. But there it was. Or it may
have been Mrs. Ponsett being considered.
He quaked inwardly.
“Could you—could I—only half a
minute”— —
“Stick on a coat, then.”
Mr. Ponsett put on a blazer, a Seven
Oaks hour-at-leisure blazer, a garish thing
in red and yellow. He kicked off the
sandshoes and donned a pair of tans.
Then he discovered the khaki shirt.
Bless it! But it would do with the
blazer. Only a blow anyway.
THERE was an unkemptness about the
lawn in Mr. Bingley-Scutt’s place, a
raggedness about the privet hedge—the
hedge and lawn decreed in the unwritten
constitution of Seven Oaks. Mr. Bingley-
Scutt gave a cheery and comprehensive
wave at both. “Tim’s day is Wednesday,
and it rained like blazes. Have to wait
now till next week.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt—the “Bingley” part
of the name was an accretion long after
Chippendale days, and dated from and
about the time of his marriage and setting
up in Seven Oaks. The “Scutt” element
in his name was far more proper to
Meagher-street—Mr, Bingley-Scutt eased
the Hudson down the drive and Mr.
Ponsett opened the gate. He looked down
Waratah-avenue towards Seven Oaks-
road, which led towards the station. The
avenue was clear of Sister Flo. Thank
God for that! The car some doors down
had gone. Graham’s foxie lay in the
middle of the roadway fast asleep.
Apparently the foxie made up for other
excitements by sprawling in the middle
of the road and making what traffic there
was go round him. Nearly the same
distance down were two hurrying figures ;*
the Bell girls going to tennis. Mr.
Ponsett wondered mildly why they should
be so late to tennis this day.
Nice girls, the Bells, in a way. Lois
and Judy. In their pigtail days they used
to smile and say good-day to Mr. Ponsett,
though they didn’t seem to remember
him so well now. Nice girls; but the
“Judy” seemed a bit incongruous in Seven
Oaks till one recollected that it stood for
Judith. “Judy” represented Seven Oaks
humor that could delight in the absurdity
of commonplace names for uncommon
clay. Why, there was even a very perfect
young man flourishing under the appella-
tion of Mog . . ,
“Hop in!” called Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
Mr. Ponsett did so without further
stopping to consider how he came to be
in a car at that time and in that attire.
Mr. Bingley-Scutt cruised slowly down
Waratah-avenue. He had an excellent
view of the Bell girls, and the sight was a
good and stimulating one, even in reverse.
Mr. Bingley-Scutt enjoyed it, and Mr.
Ponsett would have if so many fears had
not assailed him.
“Say, what!” said Mr, Bingley-Scutt.
“Will we give them a lift?”
Mr. Ponsett gave a feeble croak. “For
God’s sake, Harry!”
“Well, if they look and smile, then?”
KJ EARLY opposite the girls there was
a soft bump, scarcely perceptible in
the big car. But Mr. Bingley-Scutt knew.
And the yelp of agony and fear apprised
Mr. Ponsett.
“That’s tom it,” said Mr. Bingley-
Scutt. He pulled up. It was as he
thought. The virtuous foxie of the
Graham’s was a crushed mass, quivering
and breathing its last on the hard road.
Mr. Bingley-Scutt’s intense preoccupation
with the rear view of the Bell girls was
the direct cause of the foxie’s condition.
The girls came over looking a beautiful
and appropriate horror. “Bad business! ”
said Mr. Bingley-Scutt in the ease of his
agency patter. “Bad, bad! One of
those unfortunate exigencies that will
arise.”
“Oh my, the poor little thing!” Lois
was almost weeping.
Mr. Bingley-Scutt felt the foxie with
quick movements of his hands, “Nothing
more, I’m afraid, can be done. He’s
dead.”
“Poor little Caesar!” murmured Judy.
“It is indeed unfortunate. Miss Bell.
I wish I could do something. But you
are late already for your tennis.”
“We are late,” said Lois.
“And this sad accident has delayed
you still more. Would you allow us to
take you to the courts?”
The Miss Bells exchanged glances
The glances said, “In that ? With them ?
But we are late.”
“Very good of you,” said Lois. “And
thanks a lot. But Caesar?”
“Certainly—can’t leave him so,” said
Mr. Bingley-Scutt. “As a final act of
decency, I must take him to the vet.
The spark of life may still be in him.
One never knows.”
He put the truly defunct foxie in front.
“Keep an eye on him. Herb.” He opened
a rear-door.
“That’s jolly good of you,” said the
girls together.
They sped down Waratah-avenue now
and neared the Seven Oaks-road. “Oh,
I say,” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt as if an
important afterthought had struck him.
“You are late, aren’t you?”
“Yes, indeed.”
“Hardly worth while now, is it?”
Lois laughed easily. “It is still worth
our while, Mr. Bingley-Scutt.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt sighed. His size and
bulk gave him a most impressive sigh.
“We’re just taking a run, we are—Colla-
roy—Cattai—anywhere.”
“Have a good time, then,” said Judy
very coolly.
“And the vet., too,” reminded Lois.
“Poor Caesar —how is he, Mr. Ponsett?”
“Me?—Oh, him? Not so good, I
don’t think,” said Mr. Ponsett.
THEY arrived at the courts, which were
in a large area dedicated to healthy
recreation and robust social status; the
courts, the bowling-green and the croquet-
lawns being all contiguous. It was an
awful moment for Mr. Ponsett, for
although the croquet area of recreation
and status was at the far end, and it was
humanly impossible that he could be
seen and recognised by Mrs. Ponsett, he
had a terrible faith in her still more
terrible discerning vision.
The girls thanked a lot over again and
hurried off.
“Nice girls,” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
Mr. Ponsett said nothing.
“Very nice,” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
Mr. Ponsett shivered. “What —what
would you—if—l mean—they had —oh,
my!”
“A foolish proposition, my dear Herb.
They wouldn’t. But it was a compliment
to suggest it. One thing you learn in the
house-agency business is never to let a
chance go by. Often and often the hope-
less turns into the hopeful. But what
the are you staring at?”
“Flo!” The word came more desper-
ately than had the foxie’s dying yelp.
“Flo! Who’s Flo?”
“She —is —my —sister! ”
“Oh! Your sister. I remember.”
The Seven Oaks road ran by the recrea-
tion area, and lay in the line from the
station to Waratah-avenue.
“What now. Herb—do you want to
see her?”
Mr. Ponsett was actually trying to
crouch below the line of vision. “Heavens,
no, Harry!”
A tall woman was stalking past the
bowling-green, apparently taking in all
the life and activity—if either of these
pertain to bowls —with acid satisfaction.
She was still some little distance off. It
was Flo.
“You’re safe, Herb,” and Mr. Bingley-
Scutt swung the car and made the turn
on the broad road without reversing.
“I must go back,” said Mr. Ponsett.
“Of course, of course. Herb r„.
yet not straightway. It’ll DOt
while to get to your place.” er a
“Oh, but I must.”
“AH right, then. But there’s tw
you know.” e s that mong,
“The Yet oh, .yes, oh dear, yes ”
They bowled along the main ™ .
wards North Devon r ° ad to '
“Which vet? Where?”
“Here, Herb.”
There was a patch of
North Devon, and through it ran a c
or gully Mr. Bingley-Scutt™^
“ d » mos < expert action heaved
the dead Caesar over the bridge “No
vet., he said, “could do more' fora
mong than that. ur a
He brushed his hands together.
t Good , and now for home.”
yCt 80 seldom > Herb-
the B deford Arms are surely held out
in welcome to us!” 3 out
“The Bideford”——-
“The North Devon pub, Herb. Surelv
now you wouldn’t give it the go-bv'>
Wash the taste of that mong out of the
mouth ; and the disappointment over the
Bell girls ... and all that,” he added
Mr. Bingley-Scutt spoke glibly with
out great sincerity, but seductively, too.
“Oh, I don’t know, Harry, I reallv
don’t. There’s Flo, you know”—- Mr.
Ponsett glanced at the sun in its march
towards the west. “Oh, I really don’t
know, Harry. And there’s Mrs. P.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt took the uncertainty
for desire and consent. The Bideford
Arms, so fitting in name to North Devon
hove into sight, long lines of cars drap-
ing each side of the' road. Something
like stationary funerals—very democratic
funerals—limousines, utilities and mud-
spattered trucks; even two tin lizzies
that had stepped out of ancient history.
/"''ROSSING the Rubicon has long been
the proverbial expression of consent
to reluctant sin. The swing-doors of the
Bideford were Mr. Ponsett’s Rubicon.
Within there was a vast crowd, as
democratic in its constitution as the cars
and trucks outside. Say what they like,
mankind is seen at its best and happiest
in a pub bar. Mr. Bingley-Scutt firmly
believed that, and some dim inkling of
this great truth came to Mr. Ponsett.
There was much noise, the blending
into a most pleasant and confused music
of voices and laughter. A blue haze of
tobacco smoke was a magic veil through
which one saw the essential goodness and
dignity of man. Here were real fellowship
and brotherhood.
“Name it, Herb,” said Mr. Bingley-
Scutt.
“Oh, oh, dear! What! I never—but
whatever you yourself”
“The beer’s on,” said Mr. Bingley-
Scutt with a friendly gesture towards the
crowd.
The size of the crowd and the two
long funerals outside were a sure indica-
tion of the beer-flow, but Mr. Ponsett
wouldn’t know that.
“The beer’s on, Herb,” said Mr.
Bingley-Scutt again. “But beer, Herb, is
not for me. Not now. Gives me too
much bother with the waterworks. I’m
having a whisky.”
Time flitted through the magic blue
haze and his passage was scarcely noticed.
There had been some little confusion and
embarrassment on Mr. Ponsett’s part
over the ancient laws of hospitality and
reciprocity, and the entanglement ot
these with his old grey working flanne s
and their utter divorcement from casn.
After all, one doesn’t carry cash when
he is mowing the lawn. Mr. Bingley-
Scutt with true delicacy had relieved M •
Ponsett’s feelings by pressing on him
loan of a quid. That had put sm on
even keel, as it were, for Mr. Ponse
So three whiskies had been consume ,
weak whiskies, for whisky was s
patriotically attempting to win the
that was over years ago But weak
watered as it was, it surged throughi Mr.
Ponsett’s veins with a delicious' ty .
glow, enlivening his speech even ,
thickened it a little. On Mr.
Scutt the effect was of the expan
k “Herb,” he said in the ultimate of
compliment, “why didn t we
doing this earlier? What tune
wasted!” Then, as though ex-
pression of the fact woul nce d;
plosion and extinction, he


„ He rb, you are a great fellow ! You are
a lovely fellow, Herb.
v tnw a compliment is the greatest and
N«estTom of encouragement
1 N rare oc it a i wa vs does, something to
r lVin m to Mr. Ponsett was feeling that
t ve “ P s flovely fellow. He determined
J* imnrove upon even that. With real,
but not so apparent, relevancy- he quoted
“Our lives are dull and slow.
•‘Ho ho' You are discovering that,
Upr u ’are you? Old fellow, it’s not true
5, 0 ; unless you make it so. Not really.
whisky was necessary to re-
fleet upon this profundity and make it as
Cle “Trouble y ‘is, Herb, that Seven Oaks is
a of a place. No, can t
deny that. Just a of a place, A
sink, a hole”—he groped with fitting
pause for a climax-“a cesspit—that s
what.” . .
With all the enthusiasm of a new
heretic, Mr. Ponsett agreed. /
“There’s no pub in Seven Oaks, is
there, Herb? No pub. Tell me why?”
Mr. Ponsett shook his head, not in
ignorance, but to indicate the negation
of everything worth while in Seven Oaks.
“That’s right, Herb, you’ve said it.
Humbug, make-believe and snobbery.
Can’t think, talk and see straight. Just
snobbery. No pub—not on your life.
Can’t have people enjoying themselves in
that way. Bring nasty elements into the
village and all that sort of thing. Grow
roses and chrysanthemums and play
bowls and bridge—and all that sort of
thing. Get swankier cars than the next
one, and more up-to-date ’fridges and cul-
tivate duodenal ulcers and piles while you
pay for them. That’s Seven Oaks for
you—a of a place. But very
respectable—see?”
Mr. Ponsett felt inclined to weep over
the terrible picture conjured up by Mr.
Bingley-Scutt’s eloquence. “It sorful,
Harry.”
“It is, Herb. Now take those Bell
girls just now. You remember? The
Bell girls. Lois and Judy. Nice girls.
Very nice girls. At bottom I mean.
They are nice girls at bottom. See!
But do they have a good time? Not
really they don’t. Just make-believe, it
is, all the time. That’s Seven Oaks for
you, Herb. A of a place!
The meaning of all this might not have
been so clear, but in a way it opened up
bright vistas of a better and more wicked
world. Mr, Ponsett nodded solemnly
and said “You’re right there, Harry.”
“Tell you what. Herb. I’ve got plenty
of juice.”
“Joosh, Harry!”
Plenty, Herb. Ways and means, you
know, of overcoming the coupons.”
Joosh, Harry,” said Mr. Ponsett,
fastening on one difficulty at a time.
Petrol, Herb; petrol, gas, juice. Tank
nearly full.”
“Oh”
“That’s right—tank nearly full.”
Well, this is it. Herb. We’ll just skip
along to the old place.”
“Whersh?”
“You’ll see.”
PONSETT probed into a set of
revolving memories. “Oh, I say,
Harry ’ old fellow—theresh Flo.”
Who?”
“Flo.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt stopped—they were
making their way to the car. With a most
hflnH mg iv/ nd graceful wafting of the
Whft’. B ' n § le y-Scutt said “Flo!
a whiffle” 0 ' A passmg circumstance—
p onsett had no exact knowledge
Con 1I l dedna l :) l e “whiffle,” but the term
n °T, c tbe * ess a comprehensive
said i Ji ash right >. Harr y- You’ve
than a Nothing more nor less
circnma Whlffle • He also dism issed the
instance with a wafting of his hand.
speared & right ’ but the P robe
by another memory as it was jigging
“u!l’ 1 . say > Harry.”
“T? at l S ib Herb ’ old chap.”
And Ora? A ? ln 1 - Missush P > you know.
ShCeZer - Remember?
‘.‘What kettle, Herb?”
' ■ Said Ponsett with
piffles o Jf BDI % and then > the disci-
selves. “Mrs, V/s kettle 6 ’’ asserting them-
ffl| r abo y u r.he“S^’ me - TeU
the'tr-? whish,er - you
“My dearest Herb, is our present pro-
gress and the finer settlement of our
present resolves to be waylaid and upset
by Mrs. P.’s whistling kettle? On the
gas or off the gas? Tell me that, Herb!”
“Harry, you’re right. Quite right. Lay
on, Macduff. Thash right-lay on.”
“As to those other trifling details you
see fit, my dear Herb, to mention —dwell
not on them. Graham’s dog—after life’s
fitful fever he sleeps well—under that
bloody bridge, Herb, old chap. And Mrs.
P. Have you, in your familiarity with the
letters of the alphabet, given one thought
to Mrs. 8.-S.? If you have, then I say
wipe the pair of them. Rub them out.
Obliterate them. They are both at their
games —Mrs. P. at her croquet; Mrs.
8.-S. at her bowls. Doubly curse the
filthy game, for she pronounces it in true
Seven Oaks jargon, as it were a part of her
internal mechanism.”
“You’re right, Harry. Quite right.”
MILES of smooth highway slid be-
hind them in the lengthening
shadows of October evening. The river,
calm in the majesty of vast still waters,
lay below on their right, and beyond, as
far as eye could see, the huddle and con-
fusion of the roofs of Sydney’s suburbs
without end.
Over the bridge and through streets
lined with shorn and clipped trees, with
cottages in red brick and red tiles, Mr.
Bingley-Scutt drove fast with hands that
made the Hudson a part of himself. And
so on to, and into, that most dreary and
yet most interesting of thoroughfares,
the Parramatta-road. Mr. Ponsett blinked
at the houses and shops that whizzed by,
at the cars that whizzed faster than the
houses, or at those cars that seemed to
be standing still as the Hudson overtook
them. As a screen-wiper brushes off the
raindrops he brushed off the trouble-
some memories and said for the tenth
time in as many miles “Harry, you’re
right. Quite right.”
From the top of the last hill, near the
university, the nearer city and its slums
lay spread before them. Mr. Bingley-
Scutt slowed down to take in the view.
“Home!” he said fervently.
“Yes, let’s.”
“I mean this," said Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
“This?”
“That!” And Mr. Bingley-Scutt
nodded to eastward. “All that.”
What homing instinct, what nostalgia
had brought him to this point and driven
him so far and fast it would be hard to
say. But Mr. Ponsett could hardly share
the feeling, being one of the unprivileged
who knew not Darlington, nor yet Chip-
pendale. He merely resorted to his
formula: “You’re right. Quite right.”
Mr. Bingley-Scutt turned to the right
at City-road and then to the left at Cleve-
land-street. He drove right round the
beloved area by Regent-street and then
through it by Abercrombic-street and
through it crosswise by Meagher-street.
Then the Hudson nosed its way through
narrow streets and lanes where awful
terraces had front-doors opening right
on to the street itself.
It was a strange new world to Mr.
Ponsett, who worked in the city cer-
tainly, one short mile away from this,
but had never ventured before into the
dark spots that lay behind the big
brewery. It was all so alien to Seven
Oaks, with its trees and lawns and neat
houses. Here were no hedges to cut or
mowers to push. Alien, too, were the
denizens, most of all the children, noisy
chattering bands of them coming home
from the pictures, groups playing cricket
or some other game in the inadequacy of
narrow lanes. Children everywhere.
Their elders not so noticeable at this time
of day. But men at the pub corners in
fair supply; stoutish women, bare-armed
mostly, at street-doors or on crazy little
balconies, talking, talking or looking up
the street, "down the street, probably after
their offspring. From certain doorways
came the blaring of wireless, disem-
bowelled voice, in the eternal excitement
of race news or race reviews.
No, it was not a bit like Seven Oaks.
But it was home a'gain, and a long time
after, to Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
THEY pulled up at a wine-shop near
Regent-street. “Grand little place
this is,” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt.
Certainly it didn’t look it, but no doubt
Harry was right; quite right. Mr. Ponsett
had a notion that a knife in the ribs
would be quite in order in such a place.
But then Harry knew his way about.
The place was quiet and orderly. There
was a murmur of talk in the half-
darkened room, and a vision of twos and
threes and fours seated about the little
round tables. Several smart barmen in
white coats carried glasses of wine to' the
tables. A fair proportion of the drinkers
were women . . .
They sat at an empty table near the
back of the room, and somewhere
between the first and second sherries two
girls, who seemed to materialise from the
thin air, took the vacant seats. Nice
girls. Very. And well spoken, too. Not
a bit forward. They reminded Mr.
Ponsett of the Bell girls. He kept think-
ing they were the Bells —Lois and Judy.
Only nicer. Mr. Bingley-Scutt bought
them drinks. Mr. Ponsett and Mr.
Bingley-Scutt were referred to as “boy?”
and “you boys.” Nothing familiar at
all —just frank and natural. That made
it the more flattering.
(Flo and Min receded still farther into
a kind of guilty oblivion.)
And Mr. Bingley-Scutt was grand, o
question of that. And he knew his way
about. And he knew the talk. He did
most of the talking. And the girls
laughed. Such pleasant laughs. Very
nice girls.
Mr. Ponsett was happy—an unusual
state. Happy in his sad way.
“Spark up, Herb! ” said one of the
girls—the dark-haired one. “But I bet
you’re a sport, too.”
Mr. Ponsett did sparL up, and was a
sport, at least to the satisfaction and
expectation of the dark-haired one. A
hell of a fellow really. The spectacle
greatly amused Mr Bingley-Scutt and the
other girl, the one with very golden hair.
It was golden, all right, and not red.
Mr. Ponsett found exact vision and
discrimination difficult. He looked like a
comical owl through his glasses at Mr,
Bingley-Scutt as something came out ot
the distant fields of remembrance. He
said with owlish seriousness, “Flo!
The dark-haired one laughed merrily at
that. “Flo! ” she said. “Flo! Oh, Herb,
I guess you are a naughty young man.
“I am naughty,” declared Mr. Ponsett,
with something like chivalry three-
quarters squiffed.
HOW it happened and how they got
there Mr. Ponsett will never be able
to explain, for the simple reason that he
didn’t know; but the little party of four
found itself upstairs in one of the eternal
terrace-houses. Dark-hair declared tna
she loved Mr. Ponsett; had always loved
him and always would love him. 1 nere
may have been discrepancies and inac-
curacies somewhere in the statement, but
Mr. Ponsett was not aware ot them.
Nor did he notice the incongruities m
similar statements made by himselt.
was all very pleasant. Real life. And Jl
would have been more pleasant it me
room had been a bit stiller It had a
decided tendency to go round ...
Much out of place in such a house,
there was a marble mantelpiece over an
absurdly small iron fireplace; a small
grate and a lid to the flue. ,
mantelpiece was a bottle of clare * J*,
some tumblers. Dark-hair pouredyearly
half a tumbler of the claret for M •
Ponsett and another for herselt.
“Now drink it up, Herbie, like a good
little boy.” She smiled over the nm ot
her thick tumbler. “Here s luck.
“Schluck! ” said Mr. Ponsett.
STARS were blinking through the
murky Sydney air when Mr. Ponsett
; was capable of focusing attention on
facts and realities. Streets were lighted
and filled with crowds.
“Wheresh Dolly?” asked Mr. Ponsett.
“0.K., old chap. You all right?”
“Harry, I am all right.”
“Hop in, then.”
There was not much hop left in Mr.
Ponsett, but he managed to insert him-
self into the Hudson, where he slumped
on the seat and started to snore . . .
“Wake up, Herb, wake up, you im-
possible clown!” Mr. Bingley-Scutt was
a trifle irritable,
“Wheresh we?”
“Wake up!”
“Treesh!”
“Of course there are trees. This is
North Devon Creek.”
A white board at the entrance to the
bridge apprised the world that it was
North Devon Creek.
“Graham!” croaked Mr. Ponsett.
“What about Graham?”
“Lil’ dog.” . ..
“Oh that! You don’t want him, do
you? He’s down there somewhere.”
The car had stopped, for the purpose
of getting Mr. Ponsett into some sort of
shape for his homecoming. Mr. Ponsett
was awake now, if not exactly in his
right mind. Also he was shaky. And a
feeling of guilt, as heavy, dense and
depressing as a fog, had descended upon
him. His mouth was horribly dry and
bitter.
“Oh—oh!” he moaned, in the excess
of physical discomfort and spiritual
remorse.
“Stow it!” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt
quite roughly. “Pull yourself together,
man.”
Mr. Ponsett was too dejected to resent
the tone and the implications. And there
was Mrs. P. to face. And possibly Flo.
“Oh, oh! Oh, my!”
“Listen to me!” commenced Mr.
Bingley-Scutt firmly.
“I can’t face it,” moaned Mr. Ponsett.
“Yes, you can, and you’ve got to. I
want to get home myself. Now, listen!
I had to take a client out to Spencers
Hill. Get that?”
“Get what?”
<<i ISTEN, you idiot!” Mr. Bingley-
1— Scutt went through it again.
“Client wanted to look over that farm
of old Cowan’s.”
“Whash name of the client? Must
have that, you know.” Mr. Ponsett was
somewhat dazzled by the splendor ot
the story.
“Good on you. Herb! You rc catching
on. Name Jones—easy to remember .. .
Well, what happens?”
“I don’t know.”
“Listen! What is more ? likely to
happen than engine trouble?”
“Wish it had. Before we started.”
“Engine trouble—that’s it. Miles from
anywhere. Saturday afternoon and all
that. Towed into Parramatta at last.
Hours to fix car.”
“What happens that fellow/
“What fellow?”
“Forget his name—the client.
“Oh, him, Jones—he has to come to
Parramatta, too. Goes off by tram from
there. Got it now?”
“Got it, Harry. But what about that
place? And those ”
“What place?” „
“Place we went to —and
“Chippendale? Forget it! We never
went near it! Spencer’s Hill and Parra-
matta. See? Nothing else, and the client s
name is Jones.”
Mr. Ponsett showed signs of resumed
SIU -tow, k?ep awake, Herb!” Mr.
Bingley-Scutt dug a rough elbow into
Mr Ponsett’s ribs. “And there s another
thing. Herb—are you listening? There s
another thing. Very important. We had
a bite in Parramatta. A bit of fisn.
Couldn’t have been fresh. You get a
terrible gastric upset. Awful pain.
Chemists all closed. Only thing we could
think of was schnapps and sherry. Did
the trick, too, but you are still weak on
U The story had nearly all the quality
of really great lies —simplicity. Its danger
lay in the probing for further detail.
And that was sure to be done. At least
by Mrs. Ponsett. Mr. Bingley-Scutt
decided, on second thought, to lay greater
emphasis on the bad fish an
schnapps and sherry. That was much in
keeping with Mr. Ponsett s condffw .
The Hudson turned into Waratan
avenue “Mind yourself, now,” warned
Mr Bingley-Scutt. Mr. Ponsett, was
(Continued on next page.)


reasonably awake, but shaky and horribly
afraid.
OUTSIDE the Ponsett home there was
a crowd—a crowd, that is, by Seven
Oaks standard, and at least as large as
that when a bridge-party was terminating
or a meeting of the New Education
Fellowship was ending a session. But
this crowd didn’t look like bridge or
New Education either. Especially the
police uniform.
“What in the hell?” Mr. Bingley-
Scutt burst forth.
“It’s me; I’m sure of it,” said Mr.
Ponsett like one beginning a penitential
psalm. “Or the place may have been
robbed. Or Mrs. P.” Mr. Ponsett
was considerably sobered by the sight,
but his fears were strengthened the more.
“So, here you are!” said the police-
man, coming forward to the car. The
crowd edged in behind him, so as to
lose nothing.
“What’s wrong, sergeant?”
“You two —we’ve been searching for
you.”
“For us! Why?”
The sergeant looked on Mr. Ponsett
with no eye of favor and sniffed. Police
only sniff for one thing.
“Oh,” said Mr. Bingley-Scutt in his
blandest tones. “Took out a client.
Spencer’s Hill way. Struck engine-
trouble.”
“Very well,” said the sergeant. “That’s
all right. We were only concerned about
your safety.” He nodded towards the
speechless Ponsett, and again sniffed,
“Sick —very sick. Touch of ptomaine,
I believe. Dosed him up on schnapps
and sherry. He’s had a pretty bad doing,
1 pan tell you.” Mr. Bingley-Scutt was
in, good form.
“Apparently so,” said the sergeant,
“And that poor woman in there has had
a bad time. Nearly out of her mind,
she is.”
“Too bad, too bad,” said Mr. Bingley-
Scutt,
“Pity you didn’t think of ringing up.”
“Thought of it all right. No phone
anywhere—till North Parramatta, and it
was out of order. Tried to, there. Then
friend takes sick. Too bad, though.
Sorry, sergeant, to have given you all
this bother.”
“Oh, that’s all right. Well, you’re home
now. I’d better call the hunt off.”
A RED-faced man thrust forward. A
** big man, who somehow looked bigger
than he really was An important man,
somewhat between a wealthy squire and
a successful auctioneer. He was plainly
in a bellicose mood. His name was
Graham.
“You ran over my dog!”
“I am very sorry, Mr. Graham. That
is true. Middle of the road, and I didn’t
see him.”
“What did you do with him? Where
is he now?”
“Started to take him to the vet. But
he was quite dead. Useless. So I disposed
of him.”
“You go and get him —bring him back
at once”
“Not just now, Mr. Graham. I can
tell you where he is, however:”
“I must be going,” said the sergeant.
He left.
Mr. Graham went on breathing threats.
Mr. Bingley-Scutt had to ignore him. He
surveyed the crowd more closely. There
were over a dozen —neighbors and near-
neighbors—and a promise of more of
them inside. Mr. Bingley-Scutt gave
pleasant nods here and there. “It’s good
to be back,” he said. “No end of
trouble. Sorry to have upset everyone.
Poor Herb here—Mr, Ponsett—is in a
bad way, really.”
Certain runners had already conveyed
the news inside of the safe return of the
missing ones. The wives, potential
widows, did not put in appearance.
There was no further reason for the
party to wait. It reluctantly dwindled
away. Mr. Graham darkly hinted at
legal proceedings. Someone wasn’t going
to get away with something. You’ll see.
Cassar was a valuable dog. Intrinsically
and sentimentally valuable.
‘ Come on. Herb,” said Mr. Bingley-
Scytt. “All right now?”
But Mr. Ponsett only shivered and
asked piteously, “What’s the name of
that place?”
“Spencer’s Hill—old Cowan’s farm—
Parramatta. Engine-trouble and gastric
upset. Got it?”
Mr. Ponsett gave a groan that might
have been yea or nay or neither. Clearly
“enough he was not visualising the invented
yarn. He didn’t believe it. From down
the street came the mutterings of the
Graham like distant rumblings of a re-
treating storm: “They can’t get away
with it . . . malicious ... valuable . . .
worse for drink ...”
T” HE two homing-pigeons stepped on to
1 the strip of mown grass that formed
part of the footpath which, in conformity
with an unwritten law of Seven Oaks,
Mr, Ponsett had mown in front of his
place, on to the narrow concrete that
formed the footpath proper, through the
open gate, and on to the red Bowral
gravel. Up—one, two, .three, of tiled steps
to the tiled veranda.
All this in silence, for Mr. Ponsett had
to be guided and steered and supported.
And by nudges and squeezes encouraged
and admonished. For Mr. Ponsett was
almost a total wreck, in whom towing
was difficult and salvage problematical,
At the door Mr. Bingley-Scutt became
vocal again, with all the cheerfulness of
danger past and done with. “Here we
are , Herb, at last; safe and sound, too ;
you’ll be all right now, Herb.”
“Come in. Don’t go, Harry,” pleaded
Mr. Ponsett,
Their progress down the hall was a
badly punctuated paragraph, but the
voice of Mr. Bingley-Scutt sought to hide
the aberrations of it.
They came to the sitting-room, in which
were three figures in varying stages of
grimness ; one of them far gone in the
tears
Hullo! Hullo! called Mr. Bmgley-
Scutt m a voice nicely modulated between
booming and soothing. “Here we are
and safe Sony you've been upset.
S S ie l of h ?} d ’“P s •. Sit down. Herb,
old chap. You re all right now.”
He eased Mr Ponsett to a Point
approximately above an easy-chair, re-
leased his hold and let gravitation do the
Mrs Bingley-Scutt spoke first. “So!”
she sard An ominous word, to be fol-
Sot” 7 0,16 ” ore omn ° US S “ 1:
“You here. Wilma? That's good!
Awfully sorry for the delay, and the
troubie and worry and all that.”
Mrs. Bingley-Scutt was still in her bowls
attire. That indicated that the trouble
and worry had been of long duration,
She was a fine big woman, but just now
her face had too much of incredulity
and suspicion upon it. Nor did love fpr
Mrs. Ponsett seem to entirely explain her
presence.
Mrs. Ponsett was playing the part of
the poor-little-thing. The ill-used-wife.
“See-what-I-have-to-put-up-with.” The
role did not entirely suit her, for the
meekness that goes with it was hard to
come by, and the rage that shouldn’t
was hard to hide. One ingredient of such
acting she had managed—she had been
weeping. And now fresh tears chased
each other down her face.
She also was attired in her sporting
garments. The tragedy must have gone
on to the stage at dusk: the usual hour
of her return from croquet.
But she was too big ton
too strong, too healthy to cam. S?UP-
wrongs inflicted by a brutal the
the said brutal husband n! W ae S ? nd '
crumpled thing blinking throuS? 1 and
tacles, a rather pitiable object g Jf f c '
She was not, however, devoid of fear '
sense. The incongruity stru4 her T®'
her feeling of injury, which accounted^ 1 * 6
words and tone, both suitably Z"? fo , r
tears and reproach; “Herbert d u lh
could you?” How
Mr. Ponsett stirred, not so muc h „
easily as shnnkingly, and looked S*
plormgly at Mr. Bingley-Scutt. m '
That gentleman was still standing anH
really never looked better. Not ?
laughed not in ridicule or defiant w
in soothing explanation of somSfci
that looked bad and yet was
pure innocence in its cause. “P onr
Herb. Had a bad time, really. Not t
good yet. Lucky to be here at a
Ptomaine poisoning a dreadful thing
Dreadful. Should be in bed. Over I
now—but very weak. u
i i i! aid MrS ' Hingley-Scutt
* , being interpreted was
Don t tell lies —and we’d better get
home.” 61
She rose. But Mr. Bingley-Scutt could
in all decency, hardly desert Mr. Ponsett
so. He gave a running sketch of the
afternoon’s misadventures, with heavy
accentuation upon internal trouble, both
of Mr. Ponsett and the engine, it was
done in that nice easy patter that goes
with the “shifting” of a house in a poor
situation and laboring under the added
disabilities of mortgages and white-ants.
He ended by gracefully turning to Flo-
hadn’t had the honor —big upset dispens-
ing with the courtesies and all that—but
took the liberty—how was she? and he
was pleased to meet her—her poor
brother there —Herb—was as much dis-
tressed about her as anything else—all
through their troubles of the afternoon.
Flo accepted the flattery with evident
pleasure. Like many custodians of the
consciences of others, she was self-
centred and vain. A thin woman, tall —
too tall altogether to be Mr. Ponsett’s
sister—devoid almost of anything in the
way of frontal formation, very straight in
the back, head held very high. Her face
wasn’t so bad-lookings—clear eyes, forth-
right in gaze, a bit too conscious perhaps
of the goodness stored up behind them ;
a small prim sort of mouth on the zip-
fastener principle; very firm jaws—not
really big jaws—with bunches of muscle
at the angles. The muscle didn’t denote
excessive talking so much as purposeful
and righteous speaking.
“Thank you,” she said to Mr, Bingley-
Scutt. “You have been very good to
Herb. Ptomaine, you said?”
“Yes. Ptomaine. It’s a terrible thing.
And I do believe that the schnapps and
sherry” . „
“And Herb is not used to intoxicants.
“Indeed, no. Suffering after-effects
now.”
“Apparently.”
That was certain. Mr. Ponsett was
decidedly suffering past, present and
future effects. From deep down, possibly
from the very seat of imaginary ptomaine,
he groaned. The groan awakened no pity
anywhere except in the words of Mr
Bingley-Scutt. “Poor chap. Terrible
time, really. Should be in bed. No, nj
Miss Ponsett, no need for a doctor
could do nothing now —over it now. K
action.”
“Henry!” said Mrs. Bingley-Scutt.
“I think so,” said her husband. ‘‘Cj“
do nothing more. Are you. Miss v
sett, catching a Run you up
the station if you are.” „
“Engine not likely to go wrong-
asked Mrs. Bingley-Scutt, adding mean
ingly, “Again?”
“Right as rain. Fixed now, go
new.” , , n( j
Mr. Ponsett unslumped somewhat
partially sat up. “I’m all right, h
nounced. “Harry, what was that c
name?”
“Oh, him! Jones.” Pnn ,
“That’s right—Jones.” And Mr.
sett slumped again. For one so ta
lously snatched from a ptomaine _
the concern shown for that aspect
condition was certainly casual.
viously the only one who believ
story was the inventor of it.
'"THE Bingley-Scutts left and took g
1 up to the station in time t° r w jtb
train. Mr. Ponsett was alone n
his deeply-wronged wife, on
VARIOUS VERSE
THE PRISONER.
The company is youthful and light-headed.
The frothy talk has drifted far and eddied
Into the wynds and alley-ways of sex
So as, alas, to embarrass and perplex
One who was strictly taught and never
heard
Loose lustful pryings or an obscene word,
And now is longing, longing to join in
And boast familiarity with sin,
But in his inmost heart, in bondage held;
The ancient monitor will not be stilled.
The governor of the prison, he knows
well
That down there, mute and musing in his
cell,
Sits one far fitter than himself to rule
And guard the criminal, the knave, the
fool—
One of those steel-clad souls whose only
crime
Was too fierce scourging of his sinful
time.
The governot, an easygoing soul,
Maintains slack discipline and weak con-
trol,
Through fifteen feet of stone his careless
heart
Receives the preacher’s disapproving dart:
Some day, he thinks, this Pius will rise
free
To rant and scold, and what becomes of
me?
NEW ZEALAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
THE QUIET STREET.
Look down from the lip of the hills
Below in the quiet street
The hooded lamps yet spill
Their rounded pools of gold
On the deep ruts fringed with grass
(So rarely a wheel runs over),
Though all are long asleep
Under the roofs half-seen
Through the black boughs’ denser night,
And hour by hour no feet
Will sound, no shadow pass
Through those warm still pools of light.
Only the fire-spark wings
Of tiny creatures dart
Into the spell-charmed rings,
Drawn from the cool blurred flowers,
From the dew-hushed gardens flying,
From the bush-ways’ wilder honey,
From the great trees’ velvet dark.
Dusk-blue moth in that fatal air
And lace-wing water-green
Whirl up to the high fierce heart,
In the shrivelling splendor dying
As their beauty had not been.
And under the low roofs lie
Heads dark on the dim white
While the silver hosts of the sky
Wheel past the open windows;
But the sleepers are blind, being one
With their wandering dreams that will
drift
In shadowy forests and glide
Through gardens of lost flowers
Till the rising of the day
Call them out to the yellow light
And the burning globe of the sun
Consume them all away.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD.
THE PLAGIARIST.
In my despair I knit the bones
Of many poems into one.
But when he stood on his own feet
He was a sorry skeleton.
And when I clothed his bones with flesh—
Since I would name him as my child—
His skin was black, his piteous eyes
Implored me, and his looks were wild.
Ah, my poor poem, my blackamoor boy—
I gave him jewelled clothes to wear
And decked him out, to make amends,
With colored turbans for his hair.
Yet they who read beneath these charms
Cried out against my bastard son
Denouncing me to be the shame
Of all the poets in Christendom.
I keep the poem within my heart.
That is, I keep the boy at home,
He holds a golden ball I gave
To stay him should he care to roam.
And so he stands and bears the ball
Upon his shoulder, like that one
Who bears the world and groans aloud
In pain for sins he has not done.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
BELLBIRDS AND A THRUSH.
Now the cyclorama of night is softly
warmed with daylight and the
stars go out the glow-worm stars go out
in the sky and underneath the fern.
The first chimes of dawn are struck
in the trees’ darkening silhouette.
It is as if the birds themselves provide
the first chirrup only and the three
ascending chimes are bells hung in the
trees,
a thousand bells, a thousand thousand
bells,
until the moment when the sun appears:
they dematerialise: now in the hush
the welcome of a solitary thrush.
NEW ZEALAND.
W. HART-SMITH.


O/dfrtenck
ore best friends!
B COr.
jfy&
TO
seszj&c£ccm.
mh
%i»
the name is_
Mum's
The uihlski| is_
c*o>
If any
illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
i/a PHOT
_ wrote the Motoring Editor oj
M
m
m
m
y
y
m
bR
1
FVP927-27
Beneath Pilot’s roomy body is found the power,
performance and comfortable speed obtained from the famous Ford Y 8 engine. For deft
handling in traffic or effortless all-day cruising the Pilot is ideal.
A safe, easy ride on good highways and on
indifferent cross-country roads alike. Ample road clearance. Big heavy-duty tyres
and combined mechanical and hydraulic brakes give extra safety.
Pilot has a solidity of construction and a high degree of
engineering finish that enables it to take many years of hard gruelling useage.
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
PERFORMANCE!
PRACTICABILITY!
tuiM.imim
mEMmmiMM
the role she had
g£f and went to work m
he s h ” a went to V kitchen and
brought back an object, a bent
and battered object that might
?“ been some primitive form
S crown recovered by, arete-
°f isfs f r om ancient ruins. She
Kt it under the shrinking
St nos"and -id “Look!”
With bleared eyes Mr. Pon-
sett looked, but made no com-
ment. The battered object was
condemnation, and, as he dimly
realised, a starting-pom .
“That ” accused Mrs. Ponsett,
“is my’ kettle! Burned to a
cinder almost. Mercy is that
the house wasn’t burnt, too.
“Sorry, Min” (like a poor
mouse in feline clutch and about
as effective).
“Not that I mind so much
about the kettle. 'The kettle’s
nothing. It’s the disgrace I
feel.” She held her own nose
dose and sniffed. “Where?”
she demanded.
“What, Min?”
“That perfume!”
That perfume had no part in
the flimsy and trumpery story
of ptomaine poisoning and
schnapps and sherry. No pro-
vision had been made for it.
Nor did Mr. Ponsett have
sufficient wit or effrontery to fit
it in.
Mrs. Ponsett sniffed again,
converting the sniff into a hot
gimlet. “A woman! ” she
accused. Here virtuous denial
or manly indignation or raw-
edged defiance was surely indi-
cated on Mr. Ponsett’s part. But
his shivering silence was elo-
quent of guilt.
“Show me,” said Mrs. Pon-
sett in still more awful tones —
“show me your handkerchief.”
Mr. Ponsett was powerless to
do anything but comply.
The handkerchief was in-
criminating in greater perfume,
and certain rubious markings
upon it could be —and by Mrs.
Ponsett were —interpreted as the
vestiges and remains of lipstick.
“A woman!” repeated Mrs.
Ponsett awfully, as though
woman represented the ultimate
in sin and shame. Indeed, like
many women, Mrs. Ponsett be-
lieved that very strongly—of
other women.
Gone were the gossamer
threads of the Spencer’s Hill-
Parramatta story, replaced now
by the sheer disgrace of Chippen-
dale.
Reduced to the very lowest
of the most common of human
denominators, a feeble bleat
came from the victim of inquisi-
tion :
“Forgive me, Min!”
He didn’t expect forgiveness
because he was so convinced
that he didn’t deserve it.
“Herbert—you are a —a —
thing!”
“Oh, Min!”
“A home-breaker! That’s
what you are, a home-breaker! ”
“Min, Min!”
Then dramatics. “I’ll divorce
you. Drag you through the dis-
grace of the divorce court. Hold
you up to public scorn. Show
you for the thing you are. A
monster! ”
Mr. Ponsett was incapable of
reasoning out the absurdities and
incongruities. Certainly not that
Mrs. Ponsett had no slightest
mtention of divorcing him.
With this final and awful
reat to assist his digestion,
now much upset by alcohol, Mr.
“°nsett was dismissed for the
night.
n N °w get to bed. In the
pare Room.” The last was said
n capital letters to emphasise
roken and blighted lives.
J 3 RIGHT October morning
«iai™ Sltted its ra y s through
salmon-gum and blue-gums,
tr blackbutt, great
trees that were a part of the civic
Pride of Seven Oaks. Seedily
P° ns ett slunk from the spare
om, force of habit sending him
hr uf bathroom and then to
eaxiast. Bacon, eggs and toast
stared up at him—bitterly. He
would not have been surprised
to have found a divorce,
browned nicely and cooked to
a turn, on another plate,
“Herbert!”
“Yes, Min!”
“You can finish that back
lawn that you started yesterday.”
“Yes, Min.”
“I won’t be going to church
this morning.”
“No, Min.”
“I” —she underlined it heavily
—“I have to look after you.”
“Yes, Min.”
“You” —heavily underlined —
“You are sufficiently recovered
from that—that ptomaine of
yours to do the lawn. But you
might have a relapse.”
“Yes, Min.”
“You won’t misunderstand
that?”
“No, Min.”
“Ptomaine, Herbert, is a
terrible thing.”
“Yes, Min.”
“And you have had a severe
attack of it.”
“Yes, Min.”
He longed to hear about the
divorce. Not that he wanted
one. But to learn the worst that
might befall. No mention made
of it —only the mowing and this
tactical acceptance of the
poisoning story.
The condemned prisoner went
to his mower and thrust and
tugged where he had left off
yesterday. Not yesterday—years
ago—a lifetime ago—a previous
existence ago. The horrible in-
terim was a dream, a nightmare.
Unsubstantial, but terribly per-
sistent.
And into this Arctic waste
came a vision—that of Flo.
God, yes, Flo! She’d be up
again. This day. To trim off
the ragged edges of yesterday.
To get the full story; to con-
vert guess to certainty. Yes,
she’d be along.
“LJULLO, Herb, old boy!”
11 It was a cheery voice, and
the face of its owner, like a
rising sun, was above the horizon
of paling fence beyond the
hydrangeas.
Mr. Ponsett clutched at the
straw of comfort. “Hullo,
Harry.”
“How?” said Mr. Bingley-
Scutt.
“Awful!”
“I imagine so.”
“You?”
“0.K., Herb. O.K. Believe
me, I just don’t let it happen to
me. So far and no further —
that’s my motto. And she
knows it.”
Mr. Ponsett sighed.
“Saw Graham, too, about that
mong of his. That’s all settled.
Herb.”
Terms of settlement not dis-
closed.
Through a long opening be-
tween shrubs, trees and house,
the distant road was visible.
“There they go. Herb.”
“Who?”
“Those Bell girls—Lois and
Judy.”
Mr. Ponsett quaked.
“Off to church they go, to
pray for poor sinners, no doubt.”
“Don’t, Harry—don’t! ”
“All right, Herb, I under-
stand. But it’s Seven Oaks all
over, that is. It’s a of a
place.”
Mr. Ponsett fumbled with the
mower-handle as if to resume
work.
“Tell you what, Herb,” said
Mr. Bingley-Scutt in the more
philosophical and pontifical
manner of his profession ; “some
women would be all the better
for a bloody good belting.”
This was in the realms of the
purely visionary as far as Mr.
Ponsett was concerned. There
was no connection between it
and reality.
“Women,” resumed Mr.
Bingley-Scutt, more for his own
edification than Herbert’s —
“women were made to be kept
in their place. Neglect that side
of their training—and where are
you? That’s why I strongly
recommend a bloody good hid-
ing.”
“Henry!” It was a sharp and
feminine voice from beyond the
fence.
“Yes, Wilma.”
“Henry! ”
“That’s me, I’m afraid,” said
Mr. Bingley-Scutt. “See you
later. Herb.”
“Herbert!” It was like an
echo to “Henry,” but gone wrong
a little.
“Yes, Min.”
“Herbert! ” Sharper and
shorter now.
“Coming, Min.”
AND the days went by in the
placid air of Seven Oaks and
elsewhere. There was no divorce.
There was some little wonder
and some little talk over Mr.
Ponsett’s being missing. Not
such a lot. Mr. Ponsett was
hardly worth a thought. Flo
came, and was not allowed
private converse of any sort with
Mr. Ponsett. Mrs. Ponsett saw
to that. In the theories of
government and the details of
management Mrs. Ponsett was
greater even than Flo. Now she
stood as apron and shield be-
tween Herbert and his sister —
not for Herbert’s sake, but her
own. It was a matter of pride,
and what Mrs. Ponsett was
pleased to call her self-respect.
And it involved the question of
who really owned Herbert.
Legally, Mrs. Ponsett had the
first claim. She allowed Flo to
see as much.
But for the one brief lapse,
Mr. Ponsett was, as he had
always been, a model husband.
And “clickety-click, click-
click-click" went the mowers:
and “snip-snip, snip-snip-snip”
went the two-handed shears in
their own rhythms; all blending
with the larger rhythm that is
Seven Oaks.


as?
Wvsaoe r
m
V
1
1
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
The W Speed
PATROL
sd
fs
df
oo
H
tViVm
a 0 h y
m
m
i*J
ALL PURPOSE* for light grading..maintenance..construction
All these jobs and many more make this popular ALLIS-CHAIMERS’ W-SPEED
PATROL the most versatile light grading machine ever offered. It is also a real
money-saver—the engine is protected at all times from changing loads by a trigger-
quick fly-ball governor. Fuel is saved, wear is reduced and maintenance costs are
sdf
MODEL H D - 1 9.
With fingertip hydraulic steer-
ing and Torque Converter,
balancing speed with ' load, it
has a drawbar pull of more
than 36,000 lbs. Faster, simpler
servicing, too.
cut. The W-SPEED PATROL gives you 31 Belt h.p.—26
Drawbar h.p., and is equipped with a 10ft. blade, ensuring
adequate strength plus speed with all light grading and
construction undertakings.
s
MODEL HD-5. 37 h.p., 11.000 lbs.
tractor—smallest of AC Crawler
range, featuring 2-cycle diesel
power with electric push-button
starting.
*
0
©
MODEL AD GRADER. A 2-cycle
diesel engine for road surfaces,
ditches, clearing camp sites, yards,
etc. Features full circle revolving
blade. Weight: 21,500 lbs.
mils
AC
CHALMERS
11/93.10
FONDE
EN 1724
REMY
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality
before, if ever, imported into
tralia. Obtainable at most retax
STORMS IN THE SENATE
By "EK DUM"
A FAVORITE story of the late
Archdale Parkhill concerned
an occasion upon which a dis-
tinguished officer of World
War I, as much noted for the
plainness of his language as for
his dash and gallantry in the
field, appeared before an august
body which engaged in selecting
Federal election candidates.
“General,” said the chairman,
“it has been decided to offer
you nomination for the Senate.
What would you say to that?”
“Well, sir,” answered the elo-
quent warrior, “it sounds all
right to me, but before I blanky
well decide, what’s the blanky
salary and what’s the blanky
Senate?”
According to Mr. Parkhill the
military neophyte was duly
elected and served many long
years in Canberra’s House of
Lords without ever fully answer-
ing the second question to his
own satisfaction.
Few people know much about
the Senate. It rarely has any
limelight. Budding statesmen
have always shunned it as a dead
end in which there are no Prime
Ministers. Sometimes parties
have used it as a parking-place
for womout politicians. Old
gentlemen have often courted it
as a place of retirement, in
which it is usually possible to
vote in one’s sleep, since for all
practical purposes it normally
plays the role of Little Sir Echo
to the “popular” House “down
below.”
This is something of a
paradox, since more vigor and
ingenuity was applied to the in-
vention of the Senate than to
that of the Lower House of the
Federal Parliament. There was
considerable debate in Federal
conventions about its nature and
prospective powers and methods
of election, all of it engendered
by delegates determined that a
Federal Parliament built, not
upon the original emanations of
the democratic spirit of the
people, but out of concessions of
sovereignty made by the States,
“ Thanks , mate; We'll just about make that sub. of ours!"
should not take to itself powers
which it was not intended to
give it, nor infringe the authority
of those from whose loins it had
sprung.
By way of safeguards the
State representatives were deter-
mined to have a watchdog
Upper House, one chosen by
themselves, and answerable to
themselves, and charged with the
duty of protecting State rights.
“A States Assembly”
After the whole matter had
been thrashed out at the 1897-98
conventions there emerged a
1 resolution which presupposed the
creation of a Parliament to
consist of two Houses, namely:
A States Assembly or Senate, and a
National Assembly or House of Rep-
resentatives; the States Assembly to
consist of representatives of each
Colony and to hold office for such
periods and to be chosen in such
manner as will best secure to that
chamber perpetual existence com-
bined with definite responsibility to
the people of the States which shall
have chosen it; the National
Assembly to be elected by districts
formed on a population basis and to
possess the sole right to originate all
bills appropriating revenue, or im-
posing taxation.
There were attempts by wily
centralists to turn the proposed
States Assembly into an inferior
House, a mere revising chamber ;
but in the end these failed, at
least technically, to gain their
ends. Time, however, has done
a great deal to change the
original conception of the Senate
and its duties.
The rights of the States in the
election of Senators has been
nominally preserved. The
“names of the Senators for each
State shall be certified by the
Governor to the Governor-
General.” And subject to the
power of the Commonwealth
Parliament to determine the
number of Senators, the uniform
mode of election and some other
matters the Parliament of a
State “may make laws for deter-
mining the times and places of
election of Senators of the State
—which no State Parliament ever
does, unfortunately—and Gov-
ernors of the States issue the
writs of senatorial election. At
intervals, however, in accord
with the Constitution, as has
been done over 30 times, a
State Legislature (or if it l s nn *
sitting a State Executive Council)
is called upon to fill some casual
vacancy m the Senate.
CeneraHy speaking, however
the Senate has become just as
much a nationalised House as
the House of Representatives Its
members are elected at the same
time as the Representatives and
upon the same Federal policy
speeches. Indeed, the matter has
gone so far that when Dr Evatt
brought down his scheme for
the enlarged Senate upon a basis
which made it obvious that it
must be rendered unable to
reflect any State dr other opinion l
clearly, by reason of the results
of proportional representation,
there was not a single adverse
and effective comment from the
State Governments. They seem,
in effect, to have “given the
Senate away.” And so far has l
the reputation of that
fallen in years during which it,
has been almost constantly the ;
servile echo of Governments and
the House of Representatives'
that nobody has much .wanted
the gift.
Senate Possibilities
It is a mistake, however, to
imagine that the Senate is any-
thing worse than dormant. With
a nucleus of able constitu-
tionalists among its members, not
wedded to any party, but fear-
lessly determined to raise the
standard of government and to
enforce the right of the States
and their peoples to share in the
management of the Federal
affairs, it could again become a
surprisingly powerful weapon.
Indeed, some Governments m
the past, faced with a hostile
Senate majority, have found ou
how far it can go all too clearly
for their own comfort. .
The Senate may not originate
proposed laws appropriating
revenue or moneys, or imposing
taxation. It may “not amen
proposed laws amending
tion or appropriating moneys for
the ordinary annualsemceo
the Government. Neith . er 1
it “amend any proposed la
as to increase any proposed
charge or burden on the-peopl •
There is no obligation on
to accept any Act sent to*
passage, and even thoug it
not amend financial m >
can reject them outngh ,
is carefully protected by t
Constitution from being f k of
into passing a financial by
which it does not PP
having so ” eth '"| p prove tacked
not dare to msapp Govern-
°n to it by “g' S 1 has been
ment. This sateguaiu ation ,
the subject of much htigai
especially in the ma y
Moreover, the


rhet sure wp
to liqW nr
e/Y S is precision built
tor unfailing service. Fully auto-
?. a ' C ’ w built-in windguard, spare
ckLHvv FiV9 v “ r
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
ROUS
fs
m
BANK
OF
AUSTRALASIA
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA ANB
NEW ZEALAND AND IN LONDON
©FFERS the services of its Travel Departments with all
facilities for Travellers in Australia and abroad. The
Overseas Departments will also assist you with their ex-
perience on all aspects of overseas trade introductions and
enquiries, and all foreign exchange matters. Enquiries
will be welcomed at any Branch of the Bank.
AGENTS 6 CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
EST.
jvm.
1835
'BAB-Js'
Ever since its earliest days, the Navy has been
building up customs and traditions that are
observed as faithfully by the Royal Australian
Navy as by the British Navy. The R.A.N. today
is also a highly technical and scientific service.
If you’re an adventurous young man, this' modern
navy offers you splendid opportunities for an
interesting, excit-
ing career, with
travel, security
and excel lent
rates of pay.
ftSS
\m
1
y
M
-TRADITION & PROGRESS
on the high seas
APPLICATIONS
ARE INVITED FOR:
Join the
Royal
Australian Navy
For full information, fill in
and send the coupon below,
together with a cutting of this
advertisement showing the
group in which you are inter-
ested.
df
Seaman, Communications, Stoker-mechanic, Sick Berth
Attendant, Cook, Steward, Electrical, Clerical, Dental
Assistant, Airman (non-flying), Musician and Musician-
Bugler.
No previous experience required, except for Musician and
Musician-bugler. AGEFORENTRY: Over 17* and under 24
TRADE BRANCHES :
Shipwright, Engine Room Artificer, Ordnance Artificer
Aircraft Artificer, Electrical Artificer & Artisan.
Trade experience is required, and entry is subject to passing
a trade test. AGE FOR ENTRY s Over 18 and under 24
(under 16 in special cases). Aircraft Artificer, over IBJ
TradesmerT eligible: Shipwrights, boat-builders, bridge-builders,
fitters Tnd turners, boiler-makers, coppersmiths, eegine-sm.ths,
Instrument-makers! electrical fitters, fitters, sheetmetal worker,
and blacksmiths.
NAVAL AVIATION BRANCH.—NavaI Airman (Air
Crew) Entries by selection.’* AGE FOR ENTRY; Between
17 years 8 months, and 22 years 8 months.
hold intermediate Cecfificate or its equivalent. After 9
months service Ratings are flight-graded for training as Observer
or Pilot.
Eor full information, including application forms and
illustrated booklet, regarding service in the K.A.N.,
mark this advertisement with tl*c branch which
interests yo,u and mail to the NAVAL RECKUIIIJNU
OFFICER in your Capital City.
AGE..
ADDRESS.
RANV 18.83J0
the Lower House » the
for ’not bound to
Lower House
accede to t e limitations stated,
g&zr&Z i
sentatives in f n leaders if
h may a PP the on es provided
LTbJ the Ministry. It can
ear the legislation orl B™‘'"®
te .“l the Lower House to pieces
« readily as the Lower House
nrenta ry*' approval* wraake them
iTgaLtha/'"was assured after
the farcical events of 1931, r
ferred to later on, by the amend-
ment of the Acts Interpretation
Act in 1937. Also, it has the
advantage that it is a “perpetual
House which cannot be dissolved
separately from the rest of Par-
liament. A Government cannot
send it to the country alone.
Deadlocks and Despotism
Even though its equality with
the popular House is bound to
create deadlocks, it can go ahead
with a clear conscience knowing
that those who invented it were
fully aware of this, that during
the Federal convention debates
on its powers deadlocks were
even regarded with approval by
some Constitution-builders, one
of them (B. R. Wise) quoting
Lord Bryce to the effect that
“deadlocks are not always dis-
advantageous. ... .They are the
price paid for constitutional
freedom and can only be avoided
in'a despotism.”
Ample means, intricate and
somewhat tedious and annoying
to those who have to operate
them, are provided to get over
deadlocks, however, by a display
of patient reasoning and deter-
mination, followed when all else
has failed by invocation to the
Governor-General to remit the
issues to the final court of appeal
—the electors.
The Constitution gives every-
body concerned more than one
chance. If the Senate rejects
a bill or amends it in a way in
which the Lower House will not
accept, the Lower House may,
after an interval of three months,
pass the bill again and send it
back to the Senate. If the
Senate again throws it out or
mangles it into unacceptable
shape, the Governor-General
may grant a double-dissolution
and send both Houses to the
country, provided a general elec-
tion. is not then due within six
months. If, after the election,
there is still a deadlock on the
measure in dispute, the G. G.,
is empowered to call the two
Houses to sit jointly as one, and
decide differences upon a
majority vote of the joint
Houses.
If, under Section 128, there is
a deadlock between the Houses
by whichever created—over a
bil which is put forward to
alter the Constitution by a
statutory referendum, the
Liovernor-General may order the
taking of a referendum on the
proposals to which a single
House has agreed. And the
• erendum Can carried or lost
m the ordinary manner—accord-
mg to the vote of a majority of
the electors in a majority of
States.
There has been relatively little
trouble with the Senate over the
past half-century. But at in-
tervals when it has happened to
have a majority hostile to the
Government it has shown that
it can use its claws effectively,
though only once has its rebel-
lion against a Government been
carried to the point at which a
double-dissolution was granted
as a remedy. Even then it is
doubtful whether this drastic
step would have been taken had
it not happened that a hostile
majority in the Upper House
was working in unison with a
turbulent minority in the Repre-
sentatives which was almost as
strong and twice as noisy and
unruly as the Government
majority.
That was in the 1913-14 Par-
liament, in the notorious session
during which the Mace was
spirited out of the House of
Representatives, to be found no
more.
The Cook Ministry was in
office, A new Governor-General,
Sir Ronald Munro Ferguson, had
just arrived to take the place of
Lord Denman when the crisis
came. The Government’s leader
in the Senate was the eloquent
E. D. Millen, but neither his elo-
quence nor his Ministerial status
could quell the turbulence of a
Labor bloc headed by the £JCJ-
u4®fi, Senator Gregor McGregor,
and the resourceful George
Pearce. This active pair were
backed by such ponderous and
experienced battlers as Harry
Turley, “Jup” Gardiner, John
Barnes, Tom Givens, Myles
Ferricks (known of yore in the
Queensland State House as “the
Black Panther of Debate”), little
Jack Mullan from Charters
Towers (all hair and lightning),
and Jimmy Stewart, described
inelegantly by an opponent as
“a human bagpipe.”
Mr. Irvine’s Novel Bill
This combination, what time
the inevitable buttonhole about
the size of a cabbage waved on
the enthusiastic breast of Dick
Buzacott (W.A.) and Paddy
Lynch shouted his encourage-
ments, joined with the Hugheses
and Ansteys of the popular
chamber to make the life of the
Government a continual burden
till at last it decided that the
time had come to bring matters
to a head.
One day, therefore, the
precise tones of W. H. (“Ice-
berg”) Irvine, Attorney-General,
were heard announcing the Gov-
ernment’s intention to introduce
a bill to which it was felt that
there might reasonably be con-
sistent opposition from the Labor
party. It was a measure entitled
“a bill for an Act to prohibit
in relation to Commonwealth
employment preferences and dis-
criminations on account of
membership or non-membership
of an association.” Mr. Irvine
explained in that concise and
conciliatory manner of his, much
as he might have read an Orange
Oath on St. Patrick’s Day,
that this simple piece of legisla-
tion was meant “to crush *at its
very inception the introduction
of the spoils system into the
clean political life of Aus-
tralia.... to prevent the use
behind the back of Parliament
of the power of public employ-
ment as a means whereby the
Labor party could give prefer-
ence to its own political sup-
porters.” Both the Prime
Minister and the Attorney-
General appeared dumbfounded
and indignant that Labor re-
fused to co-operate with them
in their enterprise, rising with a
yell of indignation that was
heard across the continent.
Never has a bill been so voted
upon in the course of two
passages through the House of
Representatives, The Labor
party voted against “leave,”
against the first and second read-
ings, against all the clauses in
committee, against the third read-
ing and for several novel infer-
mediate resolutions and amend-
ments devised by themselves.
The Senate wasted no time on
debate when it finally came to
them. It hurled the thing from
it at the second asking without
a word, by a vote of 21 to five
on the first reading. And the
Government found itself with
the opportunity which the bill
was intended to secure—to ask
the Governor-General for a
double-dissolution, the only one
in Australian Commonwealth
history, subject to the granting
of supply.
The Governor-General re-
fused to tell the Senate what
had passed between him and the
Prime Minister. The Senate went
raging to the country two
months afterwards, when war
had broken out, and had the
satisfaction of seeing a Labor
majority returned in both
Houses, and the way paved for
W. M, Hughes,to become Prime
Minister in 12 months’ time —a
consummation which some of
the liveliest Senate campaigners
soon were sorry to have brought
about. '
(A second and concluding instal-
ment of J his article will appear
next week.)


K IWI i > ;
Schweppes
FRUIT CUP
A NEW BLEND OF PURE FRUIT JUICES
MAY BE OBTAINED AT SCHWEPPES PAVILION AT ROYAL EASTER SHOW
ALL FRUIT JUICE CORDIAL BOTTLES ARE RETURNABLE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SCIENTIST SPY.
When the latest Communist
scientist spy, Klaus Fuchs, was
arrested in Britain early in
February—after having done
over many years incalculable
damage to those who had har-
bored him as a political refu-
gee, and after having probably
been blackmailed and finally ex-
posed by the very ones he had
spied for —the immediate re-
actions to the arrest in Britain
and in America were in extra-
ordinary contrast.
On the one day (February 5)
the “New York Times” and
London “Sunday Times” each
ran a report describing the oppo-
site country’s reactions. The
Washington correspondent of
the London paper reported;
“Not for years has there been
such a profound stir in official
Washington as that aroused by
the atom - leakage charges in
Britain against Dr. Klaus Fuchs.
Within minutes of the London
WEST
£AST
— "France-Amèrique."
THE DUEL.
announcement the matter was
before separate meetings of the
Truman Cabinet, the Atomic
Energy Commission and two
Congressional committees ....
Gravity is the keynote of all
Congressional comment on the
tte DroSSts of Ee( ?ta? fjf
ment on the AmericanVftish-
Canadian pooling of atomic
knowledge. Meanwhile news-
papers are devoting huge head-
lines and columns of space to
London
In contrast, toe London
naner^reDormd 0 — hC Y ° rk
E T P •
“The arrest of Britain’s top
atomic scientist [February 4] on
charges of giving away atom
secrets caused much less excite-
ment here today than it did in
the United States No special
meetings of Britain's Cabinet
were reported. Only three of
the eight most widely-circulated
London morning newspapers
gave the stqry of the arrest top
position on the front page. No
editorial comment was pub-
lished.”
One M. R. Werner, New
York correspondent of the
“Yorkshire Post,” contrived a
report which as good as said
the Yanks were all hot and
bothered over mighty little. Such
U.S. atomic authorities as
Lieut. - Gen. Groves were
described as “hasty critics”;
Groves, for one, having blamed
the British Government for
carelessness concerning Fuchs,
To some extent, of course,
the general contrast between
U.S. and British reactions to
the case could be explained by
the great difference in the laws
regarding contempt of court;
nonetheless, even after Fuchs
had appeared at Bow-street
Police Court and his confession
had been made public, the
British reaction continued, by
comparison, to appear to Ameri-
cans (and maybe others) as
falling far short of full realisa-
tion of the seriousness of the
case.
The ultimate American break-
ing-off of atomic exchanges with
Britain was something more
than a normal security measure ;
it was an expression of national
bitterness, and, all things con-
sidered, that can hardly be
called other than natural. (The
charges of pro - Communism
against Defence Minister
Strachey, in the belated uproar
over the spy case in Britain, are
certainly not likely to soften that
U.S. resentment.)
The “New York Times,”
giving the “case history” of the
Communist scientist spy, de-
clared :
“Never in history has a
national project been surrounded
with more elaborate precautions
against espionage than those
thrown up about the American
atomic - energy installations.
Physically they are protected by
barbed-wire, armed guards, air
patrols. There are careful in-
ventories of fissionable materials
and important papers ; when no
longer useful the papers are
burned
“As regards personnel, the
U.S. makes loyalty checks on all
persons who may have access to
‘classified’ information. The
F. 8.1. makes the investigations ;
the Atomic' Energy Commission
makes the final decisions.”
While the war was on Britain
and America freely made infer-
mation available to each other,
but with the passing of the
Atomic Energy Act in 1946 “the
U.S. was forbidden to disclose
secrets to any foreign Power.”
By then Fuchs had done his
Communist task in the U.S., and
he now carried it on for some
time in Britain. In the New
York paper’s “case history” of
him there would appear to be
ample explanation of any U.S.
bitterness in the matter. Fuchs,
it records, was born in Ger-
many 38 years ago, the son of
a Protestant minister. Early in
life he became a firm believer in
Marxism ; he joined the Com-
munist party in 1932. In 1933,
under Nazi threats, he fled from
Germany to England.
When the war began he was
interned in England as an enemy
alien. In 1942 he was naturalised
as a British citizen, released
from internment camp and
asked to help with atomic re-
search. His confession declared :
“When I learned about the pur-
pose of the work I decided to
inform Russia, and I established
contact through a member of
the Communist party.... I had
complete confidence in Russian
policy and I had no hesitation
in giving all the information I
had.”
In 1943 Fuchs was sent to
Columbia University in New
York. Work was under way
there on the gaseous-diffusion
process for separation of fission-
able U-235 from ordinary
uranium. In 1944 he went to
foe United States atomic wea-
pons laboratory in Los Alamos,
New Mexico. There he worked
under H ans Bethe, author of the
which the hvrWen
f heo fy, oa wdlch nydrogen
b °” b ls . bas . ed ; Fuchs wis one
first tst ixplosionT'All
mogordo in July, 1945. He re-
turned to England in 1946 to
take an important job in the
theoretical physics division of
‘he British atomic project at
Harwell.
Through all these years Fuchs
kept rendezvous with Communist
agents every few months, pas-
sing information to them. He
accepted proffered expense
money a t first and, later, £lOO
“ a svm bolic navment sienifv-
in h is su bservience to the
"L” He S agents ta New
Vnrk in Rminn nnd § in r nndrm
York, m Boston and in London,
once fn
th S t Eby n
_ ’ .. ~ , .
Eventually, according to his
confession, Fuchs began to have
misgivings. “In the post-war
period,” so his moan ran, “I had
doubts about Russian policy
....I had to decide whether I
could continue to hand oyer in-
formation.”
His spying “began tapering
off” in 1947, and stopped alto-
gether early in 1949. One theory
is that those he served then
tried to blackmail him into con-
tinuing, and, that failing, had
to go through with the threat,
and so put the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation on his
tracks. At any rate, the F. 8.1.
got after him, and later in 1949
he learned that he had been
found out. On January 24 this
year he made his confession.
In all history it would be im-
possible to find a more perfect
case of the grimly ironic. This
element of it has been added to
since. “New York Times” has
commented: “Ironically, when
Dr. Fuchs’s confession was
made public a super-secret meet-
ing of American, British and
Canadian physicists on the pos-
sible publication of some atomic
data was being held at Harwell.
Dr. Fuchs was to have been a
British delegate.”
At that point, also, there had
been proceeding for some weeks
in Washington Anglo-American
conferences at which the British
were reported as having been
pressing for access to more
American information. The
“New York Times” accurately
forecast that, instead, the case
could be expected to stiffen U.S.
Congressional resistance to the
whole idea of freer exchange of
atomic information with
Britain.
The bitterness in the U.S. can
be illustrated with one widely
typical example of comment,
fr ° m a Ph dade *P hla Inquirer
edltona l:
- This self-confessed Com-
munisrs fantastic drive i about
h rsh \ that a d : rtv ; D b Q f
Reason proceeded
L t hitc P h y 1 P „ ive foe
Russians a mass’of atomic and
gSg&ST &ST
“There is a ioh to be done
certainly in the United States,’
to tighten up atomic security to
such effect that no more of these
life-and-death secrets can be
given to our enemies. There is
no time to be lost in attending
t 0 that j°t>. And it might be
suggested to the British, who
to be taki ”S this afla ! r
an exaggeration of their
, calmness that they are
Pointedly called upon to shut
down on free-and-easy leakage
of atomic data to Moscow.
- It ’ s not to be forgotten that
t 0 the day of his arrest , and for
a long time before, Klaus Fuchs,
described as one of the ‘bril-
fiant minds’ of atomic research,
was still at work at Harwell
Bri°ishalomi c P a“S! C j entre <*
to be forgotten eUher t i Snot
was the F. 8.1. in thk’ th 1 u
which picked up
and set British secret serviced
work on it. Vlce to
r T -^ e relations between tv,
United States and. Great Brit? 6
on this question can ?or tai^
thorough overhauling AmenV
must adopt every needed f?
guard against disclosure by anv
one anywhere, of atomic infor
mation. uor
“The epochal task of produc-
ing the original atomic bombs
was earned out with unparalleled
secrecy so far as the people of
this country—and, it was vainly
hoped, of any other country—
were concerned. That secrecy
coupled with the anonymity
which clothed the workers en-
gaged, from brilliant scientists
to laborers, was a fundamental
necessity and would have served
its purpose if there had been
better precautions to keep out
men like Fuchs.”
There must (the U.S. paper’s
editorial added) be “the tightest
possible safeguards against
espionage. It must be made
absolutely impossible for any-
one like Fuchs, with his Com-
munist background since 1932,
to wriggle into the innermost
councils of atomic research. It
must be made impossible for
spies to sneak off again and
again, entirely unobserved, to
rendezvous with Russian agents
and hand oyer documents con-
taining detailed atomic in or-
foation as Fuchs con esses e
from mi - 0 . *
“It is tmje, at.least.m Awg
that treason shall be punished
with the fate it deserves—death.”
w
Socialist Intolerance.
Anyone noticed how long it
is since he heard some Minister
or other laying down the law on
what’d happen to him if he
didn’t eyes-left at the double or
conform with some other sec-
tion of the Socialist kings’ regu-
lations? t A „
A check will show the date as
somewhere back past December
10; in fact, the unlamented
passing of such Ministerial
bullying arrogance could oc
chalked up as perhnp 3 the
greatest blessing of the entir
interim since then. .
Britain, under the Socialists,
naturally suffers its share ot
that sort of thing, though n
doubt the pedal will be touche
a little softer now. Examining
the performance them (in
course of a London “Time.and
Tide” article), C. K. Alto
concludes that it is simply P«'


Established 1868
Contractor! to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
InstitiUions throughout Australia
JAJJKSO
osuixivak
mm
TOADS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
bead office and factories
BRISBANE
AND * T SIDNEY, LONDON, NEW TOR
LETTERPRESS 4 OFFSET PRINTERI
Lithographic printers
typographers
WONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
■teel and copper engraver*
Die stampers, embossers
photo process engravers
ENVELOPE manufacturer*
CARTON manufacturer*
STEREOTYPERS
Rulers, bookbinder*
gold blockers
commercial artists
DVERTISING creators and
unsellors : : publisher*
ENGINEERS
AND! OFFICE EQUIPMEN
Clappings and twines
Telegrams and Cables
lacks ul,” Brisbane
i
m
$
i
&
ICI
ZERO HOUR
Dawn, with ducks galore and ample supplies of
ELEY-KYNOCH shotgun cartridges. That s the
recipe for a good day’s shooting. During the duck
season you need the best of ammunition. So ask
your storekeeper for supplies of . . .
ELEY-KYNOCH SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
- '■ ll *■'« ,tg
an i pared of the Socialist
“STannot half-plan an
'““Tan ” 4 Se '
“ T b T own standards. What
• D^ * pin the economic sphere
18 aUltimately prove true in the
There “Topinto"- As Socialism
Ss its tentacles if It is
Ked to do so-the tolerance
Of minority opinions wfllb*
01 o mere and more mfficult.
“And as Australia knows, re-
'f of Opposition or cnti-
SHnstcf McGag) must
become more and more blatant
m AHen eq, (Australian-born and
formerly Professor of Jurrspm-
dence at Oxford, wtth M.C.,
KC etc., to his name) finds a
scapegoat lurking behind she
bl ‘‘This n kind of threat and of
intolerance of all opposition has
grown hugely m the past five
Years; and behind a great deal
of it there is a personage who is
little known to the public. He
is called the Public Relations
Officer and his name is now
lesion. Theoretically his ]ob is
to supply ‘objective’ information
about his department’s work ;
actually, his real aim m life is
to boost his Minister and pro-
tect him from criticism or dis-
credit. He is a new and sinister
element in our democracy, qpte
unknown both to our Constitu-
tion and to the average member
of the public, who would be
astonished to learn the extent
of his activities. He must be ?-
doubtful blessing even to Minis
ters, for he sometimes lands
them, through excess of zeal, in
awkward situations. S'So long as
he exists and multiplies the mor-
bidly thin skins of Ministers are
not likely to thicken, and toler-
ance will find less and less favor-
able soil in our democracy.”
Farce in Tokio.
With an Australian star in a
leading role —in fact, a star and
crown: Lieutenant - Colonel
Hodgson—the second greatest
farce on earth (you know the
other) continues to enjoy an out-
standing run in Tokio, still play-
ing, as it has been doing for
months past, to houses empty to
capacity.
Staged by the Allied Council
for Japan, it was the subject pf
a cable earlier this month, in-
cluding the following lively bit
of dialogue:
Colonel Hodgson: “I’ve never
heard a ruling like this be-
fore”- —
Mr. Sebald (U.S.A.; chair-
man): “Well, you’ve heard it
now, Mr. Ambassador!”
In a recent enthusiastic critique
the local correspondent of
London “Economist,” it is
pleasing to note, singles the
Australian artist out for special
attention. Gracing the show with
such superlatives as “organised
buffoonery,” the correspondent
draws an appealing pen-picture
of a typical performance:
“For months members of the
Council, each with his comet’s
tail of advisers and camp-fol-
lowers, have been ponderously
assembling at 10 a.m. each
second Wednesday. The four
delegates —for the United States,
the Soviet Union, Australia
(representing Australia, Britain,
New Zealand and India) and
China —have adjusted themselves
in the seats at the wide square
of gleaming tables. The Ameri-
can delegate, who is chairman,
has called the meeting to order,
has announced that, if there
were no objections, he would
approve the minutes of the
previous meeting (which lasted
34 seconds), has pointed out that
there are no subjects for discus-
sion on the agenda, has ad-
journed the meeting, and the
delegates and their entourages
have made a majestic exit. The
only real interest in each per-
formance —which some occupa-
tion official has estimated costs
2000 dollars in salaries and ex-
penses to stage —has been the
length of the proceedings.”
Mentioning that recently tlfe
attention of the audience (pre-
sumably the correspondent) has
been riveted on when and how
the Soviet delegate, “handsome,
broad-chested General Derev-
yanko,” would announce his en-
forced withdrawal from the
Council meeting, rise imperi-
ously, line up his 10 advisers
like a stern musical-comedy
chorus and stalk, stride, lumber
or storm out of the meeting, the
correspondent devotes a striking
passage to Colonel Hodgson in
his stellar role:
“Colonel Hodgson, who revels
in disputation and who has
learned some of the new foot-
light tricks of international his-
trionics on the United Nations’
stage, stole the show from Mr.
William Sebald, the chairman
and permanent understudy for
General MacArthur. By coinci-
dence, Colonel Hodgson made
his bow at the Council meeting
at which Mr. Sebald had pre-
pared on behalf of General
MacArthur a lengthy and emo-
tional tirade against the Soviet
Union for mislaying approxi-
mately 370,000 Japanese
prisoners-of-war. No one knew
better than Mr. Sebald that
General Derevyanko would re-
fuse to sit at the table to listen
to this half-hour attack on
Russia (one hour, allowing for
translation), but he was pre-
pared to close the show once
General Derevyanko had ac-
cepted his cue and walked out.
“Then Colonel Hodgson be-
gan. He raspingly questioned
procedure. Why say that discus-
sion on a subject had been ended,
he demanded, when the subject
was still in the air. Carry it for-
ward, he insisted, to the next
meeting automatically.
“Mr. Sebald objected. The
Council had always closed a
subject at the end of a meeting
unless a delegate specifically re-
quested in writing that it be
placed on the agenda of the next
meeting. Even the Chinese
Nationalist delegate, General
Chu Shih-ming, brooding over
his ambiguous position on the
Council since Britain’s recogni-
tion of Communist China, was
stirred to indignant protest. He
wished Council ‘procedure’ to be
observed. Thereupon Colonel
Hodgson ingeniously agreed to
a ‘compromise,’ whereby he then
and there gave notice that he
would place the subject of
prisoners-of-war on the agenda
for the next meeting.
“Everybody was delighted—
except, perhaps. General Derev-
yanko, Rreciops Hpcedar© bad
been preserved,; And when the
next meeting was held General
Derevyanko, after some set pro-
cedural sparring, again made his
grand exit. Colonel Hodgson
again placed the subject on the
agenda.”
The real mastery of the Aus-
tralian star, however, calls for
the following further analysis of
his role:
“There has, of course, been
another complication on the
Council, Colonel Hodgson
represents Australia and New
Zealand, who have not yet recog-
nised Communist China, and the
United Kingdom and India, who
have. Whenever General Derev-
yanko chooses to raise the ques-
tion of the eligibility of sad
General Chu to sit on the Coun-
cil he can presumably expect
one-half of Colonel Hodgson to
support him and the other half
to postpone judgment.”
U.N.O. will certainly have to
look to its laurels.
U.S. Elections.
Even if Britain gets in first,
the U.S. Congressional elections
next November will be this
year’s highlight in that line.
World interest will be pinned
on them, for world history will
be there in the balance, which-
ever way they go.
The campaigning is already
on, opened with a Republican-
party manifesto strongly sugges-
tive of an elephant (the party’s
symbol) rampant with a pruning-
knife. As reported on by a
Washington correspondent- of
the “Scotsman,” the Republi-
cans, who (vide “New York
Times”) “have not had a Presi-
dent in the White House in 17
years,” are making their bid for
control of Congress mainly by
promising the American people
a balanced Budget, lower taxes,
protection from foreign compe-
tition and freedom from
Socialism and planners.
More than one section of that
would be found to have a
special, and not exactly favor-
able, application to Britain.
Emphasis of the manifesto
(the “Scotsman” correspondent
reports) is on retrenchment of
Federal expenditure and reduc-
tion of the economic powers of
the central Government. The
first task of the party would be
to eliminate the deficit in the
budget on the grounds that
“liberty cannot breathe the air
of bankruptcy and live.” Its
second task would be a general
reduction in taxes to encourage
private enterprise.
A .considerable section—cer-
tain to become a focal issue in
the election campaign—relates
to the suppression of Commu-
nism, (Mentioned in cables last
week, the bill passed by the U.S.
Senate Judiciary Committee,
and designed to con)pel both
Communists and their fellow-
traveller organisations to register
individually and, as bodies, to
reveal all sources of income and
detail expenditures, is a Republi-
can-sponsored measure. The
Fuchs case will now help it to
become law.)
Setting out the conditions of
foreign aid, the manifesto says
it would only go to countries
resisting Communism (‘‘presum-
ably this would exclude Tito,
who has recently received an
American loan”); that it would
be kept within the limits which
America could afford (“presum-
ably it would be pared down to
fit into a balanced budget”) ;
and finally that it would be
forthcoming only if there were
plans for progressive reductions
in the amount of aid.
The Military Aid programme,
for which the Democratic Ad-
ministration is asking more this
year than last, would presum-
ably be revised in accordance
with those conditions.
In promising American in-
dustry protection from the pro-
ducts of “underpaid fbreign
labor,” the Republicans return
to their traditional protectionist
philosophy: “As all foreign
workers are paid less than
American workers, presumably
all foreign products fall into the
category against which protec-
tion is promised,”
Dragnet Digest.
Adolf, That Great Lover I— ln an
article in N. Y. “Herald Tribune” on
the lavish whitewashing of Hitlerism
going on in Germany, American Dr.
Robert M. W. Kempner mentions a
strangely scented coating applied to
Adolf himself, the Munich “Revue
serial “The Great Lover, Adolf
Hitler.” The “Revue” isn’t alone,
and the demand, according to a
quotation from the magazine “Die
Gegenwart,” is all the caterers Tor it
could wish for: “We are entirely
unconvinced that the ever-mounting
sensational publications concerned
with Hitler and consorts can be dis-
missed as mere stupidity The m-
i-'omrovertible fact is that the public
is lining up at the news-stands and
asking what mere is on Hitler.”
* * * *
For to Cross the Briny Ocean
When (as reported by London “Daily
Telegraph”) Lord Dunalley lately
dropped in at a Hertfordshire pub
for the customary reason the barman
apologised profusely in a broad Irish
accent for the meagre thimbleful
which he poured out for his cus-
tomer, Being Irish himself, Lord
Dunalley asked him when he had
come over from Ireland. “Last week,
your honor,” the barman answered.
“And are you staying long in Eng-
land?” “Begod, I’m not. Only a
fortnight.” “vVi.y ever did you come
over?” said Lord Dunalley. “Why,
I come over for me new set of teeth.
They’re worth twice the price of the
ticket over.”
* * * *
Canadian Caustic. —Like its Aus-
tralian counterpart’s Calwells and
Wards, the British Socialist crowd has
its notable brick-droppers; one of
whom, Wilson, after visiting Canada
as President of the Board of Trade,
vVas reported by the “Montreal Star”
as having referred to U.S. policies
towards Britain with the wisecrack
“Just like Canada; all aid short of
help.” To which the “Star” retorted:
“The British Government would do
well to take note of the statement
because of the harm that can be done
when Mr. Wilson is on the loose.
Mr. Wilson, to be crude about it,
is not unlike a debtor living on
charity and receiving aid on a scale
never before dreamed of in the his-
tory of Western civilisation. Mr.
Wilson might be put to domestic tasks
which wo’uld help the British economy
to put itself on a competitive basis
and thereby ultimately relieve itself
of the need for further aid from out-
side.”
* * * *
Records at U.N.O.—As would be
expected, they’re in the gasbag de-
partment; as wouldn’t be expected,
they’re not held by Russia or Dr.
Evatt. Pakistan representative Sir
Zafrullah Khan holds one, notched
up when (as reported by London
“Daily Telegraph”) he “made M.
Vyshinsky seem laconic by speaking
for six hours 22 minutes in three
days.” This is accepted as haying
broken the previous record —also held
by Sir Zafrullah—of five hours 23
minutes in two days. Curiously (or
it may be naturally) the long-distance
record from a standing (or sitting)
start is held by the direct opposition
—Mr. Setalvad, of India, who lasted
four hours 20 minutes. Both record-
holders were talking about Kashmir,
which is at least better than fighting
about it, as they possibly will be
doing again soon enough.
* * * *
Pints on the Left.— So long as he
can make it last Attlee’s job is worth
hanging on to: he draws £6OOO a
year tax free; and to draw that (the
Conservative “Weekly News Letter’
somewhat enviously comments) “any
business or professional man would
need a gross income of £lOO,OOO a
year.” The comment —aimed at de-
bunking the personal «claims of
various top-dog British Socialists to
be “middle class”—also mentioned
that Sir Hartley Shawcross drags in
“£lO,OOO a year from the Govern-
ment, and has p; ivate means as well.
It was “equally hard to see how Mr.
Stfauss can claim to be middle class.
The fortune left to him by his father,
who founded the firm of metal
brokers, Arthur Strauss and Com-
pany, is said to bring m £40,000 a
year For his house in Kensington
Palace Gardens—‘Millionaires’ Row’
—Mr. Strauss has to pay in rates
alone £4OO a year. He has ten bed-
rooms or so for his family of ioux.


“Fly British to Britain
and almost anywhere /”
From the “New” world to the Old . . . from Sydney to London,
or any airport en route via the colourful East . . . or on, across the
globe, to other Continents . . . you can fly British by 8.0.A.C.
all the way. Enjoy 8.0.A.C.’s traditional standards of unfailing
personal attention, wherever you travel on 175,000 miles of Speed-
bird routes to 51 countries.
CHEAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • WEST INDIES
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • MIDDLE EAST • WEST AFRICA
EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW, ZEALAND • FAR EAST • TAPAN
Information 6c Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin {General Agents
in Australia) or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Book in Australia and fly in comfort, without delay, on one ticket
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF
Al2/AU
Life in the Tropics
m
' &
» ;
*
I
am
Australia is the only country in the world where
sugar cane is grown entirely by white people. n
the sugar belt of Queensland and northern N.S.W#
over 9,000 farmers work their own farms. Despite
the hot climate, they live healthy and happy ives
with their womenfolk and children.
*
- -
m
Cairns, Townsville and Mackay are ' ar6 ®, m sugat
ports in north Queensland develope y
industry. The C.S.R. Company
Queensland mill in 1881. The Company fosle
present system of independent white farme
early days in the north.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. L
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S Na I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Locally, 25 years of married life
|: called the silver-wedding anniversary.
Is it the same in America?”
— Woman’s-paper correspondent.
Except in Hollywood, where it
is regarded as a miracle,
q. q.
“A tobacco spokesman forecast a
serious shortage of tobacco and cigar-
ettes unless manufacture expanded.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Failing which smokers will be
obliged to draw on their imagin-
ation.
•F ,*F ..
“Women used cosmetics in the
Middle Ages.” — Weekly paper.
That’s when they come in
handy.
“..-..Defence Minister Eric Harri-
son’s posterior rose above the level
of his head, so deeply did he bow to
his Excellency.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
He based his stand on argu-
ment a posteriori.
t, *J* *J*
nd 453 dozen bottled beer
in well.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph."
That’s sinkin’ ’em!
•i* *!• 4*
“No one wants to become scraggy
with advancing years.”
— Woman’s magazine.
But time takes its toll of every
belle.
•J* 4*
“Pierre Bohy likes to look at
women. He looks at their watches.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
But misses more interesting
dials.
►I- *S* *£*
Plates, too.
“Flying-saucer mystery is solved at
last.”
When closest secrets seem com-
plete
Trust woman to disclose
’em . . .
Since our last row the whole
damned street
Has learned my missus throws
’em 1
Percy.
Point of View
“The United States Supreme Court
has to decide soon whether police
have the right to spy on a nudist
camp from a plane.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.
It always was admitted that
Policemen have a trying lot
Which calls for nimblehess
through life
Though one is growing old and
fat.
With daily risk of being shot
And years of vigilance and strife.
To cope with every sort of crime
They’re bound to do their level
best
Not knowing what is meant by
fear,
Yet with the thought at any time
That damages for wrong arrest
May put an end to their career.
And now there comes the extra
care
Of furnishing as evidence
The naked truth of what’s behind
The lofty gates and fences where
The nudist roams and takes
offence
At anyone not flying blind.
ED.
Natural Sequel.
N.E.1., the famous counter-
espionage organisation, had been
so named in token of the wide-
spread belief that anyone could
wander into or work in any of
Britain’s top-secret scientific
establishments without fear of
his being questioned, it being a
cardinal rule laid down by the
N.E.l.’s brilliant director, Sir
Miles B. Hynd, that to do so
would be contrary to the spirit
of international amity, and that
foreigners might be offended if
subjected to examination.
Sir Miles had been the obvious
choice for the appointment, one
which the Socialist Govern-
menf regarded with particular
pride. That he brought rare
attributes to the post not even
the bitterest Tory critic could
deny.
Foremost of tliesc was that
he had once taken a detective’s
daughter out to lunch; this,
combined with the fact that he
was an inveterate reader of spy
novels, had weighed heavily
with him against candidates of
lesser experience. Another great
qualification was that he was
“Would you mind starting again, sir? Our televisor
broke down.”
a defeated Socialist M.P. who
had to be found a job. Also, a
former billet as Deputy Chief
Planner in the Blue-forms
Branch of the Ministry of Vast
Enterprises had endowed him
with a capacity to think so fast
that he could give a decision
with no more than a week for
cogitation.
One of the vital points was
that the appointee should be a
man so inconspicuous in appear-
ance that he could the more
easily trick the spies. Sir Miles
fitted that condition admirably.
A bare 6ft. 7in. in his spats, with
a large wart on his chin and
splay-footed, with his invariable
yellow cravat, meerschaum pipe
and top-hat, he could positively
melt into a crowd in a second.
It was late one morning when
Sir Miles arrived at his office
in response to an urgent sum-
mons from the Minister. He had
been shooting at one of his
country estates, and had paused
only to clean up all his shooting
gear and to arrange for new
liveries for his domestic staff
before answering the call.
That the matter was one of
tremendous national urgency he
was made aware immediately.
It appeared the legal branch had
discovered that buff form 34D,
which the counter-espionage
staff had to fill in whenever they
sought approval to apply to a
chamber magistrate for an order
to require the police to help
them detain any suspect, lacked
the necessary provision for
counter-signature by a Home
Office official.
Sir Miles immediately gave
orders that he was not to be
disturbed unless a major de-
fence establishment was blown
up or a new spy novel was pub-
lished while he was on the vital
job of recasting form 34D. Five
days later, when he. had almost
completed it, his chief assistant
came in with the news that the
French Surete had tipped them
off that a notorious Hungarian
Communist agent, Mikob Rion,
was working in Britain’s great
oxygen-bomb project.
Waiting only to complete his
interrupted shooting holiday
while the grouse were still plenti-
ful and to issue a statement to
the Press that the imminent
arrest of a Hungarian at a cer-
tain defence project would lead
to the smashing of the greatest
spy-ring in Britain’s history, Sir
Miles struck with paralysing
suddenness. But though the force
of N.E.I. men he assembled and
led in the raid were all armed
with filled-in buff forms 34D, a
thorough search failed to net
the Hungarian.
Bitterly disappointed at the
failure of his brilliantly-laid
plan, Sir Miles returned to head-
quarters. He had no sooner
arrived than word came from
the F. 8.1. chief in Britain that
they had arrested Mikob Rion,
and that if he (Sir Miles) sent
some of his men over the spy
could be picked up.
When the arrested man was
brought in to face the N.E.I,
director the senior escorting de-
tective said: “He claims that his
name is Mick O’Brien, sir. He
seemed to me to be telling the
truth.”
Sir Miles looked at the
swarthy, bullet-headed suspect.
“Looks it, too,” he remarked.
“Got the jolly map of Ireland
all over his face, what? Well,
we have enough bally trouble
on our hands without picking a
fight with Eire over it.” As one
of his staff handed him some
papers which had been taken
from the suspect’s brief-case Sir
Miles glanced at the drawings
and calculations scrawled upon
asked. What are these?” he
other surlil^ ZinBS> leplied the
1 m extremely sorry y ou
gard a routine and L
vestigation as ‘nosing,’ ” s S £’
N.E.I. director urbanelv “u the
ever” he added
1 deeply regret the incoS'
ence to which you have been
put. Have a cigar Y n „
release him, gentlemen” y
It was -about a week after the
“ roke oVer the disclosure
that Moscow, through the work
MrIT ° £ the Hu »Barian spt
Mikob Rion, now had the secret
dfe NF X ?' Be !T omb ’ tha ‘twoof
the affair.* ® discussi “8
“And do you think Sir
Miles B. Hynd wiU get the sack
over it?” asked one.
“Don’t be silly, old fruit ” re-
turned the other. “Haven’t you
heard? He’s been elevated to
the peerage.”
Bo.
Missing Link.
“Two small monkeys, Jimmy and
1 riora, escaped from the overturned
sage.”
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Come, artists of scenario,
Take up your pens and have a go
At picturing the tale behind
These doing which intrigue the
mind;
And come along you writers who
Are wont to rack your brains to
woo
The market for “Whodunit”
tales,
For if your inspiration fails
You’ll have your fill of mystery
In finding how there came to be
A sage turned fool and jacka-
napes
Cavorting round with minor
apes.
But, if you’re stuck, I would
suggest
This plain solution as the best—
Our sage laid low by drunken
dizziness
Was up to some dark monkey
business.
D.H.E.


The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
Presents the 1950
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
APRIL Ist to APRIL 12th
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
Personal and Missing Friends.
RIGGERS (nee Donnelly), Myra Annie. —
Will anyone knowing the address of,
kindly communicate with J. J. KIELY,
Solicitor, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, 401
Collins Street, Melbourne, is Executor of
the Will of ROBERT SHORT, late of
“Marston,” Yarra Street, Hawthorn,
Woolbroker, deceased, who died on the
19th April, 1946.
The late Mr. Short had financial deal-
ings with the undermentioned:—
(1) Kay, 55th Battalion—in July,
1935.
(2) Izaac —in August, 1935.
(3) R. Miller, 11th Battalion, c/o
Clark, 22 Nelson Street, Prahran —date
unknown.
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of the
abovenamed should request them to com-
municate with the Company. It will be
to their advantage.
Public Notice.
TO LAWRENCE PERCIVAL BURGESS
Address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
ESSIE BURGESS of 26 James Street
Guildford in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Married Woman claiming to be
lawfully married to you has commenced
an action and filed a claim against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia (Matrimonial Causes No. 7 of
1950) for Dissolution of Marriage If
you desire to defend the said action you
must within forty clear days after the
date of the publication of this Notice
file in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court Perth a Statement of your
defence to the Plaintiff’s claim or a
counterclaim for any relief to which you
are entitled In default of you so doing
the said ESSIE BURGESS may proceed
in the action and the Court may hear
evidence and judgment may be given in
your absence Any Statement of Defence
which is filed must specify an address
not more than half a mile from the
General Post Office Perth at which
service on you of all future notices and
proceedings in the action may be made
A copy of the Writ of Summons with the
Statement of Claim endorsed may be
obtained by you free of charge on
application to the undermentioned
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
DATED the 20th day of February, 1950.
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
LOHRMANN, TINDAL & GUTHRIE, 89
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff, ESSIE BURGESS.
sd
& r
■
H
N
Si
P
a
\
A »
To mark those occasions
when charm, perfection
and easy confidence are
the keynote, nothing could
be more in keeping
than a cigarette bearing
the hallmark of
Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London —
when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KING
In
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Zj Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
W. 0.8
»w
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The name New S k«
the thread on wf* itish Turf Dr
Zl thar e ‘‘the
gold Sd si^ er N “mLkef He^th^t
inhabitants of Ne occupation
the t,me - of * r e stamped with the
of Britain were more
fi gure . ?Ltory of the Turf, Stewart
recent history’ . t h e history ot
McKay declares. h ing we
the evolution important
prelindnary steps the d » scov^2
S'Vd New-
market about 1605.
Further from Stewart McKays
, Funtie t j had inherited his
ffer’s' sporting tastes. He had been
0 f Newmarket... .it was
about 1627 that regular autumn and
meetings were established at
&rk Here Charles dispensed
hSh hospitality, and one writer ot
the times remarks: The
and abundant plenty of the King, s
tables hath caused amazement in
Foreigners’.... Charles II is the only
St of England that actually took
nart in racing contests at Newmarket,
and we find that in 1675 hi| ro*| in
three hard heats and won the Plate
bv sheer good horsemanship •• • *
173O —first race for four-year-olds
at Newmarket 1750—Jockey Club
established at Newmarket .. .1756
First race for three-year-olds at New-
market” (distance, incidentally, two
miles).” ....
Not surprisingly, the name New-
market has come to be adopted as a
title for a host of things connected
with racing Newmarket Stables,
Newmarket Stud, Newmarket Sale-
yards and, here, there and everywhere
throughout the racing world, many a
Newmarket Handicap. All this is
brought to mind by the running at
Flemington on Saturday last of a
Newmarket Handicap—as far as it
concerns Australia, The Newmarket.
As usual it was a big and very
open field that contested this year’s
race —30 runners, with Beau Gem
favorite at sixes, 8 to 1 Gay Saint,
9 to 1 San Domenico and long odds
against the rest. With a big field
spread out right across the straight-
six track and galloping towards one
for a mere 70-odd seconds, the New-
market is a confusing race to watch
and a difficult one to describe
accurately; nevertheless a grand spec-
tacle.
Most of the way the speedy South
Australian visitor Illingerry, ia the
centre of the track, was showing out
slightly ahead of a wall of horses —
Bonny Duke and Lepidus in the
centre; Star Port, Henry the Fifth
and St. Razzle on the inside; and
High Jip and Flemish well up with
them on the outside. Nearing the
post it was Carnage, Gay Saint and
Lepidus in a bunch on the inside,
with High Jip going great guns right
over on the other side of the track.
No doubt intensely grateful that he
was able to do so, the judge called
tor the camera, which showed it as
High Jip, a neck to Carnage, a half-
head to Gay Saint and a further head
to Lepidus, who, by the: way, is one
i * n m ‘ nc K having also run a
splendid race in the Oakleigh Plate.
The success of High Jip at 25 to 1
source of .some grief and pain
rpr this page. High Jip was our seleC-
tion for the Oakleigh Plate; while
ms failure in that event was to a
egree excusable, his subsequent very
S n< ?ng defeat by Gay Saint at
J-aulheld led to a reluctant abandon-
,9* h °Pe for the colt’s further
immediate prospects.
h* s ° a of High Caste and the Wind-
riddpn £ G i' p P‘a, High Jip was
Sfe ** T Unkovich and is
wood W P T . Tr ihey for J. Ash-
on rp r, High Jip had scored only
Breeder' Vl nw S y ’ ™ in B the A.J.C.
subsennlnu at J at , hls first start; he
hrmftv «,l y u devel 9 ped a wind in-
be c U y r ’ ef i Whl c h would ,appear now to
race l.i, Surpr f nBl y- since it is a
which is frequently won by
pure speedsters, only one previous
Breeders’ Plate winner has gone on
to win a Newmarket —that was the
mighty Heroic,
The St. Leger Stakes proved only
an exercise gallop for the Sydney colt
Delta, who started at 4 to 1 ° n and
won by eight lengths from his fellow-
Sydneyite Playboy. The Great Britain
colt Front Line had a try at stealing
the race, but wasn’t nearly good
enough; at times Front Line had a
lead of a dozen lengths, but, at the
finish, Playboy beat him a short halt-
head for second money. While Play-
boy is certainly a colt well above the
average, it would seem that he was
more than a shade lucky to beat
Delta in the £lO,OOO A.J.C. Derby.
Delta, is, of course, yet another
of the many splendid performers
produced at the late Percy Miller s
Kia-ora Stud by the mating of Mid-
stream with Magpie mares in this
case Gazza, by Magpie from Ires-
sova Adding still further to the
record of this breeding combination,
Delta’s two-year-old full-brother Mid-
way on Saturday made an excellent
impression in winning the Hopetui
Stakes. Midway beat a field ot 5/
others, and cut out the 5 furlongs m
60sec. flat.
‘ Making it a treble for Midstream
and yet another double of two-year-
old winners for the lately remarkably-
successful rider W. Williamson, the
filly True Course (Midstream-Urun-
along) took out the rich Sires
Produce Stakes—winner’s cut £2»6U
compared with a mere £1750 for the
St. Leger winner. The St. Magnus
colt Flying Halo was the popular
elect for the Sires’ Produce, but,
after having every chance, proved no
match for the filly. After missing
the start rather badly, True Course
came home in dashing style to down
the favorite by three-parts of a
length. The Sires’ Produce saw the
Mighty Song bubble pricked pretty
thoroughly. In contrast to the
manner in which she had been ridden
at Caulfield the previous week, Mighty
Song was, on Saturday, given a free
rein. She quickly set up a good lead,
but had plainly had enough by the
time they reached the home turn,
and eventually beat only one horse
home. True Course cut out the 7
furlongs in 1.24 j, equalling the race
record set by Kuvera in 1932 and
since equalled by Gold Rod and
Hua.
An interesting feature of the Ercil-
doune Stakes (12 furlongs at stan-
dard w.f.a.) was that three of the
four runners were sons of Helios.
Among them, however, they failed
to lower the colors of the odds-on
favorite Comic Court, who registered
yet another grand win. Comic Court
easily ran past the pacemaker
Cronides at the turn and then, in a
rattling finish, successfully withstood
strong challenges from both Phoibos
and Carbon Copy —the margins, a
neck and a half-head. In other events
at Flemington Metro Star (K, Wil-
son) comfortably won the Pines
Hurdle and Hoyle (W. Fellows) just
scraped home ahead of Saxonian in
the 12-furlongs Brunswick Stakes.
* * * *
Consistent rain made conditions
pretty miserable at Randwick on
Saturday, and such times as 1-18
for 6 furlongs, 1.321 for 7 furlongs,
1.48 for a mile and 2.48 for the
mile-and-a-half give some notion of
the state of the track; so, too, do
such tote dividends as £49 os. 6d.
and £53 11s. 6d. Yet, surprisingly,
a majority of the winners were pretty
well backed. The real rough ’uns
were Tanport (J. Waterhouse) winning
the three-year-old and Red Loch (R.
Binder) taking the March Encourage
(12f.).
Progeny of Midstream have fre-
quently shown ability to handle heavy
going, and they enhanced this reputa-
tion by winning both two-year-old
events on Saturday, The Midstream-
Grumeti colt Careless (B. Smith) was
a narrow but impressive winner in the
big field contesting the Two-year-old
Encourage and Even Flow, a daughter
of Midstream-For Valor, made a
smart job of defeating Vien Court
and Le Dauphin in the March Nur-
sery. Between Sydney and Melbourne
it was a remarkably successful day
for Midstream, whose get won five
races, including the V.R.C. St. Leger
and Sires’ Produce Stakes, and the
best part of £7OOO in stakes.
The 7-furlongs Denham Court
Handicap must have been a disap-
pointment for the A.J.C. With a
list of 26 acceptors the Club took
the unusual course of dividing the
principal sprint, each division, of
course, carrying the originally-adver-
tised £lOOO added money. However,
heavy scratchings on the course re-
duced both fields to eight runners —
a total of 16, who could well have
been accommodated in one race.
Among the scratchings from the
first division of the Denham was the
highly-rated New Zealander Lord
Moss, whom bookmakers have in-
stalled as favorite for the Doncaster,
despite his not having had a run
here as yet. In the absence of this
still unknown quantity, the Agin-
court three-year-old Hesdin (B. Smith)
had far too much pace for the others
engaged, and, leading throughout,
won as he chose from Star Vite and
Meteor. The second division of the
Denham saw the veteran Brazier
again convincingly demonstrate that
there’s a lot of life in the old chap
yet. Brazier won comfortably from
Veiled Art and Roman Step.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies): Glow
Tie, 1; Dolphin, 2 ; Lady Rosetta, 3.
Two-year-old Maiden (colts and
geldings): Vien Court, 1; Wambo
Chief, 2; Cragend, 3. Earl wood
Mixed: Oceanus, 1; King Lear, 2;
Annabel Lee, 3. Ashbury Mixed:
Auburn River, 1; Susan, 2; Native
Girl, 3. Flying Handicap: Hisign,
1; Veiled Art, 2; Pantomime, 3.
Canterbury Park Cup: Persist, 1;
Tamasha, 2; Air Flare, 3. Welter:
Hughenden, 1; Furdan, 2; Wiranya,
3.
* * * ♦
Faster and faster goes the Mar-
shall! Two more world records last
week to the young Australian swim-
mer who is causing astonishment even
in the land of speed. Swimming for
Yale University against Harvard on
Saturday, Marshall broke the 440yds.
freestyle record the third time in a
month. Clocking 4min. 34.85ec., Mar-
shall lopped eight-tenths of a second
off the record he had set the pre-
vious week; as well, he registered
4min. 33.1 sec. for the 400 metres,
breaking the Japanese-held world
record which he had previously
equalled.
* * * *
The fifth Test v. South Africa at
Port Elizabeth last week saw Hassett’s
men score one of their easiest wins
of the tour. The brief tale of woe
read: Australia, seven for 549
(closed); S’Africa, 158 and 132;
Australia by an innings and 259 runs.
While many members of the tour-
ing team are entitled to their share
of praise—skipper Hassett deserves a
gold medal for his proficiency with
the coin alone —young Neil Harvey
emerges as the star of the present
series. The twenty-one-year-old Vic-
torian left-hander headed the Aus-
tralian averages for the Tests with
an aggregate of 660 -and an average
of 132. And every one of his innings
was a gem of sparkling attacking
play—none of your dour, stolid, de-
fensive stonewalling. Cricket records
have become a trifle absurd in their
profusion, but it does deserve noting
that no batsman of any country has
approached Harvey’s figures for a
Test series in S’Africa. Previous best
was the 650 at an average of 81.6
notched up by the English left-hander
Eddie Paynter in 1938-39.
*** - *
Diehard admirers of the past will
not have it for a moment that the
standard of cricket in Australia today
is probably higher than it has ever
been. Rather than take a straight
honest look at their own men and
judge them by their deeds, some
critics indulge in fantastic contortions
to try to perceive excuses for the
opposition. If the Australian stan-
dard is not extremely high, then we
must take it that by strange coin-
cidence every other cricketing country
in the world has chosen this par-
ticular period to hit an all-time low
standard.
England, India and South Africa
have been accounted for, and now
our No. 2 overseas team is giving
the opposition a pretty torrid time
in New Zealand. Last week, at
Timaru, the tourists were putting a
combined South Canterbury-Ashbur-
ton team through the mill when rain
washed out play. At that stage the
Australians, after closing their own
innings at eight for 390, had dis-
missed the opposition once for 96
and had taken four for 31 on the
second time through. On then to
Otago for what was rated as one of
the major fixtures of the tour. At
stumps on Saturday the visitors, after
closing with seven down for 568, had
dismissed five of the Otago batsmen
for a tally of 84.
* * * *
With bulls and magpies the oddly-
assorted game they were after, a solid
representation of the cream of
Australian marksmen blazed away
thousands of rounds last week at
Williamstown range—the Victorian
King’s Prize shoot. Conclusion of
the final stage saw the 1948 Bisley
winner Percy Pavey, favorite for the
event, in a deadbeat with Allan
Schroder. The shoot-off was a
thriller; Pavey shot five bulls and
Schroder matched him. Then Pavey
slipped with an inner, and a sixth
bull gave Schroder the victory.
* * * *
Striking a bit better luck in his
Sydney debut than had been ex-
perienced by his compatriot Chai
Sitphol the previous week, Siamese
featherweight Louis Dejsada (9st.)
scored a quick-smart victory over
Charlie Dunn (9st.) at Leichhardt.
Dunn began confidently, and looked
to have a clear edge on his opponent,
but near the end of the first round
Louis landed one that winded his
man, and he hesitated not upon the
manner of his finishing the job.


when consigning your
everything
points
to
Sm
ii
lllmN
g
V Tears la the Senrlte of the Mon on the Land
AMLF
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane..
Country Branches N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Hentv Hav Tom,*
Scone, Moree. Garah, Wee Waa, BrewSa, oSm!
Q land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla Dirranbandi
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oak’ey, Dalby and
PittswOTth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Wmton. Vic,: Wodonga, Korumburra. ' 1
“ Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
M fichin 9 i*
ie* oifis ' ***'
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
////
/X'/
/.
///'/''A
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
m
fs
from stores, merchants and
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X"Bl9>
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bushfire Fighting.
“J.R.D.”: Many pin their
faith to the gear-type pump.
These will pick up water at short
lifts without priming if in good
order, but a bypass has to be
fitted to keep them running
should output be checked. Hori-
zontal pumps and two-stage
pumps with compression cham-
bers are also used.
One universal failing with
many bushfire brigades is lack
of care of pumps. After a fire
everyone is naturally exhausted,
and equipment has to wait days
or weeks before it is put away
properly. Unless the pump is
emptied corrosion must set in,
and next time it is wanted in a
hurry it has either seized with
rust or surfaces are pitted and
worn and suction is poor. Be-
fore putting away the unit run
the engine until all water is out
of the pump and delivery-pipes
or hoses, then pour half a cup-
ful of oil into the pump if it is
a gear-pump and let it coat all
the teeth and interior surfaces.
Wipe dirt and water off the
engine, grease pump-bearings,
drain hoses and coil them flat
on ground or floor unless they
are being hung on the unit.
There is great diversion of
opinion regarding the delivery
of water. Some want a fan-
shaped spray, some a straight
jet, some a fog. A fog is most
difficult to obtain, and calls for
special, high-priced equipment.
It is most easily created under
cold, moist, windless conditions.
At a bushfire these are rarely
encountered, and a fog is a
mighty difficult thing to control.
It is at the mercy of the wind,
which also directs the path of
the fire, and there must therefore
be sufficient thrust behind the
water, in whatever form, to beat
back the fire.
A long, strong jet is essential
for forest fires. A diffused jet or
spray cannot be aimed or con-
trolled, particularly if aimed high
in the air or against wind, so
well as a jet. Most engines of
2i h.p. or greater will feed from
two to five lin. delivery hoses,
but in actual practice two hoses,
or at most three, will be suffi-
cient.
Mobility is of the highest im-
portance. Two men on a lorry
with a tank full of water and a
power unit can move at a steady
pace along the flank of a fire
with one hose each, leaving the
followers to attend to burning
posts, stumps, etc.
For water-economy each hose
should have nozzle control so
the operator can switch on and
off. The simpler such controls
are the better and less likely
they will be to give trouble.
Right - angled turns, spring -
loaded gear and any obstruc-
tion to a straight run-through
will affect nozzle-pressure and
length of jet and cause stop-
pages if the water is muddy.
Design of nozzle is important.
The nozzle opening should be
recessed, with sufficient metal
around it to protect it if bumped
or dragged over rough ground.
The internal taper of the nozzle
may affect the shape and dis-
tance of the jet by as much as
50 per cent. The actual nozzle
aperture is all-important—it
controls the output of water
more than any other factor —
diameter of hose, pump-capacity
or engine h.p.
A iin. nozzle may use 30gal.
of water per minute, while an
iin. nozzle will reduce it to
10gal., with only a slight reduc-
tion in length of jet. Where
water is scarce or hauls long the
strictest economy is essential,
and a l/16in. or smaller nozzle
will be required. This will
bring consumption down to
three to five gallons per minute,
about the minimum compatible
with results in hitting-power.
The brigade should decide
roughly what it wants and the
price it is prepared to pay —
1- jobs cost £6O to £9O,
2- to 5-h.p. from that figure
to about £2OO, Inspect units
that meet requirements and
place the order at least three
months before it’s required. Ex-
cept in the off season the de-
mand for better-type of units is
a long way ahead of the supply.
Mottling in Wheat.
“Agric”: Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture is trying to
find the cause of it, so that pre-
ventive measures can be studied.
Over 50 per cent, of the grain
milled in Queensland is affected
by mottling, which is accom-
panied by a lowered protein and
gluten content, and gluten defi-
ciency means an inferior loaf.
Mottling has become so serious
in this State that one depart-
mental officer is spending most
of his time studying the prob-
lem. Work done elsewhere
points to mottling being due to
insufficient nitrogen in the grain,
but this does not necessarily in-
dicate nitrogen deficiency in the
soil; there is a possibility that
even with ample soil nitrogen
some other essential element is
missing.
Experiments have shown that
the gluten content of wheat
grown on fair-quality soil may
be 30 to 50 per cent, less than
that grown on fertile soil under
similar conditions. This suggests
that soil deficiency is responsible
for mottling and is probably the
result of growing wheat for years
on land where nothing is put
back into the soil.
The old habit of growing a
crop of wheat, harvesting, and
burning the stubble—the only
suggestion of fertiliser a lot of
wheat land receives—with bare
fallows occasionally, cannot be
conducive to storing-up nitrogen,
nor has the practice of plough-
mg-in stubble been much of an
improvement, because the buried
material makes a demand on
the nitrogen held in the soil, to
break it up. Stubble mulch-
farming, which is on the
mottling - investigation pro-
gramme, gets over this difficulty
as the stubble is left on top to
"The joke's on Dave —I ain't bin able to buy cartridges!"
protect the sou surface and it
rots without the action of soil
nitrogen. This practice, evolved
to prevent erosion principally,
may prove an important factor
in eliminating mottling.
Cows and Water.
“Myrrhee”: The milking cow
needs more water than any other
farm animal. Actual amount
drunk depends on foodstuffs
eaten, the season, size of cow
and quantity of milk she is giv-
ing. „ Water needs are closely
associated with the area of the
skin from which perspiration
takes place. A large cow will
need more water than a smaller
cow. A cow giving 8gal. of milk
will drink much more than a
cow giving half that; the 8gal.
cow will need at least 24gal.
daily compared with about
16gal. for the 4gal. cow.
Every year at the change of
season from spring to summer
milk yields fall, largely because
of the falling-away of pastures,
but another factor is that cows
don’t always get sufficient water
when they most need it, and
once the milk flow is thus
diminished it’s hard to bring it
back.
A number of progressive
dairyfarmers in Victoria have
installed large concrete water-
troughs in all paddocks. In most
cases increased yield has paid
for the outlay.
New Guinea Sugar.
“B.J.L.”: An expedition of
Queensland plant-breeders will
go to New Guinea in search of
new sugarcane varieties for
North Queensland. Cane im-
provements, especially to pro-
duce early-maturing varieties,
are needed to assist the industry
to fulfil the new agreement with
Britain.
There is an urgent need for
early-maturing varieties to en-
able a much earlier start with
crushings, as each mill will prob-
ably be extended to the limit of
its economical season. It is
probable that the native chewing-
canes, by selection over the
years, are early-maturing types,
as natives would naturally re-
plant the sweetest.
It was a New Guinea expedi-
tion that discovered Badila.
Brought to Australia many years
ago, this wonderful variety re-
mained “cock o’ the North” for
50 years before being superseded
by the test-tube baby, Trojan.
Ringing the Bull.
“Mr.”: The job is best done
at 10 to 12 months, using a 2in.
to ring. A full-sized ring
(Bin.) can be fitted at 15 to 18
months. The ring-hole is cut
through the thin partition be-
tween the nostrils, preferably
with a trocar and cannula. The
nose-punch cuts a cleaner hole
but destroys part of the nerve
filament, reducing the sensitive-
ness of the nose and the effec-
tiveness of ringing because of
the deadened nerve tissue sur-
rounding the punch-hole.
To operate, tie the head firmly
m position, push the sterilised
trocar and cannula through the
nose partition and withdraw tro-
car. Then place one end of the
sterilised opened ring in the
hollow end of the cannula, push-
ing the ring through the ring-
hole as the cannula is withdrawn.
Allow the nose to heal before
leading the animal by the ring,
and, in the meantime, use a
halter, changing very gradually
to the ring control. Frequent
handling and grooming facili-
tates the changeover. Use a
strong, light staff which can be
readily clipped on to the ring.
Passions in W.A.
“Ah Gee”: Settlers in the
Albany (W.A.) district are doing
well from passionfruit-vines. A
Sydney firm contracts to buy the
fruit for pulping, and there are
now about 200 acres under
vines.
This season it is expected to
take the growing crop from more
than 60 acres, and the company
hopes to get 6000 acres under
passions in W.A.
Tis said a large factory will
be built in Perth
as Gingin. s tar n °rth
Cross-ploughing.
along' i„™SS'° 0 U £ 8h ; D 8
and down-hill will P '
water-erosion on manv^ii^ 6
farms, yet it mav not bl s ide
if there is » not hel P much
the block. 11Slde above
This gutter coming down
spur winds down through V
already cut" One
area
along the top of the field and
down one side.
The flaw in this is that such
a ditch often makes the water
take a partial uphill course The
water is slowed up in its' flow,
and, if the run-off from the hill-
Slde be heavy, the water breaks
over and resumes its old course.
1 he best plan then is to let the
water go downhill. c Straighten
out its dram with the earth-
scqop, cutting down to the
resistant subsoil. Slope the banks
gently to minimise washing, and
strengthen them with half-
buried logs or stones. A band
of grass grown along the banks
will help prevent water from cut-
ting down the banks.
Tomato Pests.
“Rooster”: Control of cut-
worms is best effected by
destroying weeds under which
the spring eggs are deposited.
Once the larvae have hatched,
however, only poison bait can
reduce their numbers. Of late
years several formulae have been
tried with varying success. The
following proved very effective:
Bran, 24lb.; Paris-green, 11b.;
water, 3gal,; salt, 8oz. The
addition of half a dozen crushed
lemons to the mixture increases
its effectiveness, as was demon-
strated in later experiments.
Mix bran and Paris-green
thoroughly before slowly adding
the salt, lemon and water solu-
tion. The mash should be just
damp, not sloppy. Failing
Paris-green, arsenate of soda is
a fair substitute, using 12oz. for
every lib. of Paris-green in the
formula.
The bait should be scattered
over the ground during late
afternoon. It can also be dis-
tributed along the rows of
plants two or three days before
filling in gaps, -or, if replanting,
two or three days beforehand.
Quantity depends on acreage;
about 1001b. of prepared bait
(containing 451b. of bran) per
acre is necessary for a single
treatment. Where infestation is
bad further strength may be re-
quired and several distributions.
Weevils lay their eggs during
late winter and spring. The


WANTED TO PURCHASE.
ONE POISON CART OR POISON - CART
ATTACHMENT.
avanokF erson tlavsn S such a vehicle
1 8„ guested to contact the
2 r {’ Pastures Protection Board,
anf S'""’ - N - S ' W -> a description
and the price required.
Nu-METAL
SAVES
engine new
rebore • RINGS
ss” iSa&rJS^SFS
Permanently wbilc *<» driye.
piston slan 7 »nHi S ? lts and scores. Ends
teed 10 000 lost c ° m Prcre>on. Guaran-
««iai Nu-METAr“£ h £ rmless to *”«*
tested by niw been Proved and
many owners J oo .’ ooo “sew since 1934,
three a£d 7o* "S 4 NU-METAL
NU-METAL 0,0 s . ame engine.
p TeJ° r wo?k h djJS*
SfSffV?? 05 ©® T ~
s&
Postal Chafes trec - COl >.’s plus
Please - ORDE « FORM
J 0 ™ “e by return NU-
I enclose Chc qu ‘-!p. N , 6yUnd « Engine.
mj-MS 1 F ° W «
Name,
Addtta*
Si?
street, Sydney. MA :
HARK YOUR
THE MODERN
LAHBS
WAY
ELASTRATOR
REGD TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
266 Flinders Street, Melbourne, C.l
NV 912
MORE PULLING POWER
AT LESS COST!
/i, v. x
<
' n
!OYD
—*
CRAWLER
25/33 H.P. 34/40 H.P.
TRACTOR
*1
w*.
******
Greater Drawbar Power for
every type of farming
implement.
Illustrating (a) Power take off
with splined shaft turning at
540 r.p.m. at governed engine
speed. Pulley to fit shaft can
be supplied for various belt
speeds.
(b) Drawbar of superior
design which permits of three
different adjustments for
height. Machine steers without
restriction from the towed
implement.
Saves labour costs... makes money all the year round!
Every class of broadacre farming, orchard work, breaking
new country, cane farming, logging, dozing, grading, scraping,
heading, back-filling, excavating, winching or road building,
the Loyd Crawler will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
Loading and baling hay in
one operation is faster with a
Loyd.
THE BRITISH-BUILT LOYD WILL
OUTPULL ANY OTHER
TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT
HORSEPOWER!
Write for Loyd Crawler Tractor specification folder to your nearest distributor
Western Australia: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth.
South Australia: Power Handling (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 61 Gawler Place,
. Adelaide.
Victoria: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street. Melbourne
New South Wales: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 82a Parramatta Road,
Camperdown.
Queensland: Norton Tootill Pty. Ltd., 12 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: John Chambers & Son Ltd., Branches throughout
New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service available throughout Australasia.
The toughest scrub land
cleared easily and quickly
with a Loyd Crawler and Loyd
Angledozer.
r
mm
iH
i
im,
On a 60-hour test, 143 acres
were cultivated by a Loyd with
a 12-disc plough, using only
three-quarters of a gallon of
Diesel fuel per hour.
Commonwealth Factory Representative: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George's Terrace. Perth
nreventive measures apply.
P thl first signs of damage
t - ab out November
appC nnthern areas, the plants
1D Th he dusted with either a
sl f U fr cent lead-arsenate dust
25 f2O per cent, calcium-
or dust or else simply
arsenate lead-arsenate solu-
sprayed wth in 16gals
Jer A lot of time and
f hnr will be saved later if the
Precaution is taken of dipping
fhe voung plants in the arsenate
‘ h f lead solution before planting
ou, this keeps both cut«.rms
and weevils in check. Other
are best controlled by
suitable sprays and frequent
cultivations.
Machinery Hints.
“RHO”: The lid of an
ordinary 51b. grease-tin is very
useful. It is countersunk to fit
snugly inside the top of the
tin and if cleaned and,kept
handy two or three of them are
invaluable when doing minor
overhauls with small parts.
These parts, as they come on,
are usually put on adjacent sur-
faces of the vehicle or machine,
or dropped on the ground in the
general excitement and collect
exasperating grit. The grease-
tin lids make excellent temporary
holders. , . .
Users of Ford trucks should
watch the speedo worm-drive
that fits immediately in front of
the handbrake drum on the
main drive shaft in the four-
speed gear-box if this is taken
down. This acts as a spacer,
and if left out the main drive-
shaft works forward by the
action of the brake-drum eat-
ing into the rear engine mount-
ing, and this motion finally
buckles the cage roller-bearing
fitted ihside the main-drive cog
at the front of the box, result-
ing in a bad crack-up and com-
plete immobility of drive shaft.
Properly assembled, this gear-
box is almost immune from
breakdown.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Calcium-phos-
phate is essential as a bone-
builder to stock. Best method
of supplying it is by topdressing
pastures with superphosphate.
Meatmeal is a good supply
source, and if fed as a protein
supplement no further calcium is
necessary. Most concentrates
and grain are deficient in cal-
cium. This can be remedied by
feeding 31b. of a mixture of four
parts of lime to one part of salt
to each 1001b. of grain.
“Big Billy”; South Australia’s
chief agricultural adviser (R. C.
Scott) says the shortage of super-
phosphate is estimated at 100,000
tons annually in his State. The
limiting factor is sulphuric-acid
supplies. This is unlikely to be
met until new plants now being
set up come into production in
1952. Scott advises varying of
super, applications per acre
according to the previous history
of the paddock concerned. For
instance, where land has regu-
larly received full dressings over
a period of years, super, can be
reduced to a minimum. New
land, however, should receive
maximum dressings.
“8.A.T.”: Give older fowls
free range to keep them active
and healthy and save on food
bills. Young fowls should not
be allowed to roam all day in
cold, windy or rainy weather.
Have a separate range for them
and lure them into shelter with a
handful of wheat early in the
afternoon.
“8.J.L.”: Sometimes when a
floor is surfaced with cement
there is a certain amount of white
dust from it. To prevent this
and also harden the surface, get
some waterglass and mix it with
about six times the amount of
hot water. Sweep the floor clean
and apply two coats, with an
interval of about 24 hours. The
mixture will fill up the tiny pores
of the cement and make a clean,
hard surface.
“M.”: Mate Jerseys and
other light heifers as near as
possible to 15 months old, so
that they will come into milk at
two years. With the heavier
breeds mating a month or so
earlier will check a tendency to
put on flesh to the detriment of
dairy development. Heifers
mated at 12 months or earlier
often suffer constitutional set-
backs.
“Billjim”; Late February or
early March is one of the best
times to grade pullets and hens
reaching the end of their laying
life. It is advisable to know the
approximate age of each bird,
and an extra leg-band should be
placed on each fowl at the be-
ginning of every year. The older
the bird the higher should be
the standard demanded. Look
over the retained birds about a
month later to see if they have
come up to expectations. Most
common mistake of poultry-
keepers is holding aged hens.


***
(O
»»**
t** s
VA
ttv£
m
*> '
... • • < y +
4* + > >•=
THE WORK OF A
MINUTE CAN HELP TO
SECURE YOUR FUTURE
FOR YEARS . .
FACTS ABOUT THE
NINTH SECURITY LOAN
1. The full amount of new cash sought is required
to pay for War, Repatriation and Rehabilita-
tion, for Public Works and Services of the
Commonwealth and the States, and for
redemption of unconverted Securities matur-
ing oa Marfch 15.
2. Subscriptions for 3i% Bonds may be for £lO
or any multiple, and for Inscribed Stock £lOO
of £lo'above that amount, unless
Stock already held (minimum £100). Sub-
scriptions for 2% Bonds or Stock must be for
£l,OOO or multiples. Applications may be
lodged through any Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker.
3. Interest is payable each six months during the
currency of each series (3i% Securities
11/14 years; 2%—3 years).
4. Your Bank will hold your Bonds in safe
custody free of charge and credit interest to
your account.
5. Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed
by the Commonwealth.
6. On your Application Form credit your sub-
scription to your district to help its quota.
CONVERT. The 2% Third Security Loan
lSiUecl m 1947 mature on March 15,
i?. 50 ; J° u . can r conv «« these Securities into
Ninth Sbfcunty Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock
immediately and prevent any interruption to the
income they earn.
To sign your name on an application
for Ninth Security Loan Bonds takes
only a moment.. . and, by investing
your savings in this way, you estab-
lish a solid foundation on which to
build funds for all your future needs.
If you are one of the thousands of
Australians who are accumulating
worthwhile amounts by regular sav-
ings, now is your chance to add
investment to your savings plan. The
Ninth Security Loan gives you the
perfect opportunity. Ninth Security
Loan Bonds are absolutely safe ——
guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
They pay good interest regularly,
every six months . . . and, in an
emergency, may be readily nego-
dated for cash. Invested in the
Ninth Security Loan, your money
will •, be safe from careless spending
and will steadily increase through
interest payments . . . Invest to the
limit, straight away.
Save for Security ...
Invest in the
NINTH
SECURITY
LOAN
i5L10.U3.20
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO RUTH JUNE BURNS late of
Ballinga Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that THOMAS JOSEPH LUCAS BURNS
has filed a petition for Divorce No. 4561
of 1949 against you on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 22nd day of May 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. PRIMROSE, YOUNG
& PRIMROSE, Solicitors, 12 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.— ;(l.s.) J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
a« *
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLIPPER” Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Pine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced S/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
KUP mom SAFE!
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders” can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE-
any other period.
Jackson &
Agentt-
SYDNET
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
i :
* Docket Boos Co
Docket Boot
I
Price* and fur-
ther inf«rm»t“>a
npoa *ppM«atf«»
New Invention Controls
rupture
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. B^rrere
brings to rupture sufferers an ent^
new method of control, the* ntß(
40 years’ practice and imP r ° v gll
proved completely successful
who have tried it. ... the
The NEO-BARRERE acts the
hand when placed up^ itho ut
orifice. You will at once, he
effort and in all movements, hoi
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE-
BABKERE DISTRIBUTION
(Dept. 26y), 243 Elizabeth St., Sy _
SALVAGE
By DOWBOTHAM
K I OT far away stands the
bridge, a dilapidated
I I structure joining the
south-side of the city.
The Corner is on the south-
side, facing the entrance on to
the bridge, and breaks the bridge
road into two tramlines, which
gradually turn east and west.
It’s a quiet enough place by
day; but from dusk until 10
o’clock, when the Corner Hotel
shuts its doors, it teems with
assorted humanity: boozers,
half-castes, aboriginals, prosti-
tutes, merchant sailors from
boats at the bridge wharf, a
well-dressed stranger or two,
foreigners and larrikins —the
scamps and riffraff of society.
At night as the trams go past,
taking people from the “better”
suburbs into city picture-shows
and dances, the bright tram in-
teriors make the well-lit Corner
look very dingy, and the white-
faced girls sitting in the cabins
turn the copper-skinned half-
caste girls of the street into
darkies.
The blue uniforms of the
south-side police, strategically
dotting the Corner, keep order
with little effort; for the south-
side people genuinely respect
the “Johns,” who are implac-
able, but not officious or inter-
fering. They have more trouble
with the traffic than with the
south-side sinners.
Sunday night.
“Joyful, joyful will the meeting be,
When from sin our hearts are pure
and free.
And we shall gather, Saviour, with
Thee,
In our eternal home!”
The drunk waved his fiat in
the air, two women leaning on
the veranda-rail of the first floor
of the hotel casually threw down
some coins into the circle, and
Nell scratched her hip. The
policeman stood out from the
kerb with his back to the circle
and the crowd. It was a very
commanding back. The cars
had to veer outwards and go
around him, and so the circle on
the Corner was protected.
They were all there. Some
leaned against the hotel wall,
some against the posts, some
against each other; some sat
in the gutter ; some stood on
the other side of the road. None
of them spoke and none of them
moved away. The “Salvoes” had
been there since seven-thirty
sweating redemption for them
all in one of the city’s hottest
nights.
The little girl (indescribably
little, she really should have
been home in bed) stood in the
centre of the circle piping into
the microphone held down to her
by the bare-headed major. She
was singing the last verse of the
hymn.
She finished bravely in the
wrong key just as two trams
went grinding past towards the
bridge. The major put his cap
back on his head and the micro-
phone to his mouth and led the
chorus again, the band beating
it out challengingly to the trams,
the expressionless faces and the
scarred walls of the hotel;
ful ’J oyful . w iH f * le meeting be,
When from sin our hearts are pure
and free”
It was eight o’clock and she
hadn t heard the tarnborines yet.
Nell was getting impatient. She
loved the tarnborines. Her
slippered feet would shuffle un-
easily out of time and her black
face deepen in a smile every
time they jingled out their syn-
copated rhythm.
Tonight she was loosely
dressed in a print frock that
gave her a girlish appearance
and mercilessly exposed her thin
aboriginal legs. She leaned
against the hotel wall, her arms
folded Underneath her wide
breasts, conscious of, but not
heeding, the red-headed man who
stood possessively beside her,
(~WT of the nearest door of
the tenement-house next to
the hotel came unnoticed a half-
caste girl. She was about six
years of age and looked quaintly
attractive in her pink star-
covered pyjamas. Evidently she
was not supposed to be on the
street. She kept timidly to the
wall and worked her way to-
wards the band by a process of
sidling so expert as to seem at
once natural and familiar.
The major, cap in hand again,
was declaiming emotionally into
the microphone, his hand on the
shoulder of the tiny singer. The
man on the big drum mopped his
neck and one of the young
women forming the circle
peered at a broken disk of her
tamborine. An occasional
coin, flipped by an unseen hand,
bounced into the centre, gleam-
ing under the light of the lan-
terns. The south-sider gave
generously, but he hung on
tightly to his soul. The “Sal-
voes” had been near to salvag-
ing one or two since they made
the Corner a Sunday-night
rendezvous; but the “candi-
dates,” maudlin drunks, had
gone back to their sinning as
soon as the meeting was over.
'"P HE little half-caste girl who
1 now crept into the circle
was filled with child-like wonder-
ing. The major saw her, paused
at a crucial part of his delivery
and, with the hand that had
rested on the tiny singer’s shoul-
der, waved away the trombone-
player, who moved to shepherd
the girl to the edge of the circle.
He then held out his other hand
to her, which she refused ; but
he turned the refusal into an
affirmation by pointing to her
and then to the child beside him
and shouting “And little children
shall lead us.”
The child beside him was ac-
customed to such exclamations;
the child in the pink pyjamas
wasn’t. She thought she was
being roused at, and her won-
dering vanished in tears.
The look on Nell’s face as
she broke into the circle, with
the suggestion of a spring
spoiled by a stagger, thrusting
onlookers and band-members
aside, was like an impact. Anger,
love, fear, mixed with a kind of
wonderful pride, fought for ex-
pression in the big aboriginal
woman and ended in a confused
cry as she gathered the chiia •
her arms and hlld
blundered back th mg ab °ut,
circle and the crowd° Ugh . th *
for the tenement W d d oo a r nd
slippers reduced her rL t Her
lumber, and her head ah t 0 a
weight
be;, he
body. Long after she had i her
res.? —»s
4" .5
re-forming his . and
.hebandfntoVloudCnto
climbed into Ihe night. V '
A I ,Gl f T wen ‘ on in a room
, on tbe AM floor of
tenement-house, and the ,am
peTng S , y . beBan t 0 £
with a clatter, and the blind was
drawn against the Corner
When the “Salvoes” had left
and as the crowd dispersed to
its rooms and doorways and
cafes a man with red hair stood
up straight from the hotel wall
and confidently walked to the
nearest door of the tenement-
house, knocked and entered


■
36
■m
764 PAGES OF
PRACTICAL AND
HELPFUL INFORMATION
by H. G. BELSCHNER.
D.V.Se., H.D.A.
Deputy Chief, Division of
Animal Industry, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, New
South Wales, and External
Lecturer, Sheep Diseases,
Faculty of Veterinary
Science, University of
Sydney.
Comprehensive. Factual.
Informative. An entirely
new book by a leading
Australian authority.
Over 350 Illustrations.
Quick reference index
with thousands of
entries. Covers all
phases of Sheep Man-
agement and the treat-
ment and prevention of
all important sheep dis-
eases. A necessary but
inexpensive investment.
ORDER FORM
Wu.ure.TwS’
ment 9 »^ nd T,. me "Sheep Manage-
™ent and Diseases.” Price 1%/-
name
address..
Tech. b
df
sdf
Sores caused by
... „ ''chafing nankins
healed by Cuticura
itchin B
v fa , on and «*surea
22f u *s?* - slee P- Anti,
harri v 9 ubcura 'cannot
5 P „uu byS tender skin.
'CnHr. 0 * amous trio—-
ZSTt 0 ' ntmen t. ■ Soap
**<* Talcum i’owder.'
534
ointment*
li
%
I
. ■ %
ss
PS
«w
-•r
sn
*4*
w
i
/
ENJOY A RE-UNION
WITH YOUR
PRE-WAR CIGARETTE
Remember Army Club
... the cigarette you smoked with so much pleasure
between two wars? Now, enjoy a re-union with
your old friend. That memorable blend, ripened by
sun, mellowed by time, has returned with all its full-
bodied flavour. Back, too, is that distinctive,
ink-free filigrained ricepaper and the protective
‘Cellophane’ cellulose film that zipps off in a flash!
Army Club are proudly made in Australia .
BE AN
jirmy Club «
AN
10 FOR ///i * 20 FOR 2/3
Smote the Cigarette containing R/cfi Golden Leaf. Ripened by Sun, Mellowed by Time
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
„ nnv of Arsenic and Old
Jc°e jSr 4 ™'
by « 4794.
Information^Sought.
(1) composition of
melti n S;P oin l' t ’ 7 (2) Composition
°Jf w 'aifoy with the lowest possible
ta>.
math 50 P 2 oi deg. Fahr.
24.1 parts, melts 212 d eg.
(boOing-PO metal, containing
Fahr-)- w ” . i ead 25 parts, tin
bismuth 50 parts, lea Fahr .
12.5 £ S lV are used in
stops to bold
S open.
(» first sj"sjfjte
ST 12) tv hilt steps should be taken
*JP?£ Spears on carnation
J®,‘i the form of small de.ated
pustules, over which the epidermis ot
g soon breaks and frees a reddish-
brown snuff-like mass, which consist
of the reproductive spores of the
disease (2) As soon as the rust
appears pick the diseased leaves off
aSd bum them. This wUl not cure
die plant, but it will, to a great
extent, stay the spread of the disease.
Pull up badly affected plants and
burn them. Lime dusted over the
plants while the dew is on them will
keep the rust in check, as it will
burn up the spores before they be-
come disseminated. A weak solution
of permanganate of potash is also a
cure for this fungus if the plants be
syringed with it regularly. Another
remedy is spraying the plants every
fortnight on a dry day with a mix-
ture made up of copper sulphate 40z,,
quicklime 30z., and water 1 gallon.
* * * *
At different intervals I have
cemented a galvanised-iron tank,
using various mixtures, and although
the tank appears watertight, the water
still leaks through the cement. Any
suggestions ?
Mixture appears to be the trouble.
Sand should not be all fine, but
varied up to particles which will just
pass through a No. 4 screen. Mix
the concrete in proportions cement 1,
sand H. Use the least water possible
to give a workable plastic consistency
(not over 5 gal. per paper bag of
cement when the aggregates are dry),
and mix it thoroughly until it is a
uniform color. If possible to join
fresh and old concrete ensure a good
bond by cleaning thoroughly and
placing a 1:1 mortar mix on the
joint.
* * * *
What is a pibgorn?
It is very rare, and considered a
traditional musical instrument of
Wales, and has been associated tradi-
tionally with shepherds. In 1937 the
only three authentic specimens were
shown at the Welsh National
Museum. One was presented to the
London Society of Antiquaries in
1770, and reported as being unique
to North Wales, excepting Anglesey.
The second, also of the eighteenth
century, came from Voelas, Bettws-y-
Coed, Carnarvonshire, and the third
was bought in a North Wales cottage.
In the latter a wooden mouthpiece
contained two reeds, and each of two
wooden pipes, bound together, has
a horn at the end. In the two former
specimens the reed is enclosed in a
mouth horn. In all specimens each
wooden pipe has six finger-stops.
Their tone has been described as
similar to that of an oboe.
* * * *
Some particulars about Nell Gwyn ?
She was born on February 2, 1650;
her father was probably a soldier of
Welsh extraction, and little is known
of her mother except that she was
drowned in a pond at Chelsea, 1679.
Nell Gwyn sold oranges near Drury
Lane Theatre until, at 15, she started
acting. In her first recorded appear-
ance she was badly cast in Dryden’s
“Indian Emperor,” but in the fol-
lowing year succeeded in Howard’s
“The English Monsieur.” Her suc-
cess in Dryden’s “Secret Love, or the
Maiden Queen” brought her leading
roles in Beaumont and Fletcher’s
“Philaster,” Rhodes’s “Flora’s
Vagaries” and Howard’s “Surprisal,”
and she stayed with the Drury
Lane Cos. until 1669. Her last
appearance was in 1670 in Dryden’s
“The Conquest of Granada,” after
the birth of her first son to Charles
11. She was, however, more noted
as the king’s mistress than as an
actress. She had two sons to Charles;
the first was subsequently Duke of
St. Albans, but the younger died
while still a boy. After Charles died
James II cared for her until her
death in 1687.
Brief Answers.
W.D.: The “block-system” on
railways establishes a method of
signalling whereby the distance be-
tween two signal-boxes can never
be occupied on the same line of
rails by more than one train
at a time T.Y.: Cantuar means
“of Canterbury”; Cantab, “of Cam-
bridge University”... .J.K.F.: Sorry,
but you lose the wager; Dress Suit
and Tongala won the Australian
Hurdle-Australian Steeple double in
both 1937 and 1938. However,
you’re right about the other; Moss-
trooper won the double in 1929 and
the hurdle only in 1930 C.S.;
Ethel Mannin was bom in London
in 1900. She married John Alexander
Porteous in 1919. Her first novel,
Martha, was published in 1923....
C.A.: (1) Depends on the receipt you
are asked to sign. Most papers pur-
chase full copyright and grant re-
publication rights provided acknow-
ledgment is made. (2) Not strictly
illegal, but most unethical unless you
inform them what you had done....
T.L.: Have never heard of the book.
... .R.W.: The rubber rings may not
be in a position to allow the two
edges of die bowl to meet properly,
or the nut may not be screwed down
tightly enough... .A.D.: Use of bird-
lime is prohibited.., .E.M.: Placings
in the 1922 Summer Cup were
Oranian, Prince Cox, King of the
Forest... .T.W.: You cannot paint
over the smoke deposit; it must be
completely removed. Brush off with
a broom as much as possible, then
scrub with soap and water. When
quite dry rub down with a rag and
then paint M.K.: You should
consult a solicitor, who may consider
it desirable for you to be represented
in the Court of Equity by counsel
in the event of the matter being con-
tested. Other interested parties
would have the right to be heard
A.M.: It appears to be a mohur of
Madras, Penang or British Sumatra,
probably a native issue copied from
the British East India Company’s
coins of those places. Crude copies
of the co.’s issues were fairly common
near the middle of last century.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor,
TJ.R.: When you were writing
about Macquarie-street doctors and
using the rhymes “instils,” “ills” and
“fills,” your failure to bring in “bills”
astounds us “The
Watch” needs rewinding... .H.L.H.:
Patriotic but puzzling U.M.R.:
Ever read Carl Sandburg on “Grass”?
W.E.B.: What’s the use of re-
writing “Give a man a horse he can
ride”? G.A.B.: All the informa-
tion in your seasonal poem is readily
obtainable from the Weather Bureau.
R.F.A.: Try a woman’s paper.
... .Bellerive: It should send tourists
rushing to Tassy: —
....W.V.: You need a more up-to-
date technique and language to deal
with atomic warfare... .J.M.P.: It
carries the virtue of simplicity to a
fault W.O’C.: Something pleasant
in all of them J.L.8.: Too much
like exercises in the style of Hopkins,
But come ag a i n.,. .B.P.McC.:
Pleasant enough but ragged....
J.J.M.: “This is my first crack at
it.” Well, you’ve knocked it out
N.N.: That enormous jumfilpd MSS-
must amount to 100 yards of vers?.
Have a heart!... .J.M.: You’ll never
make it look like Sydney, Harbor
until you can think of Captain Cook
instead of Odysseus.,..A.G.: Thanks
for the Williamson poem; can’t find
space for it at present W.8.H.:
Like “fairy floss,” your fantasy is a
cloud of pink nothingness made out
of a grain of sugar E.A.0.: Not
a bad description of “Camping on
the Hawkesbury,” but the verse glides
away from you V.P.: The fox is
not fresh enough A.8.L.: You
spoil the dump poem by the stock
attack on arms-makers. Do you
suggest that Australia should be
armed with bows and arrows, manu-
factured by each individual soldier?
R.J.R.: “Detours” is 105 t....
S.O’R.: Unusually good for your age.
....8.A.J.: The usual things about
the ocean and the city A.H.: You
bang a resonant drum, but such
noises have little relation to poetry.
W.C.: Chopped-up prose
E.W.: Only the snake-flower, the fire-
fly and the flying-fox distinguish it
from the commonplace. Therefore
cultivate your snake-flowers, fireflies
and flying-foxes.,. .The Old Pot:
You’ll feel much more comfortable
now that you’ve boiled over....
L.R.B.: Some nice lines in it, but
it’s more for private circulation than
for publication W.E.M.; Verse
not up; but you’re welcome to try
the pars... .E.F.: That’s Will
Ogilvie’s paddock... .C.V.S.: “In
Praise of Ale” doesn’t really do
justice to beer De Bunk: Come
in and get it off your chest : —
I look back to Hobart
Of the Tasmanian clime
With its pleasant resorts
In the summertime.
On serene calm nights
From Franklin-square
The strains of a band
Did waft thro’ the air.
Kangaroo Point with
Its spreading beach
From the city of Hobart
Was easy to reach.
Picturesque to view were
The white gulls at play
And the fishing crafts
Upon the rippling bay.
THE MONERN MEDICO.
Now every scientific book and journal is
filled with praise for the eternal
Progress of medicine ; which soon it is
averred will‘cure disease before it has
occurred.
But perhaps the greatest medical achieve- .
ment is evidenced in controlled be-
reavement,
And limitation of sickness by the B.M.A.
to ordinary visiting hours each day.
This modem miracle of ingenuity ensures
to doctors in perpetuity
Their afternoon golf and weekend leisure,
each evening at the club or other
pleasure—
More business-like I’m sure you will agree
than the morbid habits of the old
G.P.,
Whose misguided sense of public zeal ap-
parently caused him to feel
That patients positively had the right to
call him during day a't night;
Which was very unpractical, and quite re-
verse to these modern days, when we
’phone the nurse
At the surgery: and there with pencil
sleek she books our appointment for-
Wednesday week.
Another objection, they say to me, is that
now there’s no delivery
Of medical service; and make the point,
that it’s exactly like the weekend
joint,
You have to stagger out and fetch it, or,
by jove, you’ll never get it.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£<L per line.
Afforestation
The end of our existing timber re-
sources is in sight; unless we now adopt
a vigorous tree-planting policy to provide
for future needs, this country faces a
timber famine within 20 to 30 years.
Only S. ■ Australia has planted anything
like adequate stands of timber, and, un-
fortunately, climate, soil, rainfall and
other factors beyond human control have
rendered it necessary for S.A. to plant
little save j Finns radiata, a softwood with
a limited range of usefulness and which
cannot take the place of hardwoods.
Home-grown timber helped to save
Britain during the last war; without the
pit-props needed to shore up the work-
ings it would have been impossible to
mine coal. The wonderful little Mosquito
bombers were built of plywood made
from timber grown in Britain. During
the winter offensive Russian soldiers
travelled across the snow on skis made
by British workmen from ash grown in
England. Hardly a stick of this timber
grew in Government plantations; it was
cut on those English and Scottish coun-
try estates which derive part of their in-
come from growing commercially useful
trees. In short, timber grown by private
enterprise helped to save the Old Country
and it can do the same thing in Australia.
There are three ways in which private
enterprise can grow timber and make it
pay. The first is the community forest
scheme, for which Jocelyn Henderson,
of Robertson (N.S.W.), has been such a
staunch advocate. This idea, though new
to Australia, is quite commonplace in
Europe; 66 per cent, of the total area
of forest in Switzerland is community-
owned. America adopted the same idea
some 40 years ago, and now the U.S.A.
has more than 1500 of these forests. On
common land, State land made avail-
able for the purpose or freehold property
which has been purchased, the local
governing body, assisted by voluntary
helpers, plants areas of forest. These
serve a dual purpose by also acting as
parks for recreational purposes. When
the trees reach a marketable size they are
sold, the area is replanted and the revenue,
devoted to road maintenance, thus
lightening, or even obviating payment of,
local rates. Thinnings from the forests
during the growing period provide a local
supply of firewood.
The Jura district of France shows how
profitable such forests can be when they
are well established. Not only do they
provide free firewood for the inhabitants ;
the profits from the sales of timber are
so big that there is a complete freedom
from local rates, and every man, woman
and child in a population of 10,000 re-
ceives an annual cash bonus as well.
In the low- and medium-rainfall farming
districts of Australia, community, forests
would have to be limited to indigenous
hardwoods to supply the local needs in
the way of firewood, posts, telegraph-
poles, etc., of which there is now a serious
shortage in some places, but any district
which has a rainfall of 30 or more inches
can grow really valuable timbers, such
as oak, which could make good the short-
age of cask-staves, black walnut for
cabinetmaking, ash for tool-handles,
birch for plywood, poplar for the match
industry and Californian redwood for
doors and other interior fittings.
Another way to get trees is by land-
owners in the areas of heavy rainfall
planting part of their properties with
commercially valuable trees —a life-
insurance type of investment for them-
selves or for their children. At present
an immense amount of money has to be
paid in taxes because landowners can’t
obtain the materials with which to im-
prove their land ; tree-planting can solve
that problem.
The best way to get millions of addi-
tional trees would be for our big indus-
trial organisations to plant them in order
to provide future supplies of raw
material. The Masonite people are doing
it; another fine example is provided by
the Broken Hill Pty. When Essington
Lewis found that there was a war-time
shortage of hickory tool-handles, he de-
cided to do what all our Forestry Depart-
ments had neglected—grow hickory
in Australia. With seed-nuts sent from
America, J. R. Goode, the company’s
botanist, assisted by D. Whibley, a prac-
tical horticulturist, raised sufficient hickory
J&gdiings to start plantations and to dis-
tribute trees to landowners whose pro-
perties had the necessary good rainfall,
cool climate and deep alluvial soil.
One of the most profitable of similar
ventures would be to grow that valuable
timber, Burma teak, in North Queens-
land. One has only to look at the ex-
perimental plantation on the Atherton
Tableland to see that, under sound
management, it could not fail. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
£lO Basic Wage
While not actually hopeful of substan-
tiating their claim to a £lO basic wage,
organised workers throughout Australia
have no intention of waiving or even
modifying their demand. Yet it is in-
credible that people of average intel-
ligence can fail to realise that such a
would-be luxury at such a time would
react materially against themselves.
The £lO wage would not affect capital
nearly as seriously as it would labor. By
depreciating the value of money (and
wages) to the point where the unskilled
worker would, in fact, be working for a
pittance, the present narrow margin be-
tween cost of living and income earned
would, under a high wage-scale, vanish
completely. No industry or business de-
"Tell me if he annoys you , Mr. Thistlethwaite."
pendent upon limited capital can afford
a minimum wage greater than the sum
(per employee) from which a reasonable
profit may be taken. In other words,
when wages increase out of proportion to
the value of labor given, retail prices of
goods skyrocket out of proportion to the
value received by the purchaser.
The persons hardest hit under an
economy based on a fictitiously-high
minimum wage are the wage-earners
themselves and their families. That is
indisputable, and there is no remedy other
than striking a wage-level proportionate
to the worth of the goods produced.
There is a level, of course, below which
the worker would be exploited, but at no
time since arbitration have Australians
collectively been thus abused.
Most countries have lately experienced
inflation for various reasons, Australians
probably least of all. But should the £lO
basic wage become law the indications
are that inevitably we will have the real
thing. Like it or not, the facts and figures
are clear. Increased production alone
justifies increased wages, and until
workers generally return sincerely to the
tradition of a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay, wages already paid in this
country will remain economically too
high.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Blair Athol
So the Americans are going to take
over and work the Yampi Sound (W.A.)
iron-ore deposits (B. 11/1/’5O). And it’s
now hoped that the same people will
take over and work Blair Athol coalfield,
and of this The Bulletin (18/1 /’5O) says
Queenslanders “hope” something will
come of it—they’re so tired of having
their hopes disappointed. That sort of
statement makes me see red. What is
stopping them from doing something
about it themselves instead of “hoping”?
Must we sit back and see foreigners ex-
ploit our resources because we’re too
tired to do anything ourselves?
Regarding Blair Athol, what do we
need to get it going as a large-scale pro-
The present operators, to their
credit, have done fairly well, but their
output has been limited by the supply of
rail-wagons, and they have been kept in
short supply partly because the Railway
Department can’t get anyone to build
them in sufficient quantities, partly be-
cause the same department is naturally
reluctant to use its limited equipment on
a job which is going to involve it in a
loss. There’s no reason why it should
be done at a loss. Given decent equip-
ment, the freight over the existing rail-
way could come down to £1 a ton landed
at the wharf, and all such equipment—
rails, sleepers, high-capacity and
heavy locomotives, every blessed item,..in
fact —can be supplied in Australia. Load-
ing gear, port equipment, housing for
the miners, water-supply and amenities,
again every item, can be produced
locally. The only things lacking are the
heavy mining ; machinery—a relatively
small part of the total —and the will,
inclination or energy to tackle the job.
The problem of B.A. is how to dispose
of the coal. It’s no use tearing it out by
the million ton if you can’t sell it, but
here, too, the Americans are to be left
to fix that —British interests fell down on
that particular point. The Americans are
going to develop markets in the south
and in the Philippines, the latter in the
face of Jap competition. There’s still the
internal market, and it’s axiomatic that
it’s just as useful to use domestic pro-
duction to displace imports as it is to
run an export trade. Here the Ameri-
cans can’t help, and it’s entirely up to
Australians to use more coal and less
oil. The potentialities are enormous, the
economic advantages undoubted and the
chances of it being done negligible.
At the rate we’re going there won’t be
a coal-burning ship on the coast in five
years. In the south the railways are
turning over to oil-burning, and that’s a
one-way path. There’s no going back
once you’ve started. The Queensland
system is still faithful to coal, but, in the
face of intense oil-burning competition,
the disadvantages are too great for that
to last. In the sugar industry more oil
than coal is used for power and trans-
port.
In power-generation throughout the
State you find this sort of thing, Bris-
bane? Oil burned to help burn poor
coal. Toowoomba? It’s on the edge of
a coalfield and its oil-engines have been
used for advertising purposes by the
English manufacturer. Maryborough?
Also in the midst of coal, and it has one
power-station out of five using the stuff,
and that has one boiler using oil only.
Cairns? Eighty miles from a mine. Its
steam-generators, of an inefficiency which
would make James Watt turn in his
grave, are purely supplementary to oil.
Some examples out of many, but typical.
Add the constant movement of traffic
away from railways which can burn coal
to methods of transport which can’t and
then tell me where we’re going to sell the
coal we can produce.— Transporticus
(Singapore).
Socialism and Security
The inconclusive result of the British
election has focused world attention on
a crisis, not merely in British politics, but
in Parliamentary democracy itself. Every-
where people are becoming sharply
divided into two camps, between which no
compromise appears possible; those who
want a free, capitalist, competitive
economy and those who stand for Social-
ism, State monopoly and central control.
How incompatible they are we have seen
in our own country since the war. Con-
trols cannot function effectively in one
direction unless they an* w*
other controls, until all by
squeezed out, not by commit"* *? nse is
legislation. Free eniTf • tlon ’ bu t by
achieve full efficiency c Ca t nnot
aU special favors tonational eS tr >
tries are eliminated. So a mrt f mdUs ‘
Socialist economy will not fnrV^ 6 ’ part '
anybody. y 1 not tor lon S satisfy
Analysing the results of recent P
m Britain, Australia and New I? 1 , 10 " 5
on a basis of votes cast r otu ‘^ ea land
candidates elected " ° f
about the sante L“^ y S **
cent., are convinced sunnorW * per
of th f se systems, the rest being undeciS
and likely to be brought inS?
one side or the other by minof S ° n
Thus we are faced with either a UeS *
tmuation of the unsatisfaSo ry\ S’
Socialist State or a violent trLc f
every f ew years, from free enterprSto’
Sociabsm and back again. No St™
can expect to be prosperous under such
conditions, and, worst of all, the situ?
tion is a, strong temptation to each nartv
to take illegal steps to make its
permanent in the interests of S
government. This stultification of demo
cracy seems to have played a large part
m the success of Hitler’s and Mussoffi
coups—the people were willing to accent*
a dictator as the only visible alternative
A large number of those who vote
Socialist appear to want, not controls
but security. They do not like being
regimented but they fear another depres-
sion. They hold that capitalism failed
them last time; Socialism has not been
tested, but they will give it a chance
though they may dislike some of its
methods.
If any party could devise a programme
which, without destroying the bases of
a free economy, the profit motive, open
competition, the free exchange of goods
and services and the rest, guaranteed that
no man willing to work would ever be
long out of a job at a reasonable living
wage, and provided an adequate health
insurance system within the reach of
everyone, it would gradually drain away
much of the support given to the Social-
ists, leaving only a small group of ex-
tremists, the Communists and a few Labor
diehards. There would still be room for
two or more parties, but each would not
be pledged to destroy all that their
opponents had done. Thus a stable and
prosperous State would again be possible.
Britain has surmounted many crises in
the past; and will probably find the
answer to this one. In the meantime we
had belter look for a solution ourselves,
just in case.— Magnoon (Q.).
Educating the Adult
There recently landed on my desk a
dossier from the Victorian Council of
Adult Education setting out its syllabus
of classes for 1950. They included
Appreciation of Paintings in 10 lectures
by a National Gallery official; Art in
the Home, “a general course for all mem-
bers of the family desirous of develop-
ing artistic appreciation” ; What to Look
For, in which experts in the various
branches of art “will come along and
show you what to look for” in plays,
films, music, novels, poems and paint-
ings ; Appreciation and Criticism of the
Drama, Writing for Pleasure or Purpose,
Music and How to Listen to It, Clear
Thinking, Applied Psychology, Science,
Philosophy, Logic and Ethics and a
couple of dozen other subjects.
These adult education classes are no
doubt very charming, and they at least
give people a good excuse for g ettin B
away from the dullness of the suburba
routine, but that anything can be learnt
in this way is a horse of another color.
There has never been an age when
there have been more lectures on
crafts and the arts, and there has never
been an age when the crafts have
so poor except in engineering, -xet n '
body imagines he can learn to
aeroplanes or motor-cars m^ rely hat
attending 25-minute lectures. But wM
with university-extension courses, vv. • •
lectures and Adult Education sy >
all hands seem to- have got it mto tt l
heads that they can leant all abou
music, painting, sculpture, f
psychology, philosophy and
that way. . , he
Corot was a great painter, a
ought to have known how to g ,
it if anybody would. When a young
asked him how she could learn sai( f;
preciate his beautiful pictures j s tart
“Pick up a brush and palette and
The S world is producing marveyf
engineering, and to, the
ing seems impossible of achievei
but architecture and the
ting worse instead of better, g^. tua i
tenths of modern art JS metteci
jabber, —F. S. (Vic.),


. thp f t in Melbourne of a bar
L° nd °j ’(ln a jeweller’s window which
of g° ld fr . T of gilded copper—there
turned out to b a grea t deal of
>" random memories and is thm
S %‘f .ells"' cultured and
M f . Jac ? b ® Sat St. Paul’s College,
ferocious eaC i jted h i s pupils to tell
Lond e° n \hwhatthey were thinking and
him fianßy what _ about Scotch
th en lam^ e jjourne ; about a revolt of
?L C nts at Trinity College, Melbourne
Jacobs was at Ormond-
warden was burned in effigy ,
W hm?t a famous contest between Professor
£‘rd 5s and Dr. T. P. Mclnerney,
hk co-examiner in Roman Law:
Th ]atter took exception to Professor
1 hav ng prepared the examination
Jcnks Mvms subject without consulting
r. efS Accordingly? the doctor was sum-
hltn;pA t 0 a meeting of the examiners
Sd the professor. The questions
In the draft examination paper were sub-
°"hpH seriatim to the meeting. Jenks
rSn favor of each question. Mclnemey
2 d a«St °t. Jenks gave his casting-
vote for the ayes, and declared the question
approved! . . ,
From school and university he
proceeds to anecdotes of the days when
he reported the law courts for Melbourne
“Argus” and contributed an occasional
article to the “Lone Hand” and of his
fifty years’ experience at the Melbourne
Bar He complains to a judge during the
hearing of a case that the Act they are
dealing with is very badly worded, and is
acidly informed that the judge himself
had drafted the Act. He recites “Clancy
of the Overflow” to the prisoners at
Pentridge and scores an unexpected
success because the governor of the jail
happens to be named Paterson. And he
tells a good story of an elderly solicitor
nicknamed Sailor Bill who had the
reputation of being far from generous to’
his clerks: —
A lawsuit in which his office had been
engaged had lasted for about a month, and
his managing clerk had worked at it long
and hard by night and day, and finally the
case was won.
"Thank you for your solid work,” said
Sailor Bill, “and here, to show my appre-
ciation, is something for yourself.” He
handed him an envelope. Opening it, the
clerk found—a photograph of the donor!
The clerk looked hard at him, and then
at the photograph, and said very slowly:
"Yes, sir, that’s just like you; just—like—-
you!”
Here and there amongst the anecdotes
Mr. Jacobs expresses his opinions on
some important subjects: in favor of the
death penalty in murder cases where
there are no extenuating circumstances ;
in favor of attempts by the courts to effect
a reconciliation in divorce cases ; in favor
of a proportion of women in juries ; and
very much against the system of pre-
selection in party politics.
Arthur H. Adams .
James Francis Dwyer (R.P. 18/l/’5O),
a writer of fascinating novelette series
and serials, has been off my reading-list
! r , so J on S that I had completely lost
5* of hm- I had met him in the
lue Book Magazine,” “Redbook,”
*w en Ure ’” “ Black Cat,” “Popular”-
a long time ago!
v, ® r f view °f his autobiography, which
dS by sayin 8 that th e “Red Page”
thpir Usualy invite authors to review
hooks, stirred memories in
edimJ-^ 00 - About 1900, several
revipu, London did invite authors to
review then - own books.
at time I was on the reporting
staff of the “Evening Post” of Welling-
ton, N.Z.; Arthur H. Adams was also
on the staff. The editor was Gresley
Lukin, not long from Brisbane after his
venture with the “Boomerang,” a weekly
emulating The Bulletin spirit, to which
end he had imported Henry Lawson,
Brunton Stephens and Essex Evans —“the
three sweet singers of Australia,” of whom
it was said “they had only one good ear
amongst them” (hard of hearing).
One morning I found on my portion
of the table in the long room, the work-
shop of the reporters, a new book, with
an accompanying note: “Mr. Mills.
Please review.—G.L.”
It was Arthur H Adams’s first book,
Maoriland, My Mother!, a collection of
Arthur’s poems selected by A. G.
Stephens and published in Angus and
Robertson’s coveted Snowy River series.
I was writing some pars, when A.H.A.
came into the room prior to going along
to “do” the police court. Picking up the
book he exclaimed: “My book, Tom!
What’s it doing here?”
When I passed on the editor’s chit he
cried: “But this can’t be! You can’t
do this book! You don’t appreciate my
poetry! ”
“Better see the chief, Arthur, Tell him
what you think about it. I’m not keen.”
Still indignant, Adams hurried along
the corridor and, without hesitation,
rushed into that sanctum sanctorum
which the rest of us considered holy-
ground. But, then, Arthur was the
chief’s white-haired boy—didn’t he write
for The Bulletin!
Back came the poet, almost out of
breath. “The chief wants you* Tom.
You’d better bring the book!”
“What’s all this, Mills?” asked the big
triple-chinned Aussie in his best Shak-
spearian voice—some voice, too. “Why
don’t you do the job, as directed”
“But, Mr. Lukin,” Arthur interrupted,
“Tom is not fitted for such a critical
job. He is prejudiced!”
“What’s that—prejudiced?”
For the first time the poet showed
awkwardness, despite his egotism. He
looked at me. I nodded and said: “You’d
better tell the tale.”
So he told the amazed editor: “When
the poem ‘Maoriland, My Mother’
appeared in The Bulletin I showed it to
Tom Mills. He said it was ‘lame.’ Do
you think a man that doesn’t appreciate
that piece of poetry should be given my
book to review?”
The Old Man, who had settled his bulk
into the chair in the judicial manner, was
enjoying the interlude. He wasn’t giving
a verdict.
“Whom do you suggest as reviewer,
Adams?”
“I leave it to you, sir!”
“Oh! And have you any suggestion.
Mills?”
“Yes, Mr. Lukin. I have an idea and
I’m sure it will suit Arthur. Give him
the book to review. I’m sure he will do
it justice.”
As they both gazed amazedly at me
I added: “The ‘Post’ will be following
the latest London innovation. Editors
there are asking authors to write critiques
of their own books.”
And it was so in Wellington. The chief
chortled as he handed the poems to their
creator, who rejoiced so greatly that he
thanked me instead of the editor. And
the review by A.H.A. was a jolly good
three-quarters of a column in length . . .
Another intimately personal associa-
tion with Arthur Adams goes from light
comedy to macabre drama. The occa-
sion followed his appointment as private
secretary to Williamson, of Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove. The young New
Zealander was on the eve of leaving for
Sydney,
As junior reporter, he had been
associated with me through out a sen-
sational murder trial: from the finding
of the body, the inquest, the police-court
trial to the final putting on of the Black
Cap in the Supreme Court, As was the
custom, I, as the senior, was down on
the assignment-book to attend the hanging
in the Terrace jail.
On the fatal morning Arthur said to
me; “Tom, will you let me take your
place up at the jail? I’m leaving the
newspaper game and will never have an-
other chance to see a hanging. Both
the chief and Gibbons [the chief reporter,
who made up the assignment-book] told
me that it depended on your consent;
but, Tom, they both emphasised that
your name was to remain on the book.”
“So, if you don’t do the job, I’ll be
held responsible for the report,”
True to his casual character, Adams
replied: “Oh, that will be all right, Tom.
Come along and verify your consent.”
Arthur went blithely to the death-house
on the hill: when the bolt was shot and,
through a window opposite the scaffold,
the onlookers crowded into a small cell
saw the body drop and quiver, the
“Post’s” poet-reporter dropped also!
That was at 9 a.m.
The super - sensitive searcher - after -
experiences was still “out” when I got
back to the office at noon.
The editor and the chief reporter
wanted their report. When I rang the
jail and asked for the official in charge
of the execution, the Registrar of the
Supreme Court, Cooper, told me, “The
drop was too much for your substitute —
he has been unconscious ever since and
is holding up the inquest.” (Reporters
had to act as jurors on the inquest after
an execution.)
So, in terms of the book, I “did” the
hanging after all.
We didn’t see Arthur for three days—
his aftermath-sickness laid him out. He
did not mention the episode to me—nor
have I seen in any of his prose or verse
any reference to that dramatic experi-
ence.
TOM L. MILLS.
Reviewed Briefly .
Mr. Kronion ; Susan Alice Kerby
(Werner Laurie). A Greek is fished out
of a lake* in the grounds of the ancestral
mansion of the Boqueras, an English
family descended from a Spanish pirate,
and is given sanctuary by the young
George Boquera, ninth Viscount Ormolu-
Mount, who is discovered busily wrestling
with Mr. Attlee’s post-war austerity.
Then the drawing-room comedy proceeds,
the young Viscount falling for a
beautiful young girl who deals in old
wares ; and the girl who is brought across
from America to marry the Viscount
falling for the partner of the girl antique-
specialist. The Greek, who turns out to
be an ancient god, does little except give
a thunderbolt display at an amateur
theatrical performance in the village, of no
permanent, and little literary, brilliance
* * * *
I Walked at Dawn: Gerald Webster
(Allan, Wingate). This remarkable novel
is the story of a boy, son of
English migrants, who was crippled
by infantile paralysis in Broken Hill late
in the last century. His mother dead, his
stepmother having deserted his father, the
boy was left at hospitals and other
institutions while his father sought work
schoolmastering. Finally the father,
working in Queensland, decided to send
the boy home to his grandmother in
England ; and here there is an astonishing
account of how his father, to evade his
creditors and save train-fare, wheeled
him in a goat-cart 23 miles from Ipswich
to Brisbane; and how they became en-
tangled in a celebrated real-life murder
case. Arrived in England, the crippled
lad was pushed about by his eccentric
grandmother from board with strangers
to school and then to a charitable home ;
and then comes a moving and admirable
account of his struggle to earn his own
living by typing; of people who were
kind to him, and people who were not;
and at last of the hospital nurse who fell
in love with him and married him.
* * * *
The Dangerous World: Alexander
Henderson (Dent). A novel about a man
who came to maturity during the recent
war, it is an attempt to speak on behalf of
many young Englishmen, and to blame
their private dissatisfactions and in-
adequacies upon frustrated fathers who
took out their angers by beating dogs and
being harsh to their wives, and upon
mothers who sought too much sympathy
from their sons ; the hero, after several
affairs which left the ladies scornfully un-
satisfied, married a girl with whom he was
happy for a while, and then, when he
was in the British Government service
abroad, she left him and went to live with
another British official; the flashbacks to
the hero’s childhood and adolescence
show, as the cover says, “fidelity and
exactness of observation,” and if the book
does not quite make its point, but leaves
the impression of special-pleading for g
rather thin view of life, it is at any rate
finely written.
* * * *
Cheaper By The Dozen: Frank B.
Gilbreth and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey
(Heinemann). Deservedly an American
best-seller ; for although there has been
a flood of American comic fathers, this
one has the novelty of having been one
of America’s foremost efficiency experts ;
and the book, by two of his twelve
children, is a loving exposure of his
application of efficiency methods to their
upbringing: teaching the whole family
touch-typing in a few weeks ; covering
walls and ceilings of their seaside home
with dots and dashes to teach them
Morse; showing them short-cuts in
arithmetic, and then visiting their schools
and demanding that they be put up two
classes instead of one —his object being to
get them all through school and uni-
versity before he dies. Efficiency also
extended to a home-council, living-room-
carpet lessons in yacht-sailing before
embarkation upon, the real thing, and
learning to speak French while bathing,
from gramophones installed in the bath-
rooms. Efficiency in the hands of Frank
Bunker Gilbreth was anything but a dull
subject, and as his children saw it, it has
provided some of the best belly-laughter
of the year.
* * * *
The Lascaux Cave Paintings: Fernand
Windels (Faber). With a foreword by
the Abbe Breuil, who is the expert on
Lascaux, a preface by Professor Christo-
pher Hawkes, and 160 black-and-white
reproductions and eight color-plates by
Mr. Windels, with an explanatory text,
this large book covers both exhaustively
and elegantly one of the most important
recent discoveries of prehistoric drawings.
Lascaux is in south-west France, and the
cave-paintings, which include one of a
“unicorn” and another of a bird-headed
man being attacked by a bison, are, of
course, of the first importance to the
archeologist. But the amazing thing
about them, as with the Altamira draw-
ings, is their grace and lightness of line,
which makes the frieze of deer swimming
a stream in this book a thing of rare
beauty. The “primitive” artists of this
period, who at Altamira even made a
charging wild boar look as graceful as a
swan, were anything but primitive.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 60
Across.
,akes ,he
"“K4S r r.” d , French pro,ec-
weSfth f / ees tbe captive but
mind (13) matter again in the
] 2^^ o p n iem ne (5 O ) thC WiSC MtieS
14-P nn u e 1$ the writer ’ s heart? (8)
preside'of T!l we ho P e - in the
16-alk 6 f ladies - ( 5 )
Pian ° Pant W
2l^To^° n jn ba " ked by Esau - (4)
lunches h ( o 4) OVakia noted
2 *-The cry € of over -Placed. (5)
~ Peians i n ? Pom-
27~HitlerV i loi ?cloth. (4, 4)
3« ®°rning orwhe ends with a
30 First have n,? f P ianof orte. (5)
johnny f rom e f , ffr e e , the Scottish
3i~fe ic l’h s,antls - a ST ' ,hich
3 2 JjD he Metallic is colored.
is to act like a
a cemetery. (8)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1— The front of the ship with
scratchable troubles is in favor
of enchantresses: (3-7)
2 Australian river runs up in such
regalia. (5)
3 English actress to fish when walk-
ing like a baby. (8)
4 Depending on with some regard
to dishonesty. (7)
6 Mistakes. (6)
7 Africans who allow the cobbers
to swallow Tasman. (9)
8— Take to the ship and throw up.
(4) ,
9_Swears insultingly for a sailors
customs. (6)
13 —Make an impression if the grain
is complementary to a tooth-
brush. (10)
15—In favor of the country in the
act of turning the palm face
downwards. (9)
17 —Taking French leave can make
quite a bore. (3)
19 —Bradman’s last Test score to fish
for a hero in a nursery story. (8)
22 The saint, sobeit, is part of a
plant. (6)
23 Ring the darling instrument. (7)
25—The horse’s mother swallows me
and my mother in France. (2, 4)
28— Part of the east is rising for
food. (5)
29 Tips up a district on Sydney’s
Middle Harbor. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 59.


There's a
NATIONAL MUTUAL POLICY
to suit your purpose-aya/ you
&
v\*
net
(fl/D,
INCOME
ASSURANCE
As s
ATe
*sS
*o?*,
'"4.,
* Cf, As e
POINTS FROM THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL'S
BCTANNUAL REPORT
INCOME UP
BONUS RATE MAINTAINED
★ During the year 48,641 New
Policies were issued assuring
£ 25,520,946.
★ A record amount of £5, 549,727
was paid to policyholders.
★ Total net income was
£ 10,211,276.
★ Rate of interest earned on the
Assurance Fund was £sl-1- %.
After deduction of rates and taxes,
the net rate remained as in 1948 —
£3/12/1 %.
★ Reversionary Bonuses have been
allotted to members’ policies upon
the same liberal scale as those
declared in 1947 and 1948.
Funds are available for Home
Purchase Loans and other approved
securities.
I
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </AUSTRALASIA,LTD
(Ine. in Vic.) (Estab. 1869)
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY PHONE 8L1271
