

CHAT
ANDY
ŵ
ẁ
HOUSE OF SEPPEIT
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3654
Wednesday, February 22,1950
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HERMITAGE CASTLE GAUNTLY GUARDS ITS GRIM HISTORY
hermitage Castle, situated on the Hermitage Water, are in
r es , e > Roxburghshire, Scotland, where Dandie Dinmont, in Scott’s
uuy Mannering, was a farmer. The origin of the name Hermitage is reputed
o be due to the fact that a cell was established here by a hermit and the
remains of his chapel are still visible today. The site of the castle was
exceedingly strong, being defended on one side by the river and, on the other
tnree, by a deep morass which could be flooded in time of need. Above
tne mam entrance, holes were provided for pouring down stones and other
storm IVe wea P ons u P° n an enemy who might attempt to take the castle by
Although the fortress was founded by Walter Comyn, the surrounding
h m belonged to the powerful barons of Soulis who later captured and
neid the castle until they fell into disfavour, whereupon the castle passed into
rne possession of Sir John Grahame, Lord of Abercorn. The heiress of this
Dar °n conveyed the castle and estates to her husband, William Douglas, known
as the Black Knight of Liddesdale, and who rose to high distinction during the
reign of David 11 of Scotland, and the castle became his principal stronghold,
the fortress was captured by the English but was later re-taken by Douglas.
In later years, Hermitage Castle was the scene of a brutal murder when
Sir Alexander Ramsay of Dalhousie was seized at Hawick by Douglas and
carried off to remote Hermitage where he was thrown into a dungeon with his
horse and left to die. The unfortunate prisoner prolonged his existence for
a period by eating the few grains of corn which fell from a granary above
the vault in which he was confined. In the eighteenth century, when excavations
were being carried out, this dungeon was uncovered and revealed a human
skeleton, a quantity of chaff and the bones of a horse with an ancient .bridle
which would seem to verify the truth of this dark deed; one of many which
took place at Hermitage Castle. Little wonder, therefore, that the castle ruins
have the reputation of being haunted by the spirits of those who suffered within
its walls.
Hermitage Castle came into the possession of James, Earl of Both-
ell, who was visited there by Mary Queen of Scots, and it is recorded
that her carriage on one occasion became stuck fast in the morass beneath
the walls of the stronghold, and thereafter that particular spot was called
the “Queen’s Mire.”


sarn Z
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Front an
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,” ' ‘
My Name
My Address
S.B. 150
AGE
The PedPage
A LIFE OF SKELTON.
The present reviewer has long cherished
a theory that Skelton’s “Ware the Hawk”
is an allegory. As a story of a neighbor-
ing cleric who broke into Skelton s
church at Diss, locked the rector out and
let a hawk loose at a pigeon—as it is
read by Philip Henderson, who edited the
Dent Complete Poems, and by H. L. R.
Edwards, the scholarly author of
Skelton: the Life and Times of an Early
Tudor Poet (Cape)—it seems improb-
able ; and certainly we do need to look
further than “Speke Parrot” to be assured
that allegory, using an animal symbology,
was one of Skelton’s favorite methods of
attack.
Is it likely that, granted a pigeon lived
in the church, or had flown in, a hawk
would be willing to chase it in such un-
familiar, alarming and awkward circum-
stances? Is it likely, again, that the
killing of the pigeon should take place,
of all the nooks and crannies of the
church, right upon the altar, so convenient
a focal point for Skelton’s indignation? :
For sure he wrought amiss
To hawk in my church of Diss.
This fond frantic falconer,
With his polluted pawtener,
As priest unreverent,
Straight to the sacrament
He made his hawk to fly,
With hugeous shout and cry.
The high altar he stripped naked;
Thereon he stood and craked;
He shook down all the clothes
And sware horrible oaths
Before the face of God,
By Moses and Aaron’s rod,
’Ere that he hence yede
His hawk should pray and feed
Upon a pigeon’s maw.
The blood ran down raw
Upon the altar stone;
The hawk tired on a bone . . .
And, if the hawk’s conduct here and
subsequently is a little too nicely timed
and placed to be quite credible, is not the
interloping priest, even in times as rough
as those of Henry VIII, also a shade im-
probable in his extreme of blasphemous
violence—stripping the cloths from the
altar and swearing his “horrible oaths” in
that holy place?
True, it could be argued that Skelton
was merely improving the drama of an
actual incident for poetic purposes ; one
way or another, if not quite in the way
of the poem, the “mazed, witless, smeary
smith,” whom Mr. Edwards painstakingly
identifies as a certain Rev. John Smith of
East Wretham, did run loose in Skelton’s
church. But even to admit that Skelton
has colored truth to this extent is to
begin questioning the historical veracity
of the poem; and, having gone so far,
it is tempting to go further and doubt
that the incident occurred at all.
If the hawk was not a real hawk it
could have been a symbol for almost
anyone Skelton disapproved of on
religious or politico-religious grounds;
and he disapproved of a great many
people; in particular, whoever it was who
informed his bishop that, like so many of
his colleagues, the poet kept a mistress;
and his bishop for reprimanding him in
this matter ; and Thomas Bilney, Thomas
Arthur and all other heretics ; and, above
all. Cardinal Wolsey—who could excel-
lently have been portrayed as a hawk let
loose in the church and whom Skelton
did once, with many other irate epithets,
describe as a hawk. And if the dates Mr.
Edwards so patiently works out for the
poems would not allow the hawk to have
represented any of these gentlemen, it
could still have been some other enemy
of the church or of Skelton.
But it is one thing to hold such a
theory, another to prove it. And it would
take a great deal more courage and more
knowledge than the present reviewer
possesses seriously to argue about the
hawk with so eminent an authority as
Mr. Edwards. When the biographer can
correct such devoted followers of Skelton
as Mr. Henderson, who says that Wolsey
“imprisoned” Skelton—Mr. Edwards says
the poet merely retired to sanctuary at
Westminster from the Cardinal’s wrath
over “Colin Clout” and “Why Come Ye
Not to Court?”—and can even inform
Francis Thynne (who wrote only 75 years
after the event) that Skelton could not
have composed “Colin Clout” in “my
father’s house at Erith in Kent” —when
the biographer who knows all the dates
and all the answers declares the hawk
was a hawk and nothing more, one can
only agree that it was . . . with a lingering
regret, with a lingering and infinitesimal
doubt.
The only way in which a mere amateur
may safely attempt to criticise a work
of scholarship so solid and so meticulous
is to approach it as a specimen of prose
style, a biography and as a commentary
on Skelton’s poetry.
Mr. Edwards writes well; plainly for
the most part, keeping to the facts, but
allowing himself an occasional excursion
into ironical metaphor, as when he speaks
of Skelton taking farewell of the Cardinal
in “Why Come Ye Not to Court?” with
“a wild shower of Latin mud.”
His interest in the poems is scholarly
rather than critical, but his appraisals,
where they occur, are always sensible
and moderate. His summing-up of
“Elinor Rumming,” for example, that
rough-and-tumble tosspot poem, the
forerunner of “The Beggar's Opera” and
Burns’s “Jolly Beggars,” which is prob-
ably best known in this country in the
Fanfrolico edition bound in penitential
sackcloth, as “the most indisputably
national poem our literature had yet
seen” is much preferable in its modera-
tion to Philip Henderson’s excessive claim
for “Philip Sparrow” as “one of the
loveliest poems in the language.” There
is some pretty writing, following the
classic models, in “Philip Sparrow”:
It had a velvet cap
And would sit upon my lap,
And seek after small wormes
And sometimes white bread-crumbes;
And many times and oft
Between my breastes soft
It would lie and rest;
And when I said “Phip, Phip!”
Then he would leap and skip
And take me by the lip,
Alas it will me slo
That Philip is gone me fro!
But some 1400 lines about the death of
a young lady’s sparrow is really too
much. It is one of the most maddeningly
overwritten poems in the language.
Not enough is known about Skelton, or
known with certainty, for a biographer
really to be able to do much with him,
unless he uses the imaginative methods of
the historical novelist; and Mr. Edwards’s
mixture of sober fact and cautious specu-
lation is very much preferable to any
attempt at popular romanticising. Mr.
Edwards accepts, with reservations, two
stories from the Merrie Tales of Skelton,
both irresistible: how the poet, when the
complaint was made at Diss about his
keeping a mistress, brought his baby boy
into church and asked his parishioners,
“How say you, neighbors all? is not
this child as fair as is the best of all
yours? It hath nose, eyes, hands and feet,
as well as any of your. It is not like a
pig, nor a calf, nor like no foul nor no
monstrous beast”; and how, when at
last he was being pardoned by Wolsey for
his satires, he said to the great Cardinal,
“I pray your Grace to let me lie down
and wallow, for I can kneel no longer,”
But for the rest —as must be the case
unless it is to be unreliable or faked —
direct contact with Skelton is missing,
and the biography is an examination and
elaboration of bare historical facts: the
poet’s university career till he was
crowned “laureate” at Oxford; his
tutorship of the youthful Henry VIII,
during the course of which he advised the
budding monarch to “pick out a wife for
himself and love but her alone”; his
retirement to his parish at Diss and
subsequent return to Court, pranking it
in his special green-and-white livery as
Orator Royal; his satires against Wolsey,
whom he pleasingly described as “a mad
coot,” and his retreat to sanctuary at
Westminster; his emergence after mak-
ing peace with the Cardinal (no doubt a
very sensible somersault but surely not
quite so creditable as Mr. Edwards would
like to believe); and his concluding
diatribes, at Wolsey’s request, against
Thomas Bilney and Thomas Arthur, the
first of whom, persisting in his heresy,
was subsequently burnt at the stake.
Somewhere in the midst of all this
there is one of the most vital characters
m English poetry and almost certainly the
most irascible. He does not fully emerge
as a living person from Mr. Edwards’s
biography, but that is not essentially the
purpose of the book. It follows the three
works on Skelton which have been pub-
lished since 1938, those of J. L- Lloyd,
Professor Gordon and Dr. William
Nelson, and is intended to debate some
points with those authorities and to pro-
vide fresh information. In effect, it is the
latest and most complete biographical
background to Skelton’s poetry and as
such, to anyone who cares for this rough,
garrulous but invigorating writer, it is
indispensable.
Good Manners.
In his Poets and Story-Tellers
(Constable; Angus and Robertson) Lord
David Cecil prints two quotations to
show what he has tried to do: one from
Walter Pater, to the effect that the
“aesthetic critic” should expound and ex-
plain the work he is criticising with
reverence for its distinguishing qualities y
and the other from Hazlitt saying that a
criticism should reflect the color and
passion of the original.
Expounding “Antony and Cleopatra,”
Lord Cecil makes the point that it is
essentially a play about politics rather
than a simple tragedy of love.
Shakspeare is showing us men and women
in public life, and how public affairs
affect their private relationships: in
proof of which the critic reminds us
that Antony and Cleopatra are never
alone together as are Macbeth and Lady
Macbeth. And Shakspeare, in presenting
Antony’s problem as to whether he
should sacrifice public affairs to love or
love to public affairs, does not, as
Bernard Shaw misconceives him, take
sides or indulge in moral judgment:
“His conclusion seems to be that it is
impossible to be certain in our judgment
of Antony’s conduct.”
Turning next to John Webster, Lord
Cecil seeks to clear the author of “The
Duchess of Malfi” from the charge of
merely presenting melodramatic horrors
in impossible plots. He stresses the under-
lying spiritual significance which gives
Webster’s people a deeper reality than
that of mere probability; the dark, fore-
boding vision in which his villains are
doomed to hell and his heroes pre-
cariously rewarded. “Indeed,” says Lord
Cecil, “Webster is a true tragic poet: one
who, facing the most dreadful and
baffling facts of human existence in all
their unmitigated horror, yet trans-
mutes them by the depth and grandeur of
his vision into a thing of glory. This is
the rarest sort of poet —and the
greatest.”
There is an essay on Thomas Gray, re-
minding us that that extremely respect-
able author is sometimes quite as obscure
as T. S. Eliot and for much the same
reason;, the use of scholarly allusions.
Who, without the help of notes or
learned commentators, could possibly be
expected to know that
The bristled Boar in infant-gore
Wallows beneath the thorny shade
refers to the death of Richard 111 at the
battle of Bosworth?
The essay on Fanny Burney is
particularly valuable because, instead of
confining himself to the charming and
malevolent Diary by which Fanny is
best known today, Lord Cecil has actually
had the courage to read a novel re-
commended by Dr. Johnson and finds
Evelina, though its author was “not an
artist, not even an efficient craftsman,”
still sparkling with “a dewy freshness”
and, as a combination of the methods of
Richardson and Fielding, the forerunner
of Jane Austen and the modern novel.
Since Fanny took her heroines more
seriously than Fielding and could describe
them much more realistically than
Richardson, she may be held responsible
for the thousands of novels which, from
Jane Austen to Christina Stead or Kylie
Tennant, with varied degrees of
sophistication, have “taken as their
subject a picture of society seen through
the clear, unsophisticated eyes of a young
girl freshly launched into it, and grouped
round the story of her courtship.”
Then there is Jane Austen with “the
sensibility to the value of form which
makes her view of life so much more
convincing than those of the Victorians
who followed her.” Lord Cecil touches
the inmost secret of Jane Austen’s magic
here, and in this one sentence explains
why her novels, slight as they are, are
yet so firm: it is her “sensibility to form”
—not only “good form” in society but
the form of the novel and the form of
character. “If you could not manage to
be good 4 there was some merit in being
good-mannered There is nothing
puritanical or provincial about it, it
recognises that body and mind have their
claims as well as soul, it is a civilised
philosophy for civilised people.”
In the notes on Turgenev we find that
most alluring of heroines, Irina, expertly
dissected as “one of the few evil sirens
of literature who convince us of then-
power to charm; the charm is not a
wholly pleasing one —that is one of the
most brilliant strokes in Turgenev’s
description.” There is a similarly exact
account of Benjamin Constant’s Adolphe,
“a purely regrettable story of slow dreary
defeat expressed once and for all in
faultless and imperishable form”; and
the book concludes with Virginia Woolf
and E. M. Forster —Virginia Woolf
described not only as the “revolutionary”
she is usually thought to be but, more
significantly, as ‘the most satisfying of
aesthetes... .the culmination of the
Nmeties and that movement of which
Walter was the high-priest^
r T s e^ e are ga P s in most of the essavs
Lord Cecil makes no attempt to penetrate
nto the private grief” in which Gray’s
ta l en } ?; nd llfe were sunk and out of
which his handful of poems reluctantly
emerged. He is too much concerned with
the moral significance of Webster to eo
deeply into what is, finally, far more
important, his development of speech!
rhythms to a modern speed and fluency
and the astonishing beauty of his poetry
m those rare lines that flash out like rays
or moonlight from the storm-clouds of
his savage gloom:
UnTTw 1 not . one repetition of the echo
But that , and on the sudden a clear light
Piesented me a face folded in sorrow.
Webster’s faults are too readily dis-
missed; the abrupt breaks of continuity
m which Turgenev tells us the past
histories of his characters and the abstract
fictional method of Adolphe are too
readily accepted.
Taken together, the even, good-
tempered, quietly persuasive writing, and
the unwillingness to go beyond certain
limits, make a book in which, as Lord
Cecil says of Gray, the author’s good-
manners “blur the edges of his writing
and subdue its color.” Lord Cecil is
much more successful in the first of his
aims than the second. He expounds his
authors with a fine sympathy; but the
reflection of passion and color, the heat
and energy of Hazlitt’s criticism are lack-
ing. The writing never catches fire.
Sea Chase .
Andrew Geer’s novel Sea Chase
(Collins) covers half the globe and keeps
the reader in a constant pitch of sustained
interest.
Not only does Captain Erhlich, a
passed-over German naval officer of
World War I, fight the sea and the sea’s
most intimate acquaintance, the British
Navy ; he contends with, as well, in the
Conrad tradition, internal intrigue,
mutiny, desertion and faintheartedness in
his own ship’s company, crushing all these
barriers to his making a home port with
ruthless determination —a single-minded
resolve, not only to beat the British Navy
at a time when Germany is feeling the
stranglehold of blockade, but, most im-
portantly, to use his triumph as a ladder
to reinstatement in his own beloved Navy.
■ That resolve fixes Erhlich’s character;
it affects and colors his every action. So
that even the murder of unarmed fisher-
men sheltering in a lonely food-cache
far south in the Tasman whose contents
Erhlich wants for his own purpose; his
ramming of a native outrigger whose
crew, working for a British cruiser anu
reconnoitring near-by islands, have dis-
covered his whereabouts; his rnerc\ -
killing of a shark-savaged apprentice, to
save feeding a useless mouth and to n
the ship of the intolerable, pervading
stench of gas-gangrene; all these actions
are appreciated by the reader in the fig
of the captain’s overmastering idea—to
get home, at whatever cost to ship or men.
A good deal of the long run home is
spent at Pom Pom Gali, a deserte ■
heavily-wooded mid-Pacific island,
course there is a girl aboard, an
of course second officer and captain fig
subtly, as befitting their relative ranks,
for her favors, which she, accommo
ingly, dispenses to both. There 1S a
almost a surfeit of incident; the sche
to rid the old ship of her giant rats,
death ashore of an aged lookout a
on his peak and the immediate rea
of the starved, shore-bound rats,
happens when the girl, sent up to rep
him, sights the native prau and at nc
signal Erhlich puts to sea, leaving tfi
half-demented lookout alone wi
rats —and the dominant, driving,
personality of the captain, an ,
watching his food diminish, the
pile grow, driving his starved ere
haustion and listening, desperate, j n
wireless signals of warships cl §
for the kill. . . . r
He slips the net, beats a British c
into Valparaiso by a few hou ,
cornered there—until news of th O
Spee fight whips the cruiser off ,
the Plate, leaving Erhlich,
reconditioned, a clear run h •
he meets his greatest ec j
which rears upon him and his §
in a fury of wind and snow gh on£
Arctic Circle. The only we
of the finest sea stories f eQant , a
late war is the young naval iron of
thoroughly puny figure against th
Captain Erhlich.


MULTIPLE* FITTING-SHOE 'SECTION
&
m
17
m
f.
Courteous and prompt are our friendly salesmen.
V
0
v M
A &
< K'—
X:
/
Ifir
Care and attention is given to the fit of shoe.
*
m
\
I
£
jrr\
Your correct foot size is filed for future reference.
Sr\
1
til!
I
■I MIN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns
TRUTH
I
K 3
fl
H
■
i
B
■
m
m
m
T:,
■r
■
■
r
B
a
m
m
■
13
■
Hrl
m
k
» .
«f m
: ■
X*
m
. - 7 y -*Hi
/
Mif
0F:
Right
Large photo, left. * .
No-cap Derby in Tan Calf, Black Box Calf with leather heels; j|j
Tan Elk with non-slip rubber soles, 54/6; Glace Kid, 59/-.
Large photo , right.
Neat Oxford in Tan Calf or Black Box Calf, 54/6; Black Glace
Kid, in fittings AA to EE, sizes 3 to 12. Price for Glace Kid, 59/-.
Mogger Casuals by “Packard” in Tan Calf with flexible leather
soles and soft uppers. Available in sizes 4 to 12, price, per pair, 46/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MULTIPLE FITTING SHOES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEJC
call into Anthony Horderns’ modern multiple fitting shoe
have your shoe fitting recorded
It will then be filed so that the next time you want a new pair
of shoes, we have the correct size and can send them to you.
When in Sydney
Above.
“Packard” Brogue in Tan/Black Box
Calf or Brown Suede, 65/-; Scotch
Zebu, B to F fitting, sizes 5-14, price, 67/-
Belmo left.
“Packard” Moccasin in Tan Calf
with leather/non-slip rubber soles.
Available in sizes 5-12, 60/-


lIP
Photograph by Dr. Julian Smith
A LIFE
HANGS IN THE BALANCE
The operation is over, and the flame o£ life that suddenly became dim has teen
revived by a blood transfusion made possible by Red Cross. But there are
many anxious hours ahead, and further transfusions may be necessary before the
patient is out of danger.
Hour by hour, through day and night, the Red Cross Blood Transfusion
Service speeds life-giving blood to hospitals as a work of mercy. Here, doctors
and nurses anxiously await its arrival to revive young and old whose lives have
almost ebbed away through illness, accidents or operations.
Red Cross is proud to render this service to the community, and looks to every
citizen for assistance in maintaining it. Blood transfusion is but one of the
many services which Red Cross gives to humanity, for ex-Servicemen and
civilians alike—perhaps, to-morrow, for you or your loved ones.
An appeal is made to those in health to help those who are sick and in need.
Will you send a donation, no matter how small, to the New South Wales
Division, Australian Red Cross Society, 27 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Blood donors are also urgently needed. If you are willing to help, will you please
write or telephone the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service, 374 George Street,
Sydney. Tel.: 8W1684-
This space donated by the Kensington Bowling Club, Kensington,
N S.W., who support their local branch of the Red Cross,
is by way of an appreciation of the Society’s humane services.
GIVE TO RED CROSS
<s%€>/ em(/
NEW SOUTH WALES DIVISION, AUSTRALIAN RED CROSS SOCIETY


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3654
Wednesday, February 22, 1950
“MY GOVERNMENT WILL’....”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PARLIAMENT'S TASK.
It is almost fifty years since the first Com-
monwealth Parliament met in Melbourne,
its founders flushed with pride and hope
in their infants, a neat, compact pair of
Assemblies which had been designed to
co-ordinate and unify the work of the
sovereign States rather than to supersede
them. It was intended to be merely a
mouthpiece through which every part of
the Commonwealth, while retaining its
right to local self-government, could
express its unity, join in extending a
common hand of friendship to Powers
abroad and repel the foreign foe with a
single and undivided force.
The people of Australia accepted it
with lighthearted enthusiasm, the more
particularly since it was proposed that it
should be an inexpensive toy. There was
to be no competition with the States,
and if any Australian had envisioned that
within fifty years or less the Common-
wealth would be collecting the whole of
income taxation, with its capital turned
into a central Treasury to which the
Premiers come cap in hand for their
slice of common revenue, and with its
departments expanded to touch almost
every phase of local administration, there
would have been far less cheering in many
quarters. There were, indeed, many Aus-
tralians shocked at the swelling expensive-
ness of the national baby when, before
World War I, Commonwealth revenue
ran into double figures, just as there were
those who cried blue ruin when, before
World War 11, only a decade ago, the
Canberra Budget began to reach out to-
wards the hundred-million mark, a level
which seems puny when the rise of the
tide under a squandering Socialist ad-
ministration since that time is regarded.
For no year since 1941-42 has a Federal
Government been able to pack its revenue
needs within £400,000,000. Its “social
services” alone cost it more than five times
the whole amount raised as revenue in a
midway year between Federation and
1914, The overall annual interest liability
is going on for £ll a head, a sum" which
seems negligible in the present unreal
situation of a country where steak is 3s.
a pound, and where orators of the com-
bined unions, “Labor” and Communist
together, recently spent a Sabbath after-
noon uttering the direst threats of what
their action will be if the Arbitration
Court doesn’t hurry up and make £lO a
week the basic wage.
In this atmosphere an enlarged Parlia-
ment full of new blood is hastening to
Canberra. It» is not a united Parliament,
since the outgoing rulers were careful to
leave behind a Senate which would be so
constituted that it can defy the election
mandate if need be and make the road
of the Government and the majority of
the Lower House difficult, if not impos-
sible. It is also an inexperienced Parlia-
ment, since most of its incoming members
are young and not much versed in the
essentials of Federal administration.
So far the Menzies Government’s
measures have been popular, largely be-
cause they have been on the giving side
and in a vein to which the people have
become accustomed. But it is very
important that the new Parliament
should make a sober and realistic
beginning, with the Ministry setting an
example of what is expected, ultimately,
of the nation. Its main tasks are to
establish the permanent right of free
enterprise to function without fear of
being ruined by a passing Socialist
Administration, and the Government can-
not lay down the ground for such a
measure unless it begins by establishing
confidence in its own adherence to the
principles of free enterprise and by a
determination to cut to a minimum State
Socialism in the form of nationalised pro-
jects and doles and electoral bribes and
social subsidies.
The new and enlarged body also is
faced with the task of restoring Parlia-
mentary authority, which has been almost
completely destroyed during the past 10
years, Parliament having become a mere
registering-machine for secret juntas and
caucuses which take their orders and
have taken their policies from the union
bosses. One of the first things which the
new Houses will need to do is to assert
their right to control the Government
policy in the open and to end the condi-
tion of affairs under which no project
however well reasoned, no objection how-
ever cogent, has had a chance of succeed-
ing during the progress of a bill unless
it has been accepted in secret by a party
caucus behind closed doors.
Also, the immemorial right of the
private member to be heard needs to be
restored by the allotment of regular
grievance days unalterably the preserve
of the private member, and, even at the
price of longer sittings and harder work,
the older system (destroyed by the Lyons
Government) of allowing a reasonable
time for the debate of the Estimates.
This year’s Estimates of the depart-
ments, with their staggering staffs and
payrolls, call for a searching examination.
It is fatal to believe that export
prices will continue indefinitely at their
present inflated level now that European
countries are returning to normal pro-
duction and are coming to the point at
which they will no longer be forced to
pay any price we care to ask for wool
and foodstuffs. These countries, having
got into their peace-time swing, will very
shortly find themselves in competition
with the new Asiatic peoples, whose
economic stability Mr. Spender is so
anxious to build up. And, if that hap-
pens, there seems almost certain to be a
world price-war in staple manufactures
which may seriously affect the price of
raw materials, existing prices being the
only factor which makes present sky-the-
limit conditions in Australia possible.
If there should be, within the next few
years, a serious recession in export prices
without a due consolidation of our posi-
tion in anticipation, the results could be
something to stagger the economy.
And it seems to be- the duty of Parlia-
ment, first and before everything, to get
the capital costs of equipping industry,
including the primary industries in par-
ticular, with those facilities for increas-
ing production of which they are short,
together with the housing and similar
problems, well out of way as early as
possible, while at the same time build-
ing up a defence reserve against the con-
tingency of another war.
In other words, what is needed in the
coming year is a legislative programme
which is aimed firmly to reduce cost of
government and cost of production while
at the same time wiping out those foreign-
guided elements who are bent on resist-
ing every move to place the economy of
Australia on a firm and stable basis and
who to that end are preaching the gospels
of loaf, class-war and disruption.
McGirr and Coal.
By-elections in three electorates —a
mining, a rural, and a metropolitan con-
stituency—having revealed a rough-cross-
section of public feeling, it is clear that
New South Wales no longer has any
confidence in the McGirr Government.
Its term of office will expire in three
months anyway. With what it knows
now, its duty is go to the country with-
out delay.
The surviving partner of the Chifley-
McGirr Axis was never anything but
a dutiful yes-man in the campaign
for socialisation. Where the Chifley
dictatorship fell down, the Macquarie-
street auxiliary could hardly hope to
survive, anyway. But the McGirr Minis-
try’s final test, like that before which its
Axis partner folded up, is likely to come
on the coalfields. Already the signs are
abroad of a renewal of that blackmail
of Australian industry by the Communist
directorate of the Miners’ Federation
which was the constant feature of the
Axis’s three years’ reign.
The coming weeks should clear up pre-
vailing doubts whether Mr. McGirr, in
association with a very different partner
in Canberra in the direction of policy
through the Joint Coal Board, means to
co-operate in the supreme task of getting
coal. The days are over when it was
sufficient excuse for existence of this
supine N.S.W. “Labor” Government that
it caused two night-trotteries to grow
where but one bloomed beforehand, and
gave attention to rigging State electorates
in some gesture of preserving “Labor”
strength for support of the senior Axis
partner
Mr. McGirr’s impotence in face of the
supreme Australian industrial problem is
no mere concoction of “the hostile Press.”
These are the views of his new Deputy-
Premier as delivered publicly during the
coal strike last July:
The nation is not going to remain in
want....lf Labor can’t get coal it has no
alternative but to vacate office The Com-
munists were allowed to get control of the
coalfields because members of the Labor
party were willing to sit down and do
nothing about it.
When the strike collapsed through sheer
disaffection of the strikers, induced
through the freezing of their funds by
the senior Axis partner and the antagon-
ism of non-Communist unions unem-
ployed for lack of coal, what did either
of these bold-speaking “Labor” Govern-
ments do to enforce full production on
the coalfields? What instructions did the
Axis policy-moulders give to their Joint
Coal Board? The iron was hot for their
striking. They again “sat down and did
nothing,” in Mr, Cahill’s words, and let
the iron grow cold.
With unquestioning approval by the
electors in 1946 the Federal and N.S.W.
“Labor” Governments undertook their
joint coal enterprise under the best of
auspices. They did not nationalise the
mines like their Socialist opposite-numbers
in Britain—“no powers to do so,” said
Mr. Chifley—but they moved to a half-
way-house in that direction and set up
a Joint Coal Board with powers to con-
trol production, distribution and prices
quite as wide as those taken in war-time,
and, “in some important respects, wider,”
the board has declared. They agreed
mutually that “it would be unwise to
allow the coal industry in N.S.W. to
revert to a condition of unfettered private
enterprise.” The colliery-owners were
accordingly “fettered,” The two Govern-
ments (as the Joint Coal Board has re-
lated, and it ought to know) decided to:
Jointly establish a permanent authority to
which the State would contribute most of
the power supplemented by a limited amount
of finance, and the Commonwealth would
contribute most of the finance supple-
mented by a limited amount of power (in
inter-State and overseas trade).
The duties and objectives of the board
were set out very clearly. They were;
To provide sufficient coal to meet require-
ments “throughout Australia and in trade
with other countries.”
To conserve and develop coal resources of
N.S.W. to the best advantage.
To ensure adequate production for the
maintenance of essential services and further,
by grading for purposes of distribution,
that the basic fuel of Australian industry is
provided at the lowest possible cost.
To promote the welfare of workers in
the industry.
The last only of these purposes
has shown any practical return for
the Joint Coal Board’s outlay of public
moneys. Underground coal production,
especially man-hour production, has
actually diminished. Reviewing the scene
after its first 18 months’ operations, the
board declared that “coal production is
clearly inadequate to meet the require-
ments of Australian industry, quite apart
from export commitments,” that “the in-
dustry remains turbulent and the general
picture is completely unsatisfactory,” and
that under its control during that period
“2,434,000 tons were lost through strikes”
(nearly a quarter of a year’s output)—
a “completely disheartening record of
the 18 months under review.” The board
further sent out to the Chifley and Mc-
Girr Governments this appeal for help;
Experience has forced the board re-
luctantly to the conclusion that the miners’
leaders are either unwilling, or perhaps even
unable, to control their own members, and
that not only are the undertakings (re-
peatedly given) of no value whatever but,
cor. Jered objectively, they can only be
regarded as tactical manoeuvres designed to
meet a particular industrial situation
Some of the miners’ leaders do not regard
the creation of the board as a reason for
working for continuity of production, but
believe precisely the reverse, i.e., that since
the board has come into the field, militant
tactics will produce greater industrial
benefits than ever before.
What did the Chifley-McGirr Axis do
about this warning and appeal for help?
They had under their agreement and joint
legislation ample powers to lay down
policy and to support the board in carry-
ing it out. Yet their record is one of
intervention whenever the board sought
to take up some rebellious challenge to
authority. Much good it finally did them!
Even after they had survived a
general strike they did nothing to secure
the country against another. Mr. Chifley
was going to enter the fight “boots and
all,” he said. They proved to be seven-
league boots when it came to retirement
from the allegedly victorious field. His
Government promptly repealed its emer-
gency legislation. As for the McGirrs,
contributing to the joint authority “most
of the power supplemented by a limited
amount of finance,” they did nothing
except provide the jail where certain Com-
munist rebels were kept in well-fed con-
finement for a short time, arid they pre-
ferred to talk about the state of the
weather whenever the wash-up of the
strike was mentioned.
It is upon this effete, now moribund,
survivor of the late coal-production Axis
that the Menzies Government is, at the
opening of the new Communist challenge
from the coalfields, compelled to rely
for co-operation in raising the siege of
Australian industry. Since the McGirrs,
having the power, have all along blocked
mechanical extraction of pillar coal, Mr.
Menzies is not likely to get much support
there for the quickest means of defeating
the coal-famine. It may be beyond Mr.
McGirr’s intellectual capacity but he
Wlb he expected to understand that the
continued existence of the Joint Coal
Board de^ nd u P° n the way he acts
ld regard to the demand that the board
sbad . he fortified todo the job it was
a PP° m „ to do - The miners and the
, L ? bo /,. wanted Government con-
,ro the industry. If the miners are to
be allowed to strike at the Government
authority as freely as they did against the
employers, then not only is the arbitration
principle dead (and the miners > Com .
munist leaders have declared they will have
none of it)> but the joint Government
authority may as well pack up and give
the mineowners, too, some freedom of
ac ti o n. The one means to assure continu-
ance of the Coal Board, and, indeed, to
gj ve some punch to it, is for the N.S.W.
people to turn the McGirrs out of office,
The Menzies policy for getting coal has
a lreaciy been rejected by the miners’
spokesmen (the same rebels who defied
the Chifley-McGirrs). His proposals, to
w hich the McGirr Government has shown
no s jg n G f consenting even in deathbed
repentance for its sins, are:
Rapid development of opencut mining,
High priority for mechanisation of under-
ground coal-getting, even from pillars,
. Establishing reserves of coal if necessary
in the first instance by imports from over-
seas.
, Retention of the Joint Coal Board: the
board to be set a target ° f Production for
each miae to meet cu " en . t requirements and
reasonable reserve, Federal Governmen
guaranteeing purchase of the quotas. Full
employment thus assured not only to miners
bu «> a ln a ° d u sdl S s ’ ,
Working out with the board, owners and
miners a scheme of incentives with special
rewards to those who reach or exceed the
nnUtioianc are sn sore at their
Labor politicians are so sore at in i
own failure that it is a safe bet none or
them, let alone Mr, McGirr himself, will
a fln « e „ r in
gramme. Since Mr. McGirr temporarily
retains “most of the power” in this
matter, the sooner he gets his ticket for
„tm-n tn nrivatf* Ufo the better
return to private lire me Dei
Communism: The Giant Sham.
From London: Those who imagine that
Communism outside the Iron Curtain is
innocuous or unimportant are likely to
have their complacency shattered if The
Theory and Practice of Communism (R
N. Carew Hunt; Geoffrey Bles) comes
their way. • „
It has already had a large “private
circulation, having been anonymously
placed before the eyes of senior Govern-
ment officials in Great Britain and, later,
in the Dominions, with no other means or
identification than a rubber-stamped
“This book is the property of H.M. Gov-
ernment —official use only.” It is noV J
being made available to the genera
public. Mr. Hunt writes authoritatively
and dispassionately, and with the detacn-
ment of an author of a treatise on
malignant tumors. He investiga es,
analyses microscopically, expounds, drag
noses and stops short only at prognosis
The book is in three sections: Marx-
Engels theory, Marxist-Leninism an
Stalinism. Of these sections the tifi,
though interesting, seems only ir -
relevant, since Stalin has so mutilated 1
original theories that they are now u
recognisable. Even so, some facts
brought to light that might well be K P
in the open; they still have topical)i, ■
Marx, after having been successively
pelled from three countries, spent
later life in bourgeois London, where
lived on the generosity of his capita
friend Engels. Both of them
Slavs and held peasants in conte P •
while Marx in later life seceded from
own doctrine. . . , t , r
The book’s chief value is in its I
chapters. Mr. Hunt, with a trenc
economy of phrase, shows how the
cow directive works, enunciates the u
munist technique and underlines
shams. Trade-unionists, for examp ;
may take to heart that their m te
function is to develop the political
sciousness of the workers before they ,
workers) unwittingly become ens
The workers may profit from the re
tion that the class-struggle is a
that classless society is nonsense ; tn
gulf between lowest and highest pay \
wider in Russia than in America,
that the real interest of the p°^- r i o t,
among them is not in improving tn .
but only in the best way of carrying
the party directive. u o s
Workers of all grades may ’ earn - vetl)
a small minority can seize power „ t ; o n,
in time, a sufficient degree
genuine and then bogus coalitions,
posts and outside aid from RH?. sia i- on of
the result is not a native modifica >
Communism (comparable to n . jjjy
trends in music or art) but asi a
exact copy of Soviet Russia subje
Kremlin directive.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Tom Playford's State.
South Australians know a good man
when they see him, and the mutual con-
fidence in each other of S.A. electors and
S.A.’s Tom Playford is the rock on which
has been built an astonishing record of
progress.
His party enters the general elections
next week with no opposition in H)
seats (including his own) out of 39 ; and,
except death and taxes, there is noth-
ing surer than that he will return for a
fifth consecutive term as Premier, a
record even in a State renowned for
political longevity in that class.
He has reason, too, to look for* sup-
port from all classes. The story he is
telling the public would win an election
anywhere:
Wool production has increased since pre-
war years more than in any other State.
Factory output has been phenomenal.
In 1946-48 its volume was half as much
again as in 1939, and by 1949 it nearly
doubled itself again.
Strikes are few and far between. In
S.A. strikes have caused a loss of working
time equal to no more than one day for
each employee over seven years.
He is making S.A. independent of N.S.W.
coal.
That last is a winner with his people.
Mr. Playford announces that, with new
electricity-generating plants at Osborne
and Port Augusta and extension of exist-
ing power-services, not only will virtually
the whole country from the top of the
gulfs to Mt. Gambier be linked up with
the supply system, but with the greatly-
extended use of Leigh Creek coal
the price of power to users will be re-
duced. The reduction, he promises, will
begin on June 30 next “provided there is
no further hold-op with normal coal sup-
plies.” The Playford Government is
spending £lB million oyer the next few
years in this project—proportionately an
even bigger undertaking than the Kiewa
hydroelectric works in Victoria.
The Playford State also seems to be
able to build the new schools and hos-
pitals it wants for its increasing popula-
tion as well as to take up on the housing
shortage and build good cottages cheaper
than anywhere else.
Its a pity they can’t produce men of
the Playford kind in N. S. Wales.
Mister McGag's Excuses.
Absorbing topic of the week in “the
movement” has been the price paid for
i e co ‘ ossa l political fatheadedness of its
leadership in N. S Wales.
If the McGirrs are to be believed the
u*? was much to ° tender for last
weeks caucus meeting. Evidently it now
shnniH K d s Slred that an “explanation”
be distributed and caucus gagged
1 pe S od ot . ration Of such expla-
in Ih. .>r the f ron t-page stuff
he official Labor” organ;
held^S 0 "of K T bla »I as $ e onl y Labor ‘
It was l °!'*u be r. tbree by-elections.
• was n °t the Press ban itself but
brin^in'^fn tat *°K S Labor’s reason’s for
of votes 0 SUCb 3 ban tbat caused a loss
and thf I.9 a l °f a new system,
the lisht P nf S n VVIII be full y reviewed in
me light of experience gained.
r rd about the disfranchise-
was no j, Slck and absent voters, which
ev , en a more effective
for tb ang i than tbe Sagging of the Press
lor three days before the polls.
of de Pi° re the “unfairness”
the rvro™nT Zie V n announci ng that week
D ,: d rr of his election
day he petrol - rationi "S from
Publicisin' ® chreiber ! a most successful
mask kern 01 “moderate”
buss SWr by these P° litical hum -
P a « e to remind
if nw of ?|T Labor ’' men of the P a «.
“the movemenrl eS Wh deserved wcll of
vote on tbA ol ’- * by not con tinue to
And look of their e P'itaphs?
Mr cWfL h * yS ’ how Mr “ McGirr and
Arbitratin y n mate . nad y influenced” the
40-hour ,granti"Bi "8 of the
is . says Mr rea . trouble today
Party. y The A C tTw/’ Commun ist
to its vomb Tu U ‘ dog 18 fast
Schreih. V a Oll f^ere again, and Mr
ochre,her doesn’t like the sight of it™-
existent h Labm" u party non-
since only the r* d be . govern ' n g today,
Labor pXy SusSl T UmSt in u fluenc e on
aw P ay f r y om L abo r Unattached ™te to
M^Gag’s tr depmy at in Mister
learns vainahui Gahl11 ) asserts,
Or is the le l sons from reverses”?
to “the class war” th ?& having gone ove r
‘‘Labor” S ean T W f h Red ob i ective ,
Commos? 1 1 functlon without the
Meat and High Prices.
Puzzled and angry Australian house-
wives are kicking up a noise about the
price of meat. Being Australian house-
wives, they have to cater for the most
voracious eaters of meat in the world—
plenty of Australians have it three times
a day. Few of them have any alterna-
tives to meat, fewer still have ever been
trained to cook palatable and nourishing
meatless dishes.
Last week legs of lamb in Sydney were
6s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. each, chops were 3s. a
pound, shoulders, loins and hindquarters
anywhere between Is. 9d. and 2s. 4d. a
pound, cutlets up to each ; rump
steak 2s. 6d., fillet 35., rolled sirloin
Is. 10d., corned beef Is. 6d., sausages Is.
a pound. Things like ox-hearts, ox-tails,
shinbones, sheeps’ brains, sweetbreads,
livers, kidneys—all of which butchers
practically gave away ten years ago—
now have a price “far above rubies.”
Many factors make meat dear. With
wool averaging somewhere about ss. a
pound, no farmer will sell cheaply even
ancient ewes capable of cutting 81b. of
such wool. In Melbourne last week any
sort of good wethers made over 50s. a
head, some as much as 645. Lambs made
from Is. to Is. 6d. a pound on the hoof.
In Sydney there was a range of prices
from 765. 2d. for shorn crossbred lambs,
wethers 755. 10d., old ewes 485., and poor-
quality stuff not lower than 325.
In the beef-markets the wool values
have their effect. Men are getting out of
beef to grow wool, and good, prime beef
is a better export proposition because
most of it is grown fairly close to meat-
works that contract for export. Some
Sydney beef week were £lO 15s.
a head for calves and heifers, £23 10s. a
head for yearling steers, £25 14s. for
bullocks.
To these factors must be added rising
freights and wages, taxation, dearer
motor vehicles and petrol, smaller out-
put by slaughtering gangs, taxation, the
40-hour-week and a host of other things.
As for the one-time cheap meat-cuts, it
is obvious that workers on high wages and
in constant employment won’t have them.
None of this is intended to defend
high meat prices; but obviously under
present conditions high prices are in-
escapable, and the housewife is caught
in an economic storm of inflated export
income, deflated internal production and
a wild trade-union theory that costs of
living can be reduced by increasing costs
of production. Big money is not worth
a cracker unless big production goes with
it ; until that lesson is learned, workers’
incomes won’t really meet living costs.
Truly Rural.
According to Sydney “Standard,” the
A.L.P. weekly whose publication-day is
a movable feast depending on the appli-
cation of the party’s 70-hour Press ban,
voting in the Armidale by-election con-
firmed the fact that the country districts
are strongly behind Labor. Throughout
the country in New South Wales at the
Federal elections, with swings against Labor
elsewhere, Labor polled very strongly.
This “Labor” strength in rural electo-
rates is a thing which has escaped the
notice of other political commentators, all
of whom have apparently been misled by
the fact that the vast majority of N. S.
Wales country seats went to Liberal or
Country-party men on December 10.
On that day “Labor” lost Gwydir,
which Bill Scully had held since 1937,
Hume, Riverina and Robertson, which
had been in the party’s hands since
Curtin’s time. It also failed to pick up
any of the new country seats —Lyne,
Paterson, Lawson, Mitchell, Farrer and
Macarthur—and at the present time holds
only three New South Wales seats outside
the Sydney-Newcastle-Wollongong area.
In each of these seats observers other
than the “Standard,” going, of course,
purely on the evidence of the voting re-
turns, had assumed that it was the indus-
trial pockets in each electorate rather than
rural votes which had decided the issue
in “Labor’s” favor. The three seats are
Darling (Broken Hill), Macquarie (Lith-
gow and Bathurst) and Eden-Monaro
(Goulburn).
It is now obvious that commentators
have been taking too limited a view of
the term “country” ; it cannot be denied
that in the rural belt extending from
Bondi through East and West Sydney,
Redfern, Newtown, Leichhardt and the
one-time farming-land at the Glebe to
Balmain the "Labor” vote was certainly
strong. Those who appreciate the broader
interpretation will now realise that it was
the McGirr Government’s concern for
the man on the land that prompted the
redistribution scheme which eliminated
several State seats in the outer country
and gave greater representation to the
truly-rural districts closer to Macquarie-
street.
Coincidence of Caulfield.
A short time ago the Caulfield (Vic.)
Council —a “democratic” body, accord-
ing to “Labor” ideals —refused the use
of its Town Hall to the “Australian
Peace Council” a fellow-traveller
organisation which even the A LP, has
banned, threatening its members who
associate with it with expulsion.
Immediately following this the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission put on
one of its Forum of the Air debates,
which are normally held in studios of
the commission, in the Caulfield Town
('Continued on next page.)
“MUG!”


For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s & 20 9 s
M* |g iyf
4
15905®-®
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALIjJ!
Hall. It took place the night after the
Australian Peace Council had intended
to hold its meeting there. By a strange
coincidence the subject dealt with was
how far freedom of speech should be
controlled.
The first speaker was a Mr. O’Connor,
described as a lawyer-turned-broadcaster
and journalist, who protested, inter alia,
that while “warmongers” were free to
speak their rpinds, those who wish to
advocate peace are hampered in Aus-
tralia by authority. He was followed by
Mr. Brian Fitzpatrick, described as “an
historian,” who made use of his chance
to advertise the “Australian Council of
Civil Liberties.” He gave an assurance
that the Australian Peace Council was
not a Communist body, and, in answer
to a question of the secretary of the
Peace Council, who somehow happened
to be present, he denounced the action of
the Caulfield Council, made some sneer-
ing remarks about Mr. Menzies and his
concepts of freedom, evidently designed
to prove him a hypocrite, and declared
that speech should be absolutely untram-
melled.
He also attacked the conviction of
Sharkey—whose appeal was sub judice at
the time, Mr. Fitzpatrick advocated
freedom of speech even for Fascists, but
did not say that though his outfit
organised the Australia-wide outcry
against the internment of the two Com-
munist ruffians Ratliff and Thomas,
caught redhanded in a seditious plot at
a crucial period of the war in 1941, he
and his Civil Liberties Council did not
lift a finger to help the railroaded “Aus-
tralia First” men whom the Communists
desired to see interned, but whose inno-
cence was ultimately apparent even to
Dr. Evatt.
Following Mr. Fitzpatrick’s engaging
display there was a mild theoretic exposi-
tion of the rights and wrongs of h
speech by a Mr. Eric Butler, and fina >
a disquisition by Miss Flora tm
shaw. Her plea was for freedom
speech in literature —absolutely ir
speech.
The Australian Broadcasting Com
mission, which a few months ago ac
as a distributing agency for the P Oll .
outpouring in print of the ex-Commu
president of the N, S. Wales A.LT
moment when it could do most g°°
his party’s election prospects, somel h ice
seems singularly coincidental in its cn
of occasions and speakers.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Nineteenth Parliament, which
opens in Canberra today, will be a very
different assembly from its predecessors.
As a result of redistribution there will for
the first time be more new members than
old ones. Some of the newcomers have
had experience in State legislatures;
most are completely new to the game.
This places a big responsibility on the
old hands, on Ministers, on party-leaders
and particularly on the Speaker. In the
last few years the dignity of the House
has become a joke; given a good ex-
ample and firm guidance this Parliament,
with more than three-score new
members, many of them possessing un-
doubted debating ability, has an excellent
chance to restore it. Two features of
recdnt Parliamentary debates which could
well be done without are the pull-your-
head-iu school of repartee and the
Dorothy-Dix fakes which made a farce
of question-time.
Apart from defeated “Labor” Ministers
Dedman, Sdully, Barnard and Lemmon
and the half-dozen rank-and-filers who
were overwhelmed in the December
landslide there are other familiar faces
missing from the House of Repre-
sentatives. On the “Labor” side
J. H. Scullin and Frank Brennan
decided to call it a day at the end of the
last Parliament, as did Joe Abbott,
Country-party member for New England.
Mrs. Blackburn’s defeat has left Dame
Enid Lyons again the only woman in the
House. A. M. Blain, member for the
Northern Territory since 1934, has gone ;
there is no Jack Lang; no Maxie
Falstein.
[The House has a solid core of
experienced Parliamentarians, but there
are relatively few from the real Past.
William Morris Hughes has, of course,
sat through all the eighteen Parliaments,
but, excluding the veteran, the new House
of Representatives contains only three
members of the band who moved from
Melbourne to Canberra in 1927, when the
present King opened the first Parliament
to meet in the Federal Capital Territory.
Earle Page and H. P. Lazzarini came into
the Reps in 1919 ; Jos. Francis, Minister
for the Army and Navy, three years
later. Only five other present members
Were elected before 1930—Chifley, Corser
and James (1928); Holloway and White
(1929). Of these, Corser has the longest
Parliamentary record —he was in the
Queensland Assembly for 16 years before
Wide Bay sent him to Canberra —and
Chifley the shortest —he spent the years
1932-40 in the wilderness. Upstairs,
Senator Cooper is the oldest hand ; he was
first elected for Queensland in 1928.
The Federal Government found itself
with a headache when it came to select a
mover and seconder for the Address-in-
Reply, but the ultimate choice gave
general satisfaction —for once —in the
parties. It fell on Opperman (the van-
quisher of Dedman) and Roberton, the
symbol of the Government’s unqualified
victory in the wheat electorates. Both
were justifiably counted on for first-class
maiden speeches.
Only thing certain about tomorrow’s
British elections is that except for
the party leaders, all of whom pro-
fess supreme confidence of victory, no
one seems willing to prophesy the results.
The two main reasons for this reluctance
are the changes brought about by redistri-
bution and the unknown strength of the
Liberal vote. The various public-opinion
polls, which are an indication of the
aggrd|ate vote only, seem to agree that
Labor and Conservatives are running
neck and neck. If there were only the
two parties in the field this would almost
certainly mean a Conservative win, since
Labor, in Britain, as in Australia, has a
much bigger proportion of “wasted”
votes in the heavily-industrialised dis-
tricts. An example; Durham county
sends 11 members to the Commons. In
1945 Labor won all 11 seats, one of them
by a majority of 32,000 and none by less
than 8000; the overall surplus was
170,000 in a poll of 422,000. Nothing
short of a complete rout could lose
Attlee any of those seats, but he could
well do with some of the surplus votes
in less secure electorates.
This factor operates similarly in other
industrial areas. All the 625 electorates
are now of approximately equal numeri-
cal strength, and there are definite limits
to what can be done by drawing wobbly
lines on a map. Several Australian
“Labor” men, including four ex-Minis-
ters, can testify to this.
Since the Liberal party ceased to be a
major force in British politics the Liberal
vote has comprised three elements. In
addition to dyed-in-the-wool Liberals,
votes come from (a) people who are
fed up with the Conservative party but
don’t want to vote Socialist, and ( h ) dis-
gruntled Labor supporters who can’t
bring themselves to vote for a Tory. It
is safe to say that in 1945 the proportion
of class (a) included among the 2,250,000
who voted Liberal was much higher than
class (6). It is also safe to assume that
the proportions will be reversed this
time, as will the numbers of stay-away
voters —the persons who register a silent
protest against their party by not voting
at all. After five years of Socialism
Labbr may find this last factor consider-
able.
Liberal candidates are contesting over
400 seats. The party held only 10 seats
in the last Parliament and is not expected
to do much better this time, but the votes
cast for Liberals will, under Britain’s
first-past-the-post system, enable a lot of
Labor candidates and a lot of Conserva-
tives to secure seats they would not have
won in a straightout fight. In 1945
Labor was easily the gainer from the
arrangement; Attlee and Co. picked up
something like 80 seats on a minority
vote as against Liberal and Conservative
combined, although in many of them the
winning margin was narrow. If similar
pickings go their way tomorrow Britain
is in for five mofe years of Socialism;
if not, Churchill will once more be back
at No, 10 Downing-street.
The little birds in Queensland
“Labor’s” political nest are not in that
happy state of agreement in which little
birds should be at election-time; State
executive has dumped Minister for Edu-
cation Bruce and Deputy-Speaker Mann.
Bruce has been in the Cabinet since 1933
and in the Assembly 11 years longer.
Mann is of more recent vintage ; he won
his seat in 1936 and became Chairman of
Committees after the last election.
One of the Hanlon pre-election plans is
to build “satellite towns, containing up to
3000 houses,” outside the Brisbane “built-
up” area. What Queensland wants is not
satellite towns round an already over-
grown capital, but more building in
rural areas. However, it is all talk ; up to
date the Hanlons haven’t been able to
build enough houses in existing towns.
“S. M- Herald” on the appointment of
Defence Minister Harrison as Australian
Resident Minister in London: “Noth-
ing in Mr. Harrison’s past career suggests
that he possesses the necessary equipment
for the successful discharge of his new
duties.” Still, he had the “necessary
equipment” to wallop “Granny’s” “out-
standing candidate” for Wentworth in
1940, a gentleman named Cowper for
whom “Granny” expressed the utmost
admiration, and be has held the seat by
thumping majorities since, except in 1943,
when “Granny” was supporting the late
John Curtin’s “Labor” Government and
the voluble Mrs. Jessie Street somewhat
reduced Harrison’s majority on the
strength of a lot of maudlin sympathy
for Russia, though not by enough to
defeat him.
Calwell’s removal of the word
“British” from Australian passports was
an example of national growing-pains;
Holt’s restoring of it while retaining the
Commonwealth coat-of-arms and name
will mean fewer headaches and heart-
aches for Australians abroad.
At the South Australian elections on
March 4 Premier Playford, three of his
Ministers and six other L.C.L. members
will be unopposed. This should be suffi-
cient commentary on “Labor’s” opinion
of its own chances of winning the elec-
tion. The present Assembly set-up is
L.C.L. 23 ; “Labor” 12; Independents 4.
Campaigning a few months ago on be-
half of “Labor” man Williams, then the
sitting member for Robertson in the
Federal Parliament, McGirr’s Minister
for Labor and Industry Finnan used the
type of mob oratory more calculated to
appeal to a crowded city electorate than
rural Gosford. Last week it was an-
nounced that he was nominating for pre-
selection for Darlinghurst, one of the new
metropolitan seats created under Mc-
Girr’s redistribution scheme. Reason:
“Because of his pressing Ministerial
duties, he considered he could not give
a country electorate the attention he
would desire.” If that’s the only reason,
he can forget it; those Ministerial duties
won’t be pressing much longer.
A desk-pad quotation ascribed to
Abraham Lincoln: “I have never had a
policy. I have simply tried to do what
seemed best each day as each day came.”
So that’s why they christened Chif.
Abe?
An Australian book - publishers’
organisation is reported to have held a
dinner at Canberra last Saturday at which
Prime Minister Menzies proposed a toast
to Australian literature. An advance re-
port said “There’ll be publishers there
from most States.” If somebody had
advanced their fares a few authors might
also have been present to invite the Prime
Minister to consider the incidence of
taxation on authors —some of them take
from two to six years to write a book and
get it published, and are then taxed as
though they did the work and earned the
money in one year.
Queensland Department'of Agriculture
men have achieved a triumph in stopping
the southward move of buffalo-fly,
which hasn’t got past the Elliott River
(south of Bundaberg) since it was halted
there three years ago. Insecticides with a
D.D.T. base and careful watch and ward
by departmental officers caused the check,
though the present season favors the pest,
and it wouldn’t have surprised anybody
if it had got into the Eidsvold district.
It hasn’t, and it goes to show that, though
Queensland’s Department of Agriculture
is as starved for funds and its officers as
modestly paid as in other States, they do
their duty.
Commerce Minister McEwen has
announced that he will oppose the ad-
mittance of Germany and Japan to the
International Wheat Agreement. For all
the good the thing is it wouldn’t matter
who was admitted to it.
A Canadian scientist remarked last
week that the explosion of the first hy-
drogen-bomb might cause the world and
everything in it to disintegrate in less than
a minute. Shakspeare must have had
something like that in mind when he
wrote what would be the perfect epitaph
for a world so destroyed: “And all our
yesterdays have lighted fools the way to
dusty death.”
A map reproduced in the February
number of the “N.S.W. Countryman”
demonstrates strikingly the effect of the
McGirr Redistribution Act. It is an out-
line map of the Ma State. A small oblong
area stretching from Sydney to Wollon-
gong and about 30 miles inland is printed
in black; so is another small section
around Newcastle. The rest of the map
is white. The blacked-in portions of
N, S. Wales send 63 members to the
Assembly; the rest of the State 31.
The A.C.T.U. opposition to the ban-
ning of Communists from union offices
on the grounds that the political views of
office-bearers should not be inquired into
is a ridiculous piece of casuistry. How
long would a trade-union secretary hold
the support of the A.C.T.U. if he ad-
mitted that he had joined the Liberal
party?


ŵ
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match • • •
SBC
\'
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
ẁ
PERSONAL ITES
Having recently swallowed the anchor
a second time (this time for good—he
weighed it when Hitler got under way)
Rear-Admiral Cuthbert John Pope left
by sea for a holiday in England. At time
of writing he should be somewhere near
Cocos Island—old ground, for here, in
1914, he was navigating officer in the
Sydney when she trapped her raider.
About the middle of the year the second
war broke out he was Superintendent of
Training at Flinders, due for retirement.
Events allowed him only a few months
on the beach, then placed him captain of
H.M.S. California, before putting him
ashore as N.0.1.C. Darwin, where he saw
the first and most of the succeeding raids.
He finished the last years of the war in
a similar post in Fremantle. In England
he will look up his daughter, if he can
get her down from her planes or up from
her water-tanks —she is the female half
of the Piddington show.
Sailing for Australia this month, J. W.
Robertson Scott, the frosty-pated eagle
who confounded the critics when, at 61,
he founded his outdoor quarterly “The
Countryman,” and bumped its circulation,
mainly through the extent of his own
rural experience, from the 1000 his critics
prophesied to the 55,000 copies the journal
was running when he sold it, in 1947, to
the proprietors of “Punch.” At 21 a
staff-member of the “Pall Mall Gazette,”
he worked on several leading London
papers before shifting to Japan after
World War I; he edited the “New East”
in Tokyo for three years. Out of his
Nipponese travels came one of his 18
books, the well-known Foundations of
Japan. With his wife, in her own right
an editor and expert on Korean classics,
the 83-year-old hopes to renew here in
the flesh friendships with Australian
contributors to “The Countryman.”
For information of those Diggers who
spent the years 1940-45 in Libya, Greece,
Syria, New Guinea and Bougainville with
Stanley George Savige, now lieutenant-
general, he got a new command last week
colonel-in-chief of the Victorian Scot-
tish Regiment. Known before the late
outbreak as one of Melbourne’s most
active philanthropists— patron of the Per-
manently Disabled Soldiers’ Association,
member of the Charity Organisation
society and founder of the Legacy Club
he started soldiering at 12, a junior
cadet, entered the Kaiser’s war private
and emerged captain, with D. 5.0., M.C.
and three “mentions,” after service in
cjaiiipoh, Sinai, France and with the
uunstertorce in Persia. Out of the last
expedition came a book, Stalky’s Forlorn
°P e - I* l the next shindy he served
Pretty well everywhere the A.I.F. fought,
la the Middle East commanded the
Infantry Brigade. His new honor
stems from the fact that under his com-
mand m that brigade fought the 2/sth
Battalion, part of the Victorian Scottish
Regiment.
Off across Tasman to deliver a paper
the^T^ 118 and price-level changes at
hnnmit \ Accounting Convention, Mel-
knnwt! C A /* tz § cra ld> internationally
and th aS u eader * n accounting research
trali«n° U 8 ’ IS P a P er at the recent Aus-
As wpli congress was widely acclaimed,
he Ju f P rac tismg in Melbourne, he is
KS Urer lr l accoun tancy at that city’s
Commk y ’ and chairman of the Grants
2 Until . Treasurer Fadden
Board F t e .^ a Pi ta I Issues Advisory
body and' Zgera d as a memb er of that
set im WaS a PP°i nted to the committee
Federal p “ ve ?«ate efficiency in the
“Australia Üb i lC Service - Editor of the
Professional ccountant >”. his articles on
text-books topic^,are legion, and several
spo « hls name-some in col-
FiSS w ‘ th Partner-brother G. E.
Comm ad ' . Possessing the Bachelor of
ing ifi ? BrCe and a cost-account-
a" an i °. n “ well > he is
accounSS?—? ° n several branches of
the Comm aCtl Vl y - Past-president of
ants C anTl 0 p? We f th Institute of Account-
's and actively associated with a cost
accounting body, Fitzgerald is one of the
brightest of Australian figure-men.
“Macnell”; Boarded his last galley,
Rafael ( Sea Hawk) Sabatini, whose 42
red-blooded books have served up to
armchair adventurers the glitter, intrigue
and savagery of medieval Europe and the
Spanish Main since, in 1904, he wrote
his first, the swashbuckling Tavern
Knight. Born in Jesi, central Italy
(in which country many of his vivid
historical yarns were set), of Italian father
and English mother, educated at Oporto,
Zoug and Coimbra, Sabatini was pecu-
liarly fitted to revive history from its dusty
archives and present it authoritatively
with the flashing raiment of its contempo-
rary clothing. He was particularly
effective in his titles— The Banner of the
Bull, The Sea Hawk, The Hounds of God,
The Sword of Islam —‘and though his
heroes were usually moulded in similar
form—swashbuckler, yet not wholly dead
to chivalry—they moved, whether subtly
vicious in rapier duel or roaring, bull-
like, in boarding a Corsair galley. Saba-
tini himself could have been the model
for many of them—tall, lean, with an
aquiline cast of feature. He was 75.
Maorilander Dr. Hamish Grant
Bremner, a graduate of Otago Medical
School, goes to one of London’s largest
hospitals, the Middlesex, as resident m.o.
After service with the N.Z.E.F, in North
Africa and Italy, Bremner remained in
England to do post-graduate work. Not
so many years ago he was manager of
a picture-show in Dunedin and later
bossed a cinema at Port Chalmers.
It could have been expected of Charles
Bowly, here presented, that he would have
stuck to cattle —born as he was on East-
mere, his father’s station at Aramac, in
the central Queensland beef country. As
it is, a list of the business concerns
in whose pie he stirs a directorial finger
would just about overrun this column.
Learning his pothooks in Tasmania, he
returned to finish the job at the old
Normal School in Brisbane, then joined
the Australian Estates Co., to lay the
foundations of a comprehensive business
career which now embraces fellowship
of three accountancy institutes, and con-
cerns ranging from coalmines to assur-
ance companies and picture-theatres. For
several years secretary to W. R. Black,
in his day one of the northern State’s
coal barons, Bowly joined with two
others to found his own firm of account-
ants and sharebrokers. Then he really
PLAIN BUSINESS.
got down to business. In between he
managed to sandwich some solid work as
secretary of the Q. Comforts Fund in
the first war (he was knocked back
for the Services, in which his four
brothers fought) and, in the next, as vice-
chairman of the same body. A founder
and first president of the Hamilton
Bowling Club, at 69 he’s still very much
on deck.
In February, 1941, Keith Mathieson,
Prior’s victim, donned the uniform of
R.A.N. chaplain ; nine years almost to
the day he returns it to store. Naval life
in war-time, with some notable Medi-
terranean exceptions, is nine-tenths
monotony and the rest a brief clash
of action. Padre Mathieson got his
action-dose early, only a few months
after he exchanged parish-work round
PADRE OF THE PERTH.
Cavendish and Monbulk (Vic.) for salt-
water. His action-station in cruiser Perth
was the wardroom, then the after-sickbay
—with one of the ship’s surgeons he was
waiting in its stifling, darkened-ship
atmosphere when Perth ran slap-bang
into the squadron of Jap cruisers and
destroyers off north-west Java. To the
accompaniment of continuous muffled
thunder from the enemy guns, the jerking
of the ship loosing her own broadsides,
the stagger of hits received, the brief
barks of the four-inch engaging destroyers
oyer open-sights, the padre ministered to
his wounded, most of whom, struck
forrard, were carried to the main sickbay
there. The order “Abandon ship” came
and was obeyed a few minutes be-
fore the cruiser collected a broadside
in the wardroom he had just left. In the
water 30 hours, the padre finally made
Java, was caught by our Indernesian
comrades and handed over to the
Japs. His progress north was punctu-
ated by stops at Serang jail, Batavia,
Singapore, and ended on the Death Rail-
way, with release in August, 1945. His
last ship was cruiser Australia ; his last
service to bury H.M.A.S. Tarakan’s dead
in Sydney.
Michael O’Connell, one of the pioneers
of Australian hand-printed textiles, has
made good in England ; now a show of
his has come to George’s, Melbourne.
In the ’thirties, when he lived at Beau-
maris, near Melbourne, in a house built
by himself and his wife, he started the
vogue for aboriginal motifs, getting his
subject-matter on walkabouts in the
Centre. Later he went to England and
established himself in Hertfordshire, the
stamping-ground of Henry Moore, the
sculptor of queer-looking statues, and his
work soon spread to homes, public build-
ings, industrial canteens and hostels. The
home demand was so large there was
nothing left for export, until the other
day, when the Hambro House of Design,
U.S.A., asked for his entire output for
the ensuing year. The Museum of
Modern Art in New. York has just held
an exhibition. Owing to war restric-
tions his material has been hessian, but
he has done remarkable things with it.
He and his wife were the architects and
builders of their studio and home in
England.
W. M. Irvine, 0.8. E., appointed Pro-
secutor for the King in Victoria,, is a son
of the late Chief Justice and Lieutenant-
Governor. He got his 0.8. E. in the last
war, in which he was colonel, and served
in Palestine, North Africa, Greece and
New Guinea. Admitted to the Bar in
1927, he previously practised law in
Tassie.
The Admiralty has acted swiftly in its
recognition of the cold courage of two
of rammed Truculent’s crew. Lieutenant
Frederick Hindes and Engine-room Arti-
ficer Francis Hine have been post-
humously awarded the Albert Medal for
gallantry. Hindes was the first to take
the plunge out into the dark unknown—
always a gamble from a trapped submer-
sible—and was swept to death on the
fast-running tide. Hine, one of the non-
commissioned engineers responsible for
the ship s diesels and auxiliary machinery,
was the senior hand of the men wait-
ing in the cold dark of the escape-
chamber. In accord with his responsi-
bility he sustained their morale and saw
them all out before making his own
escape—to meet his end, in
the waiting tide-rip.
Uramao”: Closed his account at
Granity, West Coast (M.L ), John Dow-
gray, a native of Lanarkshire, Scotland,
who landed in. Maoriiand in 1907.
Member of the Scottish Miners’ Federa-
tion before he struck the high road from
Auld Scotia, Dowgray continued his
Labor activities and was associated with
Bob Semple and Paddy Webb in organis-
ing the N.Z. Miners’ Federation. When
Labor nationalised the Bank of New
Zealand Dowgray became a director of
the bank: he had studied economic
history, finance and sociology.
Being grandson to John Farrell, one-
time Bulletin verse contributor, it could
have followed that Joseph Macinaute
would vibrate in the same poetic field.
He is interested in vibrations all right—
the engineering variety—and is recently
back from a special study of them at
Cambridge and the British National
Physics Laboratory on a Charles Kolling
Scholarship, under the wing of C.5.1.R.0.
Showing promise early, Joseph completed
his Sydney Tech, engineering course with
Honors, a Bronze Medal and Post-
diploma Scholarship to Sydney Univer-
sity. He left there 8.E., again with
honors, the Kolling Graduation Prize and
two more scholarships in his bag. He
returns to C.5.1.R.0., researching in its
National Standards Laboratory.
“Petermac”: Spiked his last copy, the
day after his 58th birthday, Melbourne
“Truth’s” chief court reporter Ted Tilley.
Well and favorably known to every judge,
lawyer, tipstaff and mouse inhabiting the
Law Courts, Tilley’s biggest scoop—it
aroused international interest—was start-
ing the Kyneton (Vic.) hospital “Whose
Baby?” argument—still unfinished. On
a routine assignment to the hospital,
he heard of a patient complaining she
had been given the wrong baby. What
the newsman reported in “Truth” started
the court hearings and the story which
went round the world. Old Digger with
the 16th Battalion, Tilley was with the
“Age” for 20 years and at one time
edited the “Leader.”
Into the Silence; —•
In Sydney, at 75, Frederick Morgan, g.o.m.
or the city’s ambulance brigade, and its oldest
member. A car-builder at Randwick tramway
workshops in 1917, he left that for mercy work,
and the next year built the brigade’s first
ambulance motor-wagon on the body of an old
car. He died in St. George District Hospital,
m the same district he had served for 32 years.
In Melbourne, at 58, N. W. V. Hayes, the
P.M.G.’s engineer-in-chief and acting' Director-
General of engineering services. In 43 years’
service he had engineered in Adelaide and Syd-
ney, was a foundation member of the Institu-
tion of Radio Engineers and last year became
its Federal president. He lost his eldest son on
active service in the late war.
In London, at 79, Admiral Sir Richard Webb,
K.C.M.G., C. 8., distinguished seaman and one-
time head of the Royal Naval College at
Greenwich. Most Australian naval officers
subscribe to the quarterly “Naval Review,” an
extremely readable journal under official ap-
proval, but entirely free from official control.
Its editing was Admiral Webb’s chief occupa-
tion after retirement.
At 87, in Adelaide, Frank Brown, who rode
against Oom Paul with the Third and Fifth
Bushmen of the South Australian Contingent.
He saddled up again with the Ninth Light
Horse against Jacko.
In Brisbane, John Stitt, one-time of the
British India Steamship Co., and lately director
of Fenwick and Co. He was a prominent
worker in John Flynn’s Inland Mission.
At Montrose, Scotland, James Davie, Master
Mariner with many an Australian landfall.
His last command was the Blue Funneller
Orestes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMVLES INKS"
“Oliver Filter”: Having, in
my time, been caught in bed by
visitors, icemen, a burglar and a
husband, I was particularly
pleased to read that the police
caught the criminals Dugan and
Mears in a similar situation.
There is a peculiar and tre-
mendous indignity about it;
something both helpless and
ludicrous that sweeps away all
the pretensions and little human
snobberies which most of us
affect in one way or another.
The two criminals had, since
their escape, been so lionised by
some sections of the Press that
even normal people, who would
be the first to scream for the
assistance of the law, were
professing sympathy for them —
one suburban matron: “They’ve
held out for so long they de-
serve to get away.” They didn’t
deserve anything of the sort, and when
the patient and painstaking work of the
police finally cornered them in bed at
daybreak, one of them, a cheeky little
squirt; tried to hide under the bed while
the other blundered about the room in
obvious terror. What a delightfully
ignominious finish!
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: It is strange that,
although Melba is generally regarded as
having been this country’s chief
ambassadress, there is no public
memorial to her anywhere in Australia.
This lack will probably be remedied,
largely owing tcfan accidental conversa-
tion between Premier Hollway and the
young conductor Hector Crawford, who
has had beginner’s luck by always having
good weather for his open-air Sunday
concerts in the Melbourne Botanic
Gardens. He told the Premier that
“Music for the People” was being put on
in a slipshod manner in the Botanic
Gardens, and advised a sound-shell on
the Hollywood pattern. It was sug-
gested that public interest would be
aroused if the shell were associated with
the name of Melba. The thing is being
planned in a big way, and won’t be
inferior to the Hollywood Bowl, which
seats 25,000 and has accommodation for
10,000 others. Architects are working on
the scheme, though the site has still to
be selected. The Hollywood example has
a stage 120 ft. wide in a natural amphi-
theatre of 65 acres.
* * * *
“Pasquin”: “Cauboy’s” theory (B.
8/2/’5O) of the reason for the success of
Australian singers overseas does not
account for Melba herself. A girl in a
small, isolated colonial community who
wanted to be a great singer, she faced an
almost impossible task, yet she became
the greatest soprano of her day. Courage
and determination took her tq the top,
but they would have been useless if she
had not been born a freak. Every great
singer is a physical freak. Comparing
Melba with the virtuosi of Poland doesn't
help. A virtuoso is also a musical miracle,
but his instrument is man-made. A
Melba’s instrument is herself. Inspiration
may generate the powers and application
necessary fully to develop a voice ; it can
never supply one.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: I suppose most of us
have had the experience of saying the
same thing at the same time as somebody
else; anyway, it’s common enough to
warrant a ritual among children in which
the two hook little fingers, silently wish,
and sign off with a poet’s name. In the
Memoirs of Benvenuto Cellini there
occurs surely the most remarkable
example of simultaneous speech ever
recorded. Cellini and his friend Felice
were returning to Rome after a fowling
expedition ; at nightfall they looked to-
wards Florence and saw what appeared
to be a lustrous beam of fire. Cellini
records: “We both exclaimed in the
utmost astonishment ‘Great God! What
wonderful phenomenon is that which
appears yonder over Florence?’ ”
* * * *
“X.S.”: Excuses for not doing jury
service (B. 8/2/’50)? It is a wonder that
one used aj; the current Ballarat General
Sessions hasn’t been used more often.
When Judge Mitchell asked a gardener
why his conscience did not allow him to
“Have those three delivered. I'll take this one with me now”
sit in judgment on his fellow-men he
got the answer: “Judge not, that ye be
not judged, for with what judgment ye
judge, ye shall be judged: and with what
measure ye mete, it shall be measured to
you again,” Matthew 7, verses one and
two. Also in Luke, much the same thing ;
and in Romans 2, verse one, “Therefore
thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever
thou art that judgest; for wherein thou
judgest another, thou condemnest
thyself.” “You are excused,” said his
Honor.
* * * ♦
“V. Cluse”: Read the other day that
Argentina is to buy 10,000 grains of rice
at the equivalent of 10s. a grain, which
means about £5OOO for a double-handful
or so of the stuff. Reason is that each
.grain will have printed on it a 31-syllable
poem in the classical Japanese waka form
—whatever that is—by K. Makihara, a
famous engraver of microscopic designs.
Repeated the item to the spouse, who’d
just got back from the grocer’s.
“Humph,” she sniffed. “If a woman
wants rice for her family in this country
she has to pay nearly that much for it,
and no engraving on it, either.” She
went about her work for a while, then :
“It just shows how men think. With
everybody short of rice—except that Mrs.
Nemo up the street, who always gets
blackmarket stuff —they have to waste
time and money scratching silly poems on
it. Anyhow, what good would it be,
what woman has time to read Japanese
poems, even if she knew the language?
There’s a lot madder things than”
But by that time I was out in the garden
talking to the cat,
* * * *
“Clooter”: Nearly 25 years ago the
forthright Lady Astor, during a diatribe
against Communism, offered to pay the
fare of any British worker who wanted
to go to the Soviet paradise. A man
named James Morton took her up and
departed for Leningrad with his wife and
two children, agreeing to pay their own
fares back if they didn’t like it. Morton
got a job in a Soviet steel-factory and
his family was accommodated in a hotel.
The other day his widow turned up in
Britain to confess that life in Russia
was “hell. It was really hell.” Morton
himself long since dead, she was on a
pension until 1934, when “purges” began
and she came under the eye of the
N.K.V.D. After a lot of trouble and
suffering, the woman managed to be
captured by the Germans and, after a
period in concentration-camps, finally got
home with a daughter and a grandson.
She is not, of course, the only one to
discover life under Russian Communism
to be hell, but it seems to have taken
her a dashed long time to find out —
or to get out.
* * * *
“A.H.C.” on some early history:
So the present site of The Bulletin office was
once owned by John Tawell, the Quaker oddity
of early Sydney (B. l/2/’50)? Tawell’s story
is extraordinary. Having committed forgery in
England in 1814, he escaped death because the
people whom he robbed, being Quakers, did not
believe in capital punishment. Transported, he
found employment at Sydney Hospital, and
later, gaining his ticket-of-leave, set himself up
as a chemist in George-street. As the pills-
and-potions business flourished he acquired
other property. Various Sydney charities gained
his patronage, but the chief manifestations of
his new-found piety were (a) the building of a
Quaker meeting-house in Macquarie-street and
( b ) the pouring of 492 gallons of rum and 116
gallons of gin into Port Jackson —a gesture
which so outraged the populace as to give him
another narrow escape from hanging. Return-
ing to England, the reformed forger settled
down to the life of a London gent.; but he
fell from grace by conducting a violent affair
with the nurse of his sick wife. When the ailing
woman died he married again, but not the
nurse; and she, having tenacious qualities, be-
came a liability, of which, on the first day of
1845, he relieved himself by means of prussic
acid. Retribution came promptly, largely be-
cause of the first use in a criminal case of the
electric telegraph. This time Tawell didn’t
escape the gallows. A sequel was the sale by
George Cooper Turner, Crown Solicitor and one
of Tawell’s attorneys, of the pseudo-Quaker’s
Sydney properties. Legal problems arose and
developed into a constitutional issue which in-
volved the Premier (Sir Charles Cowper), the
Governor (Sir William Denison) and the British
Government. Cowper, indeed, resigned when
Denison demanded from him the Great Seal of
N.S.W. in order to perfect a grant to Mrs.
Tawell’s trustees. The resignation was with-
drawn, and, after about ten years of wrangling,
the case ended with a Parliamentary motion
praying Queen Victoria to direct that the Great
Seal of the colony should never again be used
without Ministerial consent. Meanwhile Turner
had skipped to California with all the assets he
could lay hands on, including, perhaps, the pro-
ceeds from the sale of the land upon which The
Bulletin now stands.
* * * ♦
“F.S.”: A muddled controversy has
arisen in Melbourne over “Frying Basket
and Eggs,” a picture in the Massey collec-
tion in the National Gallery. It is a
bald statement about a wire basket and
a couple of hen-fruit, and painter Norman
Macgeorge says it is a great picture with
a marvellous sense of balance, and if
one of the eggs was moved a bit to the
right or to the left or up or down the
linear, tonal and compositional design
would be completely ruined. This re-
minds me of the retort made by Dauber
to a Melbourne matron who was waxing
ecstatic at his astounding sense of
balance and his unerring feeling for com-
position, the cause of her excitement be-
ing a still-life of a bowl of fruit from
which a banana had been dislodged and
had fallen on the table. “How you
thought of that position for the banana,”
said the lady, “I simply can’t imagine!”
“I didn’t,” said the artist. “The cat did!"
* * * *
“R.J.E.”: Motoring in England, a few
miles out of Winchester, I saw a road-
sign “Tichborne Downs,” The manor was a
household word in Australia in the 70’s. Before
I knew it I was in the yard, where two opposing
cricket teams were seated to dinner. It was
Sunday morning. I told a bystander I
was from Australia and that a few years back
I had spent a whole week in the Sydney library
because I couldn’t tear myself away from the
library of books I found there on the Tichborne
case. “I will teli Sir Anthony Tichborne that
a gentleman from Australia would like to see
him,” he said. I said: “Don’t you. He’ll
call the police. The last man from Australia
tried to pinch the whole estate.” But soon Sir
Anthony Tichborne —the 14th Baronet and a
grandson of the boy whom the impostor Arthur
Orton tried to cheat out of his inheritance-
arrived. He asked me if I would come back
after the cricket match. It turned out that 1
was the only Australian to have visited Tich-
borne because of its associations with a Wagga
butcher. Sir Anthony produced heirlooms,
books, documents, etc., concerning the family,
which was established in Tichborne before the
Norman Conquest. The manor itself was
clumsy and had a pseudo-Regency and Georgian
style; not, I thought, worth the £lOO,OOO which
Sir Anthony told me it cost the estate to defeat
Orton. The village church of Tichborne is
half Catholic and half Protestant—an iron rail
separates the two. The Catholic portion con-
tains the vaults of the Tichborne family. There
are only two other churches in England and
Wales similarly situated —one at Cardiff, the
other at Arundel. Before I left I asked Sir
Anthony how long it would take the taxation
commissioner to succeed where Arthur Orton
had failed. He said that on present showing
there would only be two holders after him.
Orton’s daughter Teresa died in 1940. She
had written 200 letters to Sir Anthony. All
began “Dear Cousin.”
* * # *
“Plop”: A Sydney filmhouse whose
patrons seem to like Westerns and
thrillers of the Dracula type invited its
public to see “Fierce underwater struggle
as man fights girl-savage for his life—and
loses Thrill hunt for mystery island
cave where wild beauty drags human
victims Amazing underwater scenes as
jealous girl-savage mauls her love rival.
The film was “Mr. Peabody and the Mer-
maid” —a straight comedy.
* * * * ,
“H.W.M.”: The closing of Melbourne s
oldest pawnshop, opposite the Melbourne
Hospital, draws attention to the fact
that pawnbroking is a very exclusive
business. There are fewer than 20 pawn-
brokers in Melbourne and the suburbs,
and for the rest of Victoria there are only
two others in the telephone directory.
Cqpie to think of it, there is not such a
thing in the whole of Melbourne as the
traditional three-ball sign. The fittings
are still there, but the gilded orbs nave
dropped off from time to time and ha\e
never been replaced.
* * * . * if
“Hyanlo”: Our typist considers herself
a very modern girl, and often becomes
most vehement on equality of the sexes.
If she does the same work as her | mme
counterpart, the same pay should
hers ; and no one need rise in the bus W
her . . . If she can’t, elbow her way into
seat she can stand as well as any
Of course, the equality can be a In
overdone at times. Her boy-friend un
expectedly had to fly to Sydney and, 1 ®
she wrathfully pointed out, “Now A
have to pay my own way into tn
pictures tonight!”
* * * *
“L.D.”: Early in World War One I was
ship’s surgeon on the E. and A. liner •
Albans. We went into Vladivostok wi
a cargo of lead from Sydney, and na
hardly dropped anchor in the bay wn
a launch circled the ship and a m a
called out to the chief-engineer and ffr
self, who were leaning on the rail: Bo
this ship come from Australia?” vV n
we replied “Yes,” he said: “Have Y
got a copy of The Bulletin— l dO .
care how old it is?” We were plea
to oblige.
* * * * h
“Graemac”: The back-to-school rusu
was on at the big city bookstore, v
several other “newies” I was switched
to the Educational Books Departm
to help out. After several hours rusn
about searching for books about wbic
knew nothing I was almost ready to 8*
up. My sense of humor returned w
a shy little boy came up to me and sa •
“Excuse me, sir. Are you a helper-
find-books?”
“Ague”: Know of a State Government
department which has
cheaper and probably safer and denm
speedier way of disposing of °r® e
mail by employing boys under the ldC
bracket of about £lO4 a year, to de
letters direct to metropolitan homes,
cheaper to pay these youths than n
buy postage-stamps.
THE NEW SESSION.
“Sixty-four new members will make their political
debut in Canberra in the opening session of the
Menzies-Fadden Government, and the increase in
Parliamentary membership will prove a severe tax
on Canberra accommodation.”
Today, when the bigger-size Parliament meets,
And all the new members are taking their seats,
The pubs and guest-houses are scratching their
heads
To know how to find all the newcomers beds:
What clipped oratorical pinions they’ll fly on
Who stand for our rights, if they’ve nothing to
lie on!
The sixty-four members entirely new
Who, it says in the Press, are to make their
debut.
Will probably put up a bedlovers’ fight
To stick to their habit of sleeping at night;
But soon in the air of Canberra they’ll drowse
Like experienced statesmen, and sleep in the
House,
When sixty-four new would-be Menzies and
Faddens
All want to make speeches, and all of them
maidens,
Which have to be heard without catcalls or
vi’lence
In a horrible kind of encouraging silence,
It may prove a session of smooth handy-
panding
Where the peace and the speeches pass all
understanding.
And thus to the tune of unplaced persons
snoring
And one little maiden-voice boring and boring,
Ben Chifley and Evatt may soon be seen thank-
ing
Bob Menzies for putting them right about
banking,
And Eddie Ward smiling politely at Spender,
And Calwell and Adermann cooing and tender,
And the new Speaker, Cameron, boreder and
boreder
Because there’s no call to call someone to order,
Consulting th<f rules to do something about it —
That’s how the new session may be —
but we doubt it.
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


“Sackville St.”: In the days when I
used to read cowboy fiction I Was often
mystified by the fact that every hero had
the fastest horse on the prairie, and every
gunman was the quickest on the draw.
I’ve long outgrown the fiction and the
yearning to arrange a tourney to settle
the matter, but I do think the R. A. Show
people should promote an elimination
contest to settle a problem jdst as vexed.
Who is the champion newspaper-thrower
of Australia? Every suburb swears by
its exponent. There are “left-and-
righters,” “over-the-hooders” and “no-
hand-on-the-motorbike-handle” sharp-
shooters. Nor are all the champions
found in the suburbs. A really class per-
former was the chap who used to drive
the service-car from Camden to Burra-
gorang Valley (N.S.W.). His over-the-
hood shot on to a veranda as he swung
around the corner into the township of
the Oaks, while firing the second barrel
into a blacksmith’s shop, was a classic in
style and accuracy. The bloke who de-
livers my Bully has always held my ad-
miration. His driving of a bucking side-
car outfit down what our council caffs
ro .™ s is a meritorious feat; but coupled
with ms ambidextrous precision it is an
amazing performance. I’d have cheerfully
staked my shirt on his ability to place a
Gladys, you 've been off the air for the last fifteen minutes
S v m r a ™ llk -i u S at 30 miles on hour—
Startin? 1 ? d - y ‘ ? e d had en gine-trouble.
hverv ft he rem embered the de-
bike'' pprif 5 a off a stationary
paper k 5,i PS that was the double. The
paper is still on the roof.
“P.OMr”- ct, * *
and attentive- * Ske as p F etty > vivacious
infreauentlv f c ° m . bmation of qualities
waitresses Y au UDd m Sydney teashop-
of pleasantHe« er a , I Spontaneous exchange
ordered “twrv CS round, the missus
red two coffees.” Returning almost
immediately, the refreshing innovation
was about to fill my cup when, remem-
bering etiquette suddenly, she ’switched
to Madam’s. “Dear me,” she exclaimed
gaily. “1 nearly forgot who’s wearing
the pants.”
* * * *
“Spike”: From the satellite Hungary
comes word of an “innovation drive”
backed by payments and royalties in hard
cash for workers who are able to invent
things that might cut industrial costs. A
somewhat bourgeois plan, it is reported to
have brought 45,000 schemes to the Buda-
pest Patents Office. And if that is not
capitalistic enough, a British Press state-
ment' gives the news that the Soviet itself,
maintaining top-secrecy as to the purpose
of the deal, has bought three British
foxhounds —two bitches and a dog. There
may be hope yet.
* * * ♦
“Wusslean”: Another handy thing
that has gone the way of the kero.-tin (B.
15/2/’5O) is the tobacco- or cigarette-tin ;
shortage of tinplate and increased cost of
manufacture, I suppose, are the reasons.
They were particularly useful in the home
workshop for holding tacks, screws and
other odds and ends; with a dozen small
tins a neat little screw-cabinet could be
fitted up, while the larger tins holding
50 or 100 cigarettes were equally service-
able. My wife started housekeeping with
a set of cigarette-tins labelled gas, milk,
baker, butcher, etc., in which appropriate
amounts were placed on paydays to meet
the bills as they fell due, I had a similar
set of tins for my own regular expenses.
The system worked very satisfactorily,
and I am inclined to attribute present
housekeeping difficulties to the shortage
of tins. If the new Federal Treasurer
wants the nation to put its domestic
finances in order as a prerequisite for re-
storing value to the pound, I can suggest
no better means than inducing the tobacco
companies to market their products in
tins.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: After living more or less in a
state of trepidation, the pleasant town of
Tallangatta has got its death-knock, the
Victorian Public Works committee having
recommended that it be moved four miles
west to Bolga. Extension of the Hume
Weir will then submerge its 236 shops and
houses under 30ft. of water, and a popu-
lation of 500 will have to be evacuated.
* * * *
“Bo”: Always excepting the Com-
munist organiser, I have been wont to
group generically the more common
human pests of modern civilisation: the
ebullient fellow who nearly stoves your
shoulder-blades through your lungs in
hearty greeting; sentimental, howling-
over-photo drunks ; the cove in bus, tram
or train whom you note staring at you
with piercing gaze every time you look
up from your paper; “men” who have
their hair permed ; people who lend you
a box of matches made up of 90 per cent,
dead ’uns; those who use the bull
voice of a circus ringmaster when
speaking into a phone—to name but a few.
But there is one whose rightful place is
at the head of all these. He is the one
who, lacking telephonic connection with
his own roof-tree which precludes your
getting in touch with him to check up,
produces the formula for a future
rendezvous. “All right, then, we’ll leave
it at that —if you don’t hear from me
you’ll know I won’t be there.” It seems
perfectly clear at the time. But 10 minutes
after he has left you the first gnawing
doubts begin to assert themselves. What
had he said, now? If he doesn’t ring are
we to take it he’ll be there, or will we
assume hes coming if we don’t hear?
And so the miserable confusion becomes
worse confounded, until in the end you
finish up writing or sending a telegram to
find out what it was he did say. If Gov-
"Look—no hands!”
emments had any thought for those who
elect fhem they’d pass a law making it a
penal offence for anyone to perpetrate
such a loose arrangement.
* * * ijt
“Jobber”: In the years before I went
away to the Kaiser’s war I had recited
“The Riding of the Rebel” in drovers'
camps, shearing-sheds, at bush dances
and sundry other places, but I can’t
recall a more rousing reception than I
received at a hospital concert in the Old
Country, A concert-party was two or
three artists short, and appealed for some-
one to help out. With considerable mis-
givings as to how bush-ballads would go
down with an audience 95 per cent.
English I gave ’em “The Rebel.” They
nearly raised the roof when I had
finished. I was back in bed soon after
an encore, when one of our lads came
in ablaze with excitement. “Hey, Dig,”
he said, “wasn’t it the boss’s wife who
rode the colt?” When I told him he was
right he said “You’ll do me, boy. I’ve
won ten-bob on you,” and away he went
to collect.
* * * *
“Flathead”; Newspaper reports of the
arrest at Collaroy (N.S.W.) of the two
jail-breakers led me to suspect very
strongly that the N. S. Wales police force
are radio-play addicts. “S. M. Herald’s”
story was that when the police burst into
the cottage and surprised the two blokes
in bed they said “Hands up, Dugan and
Mears. We’ve got you covered. We are
police,” Other reports differed slightly,
but all agreed that the wanted men were
addressed as “Dugan and Mears.” Ad-
mittedly it is sometimes necessary for the
writer of a Whodunnit, when at the
climax of his opus he has 18 suspects
assembled in one room, to make his
detective say “I arrest you, Herbert
Brown,” but the technique properly be-
longs to the radio-play. The radio sleuth
yells “Hands up, Spike Macgillicuddy”
so that even the dullest listener won’t be
left in doubt as to the identity of the cove
lumbered. In the real-life show staged
last week the formality seemed hardly
necessary.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A Melbourne citizen
must have been thinking about the current
controversy over transport when he asked
a straphanging friend in a tramcar if he
had seen the new play at the Comedy
Theatre. “What’s it called?” his friend
asked. “I can’t quite remember,” he
said. “But it’s something like ‘A Bus
Named Lust.’ ”
* * * *
“Hinemoa”: Rod Quinn’s delightful
verse in the 70th Anniversary Bulletin
brought back memories of the three or
four months he spent on the West Aus-
tralian diggings. Most weekends he
would come out to Whitefeather to the
main camp, and that was the signal for all
hands to roll up for a Saturday-night sing-
song. Usually a huge fire was lit, the
miners sat around on boulders and logs,
Rod was put in the chair and his speech-
making limited to 10 minutes at a time.
He would caff on various members of
the audience for items, and in between
recite his own or Lawson’s verses. One
weekend he decided to learn to use the
revolver; his first try almost hit the best
blackboy in camp, so he gave the
pistol away; next weekend he went
shooting water-fowl and this time got
the blackboy! We dug the shot out of
the dismayed boy with a pocketknife,
and ever after Rod’s arrival was a signal
for all blacks to disappear. Quinn visited
the Whitefeather Debating Club, a
vigorous body in those days, and
reckoned it fine entertainment. All the
diggers were sad to see him go back to
N. S. Wales, but he reckoned the pace
in the West was too hot.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: According to the “Argus”
New York correspondent, high officials of
the U.S. Administration are discussing a
new way of weaning the Russian people
from Uncle Joe per medium of the Voice
of America broadcasts. Instead of
addressing the Soviet Government it will
address the Russian people, telling them
what fine chaps they are and how much
Americans admire and respect them, but
how they are being bulldozed by war-
like dictators. This is expected to produce
unrest amongst the moujiks and gradu-
ally undermine the Stalin clique. The
same technique was used during the war
by the Australian short-wave station. A
high official of that organisation told me
that he had planned a campaign to fill
the ears of the Japanese people with
stories about Hirohito, laughing at his
alleged love for his deluded subjects and
ridiculing his godhead. I asked him how
he was affected by the German and Jap-
anese propaganda of the same kidney,
and he admitted that it bored him to
extinction. Stiff, the scheme was adopted,
with apparently as much effect on the
Japanese public as water on a duck’s
back.
* * * ♦
“Bayswater”: In London this summer
I was taking several little girls, daughters
of a couple of friends of mine, off their
mothers’ hands for the day, and we got
on to a bus which had just room for all
of us to sit together except one child.
Three elderly nuns, sitting farther along
on the opposite side, made room for her.
Normally she was a silent little maid, but
throughout the journey she chattered
continuously to the nearest nun. As I
passed the nuns on the way out, I thanked
them for inconveniencing themselves to
make room for her. “Oh, that’s all right,”
said the Mother Superior, “and we didn’t
let on that we were not penguins, either.”
* * * * ,
“Dick Turpin”: Devaluation isn’t so
new. One of the first recorded instances
was engineered by the Athenian states-
man Solon ; his legal reforms included a
species of moratorium which partly wiped
out a man-sized packet of debts owed by
the poorer Athenians to the bigshots of
the day. To compensate the creditors,
thus balked of their pounds of flesh,
Solon devalued the mina from 73 to 100
drachmas. This happened about six
centuries 8.C., but there were shrewd
characters about in those days, too ; be-
fore the new laws were publicly an-
nounced they made use of inside informa-
tion to take the moneylenders for a ride.
KNOCK-BACK.
“The Fon of Bikom, a Cameroons chieftain, who is
100 years old and has 110 wives, told an investigat-
ing United Nations mission that his polygamous house-
hold was no concern of the U.N. Trusteeship Council.
His wives in a memorandum, said they were per-
fectly happy and would prefer the U.N. to mind its
own business.”
You’re the lord, Fon, of all your domains,
And your will there is none to dispute —
That’s excepting, of course, all your “chains,
All the hundred and ten you salute
With a dutiful peck every morn
As you count ’em to see they’re all there.
Fon, a burden you’ve cheerfully borne
That the hardiest white man would scorn
To take up and bear.
The significance, Fon, may be lost
Upon you (though that’s hard to believe),
That your in-laws add up to a host
And a sentence which has no reprieve.
Add their gabble and gossip and yap
To the same of the hundred and ten
And—well, Fon, with such wordage on tap
And you constantly taking the rap,
You’re a man among men!
All the pagps of history, Fon,
All the legends and myths of the past —
These are peopled with heroes who shone
When the odds up against them were vast.
They were willing to do and to dare,
Recking nothing of death at the close;
Theirs a courage that knew no despair.
Fon of Bikom, are you unaware
That you’re one of those?
That your African jungle retreat
Would one day be invaded in force
While inquisitors put on the heat,
To report to U.N. in due course
You would never remotely have guessed.
It was certain some day that you’d learn.
Well, you did. Now you know why the rest
Of the world now regards as a jest
This futile concern.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: “I ruddy near joined
the Navy once,” Mat confided. “I cob-
bared-up with a runaway sailor up in the
Goulburn Valley, an’ what struck me
about him was the way he could put
away the beer. We’re in Tatura one day,
cashed up, an’ be the time I’m just about
ready to fall down he’s only just gettin’
up a thirst. Well, he was a good bloke,
because he carted me upstairs to a room
in a pub an’ put me t’ bunk an then,
far’s 1 know, he went down the street an
got stuck into some more beer. Anyhow,
when I wakes up he’s in the room, sittin’
at the window an’ lookin’ out across
the town, an' he starts talkin’ about
the Navy an’ what a great life she
is an’ what a flamin’ goat he was to run
away. I ask him a lot about it, an’ it
begins t’ look t’ me like the kind o’ life
a bloke could enjoy. ‘You’d make a good
sailor, mate,’ he says, an’ I says, ‘Well,
you make a good mate, sailor,’ so we
count up our dough an’ square up with
the publican an’ down we go t’ Mel-
bourne. He reckons be can join under
another name an’ it’ll be all right. When
we hit the city we had a few drinks, an’
out we go t’ the Port, ’cos I want t’ have
“Cant I go Walkabout without you throwin plurry wild parties , Mary ?”
a look at the ships an’ see what they’re
like. There’s a couple o’ them destroyers
tied up, an’ we’re lookin’ at ’em when
up come three great big sailor blokes
with S.P. on their arms an' carryin’
batons, like Johns. Me mate looks at
’em an’ takes t’ his scrapers along the
wharf, an’ before I can move I’m grabbed
an’ shot into a truck an’ carted to a
baTracks an’ they start doin’ me over.
It takes me all day t’ make ’em see I’m
no deserter, an’ in the end they tell me I
can go. At the gate they’re bringin’ in
me mate an’ an officer bloke says, lookin’
at him;, ‘Well, we got one ruddy nuisance
back.’ ‘Yair,’ I says, ‘an’ lost a ruddy
good sailor. Next time there’s a war,’ 1
says, ‘don’t you expect me t’ come an’
give y’ a hand.’ Then I went straight t’
Spencer-street an’ bought a ticket t’
Ouyen, out in the Mallee ; they got no
ruddy Navy there.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Victoria has
only six bullock-teams left, and not one
is in Gippsland or the Otways, formerly
the home of the ox-conductors. Since
the war tractors have replaced them in
their last stronghold in the forests hauling
mill logs, even though the Plums and
Nobles can work in any wet bush with-
out recourse to dollar-purchased fuel.
The State’s oldest driver is “Bill” Storer,
of Hotspur, on the Casterton-Portland
road—the old bullock-track in the days
before the “iron-horse.” Except for a
spell once rolling Mallee and ploughing-
in rabbit-burrows up Euston way, the
old-timer has spent a lifetime in the
Hotspur forest. His son also has a team.
The nearest bullocky to Melbourne is
69-year-old G. Lorimer, 32 miles out at
Dixon’s Creek, near C. J. Dennis’s old
home at Toolangi. Lorimer learnt to
handle workers walking home from
school beside teams and by borrowing the
bullocky’s whips ; but you wouldn’t think
so. Although a master at his art he
never swears or speaks above a whisper.
He’s known as the “parson” bullocky.
* * * *
“Solitude”: X walked into the hut and
stopped abruptly to stare at Seventy-
fiver. Scratches laced his face and neck,
one eye was bunged shut, shirt torn, and
he wore so many swellings he was scarcely
recognisable. “Got a fish for y’,” he
greeted gleefully. “I tried ’em up the top
end o’ the morass. You know, where
all that high cut-grass is. I reckoned
nobody’d ever tried there. Caught a
couple o’ big ’uns. Got mixed up in
a patch o’ bees, too,” he added ruefully,
lubbing his bung eye. “Trouble was the
March flies was that damn’ bad I never
woke up they was bees gettin’ me. Them
big bronze March flies; the sort that
sounds like a truck cornin’ He dived
head-first into a chaff-bag and came up
clutching a small trout. “Here’s y’r
fish,” he chuckled. “Good ’n, ain’t ’e?”
“Yair ; but what’s the matter with your
leg?” I asked, noting his sock turned
down off an ugly-looking gash. “Eh?
Aw, snake got me, an’ me pocket-knife
was a bit blunt,” he answered indiffer-
ently. “Weren’t a tiger, I don’t think.
Just one o’ them grass-snakes. Was waist-
high in blackberry at the time an’ didn’t
see him prop’ly. Yair, an’, Sol—his
mug screwed suddenly into a worried
scowl —“y’ know them ass —asperiment
things, like you had when y’r head was
crook that time?” - “Aspirin?” “That’s
’em, yair. Well, I met Bob Cavendish,
cornin’ out, an’ he made me swaller two
o’ the blasted things. I was a bit groggy
at the time or I wouldn’t ’a’ done it.”
“They won’t hurt you.” “No?” His
mug lost most of its scowl. “No? But,
all the same, Sol,” he persisted, with a
doubtful headshake. “If y’ ask me,
they’re nothin’ but drugs, them things.
An’ cripes, I reckon it don’t do a bloke
no good t’ be swallerin’ drugs.”
* * * *
“The Pirate”: How’s this for netting
fish? Five professional fishermen from
Mallacoota, Inlet (Vic.), headed by
“Tich” Allen, went 30 miles along the
granite-boulder-strewn coast to Tamboon
Inlet, six miles west of the Cape Everard
lighthouse. There in six weeks they
■netted more than 7000 boxes of salmon-
trout, and the cheque between the five of
them was £4900. But this doesn’t often
happen on this coastline. Tamboon,
“Hold that pose!”
along with the neighboring inlets, is
usually too shallow-barred to permit the
entrance of shoal-fish, but with the
torrential rains in East Gippsland last
winter the sand-bars are all scoured out.
Mallacoota now has the deepest entrance
for years.
*** • *
“K.R.”: “J.A.H.” (B. 15/2/’5O) errs
in saying that “the giant reptiles were
destroyed by....the intense heat at the
end of the Cretaceous Age.” Cold killed
off those ancient giants. They had cold
blood, as have all their lesser descendants
—snakes, lizards, tortoises and the rest;
and cold-blooded creatures must have
warm weather to flourish. The 100 mil-
lion years or so in which the reptilian
monsters lorded it over the globe were
years of never-ending summer ; there was
no winter. There followed an Ice Age,
probably caused by great upward move-
ments of the land, and it was this which
gave the quietus to friend Dinosaur.
Incidentally, some scientists think that,
but for the stimulus given by another
Ice Age, we would be no more civilised
than is the African savage. Y'es, mate,
we are civilised.
* * * *
• “Bo”: The surveyor and his offsider
on their way across the hills to their
job had come on an abo. camp. A lubra
was sitting against a tree dandling an
infant on her lap. The surveyor took in
the scene, looked at his offsider and
winked, then said to the lubra: “Me
gib’m you piccaninny’s weight, eh?” He
then set up his instrument and proceeded
to train it on the piccaninny, after which
he pretended to make intricate calcula-
tions with pencil and paper. He had just
announced to the mother that it weighed
exactly sixteen and a half pounds when
the abo. father appeared, nodded affably
to • the white men, picked up the
piccaninny, balanced it on one hand with
the thoughtful air of one making an
accurate calculation and, turning to the
surveyor, said: “You want to have that
theodolite of yours checked by an in-
spector of the Weights and Measures
Department, mister young Tommy
weighs just fifteen pounds!”
* * * *
“Hollywooden”: Our indigenous ants
have never mastered the technique of
forming a nest in loose surface-sand.
Some colonies nest in dry banksia-nuts,
some around the roots of trees, others
build on the surface, using the needles
shed from sheoaks. The big sergeant-
ant sinks a wide vertical shaft down to
the firmer sub-sand. But the Argentine
(B. 18/1/’5O) mastered the technique of
building a huge nest in the loose sand as
soon as it arrived in W.A. Often the
first indication of its presence is one’s
boot sinking to the ankle. For food it
will eat spiders, snails, every sort of
grub, its own dead, any and every kind
of small seed; bread, bran and pollard,
dripping, fat meat, any sort of pollen;
bacon they love. But my particular in-
festations have this virtue —they never
trouble the sugar-basin or jam-pot,
though they will drown themselves in
milk. Cure? Just as soon as they arrive,
get busy with a light sprinkle of yellow
sheep-dip around their nests—but don’t
forget this is poison. How will you know
the Argentine? Well, he is as industrious
and persistent as the Jap. And, oddly,
like the Jap, he is bossed around by a
sort of samurai brother- or sister-ants
not much larger in the body, but with
proportionately enormous heads and jaws.
However, the Argentine is essentially a
dweller among man’s civilisation; halts
at the edge of the town and the end of
the tilled field. So the ants of the un-
tamed wild have little to fear from his
invasion.
“H.H,”: A bush belief that dies hard
among southern Australians is that
Murray pine is indigenous only to the
Murray Valley and Mallee areas. Yet
there are unblazed forests of it on the
Snowy River near Suggan Buggan (Vic.),
and half the homesteads west of the
Darling are built of the timber. The pine
also thrives ht Mungindi, Moree, Cun-
namulla, out on the Warrego; the Pil-
liga scrub is full of it, and you will find
trees anywhere on sandy ridges in red-
mulga country. Fve even cut it near Mt.
Mulligan, at the foot of the Cape York
Peninsula —there it’s known' as cypress —
arid I’ve seen bush humpies constructed
of it in the Kimberleys. Yet tell a
Murraysider this and he comes back:
“But it’s a different tree.” I contend that
Murray, brown, she and cypress pines of
the inland are all one and the same
species.
if * * *
“Emjai”: So “Wippegong” (B-
-1/2/’5O) sits on the banks of the
Macallister in poetic mood, thrilled with
the siren notes of the blackbird, gurgling
joy at the overrunning of native vege-
tation by the blackberry and praying
that our human newcomers will be as
easily assimilated and as vigorous as
these when they “begin to absorb all that
is good from this wholesome soil ana
sunshine.” I am sitting on my back-
veranda, with no poetry in my heart,
surveying the havoc in my small orchar
and garden. The blackbirds beat me
easily to the plums and are now com-
pleting the clean-up of the apples. vVha
time they are not gorging on the trm
they are tearing beds and seedlings to
pieces, undeterred by nets or scares
effective with other feathered P
When hunted by a frontal attack thef
come sneaking in behind again--suc
nice, tame and friendly birds. The daw
song of the blackbird, moving such
“Wippegong” to ecstasies, is the sign
for another day of vandalism and ,
struction. This yellow-billed, black-avis
blackguard of the avian world af -
bears a name connoting something dai >
sinister or evil, akin to black-sna' i
black-sheep, black-shirt, blackarn 00 >
blackmail, black-cap, black-death, blac
leg, and blackberry (ghosts of the o
time blackbirders arise to disclaim co
nection). Put him at the head of this P
cession and have him blacklisted a
blackballed. And the Macallister
beautiful when it “had native vegetal i
only by its banks,” now enriched
variety and contrasts by the overrunni
of blackberries and that ilk! And sm y
the cabbage-moths present a dehgn
picture, as of drifting snowflakes.
wise, no doubt, the pastures have
been enriched by thorabbits, which*
the blackbirds and blackberries,
more than begun “to absorb all tna
good,” etc. It is already apparent tn
few of our newcomers—in the com
cial world —have brought with them
characteristics of the blackberry*
blackbird and the rabbit, and so - „
echoing “W.’s” prayer, heres h t
that the New Australians general liy
be assimilated on entirely different h
DRY COUNTRY.
You grip my heart, O dry land,
With your dusty brown and green,
With your arid outcrops burning
And midnight clefts between,
And your milky distance lit with
A subtly changing sheen.
The ravening sun has taken
All color and all zest;
Dry leaves like mail hang rustling,
Silence has possessed
The wind-bedevilled grasses,
Bare boughs and empty nests.
Yet with the gift of gloaming
When slopes are shot with tire .
TTie peaks wear coronets of light;
Each parapet and spire
Looms out of lofty kingdoms
The gods might well desire.
Russet and bice and golden
Mow burns the dreamy plain
Though every rocky gully
Listens, and all in vain
For the faint pattering footsteps
Of Summer’s children, Rain.
Secret, vast and vital,
Merged with the firmament,
Each lilac hollow's holding
Captive some earthy scent;
Each fissure slyly teeming
With unseen life, Intent.
O dry land, you have waited
Since shrivelled Time began
For the boon of generation—
For master-minds to plan
Till the brumby stallion, Water,
Is harnessed up for Man.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


“Wonk”: Saving things that were long
past any degree of usefulness had become
second nature to old Charlie. Rusty
nails and broken bits were hoarded with
unworthy zeal, and each time the new
torch-batteries got mixed with the
seventy-odd discards. Charlie’s missus
threatened to leave him. To please her,
Chari, decided to put catches on the
kitchen cupboards. Manfully he screwed
on the first catch, tried it, and found it
wouldn’t work. He removed it, put it
back in the box, and took up another. At
the second cupboard he again picked the
faulty catch, screwed it on, experimented,
and took it off again. It went back into
the box. An hour later he was removing
it from the third cupboard. The job took
a long time; completed, Charlie
rode into town and strode grimly into
the store. “By cripes, they were a crook
lot o’ catches y’ sent me f’r me cup-
boards,” he accused the store bloke
resentfully. “Every flamin’ one of ’em
had t’ come orf an’ be replaced, even the
last one. Yair, an’ there was one over,
so I’ve brought the thing back. Y’ c’n
see by it they was crook awright.”
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”: Trangie (N.S.W.) was
just getting its breath back after a
“Bogan shower” (dust-storm) when
Deacon Skinner and Twisty blew in from
Dandaloo way. What dust they couldn’t
shake off themselves and their swags they
washed down with beer at the Royal,
then went over to the bank, and severally
cashed cheques for £22 and £2l respec-
tively. Each then banked a certain sum,
after which they went to the police-station
and interviewed the trooper. From there
they went to the store and negotiated
certain business, then to the stock-and-
station agents and finally they called on
the chemist. After that they paused in
the middle of the road between the two
pabs and carefully looked a t Trangie.
well, said Twisty, somewhat im-
patiently, “did we miss anything?”
Uont reckon we did,” came back the
Deacon. “We got a bit in the bank for
alter, weve give the copper enough to
bail us out if he has t’ chuck us in,
ere good for a quid’s-worth o’
lucker at the store, the agent knows well
J ° b i m about a fortnight an’ the
an’T he can fix U P black eyes
un n „ els !- a ‘ r > we can open her
rnm T ty ’, And they headed for the
Commercial to begin their fortnight’s
* * * *
linSfc fi* dogs don,t move with the
eccer th « e tyke Sand y’s knows his
a „ p ™ * dy makes a crust as a cart-
toml S f h i s j ? bs taki "8 him '<>
tK,S dreds ,. o£ "“ les £rom home, and
him Shao«' and n Wblte always g° es with
mudsua h rd gg n, W slt . on thc bonnet . the
the S’ the running-board, roof of
hold bm h ” wh f ereve l he can B et £ °°t-
M the hL* P , re£ers . the ‘°P of. 11 * 'oad
Sandvin a town 150 miles away
the s y t el aC f ° f Shag ‘ He drove ™und
and few t ™ es > description
knew Sn 10 ? 8 W i th several locals he
home dl / ap P ointed > for
was h g ? e , next few days the dog
that wpnf ll^ 6 kerb watching each truck
apparently hi’ and H f teniB 8- Then,
it was y \A BaVe U P hope and decided
little tvVp e s a short-legged
ld 6 tyke ’ n °t built for walking. First
report on his progress came from a local
who claimed the mong hopped his lorry
as it was crawling out of town and rode
with him till he struck the ten-mile turn-
off. There he left him. Next news was
from the driver of a shire truck, who
collected the self-invited dog on his
running-board. After carrying him 50
miles, he was turning off the highway
when the mong gave a yap and hopped
off. A day later Sandy was at a siding
only 20 miles from home when he spotted
Shag. T*he mong was on the back of an-
other truck, still hitchhiking himself a
ride in the right direction.
♦ * * *
“Spotter”: The morning was cloudless,
windless and hot, and up the brick
veranda-wall black ants hurried in great
excitement. On the horizontal plane of
the balustrade they gathered in even
greater excitement about several winged
ants. These, emerging from shadow into
sunlight, paused and experimentally
opened and closed their wings. Then I
saw that behind every winged one would
gather four or five of the wingless.
“I took that larsh trick—itsh your serve!”
who rushed at the flyer and pushed and
chivvied her until she took off. I’m certain
they’d never flown before and had to be
rushed into it. A small proportion of
them failed, toppling ignominiously into
the grass below the veranda. Nobody
worried about them. A hint of a breeze
arrived, and every ant, winged or other-
wise, promptly scurried down the wall
to the hole. The breeze died and out they
came again, racing up the wall to the top,
where the performance was repeated. I
leaned down and blew on them; every
ant raced down the wall to the hole.
Evidently the winged ones demanded still
air for the maiden flight.
* * * *
“Zake”: These bush Bungs who com-
bine various activities, such as running
a general-store in conjunction with their
primary concern of dispensing life-giving
potations to thirsty cockies, sometimes
get a jolt such as reduces strong men to
tears. I recall one Boniface who had to
fight to keep back a sob when, inviting a
customer to have one on the house, he
found that the cove on the other side of
the counter was no longer dehydrated,
and that he would have, not the customary
cigar instead, but a tin of treacle!
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Reading that par. by
“S.W.A.” (B. 25/1/’5O) in which Jimmy
the Whinger is held up to derision for
continuing to turn the pump-handle after
the tender had got the signal that the
diver was coming up and had called
“Stop the pump,” I found a verdict that
J. the W. was the only sensible man in
the outfit. “Don’t stop |he pump until
the diver’s helmet is off,” is the first in-
struction drilled into the new pump-
tender of every pearling-ground around
Australia; not even though he may be
standing on deck grimacing at one
through the face-glass Have seen a
diver go black in the face from suffoca-
tion when some gaping loon, tired of
turning the pump in the hot sun, stopped.
A diving-suit works both ways. Suffici-
ently watertight to keep out the fluid
under the pressure of up to 20 fathoms,
it also keeps out air af the pressure of
only one atmosphere. Standing on deck
with his helmet still on, the diver is inside
an absolutely close chamber of very
small dimensions and needs air pumped
to him just as much as though he were
down • ten fathoms.
* * * ♦
“Spoke”: Victorian Games and Fish-
eries experts would like to know who is
the enthusiast or joker who Ijas been
punching holes in crayfish. A theory that
the holes were made by some marine pest
has been dismissed on the grounds that
the perforations are all of the same size,
all on the right tail-flip and in the same
place, and evidently made by an instru-
ment similar to a pig’s ear-punch. One
man admits having done it for scientific
reasons, but this doesn’t explain it, be-
cause the phenomenon has been known
to the department for at least 120 years.
To observe the habits of the creature
South Australian experts have been doing
it for a long time, but it is hardly likely
that a Croweater cray could do the 800
miles from those waters in a lifetime.
* * * *
“Bump”: Victorian sportsmen take
their pleasures sadly. With the opening
of the duck-shooting season an argument
arose as to how much it costs to bring
down a single duck. An official investi-
gation placed the figure at £5. A sport-
ing-house proprietor estimates it at £7.
One of the arguments used to justify the
annual slaughter is that it supplements
the domestic larder. 1
* * * *
“Philo”: To master the pronunciation
of the native name whether of place or
person and when spoken by an abo. him-
self I have evolved a workable system.
The first titne you hear the word write
down only the consonants in their correct
order, with gaps between them ; next time
you hear it you fill in those gaps with
vowels. In that way you get close enough
to it for the natives to recognise it when
you read it back to them. After hearing
the name in conversation a few more
times you alter a vowel or two, or add
one, and then you get grins of approval
when you read it back. I had an example
of this when I tried to write down an
abo. name which sounded like “K’rogar-
ogara” when I heard it first. I had it
repeated, put down the consonants, filled
in the vowels and found that it was
really “Coorog-woorog-wirra.” Inci-
dentally, it is a bad prac|jce to get men to
tell you a name; they always gabble.
An old woman who has taught children
to speak soon tumbles to the main cause
of your trouble and repeats the word to
you one syllable at a time. Then it’s
easy.
* * * *
“Saltbush”: My mate on the weigh-
bridge at a Westralian wheat-siding, a
Polish New Australian, was a whale at
scoffing rabbits. He had brought three
old traps from his previous job, and each
night and morning he would inspect his
catch and then set the traps in a new
place. Early one Sunday morning I was
awakened by a loud yell from the bloke
whose unpronounceable name we had
made into plain Jack. Caught in one of
his traps was a big which crouched
down as if to spring when we drew near.
Jack immediately grabbed a piece of wood
and started belting him over the head
with it, screaming as he did so, “You ——
——! You no steal my feed any more!”
He sold the skin for five bob.
* * * *
“Uramao”: If the Maori belief is got
a myth, there lies petrified to stone in a
piece of ground near Kawhia township in
the Auckland province the identical
canoe named “Tainui” which brought
the first Maoris to New Zealand 600
years ago. The area where the canoe has
reposed is on the ground of a Maori
princess, Te Puea. In view of celebra-
tions among Maoris next December to
commemorate the arrival of their fore-
bears many consider the time opportune
to dig up the relic and install it in King
Koroki’s house at Ngaruawahia. But the
princess, who is a descendant of the
commander of the “Tainui,” is adamant
against desecration of the sacred spot
where the canoe lies buried, arguing that
it would be an infringement of ancient
Maori law. She is willing to place at the
disposal of the organisers of the celebra-
tions, however, other relics of the great
migration. The spot of the relic is
marked by a stone at the prow and an-
other at the stern with barbed wire round
about to prevent vandalism. Europeans
are sceptical concerning the claims and
regard the whole thing as a legend.
* 3fC * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Mention of Lady
Barron, Flinders Island, Bass Strait
(B. 18/1/’5O), recalls that in other years
“Oodnadatta rules,” by which you could
do anything once, reigned there, but it
is not so now. Last month a fisherman
there was filled for keeping 28 live
penguins, and a Cape Barren Islander
had a conviction recorded against him for
keeping a pet “porcupine.”
* * ♦ •
“Queensite”: Was left rather be-
wildered at the time by the controversy
over the film “Sons of Matthew,” when
some people voiced the opinion that the
part where the leading lady swims in the
nude should be cut; but all was cleared
up when I took the family to see the
show at the local fleahouse. Aboriginal
Jacky, one-time odd-job man on my
father’s station and now an old friend
of the family, brought his wife Mary
along’ with us. At the point in the film
where the young lady reverts to nature
a woman in front of us leaned over to
her companion and said in a loud stage-
whisper, “That’s the part they were go-
ing to cut!” Jacky, catching her whisper,
laughed and said, much to the amuse-
ment of the audience around us, “ ’lm
plurry copy-cat!”
PORCELAIN-PIECE.
This priceless piece of colored ware
See now the fixed and glassy stare
Of two set eyes as still as death, ,
The speckled breast where there s no breath,
Head listening where there’s no sound,
Two lifeless feet propped to the ground—
But look! Porcelain breaks its pose,
The eyes light up, the head’s alert,
The still bird stirs, rakes with ms toes,
The dead leaves fly and, in the dirt,
The speckled thrush with busy bill
Digs up a worm his brood to fill.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
It is reported from
New Zealand that
the Dominion’s first
television set has
been made by a
sixth - former of
High * Whangarei Boys’
paper further A rCP ° rt fr ° m 3 NeW Zea,and
made by iw r °!! °h 0081 £so>
other pupfis At i the he] P o£ two
PS ‘ At the same tlme > another New
S d : aws a,te " tion *
in the rw mterestm 8 case which was heard
when a C ° Urt * 1913
was proceeded High Sch ° ol boy
Government r ! gamst by the New Zealand
a radio sta ion' T 8 COnstructcd a * d erected
10 Statlon without a licence. The prose-
cution, in which wide interest was taken, said
the young inventor faced a serious charge for
which the maximum penalty was a fine of £5OO.
However, the Magistrate did not take such a
serious view as the Crown of this heinous
offence, although he entered a conviction and
ordered the boy to come up for sentence when
called upon, although telling him that he wasn’t
to do it again.
These cuttings sent to me in today’s mail
bring back memories because I happen to know
the boy who was hauled over the coals by the
Authorities in 1913 and needless to say, he has
repeated the “offence” many thousands of times,
and in fact, to some considerable pecuniary
benefit. This case, by the way, was the first
of its kind in the world and was reported in the
official organ of the Marconi Company at that
time.
Although some may criticize the view point
of the Government in those dark days of
crystals, cat whiskers and spark transmitters,
nevertheless, all over the world, and in every
sphere, the future of (as it was
termed) was definitely considered to be solely
for the purpose of direct communication between
ship and shore and from station to station,
much in the same manner as our telegraph
then and today, but of course, without wires. So
that the Government could see the possibility
even then that their internal telegraph system
and the external cable systems for the trans-
mission of point to point messages might be
meddled with and would not hear of some
private individual mucking around with this new
invention, over which it probably, as it has
since turned out, wished to have control.
And now we have television and the boy of
Whangarei, but in a much more enlightened
world. What will happen to this young fellow
we have yet to learn, although if he has merely
constructed for himself a television receiving
and transmission equipment operating within
strictly confined limits, it is doubtfu
if they will put him in irons. But the fact
remains that at least here in Australia the
Government has clamped down very rigidly on
any private excursions into the realms o
television. Many will criticize this attl^ de ’
particularly in view of the terrific strides being
made by private interests m America bt«
before doing so, they would do weU to find
out something about the ch.oltc condibons
already evident in the American ether brough
about by hasty television‘ vfsi.ors
stringent criticism of which
to our shorc o ' ,hC hc television screens in
,s being shot on to th commcrcial and
American homes by tn y
advertising interests. Mullard
Apart from the fact that the “nlla^
Company are today the largest Emp |re,
of radio and television tubes m ar ticle
they are, by reason of the New Zealand[ article
just referred to, famous in another way,
the boy who was put on the carpet by
Zealand Authorities in 1913 is one
Executives. —Advt.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Specialised Knowledge of
Estate Management
HTHE financial assets built up during the life-
A time of a Testator may present, on his death,
a maze of difficulties beyond the comprehension
of the inexperienced executor.
Efficient Estate administration demands
specialised knowledge of legal, property and
probate matters. Sixty-five years of experience
in handling all Estate problems is available at
moderate charges, when the Union Trustee is
appointed as Executor either solely or jointly
with a relative or friend.
Call for a confidential interview —or write for
your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
(Established 1885)
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
ŵ
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian General Insurance
To Re- Re-
Dee.. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 14,866 10 p.c. = 7000 7,366 104,379
Staff provident fund, £5OOO .. .. 99,379
1941.. 15,354 10 p.c. = 7000 8,354 107,733
1942.. 11,810 10 „ „ 70001
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. 1 810 108,543
To tax reserve, £3OOO .. 1
1943.. 15,965 10 p.c.- 7000 1 6 „ 65 115) 508
Staff fund, £2OOO .. ) ’
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c. = 7000 1 6 900 122,408
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. t ’
1945, . 17,556 10 p.c. = 7000 ( 9,556 131,964
Staff fund, £lOOO .. (
1946.. 17,241 10 p.c, 7000 ] 0 2 4l 141,205
Staff fund, £lOOO . . .. i ’
1947.. 31,231 10 p.c. = 7000 | 2 3,231 164,436
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..f
1948.. 33,044' 12 p.c. = 8400 ) 23,647 188,083
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..j
From tax reserve, £BOOO .. .. 196,083
1949. . 36,444 12i p.c. = 11,750 24,694 220,777
This well-ribbed 42-year-old grew up
under the wing of the Mercantile
Mutual; the management has always
followed a cautious policy, and in the
hunt for business has never gone beyond
the limits of the Commonwealth.
Premium income showed no marked
fluctuation during the war years, but has
become expansive since, partly because
of the quick rise in insurable values which
followed on the heels of inflation and a
growing volume of trade and high level
of employment. Throughout the over-all
loss and expense rates have been moder-
ate, which has meant satisfactory under- 1
writing results, especially since war
ended. And, since the return from in-
vestments has long approximated the
dividend charge, most of the underwrit-
ing surplus has been available to swell
investments and the returns therefrom.
Last term shareholders welcomed the
request for a further 3s. a share, which
lifted paid capital to £lOO,OOO in £1 shares
paid to 10s. each. Equally welcome was
the extra \ p.c. distributed on the larger
capital—the div. was k<?pt at 10 p.c., and
has been since 1937, but the bonus was
lifted from 2 p.c. to 2} p.c., making
12<£ p.c. for the year. And there is
nothing in sight at the moment to suggest
that the 12£ p.c. is likely to be interfered
with. It now calls for £11,750, or only
£l5lB more than last term’s net return
from investments alone (£10,232), which
increased by £1658 over the twelve-
month.
Gross premiums (£298,389, up £54,443)
increased by 18.2 p.c., and 33.3 p.c. of the
lot was reinsured (£99,615, up £24,979).
Net premiums benefited by £29,464,
reaching a record £198,774:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48.040 6-0.2 41.4
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 .44.7
1942.. 95,173 40,869 48,778 42.9 51.2
1944.. 98,229 48,899 41,666 49.8 42.4
1945.. 99,758 46,688 42,860 47.7 43.8
1946.. 113,409 57,809 46,168 50.9 40.7
1947.. 144,688 66,916 54,463 46.2 87.6
1948.. 169,310 78,056 66,781 46.0 39.4
1949.. 198,774 87,077 85,485 43.8 43.0
The loss rate was 445. p.c. lighter, despite
the unprofitable nature of third-party
risks and higher loss rate in respect of
workers’ - compensation and motor-
vehicle insurance; and the general ex-
perience in marine business was less
favorable than for the previous term.
The fire section, largest of the various
departments, was the most profitable.
The continued upswing in costs generally,
combined with expansion of the business,
pushed the expense rate up by 725. p.c.
Still, the gross underwriting surplus was
£1739 stronger at £26,212, or 26.2 p.c.
on capital. But that was before making
any provision for unexpired risks, which
on the usually-accepted 40 p.c. basis
would reduce the net underwriting surplus
to £14,427 (down £197), or 14.4 p.c. on
capital. The return from investments
was equal to a further 10.2 p.c., making
the net return from all sources £24,659
(up £146), equal to 24.6 p.c. on capital.
Government securities (up £18,093) re-
presented 62 p.c. of total assets at end
1949:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital. . £70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 60,589 73,078 86,496 104,346
Tax reserve .. '26,000 21,500 27,000 13,500
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 '2,500 2,500
Mortgages . . 30,489 25,771 19,917 46,817
Debentures .. 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000
Shares other cos. 3,729 6,461 25,475
Govt, securities 182,088 219,588 258,588 276,681
Book debts .. 8,600 16,165 22,857 23,354
Cash, etc. . . 56,876 68,270 61,155 65,295
Owing to the low return now receiyed
from Government paper, more attention
is being given to mortgages (up £26,898)
and shares in other cos. (up £19,014),
which augurs well for the income from
investments. ,
The market, which sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky, is prepared to wait for further
benefits and prices the 10s.-paid shares,
covered by 325. in net tangibles, at 395.
6d., giving a return of 3.1 p.c. on a 12i
p.c. div, basis.
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Nov., Profit, Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940. . 97,359 12$ p.c. = 95,054 2,305 314,467
1941.. 96,076 12$ „ „ 95,054 1,022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 Hi „ „ 85,549 9,882 325,371
1943.. .66,378 8 „ „ 60,835 6,543 330,914
1944.. 65,988 8 „ „ 60,835 5,153 336,067
1945.. 65,513 8 „ „ 60,835 4,678 340,745
1946. . 65,818 8 „ „ 60,835 4,983 345,728
1947.. 65,168 8 „ „ 60,835 4,333 350,061
1948.. 66,343 8 „ „ 60,835 5,508 355,569
1949.. 66,470 8 „ „ 60,835 5,635 361,204
This co. (paid capital £760,433) and
Kandos Cement (paid capital £673,862)
are two holding cos. which are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
t Pty., largest producer in the Common-
wealth, and each is distributing agent for
the operating concern in its own State.
Held back by adverse post-war factors,
the cement industry awaits the oppor-
tunity of further expansion. The back-
log of building and other construction,
including large public works, will take
years to complete. So, to keep capacity
a step or two ahead of foreseeable
demand, and retain its grip upon an ex-
panding market, the operating co. is
lifting the output potential of its Fyans-
ford (Vic.) works from 275,000 tons to
335.000 tons p.a. The new equipment
is scheduled to come into operation dur-
ing 1950. At the other plant, Kandos
(N.S.W.), which has a capacity of 200,000
tons p.a., a new turbo-alternator has been
installed, and a new ropeway, capable of
doing 2\ times the work of the old one,
is now hauling limestone from the quarry
to the cement kilns, thus helping to off-
set the effects of the 40-hour week upon
output and earnings. Both plants are
well-organised, highly-efficient and mode-
rately capitalised production units, and
that ought to mean much in the years
ahead, when competition becomes more
acute.
To help finance the expansion, each
holding co. took 100,000 new £1 shares
at par in the operating co. last term;
and each had the ready cash for the
purpose, so shareholders weren’t asked to
assist. Issued capital of the operating
co. is now £2,200,000, of which £50,000
(ss. a share on the new issue) was still
to come at November 30 last. Australian
Cement’s assets then consisted of
1.100.000 £1 shares in the proprietary,
£70,262 (down £70,429) of public securi-
ties, a holding of £3750 (5000 £1 shares
paid to 15s. each) in Bates (’Asia) Pty.,
which makes the paper bags the cement
is packed in, and £6580 of cash. Cast
term £60,313 (same as previous year)
was received in divs. and £11,409 in com-
missions, etc. Of the lot £66,470, or
8.7 p.c. on capital, was profit, which has
been on an even keel for the last seven
years.
The operating co. has sent along a
steady 6 px. on its capital since 1943, as
against 9 px. for the five years before
that. Hence the drop in this holding
co.’s div. from px. to 8 px. On the
basis of last year’s figures, and assuming
the operating co. continues to pay 6 px.,
Australian Cement’s profit for the current
term should rise to 9.5 px. on its capital,
plus whatever extra pickings there may
be from distribution. On a similar basis,
Kandos’s profit would be 10.9 px. on
its capital.
The market allows for all this and
for the possibility of a lift in the operat-
ing co.’s div. later on, and prices the
scrip in the two holding cos, to give only
moderate immediate returns:
Face Net
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Aust. Cement 20/ 62/ 8 p.c. 3.1 p.c. 29/6
Kandos .. 10/- 46/- 10 „ 3.4 „ 35/7
* Per pound of paid capital.
A variation of 1 p.c. in the div. from
the operating co.'would represent 1.4 px.
and 1.6 p.c. on the capital of Australian
Cement and Kandos respectively. Profit-
earning in the industry depends largely
upon what happens in connection with
costs, a stubborn item which is still rising,
and selling-prices, which are controlled,
Thompsons (Castlemaine), Ltd. (Vic.)
(and Subsidiary.)
Dividends \ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.!
5 p.c.
Sj & £ £, £
1947*. 12,143 3126 5 p.c. = 6,625 2,392 9,669
1948.. 37,265 6260 6 „ ~ 15,900 15,115 24,784
1949.. 39,327 6250 6 „ ~17,633 15,444 40,228
To superannuation, £5OOO . . . . 35,228
* Six months only. t After deducting intangibles
( £47,786).
This holding co. was formed at the
end of 1946 to (1) buy all the
shares in the then 75-year-old heavy-
engineering business carried on by
Thompsons Engineering and Pipe Co.,
and (2) to provide extra working
capital for expansion. The old busi-
ness, which had specialised in construc-
tion of bucket and suction-cutter dredges
for Malayan tin cos., got into financial
difficulties when the bottom dropped out
of the tin market during the first half of
the 1920’5. The present operating co. took
over in 1925, managed to weather
the economic blizzard of the early 1930’s
and had got firmly on its feet by the end
of the war. A hungry market has since
awaited the commercial output of its
Castlemaine and Williamstown (Vic.)
works. At Castlemaine —biggest of the
two plants—chief lines produced are
condensing and feed-heating equipment
for electric-power stations, large pumping
plants, evaporators, de-aerators and heavy
forgings for the Government railways.
The steel foundry at Williamstown makes
up to three-ton castings, as well as petrol-
storage and rail tanks and trucks, auto-
claves, digesters and vulcanisers, etc.
The holding co. paid approximately
£lOO,OOO for, the business —£68,505 in
scrip (25,000 5 p.c. prefs. and 43,505 ords.)
and the balance in cash purchase of the
old £1 B prefs. at 255. 6d. a share. To
do this, lighten the overdraft and pro-
vide more working capital, the public put
up £321,495 in 100,000 5 p.c. prefs, and
221,495 ords., making paid capital
£390,000 in 125,000 prefs. and 265,000
ords.
After estimating taxation on a public-
co. basis, net earnings of the business for
the three years to June 30, 1946, were:
1944. 1945. 1946.
Profit before tax.. .. £34,801 £43,885 £47,026
Estimated tax .. .. 12,233 16,006 15,387
Net profit .. .. £22,563 £27,879 £31,639
For the half-year to June 30, 1947, profit
was at the rate of £24,286 p.a.—the
Williamstown works were virtually closed
during this period because of industrial
troubles which affected the whole of the
metropolitan engineering trade. There
has been no stoppage at either works
since, and over a million pounds’ worth
of orders has poured in during each of
the last two years. Chief obstacles have
been shortages of steel, pig-iron, coke,
transport and skilled labor. And delay
in delivery components from outside
manufacturers, especially electric motors,
introduction of* the 40-hour week and
the pressure of rising costs have added to
the management’s difficulties.
Last term profit stepped up by £2062
reaching £39,327. That was after allow-
ing £17,189 (up £666) for depreciation
and £26,250 (up £2950) for taxation. The
£39,327 was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 11.2 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 11.7 p.c. for the previous
term —the big English engineering firm,
United Steel Co. (paid capital £13,500,000)’
bought 32,000 ords. at par during the
year. Of the £15,444 of profit that re-
mained, £5OOO was earmarked for staff
superannuation, and the balance raised
reserves £35,228 in excess of intangibles
(£47,786).
Movements in balance-sheet figures
mainly reflect increased production:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £390,000 £390,000 £422,000
Overdraft .. ~ 177,417, 243,365 318,436
Creditors, etc. .. 44,2 19 68,176 103,837
Tax provision .. 9,7 5 0 1 2,400 26,480
Ereehold . . . . 60,5 8 8 60,158 60,880
Leasehold .. .. 9,5 8 3 9,265 9,726
Plant 152,4 03 151,363 158,606
Stocks 118,8 20 1 36,5 66 159,082
Work in progress .. 234,601 275,517 396,150
Book debts .. .. 74,2 25 129,23 0 138,393
Cash, etc. .. .. 810 537 178
Intangibles .. .. 47,7 8 6 4 7,7 86* 47,786
Work in progress (up £120,633) and the
overdraft (up £75,070) are closely related.
The more-or-less liquid surplus (£245,051)
increased by £27,142. Still, when the
books closed there was 17s. 9d. of out-
side money (including tax provision) at
work in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders.
To relieve the pressure 50,000 5 p.c.
prefs. and 100,000 ords., all of £1 each,
were issued at par in November
last. When all the money on that lot is
in, paid capital will be £572,000 in 175,000
prefs. and 397,000 ords. The pref. div.
and 6 p.c. to the ords. will then call for
£8157 less profit than was shown last
year.
The current term opened with enough
orders in hand to keep the works busy for
three years, and contracts have come in
at an accelerated rate since. In
this class of business, satisfactory
earnings depend largely upon full em-
ployment of plant, which in turn partly
depends upon ability to compete success-
fully with overseas manufacturers.
The market prices the ords. at 265. 6d.,
giving a return of 4.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 225. 6d. yield
4.4 p.c. Including the new issue, net
tangible cover is 695. sd. prefs. and 21s.
9d. ords.
Foy and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 5J p.c. serves, serves.
£, & & £ £
1940 .. 40,621 13,500 19,483 7,638 23,194
1941 .. 34,951 13,500 19,484 1,967 25,161
A.R.P. expenses, £5691 .. ••
194 2.. 47,155 1 3,5 00 1 9,4 84 14,171 33,641
19 43 .. 43,165 1 3,5 0 0 1 9,48 4 10,181 43,84-
To superannuation fund, etc., £2000.. 41,84
6 p.c. .
1944 .. 46,503 13,500 21.256 11,747 53,6 W
To superannuation fund, etc., £ 2000 .. 51,5
1945 .. 48,026 13,500 21,256 13,270 64,83»
To superannuation fund, £BOOO ..
Unexplained addition, £6OOO ••
1946 .. 59,243 13,500 20,945 88,784
To staff fund, £2600
Unexplained addition, £6OOO .. •• “
1947 . . 65,274 13,500 31,884 19,890 112,1^
19 4 8.. 71,7 66 1 3,50 0 31,88 4 26,382 138,55
Share premiums, £27,000 .. •• J ’„. O
Net reduction reserves, £2200 .. 15 >
6 & 5 p.c. »70»
1949 ~ 64,028 13,551 32,061 18,416 181,"-
* Subject to £24,283 of goodwill.
Progress of this energetic Perth retailler
has been more marked over the last h v
years than during any other q um '
quennium in the history of the busmess.
which began as a branch of the big - Vle
bourne parent co. of the same name oye
half a century ago. This post-war peno
has been one of shortages and } '
flation, which has meant rising Pj lC *
and rapidly expanding turnover, help
by a steady improvement in the now
goods. Until last term expanding tur
over more than took care of the grow


DAVIES k COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX T
OSUIXTVAN
muft J,
MtrtS
Trade m * rk
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
bead office and factories
BRISBANE
ABO AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS a offset printers
lithographic printers
typographers
monotype and linotype
OPERATORS
WEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
We STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
the Australian
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
guthridge
PTY., umited,
r*** Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.I
wa POWER
RIGHT FOR AUSTRALIAN ROADS
y.
¥8 FIIL®T
3*6 LITRES
• The Ford V 8 engine gives this English sedan • The Pilot is big and robust. It has a 108 J"
the sustained high performance and power re- wheelbase, a wide wheeltrack and the ample
serveusually found onlyin American type cars. road clearance needed for outback roads.
• Big 6.50 x 16 heavy duty tyres give smooth
riding in city or country. Combined mechanical
and hydraulic brakes give extra safety at all times.
• The styling is in traditional English good taste.
Inside is roomy comfort for five people, tailored
leather upholstery and genuine English quality
in interior design.
i Your Ford Dealer will be glad to call and tell
you more about Pilot. Phone or contact him
without delay.
£
•*
FVP9B- 27
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTV. ITO. (INC. M *IC.) REC. OFFICE: CEaONG, VIC.
in trading exes., and net earn-
ings shot up from £43,165 in
1943 to £71,766 in 1948.
Last term the benefits from a
“substantial” increase in sales
was more than offset by the
official cut in gross margins at
the beginning of 1949, and by
the continued and steep rise in
costs. So, after allowing £7562
for depreciation and setting
aside £34,300 (down £4700) for
the taxgatherer, there was a slip
of £7738 in the net result. The
£64,028 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the pref. divs.
and show 14.1 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 16.4,
14.8, 12.9 and 9.7 p.c. back to
1945. The div. was kept at
9 p.c. for the third year in suc-
cession, making the average dis-
tribution over the last decade
6.8 p.c The £181,772 of reserves,
now subject to £24,283 of good-
will, has all been accumulated
over the last dozen years.
As an antidote to high and
still-rising overhead, which spells
narrower margins, the board has
adopted a policy of expansion.
Shortly before the close of last
accounts three well-established
country businesses were bought
—Manning’s (Narrogin), Time-
well’s (Albany) and Bon Marche
Co. (Collie). The price paid,
which included £24,283 for
goodwill, isn’t stated, but the
major part of the consideration
was in scrip l —18,500 £1 5 p.c.
B prefs. and 36,000 £1 ords.,
which carried a premium of 15s.
each (£27,000).
Movements in balance-sheet
figures are mainly on account of
these purchases, and the
modernisation of the main Perth
store and rise in prices:
1947. 1948. 1949.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 579,263 579,263 633,763
Creditors, etc. 53,901 54,154 102,333
Tax reserve .. 47,311 39,000 34,300
Freeholds .. 363,995 363,995 399,048
Plant, etc. .. 43,837 84,431 74,716
Stocks ~ 259,491 271,302 342,773
Debtors , , 32,462 45,721 79,886
Cash, etc. .. 127,097 105,835 56,152
Goodwill .. —.— 24,283
The growth in freeholds was
£35,053, stocks £71,471 and book
debts £34,165. Cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £49,683, and
£48,179 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The
more -or - less liquid surplus
(£342,178) was £12,474 stronger.
Since the close of accounts a
further 9000 ords. have been
issued at a premium of 15s. each
in completion of the Bon
Marche purchase, and last month
68,529 ords. were issued, also at
a premium of 15s. each, in
exchange for all-the 13,370 issued
£5 shares in the retail business
of Richardson and Co. (Katan-
ning), which has nine branches.
Paid capital has been thus raised
to £711,292 in 225,000 6 p.c. and
18,500 B 5 p.c. prefs, and
467,792 ords. On that lot the
pref. div. and 9 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £56,526, or £7502
less profit than shown last term.
The ords. at 365. 4d, appear to
be worth consideration. At that
figure the immediate return is
4.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The 6 p.c. prefs. at 295. and the
5 per cents, at 21s. 6d. yield
4.1 p.c. and 4.6 p.c. respectively.
Including scrip issued to date,
net tangible cover is £4 2s. sd.
for the sixes, £37 18s. lid. for the
fives and 30s. 7d. for the ords.
New Occidental Gold Mines, N.L.
The September, 1949, lift in
the price of gold gave this co.,
which owns three mines at
Cobar (N.S.W.) and is the biggest
gold-copper producer in the
State, a fresh lease of life and
new ambitions. With gold at the
old price, the struggle was to
keep costs from drowning earn-
ings, Development below No.
14 level in the New Occidental
(gold) and below No. 8 level in
the Chesney (gold-copper) had
ceased. At the New Cobar,
which had been milling 3.sdwt.
ore with a little copper, produc-
tion stopped in April, 1948;
and, on the basis of present mea-
sured ore reserves, there is only
a few years’ life ahead of the
other two.
Now that the price of gold
has risen from 10.765. to
15.495. per dwt., and with elec-
trolytic copper at £AIBO a ton,
a lot of previously marginal-
grade ore has come within pay-
able limits, especially on the
basis of large-scale production.
So the board has decided to
adopt the policy recommended
by the co.’s consulting geologist
(H. J. C. Conolly) and general
manager (F. R. Beggs), namely,
to continue production at the
rate of about 100,000 tons p.a.
for 2\ years at the Occidental
and at 50,000 tons p.a, for li
years at the Chesney and at the
same time to vigorously explore
at depth the New Occidental,
Chesney and New Cobar ore-
bodies by diamond-drilling. The
campaign is expected to take
about three years to complete
and to cost about £lOO,OOO.
It it is successful, development
and construction are to follow
over the next four to five years,
the final stage of large-scale
mining and treatment being
reached eight or nine years
hence. Capital expenditure in-
volved is reckoned to be in the
vicinity of £4,000,000. The idea
is to treat all ore at one mill,
which would handle annually a
million tons, averaging 0.9 p.c.
copper and I.9dwt. gold, worth,
say, £3 a ton at today’s metal
prices. On the throughput en-
visaged it is expected to get costs
down to about £2 a ton, leaving
a profit of £1 a ton, or £1,000,000
p.a. For the year to June 30,
1949, working costs at New Oc-
cidental were 555. 9d. a ton and
at Chesney 665. sd. a ton.
The crucial question is
whether the ore-bodies and
values both live at depth. On
geological evidence, especially
in relation to the nature of
mineralisation and structure,
Mr. Conolly and others say it is
fair to claim that they do. Only
the drill can answer the question
definitely. The deposits are sub-
stantial ; Chesney ore-body is
900 ft. long and 20ft. to 100 ft.
wide, New Cobar 700 ft. long
and 20ft. to 200 ft. wide, and
New Occidental 450 ft. long
with an average width of 70ft.
The three mineralised masses
would thus aggregate at least
8000 tons or more per vertical
foot.
The co. is to ask the con-
tribs. for another Is. a share
(£60,750) on March 8, and will
repay £50,625 of 10 p.c. re-
deemable pref. capital on March
27. Paid capital will then stand at
£435,375 in 2,227,500 ss. shares,
of which 1,012,500 will be fully
paid and the balance paid to 3s.
each. Last weekend the market
priced the paids at 4s. Id. as
against ss. 6d. at end January.
War - damage compensation
payments to Cuthbert’s Misima
(Papua), plus funds in hand
from pre-war operations and
the unexpended balance on
diamond-drill and development
account, have proved insufficient
to restore the mine to the point
where income exceeds expendi-
ture. This point is expected to
be reached in April next. To
cover the gap (including capital
outlay) meanwhile, shareholders
are to be asked presently
for £30,000 of pref. money, de-
tails yet to be announced. The
drilling campaign to test miner-
alisation of the leases at depth,
and to finance which 50,000 10s.
ords, were issued in 1948, has
been inconclusive. Shortage of
labor and materials delayed mine
rehabilitation, which is about six
months behind schedule. Now
that both are in better supply, it
is expected to put 70 tons (half
plant capacity) of sdwt. ore
through the mill daily in April,
and thus “break even” on ex-
penditure. Between 1936 and
1941 co. treated 199,474 tons of
s.2dwt. ore for a total profit of
£218,000. At end 1940 there was
over 200,000 tons of proved and
more than 103,000 tons of prob-
able ore, expected to average
sdwt. and carrying a lot of silver,
in sight in the southern sector.
The northern sector, not yet
tested, was expected to prove “a
valuable asset.” Paid capital
now stands at £185,000 in f.-p.
10s. shares, which the market
prices at 45., or thereabouts.
* * * *
Eldorado, on the e.-w. line of
lode south of Tennant Creek,
ran into a comparatively lean
patch during the year to June 30
last, as the last line in the fol-
lowing table shows:
—Civ. ,
Ore Head Gold Per
Trtd., Value,Recov’d,Profit. 2s. Total.
Tons. Dwt. Oz. £ Share. £
’44 6885 21.4 3497 8,029 -/6 7,750
’45 6134 39.7 7172 41,517 1/6 23,254
’46 4844 25.7 4519 19,918 1/- 15,503
’47 6534 24.8 5646 28,760 1/- 15,503
’4B 6188 20.1 4423 18,904 1/- 15,503
’49 5618 16.1 3091 5,066 -/6 7,752
Chief trouble was the drop in
grade of ore, which came mainly
from the east stope between the
300 ft. and 200 ft. levels, where
values decreased in the shallower
ground. Costs rose by 65., reach-
ing £4 9s. lOd. a ton, the profit
(3.9 d. a share) was less than one-
third the previous year’s, and
the div. was cut in halves. Ore
reserves at June 30, 1949, were
conservatively estimated at
10,000 tons, averaging 18-21dwt.,
in the east stope on the 300 ft.
level. Exploration and develop-
ment on this field are on the
“follow the ore” principle. The
contact between the lode and
the footwall country rock has
been located about the 400 ft.
horizon, where lateral explora-
tion has disclosed a new ore
occurrence of profitable size and
grade. A heap of tailings, esti-
mated to be worth about
£280,000 at the present price of
gold, awaits treatment by the
new cyanidation plant. The 2s.
shares, which touched 20s. in the
market during 1949, recently
sold at 10s.
* * * *
Commenting on the effect of
the September, 1949, rise in the
price of gold upon operations at
Lake View and Star (W.A.),
Australia’s biggest gold pro-
ducer, chairman Goldthorp Hay
says the life of the mine will be
lengthened because the co. will
be able to handle large blocks
of ore previously too low in
grade to be treated economically,
and the rate of development will
be quickened, if enough labor
can be obtained. Although the
head-value of mill-feed can be
thus expected to drop a little,
and costs are still rising (miners’
wages in the West rose by 18s.
a week last month), “reasonable”
profits are anticipated. The
overall recovery of gold at the
Chaffers treatment plant in-
creased by 3.37 p.c. last term,
reaching a very satisfactory
94,05 p.c,, thanks to post-cyanid-
ation of the flotation tailings.
Total ore reserves at June 30,
1949, were put at 4,096,400 tons,
averaging 4.86dwt., an increase
of 100,600 tons over the June,
1948, figure, after extracting
551,191 tons during the year.


«»
o
TO
*
In
'///YS£/ys*
o/‘
W
Mr
’dr
30 YEARS of service to Australia from the
Hughes to the Menzies-Fadden Governments is one of
the records of “Qantas” achievements in the field of
air transportation.
Serving the people of the Commonwealth from peace,
through war and on again to peace, “Qantas” has
established and maintained Australia’s overseas air links.
Equipped with experience based on past achievements,
and with a loyal, pre-eminently qualified staff, Qantas
Empire Airways looks with confidence to the task ahead.
flf k
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
# w W’ •
STATE
Baft
THE SECRET’S IN
THE 333't BLEND
EXPRESS*}#
T4IO-11.4®
Business. Rollery. Ete.
The Exchange Rate
'
With a new Parliament open-
ing today, it won’t be long be-
fore the new Government will be
, , , . r- .. .....
asked to define its attitude to-
wards the Australia-London ex-
change rate. Unless the Menzies
Government contemplates no
u i.- •* . -it u „
alteration, it will be a difficult
question to answer, and the
Ministry will be justified in de-
clinini? to mve anv form of renlv
ciimng to give any lorm or repiy
that will anticipate its eventual
decision on the question. Any
alteration should be an accom-
nlishprTf'u-t when the nuhlic first
pnsnea lact wnen me punne nr si
learns or it.
Last week Mr. Menzies told
the Press that Cabinet had not
considered revaluation Mean-
considered revaluation. Mean-
while the question of ex-
change alteration is being dis-
cussed elsewhere. The president
r XT o wi,, i„„ ruLi, a .
O; the N. S. Wales C hambet of
Manufactures, R. J. Webster
(who is also managing-director of
Bradford Cotton Mills), j s
j , .. TI •, , /’ ,
opposed to it. He said last week
that the ■‘injurious effects of this
action on the manufacturing in-
dustries of this country would be
far-reaching,” adding:—
An appreciation of the Australian
pound to parity with sterling would
reduce the value of manufacturers
and traders’ stocks overnight by 20
iper cent., as happened in New Zea-
l and - , ■
. Even in that country, where manu-
'factoring industries are of relatively
[minor importance, the Government
'tried to avoid the immediate difli-
culties following appreciation, both
to manufacturers and to others who
iheld imported stocks of goods, by
(maintaining the price level, for some
months, at the old rates.
This was completely ineffective, as
buyers would not commit, themselves
Uo the purchase of goods which were
; certain to fall in value in a very short
space of time—
All duties which have been imposed
during the last 18 years have followed
Tariff Board recommendations, which
have made due allowance for the pro-
tection given by existing rates of ex-
change. It is the only protection
ma ny industries have,
Imported goods from the United
Kingdom and European countries—
most of which have deflated their
currencies to help their export trade
—would pour into the country, to the
detriment of most manufacturing
in^H s f r ' es - .
There are few manufacturers who
could face up to a reduction of 20
per cent, in the margin they are now
making on their sales, whilst, at the
same time ’ the debts which the y owe
in Australia remain the same
Great efforts have been made by
manufacturers, backed by the Corn-
monwealth Government, to develop
an ex P ort trade in manufactured
products on a permanent basis. T hi s
policy, so important to the economic
well-being of the country, would have
to be abandoned.
There would be an overnight fall
of 20 per cent> in the value of primary
products sold overseas. Some of the
primary industries could probably
£and this, whilst world values are at
their existing high levels, but there are
man y indications that the turn of the
tide is approaching.
Many foodstuffs are already in
plentiful supply in some countries far
in excess of what they need. World
g rana ries are well-stored with wheat,
with still greater surpluses in sight,
Even France is now exporting grain,
The chairman of the Joint
Committee for Tariff Revision,
R. J. Hawkes, promptly tackled
Mr Webster in the Press. He
... c
denied that appreciation of the
Australian pound in relation to
sterling would injure Australian
as a whole and caid
3S a W .™ le ’ and ?
that it was difficult to see how, if
the value of stocks were reduced
“20 p.c, overnight,” costs would
. , . red need at the camp
not also be reduced at the same
time. Few, it any, major indus-
tries, said Mr. Hawkes, were
not protected by duties and
■„„„ oni , n]
t-harges ec ffial to more than 45
P-C. of the f.O.b. cost. Apprecia-
tion of the Australian pound
woul d re duce the protection
• , .v
g iven to manufacturers where it
was given by ad valorem duties.
but not where the duty was a
specific amount. However,
manufacturers would benefit by
obtaining imported raw materials
at a lower cost, and, in addition,
their Australian costs would fall.
J. H. Macdonald, vice-
president of the Metal Trades
Employers’ Association, has ex-
pressed opposition to any altera-
tion in the exchange rate.
Engineering and allied industries
were the most vulnerable to
overseas competition. The
greatest development in the
metal trades took place between
1939 and 1949 because of con-
trolled imports and the general
shortage of available manufac-
tures. There was no longer a
shortage of overseas goods, and
the pent-up demand for con-
sumer goods had been overcome.
Many imported articles could
now be sold at much lower prices
than the local products.
In the same Press report, the
Wheatgrowers’ Union was re-
corded as having decided to
support the Australian Wheat-
growers’ Association in opposing
appreciation of Australian cur-
rency in terms of sterling. The
union felt that, although the ex-
change rate was originally raised
to assist primary producers at a
time when world prices were
low, farmers should not be
denied the opportunity of taking
advantage of present good con-
ditions.
A great deal more than the
opinion of these separate
interests would be required to
present the issue squarely. There
is no question that Australian
manufacturers would suffer in-
creased overseas competition in
classes of goods where produc-
tion is recovering rapidly over-
seas. Though a specified tariff
may remain the same whatever
happens to the exchange rate, the
overseas price, expressed in Aus-
tralian money, would fall if our
money came nearer to sterling
parity, and price - plus - tariff
would be lower than previously.
But it is extremely doubtful
whether overseas production has
recovered in the manner indi-
cated by some of the authorities,
or that price is always so com-
petitive. It should be remem-
bered particularly that British
export prices are going up, in
many cases, because of the in-
creased sterling cost of raw
materials. Furthermore, sections
of Australian industry have had
an excellent chance, over the
past 10 years, to establish them-
selves on a basis even more
efficient than the British. That
industry hasn’t always been able
to do so is because of Com-
munist trade-union obstruction
and shortage of coal and power
as much as anything else.
Any approach to this revalua-
tion problem must be from the
national angle, and it must be a
full-scale operation. Though
time is running short, every
month seeing an increase in the
cost of living in the Common-
wealth, appreciation of the Aus-
tralian pound should tie up with
a drive to increase coal output
and relieve industry of the cut
in power supplies, which at
present is of the order of 30
p.c. in N. S. Wales industrial
centres. Australia at the moment
is by no means doing its best to
produce manufactured and other
goods as cheaply and abundantly
as possible. The trade-union
attitude is deplorable, largely be-
cause of the Communist grip on
key producing industries. There
is room for vast improvement
here, and if improvement can
only come through unemploy-
ment, then the sooner their error
is thus brought home to trade-
unionists the better.
Dr. G. L. Wood told the
Federal Arbitration Court in
Melbourne last week that he
thought Australia had gone too
far in devaluing to the full extent
of British devaluation last
September. Australia should
now take a step back, the extent
of which would be for monetary
authorities to judge.
It should be remembered that
even if we returned to full parity
with sterling our pound would
still be officially worth only
$2.80, as against $3.20 in August
last. It is the dollar upon which
world prices of most raw
materials, such as wool, wheat,
base metals and gold, are based.
Devaluation of the U.S. dollar
in terms of gold at present would
appear inflationary and prema-
ture.
Cleaning-up in Maoriland
Overexuberant Maorilanders,
buoyed up by hopes of quick
gains under new management,
have underestimated the task of
cleaning-up the mess after 14
years of socialistic drift, and
might find they’ve got to wait for
free enterprise to pay divs. N.Z. is
“Just window-shopping, constable
heavily committed this year, and
has to clear outstanding liabilities
before it can make much
headway. Business and industry
will be saddled with swollen
overheads until taxes can be cut,
and no one expects controls to
swept away at one stroke. It
isn’t going to be easy to get the
sand out of the works and to
concentrate energies and re-
sources in productive channels.
Maorilanders who banked on an
overnight miracle might grow im-
patient as controls are gradu-
ally shown the door and com-
petition takes over, but sure,
steady steps are likely to be the
policy of the new directorate. In
factories staffs can’t be built up
quickly in an undersupplied
labor market, which sets the
limit to output, and the chief
early gains, which can’t be
measured in £ s. d., are a sense
of relief through disappearance
of socialistic threats and bogies,
and clipping of the wings of
aggressive price-control, which
last year masqueraded as thinly-
veiled profit-sharing. This goes
for traders, too.
On the investment front the
effect of the changeover was as
potent as monkey-gland treat-
ment. Shares bounded forward,
with market leaders setting the
pace. Insurance scrip, over-
shadowed for years by the
socialistic menace, recovered its
near-gilt-edged quality, and the
price for South British soared to
peaks which chopped the yield
to Bs. below 3 p.c. Government
stock. The lure of a bonus from
reserves was the big draw here,
but the co. hasn’t said anything
to excite profit-seekers. Like its
big rival, N.Z. Insurance Co„
South British does more than
four-fifths of its business abroad.


Missing Friend.
CH{ton^n LI - LL *^ N c PAR:KIN formerly of
now of ™V n State of Victoria but
01 Parts unknown.— TAKE NOTICE
8? .WILLIAM PARKIN?*
of Victoria Street _ Fitzroy in the State
against v™ ti* 3 V lnstltute d proceedings
your Hpcori 1 - * or divorce on the ground of
during three years and up-
ln the en if r an a PP e arance
Courts of C! . t}le Prothoootary Law
before fb» t 3™ Melbourne on or
the°suit^na« Wentlet j day of March 1950
a decree P f roce l? y° ur absence and
he nmn dissolution of marriage
«ait P you U .? y< S Wish to defend this
said an answer in the
—JOHN wuil}? r^ aya after appearance.
Que® LIAM GALBALLy! of 118
Petitioner. 66 *’ Melbourne - Solicitor for the
Divorce Notices.
IN ICOURT of new
TO T ip —ln Divorce.
Of 1 , SLIE FREDERICK ECKLUND late
SSSajawS
SS for itS cause*©?
SteJVt Tffl* 3S
defend von fa 7 or If 3™ wish to
Divorce } R e JfJf y en o CT an appearance in
Street e c,^ egrt ?' Su P re me Court King
and by the e 24th Marc h 1950
amended with* T V I ° f the P etition 88
ABIGAIT charge from LEWIS C.
Sydney-Vr S a \ lCl^° r k^ 6 Hu P ter Street,
in Divorce. ’ J ' DOUGHAN . Registrar
TO
Sydney N S w"—T4vy EKS formerly o:
or S? for f tw rtlon WlthoUt just caus<
yo U Su ™ years and upwards I
Seamnce rt d^ n n- yOU ma y enter ar
Court King street S 1^ 01 " 06 Gffice Supremi
of % K I?™* hy the l6t da 3
petition ."t a , “P? «* th«
REIITV charge from P. W
s^sSffsaaasnas
EXECUTOR•TRUSTEE
ẃ
ATTORNEY
They Deserve
Full Protection
The hasty appointment of a private executor is a mistake
that is still far too common. Who can guarantee that he
will be capable of carrying out his duties efficiently
Poor judgement, inexperience, bad health, business reverses
or advancing years inevitably lead to faulty administration.
Since it is vital to look far ahead, you will be well advised
to appoint Bums Philp Trust Company Limited as your
executor or trustee.. This sensible decision protects your
beneficiaries from avoidable errors in the administration
of your estate.
Full details of the Company's services are given in ‘ Hands
That Never Leave the Wheel.” A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request. If
you care to call, a senior officer will be readily available
to discuss important matters with you .
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph MUchell
MANAGER: L. S. Parker
P. T. W. Blade Eric PrlejHey Lee
SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. BU 5901
BOX 543, S.P.O.
BP3A-50
Shapes by the Million
with the MACNAMARA wire and
strip forming machines
L T^
CrOR
n
A
U
m
Clean modern lines, accessibility and fully automatic
operation are features of the Macnamara wire and
strip forming machines,
A medium capacity M. 1. 7. machine can be supplied
for wire and strip forming or solely for wire forming.
It will produce a very large variety-of forms up to
12in. in length and will feed continuously from coiled
stock. Maximum size of wire admitted is 3/16in.
dia., or Ifin. wide by l/16in. thick for strip material.
Designed primarily for wire forming, the M. 1. 9.
model, will handle material fin. dia. with feeds of
B|in, at a rate of 9,000 feeds per hour. Light strip
forming may also be undertaken, with material up to
fin. wide and 20 gauge thickness, an additional slide
being provided for piercing and crimping.
Full particulars available on request.
Ltd.
546 Collin* Street, MELBOURNE. 51 Bathurst Street, and 260 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
116 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE. 532 Murray Street, PERTH.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Early February has shown
that it can provide contrasts and
disturbances that have no con-
nection with politics or with the
general election. London has
been hugged and blackened by
fog, the lakes and ponds in the
commons and parks have borne
skaters, eaves of houses have
shrieked and windows have
rattled in the swell of a great
gale; and all within a few days.
High tides have combined with
floods to make the Thames spill
over its banks. To those hard-
working and unpaid disciplin-
arians, the Tideway rowing-
clubs, this means frustration and
short tempers. Training for the
Head of the River race is keen
and concentrated. Time is short,
and bicycled coaches can’t afford
to be separated from their crews.
In the throbbing heart of the
City the Royal Exchange belfry,
after 10 years’ of unwonted
silence, is again a sweet and tink-
ling troubadour. The familiar
patriotic tunes, hymns, carols
and folk-songs of the British
Isles again resound in the narrow
adjacent streets and enliven the
austere stones of Mansion House
Place; and a newcomer of con-
siderable melodic allure pre-
sents the billabong to the Bank
of England and proves that it
can hold its own with the best
of ’em.
February 1 also marked an-
other change. For many years
readers of the London “Evening
Standard” have had the wit and
graphic point of a Low cartoon
for their nightly entertainment;
and, next morning, the sMan-
chester Guardian” has circulated
the same drawing to a wider and
more scattered public. David
Low has now withdrawn his
talent from the more general eye
to that of the partisan. It re-
mains to be seen whether he will
be as independent of his new
employers—the “Daily Herald”
vice the Trades Union Council
and the Co-operative Society—
as of Lord Beaverbrook.
These weeks are exciting news
nr ■ .theatre. Sir Laurence
yhvier is off to a glittering start
in his four-year lease of the St.
James’s Theatre, where he fGl-
ows directly in the actor-man-
ager-producer tradition of Sir
George Alexander and Sir
herald du Maurier. His chief
Partner in success is the poet-
dramatist Christopher Fry, who
bas waited a long time for West
End recognition. Now quickly
brought to theatrical fame, his
verse idiom threatens to be-
come a craze.
Election Background
Whatever may be the result
of the general election —and no
observer dare make a confident
forecast —the main issue in
people’s minds was probably
decided months before the
wordy, and often angry, contest
reached its noisy climax. That
is to say, before the three main
parties issued their manifestoes ;
before the with anxious
impartiality, allotted six periods
a week to party broadcasts ; be-
fore loudspeaker vans, with
balloons and streamers, slowiy
patrolled the streets; before
platoons of canvassers accounted
for every household; and be-
fore the daily newspapers, tem-
porarily enlarged, gave generous
space to political forums. The
question that most men and
women had asked themselves
was: “Is it to be Socialism or
not in future?” Such pressing
matters as the “cold war,”
the hydrogen-bomb, economic
stability and the trials and
agonies of world affairs were
tacitly submerged under the
compulsion of domestic —and
narrowly domestic considera-
tions.
In other words, what they
asked themselves was: “Shall I
be better or worse off under a
non-Socialist Government?” It
would be unfair to blame the
people for taking such a narrow
and selfish view. They’ve had
their trials. But the guilt for
misleading them, for taking their
minds off the real problems, lies
thick and heavy on the con-
science of the Labor Govern-
ment, which, fearful of having
to yield up the sweets of office,
has grabbed at every expedient,
sometimes threaded with half-
truths and sometimes flagrantly
dishonest.
The British people have faced
urgent and menacing dangers
many times in those bad old
days they are continually being
reminded of. They should be —
indeed they are —able to face
them now, when their situation
in the world is no more certain
than it was in 1939.
Sharp Practice?
One hard truth is that we are
living above our means —and
substantially o n borrowed
money. As well as impartial
comment both Opposition parties
have continually stressed this
profligacy. The Liberals don’t
matter, according to Socialist
reckoning; they’re not a serious
threat and may even divide the
anti-Labor vote; so their stric-
tures are benignly passed over.
But what a scream of protest,
indignation and scorn when the
Tories dare to point at the em-
barrassing truth. One example
will suffice.
The food subsidies in 1940-41
were £63 million. In 1947-48
they amounted to £392 million,
and now are approaching the
fantastic annual figure of £5OO
million. The Chancellor of the
Exchequer has not dared to in-
troduce measures to reduce them
because, it is said, of trade-union
opposition. But other authori-
ties have persistently stressed
that these subsidies should be
stemmed and gradually reduced.
Some weeks ago Mr. Eden
pointed out that while, on aver-
age, every person in the land
had his food subsidised to the
extent of 3s, 2d. a week, he
spent 11s, 6d. on tobacco and
alcohol (gambling and football
pools are not included). There-
fore, as most people could well
afford to pay a little more for
food, a modest attack on the
subsidies seemed to be called for,
with compensation (by allow-
ances or other measures) for the
aged and needy.
The slogan “A vote for the
Tories is a vote for dearer food”
soon found its way into the
election campaign. At least two
Cabinet Ministers (Mr. Harold
Wilson in a speech and Mr.
Herbert Morrison in a broad-
cast) have used it to stress the
natural malevolence of the Oppo-
sition, “Tribune” (the journal
edited jointly by Mr. Aneurin
Bevan’s wife and by his protege,
Mr. Michael Foot) uses a treacly
argument on the lines that
“Labor” gives you cheap food
and dear ’baccy; the Tories
offer dear food (they can afford
it for themselves) and cheap
’baccy. Which will you take?
Old Victory
A “Hamlet” that preserves the
classic values and yet comes up
fresh and unconventional is the
habitual theatregoer’s rare treat.
If the Old Vic. (New Theatre)
just fails to reach this ideal the
shortcomings may be put down
to slight casting maladjustment,
to inexperience of some of the
younger actors and, perhaps, to
preconceived ideas in the minds
of some of the audience.
The production (Hugh Hunt)
is deft, witty and so free from
quirks of intrusive originality
that the play, Fortinbras and all,
seems but a half-hour long. (A
Gertrude is remembered, and not
long ago, who might have been
younger sister to her royal son.
But not here. In her closet the
Queen, unwigged, was seen to
have grey, wispy hair.)
Laurence Irving’s setting gives
Elsinore a choice of seascapes
and a depth of focus. Hamlet
(Michael Redgrave), Polonius
(Walter Hudd) and the First
Gravedigger (George Benson) all
speak their thoughts tellingly, as
if for the first time of hearing.
So does Claudius (Mark Dig-
nam), who, despite his Holbein,
playing-card get-up, is every
cubic inch a guileful, pouchy,
lascivious usurper. Gertrude
(Wanda Roth), soft-hearted but
fleshly wayward, is deeply mov-
ing in her maternal distress;
and Ophelia (Yvonne Mitchell)
has little effect while sane. A
boy (Brian Smith) is characteris-
tically Elizabethan as the Player
Queen.
Michael Redgrave doesn’t
quite overcome the disadvantage
of his splendid physique and
radiant virility. For here is a
Hamlet who, like Robin Hood
or Dick Barton, must surely
triumph over indecision, evil and
adversity. It seems just too bad
that he doesn’t.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
On Sunday morning the cathedrals of
St. Paul and St. Patrick were filled with
white-capped nurses from metropolitan
and country hospitals when services were
held to commemorate the death of 75
nurses who lost their lives in World
War 11. At St. Paul’s, Lydia Shaw,
formerly principal matron of Victoria
and now matron of the Alfred Hospital,
read the first lesson, and the former
matron-in-chief of the A.A.N.S., Miss
A. M- Sage, now matron of the Women’s
Hospital, read the second. In the after-
noon, when the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, opened the War Nurses Memorial
Centre in St. Kilda-road, the guard-of-
honor consisted of former members of the
A.A.N.S. The centre will be a nurses’
club, and will have accommodation for
visiting nurses. Stables at the rear of the
house are to be converted into classrooms
for use of the Australian College of Nurs-
ing in post-graduate courses. Betty
Jeffrey, who was a p.-0.-w. in Japanese
hands during the war, is administrator of
the centre, A plaque bearing the names
of the nurses who gave their lives was
dedicated by the Governor,
Despite 12 months’ planning the
Fashion Fair held by the Australian Guild
of Fashion Designers in the Exhibition
Building got away to a bad start. Some
stalls were still under construction, and
the Governor’s opening speech was almost
ruined with noises of hammering off-
stage. Mannequins walked along a run-
way high above the crowd and down a
spiral staircase, only to find that the
revolving portion of the stage did not re-
volve. A pity to spoil such a wonderful
effort on the part of Australian manu-
facturers. There were many notable
fashions displayed ; among them a cherry-
red coat with a dramatic collar, which
was inspired by Stell-Ricks; glorious
evening gowns, fashioned of brocade,
taffeta and satin from the house of
Ecstasy; afternoon- and short dinner-
frocks from Leroy and Hartnell garments.
Shoes, hats and bags were all Australian-
made.
The opening night was a gala affair for
the Y.W.C.A. Sir Dallas Brooks, his wife
and daughter and members of the vice-
regal party were received by Mrs. T. C.
Rentoul, president of the Y.W.C.A.,
Meysie Law, general secretary, and Mrs.
Jim Fitzgerald, chairman of the Y.W.
appeals committee. Alan Benjamin, presi-
dent of the Australian Guild of Fashion
Designers, and Lester Bunbury, who de-
signed the settings for the fair, were
also among those who greeted the party
from G.H. Lady Brooks wore a slim-
fitting, slightly-trained black gown with
a draped yoke and matching stole-cape of
Patou-pink faille; daughter Jeanette a
gown of ice-blue taffeta with panniers,
under which were tucked pink roses. Just
before the vice-regal party arrived the
Premier and Mrs. Hollway were received,
she in a lovely gown of mist-blue crepe,
embroidered with silver sequins.
The lovely gowns worn by members
of the audience rivalled those of the
mannequin-parade. Mrs. Essington Lewis
chose a flowing gown of midnight-blue
Chantilly lace ; Mrs. Isobel Green, who
this week will see brother Robert installed
as Prime Minister, a simple tailored
dinner-gown of black crepe ; Mrs, Jim
Fitzgerald’s attractive gown ■ was of
Wedgwood-blue-patterned white linen
and Mrs. Leo Curtis wore hibiscus-red
faille with a strapless top and draped
skirt. Mrs. lan Potter’s frock of cham-
pagne brocade was cut in sweeping lines
emphasised by a backwards-draped stole,
embroidered with opalescent sequins.
Mrs. Ken Myer’s long bouffant gown
and matching full-backed jacket of bright
scarlet faille was in contrast to the bottle-
green faille of her mother-in-law, Mrs.
S. Baillieu Myer. Over her grey-and-
white satin gown, Mrs. Gordon Chirnside
wore a deep cape of grey tulle. Other
notable ensembles in the mannequin-
parade contributed by the audience were
the Snow lady, whose bouffant pastel-
pink chiffon skirt was teamed with a long,
slim-fitting strapless top of black Chan-
tilly lace, Mrs. Rupert Downes, in a lilac-
blue silk jersey frock, Mrs. Maurice
Nathan, whose dove-grey self-patterned
satin featured a folded off-the-shoulder
bodice and Mrs. A. Silk, in stiffened
white lace.
Before she leaves for London and
Sw? e ur r i. fU !? Study pretty blonde
singer Hlinka de Tarczynska will give a
farewell concert in the Town Hall next
Saturday. At a late-afternoon party in
the foyer °f the National Theatre
Gertrude Johnson and other members of
the committee arranging the concert met
to wish the young singer success at her
recital. Hlinka wore a cocktail frock
composed of a decollete black crepe
bodice and a full skirt of black crepe on
which was printed a pattern of large red
roses. Her small black hat was
finished with an osprey-trimming. The
Knox lady was in a dove-grey faille suit
and large black picture-hat. Dorrie
O’Neill’s frock of American Beauty crepe
was topped with a small hat of aqua-
blue silk straw. Mrs. W. Riddell’s black
and white patterned silks and picture-hat
of tulle and pink roses made summery
alliance. Mrs. A. Jacobsen, who is
secretary of the concert committee, wore
with her small white flower-trimmed hat
a black frock and matching jacket, which
had white silk pique lapels. Mrs.
L. J. Sigalis also had white lapels on the
bolero of her junior navy ensemble ; her
skull-cap was of grosgrain. Mrs. Brian
Hughes, who is one of the ticket-
secretaries, combined black-and-white-
spotted silk with wheat-gold-and-white-
spotted silk to good effect.
Some of the best-looking and smartest
hats seen at the Paterson, Laing and
Bruce millinery parade were those
designed by Sylvia Howell. Hats this
season have more height in the crown,
and if this is not enough, sweeping
pheasant-feathers, ospreys and masses of
fruit or flowers add a little more. For
the more sophisticated hat, satins and
striped taffeta ribbons add allure.
Flowers are in winter tonings, and every
hat has ar finish of spotted chenille veil-
ing. There are double- and even triple-
brims ; there are skull-fitting crowns with
folded brims to make a snappy and jaunty
style for both the ’teen-ager and the
young woman. Materials range from
pastel fur felts, Italian velour, panne
velvets to melusine, seen in winter-white
and pastel shades. These materials lend
themselves to admirable manipulation
into folds, pleats and tucks.
Ronnie Goodlet, who was Miss Vic-
toria, 1947, was one of the pretty
mannequins parading in the Paterson,
Laing and Bruce hat show. The Anice
model Ronnie is wearing is fashioned of
moss-green velvet, cut in a leaf design and
sewn with pearls, and finished with a fine
mesh veil. Photo by Gordon F. De Lisle.
A rich hew shade, banana, should be
popular. The winter-white felts take on
a dramatic note when the trimming is a
black osprey. The soft pastel shades in-
clude donkey-brown, beige, steel-grey,
sand, 'petrel, dull amethyst, Patou-pinic,
eau de Nil and orchid. A striking ex-
ample of the double brim was an Anice
model, the creation of Sylvia Howell, in
pale-orchid felt with a large bunch of
grapes set at one side, their misty-mauve
coloring toning in beautifully with the
orchid felt. Illustrating the high-crowned
line was a dove-grey velour cloche, which
fitted in snugly to the cheeks. Junior-
navy feathers, stripped almost to the tips,
fluttered from each side of the centre
front. This was a Hugh Beresford design.
By night, pearls will highlight small
velvet cocktail- and theatre-hats. Adding
their quota of glitter to the evening scene
are hats trimmed with beads and
sequins.
Rev. Father Stephenson officiated at
Xavier Chapel when Corinne Lilian, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Ralph,
Mufrumbeena, was married to Peter
Allan, only son of Dr. and Mrs. H. G.
Furnell, of Armadale. Deep ivory satin
fashioned the bridal gown, which had' an
unusual low, square neckline, with deep
folds of satin at each side. Layers of
fulle covered the veil, which fell from a
circlet of tiny orange-blossoms, and the
bride carried a bouquet of bouvardia.
Fler sister Judy, the bridegroom’s sister
Cynthia and Barbara McCooey were
bridesmaids. They looked charming in
pale-green chiffon gowns mounted on
white taffetas and chiffon, their gloves
and sandals of white grosgrain matching
their large hats. Clive Dawson was best
man and G. Harding and J. Ralph were
groomsmen. Reception was at Menzies’,
where over 150 guests assembled.
From Sydney
Admirers of Sydney Ure Smith’s paint-
ings and etchings of Sydney, old and new,
would wish that some of his works might
have been hung on the walls of the
Mitchell Library during the Memorial
Exhibition. This opened itself unob-
trusively midway through last week and
has drawn a constant stream of lovers of
beautifully-printed and -illustrated books
In glass cases books and magazines lie
wide open, displaying the clearly-printed
page. Here are editions of Art in Aus-
tralia and The Home, which Mr. Smith
founded, and glorious color and draw-
ings from reproductions of the work of
Streeton, Gruner, Hilder, the Lindsays,
Heysen and all Australia’s great in art.
Even more interesting than the printed
page are the letters written by the artists
in connection with their work. Letters
from Lionel Lindsay, Hugh McCrae,
Somerset Maugham and George Lambert
were noted, and some clever cards from
C. L. Jones.
Sydney’s son Sam was at the exhibi-
tion ; so was his daughter, Mrs. Dorothy
Hemphill. She brought a small
son and daughter, who were photo-
graphed gazing at their grandfather’s
work. The art-buying Haywards,
from Adelaide, she in cool blues
and whites, roamed the Gallery. Tommy
Cochrane, Charles Lloyd Jones (a life-
long friend) and T. D. Mutch called to
pay their respects. Hera Roberts, trig in
black, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bertie, Mrs.
Sydney Jamieson, from Bowral, the Keith
Smith lady, Norman Carter, Mrs. W. L.
Owen and Barbara and Hilda Lane
Mullins, Mrs. Gwen Spencer, Elaine
Haxton were early arrivals.
Half of Sydney’s legal profession, many
doctors, Senators, high-up taxgatherers,
Chinese ladies svelte in their national
dress, their husbands, lads of China and
young Chinese girls gathered together at
the Kam Ling Cafe last Friday to greet
the Chinese new Lunar Year. The host and
hostess were Mr. and Mrs. Pon ; the latter
wore her national dress in clinging blue-
and-gold chenille. The wife of popular
Chinese man-of-law “Bill” Lee was grace-
ful as a poem by Chien Wen-Ti. Her
frock had lotus blues and greys in it.
China’s Consul-General, Dr. Woo, was
an honored guest; so was Professor Huang
from Singapore. The big room, with its
red-lacquer fittings, had something the
air of a pagoda, and on its walls glittered
birds with sweeping plumage embroidered
in semi-precious stones or sequins. Here
and there were murals of one of China’s
great rivers. There were dim-sims and
delicate prawn paste to eat, and almonds
and ginger, and the dried melon-seeds
that bring good luck for the New Year.
Judge O’Connor and his wife were there,
and Mrs. Young and her teen-age artist
daughter from Melbourne. Other guests
were Mr. and Mrs. Simpson Lee, Mrs.
O’Malley Wood, and Aileen Fitz Patrick,
just back from Hawaii, an orchid given
to her in Honolulu a week before still
glorious on the shoulder of her grey
afternoon frock; Eric Wahlquist and his
sister; the Frank Hiddens.
After the Charles Lloyd Jones couple
had entertained Lord Nuffield at lunch at
their home last Thursday, Mrs. C.L. put
on one of her newest Paris bonnets —
it had a swift up-sweep from the brow—
that was just the right shade of blue to
melt in with her Molyneux tartan frock,
and went across to the Royal Sydney
Yach Squadron at Kirribilli, where, at the
instigation of the Associates’ president,
Mrs. F. White, she told a roomful of
listeners all about her journey in Spain,
and, of course, something of Paris.
Dr. Alphonse Silberman greeted old
friends and fellow-workers of the Con-
servatorium at a five-to-seven-party last
Wednesday. Dr. Silberman, who spent
most of his time abroad in Paris, Where
he gave lectures at the Sorbonne—he has
, another invitation in his pocket to return
next year—is. a very much thinner man
than when he left these shores —the food
in England and France is not so lush in
vitamins as that in Australia. Still, the
host looked well and gay and seemed to
enjoy his own party.
A whole aviary of National Opera
importants was there. So was the pretty
wife of conductor Joseph Post, who goes
off with her husband to England in
March. Mr. Post will work there with
the 8.8. C. orchestra and old-established
English orchestras. Another outward-
bound saying a last farewell to
many was Mrs. Magnus; she left in
Surriento. A trio representing ballet in
our midst was Mrs. Vera Lacey, presi-
dent of the Ballet Club, the Ben Fuller
lady and Madame Scott. Mrs. Florence
Taylor represented the arts generally, and
did it in a graceful black frock and a
tiny hat with a glittering crown and a
sweep of delicately-grey plumage. The
Con.’s Roland Foster and Mrs. Roland
came in relays—as the one popped in the
other popped out.
Brisbane section of the Business and
Professional Women’s Club is very
thrilled to have Mrs. A. G. Prentice, who
was president for about three years of
the Brisbane club, elected as federation
president. Mrs. Prentice is a very clear-
headed, small and attractive person. She
is the wife of a barrister and follows the
same profession herself.
All roads led to the Empire on the night
hypnotist Franquin opened his show. It
was a bumper audience ; as far as could
be seen there wasn’t an empty seat in the
big theatre. From the moment Franquin,
more elongated than ever in his black
dress-suit, showed his beard on the stage,
hundreds in the audience were almost
panting to get on to the stage to offer
themselves as subjects for a hypnotic
try-out. This Letter felt quite disap-
pointed for one lady in a rose-beige dress
who got in on the first rush, and, like the
rest of her group, had a small object in
an envelope restored to her by Franquin
by some magic method. She was almost
first on the stage for the hypnosis test,
but the necessary number was picked
without her being called up. Maybe
she didn’t feel so bad when she saw a tall
young woman, acting under suggestion
that she had had to walk home in pouring
rain, take off her lightweight red coat and
wring it hard from collar to hem. That
coat would take quite a job of pressing
out. Big stunt was putting a young lady
to sleep for 24 hours. She slumbered in
the window of Buckingham’s Palace.
First thing she did on being wakened at
the theatre next night was to tuck into a
plump grilled steak with trimmings all
ready for her off-stage.
Women who go to “The Fashion Fore-
cast” parade at Prince’s on March 9 and
IQ will glimpse what the stars foretell
when Matthew McDougall, just returned
in Himalaya, displays some of his latest
designs in hats. Mr. McDougall l et
Sydney almost a year ago to join the
staff of the famed Hugh Beresford, m
London, and since then has designed hats
for several theatre shows, and has made
flowers—for which he has a special talen
—for Norman Hartnell and Aage Thar-
rup. “Fashion Forecast” is being
presented to aid the Lady Mayoress s
Relief Fund and the Australian-American
Ex-Servicemen’s Club.
Kathleen Gaden, secretary of the Over-
seas League, went off to Enzed last we £
She will attend the Overseas League Con-
ference in Christchurch, and then wi
take a quick sprint around the otne
cities of the Dominion. She will be t
guest for a few days of former Sydney
Violet Roche, now helping to admmis e
Barnardo good works in Wellington.
Among Melbourne-bound passengers i
the Strathnaver was Tommy
Tommy, who was a warm friend of y a .
Nellie Melba, went off from his belov
corner of Watson’s Bay on what was
sentimental journey. He wanted to be
the audience of the concert which was
of the first steps towards the-sugges
Melba Memorial—an open-air cone
bowl. Last night’s programme in M
bourne was a reproduction of the i
concert programme given by Mem 3 ,
the Albert Hall, London. Tommy,
returned to Australia in the Oread
month or so ago, will have his face
towards London in May.


K OTIC I
■au seS
of
m 3
are
a
hue"!
roß'rm mason that anything which
interferes with the proper functioning of the
human system should be treated as abnormal*
If you suffer from any of these conditions
ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM
& Kindred Ailments, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, JOINT & MUSCULAR PAIN
and PAIN OF NERVOUS ORIGIN
Take a course of
GLUHY MTHERSfINS
/mixture
OBTAINABLE AT CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE
If Unobtainable Locally Write to:
CLUNY McPHERSON PTY. LTD.. 104 Hunter St.. Sydney
TIRED feet?
Hot. tired feet need
this treatment
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
It.and enjoy real loot,
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment. <soap and
Talcum Powder—
Che famous
tria /
531
fUticura
V- OINTMENT
Q\vVs.
i\veW»
D,STU fet^
:■
Go
ifM
r*
m
wt
fc®
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Gordons
Stands Sup'tOAM
w sPr”'.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Sydney Ure Smith.
Odd as it may appear, Sydney
being so small a town and The
Bulletin and the publisher of
“Art in Australia” having had a
long and friendly association, the
present writer only once met
Sydney Ure Smith in the flesh.
That was during the recent war,
when the writer was courage-
ously serving his country by re-
porting imaginary bombs and
sometimes, protected by s the lid
of a garbage-can, extinguishing
imaginary incendiaries ; and Mr.
Smith, also a warden, flushed
with the exertion of the stairs
and armed to the teeth with
helmet, gas-mask and whistle,
rapped on the door of the
writer’s flat at King’s Cross and
ordered him to put his lights
out.
Thus, casually and a trifle
absurdly, does one meet an im-
mortal.
The Mitchell Library’s
memorial exhibition is modest
enough ; just rows of letters and
books displayed in glass-cases.
But what letters and what
books!
Letters from Julian Ashton,
Gruner, Streeton, Norman and
Lionel Lindsay, Somerset
Maugham praising Margaret
Preston’s woodcuts, Douglas
Dundas, Norman Carter, Hilder,
Dobell, Hugh McCrae —these
and many others, all famous
men and all paying tribute to the
Ure Smith publications and to
the energy, the goodwill, the
steadfast devotion to.art which
was responsible for them.
And then the books—among
which must be counted, of
course, Australia’s noblest thing
of its kind, “Art in Australia,”
which Ure Smith founded.
There are the “Art in Aus-
tralia” publications: Leon
Gellert’s Isle of San and Hugh
McCrae’s Colomhine, illustrated
by Norman Lindsay; Hardy
Wilson’s Cow Pasture Road ;
Lionel Lindsay’s Book of Wood-
cuts ; McCrae’s Du Poissey
Anecdotes, accompanied by a
heart-rending letter from the
poet begging Ure Smith not to
make Du Poissey’s wig untidy ;
The Art of Eliot h Gruner,
edited by Ure Smith and Leon
Gellert, which preceded the
more elaborate Shepherd Press
volume; Art in Australia
Limited —the record of the Aus-
tralian exhibition held at the
Royal Academy over which, long
ago, there was such a rumpus
with the wowsers in Australia
and with Orpen in England;
The Art of George Lambert;
The Art of Margaret Preston.
There are the special numbers
of “Art in Australia” devoted
largely or wholly to the work of
one artist: those on Will Ashton,
Finey, Harold Herbert, Hans
Heysen, Hoff’s sculpture, the
Norman Lindsay pen-drawings,
Longstaff, Minns, John D.
Moore, Streeton, Thea Proctor,
Blamire Young.
There are the books which
Ure Smith edited for other pub-
lishers, such as Myra Morris’s
Australian Landscape (John
Sands, Ltd.), and the two books
of Hilder’s paintings, both co-
edited by Bertram Stevens, one
published by James Tyrrell and
the other by Angus and Robert-
son. There are the books of the
Limited Editions Society, which
Ure Smith helped to found, and
which include a selection of the
poems of Brennan.
Then, dating from 1939, when
Ure Smith sold his interest in
“Art in Australia” and founded
the publishing-house of Ure
Smith Pty., Ltd., there are
Drawings and Paintings in Aus-
tralia by Douglas Annand,
Bernard Smith’s Place, Taste and
Tradition, The Art of William
Dobell, Donald Friend's Painters
Journal, Fifty Drawings by
Francis Lymburner, Streeton’s
letters to Tom Roberts under
the title Smike to Bulldog,
Adrian Feint’s Flower Paintings,
Elizabeth Riddell’s Poems de-
corated by Douglas Annand,
The Art of Rupert Bunny,
Margaret Preston’s Monotypes.
two collections of Kenneth
Jack’s drawings and paintings of
old colonial architecture, Lionel
Lindsay’s Etchings and Dry-
points. And there are the
various publications connected
with the Society of Artists, of
which (as well as being a trustee
of the N. S. Wales National
Gallery) Ure Smith was president
for 26 years.
The Mitchell Library exhibi-
tion is not concerned, except
for a few etchings, with Ure
Smith’s own art, which, always
meticulous in drawing and
pleasant in coloring, has its own
minor claim to permanence as a
record of historic buildings: this
is to be shown elsewhere in the
near future.
But here, in his publications,
we have what amounts almost
to a complete pageant, of Aus-
tralian art from Tom Roberts to
Dobell; and, because art needs
a producer just as much as a
play does —needs a meeting-
place and a centre of energy—
and Ure Smith, along with such
men as Alfred Felton, J. F.
Archibald and Howard Hinton,
provided such a centre for Aus-
tralian art, we have the assur-
ance that his name will live with
the pageant he produced for us.
He could not afford to be, like
these men, a benefactor of
artists; but he was nonetheless
a centre where much of Aus-
tralia’s cultural energy gathered
and moved forward with re-
newed impetus. He never lost
heart; he never lost faith.
From the quiet, tasteful, excel-
lently-arranged exhibition the
present writer carried away two
outstanding impressions: of Ure
Smith’s impish self-caricatures —
very like Hugh McCrae’s —and
of George Lambert’s magnificent
self-portrait in his dressing-
gown, blazing from an open
page of the Ure Smith book of
his works. And those two im-
pressions—of the man and of the
great cause he served —epitomise
the exhibition as a whole. One
is particularly pleased to see it
housed in the Mitchell Library ;
for out in the streets and in the
newspapers values in art change
with every passing breeze, but
inside those cool stone walls,
where so much Australian history
lives, is the home of per-
manence.
New Melbourne
Gallery.
The Stanley Coe Gallery in
Bourke-street, the latest art
amenity in Melbourne, is
chaste and exceptionally well-
lighted and the pictures are well
hung. Most of the 21 artists
contributing to its opening ex-
hibition ring the changes on
George Bell, and that master of
modern art or contemporary
fashion or whatever you like to
call it himself hangs two very
undistinguished pictures. There
is nothing in “Homage to Tin-
toretto” of the quality of that
painter, though the homage is no
doubt well intended
Constance Stokes has a “Girl
in Red Tights” which is reminis-
cent of Dobell and has some
body in it, and William Prater
puts in three rather attenuated
landscapes and titles them “con-
certos.” Daryl Lindsay’s “Ocean
Grove” and “Zinnias” are dull
and academic, and Alan Sumner,
who teaches National Gallery re-
habs, makes a conscious attempt
to be childlike in three Noah’s
Ark compositions. John
Farmer’s “Against the Light,” a
study of some flowers, has some
feeling in it, and Phyl Water-
house’s “Ruins,” “Wilhams-
town” and “Western District”
have a considerable amount of
nature in them.
P. Hurry’s portrait of a hand-
some woman entitled “The
Migrant” pays much more
genuine homage to Tintoretto
than does Mr. George Bell’s, and
Arthur Boyd riots in the manner
of Breughel with a multitude of
figures in “The Golden Calf”
and “The Mining Town,” the
latter a mining town nowhere in
Australia or, for that matter,
anywhere else.
Desmond Bradley.
No budding virtuoso in Mel-
bourne’s musical history has
ever had to face the conditions
presented to 15-year-old Des-
mond Bradley at his farewell
concert at the Town Hall. He
showed surprisingly little per-
turbation either in his manner
or his playing, in which he had
to face an extraordinarily exact-
ing programme.
His playing naturally was not
altogether faultless. There was
some disagreement between his
right arm and his left arm in
the Introduction and Rondo
Capriccioso of Saint-Saens and
in the Gia II Sole Dal Gartge
of Scarlatti, but in a modern
Dutch group there was no dis-
comfort. His most mature
achievement was in the difficult
Concerto No, 4 of Vieux-
temps. There was lovely tone
in the andante and fire in the
martial finale, and the adagio
religiose took on a note of feel-
ing unusual in adolescent
players. ___
Hypnotist.
A year or two ago this com-
mentator sighted a pickpocket of
almost incredible dexterity per-
forming on the stage at Sydney
Tiv., and, doubting the genuine-
ness of the act, interviewed the
light-fingered gentleman, and
was completely and painlessly
fleeced. The proof could not
have been more definite.
The same problem crops up
with “The Great Franquin,” who
currently appears-, to be doing
more incredible things in the way
of hypnotism and whatnot on
the stage at Sydney Empire. A
tall, lean and amiable New
Zealander, with black hair, beard
and dark brown eyes, he success-
fully resisted the requests of half
a dozen pressmen to give them
a private and practical demon-
stration- of his business off the
stage —“I am not a doctor. I
am not a scientist. I am an
entertainer, and I never, never
perform off the stage.”
He maintained the same atti-
tude when he visited The
Bulletin, declining the invita-
lion to cast his hypnotic net at
anyone he chose about the place.
He did, however, remark that he
is keenly interested in astrology,
and his programme notes that
“it is doubtful if he will have an
opportunity to discuss the
subject very deeply, except, per-
haps, during his special ‘Ladies
Only’ matinees. Franquin is
recognised as one of the leading
British horoscope delineators.”
All of which is a great pity.
In the interests of science The
Bulletin would have liked to
report that it had been hypno-
tised ; all it can Offer instead is a
report of*what happened—and,
presumably, is still happening—
on the stage at the Empire.
Franquin opens his act with a
demonstration of his “marvellous
memory.” He invites the audi-
ence to name any object they
like, and, from the ensuing
babble, selects 40 items, which
his sister writes on a blackboard
behind him. Then, without con-
sulting the board, he recites the
list back at the audience.
There follows a demonstration
of psychometry the occult
variety. A dozen or so people
each put some small personal
object in an envelope; the
envelopes are handed to
Franquin, who then, per psy-
chometry, identifies each object
with its owner.
Then comes hypnotism and
mesmerism. Franquin invites
anyone at all from the audience
to submit themselves, and then,
from the hundred or so persons
who pile on to the stage, he
selects about 20 as being suitable
subjects—suitability, he explains,
is merely governed by time, and,
in the interests of the audience,
he has to select those who can
be put under with the least pos-
sible delay. Once under the
hypnotist’s influence his subjects
play imaginary violins and
pianos, fight imaginary cham-
pionship bouts, abuse a reckless
bus-driver, huddle under their
clothes from imaginary rain,
throw footwear at imaginary
wailing cats, make love to each
other in an imaginary theatre
and go through sundry other acts
to the unrestricted delight of the
audience.
Which brings up the undeni-
able feature about Franquin and
his act. Whatever his talents as
a hypnotist or “psychometrist,”
he is certainly a very smooth
performer, and, on the night
this commentator witnessed his
show, he held the stage for two
and a half hours, and kept his
audience intensely interested,
highly amused and, possibly,
completely hypnotised.


A SCAR IN THE PADDOCK
By
CECIL MANN
I T was there so sur-
MatfL I prisingly early in the
I morning a bright
M red scar in the
h green near the middle
Ki of the paddock—that
about the first to see it
down there were the
assorted half-dozen or
so going in, as usual, by
the earliest bus to their
various jobs in the Town.
The bus, winding around on this hilly
side of the River, before finally plunging
down to rattle its loads across the big
wooden bridge, had picked these up
wherever they happened to emerge from
this or that outskirt house ; even stopping
and honking its horn for Ciss Jones, of
the telephone-switch at the Post-office,
and, by another sort of attraction, honk-
ing also for Lionel Laurence (Tarzan to
you), the rouseabout-barman at the Com-
mercial.
In the course of the morning the bus
would add the other strata to make the
Town a going concern for the day; the
role of this small first wave that of getting
the works, so to speak, switched on and
started: Tim Lobban, of Deans the
Butcher’s delivery cart; Freddie Mills, of
Freddie Mills’ Garage ; Jack Tetens, who
gives the tubs of dough in the rear of the
River Bakery a boxing lesson every morn-
ing ; carpenter Len McKee; and Claude
Hanover, proprietor of the Ideal Laundry.
These assorted early regulars had had,
this Saturday morning, one considerable
surprise already, before they saw the scar
in the paddock at all. So had the bus.
It had duly expected all of these, and, on
this kind of midsummer morning, had
expected them to step aboard saying,
“Reckon she’s goin’ t’ be a fair snorter
today,” or a “sizzler today,” or a “hum-
dinger,” or a “real roaster,” or, before
Miss Jones got on, “bloody hot.” It had
definitely not expected to see Mr. Edmund
Foote (Foot-and-mouth, or more gener-
ally, to High School and Primary School
at large. Socks).
Mr. Foote, of course, belonged to a
different stratum from this first-bus lot
altogether. Nor was he dressed in his
usual tropical whites and panama, as he
would have been for his normal week-
day bus a good two hours later, or in the
creamy flannels he wore for Saturday-
afternoon tennis. He was sombrely clad
in a dark grey, verging on black, alpaca
suit and hat of similar dark hue ; with
black shoes, instead of his usual rather
vocal tan-and-white. Looking, in fact,
more like the chairman of the Church
Guild than the secretary of the Tennis
Club and the Debating Society.
R. FOOTE sprang lightly aboard
IVI without waiting for the bus to get
over its surprise and come to a halt. To
the meteorological forecasts he contri-
buted a carefully spoken “I think it looks
like being a warm day,” which prophecy
could, with equal accuracy, be taken as
just slightly facetious, or considered and
precise.
Mr. Foote wore that sort of blend as
his protective armor. It made him an
uncertain quantity with the class; sup-
plying there, at least, an air of authority
and dignity.
Others, regrettably, sometimes found it
less impressive. Instance bright young
spark Mr. Lewis Swift, lately added to
the “Star’s” literary staff (making it two).
Mr. Swift hailing Mr. Foote on the pave-
ment, where Mr. Foote would have a
clear view of the Post-office clock, and
blandly asking him, “Any idea of the
timq, Mr. Foote?” Just to hear Mr.
Foote, looking up at the clock, carefully
say: “I think it would be about seven
minutes to four.” Which, in the flippant
thought of young Mr. Swift, readily
translated “Hook, line and sinker!”
Not that Mr. Foote could rightly be
classed as simply fussy. If he might seem
approaching meticulous in the two things,
his speech and his dress, that could have
been simply because practically everybody
else was approaching slovenly in both.
And he was, after all, comparatively new
to the River.
Anyway, he had a cultured, surprisingly
rounded voice for the one, and a neat
light frame for the other. Add a city-
nurtured missionary zeal for everything
associated with friend abo., which some
twelve-months’ closer acquaintance of the
River’s remnants had shaken but not
quenched, and there you have Mr. Foote
more or less complete.
On that abo. bug of his, as they would
have called it, Mr. Foote’s less sym-
pathetic fellow-passengers —Miss Jones
included —would have been even more
emphatic than they generally were about
the weather. The bug, however, not being
in evidence at the moment, the others had
nodded their greetings as he swung
aboard, and Miss Jones had favored him
with a smile and the semi-demure “Good-
morning” of one who, if only lately a
passing-out pupil of the High School,
considered herself now quite old enough
and qualified to take (or give) continuing
lessons of a more agreeable kind.
But clearly Mr. Foote also had some-
thing obsessing his own mind this morn-
ing: an exact mind, he liked to think,
built up and down, in straight lines, like
a ledger. Not round and soft and woolly
like a koala, or, Mr. Foote was beginning
to think, these koala-minded abo.
remnants, too bemused by the warm sun
to bother very much about anything, and
hence needing protection.
No; nothing like that about Mr.
Foote’s clear mind. Certainly not. Alert,
alive, awake.
So, while nodding agreeably to Miss
Jones, he went straight to a seat against
the righthand windows, and began watch-
ing out on that side. From that lookout,
the bus now taking the long curve round
the easy grade of the ridge, he presently
saw (to use an accurate expression in the
idiom of Mr. Patrick Deans, senior) what
he’d been looking out expecting to see,
but expecting he wouldn’t.
“My word,” exclaimed Mr. Foote, with
great surprise on sighting the red scar
down in the paddock; “they’ve done it
already!”
ALL in the bus, of course, looked
down to the paddock, too, and also
with surprise, though of a slightly
different kind. They had not expected to
see 'such a thing there at all.
The ones on whom Mr. Foote’s surprise
centred were still there at the spot: two
of the Town’s more than familiar abo.-
remnant half-castes. Shovels and mat-
tocks thrown down near them, they
leaned against a convenient odd sort of
solitary structure of two bare posts and
a rail on top near the middle of the short-
grassed, rather plain-looking paddock ;
also like the distant passing bus-load,
looking down on the bright red scar in
the paddock’s green grass.
Mr. Foote, however, not saying any-
thing further, but continuing to crane his
neck round and stare back at the red scar,
none of the others in the bus said any-
thing, either. It was not only the effect
of Mr, Foote’s mute example. A power
in the scar itself imposed silence on them.
It held until Mr. Foote went to the front
near the driver, and, as the bus paused,
leapt out.
Mr. Foote had been going in precisely
for that very purpose: to make sure,
leaving nothing to chance, that the scar
would be made some time during the
morning there in the paddock where it
now undoubtedly was. He was greatly
pleased, as well as surprised, to see it. His
confidence in the abo.-remnants’ sense of
a promise had suffered a shake or two.
Even with such an inducement as thirty-
shillings to whack up between the two
of them for their hour or so’s work, he
had had some faltering doubts.
Thus the red scar in the paddock—
which Mr. Foote walked back to inspect
more at his leisure —restored
some measure of a faith that
had wavered. Looked down
on again at its sloping
distance from the road, it
bolstered, too, a conviction
which had also been waver-
ing a little.
Yesterday morning, as he
had talked to the class, that
conviction had mounted to
a high peak: a conviction
that, however little anyone
else might care to think
about it, the enactment of
an event of considerable
importance focused about
that same red scar down
there now in the paddock.
Nothing less than the due honoring of
an at least reputed Princess, or the
equivalent of one. And perhaps even
more than that, too; however ordinary
the setting, or however shabby, even, the
event itself might turn out to be.
THE setting, as Mr. Foote looked down
on it and carried it as an image in his
mind for the rest of the day and long
afterwards, certainly had nothing what-
ever regal or majestic about it. Little, if
anything at all, remarkable in itself.
Merely an acre or so of plain, short-
grassed paddock, with nothing of any
kind in it except a couple of grey stumps
near the top right corner, and, down near
the scar, the odd short rail against which
the two abo.-remnant half-castes were
still leaning, and looked as if they in-
tended leaning for the rest of time, no
doubt translating the easily-earned sum of
tirty-shillin’ into one preferred commodity
or another.
An isolated paddock deliberately
made so—with an unformed roadway on
each side of its oblong shape, another un-
formed roadway at right-angles to them
across the top, and down at the bottom
a somewhat wider no-man’s-land of p.eaty
bog between the fence at that end and the
curve of paperbark ti-trees walling off the
reedy swamp.
As thus viewed, the grassed acre or so
made a slightly concave dip between the
higher ridge-crests just across the road-
ways on either side. The grass, fresh in
its modest variety of greens, fairly-neatly
close-cropped. No special powers of
observation needed to connect this rough
mowing with the old bay horse and the
several house cows mooching about and
viewing their now-resting evictors from
outside the collapsible-looking part post-
and-rail and part plain-wire fencing en-
closing the paddock.
There, then, is how the paddock itself
looked: the image, centred on the red
scar, which Mr. Foote now took away
back around the curved road with him.
To be there at all, the couple of grey
stumps up in the corner would certainly
be hardwoods —ironbark, stringy, one or
other of the gums, or box, or tallowwood,
or blackbutt —and thus this ridgy out-
skirt of the Town would as surely once
have been hardwood forest; only in such
occasional dips as this capable of grow-
ing grass so thick-matted and green.
In any case, the three fairly big,
branchy tallowwoods still standing out-
side the same top righthand corner would
relate that sort of history of the locality’s
past plainly enough.
Nothing much else to the picture except
only the oddly purposeless rail, standing
down there by itself in the clear space for
the two abo. remnants to lean against. By
the appearance of it a hitching-rail: a
straight rounded length of timber topping
two round posts about four-feet high.
The appearance a deception. Not for
horse-hitching at all. Not an end of any
sort, but only a beginning that never be-
came one. Just nothing—other than a
solitary bit of simple futility.
Thus far its builders had got, and then
gave it up. Perhaps they had seen the
bullet-flight of homing bees passing over-
head, and wandered off following them to
some hollow swamp mahogany. Or one
of their own brother remnants may have
come along the road swinging a couple
of decent sort of perch by the gills. Or
maybe it was a lubra or two with their
best dresses on and their hips swinging as
they went by. Or perhaps it was just a
hot day.
So they never finished the thing.
Though this called only for two more
short posts and another topping-rail
parallel with what they had managed to
put up and a short enclosing topping-
rail at each end. And there they’d have
had it. Complete. A little oblong pad-
dock all by itself in the middle of the
larger oblong paddock. And the old
horse and cows, when they stayed in,
could still have poked their necks under
without any trouble, and kept the
paspalum and clover and couch decently
cropped. ,
As the lank weeds and grass were not
by any means kept cropped in those other
two, comparatively well-fenced enclosures
on the crests above each side of the dip;
whence the architects of the post-and-
rail had got their idea. The Town’s two
cemeteries —two, on a somewhat belated
religious congregating. The apparent sin-
gular function of the paddock, seemingly
that of keeping them safely apart to the
last Trump,
Or so Mr. Foote had only the day
before heard Mr. Patrick Deans, senior,
suggest to the Mayor, Alderman Gurney,
in a warm burst of oratory favorable to
the cause Mr. Foote was then pressing,
< t O on with you now, let him be
'-J havin’ it, Gurney,” had said
Patrick. “What further use is the old pad-
dick, anyway? Just,to kape the two lots
uv our late citizens apart? As they didn’t,
be jove, kape apart so much when they
wus walkin’ the earth. Lest they might
find something now to go and quarrel
about, awaitin’ the Judgment, and so go
and ruin everything. Up and have a ding-
dong go-in in the night, lapin’ and
shoutin’ at each other across the paddick.
“And sear the leaves arf the trees,”
gesticulated Patrick, “and burn up the
grass, and dry up the swamp, and con-
taminate the beautiful rosella parrots and
the magpies with their terrible words.
And it’d be over nothing neither,” in-
sisted Patrick, swept along in his own
logic ; “nothing at all. As has happened
with more than one disturbance in the
world, and with more fights than enough
here on the River, too. Some piffle uv
lapidary hyperbole on a bit uv white
marble. ‘Revered by all , , . The well-
beloved . . . The daughter uv . . .’ Some
such triflin’ misstatement of fact. And a
word or a grin or a grimace in the night
from one side or the other, and wbat-oh!
There they are now,” declaimed Patrick,
believing it himself. “There they are now
at it hammer-and-tongs, palin’s and
railin’s and seashells and bits of flower-
vases and headstones and all!
“Aye,” Patrick had concluded, “that’d
be a fight to see now, wouldn’t it,
Gurney?”
Just as well then, perhaps, on this
Deansian hypothesis, that the paddock
should be there, if only to keep the late
citizens safely apart. Its only function
now, apparently ; and for some years
past. And in Mr. Foote’s view, some,
at least, of the late departed should have
had enough on their debit-side already on
the abo. count alone, without giving the
Recorder a brawl like that to enter up,.
But, in any case, the paddock, as Mr.
Foote had discovered, had had another,
earlier, less-fanciful use. Before the
Council, in civic consciousness, had de-
cided to let them have a new plot of
ground further out near their camp, it had
been—for the abo. remnants —just such
a separate compartment as the crowded
other two ; with the singular difference
that, unlike them, it had always remained
a paddock, its occupants never having
had imposed on them either marble or
granite, palings or railings, or even so
much as a wooden sign. The solitary,
abortive two posts and rail had been the
one and only attempt in that line ever.
More than that, as Mr. Foote had also
found, the paddock had claim to have
been the prototype or instigator of the
other two grounds, one corner of it hav-
ing been an old aboriginal burial plot;
no doubt because of a natural cleared
hollow just there, involving no digging
but merely a rough covering-over with
the shells left from the ritual oyster and
pippy feast.
SO the paddock, in its way, tied back
to the remote past of the River,
Spanned its whole hundred years, and a
bit oyer. Back to when the nayjgato**


explorers came sailing along the coast in
their cockle of a craft, and passed the
Fiver without seeing it. And were
wrecked by way of retribution for that
oversight. Came staggering back along
the Nine Mile Beach and over the head-
lands. Were given fish and oysters by the
yabbering natives. Rafted their way bapk
across from the one tree-crowded bank
to the other. Mistook the bend a mile
or so upstream for the estuary’s inland
end. And so still didn’t find the River.
Mr. Foote’s history-class specialty; re-
peated to the class, with additions, only
the day before, and dodging in and out of
his thoughts for the rest of this day, too.
With others, in due course, to come and
find the River at last. Soldiers from the
nearest outpost of ball-and-chain. Off
through the wilds for a few days’ shoot-
ihg of flock pigeons and the wild duck in
creeks and swamps, and the drowsy old
koalas and staring wallabies.
The River ... In Mr. Foote’s lesson-
version (or the jumble the class made of
it), a densely filled valley of trees. An
always-popular lesson, always alive with
the black hunters brandishing their spears
and boomerangs. Dark shapes moving
about through the trees. Then the trees
coming down. All the trees bending over
on each side of the River and down to-
wards them from the hills. The valley
grey and black With their deep* ashes.
Men holding to the plough, pigrooting in
amongst the stumps. Corn hiding the rot-
ting logs; grass covering the paddocks.
Cows with their broods trailed in by
women with theirs. A house or two, and
more houses, clustering beside a wharf.
A butter factory. Cheese factory. Rail-
way station. A motor-car, starting all
the dogs barking; scaring the horses and
cows into galloping tail-up about the pad-
docks and through the fences. Faint
echoes of war a rather long way away.
An aeroplane passing occasionally over-
head, and not a horse or cow or dog even
bothering to look up at it.
What else? Quite a thriving place now,
the River. A big place today, the Town.
More people living in it than about all
the rest of the River lumped together.
Council Chambers; Fire Station; High
School; two cemeteries —temporarily, for
today, three again.
That last, entirely the good work of
Mr. Foote; prevailing on the Council,
with something of all this in mind.
<< \A/ HAT, d’ y’ mean old Miriam?”
* * had exclaimed Alderman Gurney.
“Good heavens above, what next!”
“Well,” Mr. Foote patiently explained,
“after all, Mr. Gurney, she is the last
full-blood on the River, isn’t she?”
Here had joined in Patrick, with his
assisting oratory.
“So old Miriam has gone and died,
has she?” the Mayor had finally put in.
“Wonders’ll never cease. With all due
respect, young man, a damn’ good rid-
dance, if you ask me.”
But the Council (and Alderman
Gurney) had had dealings with Mr. Foote
before on the question of the abo.
remnants. Collectively, it wished the lot
of them, collectively, would suddenly take
the belated example of old Miriam. But
it gave‘Mr. Foote its permission to re-
use the paddock for her.
Some of the Miriam story—that she
was the direct descendant of one who
had been a King of the River, and that
she had saved a white girl named Joubert
in a bit of spearing and counter-massacre
pf the early days, hiding the Joubert
infant in a cave and feeding her on a
diet of roots, berries, oysters and witchety
grubs—some of this, Mr. Foote was pre-
pared to allow, was possibly legend. At
all events, it at least passably explained
the former Miriam’s reported association
over many years on curious terms of in-
timacy with the Joubert family in their
pillared and veranda’d big house on the
Red Hill down the River, till, it appeared,
another family came there who knew not
Miriam and cared not at all for what-
ever may have been their forerunners’
obligation to her. After which (by these
reports) old Miriam had moved up, to
exploit a somewhat loose, and admittedly
often tight, nuisance value vocally and
as a witchlike spectacle about the Town.
For the rest, that she was the last
genuine full-blood on the River seemed
authentic enough ; and the abo. remnants
—and not only they—had treated her
with an evident awe. But not even the
oldest inhabitant could tell Mr. Foote
how old Miriam was.
“Me father,” had said Glady Raby,
who had first brought him the news. “Me
father said to. tell you old Miriam’s dead
out at Perch Creek.”
“Thank you, Glady,” had said Mr.
Foote, at once interested. “When did
she die, do you know?”
“Last month,” declared the unveracious
Miss Raby. “An’ she wus a hundred
and fifty if she wus a day,”
“And who told you that story, young
lady?” asked Mr. Foote, making an
accurate guess at the answer.
“A hundred an’ fifty if she wus a
day,” repeated Miss Raby. “An’ they’re
goin’ to put her on a sheet of bark and
put her up in a gum-tree. An’, an’,”
added Miss Raby, breathless with such
dramatic news, “they’re all goin’ to
throw spears an’ oyster-shells at her.”
ACCEPTING the one essential fact in
this remarkable information, Mr.
Foote had Confirmed it at the Police
Station, and had a ready-made history-
lesson for the class after morning-play-
time, which was when Miss Raby had
suddenly remembered her father’s parting
commands.
Saying enough for the undoubted class-
room ability of Mr. Foote —and perhaps
more for the magic potency of the
beautiful word Princess—by the time he
was through with that morning’s lesson
the old Miriam that most of his audience
well knew as a distinctly frightening old
hag, liable to scream swearing threats if
they poked out their tongues or thumbed
their noses at her, had emerged like a
butterfly from a cocoon, not only a royal
but a romantic embodiment of a noble
race.
In this masterly metamorphosis Mr.
Foote, in the manner of the true artist,
had ended by pretty thoroughly convinc-
ing himself; a state of ecstasy which,
during the lunch-hour, had proved in-
fectious to Mr. Deans and had even per-
suaded the Mayor. A much easier
accomplishment than Mr, Foote had
anticipated.
For not even Mr. Foote’s year-long
efforts had succeeded in making either
Town or Council abo.-conscious, in Mr.
Foote’s warm sense of the term. Their
feeling—heathenishly persisted in, and
sometimes crudely, not to say rudely,
expressed—was that there may have been
good abos once. Even that concession
concerning the kerb-squatting and other-
wise too obtrusive remnants carried a
considerable implication of doubt. Both
Town and Council, it must be said, would
have unanimously endorsed the down-
right pronouncement of Alderman
Gurney that “The sooner the rest
followed old Miriam’s example the
better.”
No doubt very unfeeling and wrong
of them. Most callous and deplorable
Still, it was how they felt. And it would
have taken something a good deal more
persuasive than Mr. Foote’s earnest ad-
vocacy to have shaken them out of it.
Nonetheless, there was some reason
why Mr. Foote should have found that
particular mission easy. In this respect
Alderman Gurney, as Mayor, was some-
thing more besides. He was not only
the Town and the Town Council, but
also, in this, he was the Town Conscience
in person. And old Miriam was its goad
and its image. As far as most present
memory went, an always visible and un-
pleasant image, too.
“Royal blood! ” had exclaimed the
Town citizen to whom Mr. Foote had
hastened at once with the Council
authority. “Royal blood! Royal grass-
tree! Anyway", she looked like a grass-
tree, didn’t she, eh? A black burnt one.
And who’s goin’ to pay for it?”
“I am,” declared Mr, Foote, on the
spur of the moment, a little nettled,
“And I think it should be something—er,
well, decent.”
“Polished oak and silver handles?”
demanded caustically the citizen, who re-
joiced—or at all events, as the Town’s
undertaker, ought to have rejoiced—in
the hopefully significant name of Mr.
Ezra Heavener.
“No,” Mr. Foote, told him sharply,
“just something reasonably decent.”
“Nothing to get huffy about. No
offence,” said Mr. Heavener. “Leave it
to me. Princess Miriam, eh? As a
matter of fact, so I’ve heard . . . Jove
now,” Mr. Heavener suddenly decided,
“she might’ve been, too! You ask old
Collins oyer there, the bootmaker—no,
better not ask him ; he’s a bit touchy
about it.”
HEAVENER paused to laugh in
a rumbling fashion a little this side
of heavenly. He liked his particular
taste in jokes, such as thinking of de-
parted citizens as stock-in-trade, or relish-
ing his store of scandals of the living
“No,” he pursued, referring to boot-
maker Collins across the road, “they
reckon he . . . But that’s beside the point.
What I happen to know for a fact is she
was the mother before you was born of
three of the best fighters this River ever
turned out, bar none. They was class.
An’ what’s more, the three' of them was
by three different fathers. So y’ see what
I mean, the blood must’ve been on her
side, mustn’t it?”
Mr. Foote had not mentally pigeon-
holed this Miriam biography in with his
classroom abo. lore, but on its own
account it added a good cubit to the
stature of that heroine in his own sub-
conscious regard.
Moreover, it simultaneously added a
suddenly recruited enthusiast to,the cause.
The process operated a little differently
with Mr, Heavener, but that was the re-
sult. Mr. Heavener, in his distant youth,
had been treated with some levity by a
horse, which planted a hoof lightly in his
face, denting in his nose and leaving the
mark oyer his left eye. And, on this
clear evidence, Mr. Heavener had, in the
course of the years, attained the repute of
having himself been a notable fighter. He
now as good as believed it himself.
“Yes,” he had further recollected to
Mr. Foote, “it must’ve been on her side
right enough. Three of the prettiest
fighters you ever set eyes on, and I’ve
seen one or .two of them in me day.
Princess, eh? Well, she might’ve been,
too.”
“Oh, well, you know,” Mr. Foote had
more carefully hedged, “that’s what has
been handed down. Her father, by all
the accounts, was the last old chief: You
might say, Mr. Heavener, the equivalent
of the King of the River.”
“Leave it to me,” said Mr. Heavener.
“Just leave it to me. At the old ground?
To move from the Perch Creek residence
of the late Miriam ... The old-- the old
lady never had any other name I ever
heard of. Not of her own, if you see
what I mean. There’d have been her
native name, though, wouldn’t there?”
“I—l think so,” said Mr. Foote,
carefully; .a little overcome by such un-
expected co-operation. “But that really
doesn’t matter, Mr. Heavener. No head-
stones or anything like that, you know.
It’s just”---
“Residence of the late Princess
Miriam,” professionally declaimed Mr.
Heavener, his enthusiasm working up.
“At 2.30 p.m. this day, Saturday. That’s
tomorrow,” explained Mr. Heavener.
“That’ll get her there a bit after three.
Leave it to me.”
I EFT it had been to Mr. Heavener,
I—' and the other arrangements made,
the scar in the paddock the climax to
them. But, with the whole day for think-
ing ahead, since he had seen that that
job had been done, a sense of approach-
ing anticlimax steadily obsessing Mr.
Foote; a feeling of an end coming near
which could not be other than drab at
the best.
Ample enough reason for Mr. Foote’s
eventually arriving at the top corner near
the sliprails looking somewhat drawn and
gloomy. Nodding a bit absently at the
group of mourners already gathered in
the shade of the three tallowwoods.
Little about that gathering to dissipate
his gloom, either ; although—or rather
because—they were hardly gloomy them-
selves. Their whole appearance made the
feared anticlimax absolutely certain. To
Mr. Foote they were themselves anticlimax.
Quite evidently they had been there for
some time already. Quite evidently, too,
the mourning coach which had Erought
them, or most of them, was the large
lorry, with unpainted high-battened sides,
parked against the cow-chewed clump of
lantana. The Perch Creek pig lorry.
But more of the fall of anticlimax was
in their appearance and- what they were
doing. The men who had coats had
stacked them against the foot of one of
the tallowwoods, and were all in trousers
and shirts, most of them wearing stained
white, canvas sandshoes, and hatless.
And the colored array of shirts, more
or less clean, was even more vividly
matched by the floral-material finery of
the women-folk. Decked in their best
for the day.
They certainly did not resemble any
sort of a funeral gathering. Anything
but. They might have specially gathered
there in the shade for a picnic. Not a
feast of oysters and pippies; nothing so
primitive. Large and small bottles of the
more brightly-colored drinks; raspberry-
red, lime-green, orange and lemon, and
yellow pineapple.
At any rate, reflected Mr. Foote,
going down to the shiprails at the top-
corner, it was a sober feast. Nearly
everybody, big and little, held one of the
colored bottles in one hand, cake or
sandwich in the other. In all, a very
good tirty-shillin’ worth.
A shade blacker than most of the
others, one old lubra rolled a fat body
about in convulsive laughter. A young
one, and her very lightly-tinted mate,
with red-spotted handkerchief round his
neck, were crooning between bites the
latest Crosbian dirge from the Town
pictures. The rest chattering or yarning
in the shade.
Mr. Foote leaned against the entrance
slip-rails and looked down at the red
mounds on each side of the hole dug in
the paddock. A heaping of the red earth
glowing in the hot sun in the middle of
the paddock’s contrasting green,
Mr. Foote’s gaze wandered to the
blending of grasses. The darker green
irregular patches of clover with a
sprinkle of white flowers. Lighter green
paspalum and couch. Just inside the top
corner where he stood, the paddock’s one
other kind of grass. Thin, dry-looking,
sharp blades. The native-grass, clinging
on precariously to the poorest of the
soil, but fighting a losing battle even
there.
A BOY came down to (him from the
picnic group. Not one of the
picnickers; at least, not yet. A new-
comer.
“Mis’r Foote,” he announced. “Mis’r
Heavener said tell you he might be bit
late. Damn’ paint wouldn’t dry.”
“Paint?” said Mr. Foote.
“Tha’s what he said, Mis’r Foote.”
The messenger looked back over his
shoulder at the feast, tprned and bounded
up for his share before the others might
scoff the lot.
Paint, thought Mr. Foote, more des-
pondent than ever. “Like the rest of
them,” Despondency said to him. “Not
a decent thought, even. Some pine-boards
and black paint. The wretched
Heavener might have at least spared a
covering of black crepe.”
Ide felt like going home and letting
them bury her themselves, in their own
fashion, when they brought her along in
the cart, whenever that would be now.
The time was getting on. The shadows
of the tallowwoods lengthened out over
him, though the late sun still glowed
fiercely on the red earth down there near
the absurd rail.
Mr. Foote took the cream-colored,
borrowed book from his pocket. He
looked at the embossed gold design of
English oak-leaves and acorns on the
cover, with, in the centre, a gold oval and
in it a small gold crown, with the royal
monogram G.R. and the figures 1911.
On the back spine the indistinct gold-
lettered title, slightly faded or worn:
The Book of Common Prayer,
He opened it. Facing photogravures of
royalty ; letterpressed H.M. King George
V, and opposite H.M. Queen Mary.
Decorated title-page; lettered in red:
The Coronation Prayer Book. A keep-
sake, no doubt, of that historic royal
occasion.
He turned the pages of black and red
printing to the sections he had marked
and began re-reading to himself.
The picnic behind him had settled down
to a lazy babble, with only an occa-
sional shriek from one of the young
lubras or one or other of the even more
lightly-tinted latest generation. The sun,
slanting down, was beginning to fire the
mountain range away back at the top of
the River.
Then, suddenly, another sort of noise
from the picnickers. All now talking
excitedly at once. One of them calling
{Continued on.page 23.)
THE MOTHS.
Suck a blaze of snow, such a smoke of
sleet, such a fume of moths in the air
You’d think a wind of the dusk had swept
the blossoming tea-trees bare
But the gust that blew the sunlight out and
bade the thrush be silent
Has left the branches glittering white where
the dark stream cuts the granite
And still in a whirring hush of wings the
bent old tea-tree showers
Storm upon storm of snow-white moths
from the midst of its cloud of flowers.
Bursting and foaming, spinning and gush-
ing, secret above the stream.
Nothing is left of the mountains now, no-
thing is left of time:
Only in depths of space and night there
thrusts this ragged bough
And wheeling around its cloud of flowers
the galaxies swarm like snow.
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
SOLILOQUY OF NATURE.
I am like a perfect love, a word hammered
To the pinnacle of truth, or that stayed
cloud
Guarding the quarantined hill beyond the
sky.
I am the awareness and clear sleep that
rise
From the greatest living soul, and shall
never die.
So, giddy, oscillating, mindless one.
Abandon the ticking cabinet of time
And the whorl of springs and turn
Outwards to the spacious and the timeless.
There is no thick indecision in me,
And no pausing. I am a progression of
. heart
fed by the swallow’s pulse and the veined
hope
That burns in trees,
Those gentle luminaries of my wilder art.
So, puzzled, indeterminate-dying one,
Turn outwards. Your eye’s dark pupil
Is an image of the world, and the world has
a sun.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWVOTHAM.


The POISONED TANK
By J.H. MELVILLE
Phil HART-
SHORNE was
a fool. Any
of the Dineens
or Grahams or the
rest of them out at
the Bluemile settle-
ment will tell you
that. And even
though they may
class the name of Hartshorne with that of
aphis and clubroot, they mention it with
more of pity than bitterness. To rail
against it now would suggest that Phil
Hartshorne has left behind in Bluemile a
memory that rankles.
There is even a touch of amusement in
the comment of the talkative, snowy-
headed surfaceman who seems to spend
most of his time yarning at the cross-
roads. “That poor silly galoot,” he re-
calls ruefully, propped on his Road Board
shovel.
“Phil Hartshorne?” Dansey May will
ponder, elaborately feigning forgetful-
ness. “Now wouldn’t that be the little
insurance man that was on the road here
some years ago?”
Dansey cannot be sure; his mind is
overstocked. This is the wariness that has
kept him chairman of the school com-
mittee for over twenty years.
“Oh, yes, Hartshorne. He wasn’t quite
right in the head, if I remember correctly.”
Dansey remembers all right. So do the
rest of them. They remember because of
what the little jnsurance-agent did to the
self-respect of the settlement.
SO long as there is the swamp to keep
Bluemile apart from the township,
people out there will be banded together
in a loose roughshod sort of clannishness.
Envying the amenities of the township,
they affect scorn for such frills as lighted
streets and a water service, and crow of
their hardiness. They take a pride in their
perverse independence. With more reason
they could be proud of the vegetables that
flourish out there on the silty flats, and
of fruit that ripens in a sheltered elbow
of the hills.
But after that there is not much to be
proud of. Most of the houses have the
look of having stood neglected since they
were first built by the disappointed pros-
pectors who settled the district j shelters
that breed the urge in each succeeding
generation to get away before they, too,
turn sour. A crescent of stucco
bungalows, arched like an eyebrow over
the quarry, stands out in contrast. They
are the dwellings of people who have
gone out to Bluemile to spend their re-
tirement ; people with time to waste on
th.e frivolities of tending lawns and
flower-gardens. And it is the beauty of
this part of the settlement, alien scenery
come adrift, that marks it out as fair
game. More than one Bluemile wedding
and funeral has gone off bedecked by
flowers cunningly gathered at night. The
pride of the place is not in its honesty,
either.
Hearing a distinction made in the town-
ship between a b and a Bluemile
b might give the idea that the settle-
ment is a refuge of rogues and hoodlums.
This notoriety, indeed, is encouraged
rather than' resented by people of the
settlement. Perhaps the original miner
settlers deserved the bad name they got;
now it is not much more than an attitude
to be maintained.
This, then, was the sort of prestige—•
upheld yet in dance-hall brawls and hoot-
ing referees off the football-field—that the
little insurance-agent had flouted.
AND Dansey May remembers all right.
Wasn’t it Dansey who had added
to the shame of it by visiting the school
and spreading his fears? And there was
not one word of his address to a goggling
assembly of pupils that could be recalled
later, no matter how much he may have
wished it.
Chairman of the school committee,
Dansey was a lurchinig barrel of a man,
lumpy-cheeked and with freckles sputtered
liberally round his broad sunburned nose.
His face was screwed up with grim
anxiety, having set that way, so it was
said, in the mud of the lagoon when
once he had dived in and stuck fast. He
brought a homely and rugged worthiness
to the aridity of the classroom.
“Now, children,” he had begun
awkwardly. “I’m not here this time to
growl at you for scribbling on the walls.”
His voice boomed, strangely robust. “No.
not to growl at you this time,” he assured
the tiers of pupils who waited wonder-
ingly. He smiled, and the ordeal was
mutually embarrassing. “Some of you
might have seen me empty the tank out
there in the playground just now. Now
who knows why I did that?”
A girl in front raised her hand.
“Yes, Violet?” Dansey asked, evidently
happy at recognising her as a neighbor’s
child.
Violet’s answer was hushed, “The
water was poisoned, Mr. May. Like
Dineen’s tank. The insurance-man came
round in the night and poisoned all the
tanks.”
“Well —ah, we mustn’t jump to con-
clusions,” Dansey suggested. “We won’t
say for sure that any of the water was
poisoned or that Mr. Hartshorn© did it
if it was. We won’t say that for sure,
will we. Miss Reckitt?” He turned for
the approval of the schoolmistress.
Miss Reckitt shook her head and
smiled. She was a pleasant woman of
middle-age, and had about her the poise
of quiet astuteness. She stood well back
beside a blackboard.
BUT the eyes of the school, as if in
repudiation of Dansey’s glib comfort,
were on the seats where the Dineen twins
usually sat. Yesterday they had been
occupied. A green hair-ribbon hung out
from under one of the vacant desks, and
the air was still stale with the smell of
the marigolds that the Dineens had
brought to fill the vases.
“I decided to empty the tank because
pressure was brought to bear,” Dansey
said, without letting his gaze linger on
the offspring of any noted trouble-
maker. “But, goodness, I drank water
from my own tank this morning. My
porridge was made with water, and my
egg was boiled in water, and —and what
else, eh?”
“Tea, Mr. May?” a pupil suggested.
“Right,” said Dansey. “Tea. And I’m
not poisoned yet. Do I look as if I’d
been poisoned. Miss Reckitt?”
The schoolmistress committed herself
no further than a smile.
“Puh!” Dansey exclaimed, voicing his
feelings most unacademically. “Now
hands up those who drank water from
the school tank this morning.”
Some half-dozen hands were raised.
“And is there a single one of you
dares to say truthfully you’re any the
worse for it?”
One of the hands went up again, half-
heartedly. But the claimant, a watery-
eyed child with a tangle of blonde hair,
was ignored.
“I emptied the tank to be on the safe
side,” Dansey said. “Pressure was
brought to bear.” He turned to the
mistress. “And Mick Dineen’s youngsters
—they might have picked up anything.”
He nodded hopefully at this thought.
“Oh with your lessons now,” he ges-
tured in a deprecating farewell, and
slammed the door so heartily as he left
that a shower of nature-study exhibits
came tumbling down from the shelves.
DANSEY had done his duty. But his
reassurance had left the school
fidgeting and uneasy.
The child with the watery eyes went
home, sick, during the singing lesson, and
her miserable departure was noted fear-
fully. Sea-chanties were droned out so
discordantly that the mistress, in turn,
was unsettled and could only add to the
jarring chorus. Vexed at her own
inadequacy, as she admitted afterwards,
she began to shout reproaches, heighten-
ing a state of tension that was strained
further when another two pupils com-
plained of sickness and went home.
Lunch-time had not come too soon.
Schoolchildren pelted home to gasp out
their news —Judith Galloway had been
poisoned, and Fred Swan and Timmy
Giesler. And had the Dineen twins really
died?
Meal-table talk that day of Hartshorne
and poisoning centred on Mrs. Dineen.
It had been her experience that had
whipped up the disturbance.
She had been down the yard emptying
the ashes, getting her husband away to the
early shift at the quarry, when she had
spotted Hartshorne, the insurance-man,
crouching furtively on their water-tank.
Mrs. Dineen’s observations and
opinions were quoted in argument. She
had seen the man and he had spoken to
her ; how could she possibly be wrong?
“He spoke to me,” she had repeated
dozens of times throughout the morning.
“He took off his hat and stroked his bald
head in a silly way, and then he said like
he was choking, ‘l’ve got good reason for
being here, Mrs. Dineen.’ And When he
heard me mention the police be slid down
the back of the tank and then he off for
his life. But I’ll never forget his mad
look till my dying day.”
The suspicion of poison had at once
occurred to her when Hartshorne had
fled. “He must have been doing some-
thing wrong. If he’d wanted water for
his motor-bike he could have got it out
of the tap without getting up on the tank
at all.”
“There’s no telling what those insurance
blokes are up to,” her husband had
agreed, vaguely authoritative. “They're
sharpers. Get you half-doped, like as not,
and then have you signing papers before
you know what’s what.”
Having made this deduction, Mick
Dineen had gone off to work without
being noticeably perturbed.
HER fears, however, were less agree-
ably received by the rest of the
family:
“Goddlemighty,” his son Kev protested.
“You’d put a fellow off his breakfast
with all your whining about poison.”
She slapped an egg down peevishly
before him. “I’m just saying what I know,
that’s all.”
“And what you don’t know you guess,”
her other big son, Ginge, added.
Kev and Ginge Dineen were as much
alike in their own way as were their
younger twin sisters, who sat dumbly
across the table. The girls had sharp
features and moved impatiently, like
their father. But there was in the boys’
expression much of their mother’s
stolidity and bleakness, though in her case
discontent had overlaid the grimness.
The boys, wearing leather jackets suited
to their work in the plantation, looked
up occasionally to glance, sluggishly and
distastefully, round the grubby kitchen.
“Your father heard him getting away
on his motor-bike,” Mrs. Dineen retorted,
well schooled in domestic bickering.
“You want to tell him he made it up
and see what happens. Tell him it was
just imagination.”
“Did he see him mixing up this brew?”
Ginge asked. He chuckled. “Hart-
shorne’s three star.”
“What was he doing up there on the
tank if he wasn’t poisoning the water?”
she insisted. “Your father said it might
be some sort of insurance trick. I’m boil-
ing all the water I use, anyway.”
“Boiling it!” Kev snorted. “Goddle-
mighty.”
His brother, whose manner was rather
more thoughtful and conciliatory, said,
“I wouldn’t mind betting he’s a Peeping
Tom, though. Hartshome’s just the sort
that would come at that.”
“We’d soon fix that,” Kev said.
THEIR mother stopped her bad-
tempered clattering among the pots
and kettles steaming on the range and
scored triumphantly with: “The sleeve of
his coat was all green with mould or
something from inside the tank.” She
swept back unruly hair. “What would a
Peeping Tom be doing with his arm
down inside the tank?”
The twins had been only toying with
their breakfast, and now one of them
spoke up in a strained voice to ask, “He’d
have to take the cover off the tank to put
the poison in, wouldn’t he?”
This reasoning moved Ginge Dineen to
let out a good-humored oath.
“You could go and have a look, then,”
his mother rebuked him, “instead of
swearing at your sister.”
He kicked back his chair and bumped
the twins’ heads to-
gether playfully as he
went out.
“Come on, Joy,”
Mrs. Dineen urged.
“Eat it up and get
ready for school.
You, too, Ellen.”
Hearing this, her
son Kev rounded on
her as he gulped his tea. “How the hell
do you expect the kids to eat their break-
fast when you’re moaning about poison
all the time?”
Ginge slouched back into the kitchen
and observed quietly, “The cover’s off
the tank all right. Hasn’t been long off.”
His brother, exasperated, mumbled
some face-saving comment.
Mrs. Dineen, however, was turned
from claiming vindication. One of the
twins had begun to snivel. Her mother
was eyeing her anxiously, fascinated by
the sight of the sobbing child’s hair hang-
ing lank.
“What’s wrong with you?” she asked
dully.
“I can’t eat any more breakfast.”
“You feeling sick?”
“Yes.”
The other girl regarded her sister
apprehensively for a moment, and then
she, also, softly gave way to tears.
“You, too, Joy?” demanded Mrs.
Dineen.
Tne child nodded wretchedly.
Mrs. Dineen pursed her lips and faced
her big red-headed sons. She had her
moment now. Tragedy had restored her
to a forgotten dignity. She wielded again
the tyranny of sympathy and intuition.
“I knew it,” she said, and in her
martyrdom there was a depth of scorn
for those who had doubted.
Trying to answer as if he was merely
brushing aside an inconvenience, her son
Kev said to his brother, “Get a move on,
then. We’ll call at Hartshorne’s on our
way and put an end to all this fuss.”
Mrs. Dineen was attending to her ailing
daughters. “It’s back to bed for you two.”
The boys left the house, and the reck-
lessness with which Kev bounced the car
down the drive a few minutes later boded
ill for Phil Hartshorne.
ONCE the Dineen blood was up the
little agent would need more protec-
tion than Gateway Assurance provided.
Kev and Ginge Dineen were not noted
for having any qualms about springing
rough-house tactics —just the opposite, in
fact. . When roused they were ugly
customers. The reasoning which sold the
protection that Gateway Assurance had
to offer would not buy protection from
the wrath of the Dineens,
And protection, ironically enough, was
the little agent’s gospel. Offering Gate-
way’s aid against the hazards of existence,
his boyish face would crinkle animatedly
and his words run earnestly along well-
worn grooves. Fire, accident and im-
poverished old age were the hell-fire of
his evangelism.
Adversity was the constant enemy.
That was the gist of his doorstep
philosophy—a repertoire of tags and pro-
verbs. 11l winds might blow some good,
but only with the backing of Gateway
Assurance.
His faith in his mission was strong.
He took the published ideals of the com-
pany to heart and gave them a personal
connection. Statistics could only bear
remotely on the business of living, but
he reduced them to terms of Calligan’s
stack-fire and Miss Dawson’s broken leg.
Over his years of canvassing between the
township and the lake, he had stored
away many useful instances. Not that his
creed was thrust forward clumsily; most
of it was implied, borne along on a self-
effacing manner that bespoke sincerity.
On guard against the enemy, he carried
warnings of ailments “going round” and
was even able to augment Gateway’s
policy by offering on his own behalf a
selection of herbal recipes. He made a
point, too, of attending most of the
funerals in the district. If the deceased
had been a client, then it was a last service
and only fitting; and an outsider could
always be escorted beyond the reach of
the enemy. Other mourners who had
been subjected to his philosophy on such
occasions had been heard to wonder
wryly if it was worth their while leaving
the graveyard.
But life was a struggle against odds,
and he faced up resolutely. He showed
his mettle by coping with the motor-bike
that carried him round the countryside-
a bucking, snorting monster. He would
approach it like a wrestler coming to
grips, snatching at its handle-bars and
only mastering it with much kicking and
wrenching, a little man defying bigness,
He met the enemy at another point when
he marched with the band. A cornet-
sized bandsman at most, he strode along


out “Mis’r Foote!” All of them stand-
inc/nn lonkine out at the road.
Now Mr. Foote, too, saw it. Not a
T a Vnid- M b r |actrd n s«ver Very mo\oJ
funeral-coach coming in slowly between
Sf taUowwoods, crunching over the
t a U W nfc at
the wheel; Mr. Heavener leaning out
S
do, Jim. Nodding so y
°Mr. Heavener getting out and swinging
open the doors at the back. P° tc J
and beckoning four of the most robust
of the picnickers. _
Now a complete silence.
And then as Mr Heavener and his
chosen pallbearers heaved at the back,
and came out and around the black-an
s , llve s coach, Mr. Foote his reactions
decidedly mixed, saw what they had
brpught.
MR. HEAVENER, striding ahead and
shoving back the sliprails, said in
a voice preposterously lugubrious for
such words, “Sorry, old man, very sorry.
Better late than never. Enamel wouldn’t
dry.” ■
Mr. Foote barely heeded him. The
cream book gripped against the side of
his black coat, he stared at the shining
purple burden they held high on their
shoulders. .
“Walk on in front,” Mr. Heavener in-
structed him, in a stage-manager voice.
Another look at the royal purple that
bore the remains of the late Miriam,
and Mr. Foote took the place assigned to
him. Bareheaded, with the now
dropping sun slanting his long shadow
away to the right, he walked in front
slowly towards the red scar down in the
paddock. .
The procession followed. A silent pro-
cession, as it might have been for any
one of the many that Mr. Foote’s
borrowed book may at some time have
been read over. Not, however, following
in orderly line. They came slowly on in
a bunch, all trying to keep their eyes
fixed on the piece of royal splendor
ahead of them—Mr. Heavener’s great
thought for the occasion; stemming
from a horse-kick in the face, by way of
the roped fighting-ring, to his notion of
royalty.
To the spread-out procession, a
complete success. They followed watch-
ing it open-mouthed in unqualified ad-
miration. They had never seen anything
prettier.
Mr. Foote was half-way to the red
scar when something even more unex-
pected than the shining purple broke
in on the ordered scheme of things. It
came from the fat, dark old half-caste
lubra and a gaunt sister, both stumbling
along for some time vacantly on the right
outskirt of the procession. Un-
rehearsed, unarranged, they broke to-
gether into a loud, discordant keening.
A shrill, unmusical wildness that broke
discomfortingly over the party. It rose
oYer them to a howl; dying away far
1 IVonlTmomentary; a breaking-
out of the lost primitive in them. They
stumbled on, looking self-consciously at
‘ h AfStrther end of the red scar Mr.
and facedthem. Ac
- XS
pallbearers, relieved of an embarrass-
no's^and'-ra^T °’
S The ’ rest grouped around, all with their
l d g on P the shining sp i a sh of
.purple in their midst; listening to Mr.
Foote or at any rate hearing his voice.
the wSi the sun shone his fare-
£e]jg[ fierceness . reddening up the sky,
slantjn g g on to the ir bared heads, spearing
* them shafts which ma de the
P light .
q OMETHING, at last, that Mr.
O Foote was saying caught their
j n t er est. He was reading from the cream-
cojored book held open in his two
bands :
“Behold, I shew you a mystery: We
sba u not a u sleep, but we shall all be
changed, in a moment, in the twinkling
0 f an eye> a t the last trump (for the
trumpet shall sound), and the dead shall
be raised incorruptible, and we shall be
changed.”
Mr. Foote went on slowly reading, of
the corruptible and the incorruptible,
Their eyes dropped back from him to
the gleaming purple alight in their midst,
They heard again as he ended:
“....then shall be brought to pass
the saying that is written. Death is
swallowed up in victory. O death, where
is thy sting? O grave, where is thy
victory?” •
Mr. Heavener, making this his cue,
beckoned his stalwarts in from the rail,
and together they lowered old Miriam
down in her royal purple. Mr. Heavener
tossed in a handful of earth, and they
shovelled the red mounds in from each
side.
Then, on a professional sigh from Mr.
Heavener, they took his example and
began to stray back up the slope to the
black-and-silver coach, the tallowwoods,
the late picnic ground, the pig lorry.
The sun had dropped now behind the
mountain range, the last flame of it
coloring the drift of cloud down near
the horizon and painting the one or two
stray detached small floaters of cloud
elsewhere in the sky.
Looking back from the sliprails Mr.
Foote felt the breath of a slight breeze
touch his damp forehead. He saw the
padddck, still the green acre or so he had
seen in the morning, with the red scar
near the middle of it. Soon enough the
grass would cover it, and there would
be nothing to show that any such as old
Miriam had ever lived.
grappling with a formidable double-bass
and pomping nobly all the while.
And just as he was master of the notes
blown from his double-bass and of the
miles over which he urged his red motor-
bike, he was now —having enlisted Gate-
way’s support —tackling greater hazards.
To inspire him in this campaign there
was Gateway’s manager, Mr. Roundley.
“I’ll have to consult our Mr. Roundley,
he would decide importantly when the
enemy posed a particularly knotty prob-
lem. ,
Mr. Roundley, who spoke of Calhgan s
stack-fire and Miss Dawson’s accident as
visitations, was an ascetic, bustling type of
man with a high opinion of his own wit,
so much so that he seemed either to be
flicking impatiently through reference-
books or twittering at some joke he had
thought of. His mirth, disciplined though
it was, seemed to be occasioned more by
what he thought he was likely to say
than by any joke he ever actually made.
Unlike his little agent, who was as much
at home on the doorstep as the house
cat, Mr. Roundley was always champing
to be on the move —a check through his
books, a witty observation, and he was
gone. He had a thatch of wiry curls and
so could afford to make his agent’s bald-
ness the butt of much of his humor:
“What a pity Mr. Hartshorne hadn’t in-
sured his hair with us when he had it.
Oh, my goodness!”
PHIL HARTSHORNE always laughed
heartily at this joke of Mr. Round-
ley’s no matter how often he heard it.
Indeed, it seemed that if one of them had
to be bald, he was
thankful that it was not
the manager of Gateway
Assurance. However, in
other respects he could
emulate Mr. Roundley.
He could wear a wing
collar, too, and also the
rather racy style of felt
hat the manager favored.
And his rambler roses
made as natty a button-
hole as any. But a
certain rakishness that
suited Mr. Roundley
veered towards fancy-
dress on the homely little
agent who was so happy
to wear what Gateway’s
manager wore. He could
even whistle back
through his teeth as Mr.
Roundley did when such
tools of the enemy as gelignite and
circular-saws .were mentioned. Being
bald, though, while Mr. Roundley had a
youthful head of hair, there was not
much he could do but laugh at the
manager’s joke.
When they travelled together they used
the firm’s car ; Mr. Roundley sitting erect
and businesslike, and the little agent
beaming at everything and everybody. He
would show nice discrimination in greet-
ing Gateway subscribers by raising a
forefinger. This regular tour of the
countryside with Mr. Roundley was a
demonstration, an act of faith. All was
well. Gateway Assurance was there on
guard.
DINEENS’ car was standing now out-
side his house, a brick place perched
on the shady side of the hill and situated
about three miles beyond Bluemile settle-
ment. Since this made it at least six
miles from the township and the planta-
tion, the boys had been set some running
about.
“He’s gone in to the township,” Mrs.
Hartshorne was saying.
Standing in her doorway, she almost
matched the Dineens for coarseness and
stature. She was known as a sour-
natured woman and looked the part.
“Where will we find him in the town-
ship?” Kev asked.
She answered tartly: “How should I
know? He doesn’t bother telling me
everywhere he goes.”
Ginge nodded an off-handed acknow-
ledgment. “Thanks.”
They bade her good-morning and
hurried away to continue their search.
If their resolve wavered at all, it must
have been then. Surely marriage had
brought the little insurance man enough
trouble. Like everyone else, they had
heard the traction-engine legend. This
concerned Mrs. Hartshorne when she had
been Nell Paster and home on the farm.
At her father’s request, so it was said, she
had lain prone across the driveway,
directly in the path of a traction-engine
pulling out from the old man’s half-
threshed crop. By this means old Johnnie
Paster had gained a last chance to haggle
miserably over terms with the mill-owner,
who was pulling out in disgust. While
these two argued the driver had edged
his shuddering engine as close to the
recumbent girl as he dared. But the mill-
hands swear that Nell had not even
winced.
However, old Johnnie had been obliged
to give way before the mill would return
and thresh his crop. When Phil Harts-
horne had married, the legend had been
joyously revived to make the match even
more disproportionate, and give rise to
the uncharitable quip that Mrs. Harts-
horne’s face had stopped a traction-
engine. Nevertheless, the little agent was
credited with holding the whip-hand at
home, and this, too, had to be chalked
up as another triumph over the enemy.
But no such sentiment was likely to
have concerned the Dineens.
“There’s his bike,” Ginge observed as
they were driving through the township.
A RED motor-bike was parked outside
the fire-station. They stopped the car
apd got out. Finding the fire-station
locked up, they went down the alley
where Harry Ringley had his printing
business.
“Morning, Harry,” Kev greeted, step-
ping inside. “We’re looking for Hart-
shorne, the insurance man.”
Almost as lacking in color as the white
paper stacked around him, the printer-
white apron, white shirt, a sallow face
and scant white hair —was feeding a small
platen-press as solicitously as a mother
nurturing a child in her lap.
“Yes, yes, he was here,” he said, spar-
ing only a glance from his hands, paddling
rhythmically.
“Where is he now?”
“He came here looking for the
plumber.”
Ginge asked: “Bill
Damson?”
“Yes,” the printer
replied. “I'm getting the
hot water in.” Then he
stopped the swishing and
clatter of his press to
ask, “What’s all this
about youngsters being
poisoned out your way?
The paper - boy’s just
come flying back from
the settlement with some
yarn about youngsters
being poisoned.”
Kev Dineen shook his
head. “Don’t know it,”
he said. “Where did Bill
Damson get to?”
“He went over to the
goods-shed.”
“And did Elartshorne
go over after him?”
Ginge asked, mockingly deliberate.
The printer seemed surprised at this
labored deduction, “Yes, of course.
Just a few minutes ago,” he said, and
restarted his press.
“Righto. We’ll see you again some-
time, Harry,” Kev called from the door,
and the two of them went out again.
They ran across the road.
OVER at the goods-shed a voice raised
in protestation led them to a loading
platform. Phil Hartshorne and the
plumper were there.
“That’s what you told me,” the little
agent was declaring. “You can’t deny it
now.”
Both men turned, startled, when the
Dineens appeared silently beside them.
“Here he is,” Kev said, unpleasantly
affable. “This is the fellow
poking around people’s water-tanks.”
Phil Hartshorne, neatly dressed as usual
in the style of Mr. Roundley, pointed
accusingly at the plumber. “He’ll tell
you,” he said. “Nobody would believe
me. He’ll tell you. He’d better.”
“Tell us, Bill,” Ginge asked.
The plumber temporised with an “Aw,”
drawn out while he sought escape from
his embarrassment.
Jigging about like a bird in a cage, the
insurance agent was unable to restrain
himself any longer.
“He told me it was the green mould
from your tank that made his hair grow
back,” he blurted out. “He told me it
soaked into his scalp when he was work-
ing in your tank.” He turned on the
plumber. “And now he denies it when
there’s trouble.”
Now that attention had been drawn to
the fuzzy regrowth of hair on his head,
Damson took a stand, “The doctor said
my hair fell out constitutional and it’s
coming back constitutional.”
He was flabby and unshapely, and
spoke with his eyes averted, a habit which
gave him a falsely impish and threaten-
ing aspect as if he were contemplating
a headlong charge in another direction.
The little agent was shouldering him
back. “You told me it was the green
mould from Dineens tank. Like peni-
cillin, you said.” , „ . ,
“Goddlemighty,” Kev exclaimed. And
is that what you were doing on our tank
this morning— getting stuff to rub in your
head?”
Hartshorne nodded.
Ginge Dineen swore wryly and com-
prehensively, a reference that infuriated
the insurance man.
“Admit it!” he demanded, glaring up
into the plumber’s face.
“Aw, hell,” Damson complained, as
if he were being slandered.
PUTT a „
HIL HARTSHORNE flew at him
then. The bigger man was taken by
surprise and bowled over, and in a moment
the little agent was lying across him,
thumping his head on the platform and
shouting, “This’ll bring back your hair!
This’ll be good for your hair, you dirty
dog! ”
The Dineens took charge then. Their
participation, robbed of malice now,
could only be a token act of justification,
Kev wrenched the insurance-man off
his goggling, short-winded victim, and, on
being himself threatened by the agent for
Gateway Assurance, dealt Hartshorne a
kick on the backside that sent him plung-
mg into a heap of sacks. \
Ginge meanwhile had hoisted the
plumber to his feet and then doubled him
over with a headlock. “Now it’s your
turn,” he told the fretting agent.
Damson put in quickly and earnestly
“I thought the green stuff helped.” But
it was a forlorn admission now.
Phil Hartshorne rose from his sacks
and came at the plumber running. He
sank the toe of his shoe deep in Damson’s
yielding rump, provoking a flow of
epithets that must have been stored far
down in the plumber’s easygoing nature
for most of a lifetime.
The disturbance brought a call from
the railway-yard: “What’s going on in
there?” j
!
A FTER an engine had gone hissing
** Past outside a shunter came thiough
t * ie s |] ec * to investigate. ut y en i
™ s t had glanced across the road he
may have seen the plumber disappearing
( j own £ b e alley to the printer’s and the
D i neens driving away. Phil Hartshorne
was tbere acroS s the road, too, until he
had kicke d his motor-bike into activity,
Then the ]itd e agent rode through the
towns hip and towards the crossroads. Of
the signboards ahead of him one directed
kirn back to the Bluemile settlement and
his “victims”—youngsters being scared
sick like the Dineen twins; prospective
young opportunists whose absence from
school that afternoon was to bring a
reckoning when the humiliating truth
drifted back , an no eas , .
*!<!«*■_& ??** ** ?*'
10 A ay soon P afterwards he was to
be t / avelling those roads for the last
tjme He had contr i ve d a transfer. And
j£ - n b | s new d i s trict he is still challeng-
ing odds? be does not do so without ex-
perience.’ For of all the hazards he met
single-handed—his wild mount, the
po mping double-bass and a wife who
had defied a traction-engine—he will not
easily forget that it had been human
credulity that confounded him.
As a royalty he has left behind m the
Bluemile settlement a touchy aversion to
water-poisoning jibes, and it is for this
reason as much as any other tha, they
will tell you out there that Phil Hart-
shorne was a fool.


PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn,
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
T rusted”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
9!
B
i
%
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT:
D. R. LYSAGHT:
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAQE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
TIPPETT
No. 7 of
a Series
"Enquire, investigate. Inspect, then decide!"
was the good advice given by Ronaldson-
Tippett when they first marketed their
famous Kerosene Engines.
To-day this advice applies with
equal force, and it is a tribute
to the inbuilt quality of Ronald-
son-Tippett Engines that many
thousands of Australians have,
down the years, done all these
things and finally decided on
Ronaldson-Tippett.
Two of the most popular En-
gines are shown here, the
types "N" and "NA" Petrol
Engines. Thousands of these
were supplied to fighting
forces during the last war,
deservedly adding to their
already sterling reputation.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Bead Office; Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. N.B.W. Distributors; Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd.. Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
RONALDSON TIPPETT
ENGINES
An Investor?
# Then you certainly cannot afford to be
without The “Wild Cat” Monthly. It
contains the most comprehensive investment
analyses of Australia’s leading companies,
economic reviews and mining notes, presented
in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts all
the facts at your fingertips.
2/- a copy; 22/6 a year, post free.
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A “Bulletin” Publication
THE SERVICE MAN
Mr. Harrison for
London.
“Ek Dum”: The announce-
ment that Mr. Harrison,
Minister for Defence, is to leave
immediately for London to act
as Australian Resident Minister
is somewhat startling at the
present point.
The Government is pledged to
an active defence programme,
including compulsory training.
The Minister for External
Affairs spends almost every
spare minute emphasising the
dangers of the Asian situation,
which could scarcely be worse
or more desperate if his estimate
of the situation is accurate. And
the Minister for Defence leaves
the country for an indefinite
period before a single step has
been taken to cure the awful
position of slackness and indif-
ference which has resulted in
defence under “Labor” rule.
The two service Ministers,
Messrs. White and Francis, re-
main, and the former, at any
rate, knows his job and is full of
energy and enthusiasm. But it
is very difficult to understand
how a serious defence pro-
gramme can be put into opera-
tion without a Defence Minister
on the spot.
There is not merely a great
deal to be done; almost every-
thing remains to be done. If an
enemy were to strike at Aus-
tralia tomorrow there would be
nothing to interfere with his
plans. The Prime Minister
appeared to recognise the import-
ance of the defence portfolio
when he formed his Cabinet by
making defence the affair of the
deputy-leader of his party, but he
seems to have changed his mind.
China and Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Mao, the Chinese
Communist leader, having gone
to Moscow before Christmas,
was so long away from his
“capital” that it was being sug-
gested that he had been cap-
tured and held pending his
agreement to all Russia’s de-
mands upon him.
With the publication of such
of the details of the agreement
between the Soviet Union and
Soviet China, Mao apparently
can go home. It makes com-
pletely ridiculous the “experts”
who for years in the capitalist
Press have solemnly assured the
world that Chinese Communism
is an entirely different kind of
Communism from that of
Russia, and that Moscow has no
influence whatever with the
sturdy Chinese. It involves a
military alliance, so close that it
would be difficult to believe
that China is not under Moscow
dominance, “to prevent a resur-
gence of imperialism and aggres-
sion of Japan or any other
Power.” And it may be taken
that “imperialism” means im-
perialism in a Communist sense.
Russia gives China £107,000,000
for railway and industrial de-
velopment, supplies to come
from Russia. All agreements
with China made in conjunc-
tion with the other Allies in
1945 have been thrown over-
board. And the complete unity
of purpose of the two Powers
is expressed in Vyshinsky’s an-
nouncement :
The determination of our two
peoples to develop and strengthen
economic and cultural links between
the U.S.S.R. and China and to help
each other economically is expressed
by the willingness of the Soviet Union
to grant long-term credits to China.
Mr. Chou En-lai, the Chinese
Foreign Minister, says that the
treaty expresses “brotherly
“Smart bit of splicing , mate.”
friendship and eternal co-opera-
tion between the two countries.”
Perhaps the most menacing
provision of the treaty is the
one which states that “the parties
declare their readiness to take
part in all international actions
which have as their object to
secure peace and security
throughout the world, and will
completely devote their energies
to the speediest realisations of
these objects.”
Translated out of Communis!
jargon, this means that China
has agreed to join in Moscow’s
world-revolution plans.
There are necessarily secret
protocols to the agreement.
These are reported, without
authority being given, to include
the establishment of firm Rus-
sian control over Sinkiang,
Mongolia and the Tibetan ap-
proaches, the implanting of
Russians in positions of
authority throughout the Chinese
civil service and Government
and the supply by China of slave
labor and food for military and
agricultural development in
Siberia in return for the hand-
ing over of Manchurian assets
captured from the Japanese by
the Red Army in 1945.
Mr. Acheson’s remark that
the treaty would mean trouble
for the Chinese Communists is
a platitude. It will mean more
than that. Whether it will mean
trouble for anybody else de-
pends largely on the defensive
potential of the Western Powers
and what kind of a settlement
can be made with Japan, the
fate of which is much more im-
portant than that of China. It
is certain that there will be no
peace treaty on which all the
Powers can agree, and the Wes-
tern Powers should hasten to
make their arrangements and
establish a permanent relation-
ship with the Japanese Govern-
ment. It cannot be long de-
layed. It is absurd that five
years after the armistice the
present position should continue
to exist.
Too Much Bluster.
“Ek Dum”: Before the war
of 1939-45 the Press of Britain,
the United States and Australia
never tired of hurling abuse at
Hitler and bolstering up his
viewpoint, as expressed to the
German people, that Germany
was a country surrounded by
vicious enemies who would pre-
sently turn from words to deeds.
The abuse was carried to
astonishing lengths, and the
whole campaign had a Com-
munist core, and was lent vigor
and fire by the Jewish population
in various countries, naturally
incensed by the Nazis’ treatment
of the Eastern Jews,/ who had
flooded Germany during infla-
tion.
This in particular the Com-
munists capitalised with eager-
ness, because it enabled them to
find allies in the wealthiest
circles who were prepared to go
any length, even to war, for the
destruction of Hitlerism. The
policy of the U.S.S.R. was for
war between Germany and the
rest of the world because Stalin
and his cunning emissaries hoped
that the Powers involved would
fear therpselves to pieces and
prove easy meat for the Red
Army at the right moment.
When, in 1939, the Kremlin
became the ally of Hitler, it was
too late for the rest to draw
back. Russia used the alliance
to oromotp the war and at the
same time, as history will prove
in time, preparing to profit out
of whatever situation might de-
velop.
The League of Nations, of
course, played its part. Its
babel built up fears and threw
tempers off balance, but post-
war Governments and news-
papers have not learnt their
lesson.
The same spirit is abroad as in
1939. It is almost inevitable that
we shall have to fight Russia at
a certain stage—unless there is a
change in the Government and
methods of Russia. Everything
that is being done seems to mili-
tate against the possibilities of
the change, besides tending to
provide the Russians with propa-
ganda to prove to their people
that the Western Powers are
aggressors piling up horrible
weapons against the time when
they will find it expedient to un-
leash their atrocities against the


fk
MUNCHES
PERfOKM BBTTIR
ON IJ *
CHAMPION
h mm
mmm
\\
\
CIS
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, EHG.J
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
LEISURELY LUXURY MOTOR
TOURS TO THE CONTINENT
OF EUROPE
at inclusive rates from LONDON back
to LONDON in latest model British
ARMCHAIR Motor Coaches with British
Drivers and Tour Managers who know
every inch of the road.
LUXURY LAND CRUISES LTD., a
Company founded in 1932, gives you here
the solution to your Continental visit prob-
lem.
Many Australian visitors travelled with
us last season and were enthusiastic in
their praises of our organisation. We
confidently expect you to follow their ex-
ample.
Leisurely Tours at regular intervals to:
The ITALIAN LAKES, SWITZERLAND,
SPAIN, ROME, DOLOMITES and
VENICE, AUSTRIAN TYROL. RHINE,
BLACK FOREST and OBERAMMER-
GAU, DENMARK and SWEDEN.
You are strongly recommended to make
your reservations prior to arrival in U.K.
Cablegrams: IMBLEGRIP, LONDON.
Letters to —
LUXURY LAND CRUISES LTD.,
9/11 Princes House, 190 Piccadilly,
London, W.l.
’Phone; REGent 4580 and 5241
STOP
YOUR
Worries'
Mark (*) locaHgn
of YOU# RUPTURE
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and V t Days’ Free
Trial Oiler. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. ?,7), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ẅ
m
&
* . :
n
E
truly the mark of
m
10 for im
20 for 2/3
and proudly made
“Here’s an insignia to set the seal on
your smoking enjoyment,” said the
Major. “To-day, as before the war,
it stands for the unchanging quality
of Army Club Cigarettes ... a
quality best typified by a rich blend of
tobaccos, ripened by sun, mellowed
by time and rolled in filigrained rice
paper as pure as science can make it.
The first long, satisfying draw will
tell you why everybody, once again,
is smoking Army Club.”
in Australia
in jirmyClub
BE A
Smoke the Cigarette containing Rich Golden Leaf, Ripened by Sun, Mellowed by Time
AC-649
innocent Russians, Poles and
Bulgarians.
The New York Press is the
fountain of the private cam-
paign, and the news-agencies do
the rest. The Australian daily
Press is a shrill echo of that
overseas, ‘"Every mornings
papers are filled (in the restricted
space left over from racing,
juvenile athletics and the comic-
strips) with tense announcements
about the “fact” that the first
hydrogen bomb exploded may
destroy the world, with offers,
which everybody knows mean
nothing, of an “open door” for
atom - control made by the
spokesmen of the United States
State Department, whose motto
appears to be: “No day without
some self-advertisement.” All
practical people know that no
form of agreement within the
realms of possibility, much less
probability, could provide a
safeguard against the manufac-
ture of weapons within a vast
country without a complete
sacrifice of the principles of
sovereignty, which no Govern-
ment unless it was a soft Socialist
affair like the the British Govern-
ment could ever dare to contem-
plate without facing political
annihilation.
The flames are fanned by the
existence of numerous advisory
councils and other strange
bodies, and like the Far Eastern
Commission, which sits regularly
in Tokyo, and in which national
delegates for whom there is no
useful work elsewhere, and who
have no authority to do any-
thing, sit round and wrestle in
insult and objurgation and
generally display their oral
muscles, every meeting engender-
ing more hate. Their voices
compete with scientists like Mr.
Einstein, and with outback U.S.
politicians who have begun to
demand “preventive war” against
Russia and with the Communist
parties and so-called “Peace
Councils,” with the forums of
the broadcasting stations like the
A.B.C. and the “experts” and
“commentators,” nearly all pro-
vocative and most of them
ignorant.
Worst of all, there are the poli-
ticians and Ministers of State
who refuse to be left out in the
cold world of obscurity, and
who have even made foreign
policy and an approach to Stalin
a bargaining-point at the British
elections, both sides knowing full
well that any discussion with
Stalin is worth about as much
as a discussion with Black Billy
of Currawillinghi. Dr. Evatt
was one of the greatest artists in
this sort of thing inside and out-
side U.N.0., and it was hoped
that when a new External
Affairs Minister came into office
there would be a new and more
prudent and temperate spirit.
But Mr. Spender so far sounds
rather like an echo of Dr. Evatt.
He has been talking about the
dangers of Asia and the need for
Australia to remember that its
area is part of the battleground
and its duty part of the brawl.
Also, ,that we must combine in
efforts to improve the economic
conditions of South-east Asia,
of which Mr. Spender acknow-
ledges himself part, to fend off
the Communist menace, while in
plain fact Communism flourishes
more effectively in high-level
countries like Australia.
It seems time that somebody
called for a year’s silence or at
least of freedom from gabble
about international affairs. If
everybody withdrew from the
United Nations, went on with
his own business, acknowledged
the right of every other country
to mind its own business and
apply its own methods within its
own borders, and politely made
it quite clear that any infringe-
ment of its own rights would be
met with a snub and with
physical resistance if necessary,
fifth - columns being strictly
barred and being liable to be
dealt with firmly and in the most
discouraging atmosphere, there
might be some chance of a solu-
tion of the world’s difficulties,
and the hydrogen bomb might
not be needed after all.
The time seems to have come
when wrangling merely fans the
flame and gives the Communists
excuses which they never had
before for pretending a fear of
aggression, and for presenting
evidence in favor of this view-
point to their people. An un-
provocative policy expressed as
sparingly and moderately as
possible and the carrying-out
of defence measures in secret
appears to be called for,
especially since in the present
loud-mouthed atmosphere the
public is reaching such a point
that it regards every fresh warn-
ing, from whatever side it comes,
as a cry of “wolf.”
The position is too serious to
be aggravated further by
hysterical publicity.
force in Canadian Yukon terri-
tory on a supposed enemy group
which has descended from
somewhere on Alaska and
settled down for the winter
there. Some of the operations
are taking place at over 6000 ft.
Emphasis is being laid by the
Press on the failures of heavy
equipment, but the whole thing
is a series of experiments, and
these experiments are being
pushed to extremes.
♦ * * *
Jungle is being cleared at
Manus to provide a bit of space
in the overgrown wilderness of
the base in which to try the for-
gotten Japanese prisoners who
have recently been remembered
by the Australian Government
after five years. The trials are
taking place in Manus because
both the Americans in Tokyo
and the British in Hong Kong
have refused to provide accom-
modation for them, neither ap-
parently wishing to be com-
promised by associating them-
selves with the proceedings. It
would be wise at this stage if the
Government at Canberra had
second thoughts on the matter,
unless the evidence is clear and
irrefutable and a trial tribunal
is chosen which is of such status
that • its decisions are beyond
doubt and question. Nearly all
opinion among the Western
Allies, apart from that of the
representatives of one or two
flapper papers, is that the time
has come to call a halt to “war
trials,” and some in high places
sincerely wish that no trials had
ever taken place. There are
those who believe that the be-
lated Australian desire to see
justice done when every other
country has finished its trials is
one more of mahy acts con-
ceited by our blundering de-
partments which will help Com-
munism in Japan at a critical
juncture.
* * * *
As this was written the Hun-
garians were trying a Briton,
Edgar Sanders, and an Ameri-
can, Robert Voegler, associated
with the International Tele-
phone Company and its sub-
sidiaries, on charges of spying
and sabotage. Both have con-
fessed in the usual listless
manner and at length to the most
fantastic associations with
British Intelligence and/or the
F. 8.1. in the normal habit of
prisoners at these seances, the
confessions, of course, ending
with a dramatic display of re-
morse that either should, ever
have allowed himself to be used
by the evil British and U.S.
totalitarian Governments. The
prisoners, of course, were not
allowed to secure legal ad-
vice or to communicate with
their friends, and the non-
Hungarian Press was banned
at the trial. The most
horrible thing about these affairs
is coming to be the calm com-
placence with which the British
and U.S. Governments and the
daily Press accepts this type of
atrocity. It is in moments like
this that a justice-loving Briton
is apt to long for a Palmerston
in place of the tongue-in-cheek
politicians who are assuring
electors of their willingness to
talk with Stalin, knowing full
well where other and earlier
talks have led. Any State, from
Liberia upwards, can now mal-
treat Britons —or Australians, as
was often demonstrated in Indo-
nesia during the past few years,
murder and torture pf British
subjects there being a mere
pastime in which the Republic
has never been discouraged even
by a reproof from Canberra.


tHEl*'
rtki** c
>NU
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate GT your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM.,
F.R.A.CJS. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. V. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
CO. of
23*25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
N.S.W. HD.
PT.12016
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
“SOCIALISM.”
Whether the following casti-
gation of British Socialism, by
H. Ashworth Hope, chairman of
Malayan Tin Dredging, Ltd,, will
turn out to be a Labor post-
mortem or a Conservative swan-
song depends on the results of
John Bull’s visit to the polls to-
morrow. There is, however,
enough truth in the remarks to
leave their significance and pretty
general application unaffected by
the result of the election.
“Our rulers seem incapable of
realising, in the face of all reason
experience, that trade is
regulated by the universal law
of supply and demand and that,
except in periods of national and
international emergency, the
price mechanism is the only
genuine medium of trade and
commerce. It is elementary that
under relatively stable conditions
competition gradually forces
down the rate of profit. As
Professor Jewkes points out in
Ordeal by Planning, the average
rate of profit has never been
high over prolonged periods, if
account is taken of losses and
failures.
“The term ‘social security’ is
misleading and psychologically
bad. It implies to the lazy and
unthinking a static condition of
internal security and protection
from ‘the cradle to the grave,’
whereas, in reality, it is a condi-
tion of affairs the extent and per-
manency of which are vitally
dependent on our willingness and
ability to work and earn the
money to pay for such services
and to maintain harmonious ex-
ternal relations enabling pur
successful participation in world
trade.
“The Socialist Government
has acted like a reckless man who,
on borrowed money, indulges in
the most extravagant orgy of ex-
penditure, in order to provide
himself with a higher standard
of living and greater luxuries
than his income or capital could
support or justify, with the result
that he finds himself in the
bankruptcy court. The Govern-
ment has squandered £16,000
million during the last four years,
and roughly half the American
loan was showered upon
foreigners without any real bene-
fit to ourselves. To make
matters more serious, neither
Mr. Attlee nor the Chancellor
explained that one of the results
of devaluation would be that, if
the present rate of dollar ex-
change remains the same, repay-
ment to America, which
begins in 1952, will involve
£1,348,000,000, instead of
£937,000,000, the sum originally
borrowed,
“The consequence of Gov-
ernment monopolies under
nationalisation and interference
in other industries not yet nation-
alised is to be seen in the high
costs of services and goods,
which affects our competitive
power in the world, where we
have to compete with countries
not yet strangled by Socialist
theories. Coal and transport
charges affect the basic cost of
production in many industries,
and, under Government control,
coal, railways and transport are
very far from performing the
services expected of them.
“ ‘Minimum Government tar-
gets of output have not been
reached,’ said Sir Hubert Houlds-
worth, chairman of the East
Midlands Coal Board, at a recent
address to the coal industry, ‘and
the high price of coal and of
fuel products made from coal
has contributed to the high cost
of living and the high cost of
many goods manufactured for
export.’
“Because of the £20,000,000
transport loss industry has to
face a further formidable in-
crease in freight charges at the
very time when the need for re-
ducing costs and selling-prices is
imperative.
“If the T.U.C. and the
- “Time and Tide."
“LOVE ME. LOVE MY DOGMA.”
Socialist Government insist on
three men doing one man’s
job, that is not full indivi-
dual employment, but under-em-
ployment, a principle ethically
wrong and degrading, as it tends
not only to degrade the spirit of
self-reliance and initiative in the
worker but to instil the idea that
it is somebody else’s duty to
find him a job. The policy,
moreover, results in excessmi
and uneconomical costs to the
industry in which this practice
is condoned and, therefore, in-
volves higher prices to the con-
sumer. The policy is, in fact,
subsidised redundancy, and a
price, sooner or later, will have
to be paid for this folly, especi-
ally when we have to meet Ger-
man and Japanese competition,
and when recovering our trade in
the markets of China.
“How far these Socialists, with
their narrow parochial minds,
steeped in totalitarian literature,
have deviated from the
thoroughly honest, clean and far-
sighted genuine labor political
beliefs of such men as Thomas
Burt, who belonged to the work-
ing classes and whose beliefs
were expressed over 40 years
ago in the following words;
‘Whatever the method of im-
proving humanity and of rais-
ing men to a higher position than
they occupy today may be and
whenever and however the mil-
lennium may be reached, it is not
to be reached by declaring in
favor of class-consciousness and
class antagonism and hatred be-
tween one class and another. It
will have to be brought about by
other methods than these.
Authority, discipline, maintenance
of order, these are necessary and
must be acted upon if we are to
keep surely together. No politi-
cal constitution can enfranchise
a people, no privilege assist
them, no possessions enrich
them, no rank or title ennoble
them, unless they have solid
manly character, wholesome
honesty on the granite rock on
which they are built’ ”
Progress in Greece.
The opinion expressed by
Basil Davidson in the “New
Statesman” —an opinion rather
to be expected—that, in effect,
affairs in Greece smell a little
higher than the mountains that
look on Marathon, and that most
of the stench rises from Greek
capitalists, is not altogether
shared by Henry F. Grady, U.S.
Ambassador to Greece, who airs
his view in a letter to the N. Y.
Herald Tribune. .
Mr. Grady, who took office in
June, 1948, reports that during
this less than two-year period
the Corinth Canal, which had
reopened to traffic, the three
principal ports, which had been
put almost entirely out of com-
mission, were rebuilt and are
again operating normally ; more
than 850 kilometres of surfaced
roads were built; thousands of
homes and schools and other
buildings were constructed or
repaired, several hospitals and a
number of airfields were built,
and others were improved or
enlarged ; the automotive, rail-
way, airline and coastal shipping
transportation systems have been
rehabilitated and modernised;
water-supply systems, both for
personal use and for irrigation,
have been constructed ; new agri-
cultural methods have been in-
troduced and much farm
machinery, fertiliser and seeds
have been brought into Greece ;
distribution of commodities has
been made efficient at a saving
of many millions of dollars
annually; sanitation methods
have been adapted which already
have cut many disease statistics
to a low figure.
“Now that the Greek Army
has defeated the guerrillas, this
strengthening of the Greek
economy will go forward at a
much faster pace. The Greek
Array is being reduced in size but
improved in efficiency, equip-
ment and training, which means
that no small part of the huge
sums spent for the military will
now be converted to reconstruc-
tion.
“The Greek economy has
taken devaluation of the drachma
from 10,000 to the dollar to
15,000 in stride, with price rises
spotty and not great. In fact,
the over-all index of commodi-
ties is down,
“Of the more than 700,000
refugees, nearly 500,000 have
now been returned to their
homes, and they will be pro-
ducers in the spring, when the
• j i w ;n be renatri-
, . t - ve areas
gea n n as
expands and more
teeth in taxatton laws will bring
, „ lim . aji this will
in a better-balanced
, ,
I have not the slightest doubt
that victorious m her
war against Communist banditry,
and with an already rehabih-
tated economy that makes Corn-
mumsm more and more un-
popular, will be able to resume
her rightful place m wor d
economy when our aid is finally
terminated.
Full Employ ment.
Since most papers contrived
to spare the subject a couple
of columns, the complaint of
the “Observer” that the British
Press gave scant attention to a
U.N. report by five economists
seems about as merited as the
same paper’s description of the
title of the document —
“National and International
Measures for Full Employment”
—as “unassuming.”
Further “Observer” en-
thusiasm —“Its argument and its
proposals have the power of an
intellectual atom-bomb. Every
country that fails to study them
with the deepest seriousness
does so at its peril; and none
more so than Great Britain,
whose very existence depends on
the issues dealt with in this
report”—is not altogether
shared by other commentators,
who, in the main, temper
cautious commendation with
substantial misgivings.
The “Financial Times,” for
instance, describes the report
as “an ambitious document
which launches into the reorgani-
sation of the International Bank
and the Monetary Fund with
little apparent consideration for
the difficulties which these two
bodieshave already encountered.”
More typical of the general
attitude towards the report is the
“New Statesman’s” examination,
which, conceding “the first blue-
print for international action to
prevent the world’s economy
from slipping back again into
the disaster which fell upon it
in 1931,” also recognises that “it
is a long step from getting a
group of internationally-minded
economists to put forward a plan
of this order to persuading
Governments to act upon it.”
Perhaps the most thoughtful
analysis of the report is that of
the “Economist,” which, describ-
ing the report as “Keynesian,”
remarks “There are some
doubts that even a, convinced
Keynesian can feel about such
a rigid and exclusive presenta-
tion of the case as this report
makes. It makes a lot of
the necessity for the automatic
inception of a number of
methods of stimulating effective
demand as soon as rising unem-
ployment gives an automatic
danger-signal. But what if the
unemployment is due to the in-
ability of an inflating country to
pay for its necessary imports of
raw materials? To stimulate
still more internal inflation in
such a case would be the very
reverse of the right policy. And
if circumstances can alter cases,
what becomes of the automatic
policy?
“Or again, is it right to wave
aside the possibility of depres-
sions being caused by real dis-
tortions in a country’s economy
—distortions either in its indus-
trial structure or in its structure
of wages, prices and costs —and
to believe that, given the main-
tenance of effective demand, they
will cure themselves?
“Nor does the report fully
meet another of the doubts that
is widely felt about the practical
consequences of Keynesian eco-
nomics. It points out that ‘if
labor unions, farmers’ groups,
trade associations, cartels or busi-
ness monopolies press for in-
creased earnings in such a way


Australia’s lowest-priced *6* saloon
.... •
w
Vauxhall 18 h.p. 6 cyl. Velox is Australia’s lowest-priced
“6” Saloon. It is also a car with outstanding performance
figures. It cruises smoothly all day at 60, over good roads
and bad; has a top speed of 75 and, with normal driving
at about 30 m.p.h. gives 28 m.p.g.
ŵ
Here again Vauxhall Velox wins with its smart
“Caleche” tourer. Because of its lighter weight,
it has slightly better all-round figures than the
Saloon. Cosy too, with the hood and safety glass
windows up —a sunshine special with the hood
folded out of sight.
ẁ
and finest-performing *4’ . . .
©
Vauxhall Wyvern 12 h.p., 4 cyl. Saloons and “Caleche”
Tourers are the lowest-priced 12 h.p. cars in Australia.
Like Vauxhall Velox, their mechanical and structural
features—O.H.V, Engines, 6-phase carburation, T.T.
independent front wheel springing, integral construction
of Saloons (Body and Chassis all one unit), mean greater
value, better performance and longer life.
Vauxhall’s smart new styling with the
famous bonnet flutes make it a car of
distinction in any company. When
you order YOUR Vauxhall remember
the confidential G.M.A.C. Payment
Plan—also that Genuine Vauxhall
spare parts and expert service are
available throughout Australia.
There's an “ Air Chief" car radio
specially designed for your Vauxhall,
as
toam
w ”JJ l Z ay J! ou to wait f°~
18h.p. 6cyl. Velox
12h,p, 4cyl. Wyv&rn
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN'S LTD
BRISBANE . 5 LTD.
ADELAIDE • PERTH
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
So ' d and by Vauxhall D,aU r ,
V9/24
as to produce a continuous up-
ward pressure on prices,’ the full-
employment policy will be
ruined. But the only suggestion
for dealing with the matter is to
say that ‘it might be necessary
for Governments, jointly with
labor unions and representatives
of management, to take action
so as to ensure that such wage
increases as may be granted will
not lead to an inflationary price
spiral.’ This may turn out
to be the crucial weakness of
the whole Keynesian structure.
“Still another theoretical doubt
that one cannot help feeling
about the full-employment policy
as here presented relates to the
doctrine of compensating fluctu-
ations. Private spending, and
particularly private spending on
investment, should be stabilised
as far as possible—so the argu-
ment runs —but if nevertheless it
fluctuates, then the spending of
the Government and its agencies
must be made to fluctuate equally
and inversely. Conceived as a
method of maintaining a steady
flow of total effective demand,
this is obvious commonsense.
But in practice it means that re-
sources rendered idle in one
use are to be transferred to an-
other, and then transferred back
again when the depression is
arrested. ‘Resources’ mean men
and women with votes. Is it
likely to be very easy in practice?
“This is not to imply that the
report does not serve a useful
purpose. In particular, the
authors deserve gratitude for
their illuminating discussion of
the ways in which effective de-
mand can be maintained be-
tween nations. The task of the
International Bank, as they see
it, is to ensure a steady flow of
international long-term invest-
ment, to lend such an amount,
year by year, as will, together
with private international lend-
ing, make up a stable total. The
Bank could hardly do this and
maintain its present commercial
principles ; profitable projects do
not present themselves to the
same total every year. But the
economists are right in thinking
that this is the contribution that
long-term international lending
can best make to full employ-
ment.
“For the International Mone-
tary Fund, the report has most
ambitious and ingenious pro-
posals. When one country begins
to suffer from unemployment
(and the report clearly has the
United States in mind), it cuts
down its purchases from other
countries. They, finding them-
selves short of dollars, cut down
their purchases from America.
So the spiral begins to turn.
This could be prevented if other
countries could go on buying
from America even though
American purchases of their
goods were reduced. But for
this they must have dollars.
Therefore, says the report, let
the United States make available,
through the Fund, the dollars
that other countries would have
earned if there had been no re-
cession in the United States.
Even as a theoretical conception,
this needs thinking about; but
it is a new idea in what has
hitherto been a rather barren
field.”
The Golden Fleece.
The prices which are trans-
forming jumbucks into per-
ambulating goldmines are not
making English wool-textile men
quite as much happy as wool-
growers in these parts. Reducing
the high prices paid in Australia
to simple terms, Frederick P.
Knowlson, in the “Yorkshire
Post,” points out that they
mean that the wool which
a man could put in his garage
would be worth more than his
house. On the same reasoning,
a Bradford broker estimated that
the house would hold £lOO,OOO-
- of wool.
These prices are causing all
manner of fancy guessing: Is
Russia buying to provide better
clothing for her people or is she
stockpiling? Is Japan also buy-
ing in preparation for a renewal
of pre-war cut-throat competi-
tion? Should English firms risk
pouring thousands of pounds
into Australia and New Zealand
now, or should they chance be-
ing able to buy cheaper from re-
stricted offerings later in the
season?
On the possibility of renewed
Japanese competition the same
writer quotes a manufacturer:
“In 1925 about 75 per cent, of
—Providence “Journal."
PANDORA’S BOX.
the output of one of our fac-
tories went to the Far East.
Within five years the Japanese
had taken all that trade. In
1939 the Japanese were making
excellent cloths —not just ‘bread-
and-butter’ cloths —at a much
lower price than the British-
made cloth. I have seen Japan-
ese cloth sold at 20 per cent,
less than we could make it for.
What can you do?
The “Economist,” while recog-
nising that “the bullish sentiment
in the wool market is very con-
fident,” also notes two other im-
portant factors. “First, the
Wool Study Group last Novem-
ber estimated that world produc-
tion of apparel-type wools in the
current season would increase by
over two per cent, while world
consumption was expected to
show a slight decline. In spite
of these forecasts prices have
offset the devaluation, and some
types of wool have risen in terms
of gold. The second factor is
that the demand for raw wool
is derived from the demand for
wool textiles. In Britain, re-
tailers are again beginning to
feel consumer resistance, even
though the prices of wool manu-
factures have yet to reflect the
recent increases in the cost of
raw wool.”
The “Financial Times” also
has two reasons for thinking
that the high-price level is a
vulnerable one:
“Now, even in dollars the
price is, on the average,
higher than it was immedi-
ately before devaluation ; stocks
in the United States have been
rebuilt enough at least to give
limited room for manoeuvre ; so
the market must become in-
creasingly sensitive to changes
in American business activity.
This, it is true, is not expected to
decline at least until the second
half of this year—if then. But
last year’s experience is a warn-
ing of how sharp can be the
effect on wool prices of any fall
in American demand.
“The uncertainty of Euro-
pean, and especially of British,
demand provides a second reason
for caution. So far, in Britain,
the high prices of raw wool
have not been passed on to the
consumer. Whether or not as a
result of Sir Stafford Cripps’s
appeal, materials have not been
charged to the ultimate consumer
at replacement costs. This situa-
tion cannot now persist much
longer. Soon the effect of the
higher prices must appear in the
shops, and when that happens
demand will certainly fall.
“Equally certainly, when de-
mand falls, the price of raw wool
will follow.”
French Recovery.
To reports already printed
here on rapidly-improving condi-
tions in France can be added
the remarks of Air Chief
Marshal Sir Philip Joubert,
replyihg, in the “Daily Tele-
graph,” to British Food Minister
Strachey’s attack on other en-
thusiasts.
Joubert, a visitor to France
many times over, found condi-
tions deplorable in 1945 —real
starvation, not because there was
no food, but because there was
nothing to carry it. In
1946 and 1947 “it was still a
common thing to see pale, drawn
faces, most clearly those of
people badly undernourished,”
but by 1949 these had almost
entirely disappeared and today
there is no rationing and no
obvious signs of want —with one
exception. Like people on small
fixed incomes anywhere, the
petit-rentier in France finds post-
war prices too high for his pre-
war income.
During their tour Joubert’s
party found bread cost 3£d. a
pound, enough ham for four 2s.
6d., and butter Bs. 6d. a pound,
a stiff price partly due to a
severe drought and partly to the
reduction in milk production.
Even with that item, however,
their lunches, including fruit and
wine, cost them 2s. a head. Meat
worked out 2d. or 3d. a pound
dearer than in England..
This remarkable recovery, this
“bustling prosperity,” “industry”
and the “energy and ability to
work long hours” Joubert attri-
butes “not only to the profit
motive, but to a full and well-
balanced diet.”
As has been noted by other
correspondents on France and
reported here, Joubert also
opines that “Communists gener-
ally are losing ground, and the
more moderate elements are re-
gaining control. Communism
feeds on discontent—there is still
discontent, but there are
many full bellies, and it is diffi-
cult to work up hate among
people who are well fed,”
Dragnet Digest.
Canada Unemployment.—Accord-
ing to the “Scotsman” correspondent
in Ottawa “the first post-war pres-
sure of very full employment, amount,
ing in some industries to a labor
shortage, has come to an end in
Canada.” Unemployment, instead of
“full employment,” is coming in for
attention, and Canada’s two big
labor organisations have joined with
a public appeal to the Government to
endeavor to do something about it.
Registered unemployed at the end of
last year totalled 261,000 out of a
total available labor of 5,200,000, a
percentage of 5.2 compared with
America’s approximate 6 per cent.
Those figures, the correspondent re-
calls, would have seemed about as
low as you could hope for before the
war.
* * * *
The Dole. —Pulling up Sir Hartley
Shawcross for his “apparent disgust”
with the 15s. dole of in ter-war years,
the “Daily Telegraph” reminds him
that the present rate of 265. will, with
the pound worth only about 11s. of
its pre-war value, buy only 14s. worth
of what it did before the war.
* * * *
London Pubs. —From, a N. Y.
“Herald Tribune’s” survey of the
London telephone directory: The
Green Man (24 of them), The Prince
of Wales (62), The White Hart (21),
The Coach and Horses (45), The
Bricklayers’ Arms (24) and The Star
and Garter (II). There are lots of
Georges, Red Lions, Roses and
Crowns, Railway Taverns, Dukes of
York, Clarence and Wellington and
innumerable Heads —including Stags’,
Queenls, Nun’s, Nags’ and Shak-
speare’s. There are also Jolly
Maltsters, Brewers, Bargemen, Gar-
deners, Farmers, Coopers, Black-
smiths, Butchers, Millers, Sailors,
Waggoners, Wheelers and Watermen,
as well as such expressive signs as
The Live and Let Live, The Merry
Cricketer, The Old Sheer Hulk, The
Case Is Altered, Folly, Mother Red
Cap, Who’d a Thought It?, The
World Turned Upside Down and We
Anchor in Hope,


Tlhe Ibest
Top class polo ponies are usually thoroughbred strain,
pure or three-quarter bred, selected for compactness, good
conformation, speed and stamina. A “good head” is
essential. Height about 15 to 15.2 hands. Training does
not start until about 4 years old, or older. Most polo
ẅ
ponies reach their prime at 7 or 8 years
of age, and may then remain good
performers until 13, or even older. A
pony becomes accustomed to the one
rider and, for him, will reveal out-
standing intelligence.
Not until a whisky is five years old
or more does it reach its best age. It
is then a mature and mellow beverage.
Corio Whisky is matured for over five years (more than
double the minimum prescribed by Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime.
CIB/19
SAFETY IS
SO VITAL
Protect your family, yourself, your car
with SAFE tyres and get greater
mileage at the same time. Sure-footed
Goodyear De Luxe Tyres have a
wider, flatter tread, an improved
shoulder design, arid a stronger cord
body. De Luxe is a huskier, longer-
wearing, SAFER tyre. See your
Goodyear Dealer for Goodyear De
w
Luxe —■ the tyres
with more built in
safety more built
in miles.
For more safety
per mile ...
for more miles
per tyre . . .
good/year
tyres
GIVE YOUR TYRES
WITH NEW GOODYEAR HEAVY DUTY TOTES
0 23/169
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No,I CUP
The No, I Drink
for wise men
•F • *F *F
“The perfect girl has a narrow
waist and a broad mind.”
—Sydney “Sun:”
But wouldn’t this be a contra-
diction in terms if she is strait-
laced?
•F *F *F
“A player who lost his false teeth
stopped a football game at Walton
Highway, Norfolk.”
Perhaps he found another
player wearing them for ear-
rings.
*F *F *F
I have a friend who actually made
a cake containing real ball-bearings.”
—Correspondent in “New Idea.”
But there was friction in the
household just the same.
“I don’t agree that ‘top-of-the-
class’ prizes should be abolished.”
—“New Idea.”
That would be playing dux
and drakes with the educational
system.
*F 4* 4*
“The lot of the over-large woman
is a hard one.” — Woman's paper.
There’s a lot of her to cope
with.
'F -I- «p
“After six terrific wounds Aus-
tralian fighter Jackie Marr (12.91),
was forced to withdraw from his bout
against Dave Davis.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror:"
Shouldn’t the ref. have stopped
it earlier?
*F <%• »F
“For sale: Carpet. 7.30 p.m. Rev.
Keeling.”— Suburban paper.
Laymen are expected to
attend.
“I have found that I have at times
regretted buying something on which
mly decision was hurried by the sales-
man.”— Woman’s paper.
She got more than she bar-
gained for.
“Ten ships held up—crews short.”
— “SM.H.’’’
Too bad the company couldn’t
see its way clear to give the men
ah advance.
Getting the Wind Up.
“Gliding seems a simple business —
you just get up in the air and let the
wind do the rest.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Oh, it’s lovely to glide in the sky
Far away from the trouble-
filled world,
Where the cirrus clouds float thin
and high
Like a knight’s slender pennant
unfurled.
How it thrills you to cast away
care
As you soar like an eagle in
flight
With the buoyant up-currents
that bear
You aloft till you’re lost to the
sight.
But be sure you pick currents
that lift
Like the mists clearing off in
the morn,
Or your down-glide will be over-
swift
And you’ll wish you had never
been borne.
D.H.E.
A Dime a Rhyme.
“In their modest way Australia’s
poets are patriotically helping to
overcome the dollar shortage.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
No fortune comes the poet’s
way
When he is sitting night and day
With mental powers numbed _
and static.
Emaciated in his attic.
He notes how authors of the
thriller,
Complete with cops and callous
killer,
Or new-edition Hydes and
Jekylls
Bring rolling in the welcome
shekels.
While he who courts his fickle
muse.
Must call on subtlety and ruse
To spar for time when brows
are bent
Because he cannot find the rent.
Yet he can beat the bitter Fates,
For verses posted to the States
Across the wide Pacific waters
Bring help from unexpected
“quarters.’’
B.
VERY Convincing.
“Two days after N.S.W. ‘Labor’
had received rebuffs at the three by-
elections,. which some party members
bitterly attribute to Mr. McGirr’s 70-
hour pre-ballot Press and radio gag, a
deputation of Trades Hall leaders saw
the Premier. Afterwards it was denied
that the by-elections, the result of
which caused a panic in ‘Labor’
circles, had been discussed.”
“Actually,” Big Jim told the
boys at a subsequent Press com
ference, “the visit by the leaders
of the party’s industrial wing
was a purely social one. It
seems they are throwing a party
shortly to celebrate the record
profits made by the brewing and
betting industries during our
tenure of office —you know the
special interest our party has in
these, because their prosperity is
an accurate reflection of the
economic welfare of the State,
and, besides, they represent our
party’s ideal of culture for those
who are the victims of capi-
talistic exploitation. Well, they
want everyone to do a turn —
you know, give a song, a reci-
tation, play an instrument and
all that sort of thing. I sup-
pose someone heard that I’d
been dabbling in mimicry, and
they wanted to know if I’d give
my popular performance of
squealing like a stuck pig and
making a noise like a chemist’s
shop.”
After “Battling” Bortz, the
lightweight hope, had been
outed by a heavy right-cross to
the point exactly one minute
four seconds after the opening
of the first round of his title
fight with the champion, in con-
sequence of his completely
ignoring the reiterated instruc-
tions of his trainer to guard
against that favorite shot of the
champion by keeping his left
elbow well up, the challenger
was carried feet-first to his
dressing-room, and after he had
recovered the trainer had a half-
hour session with him. Later,
when asked by a sporting writer
if his trainer had been discus-
sing the reason for his k. 0.,
Bortzreplied; “Discuss the bout?
Don’t be Uncle Willie! He’s
to play the oboe, see,
an’ all he wanted was for me to
show him how to cut reeds for
it, see?”
When Jim, an enthusiastic
amateur fisherman, after having
played a 161 b-. snapper for 10
minutes, lost it just as he had it
almost to the gun’l of his boat
through the excitability of his
mate, who, in trying to get the
net under it too soon, knocked
out of its lip the only-lightly-
caught hook, the two sat down
for a heart-to-heart talk. Asked
by Mrs. Jim, after they had re-
turned to the pontoon, what the
superheated language had been
about, Jim’s mate explained that
they had merely been enjoying
an academic discussion on the
incidence of contango and back-
wardation when the Stock Ex-
change was operating in a period
of acute economic uncertainty.
When a customer: wanted to
know what his employer had
said to him when, taking a pot-
shot with his .22 at a rat, he had
punctured a keg—the one that
had to last till the next quota in
another fortnight—and let 18
gallons of beer run into the saw-
dust, and that when the tempera-
ture was 107 in the cellar, the
rouseabout of the Shearers’
Arms at Blowfly Bend said “Ar,
he was only in a spot q’ bother
with a crossword puzzle. All he
wanted me for was to nut out
Wljat a three-letter word was
that meant somethin’ in a pub
an’ somethin’ that stops a boat
goin’ across a river-mouth.”
Asked by his sympathetic next-
door neighbor if his wife had
roared him up after she got him
inside, following his careless
action in hooking a rake-head on
to a lineful of sheets she had just
put out and had pulled the lot
on to the lawn that had just
been top-dressed, Henry Weed
replied: “Nothing of the kind!
As a matter of fact, it was a
perfectly amicable discussion we
were having on the bidding tac-
tics we were to adopt at the next
bridge party we go to.”
Questioned by his fellow-
riders in the jockeys’ room
afterwards as to what the stipes
had said to him at his appear-
ance before them immediately
following the running of the
Buiglars Plate at Flemwick,
when, with his mount a clear
four lengths in front a furlong
from home, he had looked back,
eventually finishing fourth, and
having to get massage treatment
for his badly-swollen wrists.
Herb Hoops said; “Gam!
What’d the stipes want to quiz
a bloke about that for? Every-
one knew the stable didn’t have
a razoo on leer, didn’t they?
Y’ see, the stipes know I go to
these hot-rhythm joints an’ that
I’m ace-high on all the latest
dance routines. A couple of
’em don’t know how to do the
samber and they wanted me to
show ’em, that’s all.”
BO.
Thoroughly Tested.
“Mrs. Herman Leander, 102, attri-
butes her long life to ‘Swedish an-
cestry and plenty of coffee.’ ”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Octogenarians will tell
How whisky aided their sur-
viving
Whilst those who hate the stuff
like hell
And hasten to condemn imbib-
ing
Claim milk will do the job as
well.
And some who reach fourscore
and ten
Point to their abstinence from
smoking
With sturdy pride, though other
men
Live just as long through con-
stant stoking
Of pipes in living-room and den.
In short, it’s hard to name the
chief
Prolonger of a life that’s
shrinking
But surely she who holds a brief
One century for coffee-drink-
ing
At least has grounds for her
belief.
BERT.


iAvim
Swiss
Masterpieces
Seventeen
Jewelled
%
e' c
iMvim
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET. SUISSE
* .*>* .-*• ¥r ¥r
LW.f
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Huilt entirely in Australia 67
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
OiMCribullnt Aggnu—
BTDNEY W. C. Penfold & Co. Ptj. Ltd.
MELBOURNE • Norman Bros. Ptj Lid
ADELAIDE . Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH . Docket Booh Co. (Aust.
//(
m
Name
Address
m
■; m
mm
m
Says
TOMMY
TRINDER
Send the coupon to:—
BRISTOL MYERS CO. PTY. LTD.
223 Pacific Highway,
North Sydney.
ill
grams
mm
m
m
: -
“Aye, Laddie, it's fr-r-ree! Seven days grand shovin'
wi' the verra best shaving cream money can buy!
When you've used the sample ye'll buy' Ingrams
regularly. 120 shaves to every jar and ye'll save
razor blades, too, it's so smooth to the face! Losh
mon, dinna miss this mar-r-rrvellous offer!"
tngrami
SHAVING CREAM
The product of Bristol Myers Pty. Limiiedi
BMT 16
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At Caulfield next Saturday, a period
of a little over a minute will see the
running and winning of the 1950
Oakleigh Plate, which is, at 5i fur-
longs, the shortest of the major handi-
caps in the Australian racing calendar.
A few figures gleaned from a glance
through the history of the race may
offer some guide in trying to narrow
down the list of prospects.
The race was first run in 1884, but,
in all, 67 Oakleighs have been decided
—an apparent discrepancy which is
explained by the race having been
abandoned in 1921 but run in two
divisions in both 1931 and 1932. The
first Oakleigh Plate went to the
mighty all-rounder Malua, thereby,
in a sense, setting a pattern which has
been oft repeated since, in that the
winner was a four-year-old, a really
good horse and carrying a good
horse’s weight; Malua won with 9.7.
With 30 victories to their credit, four-
year-olds easily predominate in the
list of Oakleigh winners, nearest to
them being three-year-olds with a
dozen wins and six-year-olds (10);
five-year-olds have supplied seven
winners and two-year-olds and aged
horses equally share the remainder.
Representing an unusually high per-
centage for a big handicap, 14 horses
have won the Oakleigh carrying
weights in excess of 9st. —among them
Popinjay and Figure with 9.9, Silenus
(9.10), Pamelus (9.11), My Lord and
Aurie’s Star (9.12), Whakawatea
(9.13) and Woorak (10.5). Eight
other Oakleigh winners have carried
8.10 or over.
Only one horse, Aurie’s Star, has
won two Oakleighs, and the big ques-
tion this year is whether San d
Domenico can become the second to «
do so. Aurie’s Star won with 8.4 as
a four-year-old and with 9.12 at six.
San Domenico scored last year as a
three-year-old with 8.11, and this time
heads the weights with 9.11. Con-
ceding a pile of weight to some very
speedy customers, much will depend
upon San Domenico’s ability to stick
with the early pace so as to be within
reasonable striking distance over the
final furlong or so. Two of the
hardest for him to beat may be
Dornoch, with 8.6, and Regular Port,
with 8.11, while a lightweight who
could surprise is the AJ.C. Breeders’
Plate-winner, High Jip.
* * * *
Principal event at Moonee Valley on
Saturday was the £l5OO Gisborne
Handicap, over 10 furlongs, but, with
the rich sprint events in the offing,
students of form possibly took more
interest in the two divisions of the
Warrook Handicap run over six fur-
longs less 20yds.
Both divisions of the Warrook fol-
lowed the same pattern —a direly_ dis-
tressing one for backers of favorites;
in each the favorite, when seemingly
home and hosed, was surprisingly run
down and beaten by a narrowish mar-
gin, and, by coincidence, the rod-
in-pickle in each case was a New
Zealand-bred horse. Making a re-
appearance after spelling since the
ElSie l jumpc°d Xb sl?^
f^ Cl first°WaiTOok. a FavS
Star ’’port? aSr sharing the lead
with Winlake to the turn, JM clea
in the straight and looked set tor a
easy win, but EUershe unwound a
hurst that even surpassed some of
Se efforts High Production has turned
on in the short Valley straight; High
Production, as a matter of fact, con-
tested Saturday’s race but could do
no better than finish sixth. Not quite
so breathtaking, but still good enough,
was the effort of the Nizami four-
year-old Fordham (R. Hutchinson) m
similarly beating Regal Scout even-
money favorite for the second War-
rook.
More than once last year this page
waxed most enthusiastic anent
Phoibos, but ill-luck seemed to dog
the brilliant son of Helios. However,
he looks in a fair way of making
amends this year. Saturdays Gis-
borne Handicap, a quality affair with
maximum weight 9,4 and minimum
“We ought to get a big ’un with this."
7.5, proved very easy pickings for
Phoib'os despite the presence of Car-
bon Copy and several lesser, but still
fairish, gallopers. Phoibos won by
three lengths from Carbon Copy, who
made up some ground but never
looked like winning.
Two riders were well in the lime-
light on Saturday. W. Williamson
completed a certainly rare hat-trick
of trebles—three winners on each of
three consecutive Saturdays —and J.
Purtell, as well as scoring on Phoibos,
won the last race, a feat he has
accomplished on 12 occasions this
season. Interesting enough, but
this “Last-race Purtell” busi-
ness is really a bit idiotic, and none
would agree more heartily than Pur-
tell, who was moved last week to
make a public statement which mme
or less boiled down to confessing
himself half-afraid to accept a mpunt
in the last race unless it looked virtu-
ally a past-the-post proposition.
Williamson’s winners on Saturday,
in addition to Ellerslie, were Slick
Chick taking the Preston Handicap
for two-year-old fillies and Magic
Saint bagging the Yuroke Handicap,
a similar event for colts and geldings.
Making a fair fist of living up to her
name, Slick Chick has won three races
from four starts. The 13-furlongs
Mernda Handicap went to Dovette
(J. Purtell), finding a very fortuitous
opening on the rails in the straight,
to beat Bold John by a couple ot
lengths.
* * * *
To sum-up briefly Saturday’s S.T.C.
fixture at Canterbury, the conditions
were fit for neither man nor beast.
There was a steady drizzling ram
throughout the afternoon, and, while
stewards presumably passed the track
as fit for racing, it seemed, with horses
slipping and sliding all over the shop,
a sheer miracle that there was only
one fall during the afternoon. An
ambulance bringing back a fallen
rider was practically bogged in tront
of the stand, and the mobile starting-
barrier was rendered immobile,
authorities considering that moving
the structure would cut up the track
—whereby hangs a tale.
With the mobile stalls unavailable,
the process of starting the Flying field
from the 7i-furlongs barrier developed
into a riotous rodeo. The field in-
cluded two of the crankiest customers
racing in Sydney in Star Vite and
Journalist, and both were in rare
form. Star Vite had a lash at every-
thing, including the Clerk of the
Course. Journalist confined his atten-
tion largely to the well-fancied Panto-
mime and put that horse out of the
running when the barrier finally rose.
From his outside position (he haa
been sent to the outside almost auto-
matically), Star Vite was slowish to
get going, but had made up his
ground to be in a position to chal-
lenge Meteor when that horse hit the
front at the distance. The pair fought
it out and Meteor won by a nose;
Doon, the rider of Star Vite, entered
an optimistic, but unsuccessful, pro-
test. A deuce of a lot pf cash must
have gone down the drain with Star
Vite, who started favorite, and con-
nections waxed most wrath about the
mobile barrier not being in use; Star
Vite had been favorably drawn at
No. 3 and would possibly have won
starting from the gates. On these
grounds the owner of Star Vite, who
declared that he did not realise the
position until the horses were going
out on to the track, lodged a com-
plaint against the S.T.C. secretary,
with the stewards.
Excellent judgment of pace by
jockey N. Sellwood saw the much-
improved Thimble score by a half-
length in the 11-furlongs Frank
Underwood Cup. All the way to the
top of the straight Thimble disputed
the lead with Double Strength, but
the pace had been very easy and
Thimble had plenty in reserve at the
finish to withstand a challenge from
High Ideals; Royal Reward was a
distant third.
Any class of race would have been
a risky proposition in Saturday’s con-
ditions, and to make things really diffi-
cult the card included two divisions
of a Maiden Handicap; virtually these
affairs were three-year-old handicaps,
but the presence of a few older hands
testified to the patience and optimism
of some owners. Interesting winner
of the first Maiden was Flyaway
(R. Binder). A three-year-old filly
by Runaway from Silver Heels, Fly-
away was sired in England and loaled
in Australia. Further points of in-
terest in her easy win were that she
carried the green and orange hoops
carried to many grand wins by Peter
Pan, and she started at 33 to 1.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
anceS) •——
Two-year-old (fillies): Dolphin,
1; Foam, 2; Lady Rosetta, 3.
Two-year-old (colts and geldings): Le
Dauphin, 1; Rumyle, 2; Wambo
Chief, 3. Ashbury Mixed: Almo, 1;
Lady Kristine, 2; Jannock, 3. Earl-
wood Mixed: Ferocious Lass, 1;
Boyscreet, 2; Blandstream, 3. Flying ;
Penmore, 1; Wattle, 2 ; Deep Sea, 3.
Canterbury Park Handicap; Karachi,
1; Air Flare, 2; Doughnut, 3.
Welter: Admetus, 1; Burgona, 2;
Fra Diavolo, 3.
For the Oakleigh Plate; High Jip,
1; San Domenico, 2; Dornoch, 3.
* * * *
A. O. Romano, who sold the
mighty Bernborough to America, has
chalked up another loss for Australian
breeding interests with the reported
sale, again to America, of Bernbrook.
It is very rare to get two champions
from the same mating, and it does
seem a shame that both Shannon and
Bembrook (full-brothers by Mid-
stream from the Magpie mare Idle
Words) should be lost to Australian
breeders as were Ajax and. two Mel-
bourne Cup winner in Colonus and
Russia.
* * * *
Interesting news of a couple of
overseas cricketers well-known in
Australia. One of the best fast
bowlers ever sighted, Harold Lar-
wood, has decided to up-anchor and
shift quarters to Australia. Don’t
know where Harold proposes to settle,
but it is suspected that he may have
a secret affection for Adelaide.
Wherever he goes he’ll be welcome.
The other item concerns West Indian
Leary Constantine. Having long
since qualified for the title
master of the all-round game, Con-
stantine is conquering a
new field, being about to
blossom out as a Bache-
lor of Law. If Leary
can take a legal point
as surely and neatly as
he takes a red-hot catch
in slips, he need not
worry about his future.
* »
For the Fourth Test
v. South Africa, at Jo’-
burg, last week, the
pitch which had been
hailed as a veritable lion
exposed itself as a lamb,
and with both sides
amassing runs galore, it
was soon obvious that
the match couldn’t pos-
sibly be finished. The
Australians batted first
| and put 465 on the
board before declaring
with eight wickets down.
The S’Africans, with a
spot of new blood in the
side, dug in and refused
to be dislodged as easily
as they had been in early
Tests; notching up 352,
they averted the follow-
on with 30-odd runs to
spare. The Australians
went in again and
played out time, having
lost two for 259 at final stumps.
Hassett was criticised in some quarters
for batting right on to the finish, but
there wasn’t Buckley’s chance of go-
ing through the'S’Africans in the time
available, and, a point that may be
overlooked by long-distance commen-
tators, the spectators over there
are paying to see the visitors.
Moroney, incidentally, notched up a
record in the Fourth Test, becoming,
with 118 and 101, the first player pf
either country to score a century in
each innings in S’Africa v. Australia
competition.
The other Australian touring side,
led by Bill Brown, swung into action
in New Zealand last week. As a
pipe-opener, they played a one-day
match v. Hutt Valley at Auckland
which saw the tourists win on the first
innings; Hutt Valley eight for 181
declared —Australia seven for 283 with
Burke retired at 101. On then for a
three-day match v. Auckland. Win-
ning the toss, the Australians batted
in fits and starts. Openers Meuleman
and Burke seemed nicely set until,
Meuleman was unluckily run out
when the pair had put 89 on the
board. A spot of rot then set in, and
in next to no time the tourists had
lost six for 169, The tail-enders, how-
ever, rallied round, and with Doug
Ring contributing an invaluable 60,
the side was all out for 303. Routed
by Johnson and Ring, who bagged
three wickets apiece, the Auckland
side collapsed badly, managing only
183 in reply, and at stumps on Satur-
day the Australian openers were again
well dug-in—ll 4 on the board and
both wickets intact.
* * * *
N.S.W. men athletes will need to
tread warily in making any cracks
about the “weaker sex” in future.
The boys decided that Saturday’s
weather conditions were altogether too
foul and postponed the State cham-
pionships scheduled at Henson
Park, Sydney. Meanwhile, at Sydney
Sports Ground, the lasses not only
carried on with their championships,
but cracked records in all directions.
In steady rain and on a track which
could not have been other than heavy,
the amazing Marjorie Jackson won
the 100yds. final in 10.9 sec tenth
of a second outside the world record.
Round the same time, horses at Can-
terbury were taking 1.20 to run six
furlongs—six or seven seconds out-
side even moderate time. Another
outstanding effort at the athletics
meeting was Judy Canty’s long-jump
of 19ft. 84m. —a N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian record.
* * * *
The hordes of cash customers who
poured into Melbourne Showground
for what was billed as “the world
professional sprint championship”
made a joyous sight for those who
promoted the affair. The series pro-
vided an answer of sorts to the old
pro. v. amateur controversy. Three
of the competitors—Australians John
Stoney and Frank Banner and the
Englishman Albert Grant —are well-
established pro, runners. The other
was the American negro Barney Ewell,
who competed at the London Olympic
Games, and has turned pro. since;
but there is comparatively little pro-
fessional running in America. At the
Olympic Games, Ewell was only able
to finish second in the 100-metres,
but he won all four sprints of the
Melbourne series in brilliant style.
Distances were 75yds., 100yds.,
130yds. and 220yds. On a good track
Ewell ran the 75yds. in 7.4 sec. and
the 220yds. in 21.2 sec. The going
was heavy for the remaining events,
run last week, and Ewell clocked
9.6 sec. for the 100yds. and 12.2 sec.
for the 130yds.
* * * *
In an exchange of pugilistic pleas-
antries at Leichhardt last week, Ken
Bailey (10.4 D gained a points deci-
sion over Victorian Max Skinner
(10.7); a section of the crowd exer-
cised the Leichhardt prerogative of
vociferously differing with the referee.
In the seventh round both boys led
simultaneously with the skull, and
Bailey, evidently the less well-equipped
for such tactics, fought the remaining
five rounds under the handicap of a
badly-cut eye.


>
*s
Mr.* Man-on-the-land!
Ask yourself
which Pastoral Company
• has always made Service to you
its first object?
has kept pace with your great industry's
requirements for 87 years?
• has staffed its organisation with
men alive to your interests?
offers you the best facilities for sale at
wool, fat stock and hides, purchase of
merchandise, matters of finance and
management, agistment and insurance?
Tfie answer to all questions is-
-87 Years in the Service of the Man an the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863
ŵ
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: — N.S.W.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Oowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah. Wee ”Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville. St. George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhle & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.; Wodonga, Korumburra.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griaider discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
1
40z., Boz., IGoz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2« posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Polwarth Wool Values.
“D.McC.”: At the Launceston
wool sales the market generally
was difficult to follow, principal
decline in values being felt by
growers of superfine Merino
clips, prices for these being
somewhat disappointing in com-
parison with some moderate clips
from Yass (N.S.W.) sold recently
in Sydney. Relatively, the
dearest wool comprised the
lower lines and oddments—
Merino locks selling to 67d. a
pound, a price which a few years
ago would have been fantastic
for the best Merino fleece.
Particularly noticeable was the
Polwarth clip from Cullenswood,
a really outstanding wool of fine
quality, high yield and excellent
style and color, which made to
136 d. a pound, and would un-
doubtedly return a high average
price for the whole clip. It
seems certain that there will be
a growing demand for the Pol-
warth, and from the wool dis-
played this season it has a great
many attributes and very few
faults.
A feature of the sale was the
keen demand for lots guaranteed
free of brands, which in most
cases brought some pence a
pound more than similar lines
with which no such assurance
was given.
Dehorning.
“Rooster”; Dehorning should
be compulsory for dairyfarmers.
Horns on domesticated cattle are
an encumbrance and a cause of
serious injury to udders. Many
cases of mastitis can be traced
to such injuries. Especially is
this so with the pronged-horn
breeds, like Ayrshires.
Debudding of calves, when
about two to seven days old, is
easily the simplest method of
dehorning. The hair must be
closely clipped around the horn-
bud and vaseline applied to the
surrounding skin before the
caustic-pencil is introduced. An
alternative to caustic is glacial
acetic acid. Protect your fingers
by either wearing thick rubber
gloves or wrapping the pencil in
stiff brown paper. A better and
more certain result will be
obtained if the horn-bud is
lightly rubbed with fine sand-
paper until near, but not actually
at, the bleeding stage. When
applying the pencil, see that no
portion of the bud is overlooked.
Repeat two or three times at
short intervals until blood oozes
from the centre. If it is wet
weather, keep calf under shelter
for a day or two ; this will avoid
the danger of water-conveyed
caustic down the side of the
animal’s face.
Best time to dehorn grown
cattle is near the end of the
milking period. Take the
normal precautions, however, to
safeguard against infection.
Victorian Wheals.
“Mr.”: Big changes have
taken place over the past nine
or 10 years in areas sown to dif-
ferent varieties; wheats con-
sidered to be firmly established
a few years ago have dropped
right out of favor. Ghurka, for
example, which occupied 63 p.c.
of Wimmera wheatlands in
1941, fell to 3 p.c. last season.
Its place has been taken largely
by Quadrat (58 p.c.) and Pin-
nacle (17 p.c.). In the Mallee,
“Keep him there. Grandpa, while I go and get a stick.”
Insignia (40 p.c.) is now the main
variety, with Quadrat, which was
first released in 1940, occupying
32 p.c. In the northern districts
Quadrat occupied more than
half the 1949 acreage.
This year’s varieties recom-
mended by Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture are:
Wimmera, black soils, Pinnacle,
Quadrat, Magnet, Diadem;
red-fringe soils, Quadrat, Ben-
cubbin and (for trial) Pin-
nacle, Insignia and Diadem.
Mallee, central and southern,
Insignia, Bencubbin, Quadrat,
Pindar and (for trial) Diadem ;
northern, Insignia, Bencubbin,
Quadrat and (for trial) Diadem ;
mid-northern, Insignia, Quadrat,
Bencubbin and (for trial)
Diadem and Pindar; east-
northern, Quadrat, Diadem,
Magnet, Baldmin, Bencubbin,
Insignia and (for trial) Pin-
nacle and Pindar. Western,
central, north-central and Gipps-
land districts, Pinnacle, Quadrat,
Insignia, Magnet (hay) and (for
trial) Diadem.
Bulkheads for N.S.W.
“He-Ne”: If the Federal and
State Governments put into
operation recommendations from
the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’
Association present chaotic
wheat-handling methods will give
place to an efficient, speedy and
human labor-saving plan. Dis-
cussing the question recently the
F. and S. Executive Council de-
cided to urge that galvanised-iron
bulkheads, similar to those that
have proved so successful in
Victoria, be built at strategic
points in N.S.W. One of these
Victorian bulkheads, that holds
10,000,000 bushels and is
mechanically filled and emptied,
cost only £102,000 and was
erected during the last war. If,
say, four of these bulkheads
were built at Jurtee, Temord,
Dubbo and Werris Creek, the
worst of the present outdated
system would be at an end. The
Executive Council further
stressed that the existing concrete
silos be enlarged and that the
Menzies Government give per-
mission to the N.S.W. Railways
Commissioner to import steel
from abroad to build more bulk
rail-trucks. This permission, it
was claimed by G. Hoy, of the
State Wheat Committee, was re-
fused by the Chifley Govern-
ment.
Mange.
“Sarcops”: There are several
types, but the commonest is
sarcoptic, which accounts for
from 70 p.c. to 80 p.c. of total
cases, and is found in wild
animals as well as in cats, dogs,
cattle, pigs and horses. Sar-
coptic mange is caused by a
microscopic mite that burrows
into the skin and, living between
the skin layers, causes the hair
to fall out and provokes intense
irritation and the formation of
scabs. It is so infectious that
unless treatment begins at an
early stage it will spread to
other animals.
Because of the difficulty of
getting at the mites, mange has
long been the subject of weird
and wonderful remedies, some
of which have been worse than
the disease. Now, chemists
have extracted an active in-
gredient of benzene hexachloride
and christened it “gammexane”
(it comprises the gamma isomer
of the product), and thus given us
a powerful concentrated insecti-
cide that is safer to use on most
animals than any other type and
also has a wider curative range.
It kills by contact, not only in-
sects, but most stages of their
larvae against which other insecti-
cides have no effect.
Gammexane in various forms
is now available for eradication
of external parasites. It is used
as a dip or spray for sheep,
cattle and pigs, for small animals
as a dusting-powder, as a
powder to which water is added
to form a lotion, as a cream
and as an emulsion. The dust-
ing-powder is suitable for ridding
animals of fleas, lice, etc., but
the liquid forms are most effec-
tive against mange.
The affected animal should
first be thoroughly washed —
scrubbed if necessary—with
lukewarm water and a good,
non-irritant soap. Dogs have
a more tender skin than human
beings, so a reliable dog
soap should be used. After
thoroughly rinsing off the soap,
wet the animal thoroughly with
the gammexane solution at the
strength recommended by the
manufacturer. The animal
should then be tied up until dry
on a clean cement floor or on
grass. Gammexane is non-
poisonous unless a fair quantity
is swallowed, and for this
reason its use on cats is not re-
commended, as they absorb the
insecticide by licking themselves.
The treatment should be re-
peated once a week, but unless
the animal definitely requires a
bath each time this may be done
once a fortnight only, with the
application of the solution alone
in between. For obstinate cases,
the application of cream to
affected parts may be to advan-
tage in addition to the emulsion
wash.
Other animals require less
intimate handling. For horses,
cattle and pigs, affected parts
should be sprayed with the solu-
tion and, to make sure of it, a
fair marginal area should be in-
cluded. Persist in treatment
until a healthy coat of hair is
growing again. Even after that
check up on the animal at
monthly intervals, and repeat
treatment at the least sign of
recurrence. It is necessary to
kill not only the last mange-mite
but hatchings of mite eggs that
may occur weeks later.
The source of infection should
be traced if possible and steps
taken to prevent reinfestation.
Dogs’ bedding should be
burned, kennels thoroughly
sprayed inside and out with
gammexane solution and then
moved to a fresh site. If the
trouble does not clear up after
treatment, call in a vet.
New Rust-resistant Wheats.
“Longjon”; Several new
hybrid wheats being developed
at the Glen Innes Experiment
Farm (N.S.W.) appear resistant
to the two new stem-rust races
that showed up last season.
S. L. Macindoe, special re-
search agronomist who bred
Yalta, Charter and Celebration
(and Celebration stood up to the
new races practically best of all),
is much impressed by a promis-
ing new cross, Pusa 111 x Kenya
x Baringa. At the Temora
Farm he saw a new variety bred
from Tunis 9 x Dundee. Origin-
ally this cross was made with the
idea of obtaining a better Durum
(or macaroni wheat) than Tunis,
which was introduced from
Africa some years ago.
A Lighting System.
“H. 8.8.”: For outbuildings
which electricity does not reach
and which need light occa-
sionally for short periods—such
as lavatories, woodsheds and the
like —a very useful light can be
rigged up by using the two-cell
dry-battery well known for cycle
lamps, type 701.
Buy the battery, a 3.8-volt
torch-bulb with miniature screw-
holder, enough insulated wire
and a household switch of the
moulded type. Lightly solder
two separate wires to the brass
tags on the battery; solder the
other end of the first of these
wires to the bulb-holder tag and
screw the other end of the second
wire into the switch. One more
wire is required between the re-
maining tag on the bulb-holder
and the remaining contact on the
switch.
Screw in the bulb and try the
circuit for lighting ; if all is well
wrap up the battery in waxed
or waterproof paper and hang it
on the wall out of the way, twist
some black insulating tape round
the base of the lampholder and
tack it into position with a
couple of tacks through this
tape. Screw the switch to the
wall just inside the door and the
job is complete.
A new battery will not be
needed normally for nine to 12
months unless usage is more
than an intermittent few minutes
—it can soon be soldered on to
the wires to replace the old one,
and the cost of running the light
should be only three or four
shillings a year. The 3.8-volt
bulb ensures economy on the
three-volt battery circuit and
lowers bulb failures to a neg-
ligible level.
Valuable Booklet.
“C.P.”: If the Poll Shorthorn
people find the place infested
with experts on their breed of
cattle they’ll have brought it
upon themselves. The just-pub-
lished Poll Shorthorns, which


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend ol
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb.. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb .
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders,
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd.Klng St. Sydney
: li T I?ULLS ANY OTHER TRACTOR ° F
UB " EQUIVALENT HORSEPOWER
w
The
NEW
CRAWLER
TRACTOR
25/33 H.P.
[ 32/40 H.P.
AMPLE POWER TO HANDLE THE TOUGHEST JOBS!
The LOYD is powered by the
Turner Diesel V type 4 cylin-
der 25/33 or 32/40 H.P.
Engine a motor with a
world wide reputation. Elec-
tric starting is standard equip-
ment and gives immediate
and positive starting from
cold. Starts and operates on
Diesel fuel. Fitted with vari-
able governor giving constant
governed engine speeds at all
settings.
The Loyd Crawler is a product
of Vivian Loyd & Co., Eng-
land, an organisation with
over 25 years’ experience in
the manufacture of Crawler
type vehicles.
LOW FUEL CONSUMPTION:
An actual 60 hour test in
Western Australia proved an
economy of fuel as low as
three-quarters of a gallon of
Diesel fuel per hour.
ALSO AVAILABLE IN 25/50
POWER KEROSENE MODEL
THE LOYD CRAWLER IS AN ALL-WEATHER,
ALL -THE -YEAR- ROUND TRACTOR.
Mud, sand, clay, undergrowth,
roots or saplings make no
difference to its broad tracks.
With a maximum speed of 7
m.p.h. it gets quickly from job
to job. Whether as an agricul-
tural tractor, or for clearing,
logging, dozing, grading, scrap*
ing, loading, backfilling, exca-
vating, winching or road build-
ing the Loyd will do the job
ŵ
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
m
m
m
Illustrating (a) the easily accessible
adjustment on idler wheel for track
wear and tension. A feature of the
tracks is that they can be changed in the
field without special equipment, (b) The
special Loyd short pitch track of superior
flexible design enables tractor to travel at all
speeds smoothly, without the vibration that
larger pitch tracks are known to make.
With bull dozer or angle dozer equip-
ment the LOYD is the ideal compact
machine for medium duty work. The unit is
hydraulically operated and is available with
standard 43" track centres and 5'6" Blade
or 50" track centres and 6'6" Blade.
Clutch and Brake Steering is standard
with this equipment.
Write for specification folder from your nearest Loyd distributor
4A/act«rn Australian Distributors: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth • South Australian Distributors: Power Handling (Aust.) Ltd., 61
Cawler Place Adelaide • Victorian Distributors; Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne • New South Wales
Distributors*' Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd,, 82a Parramatta Road, Camperdown e Queensland Distributors: Norton Toothill Pty. Ltd.,
112 Charlotte Street, Brisbane • New Zealand Distributors: John Chambers & Son Ltd. Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service is available throughout Australasia.
Commonwealth Factory Representative: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
is dedicated “to the breeders and
potential breeders of the Poll
Shorthorn, including their sons
and daughters who will carry on
the excellent work of breeding
Poll Shorthorns,” is so well
illustrated and packed with his-
tory and information that almost
anybody could carry it round a
showring and talk authoritatively
of the breed.
The color and design of the
cover are strikingly attractive,
and the list of contents not only
covers a comprehensive history
of how the breed originated but
many well-written articles ex-
plaining the breeding, care,
description, standards, branding,
rearing and registering of Poll
Shorthorns.
There will be a heavy demand
for this booklet ag soon as its
worth becomes apparent, and
early application for copies is
advisable. The address is 33
Macquarie-place, Sydney.
The Pregnant Sow.
“Mr.”: There’s no better
ration for her than plenty of
succulent grazing supplemented
with skim-milk and concentrates.
While running in a good pad-
dock she’ll get sufficient exer-
cise and sunshine in a sanitary
environment in addition to the
grazing.
The quantity of concentrates
depends on size and condition.
For the sow low in condition
after the previous farrowing,
W. S. McAuliffe, in S.A.
“Journal of Agriculture,” recom-
mends feeding up to 41b. a day
in addition to greenfeed, but if
in good condition 21b. would
probably be enough. No hard-
and-fast rule can be laid down,
however, as with all feeding it
becomes largely a question of
judgment.
Pollard or crushed grain or
these concentrates given in
alternate feeds or on alternate
days with the greenstuff and
skim-milk are hard to improve
on.
Condition at farrowing should
be soft and sappy, not hard and
solid like that of a baconer
ready for market. As the day
approaches watch for constipa-
tion, and, as a precaution, feed a
substantial proportion of bran,
if necessary using as much as 50
per cent, by the time farrowing
is due. If a laxative becomes
necessary drench with ilb. of
Epsom salts and one tablespoon
of ground-ginger dissolved in
\\ pint of warm water.
Copper-deficiency.
“Archaps”: The economic loss
caused by copper-deficiency in
sheep was strikingly illustrated
in the case of a Queensland
grazier. After , measures had
been taken to correct the
copper-deficiency in this small
flock the clip increased from
39731 b. of greasy wool (of
which 4961 b. showed signs of
copper-deficiency) in 1947-48 to
61591 b. (of which 3401 b. showed
signs of copper-deficiency) in
1948-49.
The normal fleece lines sold
at 83id. and 72d, per lb. respec-
tively, while the wool affected
by copper-deficiency realised
46id. per lb. on the same mar-
ket. The areas in which copper-
deficiency affects sheep have
now been mapped and methods
of copper supplementation ex-
plored. The application of these
on 20 properties has permitted
a more critical appreciation of
the loss caused by copper-
deficiency.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Bucket-f e e d
calves until between five
and six months old. If
good paddock-feed is avail-
able, slightly younger calves
down to 4- 2 - months may be
weaned. Concentrates aren’t
necessary for calves over six
months provided good roughage
and pasturage are available.
Meadow or lucerne hay is the
best in this respect. During their
first autumn and winter when
heifers are a year off calving
they need up to 31b. of grass hay
a day. During second autumn
and winter they need up to 61b,
“Rooster”; February and
March are the months when
table turnips can be sown, for
use at from 10 to 14 weeks after
sowing. Soil-preparation, un-
like most root crops, should in-
clude some nitrogenous fertiliser
—say 5:1:1 superphosphate,
ammonia and potash mixture at
the rate of loz. per yard of soil.
“Girrawheen”: When a hen
stops laying, its intestines, ovary
and oviduct decrease very much
in size and weight and yet the
hen’s total weight tends to in-
crease. This is due to the
depositing of a layer of fat
nearly all over the body just
under the skin, and a thick mass
of fat in the abdomen. This is
the best time to sell the hen for
table use.
“C.A.A.”: Protection o f
newly-laid concrete from heat
and drying winds is as vital as
protection against frost, as the
concrete isn’t hard enough at an
early age to resist, without crack-
ing, the stresses set up by con-
tractions. Timber shuttering is
a good method, but leave in
position for at least a week,
otherwise the concrete should be
kept damp for a fortnight after
being laid by being covered with
wet sacks, damp earth or by
frequent watering.
“New Z.”: D. Gilberd, of
Whangarei (N.Z.), sick to the
soul of mud in the cowbails,
laid down five chains of con-
crete paths, each 18in. wide, to
his yards. He did it sceptically,
but after only a week’s trial was
enthusiastically preparing to lay
tracks from each paddock to
the yards. The saving of time
and temper and the boon of
cleanliness in wet weather have
to be experienced to be believed.
“M.”: For the algse-polluted
dam mix loz. of bluestone in
a gallon of water and use a pint
of the solution to each 1000
gallons of dam water.
“Sarina”: “H. A.L.” should
come to N.Q. and he’d find that
“the crazy run-a-fire-through-it
policy” sometimes has its points
(B. 11/1/ ’5O). Overstocking in
the North means grasses vanish
to be replaced by matted burrs,
flannel-weeds, lantana and other
weeds unattractive to stock. A
good fire through such paddocks
makes a wonderful clearance,
and, with careful’ stocking, the
country gradually gets good
grass-cover.


\
until summer is nearly over,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.LSLACWOOI
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless it is insulated preferably with B.L
SLAG WOOL.
insulation
PTY., LTD.
'Phones: Sydney 11X3584, Melbourne
MP3506, Brisbane 83604, Adelaide C 7357,
Perth 1.3107
o
B
cWO“i
SIA
BIG 18
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY
Economic, Market and Financial Conditions.
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price: 2/- per single copy—22/6 a year, post free.
ẁ
ẃ
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
Telephone : BU 3425 83 Pitt Street,; Sydney
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124 Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane.
C. BEAUMONT. 64 King St., Melbourne—MU 5 271. South Australia; RALPH CURRY,
Sq., Adelaide, ’Phone, C 1065.
Victoria:
24 Light
TALKIES
"Don Juan."
“But, Doctor, how can you
look at him standing up there on
the kitchen-table holding the
carver and the butter-knife and
with a crazy look on his face,
and say he’s all right?”
“Madam, I repeat it.* Your
husband has wha* one might call
Errolitis. There is an outbreak
among married men whenever
Mr. Flynn appears in a new film.
It’s marked by a certain cynicism.
The three other victims I’ve
struck this week had been along
to see ‘Don Juan,’ at Sydney
Regent.”
“Amazing, Doctor. He went
today.”
“How long has he been up on
the table?”
“Since tea. He said T don’t
believe it!’ and jumped up
there.”
“We will question him. It’s
unwise to ask him direct what
he thinks of Mr. Flynn—invari-
ably brings on violence. Now,
sir, may 1 ask what you are do-
ing up there?”
“Experimenting. Observe the
cutlery in my hands and also
the look on my face, a look of
determination mixed with love
for all the world’s beautiful
women. Assume for a moment
that I am Don Juan, as played
by Errol Flynn, and that 1 am
poised up here in the midst of a
sword-and-dagger fight. Imagine
that this is no ordinary kitchen-
table but a broad landing half-
way down a flight of marble
stairs in the Court of Spain.
Above me, on the stairs, stands
the King of Spain and the Queen
(1 love her, but she can never
be mine). Throughout the
palace, tense as they watch the
battle, stand gorgeous hand-
maidens (I love ’em and never
you mind), while opposite me on
the landing, flashing at me with
sword and dagger and codfish
eye, is a wicked Count with
designs upon the throne. And.
who knows what else? I sway
this way and that, swish witn
my sword, claw with my dagger.
All clear so far?”
“Lucid. One question, though.
This swordplay. I assume it is
typical of Mr. Flynn’s activities
in the film. He leaps about in
a manner that would stonker any
normal man, yet has such consti-
tution that he remains always
fit for fresh amours at a
moment’s notice. Can this be
truth?”
“Doctor—in one short reel
he climbs hand-over-hanfi up to
an ivy-covered balcony, crushes
the young lady who lives there
in his arms, does a spot of fenc-
ing with her husband, flees, rides
swiftly towards London, is mis-
taken for a foreign nobleman.
Introduced to that nobleman’s
future bride, makes love to her,
has to escape again, goes post-
haste to Spain, and winds up in
an inn, somewhat winded, yet
still able to smile at the pro-
prietor’s daughter.”
“Uncanny. Please proceed
with your sword-fight.”
“Well, now, in the course of
the battle I cleverly hook
wicked Count’s rapier with my
own, hurl it over his head, and
nobly throw my own away and
push him slightly so that he rolls
down to the bottom of the stairs.
Now, the purpose of my experi-
ment. At this moment in the
film Errol Flynn leaps from the
landing and comes down on top
of the Count some twenty stairs
lower, or, at two feet width for
each of these mighty
roughly forty feet away. I want
to find out if this can be done
without seriously spraining my
ankles, without ruffling one hair,
or losing for an instant from
my face that look of determina-
tion mixed with love for all the
world’s beautiful women. You
observe the passionate twitching
of my nostrils. That, too, must
be kept up throughout the leap.”
“Just a moment. You mean
to say Errol is in a palace and
jumps direct? He does not use
the obvious means of getting
through the air—swinging on
the chandelier with his dagger in
his teeth?”
“No. He does that earlier
when two dozen henchmen of
the wicked Count are torturing a
good Count in a fortress. Errol
enters, disguised, of course, as
a monk, and, with one assistant,
rescues the man, swinging on
what would pass for a chan-
delier.” ,
“I see. And now, sir, I will
watch this leap of yours and pay
particular attention to your
quivering nostrils. Madam,
when we pick him up and put
him to bed, I want you to go up
and get this prescription. Not
at the chemist’s, at the book-
shop. Get a copy of The
Memoirs of Don Juan. Make
him read it. The shock will
bring him straight out of this.
Leap, sir! ”
"To Live in Peace."
This admirable Italian film
has turned up in Melbourne, and
a second inspection confirms the
opinions already expressed here
about it. The film tells simply,
humorously and humanly a war-
time drama which must have
been repeated in thousands of
villages in Europe. A village
shelters two escaped American
prisoners-of-war, a white man
and a negro, under the noses of
a German petty officer and the
secretary of the local Fascist
party.
Joe, the negro, hidden in a
cellar, gets drunk and starts sing-
ing and Uncle Tigna deals with
the situation by making the
German drunk, too. The love of
drunks for one another has no
national boundaries: it is uni-
versal, and the nigger and the
German fall into each other’s
arms and go roaring through the
village until Hans falls dead-
drunk in the gutter. The
villagers know that if he went
to sleep as an international he
will wake up as a Nazi, and they
start to evacuate the village.
However, the Allies are
approaching and all ends well,
except for Uncle Tigna, who
pays for his humanity with his
life.
The homely characters are
extraordinarily well acted and, as
Uncle Tigna, Aldo Fabrizi, who
is regarded as Italy’s foremost
actor, turns in a magnificent per-
formance. Evidently the
Italians, like the French, admire
naturalness in actors. Fabrizi
bears a remarkable resemblance
to Raimu, the baker in the
French film “The Baker’s Wife.”
"That Midnight Kiss."
Whenever a new young tenor
swings into Hollywood’s ken, the
advertising men can’t dive on to
the “second Caruso” blurb
quickly enough. Usually the
exercise of the “discovery’s”
vocal chords causes no particular
disturbance to the late Enrico’s
honored bones. Only rarely
does a first-rate voice hit the
celluloid, and such a one is owned
by Mario Lanza in this nicely-
arranged M.-G.-M. lightweight
at Sydney St. James. How much
the boosting capabilities of the
sound-track have lent weight to
the natural voice it is, of course,
difficult to assess, but in “Una
Furtiva Lagrima” from Doni-
zetti’s “L’Elisir d’Amore” and
Verdi’s “Celeste Aida” he re-
veals a tenor of beautiful even-
ness of quality to the high ranges
and uses it with excellent judg-
ment and, in the first aria par-
ticularly, with an admirable
restraint.
The young man, much more
American than his name or the
bel canto of his singing would
suggest, uses also an easy and
engaging stage presence to good
effect in the film, which has to
do with a fond and wealthy
grandma’s determination t o
launch an opera company to
make use of her granddaughter’s
voice, which is equivalent to
finding the handle of a car-door
and then buying a car to fit it.
Still, it is very pleasant fare,
made more so by Kathryn
Grayson’s soprano and further
improved by excellent support-
ing players—-Ethel Barrymore, as
the matriarch, Thomas Gomez’s
jealous, middle-aged Italian tenor
who is persuaded to wreck his
dressing-room and tear up his
contract as a fitting gesture to
his temperament, and J. Carrol
Naish, as the aspiring tenor’s
volatile Italian father.
The comedy content is bol-
stered up with an episode where
the opera company’s general
factotum, absentmindedly flick-
ing the baton during the con-
ductor’s temporary absence,
starts the orchestra off and then,
caught up in the rhythmic pat-
tern, pilots it with some uproari-
ous clowning.
Jose Iturbi moves through the
whole doings as a philosophic
straightener-out of operatic and
romantic tangles. But why,
when they staged the climactic
opera, must M.-G.-M. have to
give it the phony title of “The
Princess” and throw in a snippet
from Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Sym-
phony? It would have been
much easier and more sensible
to have made it an authentic
Verdi or Puccini work.


DEFEAT THAT
OLD
DEVIL
DANDRUFF
with Lustre Creme America's
Leading Hair Dressing
*3
American men have proved Lustre
Creme banishes dandruff scales,
relieves dry, itching scalp, keeps
hair glossy and healthy. It’s
America’s favourite Hair Dress-
ing. Now it can be yours!
Qiemc
(WITH LANOLIN)
THE INSTANT AID
TO HANDSOME HAIR
A little Lustre Creme a few
seconds combing and you’ve
handsome hair all day! No
"plastered down” look! Lustre
Creme has a high quality Lanolin
base, best for your scalp, best
for your hair. Lustre Creme has
double action, it spreads and
penetrates double-quick!
IT’S HANDIER IN A TUBE-
TRY IT TO-DAY
jMSpig-
(%eme
vith Lanolin)
(with Lanolin]
HAIRDRESSING
AMERICA’S
INSTANT AID TO
WELL BROOMED HAIR
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives Lustre to dull, unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy and handsome
SOLO W All CHEMISTS AND STORES 2/-
A Kay Daumit Preparation
ua/no
THE
OF
COMING
EVENTS
con help to
throw Dmomr on
your future
FACTS ABOUT THE
NINTH SECURITY LOAN
1. The Ninth Security Loan
opens on March 7.
2. The full amount of new
cash sought is required to
pay for War, Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, for
Public Works and Services
of the Commonwealth and
the States, and for redemp-
tion of unconverted Securi-
ties maturing on March 15.
3. Subscriptions for 3\%
Bonds may be for £lO or
any multiple, and for In-
Stribed Stock £lOO or mul-
tiples of £lO above that
amount, unless Stock
already held (minimum,
£100). Subscriptions for
2% Bonds or Stock must be
for £l,OOO or multiples.
Applications may be lodged
in advance through any
Bank or Stockbroker.
4. Interest is payable each six
months during the currency
of each series (3i% securi-
ties—ll/14 years; 2%—3
years),
5. Your Bank will hold your
Bonds in safe custody free
of charge and credit interest
to your account.
6. Repayment in full at matur-
ity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth.
7. On your Application Form
credit your subscription to
your district to help its quota.
Before long, thousands of people all over
Australia will be signing application forms
for Bonds or Inscribed Stock in the Ninth
Security Loan which opens on March 7.
But there’s no need to wait until the Loan
opens to safeguard your future in this way
—you can invest your savings now, as an
advance subscription, and your money will
start to earn interest immediately.
Investment in the Ninth Security Loan will
strengthen any saving plan: (1) by earning
regular interest every six months; (2) by
keeping savings out of danger from careless
spending; and (3) by establishing a solid
foundation on which to build funds for all
your future needs.
Give yourself these advantages straight
away . . .
NINTH SECURITY LOAN
OPENING MARCH 7
___ : _ __
P9SULU3.K)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Victorian aboriginal
placename “Baarmutha” —4782.
Wants.
To buy Encyclopedia of Garden-
ing, by John Claudius London, Book
About Roses, by Dean Hole, Book of
the Rose, by A. Foster Mellion, The
Book of the Garden, by Charles Mc-
Intosh, and Roses and Their Culture,
by T. W. Sanders—4786.
Photographs of business premises
and shops on western side of George-
street North, Sydney, between Gros-
venor- and Essex-streets, about 1902
or 1903.—4785.
To buy copy of Fair Girls and Gray
Horses, by Will H. Ogilvie.—4783.
Large, clear photographs of the
greyhound dog in any position. Re-
quired for sketching practice.—4784.
Words of verse containing the line:
“And the passing years have left me
but one pipe fang in my head.” —
4781.
Information Sought.
It was broadcast recently that an
airman saw floodwaters flowing into
Spencer Gulf ( S.A. ), and it was sug-
gested that these waters came from
Lake Eyre after phenomenal floods. Is
this possible ?
There is no evidence to suggest that
“overflow” from Lake Eyre reaches
Spencer Gulf via Lake Torrens.
There is, however, abundant evidence
to show that floodwaters from the
North Flinders Ranges, particularly
the Yudnamutana spur and Willouran
Ranges, flow into Lake Eyre South,
or at least towards that lake. Some
of the waterholes left after the flood-
waters have subsided are long and
narrow, and when a wind with a
northerly component blows the water-
surface may be thrown into ripples,
or possibly wavelets, trending south-
ward. Under such conditions the
water, when viewed from an aero-
plane, would give the untrained ob-
server the impression that the water
was actually flowing from north to
south, from Lake Eyre to Spencer
Gulf. Such flow is impossible be-
cause records show parts of Lake
Eyre South to be 37ft. below sea-
level, Surveyors, stockmen and travel-
lers testify that they have seen water
flowing towards Lake Eyre, never
away from it.
* * * *
When can I procure in Brisbane a
plant of the Arundo donax, or giant
reed? Has this species of cane ever
been cultivated in Australia?
Arundo donax is common in culti-
vation in Australia. It is more often
seen in the variegated variety than the
ordinary green one. Apart from the
variegation there is very little differ-
ence in the plants, except that the
variegated one may be a bit weaker
in the cane. The ordinary green form
is grown in western Queensland as a
shelter for sheep around turkey-nest
tanks and to protect the rim and
sides. Any of the bigger nurserymen
in Brisbane should be able to supply
plants. Once established they multi-
ply rapidly. Suckers are better tnan
cuttings.
* * * *
When were the last convicts
brought to Australia?
An order -in - council abolishing
transportation to New South Wares
was issued on May 22, 1840, though
convicts continued to arrive until the
following year. Later an attempt was
made to revive transportation, ana a
transport —Hashemy—with ticket-of-
leave men aboard reached Sydney in
June, 1849. There was a great puolic
outcry, and the men were sent on to
Moreton Bay. Western Australia was
willing to continue to receive con-
victs, but the system was finally ter-
minated in 1868.
* * * *
Some particulars about the pas-
sengers aboard an immigrant ship
called the Red Rover?
The ship Red Rover was chartered
by the British Government to bring
temale immigrants from Cork, in
Ireland. Governor Bourke reported
to the British Government on Septem-
ber 8, 1832, that the vessel had arrived
at Sydney. Two hundred and two
free women were aboard the ship.
The women landed on August 13, and
most of them found employment as
servants in and around Sydney. When
Bourke wrote only 14 women had
failed to find employment, but he ex-
pected that they would have found
positions in the course of a week.
* * * *
Some details about the discovery of
Patrick Plains ( N.S.W .) ?
Several expeditions went out with
the intention of discovering an over-
land route from Windsor to the
Hunter River. One of these expedi-
tions was led by Benjamin Singleton,
and it left the Hawkesbury on April
25, 1818.* The party did not succeed
in reaching the Hunter. In 1819
John Howe led an expedition which
succeeded in finding a practicable
route to the Hunter. Howe again
led an expedition which reached
the Hunter on March 15, 1820.
On March 17, 1820, Howe and
his men passed over what is now
Singleton; the plains thereabouts were
called “St. Patrick’s Plains.” Howe
was permitted by Governor Mac-
quarie to send his flocks to “St.
Patrick’s Plains,” on Hunter’s River
(which he himself discovered). Ben-
jamin Singleton was a member of
Howe’s second party. The members
of Howe’s first party were George
Loder, John Milward, John Eggleton,
Charles Berry and Nicholas Connelly.
Singleton obtained a promise of 200
acres of land from Governor Mac-
quarie dated March 31, 1821, and
the land was granted on June 6, 1836.
The farm was called Singletown.
Singleton died on May 3, 1853; it is
believed he was buried at Singleton.
Brief Answers,
C.C.: The organ of Sydney Town
Hall is the largest in Australia. It
possesses six keyboards, 126 stops and
8756 pipes. These pipes vary from
a fraction of an inch to 64ft., and in
circumference from iin. to 4jrft. The
cost was £17,000 J.W.H.: So far
as is known no one has ever taken the
trouble to work out the exact centre
of N. S- Wales. Certainly there is no
peg indicating the spot. Peak Hill is
probably the town nearest the centre.
. ...F.T.F.: To renovate a leather
coat, remove all stains from surface.
Then apply saddle soap over entire
surface and rub in until leather is
polished and smooth. Finish with
boot-polish of same color as coat
R.E.H.: Christmas-bush grows very
well in Queensland in the cooler parts
of the State, It does particularly
well on Tarfiborine Mountain, and
some people grow it there regularly
for the cut-flower trade. It has been
flowered about Brisbane, but, on the
whole, cannot be said to be successtul
there... .D.J.T.: One-time Bulletin
contributor Jack Lusby is now on the
art staff of Brisbane “Courier-Mad.
... .R.L.: Tyrrell's Bookshop, 281
George-street, Sydney, may be m-
terested... .G.N.: (1) The Sydney
Flying Squadron was formed in 1891,
and consisted of all types of open
boats from 18ft. in length and a mini-
mum beam of 7ft. Some boats were
22ft. in length at the start of the
squadron. (2) At present all boats
are 18ft. in length and a minimum ,
beam of 6ft. (3) The change in
minimum beam occurred in the
1944-45 season, when George Press
built the first of the present stream-
lined boats A.V.: Vaseline is the
principal softener used, sometimes
turpentine or mixtures. Petrol is the
likeliest remover. If not successful
scrub with hot soapy water containing
cloudy ammonia... .E.G.H.: The list
of items agreed for decontrol during
the recent Price-control Conference
of State Ministers contained the
item “Subterranean clover-threshing
machines and pump gear.” Such
agricultural machines are mainly used
in South Australia to obtain the seeds
of the clover. The list was used cor-
rectly by the Press, but the radio-
station mentioned reversed the
wording in its news service, thus lead-
ing to your misunderstanding
M.J.H.: Society of Arts and Crafts
of N.S.W., 112 a King-street, Sydney.
L.L.: Write Commonwealth De-
partment of Transport, 14 McKillop-
street, Melbourne, Victoria
A.V.M.: From Director of Horti-
culture, Queensland Agricultural
Department, Brisbane P.P.: Sea
Slang of the Twentieth Century,
edited by Eric Partridge and Wilfred
Granville, published by Winchester
Publications, 16 Maddox-street, Lon-
don, W.l.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should ba
addressed to the Editor.
We packed your tender
little landlady’s daughter in lamb’s
wool and sent her home in charge of
the Religious Editor’s maiden aunt.
. ...J.H.D.: Story told in terms of
a telephone conversation appears to
indicate that the P.M.G. Department
is giving telephones to the wrong
people S.P.M.; Plot and charac-
ters were in circulation long before
this paper was bom R.C.H.: That
clumsy pickpocket will get none of
our money G.H.: Boy rescues
girl from surf; proposes marriage;
girl’s father objects; boy rescues
aforesaid father from surf; father con-
sents to marriage—how very original!
N.K.; Your devil who spends a
long weekend at King’s Cross is the
tamest devil to cross our path
1.D.: Yes, we prefer stories typed,
but we don’t want them typed so
closely that even a trained flea
couldn’t crawl between the lines
R.G.McG.: Tale written around a
Scotsman’s missing kilt is only feebly
humorous K.K.: Make your
station-hands talk like Australians,
not like characters out of a wild-west
paperback W.T.: O. Henry—and
a score of his imitators —beat you to
it A.J.N.: A long and tedious
description of a Saturday-afternoon
pub brawl F.E.J.: In ordinary
life your loquacious sea-captain would
have been muzzled years ago
U.A.: Not bidding for the diary of
your milk-bar attendant W.J.8.:
“The White Hope from Woop
-Woop” didn’t last the first round.
&£•&£ *?
ridden “ ome on a milk-cart.,
8.W.: You might try reading it
to the nearest Sunday-school class
G.A.: Nicely peppered and salted, but
not our meat... .H.M.: It suffered the
fate of the average first attempt
L.S.C.: You can call and collect your
comic fireman; also the comic police-
man and the demented mayor of
the outback town T.J.R.:
Rather above the standard of
those wishy-washy efforts... .EMcN.:
When did you read a fairy
story in The Bulletin? ... .A.8.H.:
The approach of Easter always brings
that old yarn to light again
C.G.D.: It left two staff-readers de-
eyed and gnm-hpped and the third
looking for a gun and a round of
ammunition F.D.: “Come down,
down with me, melt into the body of
an ant and see the world through that
tiny creature’s eye.” Sorry, couldn’t
quite make it J.8.L.: You’re
honest, anyway 8.R.: Racehorse
wins, but jockey is electrocuted with
his battery. Brilliant!
ẅ


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
New Guinea Zone
I qm pleased to hear that the Menzies
Government ihtends forming a battalion
of fighting men in New Guinea, and as
a soldier of two wars, including service
with the N.G.V.R., and a resident of this
country for a quarter of a century, I’d
like to make a few suggestions.
Major health matters can be left to the
doctors, but troops should not be allowed
to work out in the open minus hats and
shirts. This sun-worship is crass stupidity,
and I saw what it did to men in the
Rabaul area and later on at Moresby,
Buna, Lae and 6th
Some parade-grpund drill is necessary,
but make it a sideline. Saluting by
numbers, ifle-drill inarching, aiming with
dummy r ifles and > hose other soul-and-
mterest-destroying training tactics should
be cut to the bore. Emphasis should be
placed on training in the sciub and forest
(jungle to the fiction writers). Arm the
lads with light automatic weapons —
Owen or U.S.A. carbine type —as bush-
fighdng is done at close quarters and
distance shooting obstructed by :rees and
vines.
Teach what native foods look like ii%
the garden; don’t confine this imp- rtant
item to fie classroom at night where imp
leaves and sad-lookmg vegetables are
passed around for inspection. Take the
men into kanaka gardens where they can
meet bananas, pineapples, pawpaws, taro,
yam, corn, peanuts, galip nut, kaukau
(sweet potatoes), ibeka (sugar-cane'- and
other edibles, indigenous and otherwise.
I have vi id memories of the trek from
Rabaul when more lb , . aid have oeei
saved had men been taught to recognise
friendly foods. There are instances where
men weak from hunger walked through
patches of kaukau ai ■ didn't knew its
food valu eve ground, and
splashed through creeks of succulent
kangon. Show them how to catch eels,
prawns and fish, which abound in almost
every stream. Teach the art of making a
fire with wet fuel —it’s always wet —and
how to induce the initial spark, kanaka
fashion.
Pidgin and Motuan must be taught—
not hard to learn if interest and
enthusiasm are not killed by hours and
hours of rifle-drill and the like.
‘Get a fierce killer look on yer dial
when you point that Owen, soldier,”
still rings in my ears. A fierce look
doesn’t help you to aim straight. Give
plenty of practice at shooting, but not
confined to range-firing and that senseless
gallop smothered in a respirator. Take
parties into the bush for weeks at a time,
give them plenty of ammo and let them
snoot to kill tor the pot. There are
plenty of targets in the air and on the
ground. The small wallaby sprinting to
safety calls for quick and accurate shoot-
ing. The muruk (cassowary) moves fast
enough to try the skill of any marksman,
as does the startled pig as he scuttles away.
Maps should be made of these treks
for future use. Small-ship work should
not be neglected, and men should be made
conversant with passages, anchorages, etc.
Lnve all a good working knowledge of
I>lfr^ and tbe use of Morse— Oomalas
flN.Cjr.).
Rail v. Air
Rail and not competitors in Aus-
ralia ; each has its own place in the com-
a first - class i°b-
8/2/ s °) is wrong when he
tSS . on a fare basis. If
th£v ro«M K° r the Journ£ y was the same
the d r e com Pared. Air is by far
neonfe aftb s°]?, ° f - trans Port for most
hive h S 1 bus, . ness executives won’t
“MqV’ °+ Cm tlme mea ns money.
Addin’ * tr iP o n the trans-line from
of d ? Perth Would be three days
canals 1 xrT t 0 the busin essman. He
can leave Melbourne after dinner at night
by plane and be ready for a Perth ■
aPPomtment at 9 a.m. next day.
With the increased spending today,
more people are flying during their holi-
days, particularly over the short hops
from adjacent 'States. However, this is
being offset by an increase in rail travel,
due, no doubt, to the post-war jump in
our population.
Rail has stood the test of time in this
country for close on a century. It is still
by far the cheapest way to transport
goods. It is expanding with the times.
Large numbers of diesel cars now run-
ning in Victoria are heralding a new era
in fixed-traction transport.
Air transport, too, is marching with
the time. Our airways system is second to
none in the world thanks to a fine bunch
of ex-R.A.A.F. officers running the De-
partment of Civil Aviation today.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Lawrence Hargrave Memorial
Lawrence Hargrave never received any
recognition for his work during his life-
time except to be regarded as the “mad
old kite-flyer.” After his death we allowed
his ingenious models to go to German
museums. Today we recognise him as a
real pioneer of aviation, and posterity
should give to him the honor which he
did not receive while he was alive.
It has been reported in the Press that a
fund raised years ago to provide some
memorial to Hargrave, and which reached
only £3OO, has since increased by interest
and investments to £lOOO. It has now
been taken over by the Commissioner of
Dormant Funds. There is only one way
in which that money should be used—to
endow an engineering scholarship to help
train youngsters in the most important
“But I CAN’T he late meeting you , dear; the boys 've
only got a nine.”
part of aviation —the ground staff who
keep our planes airworthy.
In itself, however, that is not enough ;
the next major airport in Australia should
be named after Hargrave and in a pro-
minent place a bronze plaque should be
erected, setting out an account of his work,
so that all passengers who pass through
can see what modern air-travel owes to
the man who built some of the world’s
first working models of aircraft. In the
history of aviation the name of Hargrave
is linked with those of Lilienthal, Maxim,
Langley and the Wright brothers as the
real pioneers. In other countries, and in
the textbooks, he receives the credit which
is his due. It would cost but a few pounds
to give him similar recognition in his own
country. —H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Indonesia
To my imperialist mind the threatened
break-up of the United States of Indonesia
is a matter for satisfaction to Australians.
For Australian security I should prefer
to see many small republics, or sultanates,
to our north rather than a strong united
Indonesia. In less than a century of
contact with the West the Japanese rose
from a semi-barbarous state to a position
where they could challenge the Western
nations in the Pacific. What is to prevent
the Indonesians from achieving the same
state in, say, 50 years? And where would
our 7,000,000 whites be against 70,000,000
well-equipped and -trained brown men?
They have no feelings of friendliness for
us, or any other whites.
Already we have insolent demands for
possession of New Guinea by our
Djakarta “friends,” who should rather be
giving thanks to Allah and expediency
that they were not hanged out of hand
as collaborators. What comes next? A
demand for liberation of the abos in the
N.T., perhaps. Or why not the attach-
ment of New Zealand’s Polynesians to
the Djakarta Co-prosperity Sphere?
What of Indonesia as a bulwark against
Asiatic Communism? Soekarno and his
lads have been Communists, or near-
Communists, progressing to Nationalists.
Why not back again? Given a united
Indonesia with time to build a decent
army from the present comic-opera cast
—an army where numbers and equipment
would make up for lack of fighting
qualities—and you have the Press with
which Djakarta could print any brand of
politics it desired on the almost illiterate
population.
As things stand in Oriental diplomacy it
appears that a cruiser off the trouble-spot
is still worth 10 learned doctors in the
Security Council. More power to
“Turco” Westerling and his merry men —
if he can split up the “United” States of
Indonesia he will deserve Australia’s vote
of thanks and a statue on the Darwin
waterfront. —P. V. A. (Q.).
Cost of the Strike
Anyone who really doubts whether the
last big coal strike was a success, from
the viewpoint of those who deliberately
organised this interruption of the nation’s
work, can satisfy himself by studying the
statistics now available.
Figures published for Victoria show
that, for that State alone, the loss of
production of building-trade materials
included:
100.000 square yards of asbestos-cement
shpefs *
6.000. bricks;
20.000 tons of cement;
150.000 square yards of fibrous-plaster
sheets *
1.000. roofing tiles;
170.000 lineal feet of stoneware pipes.
•Is it any wonder, then, that many
houses commenced in Melbourne 16 or
18 months ago are still uncompleted?
And is it any wonder that level-headed
unionists, many of them in sore need of
housing, are turning angry eyes on those
who talk in terms of “militant action”
for alleged industrial objectives? —
Wusslean (Vic.).
The H-Bomb
In all matters on strategy “Ek Dum”
is a very sound commentator, but I think
he misses out on the awful implications
of atomic warfare (B. 8/2/’5O). Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki do not provide the
yardstick by which it must be judged ;
those lessons were learned at the Bikini
tests. These showed, beyond any doubt,
that while the fearful heat and the blast
are something to be dreaded, they pale
to insignificance when contrasted to the
frightful consequences when an atomic
bomb is touched off under water.
In an open-air nuclear explosion the
radioactive substances produced rise in
a great cloud to 40,000 ft., and are there
dissipated by air-currents through the
upper layers of the atmosphere until
dilution renders them harmless. When
the same thing takes place under water
these radioactive products are trapped in
the wafer, which rises in a vast column,
and then descends to contaminate any
metal which it touches. That metal, be
it a water-main or a tramway-rail, a stair
handrail or a car-body, immediately be-
comes radioactive and stays that way
for a long time, )
The Americans found it practically im-
possible to drive this fact into the heads
of many naval ratings, who simply could
not comprehend that scrubbing a steel
deck didn’t take away the danger, no
matter how spotless it looked, and who
would persist in trying to hide souvenirs,
in the form of pieces of metal from the
target-ships, in their lockers. The
Geiger-counter revealed where all those
“hot” souvenirs were hidden, and also
showed that the steel-plating of ships
wasn’t keeping out radiation from water
contaminated by the blast. Imagine what
would happen if one of these bombs were
detonated under the waters of, say,
Sydney Harbor and the wind carried a
cloud of radioactive ram across the city?
The only way in which many people
can grasp what this implies is to read what
happened, to the first people who experi-
mented with radium or X-rays. Then try
to imagine the effects on people of stand-
, ing near a “hot” tramway-rail or storm-
water grating on the street. You can’t feel
X-rays, but an overdose of them has a
frightful effect upon animal tissue.
That’s why all the top men of the fight-
ing forces are just as worried as are the
scientists. All the old rules about “no
form of attack being without a counter-
defence” now go by the board. The
“death-ray” of the highly-imaginative
novelist is now a hideous reality, and the
great scientific minds of the world realise
it only too well.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
“Impossible” ?
I agree with Mary Gilmore —the whole
history of the human race proves that
one generation’s ideas of the impossible
are generally accomplished by the next.
“Human nature will never change,”
“lasting peace is impossible,” this or that
can never be attained. Perhaps, but it is
beyond our present knowledge to say so
dogmatically.
In the sporting world various records
are often hailed as unbeatable —and often
beaten. No great harm would result if
these assertions were confined to the
playing-fields, or even to abstract ques-
tions about a remote future. The harm
is done when they hinder or prevent alto-
gether the opening-up of country areas,
the growing of crops in districts con-
sidered (wrongly often) unsuitable and
the development of industries. —Keima
(N.S.W.).
School-teachers
The reason most often advanced for
the declining popularity of school-teach-
ing as a profession is that it is inade-
quately paid, and that point does un-
doubtedly deter many who feel that they
can do much better with their certificate
—certainly the average wharfie would
sling his hook in if he were so ill-paid.
There are many, however, who enrol
in spite of the salary and who leave the
training college for their first schools full
of energy and optimism. Unless the
youthful teacher has friends at court ht
usually finds himself in charge of a out-
teacher school in some remote part o
the country. As a rounding-off period to
his apprenticeship that may have much
recommend it, but when, after three o
more years in the one place, the depa
ment continually ignores all pleas tor
transfer, it is no wonder that energy a
optimism subside. Sometimes m
moment of Puckish humor the P°" e ,
hearken to the request and transter i
luckless one to a school still more
mote. , „ „ re
As many of these young teacher
anxious to participate in ro us . ica fin : fe
other cultural activities, their mde
banishment often results in their resL
It would help considerably if , teac
were told on entering the service just n
long they can expect to stay in the c
try. Much valuable time and mon
could thus be saved by the elimmation
unwilling students at the training c
—Seahawk (Q.).
Cemenl , from
Cement is being
Portland to Penrith (N.S.W.) by °
trucks which pass through the raU J
station at Wallerawang, 3j miles i
Portland. The additional distance
Penrith is 66i miles, and the ,
being loaded into railway trucks cem
comes back right through WaHeraw ing
thus making an unnecessary haul or
miles. The consumer of cement pay >
course, but why should, he be: s ugg
with the cost of railway ineftcien -y
Wallerawang surely is capai d -J f£CO
handling the loading of cement.
(N.S.W.).


Canberra
It was a nice dream, that Canberra
would always remain a garden-city with-
out the tainting contacts of industry, but
it was a dream impossible of realisation
in the modern world, and especially in
Australian decentralisation where every
sizeable community must increasingly
play its own part in industrial develop-
ment. The setting-aside of 1000 acres
near Canberra as an industrial area is a
realistic acceptance of this fact. More
than 20 years ago it was seriously pro-
posed that important defence establish-
ments should be built near but unseen
from Canberra, away from the coast and
capable of absorbing sections of workers
in the Canberra district not assimilable
into public-service and ancillary acti-
vities. It was just as seriously rejected
on the garden-city thesis.
It is unlikely that even now anything
in the nature of heavy industry will spoil
with smoke the tranquil Canberra skies —
anyway, most of the power would come
from electricity. But with a population
already of 17,000 and a potential of
30,000 in the reasonably foreseeable
future, Canberra had no real hope of
avoiding the growth of that kind of in-
dustry which is necessarily associated
with a large city. Fringing as it does the
great Snowy River area with its enormous
supplies of power as it develops, Can-
berra might easily become a focal-point
in the decentralisation of important semi-
rural secondary industries as well as the
incidental industries stemming directly
from it.
The Yass-Canberra railway would come
much more quickly to fruition, opening
a new way from the Riverina towards the
coast; the long-talked-of southern inland
route through from Canberra to Victoria
may be built much sooner than otherwise,
and the development of a deep-sea port
on the far south coast of N.S.W. brought
appreciably closer. Twenty years ago
the idealists (myself among them) thought
m terms of Canberra as a little closed
“political” city set among its trees and
rose gardens. But the tempo of the sixth,
decade is quickening rapidly, and it is
already clear that Canberra is likely to
become “political city” apart the
largest south-eastern centre of population
between Sydney and Melbourne, between
which, with appropriate road and rail
development, it is strategically fairly well
situated.
Artificially, but none the less signi-
ficantly because of that, Canberra’s popu-
lation is growing very quickly, and will
grow faster as house-building and office-
building speeds up and the final transfer
of public-service departments from Mel-
bourne is completed. Like attracts like,
and from the city of 30,000 which must
grow from the potentials already in sight,
the wider trends of development will
carry it further and further. The recent
announcement about the thousand acres
for industrial development came as some-
thing of a shock to those whose concep-
tion of Canberra remained the conception
of its earliest years, and there will be lots
oi heartburning about it.
But it is a bold forward step in harmony
with the nation that is growing around us
—and not the least important consequence
n/ay be the infiltration into the serenity of
Canberra of the strident and challenging
note which comes from the urgencies of
industrial life. Many times Canberra has
jailed to interpret the trends of Australian
hfe precisely because of its semi-monastic
remoteness from those stresses and
urgencies. Provided that care is taken,
and industrial development planned in
intelligent coherence with the basic and
still vital purposes of the political capital,
the implications of this far-reaching de-
cision must be accepted.— Dee (N.S.W.).
The “Trans”
Statements to the effect that the “trans”-
railway between Port Augusta and Kal-
goorlie will be reconditioned and
modernised as soon as possible should
augur a vast improvement to a train
which has been rather starved of
modern rolling-stock since shortly after
its inception. Something along the lines
of a Spirit of St. Louis” or “twentieth
Century Limited” would alter the face of
the trans,” which, after an honorable
war record, is pretty down in the mouth.
But a Press record (7/2/’5O) of an
utterance by the Victorian Transport
Minister is puzzling. In stating that a
new buffet-car will shortly be added to
the Adelaide-Melbourne express, he ex-
plained the sale of “the dining-car
Hopkins and the Pullman - sleeper
Macedon to the Commonwealth Rail-
ways. Out of commission for a long time
these cars were of no further use to the
Victorian Railways.” These venerable
old ladies were at one time the pride of
the S.A.-Vic. “Overland.”
The Minister went on to say, apropos
of economies in coal, that “they could
not be used, as they were twice as heavy
as other carriages,” and added as further
argument that “up-to-date roomette cars,
each of 45 tons, compared with the
"It's marvellous, isn't it, how that astrology man
KNEW!”
Macedon’s 75 tons, were now in service”
(on the “Overland”).
The Commonwealth Railway Com-
missioners have not revealed where they
intend placing these evident obsolescences,
but there is only one road controlled by
them on which they could be operated—
the trans-line —and even this would
involve adaptation to the standard gauge.
The Victorian Minister’s relief at being
rid of so much unwanted metal (at a
good price, no doubt) conflicts strangely
with the Commonwealth’s publicised
plans.
As the S.A. Railways’ streamlined loco,
and smart green-and-cream steel carriages
pull into Port Pirie Junction (the change-
point) from Adelaide, travellers may be
pardoned for looking askance at the jaded
appearance of the “East-West” on the
opposite platform. The wooden carriages,
ineffectively conditioned against heat and
dust, are not an invitation to a three-
days’ jaunt across one of the world’s most
forbidding deserts. — Karrimba (S.A.).
Owning a Home
It seems now, despite the dreams of
servicemen and the war-time promises of
politicians, that the average working-man
can never hope to own his own home
unless he is lucky enough to win a lottery
or something. Thousands of people now
paying off homes that have cost £2OOO or
more will, under normal circumstances,
never be rid of the debt in their lifetime.
With the present high cost of living,
few family men can afford to pay more
than £2 per week out of their wages for
instalments on a home. Add interest, cost
ot regular painting and repairs, insurance,
rates, water and sewerage rates and other
charges that have to be met, and the
prospect of complete ownership before
you die is even more dismal.
If ever workers are to own their own
homes, building costs will have to be so
drastically reduced that it will be possible
to build a reasonable house for £lOOO
W. P, T. (N.S.W.).
Power from the Sea
Waddlin’ Willie” is too sweeping in
ms writing-off of tidal power (B.
25/1/’5O) in areas of high rise and fall of
tides. Of course, to be really useful, the
area suitable for its high-tidal range must
also be of appropriate configuration, and
must be reasonably close to a centre of
population requiring large quantities of
power, which is not frequently the case.
Nothing new in the way of turbine or
alternator design is needed, as very large
low-head water-generating plants have
been made for many years. The capital
cost of harnessing tides would be large,
but how often does any water-power
scheme pan out otherwise?
Areas with a 39ft. tidal rise and fall
would certainly be attractive for investi-
gation; for example,
in such an area,
assuming a bay the
size of Port Phillip
with tidal water ebb-
ing and flowing, each
flow of the tide and
each ebb would pro-
duce power in the
order of 140,000 h.p.
for, say, three to four
hours. Six such
stations would supply
the whole of Victoria ;
one such station would
provide supply for
about a, quarter-
million people.
One serious trouble
with tidal power is its
“off period,” which
must occur four times
a day between tides.
However, when one
contemplates the cold age possibly
in store for us when resources of
coal and oil are running low, it is not dif-
ficult to imagine that these huge blocks
of power, where available, will have to be
grasped with thankfulness, despite capital
cost or “off periods” daily.
The station quoted above would have
an earning capacity of £4OOO per day if
electrical energy pinduced were sold at
the average price of a penny a unit;
“W.W.” can place his own estimate on
the amount of capital expenditure which
this earning-power would justify,—
H. B. B. (Vic.).
North Queensland* Industry
As a variation of the chicken-and-egg
problem one might ask—regarding Queens-
land Premier Hanlon’s Go-North-Young-
Man campaign—“ Which comes first, the
worker or the industry?” Does one
transport thousands of skilled workers to
the empty north, then build the factories,
or vice versa, and what does one do with
the worker, or the factory, while the
other is arriving?
There is opportunity in the north.
There are thousands of people living there
already. They use pots and pans to cook
in, pegs and wire to hang out their wash-
ing, clothes to wear, food to eat and tools
to work—all imported from the south.
Many of them could be manufactured
locally with profit—if skilled workers
were available.
That these workers are not available
is the fault of the Government, and the
lack can be remedied, not by industrial
conscription, but by the establishment of
efficient technical schools where the local
youth of average means can learn a trade.
At present the son of average parents
m the north has every opportunity to
become a laborer, a railway porter or,
perhaps, even attain the dizzy eminence
of a clerical position; his chances of
acquiring a skill are strictly limited, unless
his parents can afford to send him to
Brisbane. Mostly they can’t. Give the
north adequate technical training and in-
dustry will grow naturally as it should.
—Communications (Q,).
Roads
A.8.C.” (B. l/2/’so)'has stressed the
obstacles, but raised ho valid objection
to my suggestion for roads on railway
grades. There are three points he has
overlooked or misunderstood. First, I
said “trunk-roads.” Second, I advocated
layouts oi new towns ? ring cor ured on
easy grades. Town streets on s ;ep hill-
sides she jid be contoured—the draught-
board la out r suitable enough for flat
cities like Melbourne.
The third a d principal poia. was that
unless grades are comparable there is no
equitable basis of comp ■. r n between
road and transp- rt. Existing
trunk-rot! r. a• e not designed to carry
maximum payloads; if they were, the
competition could possibly put some
railways om of business, which might or
might not bt a good thing.
I take it that the adva 1 a, ( eof Roman
slave-labor, referred I > by “A.TC. ” was
its low coot, not its efficiency. Oar de-
ficiency, hovlfcver, is hot slave-labor i what
we lack is the will, not only in road-
construction and transport operation, but
in most other d'n&aons. And unless we
tackle this problem we might have slave-
labor in Australia, .with “A.8.C.” and
myself among the sin es,-—J. A. ( resty
(Q-).
Rice
Australians ha-erC beer able to buy
rice—Australian-grown—for five years
because it das been reserved to reed the
“starving natives” of the war-ravaged
islands. Native economy is now well re-
established on a luxury basis, and all the
native gardens are full of their former
foodstuffs.
Rolling in wealth, natives nowadays
buy a 168 lb. bag of Australian rice in
any island store with the same non-
chalance as they buy a packet of smokes.
Meanwhile poorer Australians, with no
other food resources such as the natives
have, are unable to buy a pound ,of this
cheap valuable Australian food simply
because bureaucrats still hang on to their
controls.— -Gill (Solomon Islands).
Victorian Racing
A deputation from the Victorian Race-
horse Owners’ Association to the Holl-
way Government says that if the ban on
mid-week racing in the metropolitan
area is not relaxed there will be “a very
big depression in racing.” It wailed that
no other industry is so highly taxed as
the “racing industry,” and threatened,
since no State member would “carry the
flag” in the interests of racing, to run its
own candidates at the next election.
Racing people are now “definitely mili-
tant,” the deputation pugnaciously de-
clared, and if their requests are not
granted they’ll take “drastic action.” If
the hotheads of the Owners’ Association
recklessly stop all racing Hollway may
have to invoke his Essential Services
Act. — Yarrasider (Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 57
Across.
" y ° u stand between a feeder and
Costello with the crafty tippling
manner. (10)
’■~T° he contiguous with a back-
ward bass instrument. (4)
8 Gun salute to the French roofing
li c emedy f° r faintness. (3, 8)
Epigram upset the kitten’s
, 2 J. ather - . (3)
A medicine to be inspired with
the location of Henry’s break-
fast, after breakfast, and a six-
footer. (8)
Central topic of an article by the
~ author of this puzzle. (5)
''-Remove the seeds from a bird.
F—Flower-girl takes the eye—or
most of it. (4)
18—Sicken. (3)
1 (4) 1 k stanc£ fhe irregular test.
22 " Quite confused where Australians
hke to spend their summer holi-
-25~-p ayS - ( 1’ 3) .
J rirm dye from a Victorian
v ‘ own - (5)
09 Rent to write a song. (8)
(3)
* Sarah and Patrick, not Patricia,
•nd I see a liver tonic. (3, 8)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
31 — South tree of a band. (4)
32 — A gay fellow biffs parts of a
car engine. (5, 5)
Down.
1 — Enjoying summer to indulge in
winter sport during an explosion
of the graduate’s ruler. (7)
2 Pages devotes to the activities
of the inventor of the telephone
when he stubbed his toe. (8)
3 Behold nothing in the card game.
(3)
4 Fifty tune the hideout. (4)
6 Goat, or produce that might be
derived from it? (6)
7 Met up with a nuisance during a
storm. (7)
9 —Write some remarks upon the
Test cricket year 1924-25? (8)
10—Six cretin (anagram). (9)
13 —Cosmetic impudence doesn t
come off. T 9)
17 —I stand over the alleyways within
me for this cloth. (8)
19_West Australian weight of Egypt
and I turn up in the lake of the
Maorilanders. (8)
20—Aristocrat of the French game of
skill and patience. (7)
23 — Snub the girl with one of the
arms. (7) .... ,
24 Feature of footballers’ hoots and
150 varieties of food. (6)
ŵ
Solution to Crossword No. 56.


■
m
i
m
n
1
*
m
n
iH
1
..v ;■
M :
• *! Ji
II
liii
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a
mark of quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is
the symbol cf the Radio Age, representing the
knowledge g tied from research and engineering
y rev more 35 years*
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the
A.W.A. laboratories, which have advanced radio in
the home, on the highways, at sea, and in the air.
As one of Australia’s key industrial organisations,
A.W.A. recognises the value of scientific research
and its important role in peace and security.
9 BROADCASTING AND RECORDING,
Producing a Play at A.W.A. Studios.
MOBILE WIRELESS.
- w/
9 Driver of vehicle fitted with A.W.A. Frequency-
Modulated Radio-Telephone Equipment answering
a call.
• A.W.A. Air-Mite V.H.F. Trans-
ceiver and Inter-Communica-
tion Unit for light aircraft.
mm
mvm
m
mi
■yjMjgyaa v , k
mm
mz
s»ss»
mmwgm:
,t;~
me
♦ *
A.W.A. manufactures: Broadcasting stations, broadcasting studio equipment, communication transmitters
and receivers, mobile radio equipment, marine transmitters and receivers, direction finders, automatic alarm
apparatus, radar, air navigation beacons and distance measuring equipment, instrument landing systems,
aeradio stations, telephone terminal equipment, micro-wave links, radio programme recordings, military
communication equipment, transmitting and receiving radio yalves, broadcast receivers, etc.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Ausmmu) LTD.
&
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
