

The Bulletin
«The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 — No. 3668
Wednesday, May 31, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapers
Seppelts
QWING to its geographical location in
the centre of the county, Truro has
always been recognised as the chief town
of Cornwall. Situated on the Truro
River, ten miles from Falmouth, the city
is dominated by the Cathedral, whose
central tower rises to a height of two
hundred and fifty feet.
The original see of Cornwall is reputed
to have been founded in the seventh
century, but it did not exist as an English
bishopric until 936, in the days of Athel-
stan. In the middle of the eleventh
century the Devonshire see of Crediton
and that of St. Germans were united at
Exeter, and the two counties remained
one as regards ecclesiastical matters until
1877, when Dr. Edward White Benson,
who later became Archbishop of Canter-
bury, was appointed first bishop of
Truro, and the sixteenth-century parish
church of St. Mary in that town became
the cathedral.
Later it was decided to build a new
cathedral incorporating the South Aisle
°f St. Mary’s, and the foundation-stone
was laid in 1880 by Albert Edward, the
Duke of Cornwall, later Edward VII.
The building of the cathedral took the
comparatively short time of thirty years,
and it ranks among the great ecclesiasti-
cal buildings of Britain. It is the first
cathedral to be completed since the
rebuilding of St. Paul’s in London in the
re ign of Charles II (1660-1685).
Truro was the birthplace of the
mous missionary philologist, Henry
lartyn (1781 - 1812), who is com-
nernorated in the cathedral by the
magnificent baptistry, regarded as a gem
°f Gothic art.
TRURO CATHEDRAL DEPICTS STABILITY IN STONE
CHATEAU TAN UN DA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OP SiPPELT


Learn
guMll
at HO
m
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne,
- CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
¥' Name ....
My Address
50 AGE
The Red Page
THE YALTA FIASCO.
Edward R. Stettinius, Jun., who died
last November at the age of 49, was,
during the critical period of Yalta,
Secretary of State in the U.S. Govern-
ment. He has left behind him a first-
class piece of reporting of the Yalta Con-
ference in his Roosevelt and the Russians
(Cape). _
The publishers declare that it was
written “not to answer criticism so much
as to put the record straight.” Why they
should offer this vapid excuse is incom-
prehensible, for the author’s own open-
ing words are that he was impelled to the
task because of deep respect for
Roosevelt’s memory, his faith in the right-
ness of the late President’s foreign policy,
and “grave disappointments since 1945
which have resulted in widespread accept-
ance of the idea that at Yalta vital in-
terests of the United States were sacrificed
to appeasement of the Soviet Union.”
Three years after the meeting in the
Crimea the Yalta conference was under
bitter attack. “High Tide of Appeasement
Was Reached at Yalta,” “Life” declared.
. In the same issue William C. Bullitt
charged: “At Yalta the weary President
was more than tired. He was ill.... Fr-
equently he had difficulty in formulating
his thoughts and great difficulty in express-
ing them consecutively. But he still held
to his determination to appease Stalin."’
Stettinius shows clearly that this is
nonsense. It was not the agreement at
Yalta that failed, but the subsequent
Russian failure to carry it out. All of the
Big Three were tired. But under Roose-
velt’s chairmanship they worked out com-
promises of Russian stands on most dis-
puted questions which, he believes, Stalin
could not afterwards carry with his
Politburo. The Russian change from the
attitude as revealed at the final meetings
was probably provoked also by “the
abrupt ending of the lend-lease pro-
gramme, as far as the war in Europe was
concerned, to the Soviet Union after V.E.
Day (May 8).” This development, says
Stettinius, “was particularly untimely and
did not help Soviet-American relations.”
Under advice from the State department
President Truman modified the order, but
“the psychological damage had been
done.”
The runhing account of the eight days’
meetings (February 4-11, 1945) of the
plenary conference and of Foreign
Ministers’ debates on detail is excellently
done. It makes clear that the prime
objectives of the conference were to
bring about a joii\t consultation of the
Western and Soviet war staffs for the final
assault on Germany (there had not
hitherto been any mutual exchange of
staff plans and views), and to win the
Russians to the scheme for the United
Nations. To these matters became added
proposals by the Western Allies for the
disposal of defeated Germany, the
Soviet’s participation in the war with
Japan (urgently required by the American
Army Staff), and the desire by the British
Government for an arrangement, in face
of the Russian advancing armies, about a
limitation of their area of operations in
the Balkans.
Stettinius calls the agreements reached,
involving important concessions by the
Russians, “a diplomatic triumph for the
United States and Britain.” The Soviet
accepted, after much obstinate resistance,
the American formula for voting on the
U.N. Security Council (it was the
Americans who stood out for the veto
on matters involving economic and
military sanctions). The Soviet wanted to
include the veto on procedural matters
also, but gave way. Also it wanted 16
votes in the Assembly, one for each of
the Soviet republics, but consented to
being allowed extra votes for Ukraine
and White Russia only. Stalin also gave
way on the question of admitting as
original members small States which had
not yet declared war on Germany. The
West won from the Russians the agree-
ment that France should have a zone of
occupation in Germany and a seat on the
Control Commission ; the exclusion of a
stated sum of reparations from Germany
(Russia wanted half of 20 million); the
leaving of Poland’s western boundary to
the peace conference; and the tricky
point of reconstructing the Polish Gov-
ernment without recognising the “Lublin
Government.” ' The difficulty here was
that the Red Armies had already
occupied Poland and there was nothing
the West could do about it if the Russians
refused to discuss Poland at all.
As for Japan, Roosevelt’s service ad-
visers had told him that Japan might not
be beaten till 1947, that the victory with-
out Russian help might cost five million
more American lives, and that since the
Allies’ setback in the Ardennes it was un-
certain how long it might take for
Germany to crack. The atom-bomb had
not been perfected. So Russia (recognis-
ing Manchuria as part of China) got
back the Manchurian railways, Port
Arthur, control of Dairen, and the cession
of the Kurile islands (which never had
been Russian) —also a dominating posi-
tion in East Asia—all at the cost of
merely a parade-march against the
Japanese Kwantung Army. The Soviet
Army was allowed into North Korea in
order to share in taking the surrender of
Japanese troops.
How the Russians have carried out the
agreements is now a matter of history.
There seemed reason at the time to re-
gard Moscow as sincere.
Stettinius does not miss some of the
lighter moments. Harry Hopkins
prompted hisi colleagues on one occasion
to get to work quickly upon the draft of
some matter because “if we did not the
Prime Minister would sit up in bed one
morning and dash it off himself,” and
then “it would be difficult to change it.”
After a strenuous session Churchill and
Roosevelt would indulge in mutual
banter. Once
Churchill jollied the President about the
phrase “freedom from want.” He said he
had always intended to ask the President
what “want” meant. “I suppose,” said
Churchill, “it means privation, and not
desire.”
Again, one of the American staff had pre-
pared a joint communique from one day’s
session. “Churchill, who usually enjoyed
writing such historic documents himself,
proposed minor’ drafting changes. Most
of these were to eliminate the word ‘joint’
from the text. ‘Joint,’ he said, meant to
him the Sunday family roast of mutton.”
Roosevelt died just two months after
the Yalta Conference ended. Before he
died the Russians were already treating
the agreements with contempt in both
Poland and Rumania.
Perils of Roulette.
Salamon Dembitzer’s Drama in Ostend
(Villon Press, Sydney; distributed by
John Gilmour and Sons), a novel about
the perils of roulette,,came in for review
accompanied by some interesting pub-
licity, which stated that the author has
published more than 20 books written in
German—novels, essays, poetry and
plays:
Mr. Dembitzer was editor-in-chief of
two reviews in Berlin. One, “The Clique,”
was engaged in social and literary criticism
of a high standard; the other, “Der Osten,”
was a literary symposium. He was edu-
cated in Germany, but born in Cracow,
where some of his ancestors were famous
historians and scholars. He was also
co-editor and contributor of German,
Austrian and Dutch newspapers. Amongst
these were the “Berliner Tageblatt,”
“Vorwaerts,” “Die Welt am Montag,” all
of Berlin; “Die Arteiterzeitung” of Vienna,
and the “Allgemeene Handelsblad” of
Amsterdam. A fairly large literature about
Mr. Dembitzer’s works has been published
in German and Dutch.
The author was the owner of what was
probably the most valuable private folk-
lore library in the world, comprising 10,000
volumes. It contained many rare and
valuable first editions and Unica. An
American library offered 100,000 dollars for
it. However, the author refused the offer,
and this unique collection was consigned
to Australia per S.S. Merkerk, first, vessel
to leave Holland for Australia after the
war. Unfortunately she struck a mine and
sank.
Mr. Dembitzer is preparing a book about
Australia. He likes Australia, after more
than six years’ stay in the United States,
because of the more natural relationships
between people in this country and the
comparative absence of money-mindedness.
In view of all this, one is inclined to
attribute much of one’s disappointment in
Drama in Ostend, which was originally
written in German, to the inexpert trans-
lation. One can follow the story clearly
and the language is used without any very
bad mistakes ; but everything is a little
awkward, uncertain, uneasy, especially—
as in all unsatisfactory translations —in
colloquialisms.
You come across, for instance, the
paragraph:
In wandering aroiThd, making stops at
one or another of the tables, he encoun-
tered his new acquaintance, Philip. There
he sat, as large as life
Now, “large as life” is, of course, a cliche.
And it is used inappropriately here in any
case, for there is no reason for the hero
to feel surprise, in the circumstances, at
finding Philip at the gaming-table. If
only he had found him larger than life-
say, having suddenly grown nine feet
high—there might be some reason for
surprise . . .
On the same page of the novel there is
another example of the translator’s un-
certainty. There are the sentences, in
different paragraphs,
“We will remember this chap”... .“Some
of these croupiers seem to be in cahoots
with a lot of the women who sit around
here” “Have you proof?” the little
fellow shouted at him. “If not, keep your
mouth shut, or else ... or else . . .”
Here, since “chap” is essentially English
slang, “in cahoots” an Americanism
which has become Australian and “or
else” purely American, we have an un-
easy mixture of three languages; a kind
of international “no-language.” And the
inevitable result of all this uncertainty
is that Mr. Dembitzer’s people don’t seem
real ; one’s" confidence is shaken in the
whole novel.
Even when allowances are made for the
inadequacies of the translation Drama in
Ostend is not altogether satisfying as a
novel. In the first place, the hero, who is
bluntly introduced as “the idler and
author Sylvian Hagel” remains, humanly
speaking, a complete blank throughout
the book, a kind of diagram with which
Mr. Dembitzer illustrates a dissertation
on the evils of gambling and the psycho-
logy of gamblers. In the second place,
because Sylvian Hagel, though a blank, is
supposed to be a disillusioned blank —“I
have seen nothing entertaining, nothing
cheering, nothing agreeable. Everything
has been shabby, horrible and foul”—the
book has an acrid taste and the picture
of life it gives lacks balance. And in the
third place, because the hero dies un-
dramatically of heart-failure and a
sinister lunatic is allowed to drop out of
the story without ever quite justifying
his presence in it, the construction is dis-
appointing.
Perhaps Mr. Dembitzer didn’t set
out primarily to write a novel —
a balanced picture of reality—but to
write an “exposure” of Ostend. This, too,
obviously lacks balance. • Just as one
can’t quite believe that all human beings,
even in Ostend, are “foul,” so one can’t
believe that everyone who visits the
casino becomes a slave to the vice of
gambling, is financially ruined and
commits suicide —which is just about
what Mr. Dembitzer says.
But if the book is thus a sort of “case
for the prosecution” against the casino in
Ostend, it remains, nevertheless, a power-
ful case. And, simply as a piece of travel-
writing, it is unusually interesting. It is
not every day one is told such anecdotes
as this (and Mr. Dembitzer has scores of
the. kind):
A Swiss man sat there losing and losing.
Suddenly he drew his revolver and said,
very loud, to all present, “I am now placing
my last 20 francs on 35. If this number
doesn’t come now, I will shoot myself
before your very eyes.” Everybody in the
hall waited tensely, and the croupiers were
really afraid. Who knows what a man
in such a state of mind will do? Well,
to everybody’s surprise, 35 appeared, not
once, but four times in succession. We
all drew a breath of relief; then they all
applauded, and thought 35 was a nice,
helpful number. The man left that hall
with 9000 francs. But two weeks later he
was back, played and lost, again made
an ultimatum, and then really committed
suicide in front of everyone there.
The unexpected! thing about the novel,
seeing that essentially it is a journalistic
exposure and that Sylvian Hagel is a
blank, is that at times the story does be-
come moving and dramatic: particularly
when Hagel, who looks on at himself in
horror and amazement while he succumbs
to the gambler’s doom —a struggle against
blind Chance as if it were a living force
that really could be conquered by human
ingenuity and determination—falls into
schizophrenia and believes that it is “the
other fellow” who, in frenzy, smashes up
his furniture as he has smashed his life.
One sees what Mr. Dembitzer’s European
critics have meant when they praised him
as a pyschologist; and even if Hagel is
essentially no more than a diagram of the
gambling psychology in general, one must
have some sympathy even for a diagram
so tormented.
Villon Press, the publishers of this
novel, propose to reprint some European
classics in Australia —a Chekhov book
is next on their list.
Bitter Sugar,
In her novel Cindie (Robert Hale),
Jean Devanny presents the results of what
must be a considerable study of the>qorth
Queensland canefields and, presumably,
of the fairy-tale of Cinderella. It tells the
story of the establishment of a plantation
there in the 1890’s; the difficulties her
hero, Robert Biddow, had with Kanakas,
aborigines, other planters, his wife,
Blanche, and her maid, Cindie.
From the first it is clear that Miss
Devanny does not like Blanche, a senti-
ment which does her credit, for Blanche
is the pampered daughter of the most
powerful and wealthy Brisbane manipu-
lator of Queensland politics ; from the
time she arrives to join her intellectual
husband on the plantation with which he
is to assert his independence and manli-
ness, Blanche does nothing but whinge,
sneer, worry and make trouble; and
when her passionate advances are re-
jected by her husband weary from the
day’s work in the canefields, Blanche has
an affair with a rich but vulgar plantation-
owner.
Cindie, on the other hand, being poor,
is virtuous; she makes friends of the
Kanakas, works with them in the fields
and, establishing a coffee plantation, per-
suades even the aborigines to work for
her by dancing before them a routine of
which the theme is the plantation, growth
and fruition of the coffee plant.
Blanche is not slow to resent the control
Cindie has gained over the plantation and
her home ; but it having been discovered
that the wife of the rich but vulgar
plantation-owner with whom Blanche had
had an affair had contracted leprosy,
Blanche is forced to retire in rage and
chagrin, and with yet another memory
of degradation, to Brisbane. She does
not return until, finding that her grow-
ing daughter, Irene, has been associating
with Brisbane Labor politicians, she re-
solves, as only such a woman would, to
remove her daughter from what only such
a woman might be expected to consider
evil influences.
Meanwhile, the Biddows’ young son,
Randolph, has come to work with his
father on the plantation. He falls in love
with a girl who is in love with a local
planter ; and he suggests that the hard-
worked Cindie should marry the planter
so that the girl would have to marry him
(Randolph). Much as she has done for
the family, this is too much to ask of
Cindie; instead, she gives Randolph
directly what comfort she can.
Thus the fire is laid' for a conflagra-
tion ; but all that happens is a street-
battle with Kanakas who dislike being
called Myalls, and who thereupon are
belted about with chains —for Blanche
Biddow, having thought matters over for
some years in Brisbane, has decided that
her husband, Cindie and Miss Devanny
had been right all along the line ; cheer-
fully she agrees, and even insists, upon
the nuptials of young Randolph and
Cindie; and they all, as in other fairy-
tales, live happily ever after.
Reviewed Briefly.
Orphanages without Orphans: Doris
Mears Mirams (printed by Timaru
Herald Co. Ltd., N.Z.). Pamphlet con-
taining a radio talk by H. C. Mathew, an
article by Doris Meares Mirams and
correspondence reprinted from the N.Z.
“Listener” —the whole amounting to a
survey of “the group of children who
for reasons other than illness or de-
linquency live in institutions instead of
homes” ; what has been done for them
and what ought to be done.
* * * *
The Black Angel: Cornell Woolrich
(Robert Hale). This book follows the
same pattern as Woolrich’s The Bride
Wore Black ; the wife of the man accused
of the murder follows four telephone-
numbers from the address-book of the
murdered girl, and encounters a sodden
hobo, a dirty doctor, a playboy and a
gangster night-club operator. The four
settings are very well done, the drug-sell-
ing doctor adventure being most interest-
ing, and the adventure with gangster
night-club operator being most amusing;
and these compensate for the diseased
murderer —a diseased murderer is never a
satisfying murderer.
* * * ♦
Murder Next Door: Marjorie Alan
(Hale). The beautiful rich victim has re-
fused to divorce her husband so that the
heroine may marry him ; she keeps her
young sister, an heiress-to-be, in subjec-
tion, and her poor old-maid cousin in sub-
servience. After she has been murdered
with sleeping-tablets in a seaside bunga-
low, it seems that someone may have
been blackmailing her because someone
else has been making love to her: thus,
among the residents and guests at the
various seaside bungalows, there are
plenty of suspects; and although the
murder is neither brilliantly planned nor
precisely analysed, the people are toler-
able company.


nn
m
ms**
m
■ K i
1
m
m
%
n
m
«
=3
m
v.
s»
!S
V;
£l3/2/6
I.—English Mantel Clock. Full four-
quarter Westminster chimes. In polished
Walnut cabinet. Length 17in., height
9in., width s|in. Priced at £l3/2/6
ADVERTISING”
TV
t
£l2
m
m
2. —Mantel Clock with full four-quarter
Westminster chimes. In attractive
polished Walnut cabinet. Length 17in.,
height 9in., width s|in. Price, £l2
3.—" Smith” Crofield round
dial 30-hour time piece. 47/9
A great range of
Mantel and Alarm Clocks
il r
. II
'•< \
7 -x 3.'VS
4 EJ
m m |
\\ t A J
from our wide selection , All precision made to give years of service.
47/9
“Junghans” nickel Alarm Clock. Silent tick, 4in. luminous dial. 71/9
“Junghans” nickel repeat Alarm. Luminous 4in. dial. Priced at 61/6
Mantel Crostock. “Smith” square dial 30-hour time piece. Price, 47/9
7. —Mantel Clock. Hour and half-hour
strike, English make, polished Walnut
cabinet, gilt dial. Length 18in., height
9in., width s|in. Priced at £6/15/-
Not illustrated.
'%ard” Alarm Clock. Bakelite case with a luminous dial. Priced at 53/6
■ \\ Ml
.
m
M M. . V :
>•
fWIPW*
8. English Mantel Clock. Four-quarter West-
minster Chimes. Walnut cabinet. Length 16in,,
height 9in., width s|in, Priced at £l2/15/-
£6/15/-
k.
-
m
;
mi
9.—Mauthe Wall Clock with him bam strike.
Length 27in., width 12in., 7in. dial. Price, £l5
HORDERNS’ CLOCK DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


, . -f * s* v . V; \ \ ”’■
PRODUCTS OF THE A
mm
G ROUP
m
A Family of Famous Names
DESIGNED AND BUILT FOR THE ROADS OF THE WORLD
SggSgSS
I;--;-
%
y
Humber Pullman Limousine
HUMBER
Four models—the superbly appointed, chauffeur-
driven Humber Pullman Limousine—the dignified
Humber Imperial Saloon—the sleek, powerful
Humber Super Spipe—and the Humber
Hawk,* a full size six-seater of outstanding v
economy —a range of truly impressive motor cars
—proud leaders of the Rootes Group line.
Supreme among sports cars—equally at home in the field
formal “first night.” Two models —the 80 and the go.
COMHER
A complete range of hard-working, money-making trucks from 8 cwt.
to 13 tons capacity —every one of them built to stand up and take
it in the world’s toughest going.
7-ton Dropsider. Series
The world’s most successful light car—now with a plus-power
engine making it bigger and better value than ever.
K A R R I E.R
Redoubtable Karrier—long respected and now, more than ever
before, the name of the best in Municipal Vehicles.
PRODUCTS OF THE _
ROOTES GROUP
First United Kingdom Motor Car Manufacturer to Establish a Factory in Australia-
At Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria, the Rootes Group operates a
plant occupying 150,000 square feet and employing x 000 people.
This factory is producing a constantly swelling stream of motor
Rootes Group Assembly Plant
ip
H
w
Fishermen's Bend , Port Melbourne , K/V.
vehicles for Australian users. Every Rootes Group vehicle is
designed for Australian conditions—a product of Anglo-
Australian skill and initiative.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3668
Wednesday, May 31, iyso
PAPER-MONEY “PLENTY.”
The wool cheque for 1949-50 has been estimated at upwards of £245 million, six times the amount of a pre-war cheque. But production costs are high and rising
fast, taxes are heavy, while labor is scarce and equipment hard to get."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man ’
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE DANGER OF WAR.
Each week sees some new world develop-
ment which suggests that unless there is a
complete reversion of intention in
Moscow, another world war is due when-
ever Russia is ready.
The opinion of “military authorities”
is that the will reach its greatest
military strength in 1952 or 1954 ; but
“military authorities” —the kind who air
their views in the Press—were wrong
almost to a man about Germany’s
strength in 1939. They were wrong about
Russia’s attitude in 1939, despite the fact
that the Communist party had been
making the trend of its intention clear
to close observers for months.
Almost every move made by the
Kremlin or by its satellite leaders is an
act of enmity towards the Great Powers
which it is intended to destroy. Its policy
generally is one of insult, threat, libel and
abuse. Moscow Radio nightly spawns
acres of offensive stuff aimed to produce
in unthinking minds the acceptance of a
false belief that “the United States war-
mongers and their vassal England are
arming to the teeth to destroy the
Workers’ Only Fatherland,” this nonsense
being followed by an appeal to Britons,
Americans and particularly, at the present
time, Indians and other south Asiatics,
to defend the Soviet Union.
The happenings in Europe, when
stripped of all their background of dis-
cussion and argument, speak for them-
selves. The U.S.S.R. itself has used its
powers of conscription to the limit, in-
ducting into its forces children almost in
the cradle. It takes into training for
two years more than a million men of
adult age a year and has been doing so
since the very early ’thirties. Its most
successful young general, Rokossovsky,
the pride of the U.S.S.R. during the war,
was detached some time ago to apply the
same policy to Poland where, by brute
force and ruthless Red Army methods,
he has conscripted and very largely trained
a permanent basic army of 500,000, with
a reserve force which runs into a million
or more. He is masquerading as Pole,
the Defence Minister of his new country.
He is actually the organiser of the van-
guard of attack on Western Europe, sub-
servient to Stalin and to nobody else,
and the possible Commander-in-Chief of
an invasion of the West.
Further west and south, now that
Poland has been organised so as to be-
come integral with Russia in a military
sense, the war preparations, political and
physical, are as open as they can be.
Early in the month important conferences
were held in Prague, on the pretext of
“Liberation” Day, which attracted repre-
sentatives of the new Russian Wehrmacht
on the highest level. The Soviet dele-
gation included Marshal Bulganin, head
of Stalin’s war machine, who went to
Pilsen to be thanked for the liberation of
the city by the glorious Red Army —it
was, of course, actually liberated by
General Patton. Comrade Zorin, Vishin-
sky’s senior deputy Minister, was also
there, along with Comrade Suslov, one
of the heads of the Cominform. The
official Czechoslovak news - agency,
Ceteka, reported that the Defence Mini-
sters of all the eastern bloc of European
nations or their immediate deputies were
also present.
At Budapest earlier there had been
somewhat similar ceremonies headed by
Voroshilov. Following these visits the
reorganisation of the new Czech Govern-
ment has been completed by the ejection
of Mr. dementis, the Foreign Minister,
the arrest of his followers on charges of
Trotskyism, and the jailing of numerous
officials of the Foreign Trade Department
accused of treachery involving attempts
to develop commerce with the Western
nations. Deputies have been thrown out
of - the national Parliament. The Com-
munist a few months ago in charge of
army education. Captain Joraslav Pro-
chazka, was raised with great sudden-
ness to the rank of Lieutenant-General
and made Chief-of-Staff of the Czecho-
slovak army. Another servile Communist
strong-arm man, Lieutenant-General
(only a few weeks ago Major) Milan
Rejcin, becomes Deputy Defence Mini-
ster. The British Information Office
and the British Council branch in Prague
have been ordered to close.
In the words of the U.S. State Depart-
ment, ordering sundry Czechoslovak con-
sulates to be closed and staffs reduced
in others:
It is all too apparent that various actions
of the Czechoslovak Government are not
dictated by the interests of the Czecho-
slovak people or, for that matter, by the
interests of the present regime in Czecho-
slovakia. They follow a course which
appears to have been prescribed for the
States of Eastern Europe and indicate the
inability of the Czechoslovak, Government
to follow an independent policy.
Dr. Vladimir Houdek, Czechoslovakia’s
delegate to U.N.0., who resigned last
week and who has decided to stay abroad,
confirmed this view, remarking that “it
had been proved that a few individuals
who had spent the war in Moscow had
been, installed in the top positions in
Prague in the manner of Marshal Rokos-
sovsky in Poland,” and ‘ that anybody
opposing them was being charged with
“westernism, deviation, independent think-
ing, dictatorial aspirations, a lack of
vigilance and indiscipline towards the
party.”
They are also being charged with sup-
porting “traitorous Titoism,” Tito being
now set in his Communist niche “as
the treacherous tool of imperialism and
of the warmongers of Wall-street.” Fol-
lowing the visits of Voroshilov to Hun-
gary and Bulganin to Prague, both making
anti-Tito speeches in violent terms, the
Yugoslav Foreign Affairs Committee on
May 16 issued a statement complaining
of renewed Cominform military activities
along the approaches to Yugoslavia, in-
cluding the building at express speed of
a large airfield at Timisoara, the great
railway junction of the Danube area and
the military focal point of the approaches
from Russia and Hungary to Tito’s
domain, together with a sudden spate of
pontoon - bridge - building across the
Danube between Rumania and Bulgaria
and displays of tanks accompanied by
anti-Yugoslav slogans in the streets of
Sofia. The statement did not mention the
vicious campaign of threat which is alive
in Austria and the biiilding along its
eastern and northern frontiers of some-
thing very much resembling a Siegfried
Line.
All this dovetails with the turning of
Albania on the south into a Russian
fortress and with the formation of the
East German “Police,” a military force
on the most modern lines, organised and
armed by one of the leading members of
the Nazi party. General Gomez, or
Zaisser, who organised Hitler’s forces in
Spain.
Further east the same picture is to be
seen in a slightly more advanced stage.
Marshal Zhukov sits at Odessa controlling
a huge force which has no justification
for its existence if it is not being organ-
ised to attack Turkey. Marshal Timo-
shenko commands 30 divisions on the
north-eastern borders of Persia, a few
hours from Afghanistan, a couple of days
from Pakistan territory. There is Russian
control of Manchuria and China under
Moscow’s servant, Mao. There is fight-
ing, sporadic certainly, but still fighting,
against Communists in China, in Indo-
China, in the Philippines (where the situ-
ation becomes more disorganised, and
perilous every week), in Malaya, in
Burma, and against insurgent Red bands
in Eastern India. The whole world is
riddled with—though beginning to resist
•—Communist borers whose operations are
accompanied by propaganda which leaves
no doubt as to their ultimate aims.
All their operations are accompanied
bv actions designed to insult and pro-
voke their “capitalist” opposition and to
weaken its defences against the day
when the gusty showers of strategic cold
war will be replaced by the tornado of
battle.
A few days ago the Indian Ambassador
to Peking was welcomed with open arms
by enthusiastic crowds, while the British
Ambassador-elect has been kept on the
doorstep for five months waiting for
recognition. The Soviet has sent its
highest-ranking South-east Asia man to
Pakistan. It has offered arms and sup-
port and a treaty of friendship to the
assassin Syrian Government which last
week was reported to have received its
overtures enthusiastically—especially the
offer of arms.
At the same time, no British official
in an Iron Curtain country is safe for a
moment. In the House of Commons on
May 15 Mr. Ernest Davies, • Parlia-
mentary Under-Secretary to the Foreign
Office, gave details of interference with
seven employees of the British Embassy
in Moscow. Three disappeared and one
was so intimidated that she' attempted
suicide. A British soldier had been
arrested in Soviet Germany in 1946 and
sentenced to 10 years for espionage.
Access to him had been refused, and he
had disappeared completely. There were
five other cases in Bulgaria, 10 in Czecho-
slovakia, seven in Hungary and three
each in Poland and Rumania. And V®,
the Kremlin has now produced a “peace
plan, which is designed to destroy defence
in all countries which Moscow intends to
grab and induct into the Communist
world.
These, of course, include Australia,
where the so-called heads of an Australian
“Labor” movement, Red-anted with
Communism, celebrated the Whitsun
march of Soviet agents in Berlin by
making preparations for an all-in fight
against the Communist Party Dissolution
Bill inside and outside the Senate. Their
pretext is that they are engaged in a
fight for the liberty of the subject, which
is about as genuine as the Soviet Union’s
claim that it is fighting for peace.
Unless Communism is crushed and
Russia deterred there may be no liberty
of the subject in 10 years’ time.
A Red in Court.
Three weeks ago the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association, N.S.W. division,
sought from the Industrial Commission
an order for re-employment by
Lysaghts, at Newcastle, of an. avowed
Communist, Richard Charles Morgan,
who, in 1939, had resigned volun-
tarily from his job on being elected
secretary of the Newcastle branch
of the union, a position which, he held
till the end of 1949. During the last six
of those 10 years he had also been a
member of the district committee of the
Communist party, and during the last
two years he was its president. Having
been “purged” at recent local union
elections, which made “a clean sweep” of
Communists on its executive, Morgan
demanded employment again at Lysaghts.
The firm refused, for its own protection.
“Comrade” Morgan, thus in a manner
“declared” by the company—admittedly
engaged in a key industry —had not been
dismissed from employment, but his
assertion of a right to re-engagement put
the case near enough to all fours with
the sort that may be expected on appeal
under the anti-Communist legislation.
The onus of proof that Morgan was a
fit and proper person to be employed
was undertaken by himself. His case was
conducted not by the local branch (anti-
Communist) of his union, but by Secre-
tary McHenry from the Sydney office.
Proceedings wene enlivened by the
evidence that Morgan’s own union did
not want to employ him any more than
his previous employer did. But it sup-
ported his demand on the previous em-
ployer as “a matter of union principle.”
Lysaghts, it held, should take him on
again because an ex-union official should
have a right to re-employment in his
former occupation, and, though it re-
garded him as “dangerous” and “anti-
Australian” in his activities, “one more
Communist there won’t hurt.” As for
the union’s own reasons for being glad
to get rid of him from its executive—
“definitely” would hurt —branch-
secretary Schofield, under cross-examina-
tion, stuck to these statements in a pam-
phlet he used “to fight against Morgan”
for the office of branch secretary;
The Communist party is deliberately
following a policy designed to create a
depression.... They want to see the
economy of the country upset and mass
unemployment so that they can exploit
the misery of the people.
Charlie Morgan and all other local
stooges are anti-working class and anti-
Australian because they follow the [Com-
munist] party line. . ,
Because he is a Communist he can never
make an independent decision regarding
union affairs. Policy ’is decided by Marx
House, and Comrade Morgan must toe the
party line. ~ . ,
Question; You —the union —dismissed
him because you think his views are
dangerous?—We think so.
Q.: You referred to the £25,000, about
which you made allegations, and in a
statement you made to the Newcastle
“Morning Herald” you said: “In spite ot
almost unanimous opposition of the general
membership, he pledged unqualified sup-
port to the striking miners, regardless ot
the fact that thousands of ironworkers
were reduced to the dole level”? —Yes.
The secretary of the Newcastle district
of the Communist party, Lawrence
Aarons, summoned to produce minutes
of meetings of the local Communist
organisation and its executive, said there
were none to produce. The applicant
Morgan, fellow-executive of Aarons, also
said he knew nothing of any documents
or records in the Communists’ Newcastle
office. The district office kept no records
at all —no minutes, no correspondence-
files, no resolutions of meetings, no lists
of members, no receipts, no filing system,
no wages-book, and he had no knowledge
of what wages were paid or of any audit
of books or of who did the party’s print-
ing. He supposed there was correspon-
dence and that somebody did write down
resolutions at meetings, but if so these
records were destroyed. He knew who
were the members of the district com-
mittee, but refused to say without
approval of those members.
The commission first decided that he
ought to answer this question and then
ruled otherwise. But concerning the
absence of office records this exchange
ensued: —
Ferguson, J.: Is it the policy of the
Communist party in Newcastle to refuse to
produce documents? —I know of no
instance in the past where documents have
been required.
Is it the policy of the Communist party
to know nothing about documents when
they are questioned about them?—l would
say, so far as I am concerned, that if I
was asked to produce documents, if I knew
they were in existence, well, then I would
be able to answer out of my own know-
ledge.
There are two classes of documents you
admit having come into possession of the
party here, communications from the head
office in Sydney and butts of receipts
issued for subscriptions or levies. —Corres-
pondence would be dealt with, but in the
main it would be correspondence there was
no necessity to file. There is no use
accumulating a lot of correspondence of
no value if it has been dealt with.
Richards, J.: Do you seriously say that
to us as a court? —Yes.
With your experience as secretary of the
Ironworkers’ Association, you can see no
reason for keeping copies of correspon-
dence?—Not all correspondence.
Any correspondence?—ln relation to the
union
I am talking about the Communist
party. —I see no necessity to keep a record
of party correspondence received, and
receipts, in the main, are not in the form
of receipts, they are in a stamp form.
Ferguson, J.; I would expect in any
form of association there would be some
record kept of members who had paid
their subscriptions and also some record of
relevant correspondence, and... .1 think the
question should be cleared up.—As presi-
dent of the Communist party in this
district, I can only answer the question on
the basis of what I know.
Richards, J.: Do you mean you have
deliberately not found out certain facts so
that you would not have to answer ques-
tions? —No.
Who does know all about them then?—
The most responsible person would be the
secretary. I may not go
Richards, J.: That is all I want to ask
you, thank you.
Following further questioning about the
form of receipts, which, as described by
witness, would baffle any ordinary com-
mercial intelligence, Morgan admitted
that on the strength of his experience in
office management and conducting corres-
pondence he had applied for a clerical
job with Lysaght’s, considering himself
suitable. He appeared to be in great
difficulty in remembering anything—for
instance, whether he was present at a
meeting on February 1 last called to hear
Communist Dixon speak on return from
Europe. This was the meeting where the
Communists were able to hire the New-
castle City Hall only on condition that the
National Anthem was sung in due form.
The condition was performed: “I would
say it was not a very good response.”
At length Morgan did remember that he
was chairman of the meeting.
Interesting aspects of the Morgan case
were the avoiding of, and ambiguous
answers to, questioning about the
Sharkey case, the nature and obliga-
tions of the Communist constitution and
manifesto (he had read the manifesto but
could not remember anything in it), and
the degrees of loyalty owed by a Com-
munist to the Soviet and to his own
country. Those people who put up the
money hereafter to finance appeals to
the courts by Communist “declared”
persons will not get much value out of
their pound, if any at all.
When the hearing was resumed last
week after a fortnight’s interval, the
commission was met by a request from
McHenry that it should, on reaching a
decision, have in mind “only the facts,
and not the policy and administration of
the Communist party.” The president
promptly refused any such assurance and
McHenry, after consideration, said the
case would be dropped, as Morgan had
got employment with another firm.
The victory remained with Lysaghts
and Mr. Cassidy, K.C. The Newcastle
executive of the union, while resenting
on principle the action of the semor
office in discontinuing the case, com-
mented that the Communist union officials
in Sydney evidently wished to - avoid
further embarrassing inquiry into the
Communist party’s activities.
Notable throughout was the absence of
any mention whatever of the unfairness
of onus of proof on the Communist, or of
“persecution of the unions” inherent in
the process, or of any doubt in the union
that this Communist could get a job
without difficulty if he abandoned his
“dangerous” activities. On the positive
side it provided a gauge by which the
public may judge the sincerity of protests
by Communists, fellow-travellers and a
discredited section of the “Labor party,
about the “abuse of British justice in
the provisions of the Commonwealth
Government’s bill.


PLAIN ENGLISH
V-Day or Waterloo?
Unable to postpone the decision any
longer, Mr. McGirr has plumped for a
short and snappy election campaign, with
polling-day on June 17. It may not be
without significance that the following
day, by which time the results of the
poll’ should be known, is the anniversary
of the battle of Waterloo. The panic
which pervaded the ranks of “Labor” a
few weeks ago seems to have given way
to a kind of pathetic optimism that all is
not yet lost—engendered no doubt by
the results of elections in the other five
States, which seemed to give grounds for
believing that the swing against “Labor,”
if not reversed, had at least been arrested.
In South and West Australia and in
Tasmania the polls resulted in a virtual
as-you-were; in Queensland the Hanlon
Government suffered some losses, but re-
mained in office, and in Victoria Cain
regained some of the seats Chifley’s Bank
Grab lost him in 1947. The improved
“Labor” vote compared with the Federal
figures last December suggests that \yith
tl;e threat of socialisation removed from
Canberra many electors who had swung
away from “Labor” in the Federal sphere
turned back to it in choosing their State
Parliaments. In hoping for a similar
trend in New South Wales the McGirrs
are forgetting two things: in no other
State was (and is) “Labor” so closely
identified with the Federal party, and in
no other State is the party led by a
McGirr.
Since the 1947 elections a redistribution
has increased the size of the Assembly
from 90 seats to 94, and only 17 elec-
torates have retained their old boundaries,
so comparisons with past figures are
rather inconclusive. Ignoring Federal
results, it is interesting to study the figures
of significant by-elections during the
McGirr reign. Coogee, won by “Labor”
in 1947 by 793 votes, was lost at a by-
election the following year. Concord,
won by 1665 votes, was twice lost at by-
elections, the most recent in February
last, when the Liberal got home by over
400 votes—a swing of nearly 2100.
Kogarah, won at the general election by
3732 ; lost at a by-election 18 months
later.
At present Mr. McGirr holds 49
Assembly seats; the Liberal and Country
parties hold 39, and there are two Lang
Laborites. At the general election in 1947
the following seats were won by “Labor”
by majorities smaller than that scored in
Kogarah;
Annandale ~ .
Ashbumham ... " ” 218
Barwon '' 42
• • • • • .’! 2697
Bondi ~ # # 2192
Castlereagh .. ■ ■*. " 1237
lJubbo ~ # # # g
Dulwich Hill .. " " 1826
Oeorge s River .. .. .. 1409
Goulburn ~ # # 779
Hawkesbury .. .. ” " 757
lllawarra .. # # 2893
Liverpool Plains .. .. ” 1232
Mudgee H B5
Murrumbidgee .. 1735
Namoi ; # 2J
K 1 s y dne y • • • • • D 62
3257
Kockdale . ? i sq
Yass .. 2880
You ng :: ;; ;; ;;
feh was held by Bill Currey, V.C,
if tb a s* a personal vote, but even
„„ ae onc . Ord figures are taken as a
tn „ 8e ls not hing in the above table
th P CailSe McG hr to throw his in
SL air - As , Mr. Chifley could tell him,
a hmit to. what redistribution
seatc caieve -. By wiping out four country
v p ’ r f ducm g the quota in industrial
nniitn- aS i and creating more metro-
two ~ electorates he has possibly gained
has tr. r u ree seats for his party. This
nmm- be set against a sorry record of
* 6S , unfulfilled—a housing-pro-
outs hasn’t been realised ; black-
still w 5u l Were he banished, but are
tn lth , us »■ transport muddles that were
b e . t SO Ved hut haven’t been. It must
five nf a , gainst a P ar ty split which sees
as j caucus defending their seats
must , endorse d” A.L.P. candidates. It
ridimir. 6 Se £ against the memory of his
himspif US ress gag which recoiled on
drawn Was ignominiously with-
tw n l Ust k® set against the know-
pled * • and . his P ar ty are still
with ib lo i ocia hsation, and are in accord
emasonfs° rts Canberra “Labor” to
j culate the Anti-Red Bill.
a H thpco Rotors can forget or forgive
Sundav things, then the early hours of
firmedV Une 18, may find McGirr con-
Ne w ci another term as Premier of
a real w 7 ; if not, then it will be
Cal Waterloo day for him.
Evatt Versus Onus.
The broadcasts of Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Alan Fraser on Sunday night make it
clear that “Labor” intends to use the
onus-of-proof clause to defeat legislation
against Communists even if the party dies
in the attempt, as it may well do. Mr.
Fraser said that people who thought that
Labor” would not fight the clause to
the point of double-dissolution were mis-
taken. Dr. Evatt continues to oppose the
clause, his political hide being impene-
trable by memories of his own record
as 'Attorney-General.
Perhaps the best illustration is the Blain
case. The facts were as follows: Mr.
A. Blain, M.P. for the Northern
Territory, ex-prisoner-of-war, broken in
health and not long out of a Japanese jail
in which he had been under sentence for
a determined attempt to escape, asked in
Parliament certain questions affecting Dr.
Evatt.
Mr. Mulcahy, a Government member,
then accused Mr. Blain in Parliament of
having shown his gold Parliamentary pass
to the Japanese to secure special treat-
ment. The charge was made under Par-
liamentary privilege. Only general public
indignation at an obviously ungrounded
accusation against a brave and injured
soldier of two wars forced the Govern-
ment to appoint a select committee of the
House of Representatives to inquire into
the matter.
Dr. Evatt, despite the circumstances,
had no qualms about taking the chair-
manship of this committee. He was,
therefore, especially by reason of his
position as Attorney-General, in a posi-
tion to determine its procedure and
manage its affairs. He, and the committee
also, were in a position to compel the
attendance of witnesses and to determine
who should give evidence.
The committee met, and Dr, Evatt
was able to exhibit the strength of his
conviction as to where the onus-of-proof
should lie. He did not call the former
camp commandant at Changi. He did not
call on Mr. Mulcahy, M.P., the accuser,
to prove his odious charge. Mr. Blain was
put into the box instead and told to clear
himself if he could.
And when the evidence showed that
there was not even credible rumor as the
basis for the charges, neither Dr. Evatt
nor his “Labor” colleagues had a word
of condemnation for the libeller nor
showed any disposition to spurn or eject
him from the “Labor” party.
Instead, “Labor” organised a specially-
backed Federal campaign to defeat Mr.
Blain at the next Federal elections.
Thoughts on a Sheep Show.
Last Friday the Prime Minister looked
at a group of sheep and the crowd
surrounding them and him and spoke
words suitable to the occasion—official
opening of the Sydney Sheep Show. Mr.
Menzies was aware of the enormous
wealth those sheep represented—a
national wool cheque of £274 million this
year was his estimate, apart from the
worth of mutton and lambs —and he
possibly counted himself lucky to b©
Prime Minister of Australia at a time of
general Australian well-being: good
seasons, high export income, work for
everybody and industrial expansion.
The picture, of course, is not without
its blemishes (the necessity of a Federal
Government to introduce an anti-
communist bill is proof of that), but he
would be a born pessimist who failed to
see that Australia has the ball at her feet.
Whether she scores with it is a matter for
the future to decide.
This sheep-show, in the opinion of
some people, was not as good as others.
All the same there was nothing wrong
with the quality of the sheep shown, nor
was there anything wrong with the prices
paid at the subsequent ram sales. What
is wrong is that at a time when they’ve
got the money to do it so many land-men
are unable to make improvement to their
properties because the materials to do it
are not available.
Nobody likes pointing morals, but if
there is one in this display of stud-sheep
in the heart of Australia’s biggest city—
a display practically ignored by that city
—it is that whereas the land industries,
though hampered by want of labor and
materials, are doing their share of pro-
duction, the same cannot be said of the
secondary industries. If factory produc-
tion and production of capital goods were
as proportionately high as that of the
land, Australia would enjoy real pros-
perity for at least a generation ahead.
The Senate's Presumption.
From the Senate the Socialist Opposition
majority has declared war on the Govern-
ment’s mandate from the electors. Its
stonewalling on the Bank Bill and the
Anti-Communist Bill presages the sort
of treatment awaiting other legislation
during the sessional period now rapidly
running out. Its obvious determination
of the Senate majority to take control of
all business out of the Government’s
hands could be carried to points without
precedent in the Commonwealth’s pro-
cedure.
Incidentally, how far can “Labor”
Senators’ insistence upon amendments to
the Bank Bill, as ordered by the A.C.T.U.,
justly survive “Labor’s” allowing passage
without a division to the third reading
of the bill in the Representatives where
those amendments were rejected?
“Labor” seems to have accepted a
double dissolution as inescapable, and
the obstructing tactics in the Senate are
clearly designed to prepare, if possible,
an election issue of “Labor’s” own choos-
ing.
The proposed initiation by the Socialists
in the Senate of a bill for a referendum
to give the Commonwealth Government
control over prices and price-fixing is the
main feature in this campaign. It would
appear, as also does the attempt to in-
crease the amount of
to be beyond the Senate’s powers. Section"
53 of the Constitution lays down:
Proposed laws appropriating revenue or
moneys, or imposing taxation, shall not
originate in the Senate
The Senate may not amend any proposed
laws so as to increase any proposed charge
or burden on the people.
Obviously the cost of a referendum on
price-control would require an appropri-
ation from the revenue, and the adminis-
tration of a law imposing any control of
prices would entail a heavy charge on
the Budget in price-subsidies. In any
event how the Opposition, from the
Senate, could force the Government to
adopt a price-control policy which it has
declared, with the approval of the electors,
that it rejects, is not explained.
Other pointers in the campaign to bring
to a standstill the Government’s pro-
gramme—founded on a clear mandate
from the recent elections —are the sus-
tained larrikinism against the Speaker
from the Opposition benches in the
House of Representatives, and the calcu-
lated disrespect towards the Prime
Minister. Mr. Menzies has from his
place in Parliament told Mr. Speaker that
the Opposition is gunning for him—
“pitching” was his word —and the same
applies to Mr. Menzies himself. Neither
the Speaker nor the Leader of the House
is without resources from the Standing
Orders to deal with this sort of thing as
it deserves.
What referenda shall be taken is for
decision by the Government, and the
campaign of obstruction in the Senate
can only recoil on “Labor’s” own head.
It is no bad strategy to allow the per-
petrators of it to show their hand. The
Ministry’s general plans for combating
the inflation aggravated by the late
Chifley Government’s own conduct of the
nation’s economy have been elaborated
and the reforms planned cannot be tackled
apart from the Budget. Meanwhile there
is nothing more spurious in the “Labor”
campaign to condemn the Government
for not “restoring value to the pound”
by the waving of some magic wand than
“Labor’s” malicious obstruction of every
Government effort to plough the field
for that very operation.
Much of this Socialist scheming will
depend on the reflection of public opinion
in N.S.W. at the State elections a fort-
night hence. Taking cost of living as
“Labor’s” desired election issue could
scarcely, on the face of things, recom-
mend itself to Mr, McGirr and his party.
So far from showing during the past 10
years any least disposition to combat
inflation, N.S.W. “Labor” has deliberately
boosted costs of goods and services in
every direction.
Political Polio.
Tasmania’s Oldest Inhabitant writes:
Here in this isle of lots of time, where all
political elections are conducted under a formula
from the higher mathematics, and potatoes are
perpetually awaiting shipments, we are now
under one-man government. Democracy accord-
ing to proportional representation has reached
the last summit of futility, and we may expect
shortly to see a monument to P.R., with a
potato for its headpiece, erected on Mount
Wellington, and Esperanto, or something of the
sort, made the local official language.
There are two political parties here, and
neither can function as a Government without
sanction from Mr. Wedd. There is “Labor,” 15;
Liberal, 14; and Mr. Wedd, Independent. He
was Speaker last Parliament, but when he
decided to abdicate the “Labor” Government
could not do a thing. “Labor” was re-elected
with the so-called majority abovementioned,
but it still can’t do a thing, for Mr. Wedd won’t
accept the Speakership unless the Liberals also
ask him, and the Liberals won’t. So when
“Labor” appoints a Speaker it will put itself
in a minority on the floor of the Assembly
and at the mercy of Mr. Wedd. What Mr.
Wedd says will go. That is what it looks like
at the moment, anyway. If he falls ill, the
course of government in Tasmania could change
at once.
This P.R. ought to be made a notifiable
disease. Poliomyelitis is bad enough, but look
at this thing. It has completely paralysed the
opinions of 59 voters out of every 60.
Learning and "Comics. 11
Educationists here and abroad are
worried about the prevalence of the
“comic strip” and the books of “comics,”
which now sell in millions. Only a very
small percentage of the characters depicted
therein are comic characters, the rest
being made up of dirty crooks, heroic
cops, mad and evil scientists or sane and
good scientists, and fantastic young men
variously named Superman, Speed Gordon,
Hurricane Hawk and so forth, who battle
with monsters on nightmare planets or in
caverns under the earth. All this, say
the educationists, is affecting the normal
schooling of children and adolescents and
is destroying the desire to read, the young
preferring pictures to letterpress.
So there have been discussions and
suggestions that some means should be
sought to turn this absorption in pictures
into a medium of education. Here and
there some purveyors of “comic strips”
1 have tried it with picturised versions of
classical adventure-stories like Treasure
Island and Monte Cristo, Biblical stories
and “factual” depictions of the lives of
great men. But they do not appeal to
either children or grown-ups, for the
simple reason that both read “comics”
for the same reason that they listen to
radio serials or go to the movies—for en-
tertainment. People, young and old alike,
make a sharp distinction between enter-
tainment and education —if they want the
former they don’t want lessons with it
(which is why stories with a moral have
died out), and if they seek the latter it is
because they hunger for it.
Children live in a world of make-
believe. Two rusty jam-tins can be two
dragons fighting to the death for a small
boy, a clothes-peg with a rag round it a
baby to a small girl. The distinction they
make between study and play is even
more sharply defined and impregnable
than that made by adults. The
adolescent’s dreams are different from
those of the child, the capacity for feeling
is much more sensitive and deep, and
they carry into their reading of fiction
(whether in the form of words or
pictures) their frustrations and triumphs.
They are more scornful than either
children or adults of attempts to teach
them by the means suggested.
In its essentials the so-called adventure
comic strip is nothing more than ad-
venture fiction speeded up. Speed Gordon
battling flame-breathing serpents on the
planet of Mongo, after being thrown
among them by Ming the Merciless, is
much the same as Theseus fighting the
Minotaur in the Cretan labyrinth. The
Greek myth has become a classic because
of its age and because of the beauty of
language in the original and the transla-
tions.
So far there are no signs that young or
old are reading fewer books because of
the radio serial or the “comic strip.” The
cry that the “comic strip” debases the
young is merely a repetition of the old
cry that the theatre is not good for them.
It is ridiculous to suggest that if the
“comic strip” were banned, juvenile
crime would vanish.
Educationists are people to be en-
couraged and assisted. In the past 100
years they have turned the white peoples
from illiterates into literates and the
world is better for it, at least for the
whites. Just as the printing-press inevit-
ably moved from a purely educative
function to one of entertainment also, so
has pictorial art moved. It is no argument
to condemn a lot of this picture stuff as
rubbish, for equally as great a proportion
of books is rubbish. From the point of
view of the educationist who doesn’t
appreciate the human desire for entertain-
ment —or “escapism” as some call it—all
is rubbish that doesn’t teach or moralise
or inspire thought.
All the same, if the educationists want
to kill the “comic strip” and the radio
serial and. the light motion-picture, all
they have to do is get the Governments to
insist on all their themes being educative.
Canada and the Great Lakes.
“Canuck” comes in fighting:
I can’t let Dean Acheson get away with the
credit for the St. Lawrence-Great Lakes seaway
and power scheme (B. 3/5/’5O). That project
has been the dream of Canadian
for over fifty years. Back in 1895 commissions
of inquiry were appointed by both the Canadian
and United States Governments, but there was
little result. In 1912 Canada decided to build a
new Welland Canal —it was completed in 1932
between Lakes Erie and Ontario, which would
eventually form an essential link in a projected
deep-water navigation route. The First World
War put a stop to proposals for joint talks
between the two countries, but these were
resumed after the war, and during the 1920’s
extensive investigations were carried out, and in
1932 the St. Lawrence Deep Waterway Treaty
(Continued on next page.)


T
m
h
6484 B-R
There is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
ft
t
was signed. Unfortunately, when this treaty
came before the U.S. Senate for ratification in
1934 it failed to get the necessary two-thirds
affirmative vote. Further negotiations led to
the signing of the Great Lakps-St. Lawrence
Basin Agreement on March 19, 1941. It pro-
vided for:
(1) Construction of the remaining links
of a 27-foot waterway from the head of the
Lakes to Montreal.
(2) Combined power-navigation scheme in
the International Rapids section of the
river.
(3) Preservation of the scenic value -of
Niagara Falls, with an increased develop-
ment of hydroelectric power.
(4) Stabilising the situation regarding
diversions of water from the system.
(5) Use, for power purposes, of waters
which might be diverted into the Great
Lakes system from other watersheds.
Before the agreement could take effect it had
to be ratified by Canadian Parliament and the
U.S. Congress. That is where the catch comes
in. Many attempts have been made in the
States to obtain Congressional ratification, but
all have failed. In February, 1948, the Senate
passed the buck to its Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, which was equivalent to shelving tne
proposal. Next came an announcement tnat
New York State and the Province of Ontario
were prepared to undertake full power deve P
ment in the Rapids section at their own expense
leaving navigation development to be argueu
out between the two Federal Governments, ine
U.S. administration would not approve mis
separate power plan, but decided to urge
gress to approve the combined navigap° n ident
power project. Three times last year P
Truman asked Congress for approval, but wi
out avail. .
Supporters of the plan argue ** M
is one of the basic problems of * e J-L ng
American continent a deep waterway enabling
ocean steamers to pass through to the
the Lakes—222s miles from the Straits of H u
Isle—would encourage expansion and develop
ment over a big area; this develop me ■
be augmented by the power scheme- P
defence viewpoint the scheme wou nera ble
dispersal of key industries to hss
inland areas, and would P ro « dB ship-
for construction of naval and me / scheme
ping. Dean Acheson si advocacy ernme nt
is one more attempt by, the
to induce Congress to ratify the than
Here’s hoping it will be more su
previous attempts have been.
POLITICAL POINTS
A record field of 228 starters is lined
up for the N. S. Wales elections on June
17 Of these 75 are endorsed “Labor”
men, 75 Liberals and 29 Country party.
Jack Lang’s Non-Communist Labor
party is contesting only three seats
Auburn, King and Newtown-Annan-
dale. All four “Labor” M.L.As. who
were refused endorsement by the execu-
tive are standing for their old seats with-
out benefit of endorsement. Heferen
(Barwon), Geraghty (North Sydney) and
Stanley (Lakemba) have official “Labor”
opponents as well as Liberal or C.P.
contenders, but no one could be found to
carry the Trades Hall banner against
Seiffert in Monaro. Another unendorsed
“Labor” member is Mrs. Quirk, who lost
the pre-selection ballot in Balmain.
When the Federal Government de-
rationed petrol last February the Attlee
Government made no secret of its dis-
approval; Mr. Strachey said Australia
“had done the wrong thing,” that the
Menzies Government had made an elec-
tion promise in order to get votes, and
that it “had not thought about Britain’s
interests or the interests of the British
Commonwealth very much.” The New
Zealand Government, exploring the possi-
bilities of following the Australian
example, was told by the Attlees that if
it did so it “would add Considerably to
Britain’s dollar difficulties.” Last Friday
the British Fuel Minister announced that
petrol-rationing in Britain would end the
following day ; the New Zealand Govern-
ment learned the news from the cables.
Apparently Britain’s Socialists expect full
co-operation from Dominion Govern-
ments, but don’t consider it necessary to
reciprocate.
The British action is also a blow to
Federal “Labor” men who, ever since
rationing was abolished, have been hurl-
ing questions and taunts about dollai s
and aid to Britain Almost as the British
Fuel Minister was making his announce-
ment Senator Hendrickson, with a fine
show of concern at what he called extrava-
gance in dollar expenditure, was demand-
ing a select committee to inquire into
the Federal Government’s justification in
abolishing rationing. Perhaps he will now
move to have the scope widened to in-
clude the British action. Hendrickson
may be an authority on dollai matteis ,
he was Senator Keane’s secretary.
The closing stages of the anti-Red
bill debate in the Representatives clearly
showed “Labor’s” confusion. Although
the party’s official attitude is one
of acceptance of the bill itself and
of opposition to only a few features,
notably the onus-of-proof clause, many
“Labor” members at the committee stage
seemed to forget they had not opposed
the second reading and came out
violently against the whole bill.
Opposition-leader Chifley was one,
Drakeford another ; just before the de-
bate ended Sol Rosevear voiced a warn-
ing that sounded more like a threat: ‘ I
warn the Government that when they
start to dictate to the trade-union move-
ment who their officers shall be the fun
will start.” Yet of those who obviously
disagreed with the Caucus decision on
the bill only Ward called “No” when the
measure was put to the vote.
From the monotonous protestations in
the name of British justice which were
made by speaker after speaker on the
“Labor” side it might almost be thought
that that noble concept was born in the
Federal Caucus-room and that King John
signed Magna Carta at the 1921 conven-
tion under threat of having the A.L.P.
rule-book shoved down his throat.
Victorian “Labor” leader Cain is visit-
ing New South Wales to help McGirr in
his election campaign. Now if the
A.L.P. could only persuade McGirr to
go down to Victoria for a few weeks it
might have a chance of winning.
Speaker Cameron last week created an-
other set of Canberra martyrs when he
banned poker-schools within the precincts
of the National Parliament House, he
having discovered one operating —accord-
ing to the president of the Press Gallery
for threepenny points. Unless history
lies, Cameron was unlucky in his choice
of an example. Only a few months ago
Parliament House poker-schools were in-
habited by operators who would not have
recognised a threepenny bit there were
rumors, perhaps quite untrue, of some-
body having lost several hundred pounds
in one of them. However, “Labor” and
the Press Gallery were said when this
issue went to press to be taking steps to
preserve their rights of “privacy” for
recreational gambling inside the House,
Cameron, “Labor” member for Hind-
marsh (S.A.), dilating upon the conditions
of the pore oppressed, said that even one
“Labor” Senator had not seen the sea
until he was 25 years of age. But how
long until he sees the light?
Premier Hanlon has been doing a lot
of squealing about the Commonwealth
subsidising imports of coal from India
and South Africa while Callide coal can’t
be sold to Victoria and South Australia
because of its cost. Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” reminded Hanlon that he could
start a subsidy of his own by knocking
off the ss. a ton road tax his Government
collects on coal carted by motor-truck
from Callide to the ship’s side. So far,
Hanlon hasn’t replied to that.
Weight of numbers seems to be going
to “Labor” Senators’ heads ; otherwise
they wouldn’t be wasting time talking
about forcing a referendum on price-
control against the wishes of the Repre-
sentatives. Section 128 of the Consti-
tution provides that the Governor-General
may submit to a referendum a bill if it
is passed by one House twice within three
months after rejection or amendment by
the other House! But there is nothing to
compel a Government to submit such a
bill to the Governor-General, and there
is no provision for direct approach to
Yarralumla by the Opposition.
Possibly as a result of placing too much
reliance on the prophets of the Mel-
bourne “Argus,” the A.L.P. Standard
reported at a late stage of the counting
in the Victorian election that “Labor”
had increased its strength from 16 to “an
almost certain 27” —earlier forecasts had
given Cain’s party 24. According to the
“Standard,” none of the Sydney papers
had “attempted to follow the count
through.” This was an example of
“biased reporting” which “could not fail
to arouse public contempt.” Last
Thursday the final results were
announced: Liberals, 27 ; Country party,
13 ; “Labor,” 24 ; Independent Labor, 1.
Friday’s “Standard” contained no refer-
ence to these figures. Apparently it had
given up the attempt “to (follow the
count through.”
Both “rebel” L.C.P. men lost their seats.
“Labor” candidates topped the poll in
both Hawthorn and Oakleigh, and the
seats were decided on the preferences of
the “rebels” ; in each case about 21 per
cent, of these went to “Labor.” In Haw-
thorn this was not enough, and Tyack,
the official L.C.P. man, was elected. At
first it seemed the same story in Oakleigh,
Laming (L.C.P.) being 79 ahead on the
“final” count. On the recount all the
blunders about the place were discovered
and Doube (“Labor”) found himself
elected by five votes. A second recount
reduced this to three—the narrowest win
in Victorian electoral history Doube
has been a trier in the district for some
time; he opposed Gullett for the Lederal
seat Henty in 1946 and again last
December.
The eighth “high official” of the
Socialist British Overseas Food Corpora-
tion, which dropped £23 million trying
to grow peanuts in Africa and is drop-
ping some more on a sorghum-seed stunt
in Queensland, has resigned. This time
it was the chairman, who was getting
£5OOO a year. Reasons for the resigna-
tions : “Government inefficiency and
interference” ; result of the £23 million
expenditure, a few tons of peanuts.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Shop Assistants’
Union has demanded that all shops in
the city close all day Saturdays and that
any who open on Saturdays after June 3
be declared “black” by other unions. The
union secretary told reporters that Our
union is trying to cause as incon-
venience to the public as possible. Clos-
ing all shops on the one morning of the
week when thousands have time to shop
seems a queer way of doing it.
Soekarno’s claim to Dutch N.ew
Guinea is, he says, “based both histori-
cally and racially. Since the Modjopahit
Era the Papuans of jjlew Guinea have
been considered politically and racially
Indonesians.” The shallowness of the
claim is exposed by Soekarno’s assur-
ance ; “I make absolutely clear that Indo-
nesia has no aspirations to East New
Guinea.” The boundary between the
two halves of the island at the 141st
meridian is a purely arbitrary line agreed
upon by Holland, Britain and Germany
in 1884, with slight adjustments in the
Fly River region in 1895. To suggest
that Indonesia has “historical and racial”
claims to territory to the west of the line
yet none to land east of it is absurd.
Actually, she has no valid claim on either
side, and Australia should leave Soekarno
in no doubt on this point.
Cosgrove’s efforts to obtain a Speaker
from outside his own party having failed,
he will now have to do next month what
he shirked doing before the election—
appoint one of his followers and face the
House with a minority of one. When the
Tasmanian election produced a parlia-
ment equally divided —“Labor,” 15 ;
Liberals, 14; Independent, I—the
Premier first asked the fo'rmqr Speaker,
the Independent Wedd, to take on the
job again. Wedd refusing, he approached
Liberal leader Townley with a suggestion
that the Libs, should provide the
Speaker; Townley didn’t agree.
A new agreement between Common-
wealth and States on the acquisition of
private property for subdivision into
soldier-settlers’ blocks binds both parties
to the provision of the Commonwealth
Constitution that “just terms” will be
paid as compensation to the dispossessed
owners. The High Court ruled the
previous agreement invalid because com-
pensation was based on 1942 values,
which were obviously not just terms.
Thus is justice assured for the victims of
the previous agreement, though the new
one apparently still does not provide for
a final arbiter where State and Federal
valuers fail to agree.
Bad liaison-work somewhere. In his
policy-speech N. S. Wales Country-party
leader Bruxner advocated new States, and
promised the people of northern N. S.
Wales a referendum on whether or not
they wanted to form a new State. Mean-
time his partner in the coalition pact,
Liberal-leader Treatt, was proclaiming
that his party (opposed the creation of
new States in N- S. Wales.
In his policy-speech three years ago
McGirr spoke of opening up new coal-
fields, the objective being “to increase
production by three and a half million
tons a year.” In September last year
J. M. Baddeley, then Deputy-Premier
and Minister for Mines, was appointed
Director of State Coal Mines—a seven-
year job at £2500 a year. Earlier he, too,
had spoken of increased output—in
Burragorang Valley there were proved
deposits of 250 million tons; several
large mines could be developed there
which could produce 1,500,000 tons a
year. It is to be presumed that Baddeley
got lost in the wilds of Burragorang;
nothing has been heard of him since—
nor of the coal.
Chifley Socialism, Eddie-Wardism and
the Australian trade-unionist, intimidated
by Communist racketeers, took the value
out of the Australian pound. Menzies,
Liberalism and decent trade-unionism will
have the tough job of putting it (or some
of it) back.
Bird, Communist secretary of the Vic-
torian Seamen’s Union, in advising his
dupes to discontinue the strike they had
begun at his instigation, said they should
go back “in the interests of expediency”
as he had heard he would be “picked up”
by security police unless they did so. He ’
didn’t want this to happen because “I
want to be in this show from the begin-
ning.” Thornton, on the other hand,
seems determined to be out of it from the
beginning.
Roberton, C.P. man for Riverina,
brought the House down while discuss-
ing the child-endowment bill last week.
Instead of “ss. per child,” he said “ss. a
bushel.” Habit dies hard, even with wheat-
farmers.


CHf^S
N?\7-
Sq.
<pV\TIC^
%So#
dfg
A/SXHIfIS-/
!*>• >
TaTTOOINGt I
'JtoNS 1
l^ove?
MORE THAN SKIN-DEEP.
“Leave the girl-friend there, Professor; but CAN’T y’ do somethin’ about removin’ me onus?”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“C. 8.”: One of the most favored
stamping-grounds for Melbourne artists
is Jamieson, a mountain-built town be-
tween Wood’s Point and Walhalla, popu-
lation 250. A woman artist was unpacking
her kit preparatory to making a start on
a picture when a local passed. “What a
lovely landscape,” she said, waving her
hand towards a vista of valley, river and
distant mountains. “Yes,” said the
Jamiesonian. “It’d be all right if the
artists didn't spoil it.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Sackfair”: At some time during the
last 15 years an unknown Australian
found himself in, a position that
demanded bloodshed ; the only difficulty
was the very obvious , likelihood of the
blood being his own. Discretion warned
him not to carry the matter on to an
issue decidedly in doubt, but to back
down would result in complete loss of
face. His mind frantically devised posi-
tions he would like to have his opponent
in, positions in which there was no doubt
concerning the way the tide of battle
would flow. Then came inspiration: he
would wait until Fate brought about such
an opportunity! There was the possi-
bility, of course, that he might never meet
the fellow again ; still, that was a risk that
had to be taken. “You’ll keep,” he
threatened darkly, “you’ll keep.” He
strode away—a man who had retained
his honor, his dignity and his face. A
man who hadn't squibbed a fight, but
merely postponed the combat until a time
of his own choosing. And thus was born
an expression that has averted more
fights than any other bracket of words in
the English language. I’ve seen at least
seven fights fail to happen by the simple
use of those two and a half words; and
in every case both sides seemed to be
quite satisfied that honor was unbe-
smirched. Who the fellow was that
started this bruiseless method I’m still
trying to ascertain, but I’m all for erect-
ing a monument to his memory.
♦ * * *
“Zake”: Before some authority or
other began the task of renewing pipes
under a footpath in one of Sydney’s outer
suburbs they had the concrete slabs care-
fully removed and stacked. Some months
elapsed while the pipes were laid and the
earth over them was allowed to subside
to the necessary level. Such a thing
would normally be a certainty for some
stinging letters to the local free rag. Not
one protest was registered. The other
day I noticed the slabs were all back
again, and the workmen must have gone
to a whale of trouble to bed them so well
in the sand that they formed a path of
billiard-top straightness and smoothness.
The pathway runs alongside the railway-
line from the station straight to the
Parramatta River, Only on the other
side of the street are there houses, and
s similar footpath there serves the resi-
dents. Not a person in the municipality’s
memory has ever used the footpath that
was taken up and relaid with such
meticulous care.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Sackville St. - ’: Of all the elements,
surely none is so slandered as lightning.
Any act of destruction not actually wit-
nessed is invariably attributed to that de-
famed “act of God.” When the historic
“Old Oak” at Rairfield (N.S.W.) split
almost in two ,no local doubted that it
had been struck by lightning. Asked to
advise on methods of saving the tree, a
forestry expert pointed out that the col-
lapsed portion comprised immense limbs
that had spread parallel to the ground
over an amazing distance ; with a gale
tearing through the foliage the weight
of timber had become too much for the
tree’s strength and the trunk had split.
Over the years I’ve seen other cases. An
old shed may lean drunkenly for half a
lifetime, its owner having become so
used to the effect that it no longer re-
minds him of a tower somewhere or
other. Then comes a violent storm,
softening the ground around the posts,
adding weight to the leaning timber and
striking the structure with all the power
of wind-driven rain. But if a clap of
thunder is heard prior to the collapse
old Thor is a certainty to get the blame.
Ancient “bottleneck” chimneys are
another example: nobody but a visitor
notices how far they have leaned away
from the old weatherboards. The climax
comes when rushing water undermines
the meagre foundations. And, of course,
“Old So-an-so’s chimbley was struck by
lightning.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Pat”: It comes naturally to women,
but keeping up with the social round is
a bit of a strain on the male who has
“That Was the day I rang Joan in London, dear, when I got stuck
with that jumper pattern
to tackle a not-so-social day’s work first.
A chap I know dined out one Friday
night. On the Saturday a woman came
up to him at the races, “Well, hello,”
said she, “how are you today?” He
studied her earnestly, but honesty finally
compelled him to admit he was stumped.
“Why, surely you remember,” she
laughed. “You dined at my house last
night.” He had, too.
• ♦ * *
“Bo”: It is 48 years ago since the
operatic world was shocked by its
greatest scandal: the world premiere of
Debussy’s “Pelleas and Melisande,”
which is to be staged for the first time in
Australia by the N.S.W. State Conserva-
torium Opera School next Saturday. The
opera is founded on the Maeterlinck
play, and when the composer’s promise
that the author’s “common-law” wife,
Georgette Leblanc, should sing Melisande
was tossed aside by Carre, manager of
the Opera Comique, who gave the coveted
“Charming little fellow."
role to the then-unknown American
soprano Mary Garden, Maeterlinck
blistered the pages of “Le Figaro” with
a savage attack on the forthcoming
presentation, winding up with a white-
hot wish that “its failure may be resound-
ing and prompt.” It was. Critics and
public were bewildered by an opera from
which the dazzling aria was utterly
banished, where atmosphere and mood
had to take the place of the full-blooded
stilettoings, the lusty choruses, the vivid
action and color of the grand operas of
the Italian and earlier French schools.
Even the final slaying of the guilty lovers,
the frustrated audience claimed, was a
debilitated affair at best. It wasn’t until
four years later that Paris started to look
upon it more kindly. The opera must
also hold the record for a composer’s
birth-pain labors —it was 10 years in the
making.
“Farback”: A State museum has two
main functions: one, to arouse and edu-
cate public interest, and, two, to act as
a repository for scientific knowledge.
“Wingella” (B. 26/4/’5O) is surely not so
ingenuous as to imagine that any worth-
while amount of information under any
head, from zoology to ethnology, can be
gained by merely strolling about and
looking at showcases, without previous
preparation by reading up the subject.
In any case, the second function is the
real work of the museum, and the real
employment of its scipntifi
four generations a steady For
mens, only a small perce„S e „°/
are seen, or could be shown to ,l? f * hi *
has accumulated in our the Public
has been classified and Sjffi and
this way, steadily and without??'
immense volume of knowledge an
up- knowledge which is drawn 8 built
every day for economic purposes V l5Oll
to a handful of enthusSf^
workers, poorly paid and often unknown
in Australia, an internationally famous
collection of specimens and data concern-
ing the aboriginal has been made.
* * *
“Raindrop”: I know of one rain-
insurance policy (B. 19/4/’5O) which
turned up trumps. Our agricultural
society for years insured its annual show
for £lOO against rain between noon and
2 p.m., and never collected a penny. Oh,
it rained all right; but not at the right
hour. Fed up with paying out, getting
the usual deluge, and never collecting, the
society one year discussed omitting the
insurance, and finally decided to insure
for only £5O. The secretary and three
other bright birds on the committee
dubbed in on the quiet and the policy
was taken out for the usual £lOO. Did
it rain? One and a half inches between
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. The secretary cashed
the insurance cheque, paid the committee
their £5O and he and his fellow-sportsmen
pocketed £l2 10s. apiece. #
“Chips”: After reading in the papers
how simply people can build tb eir 0
homes, and the money they can save , y
doing so, 1 became very depressed t th
thought that, my knowledge, skills
experience being °f s ueh httl >
soon everyone would build f .
selves, my calling would dlsa PP r [ oy .
I should have to apply { or
ment-relief. However, I - . my
heartened and have regained
self-esteem since one
mo his trials and troiible
me, almost with tears in h Y » j o b
cheque if only I would complete tne J
for him. *
“Blue P”: Overheard a New A u^
tralian lady ask the son-
bookshop for a book for should
“A book goot that young The
for know about Australia, oa-
saleswoman picked op oj e “This
bong series and offered
is quite a decent booK, 4 I
N.A. eyed it and should
would not want for htt „ §he lS
read the indecent book.
certainly a tricky languag • #
* * a Arnehe aa
“A.E.S.”: High-P re ssure college s
salesmen, ripe with the w ‘.
specialising in the fir . g £ s ales-r eSIS '
smile and the someth^
ance, could • the key t? h s
from a sister of mine ' that when she
success lies in the fact tnai
worried or thinking eXpress jon so
■ sweet dial assumes , jbit ed. by a j,
what similar to tba in 2 t he war she*
; pressed bulldog. T*™* s ety of an
, herself and kids to die saw ra uy,
i back part ofthe guns p P Rs
■ acquired a cow. change P a °,,
' and she was ready to® had t c>*»£
; for pavements aga ’ ecte d it aad
1 cow. A hard and jLbors
i £B. Sis thought naru
. hastily raised the bid bro ught
j were surprised th
I a price. So was Sis.
THE WAY HOME.
“The N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. McGirr, who
promised electors 90,000 new houses, is balancing
his deficiency at the coming election with the
appointments of Mr. Winsor as Transport Commis-
sioner and Mr. Conde as Electricity Commissioner.”
“1 don’t care how the tongues may wag,
I don’t care how the papers rouse—
Come out with me,” said Jim McGag,
“And see my ninety-thousandth house.”
We climbed into a lurching tram.
McGag produced his pass; and then he
Remarked, “You pay your fare, you clam,
And don’t forget the extra penny!”
After a mile we pulled up short
On a steep hill just out of town.
The driver made his sad report:
“We won’t be long. The fuse is blown.”
“It happens many times a day,”
Said Jim. “It’s fated, evidently,
But Driver Winsor has a way.
Of making fuses blow so gently!”
As we renewed our bumps and leaps,
A smash of steel mass meeting mass
Jerked passengers to struggling heaps
And showered them with shattered glass.
“These things will happen,” Jimmy said.
“It’s really very sad to see it;
But while they carry off the dead.
I’ll tell you what 1 think of Treatt —
“For he and Bruxner, I’ve no doubt,
Think they could do my job. Such twaddle!
You’re well-advised to keep them out —
They’d get things in a fearful muddle” . . .
The hours slipped by. The line was mended.
Another tramcar bounced us on.
But by the time our journey ended
The streets were dark —the sun bad gone.
“Ah, here’s the block it ought to be in.”
McGag remarked. “I think I'm right—
The darkness is too thick to see in:
Phone Conde; say we want a light.”
But in the darkened corner-box
The answer was a bit annoying:
“He’s busy, working like an ox
To make the blackout you're enjoying.”
“It seems like someone’s gone on strike,”
We said to Jim. “Though we may roam,
We still say we've seen nothing like
Your ninety-thousandth home-sweet-home.”
McGag remained content with life:
“How tactful Conde is! How fair!
For how humiliating if
We saw it, and it wasn’t there!
“Don’t try to know too much, my lad;
You’re safer living guess by guess—
You wouldn’t find things half so bad
If you had let me gag the Press!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


* * * *
“Equity”: There is an echo of an old
dispute in the search of the N. S. Wales
Master in Equity for members of the
Sydney Lodge of the Theosophical
Society. Sydney Lodge derived from the
Sydney Theosophical Society, which was
founded in 1891 and was affiliated with
the Theosophical Society of India. In
1914 the Lodge came into possession of
a Hunter-street property known as the
King’s Hall. Eight years later there was
a split in the Lodge, many members dis-
agreeing with some of the doctrines
taught by Mrs. Annie Besant and Bishop
Leadbeater; a number of members
resigned. In July, 1923, Mrs. Besant
notified the Lodge that its charter had
been cancelled and a new body known as
the Independent Theosophical Society
was formed to carry on the original
objects of the Lodge; not long after-
wards another organisation known as
Blavatsky Lodge was formed, which also
purported to carry on similar objects.
Legal arguments as to ownership of
assets were decided in favor of the old
Lodge, and in 1938 the King’s Hall was
sold and the proceeds were held by the
trustees. The two new organisations then
claimed they were entitled to the money,
but on September 22, 1944, Mr. Justice
Nicholas decided that the assets had never
been effectively transferred and he directed
that the remaining funds should be
divided equally among those persons who
were members of the Sydney Lodge when
it ceased to act, and who had survived
at the date of the Judge’s order and had
not validly resigned. Claimants may in-
spect membership lists at the Equity Office
or at the offices of Sydney solicitors
Metcalfe, Jeffrey and Co.
* * * *
“Vingter”; The appearance of a lone
leminine silhouette on the walls of the
tent, in which the occupants were staging
a party enlivened by beer, awakened the
envy of the masculine and the ire of the
temale elements among the staider occu-
pants of the camp at the Queensland sea-
s’de resort. On the evidence of the
shadow-show the lass did not absorb any
or the beer, but entered into the spirit
or the party by allowing herself to be
boisterously tossed about by the male
revellers. Female tongues clucked, but
neir owners remained inactive till it
appeared that the male hosts were assist-
ng their guest to get ready for bed. At
5 stage Smithy and I, under virulent
witeiy dominance, very diffidently
approached the tent in which the orgy
as being staged. Five minutes later we
were surrounding bottled beer, seated on
e recumbent female figure, which had
oeen souyenired from among the firm’s
P ay of models by the window-dresser
member of the bucks’ party. We had to
aKe th e fig Ur e back with us to our own
ent to support an alibi.
ii * * * *
antS 0 v ter ” Suggestion s by medical
shnnJ l^ 68 that ad Australian infants
nouid be vaccinated against smallpox—
of the disease coming in being
. , ased b y the development of air travel
Virtr> e - S back to childhood days in
Sf J na when vaccination was compul-
varmi? that State ' A lot of people, for
coni sea5 eaS ° nS but chiefl y because of
££***- / efused to have their
reoealpi treat ? d - Whether the law was
P aled or simply allowed to slip into
desuetude I know not, but I do know
mat in those days a lot of anxious mothers
were concerned about the marks on the
arms of girls, holding that they would
show as ugly scars when, in. adult life,
the girls wore evening-dress. Many
sought vaccination of small girls on the
upper leg, where it wouldn’t show in later
, That’s what they thought; they
couldn t be expected to foresee these days
or scanty bathing-costumes and sports-
wear.
‘Findy ’: Long years of residence in
New South Wales have still not accus-
tomed me to that State’s custom of letting
oft' fireworks on Empire Day, a habit
reserved in my native South Australia for
Guy Fawkes’s night. Apparently the
windowdresser in one of Sydney’s depart-
mental stores is in a similar state of
mental confusion—in the middle of a
tastefully arranged display of Empire Day
fireworks he has placed an effigy of old
Guido. At least I presume that is who
he intends the figure to represent; it
doesn’t look a scrap like Queen Victoria,
in whose honor May 24 was chosen as
Empire Day.
• * * *
“Fairf”; If anybody really wants to
find stonemasons capable of putting back
Sydney’s G.P.O. tower and restoring it
to its former splendor he has only to
journey about 400 yards up George-street
and make inquiries at the Town Hall.
The City Council still employs a good/
staff of stonemasons and I feel sure it
wouldn’t mind lending their services in a
good cause and for reasonable considera-
tion.
* * * *
“Uco”: On his American tour Dickens
found spitting in public (B. 10/5/’5O) not
so much a habit as a pastime. His dis-
gust at the custom was equalled only by
his contempt for the poor marksmanship
displayed by its practitioners, though he
ui 'v
crimes I
' «’7 \
“Reckons Vs got shootin' pains right through ’ im , sir.”
doubted whether some of them really
tried to make use of the spittoons which
were so liberally scattered about the floors
of American rooms. In his American
Notes he writes of the U.S. Senate as “a
dignified and decorous body,” but com-
ments on the state of the carpets in the
Senate chamber as a result of “the uni-
versal disregard for the spittoon with
which every honorable member is accom-
modated.” Dickens approached the sub-
ject scientifically and observed that “even
steady old chewers of great experience”
were not always good shots. Visitors
whom he entertained at his hotel “fre-
quently missed the spittoon at five paces ;
and one (but he was certainly short-
sighted) mistook the closed sash for the
open window at three.” On another
occasion when the author was dining out
and was sitting around a fire in mixed
company before dinner one gentleman
“fell short of the fireplace six distinct
times.” Boz was of the opinion, how-
ever, that this chap wasn’t really trying
and that he was more interested in
decorating the white marble hearth in
front of the fender.
* * * *
“Dentonio”: Aucassin and Nicolette
(B. 10/5/’5O) can hardly be classed
among the great lovers whose love was
never consummated. Their adventures
and trials ended in marriage and enjoy-
ment of the lordship of Beaucaire. As
the poet ends his tale:
Such delight these lovers met,
Aucassin and Nicolette.
Length of days and joy did win,
Nicolette and Aucassin.
Endeth song and tale I tell
With marriage bell.
* * * »
“Laetitia”: Sign-language (B. 17/5/’5O)
is a natural attribute of the Torres Straits
Islanders. As supercargo on a lugger I
encountered another of the firm’s craft on
a course which indicated a departure
from sailing-orders by her native skipper.
As we were beyond hailing distance, I
was cursing the necessity for lying-to
while I inquired the reason for the devia-
tion, Before I could give the order
Mairu, my own island-boy skipper, from
intelligence seemingly gained by split-
second telepathy, informed me that the
other craft had called at Thursday Island
en route to the eastern islands of the
Straits. There he had been instructed to
return to our base island with an im-
portant letter and thereafter proceed to
the eastern islands by another route. Sign-
language was the means of communica-
tion, only three gestures, which were exe-
cuted too swiftly for my decoding, having
been employed. Two wide directional
swoops of the arm indicated the reversed
sailing-orders; the symbol of the urgent
letter was three boys simultaneously
making emphatic gestures of writing. On
another occasion I told a store-boy to
direct the crew of a lugger just entering
harbor to send their women and children
passengers ashore in the first dinghy-load.
Almost immediately the order was in the
process of execution, the code being the
Hnf f g n m th f u lr °u a Mae -Westian out-
line followed by. the rocking of cradled
arms.
„** * *
Pitt St.”: An outburst in Sydney
dailies against the allegedly terrible do-
ings ol drunken motorists—notably truck-
drivers—seems to have received an answer
from the current issue of “Radiator,”
journal of the Royal Automobile Club of
Victoria. It gives statistics of motor acci-
Vlct ° ria for the quarter ended
31/12/ 49, when 2959 accidents were
reported. Inattentive drivers were re-
sponsible for 449 of them; not giving
right of way caused 447 ; other causes
accounted for 281, and drunken driving
caused only 35. I’m all in favor of road-
safety campaigns and of severe punish-
ment for drunken drivers, but a concen-
tration on only one aspect of road safety
is likely to defeat the object. News-
papers which make allegations about
speeding truck-drivers ought to be asked
at what pace their own delivery-vans
travel some of their drivers seem to
think they have as much priority on the
road as an ambulance or fire-engine.
* * * *
Kelvin ; The bibulous truck-driver
m the joke-block (B. 10/5/’5.0) who, after
demolishing a pillar-box, casually offered
the investigating police-sergeant a spot,
had a real-life near-prototype in Bris-
bane in 1944. This was a military driver
who, after his vehicle had described a
perfect one-and-a-half, found himself
wedged in an upside-down position at
the mouthpiece level of a shattered public
telephone-box. Undismayed and with-
out any attempt at extricating himself,
he reached upwards into his fob pocket
and drew out two pennies with which
he dialled the number of his H.Q. and
reported the accident. Later, when the
Army form required on such occasions
posed him two consecutive questions as
to whether anyone was to blame for the
accident, and, if so, what action had been
taken by the driver, he replied simply;
“Yes, the small boy who heaved a brick
at me, and “I kicked the little beggar’s
stern as soon as they got me out of the
phone-box.”
* * * *
“Ricki”; Sydney newspapers have been
complaining of the lack of interest shown
by Britain in sending so-called “junior
representatives” to Sydney for the Com-
monwealth conference 'on South-east
Asia. Possibly it was with the hope of
fostering local interest in the talks that
Lord Macdonald’s final statement on the
conference was published in the “Daily
Mirror” under a four-column headline:
Army Impostor Sent to Gaol for Having
Preyed on Women.”
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: In New Zealand, at any
rate, the Army has lost its catch-as-catch-
can ways (B. 3/5/’5O) as far as the cook-
house is concerned. Three hot feeds are
served daily, with choice of meats at
midday and ice-cream and fruit salad
twice a week. Many of the babblers are
first-class bakers and chefs, and just how
their efforts are appreciated was demon-
strated at Linton military camp recently.
Wanganui College cadets were so im-
pressed by the menus served during their
annual barracks week that a collection
was taken up among over 250 boys, and
quite a tidy sum was presented to the
sergeant-cook to divide up with his men.
Newly-conscripted 18-year-olds are at
present enjoying similar fare, and are
convinced that Dad’s tales of crook Army
tucker are just old soldiers’ yarns.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: “Quarter-day,” though
still a date of significance to a few, has
long lost its general importance. The
shopkeeper of today who was told by a
new credit customer; “I pay my accounts
on quarter-day” would probably be
puzzled, and when informed that it meant
he was not to expect payment before the
first of January, April, July and October
his remarks, most likely, would be in-
sulting. In the old days such customers
were welcomed as a sign that the store
had the patronage of the “gentry.”
Agents and estate-managers, stockbrokers
and trustees made their accountings on
the great day, and stipends and quite a
number of higher-grade pensions and
salaries were paid on the quarterly basis;
some wealthy people put their servants’
wages on the same level. A well-paid
slavey might thus become wealthy to the
extent of a whole £6 10s. in a lump in-
stead of having merely a memory of
money frittered away. It took long agita-
tion about the hardships endured by the
lower-paid before civil-service “salaries”
(as distinct from “wages”) were brought
down to first a monthly and then a fort-
nightly basis. “Wait until quarter-day”
was the favorite put-off of a fonner
generation. Besides its general useful-
ness, it contained an element of swank.
NEW METHODS.
“It was something about accused’s peculiar haircut
that first aroused my suspicion that he had given a
talse name.” —Constable witness in court.
It wasn’t exactly his manner
That raised a suspicion of doubt;
He may not have shuffled
His feet, or got ruffled
And stammered the monicker out.
But what made it seem that his statement
Some verisimilitude lacked,
That all his pretension
Was plainly invention
Was the way that his fibre was hacked.
It’s palpable, say, that a suspect
Some twinge of uneasiness feels
When questionings tricky
He finds getting sticky
And suddenly takes to his heels.
But, still, as a sign and a portent,
It hasn’t one-quarter the pull
Of the cool observation,
The swift speculation
Concerning the cut of his wool.
It could be, of course, he was claiming
His name was Bob' Menzies, his thatch
Being clipped to a stubble
Proclaiming jail-trouble—
The two, it is plain, wouldn’t match.
And wouldn’t suspicion be quickened
If, say, his coiffure had been styled
(His nose being broken)
Not plain, but in token
Of kinship with one Cornel Wilde?
“Times change, we change with them.” The
saying
Has horse-sense, as all will agree.
Applied to detection
It means that selection
Of methods quite modern must be.
As weapons of war find their counter,
So crooks will be making their bids
To beat all the “demons”
With underworld “schemin’s”
And never go out without lids.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Last summer’s
Westralian drought—the longest on
record —caused heavy mortality among
Perth’s street-trees. The only ones that
stood up to it were the native pepper-
mints, and of the remainder those that
didn’t die were kept alive only by con-
stant watering. The hardiness of our
native trees is astonishing. When the
drought was at its worst, and the soil, as
far as I could dig, appeared to be com-
pletely devoid of moisture, 1 examined a
patch of virgin country in a banksia-
redgum locality. None of the trees
showed any sign of wilting. Even the
shrubs, some less than a foot high, and
the occasional seedlings, looked as fresh
as ever in the midday sun. They were
growing in sand, of course, which doesn’t
bake out like the heavier soils, but so
were those street-trees. It’s the tap-root
that does it, and the growths of that
member must be something at which to
marvel. In a summer such as we have
just experienced, the water-table must
drop at least 20 to 30 feet, yet the young
seedling, whose growth from a seed com-
menced just a few months’ previously,
follows it down. The peppermint-tree,
whose hardiness surprised the town
gardeners, is a stately tree with low-
hanging branches, like a weeping-willow.
It grows over most of the sou’-west, but
is most prolific in the Warren River
country. Because of it the Warren is
avoided by bee-keepers. Although the
tree produces a honey of good texture and
density, and nice appearance, it has a
distinctly “off” flavor which is a head-
ache to the grader—or was. Now there’s
a prospect of finding a ready sale for it.
A Pakistini trade delegate who sampled
it reckoned that, graded with other flavors.
“Lay orf the loud pedal , ’ Erb—you drownded him that last song."
it would produce a honey ideally suited
to the Indian palate. A trial shipment
brought a request for more, so there’s a
chance that the bee-keepers will be able
to move in on a new area in what is
already one of the richest honey districts
in the world.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bo”: Fred was at the handle of the
windlass, winding up the bucket of mul-
lock. As he turned suddenly at what he
imagined was a rustling sound in the
bracken behind him his hand slipped off
the handle. The drum whirled, and
a second before the laden bucket hit
the bottom of the new well he just man-
aged to let out a strangled sort of warn-
ing yell. Fearfully he peered down, ex-
pecting to see his mate knocked cold.
Then, as he discerned faintly an upright
form flattened against the side of the well,
an enraged voice roared up wanting to
know what the so-and-so the adjectival
half-wit was doing. Fred’s reaction to
his relief at sight of his live mate was
a surge of anger. “Y’ blasted ape, Tom! ”
he yelled down. “How many more times
have I got to tell y’ to wear a hat while
you’re below? Y’ ain’t got that much
hair it’ll cushion a crack on your bean
if anything happens to drop down. Here
it is cornin’ down. Put it on. Y’ want
a man worried into an early grave?”
♦ * ♦ #
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver mooched into
the hut, threw his halter over a peg, and
paused to inspect his whip critically.
“That’s the whip I got orf you,” he re-
marked, turning to the fire.. “Yes; and
you haven’t given me the quid for it
yet,” I reminded. ‘'Well, the damn’ thing
ain’t worth it,” he bridled. “Cripes, y’
can’t expect a bloke t’ pay a quid f’r
somethin’ that’s no flamin’ good.” “It is
good,” I replied. “As good a bit of
leather as you’d get; and I gave old Bill
ten bob to plait it. Trouble is you don’t
know a decent whip when you see one.”
“No? Well, if y’ think it’s that good.
I’ll sell it back to y’,” he offered, “Y’
can have it f’r twentyfive bob.” My
barrage of home-truths hammered him
dead centre. “Awright, Sol, awright,” he
drawled guilelessly. “Take it f’r a quid
then. Y’ always was a hard buyer.”
Going over to the whip I examined the
thong carefully for cuts, and, finding it
still in good order, transferred it back to
my own peg. “Well?” said the old bloke.
I ignored him and returned to the fire.
“Well?” he prompted again as I flopped
down and grabbed the paper. “Ain’t
y’ forgot somethin’, Sol? What about me
quid?”
♦ * * *
“Betcha”: Morrie’s wasn’t one of those
farms that bring profits. Of generous
proportions, it consisted of steep ridges
of loose shale, decorated lavishly with
bracken and dogwood scrub, and slashed
with washouts. The stock Morrie turned
on it were rapidly reduced to hide-
covered skeletons, whereupon their owner
contemplated them thoughtfully and
ordered more drench. Where he got the
money for the drench and for the supply
of bread and jam he invariably dined on
no one knew, for the dead-hide returns
dwindled with the stock, and rabbitskins
fell below worth-while proportions. After
many unsuccessful years that were laid
at the door of bad seasons, disease, rabbits
and anything else he could think up,
Morrie began wondering if, after all,
there weren’t more lucrative occupations
than that of grazing. Would he sell?
It was about that time he met up with
the beekeeper, ate first-class honey on
his bread and listened to the apiarist’s
tale of ease, while thousands of bees did
the toiling. In return, Morrie explained
his vast acreage to the other, mentioned
the advantages of bracken over variegated
thistle and Patersons’ Curse, and pointed
out the length of boundary-fence that
“What a bite!”
needed little more than netting and new 1
posts to make it as good as any about.
Eventually a deal was made. Then, with '
all details decided satisfactorily, Morrie
took a trip into town. He came back :
gloomy and discouraged. “No good,”
he informed the beekeeper sadly. “A
hitch over the mortgage. The silly blasted
bank refuses to take a whack o’ the hives
in settlement.”
* * * ♦
“Stevo”: I was inclined to believe, with
other Aboliars, that white-ants needed
moisture to live. Now lam not so sure.
I saw a heavy railway wagon used for
the cartage of timber being pulled down
for repair. At the end of a pivot-bar
was a nest of white-ants, apparently well-
nourished and healthy. The wagon is a
flat-top with raised bolsters several feet
apart for the securing of the timber.
The termites couldn’t reach the ground,
the wagon being mobile. It was also
exposed to the sun at all times.
* * ♦ ♦
“Old-timer”: Every time I read of these
modern soldier-settlers and their troubles
it brings back Commodore, a 1914-18
Digger who was given 10 acres in the
Dandenongs (Vic.) which he was supposed
to turn into an orchard. Commodore
went and looked at the messmate and
sarsaparilla, the wattle and sassafras
hiding his 10 acres, estimated how many
years and how much sweat it would cost
him to get the timber down, then retired
to the Pakenham pub and did a bit of
thinking. Presently he bought an axe
and knocked himself up a one-room
shack. Then he bought a half-dozen axes
from the store, ground them down, and,
with about 30 bottles of beer, took them
to the shack. A day or so later he was
observed in Melbourne skiting about his
block to some cobbers and ended up
inviting eight or ten of them down for
the week-end. “Plenty of rabbits t’
shoot an’ good tucker,” he said. “I’ll
get some beer in.” He met them in
Pakenham, took them to the pub for an
hour, then to the shack. There
was plenty of talk, and before long bets
were being made on who could drop a
tree the quickest. Commodore kept
beer and incitement up to them,
and that \teek-end saw nearly an
acre of timber down. By the time Com-
modore had held five or six week-end
parties with different guests er ;h time, the
problem of getting the timber down had
been solved. He sold the firewood for
enough to pay two blokes to grub out
the heavy stumps and did the rest him-
self.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Billy T.”: The Brigdens were going
away for a few days and asked me to
look after Snap, their blue heeler. She
is a middle-aged dog of good manners,
and as she had been operated on in her
youth romance has no interest for her;
so I tied her up within speaking distance
of Snip, my own nine-month bitch of
the same breed and similar appearance.
Now it came to pass that toward even
Snip became troubled within herself,
and lo! the time to be locked up had
arrived, and so she was shut in the shed ,
and in the night a host of strange dogs,
whose observations of late had been akin
to mine, came to pay call on Snip—but
found only Snap. And ,
them. Ido not as a rule eniov r f f buked
ance of my sleep, but it was of dls f turb '
to he and listen to varied vein? i nterest
and howls that followed the mtawS?? 118
sniffles and try to identifyP
their cries of disappointment and d , S by
Came the dawn/Ld idemifeafc
easier; the road was lined at f as
distance, with Sundry tykes that K
waited to see what had caused their 5 d
calculations—a ragged ear and a tent
limp here and there showed the night had
been a troubled one, and these animals
wanted to get the affair straight. Snap
lay at ease, one eye cocked in case of
any further unWonted familiarity, and
Snip in the shed had slept undisturbed.
Think I’ll ring the Brigdens, ask if they’re
enjoying themselves, and suggest they
tarry a while.
“W. Court”: Unk White’s joke-block
showing a whiskery cove catching a fish
with the aid of a kite (B. 26/4/ ’5O) isn’t
so far-fetched as the artist may imagine.
Natives of the Solomon Islands often fish
by flying kites behind their canoes as
they paddle around the reefs. Each kite
has a light line tied to its tail, the bait
skittering over the surface of the water.
Sooner or later a big garfish grabs the
bait and is effectively played by the
soaring of the kite. When he judges the
fish exhausted, the native pulls in the kite
and then the line attached to it. The
gars, of Solomon waters run to about 31b.
* * * *
“Ginger”: Excited neighing at the far
sliprails heralded the return of five fillies
rising three and four years, which had
been missing for nearly two years. The
farm horses rushed to meet the prodigals,
and within a couple of minutes a
thoroughbred mare had recognised her
two daughters, and, greeting them with
affectionate nuzzlings and nickers or
pleasure, invited them to share her feed-
box. When the other three homecomers
attempted to join in she drove them on
with savage teeth and flying heels,
although she had known theni as foa s.
The two Clydesdale mares showed no
recognition or interest in their long- os
offspring, thus giving a new fillip to tne
never-ending argument as to wh
Jim’s “heavies” or Ted’s hacks hid the
most brains. “See,” said Ted triumph
antly, “she’s got brains—to recogl | pm f r
own kids —though she am t seen ,
nearly two years.” Garn.
Jim scornfully. “It’s Dolly
that’s got the brains, not to a S°wf i»
the kids that cleared
“E. 8,”: Quondong-trees ( B - 26^/J ra
grow in the coastal regions of
Queensland and the norther
N.S.W., and are known them miner
cooloon or blue fig. Bes . „ st >ieodid
boat oars, the timber a^s ° m . it is
flooring-boards and tab e ' h P^ oo p-pine
found here and there m he
scrubs, but, unlike lf filling-si#
from white-ants and borer .
trees are getting very there were log s
localities; the.days whenLther only a
80ft. long with a 10it. girt
memory. . . •
‘•Salmon bums”: “TO
those Queensland which »
10/5/’5O) may “ 5 e has hitherto
growing in Perth and w qUO ndong,
mystified me. It’s obviously vsrie „,
but much larger than fte inlan
and altogether a J fi f r ']“° k K r ies it Wf
poor fruiter, and the f fruit of it*
are paler than the rich ca lliog>
smaller cousin. We earS> but J s
a beach quondong for, figS/ Was
probably one of an ornament
it imported to W.A. as an
shrub, or is it a rare native r
THE HERMIT’S HOUSE.
No man can call you home,
Nor woman come,
Curtain blind windows, make you see again.
Only the busy hands of wind and rain
Pluck at your stones, inchmeal
Devouring habitation and a name.
Only the steadfast, stubborn .purposes
Of snake and bird and ant continue here,
Powder you piecemeal to a ruined hearth —
Soften man’s loneliness to integrate earth.
I shall not walk this western road again,
But go in joy, well knowing you will climb
From this down-trodden desolation soon
Into green flower of grass and summertime.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


"Radio roustabout
There is quite re-
newed interest in the
reception in Aus-
tralia of overseas
radio programmes
~ which bring back
re r^°. neB °f the early days of “short wave
for Ptlon ’' My friend, Ray Allsop, dropped in
sopnf CU P tea one day last week and we
•he 1 t o happ y half-hour browsing back over
reach; years and our early experiences in
Wav e len°h t acr ° SS tbe td°t> e on ever decreasing
probat) ly one of the most successful
an j nt ,t r |, * n short wave reception in the
at hk u 27 s ? n d achieved remarkable results
KDka no ? e «^ n Coogee reaching out after
Which a? n< tK WG X> f amous American Stations
at that time were carrying out tests
round about 40 metres. A little later, in 1928,
he made front page news when after keeping
schedules with the Philips Station in Holland,
PCJJ, on 31 metres, he (in conjunction with
the writer) was the first man to successfully
re-broadcast, through 2BL, programmes from
London and Continental stations to Australian
listeners.
It was a touchy business in those days, and
I really mean touchy. Not only were the
vagaries of short wave reception on high
frequencies not too clearly understood, but the
apparatus at the disposal of the experimenter,
or the professional for that matter, was found
wanting in many respects. The most severe
prqblems were background noises, fading and
instability, and it required a ton of patience
and skilful manipulation to hold these overseas
signals for any length of time; particularly was
it difficult to get loud speaker reception of a
quality which was intelligible and of entertain-
ment value without hideous background noises
and interference of all kinds. So muoh so that
headphones were a must when probing the
ether, otherwise the household or immediate
neighbourhood would never have survived the
ordeal.
I remember one particular evening at Ray
Allsop’s home when he invited a few friends
to listen to WGY which he had been receiving
particularly well during most of the day and
figured that he would be able to hold until
possibly midnight. His receiving apparatus was
situate at one end of the room specially set
aside for the purpose and was tuned by remote
controls in the form of extended tuning spindles
up to three or four feet in length in order that
the body capacity of the operator would not
upset the stability of the set, so that the
apparatus resembled very much an elaborate
X-ray set-up, rather than a low-loss short wave
radio receiver. Very much on tip-toe the guests
assembled during a break in the transmission
and waited expectantly for the American pro-
gramme to proceed, but after quite some
interval of time, the result was a blank. Ray
was quick to size up the ambiguous situation,
which amounted to this: provided his guests
stayed out of the room, the receiver would
remain stable precisely on the wave length* on
which WGY was operating, but when they
entered the room, it was thrown completely
out of tune by movement of the floor (due
to the added weight), which meant a complete
retuning adjustment of the apparatus. By the
time this was done, however, WGY had faded
completely, and the guests heard absolutely
nothing. However, we all spent a pleasant
evening and I returned home about 11 o’clock
and Ray was on the telephone. “Have a listen
to this,” he said, and switched to a telephone
transmitter located alongside the loud speaker
of the set, and I enjoyed ten minutes of as
perfect a reception of an American orchestra
as I could have wished for. “After you had
all gone I found they had shifted their wave
band,” was Ray’s closing down remarks for
the evening!
It’s a far cry from those days to the short
wave technique of today and the new Short-
wave Expander which is now introduced on the
new Mullard 1111 receiver, by means of which
the tuning of overseas short wave stations on
the popular 25 and 31 metre bands is no more
difficult than the tuning of local broadcast
stations and the entertainment value, by and
large, even more pleasant.—Advt.
“Mac. Wallace”: I had a beer with
old Tiger the other day. He told me
about the time he went up-country to
fight a bush Dempsey, one Bluey Green.
According to Tige, the whole town turned
out, and his connections got set for a
tidy killing by laying Green at philan-
thropic odds. It looked easy money, too,
but the bushies were cagey. They cut
the referee in on their expected winnings.
From the start it was clear that if the
contest lasted to a decision, Tiger had as
much chance as a cream-puff at a kids’
party. So, going for the knockout, he
quickly belted the local lad loose at the
hinges. Then, with “the boys” all ready
to collect, the local, knocked pop-eyed by
a swing, clutched at the nearest straw,
which happened to be Tiger’s knicks, and
ripped them clean off. Now Tiger is a
fighting man, afraid of nothing—but this
was beyond him. He floundered in mid-
ring. Fortunately, his second acted
quickly. A towel fluttered to the blushing
pug, and, with decency restored, he was
ready to continue. Not so the ref., who
hoisted Green’s dook aloft. Blistering
oaths poured from “the boys.” Tiger
charged across. “What for?” he yelled.
The ref. waved him aside. “Green wins,”
he said curtly, “your second chucked in
the towel!”
* * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: After a cam-
paign lasting some years Victoria’s biggest
turkey-breeder, A. G. Zwar, of the Ranch,
Broadford, has at last stopped foxes
getting away with his birds. And it has
all been done by hanging up little white
bags of naphthaline, 30yds. apart, around
the turkey’s mobile roosts in the paddocks.
This past season only one fox broke
through the cordon on a very windy
n *ght, whereas last year, despite dogs and
night-watching, 304 birds were lost, and
m other years as many as 84 a night. At
present the red terror is worse than usual,
too, because of the floods drowning most
°t the rabbits—all the neighbors’ fowls
are gone. Zwar reckons the naphthaline
inrows the foxes off their scent and
lr| ghtens them away. -
* * $ *
Shamuseen”; During the recent trial
ot two Edwards River, Cape York, “boys”
for the murder of a native policeman, a
mission superintendent, in testifying that
the deceased was a “pourri-pourri” prac-
titioner, vindicated my long-held belief
that no amount of civilisation can eradi-
cate the fear of black magic from the
binghi psychology. Given the requisite
setting, the European mentality is not
always proof against the fear. When tHe
first white visitor I received in six months
suicided a few months later my degree
of shock was no more than apposite in
the Three months later
my next European caller took an almost
identical way out of his troubles. When
my succeeding whiteman caller was about
to sit in the comfortable chair which I
habitually reserved for visitors, I halted
him and referred to the fact that my last
two guests, who were mutually known
to us, had occupied that chair. He
laughed at the reference, sank easily into
the chair and after a pleasant hour or
so departed. The first mail I received
after his departure told me that my late
“Well, next time remember to bring the griller.”
caller had filled a suicide’s grave a week
after leaving me. When a native house-
girl then asked my permission to burn
the chair, which had been fashioned by
a binghi craftsman who was also a
pourri-pourri merchant, I did not say her
nay. I wouldn’t give such permission in
my southern domicile today, but could
not guarantee my behavior if again placed
in an identical tropic environment.
♦ * * *
“En B.”: “Zake’s” “ancient ewe”
(B. 3/5/’5O) can produce mutton as tooth-
some as steaks carved from a pensioned
bullock, and for the same reason. Take
a mob of cull ewes, wean off their last
lambs and stick the old ladies into a
fresh paddock of green feed. Relieved of
their maternal duties, the whole sewing-
circle settles down to eat as steadily as
their human counterparts at the church
afternoon-tea and, presumably, to swap
notes on operations, the trouble that was
had when little Johnnie came along, and
so on. Soon they’ll be needing new
corsets. That’s the time to get out the
butcher’s knife, happy in the knowledge
that you won’t need Worcester sauce, the
mincer or the hacksaw as essentials after
the fact.
* * * ♦
“Simon”: Why didn’t that trapper tie
up the mother dingo till she had had her
six pups (B. 17/5/’50)? He would then
have got a quid each for the six in hand
instead of the two bob each for the six
in crib. Sixty years ago the price of
hare and kangaroo scalps was fourpence
each, and there was a “scalp day” once a
month in the country town. Though
spoiling Dad’s sheep-dogs by making them
hunters, I had generally about half a
sovereign to collect, and could have raked
in more if I’d had the zeal of some of
the scalpers. Many of the “subjects”
handed in by them were very doubtful
embryos impossible of classification.
Some of the kang-rats taken from the teat
in the pouch were like mice—shaven at
that —but the board held no post-mortems
and paid the flat rate for everything.
• * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Before he would let us
build a fence for him the boss wanted
references. “Look,” Mat said, “if we
like to write back home we can get all
y’ want. We can write t’ blokes we’ve
worked f’r an’ get a lot more. Now
if y’ want a coupla blokes that is God-
fearin’, honest, willin’, respectable, kind
t’ animals an’ children, courteous t’
wimmen, sober, industrious an’ don’t
gamble, swear, spit or go with bad
wimmen, careful about fires an’ don’t
waste water, you look for a coupla blokes
with them references y’r talkin’ about.
But if y’ only want a coupla good fencers
who know the difference between a
strainer-post an’ number-eight wire an’
can strike a line through scrub or pine,
have a good look at me an’ me mate.”
The boss took a second or twef to recover.
“Right-oh,” he said. “There’s three and
a half mile of it at eighty quid a mile
an’ I put the posts an’ wire on the line.”
He turned away, then turned back. “It
might be interesting,” he added. “Up t’
now I’ve always had blokes with refer-
ences.” “It might be,” Mat conceded.
“Especially if y’ don’t come t’ light with
a*sub. when the first half-mile’s up. That’s
when me an’ me mate’ll be lookin’ fr
your references/’
* '* * *
“Tarbush”: In the days when the
South Australian Beltana Pastoral Com-
pany’s stations were run by mule-power
it was common to meet old hands, long
experienced in the snaky ways of the
hybrids, who swore that a mule was never
fertile (B. 10/5/’5O). The reason for this
belief is simply that the horse breeds so
slowly that no one man ever sees a
great number of the descendants of a
given strain. A man, then, could work
for years on Murnpeowie without see-
ing an authentic mule-bred foal. But this
simply means not that hybrids are in-
fertile, but that the fertility rate is low.
Plant-breeding records are full of in-
stances where only one individual in
10,000 hybrids produced fertile seed.
Obviously such low fertility-rates are not
likely to be recorded for slow-breeding
domestic animals. All genetics must be
read with this in mind, The amateur
breeder who, after a hurried glance at a
text-book, crosses two strains and gets
a proportion of crosses entirely different
from that predicted by the book, is likely
to fire the volume out the window. Breed-
ing ratios are mathematically accurate
only when large numbers are involved.
As an illustration: toss a penny half a
dozen times and you may get anything up
to 100 per cent, heads. Toss it 5000
times and you’ll find the percentage of
heads and tails is about equal.
* * * *
“Zake”: The salt-water catfish, the
whiskery cove that hands out excruciat-
ing agony when injudiciously handled,
and is scorned by the lover of real fish-
meat, can be easily given his quietus by
the fisherman by simply whirling the line
around his head and bringing his catch
a wallop against the hull of the boat,
repeating the dose until the pest parts
from the hook or is eventually rendered
non compos mentis. But you can’t do
that with a weighty octopus, and a man’s
handling of the squirmer as it is brought
in reveals the fisherman for what he
really is. A chap I know who fishes the
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) has mastered the
art of putting them out of action in
double-quick time. He doesn’t turn them
inside-out —he simply grabs octo’s head
and pulls the loose skin around the mouth
over the snout and smothering it. The
tentacles cease threshing almost before
they have time to wind around his arms.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: When the hydroelectric
scheme was started up in the Brown
Mountain (N.S.W.) farms which pre-
viously had only known kerosene-
lamps and candles were connected
with power. The first night it
was switched on at his place Flem-
ing threw a party to celebrate the
innovation. The bulbs had been glow-
ing only a few minutes when something
went wrong and the place was thrown into
darkness. Mrs. Fleming considered that
the three lights they had on must have
overburdened the power-station. One of
the guests, investigating; announced that it
was a blown fuse that had caused the
trouble. “That ain’t surprisin’,” quoth
Fleming in disgust. “The blasted blow-
flies around these parts ’d blow any-
thing !’’
* * * *
“Blime”: Probably wireless is respon-
sible for the death of all the sing-song
evenings of a decade or so back—even-
ings when neighboring families outback
gathered at the home that owned a piano,
and aired a long list of old favorites.
Pubs, too, supported the practice, though
the numbers bawled from the bar parlor
differed somewhat in wording. Usually
the pub mob managed to dig up a bloke
who could hammer out a few tunes on
the tinny piano, his limited repertoire
being overcome by many repeat perform-
ances. When the programme flagged, an-
other round of drinks filled the gap,
someone always remembering to shout
for the piano. As the night progressed,
and the “old planner's” efforts grew
more unrecognisable, it copped more and
more drinks,.which were disposed of by
merely lifting its lid and pouring in the
beer. By midnight the singing got itself
a good deal distorted, owing to various
reasons, one of which being that each
songster bawled according to his own
translation of the piano’s rendition, and
relied on noise to convince the others
of their mistakes. The night Baldy and
Jim got stuck on Annie Laurie, with Joe
and the station mob just as pigheaded over
Kathleen Mavourneen, it cost the rest
of us three notes on the goanna and a
two-day croak before we got the silly
cows on to the trail of Old Black Joe.
Now, when a bloke gets tired of sitting
in a corner grouching at the tax, he turns
a knob and gets a whole clashing swing-
band complete with wailing chorus. What
would the pubkeeper have given in
the old days for a knob that would
have switched about 20 blokes off in an
instant!
SCULLERS.
t ]ove to row a good hard race, should the thing
be lost or won,
And sit by the shed in the evening cool when
a training grind is done.
There at dusk when the shed’s all quiet I watch
the sun’s last beams
And out of the mist of twilight come the scullers
of my dreams—
Men who have gone from the scene today, but
their deeds forever last,
For their oar-blades flashed in Time itself as
the river went flowing past.
I see their forms on the course quite clear, they
come at the dead of tide,
Their pictures hang in the old gilt frames on
the walls of the shed inside:
Giants from the rivers of the northern towns,
trained with the saw and axe—
I almost know those two in front, the two with
the great broad backs:
It’s John McLean as he’s always been, and the
form of Michael Rush,
I can almost hear their public cheer in the
breathless evening hush.
On the silent course at the close of day I’ve
paced them many a mile
In the hopes I’d catch a closer glimpse of
Stanbury's upright style.
I see them row as I heard they rowed, the whole
thing seems so true,
Their sculling names ! know so well, yet men
that I never knew:
Neilson’s pace and Beach’s grace, and Paddon’s
might and dash,
They raced in the days of the crinoline and the
handlebar moustache.
The dreams I dream for the sport today, I pray
are not in vain,
Those giant ghosts in the shells out there will
surely live again;
We’ll see them there in the forms of youth who
dwell by the river banks,
They’re reared on the river where I was reared,
and will join the sculling ranks,
To row for the pride of Australia’s name, with
the grace of the Mighty Giver,
And hold the crown that is held today by the
boy from the Hawkesbury River.
N.S.W.
BERT SMACKLETON.


MAKE YOUR MONEY WORK
AUSTRALIA'S
COMPANIES
In 1936 a Sydney man had a little over £lOO saved. Hein vested
£lOB/15/- in First Australian Unit Trust. Today his £lOB/15/- is
worth £l4O and, in addition, he has received £65 in dividends a
return of 44% per annum. A similar opportunity to invest m un
trusts is open to you today.
WHAT IS A UNIT TRUST?
A Unit Trust is a syndicate of investors holding shares in leading Aus-
tralian industrial and commercial companies such as Broken Hill ”ty.. Ltd.,
Dunlop Rubber, Woolworths, Henry Jones, Goldsbrough Mort, and so on.
When you put money into a unit trust you automatically acquire a stake
in all the companies in which the Trust holds shares. You join hands witn
the biggest and most successful investors in the land, who put their money
into sound company shares because experience proves that over a_ period oi
years the value of such shares increases. By spreading the investment
over many shares you get maximum safety for your capital.
100 - YEAR • OLD BRITISH INSURANCE
COMPANY ACTS AS TRUSTEE
The first unit trust in Australia was organised by Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty., Ltd., and they have been organising and managing
trusts of this type with marked success for 14 years. Their affairs
are guided by men of wide experience and ability, who select the
shares for each trust.
All shares purchased are registered in the name of the Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd. as custodian trustees. This British
comnanv established over 100 years, with assets exceeding £9,000,000,
collect ” y the and distributes them among the unit holders.
CONVERTIBLE TO CASH AT ANY TIME
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty Ltd., guarantees to buy back your
unit at any time for cash. You receive the full advantage ot a y
increase in value of the shares held in the trust. ,
Even though your capital be as little as £25 there is a sp en i
investment for it in a unit trust.
FREE BOOKLET—WRITE FOR IT!
Write today for free booklet explaining the unit trust
method of safe investment and how you may become a
unit holder. Booklet sent without obligation.
TYPICAL OPINIONS
“Unit trusts provide f
for investors because the q{ firB .
spread over-such a Manag er (Sydney)-
class shares. -Ban se they
“Unit trusts appeal to® aB well
give my capital a charge yearly income
well above average.
countant. savings be-
“We were worried a b° u would huy
cause we could see our money ,
less and less every year a unit trus
w 0 f corre-
S(vSuK ess
TRUSI
FIXED
AUSTRALIAN
Street
Dept
CHAS. A. ALLERDICE, A.1.C.A., A.C.A.A
OVER £1.000,000 HAS ALREADY BEEN INVESTED IN TRUSTS MANAGED BY
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS ** Tr ”
The W.EDCAT
COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
f Dividends \
Pref. _
Dee., Profit. 6 p.c. r - Ord. * Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 255,241 33,696 12.7 p.c. = 221,545 432,171
From tax reserve, £94,000 .. •• 526,171
1942.. 276,297 33,696 18.3 p.e.= 319,753 449,019
1943.. 300,331 33,696 8.8 „ „ 153,667 561,972
From tax & inv’ry reserves, £295,381.. 857,353
1944.. 274,450 33,696 10 p.c.= 175,000 923,107
From inventory reserve, £203,910 ~1,127,017
Loss.
1945.. 68,528 83,696 Nil 1,024,793
From tax reserve, £15,849 .. .. 1,040,642
1946.. 437,529 33,696 Nil 569,417
Profit sale assets, £21,918 .. 591,335
Equity subsid. profits, £3585 .. 694,920
Profit.
1947.. 570,372 33,696 Nil 1,131,596
Prom inventory reserve, £140,900 .. 1,272,496
Profit sale assets, £2109 .. .. 1,274,605
Equity subsid. profits, £5441 .. 1,280,046
1948.. 681,604 33,696 Nil 1,927,954
Equity subsid. profits, £BOB9 .. 1,936,043
Profit sale assets, £2293 .. .. 1,938,336
1949.. 469,205 33,696 Nil 2,373,845
This big motor-assembly, -distributing and
-manufacturing organisation is an out-
standing example of a happy and success-
ful marriage between American and Aus-
tralian interests —General Motors Corp.
(U.S.) owns the £1,750,000 of ord, capital,
or all but a small fraction of it, and the
Australian public the £561,600 of 6 p.c.
prefs., issued in 1930 in part payment for
Holden’s motorbody-building works at
Woodville (S. Aus.).
Latest and most outstanding
achievement of the partnership is
production of the all-Australian Holden
car, which involved a capital out-
lay of nearly £4,000,000. The new
vehicle is a sturdy six-cylinder job, first
units of which left the assembly lines
toward the end of 1948, and the target
figure of 80 cars a day (20,000 a year) has
now been reached; sales amounted to
9 p.c. of all new car registrations in Aus-
tralia in 1949; there is a queue of wait-
ing applications on the order-book; and
increased production is contemplated if
present demand continues.
The year’s turnover for the whole busi-
ness (£21,822,538, up £4,314,235) increased
by 24.6 p.c., due partly to lifts in selling
prices and partly to an increased physical
volume of sales. Chief contributors to
the pool were Vauxhall and Holden cars,
British and American trucks, parts and
accessories and industrial equipment-;
the latter ranges from refrigeration units
and bearings to diesel engines. Of the
co.’s other lines, the quota for Chevrolet,
Pontiac and Oldsmobile cars has been
further reduced, while Cadillac and Buick
cars remain on the prohibited list of
imports. The increase in the number of
vehicles sold was 17 p.c.
The sharp drop of £212,399 (31.1 p.c.)
in net earnings was due primarily to the
high initial cost of producing the Holden
car and to ill effects of the coal strike and
shortage of essential materials and skilled
labor. However, the £469,205 of profit
covered the pref. div. and 24.8 p.c, on
ord. capital, compared with 37 p.c. and
30.6 p.c. for the two preceding years and
losses totalling £506,057 (mainly on
account of post-war reconversion) for the
two years before that. Because more
money is still needed in the business, the
ords. were passed by for the fifth year in
succession. For the 20 years since the
merger they have received distributions
averaging 18.1 p.c.
To finance the growth of manufacturing
and other activities, the co. went outside
for an extra £3,479,288 over the last two
years, raising the figure to £9,026,130,
most of which is a family matter:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
& £ £ £
Paid capital 2,311,600 2,311,600 2.311,600 2,811,600
Overdraft.. 1,852,663 2,929,691 3,827,803
Creditors .. 1,697,650 3,494,179 4,012,067 6,198,827
Tax reserve 535,024 63,540 495,183
Premises .. 801,552 1,046,162 1,080,600 1.136.123
Plant .. 408,443 1,744,268 2,869,136 2,780,472
Stocks .. 2,041,596 4,778,315 6,190.943 8.980,700
Debtors .. 284,374 782,747 659,959 890,027
Advances,.. 2g8>613 287,414 286.118
Investm’ts 1 22 4 4 6 9i163,485 158,926 97,015
Cask ) 224,4t>a| 43,396 14,722 53,151
Outstanding feature last term was the
addition of £2,789,754 (45 p.c.) to stocks,
due partly to higher prices and partly to
a bigger volume of materials and com-
ponents held in connection with manu-
facture and distribution. Book debts in-
creased by £230,061. To help meet the
outlay £898,112 was added to the over-
draft, which is guaranteed by the Ameri-
can parent, and £1,186,260 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, which in-
cludes £3,912,941 (up £1,200,159) due to
affiliated and allied cos. for materials.
Other open trade accounts and accrued
liabilities totalled £1,302,484.
At 295. the well-protected prefs. return
4.1 p.c.
Union Trustee Co.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£££ . &
1941 .. 10,530 8 p.c. = 11,000 .. 76,522
Staff Super, fund, £5OO .. •■ 5
1942 .. 8,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 £*,969
Investment res. taken in, £2523 .. 77,492
1943 7,367 6 p.c. = 8,250 • 76,609
1944 .9,832 6 „ „ 8 250 1,582 78,191
1945 15,441 74 10 312 5,129 83,320
1946 11 756 6 8 250 3,506 86,826
1947 .. 9,817 6 ” :: 8,250 1.067 87,893
1948 7.310 6 „ „ 8,250 86,953
1949 9 932 6 „ „ 8,250 1,682 88,636
1950 . . 13,228 74 „ „ 10,312 2,916 91,552
The Australian trustee cos., of which the
65-year-old Union is second largest, are
rendering an essential service at low cost
these days. Operating in the three eastern
States, the co. has strong connections
in pastoral circles. Last term’s net earn-
ings (up £3296) were the second best in
the last decade. The spring in the profit
was due to a marked increase in the reali-
sation of estates, following the easing of
Government controls on sale of land,
with a consequent improvement in corpus
commission earnings. The growth in total
commission earnings (£186,574) was
£19,676, and in gross rents, etc. (£9994)
£343;
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1935 .. .. £91,538 £77,483 84.6
1940 .. .. 107,743 92,031 85.4
1943 .. .. 116,664 103,663 88.8
1947 .. 151,648 142,381 93.8
1948 ’ .. 159,205 161,895 95.4
1949 ” .. 176,651 166,719 94.4
1960 . . .. 196,568 183,340 93.2
* Excluding reserves for taxes until 1945.
Including a special contribution of
£4713 (nil in the previous year) to the
staff fund and an extra £5783 set aside
for taxation (£834), exes, took £16,621 of
the gain. Actual net result was therefore
£4713 better than the £13,228 claimed,
which was 9.6 p.c. on the £137,500 of
paid capital as against 7.2, 5.3, 6.7, 8.5,
11.2 and 7.1 p.c. back to 1944. So no-
thing had to be strained when a H p.c.
bonus was added to the 6 p.c. div., making
7i p.c. for the year.
What are the prospects of the p.c.
(equal to 4.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds)
being maintained? Certainly last term’s
earnings were exceptional, but it is doubt-
ful whether the exceptional portion of
the profit was any greater than the special
contribution to the staff fund, to which
further “special” contributions are to be
made “as circumstances permit.”
For the three years to the close
of accounts in 1949 net earnings
averaged £8853 (6.4 p.c. on capital)
as against an average of £10,449
(7.6 p.c. on capital) for six preced-
ing difficult years of war-time controls.
The slip was due not to any contraction
in gross earnings but to the heavy growth
in exes., which had been bumped up by
the cost of litigation involving an appeal
to the Privy Council. For the six years
to 1940 profits averaged £13,098, or 9.5
p.c. on capital.
The struggle is, and has been for the
last decade, mainly one between rapidly-
rising costs, which are still advancing,
and steadily-growing returns from an ex-
panding volume of business at fixed
corpus and other commission charges.
The value of new business committed to
the co.’s expert care last term was ex-
ceeded only by the previous year’s figure,
and the total amount of trusts on the
books (amount not broadcast) can be ex-
pected to keep on expanding.
At the end of February last assets com-
prised freeholds, etc., £148,060, Govern-
ment securities, etc., £69,090, book debts
£1437 and cash £33,179. Only liabilities
were £6214 for final and unclaimed divs.
and a tax reserve of £16,500.
At 355. (335. a year ago) the 50s.
shares paid to 275. 6d. each re-
turn an attractive 5.9 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
distribution, and the co. has never paid
less than 6 p.c. over the last 40 years.
Net tangible cover is 455, lOd. a share.
Of the uncalled 225. 6d. a share £1 can
be asked for only if needed in the event
of liquidation.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Added to Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1941 . lO p.O. = 72,208 2,533 225,422
1942.'. 83,038 10 „ „ 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943'' 81216 10 „ 72,208 9,008 245,260
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO .. 345,261
1944 82,249 10 p.c. = 72,208 10,041 355,302
1945.'." 84,757 10 „ „ 72,208 12,549 367,851
.q.f." rq fiQ2 10 72,208 17,484 385,335
St?" K? 10 : 72 208 21 779 407,114
1040 90900 10 72 208 18,692 425,806
gS;; Si’Sm 10 „ 72.208 19,759 445,565
1950 92,270 10 „ „ 72,208 20,062 465,627
The offer of 361,040 new £1 shares at
par, one for two, to those on the register
at June 1 surprised the market. The
price of existing scrip shot up from
70s. 3d. in March to 81s. at end April.
Last week buyers offered 765. and sellers
asked 775. At the middle figure of
765. 6d. the net price, after exercising the
rights and allowing for brokerage, is
58s. 2d., thus giving the rights a theoreti-
cal value of 38s. 2d., subject to brokerage.
At 58s. 2d. the return would be 3.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The important question is whether the
10 p.c. can be maintained on the increased
capital. The new issue will lift paid capi-
tal to £1,083,120, on which 10 p.c. will
call for £16,042 more profit than was
claimed last term, or approximately 7
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined). The £92,270 (up
£303) of profit shown last term was 7.7
p c. on shareholders’ funds as they stood
at end February, or 12.7 p.c. on capital
alone as against 12.7, 12.6, 13, 12.4 and
11.7 p.c. back to 1945. The level and
steadiness of these ratios, and other
things, suggest that the board has been
cautious in its estimate of net earnings.
The new money is wanted for purchase
and erection of additional hotel proper-
ties and improvement of old ones and
for expansion and further modernisation
of brewing plant and equipment. The
aim is to quicken and cheapen
tion and widen and anchor
so “assist in maintaining and Z and
extent improving, the to
capacity,” the chairman says. nin S
Except for the six difficult t
years to 1937, when
I P-9- (lowest 6 p.c.), sharehoE
have had a regular 10 p c
since 1919, sweetened with £250 Son
of bonus scrip, scattered in IoS ,UU V
1928. The financial structure is
and well-balanced, the co. has kern Dd
tightening and widening its grip upo P '
trade, and the recent and prospect
growth of population and indmtrS
expansion of South Australia are hS
spots in the outlook. The unheal f h “
feature is spiralling costs, which do not
yet appear to have reached their unnS
limit, and to meet which a lift in the sell
mg price of beer has been granted in Vic
toria and asked for in N, S. Wales
All-round expansion is the keynote of
the co.’s balance-sheet figures:
1942. 1948. 1949 IQ . n
Paid capital.. £722,080 £722,080 £722 080 £729 nan
Creditors* .. 333,257 371,810 305,492 434%^
Freeholds .. 902,154 782,258 750,470 777’isq
Plant, etc. .. 80,417 34,040 55 430 ni of
Stocks .. 61,393 109,144 139,741 165 fins
Book debtsf.. 117,907 218,293 243 758 265 dsi
Advances .. 83,912 190,903 177,728 259 sts
Cash .. .. 21,911 221,167 196,114 85435
* Includes taxation, f Includes shareholdings’
Freeholds (up £11,719 last term) appear
at £184,965 less than the 1942 figure
despite additions and improvements
meanwhile. The year’s net additions to
plant amounted to £56,525, stocks
£25,865, book debts, etc., £21,731 and
advances £75,650. To* meet the outlay
cash was drawn upon for £110,679 and
£69,241 was added to the amount com-
ing to creditors, etc. A contraction of
£57,182 in the more or less liquid surplus
(£334,667) was because of the outlay on
fixed assets.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
To R&- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. • serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1943.. 32,321 Bip.c.= 23,800 8,621 84,900
From inner reserves, £8,043 93,009
1944.. 25,810 B!p.e.= 23,800 2,010 95,019
1945.. 29,521 8i „ „ 23,800 5,721 100,740
1946.. 24,380 8i „ „ 23,800 580 101,320
1947.. 39,768 10 „ „ 28,000 11,768 113,088
1948.. 72,769 12 „ „ 33,600 39,169 162,257
1949.. 62,293 12 „ „ 33,600 18,693 170,950
t Not including depreciation reserve—£3lB,649 at
31/12/49.
Last two seasons in the Queensland
sugar-belt have been among the best in
the history of the industry. The output
of raws reached record levels and has
been sold at improved prices in both
home and export markets. Mill peaks
have been lifted, too, but that doesn t
mean much at the moment, because pro-
duction (about 944,000 tons last season)
is short of the new target figure for the
industry (1,100,000 tons p.a.).
Last season’s export surplus averaged
about £A2B 15s. (up 135.) a ton as against
£A23 10s. (up Bs.) a ton for raws sold
locally. The overall average price is ex-
pected to approach the £A26-mark per
ton. Until last year it was returns trom
the export market (where the price has
exceeded the home figure by over £5 a
ton for the last three seasons) that took
care of the steep post-war advance m
C °Now costs have won the race. Heavier
operating exes., due mainly to ,^ g rte( j
and higher prices for cane and• rt^
materials, were the 1949
the sharp drop of £2O 476 m the 194 V
profit of this Bundaberg (30 900
grower. The out-turn of raws W
tons, down 2700 was^o-id^
the co.’s history. m 846
—written after allowing £ > t y n g
£10,090) for depreciation and s


» A VIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
i.f®’ * 22 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Trartl a , and Oversea* Patents and
*tade Marks.— Advt.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ss;
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
New Broken Hill Consolidated
LIMITED
THE FOURTEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED LIMITED
will be held on the 15th June, 1950, at 37 Dover Street, London, W.I
The following are extracts from the Statement of the Chairman, MR. JOHN R. GOVETT, which have been circulated with the
Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st December, 1949.
Four years have elapsed since our ten-year development programme was
announced in December, 1945, and in reviewing the progress achieved up to 31st
December, 1949, I believe we are entitled to say that great strides have already been
made in establishing your Company’s Mine as a substantial and independent
producer in the Broken Hill field. The ten-year development plan contemplated
that in the year 1949 production of ore from the Company’s own leases should
total 173,000 tons; I am glad to be able to record that, in actual fact, this target
figure was slightly exceeded. Achievements on the surface are evidenced by the
completion of the permanent Headframe on the Haulage Shaft, which marks an
important step in our development; and while the Haulage Shaft will not for
some time yet be hauling our own ore, which will continue to be hoisted through
the Zinc Corporation’s Main Shaft, it will speed up the sinking of the Service Shaft
to full size by hoisting mullock from stripping operations in that shaft.
Shortages of material—mainly structural steel —and inability to recruit all
the labour w e need, have to some extent hindered our operations both on the surface
and underground; but we have no reason to be dissatisfied with the progress
made, and full credit is due to Mr. Pitman Hooper and his staff on the excellent
results achieved. Also we all have to pay tribute to the willing help and co-
operation of the staff of the Zinc Corporation, who have made a valuable contri-
bution to the year’s achievements.
OPERATIONS
Ore production from the Company’s leases in 1949 totalled 175,232 tons,
nearly 70 per cent, higher than the previous year’s figure of 103,578 tons. The
production was made up as follows:
Lead Lode—Development
Stoping
Zinc Lode —Development
Stoping
Notwithstanding the good progress made during the year, we have not yet
reached the stage of having sufficient production points, to give us control of the
grade of the mill feed. We must continue to produce from such stopes as are avail-
able, and most of our production has again come from the zinc lode stopes in the
higher levels. This is reflected in the average grade of the mill feed which is
slightly lower than last year.
Under the terms of the Sale of Ore Agreement with the Zinc Corporation we
purchased 48,883 tons of ore, and the total ore milled during 1949 for our account
was 224,033 tons.
During the year we have continued to direct the maximum possible effort to
the development of the lead lode and to the completion of the sinking of the
main shafts.
The following are some details of the work done:—
HAULAGE SHAFT.—This shaft was sunk 254 feet to a depth of 3249 feet or
86 feet below No. 22 Level, thus completing the present programme for this
opening. Following completion of the concrete headframe and the installation of a
900-h.p. electric winder, the shaft was in commission by the end of December
servicing the levels down to No. 15 and hoisting spoil from stripping the service
shaft pilot winze. Plat cutting was completed at Nos. 18, 21 and 22 Levels,
and at the horizon of the underground crushing station 53 feet below No. 21 Level.
SERVICE SHAFT.—The sinking of this shaft was, as you are aware,
done from two points; full size excavation from the surface, and pilot winzing
from No. 8 Level. During the year the surface section advanced
216 feet and holed through to the top of the pilot winze, which has been
sunk to the horizon of No. 22 Level. Stripping the pilot winze to full
shaft size commenced about the end of the year: and by the beginning of April
of this year the full-sized excavation had reached a depth of 1497 feet, or some
21 feet below No. 11 Level, and plats had been cut at Nos. 6,7, 8,9, 10 and 11
Levels.
DEVELOPMENT AND DIAMOND DRILLING
In my statement to Members in June,,1949, I reported that we had commenced
crosscuts from the boundary winze on the No. 19 Level, and also a service' winze
from No. 18 Level. I regret that progress in these openings has not been as
rapid as might have been expected due to heavy ground requiring close timbering
and a considerable make of water. Nevertheless these crosscuts, at present our
deepest development opening, had, up to April of this year, disclosed the following
average values in the lead lode orebody where it passes from the Zinc Corporation
ground into our leases :
Width Per Cent, Ounces, Per Cent,
(Feet), Lead. Silver. Zinc.
East Crosscut . . .. .. 151 17.0 3.7 9.2
West Crosscut .. .. .. 40 19.8 4.2 13.2
These very satisfactory results confirm those of our previous drilling, which
indicated that the lead lode orebody continued into our leases undiminished in
strength and grade. South drives from both crosscuts have commenced, that from
the west crosscut having already advanced 32 feet in values averaging 22.8 per
cent, lead, 6.2 ozs. silver and 13.2 per cent. zinc.
Whilst interest centres mainly on the lead lode, work also continued during
the year on the opening up of the zinc lode, where an aggregate of 3953 feet of
development Work in ore between Nos. 6 and 18 Levels averaged 5.2 per cent, lead,
1.2 ozs. silver and 13.9 per cent. zinc.
In addition to routine diamond to guide development and stoping
entries the work of exploratory drilling of the ground south of the Haulage Shaft
has been continued by means of hole No. 179 A, drilled from No. 16 Level at a
point 1500 feet from the northern boundary, and by continuance of hole No. 180
located on the surface 3000 feet south of this boundary. As reported in 1948 the
satisfactory intersections in hole No. 173 were believed to be in a high-grade zinc
lode lying stratigraphically above the main lead, lode; and consequently hole No.
179 A was drilled from the same location as hole 173 in an attempt to intersect
the ore zones at a lower horizon. After considerable technical difficulty hole
No. 179 A ultimately reached an inclined depth of 3080 feet, the horizon of No. 21
Level having intersected a number of narrow bands of ore with low values. This
result does not confirm the previous interpretation of the results from hole No.
173 ; and since the end of the year hole No. 220 has been started from the same
point and in the same cross-section to prospect the ground above hole No. 179 A.
At the end of April this hole had not yet reached the zone of interest.
After much difficulty in very bad drilling ground surface hole No. 130 had
reached an inclined depth of 4639 feet without intersecting values of economic
interest when the bottom! 600 feet were lost owing to caving despite every effort
to support the sides of the hole by cementing. At the beginning of April of this
year the hole, on a new course below 4000 feet, was down 4104 feet.
Our results from these holes indicate that the task of delineating the south-
ward continuation of the ore structures by drilling is one of very considerable
difficulty. The inconclusive information so far obtained does not provide any
positive guidance in our search and it is to be regretted that adequate manpower
is not available to enable us at this stage to continue main drives southward from
the Haulage Shaft at and below No. 18 Level.
Since the end of the year hole No. 226 has been commenced horizontally from
a crosscut at No. 22 Level (3240 feet) of the Service Shaft pilot winze. Up to the
beginning of May the hole had advanced to 482 feet, and the following values
had been intersected:—
These results confirm the evidence from previous drilling of the existence of
large tonnages of ore in the first thousand feet southwards from the northern
boundary of our leases.
SURFACE WORKS
Although the present programme aims at increasing our own independent
resources, we still rely very considerably on the Zinc Corporation for services
and facilities of one sort or another, and much of the constructional work carried
out by the Zinc Corporation during the course of the year has been of benefit to the
Company.
Extensions to the Plantations and Regeneration Areas,on the Company’s leases
and adjacent to its surface development have been successfully carried out, and
these will make a very considerable contribution to improved living conditions for
those of our employees who reside in the vicinity of the mine leases.
EMPLOYEES AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Shortage of labour remains our greatest anxiety. At the close of the year our
labor force, exclusive of staff, numbered 475. This figure is a decrease of 36
on the closing figure for the previous year, and left us approximately 70 men
short of the full number required at that date. All available labor from the
Broken Hill district has been absorbed by the Mines, all of which require
to increase their labor force. Ways and means of obtaining additional recruits
from a wider area are being discussed with the Barrier Industrial Council and
the Unions concerned. (
CONCLUSION
The results from the development work below No. 18 Level in the main lead
lode—which is our primary objective—will I am sure ba regarded as satisfactory.
Nevertheless, the delays encountered, as referred to earlier in this statement, in the
opening up of No. 19 Level are unfortunate, since, althouhg in 1949 we have achieved
total ore production in line with our programme, and expect also to do so over 1950,
the improvement in average grade of ore is delayed. It had been anticipated
that sufficient ore would be won from the lead lode below No. 18 Level in the
current year to compensate for the cessation of deliveries under the original
Sale of Ore Agreement with the Zinc Corporation, but this now seems impossible.
In the circumstances, and in view of the possible overall shortage of labour to
which I have referred, your Directors consider that some adjustment in the terms
of the Sale of Ore Agreement with the Zinc Corporation may be called for. At
the time the Agreement was made it was clearly difficult to assess accurately
a fair basis of compensation to your Company for the delays they suffered during
the war period, and the Agreement contemplated that some review in the light of
gctual circumstances might subsequently be necessary.
During the year 1949 prices of both lead and zinc in the United States and the
United Kingdom have been subject to wide variations. Whilst dollar quotations
still govern prices in the United Kingdom, the effect of devaluation for the latter
part of the year offset to some extent the fall in the American market, with the
result that the average realisations for the year showed little change.
The average for the current year will depend largely on the American economy,
but on the present outlook we consider it reasonable to anticipate that the
return from the sale of our products will continue to be satisfactory.
for taxation—was 18.6 p.c. on
capital as against 25.9, 14.2, 8.7,
10 5 and 9.2 p.c, back to 1944.
The div. (8i p.c.) and bonus (3i
p c.), together 12 p.c., were same
as for the previous term, making
average distribution 9.3 p.c. over
the last 11 years compared with
6.8 p.c for the 10 years before
that.
Finances are comfortable:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
D reserve 1 ' 011 .. 279,620 804,555 318,649
liabilities* ..117,129 189,630 168,030
Staff firiid .. 9,481 13,593 13,593
Fr pfttf etc.. . 591,682 612,158 643,115
Stocks. . .. 214,333 243,845 124,732
Securities, etc. 55,273 55,273 61,273
Sundry debtors 6,771 46,730 89,200
Cash, etc. .. 1,359 1,625 54,849
* Including provision for taxation.
The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£162,084) was £4235, despite an
addition of £30,957 to the book
value of fixed assets. Extensions
and improvements are being
made to the mill to enable
bigger tonnages to be handled,
and unit costs should benefit,
provided plant gets a full meal.
Another good season is in
prospect, the Nov., 1949, lift of
a halfpenny a pound in the local
selling price of fines should
help to stiffen returns from the
home market, and the new sugar
agreement with the U.K. augurs
well for both increased produc-
tion and export sales. For the
next five years Britain has agreed
to take annually 600,000 tons of
Australian raws —200,000 tons
more than the quota under the
old international sugar agree-
ment —one half at a guaranteed
price to be fixed annually and
the other half at the ruling price
in the London market, where
Empire producers enjoy tariff
preference. Results to millers
and growers will depend largely
upon the course of seasons and
costs.
The sharemarket, which likes
the change in outlook for the
industry, prices the co.’s f.-p.
pound shares at 58s. 3d. as
against 435. 9d. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is
4.1 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Including the depreciation re-
serve, some of which might be
genuine profit, net tangible covet
is 545. lid. per share.
Larut Tin Fields
With large dredging areas at
Taiping (Malaya), this member
of the Anglo-Oriental group is
again giving a good account of
itself, and promises to continue
to do so, subject to political
developments in Malaya and
what happens in connection with
the price of tin and costs.
The co.’s No. 4 and No. 5
dredges began digging again in
Feb., 1947, and Sept., 1947,
respectively. Their combined
performances for the three years
to end 1949 were:
** Recovered, Yield,
Year, Treated, t. 0., c.y., Cost,*
Dec., >OOO c.y. Tons. lb. c.v.
1917 .. 2302 397.17 0.37 6.92 d.
1948 .. 4255 841.43 0.4 4 6.86 d.
1949 .. 4553 1000.48 0.49 7.66 d.
* Operating.
Last year No. 4 closed down for
three weeks for repairs, mainly
installation of a new revolving
screen. The average price ob-
tained for ore sold was equal to
£8557 19s. sd. per ton metallic
tm as against £5539 4s. in
1948.
Gross earnings from sale of
concentrates (£416,391, up
*76,912) was equal to £416 Bs.
Per ton of t.o. recovered. All-in
costs (£320,028) were equal to
P er ton t.o. —they included
*48,000 for depreciation, etc.,
rc(w?o set nside for taxation,
*BOOO written off on account of
restoration and £1049 of emerg-
fflfy (terrorist) expenditure.
With £3623 of sundry revenue,
♦ p P r °fit was £87626 stronger
or 33.3 p.c. on the
*300,000 of paid capital. Two
lv s. totalling Is. 3d. per share
Us. in 1948) were paid, less in-
come tax, which reduced the
net rate to 20 p.c., as against 16
p.c. in 1948.
There is some 71,000,000 c.y.
of pay-dirt ahead of the dredges.
Three adjacent areas, totalling
about 150 acres and including
the Taiping township, were re-
cently bored and proved pay-
able. A committee has been
formed to deal with compensa-
tion and resettlement of present
population. Co. also has a one-
third interest in 55,000,000 c.y.
of 0.571 b. ground at Bangtoe,
West Siam.
Finances are comfortable —
current assets £269,224 and
current liabilities, including final
div., £71,056. There is a re-
habilitation loan of £113,904
(unchanged) to be offset against
the co.’s war-damage claims,
settlement of which is expected
at an early date.
With world production of tin
running ahead of consumption,
there are doubts about what the
future holds for the industry.
London spot price of the metal,
which shot up from £5569 to
£8750 a ton following devalua-
tion in Sept., 1949, dropped to
£SS9O in April, 1950, and has
since recovered to £S6OI 2s. 6d.
Another pleasing feature is that
the recent wide and artificial
backwardation has disappeared.
Although America has objected
to the International Tin Study
Group’s proposal for a tin-con-
trol agreement, U.S. stockpiling
is expected to relieve the market
of most of the surplus metal for
the next year or so.
On Sydney ’Change the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares have been fairly
steady around the 10s. mark for
some time.
Alluvial Gold, a Sydney-con-
trolled holding and prospecting
concern, intends to form a co.‘
to equip and work the 1054 acres
of alluvial tin ground between
Ravenshoe and Mt. Garnet, on
the Atherton Tableland (N.Q.),
and over which it has exercised
its option. The ground, check-
bored at a cost of about £4OOO,
is estimated to contain 31,000,000
c.y. of 10.50 z. t. 0., assaying 72
p.c. metallic tin. Total amount
payable to the vendor is
£40,000. After spending £3250
on prospecting, the co. has
abandoned its option over the
silver-lead load at Mt. Barker
(Q.).
* * * *
After twelve months’ drought
shareholders in London-con-
trolled Paringa Mining and Ex-
ploration, operating on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
are back on the dividend list
with 10 p.c. (stg.), less English
income tax of 9s. in the*£, in
respect of the year to end Aug.,
1949. For the three years to the
close of accounts in 1947 \l\
p.c. was paid, partly out of
accumulated profits. Last year
co. treated 90,464 tons (down
4517 tons) ore for 18,4040 z.
(down 24710 z.) fine gold, an
average of 4.o7dwt. per ton,
which is well below run of mine
average (5.24dwt.). After taking
into account £50.242 of Com-
monwealth Government assist-
ance and £7384 previous over-
provision for taxation, the year’s
profit was put at £11,481. The
div, will call for £14,865, equal
in Australian currency to 6.8 p.c.
on capital at the current rate of
exchange. The co.’s Is. stock
units, which touched 4s. sd. in
Adelaide in 1949, recently sold
at 2s. 7d.
Hannan’s North Mine, at the
northern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), has been a
steady, though comparatively
small, producer ever since
B.H.P. took it over in the early
1930’5. The most the big steel
co. has ever said about its small
offshoot is that mining and treat-
ment operations continue ; but if
current rumors in Kalgoorlie
prove correct some sizeable and
very payable ore-bodies have
been recently vdisclosed in the
lower workings of the mine.


There's
n 0 friend
tike an old
friend I
..vi.
CO
& 3
9*
CT
IHMtWH
s
r--*
£
The nome fs_
(Dudlum’s
VACANT
POSSESSION
7-9
MARKET STREET
SYDNEY
About 250yds. Farmers, Ltd.
11,800 Feet Well-lighted
Floor Space
Land 38ft. Sin. x 127 ft.
Substantial 3-storey Building
with Cart-Dock. Splendid
Advertising and Selling Outlet.
AUCTION
Next Tuesday,
6th JUNE
L. J. HOOKER PTY.,
LIMITED
In conjunction with
ROBERT HARLEY & SONS
gdf
No. 9 of'
o Series
'IMPORTERS may come
and go, but the 'Austral'
goes on for everl"
When the founders of the
Ronaldson - Tippett enter-
prise made that brave
statement, they made it
come true by building
their "Austral" Engines
even belter than the im-
ported article at a time
when most engines were
imported.
"Australs" built over forty years
ago and the scores of thousands
built since are eloquent testimony
of the quality, endurance and
economical running built into
every Ronaldson-Tippett Engine.
quality
RELIABILITY
LONG-LIFE
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office; Ballarat, Victoria. Showroom: 628 Bonrke
bourne. N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldaon |ros. ? „PP ett ( q 1
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ro "* , gt Brisbane.
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle si.
BOHiniDSONTIPPHT
ENGINES ,
Business.Rollery.Etc
The Wool Cheque
Up to the end of April wool
sales totalled £231.8 million, an
increase of £74.1 million (47
p.c.) over the figure for the
corresponding period of last
year. The clip for the whole
1948-49 season fetched £194 mil-
lion. Average price realised for
the latest 10 months was 62d. a
pound, against 50|d. in the same
period of 1948-49. The number
of bales sold in this season was
3,005,933, *an increase of
580,699. Though wool in store
at the end of April was only
about half the figure of a year
earlier, sales in Brisbane during
May went on briskly at a high
level.
Winchcombe, Carson, esti-
mates that the total sales for
this season will reach 3,485,000
bales (up 243,400 bales), and
that the cheque will be £245
million (up £5O million).
In 1938-39 the wool cheque
was £42.5 million, or about a
sixth of the latest figure. Since
auctioning of Australian wool
recommenced on Sept. 2, 1946,
revenue from wool has exceeded
£687 million.
This season’s bountiful clip
included a greater proportion of
fine wools than in any other
year, which promises well for
the future. Stocks of wool in
the U.S.A. are considerably
lower than a year ago.
Winchcombe, Carson, does
not anticipate any sharp decline
in wool consumption: s Tf any-
thing, the trend is for expansion
in the number of people wearing
textiles made from the sheep’s
staple. Wages have risen, and
millions of people nowadays
enjoy comforts completely be-
yond their expectations of years
ago,”
Australia grows 60 p.c. of the
world’s Merino wool, and
though it runs only 17 p.c. of
the world’s sheep, it cuts 28 p.c.
of the world’s clip. The wool
firm offers the opinion that “pro-
vided no upsetting financial
changes occur, the outlook for
the sale of wool must be con-
sidered bright because of the
sound position it occupies in re-
gard to consumption and sup-
plies.”
There is a great deal that is
unhealthy in high world com-
modity prices, and the soaring
price of wool is to a large extent
a result of the depreciation in
sterling currencies. But essen-
tially our wool industry appears
to be particularly sound. The
snags continue to be rising costs
and shortage, in Australia, of
building and fencing materials,
rural equipment and machinery,
etc.
Electric Light and Power
Supply ords. were offered at 325.
fast week. The co., sometimes
known as “the Balmain
company,” supplies several Syd-
ney western suburbs with fight
and power, and has been men-
“All right, then, Smithers — a bonus and fruit-cake with
your morning tea."
tioned as » nrobable component
of the State electricity monopoly
later on—but now on “a volun-
tary basis.” For a number of
the co. paid a steady 8 p.c,
ord. div., but with the war came
higher costs and price-control,
and the div. fell to 4 p.c. for
five years. It is now back to 6
p.c. Lowest price for the ords.
in 1949 was 235. 6d., highest,
305.; in 1950, so far, lowest,
295. 4d., highest, 335. Net
tangible backing for ords. and
prefs. is 225. Id, a share on book
values. If resumption by nego-
tiation should occur shareholders
should see last week’s market
price at least. If paid off on the
basis of a similar return from
3i p.c. stock, on the present 6
»p.c. div. basis each share should
be worth about 365. With a
State election pending, the
whole question of sale or merger
is at present in the air, and the
yield at 325. is £3 15s. per cent.
* * * *'
There was a jump in Robert
Reid ords. last Thursday upon
the board’s announcement of a
projected new issue, details yet
to be released. Prices in Sydney
went from 345. to 375., settling at
365. The stock has long been a
disappointment to shareholders
because of its seeming con-
servatism —or, at any rate, its
low rate of dividend in relation
to funds employed. Though net
tangible assets, on book values,
amount to 575. a share, div. rate
has been no more than 6 p.c.
(except for a 2 p.c. bonus added
in 1947). Last term’s earnings
were 13 p.c. on ord. capital. Be-
fore the war the co. had a very
tough spin, and that has prob-
ably tempered its post-war out-
look. For that reason the board is
not to be blamed for its seeming
conservatism. Present paid capital
is £BOO,OOO, of which £187,500
is in 6 p.c. cum. par. prefs.
* * * *
Though E. Bruce Midlane,
former chairman of Selfridges,
moved that an investigation be
made into the proposed pay-
ment of £30,000 by G. J. Coles
and Co. to the directors of Sel-
fridges as consideration for
their refraining from active
association with competitors in
the chain-store field, the motion
was ruled out of order, and
shareholders at the Selfridges
meeting agreed to a merger with
G. J. Coles on the basis of five
ss. Coles shares (235. in the
market) for each £1 share of
their own. The Coles shares
offered will carry a full final div.
to June 30 provided sufficient
shareholder assents are received
within the next few days.
* * * *
The two Selfridge subsidiaries
in N.Z. and W.A. have pub-
fished new, accounts for the year
ended January 31, both showing
lower profit than in 1949, though
dividends are being maintained
at 2\ and 6 p.c. respectively. The
merger of their parent with
Coles may give these cos. a dif-
ferent standing in the unofficial
sharemarket, but Coles seems to
be in no hurry to acquire the
minority holdings, and, in any
case, it would be unrealistic to
expect buying terms as favorable
as those for the parent. Coles’s
main objective at present is evi-
dently to consolidate in N. S.
Wales.
* * * *
Chain grocery stores have not
the clear-cut advantages that
other chain-stores seem to have
over their individual competi-
tors. In many towns and
suburbs a grocer’s shop requires
the services of only two or three
hands, and this lends itself to
family-ownership. The whole-
sale grocers who have no chain
of retail shops of their own have
a vital interest in the independent
grocers, and must see to it that
their distributors are supplied
with stock on terms competitive
with the chains. Chain-stores
have to run their shops with staff
engaged outside.
Turnover of
Burns Philp and
Co. for the term to
March 31 was
£24.5 million,
double the figure
of pre-war years.
Profit in relation
to turnover, how-
ever, has fallen
from over 2 p.c. to
1.23 p.c. That is,
claimed profit. Last
year, in addition to the dis-
closed profit of £302,734, there
was an unexplained addition of
£717,819 to insurance and other
reserves (compared with an
addition of £219,346 in the pre-
ceding year), and some of this
may be true profit. The co. paid
11s, lOd. in the £ taxation last
year, A new cargo-ship. Brae-
side, of 5687 tons, cost the co.
about £BOO,OOO, a vast increase
on pre-war costs, and if the co.
is to continue in the shipping
business it may need very big
replacement reserves.
♦ * * *
Albert G. Sims ss. ords. have
been subject to “stagging” in the
market, and were available at
6s. 4d. in Sydney last week, to
yield 6.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The co. earned a shade
under 13 p.c. on ord. capital in
its last term. Paid capital is
now £178,072, ot which £4O rw,
is ia 5 p.c. cum. £1 Dref , ’T
rest ords. The co. is e ng \g’>
•teTtad
* * ♦
Colonial Sugar shares*
all the anticipations
pomtments over the terms S 5?"
new issue, steadied at m
week, £6 below the year’s
but £4 10s. above the
The cost of the £7
the new issue (one f or fi ve f
which was the main cause of
the market’s disappointment i
more than accounted for in
May° f “ PM °‘ d Share
Electricity Meter and Allied
Industries (E.M.A.1.L.) ords
looked high enough at 37s last
week. Earnings by the paren
co. for the year to December 31
last were slightly under 9 5 D c
on average ord. capital, those of
the parent and its 20-odd sub-
sidiaries combined a little less
P - - The co. and sub-
sidiaries had over £3,300,000 of
outside money in the business
at December 31 last, including
tax liability, compared with
capital and reserves of their own
of £2,566,000 (subject to good-
will, £160,934). Stocks were
valued at £2,796,643 last balance-
day ; up £349,388. Last year’s
profits were up, and the div
increased to 8 p.c. At 375. the
yield on an 8 p.c. div. basis is
£4 7s. per cent. Stock valua-
tions and production costs will
become increasingly important
to the co.
* * * *
Rex Investments, Ltd., is an
unlisted Sydney stock attracting
a good deal of private inquiry
at the moment. Buyers last week
offered 345. for the £1 ords.,
sellers asking 40s. The co. is
an investor in real estate and
hotel properties, a Canberra
hotel recently being knocked
down to it at auction. Share-
holders are to be asked to sanc-
tion an increase in capital. The
L. J. Hooker people are in-
terested in Rex Investments.
* * * *
Garratts, Ltd., is so shrunken
nowadays that to pay a 25 p.c,
dividend only takes £5324, In
fact, the latest profit of £17,120
(a slight improvement on the two
previous years) represents over
80 p.c. on the paid capital of
£21,296 following the heavy
writing-down and repayments
before 1942. Trading is now
restricted to Brisbane,


Divorce Notice.
IN THIS SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ANDERSON late of Mar-
rickville Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
MYRTLE IRENE ANDERSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1493 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th day of August 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from KEITH B. ROSEBY, Solicitor, St.
James Building, 107 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITER
tmma
REPORTS
t RECORD WWttin*
I TO MUCffIOVBIOS
I of £3,897,000 in 1949 .
,5 vi; ,2
Surplus distributed as 1949 Bonuses
£1,202,000
New Policies issued in 1949 for the record amount of
£37,400,000
TOTAL FUNDS £57,560,000
to provide future benefits for Policyholders
Principal Office: 316 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, cX
Directors: The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B. GEORGE D. HEALY
Major-General FRANK P* DERHAM, C. 8., D. 5.0., V.D.
R. V. S. McPHERSON
General Manager and Secretary: C. B. HEARN, C. 8.8.; P.C.I.S.
Actuary: D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.P.A.
Chief Medical Officer; A. E. BOWDEN WHITE, M.D., F.R.A.C.P.
A PURELY MUTUAL SOCIETY
2VO SHAREHOLDERS
m
i
m
m
m
m
A spruce seedling has taken root
one of millions in the forests of
Newfoundland, Norway and Sweden
that will become fine trees and one day
give their logs to form pulpwood for
Bowaters, Wood fibre has come to rank
among mankind’s most useful raw
materials —the chief raw material of an
industry that is second to agriculture in
importance. Ingeniously refashioned, it
makes paper—it becomes board —
virtually becomes wood again without
wood’s failings. It helps to build
houses, factories, ships.
A sheet of paper begins to grow
It was because Bowaters foresaw
that a vast and versatile industry
must grow upon the potentialities of
wood fibre that the Bowater Organisation
was conceived and formed. By the
control of lands and forests, by experiment
and research on a vast scale, by the, build-
ing and installation of giant mills and
machines, by incorporating leading firms
in many branches of this vital industry,
the Bowater Paper Corporation has
equipped itself for the task of supplying
paper and board on the scale
of tomorrow’s needs.
Issued jointly by
THE BOWATER PAPER CORPORATION LIMITED
London and
BOWATER PAPER COMPANY LIMITED
Sydney and Melbourne
AUSTRALIA GREAT BRITAIN CANADA SOUTH AFRICA U.S.A NORWAY SWEDEN
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
An interesting example of the
workings of “planned economy”
is to be noticed in British
Transport Commission’s scheme
to revise fares in the Greater
London area. These fares are
not to be modified or increased ;
they are to be “equalised.” This
is not the language of
bureaucracy, which calls a
home an “accommodation unit,”
but the technique of blow-
softening by elegant variation.
The fares must inevitably be
raised, as must the cost of a cup
of tea or a ton of coal, but it
wouldn’t do to say so when the
two modes of transport offer a
ready means of equivocation.
That is to say, by “equalising”
charges on all road and rail ser-
vices a sense of fairness is im-
plied ; and the fact that in a
few unimportant instances fares
may actually be reduced is
brought out to suggest balance.
The next technique is that of
easy stages. Some 10,000,000
people in Greater London,
despite strong but only half-
confident opposition from rate-
payers, trade-unions and the
like, must willy-nilly become
“equalised.” Then, the nation’s
transport being under “public
ownership,” the rest of the coun-
try may be raised to equality,
: district by district. And every-
body’s happy— except, perhaps,
- the “planned.”
Reports on Youth
Youth is, and always has been,
a ready object of censorious
analysis on the part of well-
meaning adults. In turn, youth
has erected a barrier against
these frontal attacks which tends
to discount all criticism as
crabbed and fault-finding. The
modern approach is a truer and
more sympathetic one. Instead
of putting the victim in the dock
as a natural offender it seeks
first to win his confidence, then
elicit the facts and finally to
search painstakingly for the
reasons behind them. That the
picture of adolescence in our en-
lightened modern age is hardly
an encouraging one is confirmed
by two reports that have recently
been published.
The first deals with juvenile
delinquency, and has been pre-
pared for. the Carnegie United
Kingdom Trust by Mr. D. H,
Stott, who has carried out a
four-year investigation on 102
boys in an approved school. In
view of the wordy battle that is
at present being fought between
magistrates and psychiatrists the
findings are significant. The
boys are not of lower average
mentality than those outside;
they are not born criminals;
they are not beyond reclama-
tion. The cinema and other sus-
pected bad influences have not
led them into crime, but have
only determined the road they
have taken. What has unleashed
the lawlessness in practically
every case has been the surging
need, often long-delayed, to
escape from some unbearable
emotional situation in an un-
happy home life. In many in-
stances the criminal impulses
have been dissipated outside the
home by the child finding a sub-
stitute-parent in an understand-
ing schoolmaster. The report
also stresses —and it is time wC
heard more strain—that
society must impress upon the
individual that he is responsible
for his own actions and must
hold him to account for them.
Another report, bearing the
forbidding title of “Eighty
Thousand Adolescents,” comes
from the Westhill Training Col-
lege (which is sponsored by the
Free Churches of England and
Wales). The 80,000 are Birming-
ham youths and maidens. Aged
between 15 and 20, the majority
are semi-literate ; 41 p.c. of the
boys and 31 p.c. of the girls
“never read” books, and those
who do tend to base their choice
on films they have seen, with
Forever Amber and No Orchids
for Miss Blandish as favorites.
The report has questioned the
value of youth clubs, which,
probably because of the worthy
and hard-working voluntary
staffs who conduct them, have
so far escaped criticism. ' Six-
teen-year-olds drift in and out
of the numerous clubs as if they
were railway-stations. Youth
leaders are young in spirit and
enjoy youthful games and ways,
while the teenagers, on the
other hand, are only interested
in growing out of adolescence.
The implication seems to be
that, if Birmingham is a fair
sample of England and Wales,
then 80 p.c. of the 3,000,000
adolescents are leading lives that
are “empty and barren rather
than anti-social or vicious.” It
may be that there are fallacies
in this disconcerting opinion.
For these youngsters were the
ones whose childhood and edu-
cation were disturbed by the
war. And it may fairly be asked
whether it is sound to use
literacy as a yardstick of per-
sonality and character when
modern work and leisure depend
so little upon the reading of
books.
The Bushranger
The keenly-awaited “Pommy,”
W. P. Lipscomb’s and John Wat-
son’s drama of life in the out-
back, has failed to gain its ob-
jective of a West End theatre.
Instead, the preliminary tryout
in the provinces led to a mere
week’s run at the People’s
Palace, Stepney—a theatre out
of the range of general audi-
ences and, in this instance, be-
neath the notice of the critics.
The play has now moved to the
Midlands, perhaps never to
return.
If it is regrettable that
“Pommy” has not given to the
stage what “The Overlanders”
gave to the screen, frankness
compels the opinion that the two
are incomparable. “The Over-
landers” had style and unity.
“Pommy” hasn’t, notwithstand-.
ing brisk dialogue and a taut
plot.
An English playboy whose
haughty reserve is insistently
aggressive, is in Australia seek-
ing an heiress. He arrives at a
sheep-station with the implicit
intention of marrying the owner.
Ridiculed and boycotted by the
hands, he becomes so pent-up
with animosity that he conspires
with the rascally manager,
during a drought, to cheat the
owner of 3000 sheep by driving
them outside the territory before
forcing her to sell out at a low
figure. He relents, goes to Syd-
ney, puts on his fine clothes,
mixes again in society, comes
back with money for trucks,
narrowly escapes being beaten
to death by stockwhip and falls
into the arms of the girl—a re-
union that is blessed by a provi-
dential rainfall.
Why does the play fail? To
this Pommy it would seem that
sbme of the characters are over-
drawn, the plot overpacked, the
comedy too dominant and the
inter-relationship of the charac-
ters sacrificed to background
authenticity. Even after allow-
ing for dramatic licence and
magnification, an Englishman
tricked out like a bobby-soxer’s
delight on a screen honeymoon,
with a suitcase full of Bond-
street silks and fripperies, hardly
belongs to this age; nor do the
indigenous clods who torment
him. Moreover, oaths are most
effective on the stage when used
sparingly. Here they are not.
The Australian contingent in-
cluded Natalie Raine as the
bundle of homeliness with the
come-hither eyes, Edward
Howell as the sly manager, Colin
Croft as the jackeroo and Bill
Kerr as one of the larrikins.
From the crowds outside before
and after the show the latter
appeared to have attracted a
large proportion of the audience.
Let it be recorded to his credit
that the playing of his first
straight part was modest and
team-like and that he stole no-
body’s thunder.
Among the others were: Cyril
Cusack as the comic Irishman ;
Duncan Lament as the sullen
dolt with the stockwhip;
Patricia Wayne as the harassed
owner; and Ronald Howard as
the stuffed-shirt.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Among the many lovely songs Erna
Berger sang at her first Town Hall
recital was Mozart’s incomparable ‘ Ave
Verum.” Olympic aria froni Oifen-
bach’s “Tales of Hoffman” found such
favor with the audience that the singer
gracefully repeated it. The picture frock
of plumbago-blue faille worn by the
singer was a winner. The fitting bodice,
with three-quarter sleeves, had an off-
the-shoulder neckline finished with large
peaked revers, and there was fullness in
the back of the skirt. Accessories worn
with the gown were a diamond bracelet
and a pendant, which was originally
given to the singer Francillo Kaufman
by Caruso. In the audience were Mrs.
Bowen Pain, in black frock and hip-
length brown-ermine Madame Grace
Angelau, whose silver-fox furs were worn
over a black cocktail frock, singer Nance
Osborne, who was with Linda Phillips,
Mrs. Allan Eddy, her dinner-gown of
forest-green crepe, and Mr, and Mrs.
Kurt flamberg, who entertained the artist
and a few friends at a supper party after
the concert at their home in Mont Albert.
The Victoria League in Victoria, jvhich
was founded in 1901 on Empire Day,
celebrated its birthday by throwing its
doors open to visitors, displaying work by
all its committees. During the afternoon
the Governor, accompanied by Lady
Brooks, who is president of the League,
and Jeanette, their daughter, visited the
rooms, which were gay with green
hydrangeas, red berries and autumn
foliage, the spoils from members’ gardens.
The vice-regal party was entertained at
afternoon-tea by the senior vice-president,
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, and Mrs. Rupert
Greene. Later the Young Contingent of
the Victoria League carried on the cele-
brations with a sherry-party. Their guest
of honor was Jeanette Brooks, who was
received by the president, Kay Hughes,
and the joint hon. secretaries, Mrs. Basil
Dunn and Marjorie Tatnall. Among the
Y.C.’s guests were Mesdames Philip Luby
and Alec Cook, and Pauline Gurney,
Grace Herschell, Elizabeth Cahill, Julie
Meredith and Emmie Kemp.
“Harvey,” a whimsical play concern-
ing a non-existent rabbit, the intimate and
companion of one Elwood P. Dowd,
played by Joe E. Brown, had its premiere
at the Comedy Theatre. Mrs. Frank Tait,
who gave a supper-party in her Toorak
home after the performance, wore a bouf-
fant gown of beech-brown tulle with a
matching stole. Mink covered Mrs.
Edmund Alcock’s brown laces. Mrs. Guy
Hutchinson’s long-sleeved dinner-gown
of black taffeta had a rounded neckline
finished with a band of white ermine. A
black slim skirt and box coat heavily
embroidered in gold made classical com-
bination for Mrs. Bernard Dowd. Grey
chiffons and a white Arctic-fox wrap were
Mrs. A. Colman’s contribution to ele-
gance. Under a blue mink coat Mrs.
Garnet Carroll wore an amber crepe gown
trimmed with dull-gold beads. A flowing
skirt of black silk jersey and a brocade
lace top suited Jill Daveron to perfection.
Mrs. Norman Paul was in white moire.
Mrs. Peter Andrew added platina foxes
to her green velvet gown. Mrs. Frank
Martin’s taffetas were grey and green shot.
A marathon party was that given for
Mrs. George Mendes, who leaves with her
husband and son shortly in the Hima-
laya, by her sister-in-law, Mrs. Ada Col-
man, at her Pasadena Mansions flat. It
began as a luncheon, carried on to after-
noon-tea and then turned into a cocktail-
party,- buffet-dinner and -supper. The
hostess wore a black self-embossed taffeta
ballerina frock. Her daughter, Mrs.
Ralph Freedman, also frocked in black,
assisted her mother in entertaining. The
skirt of the guest-of-honor’s navy white-
spotted tie-silk jacket-suit featured a
flying panel; her white satin cloche hat
was finished with navy ostrich-feathers.
Mrs. A. G. Silk, who will join Mrs.
Mendes in London after she has been
to Rome for the Holy Year celebrations,
wore a full-backed coat of black faille;
her small black satin sailor hat was
finished with a small palm-tree of black
velvet and tulle. Mrs. Bill Cook’s
cinnamon-brown tailored suit was worn
with a feathered hat of darker brown.
Gold crowns adorned the small black
hat Mrs. Bill McGowan wore with her
black suit. Mrs. A. Levy’s black frock
had black lace panels let into the bodice.
Gloria Ladd’s cap of ocelot, with its
perky black feather, was worn with a
slimly-cut black frock. Her mother,
Mrs. W. Horsfall, was in turquoise-blue.
The tailored coat of Persian-red worn
by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
with a matching felt off-the-face hat, was
outstanding in the field of color at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Another in-
teresting color scheme was the sapphire-
blue duvetyn worn by Mrs. Ted Biggs.
This had collar, lapels and cuffs of match-
ing velvet; her fur felt hat was of pale
mauve. Daphne Kaufman’s face-cloth
coat was turquoise-blue, her hat of
melusine in a paler blue. Mrs. Constance
Day’s ensemble of slim skirt and waist-
length box-jacket was in old-rose wool-
romaine; her small beret was of junior
navy velvet. A corn-gold felt beret with
a tall pheasant feather for trimming
was worn by Mrs. S. J. Fletcher
with her junior-blue jacket-suit. Brown
and sage-green were combined in
the effective hat worn by Mrs.
H. Rothwell with her brown musquash
coat. Mrs. Dick Noone, who leaves
shortly to make her home in Sydney, was
in mustard-toned coat and matching
angora hat. A winter-white felt hat which
cascaded black coq feathers was notable
on Mrs. H. Reed. The black-and-white
shepherd’s-plaid tailored frock worn by
Mrs. Duncan McLaren featured the
pencil-slim skirt, slit at each side and a
high petal-shaped white pique collar.
Mrs. Ray Joseph’s brown ermine coat
was topped with a powder-blue felt hat
with a plume set in front.
Douglas Cox has produced a collec-
tion of spring and summer clothes worthy
of any French fashion-house. High-
lights of the collection are the lovely
“round-the-world” filament crepe prints,
the silhouette —which the Americans call
“the top look” necklines —pockets and
the removable apron overskirt featured
on many cotton frocks. The round-the-
world prints represent 45 countries, and
the colors are striking, the designs beauti-
ful. They range from the rice-fields of
China to the English rose-garden, from
the snow-capped mountains of Switzer-
land to tropical Hawaii. Among the
colors are lilac, south-sea blue, sunrise-
pink, honey-beige, oyster-grey, putty-
green, a wide choice of yellows, Pasa-
dena-brick and Californian-red. The
“spring-fever” necklines are cut out to
the shoulder to end in a deep V edged
with wide flat revers. There is the
scissors neckline (a plunging style), the
boater type, either gathered into a
narrow binding or finished with a tiny
turn-over rever of the material or a con-
trasting shade. Pockets may be set be-
low or above the waistline. Shantung
was the material of the collection. It
was used for suits, sun-frocks and late-
afternoon wear. Pique, plain or waffle,
was used extensively for teenage frocks.
Pauline Richards left Korowa to go to
the University Con., where she is now a
second-year drama student. Her first
major appearance is with the Conserva-
torium Drama Group in Eileen O’Keefe’s
production of Sheridan’s “The Rivals,”
now at the Union Theatre. For days
Pauline has been busy mastering the art
of wearing the beautiful period costumes.
Photo from Artgraf Studios.
Before presswoman Helen Seager flew
off to London she was guest-of-honor at
an informal late-afternoon party at the
Town Hall given by the Lord Mayor,
Councillor J. S. Disney, and Mrs. Disney,
the latter in a tailored grey suit and a
matching felt hat which carried a natty
grey plume. Helen’s black-and-white
check suit was worn with a black hat and
accessories. The wife of Judge Gamble
offset her black ensemble with a large
pink hat slashed with a black quill. Mrs.
Audrey Elford was trim in tailored black
outfit with a wide black picture-hat. Mrs.
Russell Coldham’s black hat flew black
aigrettes. A small burnt-straw hat and
a grey suit made neat combination for
ballerina Joyce Graham. Mrs. John
Gabriel was in a junior navy suit and
pastel-pink velvet beret. London-tan
feathers trimmed the small brown hat
Mrs. John Heath wore with her sage-
green frock. A brown corded-velvet
jacket-suit and matching pixie cap were
the choice of Mrs. M. Sayles.
From Sydney
Empire day in Sydney failed to go
with the customary bang expected by
the youngsters. Rain, heavy and con-
tinuous, washed out the crackers and the
bonfires, as well as the big demonstration
of schoolchildren arranged for Martin-
place. Highlight of the day was the
brilliant ball and pageant arranged by
the Royal Empire Society at the Town
Hall, where over 900 dancers crowded the
floor, and spectators packed the galleries.
The good Queen’s birthday was cele-
brated in great style. Time rolled
back for one evening: the spirit of Vic-
torian elegance, of the golden age or a
great reign, infused the great gathering.
Because of the deluge women Suests
arrived like flockS of Cinderellas huddled
in rain-coats, capes and goloshes, covered
by big umbrellas, any and everything
called into service against the weather. It
was fascinating to watch them emerging
like butterflies from the chrysalis. The
baleful elements without gave emphasis to
the brilliance and glamor of the foyer,
where men in full regimental mess-dress
made a colorful background for the
women’s pastel and white swirling frocks.
Naval and military bands preparing for
the pageant added the strident glitter of
brass instruments combined with brilliant
uniforms, contrast being provided by the
more sombre colors of the Navy and Air
Force.
The Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, accompanied by his daughter Eliza-
beth and Sheila Collett, were met at the
entrance by R.E.S. president Percy
Spender, Mrs. Spender, and the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Alderman and
Mrs. O’Dea. Mrs. Spender, president
of the ball committee, presented to the
Governor the members of the ball com-
mittee and the ladies’ auxiliary, who had
done a magnificent job earlier in the day,
tastefully decorating the tables with trails
of winter berries and poinsettias. Mrs.
Spender’s lovely silver-and-white-stnped
crinoline frock suited her slim figure to
perfection. Guests at the official table
included Lady Maria Howard, Countess
of Effingham. This distinguished English
visitor bears a name of historic signifi-
cance, for it was Charles, Lord Howard
of Effingham, who was Lord High
Admiral in command of Elizabeth s forces
at the Armada. The Countess wore a
handsome full-length white ermine coat
over a white crepe frock heavily em-
broidered on the bodice with sequins.
The pageant which followed the vice-
regal entry displayed uniforms of the
Army, R.N. and Merchant Navy m Aus-
tralia since 1790, emphasising the gradual
decline in sartorial splendor. The ser-
vices grouped on the stage formed the
background for the tableau of Britannia
and the Dominions arranged by Mrs.
Mina Shelley- Miss Gill Hemming was a
happy choice for Britannia. Guests at
the official table included Lieut.-General
Berryman and Mrs. Berryman, Rear-
Admiral J. A. S. Eccles and Mrs. Eccles,
Air Vice-Marshal McCauley and Mrs.
McCauley (Lieut.-General Berryman and
Air Vice-Marshal McCauley took part in
the pageant), Lady Anderson, Sir James
and Lady Bisset, Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Williams and Colonel Alfred Spam.
The Overseas League and the Victoria
League held an Empire Day reception m
the afternoon at Federation House,
Phillip-street. Flags flanked the dais in
the main hall and the reception-rooms
were bright with autumn flowers when
the deputy president of the League, Mrs.
Harold Nicholas, welcomed the guests.
These included the Governor and Eliza-
beth Northcott, Sir Angus Gillan, repre-
sentative of the British Council in Aus-
tralia, and Lady Gillan, Sir Keith and
Lady Smith, Rear-Admiral G. D. Moore
(he will be leaving soon to take up his
appointment in the Philippines), Mrs.
Muriel Mackey, Miss Beulah Bolton and
Mrs. H. McNall. The 300 guests were
addressed by the Governor and Sir Angus
Gillan. . , , A . .
Perfect winter weather brought almost
as many women as men to the Sheep
Show, opened in Sydney by Prime
Minister R. G. Menzies. An in-
terested spectator in grey, brightened
with a tomato-red jumper, was Mrs. Mc-
Clung, of Winbri, Gunnedah, whose
husband showed the champion and
reserve-champion Merino rams. Yellow
was a favorite color with good dressers
at the showground. Mrs. Ivor Manton,
who held one of her husband s prize-
winning exhibits in the ring, was attractive
in a yellow tweed topcoat and matching
beret. Her niece, Pam Brockhoff, also
wore yellow teamed with a yellow-and-
blue plaid skirt and scarf a
Nivison, o£ Mirani, Walcha. SseV’
band judged the fine wools ,u
mustard-yellow tweeds with a brown w
She was accompanied by Mrs ink-.,
rison, of Victoria, in g”y’ M °r-
This year three women exhibta IS*
Bostock, Miss Pat Welsh and Mrs r®
Hickson. After Mr. Menzies had n .
out the ribbons and cupftS wf d
general move by nearly 300 gU( SV
the super cocktail-party turned !! u°
the Sheepbreeders’ Association. Üby
The Wool Ball, which followed th« c -u
and benefits the Peter Pan Free Ki„H° W
B fm n c W a S one ° £ the affaS
of the Sydney season. Mrs. Noel Vincent
who reminded one of the night d? ’
glorious night-blue wool set off LS
diamonds and pearls, carried off the S
for the most attractive wool dress
at the ball Mrs. Charles Lloyd E
and Mr George Falkiner were the judges
The golden fleece was well to the W •
Mrs. Ernest Watts’s lambs gambolled on
the walls, exquisite wool frocks were worn
by many dancers, and, toward midnieh
miniature bales of wool were auctioned
In addition to bits of .fleece these con
tained French perfume, champagne wool
suit- and dress-lengths, a portable’ radio
and other desirable trifles.
Queenslander Joyce Hutchinson sets
out early in June on a tour of NSW
towns as accompanist and associate artist
with Australian tenor William Herbert
who is on concert tour with the A.BC
Queenslanders are proud of Joyce. At
13 she won the North Queensland
championship open pianoforte solo and
held it for some years. Study at the
N.S.W. Conservatorium resulted in the
scholarship awarded by the Musical
Association, and later the William Vicars
Scholarship. She is familiar to Australian
listeners through her broadcast recitals,
her playing with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra in studio performances and as
associate artist with Harold Williams on
his Australian tour. In private life she is
Mrs. H. M. Henry, of Neutral Bay, and
the mother of Brownyn and Rachael, tom
and a half years and 18 months old re-
spectively.
The annual meeting of the committee
of Dr. Barnardo’s Homes was welt
attended when Bishop Hilliard rose to
speak on the good work of the •
Dr. Raymond Green presented the annua
report, and a vote of thanks to
speakers was moved by Mrs. • •
Hexderson. Over a cup of tea the: med
ing congratulated the COl ” rl J! v tt IN j w a us .
good news that a party of 40 N
tralians of the very best sod children
for Australia the next day. These chiildn
are particularly welcome among >
the boys train for land work at the
farm school at Picton. , \y ar
Today the N.S.W. branch of. the
Widows’ Guild celebrates its third to -
day at the Drill Hall at Millers
Federal president Mrs.
flew over from Melbourne r - epre .
speaker, and other gues repatriation
sentatives of all aU „ ran d j o b
groups. The Guild is doing i wit h a
for the widows of service re p or t
State membership of 2000 c;satisfactory,
satisfactory progress. atoon iba and
indeed, that branches m 3* handicraft
Wagga are forming. every
shop holds its end u P4 nd £ offers lovely
support from the publ » p r i c es, and
handmade things at for
the sale of these to sup-
those widows with y°u n S - t hout leaving
plement the family budget §tat e
home to do a job •of • w jdoW 0
president Mrs. W* E. NJ’ they are
well-loved Dr. Bill K V ~ an d an-
not yet quite out of clubr° OITI '
much in need of space for pbilajj'
It is hoped that some sy a v d
thropist will make a bfl o of he
able to them to meet , § a fine
growing membership ke a very
opportunity for someone
worth-while gesture*


Hxide
\=?®5
m
u
H
O
M
LI
G
N
G
m
A
IT
O
LIGHTING NEED
BACKED
BY
YEARS
EXP
R ENGE
m
SMLI.M
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
It is a far cry from bombed Canterbury
Cathedral, one of the world’s master-
pieces of architecture, to Hawthorn, Vic-
toria, but it is in the studio of sculptor
Andor Meszaros in that suburb that some
of the restoration is being effected. The
cathedral authorities have been trying for
years to get a sculptor to make an altar
for one of its chapels ; it was the Aus-
tralian sculptor’s design of Christ on the
Cross with Mother Mary and Mary Mag-
dalene and dicing soldiers below Him
which was finally accepted. Born in
Hungary, the sculptor had a European
reputation before he came to Melbourne,
and works of his are in capitals from
Tokio to Stockholm. He was given 14
months to complete the figures, which
are made entirely of Australian silver and
Queensland beanwood. They are being
cast in a Carlton foundry.
Of Field-Marshal Archibald Wavell’s
67 years, 49 were given to soldiering ; son
and grandson of generals, married to a
colonel’s daughter, he had been in every
war since Kruger’s. He finished War I
lieut.-colonel, began the next lieut.-
general and in five years had his marshal’s
baton, as well as orders from Egypt,
Greece, Ethiopia, Poland, Holland, China
and the U.S.A. Short, stocky and dose-
mouthed, Waved, instead of telling stories
after port, wrote them; serving with
Allenby in Palestine, he later put him
between biographical covers and wrote
a history of that campaign which long
has been a British Army handbook on
desert fighting. While Viceroy of India
he produced his verse-anthology “Other
Men’s Flowers,” the subject of a long
Red Page article by Norman Lindsay, of
which Waved wrote and expressed his
appreciation of both review and reviewer.
Linguist as wed, Waved once surprised
Stalin by delivering a good Russian
speech at a banquet in Moscow.
Resigned from bossing the big Lake
View goldmine in Westralia, J. F. Thorn
went to W.A. in 1929 with ideas of making
the apparently dug-out and rusting Golden
Mile disgorge what he was convinced it
still held. By 1939 the area tackled had
almost regained its production of the
roaring days of the early ’nineties.
Thorn’s experience stemmed from mining
in Korea during the Russo-Japanese war,
and in Mexico.
u “Jemac”: Among the wearers of those
“few seasoned uniforms” which stuck the
bucking on- new destroyer Tobruk’s bridge
(B. 24/5/’5O) was knight Keith Smith, who
developed his immunity from travel-sickness in
the famous Vickers Vimy bomber which his
brother Ross touched down at Darwin in
December, 1919. Old Digger (R.F.C.), one of
the most genial of men, S’Keith was at sea on
that handing-over day as boss of the Cockatoo
dockyard which built the ship. His connection
with warships goes way back —for years he’s
been Sydney representative of Vickers-Arm-
strong, whose trade-mark, on hulls, guns or
equipment, is carried by pretty well every ship
l n *-he British Navy. Tobruk’s Number One,
u'^ r ‘ N. Hinchcliff, is an old Tobrukian
who made 13 trips into the battered, but still-
bouncy, stronghold, and won his D-S.C. in
another destroyer, Napier, in the Crete affair,
tiemor man on the lower-deck, responsible to
the first lieutenant for the ship’s discipline,
Voxswain Noel Toose has the touchy job of
handling Tobruk’s near-400ft, length entering
ana leaving harbor, or in any confined waters
where special-sea-dutymen close-up. Much
aepends on the cox’n—the ship’s happiness
etween-decks, the smart dressing of her com-
pany, the intelligent and understanding enforcing
ina ? r i y * n a small ship) of her discipline—
«iv r Petty Officer Toose, 16 years in,
x-reet-odd of weather-browned, hawk-nosed
penence and geniality, handles his new ’tween-
ecks command with sure and seasoned con-
cicnce. in command of the most powerful
pv *j, ln Australia (cruiser Adelaide not
Commander Tom Morrison, torpedo-
speciahst (Tobruk mounts 10 tubes), battle-
uPk rie . fr° m Berbera’s evacuation (cruiser
r Jj. ar .L 0.8. E.) to the Lingayen and Leyte
JJUit invasions (cruiser Australia, D.S.C. and
is the only R.A.N. officer, with
ptam Gatacre, ever to represent the R.N.
v • et ’ has never been heard to raise his
thp CC m an , ger > anc i handles his command with
capt assurca casualness peculiar to destroyer
Australians seem to turn up in all sorts
of places, mostly uncivilised, but one
last week found himself in what must be
a unique position—the Rev. Samuel For-
syth, he led the U.S. Senate in prayer
before its opening of proceedings. Tour-
ing the States on his way to England, the
S. Australian was invited to the honor
by Vice-President Barkley,
There’s enough salt water in Captain
Peter Taylor’s bilges to rust the hook he
swallowed at the end of his last voyage
in the passenger-freighter Carpentaria
from Fremantle to Calcutta —taken in
during 42 years’ blue-watering, 36 of them
with the British India Co., 20 as master-
mariner and clewing-up commodore of
the 8.1. fleet. Son of a shipping man,
his four brothers ploughed the same ele-
ment, and the two surviving are also
skippers. Burly and teak-faced, Peter
first tasted salt at 15 in the barque Bala-
sore, then in the Chilean nitrate trade, a
hard service where boys did the work
of men and men the work of supermen.
In the R.N. in both of its latest wars, he
commanded the Masobra when she went
under off Narvik in 1940. On the beach
he will set course for those landfalls of
most retired sailormen —gardening and
painting.
Even in the days of the three Bs it was
unusual for a musical work to be dedi-
cated to a musician; an even rarer
honor today, it’s held by Colin Horsley,
here caught by Prior rehearsing Lennox
Berkeley’s Piano Concerto, a pleasing,
vigorous work blending the modern and
classical idioms, which was, dedicated to
Horsley, and of which the 29-year-old
Maorilander is so far the only executant.
Presenting the piece’s world premiere at
the Albert Hall in 1948 under Sir Henry
Wood, Horsley played it again the fol-
lowing year at the International Festival
of Contemporary Music in Palermo,
Sicily, and was specially selected by
Berkeley to offer it to the Australian pub-
lic on Horsley’s present A.B.C. tour.
Playing seriously since he was 17, Hors-
ley developed his musical pot-hooks at
the Royal College of Music, first went
COLIN HORSLEY.
over the air With the 8.8. C. in 1943 and
has since broadcast from Rome and
Pa ™-. Quietly spoken, with a discerning
intelligence which ranged during his
breaks in rehearsing from technicalities
G f classical music to some shrewd obser-
vations on the international situation and
the musical-doldrums state of Europe,
Horsley is remarkably like Alexandr
TJptrmrm Both in fentm-pc nnd in thn
H lma nn, both in features and in the
unexpected energy which the ivories
draw from his slight frame.
Herewith, by Woolcott, Colonel E. E.
(“Weary”) Dunlop, 0.8. E., M.S.,
F.R.S.C., caught at Flinders Naval Depot
after giving a clinic to young Navy saw-
bones. If you want to know how he
got his sobriquet inquire at the
Australian Ex-Prisoners-of-War Associ-
ation in Little Collins-street. They
mention another memory of him —
as a Healer of the Jungle. Captured
in Java by the Japs in 1942, he
was sent through Singapore to the
'WEARY” DUNLOP.
infamous Siam-Burma railway, where he
tended (some say for 24 hours a day,
since he never seemed to sleep) a vast
number of sick men, Japs as well as
British and Australian, performing near-
miracles of surgery while suffering from
a bad tropical ulcer on his own leg. A
huge man, but quiet and unassuming, he
defied the Japs times without number
when they wanted sick men to work on
their railway ; he took his meed of bash-
ings. On one occasion he was made to
stand for 48 hours with his hands above
his head and on another to kneel all day
in front of the officers’ quarters. Re-
leased, he would go back to his duties.
Then in his thirties, he is now one of
Melbourne’s most brilliant surgeons. In
pre-war days a boxer and a footballer,
he was one of the best loose forwards in
the Victorian Rugby Union.
Back in big business, Hugh Traill
Armitage, who last week joined the
board of Allied Investments in Sydney.
Small, bird-like, he was the Common-
wealth Bank’s first accountant on its
foundation in 1913, and from then on
had been its secretary, head-office
manager, chief inspector, deputy-gover-
nor and, from 1941 till Dr. Coombs took
over, governor. Old Fortian, born in
Colombo in 1881 and polished at St.
Philip’s Grammar Australia’s oldest
secondary school, founded by Macquarie
in 1812—Armitage went from ’Wales to
Commonwealth when Denison . Miller
shifted over, and is about the only man
in Australia game to list his farming as
“recreation.”
One of the three or four big names in
the world of a bo. art, legends and
customs, C. P. Mountford last week col-
lected the 1000-dollar Franklin L. Burr
Prize of the American National Geo-
graphic Society for his leadership of the
Society’s Arnhem Land expedition in
1948. It’s neither his first prize nor ex-
pedition, nor the first time his researches
have attracted attention from high over-
seas authorities —his color-film “Brown
Men and Red Sand” brought him the
Sherlock Gold Cup in 1941, and he has
taken many expeditions to the Mann r
Musgrave and Petermann ranges. One-
time ethnologist for S. Australia’s
museum and member of Adelaide Uni-
versity’s Ethnological Research Board,
he has written dozens of papers on abo.
paintings and carvings, and is a member
of the Explorers’ Club, New York. He
was once a G.P.O. mechanic.
Two-war Digger and grandson of a
pioneer Queensland grazier, lan Maclean
last week took on the presidency of
Queensland United Graziers. He won’t
need a team of advisers —graduating from
a central Queensland property to a law
course in England, he qualified barrister,
practised instead in the British Army
against the Kaiser, was twice wounded and
returned to jackerooing on the family
property. Now he runs his own sheep
and cattle in the Brisbane Valley. On the
U.G.A. executive council for over 10
years, his driving interest at the moment
is to squeeze a greater allocation from
the Main Roads Commission to turn out-
back tracks into something resembling
trafficable roads. By the cut of his
mouth and jaw he’ll get it.
“Bosun’s Mate”: Judged by ages
of R.A.N. sloop and frigate appointments,
at 28 the Duke of Edinburgh would be
by far the youngest to receive one. Quite
a number of Australian officers have been
messmates with H.M.S. Magpie’s new
driver, mainly when he was serving with
the British Indies Battle Fleet, of whose
destroyer screen the Australians Nepal,
Norman, Quiberon and Quickmatch
formed part. Title apart, they found him
a good seaman, experienced bridge-officer
and, perhaps, just as important in a
small ship, a first-class messmate. Unit
of a flotilla based on Gibraltar, Magpie
is a six-gunned modified Black Swan-class
sloop (not frigate, as generally reported
in the Australian Press),* sister-ship to
Amethyst of the Yangtse Kiang affair,
was launched early in 1943 and got a
rough baptism in the storms, ice and
U-boats of Atlantic and Murmansk con-
voys. She is the Duke’s first command.
Passed on at Swan Hill (Vic.), Francis
Edward Old, who at 16 was ploughing the
Mallee and at 61 was Acting-Premier of
Victoria. In between, on the ploughing
side, he cultivated 2000 acres with his
own teams, once achieving 12,800 bags
of wheat, and later bred Border Leicesters
and racehorses on his Swan Hill property ;
in matters Parliamentary he got into the
Assembly for Swan Hill in 1919 and
held the seat 27 years. As Victorian
Minister for Water Supply, he introduced
the badly-needed Soil Conservation Bill.
Albert Dunstan’s coronation trip in
1936-37 gave him the Acting-Premier-
ship. In his day a track-cyclist and foot-
baller of note, he was 74 at the end.
Into the Silence;
At Wanganui (M.L.), at 80, Dr. Ernest
Porritt, who served four years in M.L.’s forces
as M. 0., rose to heut.-colonel, was M.O. of
the hospital ship Maheno, and, for a time,
medico at Samoa. He was father of A. E.
Porritt, surgeon to King George, and representa-
tive of M.L. at the Olympic Games at Paris
in 1924, captain of the team at Amsterdam in
1928 and manager of the M.L. team at Berlin
in 1936.
In Launceston, at 81, Gustave Heuze Hogg,
who graduated M.D. in Edinburgh in 1896,
came out to a Launceston practice and helped
to found the city’s Queen Victoria Maternity
Hospital. Also in Launceston, at 82, another of
the hospital’s founders, John Gunning, Auckland
“Herald” and Hobart “Mercury” man and
editor of the old Launceston “Daily Telegraph.”
In Auckland (M.L.), at 80, Canon Cecil
Watson, son of Dr. C. G. Watson, surgeon
of H.M.S. Conqueror, last of the old wooden
ships of the line. Crossing to M.L. from
Hobart in 1894, he joined the Bank of New
Zealand, in his spare time studying for the
ministry. Ordained in 1901, he was vicar of
St. Paul’s, Auckland, from 1908 till his retire-
ment in 1942.
At 81, in Melbourne, Ernest Alfred Wells,
whose family had a unique lien on the mayoralty
of South Melbourne; twice mayor himself, his
son twice, and, in 1886-87, his father. Con-
nected Prince Henry hospital for 20 years,
E. A. was one-time treasurer, and, at the end,
was vice-president.
At Maffra (Vic.), Mrs. Phoebe Henrietta.
Born in Ballarat, she saw the Eureka Stockade
taken.
In Melbourne, at 54, Harry McCann, two-war
Digger (in the second, major in New Guinea),
and a senior member of the “Argus” composing-
room. He had set the paper’s type for 27 years.
At 59, in Melbourne, Frederick Greenhall,
a product of the Royal College of Music,
Manchester, who became professor at the
Albert-street (Melbourne) Conservatorium. A
War I British Army man and M.M.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 80, T. W. (“Dorrie”)
Leslie, a prominent athlete himself . before he
turned to starting the big events at Wellington.
One of two official starters at the Los Angeles
Olympics 18 years ago, he had been as well
custodian of Wellington Town Hall, and col-
lected M.B.E. last year. In his early Wellington
days one of the pupils he tutored in gymnastics
was “Barney” Freyberg, now G.-G.


a Study IN INSOBRIETY
by
ETHEL
ANDERSON
SEVERAL brown birds, mere specks
in an infinitely blue sky, were telling
an inattentive heaven what a lark
it is to be a lark, while below them,
the tide of Parramatta High-street
bustled and flowed, lively as a Scottish
burn in autumn.
Everyone for miles around had come to
town. The same people were exchanging
greetings with a diminishing ardor as they
met in shop after shop, every lamp-post
was decorated with a nag’s head held to
it by looped hide, the medley of vehicles
quite blocked the road, clarences,
barouches, phaetons, landeaux, drays,
carts —and Dr. Phantom’s Hyde Park,
neatly drawn up beside the kerb outside
the chemist’s, his groom (whom he
designated Second Murderer) sitting in it
bolt upright with folded arms and a
spine like a ramrod, his eyes fixed on
space, and, next him, the coachman
(designated First Murderer) whose de-
portment was equally correct.
The cockades on their hats were new.
They had something to live up to. For
one thing, they felt the power of Miss
Juliet McCree’s sparkling eyes ; she was a
critic on style whose opinion they valued,
and the vicarage buckboard was drawn
into the sidewalk contingent to the
Doctor’s piebald waler. For another
thing, Miss Aminta W.irraway, in a
stunning pelisse, had stopped—a mere
instant —to curtsey to Dr. Phantom and
to thank him (in a reproachful voice) .for
the return of a pink irish-lawn handker-
chief “taken in mistake for his own.”
The lane beside the chemist’s had, be-
sides a row of pepper-trees, a spreading
camphor-laurel round which scores of
Green Fanny and Blue Fanny butterflies
were vanning the air, and these did noth-
ing to detract from the charming picture
Miss Aminta made as, quite bewitching in
olive-green and burgundy, colors that
went so perfectly with the curtains of the
Hyde Park that they might almost have
been designed for riding in it, she
lingered on, a mere fraction of time —to
say her few shy words.
< < L_l AVE you ever known anyone who
* * owned a butterfly?” Juliet
McCree asked Dr. Phantom as, together,
they watched Miss Aminta’s elegance,
still pursued by butterflies, being, as it
were, ‘Tubbed out” by scores of rustic
figures.
Dr. Phantom’s level and deliberate
glance met hers for as long, perhaps, as a
lacewing settles on a daisy.
“No.”
“When you blush,” Juliet noted in an
interested aside, “the red starts just above
your stock, and when I blush it begins on
my cheek-bones and then goes right
through.”
The observation did not disturb the flow
of her main discourse, which she resumed
immediately, while Dr. Phantom’s roving
eye followed a flight of starlings bent on
keeping a rendezvous on the King’s
School lawn. He did not care for children,
but, finding Juliet waiting there, he had,
on coming out of the chemist’s, stopped to
inquire after her “grandfather’s
lumbago.” In asking after the Vicar one
picked on any complaint that came
handy ; he had them all.
“That story about the ravens feeding
Elisha and that other one about the
widow’s cruse should never have been
written ; they have done a lot of harm —
they give people such wrong ideas.”
Juliet, who, standing in the gutter, was
holding her horse’s head, took a fresh
twist in the reins.
“Look at poor Grandpapa,” she
continued, her eyes very bright under her
“reed” straw-hat (from China). “If
people did not believe in miracles no one
would expect him to live on £9O a year
and keep his son’s widow and her
children —Donalbain and me. Everyone
seems to think —and I am certain those
absurd stories are to blame for it—that
the holier a man is the less he should
have to eat, and the shabbier his clothes
ought to be, and the more hungry
children he ought to have to feed, and the
harder he and his wife ought to work,
however old they may be, and give
pennies to beggars, and have no other
pleasures, because being holy is enough
reward for anyone, as of course it ought
to be.”
P)R. PHANTOM made no answer;
' still he lingered, his glance tracing the
course of a pigeon, very high up and as
white as snow. It looked like something
straight out of Paradise. He felt
extremely happy, and he thought, “The
earth must be like a pear, that has one
perfect moment, and this is that moment;
the sky has never been so blue, the sun
has never been so beneficent, the air has
never been so soft, or the trees so golden.”
“And you know perfectly well that in
any rich household a loaf of bread -cuts
into eight slices—eight thick slices, for
what use are thin ones? —but at the
vicarage it has to be cut into twelve at
least.”
Dr. Phantom looked directly 'into
Juliet’s orange-tawny eyes and then with-
drew hi# gaze ; he made no commept.
“Then —hasty pudding! Have you ever
had hasty pudding for breakfast every
day—week in, week out?”
“No.”
“I thought not. I suppose you don’t
even know what it is made of?”
“No.”
“Flour and water —just that. Of course
sometimes you have a spoonful of milk
with it, or a taste of brown sugar, and of
course there is simply no one cleverer
than Grandmama in making helpings go
round! A caskette of molasses is sustain-
ing-—no one denies it —and there is
enough nourishment in it to last a month
at least, and it is very good for children.
Don’t you think molasses is very good for
growing children?”
“Yes,”
“And have you ever eaten ‘choke
dog’?”
“No.”
“Oh, well, that is quite good, really, it
is made'of beef suet and currants and it
has a thick sauce made of flour, and when
the lemons happen to be ripe it has a
lemon flavoring. And a Lady Belmore is
quite appetising, too, and it is made of
rice and currants boiled in a pudding-
cloth, and it has some thin sauce with it,
and when that is nicest it is made of
arrowroot, and the pattern of the china
comes through on your plate, which is in-
teresting, really. Only Donalbain, who
is four, does not care for it much.”
Juliet, with a caressing pat, restrained
her horse from biting the nose of the
piebald waler.
“Grandmama thinks the way clothes
wear out is a perfect pest, and even the
ravens did not bring Elisha a new suit.”
She gave Dr. Phantom the full benefit
of her lively regard.
“Of course you understand I am not
criticising God in any way?”
“Oh, no, of course not.”
“Here comes Grandpapa. He will give
you a tract. You could let me have it
back, sometime, if the pages are not dog-
eared.”
THE Reverend Phineas McOree (B.A.
of Trinity College, Cambridge), at
eighty-four, was getting a little past his
work. So benevolent a countenance as his
made many of his parishioners feel re-
assured about both earth and heaven
merely by looking at his white woolly
hair, his bright blue eyes, his nobly
hooked Roman—or Wellington—nose,
his red tremulous mouth; but he
supplemented his unconscious influence
by an eleemosynary distribution of texts,
for he had some difficulty nowadays in
speaking ; the words did not come easily
off his tongue.
Some people thought that he should
retire, but they asked themselves, if he
gave up his parish, who would feed him
and his dependants? It was wiser and
more comfortable to beg the question.
Dr. Phantom, therefore, was not
surprised when Mr. McCree/making his
way towards him by very slow degrees,
simply handed him a text without speak-
ing, and then turned away to tackle the
difficult ascent of three steps, that looked
like flattened soup-ladles, which made
entry into the buckboard easy on a Lucus
a non lucendo principle.
Handing his groom the leaflet, which
bore the title “Is Your Soul A Social
Success?” Dr.. Phantom set himself to the
task of hoisting the Vicar up, wondering
meanwhile who would assist him down
again.
Juliet had already taken her place in
the driver’s seat, her whip set at the
correct angle, the reins smartly assembled.
She looked quite enchanting.
Indeed, she caught the eye of the Gov-
ernor himself. He was at that moment
trotting past helter-skelter, with a great
clattering of hooves, as he was driving
tandem in his London curricle.
His Excellency was a descendant of
King Charles the Second —as who is not?
—and whenever he appeared in
Parramatta all women between the ages
of sixteen and sixty would inviolably
withdraw into hiding until he had passed.
With predatory smiles creasing his
distinctly “Caroline,” rubicund yet
swarthy face, he was about to pull up be-
side Juliet when the A.D.C.-in-Waiting
leant across to say urgently, “That is
Miss Juliet McCree, the daughter of the
Vicar of Mallow’s Marsh, she is eleven or
twelve years old”—and clucked twice (to
the horses).
“She is a personable girl for her age,”
Sir Charles commented, as he acknow-
ledged salutes from the Vicar and Dr,
Phantom and the small crowd that had
quickly gathered, and he moved off re-
luctantly, and with a spectacular display
of horsemanship.
Dr, Phantom stood a moment, looking
into the crown of his beaver hat, then he
said briskly, “Good-bye, Vicar, Good-bye,
Miss Juliet! I have to return two baskets
out by Dural and Hornsby Junction.”
Getting nimbly info his Hyde Park he
was bowled gallantly away, with four
curtains fluttering in the wind of his
passage.
MEANWHILE, running across the
road from the grocer’s, Miss Love-
day Boisragon detained Juliet to ask after
her grandmama’s liqueur?
“Indeed, great-aunt Loveday, it is
brewing nicely, thank you. Dear Grand-
mama manages to keep the lid on with
three flat-irons. The Churchwardens are
taking a great interest in it, and Mr.
McWhistle has donated —very kindly—
two gallons of French brafldy and a hogs-
head of Jamaica rum. The recipe is
written in a faint hand in faded ink, and
it has been difficult to decipher, but we
think the ingredients and quantities are
correct.”
“And what, dear child, are they?”
“Oh, walnut rinds, oat-malt, beans, fir
and birch-tree tops, and three
handfuls each of Rosa solia and
Carduus benedicius. There are
two handfuls each of burnet, bettony,
marjoram, avens, elder-flowers and
bruised cardamum seeds. Then there
is a handful of wild thyme. And ten new-
laid eggs. Grandmama has yet to add
water-cress, and a generous rasping of
horse-radish. Of course the chief things
are the milk of two dozen coconuts,
three gallons of French brandy and
double that quantity of rum. My great-
grandpapa, as you know, was a nabob in
Calcutta, and we found the T «M*n» •
box of his. There is a note m
writing saying This brew is bettered
the addition of a pound of ging r
sassafras, madder, red glnders and
Enula campana ; we shall put those ?n
Another postscript says, This
strong enough to make a cat speak
Do you call it Nyppe?”
“The name for it, Grandmama thinks
f n »P a , .or ‘wine made i Sm a
ree, but she ts adding various otter
things, such as brook-lime and wild
parsley, and she thinks it will be more of
a liqueur really.” re ot
“I ho-ope,” Mr. McCree began a slow
articulation to which his hearer
listened with reverent looks, “that the
con-con-coction with bib-bib-beady bub-
to the b-b-brim
will ch-ch-cheer the dear Bishop when he
p-pays us a p-pastoral visitation next
month.”
Mr. McCree looked triumphant.
“Good-bye, dear Great-aunt!”
With great judgment Juliet achieved
the feat of turning the buckboard in its
own length, and, feeling very grand, she
whipped the young draught-horse in the
shafts into a noisy but majestic trot, and
the Vicar, bowing this way and that, like
Royalty, and sometimes stopping to hand
out a text (he had given Miss Loveday
Boisragon a pamphlet on “Lessons to Be
Drawn from the Construction of the
Ark”), was borne westwards along the
five miles of dusty road that led to
Mallow’s-Marsh Vicarage.
IT is not to be thought that in a
* community where news is so scarce in-
formation about Mrs. McCree’s liqueur
would not leak out; the vicarage was
besieged by callers. One almost expected
that straw would be laid down on the
road.
Even the Governor, with his dashing
A.D.C., rode over unexpectedly early one
Monday morning, when Tabitha, the
housemaid, cook-Teresa, Mrs. Cog, the
laundress, and Abigail, the orphan, who,
while learning that art, assisted with the
washing, were pegging clothes on a line.
When, therefore, he visited the laundry,
where a large earthen cauldron reposed
itself beside the copper, his Excellency
was flapped on the face by wet sheets and
caressed by other garments about the
ownership and uses of which it would be
profane to guess.
Mrs. McCree, who had locked Tabitha,
Abigail the orphan, cook-Teresa and
even Mrs. Cog securely in the linen
cupboard, and was herself closely
guarded by the Vicar, on affording Sir
Charles the privilege of a sight of the
cauldron which contained the now golden-
tinctured liquer, produced; from a box
kept on the copper, a wine-glass and a
toddy-spoon, and ladled him out a sup or
two of the so-famous “Nyppe.’ „
“It is not yet mature, sir, of course,
Mrs. McCree was complacent, but i
will give you an idea of the flavor.
Though red sanders, Enula
ginger and sassafras have still to be_a
—and a third quart, I think, of French
brandy—its bouquet, I flatter myselt,
unique.” , .
Sir Charles bent his head and sipped-
A look of extreme and ineffable j y
like sunlight over his face.
“My dear lady!” he ejaculated.
He sipped, he savored.
Ecstasy succeeded astonishmen .
His eyes shut, with the look « e( j
in a trance, he sipped, he tasted,
the “Nyppe” round his tongue.
He finished the glass. wvjng his
He stood, vibrating, almost locking n_
gaze in that of Mrs. McC iee
pression of utter unbelief. sonie .
He was then understood t 0 sa L sh ”_-
thing like “Shend meshevera oUt-
“gimme on meorsh —an h c having
door menservants and tne • sa ddle>
assisted his Excellency o tQ t be
and handed the horse s ways,
A.D.C.. he was led home by J,» py ,
looking ecstatically, deliriously


he was as helpless as a newborn
b >?f- McCree with a quiet smile went
, , 0 let the four maids out o£ the
itn cupboard, and having done so she
1 , tffeet up on the drawing-room sofa,
P n“d engaged herself with a somewhat
a t' air in the perusal of a book
Saps Crockford’s) which gave lists of
S archdeacons, canons and prebends
7f cathedrals, their pay, emoluments,
ounces perquisites and privileges
Ihdr precedence at banquets and royal
" s and their titles.
The Bishop was expected in about three
weeks’ time.
x S a girl Mrs, McCree had lived on the
A Picton Hills, not far from the Razor-
backs and this morning, in the intervals
f her reading, her eyes looking through
her drawing-room windows, had lingered
nn those blue, authoritative ranges. She
remembered them, in her childhood, to
have been thatched with trees ; now they
were denuded; the buff-grasses clothing
them were intersected with many red
channels in which the rains of autumn
were accustomed to pelt downwards.
“As a girl,” she mused, “I used to
look across to Mallow’s Marsh and watch
the thick mists rising at sunrise from the
green fields, and the roads that led, I
fancied, to the sea, to cities, to a wider
life than any I had known.”
She dropped Crockford on to the
threadbare carpet.
“It is true that I adored my home,
that there was no one in it whom I did
not love, no simple everyday happening
that I did not value and enjoy. The first
apple-blossom! Never shall I forget see-
ing that! The stunted violets that come
before the big ones —never shall I forget
how sweet their scent used to be! Ike, the
gardener, sitting in the moonlight,
practising ‘Cherry Ripe’ on a penny
whistle! How mysterious and beautiful
it seemed, how clear the faltering notes
were! Never, never, shall I cease to value
these memories. But I imagined that
elsewhere I should know a more
wonderful life! And here I am at fifty-
five, looking at two minute, bare churches,
one with cows feeding in the churchyard,
one with two old horses grappling with
the tough yellow grass—the wife of a
poor parson trying to live on £9O a year!
Mrs. McCree looked searchingly
round the room.
She critically regarded the two owls,
mounted as fire-screens, that stood on
either side of the mantelpiece, the
silhouettes of her great-grandparents,
grandparents, uncles, aunts —so many
soldiers, so many sailors, all idealists, no
moneymakers—the two tea-sets in her
china cupboard, one patterned with
raised strawberries and their leaves, in a
china like pumice-stone, the other
sprawled with pink mallows, and having
blue bird-bolts on the back of each cup
and saucer. She carefully examined the
dessert service, imitating fig-leaves, the
glass paper-weight, enclosing a cottage on
which snow would fall if one shook it.
Her treasures! Oh, well, they were very
sweet, really!
The tapestry covering the Empjire chains
was, however, “shrill” ; the worn carpet
had belonged to her great-aunt Martha.
LJ EAVING herself up, Mrs. McCree
*■ 1 walked to the window, the better to
see the hills of her youth.
“Lovely, still! Lovely, always! ”
“Other people,” she told herself, “get
more out of life than I seem to have
done! What defect in my character has
landed me here? What was my weak-
ness? What was my mistake? One thing
stands clearly out! My apparent freedom
has been an illusion! I have had no real,
no personal choice in any important
crisis. My parents refused my first offer
of marriage without even telling me of it
—what gay adventures might not that
young husband have given me?
“And why on earth did I marry
Phineas?
“A poor parson nearly thirty years
older than myself?
“Why? Why? Because he looked so
woebegone! Because I felt sorry for him!
Yes, that was why—l just gave myself
nway, body and soul, out of charity! ”
Another thought struck her. “But was
even this marriage entered into of my
own free will? At home, as money grew
less and less, I was an extra mouth to be
fed, I was a burden, from an economic
standpoint, it was necessary to lighten
the family of such a drag! It was a
question of having to get rid of me! I
se e that! It was taken for granted that I
would say yes. I realised that. Daughters
must marry—so I did! ”
Mrs. McCree turned away from the
dazzling light.
“My fault has been—generosity! I
gave all I had to give—and it has never
been enough!
“Thirty years spent in this cramped
house. Well, I shall end all this! The
consequences? The consequences! I just
don’t care! make the Bishop tipsy
with my wonderful nyppa wine, my
miraculous liqueur! Yes, I shall! Even if
I can’t make him give Phineas a deanery!
If he won’t make him an archdeacon! A
canon (and there are several canons
over eighty in the Sydney diocese)! He
might at least add ten or twenty pounds
a year on to his stipend! ”
K 4 RS. McCREE picked up Crockford.
IV* With a careful regard for syntax,
learnt from Little Mary’s Grammar,
dimly remembering the calamity brought
on the man in the mill-pond by a lax use
of “will” and “shall” (“I will drown and
nobody shall save me”), Mrs, McCree
lifted Crockford high in the air and de-
claimed in a ringing voice (which she
hoped her guardian angel would her) “I
will make the Bishop tipsy, and nobody
shall stop me” ; in case of error, varying
this formula by a second declaration of
her intentions —“I shall make the Bishop
tipsy and nobody will stop me.”
Having done this, throwing her book
on to the carpet, Mrs. McCree, to her
own complete astonishment, burst into
tears, sobbing out into the silence of the
threadbare room, “Oh, Phineas! Darling!
Oh, wonderful, wonderful man! A gentle-
man! A scholar! A saint! Oh, never,
never was there such a kind, loving
husband! Oh, Phineas! To see you so
despised, so neglected, so ignored, so
overworked, so underpaid! It’s a scandal, a
perfect scandal! I can’t bear it any longer.”
Drying her red eyes Mrs. McCree then
marched in a resolute way to the laundry,
where she poured a third gallon of
Jamaica rum into her witch’s brew and
gave Mrs. Cog orders to keep a gentle fire
burning in the copper for the next three
weeks.
With a relentless and determined face
—indeed, she looked more like Lady
Macbeth than any actress ever has, before
or since—the Vicar’s wife re-read her
great-grandfather’s directions to make
quite certain that no vital, no necessary
ingredient was omitted; tipped yet a
fourth bottle of brandy into the cauldron
and dropped in a pound of ground
ginger and a handful of quick-lime (in
mistake for brook-lime), after which
activities, recollecting the effect of one
wine-glass on his Excellency (a four-
bottle man, as everyone knew), she
buried her face in a damp sheet and
laughed till she got a stitch in her side,
THE day set apart for the episcopal
visitation was one of the most perfect
Mallow’s-Marsh had ever known. The
sun had very easily dispersed the thick
mists, called locally “the pride of the
morning.” Though cool, the air was not
cold, Though warm, the sun was not hot.
With the most discerning tact a zephyr
sometimes stirred the wands of the
pepper-tree, the swathes of the willows,
the boughs of the tall box and eucalyptus-
trees, the grey plumes of the wattles
already tasselled with buds. As if merely
to display the delicate gradations of their
color, ranging through buff and amber,
to bronze and dun, this subtle wind
rustled, just sometimes, the long grasses
that veiled the vicarage garden, the un-
ending byways; even the main road
meandering from Sydney to Picton was
fringed with blue-grass and red fescue,
which swayed this way and that.
Was the sky blue?
It was.
The vicarage was early astir.
The menu at luncheon was to be:
Roast pork with apple-sauce.
Beans, baked potatoes.
Summer pudding.
Whipped cream.
Coffee.
An oratorio of the most heartrending
sounds had, two days previously,
accompanied the slaughter of the
vicarage pig. A roomy flagon of nyppa
wine (or “Mrs. McCree’s liqueur”) had
been lowered sixty feet down into the
eighty-foot well, to cool off; the most
exact calculations having been made to
ensure that, though close to it, the bucket
in which it reposed should not touch the
water.
In the vicarage every duty allotted to
cook-Teresa, Tabitha, Abigail the
orphan and Mrs. Cog had been faith-
fully performed. The garden (the bit, that
is, between the front gate and the porch,
over which a Marshal Niel rose was in
full flower) was actually neat. A clump
of polyanthus (very late) was in bloom by
the front steps; there were six clove
carnations out.
THE service in church had been most
inspiring.
Sixteen sulkies, gigs, buggies, and
buckboards had brought a congregation
of thirty, the offertory (12s. 6d.) had been
a record, the organ had produced sounds
distinctly resembling music, neither of the
choir-boys had sneezed during the sermon,
which, in its measured cadences, its august
prose, its exact, almost poignant, scholar-
ship, in the richness of its classical
allusions, in the masterly ease with which
the Bishop had ironed out a crease in
Deuteronomy (or the Pentateuch —which
was it?) and in its dramatic opening
sentence “Where are the young men of
Mallow’s - Marsh ?’’ would have greatly
impressed anyone able to take it all in;
the good Bishop never gave less than his
best, even to the most sparse, the most
rustic congregations.
Much in the spirit that art students are
sent to Italy, Abigail the orphan had been
“spared” by Mrs. Cog in order that she
might see the goffered frills on his Lord-
ship’s lawn sleeves. She sat in the
vicarage pew beside Juliet and
Donalbain. It was hardly to be expected
that the ladies from the household where
the Bishop was to lunch should appear,
but there they were! Mrs. McCree in
puce surah, a rose in her “pork-pie,” her
lovely daughter-in-law, who seldom
appeared, looking quite ravishing in a
garibaldi.
The Bishop seemed to be such a true
“Prince of the Church” ; and his eloquent
words so moved Mrs. McCree that
almost she relented; but her guardian
angel, a good creature, not very bright,
was no match for the old firm, Apollyon,
Beelzebub, Mephistopheles and Co., she
refused to weaken ; she would make that
lordly being tipsy.
In her dining-room, with its rows of
Regency chairs upholstered in red rep
faded to magenta, the table positively
sparkled with crystal (it really was crystal,
three engraved goblets were dated 1683),
and glittered with' mirror-like silver (it
really was silver, mostly of George the
First’s time).
The green leaves from the dessert
service, filled with grapes and hazelnuts,
an immense silver eperne garlanded with
yellow roses and a silver tazza given to
some ancestor who had been chaplain to
Queen Anne made the table look really
magnificent.
Mrs. McCree was proud of it.
“After all,” she thought, “only Lady
Mary’s plate can rival ours,” and with
infinite care she gently levered the huge
glass flagon full of nyppa wine on to the
sideboard. The liqueur was chilled to that
clammy yet inviting coldness that only the
deep-delved earth can give. Its color was,
not bright, but treacherous-looking: it had
the unsafe look of a bog, strangely un-
luminous, yet deep-toned. It did not seem
to be inanimate! Continually a kind of
subterranean glow radiated from it, its
surface would be sucked-in, in a thousand
dimples, and then, with a sort of sucking
sound, released to flow out to the rim of
the jug. A * volcano that was not in
eruption but which was brewing lava
would perhaps be a simile that faintly
hinted at its peculiar and mysterious
qualities; it appeared to be as thick as
treacle, but it wasn’t! As for its
bouquet! . ..
JULIET and Donalbain were having a
meal in the nursery with their
mother; it was only the Vicar and his
wife who bowed their heads when the
Bishop said Grace —in Greek.
The Vicar, who was greatly enjoying
the company of an old friend of his
undergraduate days, had twice already
capped a line from Horace with a
quotation from Sallust and (let it be
whispered) Catullus.
The two outdoor menservants, wearing
white cotton-gloves, waited at table*, cook-
Teresa having elected to carve. She could
not bear, she said, to see “my lovely leg
mucked-up.” She deftly laid four
pinkish, whitish, creamish, fragrant slices
of pork neatly on each Crown Derby
plate, with crispish, tannish, delectable-
looking strips of crackling flanking them,
each with a mound of apple-sauce to add
lustre to a perfect mouthful. The beans
were strips of chalcedony and
chrysoberyl. The potatoes! And the
gravy! Oh, my dears!
“Ah, yes,” the Bishop murmured in his
exquisitely cultivated voice, while he
waited for the Vicar to be served, “I very
well recall during the early ’thirties
questions arising in my thoughts as to
whether we could really be so cocksure
in taking the absolute truth of the
evangelical formula for granted. One of
the great watchwords was the right of
private judgment. We used, on Sundays,
to have to find texts to sanction it.”
Here a slightly mystic air testified to
the excellence of his first mouthful of
pork.
“Side by side with our classical work
we were obliged to find divine sanction in
defence of Justification by Faith, Sancti-
fication, Total Depravity, Election and
Final Perseverance.”
“We were taught to look on anyone
who did not ag-agree with us with a ki-
ki-kind of awful dismay!” the Vicar re-
collected, smiling.
He, too, found the pork very good.
“Of what use were all those glib
quotations from the minutes of the
Council of Trent?” the Bishop wanted to
know.
“There was always a doubt as to
whether Kee-Kee-Keeble was really
sound on the more vital aspects of the
Christian Faith,” the Vicar hinted.
He was quite holding his own. As the
meal proceeded Lucretius Carus wrestled
with St. Jerome, Epicurus attempted St.
Augustine, Apuleius, supported by
/Emilia Pudentilla, confronted even St,
Paul himself.
It was a merry meal.
FMRECTLY the pork was in play, Mrs.
McCree, rising from her place, the
flagon held in hands that did not falter,
said in gentle confiding tones, “You will
taste my little elixir, Bishop; it is made
from a recipe left among the papers of my
great-grandfather, Major-General Willy
Toper, of the East India Company’s
service.”
“But, my dear lady! It is not for you
to wait on me! ”
Jumping up, and gallantly possessing
himself of the jug, the Bishop poured
himself out a full glass, using not the
goblet dated 1683, but the hearty
Georgian tumbler, with a capacity of a
pint.
Returning the flagon to the sideboard
and smiling a faint, almost terrified smile,
Mrs, McCree went back to her chair.
“My memory is as good as ever,” the
Bishop remarked, in parenthesis as it
were, “and foj years, if I am not
mistaken, I have addressed you as Jessie
—yet, if my ears do not deceive me, I
have today twice heard Phineas call you
Lucretia?”
“That is my middle name,” Mrs,
McCree answered, throwing a warning
glance at her husband.
Here the Bishop tossed off half a glass
of Nyppe.
“Of course, in those days, after the
appearance of Tract No. 90, the chief
points held out for our consideration
were Scripture, the Church, General
Councils, Justification by Faith,
Purgatory, the Invocation of Saints,
Masses, Homilies, the Celibacy of the
Clergy, and —er, er —other matters of im-
portance.”
The Bishop finished his glass and, in an
absentminded way, got up and refilled it.
Mrs. McCree became anxious.
Neither of the menservants had re-
appeared to take away the plates and
dishes; cook-Teresa, ably assisted by
Tabitha, was, in rather a flurried way, per-
forming these offices.
“Where are the men?” Mrs. McCree
whispered, as cook-Teresa removed her
empty platter.
“Lorst to the worrld. Mum,” cook-
Teresa whispered back. “They must have
sumpled the Nyppe. We managed to
drag theer buddies into the scullery, I’ve
covered thim with a blanket, and they
look very, very happy theer. Very happy
(i Continued on next page.)
THE OLD MAN.
His face is a craggy mountain, an old
alp
Where a million million centuries have
worn
The outer rock away, have reduced
masses
Down to the rotten granite, down to
the rind of scalp.
His skin has the very color of grey
crumbling stone,
There is coarse hair in his nostrils, like
alpine grass in a cleft,
That ridiculously youthful grass that
mocks the winter snow,
—These things are his face, a peak
that juts alone.
From the lesser slopes of his shoulders,
from the strong trees of his hands.
From the slow shuffle of river-water
down at his rock feet.
His million million centuries from which
his life has rubbed
In particles of Ack, ground into soils
and sands.
Have you heard the old man sneeze,
endured his painful cough?
Those are the bitter mountain noises,
wind through a ravine,
Or a dislodged stone gone falling*,
knocking the quiet slopes:
All these things are numbered and the
reckoner is love.
Shattered to blue and yellow, splendor,
an awe of blaze,
Sunset over the alps is light in per-
spective, a cave
Twisted to darkness by light. The eyes
of the sky so near—
Eyes of the old man are near, with
brilliance night cannot erase.
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


indade! Abigail is after climbing into a
clane gown and will be here immejit.”
WHEN the second course made its
appearance, Abigail proving herself
a treasure, the Bishop poured himself out
a third tumbler of Nyppe.
“Your elixir, dear lady,” he said, turn-
ing with a smile (the smile known to ladies
of the diocese as “his smile”) to Mrs.
McCree, “has the three qualities necessary
to a good drink: it is cool, it is subtle, it
is stimulating.” And he resumed his
interesting discussion with the Vicar, “it
was Tait of Balliol who entrenched him-
self so ably behind the Thirty-nine
Articles. Did you ever meet Tait?”
“No, no.”
“Nor Pugin? Bloxham’s ‘umbra’?”
“No, no.”
“The Master was not pleased with
Pugin ; he considered he had humbugged
Bloxham.”
“Ah, yes, so Gooch # told me. Did you
ever run across Gooch?”
“No, no, but in the May term of 1836
I ran across Bowyer in Athens, and he
mentioned Gooch.”
Because, in their day, Englishmen went
to Greece much in the same spirit that
the Crusaders went to the Holy Land,
Athens led to Delphi, Thebes, to Helicon ;
there for the next ten minutes they
rambled.
“I found the Boeotian plains very
striking.”
“Ah, yes! As I came down from
Cithaeron on the way from Eleusis, they
lay before me, rising beyond Asopus into
reddish, gentle heights.”
“Helicon, a grey, distant summit, not
unattainable.”
“The dim, huge, majestic mass of
Parnassus”
From Mallow’s-Marsh they looked
back on their Heaven.
Mrs. McCree, who had been waiting in
vain for' the reappearance of cook-
Teresa, noticed, with a falling heart,
Tabitha’s agonised face appearing round
the door, and obeyed her beckoning
finger.
She was hardly at all astonished, on
being led to the kitchen, to fin<3 cook-
Teresa sitting stiffly on a deal chair, and
gazing with extraordinary concentration
into space.
“There were a drop or two left in the
cauldron,” Tabitha explained.
“I brought this on myself,” Mrs.
McCree told herself, beginning to get
a little alarmed. Should anything (as she
put it) “happen” to the Bishop how could
she deal with him? Dear Phineas
certainly could not lift him. She peeped
into the scullery at the recumbent forms
of the two menservants and, remembering
a maxim of her great-grandmother’s,
went across to unfasten their collars ;
neither stirred, yet they looked happy!
She was reassured by reminding herself
that a note in her great-grandmother’s
hand, in the margin of the recipe, had
stated, “This Nyppe is good for diseases
of the head and for cold stomachs, and
nobody can pine away when embalmed in
so powerful a preservative.”
Not a little comforted, she returned to
the dining-room.
SHE circulated dessert.
Tabitha and Abigail brought in
The flagon was half-empty, and she
noticed with awe that the Bishop was not
in the least the worse for liquor. His
noble countenance was decorous, not
flushed, his articulation was meticulously
exact; indeed, as she entered, he was with
perfect sangfroid asking Phineas if he
had “caught this new craze for the
cultivation of rhododendrons?”
The word presented no difficulties. His
long legs, too, in their elegant gaiters,
stepped with their usual, graceful
precision as he went across to the side
board and poured himself out an eighth
glass of Nyppe.
Sipping at her Mocha coffee, bolstered
up with cream, the Vicar’s wife, however
felt the first faint stirring of a real alarm
when (Phineas having dropped into a
doze) the Bishop drew his chair near to
hers, and, with a kind smile, a very kind
smile, laid a hand, a white, wonderfully,
kept hand, given such a look of sanctity
by the glowing, episcopal ring, over hers
and said, lowering his mellifluous voice
almost to a whisper, “For some months
1 have been hoping to find an opportunity
of mentioning to you a subject very near
my heart.”
“Oh, heavens!” thought Mrs. McCree.
“He’s growing amorous!”
It was a contingency that had never
occurred to her.
The Bishop’s grey eye certainly looked
very benignant!
Was his cheek, perhaps, a little flushed?
“I have not been unmindful of your
devoted labors, dear Jessie,” he continued.
“I have greatly admired the wonderful
way you have managed the feminine, the
economic, side of my dear friend’s re-
sponsibilities in so remote a parish! You
are almost, I have noticed, self-support-
ing! I feel that your gifts should have a
wider scope! Will you not, dear Jessie,
accept the office of Vice-President of our
Ladies’ Auxiliary?”
MRS. McCREE had been very well
brought up, but she gave a little
gasp, was it of relief? Was it of horror?
Of disappointment?
It woke up the Vicar, who, looking at
his watch, said in his usual direct, if
stuttering, way, “Th-thr-three o’clock!
Your man will be at the door, I th-th-ink,
by this!”
Rising, he went to look.
Yes, there was the Bishop’s brougham!
And after the customary ritual common
to departure from a seldom visited
friend’s house in the country ; the search
for the lent book, the borrowed coat; the
bestowal of packets of sandwiches, ot
three pumpkins, two dressed chickens, a
dozen eggsthe assembly of the family,
“And—l have added a few bottles ot the
nyppa wine,” Mrs. McGree murmured
giving them to the groom to stow away
in a carriage already packed with gi •
“I have already sent some flagons to
Governor, and to Mr. McWhistle, and
several other friends.” ~ , th
The early afternoon had not beliedlth
morning’s promise. The sky was jus as
blue, the sun as temperate, the zephyr
discreet; all nature was keyed to the p
fection of an autumnal, a mell ’
as the Vicar and his wife, his d
in-law (who so seldom
grandchildren, Juliet ana .
(who was four), accompanied t g
Bishop to his waiting broughaim
His shovel hat was a mirror,
gaiters exemplary in cut and p face
quietly orthodox, his h n 2 s tcps
urbane, as with precise, un th __so
he walked down the na n(} seat-
sweet with clove and th > a p]omb,
ing himself with his cus f y atitu de,
and a gracious eX P res^ n whir i B ed off to
in his smart carnage, wu
his palace.
<<| BLAME myself, Jessj 6
1 myself!” Mr. McCree my
how disappointed his wif wher e
rather glosses such th-tn g j qU.qu-
an Oxford man 1S con ffr fgo he hfd
quite forgot that Pussy [ ffiend 0 f his
been accustomed to Co ilege.
youth] had been
Yes, dear girl! th< L shoU id
venerable head, ni«hop was
remembered that the they were a l
Wadham man. y ”
six-bottle men at Wadham.
THE GAMBLING ORGY
By DIMANCHET EMPSON.
THE man who does the “Candid
Comment” column for Sydney's
“Sunday Herald,” a recent addition
to the Fairfax —er —stable, gave
fellow-journalists and others a sardoni-
cally amusing quarter-hour when he re-
published an indictment of the gambling
madness, delivered at a Federated Tax-
payers” conference by their president, the
Victorian Knight.
That worthy had referred to “the un-
limited money” in circulation for bat-
ting on horses and dogs, and for “in-
vestment” in Government or Govern-
ment-sanctioned lotteries, and had con-
demned one nasty and dangerous feature
of its diversion from legitimate channels:
A large section of the community reviles
thrifty investors, successful industrialists and
capable farmers and graziers as exploiters
of the people, while it acclaims fortunate
punters and winners of large prizes in “con-
sultations.”
“Sharp but true words,” quoth the Candid
person. “That’s the way it is, all right.”
Dr. Johnson couldn’t have been sager
or terser.
Unfortunately, in that very issue of
the moralist’s paper there were half a
dozen pages of racing stuff. In each of
the two previous issues of the “Sydney
Morning Herald” there was a four-page
racing supplement, together with large ex-
panses of other “information” on the
ruling passion (the disqualification of a
jockey alone took up a column) And
so it was a week later in the correspond-
ing numbers of both papers, showing that
the would-be reformer had failed to make
the slightest impression on his own asso-
ciates.
Of this he must have been uneasily con-
scious when replying to a correspondent
who hdd taken him to task. He could
have pointed the moral trenchantly by
citing the Saturday suicide (reported on
the preceding page) of a textile worker
from Adelaide, aged 18, who had gone
broke that day, probably as a result of
backing newspaper tips. But maybe
Candid Comment had been consigned
irrecoverably to the printer before the
police report of the lad’s self-destruction
came in
Of course this absorption in racing,
with betting as the supreme interest and
shop betting palpably and especially
catered for, is not peculiar to these
“Herald” papers. The other three
Sydney daily and three Sunday sheets
likewise make racing their principal
topic. To the rubbing-out of the afore-
said jockey the two afternoon publica-
tions devoted the entire contents of
posters. And rivalling the eight rags in
this field are most of the radio stations
which, among other “features,” go in for
stride-by-stride accounts of “the running,”
in semi-literate accents. In the short
history of wireless, as in the long history
of journalism, there has been nothing
like this frenzy anywhere in the English-
speaking world, granted that newspapers
and radio stations in other Australian
capital cities exhibit it also, though not
to the same extent.
“Our Heroes”
Naturally Sydney’s daily and Sun-
day Press records with admiration,
almost with reverence, the massive
wagers accepted by leaders of the Ring,
on whom they thus bestow a vast amount
of free advertising while stirring the
spirit of emulation among punters who
can’t bet in such spectacular style. They
also give appreciative mention to the fact
that the State “Labor” Government draws
a steady £lOO,OOO a month from its taxes
on bookmaker and totalisator tickets,
which are relatively light. From the
army of shop bookmakers, who in the
mass must handle far greater amounts
than those raked in by the racecourse
fraternity, since for every course punter
there are 40 or 50 of the off-the-course
variety, this Government, which pro-
fessedly aims at emancipating and up-
lifting the masses, gets nothing, whether
by way of deterrent or otherwise, nor
does it try to get anything. Though off-
the-course bettingjs illegal in N. S. Wales,
as in other States, enforcement of the
law against it has ceased.
This condoning of lawbreaking,
notoriously paralleled in the field of in-
dustrial arbitration, is in part, a cause
and an effect of the immense spread of
betting. Plied so persistently with in-
citements by newspapers and radio
stations, multitudes of home-staying
people, many of them housewives (all
“mugs” to the bookmaking brotherhood)
formed the punting habit, people who
would never have indulged in it if they
had thereby risked figuring in law police-
court prosecutions ; and “Labor” will on
no account risk alienating the enormous
off-the-course-punter vote. It is, of
course, nothing to “Labor” that it stands
committed to restricting betting to the
registered racecourses on which gallopers,
trotters and dogs disport, the trotters and
the hounds chiefly at night.
Community Cash In
Other consequences of the plague, leav-
ing the crime it nourishes out of the
argument, are more general and obvious.
It affects thinking (or what passes for
thinking), conversation and behavior, in-
dividual and mass. It begets thriftlessness,
idleness and recklessness, especially of the
kind that finds a perverted satisfaction in
slow-motion work and strikes. Coal-
miners and wharflaborers are “great”
punters, which means that most of them
are bad losers —and if most of them
didn’t lose their bookmakers couldn’t
exist. This explains to a large extent
why the Communists have established
such a hold on them.
A. D. Kay, the queer fellow who be-
came an M.L.A. and afterwards chair-
man of the Meat Board, said once to a
hectoring Sydney Domain crowd, “You
always want a revolution after a bad day
at the races.” Communists perceived the
truth in this smart impromptu and stored
it up Tor future action. In process of
time they bought a racing paper, which,
the “religion” of Marx and Lenin not-
withstanding, competes briskly with the
“capitalistic” Press for the pennies and
the blind faith of punters. Like the rac-
ing-mad “capitalistic” Press, the Com-
munist rag aims at circulation, but,
employing the same methods, it aims also
at winning recruits for “the Revolution.”
As a sport, horseracing has an old
history, and it would be senseless to try
to put it down. To its existence as a
sport the s.p. frenzy is not at all neces-
sary ; rather does the frenzy threaten that
existence. It is ably conducted by men
of stainless reputation, at the head of
whom stood that splendid Australian
Adrian Knox, afterward Chief Justice of
the High Court, and trainers, jockeys,
even stableboys can claim the status of
those in the public-entertainment line.
Veterans at Randwick and Flemington
can remember when Australia was a
nation of horsemen, and are apt to smile
cynically when they reflect that not one
in a thousand off-the-course punters of
the present crazed generation can ride,
or when they read that once-serviceable
draughts are sold by the hundred for
dog-meat.
And veteran racing men were free with
their comments, having sons, grandsons
and nephews at the war, when Governor-
General McKeH, then Premier of N. S.
Wales, introduced a bill “to constitute and
incorporate a Sydney Turf Club, ’ with a
provision that “the [State] Treasurer
[Mr. McKell] may advance such moneys
to the club as the [State] Governor may
approve.’.’ This measure Mr. McKell
fathered in that year of terror 1943, when
the enemy was still on Australian island
territory and still menacing the continent;
and Mr. McKell and his Government
had their way. Copies of the Act (“Nov.
22, 1943”) contain the words in par-
enthesis: “Assented to, 28th July, 1943.”
No other warring Government rose to
such heights—or sank to such depths.
“Our Lot’ry”
Mr. McKell, it should be said, was a
member of the Government that intro-
duced the State lottery ; and he carried
it on as Premier, transmitting it to his
successor. In the beginning it was asserted
that the thing was improvised “to help
the hospitals” ; but this pretence has long
been abandoned, and in the latest report
from the Treasury it was stated that
revenue from the lottery for nine months
of the financial year had increased by
£167,550 to £1,866,495, In other words,
the lottery habit is as widespread as the
punting habit, and is having much the
same effects; morally and socially. These
effects are doubtless pondered on by
every American or Briton who comes to
Sydney intent on starting an industry,
and who reads the papers and gazes on
the seedy queue that forms up outside
the Government lottery office round
noon every “working” day.
Lotteries are reported an easy way of
gathering in easy money, and as such
they are favored by the run-to-seed
European and Latin American countries.
Tasmania, moreover, has had them for
upwards of sixty years, and Eire started
its Irish sweeps as soon as it had gained
its independence. Neighboring States
have been cold to the examples they have
set. There are no lotteries in Victoria
or South Australia, in England, Wales
or Scotland ; nor are there any in Canada
or the United States. The conviction in
all these countries must be that the harm
they do obliterates the good, if any.
The dearth of lottery tickets in the
U.S.A. has been noted in the McGirr-
McKell State, and at least one attempt
has been made to rectify the omission.
The “S. M. Herald” Index has noted it
under the heading “Law and Crime.”
Reference to the “Herald” report, which
was dispatched from Los Angeles on
April 27, 1948, brought this information;
A Federal judge yesterday ordered
Arthur H, McKell, cousin of the Australian
Governor-General, to leave America before
•July 24.
McKell, who had been charged with
having caused the delivery in the U.S.A.
of New South Wales lottery tickets, was
placed on three years’ probation and
ordered not to return to America unless
specifically permitted by U.S. courts.
McKell said later he was surprised and
pleased at the leniency of the sentence.
George Tennant, Australian Drnnw
ifSS£
similar dol ar fine on a
McKell has informed the U s anti, •
he will leave before July.' oritles
bcing c ' g ' c “ d otTublicaSslff?
ments Co., Ltd., of Sydnev ? ,Invest-
having forwarded to Australia lit with c
who were to be sent Austin
!° ttery tlLkets and amusements,
a sorry episode, humiliating to
Australia. But the whole current orgy of
ing is a sorry business. And i n
the best sense of the word — with Indio
Burma and Ceylon, if not Malava i ’
to Britain and Indonesia to thp n °5
... rnmm . mism me Dutch,
, . . , T P ? n China and
south-east Asia and Japan rising from it*
rums—Australia cannot afford it T n M
age that is upon us Australia will k 6
, work and think and nlan r , have
to woric ana mime and plan for all it is
woith or it, too, may be lost.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
' These Woriel Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/;—•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY KELLY TWIST late of
Bexley.—TAKE NOTICE that LOIS
MARIE TWIST has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 4017 of 1948 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an , appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th day of August
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOSEPH H.
McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
2
ARTS
Circular Charti for all t yp «s
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Michlnsry
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
accsrMv (twMi«4 U« *•» QurniSi
JAC^HSf¥O , SIiIUVAN^.L&£
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with New! Improved!
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Now dental science offers
proof that always using
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating helps stop tooth
decay before it starts I
Continuous research hun-
dreds of case histories —makes
this the most important news
in dental history!
Tests were made in America
with 2 groups of college men
and women for over a year.
One group always brushed
their teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream right after eat-
ing. The other group fol-
lowed their usual dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
New! Improved!
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Ever!
New delicious double minty
flavour! New sparkling snow-
white colour! New scientific
polishing action! New soap-
less penetrating foam For
effective daily dental care.
No claim is made that using
Colgate’s can stop all tooth
decay, or help cavities already
started. But brushing teeth
right after eating is the
proved way to help stop tooth
decay with Colgate Dental
Cream. *
higher rate.
Family Economy 37-
Giant 27-
Large 173
g
AMERICA’S
LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Always Use Colgate’s* to
Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth—and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY!
* Right after eating
Dl2/16
SUNDRY SHOWS
El Greco.
Chemist Felton’s latest ges-
ture to the National Gallery in
Melbourne has presented that
institution with an El Greco,
“Portrait of a Man” (£15,000),
and a Hobbema, “The Old Oak”
(£10,500), quite a good one.
The El Greco is a small picture,
two-feet-six by about 16 inches,
of an unknown man, a cardinal
or something, and it can be said
at once that it .is a lovely
example of the Spanish painter,
worthy to be placed alongside
the Rembrandt self-portrait. A
famous El Greco could not be
bought today for less than
£lOO,OOO, and this one, as' far
as I know, has never been seen
in reproduction, but it contains
everything the famous examples
have—-the marvellous technique,
the quality of depth, although
it is painted in a cold light, and
an intensity of observation simi-
lar to a Titian, a Velasquez or
a Rembrandt.
A commentary credits the El
Greco with an “unearthly light.”
There is nothing unearthly about
it: it is as earthly as a Rem-
brandt, and it is only not of this
earth in the sense that El Greco
has seen deeper than ordinary
men of earth see and as an
academician never sees. It ought
to be hung alongside the Rem-
brandt, and every now and
then an Archibald Prize-winning
portrait should be hung along-
side them so that the public
could see how far most modern
artists have fallen below the
masters in quality of observa-
tion and technique.
El Greco was a Greek born
in Crete, and rejoiced in the
name of Domenico Theotoco-
puli. He studied in Venice
under Titian, learned all he
could teach him, and then went
to Toledo, where nothing more
is known of him except that he
worked as a painter, sculptor
and architect, lived in a 24-
roomed house, had music played
to him while he ate, and painted
an incredible number of pictures.
Director Daryl Lindsay said
that the Spanish section ought to
be rounded off with a Velasquez,
and so it should. Some of the
early Velasquez have the same
quality as the famous ones
which nobody wants to part
with. He was an accomplished
painter at 20, and one of his
early works could probably be
obtained for little more than
the El Greco. It would be worth
more than acres of contem-
porary English painting to the
Australian student.
A quaint thing happened with
the unveiling of the (new El
Greco at the National Gallery
in Melbourne. El Greco has
long been hailed as the father of
the moderns because he often
painted elongated figures and
local moderns went up in droves
to look at the picture, expect-
ing to see a man at least 17
hands high. They were surprised
to see a perfectly straightfor-
ward portrait, which Velasquez,
Rembrandt or Titian could
have painted, superbly done and
glowing with that inner light
which all those masters were so
good at and which the moderns
aren’t any good at all. There
is nothing mystical or distorted
about the picture, and it and the
Rembrandt self-portrait are
artistic brothers. It has nothing
in common with “contemporary”
painting but everything in com-
mon with the Rembrandt.
F.S.
Mixed Paintings.
Alan Grieve’s “Warringah”
and Dudley Parker’s “Kiama”
at the Australian Art Society’s
exhibition (N.S.W. Education
Dept. Galleries) are pleasant
landscapes without the inspired
observation and personal force
that could lift them into final
excellence; and there are some
watercolors by H. E, Dale of
about the same level,
Jean Isherwood’s luminous
“Narooma Reflections” goes a
bit further, as might also be said
of Jean Derrin’s “Showery
Afternoon” if it did not derive
so obviously from G. K. Town-
shend’s soft greys and browns,
and of V, Juradowitch’s “Old
Wharves, Circular Quay” if the
Meldrum influence were not
equally apparent. There is a
neat drawing of “Old Sydney”
by Albert Clarke and a crayon-
sketch of a girl’s head by George
Morris with a touch of charac-
ter about it.
But the only painting that
shows a strongly distinctive
quality in a generally mediocre
show is J. Salvana’s “Early
Summer, Cootamundra.” It is
no more than a loop of clay
road, some scattered gum-trees
with hills in the distance—the
sort of scene that anybody might
have painted and that everybody
sees every day in the Australian
countryside—yet it is alive; it
is different. It has the right
roughness for our landscape ; its
gum-trees, without being too
much particularised, are pre-
cisely observed in their weather-
beaten shapes and their varia-
tions from green to warm
brown; it has the right Aus-
tralian light, not a smear of
bright paint laid on in the com-
mon formula, but a universal,
elusive, pervasive heat and
sparkle.
When one has singled out
these few paintings from the 174
on view there is not much to be
said about the rest. Byram Man-
sell’s elaborate aboriginal designs
look too hard and finished, and,
anyhow, ancient aboriginal art
should be painted by ancient
aborigines. Garrett Kingsley’s
nudes still seem to lack bones,
and tend, dahgero'usly, towards
the pretty-pretty ; the head-study
called “Youth” in the last Royal
Art Society show remains the
best painting he has yet
exhibited.
* * * *
Two Sydney artists showing
concurrently in Melbourne are
Elaine Haxton (Stanley Coe
Gallery) and Roland Strasser
(George’s). Strasser is a much-
travelled, European - trained
artist who has painted and drawn
in places as wide apart as Outer
Mongolia, Bali and Japan, plus
some Australian portraits. His
subject - matter, skilfully
presented, ranges from Balinese
temple dancers, Japanese fisher-
men and ladies, and Mongol
lamas carrying their sacred
scriptures; and there is a port-
rait of Sally Gilmore, the Ballet
Rambert ballerina, which, how-
ever, doesn’t give the livingness
of that vital person. Elaine
Haxton’s subjects range from
French and Italian, landscapes to
abstractions, so-called —i.e., deco-
rative panels where you’re not
expected to look for counter-
parts in Nature.
Sydney Symphony
Orchestra.
Vigorous and authoritative
playing generally, by Igor Hmel-
nitsky, with some nicely-phrased
works enriching the slow move-
ment, plus a performance by the
orchestra which augurs well for
the heavy season ahead, made
the performance of Tchaikow-
sky’s Piano Concerto No. 1 quite
a good one at Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday.
Mozart’s “Marriage of
Figaro” Overture set the musical
ball rolling in lively fashion, and
Prokofiev’s “Classical” Sym-
phony was given with exuber-
ance. The moving shadows of
Debussy’s “Iberia” rather eluded
the orchestra until the third sec-
tion, but the evocation of fete
day was strong and graphic.
John Antill’s “Corroboree”
Suite No. 2, though rather more
subdued than the First, has
rhythmic strength and structural
logic to bolster the peculiar
melodic idiom which the com-
poser has adopted the better to
conjure impressions of these
aboriginal rites. Again, as in the
First Suite, the music needs the
action of ballet to do it full
justice.
Vaughan Williams.
The Vaughan Williams Festi-
val at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Mel-
bourne, was more a feast of
architecture than a feast of
music. St. Paul’s is a beautiful
building, and there were sym-
phonies and sonatas and little
folksongs in its striped colonades
and arches for those with eyes
to see them, and nothing richer
or lovelier could be imagined
than the view through the
transept and choir to the altar
where the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra was making its music.
Unfortunately, all the skill of
Colin Campbell Ross’s conduct-
ing could not overcome the diffi-
culties of acoustics, and “The
Lark,” one of the composer’s
loveliest items, ascended and
was lost among the rafters. The
“Pastoral” Symphony could only
be savored where it was most
emphatic, and, as it happens to
be an exceptionally quiet work,
what the building didn’t absorb
the traffic noises from the out-
side world demolished. Elsa
Haas, in delicious wordless sing-
ing, managed to get through,
however.
Being a more robust work,
the “London” Symphony was
heard better, but the losingness
and findingness of Vaughan Wil-
liams’s music, which is one of
his chief characteristics, had
mostly to be imagined. In this
opus the noises of London
gradually die down to complete
inaudibility, but the inaudibility
arrived much earlier than the
composer intended. Still, it was
a wonderful experience, and the
cathedral authorities shouldn’t
be discouraged. It should be
possible to arrange the orchestra
so that architecture and music
equally get a look in,
Musica Viva.
In a programme which in-
cluded the Haydn E Flat
Quartet (“The Joke”), in which
delightful work the four players
were at their sparkling best, and
Brahms’s rugged and strongly-
knit Piano Quintet, with its
varying moods, Musica Viva
gave Hindemith’s String Quartet
No. 3, p. 22. In this the com-
poser has the annoying habit of
buoying up the listener’s hopes
qf something better by every so
often setting the first and second
violins in something almost like
harmony for a few bars against
the throbbing pizzicato of the
’cello. Then he drags in the
viola and the whole business de-
generates into mediocrity and
lugubrious boredom.


{ Matchless performance!
That's why more tons are hauled and
more people ride-tiie world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
df
Hero are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres —each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
gdf
RIB ALL SERVICE au H, wSer AIRWHEEL
The actual over-the~road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
good/year
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
10AL1-18.
YOU'RE IN
OOWC KONG
in less than 2 days by
Now you can fly—for business or
pleasure—to the heart of the Orient-
colourful, fascinating Hong Kong
—in less than 48 hours
from Sydney' via Darwin,
Labuan (North Borneo).
Regular services by Q.E.A.
Skymasters—with appetising hot
meals served in flight and
first class steward service.
Consult your local
travel agent.
\\\
k
E 3
HMMI*
f
y
a
\S
I VIA
\M
y
) /vf-
v
QANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
fc ra oc
National Health Plans
By M. H. Ellis
ONE fact which must give
the “Labor” Opposition
in the Commonwealth
Parliament good cause to
feel thankful that it was de-
feated last election lies in the
results of Socialised medical
schemes in other countries.
Mr, Chifley’s half-baked ex-
perts have always been wildly
enthusiastic about “free medi-
cine” and “free medical atten-
tion” for all. Their symposia
on the high cost of medical and
surgical fees have been eloquent
and, to those without experience,
plausible. The fact that medical
treatment has become big busi-
ness, like most of the other occu-
pations, its costs conditioned by
the cost of training and over-
head and its specialisation due
to an ever-widening of the fields
of knowledge, with a conse-
quent expansion of treatments,
the natural expensiveness of
treatment complications and the
rising charges for equipment,
appear to have escaped the
knowledge of democrats.
It has also escaped their
knowledge that under the sup-
posedly too-costly system of
treatment carried on by private
medicine —which is no longer
private in any sense of the word,
since the medical profession is a
vast interlocking organisation
working more or less on a co-
operative basis with the State
and with public authorities —life
has been lengthened immeasur-
ably in the past 50 years.
Dozens of complaints which
were almost regularly lethal only
a few years ago have been re-
duced to the status of minor ill-
nesses causing the patient only
a few days’ loss of time and
more inconvenience than suffer-
ing.
It needs to be emphasised that
most of the revolution in health
matters has been brought about
during the past half-century or
more not by the efforts of the
politicians who have recently be-
come enthusiastic about free
medicine and free medical treat-
ment, but through the devoted
driving of individual scientists
and medical and surgical prac-
titioners, through their trial and
perfection of new techniques
and specifics. Where revolu-
tionary results have emanated
from institutions they have come
largely from ancient foundations
like those of Cambridge and
Edinburgh, for which “Labor”
politicians are apt to hold a
crusty scorn.
The Price of “Free Service”
The fact about “free” medi-
cine, equally with free treatment,
is that it has to be paid for some-
how and by somebody. So far
from being cheap on a national
basis, it tends to be dear, since
the old lady who took an aspirin
in the good old era B.S. —Before
Socialism —is apt, when attend-
ance is free, to hurry off to a
doctor and get a prescription.
She is oblivious that she is still
paying; not directly herself, but
through the extra load on the
shoulders of the taxpayers, of
which her share comes from her
purse, partly in the shape of
rising prices on goods and ser-
vices which may not seem to
her to have the remotest connec-
tion with medicine, but which,
in fact, have; as Treasurers
know all too well.
Governments which have
hastened to buy votes with free
medical services so far within
the British Commonwealth and
which have had actual experi-
ence sufficiently long to show
them where it leads have been
those of the United Kingdom
and New Zealand.
The New Zealand scheme was
entered upon quite airily in 1941.
It has become the prey of all
sorts of medical rackets. It has
been common knowledge for a
long time that young men who
have barely left the university
schools could make a couple of
thousand a year in Maoriland
by, in effect, entering partner-
ship or the employ of not very
scrupulous doctors who have
been cashing-in on socialistic
medicine by wholesale issue of
orders for refunds to light-
hearted non-paying customers.
What the neophyte assistant
in the kind of practice which has
grown up in some quarters in
Maoriland has needed has been
not a knowledge of curative
science but a good fountain-pen
and a swift facility in signing
his name. Reputable members
of the profession, who form the
great bulk of the qualified men
in New Zealand, have been more
alarmed at this trend than they
have at the fact that payment
comes from the Government.
So far as overall returns to the
professien are concerned it may
be said that business has been
booming both as to money and
as to numbers of treatments and
tonnage of medicines decanted
into human interiors which could
well do without them. Even
though it is doing its best to
mitigate abuses, the new Maori-
land Government —and the medi-
cal profession —must still view
with concern the scheme which
has been wished upon it by its
predecessors.
In 1942-43 medical benefits
cost the Dominion £1,016,000,
and there has been a steady in-
crease not only in the annual
total but in the annual increase.
In 194&-49 the cost was more
than twice the original cost six
years before —£2,307,000. Calls
for hospital benefits rose from
£1,550,000 to just on £2,000,000
in the same period. Free medi-
cine which cost the Government
£563,000 in 1942-43 last year
cost it £1,793,159. And these
costs omit hospital maintenance
and administration, together in
the vicinity of £9,000,000. If
increases continue on the same
scale it seems that the average
charge on every inhabitant of
New Zealand for Government
medical schemes and hospitalisa-
tion will be soon round about
£lO per head, including every-
body from cradle to the grave.
The average citizen could do
much better for himself at much
less cost by taking out private
insurance against illness and the
need for treatment.
Britain’s Mounting Charges
The same sort of experience
has come to the British Govern-
ment. When it came forward
with its health scheme in 1946
it airily estimated that it would
cost round £150,000,000 to
£200,000,000 a year. Actually it
cost £167,000,000 the first year,
but since then it has run away
from the original figure—and
also from the annual estimates
at the rate of £100,000,000 per
year.
The original estimate for
1948-49 was £265,000,000; it
had to be revised to £368,000,000.
The original estimate of
£352,000,000 for 1949-50 had to
be revised to £452,000,000. And
if the same rises against the
Original estimate this year the
£484,000,000 budgeted for will
increase the cost to the Govern-
ment to nearly £600,000,000. The
only # offsets against these figures
are amounts from the National
Insurance and Superannuation
funds which are paid by the tax-
payers.
The “medicine and bath-chair”
services in Britain are very much
in the same position. The actual
demands last year worked out
at a cool £109,000,000. The
British Government gave phar-
maceutical serv.ices worth
£35,300,000, dental services
worth £48,600,000 and eye ser-
vices worth £25,000,000.
The total expenditure on the
British “health scheme” this
year promises to be greater than
the whole national debt of
Britain in 1914. It equals over
half the income tax paid and will
this year absorb an amount
equal to the whole of the
ordinary expenditure of the Gov-
ernment for all purposes in
1934-35.
Australia, therefore, appears
to have had a lucky escape. On
a pro-rata basis according to
population, a scheme of Gov-
ernment medicine only as costly
as that in Britain would absorb
almost from the beginning nearly
£150,000,000 per annum, and,
according to Sir Earle Page,
“such a cost would mean an in-
crease in the present social ser-
vices tax —Is. 6d. in the pound—
of from 50 to 100 per cent, to
enable those costs to be met.”
And, of course, on the British
and Maoriland experiences of
Government medical and phar-
maceutical services it could be
expected that the enthusiasm of
patients would see to it that the
figure rose by leaps and bounds
every year.
It is no wonder, therefore, that
the present Government has
shied at Government meHiV S
and that it is cantionslyli™ 6
mg upon a plan which it fSI
will cost only a fraction of
present social services 5®
obviate the creation of a l are ’
number of new public servS
and maintain in the ailing pu S
and in the professions a pr( !
sense of responsibility.” p
The bases of this scheme Sir
Earle Page outlined to th P
British Commonwealth Medical
Congress in Brisbane the'other
day. He described it as “ a S
bination of Government aid with
nationwide voluntary insurance
against sickness and disease
a partnership between the Gov
ernment and the individual
through the union of Govern-
mental aid with voluntary effort
making use of all that has been
built up in health organisation
but making provision for nation-
wide voluntary insurance against
sickness.” He said that the plan
“gives opportunity for the pro-
gressive evolution of better and
more extensive medical services
without sacrificing the qualita-
tive excellence of Australian
medicine.” At the same time it
is a scheme in which costs can
remain strictly under control.
The scheme which the Gov-
ernment proposes to put for-
ward immediately is merely a
first stage of a national health
scheme, but it is an orderly be-
ginning capable of progressive
expansion without dislocating
the underpinning of the original
structure created.
The First Stage
This stage will operate
quickly. The cost will come out
of a National Welfare Fund with


Build ... modernise with
CANE-ITE
The only structural board that decorates
as well as insulates
S
m
x..
a
C$R
gd
fg
Half an inch of Cane-ite Insulates
against Summer Heat and Winter
Chill better than 16 inches of con-
crete or a brick wall 8 inches thick.
Cane-ite can be painted, or left in
its natural suede-like finish.
Sold by Hardware Dealers and
Timber Merchants.
CANE-ITE
is a product of
THE COLONIAL .SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSUMJVA*
if* rirva if.,
*&»s V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
' ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
'UOmmtbpi^tkumM'
mm
m
m
■
We’re a happy family. We have all
we need. Good home, good friends, and
financial security. Thanks to Life Assur-
ance, we 9 re on top of the world. My
family and I are fully protected the way
we need to be. Life Assurance has pro-
vided us with protection, and made real
saving possible.
Mr. George Dennett, 16 Vista Street, Caring bah, N.S.W., is
a supporter of Life Assurance because he knows that no
other form of saving offers
such security. Thanks to
our free and independent
Life Assurance Offices,
he and three million other
policyholders obtain these
benefits at a minimum
cost, and help provide
extra facilities for nationc
welfare such as wharves,
harbours and other
projects working for the
good of the community.
dfg
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
BENEFIT EVERT AUSTRALIAN
ISSUED BT THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IR AUSTBALIt
2/220
the co-operation of State Gov-
-ruments in appropriate avenues.
It will cover four aspects—
the nutrition of children by the
provision of milk daily for all
under the age of 12 years dis-
tribution to be arranged at Com-
monwealth cost, but in co-opera-
tion with State Governments.
There are already State milk
schemes in operation, adminis-
tered through the Education
Departments, but these are not
uniform, and they do not cover
a range as wide as that now
proposed.
Next comes prevention of dis-
ease by a health educational
campaign and by free provision,
on a doctor’s prescription, of
costly, specific, live-saving and
disease-preventing drugs, and of
drugs necessary for the treat-
ment of chronic illnesses. This
scheme will be policed by pro-
fessional disciplinary commit-
tees made up of doctors and
chemists. .
The third item in the Gov-
ernment’s programme provides
for curative measures for serious
disease through contributions to
hospital-costs and maintenance,
through hospital insurance
schemes “which will be made
available in such a way as to
restore to hospital managements
the control of hospital admin-
istration,” both helping hospital
finance and relieving patients of
heavy expense.
Finally, the Government pro-
poses, in the first stage of its
scheme, to relieve the high cost
of modern medical treatment by
combined voluntary insurance
and governmental benefit up to
90 per cent, of the cost of treat-
ment.
Abuse will be checked by the
salutary measure of compelling
the patient to pay something of
the doctor’s fees and through the
supervision of the voluntary in-
surance organisations which pay
out the benefit and which will
provide from their own funds
an amount at least equal to that
provided by the Government.
The whole of this section of the
scheme will be subject to the
supervision of advisory com-
mittees appropriately consti-
tuted.
There will be special provision
tor medical services to the in-
digent and the aged and to in-
valid and widow pensioners, to
those temporarily unemployed
and to other specially needy
classes; but there will be no
means test. Benefits paid by the
Government will be “on a flat
cash basis” for each item of
medical service, irrespective of
income, and insurers may insure
for varying higher benefits than
the fixed minimum.
Aims of the Scheme
Benefits will be in the form of
a Government subsidy, provided
in the main through voluntary
organisations which arrange for
prepaid health insurance. Even
where no benefit is payable by
the administering organisation
because of its limitations relat-
ing to maximum payments,
arrears of contributions and
other factors, the Government
subsidy will be paid. Voluntary
organisations must agree to
administer the distribution of
subsidies on a non-profit basis
and to adopt approved standards
of benefits; in fact, to generally
observe the conditions . which
will realise the purpose of the
subsidies which is “to enable
the people to obtain as com-
plete a coverage as possible at
low expense to themselves,
against expenses of medical ser-
vices, especially during long and
unexpected illnesses.”
The subsidies will be accord-
ing to a table which will provide
appropriate amounts for differ-
ent types of medical services and
will include not only general
practitioner service, but mid-
wifery, anaesthetics, X-rays, con-
sultants’ fees, operations and
other medical aid, whether
rendered by the physician or by
a specialist.
The Government contemplates
long-term agreements with
voluntary organisations to en-
1 able them to build up reserves
against epidemic years. It in-
cludes among these bodies “hos-
pital insurance funds for hos-
pital maintenance to make avail-
able money to provide additional
beds and equipment and keep
down the total administrative
expenses of insurance organisa-
tions.”
The arrangement assures that
the Government generally will
know where it is financially. The
Government cost will be less than
the total premiums, paid by in-
sured contributors outside, the
groups of the indigent, aged and
pensioned who are to receive
special consideration. Yet the
plan is represented as being
flexible and based on the free-
will of contributors, who will be
encouraged to come into volun-
tary organisations by helping to
make permanent membership
easy and attractive. And Dr,
Page sums up the anticipated
effects by saying:
The effect of the scheme must be
to raise the level and standard of
medical care and treatment, and not
to degrade it; to build up the self-
respect and morale of the people at
large, and not to undermine it; to
stimulate progress in the art ,of
healing and encourage continuous
research.
It will, indeed, take at least
some of the burden off the
shoulders of people who do not
use it, while still drawing general
financial support from the tax-
payers through subsidies.
The basic organisation for the
operation of the plan, of course,
exists already to an extent
scarcely appreciated. Australian
lives are covered by insurance
for £1,000,000,000 —there are
5,900,000 policies operative at a
cost of premiums of only
£35,000,000. Accident and sick-
ness insurance companies cover
hundreds of thousands. Friendly
societies embrace over 600,00*0
families within their ambit of
operations. Hospital insurance
schemes cover over 500,000.
Over 50 trade-union insurance
bodies deal with another half-
million for medical and hospital
benefits. There are numerous
other schemes operated by the
employees and managements of
large companies, apart from new
bodies in local government and
in private benefit clubs. These
take no account of Government
and semi-Government employ-
ment superannuation funds. So
the groundwork for the whole of
the first stage of the subsidisation
of disease-prevention and medi-
cal services is already in being.
The Second Stage
The second stage of the work
envisioned by Dr. Page, him-
self in his day an eminent sur-
geon, will be concerned with
capital expenditure to “place the
whole national health machinery
in an efficient and up-to-date
condition.” But it can be
planned only after an exhaustive
survey and discussions with
State Governments, universities,
medical schools and manage-
ments of hospitals of all types,
operating in all conditions. In
fact, it calls for a preliminary
survey of the whole of the
health of the people of the Com-
monwealth and of nutrition and
facilities for medical care, pre-
vention of disease, treatment and
research.
That will be a long job. If
it is carried out and acted upon
the results must be revolution-
ary. But it will not bankrupt
the country as the “Labor”
party’s schemes were bound to
do sooner or later if operated
according to precedent under
Socialist Governments elsewhere.
All interests are not agreed
about the scheme’s merits. The
Victorian branch of the 8.M.A.,
for instance, opposed the
friendly-society part of the plan
as “an extension of the contract
practice.” Mr. Eric Scott,
Federal President of the Phar-
maceutical Guild, opposes the
“handing of control of doctors’
fees to medical societies and the
other non-Government bodies.”
Fees, he says, are “essentially a
matter between a doctor and his
patient or a chemist and his cus-
tomer.”
But the fact remains that the
Page plan is merely an exten-
sion of one which has grown
voluntarily and which is already
popular; it at least is based on
commonsense.


5
Feeling TIRED, RUN DOWN?
Win freedom from headaches, depression and other nervous ailments with a regular daily dose of
R.U.R., nature’s great cleanser and protector, R.U.R. goes straight to the root of the trouble,
purifying your bloodstream, making it alkaline and germ-resistant. Excess acids and toxins are rinsed
away and every organ of your body is wonderfully refreshed. Best of all, R.U.R. keeps you free
from those complaints that attack the unwary—skin diseases, neuritis, lumbago, gout, stomach troubles,
sciatica, rheumatism, liver troubles, gastritis, and many other common ailments.
Ask your local chemist for the 2/- packet of ready-to-take R.U.R. today.
TAKE
w •mar wife
iM* MJM« Mm.•
AND RIGHT
YOU ARE!
Rupture
asss-st
for improvement. and thou
Recommended by a g a usiacu°"
sands of ? atlS ma/ier where V m * '
guaranteed, no matt
FREE
Call or ,
FREE details,
stamp
for
sst
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
HYDROGEN BOMB.
It seems that the “Manchester
Guardian’'* published a report
that “fifty Sydney scientists”
had come out with a declaration
in favor of the production of
hydrogen bombs.
It sounds like one of the
brighter effusions of the Uni-
versity Commem. outbreak. At
any rate it brought in the secre-
tary of the Cambridge Scientists’
Anti-war Group biting with all
teeth.
In a letter to the Manchester
paper he gave the full wording
of a petition which “one hun-
dred Cambridge scientists” had
sent to Mr. Attlee, and against
which the declaration of the
Sydney pundits was said to have
been directed: “If so,” wrote the
Cambridge sec. vigorously, “we
condemn their action as both
insensitive to the vulnerable
position of this country, and as
an irresponsible encouragement
to those who would prostitute
science to destructive ends.”
The petition to Mr. Attlee had
opened: “We consider that the
most important problem facing
this country in the sphere of
international relations is that
posed by the decision on the part
of the United States to manufac-
ture hydrogen bombs.” Britain,
“on account of its size, position
and dense population,” would
be in an especially unhappy posi-
tion.
“Australians with three mil-
lion square miles and only eight
million of population,” the Cam-
bridge scientists’ sec. added,
“may feel some complacency
about hydrogen bombs. We cer-
tainly cannot. A super-weapons
race can increase no one’s
security, least of all that of the
British Isles, whilst it is difficult
to see how any scientists can
condone the tragic waste of
human effort in hydrogen-bomb
production, the damage to scien-
tific progress that the crippling
restrictions of secrecy impose
and the moral disintegration
that production for purely
destructive ends brings in its
wake.”
Leaving the Cambridge scien-
tists and Sydney scientists (?)
to battle this out among
themselves (perhaps to the theme
tune “A Lover-ly Bunch of
Coconuts”), a recent report by
a Washington correspondent of
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” suggests
that between Mr. Truman’s
unleashing of his particular
scientist pack on the scent of
the H-bomb and the catching of
their quarry there may still be a
fair gap of time —maybe even
enough of it for reason to re-
turn to the world. As this U.S.
writer explains:
“The atom, or fission, bomb,
by generating heat comparable
to that on the sun, is to be used
as a ‘trigger’ to initiate the
fusion process which takes place
on the sun. Thus the hydrogen
bomb is to be a fusion, rather
than a fission, bomb.
“The explosion of the atom
bomb is completed in about one-
millionth of a second. And here
is the problem which has led
some scientists, like Dr. Robert
Millikan, of California, to doubt
that a true hvdroeen bomb is
mat a true nyarogen oomo is
within human capacity to manu-
fartnre Hnw dn vnii construct
lacture. do you construct
a mechanism which will not fly
anart at the verv instant of the
P . . , j. ~
atomic explosion before the
immense heat and nressure
tt u i
generated by the explosion can
be annlied lone enouah for the
fusion Diace I ?’’
U Tfaat^t^ C “HeraldTrilmne”*man
mat, me weraiairicune man
informs us, is called the prob-
lem of maintaining assembly.”
In this, it appears, a choice has
to be made between trying to
construct the hydrogen bomb
with “heavy hydrogen”—called
deuterium —or “very heavy
hydrogen”—called tritium. Both
have disadvantages, the immense
disadvantage of deuterium being
that its “reaction time”—the
time it takes for the fusion pro-
cess to begin—is about 25 times
slower than in the case of
M***’
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun."
STORY OF MANKIND.
tritium. For this reason “com-
petent observers are convinced
that if the awful new weapon is
to be constructed in our times it
will be essentially a tritium
bomb rather than a deuterium
bomb”:
“Yet, perhaps fortunately for
the human race, tritium too
suffers from great disadvantages.
It can only be used efficiently in
liquid form at very low tempera-
tures. This means building an
intricate refrigerating apparatus
into the bomb, thus further com-
plicating the problem of ‘main-
taining assembly.’ Moreover,
tritium has ‘a half-life of 12
years,’ which in lay language
means that half the explosive
effect of any nation’s stockpile
of tritium bombs would seep
away every 12 years. ‘An
atom bomb has a half-life of
25,000 years.’ ”
Further, tritium (unlike
deuterium, which is freely avail-
able in nature)' has to be arti-
ficially produced, which means
that “the tritium bomb will be
a direct competitor of the atom
bomb,” requiring the same instal-
lations. In turn this means that
either atom-bomb construction
must be greatly reduced or
“great new installations like the
Hanford piles, which cost close
on $1,000,000,000 to build, must
be constructed.”
Another point to be con-
sidered, according to the same
American writer, is this: “Sup-
pose, having solved the prob-
lem of maintaining assembly,
you make one tritium bomb.
You will have, to put it mildly,
a very powerful bomb. Yet the
same effort and investment
would have given you a number
of atom bombs whose combined
effects would have been many
times more lethal.”
As a footnote to the fore-
going : London “Daily Tele-
graph” states that on his visit to
Moscow, U.N.O. Secretary-
General Trygve Lie carried “a
private document of significance
... .a letter from Professor Ein-
stein,” giving Einstein’s views
“on the probabilities of chain
reaction following the explosion
of a single hydrogen bomb.”
Einstein, the writer elaborated,
“takes the gloomiest view of the
material consequences which
might ensue from the explosion
of a single hydrogen bomb in
relation to the rest of the world.”
It was certain that Stalin would
be shown the communication,
and if he took it seriously, then
Trygve Lie’s mission would be
of the highest importance.
War Possibility.
Among documents which the
Foreign Ministers at their Lon-
don conference had to consider
was one setting out “appraisals
of Russian aims this summer,”
and including (according to an
Edinburgh “Scotsman” report)
“a frank expression of the
American view that that may
even include war.”
The U.S. State Department
(said the same report) is under-
stood to have agreed with the
U.S, Defence Department in an
overall appraisal of Russian pur-
poses which admits the possi-
bility either that the Soviet Gov-
ernment may be deliberately
planning early aggression or that
its prestige may become too
compromised in Germany and
the Balkans to make peace any
longer possible.
The report gives this explana-
tion of the recently-publicised
accounts of special new U.S.
war weapons:
“The appraisal at a high level
in Washington that the U.S.S.R.
may be on the eve of a gigantic
military gamble is stated by
responsible sources to have
inspired deliberate leakages of
military data recently. Word has
been discreetly passed out, with
just enough publicity to ensure
attention, that the United States
has certain weapons which would
substantially make up for the
lack of fighting manpower
available in Europe. The leak-
ages of factual information have
been meant as direct warnings
to the Kremlin.”
Atlantic Union.
When, about a year ago, a
small group of American Sena-
tors put forward the idea of an
Atlantic Federal Union —a con-
cept transcending and, in a way,
merging both European Union
and the Atlantic Pact, with the
U.S., naturally, as an active
member London “Observer”
was here quoted as declaring that
the idea “confronts us, with the
greatest issue of our time.”
Few other publications outside
the U.S. —and not many there —
anticipated that the move would
in fact be now by far the most
important issue on the Western
side, with powerful advocates
and backing in the U.S., Britain
and France. “Today,” the
“Observer” can now say,
“Atlantic integration is on the
march.” The march is likely to
be a long one, though it was
notably advanced with the deci-
sions at the London conference
to plan for the creation of bal-
anced, collective forces and set
up a permanent “Atlantic High
Command” to sit continuously
in London.
The first of the more signifi-
cant steps on the way was made
by U.S. Chief of Staff General
Omar Bradley, In a cautiously-
worded speech in Chicago
(both the caution and tb* ,
iron of that *'*-
being presumed in the Am ttlng
Press to mean that he wtfch ICan
by the Administration h ° sen
pare Americans for a pre '
shift of foreign policy) d S matlc
Bradley suggested .ife
button m the Atlantic scheme
things involving parting 0 /
some sovereignty. P Dg Wltb
Actually, he forecast the « t
of the London decisions ??
explained what i,
coursefa small hit of
is reUnquished. But
think that national pride and
sovereignty are often naid f d
with the life and S
soldiers I feel that we must ac'
ceptflie more difficult alternafe
which comes with this joining of
hands in collective defence’’ 1
“Traditions" he further'said
will have to give way to reality
And even our own balance nf
United States forces-it we e/
pand beyond the present levels-
may have to give way to the
theory of national specialisation
which will fit into an over-all
balance for collective defence.”
“Those are the words,” com
mented “New York Times”
“not merely of a splendid
soldier but of a genuine
statesman. General Bradley
is pointing out, in a bold
and effective way, that the world
of sovereign States in which we
have lived has changed and is
changing. National egotism and
national sovereignty are no
longer necessarily the first con-
siderations. Mutual safety, in-
ternational understanding and
the chance for human freedom
may well supersede those other
concepts in importance.”
On the suggestion of “national
specialisation” in the various
military contributions by the
U.S., Britain, France and the
rest, the “Washington Post”
commented:
“Something of the sort has
been proposed by the Nether-
lands Chief of Staff, General
Hans J. Kruls. He asserts the
need of a central authority ‘to
tell members what forces they
must contribute and to assure a
balancing of the services’ within
the pact. He envisions a finan-
cial pool into which each nation
would pay a fixed portion of its
budget. Further, he says: ‘The
Atlantic Pact must eventually
develop a command organisa-
tion Of course, it would
mean a restriction of national
sovereignties, but that is the
direction in which we must
move.’
“How much of an illusion the
plans could turn out to be is
illustrated by the case of
France,” the “Washington Post
added. “She is counted upon to
contribute 24 of the 36 Atlantic
Pact divisions by 1955: yet.lo
of her divisions are embroiled in
a colonial war in Indo-China— a
war with no early end in signt
and for which she would like
to have the United States pick
up the check. Tactical aviation
from Britain, certainly an essen-
tial in halting any Russian
advance, is barely sufficient*
defend Britain herself. In any
true division of labor, WgJJJ;
for example, would cont wh t
not troops but munitions,
is necessary is some mst
tality to galvanise the E P g
into thinking m ' ° ve^ fir L on 0 £
Incidentally, such unifioabon j
effort also has political g«
tions: only in a Western EurO f
pean force can the P , j t
German defence be cont u at the
goes without saying t


r&t*
Iz
BABY
LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap, It
keeps hfs tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-rCuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
df
gd
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CUPPER” Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific «
Tobacco Co., Ltd;
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
« M* N,
*
7$
Memory. 13th March> 1950.
I can truthfully say that, during the
last six months, I have accumulated more
knowledge than in any other half year
of my life. —H.3009, Grazier.
Saved Time and Effort.
27th March, 1950.
I can concentrate more readily and
for longer periods than formerly and I
have been able to save time and effort
since I can obtain a better perspective
of any work in which I am engaged.
—W.2711, Student.
“Facing the World.”
15th March, 1950.
I am gaining more and more confidence
in myself and in my ability to “face
the world.” I don’t worry as much as
I used to do. ■ —H.3032, Storeman.
Alert and Sure. 15th March( i 95 0.
I find that I am much more able to
see both sides of an argument. I feel
much more mentally alert and more sure
of myself. —0.2988, Housewife.
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute
are in London, The Institute has been
established in Melbourne for J/3 years,
and has enrolled more than 80,000 of the
million world Pclmanists.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and en-
able residents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman Course of
Training without delay. Write in
the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
"Something” More
“Pelmanism has helped me greatly to get this
new job. When a man gets to the senior jobs
he requires a great deal more than his technical
knowledge, and he can get that ‘SOMETHING’
from the Telman Institute.” —H. 2539.
The “something” which Pelmanism gives to those who
have qualified by diploma, apprenticeship or experience
for the work they are doing is personality, the development
in the individual of such qualities as foresight, reflection,
th^ 1 quick recollection of what is useful and the ability to
judge, decide and act wisely.
It is in their aspirations for betterment by promotion, private
enterprise or change that Pelmanism is of immediate service to its
pupils. Consideration of opportunities and aptitudes begins with
the first lesson.
The specific qualities cultivated by Pelmanism are:
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
- Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a HOLDFAST MEMORY
If you are anxious to make yourself self-confident and self-
reliant, independent in the full sense of the term, get a copy, post
free, of “The Efficient Mind,” which describes Pelmanism and the
personal service which is part of it. Write or call The Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Telephone MB 2555.
To The Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
227
United States must expect to con-
fute not only military forces
1 now represented m the Ger-
man occupation but also
“Observer” comments
on the developments:
“In defence, foreign policy
and economics alike, it has be-
rime clear that the problems
SJich confront the Atlantic
nations can be solved only by
he Atlantic Community acting
Permanently as an integrated
whole The older idea that a
united Western Europe, helped
on its way by some initial
American assistance, could be-
come strong enough to master
the world crisis by its own
efforts is fast dying 0ut....
“In the field of foreign policy
it has likewise become clear that
in the global struggle with
Russian imperialism, success is
possible only if the Atlantic
Powers speak and act as one.
Hence the unprecedented attempt
of these Powers, in'the meetings
in London, to co-ordinate their
foreign policies in every field,'so
that in future there will no
longer be separate American,
British and French policies, but
a united Atlantic policy.
“In the economic field, too,
the idea that after 1952 America
and Western Europe could again
go their separate ways is rapidly
fading. It is increasingly recog-
nised that America and Western
Europe will instead, for an in-
definite period, have to mobilise
and co-ordinate their combined
economic strength for t h'e
development and strengthening
of the endangered countries of
Asia, if these countries are to be
saved from Communism. In the
process, America and Western
Europe must, and can, find a
solution for the dollar problem
which has hitherto prevented
their economic integration.”
Mr. Bevin, the “Observer”
further pointed out, had made a
significant reference to this in his
recent speech in Parliament,
when he said; “I hope and trust
that before long, instead of aid
from America in the way we
have known and instead of
pressure on us [Western Euro-
peans] to integrate, we shall
evolve in such'a way that the
wider integration will take
place.”
Also, M. Bidault, the French
Prime Minister, had clearly and
precisely summed up all these
developments when he called for
a merging of the existing agencies
of Western European unity and
co-operation into the “larger
ensemble” of an “Atlantic High
Council for Peace.” The Coun-
cil’s task would be “to order and
orientate the development of the
Atlantic Community in the in-
separable fields of defence and
economics, with the hope of
adding the political field before
long.”
u “This,” commented the
Observer,” “is an almost revolu-
tionary new departure in French
political thought, and one to be
welcomed with profound satis-
faction and gratitude. Hitherto
France had seemed to put her
faith, which Britain could not
fully share, in the project of
purely European unity, and it is
no secret that in the establish-
ment of the Council of Europe,
Britain followed a French lead
somewhat reluctantly. French
statesmen will not find Britain
dragging her feet’ in the matter
or wider, Atlantic integration.
. M. Bidault sees, with an in-
cisive logic peculiarly French, that
ml this integration and mixing-
U P of affairs must lead to ulti-
mate constitutional union—‘an
association/ to quote'his words,
me tnat between the sons of
me same country.’ We delude
ourselves if W e think that the
lantic Community can for ever
aintam a unified defence
ana ’ an ? nte Brated economy
a co ’°rdinated foreign policy
nni 1 nnifying direction of
Government.
But constitutional union, as
nni * c te ar ly indicates, can
omy follow, not precede, prac-
Th f « nity P ur Pdse and policy,
fip/i f * rS i t * s to create a uni-
an, Auuntie defence, economy
an £. policy.”
■fhat task was the main busi-
ness of the London conference,
wun me announced agreement
to build up a system of defence
quipped with modern weapons
lit'' t 0 Wlthstand an y
tnreat -
Britain’s Political Bog.
As assessed editorially by
“Manchester Guardian,” Britain
politically continues to be evenly
divided ; or, as it might also be
put, evenly balanced.
“There is no evidence yet,”
says the editorial, “of any swing
of public opinion strong enough
to give a good lead to one side
or the other; the two by-elec-
tions so far, Neepsend and Dun-
mas.
W/16ES
—London “News Chronicle."
BETWEEN THE DEVIL AND THE T.U.C.
barton, show little variation in
the vote.
“There is always the chance
that a change in electoral tactics
—for instance, if the Liberals put
up fewer candidates, or if they
struck a bargain with the (Con-
servatives—might tip the scales.
But the practical importance of
the first possibility has been
greatly exaggerated by contro-
versialists, and there is no sign
of the second.
“More important still, an early
election would lack a fresh and
clear issue. What ought to be
the great issue of the next elec-
tion —the policy needed to bal-
ance external trade after Mar-
shall aid ends —i§ not yet clearly
formulated in the minds of the
people. Most members of Par-
liament are pretty vague about
it, too.
“The Conservatives are always
ready to fight any time on the
theme of ‘Socialist extravagance
and misntanagement,’ just as
Labor is ready to fight any time
on ‘Unemployment under Tory
rule.’ That is what they did last
time, and the present political
morass is the outcome.”
In that “political morass” J.
Bull is seen as bogged down
more deeply than ever since Sir
Stafford Cripps produced his
last Budget; even sections of
the British Press which have
steadily supported the Attlee
Government have turned criti-
cal since then. Thus, the “News
Chronicle” has charged Cripps
with failing “to rise to meet the
country’s needs, because his con-
ception of the kind of society
we want is quite inadequate.”
On his doctrine of “a happy
country with equality of oppor-
tunity, not too great a disparity
of incomes and in which every
man or woman feels that he or
she is welcome and has a full
part to play,” it commented:
“This is surely not enough. A
totalitarian regime can give as
much. But we have struggled for
generations to have more —to
have not only justice but oppor-
tunity for a good man* to do
better than a dull one, not only
freedom from fear and want
but freedom from the palsy
a 150.., .We cannot mobilise our
strength while so much of the
reward of effort is taken from
us. Sir Stafford believes in the
frozen limit and the pace of the
slowest.”
The same paper’s financial
editor looks back at the Budget
as one of “negation, of financial
frustration, which condemns the
country to continue under the
same staggering load of taxation
as before, which provides only
the slightest additional incentive
Ik productlve and denies
he patent truth that the key to
country * r ? u ™ t 0 s . tablhty
mn„F„ r ° SP n T ty .h KS “A V,B ° rOUS
and excessive costs of'adimnistra 5
thenarand£
years fastenedon m ”
The “Daily Mail” holds the
last Budget even worse than the
previous year’s * the one gave
“no incentive,” the latest gave
“no hope”; “Sir Stafford Cripps
has bludgeoned the people, and
’
if he does much more of it he
will knock them insensible. It
is no great consolation that
another Government may have
tbe hard task of bringing them
back to life.”
The full force of the Budget’s
austerity now beginning to be
£ e h» ofher comment sees it as
haying been fathered by trade-
union pressure; Cripps, as in the
bem 8 pictured as caught between
Sea
demands! Cripps ’ comments
London “Daily Telegraph,”
acknowledged the increased
competition from Germany and
Japan to be expected shortly in
overseas markets, and the sub-
stantial payments on the Wash-
ington loans due to begin in
1952, made more awkward by
the ending that year of Marshall
aid. Yet in his Budget Cripps
was able to do nothing about
meeting these difficulties ahead ;
Mr. Micawber J. Bull is “simply
to drift along in the hope that
something will turn up.”
Meanwhile, the electorate re-
mains “deeply divided on vital
fundamental issues,” a division
which a “Time and Tide” writer
sees as largely one “between
those who have and those who
have not seen through the Wel-
fare State. The former have
become increasingly sceptical of
extravagant schemes of some-
times dubious social benefit at a
time when we are still unable to
pay our way as a nation and
continue to lead a hand-to-
mouth existence dependent upon
American charity. The latter
affect to believe that because
almost everyone has for the
moment got a seat round the
kitchen-table it matters not at
all what may be happening in
the rest of the house. The house
may be on fire, the irreplaceable
assets of the family may be in
the process of destruction, pro-
vided that the boys and girls
can continue their cosy little
game of Social Security (known
in the nursery as Beggar My
Neighbor) in the one room
where they cannot —as yet —de-
tect the fumes of burning.”
Hold That Thar Pose!
Larry, hero of a “Yorkshire
Post” election report, is a
photographer from way across
the Atlantic whose technique,
“taking multitqdinous pictures
for an American magazine,” in-
fused a little relief into the West
Dumbartonshire by-election:
“The British Press photo-
grapher, with his solitary satchel,
is a primitive person compared
with Larry.
“Larry does things in style,
and his vast accumulation of
cameras, flashbulbs, step-ladders
and other gadgets ' suggest the
equipment for a polar expedi-
tion.
“Larry followed Mr. Eden
round with his trappings in the
back of a large taxi. At every
stop they had to be assembled
on the roadside and the pro-
gramme was suspended until
Mr. Eden had been posed to
Larry’s exacting requirements.
Neither the Conservative nor
the Socialist posters were big
enough for Larry, and he con-
sidered having some specially
printed. He had done that for
a couple of ‘shots’ at the general
election at a cost of £43.
“The last time I saw him,”
the “Post” writer declared, “he
was setting out to find a lonely
shepherd in the hills who could
be photographed coming down
to vote with a sheep tucked
under each arm. I am quite
sure he would find one, even if
it meant buying a few sheep.”


(tofif W
to
V:.
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
itlights every time
ATTENTION GARDENERS
“SHRUBS AND TREES FOR
AUSTRALIAN GARDENS”
By E. E. LORD
The most comprehensive volume available. Con-
tains 166 illustrations with 18 plates in full colour.
The index comprises a list of 4700 common and
botanical references. Price £5 ss, Od. (Post Free
£5 7s. Od.).
Available NOW at all good Booksellers, or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING
COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
■ •
im
mam
Authors are asked to mark their name and address clearly on all MSS. submitted
i^ev^CsN?SBfflSßß6W»‘l*w^
a
S w
ip
sas*.
a
M
YOU can’t see the
BANK IN THIS PICTURE
-BUT /T% THERE
Rightly you may see the shipping
industry as Romance as an
immensely important link with our
livelihood and our standard of
living.
Yet you may not see the difficulties
that shippers and shipowners alike
have to face and suffer, and strive
to overcome!
And, of course, you don’t see the
Bank, though it is there! Its dozen
and one services have contributed
to this picture and to thousands of
shipping pictures since 1834.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited is Banker to men
and companies in every industry in
Australia.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S Nb. I CUP
The No. I Drink
fa vase mat
rtr .
“There is no more depressing sight
than more than one chin.”
— Women’s paper.
It’s doubly hard to keep them
up. ,
4* 4* 4*
“Leaky roof expert, contractor to
Govt, roofs.” — Suburban paper.
Used to dealing with drips?
4* 4* 4*
“You don’t judge a working
woman merely by what she wears, so
why judge a tennis girl accordingly?’’
—Tennis player “Gorgeous Gussie”
Moran.
Well, what she wears can play
the deuce with onlookers.
4* 4* 4*
“Study yourself honestly in a full
length mirror.” — Beauty hint.
You’ll have cause for serious
reflection.
4* 4* 4 1
“Clean, reliable woman wants
casual cleaning.”
—Toowoomba (Q.) “Chronicle.”
But would she positively need
it?
4* 4* 4*
“Domestic duties, excellent home,
suit widow or person without ties.”
—Suburban paper.
No collar-proud applicants
will be considered.
“Crowlesmith added that marriages
could sometimes be saved by moving
the household furniture to change the
domestic scene.” — Sydney “Sun.”
A poker hidden saves quarrels
coming to a head.
4* ■ 4* .4*
“An electronic device called a
watch doctor was exhibited in Lon-
don.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Can you get one on tick?
Singled Out.
“A couptry schoolmistress has
asked the Education Minister not to
send women to teach in schools in
backwater villages where they have
‘little hope of getting husbands.’ ”
When lasses seek to make a
name
By training for the teaching
game
Their heads are crammed with
stuff like logic
And all the.subjects pedagogic
Considered needful for the work.
And woe to her who seeks to
shirk
The swotting of psychology,
Art, music and geography.
But if we wish our girls to be
Prepared for teaching thoroughly
And competent to cater for
The needs of youngsters, surely
more
Consideration should be shown
To teachers buried on their own
In lonely spots until they die
Without the chance to multiply.
BERT.
Saying a Mouthful.
“Psychiatrists often argue that
thumb-sucking is perfectly normal
and nothing to worry about unless it
becomes a compulsive habit. But
dentists regard anything more than
occasional thumb-sucking as definitely
harmful.” —Sunday paper.
Let learned dentists and their
ilk
Decide why babies suck their
thumbs
Instead of drinking wholesome
milk
Or masticating crunchy
crumbs.
Such problems come within
their sphere
And exercise their able
brains;
Yet if the cause is found I fear
At least one worry still
remains.
For such a babe, it seems to me,
Will cause its parents to
despair,
Since they must know its life
can be
At best a hand-to-mouth
affair.
ED.
“They're almost as handy as a pressure-cooker."
Proof Negative.
“Tass Newsagency claims that
Russia was the first country to have
the cinematograph film.”
Writing in “Depravda,” the
well-known Soviet publicist
Puttova Bullski develops the
theme:
“Despite the arrogant claims
of the bourgeoisie warmongers
of the West (where the film in-
dustry is dying because their
wage-slaves are unlike the
workers in the U.S.S.R., who en-
joy the highest wages paid in any
country—given such a miser-
able pittance by their capitalistic
masters they cannot buy food
to keep them from starving, let
alone pay for cinema seats) that
Western plutocracy was respons-
ible for the invention of the
cinema film, unanswerable evi-
dence is available that that
honor belongs solely to Russia.
“The archives of our Father-
land are rich in references to
this undoubted fact.
“In the year one of the era
of the glorious revolution which
the overdue liquidation of the
Tsar Nicholas and his viperine
brood touched off, many who
were suspected of sympathy with
the evil forces of reaction were
subjected to close examination
by the 0.G.P.U., which later
was to become the N.K.V.D.,
falsely accused by the lying
capitalists of being secret police,
whereas this band of honorable
men are in reality the ever-
cheerful friends, guides and
counsellors to our happy
workers.
“Under the guidance of our
beloved Lenin, and despite the
treacherous sabotaging of his
patriotic work by the bearded
rat who met a felon’s death in
Mexico at the glorious hands of
the immortal agents of our
security forces, such suspected
reactionaries were, according to
the records now in the great
October Revolution Museum,
“thoroughly screened.” This
can admit of but one interpre-
tation—that a motion picture
was made of the work at the
time. Unfortunately the film
itself is not in Russia. It has
long been suspected that an
emissary of the capitalists thieved
it and took it to America, where
its brilliant technique was
imitated and put out by the
brain-sucking plutocracies as
their own.”
Speaking over Moscow Radio,
the famous Soviet historian, M.
Liarov, said that research-
workers under him had estab-
lished beyond any possibility of
doubt the fact that Russia had
made at least one notable film as
far back as the reign of Peter
the Great. According to the
archives Peter, at a Press con-
ference he gave on his return
from his glorious campaign
against the Turks, the culmina-
tion of which was his brilliant
losing of the city of Azov, was
asked when he proposed moving
against the sybaritic Persians,
they being considered more
worthy foes of the Russians than
the tough Turks. Peter had re-
plied curtly: “We start shooting
right away, and I’m the direc-
tor ! ” The film jargon then was
apparently the same as now. It
is thought that the film itself
was unfortunately destroyed
when an assistant cameraman
poured sulphuric acid over it in
the hope of discovering a new
and stronger vodka.
According to an anonymous
writer in “Izvestia,” believed by
some to be Stalin himself, the
first Russian motion picture can
be traced back as far as the
reign of Boris Godunov. By a
strange coincidence a document,
in a remarkable state of preser-
vation despite its having lain in
the mud for 360 years, has,
according to the writer, just been
found under a stone in a farm-
yard at Uglich. Here Boris put
to death every man, woman and
child because of the town’s up-
rising against him in favor of
the false Dmitri, the son of Ivan
the Terrible whom Boris himself
had liquidated. The document,
which it is now clearly estab-
lished is from the brilliant pen
of Dumbski Screwballovich, the
idiot son of the monk Sancti-
monov, describes the remorse
which had overtaken Boris when,
having “removed” the Tsar
Feodor’s infant son in a manner
that would have earned the un-
qualified approval of the Polit-
buro had there been one in
Boris’s day, and with him the
last barrier between Boris and
the coveted throne, the usurper
broods on the blood he has spilt
to satisfy his ambitions. “The
sight of Boris,” states the docu-
ment, “as he writhed under the
torture of his newly-awakened
conscience, was one before
which even strong men quailed.
It was indeed a moving picture.”
A moving picture! In short, a
film. Here is proof that cannot
be gainsaid that a Russian first
invented the cinema, just as
Russian inventive genius gave to
the world such brilliant devices
as the Archimedean screw, the
butter-box, television, the
scope, the washing- ma l yro '
string, the sardine-tin
horse-collar. n anc * the
BO.
Up to Scratch.
“Some Australian hntoic
that they can’t be spoken of 6 So bad
a shudder.” p Ketl of Without
Supply Minister Howard Beale.
fVe S Zod dS Whm «
A " d "here the beer i5
where^Z hm « *
'"C. "* *> 4e
Sul these, alas, are few and .
Between, and one
have stayed, 1
Despite a handsome modern bar
Needs renovations long de-
layed. 6
And yet though I must here
decry
Its lack of comfort I, poor
mug,
Keep going back again, for /
Was bitten by the hotel bug.
D.H.E.


Consolidated Zinc Corporation
SATISFACTORY FIRST YEAR
Mr. John R. Govett on Price Movements
The first annual meeting of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited
will be held on June 15 in London
The following are extracts from the circulated statement of the Chairman, Mr. JOHN R. GOVETT:
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited was formed at the beginning
of last year and soon after its forma-
tion acquired the whole of the issued
share capital of The Zinc Corporation
Limited; it also purchased from The
Zinc Corporation Limited the
whole of the issued Ordinary capital
of Imperial Smelting Corporation
Limited.
The Zinc Corporation Limited,
formed in 1911 to treat accumulated
mine tailing dumps at Broken Hill,
New South Wales, soon became an
active producer of lead, silver and
zinc ores; over the past 25 years it
has developed into one of the leading
mining companies in the Broken Hill
field —in fact the world. The com-
bined output of Zinc Corporation
and New Broken Hill Consolidated
today represents more than half of
the total output of recoverable lead
and zinc from the Broken Hill field.
Imperial Smelting Corporation is the
sole producer of primary zinc metal
in the United Kingdom and has been
largely built up on the treatment of
the raw materials derived from the
Broken Hill Mines. The Consolidated
Zinc Corporation also acquired the
issued share capital of Sulphide Cor-
poration Limited, which produces
sulphuric acid, superphosphate and
cement.
MANY IMPORTANT INTERESTS
In addition, through its wholly-
owned subsidiary, The Broken Hill
Corporation Limited, the Consolidated
Zinc Corporation holds many other
important interests in Australia. These
include a substantial interest in New
Broken Hill Consolidated Limited,
which has already made considerable
progress in the development of leases
on the main line of lode at Broken
Hill adjoining the leases of The Zinc
Corporation Limited.
Through The Broken Hill Corpora-
tion Limited, the Consolidated Zinc
Corporation also owns a 50 per cent,
interest in The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty. Limited. This Aus-
tralian company, jointly owned with
North Broken Hill Limited and
Broken Hill South Limited, treats at
its lead smelter at Port Pirie, South
Australia, the whole of the output of
lead concentrates from all the operat-
ing mines in the Broken Hill field.
Over half the lead concentrate sup-
plies to The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty. Limited are to-day
drawn from the mines of The Zinc
Corporation Limited and New Broken
Hill Consolidated Limited.
Consolidated Zinc Proprietary
Limited,, a wholly-owned Australian
subsidiary, controls a number of other
companies in Australia, among which
may be instanced:
Southern Power Corporation Pty.
Limited, now engaged in erecting a
new power station at Broken Hill
with a rated capacity in the first
instance of 9,480 kw. to supply the
increasing needs of The Zinc Cor-
poration and New Broken Hill
Consolidated Limited, for power
and compressed air.
Heron’s Creek Timber Mills Pty.
Limited, which owns freehold and
leasehold forest areas in New South
Wales with sawmills for supplying
a considerable proportion of the
mining timber required by The Zinc
Corporation Limited and New
Broken Hill Consolidated Limited.
Enterprise Exploration Pty.
Limited, which in addition to pro-
viding all forms of geological and
geophysical exploration services for
the Zinc Corporation and New
Broken Hill Consolidated, under-
takes similar work on contract for
third parties.
Titanium and Zirconium Indus-
tries Pty. Limited engaged in the
investigation and exploitation of a
large area of mineral-bearing sands
on Stradbroke Island, lying off the
mouth of the Brisbane River,
Queensland. A pilot plant for the
separation of rutile, zircon and
ilmenite is nearing completion, and
will shortly be in operation.
There are, in addition, other sub-
sidiary companies, but the foregoing
will serve to outline the very extensive
field covered by the activities of the
parent company, and its operating
subsidiary and associated companies.
TAXATION BURDEN
The profit for the year, before taxa-
tion, amounts to £3,453,429. This
result is most .satisfactory, but it is
only prudent to point out that these
profits were earned largely during a
period of high metal prices and that
there is a background of increasing
production costs, the full effect of
which will be felt on a falling price
trend.
As the shares in the subsidiary
companies were not acquired until
April, 1949, the profits for the first
three-and-a-half months of the year
are not available for distribution.
Nevertheless, the profit for the re-
mainder of the year has been suffi-
cient to pay dividends on Ordinary
Shares which will give shareholders
an equivalent return to that received
from The Zinc Corporation Limited
last year and to carry forward
£183,303. This figure added to
£550,621 transferred to capital and
revenue reserves gives a total of
£783,924 retained in the business out
of profits earned during the year.
The provision for taxation amounts
to £2,077,727, which is 60 per cent,
of the profit and constitutes a very
heavy burden.
Much has been said recently on the
need for some relief from taxation
to enable companies to make adequate
provision for replacement of plant
and equipment, but the importance
of the question to industry is so great
that no apology is needed for re-
emphasising it here. So long as
allowances for taxation purposes are
based on the original cost of fixed
assets and replacement costs con-
tinue to be so much higher than
original cost, industry will find diffi-
culty in financing the normal replace-
ment of plant and equipment when
they become worn out or obsolete.
With the present immense burden of
taxation on companies and individuals
there are inadequate savings available
for capital replacement purposes, and
there is every reason to fear that the
position will become progressively
more acute.
As will be seen from the brief
reports on the activities of the prin-
cipal operating subsidiary companies
the operating results for the year have
been very satisfactory. Outputs have
been well maintained, and in many
instances increased to new high levels.
LEAD AND ZINC PRICES
The year 1949 was marked by
violent price movements in lead and
zinc both in the U.S.A. and the
United Kingdom. There is a school
of thought that would argue that the
day-to-day fluctuations of a free
market might be regarded as healthy
compared with the movements that
we have witnessed during this period.
It is not easy to pass judgment, but
it will be plain that the influence of
United States stockpile buying and
United Kingdom Government bulk
purchasing has added a fresh specula-
tive impetus to markets whose price
levels have, always been somewhat
volatile. I see nothing which causes
me to modify my views that we may
continue to expect a level of prices
which will bring a reasonable reward
to all our enterprises. I cannot stress
too strongly that our prosperity must
still depend greatly on American
economy.
In Australia the controlled domestic
prices for both lead and zinc were
raised from £A22 to £A35 per ton
in the case of lead and from £A22
to £A40 per ton for zinc as from
January 1st, 1949. These quotations
are of course not comparable with
the prices paid .by United Kingdom
and United States fabricators and,
indeed, other consuming countries.
The authorities in Australia have so
far not responded to our repeated
and well-reasoned applications which
amount to no more than a fair re-
adjustment of prices. While we
appreciate the problems with which
the authorities are now faced we
doubt whether any such inequitable
treatment has resulted from the con-
trol of prices in any other country
where the price-control system has
been in operation. During most of
the year under review Australian
fabricators were receiving their lead
and zinc supplies at approximately
one-third of the cost charged to their
competitors in all other countries.
We cannot believe that such a dis-
tortion of economic facts can build
up healthy fabricating industries, nor
is it possible that any other indus-
tries have been subsidized to the same
extent by their own Government, let
alone by public companies on whom
such industries are depending for their
raw material supplies. If a case can
be made for subsidizing these indus-
tries or even the consumers of their
products, this is surely a matter for
a Government subsidy, the cost of
which should be borne by the general
body of taxpayers and not by a sec-
tion only of an important individual
industry.
We know, from past results, that
our scale of operations at today’s
output provides an economic and
well-balanced range of activities.
Immediate plans for future develop-
ment envisage a widening of our
activities, and it is in the considera-
tion of the technical aspects of the
problems thus involved that the
benefit of free and full exchange of
information and of the integration
of ideas between the operating staffs
of mine, smelter and factory can be
employed to best advantage.
Given reasonably stable conditions
at home and in Australia over the
next few critical years, we can expect
to see the gradual building up of our
mining operations, harnessed to an
expansion of manufacturing opera-
tions, particularly in relation to the
production of zinc and ancillary
products in Australia. We have a
sure foundation on which to build,
and will take every opportunity which
comes our way of strengthening our
present position, and I feel we can
justifiably look forward to the future
with confidence.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!/
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
in suggesting last week that Satur-
running of the Derby Stakes
ifZht see another American year—
g last and only was 1881-present
writer went too tar afield geographi-
cally and too far into the past
historically- The 171st running of
the Derby produced another French
vear and these have become rather
inn numerous of late for the agree-
lh?e comfort of English breeders. To
rub salt of another sort into the
wounds of the English racing folk,
the French horses which have finished
first second (beaten a head) and first
again in three successive Derbies have
eaclr been ridden by “a confounded
colonial, egad! Australian Rae
(“Togo”) Johnstone has been the
renegade in question.
Despite their consistent success in
important English races over recent
years the French entries were very
much the dark horses of this year’s
Derby; and Galcador was about the
darkest of the dark. He was beaten
in the French 2000 Guineas, and
reported as having appeared to be
stopping at the end of that race.
Little more than a week before the
Derby Galcador was in France, with
his owner undecided as to starting
him in the Derby. When he did
decide on the trip M. Boussac warned
prospective punters that Galcador had
not been trained for the Derby dis-
tance. Johnstone, who was to ride
Galcador, expressed a great opinion
of the American colt and hot favorite
Prince Simon; he thought, further,
that the French colts were not out-
standing. Despite all these rather
discouraging reports, shrewd punters
began to “spec”. Galcador after
seeing some inkling of French form
in the result of The Oaks on Thurs-
day preceding the Derby. Winner
of the fillies’ classic was the French-
bred Asmena, also owned by Boussac
and ridden by Johnstone.
Prince Simon, as expected, started
a red-hot favorite for the Derby, and,
though beaten, the Americans can be
proud of the showing their colt made.
He should make amends in the St.
Leger. In trying to lead all the way
Prince Simon’s rider possibly took
the opposition a bit too cheaply. In
doing so he was right in respect to
23 of the other 24 runners, but
Galcador proved too true a stayer
to be given the advantage of finishing
on from behind a horse who had
done all the bullocking. With his
effort saved for the last two fur-
longs, Galcador drew up to the
favorite, and, after a thrilling battle
over the final half-furlong, the French
colt scored by a head. Four lengths
further back, Double Eclipse did best
of the English representatives. Gal-
cador started at typically odd English
odds of 100 to 9; Prince Simon was
at twos and Double Eclipse at 40 to 1.
Bred at Fresnay-Le-Buffard " Stud,
France, by his owner, Galcador is a
chestnut colt by Djebel from Pharyva,
a daughter of Pharos. M., Boussac,
a French “cotton-king,” took his
nrst nibble at the racing game some
40 years back, and has since then
steadily built up what is today one
of the finest collections of thorough-
breds, both at stud and in training,
in the world. Boussac is reported to
be virtually a non-punter, but his
racing interests more than pay their
own way. This year’s Derby was
me richest on record. With 372
original subscribers, of whom 36
C f U fmn IID the final acceptance fee
ot tIOO, the gross value of the race
£20,130. Winner’s share was
10s., while the second horse
rn n £2 9] 3 and the thild £lOO6 10s-
jbe odd ten-bobs seem a trifle
facetious.
Delving back for a moment into
me always-fascinating history of the
Derby, the first “French year” on
p. °. rd was 1865, the winner being
rateur Apart from shaking to
rlipr- , ol l ndatlori the Englishman’s
chensbed belief in the invincibility
wav. thoroughbred, it was in many
Rap t 3 u sensatlon al Derby. Certainly
«ae Johnstone, on Saturday, didn’t
cedmv. tC> 80 through quite the pro-
chrnn < Li reC ? rd u d a contemporary
chronicle of the 1865 Derby:
oiYip r ' Tp a ,u new feature i by special
a „ ai tbe stewards, so as to guard
f ° ul play or chicanery
commit 8 s^ ort . weights, which—it is
more tha ta k in - sportin g circles —
was s.S ° J ne winner of the Derby
Past th?r?° Sed to bave carried in the
yea r s * The weighing was
ness T d scrupulous minute-
ridinV „ saddle , bridle and all other
marked para Phernalia being privately
the innip weighed separately from
also W , lose bodily weight was
Sighed B whhV aftEr which he was
gat e g • anri th t h ' S gea S in the aggre "
slifihUi guard against the
Police harf Ce^lon> a body of mounted
back to 1 rd s S i° escort the winner
would snr,p - s , tand ’ where a detective
conduct the in^en ? tbe onsaddling and
very nmn 6 JOckey to the scale—a
admitted pre t cauti on, it will be
cause fnr a fl ha ” ds ’ but affordin g
system nf ° r rejection that the whole
as to necessitate it” beC ° me S ° f ° Ul
Moonee B Val]pv f Satu l day ’s racing at
ing himspfr c Cr - e Be narca’s stamp-
Grand Naiir, d ffl nite ly as the best
Present bv -w Prospect in sight at
y comfortably winning the
Melrose Steeple, and the splendid
piece of horsemanship by jockey Ron
Hall which enabled Benarca to notch
up his third successive victory. At
the fence in front of the stand the
first time round Benarca badly mis-
judged the jump and crashed the
fence with all four legs; Benarca was
down on his nose, and, spearing over
the horse’s neck, Hall could prac-
tically have bitten the turf himself,
yet, in almost incredible fashion, he
kept Benarca on his feet and got
himself back into the sadddle.
Although jumping thereafter rather
shakily, Benarca got round safely, to
win by nearly four lengths from
Dunky, with Hostage third. It was
a particularly good effort, as, apart
from having such an unsettling
experience, Benarca carried 11.5,
spotted the others 221 b. and upwards,
and the track was heavy.
Outstanding feature of the flat
events was the string of extremely
close finishes, most of which proved
expensive for backers of favorites.
The 33-to-l chance Glotone (W. A.
Smith) downed favorite Bay Mark by
a head in the first Laluma Handicap,
and the second division of this two-
year-old event saw virtually a repeat
performance when 12-to-l shot
Flarietas (E. Preston) pipped favorite
Laythorpe by a like margin. The
10-furlongs Empire Handicap for
three-year-olds produced another close
go, with the finishing order Step
Aside (T. Unkovich), a head to Gay
Venture, a half-length to Better Law
and a further head to the favorite,
Beau News; starting at lengthy odds,
both Tinkerman and Rebound ran
promising races. Count Sion (G.
Nichols) and Sefton (J. Purtell) had
comparatively clear-cut wins in the
Argyle Highweight and the Kiata
Handicap respectively, but the 13-
furlongs Deep Creek Handicap pro-
duced a finish which was not only
the closest of the day but has since
given rise to considerable controversy.
However, since the judge’s decision
went to the solid favorite Dashing
Beau, most punters were content to
pocket their cash and argue later.
Dashing Beau and Nepal hit the line
practically on terms; the official
photo-chart of the finish certainly
seemed to indicate a deadbeat rather
than a winning margin of a short
half-head—however short.
* * * *
A programme of eight events, con-
tested by just-moderate horses, on a
thoroughly sodden track at Canter-
bury on Saturday was liberally
bestrewn with gin and snare for the
unwary punter. However, Botany
Bay (W. Cook), winning the First
Ashbury Mixed (6f.), and Yamboon
(N. Sellwood), easily taking the May
Handicap (12f.), were warm favorites,
while Artois (N. Molloy) and Mur-
rumbidgee (N. Sellwood), scoring
respectively in the second Ashbury
and the Welter (9f.), were close
second-favorites.
The May Handicap, though con-
tested by only seven runners, pro-
vided the day’s “sensation.” As the
field was leaving the straight the first
time round, after covering some five
furlongs, Grand Beau, who had been
stretching along very comfortably
and commanding a big lead, suddenly
veered right off the course and simply
stopped galloping; the rest quickly
left him well behind. Thereafter
Yamboon, who despite not having
won a race in almost two years
started favorite at twos, always had
the field covered. He quickly dis-
posed of Air Flare in the straight
and ran on to win by four lengths
from Lordly, who, after trailing the
field in dispirited fashion most of the
way, suddenly sprang into action when
the race was all but over and finished
with what might have been a winning
burst if pursued a little earlier. Over
a similar distance at Randwick re-
cently Yamboon finished a poor third
behind Grand Beau and Lordly.
Possibly the best winner of the
afternoon was the provincial per-
former Owner’s Lass (P. Hannan)
leading all the way to simply outclass
the Flying field. Deep Sea’s second,
however, suggested that a win may
be close at hand. Other Canterbury
winners were Thorlindah (A. Mark-
land) and Gloucester (E. Doon)
taking maiden two-year-old events
and Beau Sandy (W. Cook) staging
a tidy reversal of form by winning
the Burwood Mixed (9f.) after having,
at his previous start, finished second
in a field of three at a provincial
meeting. Another reversal noted in
the Burwood Mixed was the effort of
Fairholme, who started equal favorite
and ran a hopeless race, after having
previously won very well at Rand-
wick.
* * * v
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Encourage: Mara-
gleam, 1; Yardon, 2; Old Jamaica,
3. Novice: Gold Trace, 1 ; Dixie
Belle, 2; Double Sea, 3. George’s
River Handicap: Saville Row, 1;
Mona’s Choice, 2; Silique, 3. Three-
year-old Encourage: Fresteem, 1;
Traveller, 2; Golden Tan, 3. Flying:
Buzmark, 1; Deep Sea, 2; Trover,
3. Homestead Handicap: Frontal
Attack, 1; Lordly, 2; lolanda, 3.
Welter: Chief Mohican, 1; Ambolo,
2; Tembu, 3.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Recording the fact of
a 26-year-old mare giving birth to a
foal in Worcestershire, England,
recently, a London report states that
“veteran horsemen cannot recall a
similar case.” If the said “veteran
horsemen” care to look up English
records they will find that the brood
mare Ppcahontas was said to be 32
years old when she foaled Hermit,
who later practically swept the board
in the English classics and, on his
retirement to the stud, was seven
times the leading sire of England.
Maybe that performance by Poca-
hontas isn’t a “similar case” to the
recent happy event in Worcestershire;
nevertheless, for an old lady, it wasn’t
a bad effort.
* * * *
“Malvern”: Reading “Spoke’s”
remarks (B. 10/5/’5O) on Colonel
Kent Hughes’s statement that Public
School rowing should be abolished
brings to mind that George Rogers,
a well-known Westralian oarsman,
commenced his rowing sixty years
ago; he was eight years of age when
he won his first race. George has
competed in six inter-State eight-oar
races with W.A. crews and stroked
four of them —two to victory. At the
age of fifty-five he astounded Vic-
torian rowing critics by stroking a
W.A. four to victory on the Yarra.
Now sixty-eight, he is still a very
keen and active member of the West
Australian Rowing Club. Not long
back he competed in the 11-miles
sculling race from Fremantle to
Perth, for which event his time of
1 hour 19min. lOsec., set in 1940, is
still the record. Last January he
rowed No. 2 in his club’s senior eight
competing in a Foundation Day
regatta on the Swan. Reverting to
Colonel Hughes’s suggestion,, George
Rogers recalls with some amusement
the wise old sporting gentry who,
when he was winning races as a mere
stripling in London, warned him how
foolish he was to thus strain his heart
and ensure an early death.
* * * *
The mighty fell with two resound-
ing wallops in the V.F.L. games on
Saturday, when North Melbourne
outpaced and outbumped Essendon
and Geelong literally galloped all
over St. Kilda. Dons and Saints
were both unbeaten on Saturday
morning; on Saturday night Dons
were sourly licking their wounds and
contemplating their defeat by 13.8 to
11.5, and St. Kilda supporters rue-
fully wondered if the Saints had
reverted to their old form, having been
licked by 20.15 to 5.11. Dons and
Saints are still on top, and their
meeting next Saturday will be the
game of the day. Seven teams have
chances in “the four” at this stage,
the above four and Melbourne, Carl-
ton and Collingwood. Carlton just
managed to scramble home by 16.13
to 16.10 against a rejuvenated Foot-
scray, Melbourne more than doubled
Fitzroy’s score\(l3.l7 to 6.8) and
Richmond “Tigers” worried ’Wood
out of it by 16.11 to 14.14. In the
other game “Sowth” pegged an easy
win by 20.14 to 10.14 against Haw-
thorn.
* * * *
In Sydney Rugby Union last Satur-
day the two City teams had little
difficulty in beating the Newcastle
and the Combined Country teams.
City I, whose players will no doubt
form the nucleus of this season’s
N.S.W. and Australian sides, wasn’t
impressive in its win over Newcastle.
Besides being beaten in the set
scrums, where, if all eight were to
have pushed their share the Newcastle
hooker would not have been able to
lift a foot off the ground, the City
forwards were disappointing in the
rucks and iineouts. Their work lacked
cohesion, and too many players were
hanging off waiting for opportunities
to do something spectacular instead
of getting down to the hard work of
solid rucking. The play of the backs
was also not what might be expected
from a first-class side. Several oppor-
tunities were lost by incorrect posi-
tioning and faulty timing. However,
it is still early in the season, and we
can hope for a marked improvement
by the time the * British Isles team
arrives. Incidentally, in N.Z. last
Saturday the British Isles team played
a 9-all draw in the first Test against
the All Blacks, and thereby belied
the form showed in two recent
defeats by Otago and Southland. The
tourists should continue to improve,
so that by the time they reach these
shores they will be a formidable
combination.
♦ * * ♦
At Leichhardt last week Merv
Bennett and Chris Noonan, both hail-
ing from Canberra, showed that
some, at least, of the inhabitants of
that town know how to do more
than merely talk fight. In a couple
of 12-rounders Noonan (9.1) had
Alan McLennan (8.13) out on his
feet when the ref. intervened in the
fifth round and Bennett (9.11)
dropped Johnny Lewis (9.5) with one
in the breadbasket in the second
round. Lewis’s offsiders declared that
their man had been punched below
the belt; such tactics may be a
familiar custom in another sphere at
Canberra, but the punch that dropped
the ’onorable Lewis, even though it
came from the left, was perfectly
fair and above board.


TOPAV
AS M 6R
cxANvrAWin's
my.
Today swift freight
’planes replace the sail-
ing vessels of yesteryear
in the transport of stud
stock—just one of the
great changes in which
A.M.L.&F. has partici-
pated during S 7 years’
service to the Man on
the Land.
—Sr"
'Mr.
AMLF
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia; 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches :—N.S. W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Dcmliqmn.
O’land • Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba. H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vie.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
gruider discs—recommended for shearing-she
'A. . •'
1
>2., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sia
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Don't worry,i/M r selsiDtN6'rr to
Grazcos*
Fine Wools and Pastures.
“R. Ney”; Some C.5.1.R.0.
experiments seem to prove that
anyone who runs fine-wool
Merinos on highly-improved
pastures isn’t likely to lose by
comparison with the running of
dual-purpose sheep like Corrie-
dales on the same pasture.
In areas where carrying
capacities are high and intensive
pasture improvement possible
the tendency has been for cross
breeding to displace Merino
breeding and for dual-purpose
breeds to increase in importance.
These changes raise most im-
portant questions, and more
research is needed.
It is clear from preliminary
experiments on physiology of
wool production that the true
fine-wool Merino continues to
produce high-quality fine wool
even under the most liberal feed-
ing conditions. It seems possible
that under the most intensive
conditions Merinos may com-
pare more than favorably with
other breeds in weight and,
above all, in value of clean wool
produced per acre.
Four breeds were chosen for
preliminary study to give a good
cross-section of commercial
types: Merinos as fine-wool
producers, Lincolns for meat
production, Corriedales and the
Polwarths as intermediate, dual-
purpose types genetically related
to the Merino and the Lincoln.
All sheep were given as much
food as they could eat and as
much water as they could drink,
consumption of both being care-
fully measured. The standard
ration used was richer than
highly-improved pasture and
good enough to allow all breeds
to make their best wool growth.
Results show that the food
eaten by 100 Lincolns would
support 106 Corriedales, 130
Polwarths or 141 Merinos in fat
condition. This may revise ideas
on stocking rates and relative
carrying capacity.
Clean scoured-wool produc-
tion per head was estimated at
12|lb. between shearings for the
Lincolns, 10|lb. for the Corrie-
dales, Bilb. for the Polwarths
and 7j lb. for the fine Merinos.
On a greasy basis the fleece
weights would be 16f1b., 171 b.,
13ilb. and 121 b. respectively.
Under the conditions of this ex-
periment the Merinos produced
fleeces of average 70’s, Polwarth’s
average 56 / 58’s, Corriedales
50’s/56’s and Lincolns 32’s/36’s.
The first three tended to be
slightly stronger for their types
than is considered the rule, but
the Lincolns were slightly finer.
In fibre population of the skin
the Merinos averaged 49,000 per
square inch, Polwarths 33,000
per square inch, Corriedales
20,000 and Lincolns 10,000,
Lincoln fibres showed greatest
variation in thickness within the
staple, the Merinos least. Both
Lincoln and Corriedale fleeces
contained a proportion of
“medullated,” or “hairy,” fibres
which were absent in the Pol-
warth and Merino samples.
Fine-woolled Merinos produced
by far the whitest and most
attractive fleeces.
The fleeces were assessed con-
servatively on a greasy basis at
an average Bs. a pound for fine
Merino wool, 6s. for Polwarths,
4s. 6d. for Corriedales and 2s. 6d.
for Lincolns. At these values
the results indicate that the
amount of the experimental
fodder and possibly its pasture
equivalent, which would give a
wool return of £2lO if fed to 100
Lincolns, would return £405 if
fed to Corriedales, £543 if fed to
Polwarths and £677 if fed to fine-
woolled Merinos. These figures
are only approximate relative
values.
The results are judged from
the point of view of wool pro-
duction alone —the question of
returns from mutton and fat
lambs is another matter. The
particular differences shown be-
tween the breeds in this experi-
ment leave many important
matters out of ponsideration, and
further investigations are
planned.
Footrot in Sheep.
“H.C.”: Examination will
show that the feet of most sheep
need some trimming ; overgrown
portions of hooves should be
carefully pared-down with a
foot-knife. When chronic lesions,
skin lesions between digits or
signs of infection come to light
isolate the sheep. Under-run
horn of affected sheep may be
cut away to allow pus to drain
out and diseased areas to be
soaked by the footbath solution,
but cutting away portions of the
foot to remove all diseased tissue
is a mistake; all vets advise
against it. Instruments must be
well boiled before use and
washed from time to time in a
disinfectant.
For a footbath use lib. of
bluestone to every gallon of
water or one part of formalin
to 20 parts of water. Bluestone
is inexpensive and antiseptic,
but it stains the wool; formalin
is more costly, a good germ-
destroyer and leaves no tell-tale
marks.
Sheep should be kept standing
in bluestone solution for 20 or
30 minutes. When formalin is
used 10 minutes is ample. Left
in longer the skin may break
and make it easy for infection
to develop.
Put the healthy sheep through
the bath first, leave them in a
clean shed with a wooden floor
till the feet dry, then turn them
on to a well-drained paddock
that has been rested several
weeks.
For infected sheep repeat the
foot-bath treatment every three
days and keep them in a hos-
pital paddock. Another month’s
isolation is necessary even when
they are cured. When the disease
breaks out or seasonal condi-
tions favor it even healthy sheep
need the foot-bath every eight
or nine days. Moving the sheep
‘No, no, Mat—you're holdin' her hand too tight”
on to high ground or well-
drained paddocks helps forestall
outbreaks.
Combating the Blowfly.
“Agric”: Outstanding lesson
of the present serious blowfly
wave in central-western Queens-
land has been the relative im-
munity obtained where graziers
anticipated the onslaught and
sprayed their sheep with D.D.T.
or gammexane preparations as a
precautionary measure.
Norman Graham, technical
officer for William Cooper and
Nephews, who before joining
that firm did considerable field
work on blowfly control as an
officer of the C.5.1.R.0., has
been in Barcaldine for some
time observing the incidence of
the fly and the effect of the latest
repellants. The only conclusion
Graham has been able to reach
so far is the advantage of pre-
cautionary spraying.
Graziers who sprayed just be-
fore the rains reported negligible
losses from fly strike. Results,
however, were variable where
badly-struck mobs had been
sprayed. In some cases excel-
lent results were obtained, and
in others a proportion of the
sheep were restruck.
E\en in localities where heavy
sheep losses had occurred the
severity of the fly wave varied
from place to place, and it was
not always associated with the
amount of wool the sheep
carried.
Stubble-burning Wasteful.
“He Ne”: Wheat-farmers
who persisted in the doubtful
practice of stubble-burning are
now beginning to pay a heavy
price. Mudgee agronomist F. C.
Morris reports that the wet
April was the worst month for
erosion the district can remem-
ber, and the erosion was limited
to cultivation land, worse where
the stubble had been burned
and the soil had no protection.
Straw-farming has paid big
dividends in this wet early
autumn, and instances have been
seen where only a handful of
soil was lost where the straw
was utilised, yet on adjacent
country where the straw was
burnt huge soil losses occurred.
Morris stressed that the
slightly lowered wheat yields
obtained where the straw is
worked into the surface is fully
compensated for by higher
yields later and the saving of
soil held by the straw against
water.
Noxious Weeds.
“Rooster”: Arsenical spray-
ing has its drawbacks. Treated
areas must be left free of stock
for at least a month after an
application. Remains of-
destroyed weeds absorb some of
the poison, making it dangerous
to stock if eaten at a later date.
Burn them.
A safer, though dearer,
preparation is sodium chlorate.
It dissolves readily in water and
may be used as a spray or
applied direct. Spraying is more
economical, applied with strength
of from five to 10 per cent. (ilb.
to 11b. per gallon of water). For
direct applications it’s enough to
scatter the crystals on the
ground. Treatment is most effec-
tive when plants have passed
their maximum period of
growth, and a cool day is prefer-
able. In time sodium chlorate
changes back to sodium chloride
(common salt), so that the
ground is not permanently
poisoned.
The stuff must be handled
carefully. Wash all clothes
thoroughly after using the spray,
carefully avoiding the proximity
of naked lights or flames.
Sodium chlorate is costly and
should not be wasted on weeds
which are not perennial. Rag-
wort, couch, hemlock, black-
berries and Californian thistle
can be successfully dealt with,
but blackberries must be previ-
ously cut down to ground-level.
Where sodium chlorate or
arsenical preparations are im-
practicable the weed can be dealt
with according to the nature of
its growth. Couch is by far the
worst to eradicate, but if affected
ground is deeply ploughed
during late winter and the sods
let dry, several harrowings will
make a fairly clean job of it.
Control of skeleton-weed calls
for diversified farming. Intensive
grazing, sowing of competing
crops (lucerne is a good foil),
wide rotations and grubbing out
of individual plants all heir, .
keep it down. Plouehino ■ 1°
all but useless. 8 ng ' ln 18
t To.combat ragwort sow slh
to 61b. of certified perennial blb ‘
grass and 31b. to 41b of
clover an acre, adding w^
super. Best period is a u tum n f
Soursob flourishes i n •
povenshed and acid soils w
liming often checks £*%
together with intensive cuS’
t.on. Summer ploughing S'
lowed later by S
subdue sorrel. A thickly! S( Z
crop of oats will offset i t fo r
years Hormone weedicides are
effective against Bathurst and
Noogoora burrs, nut-grass, bind-
weed, charlock, horehound
hoary cress, stagger weed, stink
wort, thistles, cape weed, dock
ribwort, etc. Treat when seed
lings are young.
Managing Bees.
“Soc.”: A deal of honey fa
lost each season through lack of
super room, and a spate of
trouble comes from giving too
much room at the wrong time
Generally it i s time for the first
super to go on-when the spur
comb is white and soft and
aplenty and the bees are bunch-
ing over the alighting board
Time for the next is not quite
so easy. Something the same
conditions apply, but it is sur-
prising the quantity of honey the
bees will store in a box that looks
already full.
When giving the next deck
raise some brood and set in three
or four sheets of foundation.
Some apiarists alternate the
foundation with honey, some
set the new frames together,
working on the assumption that
bees make better and quicker
wax that way. Others lift the
full box of honey upstairs and
set the empties below. On a
good flow it doesn’t make much
difference. The secret of full
boxes is look to your queens and
your breed.
Some Land Books.
“C.S.”: Old-timers and new
beginners in the jumbuck busi-
ness should find a place some-
where in the homestead for H.G.
Belschner’s Sheep Management
and Diseases (Angus and Rob-
ertson), probably the most
comprehensive volume of its
kind yet produced. Belschner,
a D.V.Sc., is well-known through
the sheep country, in colleges
and universities, and abroad, for
his knowledge of Sheep-raising,
and he has spared nothing to
make his book a gospel on the
subject.
From the opening chapters on
breeds to the final glossary ot
terms, these 700-odd pages cover
pretty well everything that the
sheep man wants to know, ana
quite a lot of things he possibly
doesn’t know. It is a text-book
of top class.
Almost contemporary with
Belschner’s book is & Mums
The Australian Wool Industry
(Angus and Robertson), which
in some respects overlaps , B ®
schner’s book, but is worth hav
ing for its own sake. Both
them would make splendid com-
panion volumes for John Fe*J»
Merino Wool (Grahame Pub-
lishing Co.), one Of to most
carefully-written works
ever published in Austrah .


Use ONLY
■
■O’-
SSKS
gSr>ifj
N'>
sss
»•>
SiSiSs.
sss
S¥Ssg
for marking Inintis ft calves
25/- per box of 500
(Capital City Price)
ELfISTMTOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
ANTISEPTIC
RINGS
Full supplies
now available from stock and station agents,
chemists and general stores.
W? buted in Victoria,
Southern Riverina and
Tasmania by
D ' OFFICER PTY.,
on _ LTD.,
W.marn St., Mel-
D°ume, and 123 a Charles
Launceston.
Distributed in N.S.W. by
ELLIOTTS RURAL
LABORATORIES,
ELLIOTTS & AUST.
DRUG PTY., LTD.,
35 Bligh St., Sydney.
Distributed
land
by
TAYLORS
ELLIOTTS
PTY., LTD.,
Brisbane —Rockhampton
—Townsville;
Distributed in South
„ Australia by
BENNETT & FISHER,
, LTD.,
4 Currie St., Adelaide,
and Branches.
Distributed in West
Australia by
DAVID GRAY & CO,
PTY., LTD.,
2-10 Railway Parade,
West Perth.
PRODUCT OP EDASTRATOB (AUBT.) PTT., DTD. EL-7
MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HYREIA DISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYINC
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
fg
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material Is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs Away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
'" DISTRIBUTORS; ""
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
If any illustration in
‘THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
n
fKfl
c a
□
le&evi» ia
You are invited to see a
demonstration of the world’s
most economical Cooker —the
British-built AGA! No matter
how long you cook —nor how
much you cook you can’t
increase you fuel-bills by a
penny, for the AGA is guar-
anteed not to bum more than
a specified, and very small,
quantity of coke per year.
It also makes you free for
life of power restrictions.
And never were dishes more
delicious, nor cooking quite
so clean and effortless! You’ll
find the AGA simple to
manage, and cool to work
with, for its superb insula-
tion keeps both cook and kit-
chen cool, it is handsome, too,
with its streamlined design
and sparkling chrome and
vitreous enamel finish. Let
us. show you what a pleasure it
is to own a wonderful AGA!
A
COOKER
THE
' ' IMP
I'W'WtwM
n
TEARS
WARAVj
tn
if
f 9o 'nsf
U/ty
»o
6u;/f
0/1
sftfp
'Ojf
life
bnne
11i777.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS OR SEE A DEMONSTRATION
OF THE "AGA" AT
LEVIN & 00. LTD . 45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE; CNR.
MARGARET & ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS: A. S.
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH
AS/160
set all three books off, both
"“he sheepman and the stud-
I of Australian agriculture
Orally, is the C.5.1.R.0. book,
tL Australian Environment
iZt Book Company), which
Liu of the soils, climate and
Tcrraohv of Australia as re-
fated to the agricultural and stock
industries. This one is copiously
illustrated with maps and plates.
Growing Pepper.
“Plane Creek”: Parts of north
Queensland could grow pepper,
as conditions there resemble
those in lands where it is grown.
The pepper-vine is native to
India and Ceylon, and is suited
by warm conditions and heavy
rainfall. . , ,
The vines require shade and
shelter, which could be pro-
vided if they were propagated
amidst partly-fallen scrub. The
humus-rich soil of scrubland
would certainly suit them.
Both black and white pepper
come from the berries of the one
creeper. The creeper takes
several years to get a hold; it
begins to bear freely when seven
or eight years of age. Bearing
takes place twice a year and may
go on for 15 or 20 years.
Pepper-vines have been tried
at a Queensland experiment
station (since abandoned), where
they succeeded, and Queensland
Agriculture' Department intends
to give them another go.
Parasites in Poultry.
Best way is to
prevent them, and the first
essential is to breed and rear
stock with a strong constitution
and resistance to disease. Profit
depends largely on three factors:
good housing, good feeding and
cleanliness, the last most im-
portant of all. Neglect it, and
sooner or later there’s trouble.
Pens and houses less sanitary
than others become infested
much more quickly and the
parasites spread the more
rapidly.
Cleanliness includes utensils,
pens, houses, feed, water, etc.
Fouled ground is a common
source of intestinal worm
spread, especially with young
stock. Damp ground and damp-
ness on the floors of the houses
near drinking-troughs is a
breeding-ground for parasites.
A double run, where the
ground can be spelled, is a good
idea. Heavy top-dressing of the
runs with lime will clean the
soil. Oats and grass planted in
the runs are suitable and provide
food.
Overcrowding should be
avoided and young stock
should have clean ground. Adult
stock must not be allowed to
run on ground used for rearing
young birds, to prevent the latter
from picking up parasite eggs
passed out in. the droppings of
adult birds.
Dipping Cane Setts.
*‘Beroo”: Queensland Bureau
of Sugar Experiment Stations has
issued a bulletin on the treatment
of cane setts with mercurial solu-
tions. It outlines the work which
led to the adoption of this treat-
ment on the Burdekin (B.
14/9/’49), where pineapple dis-
ease frequently attacks setts in
the ground and so prevents their
germination. It also gives details
of the method and economics of
the treatment.
Bad strikes diie to this disease
are likely to result in any district
when plantings are made under
conditions not entirely favorable
for germination. A dry soil or
a cold or wet one will favor the
rotting organisms in the soil. A
farmer will not usually plant
under such conditions, but fre-
quently he is forced to, and, pro-
vided his planting material is
good and the soil well prepared,
the dipping will guarantee a
strike.
The bulletin points out that
although a cutter-planter cannot
be used, the dipping actually
lowers the cost of planting with
a drop-planter owing to the
smaller weight of plants used per
acre and the more efficient load-
ing of the planter. The more
elaborate set-ups with crane and
mobile tank are the cheapest to
operate, but small quantities can
be dipped in bag lots by hand.
Even if it may not be necessary
to dip the setts of the main plant-
ing it will be found an advantage
to dip those frequently put in
during the cool, early spring
months. The bulletin is avail-
able from any bureau station
or officer free of charge.
Apricot Scab.
“M.”: In test orchards con-
ducted by Victorian Department
of Agriculture in the Goulburn
Valley spraying with Bordeaux
mixture 6:4:40 just as the final
leaves were falling (about the
end of May), and again at pink-
bud stage (about the middle of
August) reduced the percentage
of apricot scab from 77 p.c. to
2 p.c. in three years.
The mixture is made by dis-
solving 121 b. of finely crystalline
bluestone in 72gal. of water in
an 80gal. spray-vat; and 121 b.
of hydrated lime separately in
Bgal. of water. Start the agitators
of the vat and slowly pour in the
lime solution.
Where only a small quantity
is needed (say, lOgal.), dissolve
of bluestone in sgal. of
water. In another vessel dissolve
\\Vo. of hydrated lime in the
same quantity of water. Mix
and spray out immediately.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: To pot geraniums
mix garden loam, sand and vege-
table mould in the proportions
of one sand, one vegetable mould
and two loam. Before trans-
ferring plants to pots add a
teaspoon of plant food to each.
After potting leave in shade out
of doors until the plants settle.
Bring indoors with the onset of
frosty weather, and when this
danger is past give them all the
sun possible.
“Sarina”: Central and south
Queensland farmers should
guard against wild cotton, or
cottonweed. It’s a pest of well-
grazed grassland, growing up to
3 ft. high and bearing reddish-
orange flowers. The latter are
succeeded by tubes of “cotton,”
which, in bursting, throw winged
seed in all directions. The plant
contains a poison which acts on
the heart and kills stock.
“Bill C.”: A weak solution of
carbolic acid and water has been
found useful for destroying moss
and lichen on stone (B.
10/5/’5O). Leave the stuff for
a while and then wash off. We
haven’t tried the solution for
removing thick moss from citrus-
trees because it might damage
the trees.
“W. Court”: Any garden
spray containing bluestone
should be mixed in or applied
from a non-metal container.
China, glass or wooden vessels
are not damaged, whereas a
bluestone solution will corrode
a bucket or watercan; at the
same time the solution is likely
to be weakened and rendered
inefficient. Lime-sulphur is
another substance that cannot be
carried in a metal can without
rusting it.
“Baroona”: When a pane of
glass is broken remove the glass
and, until replacement can be
made, cover with mosquito net-
ting. This keeps insects out and
lets light in. A little extra venti-
lation is not usually so im-
portant. If one of the large-type
windows is holed glue netting
in place over the glass, covering
the hole.
“Rooster”: Losses of cattle
may occur if they gorge on
wheat, oats or barley. .In such
cases give lib. to Iflb. of
Epsom salts immediately, ac-
cording to size, adding two
tablespoonfuls of baking-soda.
Follow twice daily with half to
one pint of treacle or molasses
and the two tablespoons of
baking-soda. Don’t mix the
emetics. Administer from two
separate bottles.
“Sundowner”: Not only a
valuable disinfectant for the
poultry-pen, a 2 p.c. solution of
caustic soda and water is also a
cleaning agent and germ-killer.
The water should be nearly boil-
ing and the solution allowed to
soak well into the floor and
equipment.
“Big Billy”; When greasing
farm machinery don’t grease too
much at a time ; excess lubricant
rapidly works out of a bearing
and could contaminate the seed
sample. Grease may fly on to
rubber belts and perish them.
Don’t let grease remain on tyres
or belting, as the perishing action
is speeded up in hot sunshine.
“E.M.R.”: Cockerels for
market must be quickly grown
if bost prices are to be obtained.
June to September is always the
best period to send them.
Roasters must be plump on the
breast and four to five months
old. Good prices cannot be ex-
pected for roasters with more
than a bud of spur.
“C.A.A.”: After autumn shut
up pasture and let it grow for
use in early spring. This will
give early-calving cows feed
during July and August and
often during September. In
most seasons pasture is not
growing fast enough during these
months to meet all requirements
of milking cows. It might be
found advisable to close up to
one-sixth of the pasture area.
“Billjim”: Lactic acid is a
useful corrective for digestive
scours of young pigs—usually
caused through a gastric de-
ficiency if they are taking food
on their own account or to im-
proper feeding of the sow if
they are dependent on the
mother. Two dose§, each of one
teaspoonful of the acid, will cure
the disorder.


AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
EFFECTING INSURANCES AT LLOYD'S
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BW 2131
And all other States
The ALL-BRITISH
{piiiiWUfSliwaiT
Uend, ike
(jrealedl
value
N?5B
45/-
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
19/6 to
55/-
I
\
N? 475
22/6
Jhe Ten u/itk
the MatweMauA Hih/
CONWAY STEWART & CO, LTD. LONDON
S.W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
w
1
jt*
Ancestors of
an
Industry
Henry Cavendish first showed the world how
wa t er —the most important of all chemical compounds—could
be made synthetically. Cavendish discovered that it was
composed of the two gases now called oxygen and hydrogen,
and in 1784 prepared water by exploding a mixture of them
in a glass vessel. The apparatus which he used is still
preserved at the University of Manchester. Cavendish was
also the first to weigh the Earth and the result he obtained
was astonishingly accurate. Cavendish also discovered the
composition of nitric acid, and was the first chemist to
recognise hydrogen as a definite chemical element. He pre-
pared it by treating zinc with sulphuric acid. He was also
the first practical experimenter to find a means of drying a
gas, vihich he accomplished by passing it through pearl ash.
All these discoveries have proved of immense importance.
Though both his parents were English, Henry Cavendish
was actually born at Nice in 1731. He was educated at the
University of Cambridge, and from 1760 until his death in
1810 his whole time was devoted to science, and in particular
to physics and chemistry. Though he was extremely shy.
shunned publicity and never attempted to
exploit any of his discoveries, the work of
this English chemist has been of great and
lasting benefit to science and industry through-
out the world.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
•IL-53-I4
Legal Notice.
THE -
THEosopßioXrocffn™
STferfe “ d £t T£ S 5
tilled "Between H^"' 11 ! “■
other, Plaintiffs, and and an ‘
Squite O’Donnell and othere D«f T f tiuB
IT WAS ORDERED that \h!
°! of * he Theosophical Society ll^ 7
solved and that the member* If «T e dls ‘
Sydney Lodge on the 22nd w'?' d
1914, are to bq entitled to share f™
in the assets of the said* y
(including the fund in the Q ItfP
Trustees thereof) after certain coks hi™
been paid out of the said fund Awnnv
CONSENT IT WAS DECLARED that f he
members so entitled are those person
who were members of the said Sydney
Lodge in the year 1923 and were still
living on the 22nd September, 1944, and
had not by then validly resigned from the
said Sydney Lodge AND BY CONSENT
IT WAS REFERRED to the Master in
Equity to inquire who were the members
of the said Sydney Lodge on the 22nd Sep-
nn m tf’ ’ | nd als ? t 0 “Tn're whether
on the 22nd September, 1944, the said
Sydney Lodge had any assets in addition
to the said fund and if so what those
assets were and in whose possession they
then were.
PURSUANT to the said Decree and to
directions given thereunder the following
Lists and Statement have been filed in
the said suit at the Equity Office, Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales, that is to say;—
LIST I. List of persons who were members
of the said Sydney Lodge in the year 1923
and (a) had not validly resigned such
membership by the 22nd September, 1944,
and (b) were living on the 22nd Septem-
ber, 1944.
LIST 11. List of persons who were
members of the said Sydney Lodge in the
year 1923 and had not validly resigned
such membership by the 22nd September,
1944, but as to whom respectively it is
uncertain whether they were alive or dead
on the 22nd September, 1944.
LIST 111. List of persons who were
members of the said Sydney Lodge in the
year 1923 and were alive on 22nd Sep-
tember, 1944, but as to whom respectively
it is uncertain whether they had validly
resigned such membership by the 22nd
September, 1944.
LIST IV. List of persons were
members of the said Sydney Lodge in the
year 1923 and as to whom respectively it
is uncertain (a) whether they were alive
or dead on the 22nd September, 1944, and
also (b) whether they had validly resigned
such membership by the 22nd September,
1944.
LIST V. (a) List of persons who were
members of the Sydney Lodge of whom
written resignations are held for the years
1922-23. (b) List of persons who were
members of the Sydney Lodge who are
known to have died before the 22nd Sep-
tember, 1944. ■•rvrvrmrnWiT
STATEMENT AS TO ADDITIONAL
ASSETS, if any, of the Sydney Lodge on
the 22nd September, 1944.(that is, a'ddi
tional to the said fund in the hands of the
NOTICE IS HEREBY GiVEN-that per-
sons claiming to be interested un
said inquiries may inspect the s
and the said Statement as to Addition
Assets at the said Equity Office or copies
thereof at the office of Messrs J-
Oalfe, Jeffrey & Co., lB5 Elm
beth Street, Sydney, New South W
during the hours 10 a.m. t P^ riday
o r» m to 4 p.m. on Monday w £ 1 .ft
(not being holidays) ot .
the 21st August 1950, AND
to the exception hereinaftep meM
all persons claiming to be re -
the said inquiries and names
spectively that their nam > the y a re
of persons now dec ® as^ d e b C en wrongly
entitled to represent, ha desire
omitted from the said L A Bt or any of them
to object to the said Lists or any
or to the said Statement j_ p
post prepaid to the sad ir
Metcalfe, Jeffrey & Co-. * on or
address, and so as to reach the ir full
before the 28th Au S > -j resses and de-
Christian and surnames, oun ds
scriptions and full P a *" . . claimant 8
of their claims or have their
and Objectors who desire £ dere d must
claims 'or objections
attend personally J g u p re me Cou >
the Master m Equity. g h
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, the ifith
Wales, at 10 a.m. on ~m e appointed
October, 1950, bein f he tb oiaims and objec-
for adjudicating on the Ciaim no t res d
tions. A claimant or Objec d
ing in New MbWg** objeC m j*
his particulars of cla in > e
name and address ofA P to the
South W a les to ;vhO c m be
Claimant or Objewor Ji() J is w
The Except** f said List: ■»
persons included i liter take any ac r -
not, unless notified later. sel? ding p
person in one or to object m
I, 11, HI. IV a -a statement as to *
anect of the said State®
Solicitors for
The Jabber
By
Louis H. Clark
JT[ LEG picked up a news-
/H paper, the rapier-like
I jabber still between the
eyes of the photograph of
a visiting celebrity on the front
page, and rammed it with other
rubbish in a hessian bag tied to
his belt. He scanned the area
before him with the eyes of a
jabber-expert— not an empty
matchbox, tram-ticket, choco-
late-wrapper in sight; the rolling
park lawns ebbing down to the
grey foreshore of city thorough-
fare were spotless, green and
beautiful.
Alec sighed, his jabber’s sensi-
tive needle-point automatically
seeking out a doomed cigarette-
butt hiding beneath a clump of
buffalo-grass. He had the scraps
beneath the oaks at Paton Walk
to clean up and then he could
report to Bill, the head gardener,
that the job was completed.
A jabber, in parks and
gardens lingo, is the man who
scours, or “emus,” a given sec-
tion of park, a long sword-like
jabber, with its narrow hand-
grip, being his indispensable
assistant. Such a jabber was
Alec ; after twenty years the best
in the city council.
“There’s nothing to it really,”
he’d say modestly, flicking the
jabber with all the grace of a
matador. “The secret is to keep
her sharp, very sharp—and don’t
let any other cow belt the
temper out of her.” (He kept a
file and an emery-strip in his
overalls for the former, and he
wrapped the jabber up and took
it home to prevent the latter.)
“She’s worth it, though . . . saves
me back and hands.”
Alec loved the gardens be-
cause he loved neatness ; and the
ordered flower-beds for ever
amazed him. As a young man
he had wanted to be a gardener
like Bill; but, always forgetting
what were weeds and what were
seedlings, he had compromised
by rooting up half of any un-
known growth he saw.
The despairing foreman had
put him on the jabbing, and to
everyone’s surprise, Alec had
settled down.
| DOUBT if any of the hun-
-1 dreds of office folk who
walked through Alec’s domain
at eight forty-five each morning
really appraised his work. They
all knew him and nodded, feel-
ing as if the entire garden nodded
back when he did. He started
work at seven a.m., quickly plan-
ning his attack on remnants of
crayfish suppers, booze parties
and myriad tram-tickets scat-
tered like confetti on his lawns.
Then, jabber gleaming in the
early sunshine, the human
vacuum-cleaner began work.
Tram-tickets, newspapers, ice-
cream cartons were stabbed,
dead-centre, each new addition
forcing the preceding rubbish up
the rod until the festooned jab-
ber was clean-swept, by a deft
downward action of the thumb
and forefinger, into the hessian
waist-bag. Even bottles were
skilfully hooked by inserting the
jabber point down their necks.
Thus, at eight forty-five a.m. a
clean park, a last eye-refresher
for officeites doomed to a dingy
day indoors, with Alec standing
guard to swoop on tram-tickets
and cigarette-butts they care-
lessly dropped.
Finally, Bill the gardener’s
approving nods, the hissing of
the big lawn sprays and Alec’s
time to knock off jabber
lovingly wrapped in newspaper.
THIS idyllic existence per-
sisted for twenty years, until
the coming of Percy. Alec
could not understand Percy. He
swore like an educated man,
scorning repetition, when he was
told to shift himself and his
shakedown of newspapers from
under the big oaks.
“I don’t mind you fossicking
through the rubbish-baskets for
the cakes and saveloys as long
as you don’t scatter the bags
about,” said Alec, “but you’re
not going to flop yourself and
your dirty paper under a tree in
my park. So get.”
And that’s where Percy swore
like a gentleman, saying some-
thing about “heads being pulled
in” and “it was a so-and-so pub-
lic park, anyway.”
Having made these profound
remarks, Percy had pulled his
hat down over his ears, tucked
the front page of the “Evening
Clarion” around his neck and
snored.
ALEC hung his head when the
office folk passed at eight
forty-five a.m. A spotless park,
a splendid park: not a crumb,
not a cigarette-ash—but beneath
the big oak an untidy heap of
newspapers heaved awesomely
as Percy snored —the only rub-
bish Alec had ever had to leave.
Bill the gardener said nothing,
but Alec felt the shame of it.
He sat down patiently for an
hour after his knock-off time,
and when Percy finally roused
himself and staggered off pub-
wards he quietly collected the
scattered papers.
“He’s gone.” '
The birds seemed to sing with
new vigor; whistling throatily,
Alec shouldered his jabber and
strode lightly homewards. But
Percy had not gone—two —three
—four nights—he appeared to
have made the park his head-
quarters.
“Please go,” Alec pleaded one
Monday morning. “There’s more
cosier places over near the rail-
way yards.”
“Go away,” yawned Percy. “I
don’t like trains.”
On the Tuesday morning Alec
worked moodily through the
wine-bottles, cigarette-butts and
chewing-gum wrappers, jabber
flashing in the sunlight. He im-
paled the shell of a dead cicada
stuck on an old wattle. His
gentle nature sickened at the
sight—then with horror the hum-
drum of twenty years rolled
upon him. Even as he thought
he was still jabbing automati-
cally matchboxes, dead leaves
. . . When cleanliness had been
perfection he had not realised
the machine he had become . . .
b ut to realise it i n
ot hL u t"
to ‘ lm Potence
park-iS ise bis
more, thaf &ny
torture nd Wa . s
Chocolate- S fault-
of string .. . the T i - a P^ce
more .*!
It was a perfect
tried to flick it up Pun!’ ♦ He
He whimpered, P fin ed I ?ck-
stray mingling of relief Zu a
He tugged vainly at the tSf r>
again, and, leaving it s t Jf ber
nght, ran and hid behind
He wondered what run a tr e-
say about t/Tot rulw h T? ld
about the park. b lyin 8


Legal Notice.
MARY CATHERINE O’FLAHERTY also
known as CATHERINE and also as MARY
KATE O’FLAHERTY, deceased (daughter
of MARTIN O’FLAHERTY and MARY
O’FLAHERTY BORN BUTLER). Pur-
suant to a Decretal Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity dated
the 6th day of August 1948 and made in
Suit (No. 390 of 1948) entitled “IN
THE MATTER OP THE ESTATE OF
MARY CATHERINE O’FLAHERTY
LATE OF PADDINGTON IN THE STATE
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, SPINSTER,
DECEASED Between the Public Trustee,
Plaintiff, and Harold Glynn Massey, Kevin
Joseph McNamara and Constance Smith,
Defendants” WHEREBY the following
enquiry was directed namely that it be
referred to the Master in Equity to en-
quire as to who were the statutory next-
of-kin of the abovenamed Mary Catherine
O’Flaherty deceased living at the date of
her death and whether any of such next-
of-kin have since died and if so who are
their respective legal personal representa-
tives NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
all persons claiming to be entitled under
the said enquiry are to send by post pre-
paid to the Public Trustee, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. Aus-
tralia, so as to reach him on or before
the Twenty-fourth day of August 1950
their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity on application otherwise
orders. Claimants are to attend person-
ally or by Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales, on
Monday the Fourth day of September,
1950, at 11 a.m. being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims. A
Claimant not residing in New South Wales
inust send with particulars of his claim
the name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notices to the
Claimant can be sent. Claimants from
outside New South ' Wales are advised to
send claims by two successive mails.
ia e rT T H th May - 1950.—HILL THOMSON
"f9LLIVAN, Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
FOR
df
rheumatism, fibrositis,
SCIATICA, RHEUMATIC GOUT,
LUMBAGO, JOINT & MUSCULAR
PAINS arising from any condition
Cluny’s is a prescribed scientific formula which, taken as
directed, quickly strikes at the cause, of your pain and
exhaustion, it restores proper functioning of the kidneys
and immediately eases the agonising pain and tones up
the whole' nervous system—get back to good health and
Well being with
>-
cluny McPherson
MIVTIinC FROM C HFMIS
miAIURC EVERYWHERt
FAMED THESE 30 YEA
S
TS
*
RS
Vertex mance
t hat fakes you anywhere
The Ford Y 8 Engine gives this English Sedan the- sustained high
performance and power reserve usually fourid only in American type
cars. For deft handling in traffic or effortless all-day cruising the
Pilot is ideal... On good highways or indifferent back-roads the Pilot
ride is a safe and easy ride ... The man who really uses a car will get
many years’ service from Pilot’s solidity and fine engineering.
v« piioi
the English Car inats far Australia
.V
•tswSiS
m
?s
mm
am
r-.
m
m
mss
mm
i nr.
m
I
JT:
mi
m
m
m*
/
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor
or Dealer
fOBD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRfIUS PTY. LTD. (INC. W VIC.) REG. OFfICE: CEEIONG. VIC
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse beginning: —
„ „ white youth, passionate pale,
Bose-wmie j a pr0S y tale;
A stream and a silent veil.
} b “ »<“*"* s “ ' y
y° ,lth - _ 484 1
»si^wsa! <
W $S of verse “Who Keeps the
Pubs in Sydney Now. —4843.
Information Sought.
o/ mulga-tree? Where
W Occurs"1n the scrubs of western
MSW and s.-w. Q’land, extending
S, ““interior of S.A. to »A
n Central and far inland Australia
a prows on the sandhills, sandy
LnsTnd stony hills. , The leaves
L used for fodder during drought,
have been known to keep cattle
and sheep alive for three years, dur-
ing which no ram had fallen The
; s now rare in some districts
where it was once plentiful, chiefly
through severe lopping and damage
hv stock. It is now illegal to cut
down a mulga-tree, and even dead
wood on the ground must not ‘be
removed.
* * * *
Approximate speeds of bee, pigeon,
Im'k and swift? Any further infor-
mation on speeds of birds and fish?
A bee can travel at 3.7 metres per
second unladen, and at 2.5 metres
per second laden with pollen. Pigeons
can do 80 m.p.h., hawks (falcons)
100 m.p.h. and swifts 75 m.p.h.
Where it has been possible to clock
the birds over substantial distances
the actual speed has been found to
be less than half these extreme esti-
mates. The rate at which a bird
travels depends on many factors —
wind-currents, whether it is cruising
in search of food, migrating or being
chased by an enemy. Pigeons may
maintain a speed of 80 m.p.h. for
many miles, but over long distances
average only 60; during short bursts
they may attain a speed of 100 m.p.h.
Swifts may be faster than pigeons
over long distances, whilst falcons
can accelerate to about 115 m.p.h.
when chasing other birds. No esti-
mates have been made as to the speed
ol fishes, but it is doubtful if even
the swiftest can exceed 50 m.p.h.
* * * *
How to keep dogs free from ticks?
Treatment with derris (either the
powder or as an infusion) will kill
ticks on the dog and protect from
attack for about four days. The
infusion may be made by soaking
1 ioz. to 2oz, derris powder in a
gallon of water for 12 hours, adding
enough soap to raise a good lather.
The wash is applied liberally and
allowed to dry on the coat. When
using derris in any form keep it out
of the dog’s eyes; parts of the
body around the eyes, ears and paws
should be gone over by hand and
ticks removed. Treatment should be
repeated weekly.
* * * *
Information on cultivation of
asparagus in N.S.W.?
Asparagus requires heavy applica-
tions of farmyard manure and arti-
ficial fertiliser. Irrigation should also
be available. Deep sandy soils which
may be irrigated are the most suit-
able ; the Bathurst, Cowra and M.I.A.
areas are typical. The life of a
plantation ranges from 10 to 15
years, but crops planted in light soils
decline rapidly after eight years. A
satisfactory yield would be \\-l tons
per acre. The N.S.W. Department ol
Agriculture has a leaflet on the- sub-
ject.
* * * *
How to blue small steel parts?
If parts are not hardened and
tempered they may be blued by gently
heating in the flame of a Bunsen
burner or gentle gas-jet and immers-
ing in a bath of light oil. Hold metal
just above flame until oil adhering
to it will readily ignite and slowly
burn off. Repeat process until the
desired color is attained. If metal
is hardened and tempered, work
should be left to an instrument- or
toolmaker.
Brief Answers.
S.C.D.: The word is “pilgarlic,”
meaning a peeled head of garlic. It
is applied to a bald-headed man, as
humorously likened to a “pilled” or
peeled head of garlic, and is a term
of humorous contempt or mock pity.
W.E.H.: The following firms in
N.S.W. manufacture hydraulic rams:
Arnold Engineering and Lifts Pty.,
Ltd., 14 O’Connor-street, Chippen-
dale; Curry Bros., Park-street, Alex-
andria; A. E. Goodwin Pty., Ltd.,
Forsythe-street, Glebe; Hadfields Steel
Works, Ltd., Mitchell-road, Alex-
andria ; and Standarfl-Waygood, Ltd.,
100 Bourke-street, Waterloo... .K.G. :
The quotation is from a letter written
by Jefferson in 1786 A.B.C.W.:
He is looking at a portrait of his son.
W.S.: The Old Gaiety Theatre
stood on the western side of Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, between Park-
and Bathurst-streets. It was opened
on December 26, 1880, and it was
closed down some time during the
year 1923... .M.M.: Write Hon. Sec.,
Historical Society of Queensland,
Box 181IW, G.P.O., Brisbane....
G.H.T.: Write Local Government
Association of N. S. Wales, 42
Bridge - street, Sydney D.M.R.:
From Imperial Chemical Industries,
251 George-street, Sydney K.B.:
(1) The pony is suffering from Queens-
land itch, a condition which is par-
ticularly common in horses in the
summer months on the coastal and
sub-coastal areas of Queensland. The
cause of the condition is not known.
The main symptom of the condition
is an intense irritation of the skin
on the withers, along the back, rump
and tail. Affected animals will rub
the affected areas on trees, walls, etc.
(2) Wash the affected area with lime-
sulphur (one part of the concentrate
to thirty parts of water). Repeat
the treatment at weekly intervals
V.V.M.: Write Sydney County Coun-
cil Electricity Undertaking, Queen
Victoria Building, George - street,
Sydney 0.R.A.: Value in Aus-
tralia is generally about 25 p.c. less
than London value. If mounted and
in fine condition worth would be
about £lO stg.; if unmounted, about
£5 stg A.G.; Write N.S.W. Lands
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet “General
Information Relating to War Service
Land Settlement in New South
Wales” A.M.: (1) Mt. Morgan.
(2) Last divs.: G.M. of Kalgoorlie,
Is., March 13, 1950; Central Norse-
man, 9d., December, 1949; Mt.
Morgan, Is., March 31, 1950....
K.D.: From Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions- voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
W.H.W.: Wouldn’t interest us in
that form, and you would seem to
have a long way to go before you
learn to knock your material into a
story, long or short A.C.P.: Your
“Ocean of Gold” must be its own
reward.. . .R.T.: Tiddlywinks....
L.A.: All talk and no do 8.5. H.:
“This is a children’s story.” You’re
telling U5....D.N.L.: “The Long
Arm” was a bit stretched.. ..J.H.S.:
Ikey and Mo drunk, fishing and
broke—it’s so original, it’s incredible.
D.B.: Liked the setting and
movement, but the Italian girl shoot-
ing her Fascist brother because he was
on his way to recapture an escaped
N.Z. p.-0.-w. seems to be confusing
political propriety with human pro-
priety.. . .F.G.H.: All over the place.
..,. Bellerive: Roll on:
. ...C.M.: Your essay on fleas was
not quite up to scratch... .M.F.C.:
Sorry; *a bit too sketchy H.A.L.:
Not a story... .H. 8.: The people
and dialogue aren’t bad, but then it
gets sentimental... .0.C.: Gracious
goodness! M.M.R.: Hope your
“Innocent Abroad” feets home safely.
C.E.: Some nice writing in
“Goldreef Gully,” but the ending is
too easy to foresee, and too hard on
Kate R.W.; Not quite G.H.:
A bit slight... .L.M.: Of all the
reasons why men can leave home,
you’ve got to make it leprosy!....
G.F.S.: The scene in the brickery is
pleasant enough, but you don’t make
much happen there A.P.: Bit
light-hearted about guns, ain’t you?
. ...L.M.: Your history of cinema
“absolutely from memory” doesn’t
add much to what most people
remember J.C.: Such japes
E.A.W.S.: “Fear” contemplated with
horror M.J.S.H.; Reads like a
stonewalling effort in Hansard....
8.5. H.: Well, we don’t print juvenile
stories —intentionally C.H.: “The
Great Experiment” didn’t quite come
0ff....N.8.: Stories about Aider-
man, Goat and Cat, all too far-
fetched 8.C.: Fie! Fie! Welshing
on landlords and debasing cheques!
S.A.B.: Don’t interview Maupas-
sant —just write better stories....
W.R.: Tillyvalli A.G.R.: Yes, we
read the piece about the lunatic who
got the psychiatrist committed, too.
B.S.T.: No, no, fair heretic, it
must not be R.T.: Never show
us anything like “Yes M’dear” again.
T.C.: You are “wondering if 1
should tell the doctors what I know”
about your friend who is in a deep
coma, and if you believe the theories
put forward in the rest of your story,
it may be just as well for you to
see a doctor J.M.: Don’t go round
feeling sorry for someone you may
have killed —wait till they charge you.
F.H.T.: Afraid they read like
a court-martial L.K.; Here and
there a phrase worthy of a better
story H.W.: Sorry, but we’ve
been reading about that South
American-Polynesian hop every morn-
ing in the Sydney “Herald” for the
past week.,. .V.A.M.: Not bad, but
not for u5....M.E.P.: We hate to
have to stand by and watch an author
belt a character on the head with a
situation, as in “Heilooms”....
L.H.: Them goldminers look like as
they’s in fancy dress....E.H.: Didn’t
get it.
RHYME OF THE OCNAN.
Varied specie’s of fish
And reptile’s glide
Under the billows
Of the ocean wide.
Be the weather calm,
Or in storm and rain,
A spectacle grand is
The rolling main.
Yachting and fishing
On the rippling bay,
Is popular sport
On a serene fine day.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Suppression
Chifley’s acquaintance with history
can’t be as extensive as his knowledge
of detective stories. Otherwise, when
speaking on the bill to ban the Com-
munists, he would hardly have asserted
so confidently that “repressive legislation
of any type directed against minority
movements has never succeeded. There
is no instance in history of that being
done.”
There are plenty of examples. From
British history those of the English and
Scots Catholics, the Scots Episcopalians
and the Jacobites are conspicuous cases.
All those were reduced by repression from
numerically powerful elements to small
minorities of no political importance.
European history, too, provides many
instances. In the Middle Ages there were
the measures taken against the Albi-
gensians and the Templars. Neither
revived after suppression. In the Refor-
mation era Catholicism was eliminated in
Scandinavia by Governmental hostility,
as was Protestantism in Austria and
Bohemia in the early seventeenth century.
At the same time Czech nationalism was
crushed, not to become a force again
until the mid-nineteenth century. Spain
permanently rooted-out Protestantism in
the part of the “Low Countries”—the
modern Belgium —that she retained at the
end of the rebellion which' lost her the
northern part—the present-day Nether-
lands. Protestantism was also prevented
from getting a foothold in the rest of
the Spanish Empire by the activities of
the Inquisition. Persecution of the
Huguenots by Louis XIV of France did
not result in a resurgence of French Pro-
testantism.
Nor 'did the British suppression fail
against the Indian Thugs —a religious
body, whose religion enjoined the murder
(by strangling) and robbery of non-
believers —although the Thugs were
many, secretive and fanatic.
Particularly inept was Mr. Chifley’s
citation of the struggle, in the nineteenth
and early twentieth centuries, of the Irish
Nationalists against British rule. Actually,
in the period when they were most active,
they had all the legal rights Chifley con-
tends the Communists should enjoy. The
Government dealt only with those who
preached deliberate sedition or sought to
secure political ends by physical means.
Action has to be taken against such
people by any Government not prepared
to abdicate its functions.— Castlereagh
(N.S.W.),
The Merauke Operation
To the best of my knowledge the 13th
Australian Brigade was never at Merauke
(B. 5/4/’5O). I commanded the first
A.I.F. troops into the area, arriving at
Merauke on 8/1/’42 with C Coy.
group of the 62nd Australian Infantry
Brigade (A.1.F.), and was for a while
executive officer to the Allied force, which
consisted of my company, a U.S. anti-
aircraft battery, an R.A.A.F. signalling
and radar unit, and a company of N.E.I.
Fusiliers (Indonesians commanded by
Dutch oncers).
The balance of the 62nd moved in on
February 1, and that unit alone and un-
assisted carried through the formidable
task of linking the three dry arms and the
beach with corduroy-roads. Coconut-
trees were used, and about 4000 yards
were built. The unit also discharged its
other duties of beach defence and distant
patrols, to O’Kaba, 60 miles to the north-
west, and Nassam, 20 miles towards the
Fly River. A launch patrol to Prince
Frederick Hendrik Island was also
established.
The back-breaking work was completed
before the 11th Australian Brigade
arrived in May. With the 11th Brigade
came a U.S. Sea Bee Battalion and a U.S.
Engineer unit. These units had ample
equipment, and a strip was put down and
a wharf built. With the assistance of
machinery, a great deal more work was
done, but it was child’s-play compared
with the back-breaking work the 62nd
put in with a few shovels and axes.
At its peak the Merauke force was a
handy size. It consisted of two infantry
battalions, the 31/51 and the 62nd, also
B Coy. of the 2/3 Machine Gun
Battalion, a composite regiment of ack-
ack, and a battery of 25-pounders. The
R.A.A.F. contribution was a squadron of
Kittyhawks and a squadron of Vultees.
There were also the usual workshop and
ordnance units.
The R.A.A.F. was commanded by
Group-Captain Eaton, and the whole
force was under the command of a well-
known N.S.W. fighting soldier, Brigadier
Stevenson. My unit was relieved by the
20th Motor Regiment on 28/2/’44, and
if the 13th Australian Brigade came into
the area it must have been after that date.
—P. McC. (Q.).
“Farmers Doing Nicely”
First let me answer Mrs. P. E. B. (B.
10/5/’5O). She is wrong in assuming that
I sit down to a meal of toast (plastered
with butter, no doubt), bacon and eggs.
Such a typical farm meal is not available
to city folk —the prices for farm pro-
duce are much too high for that. And
while breakfast is on why not add a
couple of small lamb chops—they’re only
Bd. each.
As for the farmers selling their grain
at less than cost of production, that
doesn’t even make horsesense. The Wheat
Board distributes such handsome
“Yes, We're going. It Was a perfectly lovely party”
“divvies” to the growers that many
farmers have actually received as much
for one season’s crop as the land cost.
Now for “Julia Creek,” who says that
the hunger for land is a myth. Perhaps
he means “miss,” for many returned
soldiers who have been clamoring for
land for years have certainly missed out.
And isn’t it a fact that a cocky will
always buy more land if he can get it?
It was that urge that put so many of
them in the soup. At auction sales the
best buyers are nearly always adjoining
farmers. — Harry the Horse (Vic.),
Social Service
Why shouldn’t Australians have social
services (B. 10/5/’50)? Don’t they pay
social service tax? And why “charity”?
Charity is something for nothing, and
the majority don’t get that. Some with
low wages and large families may, but
is it such a terrible thing to help some-
one poorer than yourself?
What, after all, is fundamentally
wrong with the social service idea? If
we pay in and don’t get sick we’re help-
ing someone who is sick; if we get sick
others help us. Surely there’s nothing
wrong with that. There may be faults
in administration, but aren’t there
always?
“H.W.’s” claim that there are as many
neglected and derelict children now as
ever is unconvincing—you see very few
neglected children in Australia. An 4
nippers of England, in spite of years of
war and food rationing, are better fed
and in better health than ever before. —
Taswegian (Tas,).
Two Wars S
In “Men of Anzac” (B. 26/4/’5O) a
comparison was made between the
1914-18 and 1939-45 wars, and 1 the reader
would be justified in taking the inference
that the men of the latter did not measure
up to the standards of their fathers. In
fact, a reference to the second generation
as members of the “fight-and-run-like-
blazes” school warrants an explanation.
The colossal losses in 1914-18 were
chiefly caused by a lack of understanding
of modem weapons by the high com-
mand on both sides and by the placing
of a low value on the life of the soldier.
Even Lord Wavell of the last war quotes
Napoleon’s dictum that a soldier should
be treated as a prize hunting-horse, ex-
pensively maintained in the stable and
ridden on the field as though he weren’t
worth two bob. Under that principle in
1914-18 most of the regulars were
slaughtered and later on the losses had
to be filled up with untrained youths,
with dire results. -
The modern command acts on a
different plan, and the soldier is trained
to realise that he must do his duty to the
best of his ability, but that he is much
more valuable on the hoof than dead
as one A.I.F. officer put it, “It’s not your
job to die for your country, it’s your job
to make the other —— die for his,” -
A.T.W. (Q.).
The Burden of Proof
Critics of the “burden of proof” section
of the act outlawing Communists have
been making a great fuss about its being
a departure from the principles of British
justice, placing, as it does, the proving
of innocence on the accused.
The procedure has been quite widely
followed in other legislation without
exciting any outcry. It is basic to the
Crimes Act, and the Customs and Income
Tax legislation. A number of acts have
been passed in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land by Labor Governments which con-
tain provisions in which the burden of
proof of innocence is borne by the
defendant.
The principle is also contained in the
Pastures Protection Act, 1934-43, Section
94 ; Vagrancy Act, 1902, Section 4 (Q.A),
and Section C; Pure Foods Act, 1908,
Sections 15, 21 and 47. All those are
N. S. Wales Acts.
If departure from normal legal prac-
tice is justifiable in that Varied legislation,
why should it be held tyrannical when
used to cope with the agents of a foreign
Power engaged in revolutionary con-
spiracy?—Economist (N.S.W.).
Trams and Buses
The running-costs of buses would be
even higher in relation to those of trams
if, like trams, they were responsible for
maintenance of their trackways (B.
3/ 5 / ’5O). Until a couple of years ago a
tramline ran between Ashfield railway-
station and Cabarita Point, traversing
parts of three Sydney municipalities—
Concord, Burwood and Ashfield. Then
it was replaced by a bus service.
Lately the Mayor of Concord requested
the local Press to give the ratepayers
some idea “of the tremendous additional
expenditure involved in road construc-
tion and maintenance work since buses
replaced trams.” He pointed out;
While trams were in use the Department
of Tramways and Road Transport main-
tained the road adjacent to the tracks, and
the rest, which was Council’s responsibility,
stood up well to the normal traffic, but,
since the removal of trams, Council is
responsible for the full width, practically
the whole of which is now used by buses,
either overhauling one another or drawing
into the kerb.
Concord Council’s engineer estimated
that the cost of “concreting all bus routes,
generally 20ft. in width, together with
provision of local widenings at bus stops,
is £200,400.”
Several years before the war, when
heavy double-decker buses were first used
extensively in Strathfield, the roads were
so cut up that a substantial loan had to
be raised by the Council for repairs.
Strathfield had scarcely any indebtedness
at the time.
No wonder the transport authorities
are so keen to replace t™™ i
-A. L. D. (N.S.W™ rams bu« s .
Butter
The National Bank’s “MontM „
mary of Australian
quotes some contrasts i n nrnri (April)
based on records published b? n tloQ »
monwealth Statistician. y ttle c °m-
While the output of chocolate
tionery in 1948-49 was 57 per
than in 1938-39, the output of v?‘ lgher
was only 24 per cent. ffigW COal
increased over the same period
per cent, while the production of 238
and steel decreased by about a ° f lron
Bnck production had decreased w u 6nt
13 per cent, but to “offser th b i abont
duction of beer had jumped bv L Pr °'
cent. The “Summary” acidlv d* 64 P er
this as “milk-bar” economy Y
economy COUld **" * ‘ *SSS
Assuming that full-cream milk k He .
to a considerable extent in I L! d
facture of chocolates and
is claimed) in that of ice-cream can/
Commonwealth Statistician quoie Tgutt
showing how much full-cream S i
thus diverted from the manufectare S
butter and the supply of cream to chikl ren
and invalids? mareQ
I’ve no grouch against chocolates or
ice-cream within reason, but I nIZ
butter to either; and for children and
invalids I’ve no doubt whatsoever that
butter s best Before new butter coupon
are issued the persons responsible migh
look into the foregoing figures.-pßELisi
(Tas.).
National Health Scheme
There is one simple solution to the
difficulties surrounding the introduction
of a national health and medicine scheme
It should be acceptable to doctors
chemists and patients. ’
All accounts from doctors for atten-
tion, and from chemists for prescribed
medicines, should be paid by the person
receiving the attention and then sent, with
the receipts, to the appropriate Govern-
ment office, which would return the pro-
portion the Government had decided to
pay.
There is, in that, no suggestion of
control of either doctors or chemists.
Those receiving benefits would deal
directly with the social services people,
a point that should appeal to those who,
for various reasons, could not or would
not join a friendly society as proposed
by the Federal Minister for Health,
Working through friendly societies, in-
surance companies and similar organisa-
tions would not be entirely satisfactory,
especially as rules as they stand now
stipulate that a prospective member must
receive a good-health certificate before
he or she can join.
Direct payment by the Government on
the lines of the hospital contribution fund
in N. S. Wales would enable the health-
and-medical-benefits scheme to operate
immediately.— James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Foxes
A bonus of 7s. 6d. each on fox scalps
(B. 3/5/’5O), payable through shires,
would cost a lot of money, and be as
effective in exterminating the ginger pest
as bonuses have been in getting rid ot
dingoes and wombats. A few sports
might pick up a little jextra beer money
with spotlight and week-end shooting,
but the number of foxes accounted tor
would be comparatively small.
The man who attacks the pest seriously
is the man it troubles. I’m a sheejr-
breeder. Riding round the paddocks it
is a common occurrence to kill a to •
have no objection to 7s. 6d. for eac; >
but bonus or not, like every other step
owner, I’ll go on mopping-up every pest
X come on* , . « riiQtricts
Foxes aren’t increasing maldud
in Victoria. In eastern Victona m g
has thinned out the pest considerab 7 w
a large area, and the disease 1 ,
spreading. Granted, the disease
are even more troublesome j t
time than healthy sped Zefv them-
difficult to catch f ° od ’, the L h th P e other
selves to newborn lamb. d aad
hand, grown slow, sh ° rt JL picked
often half-deaf, they are easily P Qn
up on sight by a couple of
more than one OCC .^ I( J” disease that it
'JSZfSSX&B''**
h The mange spreads gaddy to c^le if
even to humans, but is 7 re mains to
treated in its early stag • having ac cess
be seen whether foxes, n ex terffli*
to sump-oil or smence,
nated entirely 10 affected di want 10
If western Victorian /armer^
import a few carriers of th aod collect
are freely welcome to c “" da le, fro®
in any district east of Ban® ~
the coast to the border.-VET t


TALKIES
"Confessions of a Rogue."
Louis Jouvet plays almost as many
roles in this amusing French comedy-
melodrama, at Sydney Savoy, as does
Alec Guiness in the equally amusing
English comedy “Kind Hearts and
Coronets,” at Sydney Embassy (reviewed
here a few weeks ago). Skilful and witty
as is Guiness’s performance, Jouvet has
a slight edge on him in art and subtlety.
He plays M. Ismora, managing director of
a photographic studio and a master
crook; M. Dupon, a self-effacing com-
mercial traveller in buttons; and a
Norwegian diamond merchant, a carrier
and a duke, all impersonated by Ismora.
Any one of the characters is a good
performance: the photographer— polite,
polished and mannered; the crook —
cynical, ruthless and deadly efficient ,; the
clerk—humble, sensitive and with a philo-
sophic love of obscurity; the heavy,
solemn diamond-buyer, the garrulous
carrier pinching the housekeeper on the
bottom, and the old duke barking about
his family’s service to France for the last
500 years and dismissing this “temporary
republic.”
Without leaving any doubts about who
is acting the roles, Jouvert contrives to
fit each plausibly and smoothly into the
story. M. Ismora, as the duke, sells the
castle of Niolles, a national monument,
to a wealthy American couple for a mil-
lion francs deposit; as the carrier he
delivers a massive cupboard containing
one of his hirelings to the apartments of
a wealthy collector ; and as the diamond-
buyer he relieves a dealer of a fortune in
stones.
Because of the resemblance the police
suddenly pick on the humble M. Dupon
as the mastermind, grill him thoroughly
and are reluctantly compelled to release
him, after which, jobless and suspected,
he tries to commit suicide, M. Ismora
picks him up just in time with the idea
of training him as .an alibi—while M.
Ismora plunders banks, jewellery stores
and what not, M. Dupon goes to night-
clubs, has an automobile accident and
makes other very public appearances at
the critical time. All of which convinces
the baffled police that M. Dupon, whom
they had written off as a suicide, is still
alive and flourishing as the master crook,
while M. Ismora is a blameless photo-
grapher.
A private complication between M.
Dupon and M. Ismora develops over the
latter’s girl-friend who, without knowing
she has two men on her hands, likes her
man when he is M. Dupon and doesn’t
like him when he is himself. The in-
tricate set-up solves itself very nicely with
the police, virtue, romance and the cause
of entertainment all satisfied.
The film is written and directed with
a good deal more discernment of char-
acter than one might expect. Both the
dialogue and acting are witty, a quality
not lost in the English sub-titles, although
that expediency tends to obscure the thin
vein of honest dignity in the button sales-
man. Jouvet, at times, reminds the
watcher of Noel Coward, a comparison
Which should displease neither. Suzy
Delair, who plays the girl bewildered by
the changing moods of her lover, is a
beautiful young animal and demonstrates
again that the French filmsmiths can show
infinitely more sex in clothes than Holly-
wood can show without them,
"Look for the Silver Lining."
Lives of film-stars oft remind us
We can ape a star, and thus,
On departing, leave behind us
Data for a film on us.
Occasionally one is forced to admira-
tion of the ingenuity and originality of
"Time for bed, Cholmondley."
Hollywood. Having converted all the
great stories, short stories and plays to
films, it ran through all the major events
and illustrious figures of history, includ-
ing the authors of all the great stories,
etc. Whither then? Why, all the great
figures of Hollywood, of course. When
that field is exhausted, as it may well be
at the rate the material is being gobbled
up, and when even the life stories of Rin-
Tin-Tin and Felix the Cat have been
made into celluloid epics, how convenient
it will be to turn and make the filmed
biography of the great actor who made
the life story of the great actor before
him.
First, for example, there was the
“Jolson Story,” an entertaining enough
account of that personality played by
Larry Parks; then there was “Jolson
Sings Again,” a similarly entertaining
account of how the “Jolson Story” came
to be made, again with Larry Parks as
Jolson. It should be easy enough to go
from there to the “Parks Story” with
some other actor giving a moving per-
formance as Mr. Parks.
As a further example, it is not impos-
sible that, some time in the not-distant
future, some dewy-eyed young actress
will play out the story of June Haver,
who is currently appearing as the lead
m ‘Look for the Silver Lining,” at
Sydney Regent, a sort of a kind of
account of the life of Marilyn Miller,
which, apparently, ran along much the
same groove as the lives of most other
show people as recorded by Hollywood.
The similarity is becoming a trifle mono-
tonous lately, despite the excuse it pro-
vides to revive a swag of old popular
songs and music—in this case the title
song, “Sonny,” “Who?,” “Time on My
Hands” and several others.
Without casting any aspersions on
Marilyn Miller, it can be observed that,
no matter how bad an actress may be, it
would still require a very competent
actress to play out her life story con-
vincingly. Miss Haver is a pleasant, lively
blonde whose talents seem to lie more
in dancing than acting. Marilyn Miller
may have been like that, or not, but it
would seem that, if there is any resem-
blance, it is, as producers generally and
cautiously preface their masterpieces,
purely coincidental. Certainly it isn’t
artistically convincing.
There are several normally entertain-
ing people supporting Miss Haver —
Charlie Ruggles, S. Z. Sakall, Walter
Catlett and others —but none seems very
enthusiastic. The one member of the
cast who supports and far outstrips Miss
Haver, and who provides the film with
moments of real entertainment in its
technicolored meanderings, is Ray Bolger.
His superb dancing, his comedy and his
extraordinarily articulate hands and feet
suggest that a life of Ray Bolger, acted
by Ray Bolger, would be worth seeing.
"She Wore a Yellow Ribbon."
Sententious glory in the field and un-
mitigated sentimentality off it arc the lot
of most film soldiers nowadays ; occasion-
ally an actor manages to get a good line
through the cutting-room—thus Nigel
Lovell, in “Eureka Stockade,” snarling
“Sound the Charge” (or whatever) over
his shoulder, almost in an undertone, gave
a proper perspective to captain’ and
trumpeter of those days and in war,
and lit the film with a momentary flash
of truth. It felt right; whereas in “The
Red Danube” Walter Pidgeon’s English
colonel expressing generous United
Nations sentiments left one baffled, but
feeling that this would never do.
In the same way, in “She Wore a Yellow
Ribbon” (Sydney Plaza), when John
Wayne goes up to the back of the frontier
fort to hold a monologue with his dead
wife over her grave, one twitches a bit
in those most comfortable seats. One
must not expect too much realism in a
romantic costume-piece, about a girl
(Joanne Dru) who finds life monotonous
in a fort and insists on joining a U.S.
Cavalry patrol that will take her to a
stagecoach, thus slowing the patrol, and
allowing the coach to be burned and
some of its occupants killed by Indians ;
but the trouble of director John Ford
seems to be not knowing when to stop
laying on the emotion with a trowel.
The film is full of gorgeous technicolor
deserts, and has some exciting action-
pieces with cavalry and Indians, and,
towards the end, at least one subtle and
successful bit of strategy; Victor Mc-
Laglen puts on a good comic bar-room
brawl, and Wayne, as Captain Brittles,
has a few quite stirring heroic moments.
"Paid in Full."
This hankie-drencher at Sydney Prince
Edward is based on an allegedly true
episode as disclosed by a medico in a
“Readers’ Digest” article. The basic
ingredient of the story is the hereditary
biological tendency of two sisters for a
fatal aftermath of childbirth. The selfish
gold-digger, played with the right degree
of petulance and spite by Diana Lynn,
marries the man with whom the
Cinderella sister (Lizabeth Scott) is
secretly in love. Their child is killed, the
marriage breaks up and Cinderella
marries her Prince Charming at last.
Then, to save her sister’s fast-slipping
reason, she has a child herself, knowing
she is unlikely to repeat her sister’s luck
and survive it. She doesn’t, expiring with
a noble death-bed blessing for the
survivors,
A capital bit of work from Eve Arden
as a career-girl with a cynical sense of
humor relieves the melodrama occa-
sionally. Robert Cummings makes his
Sittings from one sister to the other and
back again seem quite in the natural
order of things.
Australian surf life-saving clubs appear
to be receiving a good measure of film
publicity. A short time ago a filmed
D. of I. report was released to
show the lifesavers’ training and work.
It has been followed by “Undertow,”
current at Sydney Savoy, made by Craig
Baynes and covering much the same
material with the difference that, whereas
the first film seemed a rather hurried job,
its successor is a little more leisurely and
thorough. That is all to the good since
it is intended mainly for English audi-
ences, although their Australian counter-
parts will also probably be surprised to
learn that lifesaving clubs in Australia
have saved, on the average, three lives
a day for the last 40 years. Baynes’s
film takes in belt- and line-work, surf-
boats, surf-skis and shark hunting, all
well and clearly depicted. There are also
some magnificent shots of the Pacific
pounding the coast together with a com-
mentary which, if a long way short of
Byron or Conrad, seems at least sincere.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 71
Across.
l—Old - time Bulletin identity
among the brewing material. (3)
3—Ladybird that brings the baby
without moisture for an Aus-
tralian cricketer. (5, 6)
B—Weight on the window-ledge
before it is an illness. (11)
W—Spoil backing mutton. (3)
i—Terrifying occupation for the
self-consciously bald. (4, 7)
-"French-bom. (3)
"Idols of the theatre. (4)
"Say, Bess (anagram). (7)
"Anna has twelve of this food. (3)
"-Cooler armor which we receive
» lrorn our admirers. (3, 4)
poem. (4)
bad a character in Gilbert and
Sulhvan. (3)
helps the gunner to be a dis-
of mountains. (5, 6)
2S is this part of Italy. (3)
"Motoring North American to
29—i C a mea * an( b re dden. (11)
1 stand between the pool and
“ Ult m India. (11)
signal. (3)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1 — Not colds, not colds that sting
the fieldsmen’s fingers. (3, 5)
2 Stabbing the haberdashery with a
ruler. (7)
3 Roused thoroughfare upset the
Rhode Island Red. (7)
4 Lion has it mixed in a grease-
container. (6)
5 Flags of low-ranking officers. (7)
6 Tutor to act before I am well
down the excavation. (7)
7 Dangerous delivery represented by
the white rose turning about. (6)
9—The present auxiliary verb was a
lover in ancient Babylon. (6)
14 — Sicken but score a half-century a
little below the first-class level. (3)
15 — Outing urges the selectors not
to omit the devil? (6)
16 — Don’t stare so much when with-
out g match. (8)
18— One Crippled in a famous battle-
field of the last war. (7)
19 — Drink mixed from 10 across, the
end of 4 down, and the middle
of 15 across. (7)
21— Basic piano accompanies the
Rhode Island girl. (7)
22 They’re helpful fellows of course
but the heel passes away. (7)
23 — First-rate gratuity to a spinner.
(6)
24 Whoever can endure the porter?
(6)
Solution to Crossword No. 70.


you build
or buy a home
consult Thi
MIX.
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or :
Representative.
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co.L
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
1 79a St. George’*
[Terrace.
HOBART:
M.L.C. Building. •
Liverpool & Murray St*-
Hobart.
WELLINGTON ( N^'„
M.L.C. Building. LamW»
Quay.
