

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 71—No. 3690
Wednesday, November 1, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SCENE OF THE BETRAYAL OF CHARLES I, CARISBROOKE CASTLE
OFF the south coast of England, and separated from the mainland by two
of the most famous waterways in the world —The Solent and Spithead—
is the Isle of Wight. The island has become one of the chief holiday centres
of Britain, and in the island’s long history it has had no more distinguished
or appreciative visitor than Queen Victoria, whose residence was Osborne
House, Cowes, where she died in 1901.
Near Newport, the capital of the island, is Carisbrooke Castle, which for
centuries was the bastion of the island’s defence and the seat of the island’s
governors. Carisbrooke was founded in the twelfth century upon the site of a
Roman fort, and its walls enclose an area of one and a half acres. During
Elizabethan times, when England was threatened by the Spanish Armada, the
narrow slits in the walls were enlarged for the protruding cannon. The castle’s
chief claim to fame, however, is its associations with Charles I. In 1647
during the Civil War, the king visited the castle as the guest of Colonel
Hammond, the Governor. For a few weeks he was treated as a guest, but the
Governor betrayed the king by sending a message to Cromwell, who ordered
his arrest. For this betrayal Hammond received a present of £lOOO and an
annuity of £5OO for himself and his heirs. Charles remained a prisoner on the
island for thirteen months, and during that period he made, witu outside help,
two unsuccessful attempts to escape. The room, with its iron-barred window
from which the monarch tried to escape, is still pointed out within the castle.
During his imprisonment Charles I was visited by two of his children, Henry
Duke ,of Gloucester and Princess Elizabeth. The latter, a child of thirteen,
caught a chill and died in the castle soon after her arrival.
On the night of November 29, 1648, the king was removed by an armed
force to Hurst Castle, on the mainland. From there he was taken to London,
and, after his trial, executed on the scaffold in Whitehall. Many relics of his
stay in Carisbrooke are exhibited in the museum, which is housed in the tower
over the main gateway.
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then. Is news that must
interest you, Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
In the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WI.MO-1 OK-
IJTtITAIN scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their Office, Scppelts
arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas, Ton’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to Xh© House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SO NS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


I
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic,
■ --——OUr HERE AND MAIL mmmmmm
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name *
Address
(5.8.550) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N 7 specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tali’an books, also in bookish items of general in-
Sf !0 s jsiss st
and others). Specialised fields for boot nuut ng
The Red Page
FORSYTE ILLUSTRATED.
Practically all that anyone would want
to know about an illustrated Forsyte at
this time is that there is one.
Why it hadn’t been done before —con-
sidering that the Galsworthian master-
piece of character and manners was first
published in 1922 and has been not only
a popular but a literary-quality topliner
ever since—is one of the mysteries of
publishing. At any time over the past
quarter of a century an illustrated ver-
sion would have been what the present
one for a certainty will be —an invigor-
ated best-seller here and in England, and
in America, too.
America would seem to have very
much influenced its book form. It is a
sizey tome of a very popular American
shape—that of the massy Reader’s
Library “Giants” ; perhaps a little taller,
and hence more shapely. More, the
spine-title design is in some danger of
being called a plagiarism of the same
“Giants.” For the rest of its exterior, it
is very well bound in a buckram-like
green, wrapped up in a tasteful dust-
jacket. The whole would have been
better —a deal better —for a dosage of
green ink on the top, which couldn’t have
added much to the cost and would have
added a lot to the book.
The inside offering, as a book, is, from
end-papers through frontispiece, title-
page, chapter arrangement, clear print-
ing, fine paper, and, especially, the
illustrations, just what anyone in the
book game or the book-collecting sport
or aberration would have expected on
hearing that Heinemann’s had decided to
do the due honors to what must have
been that firm’s particular pride through
all the editions they’ve done of it.
The illustrations —by Anthony Gross,
a Londoner of 1905 vintage—themselves
illustrate the artist’s conception not only
of Galsworthy’s cavalcade but of the
widely-debatable and -debated issue of
book-illustrating requirements. It could
make a perhaps profitable subject for de-
bate in a university Arts course, if they
go in for such things these days: What,
after all, is a book-illustrator supposed
to do? There are more answers to it
than might occur to a hasty judgment.
The common one, provided by the artists,
is that the thing for each of them is down
with the author and up with the artist,
or, at best, to attempt a representation
of the artist’s creative reaction to the
author’s creative impulse. In either case,
an imposition of ego, not an interpreta-
tion of another. One or the other has
been the main vogue for the past 20
years. Of earlier fashion, and still met
with, there is the purely decorative, or it
might be called romantic, concept;
among the recent examples Russell
Flint’s richly-costumed and graceful but
hardly realistic additions to Chaucer and
to Butcher and Lang’s Homer. In re-
cent times there are, too, of course, at
the opposite end from the purely roman-
tic concept, though not unrelated to it,
the dull crudities of the plug-uglies.
The Anthony Gross concept is that the
first requirement must be a pictorial
fidelity to the author’s own integrity of
character-depiction, portrayal, analyses
and development. An Anthony Gross
page (in color) of a Forsyte scene is a
group or a crowd of people as the artist
watches them rising in the author’s crea-
tion. The result is neither Galsworthy
alone nor Gross alone: it is both, and it
is ideal.
An accompanying letter from the pub-
lishers gives details of the new process—
a distinctly revolutionary advance in the
craft —used for the illustrations ; more
than eighty all told, including twelve six-
color lithographs of full-page size. They
are drawn on to “PlastocoweU” by the
artist, a medium perfected by W. S.
Cowell, of Ipswich (Eng.), by which it is
possible to work on a specially-grained
plastic sheet in opaque ink and to achieve
I a wide range of effects, all of which can
be printed down on a sensitised zinc
plate.
Before the introduction of this method,
the artist working for lithographic repro-
duction was faced either by the techni-
cal difficulties of a direct drawing or by
the subjection of his work to the cold
scrutiny of the camera’s eye and the im-
personal hand of the retoucher. The new
method overcomes such barriers to crea-
tive work and greatly simplifies the
artist’s lithographic drawing. It is the
same process as lithography, with the ex-
ception that instead of working on stone
the artist uses plastic plates. The color-
wash is put on afterwards on top of the
black drawing.
And there’s no dispute here with the
publisher’s claim that “the effectiveness
of the result cannot be denied.”
The other illustrations are twenty-six
full-page drawings in pen and ink ; over
forty chapten-headings and tail-pieces;
end-papers in Silurian Gray paper, show-
ing the Forsyte family-tree and portraits
of its members; and a lithographed
wrapper in five colors.
C. M.
As Others See Us,
From time to time now that the war
is over we may expect overseas visitors
to drop in and tell us what is wrong with
us; and Mr. Roderick Cameron, who
appears to be a detribalised American
from London, does this very prettily in
My Travel’s History (Hamish Hamilton,
Ltd.).
Thus Mr. Cameron found Sydney
“ugly,” the other cities not much better
and the bush “drab” and full of spikes
and thorns. He found a “dismal collec-
tion” of pictures in the Brisbane National
Gallery and doesn’t seem to have found
anything worth commenting on in
Sydney, except the Conrad Martenses at
the Mitchell Library—which institution
he doubts if Australians fully appreciate.
There are times when Mr. Cameron
really goes a little too far. So ardent
an admirer of the bushrangers as the
present reviewer cannot accept with tran-
quillity the accusation that these chaste
bandits indulged, “when occasion per-
mitted,” in “rape.” And Mr. Cameron
cannot have explored the centres of Aus-
tralian culture as thoroughly as one
would wish when, chancing upon the
half-dozen or so artists and sculptors who
haunted Arthur Allan’s old mansion in
Sydney during the war, he decides that
the Merioola Group is “unique, the only
movement of its kind in Australia,”
forming “an oasis in this barren land of
bad taste.” If only Mr. Cameron could
have been here a few years earlier and
had attended the sale of Arthur Allan’s
books and pictures—his Gruners, his
Heysens, his Penleigh Boyds, his com-
plete set of the etchings of Norman
Lindsay, his bound files of The Bulletin
and “The Lone Hand”—Merioola would
have presented him with a very much
wider range of knowledge.
The Australian reader will find many
other matters for controversy. And he
will also find many inaccuracies. The
kookaburra, for example, is here re-
ported to “live mostly on snakes” ; Mr.
Rex Battarbee is consistently spelt as Mr.
Rex Battarbye ; and Mr. Cameron, un-
less indeed he was pursued by shoals of
sharks in the waves, seems to have got
his surprising ideas about surfing partly
out of Sydney newspapers and mostly out
of a vivid imagination: —
“At Cromulla [sic] two mass rescues were
made by lifesavers early in the afternoon.”
And so it goes on, one can hear the
thundering of the surf as one reads. But
far more dangerous than this are the
sharks—more dangerous and far more
frightening. Constantly the bell is tinging
out in warning. A shark has been sighted
and we all head as quick as we can for
the beach, there to wait until the all
clear” is sounded. Sometimes one sees
their villainous grey presence caught in a
wave the instant of its breaking, chasing a
fish If you happen to be in the same
wave the effect is electrifying. Sometimes
you only see a grey shadow flashing near
you to be gone the instant you sight it;
sometimes you only hear a scream....
Take it all round. My Travel’s History
is the usual hotchpotch of comment and
tourism, sometimes reasonable and some-
times not, sometimes accurate and some-
times misleading, and considerably
helped-out by liberal quotations from
M H. Ellis on Macquarie, Roughley on
the Barrier Reef, Banfield on Dunk
Island, Daisy Bates on the aborigines and
Colonel Mundy on the 1850’s. Mr.
Cameron is amiable to Sydney police-
men and Australian earthworms, he
travelled extensively in the Barrier Reef
and the Centre, and, though Australia is
his principal business, he has some color-
ful chapters on England, Egypt, Ceylon
and Singapore.
A Thurber Play.
Ten years after it was first copyrighted
James Thurber’s first play, The Male
Animal (Hamish Hamilton), written in
collaboration with Elliott Nugent, has
probably got itself published ( a ) because
it has been a success in London and New
York, ( b ) because Thurber wrote and
illustrated it and (c) because it deals with
a very lively topic of the present moment
—should professors be pink?
Tommy Turner is a professor of
literature in an American university who
wants to read to his class the farewell
speech of Vanzetti. This is at first purely
for literary reasons, because he wants to
show how moving broken English can
be; but then a hot-headed student
writes-up the professor as a champion of
liberty, a reactionary professor objects,
and the situation develops into a fight
over freedom of speech, in which Pro-
fessor Turner is likely to lose his job.
It could be, in the present circum-
stances, an explosive kind of play, but
Mr. Thurber is not really serious about
it; one would hardly expect him to be.
The student isn’t a Communist; Professor
Turner isn’t a Communist; there
isn’t a Communist for miles around, so
the whole problem of what a professor
should do when he finds that liberalism
has led him into alliance with the agents
of a foreign Power is neatly evaded, and
the audience can go home feeling vaguely
liberal and enlightened without having
touched reality at all. And Mr. Thurber,
having worked a vein of topicality into
his comedy, can go ahead with what really
concerns him: an old-fashioned triangle
in which the participants are Tommy
Turner, his wife and a star footballer
, . . and very pleasantly Mr. Thurber
juggles them about.
To read, like so many successful stage
comedies, it is bright without being par-
ticularly witty. There is only one “purple
patch” of comedy-writing when Tommy
gets drunk and talks nonsense: —-
The tiger does not expose_ everyone to
humiliating intellectual analysis. Hie sea-
lion knows better. He snarls. He roars
with his antlers
For the rest it depends on the stage-
directions as much as on its dialogue, and
you have Tommy handing his enemies
the wrong hats, or this kind of thing: —
Tommy [Almost bursting ]: I thought we
could settle this quietly and calmly.
Ellen: Quietly and calmly! Oh. God!
[She picks up large ash-tray from a table
and smashes it on the floor.]
Tommy; Now, don’t do that! I can
throw things, too! [He picks up ms tea-
cup.] ,
Ellen: No. you cant —you haven t got
enough blood in you!
[Tommy glares at her, puts cup down
coldly, suddenly snatches it up and hurls
it into the fireplace, reaches for the saucer ,]
Joe [Leaps for Tommy, grabs the saucer
from him]: Now wait—let'me handle this.
I don’t throw things. ...I just want to say
that I came to this city to see a football
game.
Ellen [Righi into Joes face]: Oh, no,
you didn’t. You came for me. You
haven’t been here for a ball game in ten
years. You wait till Brenda and you are
separated, then you come for me!
Joe; Oh, hell! [Throws saucer m fire-
place, then wilts as he realises this house-
hold has affected him, too.]
It is only mildly amusing in print. But
on the stage it would be hilarious ; and
the people are alive and likeable, the
whole thing glowing with good spirits.
A New American Poet.
Robert Lowell’s Poems 1938-1949
(Faber) introduces to English readers a
new American poet who has been
honored by his countrymen in a way that
only the Americans—so civilised a people
in spite of the world’s reluctance to
believe it —would ever think of honoring
a new poet: he has had a Pulitzer Prize,
a Guggenheim Fellowship, a grant of
1000 dollars from the American Academy
and in 1947 was appointed Consultant in
Poetry for the year by the Library of
Congress.
Although the publishers claim for
Lowell “a new idiom that echoes no
other voice” he has enough of religion,
mythology and surrealism in his verse to
suggest that he has studied T. S. Eliot
and Dylan Thomas pretty thoroughly
before translating them into American ;
and he also can be readily related to the
general American tradition because of a
fluency he shares with the characterist
poets from Whitman through Vachel
Lindsay and Paul Engle to Karl Shapiro:
all these writers, with a facility matched
in modern English verse only by Auden,
turn out poems of considerable length
without, it appears, the slightest trouble.
Lowell’s personal variation on contem-
porary versification lies partly in his
subject-matter —he is from Herman Mel-
ville’s part of the world and writes a lot
about whalers and sailors; also he is a
Catholic whereas Eliot is an Anglican—
hut chiefly in his style, which is tough,
tiarsh, nuggety, full of gutturals such as
‘slug,” “ladybug,” “huggermugger” and
which, like Roy Campbell’s when it first
appeared, looks a little more forcible than
it really is. A typical stanza is: —
I saw the sky descending, black and white,
Not blue, on Boston where the winters
wore
The skulls to jack-o-lanterns on the slates.
And Hunger’s skin-and-bone retrievers tore
The chickadee and shrike. The thorn tree
waits
Its victim and tonight
The worms will eat the deadwood to the
foot
Of Ararat: the scythers, Time and Death,
Helmed locusts, move upon the tree of
breath....
On the whole it is a poetry of the age
rather than a genuinely distinctive voice
speaking, a dark poetry full of blood,
bones, bombs, rats, ice, dead friends,
dead ancestors, dead whales; lacking in
melody, lacking in delight, difficult ; a
poetry easy to admire, not so easy to like.
But Lowell can certainly write.
Furphy Checklist.
Walter W. Stone, who edits “Biblio-
news,” a monthly newsletter for the Cook
Collectors’ Society of Australia, has pro-
duced as a supplement to the latest
number of “Biblionews” a Joseph Furphy
bibliographical checklist. Entries are
listed under the headings of books, short
stories, articles, poems and paragraphs by
Furphy, articles and books about Furphy,
and reviews of the first edition of Such
Is Life.
Mr. Stone will send a copy of the
checklist to anyone interested on receipt
of a stamped and addressed envelope
(foolscap size). Address inquiries to him
at 12 Parnell-street, Strathfield, N.S.W.
Reviewed Briefly .
This Is My Son : Clarence Budington
Kelland (Museum Press). The author of
MrDeeds Goes to Town this time sends
a young history student to his father’s
ranch in the Arizona desert, to make a
man of him. Though the student presents
himself as not much of a cove, it gradu-
ally transpires that he has a good seat
on a horse, was decorated in the recent
war, and is a crack pistol-shot. However,
there has been some shyness, and this is
removed in part by an adventurous young
Miss whom his father has planted on
I' im; she manages to get him tangled-up
,-ith a wicked rancher who has kidnapped
. cafe-singer because she knows too much
bout a murder.
4 * *
Parade of Time : E. W. Martin (Rich
ind Cowan). An anthology of historical
tories, first published 1938: a sketch by
Sfaomi Mitchison of a Roman buying a
ilave ; a couple of early-Enghsh stories by
Tna Broadbent and Blanche Devereux;
jomethmg Norse by Selma Lagerldf; the
subtle assassination of William the
Conqueror by Wallace B. Nichols;
Stevenson’s portrait of Villon, ’’A
Lodging for the Night”; a roistering
low - life banquet, “Shakspeare’s
Christmas”, by Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch; the death of Otway the poet by
the Australian, Philip Lindsay, and a
story by his brother Jack of slavery in
England in the 17th century; D. K.
Broster’s story of the girl who saved a
city; and contributions by Hector
Bolitho and Joseph Conrad. Of all of
them, not the least memorable is
“Crillon’s Stake” by Stanley Weyman.
* * * *
Methuselah’s Diary : Horace Annesley
Vachell (Hutchinson). The author of
The Hill and Quinney’s has put out
another of his incredible day-to-day
records of life in his Manor (of which
there are photographs), pie frontispiece
shows him in his eighty-ninth year in the
act of writing, stiff-winged collar,
starched cuffs, a pipe (no doubt a con-
cession to the easy manners of the times)
in his left hand. Again the conversation
is of the fabulous wines he has for dinner,
of gentlemen and cads, of Conan Doyle s
advice, and Seymour Hicks’s wit. If we
did not know that he had lived hard,
growing oranges in California, in his
youth, we might imagine him to be some
latter-day poseur in the Edwardian tradi-
tion ; as it is, it seems possible that he is
recording and publishing the survival or
a gentleman of the old school for the
annoyance or Mr. Attlee thus, as a
brave old Crusader, he deserves our ad-
miration.


•TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING
Anthony Horderns’ Has Everything
I
Ride the breakers on a sturdily constructed,
brightly coloured Rubber Surf Board for real
thrills in the surf! Senior size, at £4/12/6
each, and Junior size, priced at £3/17/6.
r
Li-Lo Water Wings for teaching
junior to swim. Strong, easy to
inflate. Made in England, 9/11
Li-Lo Cushion, for the beach or
the forthcoming Test Match. 15in.
x 10in„ 8/6; 18in. x 13in„ 15/11
For the smart traveller . . 3
Going on a summer vacation? Name your own
resort and way of travelling—but see us for the
smartest way of transporting what you take there!
INK
■
•V
Right: Double handled Bag.
Crocodile grained cowhide.
Leather covered frame, three
locks, cloth lined. Inside pocket.
18in. £6/13/6; 20in., £7/9/6
Left: A handy size case of
genuine hide, English locks,
2 sizes, 20in., 104/9; 22in., 114/9
for the Camper, Surfer!
It's off to the great outdoors for fun in the surf and
on the beach ... to camp out under the stars, or
relax on easy to carry "Li-Lo" sports products!
7- 1
m
ii
KftKv:
m*
X
B ■.
Li-Lo "Popular" Air Bed. Just the thing for caravan, sun verandah, launch or extra
guest, for relaxing on the beach or in the garden. Easily deflated, light and
compact, it can be carried in your beach bag! In colours of Green or Blue. £4/5/
Li-Lo Air Chair. Made from cotton fabric, rubber-proofed on the inside. Strong
and comfortable, it is the ideal chair for beach, garden or home. Priced at £4/6/-
SUN FROCK (illustrated in photograph)
"Cole of California" Sun Frock in rayon finished
cotton. Enticing new "Deep Sea" Bra. In Blue/White,
Fawn/White, Grey/White or Green/White stripes.
Sizes: Small, Medium and Large. Priced at £5/19/6
Use our
D.P.S. now
for Christmas!
mm
; . ;
Smm
Enli
i ~
ffinlliPi
MB ■;
m
;■; ■
mSm
x I
• : K
Si BBHBB
IHI
H
m
m
MiMma liißiMPiHiiii i
- ' .
SPORTING GOODS—LWR. GRD. FIR., PITT ST.; TRAVEL GOODS—GRD. FLR.. PITT ST.; SPORTSWEAR—2nd FLR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


.
/
-■ ■ 5 . ... ■-■ '
. . •• •
m
>
i
mm
Wapf
< ,- i
.... ■■'•■/---■
mm
■
.-V. -.'■ ' ■
:• ■:■-
m
I
<:R:
;.-• .*.■■ - •■
- ••
:v\.
ssi
...«.
5,
i' v--
''X.
i
■
.-.'• ; •
■
IS**
s, 1
*
w
r >i
Ir** ■’*' *
m
imm
::
' ;
. i.*-v
* >.■»
■
.
«
K * ill
I
■
JriSlS
1
'
- •
m
ms
I
«s'3a
9
211
fl
p*
ft
%
■
m
a
md
m
m
&
, m
i <: R
IK
■
£ !*«
V,
r
THROUGHOUT RUSTRRLIR
i \imOm
THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD, wherever a really
big construction job is in
progress, you will find the
rugged strength of the
International T D 2 4
Crawler Tractor playing a
major part.
To-day these "big red
devils," with 148 h.p. on
the draw bar, are carving
a road to Australia's
future prosperity on many
fop priority National pro-
jects.
These projects include
hydro-electric, coal, water
conservation and land
clearing schemes in all
States, and their comple-
tion is being hastened by
the use of International
Power.
AOI2/3691
Industrial Sales And Service
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE HOBART ADELAIDE PERTH
Australian Distributors For International Industrial Power


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3690
Wednesday, November 1, 1950
S> vr*&
s £ //V7~/
hd
FAMOUS “LAST STANDS.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
PUBLIC OPINION.
One of the most disquieting facts about
the Australian political situation is the
state of numbness which seems to affect
public opinion both in and out of the
unions. In six years of war and four
years of peace under a “Labor” Govern-
ment to which “controls” came naturally,
a race of Australians appears to be grow-
ing up which looks easy meat for totali-
tarianism. By nature the Australian
is not easy meat; but his natural indi-
viduality is being infiltrated politically.
Public life in this country, once
full of vigor, and even passion,
has sunk into the same sort of
condition as Australian sport the
active game is being left to the profes-
sionals, the watching is done by the rest.
And the public watches politics with a
more detached air than it does “sport,”
which appears to have a deeper meaning
for them because betting, mostly illegal,
has become a universal vice, the s.-p. man
and the art-union organiser an institution
and a power in the community, and the
jockey a hero whose fortunes and mis-
fortunes mean more to a great mass of
people than those of statesman, scientist
or public benefactor.
The political fate of the country
appears to matter very little to the average
Australian today. If it does matter to him,
emotion in public life is far more under
control than is healthy.
Australians, in other days the most
independent of voters, who reacted vigor-
ously to any sign of corruption or shady
associations in their public men, have
already come to the stage where most of
them are prepared to be directed and led
about by union secretaries and politicians
with almost the docility shown by
“electors” in Soviet Russia. The only
stimulus to which most of them seem to
respond is the offer of more money-wages
irrespective of whether the extra money
will buy more, or the offer of some
totalitarian gift or expedient to reduce
prices artificially.
Few within the mass seem to care
what the effect of political bribes may
be on the country now or later.
Things have come to such a pass
that great principles are now rarely
debated in election campaigns. “Labor’s”
programme consists entirely of poli-
tical shopping loaf, picture - shows,
horse-racing, dog-racing, “social services”
and beer are the commodities which are
offered to a key section of the Australian
voters in return for votes. Campaigns are
conducted on Paddy’s-market lines, and
“Labor” has set standards in vote-buying
which Liberals (and C.P.-men) have been
rather too ready to follow.
Legitimate political programmes natur-
ally consist of all kinds of goods, not
forgetting medicine; but the modern
parties are almost entirely in the sweets
trade, with the result that the whole coun-
try is suffering in some degree from
political diabetes.
The prevailing lassitude and lethargy
have never been more evident than
in the past few months. Great
issues have been involved in the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Bill, and, if the
newspapers can be believed and the ex-
pressed view of the average man can be
taken to mean anything, 80 p.c. of the
people of Australia were in favor of its
passage and of the blotting-out of the
Communist party and of all its works.
It has been agreed by all parties that
Communism is a seditious conspiracy.
Australian servicemen are at the
moment fighting physically against it
in Korea and Malaya. The Govern-
ment is calling urgently for thousands
more to enlist against the chance that the
battle may spread.
Nevertheless the public tolerates with-
out any show of lively indignation the
obstructive antics of the “Labor” Oppo-
sition, and of the association of their
unions with leading Communists. People
tolerate having their personal and indus-
trial lives directed by these traitors. In
spite of all that has been proved against
them, in particular by the Royal Commis-
sion on Communism in Victoria and in
everyday life, they are prepared to follow
Communism towards its goal so long as
those who profess it have a scheme on
hand for gouging a little more out of “the
boss,” even though the gouging threatens
to go right through the bottom of their
own and the country’s pocket.
The revelation that the “Labor” party,
supposedly the greatest reform movement
in Australian life, is run under the direc-
tion of an unelected junta, headed by an
ex-Communist, which gives its orders to
the Government and therefore to Parlia-
ment and the country when “Labor” is in
power, caused scarcely a ripple on the
surface of the general placidity. And
when the president of that politburo went
almost straight from the meeting which
gave its orders to Mr. Chifley and his
followers to confer with one of the most
notorious Communists in the country,
the head of the union which employs him,
about an impending strike, few looked up
from their sporting sheets to murmur.
The railway strikes, when they did come,
were accepted with a docility which would
have astonished Stalin himself. Tens of
thousands of sturdy Australians meekly
walked to work or rode like sardines in
some improvised conveyance, and that
on two Mondays running. There was
no show of natural anger at the wanton
outrage, which would have resulted in
the leaders of it being jailed in many
countries or, if behind the Iron Curtain,
liquidated. Nothing happened to those
leaders; there was no aftermath.
The same atmosphere as was
revealed by the manner in which the
24-hour railway strikes were received is
evident generally in industry and, in fact,
in every political sphere. It is an axiom
with “Labor” politicians that the majority
of the workers hate Communism and
that, if left to deal with it their own way,
they will achieve results which will make
a - mock of those which the Menzies
Government hopes from its Communist-
party Dissolution Act.
But whenever a movement is started
in the unions to oust the Communist
leadership its shrift is short. Last year
with an eye to the elections, the A.L.P.
formed its industrial groups in the unions
to root out Communism. It was in the
course of nature that the two principal
leaders of this sterling crusade should be
ex-Communists Messrs. R. A. King and
I. A. Ferguson. But the average worker
went on serenely indifferent to his fate
and that of the country.
Minorities in the Clerks’ Union and
Ironworkers’ Union at Newcastle and
Sydney have found themselves up against
a stone wall in the fact that the bribe
of the offer of more wages and shorter
hours, which Communism always hands
out to the donkeys who follow it, means
more than principle. To the average
union member, judging by his responses,
it does not seem to matter if union
administration is corrupt to the core with
Communism, or that Communist leader-
ship is maintained by a series of
extra-legal devices and manipulations
combined with standover tactics against
opposition.
The spineless majority prefers sur-
render to the discomforts associated with
contest with unscrupulous union bosses.
Where the fight has been continued, as
happened with the returned soldier who
once headed the Balmain branch of the
Ironworkers’ Federation, the fighter
usually is driven out of the industry and
blackballed by his union—and his fol-
lowers crawl furtively to safety.
It is a deplorable and humiliating posi-
tion and one calculated to fill the heart of
a patriot with shame —the spectacle of the
best-paid, most - leisured trade - union
body of workers in the world bowing
down and servilely obedient to a set of
disruptive mobsters, some of whom are
operating in the interests of a foreign
Power with treasonable intent. And even
more discouraging is the silent accept-
ance, by that section of the general public
which should know better, of a situation
which holds so much danger for tradi-
tional Australian standards of life and
liberty.
Prices and Profits.
If it has done nothing else, the sudden
rise (Australia-wide) of about 245, in
the basic-wage—£l awarded by the
Arbitration Court and up to 4s. “auto-
matically” for this quarter —has brought
all sections of the public to some serious
analysis of the continued shrinking of
money’s value against goods and services.
The latest Gallup poll is a clear indica-
tion that the immense majority of the
Australian people do not believe any
longer—if they ever did —that prices can
be “controlled” while wages are allowed
to run free.
Meanwhile “Labor” obstructionists in
the Senate are stiff compelling that
chamber to exclude Government business
while debating a bill for a referendum
on a proposal to empower the Federal
Government to do just that impossible
thing—as though all the Australian
electors had to do was to vote themselves
out of inflation and into stability and
smooth prosperity. Mr. Chifley just
stopped short of pouring cold water on
this time-wasting pretence of his own
party when he admitted, in his speech on
the Supply Bill;
I am really alarmed at the growing spiral
of inflation. It is not only in this country,
and you cannot blame this or any other
Government particularly. World prices
have made this position, and it is one every
Government has to face. More production
is only a degree of any cure.
But his affectation, dating from the defeat
of his Ministry, that the problem is one
for Governments alone, and that short
production is a negligible factor in the
trouble, is some criterion of another in-
stance of inflation —that, namely, of Mr.
Chifley’s merits as an economist.
Nevertheless the answer to the futile
attempts of Australian “Labor” to poke
its head well into the sand and refuse the
plea for united effort to fight inflation,
as it must be fought, is that the British
Socialist Government is confronted with
the same problems as the Opposition
demands that the Menzies Government
shall, by Government effort alone, resolve
in this country, and that the Attlee
Ministry in London is making exactly
the same appeals for co-operation, the
same protests about inescapable
Budgetary demands upon available Trea-
sury resources, that Ministers are making
here.
The British Minister for Defence,
explaining the need for heavy rearma-
ment expenditure, told the Margate
“Labor”-party conference;
Every member of the Government
deplores the expenditure of manpower and
materials involved in Britain’s defence
preparations. Far better to spend money
now in promoting security than lose our
security altogether.
Sir Stafford Cripps, before he resigned
office as Chancellor of the Exchequer,
had declared that the rearmament pro-
gramme would demand sacrifices in
“social security” and in the diversion of
labor to armament industries, thus involv-
ing new “austerity” living. At Margate
all members of Cabinet joined, with
much trepidation, in beseeching the
rank-and-file to go slow with demands for
more nationalisation as a cure-all for high
prices. They accepted a motion that the
Government should act to “improve the
real wages of the workers” and to reduce
prices by “controlling profits,” but leaving
discretion to the Government about
“committing itself to a timetable” (Mr.
Morrison’s phrase). The Trade-Union
Congress leaders have ' been only with
difficulty holding the unions to a voluntary
agreement not to demand higher wages.
In Australia, too, “Labor” is exploit-
ing the notion that business companies
and their shareholders are enjoying higher
“wages” for their capital than employees
are getting for their “cut” out of exist-
ing production. There are some special
cases which most people can distinguish
from current reports, and the Menzies
Government is imposing an excess-profits
tax to meet them. But, speaking gener-
ally, the charge is untrue, and the gruel-
ling imposts on companies’ earnings have
been an outstanding feature of post-war
taxation. Central-bank statistics show
that about 560 companies in 1939,
using £422 million of shareholders’ funds,
earned 6.8 per cent, on those funds, while
in 1949 the same group of companies,
using £524 million, earned 8.1 per cent.
(These profits are, of course, subject to
tax in shareholders’ hands if distributed
as dividends.) The increase here
shewn, under the influence of in-
flation, too, of 19 per cent, in
profit-earnings, is not in the same
street with that of 90 per cent, in the
basic-wage. Even the fiery Aneurin
Bevan, in the British Socialist Ministry,
told the .Margate conference that the
Socialist “full-employment” programme
“necessarily involves a permanent in-
cipient inflation,” and that such inflation
is liable to appear in profits as in wages.
High profits are, indeed, the effect, not
the cause, of high prices, and in any case
the rise in companies’ gross profits—
making a greatly distorted picture in Press
headlines —is not reflected in a rise in
distributed profits, which is what the
Socialists are really talking about. The
Commonwealth Bank report the other day
stated:
Indications are that profits of companies
of most types were greater than in the
previous year. There appears, however, to
have been an increasing tendency to plough
back profits to finance plans for expansion
and to meet the need for a larger amount
of working capital in the face of rising
costs.
It was the Chifley Government’s policy
that companies should be compelled to
do this under its capital-investment re-
strictlons. Also, the premiums charged on
new shares issued springs from the need
to offset the present inflated cost of plant-
replacement. London “Financial Times,”
discussing the “Labor” assault on high
profits as causing high prices, presents
the economic argument closely paralleled
here in Australia. It says that the profits
retained in industry to date, so far from
being a villain in the piece, have increased
efficiency with new plant and have actually
reduced profits and absorbed some higher
costs in higher turnover. Industry’s
power to do that is, however, failing
through Government action in increased
transport costs (high taxation on petrol
and higher purchase tax).
Setting aside for the moment the fact
that it is only out of increased profits that
higher wages can be paid, there are two
final considerations. An increase in gross
profits in terms of money is not the same
as an increase in real profits. As prices
rise, the degree to which capital is being
used up in earning profits is progressively
understated; part of the risk, moreover, is
due to inventory gains, and will be needed
for the replacement of raw materials at
higher prices.
Secondly, the increase is already mort-
gaged to the future. Of the increase in
gross profits one-third has gone to increased
depreciation (even then too low); another
third has been taken by increased taxation;
and of the remaining third only a fraction
(one-tenth) has gone in increased divi-
dends
If in a period such as this “high” profits
were not earned and were not devoted to
capital purposes, not merely the capacity
to earn future profits (for Government
taxation revenue) but the capacity to pay
future wages would be undermined. There
are signs that this process of attrition has
begun.
These comments are, in the main, no
less true in rebuttal of Australian
“Labor” spokesmen’s attacks on “high
profits.” If inflation could be checked by
more and more doses of nationalisation,
the British “Labor” Government would
not be floundering about in difficulties,
and the cost of living there would not
be rising (as the British Press declares)
“in spite of the evidence of the interim
cost-of-living index.” Retail prices are
rising in one direction or another almost
every week though the Board of Trade
directly “controls” prices, and have
beaten the subsidy system on which Chan-
cellor Cripps had, last April, peremptorily
to place a ceiling at somewhere about
£450 million a year.
As Mr. Menzies has said, the public
can have all these luxuries it demands —
social security, “free” health services,
higher non-contributory pensions, higher
wages, less work, more leisure—if it is
willing and able to pay for them. The
only source of this wealth of “amenities”
supposed to be possessed is in the aggre-
gate of national production, and to raise
that through harder work must be the
target if value is to be retained in the
pound.
Morrison and Bevan.
From London: Mr. Herbert Morrison
gives the impression of having outlived
his early Socialism, while Mr. Aneurin
Bevan defiantly refuses to grow up.
Always among the leading few, if not
actually in front, Mr. Morrison will be
there, whichever way the uncertain column
moves. If it swings to the Left, he will
need a little coaxing but will eventually
find the right words to say ; if the column
keeps straight on the sensible middle
course, he will enjoy one of the front
places, for, among all his followers, he
is best fitted for it; if the column veers
to the Right he’ll be there, too, and make
the best of it.
Mr. Bevan, on the other hand, will
always be found trying to influence the
column to the Left. If it makes a deter-
mined move in that direction, he’ll be
out of the file and up in front in no time;
while if he notices any inclination to
the Right, away he’ll be with his con-
siderable personal following, letting the
lest go hang themselves —and the column
will break up.
Mr. Morrison acknowledges and re-
spects his master, the electorate, and is
prepared to do as he is bid, Mr. Bevan
gives only grudging respect to any master
and prefers to go his own way. He is
like a man who seeks to destroy dryrot
by soaking it with petrol and setting fire
to it. When the fire has attacked not
only the dryrot but also the building
itself, he prescribes more petrol osten-
sibly for the good of the neighborhood,
but really to please the firemen working
under his own direction.
It would be strange if there weren’t
a clash, on principles alone, between the
two men. The marriage of convenience
recently held in public at the Margate
conference is chiefly for the sake of the
child, Solidarity. It is also one of give-
and-take, with Mr. Morrison doing a
the giving, so that the Left shall prevail.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Train-stopper.
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C., etcetera, is
due for a bit of political screening. It
may be some lack of talent in the ranks
of “the movement” which has put him
in the way of more paid official jobs
than most favorite sons of “Labor.”
That is, it must be supposed, the
“Labor” party’s business. But in one
overriding respect Mr. Ferguson’s
activities are very intimately the concern
of the N.S.W. public.
J. T. Lang’s “Century” the other day
listed Mr, Ferguson’s public, and mostly
paid, posts:
Federal president of the A.L.P.
State president (N.S.W.) of the same.
Member of the N.S.W. Leg. Council at
£312 a year “allowance.”
Member of the new N.S.W. Transport
Commission at £250 a year.
Vice-president, Federal council of the
A.R.U.
Director of Air Sales, Ltd. (2HD, New-
castle).
Member N.S.W.G.R. superannuation
board.
Member of the Sydney University senate.
A capable fellow, no doubt—very
“thoughtful,” thinks “Sydney Morning
Herald” —and his former service with
the Communist party is mentioned as
little as possible.
He presided over the body (State
A.L.P.) which had in its power to destroy
Mr. McGirr as Premier earlier this year,
and would have done so if Mr. McGirr
had not trotted to heel. That was on
the question of refusing endorsement to
four members—fellow-members with Mr.
Ferguson—of McGhr’s Parliamentary
caucus. He presided over the body which
ordered the Federal “Labor” caucus to
reverse its stand against the anti-Com-
munist Bill, and so by-pass the general
elections which would surely have fol-
lowed. That order also was one not to
be questioned.
A member of the politburo in Moscow
could not swing his weight about with
more assurance than did Mr. Ferguson
in these instances. While the “Labor”
party likes things so, they will doubtless
continue. But by what right—moral,
financial or political—does Mr. Ferguson,
as one of a State Transport Commission
(appointed at public expense to run the
publicly-owned railways efficiently), order
the Government’s railway employees to
stop the railways State-wide from run-
ning?
The railways concerned are already
bankrupt under the McGirr Government’s
management. The McGirr Government is
the obedient servant of Mr. Ferguson’s
A.L.P. executive. Mr. McGirr had a
special clause put into his Act appointing
the Transport Commission to allow Mr.
Ferguson to hold a job on that com-
mission—“an office of profit under the
Crown” —which would otherwise have
disqualified him from his comfortable seat
in the Leg. Council. Mr. Ferguson, as a
member of that commission, is “respon-
sible to the Minister” for commission
policy. The Railways Union policy is
dictated by an executive. Communist-
bossed from Victoria, of which Mr.
Ferguson is a member. Mr. Ferguson,
under this dictation, ordered the railway
strike of last Monday week, and again
last Monday. Apparently he will con-
tinue directing a stoppage of the N.S.W.
railway service—sought to be spread
nation-wide —in gross abuse of his job on
the commission that is supposed to run
that service, until the public protests
loudly enough.
The public, which will pay extra for all
this, can go without its own trains. Does
it care?
Australian Book-publishing.
From H. A. Lindsay (S.A.):
Some newspaper-publishers have made
fortunes, but no Australian book-
publisher has yet left more than a modest
sum. In Australia publishing has always
been far tougher than in countries with a
large population, yet some Australian
firms have not only made it pay but have
turned out work which can hold its own
with that produced in any country. They
have also played an important part in the
development of Australian culture.
Since the end of the war, Australian
book-publishing has suffered one blow
after another. The cost of paper has
risen steadily; the 40-hour week —the
biggest gold-brick the workers of this
country ever sold themselves—has
bumped up costs in the printing trade,
while power blackouts, caused by the
chronic coal-shortage, have meant many
expensive hold-ups. This has forced pub-
lishers to become more and more dis-
criminating as regards the works which
they sUI undertake to publish; finally,
they had to decline all but a few works
which were sure to have a good sale.
The latest rise in the basic-wage, how-
ever, seems to be the last straw. This is
how the manager of one of our publish-
ing firms puts it:
We have now reached a stage with Aus-
tralian books, particularly fiction and
juveniles, where they will see the light of
day only if published abroad. The sky-
rocketing of printing costs as the result of
this increase in the basic-wage will, in my
opinion, bring all publishing in Australia
to a standstill, with the exception perhaps
of a limited number of textbooks.
It is a deplorable position ; if no new
Australian novels are published there will
be a hiatus in our literature which
nothing can ever make good. We
have a Commonwealth Literary Fund,
administered by the Prime Minister’s
Department; but what good has it ever
accomplished? It has certainly paid a
few small pensions to some Australian
writers in their declining years, and it
has made some Fellowship grants which
have enabled a few worth-while books to
be written ; but for a long time it showed
a tendency towards aiding writers who
had Leftist leanings.
The best judges of what is worth pub-
lishing are those firms which have been
publishing books for years. No board
appointed by the Government, no matter
how erudite its individual members may
be, can have that same sound judgment
based upon years of hard experience. A
partial remedy, therefore, would be to
grant to our old-established publishing
firms a subsidy to enable them to print
what they consider to be the best works,
fiction or non-fiction, submitted to them
each year for as long as the present costs
make publication unprofitable otherwise.
Books play just as big a part in the culture
of a country as any other form of art;
if a national theatre is subsidised, litera-
ture has just as big a claim for aid.
"Failure to Pass."
Taking time off from the preparation of
arguments for presentation to the High
Court when he appears for Communist
Healy and the Waterside Workers’
Federation in their appeal against the
Communist-party Dissolution Act, Doc.
Evatt had something to say on Saturday
in defence of “Labor’s” tactics on the
Bank Bill. He maintained that there
could be no case for a double-dissolution
at present on that issue, as the Constitu-
tion required that there should be an
interval of three months between two
rejections of a bill.
On paper, no one should know more
about Senate deadlocks than “Labor’s”
deputy-leader; it was his scheme of a
half - baked proportional - representation
system of voting that ensured “Labor”
its present majority in the Senate and
the near-certainty of an unworkable
House if a double-dissolution should
eventuate. At the same time, the Doc.’s
interpretations of the Constitution have
not always been the last word on the
matter, and his latest pronouncement is
at least open to question.
The position is this: The bill was
passed by the Reps on May 4, and was
read a first time in the Senate on May 10.
“Labor” amended the bill in the Senate
by deleting the clause which provided for
the setting-up of a bank board. The bill
was returned to the Reps in this form,
but the Government refused to accept the
amendment When Parliament went into
recess on July 6 the bill was still on the
Senate’s shelf, and when sittings were
resumed at the end of September “Labor”
showed it was in no hurry to dispose of
it —although it had made it clear that it
did not intend to pass it without amend-
ment. At one stage the Opposition used
its majority to adjourn the House rather
than discuss the measure. After this
happened the Government introduced
into the Reps another bank bill, which
was a duplicate of the one the Senate
held. This stirred “Labor” to action, and
it again amended the first bill and re-
turned it to the Reps in the form which
the Government had already indicated
was unacceptable. First and second
versions of the bill thus crossed each
other between the two Chambers.
When Dr. Evatt claims that the three
months required by the Constitution
should be calculated from the date the
Senate finally sent the first bill back to
the Lower House, he is overlooking that
portion of Section 57 of the Constitution
which refers to “failure to pass.” But for
that provision there would be nothing to
prevent a hostile Senate from holding-up
legislation indefinitely. If the Govern-
ment considers the Senate is deliberately
withholding a verdict on a bill the only
way it can take full advantage of Section
57 is to prepare a duplicate bill. This
the Government has done. The Senate
received the first bill on May 10; it re-
ceived the Government’s refusal to accept
its amendment on June 23. The second
bill reached the Senate on October 12,
and so far the Senate has avoided debat-
ing it, although both caucus and the
A.L.P. executive have stated that it will
be rejected. If the Government cannot
make a failure-to-pass case out of that,
then that provision of Section 57 is mean-
ingless.
Who Wants Price-control?
All these advocates of Commonwealth
price-control overlook at least three
things. The first is that price-control
couldn’t work without wage-pegging ; the
second is that it is not simply a matter
of the States “handing it back to the
Commonwealth”; and the third is that
Commonwealth price-control (with wage-
pegging) from the end of World War II
up to September, 1948, when it was
abolished following a referendum in
which the people voted against its per-
petuation, was not a conspicuous success
and created the worst era of blackmarkets
and rackets this country ever saw.
They must have short memories indeed
who forget that under Commonwealth
price-control between 1945 and 1948
everything so controlled had its black-
market price ; that price-control was not
so much based on the price of the article
as on the profits of the person making it,
and that this in particular amounted to
restriction of production. They forget
also the savage prosecutions of small
shopkeepers while “big operators”
worked their rackets unhampered, and
they forget the hordes of inspectors
prying and poking into everybody’s busi-
ness. Anybody who wants all that back
again, on the doubtful assumption that it
will reduce the cost of living, is either
very short in memory or out for loot.
“Labor” pretends to believe that price-
control would end the inflationary spiral,
yet that same spiral began when “Labor”
was exercising price-control and was
mounting when the people, heartily sick
of “Labor” and its Socialism-cum-
Communism policy, threw it out. “Labor”
price-control merely made a delayed-
action bomb out of inflation. What
Labor” wants the people to believe is
that they can enjoy 1950 wages and hours
at 1940 prices.
As for the States “handing back” price-
control to the Commonwealth, that
would entail unanimity among the
States, which is by no means apparent,
and a desire by the Commonwealth, if
the States were unanimous, to take over
a delegated power.
Revelations by Radio.
Before Federal Parliamentary debates
were broadcast people who wanted to
know what was going on during a Federal
session and what the views of Government
and Opposition members were on any
particular legislation had to depend on
the newspapers and “Hansard.” The
latter gives full verbatim reports of the
debates, but is anything from a fortnight
behind, while newspaper reports must
necessarily be limited in length and
sketchy in character.
Broadcasting of the debates was in-
tended to bring to the elector a ringside
seat, as it were. He would tune-in to the
session and hear the legislators examining
the pros and cons of this or that bill and
thus be able to form his own conclusions
as to its merits or demerits. The idea
has not worked in practice.
What happens is that the listener hears
an outline of the legislation and what it
aims to do, usually in the second-reading
speech of the Minister in charge of it.
One Opposition member may examine it
critically. Nearly all the rest of the de-
bating time is invariably given over to
party - political speeches, muckraking,
attempts to discredit “members sitting
opposite,” and wildly irrelevant talk
which leaves the listener hopelessly
floundering as to what the bill is about.
The hope was here expressed in the
early days of Parliamentary broadcast-
ing that, as a revelation of the intelli-
gence of many politicians, it would serve
to awaken electors to the kind of men
many of them send to Parliament. That
hope may have been fulfilled to some ex-
tent in the 1949 elections. At that time
listeners mainly concentrated on the
House of Representatives. In recent
months the Senate, with the anti-Red
bill before it, has had the spotlight thrown
on it, and a lot of people must be wonder-
ing how on earth some Senators ever
came to be regarded as fit to sit in a
House of review.
Mr. Menzies is obviously eager for a
double-dissolution in order to give the
people a chance to repeat their verdict
of 1949, and he wants reformation of the
Senate to accompany the consequent
election—if “Labor” can be brought to
it. If the Australian people have been
listening to the debates of recent months,
and, if they are as intelligent as they are
believed to be, they will be just as eager
as Mr. Menzies for an election, so that
they can return real representatives to
replace some of the queer gasbags who
now disfigure the nation’s Parliament.
Mr. Speaker and Family.
When Mr. Archie Cameron, Speaker of
the House of Representatives, joined in
the procession of Speakers from the
British Commonwealth and Empire in the
ceremony of opening the new House of
Commons in Westminster last week, he
walked on holy ground (so to speak) in
a double sense —both as “ chivaler, qui
avail les paroles pour les Communes"
(in the 14th-century phrase) of his own
Parliament, and as treasuring particular
“ancestral voices” of his own on the con-
flict in Charles I’s time which, among
other things, established the Speaker as
the servant of the Commons rather than
of the King.
The occasion was historically momen-
tous, too, as marking the opening of the
new House of Commons chamber rebuilt
in faithful facsimile of the old one, which
was destroyed during the recent war by
enemy action. Among the contributions
from all over the Empire to this restora-
tion, Australia supplied the Speaker’s
Chair, of black beanwood —it is in a replica
of the old one in the House of Commons,
and a gift from the Commons, that Mr.
Speaker Cameron sits in Canberra —and
the walnut timber for the floor.
Mr. Speaker Cameron has not lacked
appreciation of the authority investing his
office, but he is bound to return rein-
forced in his conceptions of it. The evolu-
tion of the Speaker grew, of course, with
the Commons’ assertion in Plantagenet
times of their right to free discussion, and
the office began as a casual appointment
of one of their number to carry their reply
to the King on the business the King had
set before them. The names of such
C Continued on next page.}
"Smith's Weekly" Goes.
With last week’s issue “Smith’s Weekly”
ceased publication after 31 years of varied
journalistic and financial fortunes. It
was founded in March, 1919, by Joyn-
ton Smith, R. C. Packer and Claude Mc-
Kay, who had some assistance on the
literary side from J. F. Archibald, one of
The Bulletin’s founders.
The most impressive years of its life
were perhaps the first eight or ten.
The nature of the early “Smith’s” is to
some extent indicated by the fact that for
several years £75 a week was set aside to
meet possible litigation charges. But in
addition to its exposures of quacks and
racketeers, “Smith’s” made a strong fea-
ture of black-and-white art, and a num-
ber of first-class men worked for it in
this field over the years.
Joynton Smith himself had a back-
ground of racecourses, pubs and politics.
His own contribution to “Smith’s” was
probably his energy and his ability to
gather capable men around him. He had
many sorts of irons in many sorts of fires.
The “Daily Guardian” was launched in
1923, and was sold in 1930 to Associated
Newspapers, together with its Sunday
edition, for £575,000 in shares and cash
—a huge capital profit. Most of this was
split up; Joynton Smith got 200,000
Associated prefs., R. C. Packer 150,000,
D. F. H. Packer 25,000 and L. Deer
25,000. The depression ensuing, “Smith’s”
fell on hard times, R. C. Packer left, and
a furious quarrel developed between him
and Joynton Smith, who demanded that
some of the Associated prefs. be re-
turned to save “Smith’s”. Smith’s efforts
to make Packer disgorge even extended
to the political field, J. T. Lang then being
Premier. Joynton Smith himself handed
back 80,000 Associated prefs. in order
to keep “Smith’s” going.
This domestic quarrelling, boiling-over
from behind the scenes, did not help
“Smith’s”. The paper continued to lose
money—it went down heavily in various
libel actions and slipped badly over the
Wilkinson case —and in 1939 it was passed
over to National Press Pty., of which
Claude McKay became managing-direc-
tor. (He had ceased to be editor-in-chief
of the old “Smith’s” in 1927.) Under
new management it was published with
some success, especially during the war
years, until high post-war production
costs and intense competition in the
advertising field forced its suspension.
Pressmen will regret the passing of
“Smith’s”, Though it wore something of
a larrikin air, at its youthful best it was
an outstanding newspaper of its kind,
and it has left its mark in the field of
Australian journalism. Whatever its de-
fects during its fortunes and misfortunes,
it always supported Australian writers
and artists.


CIUCTEM
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
""f/sa
V-
-41
6135$
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
“prolocutors” are not mentioned before
1376, and the first two regular Speakers
(in Richard ll’s time) were, it is recorded,
“in fact managers of the Commons on
behalf of their masters [the barons] in
the Lords.” From the end of the 14th
century till the crisis under Charles I
the Speaker represented rather the King
than the members, and though by that
time the Commons were protesting their
right to “free election of their Speaker
to perform the service of the House,” not
till 1694 was the last vestige abolished of
the practice of open announcement of
the royal preference for the office.
The next development was the rule that
the Speaker should abstain from political
activity and connection with the govern-
ing party. The requirement that he
should impartially govern procedure dur-
ing debate led the way. Much depended
upon the character of the Speaker, and
the last phase in fixing his independence
of party was not seen till Mr. Shaw-
Lefevre’s time in 1839-57. Thereafter
it was accepted practice that the Speaker
should refrain from political action in
the House; Shaw-Lefevre insisted on
severing all connection with party in or
out of the Chair. The corollary, that the
Speaker should be unopposed in his con-
stituency at general elections, has been
the rule since 1832, though that rule has
been infringed three or four times —the
latest at the 1945 elections.
Organisation of business procedure be-
came of acute importance with the poli-
tical contests of the 18th century, when
the first Standing Orders appeared. The
Reform Act of 1832 accentuated this
work, and the need of the Government
to defeat delays of business became in-
creasingly pressing. About 100 years ago
the name of Mr. Thomas Erskine May
first became prominent in the proposals
to abolish ancient forms of debate which
permitted wide abuse and obstruction, but
it was not till the organised obstruction
of the Irish party in the ’eighties of last
century that modem rules for limiting
debate and for disciplining of unruly
members were adopted in Standing
Orders.
The orders governing the closure
and the “guillotine” were devised after
an extreme instance of Irish obstruction
which led Speaker Brand, in January,
1881, to close a debate on his own autho-
rity. He interrupted a member to
declare:
The motion for leave to bring in the
bill has now been under discussion for
about five days The usual rules have
proved powerless to ensure orderly and
effective debate. An important measure
recommended in her Majesty’s speech
nearly a month since, and declared to be
urgent in the interests of the State by a
decisive majority, is being arrested by the
action of an inconsiderable minority, the
members of which have resorted to those
modes of obstruction which have been
recognised by the House as a Parliamentary
offence The legislative powers of the
House are paralysed. A new and excep-
tional course is imperatively demanded;
and I am satisfied that I shall carry out the
will of the House and may rely upon its
support if I decline to call upon any more
members to speak and at once proceed to
put the question from the chair.
Mr. Speaker Cameron may perhaps
have re-read that story with some relish
during recent days in Canberra.
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia’s Parliamentary history
records nothing more ludicrous than
“Labor’s” current pretence that it is
spoiling for a fight and eager to “force”
the Government to go to the people.
Having squibbed a double-dissolution on
the Communist issue, the party now lets
it be known that there will be “no retreat”
on the Bank Bill. With which brave
words its gallant warriors in the Senate
sally forth to belabor the Government
with their tongues —on any subject but
the Bank Dili,
Judging by his Friday-night speech
Menzies expects “Labor” to squib on the
Bank Bill as on child endowment and
the anti-Red bill. Certainly they are
stalling, but the plan may be merely to
prevent an election before Christmas,
which, in effect, would mean before
March. If the Bank Bill is still in Senator
McKenna’s ice-box when the P.M. returns
from his holiday it mightn’t be a bad
idea to take a “failure-to-pass” note up
to Yarralumla.
The flies on the walls of caucus-room
at Canberra can’t complain of a dull life
these days. Their brightest moments last
week occurred on Wednesday, when a
group of members tried to get the size of
the executive cut down from 14 to seven.
Argument advanced by those who wanted
the change was that the executive, voting
as a body in caucus, could just about
carry any motion. Donal’ Grant was the
sponsor of the motion, and when it was
declared lost by 33-30 there was a call
for a recount. Chifley, as chairman,
vetoed the request.
R. C. Teece, one of the most scholarly
of Australian barristers, wrote to “S. M.
Herald” last week that “Dr. Evatt
claimed in the House of Representatives
that he felt he would completely forfeit
his position as a member of an honorable
profession” if he did not accept a brief
from Comrade Healy and the Com-
munist-led Waterside Workers to oppose
the Communist-party Dissolution Bill.
Mr. Teece pointed out that Australia’s ex-
wandering boy had a sovereign
excuse to keep out of the case
in tbai ■he an ex-judge of the
High Court and that a rule of his pro-
fession “forbids a retired judge to appear
as an advocate before the court from
which he has retired.” And Mr. Teece
says that the Doctor will commit a
“breach of a rule of etiquette by which
all reputable practitioners are bound if
he does not return his brief.”
J. A. Ferguson, man of many jobs, says
that his attitude as an official of the
A.R.U. is
not inconsistent with what is expected of
me as employees’ representative on the
Transport Commission. The fact that I
am a member of the commission does not
relieve my responsibility as a trade-union
official.
But obviously in Ferguson’s view the
fact that he is a trade-union official re-
lieves him of all responsibility to the
public as a member of the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council and of the Transport
Commission. Similarly, Eli Harrison is
relieved of all responsibility as an elected
member of the Federal Parliament. As
to inconsistency, after the events of recent
weeks no one would dream of accusing
a member of the A.L.P. executive of being
inconsistent.
Maybe it was a grand gesture of
solidarity on the part of N.S.W. railway-
men to strike in sympathy with their Vic-
torian colleagues and lose £17,000 in pay
(trade-union estimate). It would be in-
teresting to know how much of this
amount was saved by those who were due
for a day off and conveniently took it
on the Monday—thus satisfying the union
decree, their own conscience and, above
all, their own pocket. Thousands of
their fellow-unionists who were forced,
through lack of transport, to take the
day off had no such way of breaking
even; they simply lost their day’s pay.
When that great democrat Eli J.
Harrison, M.H.R. for Blaxland and boss
of the Enginedrivers’ Union, gets time to
ponder on the results of the railway
strikes he helped to sponsor, he may not
feel so happy. A mighty lot of train
passengers live in Blaxland, and Jack
Lang’s not dead yet.
Melbourne “Herald,” surveying the
Victorian rail strike, notes that “The
moves being made to get a settlement
are proceeding with all the dignity of a
well-organised funeral,” and goes on to
suggest that “Perhaps it is impossible for
Mr. McDonald and his colleagues to do
much worth while towards ending the
dispute.” There’s no “perhaps” about
McDonald’s position; he’s Premier by
the grace of “Labor” leader Cain, and
without Cain’s permission he can’t do a
thing.
It remained for Senator Kendall (Lib.,
Q.) to find the answer to the “Labor”
cry of “put value back in the pound.”
Last Wednesday he came back with “Put
value back in the Senate.” How the
people would welcome a chance to do it!
A bright light “like a car’s headlamps”
shone over Sydney last Thursday night.
It “left a long, golden white tail, broke
into two, then three, and disappeared in
a fiery shower.” Many people “phoned
Riverview Observatory to ask what it
was.” Merely another “Labor” principle
exploding under the pressure of
exigency?
Clive Evatt, sent along to represent the
McGirr Government at a ceremony to
commemorate U.N.O.’s fifth birthday,
took advantage of the occasion to attack
the anti-Red bill —which his own party
permitted to pass without a division —to
protest against the refusal to allow the
use of certain public halls for meetings of
Communists and fellow-travellers and to
allege that Australia was developing into
a police State. In Canberra next day
Menzies told Bate, M.H.R., that all he
knew of the speech was what he had
read in the papers, from which he had
come to the conclusion that “it was an
extraordinarily silly speech.” There is
abundant evidence to suggest that Clive
is an extraordinarily silly man.
Pandit Nehru, having supported Com-
munist China’s claim for admission to
U.N.0., is now confronted with its claim
for admission, by force of arms, into
Tibet. It isn’t the first time a fellow-
traveller has found his Communist friends
to be mighty uncomfortable colleagues.
Brisbane Trades Hall, v/hose secretary
and chief executive is Comrade Healy
(alias McCracken), has formally resolved
to have nothing to do with putting value
back into the pound. Its resolution on
the recent call by A.C.T.U. president
Monk for greater production to keep
value in the increased basic-wage re-
pudiated the call, declared that the in-
creased wage did not justify increased
production, rejected any suggestion that
the unions should confer with the
Menzies Government on the subject, and
woundrup by expressing the belief that
“if the Menzies Government were forced
to the country”—yes, “forced” —“it
would be defeated.” The slogan sug-
gested for the elections (which “Labor”
in Canberra has been bent only on pre-
venting) is “Vote ‘Labor’ and let infla-
tion have a really good run.”
There’s a lot unconscious humor about
some of these “Labor” Senators, The
other night O’Byme, one of the Tas-
manian team, complained that the Gov-
ernment seemed to want the Senate to
be “merely a rubber-stamp to pass all its
legislation unaltered.” This, only a few
days after the speaker, along with all his
fellows, had meekly submitted to being
used as a rubber-stamp by 12 outsiders.
Calwell came out last week with a
scheme for freezing all prices for three
months from the date the £1 basic-wage
increase begins to operate. He wanted
Menzies to put up the plan to the State
Prices Ministers. The P.M. suggested that
Calwell should use “his unrivalled influ-
ence with four of the six Prices Ministers”
to see what could be done. On paper
only three of the Ministers should be
amenable to Arthur’s influence; the
fourth, of course, represents the once anti-
Socialist Country party of Victoria.
Item from Government advertisement
calling for tenders: Supply of easy-chairs
for Department of Labor and Industry,
What, no day-beds?
Conde, the N.S.W. Electricity Com-
missioner, now uses the phrase “The
cyclical order of blacking-out suburbs for
two hours a day and one hour at night
has been maintained ” So that’s what
N.S.W. has come to under the grand
McGirr Electricity Authority, which is
now negotiating for the “acquirement” of
the Balmain Electricity Co., whose
customers, hitherto comparatively free
from blackouts, are apparently about to
be brought within the “cyclical order.”
Latest figures on the African ground-
nut scheme: Oriignal plans provided for
clearing and planting 450,000 acres. Area
so far cleared, 94,000 acres. Value of
last year’s crop, £lOO,OOO ; cost of pro-
ducing last year’s crop, £600,000. Area
to be planted during next three years,
1200 acres —rest of the cleared land to
be used for running cattle.
Casey refused to commit himself when
asked by Clarey, Pollard and Calwell
whether or not the Government intended
to go ahead with the “acquirement” of a
Melbourne city block of nearly 10 acres,
embracing four main and 15 minor streets
and alleys, on which to build a block of
Commonwealth offices. This was a
“Labor” project, and the “Labor” gentle-
men want it proceeded with, obviously
looking forward to that future when
Socialism is in the saddle and the cities
consist entirely of Government-run enter-
prises, from banks to betting-shops.
A thought on professors: If Uncle Joe
wants to steal professors from Britain
why doesn’t he take a few of the
economists?
According to the Federal Chamber of
Automotive Industries the total contri-
bution of load-transport and the motor
industry generally to Federal and State
revenues each year is now £4O million.
Some of the chief items:
Tariff (vehicles only—tariff is
also paid on tyres, spare
parts, etc.) .. .. .. £5,000,000
Sales tax (vehicles only—sales
tax is also charged on tyres,
spare parts, etc.) .. .. £8,000,000
Registration and licence fees
(States) £10,000,000
Petrol tax £17,000,000
Every State Government is out to penalise
and hamper road-transport with special
laws and taxes designed to protect State
railways, sometimes even to the extent of
passing the road-tax direct to the railways.
It would be interesting to know how much
these railways contribute to Federal and
State revenue.
South Australia is to carry out tests
with Callide coal, Premier Playford told
a questioner in the S.A. Assembly last
week. He didn’t sound very enthusiastic
on the subject, pointing out that the coal
would be much dearer than the Newcastle
product and would not be as good. In
the meantime the Victorian plan to
use Callide coal on a big scale seems to
have died a natural death.


/fj
4f
THE HONORABLE MEMBER FOR RAZORHURST.
“Give y’rselves a good slash across the throat with this, see, and then Pigiron Bob’ll NEVER be able to put value back into the pound!"


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Binjang”: We were informed in the
obituary of Skipper V, the shark which
died at Taronga zoo recently, that it
swam non-stop round the pool 1257
times a day, travelling, during its
years in captivity, a distance of about
246,000 miles. Yet all that potential
source of
power was
allowed
seemingly to
go to waste!
Not being
very good at
arithmetic I
am unable to
calculate how
many kilo-
watts of elec-
tricity the
shark, if
harnessed to
a generator,
would have
produced
daily
enough, I imagine, to have lit the
aquarium, worked the pump that
supplies it with sea-water, or perhaps an
“ It was love at first sight, wasn't it ?”
escalator to convey visitors from the
lower terraces of the park to the top. I
am perfectly willing to leave the calcu-
lations to an electrical engineer. The
bloke I envy is the one who apparently
had the job of sitting alongside the pool
in an easy-chair counting the number of
times the shark swam round it.
* ♦ * *
“B. A. Ker”: The “ ’Scuse pliz” told
me that the two strangers were New
Australians, but the next sentence wasn’t
so easy to unravel. On the third repe-
tition I gathered that they wanted to see
a man who owned a bulldog. My hound
has in him every known breed except
bulldog, but he is ugly enough to be
one, and, allowing for the foreign outlook
and Paddy’s uncanny penchant for getting
himself in trouble, I thought it discreet
to deny all knowledge of bulldogs. An
expression of baffled concentration came
over the broad, rather pleasant-looking
faces. The tall, fair young fellow kept
repeating “bulldog,” while the dark,
nuggety one made continuous circular
motions with his right hand. For the life
of me I couldn’t figure out how the
gesture related to the bulldog, nor where
the canine fitted into the puzzle. One of
those unsatisfactory endings looked in-
evitable. Suddenly the tall chap exclaimed
“plough” and, beaming with pride and
delight, repeated the word, rolling it
around his palate with obvious enjoyment.
From that I worked it out and directed
the pair to my neighbor. After all, they
weren’t so far out —“bulldog” does sound
something like “bulldozer”; and a bull-
dozer is much like a large tractor, and a
tractor’s not so very much different from
a rotary-hoe, and my neighbor does take
on outside jobs with his.
* * * 4c
“Becks”: Angle on the tram v.
bus question. On Sydney’s first
recent trainless Monday 1 went into
the city by tram, having managed
to squeeze my way on to one
which had been full to bursting-point
even before the 20 passengers ahead of
me forced themselves on to it. That
vehicle bore out the contention of those
who claim that a tram can carry more
people to the square inch of floor-space
than any other form of transport, with the
possible exception of a runaway sardine-
tin. Few of us strap-hangers were able
to get more than one foot on the floor,
and we were so tightly wedged that it
was impossible to change the foot. Small
wonder, then, that citizens travelling in the
thousands of cars and trucks along our
route cast us glances of pity and
sympathy. Quite different were the looks
we received from passengers in the sister-
service—the Government-run buses,
which from time to time came to rest
alongside us in the traffic jam. Bus-
passengers made no attempt to conceal
their contempt; they gave us the same
look of supercilious scorn as the French
aristocrats from the lofty comfort of their
tumbrils bestowed upon the canaille
pushing and struggling for good positions
near the guillotine. It must be something
about the buses that induces this attitude.
Later the same day I travelled home by
bus myself, and at intervals on the
journey we pulled up alongside trams
packed with strap-hangers; the looks of
supercilious scorn I cast at the poor un-
fortunates could not have been bettered
by Basil Rathbone.
“Clooter”: One of the most remarkable
manifestations of this mechanical age is
the unanimity of cardrivers, when debat-
ing together the risks of the road, that
if everybody drove in the knowledge that
there are vehicles on the road there would
be few accidents. In all these discussions
it is generally agreed that the slow driver
who hugs the centre line, the fool who
shoots out of side-streets into streams of
traffic, the cutter-in, the drunk and the
speedster constitute the main menaces of
the road. I’ve taken part in hundreds of
these discussions in offices, private homes,
pubs, clubs and elsewhere and heard
thousands of drivers agree on these things,
1 dare swear that if you could hold a
:ongress of every licensed driver in Aus-
tralia there’d be the same unanimous
agreement. And then, when the congress
was over, they’d all get in their cars,
trucks, buses and bulldozers, and mount
their motor-cycles, and immediately
“Just getting in a stock before Wool goes up.”
efforts to get away would be hampered
by the slow, the speedy, the cutter-in,
the fool and the drunk.
itTT * „ * ~ * . * _
_ . Uramao : Social Security Bene-
ficiary has displaced Old-Age Pensions
nowadays. Dr. Johnson was m a merry
twitter over the word when he defined it
in his dictionary as: Pension: An
allowance made to anyone without an
equivalent. In England it is generally
understood to mean pay given to a State
hiiehng for treason to his country,
Years l a ' e r, when the Government
granted him a pension of £3OO a year,
Prime Minister, the Earl of Bute,
wrote to him: It is not given you for
anything you are to do, but for what you
have done,” and that the pension was not
offered so that he should refrain from
dipping his pen in faction. Johnson per-
mitted his definition to remain m t
ic lonary, but assured Boswell that: I
am the same man in every respect that I
have been; I retain the same principles.
I is true that I cannot now curse the
ouse of Hanover, nor would it be
ecent for me to drink King James’s
health in the wine that King George gives
me money to pay for. But, sir, I think
t at the pleasure of cursing the House of
Hanover and drinking King James’s
health are amply overbalanced by £3OO
a year.”
•*» t.* , * .* ,
fT> Havanan loaves
(B. 11/10/50). We arrived in a
Bavarian village after four and a half
months starvation as p.-0.-w., and
tnrough some bungling we got nothing
at all to eat on the last two days. Early
next morning we were taken individually
to farmhouses. I went to a middle-aged
hausfrau who was in the midst of her
laundry. She put in front of me a coffee-
pot, jug of milk, basin of sugar and a
great loaf of bread from which she slit
three slabs. After telling me her husband
was at the front in Russia, she called in her
two young sons, bade them shake hands
with me, told me to help myself to the
“brot” and coffee and went back to her
washing. I ate the three surfboards she
had separated from the loaf, cut myself
two more and sank five cups of ersatz
coffee. When she came back to the
kitchen 50 minutes later she made no
comment on the amount I had disposed
of, but took me out to begin work. I
had just tossed the first fork of manure
on the wagon when a guard came around
with one of my mates. A mistake had
been made: I was to go somewhere else ;
the mate was to stop there. The farm-
frau put to him the question she had put
to me; “Aft thou a farmer?” From
him, as from me, she received a regretful
“Nein.” Throwing her hands in the air
she cried “Mein Gott! Mein Brot'”
* * * *
“Old Carp”: I helped build the
original pavilion in Sydney’s Centennial
Park, where the ceremony of declaring
Australia a Commonwealth took place
(B. 27/9/’5O). I also had a hand in build-
ing the landing-jetty in Farm Cove, from
which hundreds of steps led to the road
near Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, and the
thousands of Venetian masts which lined
the streets on that occasion. The masts,
30ft. to 50ft. long, were entirely hand-
wrought with draw-knife and spar-planer
at nine bob a day: 6.30 a.m. till 5 p.m.,
breakfast on the job. They were after-
wards sold at fivepence per running foot,
and for the next decade Sydney’s
suburbia boasted more flagstaffs than at
any time in its history. I last handled
those masts in around 1903, when the
Government decided to erect a power-
station to supply electric light to Gov-
eminent buildings. My job was to build
the scaffolding for its 196 ft. chimney, and
the masts were my scaffold-poles. Be-
fore the power-station was completed the
chy Council’s electric light was avail-
able, and the Government, finding it
cheaper to buy current than generate it,
stopped work on the powerhouse—not,
however, before the chimney-stack was
finished. The still-smokeless chimney,
surmounted by its 18-ton iron cap, stands
near t fi e city approach to the Harbor
Bridge, risin y 30ft above the dec k-level
0 f tbe bridge. The powerhouse is now
a mining museum .
* * * *
“Eyefuller”: The blank wall at the
bac k of the Sydney tram passenger-
shelter had proved irresistible to the
pencil-fiends. Apparently most of the
scribblers were of callow age, for almost
a fi the inscriptions were declarations of
i ove . “j.B. loves Alice M.,” or “L.O.
j s K.P.’s sweetheart,” or intertwined
initials in a heart and so on. More than
90 p.c. of them were of the “John loves
Mary” type, but the boldest declaration
D f all was in 2in. black letters across
the bottom board; “Bill Jones loves
Beer'”
* * * *
“D.A.”: There has been criticism in
The Bulletin lately of the quality of
some Australian wines in Britain. But,
competing against entries from many
parts of the world, Australian wines sub-
mitted for judging at the Brewers’ Exhi-
bifion in London have been successful in
gaining awards. From their London
commercial stock, Seppelt’s included
samples of sparkling-burgundy and port-
type wines, both of which won first prize,
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: So “the honest-to-goodness
pipe is still a sign of integrity and hero-
ism” (B. 11/10/50)? Let me see ; haven’t
I seen photographs somewhere of Joe
Stalin or someone smoking a pipe or
something?
* * ♦ ♦
“Kanimbla”: The longbow may have
been impossible for cavalry to use (B.
4/10/’5O), but both the English and
French had horse-archers in the Middle
Ages. The French corps retained the
name after the bow had been discarded
as a weapon. France’s horse-archers were
presumably armed with the crossbow, but
that weapon was despised in England,
So what kind of bow did the English
horse-archers carry?
* * * *
“Hamer”: The craze for records. While
was visiting a sick friend in a Sydney
hospital there was a sudden downpour of
rain ; it beat against the windows and
the water gurgled in the downpipes. The
old fellow in the next bed grinned feebly
at my friend, “That’s what I like to hear,”
he said. “We’ve beaten every rain record
this year except one. They say we’ve got
another inches to go to beat the 1860
record for a year’s rain. Before I die Vd
like to be able to say I’d lived in the year
with the record rainfall.”
U.N.O. REBUKED.
“The Leader of the Opposition, Mr. Chifley, said
that the Nationalist Government of China was com-
pletely corrupt. The South Korean Government was
completely corrupt.”
I don’t like getting tough with you, said Chif
to Uncle Sam,
But you’re tracking up corruption from Korea
to Siam;
If you want to throw your weight about to
gain unworthy ends,
Don’t waste it on those Asians —think of old
Australian friends.
For Australia’s Labor party is as much a total
wreck
As the South Korean Government, or that of
Chiang Kai-shek;
Like them, it goes on fighting with its back
against the wall,
But no one hears of UNO interfering in the
brawl.
The public doesn’t want it; they have put it
on the shelf,
But still the Labor party makes a nuisance of
itself;
Nor even Chiang Kai-shek with “squeeze,” or
Syngman Rhee with fear
Could muddle up the nation as the Senate does
it here.
The enemies of Asians find their wily ways a
bother,
But the Labor-party members, they don’t even
trust each other;
For what their leaders term today “a most
dishonest measure”
May take on virtue overnight, at some out-
sider’s pleasure.
So if the UNO people want a doubtful mob
to back up,
Let them intervene and save us from a Labor-
party crack-up;
For only by some miracle of world co-operation
Can Australia be continued as a disunited
nation.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Pat”; “Mullum” (B. 4/10/’5O) com-
plains that the size of the modem car
tends to split up friendly groups. I’d be
only too pleased if the miniature propor-
tions of our little flivver proved a de-
terrent to the company of the gang. Un-
fortunately they seem to provide a bond
of affection. In the last six months the
car has suffered a broken front spring,
broken axle and numerous flats. The
fellows love it all the more for its in-
capacities. They squeeze inside like
sardines and cling tenaciously without, and
once a front-row forward rode home on
the bonnet. And when it’s a matter of
“ We've been to houseboat parties before."
picking-up the kegs for the Saturday
football “do’s,” my little bus is invariably
selected, because, as the president pointed
out, “You can’t ask a fellow with one
of those beautiful big cars to go round
collecting beer-barrels. It’d be too
demeaning.”
* * # •
“J5o”: Of all the devices of the devil,
P* automatic lift holds pride of place.
You step in at the ground floor, close
both doors and press the requisite button.
Nothing happens. After a bit you dis-
cover the grille-door is one-thirty-second
of an inch off closed. You carefully seal
the gap, and it starts off. At the third
floor—you’re wanting the fourth—it
stops, then back-pedals. It’s down to the
ground floor again by the time you’ve got
“Blasted hypnotists!”
to the emergency button. You are about
to reach for the doors to open it
resignedly when it starts aloft apparently
of its own volition, with a look of awful
hate aimed at you from those waiting
outside. Nearing the fourth floor you
cunningly lean on that button, but it sails
on past to the sixth, where a bad-
tempered-looking man glares at you for
having so long delayed the lift, and
presses the ground-floor button without
seeking your desires. The elevator lives
up to its name, and is on its way to the
seventh when you both dive for the
button. At about ihe fifth yo-yo attempt
you’ll eventually lob at the right floor,
only to hear that the fellow you wanted
has just left. You dash out, hoping to
catch him. But he’ll have got too long a
start —he’ll have had sense, as an old
habitue of the building, to walk down.
* * * *
“Mullum”: Sucker lists (B. 18/10/’50)?
I was a 14-year-old schoolboy when our
mail-box began to disgorge circulars
from racing tipsters. The first one was
regarded as a practical joke, but, after
about the fourth, my mother began to
worry about the morals of her eldest son.
A family conference followed, at which
I admitted having replied to an advertise-
ment for some no\elty gadget. Investiga-
tion, by my dad, revealed a small office
in a city building containing a small stock
of the advertised goods, a large stock of
stationery and envelopes, and a dupli-
cator. Dad’s conclusions may have been
wrong, but Mother was again able to
sleep peacefully, without dreams of her
son as a broken-down, beer-sodden
gambler.
“Ceg”: McHaggis, very keen, though
somewhat absent-minded, was owed 13s.
by a large trading company. In due
course he received a cheque to which was
attached a docket asking that the cheque
be presented promptly and stating that
no receipt other than the endorsement
would be required. He put the cheque
in his wallet and forgot all about it.
Some months later he got a letter
from the company’s auditors asking that
the cheque be cleared and stating that if
it had been lost a duplicate would be
issued and the original cheque “stopped.”
This was to enable the accounts to be
regularised. Again he overlooked the
matter, and a month or so later met the
principal of the firm on the golf-links.
Said the principal, “Look here, McHaggis.
Our auditors are worrying about some
tuppenny-ha’penny cheque of ours that
you hold. Why don’t you present it?”
Said McH., “Well, if the cheque is causing
all that bother and worry it must be
worth more than the thirteen-bob. I’ll
let you have it for a quid.” So when
they got to the nineteenth-hole the cheque
was fished out of the wallet and the
quid handed over. The auditors now
have the job of trying to reconcile the
payment of the extra seven shillings with
correct bookkeeping.
* * * *
“Hattie Hop”ln a Warning to
Vandals, Mosman Council (Sydney) in-
cludes in its complaints of lack of civic
pride. “One bed of stock eaten off by
baker’s horse (warned).”
* * * *
“Villefair”: Until a Sydney newspaper
drew my attention to it I had never
realised that the fellows who write the
words for Tin Pan Alley song-hits are
paid handsomely for their efforts. I had
always held some vague sort of a notion
that the lyrics were written by American
schoolboys as a form of imposition ; kind
of “Stay in and either write T must not
talk’ two hundred times or compose the
lyrics for two popular songs.” A little
thought, of course, dispels the idea —no
schoolboy could be childish enough to
dash off such lines as “Onesy, twosy, I
love yousy.” Nor could he hope to pro-
duce such grammatical gems as “If they
asked me who my favorite point of view
wuz, I’d say you wuz.” Still, the daily
was greatly impressed by the prowess of
the fraternity. It gave an amazed ex-
clamation-mark to a sentence carrying the
information that one of Mr.. Soanso’s
epics took him just 10 minutes to write!
It’s hard to believe, all right; the only
explanation I can offer is that he was
having a lot of trouble with his fountain-
pen.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: “Pandanus’s” Pop (B.
11/10/’5O) who got off the Sydney ex-
press at Albury, to break his fast, in
pyjamas, recalled breakfast-time on the
Trans, at Tarcoola three years ago. A
thirsty bloke on the train, hearing that
there was a pub a few hundred yards
from the line, didn’t wait to dress or
even to slip on a gown or coat, but rushed
away in his pyjamas, to stagger back
with his Plimsoll-mark hidden under his
load of bottles. What tickled me was
that the passengers who gave him a sym-
pathetic cheer were later contemptuous
of the abos who gathered armfuls of
stale bread from the dining-car.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Bill Lowe, of the Sydney
hatting and mercery firm, had a standing
offer to give me the best hat in his shop
if I abandoned no-hatting (B. 4/10/’5O).
I don’t pose as the originator of the cult,
but a lot of artists and writers, after
commenting that my emancipation from
the tyranny of the lid was sensible, fol-
lowed my example. My start was made
in 1919 shortly after my return from the
war; it was the result of pigheadedness.
My wife, disliking the lid I wore, wanted
me to buy a new one; my vow that I
would not do so before Christmas was
tested when my hat blew out of a train-
window, By the time Christmas had
come and gone I had grown used to
hatlessness, and I never returned to hat-
buying. George Fitzpatrick, the hospital
art-union organiser, claimed to bo
Sydney’s no-hat pioneer, but he only
started at the same time as myself. Bob
Bonar, at least six years earlier, used to
go about with his head uncovered, but
he always carried a hat in his hand —
presumably to show that he could afford
to buy one but preferred not to wear it.
* * * *
“W.E.8.”: I was standing with a mate
on a street-corner opposite the Regent
Theatre in Barrow-in-Furness (Eng.) when
we were approached by an urchin with
the usual “Any gum, chum?” I cracked
back, “Sure, if you’ve got any big sisters.”
Asking us to wait a minute he disappeared
around the corner and came back, after
a short interval, dragging by the hand a
very grubby and reluctant young miss.
He brought her to a stop with a trium-
phant “She’s my big sister!” She was,
too, but only just. He got the gum.
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: Apart from the successful
revival of Westralia’s whaling industry,
landfalls of whales have proved un-
expected windfalls for private citizens.
Recently a comparatively small whale
became stranded in shallow water on
Scarborough beach, near Fremantle.
Members of the surf-club brought it
ashore, put a tent round it, and exhibited
it in aid of the club funds before selling
it to a fertiliser company. More profit-
able still are the occasional finds of
ambergris made along Westralia’s long
coastline. The latest was a piece, weigh-
ing about 7£lb., which was washed ashore
near Mandurah. It was sold by the
finder for £235.
* * * •
“Pallamana”: The scene was an up-
country courthouse handling a cattle-
stealing charge. Tommy, an abo. stock-
man, called as a witness, marched up to
the Bar table, apprehensive and confused
in his unaccustomed surroundings. The
sessions clerk tapped on the witness-box,
saying “Up here, witness.” Before the
officials realised what was happening
Tommy jumped up and squatted on the
top railing of the box.
* * * *
“Doynest”: Education marches with
the times. Our 10-year-old lad has to
keep a scrapbook of newspaper cuttings
on the “topic of the week” selected by
his teacher. Thus the progress of the
recent Royal birth was duly recorded by
the whole class for the month preceding
the event, and our youngster, like his
mates, trotted off to school one morning
with a picture of Princess Elizabeth out
for a drive a couple of days before the
birth of her daughter with the caption
“Princess Startles Londoners.” His scrap-
book certainly startled his grandparents,
who cling to the idea that there are some
matters upon which children should be
kept in ignorance; but the modern
youngster seems to take in everything as
a matter of course.
“N.D.P.”: Glass bottoms in pewter-
pots (B. 20/9/’50)? An old R.A.F.
warrant-officer I met in Lahore main-
tained that they were designed to
frustrate the intentions of the recruiting-
sergeants of
former days, who
were wont to slip
the King’s
shillings into the
pints of unwary
drinkers, the idea
being that once
the loaded beer
was consumed the
innocent victim
had accepted the
shilling and was in the Army. Wary
ones, by looking through the glass
bottom, could guard against this well-
intentioned, but no doubt inconvenient,
little ruse.
* * * ♦
“Sack”; An acquaintance of mine has
shares in a flourishing accountancy firm ;
he also runs a small business. For some
years he has been a client as well as a
shareholder —the firm keeps his books
and prepares his income-tax returns. This
year he received a circular from the
manager: the firm regretted that rising
costs had reached such proportions that
it was no longer possible to continue the
accountancy service for the £l2 per
annum hitherto charged. It was with
reluctance, therefore, that the fee would
be increased to £l4 per year. In the same
week, as a shareholder in the company,
he received another letter. It conveyed
the information that, as a result of an
extremely prosperous year, dividends paid
would be three per cent, higher than the
gratifying return last year, etc. The con-
flicting statements have the client-share-
holder a little bewildered. He can’t make
up his mind whether he is a smart busi-
nessman who was shrewd enough to in-
vest in a progressive accountancy firm or
just a mug being fleeced by a mob of
profiteering figure-jugglers.
A SORRY PROSPECT.
“In turning, in increasing numbers, to many manual
occupations in competition with men, women are
In danger of losing their femininity. After all, who
wants a woman with muscles ?” —Radio speaker.
In the days when milady, in boots,
Ties and collars, severely-cut suits,
Was encased very tightly,
Such clobber unsightly
Ne’er led to her smoking cheroots.
Despite her apparel, she lacked
Nothing feminine then to attract.
Without aid from sweaters,
In conjugal fetters
She soon had her man, that’s a fact.
The reason is not hard to seek.
It wasn’t because she was meek,
As pure as a lily.
Or acted quite silly,
Or seemed to be helpless and weak.
She knew all those tricks, you can bet
But, with this basic rule she was set:
Developing muscles
And redder corpuscles
Won’t help you a hubby to get.
As then, it is so even now.
For men never change, anyhow.
Was caveman enraptured
At finding he’d captured
A wench built for use in a plough?
And the Georgian gallant so grand—
Wouldn’t he have lost all self-command
To find, as a lover.
His ladye could cover, I
While sobbing, her face with one hand?
Modern industry woman beheld —
The bell of her slavery’s knelled!
Equality’s banner
She holds —and a spanner;
She’ll mould and she’ll hammer and weld.
Now, it’s quite an unfortunate fact,
But Nature a price will exact.
She’ll find that her biceps
Will bulge, and her triceps—
From beauty that’s apt to detract.
Come! Find me a cove who’ll confess
To liking a Jill or a Bess
Who with blowlamp is shaving
Or pumice is laving,
Or strangles you with her caress.
And it’s here that I strongly protest
’Gainst the he-girl with hair on her chest
Who from sledgehammer-wielding
May get so unyielding—
Her waist can’t be properly pressed.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Vet”: Have just been reading a
popular serial with an Australian setting,
and, honest, it’s surprising how much a
bloke can learn about his own country
from some of these yarns. Seems most
honest outbackers spend a good slice of
their time hunting cattle-thieves, and, so
they won’t starve on the job, make a
“cache” of tucker here and there in the
bush. The duffers, I learned, build secret
“corrals” in the thick scrub, and into them
they drive their neighbors’ poddy-calves
for branding. Even the utilities we drive
round here seem to have been reared
pretty tough, for one, after ploughing
through a flooded creek, forded a “second
creek in the same way, leaping from
boulder to boulder.” Kangaroo country,
no doubt. Then, when the utility eventu-
ally got itself bogged, the driver simply
improvised a set of harness from the
lariats carried on stockmen’s saddles,
hitched three stock-hacks to the broken-
down vehicle and pulled it from the water
and to a clearing among the trees a mile
away. Seems phenomenal luck that all
three hacks which turned up were
apparently broken to harness-work, and,
though we were spared the coyotes and
the six-guns, the yarn rings about as
dinkum to an outbacker as a film on
droving.
* * * ♦
“Billy T.”: Janie, my cow, has come
into her own. She is a good cow, gives
just on five gallons daily and her test is
6.2 ; she tethers anywhere, and when not
tethered a single wire keeps her in
bounds; not only is she never leg-roped,
but she will stand for milking without
bailing-up. She is, indeed, the perfect
house-cow, but —she is not beautiful. She
was sold to me as a Jersey-Ayrshire
cross, but my belief is that she was sired
by a stray giraffe, and her neighbors look
down upon her; she has not the sub-
stantial form of Dobson’s brindle nor
the grace of Grant’s Jersey, and still less
the deep sheen of Ross’s Illawarra Short-
horn. So, as Barrie would say, if she
hasn’t charm, it
doesn’t matter what
else she has. That
is, until lately ; but
last week she was
paid marked atten-
tion by a new bird.
Not her usual Willie
Wag, but a lively
fellow with an olive-
green back, a black
crown, chin and line through the eye,
and above said optic a most distinctive
patch of vivid-blue skin. So I sought
|he savant who advises me on such
matters, and that, said he, was the black-
chinned honey-eater. Then he demanded
to know what color hair the strange fowl
was collecting, and I, having long ago
learnt that when my scientific cobber
raises such apparently trivial matters he is
not fooling, was able to state that on each
trip the bird gathered the whole of its
cargo from the white patch on Janie’s
rump ; and that weighty information was
hailed with delight, for it appears that
observations from places far apart record
that this particular honey-eater always
prefers blondes. Can’t find the nest.
When the fowl has tugged tufts till it’s
wearing a mo that would do credit to an
air-commodore, it shoots off high and fast
for points north, and I can’t follow it. But
Janie watches it go, past the brindle, past
the Jersey and the A. 1.5., and when these
“Come out, Rip, and let Bulldozer have a go."
now bellow to pass the time of day she
slips up the cud and doesn’t even bother
to answer.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: On a Caulfield
Cup day in pre-radio days on isolated
Dirk Hartog Island in huge Shark Bay
(W.A.) we ran a £4O sweep on the race.
First nominations had to be taken for
the draw, and in that sweep you got
your money’s worth —everyone had three
or four horses. We learnt an odd
scratching by a very occasional mail per
lugger, but race-day came and went and
all we knew on Dirk Hartog was there
were still 210 runners in the race! On
the following Saturday a Scowegian
skipper arrived from Denham in a wool
lighter. Yes. He had heard the winner!
What was it now? Woomerlang. A
perusal of the 210 “runners” disclosed no
moke of that name among the nomina-
tions ! Must be a name that rhymes with
Woomerlang? Jimmarong for sure. But
was it that? Next week came the police-
man by lugger. The cup winner—yes—
it was on the tip of his tongue. Just
give him time to think. We didn’t, of
course, and two weeks after it was run
the 1927 Caulfield Cup on Dirk Hartog
was still anyone’s race. More waiting,
and then a pearler blew along. All he
knew was that “it began with G,” which
could have been any of 21 starters. It
wasn’t until the Minderoo anchored off
the homestead to load wool for London
that we learnt the cup winner—Textile —
and that the sweep-winner was a
boundary-rider 50 miles away out near
lonely Cape Inscription.
“Solitude”: As the travelling mob
halted in the shade, one bloke grabbed
tinware from the jinker and made
towards our shack. “That same outfit
again,” announced Seventyfiver. “Pity
them blokes wouldn’t water at the creek,
’stead o’ cornin’ on here every time.”
“Well, we can’t refuse them water,” I pro-
tested. “No, but they want so flamin’
much of it,” complained the old bloke.
“And the soak’s gettin’ terrible low. They
c’d just as easy eat down bo the crick.
Still,” he sighed, “we got t’ give ’em water
if they want it, Yair, that’s right —if they
want it.” The traveller arrived with a
rattle. “Water?” he mentioned matter-
of-factly. “Sure,” said Seventyfiver
generously. “We got plenty t’day.
Thought last night when we got the dead
cow out that soak mightn’t come good
again, but she’s jake.” He filled two
billies, and eyed the accompanying
bucket. “Want that filled, too? Righto.
’Fraid that’s all we got in the hut, though.
Y’ll have t’ fill y’ waterbags at the soak
as y’ go past.” He glanced at Blue and
the pup and looked round inquiringly.
“Them other three dawgs gone down t’
the water again, Sol?” he called. “Give
’em a whistle, will y’, so’s the water’ll
settle f’r these waterbags. Dunno how
them dawgs all fit in,” he remarked to
the bloke. “But I bet old Mange’ll be in
the middle. Always lyin’ in water, he is.
Well, here’s y’r billies, me lad.” He
forced them into the hands of the gaping
bloke. “And y’r bucket. Y’re welcome any
time. S’ long.” That outfit waters at the
creek now.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: In the Adelaide
Gardens last week I watched a pair of
willie-wagtails escorting a gardener
around the flower-beds. To catch them
all he had to do was to open his palm
and one or other bird landed on it to
pick pieces of cheese from a matchbox
he carried. These feathered friends, he
told me, have been there for years, and
each spring they rear young which also
learn to feed from friendly hands. But
when of age the parents drive the
youngsters away to fresh fields, so that the
food-supply for the next additions to the
family will not be jeopardised. It’s a
curious thing, but all black-and-white
birds seem to specialise in this habit of
forcibly dispersing their progeny. I know
that magpies, mudlarks, restless fly-
catchers and butcher-birds also practise
it.
* * * *
“Atlas”: Weather-stained dumps of
salt, gypsum and other minerals about
Kalgoorlie and Boulder (B. 30/8/’5O) still
mark the sites of long-vanished con-
densers, and litter from the ruins of the
giant plant at Coolgardie is even yet
scattered around. Without these installa-
tions life on the fields in those early days
would have been impossible, and they did
a grand job ; but the turn of the tap which
set the Mundaring water flowing, into Mt.
Charlotte reservoir shut down the con-
densers, and overnight they became so
much useless junk. The jubilant celebra-
tions that marked the completion of
O’Connor’s magnificent achievement were
marred by at Jeast one tragedy. Faced
with what he conceived to be absolute
ruin, one operator piled high his remain-
ing firewood, soaked it with oil, and,
climbing to the top, stretched himself out,
put a plug of gelignite in his mouth, lit
the fuse and perished in the flames.
* * * »
“Blair Athol”: The long-held belief of
old-timers of Flinders Island, Bass
Strait, that the nautilus-shells are washed
up on the beaches only every seven years
has been exploded. Numbers of them,
ranging in size from sixpence to a dinner-
plate, were stranded on Whitemark
beach in the autumn of 1945 and again
last year and this. The shells are white,
hemispherical and very fragile. The
molluscs inhabit very deep waters, and
although apparently common on Austra-
lian beaches they are not usually found
in Tasmania. As the deepest waters of
Bass Strait are north of Flinders it is
probable the shells are washed from there
into the calm waters between the smaller
islands and the western shore. Squid can
be seen around the piles of Whitemark
jetty at low-tide, although the female is
not known to exist long without the shell
of the nautilus, which it uses as a nest.
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat had gone out to
Red Bend with the local cricketers and
I was putting in a quiet Sunday with a
bit of washing, some reading and a lot
of loafing. About four that afternoon a
cove appeared in a utility-truck and said,
“Hey, are you the bloke that’s got a big
mate workin’ with y’ on the road job?”
“Yair.” “Well, he’s in the middle of a
first-class ruddy row with a bunch of
cricketers out at Red Bend. He stoushed
the John an’ skittled a couple o’ blokes
an’ he looks like being shot in
an’ I don’t know what else.”
The bearer of the tidings had no
objections to running me out
there, and away we went. Half-
way along there’s a roadside
pub, and who should be sitting
on the veranda absorbing a pot
o’ beer but Mat. “Cripes,” I
yelled at him, “you’re a cool
customer. Come on, you’ll have
half the police in the district
after y’.” He looked astonished.
Presently it developed that he
hadn’t gone on with the
cricketers, deciding that a few
quiet drinks were better than
chasing around a cricket-field on
such a day. “But who’s kickin’ up the
row out there?” I demanded. “I dunno,”
said the truck-driver, “but he certainly
knocked the John for a sixer.” .Mat put
down his beer. “Just my ruddy luck,” he
growled. “A chance to bowl a John for
a sixer an’ I have t’ be stuck here drinkin’
beer!”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Eureka”: The hatter had immediately
tossed back into the river the fairly big
cod he had caught, baited again and slung
out. Presently he landed a much smaller
one, and this he
put in his bag,
picked up his
gear and made
for his camp,
“What’s the
idea of throw-
ing the big one back?” I asked, “Too
tough to eat?” “Oh, no,” he replied.
“But, you see, I on’y got a small frying-
pan.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A chap I know has
racing pigeons, and with figures and
sundry clocks he can prove that they get
home from distant parts in rather fan-
tastic times. Probably he’s right, but my
tip is that swallows and their cousins,
the fairy-martins, think they’re faster —
because they fly close to the ground. The
pigeons hurtle at such a height that the
earth below just glides by, like a great
carpet, every tree, every fence, every
gutter clear in view; the little fowl,
though they may do only half the speed,
skim so low that everything is blurred,
and that’s when you really think you’re
speeding. I fancy the little chaps like
it that way, for although the fairy-
martins come down to the road for mud
when needed, they also spend much time
just skimming—and all the insects can’t
be at that level all the time. The swallows
skim the river to drink, or to hawk, or
just to skim, while in the scrub a mile
away the tree-swallows behave similarly
on a 50-yard-wide dam; again spending
far more lime within a couple of inches
of the water than it takes to dip a few
beakfuls, before they resume their hawk-
ing just over the treetops. I fully endorse
their preference ; from modern airliners
the only way you can get an idea of your
speed —unless time and season allow you
to watch your aircraft’s shadow —is to
line up the edge of the wing on the ground
pattern and picture yourself tearing over
the landscape at that rate. In the old
training days it was easier. Sometimes
we were sent to find army convoys that
were trying to dodge us, and where the
treelined inland roads aided the Army
boys our pilot used to come down and
skim the young wheat beside the roads
—we’d watch for convoys while he d
watch for fences, and jump them; and
from that level even the old Anson was
plenty fast enough for me. The new
jet airliners we’re reading about will be
the dullest form of travel yet devised, for
they’ll go so high that even with their
greater speed the earth will crawl behind
slower than ever below; that’s why there
will always be a market for little sports
cars slung so low that the driver s rump
is within 6in. of being burnt red-hot on
the sizzling road.
ARISTOCRAT.
The hothouse plant is a bloom of class;
For it lives in a big, warm house of glass
And sits in style in the drawing-room.
At home to guests who admire its bloom.
From the top of its head to the tip of its toes
It is dressed in the most extravagant clothes,
And I’d not be surprised if I e’er should spy
One wearing an eyeglass in its eye,
With yellow gloves and a pair of spats;
For they are, indeed, such aristocrats.
All blooms outside, I regret to state,
To them, are the proletariate.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
MY
9
11=4
“Old-timer”: The old brown Minorca
hen was the station pet. She disdained
the company of her fellow-fowls, pre-
ferred to roost on the rail at the end of
the men’s hut, took her food from Paddy
the cook, and was strongly suspected of
A.W.U. sympathies by the boss. She
hobnobbed with the dogs, sometimes
assisted at the drafting-yards, and on Sun-
days became somnolent on a dinner of
bread soaked in bottled beer. A plump,
slightly raffish matron, she indignantly
rejected the advances of Joe, the big
Orpington rooster, who was obviously
misled by the slight air of impropriety
which hung around her. Then, to the
complete astonishment of everybody, she
MAN
at
WORK
went into retreat under the woolshed for
three weeks and emerged with three
chicks. These she displayed to the
assembled hands with a queer mixture of
pride and embarrassment. The hands
discussed the phenomenon for a week, and
then, since the Minorca became sub-
merged in motherhood, lost interest in
her. In subsequent days she (a) soundly
thrashed a kelpie pup which tried to
yard her chicks, ( b ) became offended
when Paddy threw water over her and
her brood and determinedly led them on
a march to West Australia, and (c) re-
turned two days later with her own and
four more chicks she’d gathered in some-
where. She reared the seven until they
were feathered, whereupon the boss’s wife
had them mustered and placed in the big
pen with the rest of the station poultry.
The Minorca spent four days running up
and down outside the pen, was allowed
inside, promptly took to everything with
feathers on and had to be exiled again.
Two more days she spent brooding about
the woolshed, then she vanished. Five
days after that Red Louis, in from Moon-
light, reported that with a light swag up
he saw her headed up the back road
through Prungle, making for Balranald,
fiercely muttering something about
“Queensland being the only place worth
livin’ in.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Eurimburra”: Old Peter had his 800
acres practically free of rabbits and was
always hard on the tails of the last few.
These mostly took refuge in about four
acres of granite boulders and briar-
bushes. With a sheer drop to a knobbly
little creek with two floodgates, it couldn’t
be effectively fenced or dug, and the old
cove was always on the lookout for ways
and means of exterminating the pests it
harbored. Then one day someone told
him of the gelignite stunt- The general
idea was to strap a plug of “jelly” com-
plete with detonator and a foot of fuse
to a live rabbit, the fuse being allowed to
project from between the hind-legs. With
the fuse lit, the
rodent was intro-
duced to a hole,
down which he
scooted spurred by
the fizzing at his
rear. The concus-
sion and the “pizen
fumes” were ex-
pected to account
for all the inhabi-
tants on the prin-
ciple that a rabbit always makes for the
end of the main lead. Peter tried it out
on a rocky cavern that had given a lot
of trouble, but the rabbit, finding nobody
home, speared straight out again and
shot across the hillside. Fortunately the
pack was away doing over the briars —
all except Peter’s prized staghound,
which saw the rabbit and was after him
in a flash. The old chap yelled unavail-
ingly at the dog as the rabbit beat the
staghound to a log by a cottontail. The
mong jammed his snout in the hole,
hauled it out and raced around to the
other exit, into which it was just ram-
ming its sniffer when the charge went
off, spattering the surprised animal with
chips, dirt, white-ants and decimated
rabbit. With a howl the hound lit out
for home, and for the next six months
couldn’t be got within cooee of a hollow
log, while its reproachful look haunted
old Peter for the same period.
“Bo”: Jimmy, the mailman, had
dropped in on his round with a rare
letter to Sid, the old hatter who lived in
his bough-and-kero.-tin kipsy between
the road and the river. Sid turned round
at the mailman’s shouted greeting, wiped
his forehead with his shirt-sleeve, tossed
aside the shovel and stepped out of the
hole he had been excavating. “Burying
“And this chic bathing model for creek Wear is of ‘Bondi brassiere ,'
spinifex hat, taipan-snake armlets and alluring alligator suit trimmed
avec empty cartridge-shells."
the wad to beat the taxation blokes, eh,
y’ old chiseler?” asked Jimmy jocularly.
Sid looked at him mildly. “No, it’s to
bury me dawg, as a matter o’ fact, 1 ’
replied Sid. The mailman glanced over
to the hut door, where Bluey was
stretched out, his head on his paws, lazily
watching his boss work. “There don’t
appear to be much wrong with Blue,”
opined Jimmy. “There ain’t, far as I
know,” replied the old hatter. “Well,
what’s the idea o’ plantin’ him?” pur-
sued Jimmy. “I didn’t say I was goin’
to bury him now” protested Sid. “Y’
see, Blue’s about six years old now, an’
I never heard of a dawg livin’ more’n
sixteen at the most. Y’ know how my
rheumatics is now. Well, in ten years’
time, if the ‘screws’ get worse, I won’t be
able to handle a shovel, so I’m fixin’
things now. Y’ wouldn’t want a man to
toss his dead dawg who’s been his cobber
for years on to a blanky anthill like a
snake, would y’?”
* * * «
“Blime”: Seems to me that though
many bird-families, including the jackass,
have rather decreased over the last genera-
tion, the magpie tally is creeping up fast.
Have several times counted over a
hundred of the black-and-white songsters
congregated round old haystacks or other
unlawful feed-grounds, but why should
the colony round my garden multiply till
I can no longer grow a patch of peas?
Seedling onions, too, are pulled up or
eaten off, and young lettuces torn out in
sheer aimless destruction. There are no
stacks or other easy food available, yet
I counted 150 maggies round the garden
before I gave up. They strut along the
veranda, bathe in the water-barrel, com-
mit suicide in the tank, perch on the door-
step, pinch bits off my hat, and if I don’t
soon declare war on this infiltrating army
they’ll have the whole joint, and I’ll sleep
in a gum-tree. I agree wholeheartedly,
fervently and passionately with “Old
Bushman” (B. 6/10/’5O) that the pied
birds can be pests. They are much like
crows regarding carrion, and, though I
have often heard them blamed for killing
young lambs, have not as yet sufficient
evidence for a conviction. However, I’m
after it, and if I find it. . . well, by cripes,
be excuse enough for the
declaration.
* * # ♦
“Betcha”: What is the life-span of a
native cat? Old-timers in the settled parts
of East Gippsland (Vic.) tell how the
little animals abounded in the district in
early days, and explain that they died out
some 40 to 50 years ago. In the middle
of the terrain I have worked for the past
30 years is a steep rough gorge of 80 or
so acres, which, being useless for graz-
ing and unprofitable to clean up, has
been fenced in and left. Around it for
miles is cleared farming country, with
just the usual fox- and rabbit-pests.
Trapping round the gorge fence yester-
day I caught a native cat. The size of a
large domestic feline, the creature was
dark-furred and spotted with white tufts.
Head and ears of the wombat type, feet
and claws neither wombat nor possum but
with something of each, legs shorter than
a domestic cat, but tail very much longer.
The spotted bloke had mange, but as I
approached to release him bared teeth
that were neither worn nor broken.
Question: Was it born and reared in that
gorge within recent years? If so, there
may be more of the family. Or, seeing
the chances are against its being an
immigrant, how long, all unseen and un-
suspected, could it have lived there?
* * * *
“Emjai”: The gentle cleric in our one-
horse mining town had read up the
economics of Buttercup, but was very
hazy on the practical side of milk-
extraction. However, with a team of
nippers and h.c.l. to cope with, he jumped
at the offer of an obliging parishioner to
provide a docile and generous milker,
which, lacking other accommodation, he
grazed on the town common. Each
evening, at milking-time, he would sally
forth with his three-legged stool, bucket,
feed-box and book, searching through
the grass-flats and timber down the old
lead and calling “Buttercup! ” On several
occasions we had observed him calling
at the corner dairy on the way home, so
we peeked from
behind the
bushes with
some idea of un-
obtrusive help.
Upon Buttercup
sinking her nose
into the feed-
box the reverend
one arranged his
stool, bucket, self and book and pro-
ceeded with one-handed pumping, until,
supply running light, he moved himself,
stool, bucket and book, round to the
other side. With head against her flank,
and absorbed in his book, he
mechanically continued on the teats in
rotation until at about the third round
of dry-stripping B. decided to call it a
day and in departure left bucket, stool,
book and her milker in the spilt milk.
As we brushed him down and gathered
the utensils he remarked: “I am sure
there were still some more of those
things to be squeezed, but she is so
impatient, and oh, dear, I will have to
buy milk again!”
TAIPAN.
Lighter is he than chocolate, yet duskier than
gold,
And Iris strike is the strike of lightning that
flicks where the thunder rolled.
Lately the south has found him and poured his
story forth,
But he does not know he is famous, the brown
death of the north.
He is shy as the wind, and wilful, and sinewy,
long and large,
He who has challenged science to counter his
lethal charge;
And shadows darken the sunlight when the
taipan strike is near,
One living thing in the northland that earned
the black man’s fear.
Should a bird or a frog seem troubled, should a
leaf or a tussock shake,
We who dwell in his kingdom search well and
wide for the snake;
For each of us, man or woman, who live our
lives in the sun,
Should ever the taipan strike us, know well that
the race is run.
He is our lurking danger, he is our hate and
fear,
And through our days of labor we hunt him
from year to year;
And seldom the bushman knows him, however
his sight is keen.
For he looks like his sleek brown brother till
his rapier fangs are seen.
Brave was the youth from Sydney, and skilled
in the snake attack,
Who came to the taipan country to carry a
taipan back;
But he won and lost in the northland, reckless
and over-brave,
For the prize that he won went southward while
he slept in a brave man’s grave.
He will not flee from battle, who rears his
head from the grass
With rapiers steeped in Lethe till he sees the
peril pass;
And you who would seek to capture a taipan
prize—come forth!
But you’ll walk with death at your footsteps,
the brown death of the north.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Specialised Knowledge of
Estate Management
'T'HE financial assets built up during the life-
time of a Testator may present, on his death,
a maze of difficulties beyond the comprehension
of the inexperienced executor.
Efficient Estate administration demands
specialised knowledge of legal, property and
probate matters. Sixty-five years of experience
in handling all Estate problems is available at
moderate charges, when the Union Trustee is
appointed as Executor either solely or jointly
with a relative or friend.
Call for a confidential interview —or write for
your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 188 S)
St., Brisbane
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Masonite Corporation (Australia), Ltd.
, — 1 —Divs. N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Ords. Def. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
8 p.c. 61.9 p.c.
1943 .. 32,979 20,001 7,750 5,228 527
79.6 p.c.
1944 .. 37,438 20,001 9,950 7,487 8,014
84 p.c.
1945 .. 38,718 20,250 10,500 7,968 15,982
96 p.c.
1946 .. 44,058 22,562 12,000 9,496 25,478
84 p.c.
1947 , . 40,906 23,000 10,500 7,406 32,884
p.c. 292 p.c.
1948 .. 93,465 35,937 36,500 21,028 53,912
180 p.c.
1949 .. 65,496 35,938 22,500 7,058 60,970
200 p.c.
1950 .. 69,385 35,938 25,000 8,447 69,417
* After deducting intangibles, £14,426.
This 13-year-old is stepping along like
a thoroughbred. Last term’s earnings
were the first to get the full benefit of the
triplicated plant at Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.), where pressed-wood building
and insulating materials are turned out.
And since demand is still well ahead of
output, and the long-term outlook for
the business is satisfactory, the board has
decided to add a fourth unit to the plant.
With things as they are the installation
will take upward of three years to com-
plete. So “it is a little early for a decision
as to when further capital will be re-
quired from shareholders,” the chairman
says. The market, however, is prepared
to wait for its benefits, and prices the
f.-p. pound ords. at 70s. (58s. a year
ago), giving an immediate return of 3.5
p.c, on a 12} p.c. div. basis. The investor
at 70s. who looks for, say, 4.5 p.c. on his
money counts on a one-for-two issue at
par and maintenance of the div. at
12} p.c.
There is £300,000 of capital to feed in
287,500 £1 ords. and 100,000 2s. 6d. de-
ferreds, which were originally taken by
Masonite Corp. (U.S.) for cash in return
for rights to manufacturing processes,
etc. They are entitled to 50 p.c. of the
profits after the ords. have had 7 p.c.,
enjoy the right to elect three of the seven
directors and rank after the ords. for
return of capital. So the issue of addi-
tional deferreds will not stand in the way
of the ords. for either dividends or
capital security.
The co. put up a good performance
last term, when the improvement in earn-
ings was more marked than the growth
of £3889 in the profit figure alone would
suggest. Six weeks’ production was lost
early in the year through the coal strike,
and floods marked the beginning and
end of the period. Selling-prices were
reduced for some lines and increased for
others; overall mill prices now range
from 20 p.c. to 30 p.c. below pre-war
levels, a commendable achievement con-
sidering the rise in costs.
The £69,385 of profit was written after
making orthodox allowances for de-
preciation (£35,381, down £2340) and
taxation (£89,856, up £49,490), and then
setting aside £50,000 as an initial pro-
vision for replacement of depreciated
assets and £lO,OOO for staff amenities.
This special replacement provision is
intended to protect future earning-power
by ensuring that the actual cost of renew-
ing wornout plant is met out of earnings,
not out of new capital, which thus be-
comes available wholly for expansion of
the undertaking and not partly for its
maintenance.
Of the £69,385 of profit (23.1 p.c.
on total capital), £44,756 (up £1946)
belonged to the ords. and £24,629
(up £1943) to the deferreds, the ratio to
their capitals being 15.5 p.c. and 197 p.c.
respectively. The ord. div. was kept at
12} p.c., and the payment to the de-
ferreds was lifted from 180 p.c. to 200 p.c.
The deferreds are obviously in clover.
All-round expansion and further
strengthening of the liquid position are
the keynotes of balance-sheet figures:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 21,845 32,672 66,062 61,131
Tax reserve .. 29,275 59,850 37,175 85,000
Welfare fund 10,000 10,000 20.000
Replacement res. 50,000
Final divs. .. 22,000 60,937 44,063 46,563
Freehold and
buildings .. 104,205 147,842 168,027 185,808
Plant, etc. .. 109,126 112,560 139,742 147,838
Stocks .. 71,101 118,107 127,640 162,159
Debtors .. 39,653 70,353 77,189 108,939
Cash and in-
vestments .. 76,919 63,509 672 22,367
Subsid. co. .. 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
Intangibles .. 14,426 14,426 14,426 14,426
To meet the year’s net additions of
£34,519 to stocks, £31,750 to debtors’
balances and £25,877 net to the book-
value of fixed assets the amount coming
to sundry creditors was increased by
only £47,825. Leaving the replacement
reserve out of the reckoning, the improve-
ment in more-or-less liquid surplus
(£85,771), or net amount of working
capital in the business, was £32,570.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ords. serves, serves.
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1943.. 61,034 10,699 27,007 23,298 100,570
Share premiums, £531 .. .. .. 101,101
Added reserves, £29,896 .. ~ .. 130,997
1944.. 70,669 23,567 32,753 14,349 145,346
From tax reserve, £15,756 .. .. 161,102
1945.. 61,004 24,000 39,610 2,606 158,496
7 p.c.
1946.. 49,628 24,000 30,963 153,161
Share premiums, £517 .. .. .. 153,678
Added reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 163,678
8 p.c.
1947.. 75,216 24,000 36,548 14,668 178,346
Profit on sale of assets, £5BBB .. .. 184,234
9 p.c.
1948.. 85,703 24,000 44,742 16,961 201,195
To staff fund, £5OOO 196,195
Profit on sale of assets, £1942 .. .. 198,137
Subsidies received, £17,651 .. .. 215,788
1949.. 89,814 24,000 45,634 20,180 235,968
Surplus sale of assets, £2567 .. .. 238,535
Share premiums, £154 .. .. .. 238,689
1950.. 105,391 24,000 53,746 27,645 266,334
It has been a heartening achievement.
It was in 1929 that the present co.
took over what then looked like a
hopeless proposition—the old G. A.
Bond business. The corner was turned
in 1935, and the story since has been
one of continued progress, which became
marked during the post-war years. The
policy throughout has been to improve
the quantity and quality of output,
assault costs and strengthened com-
petitive power by extension and renewal
of plant (chief earning asset) and by
tightening-up and invigorating the or-
ganisation on the manufacturing and
selling sides. And the ords. have had
regular annual distributions averaging
9.5 p.c. over the last 10} years; the
eight years before that were dry ones.
The main mill is at Camperdown, near
Sydney, and there is a knitting factory at
Rosebery and branch factories at Dubbo
and Cessnock, with a cotton-spinning
plant at Wentworthville. Also a sub-
sidiary, Dri-glo Towels Pty., with mills
at Five Dock and Cessnock, weaves
towels from yarn spun at Wentworthville.
Substantial additions and improvements
have been made to all sections of the
undertaking since war ended. Over the
last four years £1,107,606 net has gone
into freeholds (up £163,645), plant (up
£325,744), stocks (up £519,757) and
shares in the subsidiary (up £98,460). To
help meet the outlay shareholders put up
£226,353 of fresh capital and £576,382
was added to the outside debt:
Capital— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Pref. ~ £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. .. 476,109 502,365 547,801 702,462
Overdraft .. 15,062 210,063 419,045 560.813
Sndy. creditors 41,256 54,486 53,346 71,887
Tax provision 55,544 70,919 89,632 143,322
Depreciation 279,392 329,340 387,562 459,039
Freehold .. 299,788 312,270 417,427 463,433
Plant, etc. .. 487,094 572,590 674,091 812,838
Shares subsid. 94,774 193,234 193,234 193,234
Stock .. 376,163 511,455 701,284 895,920
Debtors .. 210,330 196,635 170,514 267.770
Cash, etc. .. 8,317 12,290 11,933 11,036
Last term the growth in freeholds was
£46,016, plant £138,747, stocks £194,636
and debtors’ balances £97,256. Ord.
capital increased by £154,661, the over-
draft by £141,768 and the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors by £17,541. The
year’s improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£398,704) was £76,996,
and there was £53,128 of capital at call
when the books closed.
No time seems to have been lost in
finding profitable employment for addi-
tional funds, though in a big expansion
of this kind there is always a lot of
money represented by plant, etc., which
is contributing little or nothing to the
pool. For the last decade, however, the
co. has been operating in a more-or-less
sheltered market, in which many of the
difficulties associated with trade under
more stable conditions have been absent.
Turnover has bounded along under
pressure of an expanding national
income, quick growth of population, full
employment at high and rising wage-
rates and other inflationary pressures.
The improvement in gross earnings
last term (£365,725) was £60,289. In-
cluding £93,000 (up £9000) set aside for
the taxgatherer, exes. (£260,334) took
£44,712 of the gain. The net result thus
benefited by £15,577, reaching £105,391,
which was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 13.6 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 12.9, 12.4, 11.2, 5.8
and 9.3 p.c. back to 1945. The diy. was
kept at 9 p.c., and the £27,645 that re-
mained carried reserves to £266,334.
During the current term a lot of new
plant is scheduled to come into produc-
tion, and the market outlook is a bright
one at the moment. But the steep lift
in the basic-wage will bump up costs as
well as purchasing-power, and as the
effects percolate through the whole
system of manufacture and distribution
selling-prices will rise ; and the process
will go on until present inflationary
pressures come to an end. Meanwhile,
the development of consumer resistance
and of competition from overseas are
possibilities not to be overlooked.
At 345. (295. 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
pound ords. return 5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 255. 6d, yield
4.7 p.c. Including uncalled capital, net
tangible cover is 71s. Id. prefs. and 275.
ords.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 138,683 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £2500 f
16,183 267,898
1942.. 113,360 7$ p.c.= 112,500 (
Provident fund, £2500 )
266,258
Intangibles disclosed, £ll,lOO .. 277,358
1943.. 139,204 7* p.C.= 112,500 }
Provident fund, £2500 {
24,204 301,562
i944.. 142,653 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £2500 )
20,153 321,715
1945.. 141,621 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £2500 f
19,121 340,836
1946.. 140,928 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £ 2500 .. j
18,428 359,264
From cont’g’cies prov’n, £100,000.. 459,264
1947.. 151,620 8 p.c. = 120,000 )
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
29,120 488,384
1948.. 149,431 8 p.c. ■= 120,000 )
Provident fund, £2500 .. f
26,931 515,315
1949.. 143,264 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
20,764 536,079
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 636,079
1950.. 151,609 8 p.c. = 120,000 7
Provident fund, £2500 .. J
29,109 665,188
While others in the trade are feeling
the pinch of rising costs against a
background of fixed selling-prices, the
net earnings of this well-entrenched Bris-
bane brewer, which has strong connec-
tions throughout the prosperous south
and south-west of the State, continue to
strengthen. Moreover, the board con-
sidered the co.’s position good enough to
take £lOO,OOO from the undisclosed pro-
vision for contingencies (lumped with
the creditors’ item in the published
accounts) and toss it into general reserves.
Thus net earnings have not been over-
stated in the past, nor are they likely to
be now.
Turnover, gross profit and exes., etc.,
are not broadcast. Appearances are that
expanding sales —they have been on the
up-grade for over a decade —more than
took care of the continued rise in costs.
The prices of malt, hops, sugar and other
brewing ingredients, as well as bottles
and transport, all increased, and so did
wages. However, despite the effects of
the nation-wide coal strike in mid-1949,
Australian beer production rose by 10
million gallons (6.8 p.c,), reaching a
record 156 million gallons (over 19
gallons per head of population) for the
year to June 30 last.
After putting aside £160,000 (up
£10,000) for taxation, £13,394 (up £1742)
for depreciation and an undisclosed
amount for other contingencies, the board
wrote the year’s net result £8345 stronger
at £151,609. That was 10.1 p.c. on capital
as against 9.5, 9.9, 10.1, 9.4, 9.4 and 9.5
p.c. back to 1944 —variations in economic
and other conditions over the last seven
years have visibly exerted little influence
on declared net earnings. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c., £2500 was sent to the staff
fund and £29,109 was ploughed back into
the business, lifting visible reserves to
£665,188.
Finances are comfortable, and the
strong holding of cash, etc. (down
£31,825 last term) will enable the co. to
go ahead with remodelling and renova-
tions of hotels, etc., when materials and
labor become available:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
&£>&£*
Paid capital 1,590,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Creditors* .. 308,825 372,012 478,932 478,482
Tax reserve.. 165,000 160,000 150,000 160,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc. .. 2,026,684 2,014,335 2,051,571 2,086,990
Stocks .. 134,004 142,422 191,394 192.003
Debtors .. 96,908 105,782 6,515 140,984
Cash, etc... 285,113 347,288 478,030 446,205
• Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Outstanding feature last term was the
growth of £134,469 in debtors’ balances,
which augurs well for future turnover.
As for the current term, the outlook
remains buoyant on the demand side.
But whether the benefits from the pros-
pective growth in the volume of sales will
be sufficient to offset the inevitable all-
round rise in costs, following a pound-a-
week lift in the basic-wage, without an
increase in the selling-price of beer re-
mains to be seen. Victorian brewers have
been lately granted an increase of sd. a
gallon on bulk beer, and the trade in
N. S. Wales is seeking an increase, too.
The sharemarket notes the co.’s
strength, financially and otherwise, and
prices the f.-p. 12s. 6d. shares at 295. sd.
as against 275. a year ago. At the higher
figure the return is 3.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 18s. per share.
Buckingham’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £, £f £>
1940.. 19,410 8 p.c. = 12,735 6,675 102,815
1941.. 24,098 8 „ „ 15,360 8,738 111,553
From bad-debts reserve, £2490 .. 114,043
1942.. 20,012 12 p.c. = 23,040 111,015
From bad-debts reserve, £1220 .. 112,235
1943.. 22,912 8 p.c. = 15,360 7,552 119,787
1944.. 27,173 9 „ „ 17,280 9,893 129,680
1945.. 30,454 10 „ „ 19,200 11,254 140,934
1946.. 46,101 10 „ „ 28,047 18,054 158,988
1947.. 44,951 10 „ „ 28,977 15,974 174,962
1948.. 49,884 10 „ „ 30,000 19,884 194,846
To bad-debts reserve, £5OOO .. .. 189,846
Share premiums on new issue, £66,000 255,846
1949.. 43,446 10 p.c. = 37,610 5,836 261,682
1950.. 50,831 10 „ „ 38,000 12,831 274,613
* Excluding special provision for collections (now
£36,035).
The expansion of this drapery and cash-
order business has been rapid since war
ended. Over the last six years £283,000
of fresh capital has been issued, the last
£95,000 of it being offered to those on the
register at September 15 last at a premium
of 50 p.c. Reserves will thus benefit by
£47,500, and paid capital will be raised
to £475,000, on which 10 p.c. will call for
£3331 less profit than was claimed last
term. Capital and reserves together will
then need to turn in 5.9 p.c. in order to
cover 10 p.c. on capital alone. Last
term’s profit was 7.7 p.c. on shareholders’
funds as they stood at July 31 last. The
new share capital and premium money is
wanted to “consolidate” the co.’s finances
and for all-round expansion of the busi-
ness, including modernisation and im-
provement of existing stores and the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (ineirporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign 0/
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPUING STREET, SYDNEY
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
d
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bond,
Camperdowo, Sydney, N.S.W.
Missing Friend.
JACK LOCKINGTON
(full name JOHN BOWEN LOCKINGTON)
formerly of 17 Norton Street, Sydney, son
of Teresa and late Fred Lockington, of
Melbourne, or ANY PERSON KNOWING
HIS WHEREABOUTS, please communi-
cate with GORDON RENNICK, Solicitor,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH CARRINGTON RUSSELL
late of Coorparoo Queensland.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE LILLIAN
RUSSELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 8292 of 1950 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ninth day of Janu-
ary 1951 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
CHARLES A. MORGAN, POTTS AND
CULLEN, Solicitors, 9 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Donegal Tweed
SPORTS GOATS
Here is an all-purpose coat, smart, well cut in
two-button style and comfortable. You’ll get
plenty of wear, too, from the English Donegal
Tweed of which it is made. In fawn, blue-grey
and blue, £6/6/-.
Sports Trousers —ZEV —with self-supporting
tops. Well-designed pleated front ensures fit
and comfort. In fawn and grey worsteds.
£4/4/9, £4/10/-, £4/15/-.
Imported Daks Trousers, self-supporting tops
and concealed rubber pads for shirt control.
£6/14/-.
IMPORTED WOODROWS
Quality, style and lightweight give Wood-
rows their special appeal. Three-inch brims,
unlined, with l|in. bands. In light and dark
grey and dark fawn, 61/6.
Super quality, with bound edges, grease-
proof tops and lined with satin. Two and a
half-inch brim, l|in. band. In light and
dark grey and mole, 71/ 3.
li
■
■
m
m
Qsls!
BEST QUALITY FUJI SILK SHIRTS
Genuine Fuji Silk shirts with collar attached.
The fit of the collar, with stiffeners in points
is a feature. Full sleeves, one open pocket.
Sizes 14-17£in. collars, 52/6.
With American-type two-way collar, half-
sleeves and two pockets with flaps. Invisible
stitching on collars, pockets and yokes gives
a “better-made” impression. Sizes S.M. to
X. 0.5., 43/6.
Crease-resisting Rayon Shirts
Made of dull-finish English Rayon, these shirts
have American-style two-way collars, two
pockets with flaps, and are available in the
following fast colours: blue, cream, tan,
fawn, chocolate, canary, grey and white. Sizes
S.M. to X.O.S. Half-sleeves, 24/6.
PEAPES Pty. Ltd.
285 GEORGE STREET
Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney
Address mail orders to Box 165, G.P.0., Sydney
opening of new ones. Confident
of the 10 p.c. being maintained,
the market prices the f.-p. ss.
ords. at 10s. 6d. (9s. 7d. a year
ago), to return 4.7 p.c. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible
cover is Bs. 4d. per share.
The main store operates as
Buckingham’s, Ltd., at, Oxford-
street, Sydney, where the busi-
ness was established by William
Buckingham in 1878. As Ash-
leys the co. trades in Sydney’s
Imperial Arcade and at Wollon-
gong and Parramatta ; and two
new branches are presently to be
set up under the same name, one
at Newcastle, in leasehold
premises, and the other at Bondi
Junction, near Sydney, where a
freehold has been bought. Other
branches at Pitt-street, Sydney,
and Queen - street, Brisbane,
trade under the name of Cur-
zons. The co. also owns a
general store at Parramatta
under the name of Henderson
and Gregg Pty., whose stock and
fittings were taken over in 1941.
Last term the board had
“lengthy discussions” with the
directors of Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
whose men’s- and boys’-wear
store faces Park- and George-
streets, Sydney, concerning
amalgamation of the two busi-
nesses. But nothing came of
the negotiations, nor have they
been reopened. Buckingham’s
sales for the year reached
£2,833,632 (up £213,553). The
cash-order section, in which
credit collections totalled
£1,116,804, contributed gener-
ously to profits, the chairman
says. After allowing for depre-
ciation (£18,239, up £3491),
taxation (£38,665, up £9056) and
various special provisions
(£11,863, up £6231), net earnings
were £7385 stronger at £50,831.
That was 13.4 p.c. on capital as
against 11.5, 16.6, 15.5, 16.4 and
15.8 p.c. back to 1945. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and has been
for the last six years; for the
preceding decade distributions
averaged 8.5 p.c.
The generally inflationary
situation of today favors further
increase of retail turnovers (mea-
sured in paper money), and the
cash-order section promises to
remain a handy prop for the
co.’s drapery sales. Still, buyers
are expected to become more
discriminating as marginal in-
comes narrow, and mounting
costs and the tax-collector to-
gether promise to make off with
a lion’s share of any increased
earnings.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1048. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £840,924 £380,000 £380,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. 868,122 177,743 806,270
Tax provision 123,197 152,806 110,225
Staff fund.. 30,720 25,786 24,841
Final div... 16,000 19,000 19,000
Freeholds .. 214,789 138,158 179,753
Plant, etc... 128,768 141,995 182,697
Stocks .. 343,924 370,067 379.956
Book debts.. 357,210 860,190 895,262
Investments 12,739 18,040 17,040
Cash .. 44,928 21,789 5.176
Last term £41,595 was added to
freeholds, £10,702 to plant, etc.,
£35,072 to book debts, and the
co. went outside for an extra
£128,527. Stocks (up £889) are
in at the lower of cost or mar-
ket price, and the risk in con-
nection with any alteration in
the exchange rate has been re-
moved for the time being.
Owing to the outlay on fixed
assets, there was a contraction
of £57,603 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£337,098).
“Sumting Nutting”; At its
Noble’s Nob lease, near Tennant
Creek, Australian Development
is putting down a diamond-drill
hole about 450 ft. s.-e. of the
main shaft. Interest has been
aroused by the published report
that traces of gold had been
found in the sludge from be-
tween 244 ft. and 250 ft. The
man-in-the-street is wondering
what the relation of sludge
values is likely to be to core
values, and more particularly to
ore values. Based on the experi-
ence of other diamond-drill
holes in the area, it is reason-
able to assume that values in
the sludge will be higher than
the values which will be shown
in due course by assays of the
cores at corresponding depths.
Neither sludge nor core values
are likely to represent the real
value of the ore-body inter-
sected, which may be higher
than either. On the Tennant
Creek field, where the ground is
very broken in the neighborhood
of ore channels, diamond-drill
holes should be regarded only
as affording an indication of the
presence or absence of an ore-
body in a qualitative, not a
quantitative, sense. A good
many diamond-drill holes have
been bored on the Tennant gold-
field, and reports concerning
them are available; in particu-
lar Report No. 23 of 1936 on
Magnetic Prospecting at Ten-
nant Creek, carried out by the
Geological and Geophysical
Survey of Northern Australia,
which can be read at the public
libraries in the capital cities.
* ♦ * *
Broken Hill South, one of the
four big lead-zinc producers at
the Barrier (N.S.W.), has an-
nounced a profit of £1,141,185
(down £234,013) for the year to
June 30 last. Divs. paid during
the year totalled £960,000 (120
p.c.) as against £1,040,000 (150
p.c.) for the previous term.
The mill treated 284,962 tons
(up 17,934 tons), assaying
12.7 p.c. lead and 12.2 p.c. zinc
for 47,607 tons (up 3293 tons)
lead concentrates and 59,708
tons (up 4115 tons) zinc con-
centrates. The metals in the
concentrates compare as fol-
lows ;
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1949 .. 32,998 1,787,678 29,079
1950 .. 34,902 1,956,056 31,040
The lower average price received
for lead (figure not stated) was
the chief trouble. London aver-
ages for the year to June 30
last were lead approximately
£S9S (down £SB) per ton and
zinc £SB7, about the same
as for the previous term.
Around two-thirds of the lead is
exported and the balance sold
locally at a low fixed price. The
zinc concentrates are sold to
Electrolytic Zinc (Tas.), which is
now selling nearly half its out-
put of zinc locally, also at a
low fixed price. The actual price
received for metals by the
mining cos. is therefore
substantially below the export
figures. Markets for both
metals have strengthened since
mid-1950. October London
average for lead was
£SI27 11s. lid. and for zinc
£SI42 18s. id. per ton. On Sep-
tember 18 the local fixed price
was lifted from £A3S to £A6S
a ton for lead and from £A4O to
£A6S a ton for zinc. B.H.
South’s f.-p. ss. shares, which
sold at 48s. 3d. in June, fetched
545. 3d. last week.
* * * *
Brisbane - controlled Raub
Australian Gold, whose mine
and plant at Pahang (Malaya)
were both in a derelict condition
when recovered after the Jap
occupation, netted £10,868 for
the year to March 31, 1950, of
which £10,830 was written off for
depreciation. For the previous
term the loss was £14,369, in-
cluding £9555 for depreciation.
Last term’s improvement was
due to treatment of more better-
grade ore and the Sept., 1949,
rise in the price erf gold:
Ore Head Re- Fine
Milled, Value, covered, Gold,
March, Tons. Dwt. Dwt. Oz.
1949. . 25,380 7.5 6.75 8,595.8
1950.. 31,798 8.2 7.16 11,384.1
Average realised value per ton
of ore was £4.879 (up £1.259),
and all-in costs (excluding de-
preciation) were £4.622 (up
£0.714). The amount spent on
development was £47,365 (up
£20,139), and 111 new payable
stringers were exposed. A
further £40,836 spent on de-
watering and repairing old
shafts, etc., was charged to re-
habilitation account, and £43,462
was spent on capital equipment.
The new mill, which came into
operation in Sept., 1949, is now
treating most of the ore, but
shortage of power hampers full-
scale operations and looks like
continuing to do so until the
new hydroelectric plant at Sam-
pam is installed. Excluding the
stringers, ore reserves at March
31 were 49,623 tons, averaging
s.9dwt. Future results will
largely depend upon the volume
of ore production and full-time
working of the mill, which in
turn will be governed by the
labor problem and the power
question. A lot more develop-
ment and exploration have yet
to be done on the long lines of
parallel lodes. At March 31 co.
had drawn £326,896 of a
£415,625 bank loan guaranteed
by the Malayan Government.
There was £20,097 coming to
sundry creditors. Cash, debtors
and Government bonds totalled
£78,145. The f.-p. ss. shares
fetch 65., or thereabouts, in the
Australian market.


See this Engineering
Victory!
The “trim size” JAVELIN
WITH THE LARGE-CAR FEATURES
BIE
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 tees.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Sutpen*
•ion.
Steel Body.
A streamlined beauty with room
for up to 6 passengers and
luggage. A car that will give
you a smoother road-hugging
ride, 35 m.p.g. economy, and
amazing acceleration. You hav«
to drive the Javelin over the
worst roads you know to feel
the miracle of its torsion bar
suspension and to enjoy real
shockless steering. Once tried
you’ll say “Td rather go by
Javelin I**1 **
fc Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.B.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgeclifl
Phone: FB 3100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorfinge Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
take a Jt/ra&w got*
S<lNo33SOf’
YOUR
RECOUNTS
(By £heque
w lift ilea
CHEQUE..
Paying accounts by cash means
standing in queues, waiting for
change, irritating delays, waste of
time.
Then why do it? It is so much
easier to pay by post.
It takes only 40 seconds to write a
Commonwealth Bank cheque. It is
the quick, modern, convenient method
of paying bills. It is safe, too, because
you can stop payment of a lost
cheque.
Paying by cheque has other
advantages:
It gives evidence of payment if you
lose your receipt.
It adds to your prestige.
It shows you clearly what you have
spent and where.
It saves you keeping large sums of
money in the office or home.
Call in to-day and open a cheque
account at any branch of the
ComioitwaltManfe
ofßustraUa.
•THE BANK YOU OWN* euMt
Business. Rollery. etc.
Active Sharemarket
The sharemarket showed
signs almost of exuberance in
Sydney last week, with touches
of irresponsibility evident here
and there. Tooth shares pro-
vided the highlight of the week
with a leap of 30s. 9d. (to
£6 10s.) on Wednesday. This
was brought about by rumors of
an impending bonus issue.
Prompt denial by the brewery’s
chairman of any such intention
by the board brought the scrip
back to £5 on Thursday,
Nevertheless, at £5 a share
Tooth scrip does not seem over-
valued, though breweries and
tobacco cos. haven’t yet got
what they want from price-con-
trollers. To people who con-
sider Tooth and Co. to have
financial strength and profit-
earning capacity equal to the
leading chain-store cos., the
brewery’s scrip is by far the
better “buy,” returning 3 p.c. at
£5 a share, compared with 2\
p.c. or less from G. J. Coles and
Woolworths. The ss. shares of
the chain-store cos. lend them-
selves more easily to speculation,
and therefore to lower yields.
Until the recent leap in Tooth
shares, previous highest price
had been 975. Lowest price over
the past two years has been 675.
The co.’s extensive holding of
freeholds adds to its attractions
as an anti-inflation “hedge.”
Sydney prices for most share-
market leaders were generally
in advance of Melbourne quo-
tations. This has been notice-
able in the case of B.H.P. scrip
for some time, the day’s prices
often differing by as much as a
shilling a share. Last week
B.H.P. shares shot up to 60s. in
Sydney, and Melbourne prices
later came within 6d. of this
record price. The scrip eventu-
ally settled at 595. 9d. B.H.P. still
looks like one of the best things
on the market for long-term
holding, though at present the
yield is low at 2.8 p.c.
Thirlwell and McKenzie, of
Port Kembla and Wollongong
(N.S.W.), had a stronger mar-
ket for its shares last week. The
ords. rose to 31s. Rights to a
new par issue were bought at
under ss. a few months back.
The co. is engaged in engineer-
ing activities at Port Kembla
and has a hardware store in
Wollongong.
British Tobacco has been
turned down in its application
for price-increases. The co. has
ceased paying its quarterly divs.,
but the last complete year’s div.
was 9 p.c. The market pays
50s. for the ords. If the
div. for the current year is
maintained at 9 p.c. the yield at
prevailing scrip prices would be
3.6 p.c. The market doesn’t
seem to expect 9 p.c., otherwise
the apparent “yield” would be
lower.
Australasian Paper’s new issue
has been successfully digested
by the sharemarket. The “old”
shares have risen to 315., and
the 25.-paids have been chang-
ing hands around 7s. 6d., equal
to 28s. on a fully-paid basis.
Myer Emporium (ss. shares)
have risen to 21s. since an-
nouncement of a one-for-one
bonus issue from an assets-
revaluation reserve. It is pro-
posed also to raise £1,000,000 of
loan capital. The approval of
Capital Issues will now be
necessary. The wisdom of this
rather widespread tendency to
“bring assets into line with
present-day values” has yet to
justify itself. Perhaps it will
present a truer view of the posi-
tion, especially from the point
of view of distributions (in de-
preciated money) to shareholders
in relation to capital. But there
are obviously two schools of
thought concerning this matter,
Colonial Sugar is in the other
school. It charged a premium
on its last share-issue because of
the high cost of plant-replace-
ment, Australasian Paper did
the same. And a number of
“Come on —hand over your child-endowment money.”
other (smaller) cos. have fol-
lowed the C.S.R. example,
especially where they are in the
manufacturing industry.
Around the 1920’s a number
of concerns in Australia and
Maoriland wrote up their assets
and made bonus issues. Meggitt
and Australian Gypsum were
among them. Subsequent events
showed the cos. to be over-
capitalised in relation to earnings
until ploughed - back profits
and wider markets restored
earning-power. The 1925 re-
turn to the gold standard had
something to do with over-
capital ised cos.’ trading
problems. No return to gold in
similar circumstances is in sight
today.
David Jones, the Sydney re-
tailer, has decided to issue
455.000 new ords., one for two,
at par. This will take paid capi-
tal up to £1,805,000 in 1,365,000
ords., 40,000 employee shares,
150.000 6 p.c. prefs. and 250,000
p.c. prefs. The ords. have
risen from 61s. to 775. fol-
lowing the announcement. The
div. has been at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a. since 1943, a 2\ p.c.
bonus being added in 1948.
Bitumen and Oil has seen a
sharp change in its fortunes over
the past six months. Where it
previously saw difficulty in dis-
posing of its products to State
Governments it now apparently
finds a big demand for bitumen,
especially since wet weather
broke up so many highways and
roads. The shares ran up to
455. at one stage last week in
anticipation of a new share-issue.
But the co. has raised a deben-
ture loan of £500,000 at p.c.
in order to add to its plant.
There was a drop of 2s. in the
scrip following this announce-
ment.
Great interest continues to be
centred round the heavy indus-
tries in all States, In Melbourne,
Repco shares mounted to 765. 6d.
last Friday. McPherson’s old
ords. were pushed up to 665. 6d.
in the strong market. A. G.
Healing ss. ords. touched the
record figure of 225. 3d. The co.
has shown bigger profits for its
latest term.
Sydney domiciles the more
spectacular “heavies.” British
Standard Machinery, which is
making a bonus issue and a par
(cash) issue, went to £5 2s. 6d.
(20s. shares). Waugh and Joseph-
son (Caterpillar tractors) touched
665., while Tutt, Bryant, ex
rights, sold at 725. This last-
named co. has been making very
impressive profits; after trans-
ferring three-fourths of last
year’s earnings to reserves it
paid a 15 p.c. div. Bradford
Kendall has been steady at 165.,
and shows an interesting 5 p.c.
yield.
Among new issues. Main-
guard (the million-pound under-
writing concern) had a market
of ss. lid. for its ss. shares.
Canada Dry has been changing
hands at 12s. Courtaulds’ 55.-
paids have strengthened to
10s. There was a spurt of
Is. 6d. (to 225.) in Metropolitan
Cement £1 shares last week, but
the future of this stock as an in-
vestment is still very obscure.
Whakatane Board Mills
Whakatane d M,lls .
®"smcss is moving m the
S ght 10n T S r
® oa " d Ltd., New Zea-
***** co *
forestr y field to blossom forth
as a steady div.-earner, on a 5
p.c. basis. Revenue comes from
pine-pulp products, with real
prosperity dating from three
years ago, when the co. was one
of the twin offsprings of Whaka-
tane Paper Mills, Ltd., under
reorganisation. The million of
subscribed capital is split up
among 10,000 shareholders on
both sides of the Tasman, many
of whom waited a long time
for some return on their money
until the div. stage was reached
in 1948.
In the uphill stage nearly half
a million was paid in taxes, and
a good deal more than that in
freights to N.Z, State railways
before shareholders got a penny.
Taxes at 11s. 6d. on every £1
netted by the enterprise were
like a millstone round its neck.
Latest net profit (to June 30)
reached £75,653 (up £17,912),
and showed a margin of £24,983
over divs. Results for the co.’s
three years are:
. June 30 —■
1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £
Turnover .. 902,356 863,611 978,127
Gross profit 274,328 245,700 320,785
Tax provision 112,000 79,750 115,750
Net profit 57,715 57,741 75,653
Divs., 5 p.c.,
ord. and
pref. .. 45,482 47,431 50,670
Forward .. 12,233 22,543 47,525
Cardboard sales, at 15,091
tons, reached more than double
the figure of a decade ago, when
the concern was under old
management. Demand exceeds
the co.’s capacity to cope with
it, and supplies are being
rationed.
Unforeseen delays in delivery
of equipment for the sawmill to
be operated by the subsidiary,
Whakatane Timber Mills, Ltd.,
postponed the start on this ven-
ture, but a trial run late in July
on the completed portion of the
plant was the signal for launch-
ing partial production, which
will be stepped up as more
equipment arrives. The whole
of the cost so far has been met
from internal resources.


\\\
30MH ETt „,
m«2«S3/
This confidence to
you to provide for him is a trust
you will not betray.
A definite and very practical
way to provide for your depend-
ants’ security is for you to take
out a suitable life assurance
policy with “ The Equitable ”
.... 'phone, call, or write to-day.
L R. V. PERKINS , Oeneral Manager A
i
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Public Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
Be FREDERICK WILLIAM THOMAS
SMITH Deceased.
PURSUANT to the provisions of “The
Trustees and Executors Act. of 1897”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
creditors and other persons having any
claims upon or against the estate of
FREDERICK WILLIAM THOMAS SMITH,
formerly of 224 Murray Street, Rockhamp-
ton, in the State of Queensland, but tem-
porarily residing at 25 Wudgong Street,
Mosman, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Master Baker, deceased, who
died at Mosman aforesaid on the Twenty-
seventh day of May, 1950, are hereby re-
quired to send in, in writing, particulars
of their debts or claims to HAROLD
FRANCIS JONES, of 136 Talford Street,
Rockhampton, in the State of Queensland,
Chartered Accountant (Australia),
FREDERICK HOPPING, of Jessie Street,
Rockhampton aforesaid. Chartered Ac-
countant (Australia), and OSCAR
MARTIN HEGVOLD, of 282 Musgrave
Street, North Rockhampton, in the said
State, Business Manager, the Executors
of the Will of the said deceased, at the
office of the undersigned, their Solicitor,
on or before the Thirtieth day of Novem-
ber, 1950. AND NOTICE IS FURTHER
GIVEN that after the expiration of the
last-mentioned day the Executors will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the de-
ceased amongst the persons entitled
thereto, having regard only to the claims
of which they shall then have had notice,
and that they will not be liable for the
assets, or any part thereof, so distributed
to any person of whose debt or claim
they shall not have had notice at the
time of such distribution. DATED this
Nineteenth day of October, 1950.—0. P.
STUMM, Solicitor for Executors, 19
William Street, Rockhampton.
w
s
s><
SA^Ti'-
ss
s*-<
%
TRADE
International trade is no longer dependent on the wind.
Fast cargo steamers and swift air freighters carry the
world’s goods at speeds that would have amazed our
grandparents. Yet even modem means of transport
find following winds a help.
Like a steady trade wind, the Bank of New South
Wales has aided international trade for over 130 years
and has provided the essential financial link between
Australian primary producers and manufacturers and
the oversea buyers of their produce. Australia mer-
chants, too, have been assisted in importing goods of
oversea origin.
Today, thousands of importers and exporters value
the specialized services of the Bank’s economic, inform
mation, travel and overseas departments.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A 50250
Sf/,
w.
is’ •:
'//r'
/
Y*
yy
mm
m
>%
c£v
v\\
y&
ICI
Rabbits In their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned Into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
o
o
o
o
o
■uV*
1K
II
tTpSdT I
is
T 6-18
ELEY-KYNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The experience of seven weeks
of daily visits to one of the
best-known of London hospitals
as next-of-kin to an in-patient
may not, perhaps, be a complete
or an impartial basis for a
summing - up of Britain’s
National Health Service; but
consultations with specialists,
interviews with almoners and
house - surgeons and ward-
sisters, and chance conversa-
tions with nurses and patients
give something of an inside
knowledge. This layman finds
his feelings mixed. Personal
gratitude conflicts with a general
realisation that there are huge
gaps of unfulfilment.
To the middle-class husband
or parent, the knowledge that
he will no longer be liable for
crippling medical expenses on
the serious illness of one of his
family is enough in itself to win
his vote in continuance of the
service, and also to close his
eyes to its shortcomings. These
are less apparent inside the
hospitals than in the unseen sick-
rooms outside. Every in-patient
is, ironically, a privileged
person ; either he is so badly in
need of treatment that his very
urgency has caused him to
“jump” several hundreds on the
waiting-list, or else he is
extremely lucky in his local
doctor. Once in that exclusive
retreat, a hospital bed, he will
have the best treatment that can
be given. But he has to get there
first.
The alternative is not an easy
one. Those who believe in self-
help and preventive medicine
(not the kind that is lavishly dis-
pensed in flat bottles) must have
either thick-skinned determina-
tion or plenty of loose money.
The general practitioner, with
his 4000 “panel” patients and
overcrowded waiting-room, has
no time for an intimate chat or
a regular overhaul; and the
short cut, by way of Harley-
street, is a costly matter. Tak-
ing the comparatively trivial
instance of a person with
infected tonsils, he must wait
from one and a half to two
years for an operation under the
national scheme, but only a few
weeks for the same thing to be
done privately—at a cost of
about £4O.
The politicians who loudly
brag that the state of Britain’s
health is better than ever it was
ought to spend a few chastening
weeks in social service, prefer-
ably in visiting the many
thousands who are waiting for
admission to hospitals, or
among old people who depend
upon small pensions. Quite a
different picture is this from
propaganda posters of bonny
babies.
Sitting-up & Looking Round
The cost of the National
Health Service has risen, is ris-
ing and will continue to rise.
Such economies as are from time
to time proposed amount to
little; and some, like the Prime
'Minister’s “fine” of Is. on every
prescription, are even effectively
quashed. While there were cer-
tainly no outward signs of
wantonness or extravagance in
the hospital referred to, the
patient of seven weeks’ had time
enough to look around her. She
queried whether it was in the
public interest that board and
lodging, as well as medical
attention, should be entirely
free. A few of her fellows were
poor and one or two the reverse,
but the majority were not with-
out ready money; suggesting
that the practical, if hardly the
political, solution would be to
work out a sliding-scale of pay-
ment according to income. A
too-easily-acquired attitude of
“something for nothing” is like
a quenchless thirst.
The degree of necessity and
the rigorous nature of hospital
discipline are never out of dis-
pute. Matrons may be less fear-
some, sisters more kindly and
nurses more contented, but the
patients themselves are still, and
rightly, not satisfied. The im-
pression that sooner or later
forces them into half-weary
resignation is that they are of
considerably Jess consequence
than the discipline of the ward,
with its iron and seemingly-
arbitrary regulations.
Much is to be said too for a
change in the trend of thought,
lately expressed in the cor-
respondence columns of the
“Daily Telegraph”: that some of
the mpre old-fashioned doctors
and surgeons might come down
from their eclectic and “high-
priest” attitude towards their
charges, whom they treat as if
medicine were a secret rite and
the patients so dumb and im-
personal as to have neither feel-
ings nor understanding.
Britain’s oldest active enter-
tainer, a nonagenarian named
Shaw who has attained high
distinction as a man of letters,
was himself a patient in hospital
during this period. With
characteristic pungency, he
came at once to the point, thus
doing more good than a sackful
of letters. After having been
washed, he asked for a certificate
to ensure that no one came
round to wash him again. It
has been known to happen.
Political Patches
All three parties have been in
conference. The Liberals, rais-
ing their voices so as not to
appear as inconsiderable as they
might have cause to feel, have
once again proclaimed their
traditional principles. Just one
fact of potential importance
emerges from their meeting.
While the party chiefs have
firmly expressed their collective
disapproval of Liberal-Tory
pacts they have not denied in-
dividual constituencies the
opportunity of making their
own private arrangements. This
marks a further decided swing
away from Socialism, and may
have some effect in the next
general election.
At Margate, the Labor-party
caucus has skilfully contrived a
facade of unity. With little
more disturbing from the floor
than shuffling inattention and
disinterest in some of the
speeches, the heavily-Ministerial
platform succeeded in carrying
the day. The moderates took a
week off and faced the other
way —sharply to the Left—for
the sake of Auld Lang Syne and
continued solidarity. A general
election substantially based on
class-warfare now seems in-
evitable, probably next February
if all goes well for Labor. No
less inevitable is a policy of all-
out collectivism, quite according
to the text-book, if Labor gets
a working majority.
Blackpool was the scene of
emotion and enthusiasm on the
part of Conservative delegates,
who felt so strongly about
Labor’s greatest domestic
failure, housing, that they de-
feated the platform demanding
300,000 houses a year. The
framers of Conservative policy.
who have learned that it is un-
wise to promise more than they
can hope to fulfil, were taken
aback. That many working-
class men and women voted
Conservative at the last general
election is now well understood,
much to the concern of the
Labor party. The appearance
on the platform, with some
ostentation and to prolonged
applause, of working - class
spokesmen indicates clearly the
ground which the Tories most
keenly seek to break.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
A fanfare of trumpets heralded the
j arrival at the west door of St. Paul’s
Cathedral of the Lord Archbishop of
] Canterbury and Primate of All England,
I the Most Rev. Rt. Hon. Geoffrey Francis
i Fisher, who preached the sermon and
‘ gave his blessing at the morning service.
I Earlier, the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
I his wife and daughter and members of
his personal suite, representatives of the
Commonwealth and State Parliaments,
J members of the judiciary, and civic
authorities headed by the Lord Mayor,
1 Cr. J. S. Disney, had taken their seats,
j After the National Anthem the proces-
sion slowly moved up through the nave.
Surpliced choir gave way to parish priests
vrearing colorful hoods, then came the
Bishops of the Province, the Archbishop
of Melbourne, the Rev. J. J. Booth, and,
lastly, the Archbishop of Canterbury, in
scarlet robes. The Governor read the
first lesson; Archbishop Booth the
second. Delivered without mannerisms,
| the sermon was simple, but eloquent.
| Speeches were plentiful at the 68th
I annual meeting of the Y.W.C.A., held in
| the Assembly Hall. After patroness Lady
, Brooks and members of the board had
i spoken, Lorraine Cable told of her ex-
periences when, as a country girl, lonely
and friendless, she found her niche in
the Y.W.C.A. The Governor’s lady, who
wore a grey-fox bolero over her black-
lace gown, was attended by Betty Everard
in mulberry-toned frock and sage-green
corded-velvet coat. President of “Y.,”
Mrs. T. C. Rentoul, wore powder-blus
crepes. Mrs. F. R. Thring had a white
ermine stole over her bead-embroidered
gown. A red-and-black-brocade Chinese
coat covered Mrs. J. Kerr’s black gown.
Speeches over, the annual report was
presented in tableau form, with members
acting the parts they take in “Y.” activi-
ties. Girls gave demonstrations of
ballet-dancing, Scottish reels and Judo.
In 1883, Sir William Clarke endowed
the first Clarke scholarship, awarded
every three years to the best scholar at
the University Conservatorium Sir
Bernard Heinze is a previous winner.
This year the award goes to Sally Anne
Mays, 20-year-old pianist, and it entitles
her to three years’ study at the London
College of Music. Sally Anne is the
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. K.
Mays, of South Melbourne. With her
mother she leaves for England on
November 20 in Orcades. But the
scholarship merely pays the fees at the
college and allows only £3O p.a. living-
allowance. To help the winner the
Mayoress of South Melbourne, Mrs. J.
W. Wright, with the help of a small com-
mittee, is organising a concert to be held
in the Town Hall on November 8. Those
who can help in any way to make it a
financial success and give this gifted girl
the chance she deserves can get all in-
formation from the Mayoress, South
Melbourne Town Hall.
There were two reasons for the
luncheon-party given by the committee
of management of the Queen Victoria
Hospital; first, the return of their ener-
getic president. Lady Brookes; second,
the naming of the Mabel Brookes wing.
The profusion of glorious roses which
decorated the tables came from Mrs.
A. D. Wenzel’s garden. Over luncheon
Lady Brookes discussed future plans for
the welfare of the hospital. As the
patients are all women who have to come
for ante-natal care, often accompanied by
several children. Lady Brookes is aiming
for funds to erect a nursery and play-
centre. Already the money is in hand
for the furnishings. The sportsmen of
this city aim to pi ovide £BOOO for a whole
block in the hospital building.
Their first effort will be a cricket
match on Christmas Eve, in which past
and present famous cricketers will take
the field. Guests at the luncheon were
received by the senior vice-president, Mrs.
H. R. Hamer, who wore a black jacket
trimmed with Persian-lamb over a black
French crepe frock. With her black silk
romaine frock Lady Brookes wore a wide-
brimmed black straw hat trimmed with
tartan taffeta ribbon. Mrs. M. H.
Baillieu added a large cerise straw hat
to white coin-spotted cerise silk frock.
Mrs. Louis Nelken wore a navy ensemble
and a matching feather-trimmed hat.
Mrs. Albion Walkley contrasted her navy
outfit with white straw.
The fashion-show sponsored by the
Sutherland Homes Auxiliary and the Vera
Scantlebury Brown Memorial Appeal’s
Younger Set was held at the lovely Kew
homo of Mrs. A. J. Christie. When the
committee gets round to thanking their
helpers, Margaret Spicer will be remem-
bered for the artistic floral bower she
contrived in the ballroom and the curving
staircase down which the mannequins
trailed their many beautiful gowns.
Madame Cannot worked miracles behind
the scenes and brought from her salon
many of the gowns shown, whilst many
other firms co-operated. Among mem-
bers of the committee were Mrs. Russell
Coldham (her small daughter Rosemary
was a mannequin), Mrs. Dick Noone,
who also saw small daughter Anne
parade, and Mrs. W. O. Winter Irving.
Pat Christie, in navy faille frock and
wide-brimmed picture hat, was official
hostess, while Mesdames Norman Bush
and Garnet Curwen were in charge of
other money-spinning efforts. Margaret
Saker looked after the large spotlight
throughout the show. Bambi Shmith led
the mannequins, who included Joan
Lowther, Barbara Hughes, Pat Chapman,
Joan Falkiner and Mary Ebstein. On-
lookers included Mrs. Philip Dare, a white
faille cap topping her black suit, Mrs.
Norman Lynch, in bronze satin, and Mrs.
Royden Honeyman and Mrs. C. Curtain,
in black ensembles.
English actress Beryl Seton, who will
have a leading role in the forthcoming
Australian musical, “The Highwayman,”
which opens at the King’s on November
17, has had the honor of appearing before
the Royal family and has played opposite
many famous stars in musical-comedy and
pantomime. When “No, No, Nanette”
was televised at the Alexandra Palace,
Beryl was lead with veteran George
Robey. Just before she left England she
played the lead in “Finian’s Rainbow.”
Her husband, Ray Dandy, will also be
in “The Highwayman.”
St. Catherine’s Old Girls’ Association
held a dance at the Dorchester to raise
funds for the school. Mrs. Bruce Rose,
a member of the committee, flitted about
in pale-daffodil tulle, the strapless top
marked with gold roses, Peggy Marks
rustled in black taffeta, which had gold
sequin trimmings. President of the
Association, Helen Kirsner, was a froth
of pastel-blue tulle, the skirt caught at
intervals with silver-bead bows. White,
rose-patterned satin was the choice of
Barbara Tunbridge. A swirling gown
of pale-gold satin was worn by Mrs. John
Brooks. Deep parma-violet draperies set
off the blonde coloring of Mrs. Geoffrey
Stott. A cerise tulle gown featuring the
new peacock-hemline was worn by Mrs.
Leonard Legge.
Moonee Valley Cup day being dull,
once again spring fashions stayed at
home. The suit was the most popular
outfit, and with waist-hugging jackets was
seen the clean knifing of pleats, the
straight stroke of the narrow skirt. Blue
predominated ; from pastel to deep navy
it was worn by older women, while
younger racegoers went for junior-navy.
Lady Brooks, wife of the Governor, wore
a suit in delphinium tonings, and the
rosebud worn in one lapel matched her
white blouse. Her blue ballibuntal-straw
hat had its brim faced with white. Mrs.
W. L. Russell Clarke wore a grey-printed
chiffon blouse with her grey flannel suit.
On the slim-fitting black frock worn by
Mrs. W. S. Cox were wide revers of white
Swiss embroidered muslin; her small
black straw hat had pale gold and black
wings across the front. Mrs. S. J.
Fletcher was in navy gaberdine. A small
hat in emerald-green topped the beige
suit worn by Mrs. R. A. Burgoyne. Mrs.
Frank Gillespie contrasted her black
frock and jacket with a jade-green straw
cloche.
From Sydney
The opening of the annual exhibition
of the Contemporary Art Society enticed
large numbers of people to the Education
Department’s Gallery on last Saturday s
sunny afternoon, but the pictures and
the assembly were sufficiently bright, gay
and colorful to repay them. Although
berets and beards were worn quite exten-
sively by the men, the dressing of the
women was mostly conventional, the
younger girls going for cotton Horrocks
dresses in striking designs. Dorothy
Helmrich, wearing navy-blue, opened the
exhibition with her usual distinguished
charm. Erik Langker brought his pretty
young daughter along. Dora Jarrett wore
a big red hat, Mrs. Walter Bunning a.
big black one. Mrs Oscar Edwards s
navy-and-white polka-dot spectacles
matched her dress. Mrs. Frank Med-
worth keyed gun-metal faille to a citron
hat. Mrs. H. Towndrow was in black
and white, cunningly tucked. Margot
Garling wpre a lovely fob, an oxidised
silver scent-bottle which came from her
great-grandmother’s chatelaine. Jean
Garling had poppies on her hat to match
her dress; her book on the ballet in Aus-
tralia from 1833 to “Corroboree,” which
will be on the bookstalls soon, should be
an excellent solution to the Christmas-
present problem. The illustrations are by
Daryl Lindsay and William Constable.
Health Week brought crowds to the
Town Hall every day to see the exhibition
and physical-culture displays, in which, it
must be admitted, the boys carried off the
laurels, at least on Friday, A team from
North Sydney Technical School gave a
spectacular display, leaping and vaulting
and diving like Super-Boys. In com-
parison, the girls’ folk-dances seemed to
lack verve and vigor, the girls being less
concentrated than the boys, more
conscious of how they looked. Still, they
looked very nice indeed in their short
tunics, healthy and happy and strong.
Another of Health Week’s lessons was
how to wash-up properly. Oddly enough,
this humble task provokes a good deal
of snobbery, every housewife secretly
thinking that she does it better
than anyone else. Some are appalled
at their friend’s habit of wiping
the inside of the milk-jug instead
of scalding it. Others sniff at those who
use the same tea-towel for saucepans and
glassware. A few think it disgraceful to
turn cups upside down on the draining-
board —“catching all the germs.” Another
crime is to use water which is not boil-
ing—hands apparently being less im-
portant than dishes. Even if one were
the world’s champion washer-upper there
would be someone to find fault with one’s
methods.
Petite Wendy Playfair, third daughter
of Dr, and Mrs. Strath Playfair, is an
actress whose voice is familiar to radio-
listeners. She plays the leading ingenue
part in “The Story of Mary Lane,” and
is heard as Helen in “The Sport of
Kings.” Recently she appeared in
“Madame Louise” at the Palace, Well-
known in the social life of Sydney, Wendy
has done some modelling for fashion-
papers, and is noted for her individual
dressing and vivid personality. Adelynne
photo.
The committee for the Anti-T.B.
Association is always thinking up in-
teresting ideas, the latest being a table-
setting competition at Anthony Hordern’s
Gallery. Twelve well-known people
decorated tables for different occasions,
the Californian luncheon-table set by
Mrs. Maurice Samuels, with its blue and
yellow scheme, being one of the most
attractive, though the ivy underneath the
table would have been death on stock-
ings. Byram Mansell turned his know-
ledge of aboriginal design to a buffet-
table which was skilful and effective, but
likely to degenerate into maddening
chaos as soon as the first frankfurts were
served, Donna del Balzo’s luncheon-table
was coolly green and casually elegant.
J. C. Bendrodt’s table for a bachelor’s
dinner had stiff-backed chairs, heavy
ornaments, grim-looking cutler y—
altogether a good argument for bachelors
forsaking their single blessedness at once.
The most beautiful tables were Lady
Plowman’s formal dinner with its orchid-
strewn lalique centre-piece, and Mrs.
A. A. Hall’s setting for a wedding-break-
fast where champagne color in damask and
flowers was reflected in crystal and silver.
The Institute of Photographic Illustra-
tors’ exhibition at David Jones’ was
more “arty” than photographic, which
seems a pity. When the photo-
graphers join the artists in looking,
not at things, but through and in and
under them, there will be no one left to
give us a picture of things as they really
look. A photograph should tell its own
story, as David Moore’s direct and vivid
picture of a boy t i Surry Hills does. The
various photographs of nuts and bolts and
bits of wire and bursting fireworks could
have been better handled by the pencil
and palette men.
The charming home of Beatrice and
Vera Keame at Lindfield was the setting
for an American Tea organised by the
North Shore branch of the Lady
Mayoress’s Relief Fund. Mrs. Ernest
O’Dea, surely the most energetic Lady
Mayoress Sydney has seen, supervised
the fair, where all sorts of weekend pro-
duce was for sale: spinach, pumpkin,
cabbages, oranges and lemons. Mrs. R.
J. F. Boyer presided like Ceres over a
stall piled with delicious-looking bread —
milk-loaves, poppy-seed, cottage-type.
Mrs. H. G, Carter, whose American Tea
in aid of Legacy was scheduled for the
following day, was delighted when the
committee donated all the produce that
remained to that function. Among others
who worked for the Fair were Mrs. R.
Rogers, Mrs. H. Bott, Mrs. Oong and
Mrs. Hope Gibson.
Mrs. W. G. Chappie, of Dee Why, has
had some interesting letters from
daughter Marion, who with Gwen Hat-
field, of Haberfield, and Peggy Wood has
been travelling in England, Germany,
Switzerland and Italy. The girls set off
together last March after finishing their
nursing-training. Peggy returns in
November, but Marion and Gwen are
going to Denmark to do some nursing
work, and hope to see Sweden and Nor-
way. Here is what Marion writes about
Oberammergau, which they visited
recently;
The village is lovely; white roughcast
houses with scenes and figures painted on
them in pastel colors. The men wear short
leather pants with embroidered braces and
hats with great feathers, arid the town has
all sorts of lovely things to buy: cuckoo-
clocks, pottery, china. We had to get up at
7 a.m. to see the Passion Play, which starts
at 8.30 and goes on all day. The audience
of 5000 is seated in what is like an aero-
plane hangar, the actors (all from the
village, the men with long hair) performing
on a stage with no roof and composed of
stone in soft tones. Although the play is
spoken in German we were able to follow
with an English translation. Before each
act a chorus of 80 came on the stage and
sang in voices like flutes, while between
acts there was a tableau from the Old
Testament which looked like old masters’
paintings. Even though it lasted all day,
our interest did not flag once.
Diplomas in social studies were pre-
sented at the University last week to 26
women and 12 men by Vice-Chancellor
Professor Roberts. Many of these social-
welfare workers have degrees (Dr. Ger-
maine Joplin is a doctor of philosophy, a
master of arts and a doctor of science),
several of the women are married. One
recalled the old teaching “if you educate
a man you educate only a man. To
educate a woman is to educate a whole
family.” The oration was given by Dr.
Cecil Gibb, senior lecturer in psychology.
He stressed the importance of group
activity in teaching, and indicated that
graduation was merely what the Ameri-
cans call “commencement.” Learning
and experiment must go on, developing
as contact with life’s problems increases.
The psychologists, by the way, are in-
troducing many new words
into our language which don’t seem to
add to its beauty. Dr. Gibb used “we-
feeling” and “belongingness.” Others
are stick-at-itness” and “the know-
how.” Soon we’ll have, no doubt, the
“getting-away-from-it-allness” and the
“don’t-know-how.” The “walking-to-
work-on-Mondayness” we already have.
Mrs. Margaret Watts, who is well-
known as an organiser for charitable
appeals, has been appointed Secretary to
the New Settlers League of N.S.W. Her
work will be the reception and assimila-
tion of British and non-British new
settlers to Australia, in conjunction with
the Council of Voluntary Migration
Groups. Mrs. Watts, who has a good
background of experience for this work-
site was with the British Red Cross in
Europe—looks forward to “an amazingly
interesting task in nation-building.


ttxiie
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . •
£xi
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
lon Idriess’s “Flynn of the Inland,”
after 38 years’ continuous superin-
tending of the Australian Inland
Mission, is calling it a day. Now
known as the Very Rev. Dr. John
Flynn, 0.8. E. (the University of
Toronto, Canada, conferred on him the
honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity
in 1940), the founder of the mission,
the flying-doctor services and the unique
pedal-wireless system of outback com-
munication was born at Moliagul (Vic.)
68 years ago. A few years with the Vic-
torian Education Department preceded
his joining the Home mission staff of the
Presbyterian Church ; he was ordained in
Adelaide in 1911. Most of his time since
then has been spent in the outback on
the work of AJ.M. Still long, lean, look-
ing more like a grazier than a meenister,
Flynn is known from end to end of Aus-
tralia. That and his mission are his
memorials. To the use of the latter —its
widespread hospitals, flying - doctor
services and its aid in providing radio
facilities —every comer is welcome and
no question asked.
Sitting for his Heth portrait, artist
John S. Loxton, an hour or so before
Ivan Menzies opened his exhibition at
ART.
Sydney’s Grosvenor Gallery artist hav-
ing met opener in London, on a six-
months’ tour of the Continent last year.
Loxton started —and finished —painting
early, when, at 18, he took a bunch of
20 pictures to a noted Melbourne art-
dealer. Without bothering to unwrap the
offerings the dealer told young Loxton to
take ’em away and return when he was
more mature. Disillusionment lasted six
years, and looked like becoming perman-
ent, when Loxton, trout-fishing up in the
Kiewa (Vic.) hydroelectric country,
accidentally came across a discarded box
of paints at his hotel. Brush supplanted
rod —to such effect that he’s held about
20 one-man exhibitions, has exhibited at
The Royal Academy, painted Australian-
scene panels for the Himalaya and the
New Australia and art-criticised for Mel-
bourne “Argus” for 18 months. His
show at the Grosvenor was already
liberally red-spotted before it was
officially opened.
Alan McCrae Moorehead, 0.8. E.,
recently mentioned as the first Public
Relations officer to the British Ministry
of Defence, was, as well, unofficial public-
relations man for Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery when he wrote the biography of
that leader in 1946. After the war Moore-
head resigned to devote himself to writ-
ing, and settled in Florence with his ex-
war-correspondent wife and two children.
One of his books, Rage of the Vulture, is
to be filmed by Hollywood with Alan
Ladd as the leading character. When he
took on his new job Moorehead found
one secretary in office to answer all ques-
tions about Britain’s vast defence
organisation.
“Macnell”: “Once a destroyer-man,
always a destroyer-man” is as well known
in the Andrew as “liberty-men to clean.”
Further confirmation —appointment of
Commander John Plunkett-Cole to the
bridge of the brand-new destroyer Anzac
(sister to Tobruk), almost ready for sea-
trials in Melbourne. In his younger days
one of the Navy’s best footballers (he
captained the Flinders Naval Depot team
which won the Victorian Rugby premier-
ship in 1933) and a nippy lightweight as
well, he was in British eight-incher Sussex
in the Mediterranean when Hitler’s out-
break mobilised the British Fleet, and in
Sussex he searched for Graf Spec in
the South Atlantic and helped convoy
the first contingent of the A.I.F. to the
Middle East. He had his share of
reverses—the Norway evacuation, ship
bombed in the Clyde, the Crete with-
drawal in Australian boat Napier (also
bombed), and he was in cruiser Canberra
when she caught hers at Savo Island. He
got his own back as captain of destroyer
Nepal, when British Eastern Battle Fleet
aircraft caught the Japs with their
kimonos down at Sabang and Sourabaya,
and returned to Sabang to loose its
15-inch close-range slams. In destroyer
Norman he was in at the Tarakan land-
ing, and moved north with the B.P.F. to
lambast Japan itself. A dapper, teak-
faced 44, he goes to Anzac’s heavily-
powered length from a shoreside period
as War Book Officer at Navy Office.
Manfred Clynes, the young Melbourne
pianist whose brilliant playing of the
“Emperor” Concerto at the Town Hall
was mentioned in a recent “Sundry
Shows” notice, has caught the eye or ear
of Professor Heinze, who has appointed
him chief study teacher of pianoforte at
the University Conservatorium. The first
Juilliard Scholarship winner, Clynes
established a reputation in the U.S.
before he returned to Australia ; he still
has pupils in that country whom he
teaches by means of records.
“A.L.”: Lambart’s sketch of Alec
McGill, leader of the Brisbane Bar,
recalls that December day in 1902 when
Brisbane “Courier” published a telegram
from Sydney giving results of Sydney
University public examinations (Queens-
land had no university at that time),
Three names stood out. Alec McGill and
John Lavarack had matriculated ; Frank
Brennan had passed the Junior. McGill
is a K.C. John Lavarack, after a brilliant
military career, is now Governor of his
State. Frank Brennan became a tempera-
mental Minister of the Crown and then
a Justice of the Supreme Court, and was
the centre of many outbursts before he
died. If McGill had won the South
Brisbane election in 1926 (he lost by 99
votes), it was guineas to strawberries that
he would have been leader of the Oppo-
sition, and as such might in time have
become a foil to Forgan Smith, who was
then a Minister and became Premier in
1932. Now Forgan iis Chancellor of
Queensland University, with Alec Deputy-
Chancellor.
“J.S.R.”: To bring you back on course
—Lt.-Cdr. John Dowson, not Lt.-Cdr.
Hodge, was in charge of frigate
Condamine’s tugging at the beached
Cyrena and Reynella (B. 11/10/’5O). Re-
mainder of the par. is accurate.
Actors throughout Australia will re-
member with affection Alex Isaacson,
dead at 80, in Melbourne; he was as
loyal to them as he was to his 1915
Renault, which he drove daily into the
city for 30 years. After making and
losing a fortune as a diamond expert he
joined with Oscar Asche and Lily Bray-
ton in bringing “Chu Chin Chow” to
Australia. Later manager of the Tivoli
and closely associated with the Taits
in various theatrical ventures, he
was always ready to listen to out-
of-work barnstormers and to finance
forlorn hopes. When broadcasting
came into fashion he moved into
the managership of 3KZ, though his
heart was still with the flesh-and-blood
theatre and he would reminisce about
it by the hour. His private passion was
clocks, tartans and Napoleonic relics —
he had one of the largest collections of
medals and miniatures of the period in
existence. When a Birmingham collector
offered him £lO,OOO for the collection at
a time when he was hard-up, Alex
wrestled with temptation for several days
until his brother resolved his conflict by
suggesting that he should present it to the
National Gallery in Melbourne, where
it would still be his, as he could go up
at any time and see it. Another gift to
the Gallery was a replica of the Crown
jewels used at Coronations. Born at
Stawell and educated in France and Ger-
many, Alex was a bachelor. His annual
pantomime parties for children, when
hundreds of kids were collected from
street corners by charabancs and taken to
a theatre, with doctors and nurses in
attendance, endeared him to the juvenile
population. Wing-commander Isaacson
is a nephew.
One of Maoriland’s biggest jobs,
general-manager of the Auckland Harbor
Board, goes to Arthur Cecil Clarke, out
of 130 applicants. He’s been well trained
—on the staff of the general-manager of
the Port of London Authority, and, prior
to that, senior port-officer for the War
Office Transport Directorate and Control
Commission in Germany.
Latest elevation to the Bench of
Bishops of the Church, Hector
Gordon Robinson, Archdeacon of Mac-
kay (Q.) and Bishop-elect of Riverina
(N.S.W.). Educated at Trinity College,
Melbourne, he was curate of St. Peter’s
in that city before chaplaining in the
R.A.N. Shifting to the sun-State in 192 7 ,
he became Mackay’s Archdeacon in
1943.
To Australian Gilsullivan lovers it
would seem unreal not to have, during
any season, Ivan Menzies skipping nimbly
about the boards as the snickersnee-toting
Ko-Ko, that moth-eaten nobleman the
Duke of Plaza-Toro, the skittish chan-
cellor, or, as depicted here by Dubois,
Jack Point in “The Yeomen.” This is
the fourth time Menzies has come here
as chief comedian in the Savoy operas.
He came up the traditional way: stepped
out of the chorus into the comedy role
and immediately established himself as
the ideal delineator of Gilbert’s gallery
of funny men: he was aided by a flair
for singing at breakneck speed while yet
maintaining perfect diction —his speaking-
voice has a bell-like clarity, perfect for
theatre, as it is in demand when he be-
THEATRE.
comes, as he often does, a serious speaker.
Short but solidly built, Menzies is a keen
follower of Test cricket, and is a first-
rate tennis-player —getting through 40
strenuous games against class players
during a morning helps to explain his
fleetness of foot before the footlights.
Looking every inch an Englishman buf
all-American throughout his whole 6ft.-
odd, Paul R. Reynolds flew into Australia
from New York looking for literary pos-
sibilities, and was drawn by Prior while
telling Bulletin staff scribes some-
thing of the American market for Aus-
tralian writers. He ought to know, since
LITERATURE.
he’s the Son in Paul R. Reynolds and
Son, American literary agents, and has
been in the business more than 20 years.
The agency has placed a number of Aus-
tralian stories in America, and Reynolds
says he wants more because stories of Aus-
tralian life are “fresh” to Americans. But
they must be well written, be about
“strong characters” rather than dead-
beats and no-hopers, be of victory rather
than of defeat. Two things struck him
about us: a tendency to run down our
own people and country when talking to
Americans and a mistaken belief that
Australians can write stories about
Americans. Reynolds came here hoping
to see more of Australia than Sydney
and Melbourne, but once word of his
arrival got abroad he became so busy with
interviews and requests for interviews
that his wife, who accompanied him, had
to be called in to assist in dealing with
the crowds.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 92, Louis Wilhelm Karl Wirth,
oldest member of the Royal Queensland Art
Society. With Oscar Fristr.om and Isaac Walter
Jenner he founded the society in 1883.
In Cleveland (Q.), at 81, John Brownlee
Henderson, Queensland Government Analyst
from 1893 to 1935 and one-time science-master
at Brisbane Grammar. His outstanding work
for Red Cross in World War I brought him
0.8. E. For many years chairman of the
executive of the Boy Scouts’ Association, and
officer of the Royal Society of Queensland, the
executive of the Cancer Trust and the R.A.C.Q.
In Brisbane, at 87, Major James Loynes,
Boer War veteran and Light Horse officer of
World War I. Born in Birmingham (Eng.),
he landed in Brisbane in 1883 and became a
master builder. For several years Deputy
Commissioner of War Service Homes, he retired
21 years ago.
In Perth, at 71, W. E. B. Solomon, three
months after completing 50 years’ legal practice
in Westralia. Qualifying in Perth, he was
admitted in 1900, at 21. Physically small, an
unassuming man with a big capacity for friend-
ship, he was a past-president of the Westralian
Barristers’ Board and vice-president of the West
Perth Cricket Club.
In Brisbane, at 77, Harry Walker, one-time
engine-driver and miner, and “father” of the
Queensland Parliament. A C.P. man, he held
the Cooroora seat for 34 years, with five years
in as Wide Bay representative before that. As
a Boer War veteran, one of his main memories
was the durability of issue-biscuits; his story
was that they were so infernally hard the
African white-ants, after demolishing the timber
biscuit-case, refused to tackle the contents.
In Perth, at 49, William G. Murdoch, doyen
of Westralia’s law-court reporters and son of
Professor Walter Murdoch. Starting on the
Melbourne “Argus,” he later joined Melbourne
“Herald,” and crossed to Perth with his father
in 1921. As a law-court reporter for the “West
Australian” he had received commendations
for his fairness and accuracy from Latham,
C.J., and from Westralia’s Dwyer, C.J. Out
of court Murdoch was a prolific writer of
magazine articles on art and literary subjects.


THE VILLAGE OF PHANTON SHIPS
by
OLAF
RUHEN
KUDGIL sat on the platform of the
House Tamboran facing the river,
but his eyes were on the village.
So that he caught the first glimpse
Talua when she scrambled under the
low lintel of her dwelling, climbed down
the crossbar steps and walked past the
houses.
Talua was beautiful. She was tall for
a village girl, over five feet, and her body
was firm and well-formed. More, her
legs were thicker than the thin shanks of
most of the canoe people. They carried
grace and symmetry. In her close-
cropped curly hair she wore three bright
yellow flowers of the the wild
hibiscus; and between her pretty breasts
she cuddled her pet black fowl, a rooster
who had lost most of his feathers in the
cause of Talua’s adornment.
Kudgil loved her. He loved to watch
her walk through the village, swinging the
skirt over her hips as a well-behaved
woman should, displaying its colors of
rust and corn and grey. It was a full and
respectable skirt that fell half-way to her
knees behind, and not quite so far in
front; a skirt made with care and in-
finite industry from the flower of the
sago-palm. A skirt that proclaimed her
a wife fit for Kudgil. But before she
could be his wife, there was the small
matter of the bride-price. When Talua
was out of sight and there was no least
chance that she would answer his look
with a look, Kudgil swung round and dis-
appeared inside the House Tamboran to
count his possessions.
It was a bare hulk now, a temple
where the gods lived no more ; a cleaned-
out shell that once had carried terror in its
name. The missionary, sorpe forgotten
missionary, had taken away the skulls and
the best of the carvings. And worse, he
had taken away the authority of the
House Tamboran. There were still skulls
beneath the massive piles that held the
rafters ; more skulls, made lifelike again
with clay and paint, hidden in the joining
of the roof-trees, where none could see
them.
Not so many of his people believed now
in the power that had demanded the skulls
to back its authority ; but there were two
fresh skulls there that the white man must
not know about. This was no business of
Kudgil’s.
For him the House Tamboran was
empty. There were three carved council
tables hewn from the solid stumps of
trees and a dozen stools, and that was
all the furniture of the gods and the
councils that the white man had left. He
had not stolen it, but bought it from the
Luluai ; and the Luluai was richer by
many pearishells and no little steel. But
the authority of the house had gone with
the furnishings, though the carved roof-
tree, fifty feet above the ground and four
times as long, forced awe on you by its
mass. The trees that supported the
rafters, too, were carved, and the darkness
made you feel a presence in the dim and
empty corners where once the ceremonies
happened of which men do not now
speak.
Kudgil’s goods were a small pile, a
lonely pile on the expanse of the palm-
wood polished floor. He saw them now,
not as he had seen them on that glorious
day when he had returned to the village
—the riches of a year spent working for
the white man —but as a working capital
that was puny for a man with his life
before him. A capital far too puny for
Kudgil. Because the bride-price for
Talua was immense: six pearishells, two
shells of the green sea-snail and) a hand-
ful of cowries. It was a price that might
bring him six women, though none of
them would be Talua.
I F Talua had nothing but her beauty he
' woulcl not buy. But Talua had more.
It was a fishing village, but Talua was
heiress to the best hunting valley of the
tribe, and Kudgil, by preference, was a
hunter. A marriage with Talua would
some day bring him wealth ; great wealth.
A woman with fishing-rights might
mean more to some suitors. But Kudgil
was a hunter first; and he wanted the
hunting rights of the valley that was
Talua’s.
For this was the rule of the tribe: that
the women owned the property, while the
men controlled only that which was their
wives’ ; and that a wife cost money. Thus
the young men worked to acquire wives,
and the men who had the most wives
worked the hardest. And they had the
most power as was right.
But the wealth of Kudgil was little,
though once it had seemed great enough
to him. Seven shafts of iron from the
engineers’ shop at Bulolo, which would
make him spears that would last for ever.
A belt of plastic and five armlets of beads
from the Chinese trader. Four lap-laps
for his clothes, and a blanket. A bush-
knife. Thirteen razor-blades. A small
water tumbler. Six sheets of newspaper
to roll his cigarettes and a little bag of
money. Nearly forty marks, and a paper
that was twenty marks. All of it together
would not buy six pearishells ; or if it
would it would leave nothing over.
He stopped looking at his treasures and
went out again to the platform of the
House Tamboran in the sun, where the
mosquitoes did not bite so much and he
could watch the river flowing, the depth
of two men beneath the platform. He
sat and waited and thought of whether
Gerlap, the father of Talua, would lower
the bride-price for him ; and he knew
Gerlap would not, at least this* year. In
a harder year a wife might come cheaper.
But Kudgil had other things to think of,
too ; and after a while he went in again
and took the small drinking-vessel of glass
that he had stolen from the white man in
Bulolo. And he took the paper that was
twenty marks, and his bushknife for com-
pany. He untied the canoe and paddled
up-river under the shadow of the trees
where the current ran slow till he came to
the house of Chu Lim, the Chinese trader.
He bought one tin of bully-beef for
which he had no opener, and a bright red
bangle of light plastic that a child might
wear in a white city ; and he disappeared.
Of his whereabouts there was no
mystery. Nobody missed him. At least
nobody searched for him. But if they had
searched they would have found him in
the hut of a deserted garden five miles up
the river from Chu Lim’s. So far from
the village, in fact, that his life was to
some extent in danger from the not-yet-
blooded youths of the next tribe. For
head-hunting was a custom not entirely
forgotten, and there was merit yet for the
hunter if his exploits did not come to the
ears of the police.
In the garden, Kudgil spread new clay
over the palm floorboards of the hut for
his fire, and he sat there.
He did not eat, and he spent a great
deal of time with the glass, the can of
beef and the bright bangle; yet mostly
with the glass, turning it over and over
in his hands, and feeling the fine smooth
edge of it. Sometimes he rubbed it
against the skin of his belly to feel the
smoothness of the glass against the fine
skin. Until he had gone with the re-
cruiter to Bulolo, there had been nothing
like the glass within his experience. It
did not come from the sea or the river or
the forest or the rocks of the mountain.
And it was bound up somewhere with the
fantastic wealth of the white man. It
was a thing not of this earth; and of the
things beyond the earth there was no
knowing. But something to which it
belonged meant wealth. And wealth
meant Talua. And more wealth. And
a new life in which wealth came without
work, as it came to the white men who
could work hard but knew very well how
not to work. Who never worked to get
their food, as the brown men did. And
who could keep their women without
working the women.
Kudgil looked at the glass for five
days. Towards each night he went about
and gathered a little wood for the fire
and green leaves to make a smudge, but
he did not eat. Near the end of the five
days he slept often, but always woke in
a little while and looked at the glass.
And then the great truth came to him.
HE sat back on his haunches and con-
sidered this truth. It was a big truth,
and he looked at it carefully. But it was
a solid and inescapable truth, and he saw
it was time to return to the village. He
went to a kapiak-tree at the edge of the
garden and brought back a breadfruit,
and blew up the fire and put it on.
Then he gathered a bunch of woody
bananas apd scorched them, and ate the
bananas and the breadfruit quickly. Then
he untied the canoe and paddled down-
stream to the village.
There was sufficient in what he had to
tell to bring a council together. That
night a man went beneath the House
Tamboran with a cudgel, and beat the
big Garamuts. And the Garamuts spoke,
the drum-notes carrying the message of
the council over the hills and the valleys,
over a country for thirty miles in every
direction, and the men of the village,
sleeping out in their gardens, heard the
message and made themselves ready to
.come back with the morning light.
Kudgil did not sleep. He was tired ;
but there was pain in his belly and he
was excited, like a man in a small fever.
But when the council came together he
spoke, standing by a table in the House
Tamboran, and looking at the faces all
about him. There were two faces that
he watched more closely than the others.
One was the face of Laseki the headman
below Tombarap the Luluai; and the
other was the face of Gerlap, the father
of Talua.
On the table beside him were the bright
red bangle, the can of beef and the drink-
ing-glass.
Now, all the men had seen these things
before, but there was something about
them, and when Kudgil began to speak
the men kept their eyes on the things on
the table, the bangle and the can and the
glass.
Kudgil said “I’ve been a long way,
and I’ve seen a strange thing. I was
camped in the garden at the north
boundary of our country. The sun went
down arid the flying-foxes rose from the
trees in the swamp, and a great bird
came and scattered them. He was a horn-
bill, but he was bigger than the hut. I
was afraid, and I ran through the trees
to the river. But there was a crocodile
by the canoe, bigger than the canoe.
He stood his ground on the bank and
opened his jaws, and his red throat was
as big as the door of a house. And I ran
back through the trees, but a snake
dropped down in my path. He was as
long as the roof-tree of the House Tam-
boran, and my legs were grass-stems and
I couldn’t run.
“But the snake spoke to me. He said
‘Follow me’; and it seemed that I wasn’t
afraid any more when I heard his voice.
I followed him and we went a long way.
“We came to a place where he went
down into a hole in the earth and I fol-
lowed him there. It was a long way to
the bottom of the hole, and when we
got there he looked about him, and he
picked up . . . this.”
Kudgil lifted the bright red bangle
from the table and all the eyes swung
with his hand. All the men looked at
him, and an old man said “Ee-yah,” and
his eyes became excited with the hope
that was in them. Gerlap leaned forward
with the rest and only Laseki was disap-
proving.
Kudgil said “The snake picked up the
bangle with his mouth and passed it to
me. He said ‘Take it. It is yours. It is
from your ancestors who were living and
now they are not. But they have not for-
gotten you. They would give you this,
and it is yours.’ ”
There was talk, and Kudgil waited. He
did not hear the talk except as a mutter-
ing behind his ears; and when he went
on he spoke very quietly and all the men
listened.
He said “I looked at the bangle as I
went on my way. It was a long time,
but it seemed a little. When I came to
the water again the crocodile still sat by
the canoe, and he didn’t slither back into
the water when I came. But I wasn’t
afraid any longer.
“And the crocodile said ‘Come,’ and
he swung his tail around. I sat on his
back and I put the bangle on my arm,
and he swam into the river and down
under the water. But I could still breathe
and I could see a little. At the bottom
of the river the crocodile waited, and I
got down off his back. And among the
things he had there he looked around,
and he found this can of meat.”
Kudgil lifted the can, and the eyes fol-
lowed his hand again. The old man
swayed forward and his eyes were very
bright indeed.
“The crocodile said ‘lt is yours. It is
a gift from your father and your father's
father from their plenty.’ And I took the
can and came again to the riverbank
without feeling the water, and the cloth
of my lap-lap was dry. And at the clear-
ing the hornbill still sat on the house.”
NOW there was a hornbill carved on
each of the great peaks of the House
Tamboran, and struggling beneath each
hornbill a mass of figures, men and a
woman. There were hornbill heads
carved on the canoes, and on the paddle-
heads above the grip; and the hornbill
sat over the fife of the tribe. In the days
before lap-laps the men wore hornbill
heads for a decoration and they did not
eat the bird.
So when Kudgil talked of the hornbill
the men drew in their breaths ; and some
said. “Ee-yah,” very long-drawn at the
back of their throats.
“I sat behind the wings of the horn-
bill,” Kudgil was saying, “and he flew
very far and very fast just above the tops
of the timber. And the flying-foxes scat-
tered before him until we came to a long
valley and at the head of it a mountain
stretching into the clouds. And we flew
up into the cloud. On the face of the
mountain was a tree, and the hornbill
flew up and into its nest on the tree.
And I could see nothing but the cloud
and the trunk of the tree reaching down.
“The hornbill took this glass from the
nest and gave it to me. And he said
‘Your ancestors sent it to you, because
they wish you well.’ ”
Now there was a movement amongst
the men. They waited, but they were not
passive. There was something else in
the truth that Kudgil had seen, some-
thing that meant more than all he had
said, but he could not think of it. He
was faint, though he would not show
it. Abruptly he put the glass with the can
and the red bangle, and sat down in the
front of the circle, facing the table like
the rest.
Laseki, the headman, was at the table.
He wore the bone-ring of his authority
on his head. His lap-lap was caught up
with the leather-belt of a police-boy;
and, as did not happen often, the
sergeant’s stripes he had earned in the
service were fastened to the armlet that
encircled his biceps.
Laseki had in his hand four straws ;
and in the quiet he threw one on the
table. It looked a big thing lying there
on the smooth top; as though the women
that were the carved legs of the table


held it, and it alone. It looked more than
a straw.
“There is the glass,” said Laseki, as
he threw down the straw. “And it seems
no more and no less a glass than it was
when Kudgil brought it in his pack from
the work at Bulolo. And there is the
bangle and the meat ...” And he threw
down two more straws.
“Such a bangle and such meat is for
anyone who has the marks to give Chu
Lim the Chinaman. For there is a big
stock of these things in his shop ; as you
have seen. And this i§ the talk ...” And
he threw down the last straw.
“For it is in my mind,” he said, “that
this is a bad talk, and it should come to
an end quickly lest more come of it.”
Tombarap the Luluai came quickly to
the table and took up the straws. He
was the chief over all, and his power
came from the wives in his house. He
was a big man, and he had been a power
in the days when men were strong. Even
the Government recognised his power
and called him Luluai, though they had
set Laseki, in a way, to watch him ; and
usually he took Laseki’s advice. Tom-
barap took up three straws in one hand
and one in the other.
“These three talks are one talk,” he
said.
He slipped two of the three straws in
his belt and there was a murmur of
approval. He set the straw remaining on
the table.
“Now Laseki speaks the truth. Yet it
seems to me also the truth lay with
Kudgil. For we can see as far as the
Chinaman, and behind the Chinaman the
white men, and the ships and the canoes
that. fly. But behind these we cannot see ;
and to me it is that Kudgil spoke the
truth. These then are from the ancestors.
He swept the straw to the floor, and
carried the glass, the can and the bangle
to the other table by the sago-frond wall.
Then he came back. He dropped the
second straw from his other hand to the
table.
“The talk goes on,” he said.
The talk went on through the day and
into the night. It was Tombarap who
made the last decision. “It is a little thing
to ask,” he said. “We will ask our
fathers, and they will send us the goods
of the white man.”
The rest of the truth jogged Kudgil,
and he spoke quickly. “There is more
than asking,” he said. “For when the
hornbill spoke to me of the glass he said
‘A little thing to carry in your hand.’ If
I’d been ready for more I think he would
have given me more. And I’ve been
thinking that the white men, when they
await cargo, build a shed they call a
Customs-shed ; and in the shed there is an
agent. I spoke of this to the hornbill in
the mountains and he told me: ‘You are
the agent. Yet you have no house to
hold the goods.’ So we come now to the
building of a shed.”
All the men were avid now, except
Laseki, who sat in the shadow. They
were imagining the wealth of the white
men. They had seen it. And very
obviously it could come from nowhere
but another world. They could see the
need of a Customs-shed and an agent,
and so it was decided. And in the morn-
ing they set about the building of a shed.
A T the District Office, a hundred miles
f* down-river, the A.D.O. was breaking
in a new patrol-officer when Laseki
arrived. His arrival was announced by
a fat police-boy in a navy-blue lap-lap
and scarlet cummerbund, heavy with
leather, and hot under the blue flannel
jacket he wouldn’t have parted with for a
fortune.
“Blue” Chisholm, the A.D.0., went out
to see Laseki; and he didn’t return for
an hour.
Robins, the patrol-officer, looked up
from a magazine as Chisholm came in.
“What is it?” he asked.
“Trouble,” said Chisholm briefly. “We
go up-river tomorrow. Three and a half
bloody days against the current. We’ll
leave at dawn.” He filled his pipe and
looked up and grinned. “It’ll be good
experience for you,” he added.
“A killing?” asked Robins. He was
very new.
“Worse,” Chisholm said. “It’s cargo
cult. It’ll mean months of trouble.” He
frowned. “It’s new up-river. Don't know
where they got it from.”
“What’s cargo cult?”
“A form of jealousy, I suppose. They
build an airstrip and wait for the white
man’s cargo to come to them. When it
doesn’t come they make sacrifices to
their ancestors or their gods and ask
for it. Put on a big feast. Then they
kill all the pigs, chop down the coco-
palms, burn the houses, dig up the
gardens. Then we step in and save it
going any further, as a rule. And then
we have to supply them with rations till
they get their gardens going again.”
On the boat, when there was little
to do but watch the greasy grey water
slipping past, he elaborated a bit more.
“They ask the gods to send them
cargo, and when it doesn’t come they
think they can put up a better argument
if they have nothing left of their own.
They think their ancestors cannot leave
them in the lurch if they have nothing.”
“You said, ‘Worse than a killing,’ ”
Robins said.
“More trouble. And there’s this about
it. They think we get our cargo from
the next world —can’t tell them any differ-
ent once they get the idea. .So they think
we interfere with them just to keep the
trade to ourselves. They think if they
get the stuff, we’ll have to live off the bush
and they’ll be the wealthy ones. So they’ll
do anything to keep this secret from the
white man —even to killing a white man
who might be around. They haven’t done
it yet, but it’s on the cards.”
ON the second night up-river the
Garamuts spoke. A drum throbbed
as the sun went down —a small message,
repeated twice; a tiny sound to carry
over the hills. Chisholm, not normally
particular about these matters, set a
double guard of police boys as they lay
at anchor. He didn’t say anything about
the drums, and after dinner he suggested
a game of double patience on the fore-
deck.
The mosquitoes were getting fierce,
and he kept two of the boat-boys busy
with spray-guns, a third watching the ice,
the waterjug and the rum-bottle. He
played a very good game as the game
went tgmd turned in some time about mid-
night.
Robins went to the short-deck above
the bridge and played the searchlights
for ten minutes until the night seemed
to draw in on him. But he saw nothing
except, among the roots of the wild sugar
by the bank, three pairs of red eyes that
were crocodiles.
It was the same the third night except
for an hour of hectic struggle before
dawn, when a huge tree-trunk, more than
a hundred feet in length and carrying its
rooted base like a galley prow, tangled
the anchor-chain. They were a mile and
a half down-river before, with police boys,
boat boys, cook boys and white men alike
straining every muscle, they finally got
rid of it.
It was noon when they came round
the bend below the village.
Chisholm was using his field-glasses
at the rail up by the bow. The palm-
trees still stood. The huts were there as
usual. There was a little smoke of cook-
ing-fires ; and a crowd of people above
the landing-stage.
“Looks normal,” Robins ventured.
Then he saw the straggling structures at
the bank. “What’s all that piling?”
“Wharves,” Chisholm said. “For
cargo. When it comes.”
He stood up and ran his fingers through
his thick yellow-red hair.
He went down to the cabin and came
back with a revolver, a .38 Webley. He
broke it right down and reloaded it.
Then he cleared his right-hand trouser-
pocket of a handkerchief and a bunch of
keys, and slipped the revolver into it.
“You think you’ll need it?” Robins
asked.
Chisholm pursed his lips. “There are
no women in that crowd,” he said.
Robins looked again. They were near
now, and he didn’t need the glasses. Men
were everywhere, and now he noticed
that every man was armed. Most had
bows and arrows ; some had spears or
bush-knives.
He looked back at the deck behind
him. All eight police boys were there.
Two had Owen-guns, and they were
backed up on the main-deck by four boys
with rifles. The other two boys with
rifles were climbing to the short-deck;
and Robins noted with some relief that
one was Oragi, who could always be
trusted to bring down a pigeon or a
hornbill with his first shot.
The boat boys were going about their
work as though nothing were out of the
ordinary. They disregarded the crazy
wharves that had been erected, and
warped the craft in to a platform of
canoes lashed together by the river-
bank.
NONE of the natives ashore came to
help, as was usual. They all stood,
a solid semicircle of men shoulder to
shoulder, and backed by more men.
Chisholm said, “It’s bad. I want no
shots fired unless I am killed. If I’m
killed, you’ll have to clean this up before
you leave. Oragi will help. He knows
all about it.”
He sat on the rail and swung his legs
over. He said, “I won’t be killed,” and
grinned. Robins, moved by what relic
of chivalry he could not name, thrust out
his hand, but Chisholm ignored it. He
dropped to the canoes and said over his
shoulder without looking round, “I
hope.”
At that moment there was a high, full
chant raised, like a song, an invocation,
and the ranks of the brown men opened
a little to one side of the semicircle
where a path led from the landing-stage
of canoes.
Tombarap, the Luluai, stood there in
warpaint, a spear in his hand, calling to
the white man words that meant nothing
to Robins. Like the others he wore no
lap-lap; only the tusks of pigs for orna-
ment and tasselled daggers in his arm-
lets.
When Chisholm reached the bank he
stood and Tombarap came forward, danc-
ing to his chant; self-hypnotised in fury,
and shaking his spear. There was a
chanting behind him, too, now, that grew
faster and faster. Tombarap became an
automaton, moved by the chant. He
danced faster and faster, advancing faster,
dancing and plunging his spear now till
his muscles snapped like ropes on a buck-
ing colt.
There was no doubt but death was in
his mind. He was death; death in a
brown skin. He had one purpose and
it was one with him and it was death. He
came at Chisholm and Chisholm just
stood there.
Then Chisholm’s hand was in his
pocket, and he drew the Webley. Robins
saw his thumb slide quite slowly with
the safety-catch, and when Tombarap
was twelve yards away Chisholm fired
and a tiny hole appeared on Tombarap’s
chest, in the centre, between the nipples
that had been ringed about with keloid
markings till they stood out like moun-
tains from a desert. But Tombarap
didn’t fall. He came on. He came on
silently, but he came, dancing and
stabbing, and his spear-arm never faltered.
To Robins’s amazement Chisholm re-
turned the Webley to his trouser-pocket.
It was vivid the way Robins saw it. He
saw Chisholm’s thumb slide back with
the safety-catch, and the revolver drop
in the pocket and Chisholm take his hand
away again and wait. And yet at the
same time Robins could see Tombarap
come on without faltering.
WELL, a man may see much in six
seconds. And when Tombarap came
within striking distance of his target he
spun and fell backwards with his head
to Chisholm’s feet and the spear point-
ing along the path he had come. Tom-
barap was quite dead.
And all the men had seen this that
Robins had seen, and the riot, if there
had been a riot, was over. For if they
looked for an omen, they found it in
the manner of the Luluai’s death.
There was a talk ; and Chisholm gave
the badge of the Luluai to Laseki, the
headman. Afterwards he walked about
the village, Laseki with him, and saw
the new hut, almost half as big as the
House Tamboran, and he asked the
meaning of the hut and Laseki told him
it was a Customs-shed for cargo.
Chisholm had Kudgil brought to him
and Kudgil had certain fears.
Chisholm said, “Here is a house for
cargo and there is no cargo. But there
are times the Government has need of
such a house. You own this house?”
Kudgil said: “Yes.”
There was more talk, about Bulolo ;
but nothing of the visions Kudgil had
seen. At the end of the talk Chisholm
appointed him headman beneath Laseki,
and gave him Laseki’s bone ring of
authority.
He explained to Robins afterwards:
“Apparently this was the Joe that started
all the trouble. He’s found out how to
use people now —not many coons do.
So we might as well use him. There’s
no one else for headman, and Laseki
will keep him in order—he’s a good man ;
served in the police force sixteen years.
“And now let’s get to hell out of it
and let them have their funeral. The
gardens are gone, but they still have the
coconuts. The pigs are gone, but there’s
plenty of game. Wo got them in time. It
was something of a classic, and you
were lucky to see ii work that way.”
Robins said: “Why didn’t you give him
a second bullet?”
“Nothing. No reason. But I speak
only once, and my gun speaks once. A
matter of pride. It goes a long way
with these people.”
KUDGIL had taken the ring with a
face impassive. He thanked Chisholm
at some length, but there was a question
in his mind. He knew that, before he
saw the truth of the matter of cargo and
brought it to his people, he could have
attained to no authority.
Perhaps the white man had a reason
for making him headman that was con-
nected with the cargo. There was a
reason for everything. The truth he had
seen in the hut was still very clear to
him. The cargo had not arrived, but
perhaps the time would come. Perhaps
at some future time he would talk again.
In the meantime he would remain the
keeper of the Customs-shed, and wait.
When evening came, Kudgil sat in the
door of the Customs-shed by himself.
Piligat, the old man, the hunter, saw
him and came stealthily, carrying some-
thing wrapped in his lap-lap. He laid
it down before Kudgil. It was a gold-
lip pearlshell, half-cut, but not impaired.
“It is a small thing,” Piligat said. “It
is something I give you because I have
held you a friend for a long time. It
is a gift.” He hesitated uneasily, and
Kudgil said nothing.
“It’s in my mind,” Piligat said, “that
the wharves and the Customs-shed no
longer have a use. Yet it seems to me
that if a thing is there a use will be
found for it. And it is true that such
a thing as a bright-red bangle does not
grow in the bush.”
Kudgil looked at him and stood up
and found the bangle and brought it to
Piligat and gave it to him. And this was
an answer to the gift of the shell; be-
cause a man who brings a gift requires
a gift in exchange.
Piligat said, “It is true also that for
such a shell as I have given you, Chu
Lim, the Chinaman, would give me
twenty such bangles. But it seems to
me that with wharves and Customs-sheds
some day there will be many bangles.
And I will be glad, because in that day
I will still be your friend.”
This Kudgil understood fully. When
Piligat had gone Kepa came with three
shells of the green sea-snail. Before
Tupai could arrive—he saw Tupai on
the platform of his hut—he went to Ger-
lap, the father of Talua. He sat there
in front of the old man for twenty
minutes and talked of nothing, while
Talua shrank into the shadows of the
hut. But he saw that she looked at him
and she smiled briefly before she looked
away.
“There was talk of a bride-price,” he
said suddenly, and Gerlap nodded. He
had been waiting for this.
Gerlap said, “These times will be hard.
There are no pigs and no dogs. There
is sago but nothing in the garden. In
hard times the bride-price would be less.”
“It was a good price,” said Kudgil,
and Gerlap’s eyes widened. “Tomorrow
I bring the price.”
Talua stood up and walked past the
two men and down the steps into the
village street and walked towards the
bush. But before she went she looked
at Kudgil again and his heart leapt up.
“It is a good price and a good bar-
gain,” he said again.
Gerlap gave him his hand, and it
seemed there should have been a lot to
talk about with his prospective father-
in-law, but he was impatient and he was
gone very soon. He found Talua wait-
ing at the rim of the bush ; and all his
dreams came true.
ABOUT CAROLINE.
(5) If You Call it Death.
In rapture she told me, High and thin
I can hear the breath of a violin
Sing ‘Tender and low, reedy and sweet
This song is bowed in a quiet street
By an old brown shaking shrivelled
hand.’
Taut strings quiver, entreat, demand
Can you not hear it too? she cried
I shook my head, being mystified.
"Listen,” she whispered, "be very still
The dancers in green come over th
hill.
And just behind them, dressed in brown
Other dancers leap down and down.
Can you not hear? Ah, now the tread
And stamp of the dancer all in red;
Red eyes and skin, and red the stir
Through the air of his cloak of crimson
fur.
I am trapped and teased, could I but
follow
The dancers over green hill and hollow
How then I had lived and stamped and
stepped
Gladly among them, breathed and
leaped
Into their festival, and how
1 could have woven a willow bough,
Plait and twist, bend and twine
How long must I wait?” “Dear
Caroline,
Not long,” I answered her, “this clear
Music that you alone can hear
And only your memory can evoke
Is the beckoning of your kinsfolk.”
“The fiddle is urgent—shall I reply?”
She went. I deaf. I blind. “Good-
bye” . . .
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


A century ago the Great Exhibition of 1851
drew visitors to Britain from all over the
world. Next year’s Festival, to commemorate
that event, will in its turn be remembered
a hundred years from now, long after the
headlines of today are forgotten.
The coming Festival is the greatest ever
planned. The 1851 Exhibition was confined to
London, and its keynote was industrial pro-
gress; the Festival of Britain 1951 will be
spread throughout the United Kingdom and
will put the whole nation on show.
Exhibitions in London, Glasgow and Belfast will
tell the story of Britain’s contribution to civilisation
in Science, Invention, Industry and Architecture.
In addition, twenty-three centres throughout
England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will
hold Festivals of the Arts.
In support of this official programme there will
be something of interest for the visitor to see in
• cities, towns and villages all over the country —from
carnivals, exhibitions, pageants and traditional
ceremonies to sporting events of all kinds.
From May to September 1951, for five packed
months, wherever he goes the visitor will find
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Further details of the Festival Programme will be
published in this journal over the next six months.
THE "OKEH" FISHERMAN'S KNIFE
Made from high-grade carbon
steel, every blade individually
tempered and ground. Practically
indestructible, with interlocking
shield, tang and blade.
PRICE
10/6 each
dsf
Every knife guaran-
teed. Leather sheath
1/9 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD. For all fishing supplies.
654 George Street, Sydney. M 6261
Catalogue post free on request.
/
»iw«o
i.l
»0«» M
fa
69
joMOoa
USWWIMW
M Consm Jack Characters”
The odd caption "Cornish
Pasty" aptly describes this
collection of cartoons by
Oswald Pryor. Containing 60
drawings depicting amusing
situations of early Cornish
characters as published over
many years in "The Bulletin."
Price 2/- (postage l^d.).
Available at all Booksellers
or the Australian Distributors:
ARGONAUT BOOKSHOP, 224 North Terrace, Adelaide
AL 45/4
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per single copy—22/6 a year post free.
I’m proud
of my
AlaJJ'o home
Aladdin mqkes city comfort*
easily available for country
homes. Decide now to
"Aladdin-ise" your home with
these efficient, easy-to-use
Aladdin products.
GOOD
LIGHTING
Immediate,
bright,
steady 75
c.p. light without
pumping. No
smoke or fumes!
Aladdin Lamps
odd beauty as
well as comfort —
and are the
simplest of all
lamps to operate.
Have an Aladdin
non-pressure
L
kerosene mantle lamp in every
room full range is now
available.
GOOD COOKING
All the convenience
of a gas or electric
stove! The Aladdin
pressure - kerosene
elevated oven
range has 5 burners, adjustable
to any heat required. Ideal for
pressure cooking. Oven cooks
to perfection. Simple and safe
to operate.
PORTABLE 2-BURNER
For home or general outdoor use,
this pressure-kerosene stove gives
ready heat where it's needed.
Flame is adjustable to any heat;
metal carrying case (optional)
serves as windshield for outdoor
cooking.
ds
STORMPROOF
LANTERN
Floods a large
area with brilliant
light. 300 candle
power pressure-
kerosene lantern
is built for years
of rugged service.
Adjustable down
or side reflectors available.
There are authorised Aladdin dis-
tributors In all cities, suburbs and
country towns throughout the
Commonwealth,
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALADDIN IN DOST RIC S Pty.lte
BO’JRKE ST.. WATERLOO N S. K.
WJ4i.il
OF CATSAND MEN
By
OLIVER
FILTER
I WAS pretty young when
Aunt Madge came to stay
with us, and recall only that
I was rather surprised to dis-
cover that such a slight, fuzzy
little woman could contain so
much quick temper and so many
sharp words. There was a
family rumor that she had been
disappointed in love, but my
father’s explanation was the
most probable—she waited too
long for the right man, and,
never finding him, decided there
was no such thing and that all
men, therefore, were fools,
beasts, wastrels or drunkards, or
all four combined.
At any rate, by the time she
came to live with us she hated
all things male, and, I suspect,
believed that the Almighty was
a woman. She had a parrot
which was, apparently, sexless,
and she had two Pomeranian
bitches whose chances of
motherhood had been removed
by a vet., and from which she
commonly beat off any curious
dogs with, to me, strange
epithets.
She came to us, as most of
our relatives did, ostensibly to
pay a small nominal board and
to help Mother with the house-
work ; and she remained, as
most of them did, to loaf around
the place, to partake of the
suburb’s social life and to criti-
cise my father for spending too
much time in the pub and my
mother for putting up with it.
That, of course, was most un-
fair—my father, who made good
money as a stonemason and
practically supported the lot of
them, had found that the public
bar was the best possible place
to conduct his business, to make
his contacts, to discuss work
and to receive payment. He
may have drunk a lot, but I
never saw him drunk, and, any-
way, the beer probably helped to
make him what he was—a cheer-
ful, good-natured man who
lived in the same practical, cap-
able manner with which he split
and set stone. He and my
mother were a contented couple
who were completely satisfied
with each other, and who ac-
cepted as obligations those mis-
fortunes which they couldn t
avoid or forget.
Aunt Madge, who was one of
the misfortunes never saw it like
that. While Mother bustled
around oyer the stove or sink
b r SSS/SilS K nd
her knitting needlesl.clicking and
r righf Mote wL'wt™
ing herself to death while Father
, ir . . •
was drinking himself to his.
CHE first really registered
with me when my father
brought me home a kitten as a
present from someone for whom
he had made a garden wall. It
was a small black bundle of
fluff, mainly interested in its
food, its tail and any other odd
playthings it could find, but
from the moment she saw it
Aunt Madge was on the war-
path.
“Is that cat a male?” she
asked soon after it arrived.
“I don’t know,” Mother re-
plied. “I haven’t looked, and
I’m not very good at telling,
anyway. What is it, Walter?”
“It’s a tom all right,” my
father said. “I made sure be-
fore I took it.”
“Then it’ll have to be
operated on,” said my aunt.
Father was not very keen:
“Why? He’s got as much right
to live his life as anyone. And
we don’t want a tabby littering
the place with kittens.”
“Don’t be vulgar,” Aunt
Madge said. “Tomcats are
dirty, disgusting things. They
go out all night and keep every-
one awake. And they smell.”
My father was never given to
arguing, particularly with Aunt
Madge, so he gave in. “All
right. You’d better get the vet.
to fix him.”
“Don’t be so disgusting.”
Father looked mildly sur-
prised and Mother got up to
clear the table.
I wasn’t too sure what the
conversation presaged, and it
seemed rather ominous, but
Mother soothed my doubts and
fears with the assurances that
the operation was painless and
would make the cat grow into a
much bigger and nicer animal,
It did, eventually, grow into a
much bigger animal, but I was
so disillusioned as to the pain-
less part of the business that
even now, many years later, I
still have the deepest sympathy
for any tomcat that is not entire,
\l / HEN the cat had reached a
VV suitable age the vet. was
sent f or He arr i ved on his
mo tor-bike one Saturday morn-
jn g 5 a cheerful sunburned man
wbo sa j on f be back S f e p drink-
jn g a CU p Q £ tea Mother gave
b j m and sharpening a service-
ab[e bone-handled pocketknife
on a small stone when he
finished his tea he stropped the
knife on the alm of his hand
tested its edge with his thumb;
stood up and asked “Now,
where ’ s the pussy? »
1 was commanded inside to
the kitch where j waited
with some misgivings, which
-re W *.wails
®°\ n
buried my face in my mother s
skirt and refused to be con .
soled by her or silenced by my
aunt > stood by the win-
dow knitting and grimly admir-
empty sky. When I was
flowed outside again the cat
bad vanished with its sorrow
((Continued on page 32 J
DUSK.
Before the night, at the last hour
Of gathering dusk when minutes, almost.
May be counted in the air
(No longer as points infinite and lost,
But grains of air, like the last sand
Falling in hour glasses) they
Have purport, seem more planned
Than during the bright rush of tidal day.
I, listening to the sea, have heard
The snipe, all piping sea-birds, calling
Across the calm of waters: as a whispered word
Heard in a room, as clear, as softly falling.
Whose is the voice that calls all life at night?
The flocks gather, the shadows crowd together,
There is a mingling of men around a light:
Communion that folk seek in stormy weather.
A gentleness one may expect of friends;
A comfort from the ring of faces walling
Out the eternal night when this life ends
And we hear across the spaces voices calling.
It is the spirit that calls each to each.
The annealing bond of sleep unites all kind
After that homing call. What need for speech?
This is the hour of dusk and peace of mind.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


2
K
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
OFFER A FREE ADVISORY SERVICE
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. B 0538
And all other States
EL5.30.4
19
it
V
hl .11
mm .
.v//X , /vXvXv4fiStt3bk .•avXvXv'/.vJ^
• anH
mm
■
■
?a ym
.„i ' *
RENKUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
c/ataclel
What’s the value ot a tyre gauge? If It Isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely ~ . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
p
l
KISME
MAST K
FOOT PUMP
Made by William Turner (Kismet), 7Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia;
Mr. E. O. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria.
Q.P.O. Box 71
TAe ease ~
that AGA brings
yaa ...
There is only one AGA, and
only a demonstration proves its
wonderful efficiency, its con-
venience and coolness in cook-
ing. The vitreous cream enamel
is so simple to clean, and the
delectable way the AGA cooks
defies description. Fuel economy
is guaranteed!
Comfo
C«« v „i.h
/
AGA
COOKER
t'li*
'inmwwtm
SU '
i
c- 10-
Y t[ *BS -
sas,ir»4
“'•to •
//ITT?
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING *AGA*
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street, Sydney
432 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cur.
MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents; A. O. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Roland Wakelin.
Roland Wakelin’s landscapes
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
have been selling exceptionally
well, and they deserve to: for
not only has Wakelin long been
held in respect as the pioneer of
the gospel of Cezanne, but here,
for the first time so far as this
commentator is concerned, is a
Wakelin exhibition which one
can like as well as admire.
It is generally considered
reprehensible to dislike a
painter’s subject-matter; one is
expected to consider only the
artistic* qualities, and it is quite
as wrong to object to Wakelin’s
suburbs because they are
suburban as it would be to take
fright, on puritan grounds, at
Norman Lindsay’s nudes. Yet
the present commentator, who
retains a lingering suspicion that
subject-matter does count —and
that the suburbs are not very in-
teresting, as nudes are interesting
—is at any rate relieved to find
that here, except for “Heidel-
berg” and one or two others,
there are few of the “typical”
Wakelins of a stretch of road, a
red-brick villa with a red-tile
roof and a big hollow sky beyond
it, full of paint and glaring light.
But quite apart from subject-
matter —for, after all, “Summer
Morning, Carlingford” and
“Spring at Ryde,” a lovely red
picture and a lovely green pic-
ture, are still in Wakelin’s
familiar narrow territory of
Sydney’s outer suburbs —these
landscapes are technically far
more attractive than anything
one recalls from this artist in the
past. The paint is less
obtrusive; the tendencies, re-
cently discernible, towards a
clumsy prettiness and towards
mere repetition, have been dis-
ciplined ; everything is clearer,
cleaner, more subdued, more
harmonious, more deeply satis-
fying. “Morning at the Spit,”
with its sparkling water against
the massive hillside, is an excep-
tionally fine piece of work.
Jumble-sale.
Crowded with paintings filling
the walls of two big galleries,
with more paintings on gigantic
screens set like hurdles across the
rooms about every six feet, with
an enormous mural behind the
platform where the nice words
are said on Opening Day, with
architectural plans and models
in the bays and a colossal con-
crete nude lurking like Circe in
the visitor’s path to confound
him with her oblong charms, the
Contemporaries’ show at N. S.
Wales Education Department
Galleries represents, no doubt,
the fervor of
youth but looks, simply, like a
gargantuan jumble-sale.
There is something totalitarian
about it. It has the effect of a
multitudinous brass-band, mak-
ing a din that drowns all private
judgment and all the quiet voices
of antiquity in one deluge of
strident blind enthusiasm.
The mere overloading of the
galleries is a vulgarity. And
vulgarity—as distinct from ex-
periment—shows strangely
among the exhibits, for, in its
universal ardor and its inclina-
tion towards primitivism, the
society has got itself into a
strange dilemma where every
picture, conventional as well as
“modern,” so long as it is inept
enough, must be hung. At least
the obviously hopeless amateurs
might be weeded out in future.
Memory preserves out of the
chaos R. Moult Spiers’s
“Typhoon,” Carl Plate’s “In-
sects” (much better for being a
tenth their previous size), George
Duncan’s “Evening at Carling-
ford,” a group of harsh and vivid
oils by Herbert Kemble, a Lym-
bumer sketch with a crimson
lover and a woman too cavalierly
treated by the artist as well as
her visitor, H. Juskovic’s “Back
Fences, Willoughby” and C. R.
Salisbury’s “Cosmic Dance,” a
bright bit of surrealism; but
really the quiet contemplation
which serious art demands is
quite impossible in this amiable
inferno.
Musica Viva.
Schubert’s great String Quartet
in D Minor, the second move-
ment of which comprises five
variations on a theme of his
song “Death and the Maiden,”
was the chief offering at Musica
Viva’s Sydney concert. Schubert
eliminated the Maiden’s agitated
pleadings from this music, con-
centrating on the Death theme
—a movement of surpassing
beauty, tranquillity and majesty.
The kaleidoscopic changes from
instrument to instrument and the
wonderful figurations were man-
aged with facile competence by
the four players, and in the
frenzied dance of death in the
third movement and the wild
rhythms of the final Presto the
quartet well maintained the
“plunging” kind of playing so
essential if justice is to be done
the stirring material.
Brahms’s Piano Trio in B
Major was marked by strong
work in the Scherzo and a gener-
ally fine performance b y
Maureen Jones at the keyboard.
"Patience."
Tho s e who hold that
“Patience” is outmoded lose
sight of a fact of which Gilbert,
that shrewd observer of his
world, made the most; that the
poseurs and the exhibitionists in
any generation will always have
their feminine adorers—after all,
in their general feather-brained-
ness, the 20 lovesick maidens,
who hang rapturously on the
precious lines uttered by the
poetasters in their velvet suits,
enormous ties and frothy berets,
are little different from the
bobby-soxers who pretend to
swoon at the lugubrious crooners
of today. That aspect, quite
apart from the tuneful spright-
liness of Sullivan’s score, will
always keep “Patience” well
alive.
As the fleshly poet Bun-
thorne, Ivan Menzies wrung
much subtle comedy and
innuendo even from the eleva-
tion of one eyebrow at the right
moment. His fellow-aesthete and
rival, Grosvenor, was played
spiritedly by Leslie Rands, who
sang his “Silver Churn” number
with fine resonance. Helen
Roberts was a captivating
Patience, registering demureness
and gaiety, or gently chiding and
imploring, with equally effective
charm. She sang her allotted
airs pleasingly.
The trio of heavy dragoon
officers, Richard Walker, John
Fullard and Bernard Manning,
were generally up to the mark
except in the attitudinising scene
which could be profitably pruned
—it seems to become as uncom-
fortable for the audience as for
the trio. The choruses of the
heavy dragoons and the lovesick
maidens were exhilarating, the
interweaving chorus being parti-
cularly effective.
At the end of the score of
“The Dream of Gerontius,” Sir
Edward Elgar wrote: “This is
the best of me.” Making the
most of the resources of
the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra and the Queens-
land Stafo and Municipal
Choir, Sir Bernard Heinze gave
pretty good reasons for agreeing
with Elgar’s opinion on this
work. Robert Payne, baritone,
was the best of the soloists with
singing that was at all times com-
manding. Muriel Luyk’s voice,
at its best in the aria “Yes, for
one moment thou shalt see thy
Lord . . .” seemed unable to
cope with the acoustic vagaries
of the Brisbane City Hall.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
There are only echoes of
reality in Peter Sainthill’s pro-
duction (at Doris Fitton’s In-
dependent Theatre, North
Sydney) of Arthur Laurents’s
“Home of the Brave” —the
story of five American soldiers
reconnoitring a Jap-held island
in the Pacific with, since one of
them is a Jew, a note of racial
prejudice let into the doings to
detonate the various dramatic
situations. Leonard Thiele as
the young Jew, whose touchiness
about his race amounts almost
to misanthropy, who sees his
friend shot and butchered by the
Japs and who becomes paralysed
from shock, gives the most com-
petent performance and, at
times, by the very intensity of
his acting, jolts the audience
into feeling his tangled, tortur-
ing thoughts. Charles Tingwell,
as Mingo the sergeant, that
peculiar American blend of
toughness and sentimentality,
also had his forceful moments
without bringing the character
to life.
* * * *
Although a keen fisherman for
many years, this commentator
has never landed anything as
charming as the mermaid, “Mir-
anda,” fished up by- Daphne
Roemermann for the Brisbane
Repertory Theatre, and dis-
played for several nights. Her
behavior would suggest, how-
ever, that it is better to concen-
trate on mackerel and leave such
sirens, however ravishing, to ply
their charms in the ocean-bed.
Peter Blackmore’s comedy is
rich in situations. Acting honors
\vent to Olga Massey, as the
siren new-drawn from the
Thames, and to English new-
comer John Parker. The entire
cast well-chosen, and the
production sparkled like the
mermaid’s glittering tail.
Wirth's.
The Greatest Show on Earth,
evacuated from its half-mile of
rolling-stock and complete with
its 147 people, nine elephants
and 18 cages of wild animals,
but minus Australia’s largest
Big Top, debouched into the
arena at Olympia, Melbourne,
up to schedule and gave a
convincing demonstration that
traditional entertainment hasn’t
lost heart in the face of cinema
and television.
Even Gubi, the chimp, seemed
to take an intellectual pride in
his acrobatics, which weren’t
much inferior to those of Kon
and Andy, and that is saying
something, for Kon and Andy,
two magnificently proportioned
creatures, went further in this
direction with their shoulder-
blade, dental and Roman ring
act than any previous per-
formers. Grasping a metal plate
attached to a rope firmly be-
tween his shoulder-blades, Andy
soared up to the ceiling, and not
only kept himself there but let
his companion use his feet as a
trapeze-bar.
The elephants, presented by
Captain Martin Francis, were as
large and wise and as sensitive as
ever, and so considerate to their
trainer’s feminine assistant that
she crawled from under the
combined weight of the whole
herd still in the round although
she ought to have been com-
pletely flattened.
Mr. Ben Blue’s juggling act
would have been remarkable
enough under ordinary condi-
tions, but it was quite remarkable
{Continued on page 35.)


33. Q.&
ELECTRIC TOASTER
Hot, crisp, golden toast in next to no
time) The B.G.E. Electric Toaster, finished
in easy-to-clean chromium, turns the bread
automatically when the doors are opened.
ELECTRIC HOME HELPS
The B.G.E. is your guarantee of those qualities
which the discerning buyer seeks in Electric Home
Helps—lrons, Toasters, Jugs, Fans, Cleaners, Floor
Polishers, Ranges, Genalex Refrigerators, Clothes
Washers, Radios and Clocks—designed to relieve
the housewife of unnecessary work.
ST RE AM L
NED IRON
With a heavy chromium finish and com-
fortable bakelite handle, the B.G.E. Elec-
tric Streamlined Iron is safe, durable and
smooth working. Suitable for a left or
right hand cord entry.
AVAILABLE FROM
LEADING ELECTRICAL DEALERS
FRENCH
ICORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
I Anthony Horderns’!
335
£
5-
£5
WHAT makes?
AIRLINE t
To find the answer and attain
the goal, Qantas Ltd. and now
Qantas Empire Airways have
striven through 30 years of
service to Air Transport
Leadership can be founded
only on the facts of accom-
plished performance. And this
perfonmance must be measured
by genuine length of experi-
ence ... by scope and character
of service ... by an adequate,
balanced organisation which
always regards its greatest
achievements as something yet
to come, and by the character
of its staff who serve the
public.
Qantas Empire Airways, with
over 33,000 miles of undupli-
cated air routes linking sixteen
countries, strives for leadership
as a Great Airlines
'ear* of
|
progress M
QANTAS E
HE A
MPIRE AIRWAYS
Air fravel, air mail and air cargo services—Sydney via the East to
London (with BOAC) • Sydney—New Guinea • Sydney—Pacific
Islands • Sydney—Tokyo • Sydney—Hong Kong • Sydney—Auckland
(by TEAL).
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
QGKXAI
THE SERVICE MAN
Australians in Action.
“Ek Dum”: Australians be-
came involved in their first real
action, small or large, in Korea
on October 26 on the Taegon
River, about 60 miles from the
Manchurian border and three
miles from Pakchon.
The battalion was on its way
to Songju by road when it came
to a river crossing on which the
bridge was down. B company,
under Major Max Thirlwell,
crossed the river under tank fire
on the remains of a bridge
which the enemy or the Allied
air-forces had blown up.
They made the crossing safely,
and received the surrender of a
few North Koreans on the
nether side when a well-armed
force of the enemy in foxholes
opened up on them with mortars
and automatics. B company re-
treated across the Taegon.
The fight soon became fierce
as U.S. air-support was brought
in along with tanks, artillery and
mortars.
When it had been in progress
some hours and darkness had
fallen it was decided to make a
new crossing, this time A and B
companies being sent to estab-
lish a bridgehead on either side
of the road. The crossing was
virtually unresisted until the
Australians reached the crest of
the hills over the stream when
they were subjected to a very
heavy and concentrated fire.
A company under Major
Gordon on the left and Major
Thirlweli’s B company on the
right dug-in in bitter moonlit
cold. The latter unit’s command-
post was attacked at point-blank
range toward dawn by an enemy
T-34 which fired a number of
rounds at it without penetrating
it, and all those in it came out
alive.
With the early dawn of the
next day rocket-firing jets pin-
pointed the enemy positions, and
kept them in order while the
part of the Australian battalion
not already involved crossed the
river in company with * the
Argylls, and rounded-up the re-
mainder of the North Koreans,
about 500 of whom were cap-
tured, according to some ac-
counts. D company of the Aus-
tralians had meanwhile found its
way by an independent route
into Pakchon riding on tanks
and collecting a nice bag of
prisoners and weapons without
losing any men.
Australian Losses
Australian losses were seven
killed and 18 wounded. Those
killed were:
2/3004—L./Cpl. R. R. Wilson
(N.S.W.).
2/2094—Pte. E. R. Oliver (N.S.W.).
3/400137—Pt. N. Tauggee (Vic-
toria).
5/1358—Pte. J. F. Ray (W.A.).
1/1190—Pte. C. A. Henry (Q.).
4/643—Pte. E. L. Gully (S.A.).
1/341—Cpl. V. T. Healy (Q.).
It was only an affray, by World
War II standards an everyday
skirmish, but it left some homes
the sadder and a few fine young
Australians ill and maimed, and
should help to bring home the
dangers of the world situation
if Australia is not too much
preoccupied with the railway
strike engineered on our own
soil by the friends and sup-
porters of the men who killed
our troops.
It seems very hard to con-
vince an Australian public,
drugged by years of Press repre-
sentation that anything alleged
against Communism is “Red-
baiting,” that there are in our
midst some thousands who are
“ Gaiters , Gran—the sarge reckons they're to stop the ants
crawling up into me beer."
on the side of an active enemy
and giving him full moral
support.
The Orient in Flux.
“Ek Dum”: Korea as a war-
centre seems to have faded into
secondary interest.
The final phases of the cam-
paign were reached with
the approach of the South
Koreans to the Manchurian
border and the landing of U.S.
Marines at Wonsan on the far
north-east coast of Korea, to
pave the way for the influx of
50,000 U.N.O. troops. The
landing was supported by a large
force of naval ships, an earnest
that the invasion would be peace-
ful. Late in the week 27,000
troops were landed far to the
north of Wonsan without a
casualty.
There are plenty of signs to
make the onlooker uneasy,
though nothing up to the time
of writing to substantiate the
unease beyond vague reports and
circumstantial evidence. The
fact that the British brigade has
been relegated to the administra-
tive command of Tokyo area,
it having been decided that it
will not advance to the Man-
churian border, suggests at first
glance that the British Govern-
ment regards the war as nearing
its end. But, on the other hand,
in view of the support given to
China’s Communist Government
by the United Kingdom in
U.N.0., it might just as well
mean that the British unit is to
be kept out of areas in which
it might become embroiled with
the Chinese.
Resistance by the enemy
generally stiffened during the
last days of the week, and the
South Koreans in the Unsan
region claimed that they were
faced with three Chinese Com-
munist regiments which they de-
clared that they had identified.
The enemy near the border
seemed to be well armed with
both light and heavy weapons
and well equipped with tanks.
His morale appeared to be rea-
sonably high, but it was born
of desperation. He was ob-
viously not in a position to turn
the tables at any point, his
thrusts petering out except in
odd cases In which He recapfured
small towns.
Russian Arms
The revelations of North
Korean conditions make it plain
beyond doubt that the war was
Russia’s war.
The arms and equipment
dumps found in North Korea
were not the product, as fre-
quently alleged by Moscow and
Peking Radio, of North Korean
industry, but of Russian fac-
tories. Russia did not, as has
been clearly stated from Moscow
again and again during the past
few months, cease to send mili-
tary materiel to Korea in 1948.
Very large quantities have been
found in the grease dated as
late as February, 1950, and made
in Russia. All railway-station
signs in main centres were in
Russian as well as Korean, and
the headquarters of large Russian
liaison bodies have been found
abandoned hurriedly with every
kind of Russian technical equip-
ment in them. The minefield
discovered outside Wonsan, 25
miles deep and the densest ever
laid in the Pacific, was certainly
not North Korean, though fring-
ing and in North Korean waters.
It was also illegal.
Peking Radio has continued to
assert openly that China cannot
allow “neighbors” to be crushed
out of existence, a fact which
has significance in the light of
the capture by the U.S. Intelli-
gence Corps of a Chinese Com-
munist soldier who reported that
20,000 Chinese troops had
moved into defensive positions
in North Korea, a matter to be
examined with care, since it is
quite on the cards that a rank-
and-file Chinese warrior might
not know what was North
Korea and what was not.
Chinese Activities
At the same time theje is not
the slightest doubt that China is
involved outside its own borders.
The Malayan rebellion could not
be encompassed without its sup-
port. The Indo-China war is
kept alive only by the active
support of both Moscow and
Peking, and a new move against
Tibet proves beyond doubt
China’s capacity for wanton
aggression and helps to confirm
the plan which is in being to en-
circle India, on the west of
which in the Middle East Com-
munist agents are intriguing
to take command of Israel with
its naval oil terminals on the
Mediterranean.
Troops are moved along the
Russian side of the Turkish
border to keep the Turks occu-
pied while Azerbaijan foments
Kurdish rebellion in both Turkey
and Persia. Afghans under
Russian influence insolently in-
vade Pakistan to develop nation-
alist movements there through
which the Soviet agents may get
a foothold in the country.


Look Younger,
Live Longer
"We are what we eat," is
not a new theory. New facts
based on scientific findings
in the nutritional field sup-
port this belief.
November Reader’s Digest
has an 11-page condensation
from the book by Gayelord
Hauser, internationally
known lecturer on the sub-
ject. Read why the food you
eat affects not only your
body, but your personality—
how to like foods that lead
to health and longevity.
Read and enjoy November
Reader’s Digest to-day. 32
stimulating articles con-
densed from leading maga-
zines, current books. Un-
paralleled reading value at
one shilling and sixpence.
All newsagents and book
stalls.
fds
DUPLICATOR
Ha* all the fined lectures
cl high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion oi their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupll
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built amtitaiy im Juti'trhm hf
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
JuvUblUi 4 garni* —
ITPNEY W. c. Penfold A Co. Ply. Lid
MKLBOUENB , Norman Bro*. Ply. Lid
ADKUIOI . Vardon * Lid
rBBTH Dock.* »W) C*. M»»U
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— Iie Divoec*.
TO EDGAR ARTHUR IRONS lat« of Hol-
brook in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that FLORRIE ETHEL
IRONS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2840 of 1949 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may* enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 4th day of January
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from R. W. FRASER &
PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
m
t.'iZ
i
Hi
t.v.
&
m
5<
CX
4
£>
•/
7
as
&
I=3^s
25
BBS
iir
ikw
«!
***-*££
4VSSSS
ise
*5l
•;:r
««
ms
ss»
Wa
*
leadership
I N
PRECISION
'Wt'
In regulating a watch, the aim is to obtain the finest possible performance from
its movement. However the accuracy of a watch is necessarily dependent on the
physical properties of its movement, on the quality of the metals from which
it is made, and on the finely-balanced interplay of all its working parts. And it
is precisely because all its components are sound in every respect that the
Omega 30 mm movement can be regulated with an exceptionally high degree
of accuracy. This wonderful precision is admired by watchmakers all the
world over, and is testified by facts for the name of Omega is on the Roll of
Honour of all the great international horological competitions (Geneva, Neucha-
tel and Kew-Teddington). Ever since 1933, Omega has held the only record of
fiCQuracyofficiallyjrecognized by the world-famous Kew-Teddington Observatory.
Wherever precision selects the
champions. Omega is always
present! Three times in
succession Omega has been
appointed the official timekeeper
of the Olympic Games Los
Angeles, 1932; Berlin, 1936;
London, 1948. And it was Omega
that acclaimed the victors of
the greatest event of 1950—the
British Empire Games that
stirred the hearts of 550 million
human beings throughout the
JSationsj
LL THE WJOR LD, TRJJ STS, fiMECA
Rebellion, Communist-organised,
has been in being in Malaya,
Indo-China, Burma, to dis-
organise those countries as far as
is possible without introducing
open Russian and Chinese sup-
port and bringing world alarm
to a crisis.
“Liberating” Tibet
Now a “Tibetan Liberation
Army” has attacked that high
country to “restore to the
Chinese Motherland the only
part of its territory which re-
mains under foreign imperialist
domination.” The excuse for
this wanton piece of banditry is
that the British and Americans
are supposedly using Tibet as a
base from which to attack
Russia and China.
Tibet is not Chinese. It got its
Sanscrit alphabet from India
and its Buddhist religion from
India. It was under a loose
suzerainty by China only from
the eighteenth century until Sun
Yat-sen’s rebellion, when the
Tibetans threw the Chinese out,
and in 1914 a conference of
representatives of China, Tibet
and Great Britain met at Simla
and acknowledged Tibet’s inde-
pendence, the Chinese with some
reservations, but after 1939
China agreed to the status quo
by appointing a diplomatic
representative at Lhasa while
still claiming one province.
Tibet will now recede behind
the Iron Curtain, though it
already has an iron curtain of
its own.
A Pill for Nehru
The invasion is a bitter pill
for Nehru. His own Gov-
ernment has succeeded in con-
firming the fact that units of the
Chinese Communist Army are on
the way to Tibet. Protests have
been lodged by the Indians,
to whom it is now obviously
clear that while nationalism as
understood by the Asian Com-
munists is one thing in theory it
can be quite, another in practice.
It might also prove to Mr.
Spender, who is still busy abroad
phrasemaking in the Evatt
manner, that his theory that
Australia can “serve as a bridge
between the United States and
Asia”—a statement at which
geography and recent experience
laugh—can be translated into
Russian as “South-east Asia can
be used as a bridge between
Moscow and Warringah.”
When this was written the
Chinese were making their way
down the north-eastern caravan
route from China proper to
Lhasa, and had reached Riwoche,
about 150 miles from their point
of entry. They still have a long,
high trek ahead. They were de-
clared to be meeting strong
Tibetan resistance and to be
suffering from shortages due to
the difficulties of terrain.
In Indo-China
The Indo-Chinese war is de-
veloping as the Viet-minh forces
move south. During the
week they isolated Laokay,
which is the internal railhead of
the line which runs from Hanoi
up the valley of the Red River.
It is about 160 miles from
Hanoi, and at the weekend was
without communication with the
outside world save by air.
All the Viet-minh forces of
any strength so far have ap-
peared striking perpendicularly
towards this railway from the
north-east corner of Indo-China
in a triangle bounded on the
north by the Chinese border, on
the south by the railway and on
the east by the Gulf of Tonking,
in which Communist-controlled
Hainan Island sits like a stopper
which has not been driven home.
The rebels now hold all the
former French border-posts in
this triangle, and have positions
in force on all the three main
highways which converge on
Hanoi, the capital.
The invasion is much of a
pattern with the campaign of
the North Koreans. The Viet-
minh forces have numbers and
Russian and Chinese arms suit-
able to the rough, jungled coun-
tryside, but they are short of
aerial support, in which the
French are relatively strong. In-
deed, French air support and
transport have saved the present
state of disaster from being 10
times worse than it is.
If events remain localised the
same will happen as happened in
North Korea, but every shot
fired represents one more step
towards the involvement of the
world in general war again.
Defence of the West.
“Ek Dum”: The main fea-
tures of the defence-plan of
Western Europe were completed
on paper during the week in an
uneasy atmosphere due to the
obsession of France that it
might be better to be overrun
by Russians than to have an
armed Germany,
It is said that the United
States has eased the situation
giving guarantees that Germany
would never again be permitted
to regain military ascendancy in
Europe—guarantees which may
do a good deal to fling Germany
temporarily into the arms of
Russia.
To ask a country which is
capable of being economically
and militarily stronger than all
the rest of the Continent together,
as it has twice proved in a
generation, to accept a position
of inferiority to peoples which
it has beaten again and again
and which have been rescued by
help from outside the continent,
is unlikely to appear reasonable
to the Germans whatever logic
it may have for the rest of the
Western world.
It is not surprising that there
is reported to be “little enthusi-
asm” in Germany either for im-
mediate rearmament of any
description under present condi-
tions or for participation in
Western defence. The average
Germans are bemused by the
situation and prepared, for the
moment, to accept the principle
that those who dominate them
must defend them. Many of
bythem look on general rearma-
ment as an invitation to Russia
to attbck the West.
The defence plan of the 12
Atlantic Pact nations is said to
provide for the immediate ap-
pointment of a supreme com-
mander who has been named—
possibly General Eisenhower —
under overall civilian control.
Quotas of supplies have been
determined with some haggling
due to the competitive outlook of
France and America, the Ameri-
cans obviously, for a variety of
reasons, not all selfish, being
not very ready to forward the
modernisation of European con-
tinental industry.


The name is_
ws>
(T)
s
'sa**
' S '*«s^>,
«o,; t
(Dudlums
The whiski) is_
Ofd friends
are best friends!
ZU
DEFEAT THAT OLD
DEVIL DANDRUFF
WITH
fit emc
wz I/d p pi os
ttt/fsn
mm
mmmms
s
m
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme— America’s
favourite Hair Dressing^ -
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Crane
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down ’ look.
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
| 'Preparation
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
“WORKERS’ PARADISE” WORKERS.
Even the Corns’ desperate
propaganda has dropped trying
to put across as a “workers’
paradise” the home of guff and
slavery.
It used to be their main line
of patter. No doubt, while
willing enough to serve as fifth-
columnists still, most of them
know exactly what the position
is, not only regarding the 10 to
20 million actual slaves, but also
regarding the general run of
Russian workers.
Taking it that there are still
believers in Britain in the
“workers’-paradise” hoax, an
expert on the subject, Andrew
Newman, has lately pulled it
apart in the definitely Leftish
London “Tribune.” In the
course of his devastating ex-
posure, Newman points out that
under the stern code of labor
discipline to which the Russian
worker is subject a worker who
is more than 20 minutes late for
his work, or who is late three
times in one month for periods
adding up to 20 minutes, or who
leaves during working hours for
over 20 minutes without lawful
excuse, is liable to a sentence of
“six-months corrective labor at
his place of employment” (i.e.,
he carries on with his job with
a black mark on his record) and
to a fine of 25 per cent, of
monthly salary one week’s
wages a month.
Three offences of unpunctu-
ality are rated persistent absen-
teeism, which in turn is tanta-
mount to leaving one’s employ-
ment without permission. This
carries a prison sentence.
No worker in the Soviet
Union (adds the “Tribune”
writer) may change his job with-
out the permission of his mana-
ger. There is a short list of
reasons which the management
must accept (entry into a uni-
versity, sickness, receipt of old-
age pension, departure of hus-
band from the district), but no
worker is allowed to leave
merely because it suits him to
do so. The law lays down that
the factory’s interests must be
given precedence over the
worker’s interests or desires. The
worker’s only redress is to appeal
to the manager’s superior officer.
If a worker leaves without
permission (or is over 20
minutes late three times in one
month) he is sentenced to from
two- to four-months imprison-
ment, unless his factory is work-
ing for defence, in which case
the sentence is much longer.
This law is strictly interpreted.
Indeed (Newman records), a
WESTERN
EUROPE
BEAR PEN.
—Atlanta ( U.S.A. ) "Journal."
Moscow weekly recently reported
the case of a young woman in
a provincial town who was sen-
tenced to three-months im-
prisonment for having applied
for a vacancy in a technical in-
stitute without permission. “This,
of course, was going too far, and
she was released, but only after
the affair had received publicity
in the Moscow Press.” The
same penalty applies to persons
who disobey an order directing
them to a place of employment.
Soviet transport workers (the
writer also records) have a
peculiarly severe disciplinary
code of their own, “doubtless
reflecting the many troubles of
Soviet transportation.” A rail-
wayman may be sentenced to up
to five days’ confinement by a
stationmaster, and to up to 20
days by a sector-manager (this
is “administrative punishment,”
e.g., for disobedience). “As for
Stt
severity which takes one’s breath
away. Article 59(3) of the
criminal code of the Russian re-
public provides for a 10-year
sentence for the following: con-
duct which results in a crash or
damage; causing unpunctuality;
tolerating accumulation of rub-
bish; failure to ensure the
speedy turn-round of wagons or
ships, or for ‘any other acts
which prevent fulfilment of the
Government’s plans, or preju-
dice the safe and punctual
movement of traffic.’ If any of
these acts or omissions have
‘evil intent’ the sentence can be
death. These criminal cases are
not heard by the ordinary courts
but by special transport tri-
bunals.”
The “Tribune” writer further
notes that every worker must
carry a “labor passport,” which
combines the functions of an
army pay-book and conduct-
sheet. The worker’s achieve-
ments and crimes are duly
recorded in it. To get a new
job a worker must produce his
passport bearing the certificate
of discharge from the old one.
And what, asks the writer,
have the Russian trade-unions
had to say about all these some-
what oppressive laws? The
answer, he adds, is that most
of the laws mentioned here were
introduced at the request of the
Soviet equivalent of the British
Trades Union Congress.
“All the facts quoted,” he
concludes, “are taken from
Soviet sources, and are, of
course, known to every Soviet
citizen.”
“Containing” Russia.
First laid down in a “Foreign
Affairs” article, published anony-
mously in 1947, but subse-
quently admitted to have been
written by George F. Kennan,
the U.S. State Department’s top
expert on Russia (the article
was given at length in “Un-
cabled Additions” at the time),
the U.S. policy of “contain-
ment” of Soviet Russia has
been in operation consistently
ever since. N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune” has recently summed-up
on the results to date:
“Admittedly, it is a chancy
and burdensome policy. Its costs
tend to mount as we pursue it.
It opens to the Soviet Union the
theoretical possibility of so over-
extending our strength in peri-
pheral actions that we shall col-
lapse without ever coming to
grips with the central Soviet
power.
“In theory this can happen.
In practice it has not done so,
As the peculiar threat of the
Soviet piecemeal tactics has de-
veloped, what has happened has
been a slow but steady mobihsa-
tion of American and Western
strength in similar proportions,
“The record, which begins
with the defence of Persia and
Yugoslav defection, the repulse
of the Greek Communists, the
preservation of France and Italy
from Communist engulfment,
the preservation of Berlin, the
Atlantic Pact, military aid, down
finally to Korea and Formosa,
is not a record of Soviet success
in overextending and breaking
down the West. It is a record
of so-far effective ‘containment,
which still leaves great latent
Western strengths available if the
effort must be still further
enlarged.
“The costs are high ; the out-
come is not certain. But no
policy in this world is easy or
certain; while no alternative
policy has yet been suggested
for which the costs would not
be catastrophically greater. Mr.
Kennan accurately analysed the
facts which have dictated this
policy; events have so far justi-
fied it; and the possibility,
which he also suggested, that
changes within Russia may yet
resolve it has not been dis-
proved.”
“Sullenly Resolved.”
Already a current byword,
Chifley obstinacy might well
pass into Australian political
history as its owner’s most strik-
ing (that seems the right word)
characteristic.
But he hasn’t it altogether on
his own. In fact, the world’s
most adept coiner of exact
phrases to match any require-
ment —that is, of course, Mr.
Churchill —has applied to the
British Prime Minister the most
apt description that could be
used to show the ex-Australian
Prime Minister’s political creed.
London “Economist” recalled
the Churchill description in ana-
lysing the Attlee steel grab;
“What really disturbs the on-
looker [viewing the steel grab
in the light of effects on re-
armament] is not any violence
that Ministers are doing either
to the national economy or to
the Constitution, but the insight
that they have given into the
state of their own minds and the
sort of things they deem im-
portant.
“We are apparently governed
by men whose scale of values is
very seriously warped—and that,
at any time and in any country,
and to men of any party, must
always be an alarming dis-
covery.
“Mr. Attlee was obviously
stung by Mr. Churchill’s charge
that he was sullenly resolved to
lead less than half the nation;
but he has now himself pro-
vided the proof.”
It added that the Attlee Gov-
ernment, which is in the course
of appealing to the public to
make sacrifices in a common
cause, had “given half the
nation the best possible excuse
for non-co-operation and passive
resistance.”
Churchill Today.
In his lighter moments
(records London “Times’s” Par-
liamentary correspondent) Mr.
Churchill “reflects on the intense
surprise” which his defeat at the
1945 general election must have
caused Stalin, who sat awaiting
his return to Potsdam —a sur-
prise which wasn’t by any means
restricted to Joe,
As the “Times” man
accurately puts it, it was “an
event which astonished the
world,” including Mr. Churchill:
“His defeat after he had led
his country to the promised vic-
tory, was a grievous shock to
him which he faced with


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLiUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Racks.
Priced 24/- per lb, or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Bemembet WINSTONS. It's rood.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 17, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
35
DESIGN No. 6
New Beautiful Designs
FOR PROMPT DELIVERY
For your new Home, choose one of the new
Terra-Cotta Surrounds. They are available to
suit open fireplaces, gas fires or Wonderheat
and Kosi stoves, in a delightful mottled cream-
buff ceramic glaze that is everlasting and will
not stain or discolour, and is easy to clean.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'Phone
MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney for
illustrated Booklet of designs.
F'yffluncl&clccJv'
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
nTT~? jil
=«£«■ - -
ESS
i
SS£
Ss=>C :
e
W&£i4
r*
fJksS
fife
Sil
For strength add water
Without water no description of paper could be made. A funda-
mental truth, yet only a half-told tale where Bowaters Newfound-
land mills are concerned. Here water is more than a material used in
paper-making. It is transportation and power, too. On it pulpwood is
floated down to the mills. With it is generated the electricity that drives the
pulping and newsprint machines and supplies light and heat in the homes
of thousands of islanders. Water must work for Bowaters —an ever busy and
economical servant that can be relied on to keep production constant and costs
stable. Bowaters have an unceasing flow from two great lakes 183 sq. miles in
area on which to draw. For 0ver3,000,000,000 gallons of water alone are need-
ed to produce the electrical energy required for the daily production of
paper from their Comer Brook mills. This abundant supply of water
and its utilisation as transport and power as well as a raw material,
contribute to the comprehensiveness of the Bowater Organisation.
Issued jointly by
THE BOWATER PAPER CORPORATION LIMITED
London and
BOWATER PAPER COMPANY LIMITED
Sydney and Melbourne
AUSTRALIA GREAT BRITAIN CANADA SOUTH AFRICA U.S.A NORWAY SWEDEN
courage and calm dignity.” How-
ever, he “is not much given to
looking backward”:
“It is a sign of advancing age
when a man dwells much on the
past, and one of the gifts which
the gods brought to the cradle
of Winston Churchill was a life-
long youthfulness of spirit. He
likes to be scanning new hori-
zons. He is now sniffing the air
for the first whiff of the politi-
cal combustion that will bring
the next general election.”
In the meantime he is ex-
tremely busy. “In addition to
the routine of political affairs
and the labor of preparing
speeches, he is at work on the
fifth volume of his war memoirs,
This task demands an intensive
preparatory reading of docu-
ments, ‘to light up the field of
interest.’ Mr. Churchill has
written about a million words
of his history, and the great
theme still stretches ahead of
him, probably to the extent of
another half - million words,
When he has finished the present
volume there is another yet to be
written.
“In these days Mr. Churchill
has little time for relaxation.
Painting is still for him the most
soothing of all recreations, but
he has had no time for that this
year. Late in life he has found
a fascinating new hobby in the
ownership of a small racing
stable, and Mr. Churchill and
his remarkable grey colt Colonist
11-which has won several big
money prizes this season are
cheered on their every joint ap-
pearance on the turf The
Churchill cnlnrs arc often first
Gnurcniu colors are otten nrst
past the winning-post—although
even racing has its ups and
downs—and with Mr. Churchill
in sporting garb to receive
Colonist II and the jockey in the
unsaddling enclosure the scene
achieves an artistic unity. It may
be that Mr. Churchill has come
to regard racing, as Mr. Jorrocks
said of fox-hunting, as one of
the balances of the Constitution.
“These pleasures bring him
only an occasional respite. The
burden of public and private
work which Mr. Churchill shoul-
ders in his eighth decade would
crush many a younger man. If
he sometimes wonders why he
continues to do it the answer—
so far as public affairs are con-
cerned —comes to him sternly
and imperatively. Things are
being managed so badly! In
Mr. Churchill’s years as Prime
Minister he worked cordially
with many of the men who are
now in the seats of power, and
these former colleagues of his
were given an intensive school-
ing in statecraft. One of Mr.
Churchill’s few permanent re-
grets is that these promising
pupils of his in the old Coalition
days are still chasing Socialist
will-o’-the-wisps and —as he
thinks —falling sadly below the
level of events at a time when
the nation is menaced by new
perils. For that reason Mr.
Churchill still regards national
politics as the war in which, for
him, there is no discharge.”
Dragnet Digest.
Tito, Art Collector. London
“News Chronicle’s” correspondent
with the recent British Labor-party
mission visiting Yugoslavia: “Among
the proudest exhibits in Tito’s home
is a unique collection of miners’
lamps from all over the world. But
Sam Watson, the Durham miner
who led the mission, noticed that
there were no lamps from Britain,
so he promised Tito to send him one
suitably inscribed as soon as he
returned to Durham.”
* * * *
Comrades Pathological. —“l record
it as a fact,” comments a London
“Time and Tide” writer, “that 1
have never yet got to know a Com-
munist who was not, in some respect
or other, a pathological case. Even
the best of them (those obviously not
animated by the fear, the hate, the
envy, the malice, so clearly visible in
most of them) seemed to me to suffer
from one or other of two abnormali-
ties. One is the Messianic complex.
The other is a kind of inability to
stand up without support—the need
to feel the collective sustaining power
of ‘the Party.’ ”
* * ♦ *
Demos, Educated. —Sidelight on the
incalculable benefits of general educa-
tion : A public-opinion poll held in
Britain under the auspices of the
European Movement has shown that
47 per cent, of the people questioned
had not heard or read about any plan
to form some kind of union of
western European countries.
* * * ♦
Notes for a Cellar Book. —“Man-
chester Guardian” figures showing
what Britain’s doing to Australian
and for foreign wines: Since 1939
British duties on foreign wines have
been multiplied by six, those on Aus-
tralian wines by ten, and the margin
of preference reduced from 100 per
cent, to 25 per cent., though it was
as low as 10 per cent, in 1947. As a
result there are 2.2 million gallons of
wine unsold in bonded warehouses.
* * * *
France’s Enemy Within. —While in
the main seeing a great improvement
in French unity and morale since
Korea, London “Times’s” Paris cor-
respondent nonetheless has the con-
viction that a Communist maquis
would be formed the moment war
broke out, and that everywhere that
French or foreign Communists were
in power in France, if only for a
short time, the present leaders would
be killed or deported, in accordance
with lists already drawn up. Also,
“Large numbers of Frenchmen still
think and prepare exclusively in terms
of flight. Once they have got their
families and their fortunes into a
place of safety they will be prepared
to fight; they have no faith yet that
the whole of France could be
defended and protected.”
* * * *
Must Stalin and Co. Fight?
“Yorkshire Post’s” editor puts the
question and answers “Of course
not,” on these grounds: “No one
threatens them. And they are not
doing badly. Russia’s industrial and
social achievements have been exag-
gerated for propaganda purposes, but
they are undoubtedly impressive.
Why should she risk her achieve-
ments, her future, her political creed
by a plunge into the unknown of
modern war? It does seem to me
shallow and foolish to predict
plumply that Russia will now commit
everything she has to the chances of
war. Only if we believe that —and
how can anyone be sure of it? —•
can we say that war is inevitable.”
There’s always, of course, the little
matter of possible lunacy in Moscow,
as there was in Berlin.
* ♦ * *
Germans Still. Having watched
Western Germany closely during the
first year of the Bonn Government,
a correspondent of N. Y, “Herald
Tribune” concludes it is safe to
expect that the world is always going
to be confronted with the problem of
German emotion and German dis-
tortion. “Militarists as they are, they
will nevertheless always mistake a
tactical question for a strategic objec-
tive in diplomacy. They are probably
always going to deliver inflammatory
declamations about the bleeding soul
of the German nation, and as the
West German Federal Republic gains
a place of responsibility for her own
foreign affairs the rest of the world
should brace itself with a strong dose
of cynicism and prepare to ride out
the storms.”
* * * ♦
Foreigners First. —Quoting one New
Zealand comment that “If Britain
continues to pay the Argentine and
other countries more than she is pre-
pared to pay members of the Com-
monwealth she is liable to break up
the Empire,” and another to the
effect that New Zealand had perhaps
“allowed sentiment to go too far” in
food-for-Britain negotiations, London
“Daily Express” adds its endorse-
ment: “It is shameful to hear these
things said of Britain. It is more
shameful still when the charge is
true, that Britain puts the foreigner
first and the Empire second.”
* * ♦ ♦
Pro Bono Politburo. —Dr. Philip
Jessup, U.S, Ambassador at Large
(that’s his title), pointing out that
Communist dictatorships, while claim-
ing to be revolutionary societies
dedicated to humanitarian goals,
inevitably degenerate into police
States aimed at perpetuating the
ruling clique in power: “In reality,
under this system the State is not the
community but the ruling clique.
And what is the ruling clique? it
is a group of cruel and selfish men
intent only upon the perpetuation of
their own power. To achieve this end
they use the mechanism of the police
State. They use it as Hitler used it
with savage cruelty, with cunning and
with contempt for the welfare of the
people enslaved by their propaganda
and their secret police.” It was, he
added, this “perverted use of Com-
munism as a slogan for the police
State,” not its economic dogma,
which has made the term a label for
the peril to free peoples everywhere.


D
P
M3ecJvK,-fa "wiflAe
(3o<kCuilLf . . .
It’s simple as A.B.C.
You’ll find the recipe
in the NEW 1950
Vickers Cocktail Book,
with dozens more
sweet, medium and dry
cocktails and cooling
long drinks.
With the new Vickers
Cocktail Book you’ll
learn how easy all
drinks are to prepare
—and how many dif-
ferent kinds you can
make from the simplest
ingredients.
Vickers chi
200 YEARS OF TRADITION, 1750-1950
WRITE FOR YOUR FREE
COPY of 1950 Vickers Cock-
tail Book to The United Distil-
lers Pty. Ltd.. P.O. Box 75 9G,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. It
will be mailed promptly, post
free.
3 people in 5 choose Vickers.
The greatest name in Gin from
Australia’s greatest distiller,.
I
fife
i-
VG32/1A
i
sts
ftwjliett Hie (mmi£
tfoc mtfi tyw itcftl
HI-MILER
Truck & Bus Tyres
BY
GOODYEAR
Highway hauling is getting tougher on tyres —heavier,
faster schedules mean more wear on tyres. It means
you want the best tyres built. And that means
HI-MILERS, the famous Goodyear Truck and Bus
Tyres that are specially engineered to master to-day s
hauling problems. They cost you less per mile.
See your Goodyear Dealer for expert advice and
service.
■; ■
' I
111-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
Recommended
wherever
greater trac-
tion is needed.
\
10AL8-16
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast
hauls and for
service where
long mileage is
required.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“The union-advocate asked the
court to vary meat-export awards to
provide for double contract rates
for men slaughtering objectionable
cattle.” — Brisbane “Telegraph.”
So far no counter-claim has
been lodged by cattle objecting
to being slaughtered by objec-
tionable slaughtermen.
“Few Australian women can extend
their knowledge of herbs beyond
mint.”— Sydney “Sunday Herald.”
But they all are aware of the
effects of thyme.
4* 4* 4*
“Couple, with young child, want
accommodation urgently. Willing to
pay rent.” — Suburban paper.
No longer believing in poli-
ticians’ promises?
4* 4* 4*
“Married women make the best
and most reliable secretaries.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
They are more used to dicta-
tion.
4* 4* 4*
“ ‘Mutton dressed up as lamb’ is
a sad spectacle.”— Sydney “D.T
Except to butchers.
4* 4* 4*
“Blondes and brunettes are out of
date.” — Beauty note.
That’s why they continue to
make history.
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, urgently, small b. room
flat, no stairs or bed sitting room
with tray.”— Suburban paper.
They’ve had enough of wait-
ing.
T T V
“Professor Centner claims that the
ocean will boil in a 100-million years
or so.”— Sydney “Mirror.”
“A hundred million years must
pass,”
The angler moaned into his
glass,
“Before a fish that one has
hooked
Can be hauled in already
cooked"
B. B.
As Syndicated.
“Australians are merely Americans
with an Australian accent.”
—Comedian Joe E. Brown.
With hordes of pictures straight
from Hollywood
(Of which the run are punk, the
odd one good)
Wherein the cast
Sits down to meals where
plentiful potatoes
Fulfil the task of rhyming with
tomatoes,
It’s come at last
To this: that many locals in
their teens,
Swayed by the opuses their flea-
house screens.
Don’t think it odd
To flaunt a lairy bodgee tie and
copy
The campus hero clad in jumper
sloppy.
Or “tote” a “rod.”
And when you add the tons of
music canned
For croon- and bebop-fans
you’ll understand
Just why it’s true
That young Australians, be they
short or lanky.
Are reaching fast the stage where
they’ll be Yankee
Right thru and thru.
D. H. E.
Quite Clear.
“With household budgeting becom-
ing a problem of increasing acuteness
many housewives are using strict
bookkeeping methods to gain a
clear view of their financial position
from week to week.”
— Women’s magazine.
“It’s time,” said Azalea firmly,
“that we adopted a more scien-
tific approach to our spending.
It’s dreadful the way we’ve been
living, not knowing where the
money’s been going. Mrs.
Yapper opposite knows what she
does with every penny. It’s be-
cause she keeps books. Why
can’t you show me how to do
bookkeeping so I’ll know where
I stand?”
So I bought her a small ledger.
I explained the fundamentals of
balancing an account. “You
don’t want anything involved,”
I said, “trying to post accounts
and all that.”
“Indeed no,” remarked
Azalea. “And, anyway, postage-
stamps are going up, and that
would only be false economy.”
I let it pass, that being far
easier than launching into a de-
tailed explanation. “All you
want,” I said, “is one simple
account. Call it Household Ac-
count. On the credit side you
put all you receive in money.
There’ll be only one item, of
course. Your weekly household
allowance. On the debit side
\ c >f \
A
you’ll put everything you’ve paid
out —for the grocer, butcher,
children’s fares, boot-repairs, ice-
creams, everything. At the end
of”
“Oh, goody! Look here!
.Farmers are advertising pastel
seersuckers, and only four and
eleven a yard! I must get”
“My dear,” I said, “I wish
you’d give your mind to this.
I’m trying to tell you how to run
this account of yours.”
“Oh, those debit and credit
things. Oh, I think it’ll be easy.
All you have to do is put some
things on one side and some on
the other, and they should add
up the same if you’re accurate
■—and I do pride myself on
that."
“It’s a million to one it won’t
add up the same,” I said, “The
difference between what you’ve
paid out and what you’ve got in
will be your ‘balance’ —that is, if
the total on the debit side doesn’t
reach the amount on the credit
side you should have that much
in your purse. You’ll then write
down the balance on the debit
side, making both sides the
same and bring the balance
down on next week’s credit side,
which, of course, you’ll add to
your housekeeping allowance.”
A week later Azalea brought
out the ledger for my inspection.
“There!” she said triumphantly.
“It was no trouble at all. I
don’t know why accountants
make such a fuss about balanc-
ing their accounts. There’s really
nothing in ft.”
I looked at the account. It
resembled something between a
pak-a-pu ticket and an income-
tax return that had been filled
in by a Bulgar while in the
horrors.
“What’s this item on the credit
side immediately after your
housekeeping allowance?” I
asked. “An amount of two-
eighteen-six.”
Azalea thought hard for a
moment, then she brightened.
“Oh, I remember now, she said.
“It was the day I went into
town —I booked up on the ac-
count at Anthony Jones’s some
moss-crepe for a frock. It came
to that.”
“But it shouldn’t be in the
account at all,” I protested,
“much less on the credit side.”
Azalea bridled. “Why
shouldn’t it?” she demanded. “I
booked it up, didn’t I? And if
that’s not a credit I don’t know
what is.”
I suppressed a groan and
turned to the next item. “Here’s
another on the credit side: ‘L.B.
for Mrs. W. and me, one-fifteen,’
What’s that for?”
Azalea glanced at it. “Oh,”
she explained airily, “that’s our
lay-bys. You see, Mrs. Wilson
next-door gave me a pound to
pay her lay-by while I was pay-
ing mine.”
“But what about the fifteen
bob?” I asked despairingly.
“Well, fifteen was for my lay-
by, silly. I couldn’t put it on
the debit side as a purchase be-
cause I’d really bought the goods
weeks ago when I put the de-
posit on them. You see, I had
twenty-two and six put aside last
week to pay as an instalment,
but I’d had to use seven and six
of it to get a layer-cut and a
wet-set.”
After that brickbat I turned
to the other side,
“Well, what’s this on the debit
side after the thirty-six and two
for the butcher: ‘Ronnie’s m.b.
three shillings’?”
“Oh, that,” explained Azalea.
“I had to borrow three shillings
from Ronnie’s money-box be-
cause the insurance man didn’t
have change of a pound. I must
remember I’ve got to put it back
as soon as I get next week’s
allowance —he’s not waiting for
it.”
“But that’s something you got
in !” I said weakly. “If you had
to put it in at all it should have
been on the credit side and
adjust it later.”
“Oh, adjusting things later is
silly. That’s why men get so
boxed-up about things. If you
stuck to direct and simple ways
of doing your accounts like I’ve
done you wouldn’t have to be
bothered with things like audits
—I suppose, though, it’s just to
give someone a job.”
I grabbed a fistful of what’s
left of my hair and pointed to
the last item, in red ink, on the
credit side, and which had been
included in the total: “Two pairs
nylons 245.” “What’s this?” I
asked.
Azalea looked at it. “Oh, I
got those on appro at Bradleys.
I didn’t know which shade I
wanted, so took two pairs—l’ll
return one. I sort of got the
value in goods from the shop,
which is the same as receiving
it, isn’t it?”
“Well,” I said brokenly.
“You’ve finished up with a credit
balance of sixteen and a penny.”
“Yes, isn’t it marvellous! ” ex-
claimed Azalea joyfully. “That’s
keeping an account for you! ”
“You have it in cash, now, in
your purse?” I pursued.
Azalea gave me a bleak look.
“What a silly question!” she
exclaimed. “How could I have
anything over? There was eight
shillings for dry-cleaning, and
Elaine had to have tennis-shoes,
and”
“But what’s the good of hav-
ing a balance at all?” I shrieked.
“Well, isn’t it what you said
I’d have to have?” she asked
in return.
BO.


RETREAT FROM
THE HEAT
k
■
4x ' ' ‘
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE GREAT BARRIER REEF
Only on an island—surrounded by cool blue
water, where refreshing sea-breezes moderate the
sunshine to pleasant, healthful temperatures—
can you completely forget hot-weather discom-
forts. And only at the Royal Hayman Hotel can
you relax in complete ease—take part in active
sports, or just laze and look at spectacular
scenery.
Finest holiday resort south of
the equator.
The Royal Hayman offers everything for a per-
fect holiday—charming social rooms . . . Lounge,
Cabaret. Cocktail Bar . . . quiet, airy Sleeping
Lodges .. . terraces and gardens. Marvellous
cuisine. Attentive service. There’s swimming (in
the Pool or from the beach), cruising, fishing,
coral reefs, dancing at night.
And right at your door!
Just off the Queensland coast. Royal Hayman is
so easily accessible. Book for your holiday now.
Still a few vacancies before Christmas. Tele*
phone, call or write to
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE:
Melbourne, MU6921; Sydney, 8W2921; Adelaide,
Cen. 2514; Brisbane, 82291; Hobart, 7470; l,aun-
ceston, 1760; Canberra, FS9O; and ail recognised
travel agencies.
<•/sss//&
■'■
m.
y>'»
;•»
mmm
y*
Blue Gillette
There are many pointers to a man’s character#
the way he works, the way he talks, the way he
thinks . . . but, in these days of hurry and
urgency, people are likely to take him at his
face value. That’s why most men shave with
a Blue Gillette Blade. They have proved that
Blue Gillette gives them the cleanest, closest,
most economical shaves possible.
• SO DURABLE—each
blades gives you extra shaves.
9 SO SHARP they stroke
your beard away,
• SO FAMOUS they have
made the world clean shaven.
OS'
6 tor 1/8
10 tor S/4
20 fox 0/8
fto plastic dlspMtar)
6 Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
_*/»•O
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Walking home from the races is
not exactly a rare experience for
regular punters, but unhappy is he
who has to hoof it both ways. With
the train strike in progress some, at
least, of the tidy crowd at Moonee
Valley on Saturday must have added
this discomfiture to their normal store
of turf experience. However, turn
up they did, in large quantities, and
evidently moderately well heeled. A
tote turnover of £164,646 was a
record for the Valley, and some
£20,000 more than went through the
machines at last year’s Cup meeting.
With minor placings to his credit
in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane
Cups, the Fresco five-year-old Ben-
volo was fast equalling the efforts
of the proverbially unlucky Silver
Standard, but the Moonee Valley
Gold Cup saw Benvolo finally bag
the major cut of a rich prize. The
winner’s end of the purse was £3400
along with a £250 pot.
Benvolo started a solid favorite at
9 to 4, and his backers were chewing
their fingernails in dire apprehension
when Williamson took the hotpot to
the front six furlongs from home.
However, a deadly slow pace had
forced Williamson to make this
seemingly premature move, and the
.rider’s confidence in his mount’s
staying-power proved well founded.
Approaching the turn the grey Tuatea
tackled Benvolo, and momentarily
hit the front, but Benvolo was not
to be denied; fighting back, he led
again entering the straight, and left
them well behind in the run home.
Two lengths behind the winner,
Potentate, Dashing Beau, Tuatea and
Peerless Fox hit the line practically
on terms, but they appeared in the
above order on the tell-tale slip of
chemically-treated paper which Web-
ster’s Dictionary describes as a “por-
trayal characterised by great truth
of representation or minute detail in
reproduction.”
Purchased originally at the Sydney
yearling sales for 1100 guineas,
Benvolo carries the colors of W. W.
Ryan and W. L. Short, and is trained
by S. R. Lamond. He is a son of
the Solario horse Fresco and the
Tippler mare Largesse, a sister to
Malvina and Spirits, both winners
of the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes.
Saturday’s win brought Benvolo a
31b. penalty for the Melbourne Cup,
but after the race he was found to
have injured a leg, which may throw
a shadow on his Cup prospects. Of
others who contested the Moonee
Valley Cup, Peerless Fox ran quite
the best Melbourne Cup trial —cer-
tainly good enough to lead one to
overlook his abject failure a few days
previously in the Geelong Cup,
A.J.C. Derby winner Alister tight-
ened his grip on the Victoria Derby,
and, as well, entered Melbourne Cup
considerations, by registering a splen-
did weight-for-age victory in the W.
S. Cox Plate. When Iron Duke
cleared to the front and assumed a
commanding lead approaching the
home turn the race seemed all but
over. Fairly flying home, however,
Alister (J. Purtell) bridged the gap
and fought on to win by a neck.
Somewhat the mystery horse of the
Melbourne Cup, the New Zealander
Bhutan, having his first start here,
finished a really impressive third.
Three-year-old Alister, of course, had
a considerable pull in the weights,
carrying 7.11 against Iron Duke’s 9.9,
Bhutan’s 9st. and the 9st. or so
carried by nearly all other runners.
Apart from the good trials turned in
by placegetters, Dark Marne ran quite
well enough to be given a show in
the Cup. Neither Sir Falcon nor
Silver Buzz was suited by the race,
and their efforts in finishing last and
second-last might be safely ignored.
The Moonee Valley meeting was a
most profitable one for Sydney
visitors. Benvolo, of course, bagged
the biggest prize of the day. As well.
Lloric (E, Kremmer) and Channel
Patrol (A. Ward), winning divisions
of the St. Alban’s Stakes for two-
year-olds, and Ajanni (S. Ralph),
taking the Dundonald Highweight, all
hail from the north. A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate winner Lloric showed the way
all the way to down Bahadur and
Urna in the first St. Alban’s. Channel
Patrol, on the other hand, came from
behind to beat Kinfield and Vana-
cara. Both Lloric and Channel Patrol
are progeny of imported Channel
Swell, a son of the St. Leger winner
Fairway. Completing the Moonee
Valley card, Matterhorn (B. Jenkins)
won the Greenvale Handicap for
three-year-olds and Raysun (W. A.
Smith) the Phoenix Handicap.
With favorites home in both the
Caulfield and Moonee Valley Cups
one is inclined, bearing in mind the
kindly fate which seems ever to guard
the bookmaking fraternity, to take a
somewhat circumspect view of the
more-fancied candidates in the Mel-
bourne Cup. There were at time of
writing 68 horses still left in the Cup,
and Playboy headed the betting lists,
followed by Alister and Sir Falcon,
then Benvolo and Chicquita. These
five, of course, have excellent creden-
tials ; so, too, have a number of
others, among whom could be men-
tioned Dark Marne, Silver Buzz,
Bhutan, Saxony, Peerless Fox and
Conductor.
It is a mite difficult to commit
oneself to a Melbourne Cup selection
without the final (and often very
“I knew he'd fall for it sooner or later."
good) guidance offered by the Hot-
ham Handicap, but, trusting that he
will shape up to expectation in that
race, this page sticks to its early selec-
tion Bruin. To enumerate briefly his
credits, Bruin has won over the Cup
distance, ran an excellent race in
last year’s Cup, has won well fairly
recently, has been working in good
style on the tracks, and has the handy
weight of 7st. The last horse to
win the Cup with 7st., incidentally,
was Bitalli, who, in 1923, collected
the richest Cup ever run. Bitalli’s
Cup was worth £13,288, of which
£10,288 went to the winner. In those
days, of course, sweepstakes were
added to the prize.
Looking for others likely to be
near the money, Silver Buzz comes
in as second choice. Again, he
is a horse who has won over the
journey and is nicely treated with
7.12, Progeny of The Buzzard usually
improve with age, and Silver Buzz
has been coming along nicely since
he won the Brisbane Cup in May.
Playboy, of course, has credentials
which can scarcely be faulted, let
alone ignored, and he must be given
a place in the first three. After him
might be considered Dark Marne,
who was beaten only a nose in the
1948 Cup and has been lately showing
signs of form; then those good, game
mares Saxony and Chicquita.
* * * *
Judging from the size of the crowd
at Rosehill on Saturday a large
number of people outside of the
regular every-Saturday racegoers had
observed that punters have been
having a freakish run of luck over
recent weeks, and had entertained
the erroneous notion that that sort
of business can go on indefinitely.
Needless to say it didn’t; two win-
ning favorites out of eight on Satur-
day was something more like a nor-
mal percentage. However, the new
doubles tote got a much better adver-
tisement than it did when operated
for the first time the previous week.
One of Saturday’s two doubles re-
turned lucky pin-wielders £74 17s. 9d.
for five-bob.
Both legs of this fancy double were
ridden by B. Smith. First home was
the lolaus mare lolanda, who made
an effortless job of downing Romany
King and Great World in the 10-
furlongs Rosehill Handicap; she was
among the rear brigade nearly all
the way, then unleashed a beautiful
finishing burst in the straight to score
by nearly three lengths. lolanda may
win much better races. Young Smith
completed his double when he landed
Golden Wedge a comfortable winner
from Wiranya and Damascene.
The two-year-old events at Rosehill
offered a good advertisement for the
newly-imported sire Scorpion, whose
first crop have just commenced racing.
Felburn (W. Traecey), winning the
Two-year-old Maiden for fillies, and
Bushwind, taking a similar event for
colts and geldings, are both by Scor-
pion. Scorpion is a son of the Derby
winner Hyperion and Bonaroba, her-
self a good performer.
Winners from the McCarten stable
don’t usually go out at any fancy
odds, but Stanley Wootton’s importa-
tion Tesmic evidently caught them
napping. Tesmic had been backed
once or twice previously, and had
failed dismally. In Saturday’s Ihree-
and Four-year-old Maiden, however,
he started at 50 to 1, and beat 10-to-9
favorite Bobalong by a half-head.
Tesmic was well ridden by apprentice
J. Tinson, who thereby notched up
his first metropolitan winner. The
second division of the Three- and
Four-year-old went to Old Jamaica
(G. Podmorc), the Auburn Mixed to
Crown Street (G. Moore) and the
Flying to Pantomime (R. Selkrig).
• ♦ * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies): Hua
Tara, 1; Belle D’ Amour, 2; Pretty
Buttons, 3. Two-year-old Maiden
(colts): Midtide, 1; Feringhi, 2;
Nitrogen, 3. Ashbury Mixed: Video,
l;*Miss Pacific, 2; Tesmic, 3. Earl-
wood Mixed: Final Act, 1; Crown
Street, 2; Oceanus, 3. Flying: Dyna-
mite, 1; Cognac, 2; Hesdin, 3.
November Handicap: lolanda, 1;
Caribbean, 2; Kymac, 3. Welter:
Wiranya, 1; Ambolo, 2; My Request,
3.
* * * *
It was rather surprising that the
M.C.C. touring team’s match v.
Westralia should have gone the full
four days and ended in a draw.
Presumably the English bowlers were
taking matters quietly, and holding
a good deal in reserve; if not, then
their efforts against a merely moderate
team augured poorly for the future.
To the tourists’ first-innings tally of
434 Westralia replied with 236. In
again for their second knock the
visitors rattled up 121 for three
wickets before closing and leaving
the opposition three hours in which
to get 320; they had gathered 207
of the necessary for four wickets
when stumps were drawn.
It would seem that skipper Fred
Brown considered his trundlers could
do with a little more practice when
they moved on to Adelaide to play
South Australia; winning the toss,
he sent the opposition in on a
dead-easy wicket. On the first day
South Australia hit up 245 (for five
wickets) and on Saturday carried the
tally to a final 350. Hamence
played a nice innings for 114, next-
best being Duldig’s 46. Opening for
M.C.C. the old firm of Hutton and
Washbrook made their first appear-
ance of the tour. Looking much in
need of practice, Washbrook slowly
and scratchily collected nine runs
before being trapped l.b.w. by
Hiern. Hutton, however, was in
great form. Although it was also
his first innings for some time he
was full of confidence, and the runs
fairly streamed from his stylish bat.
At stumps on Saturday it was
M.C.C., one for 133; Hutton, 88 n.o.
and Simpson 35 n.o.
Apart from the batting perform-
ances of Hamence and Hutton, the
outstanding feature of the first two
days’ play was the splendid wicket-
keeping of Godfrey Evans, who
shared in the dismissal of five of
the South Australians —two caught
and three stumped. Leg-spinners
Wright and Brown shared the bowl-
ing honors, Wright bagging four for
103 oft 28 overs and Brown three
for 55 off 15 overs.
* * * ♦
N.S.W. administered Q’land a
pretty thorough hiding in the first
Sheffield Shield match of the season
which ended in Brisbane last week.
The N.S.W. left-arm bowler Alan
Davidson did most of the damage.
After N.S.W., with Keith Miller in
great form for a double century, had
closed its first innings at nine for
529, Davidson proceeded to tear the
Q’land batting into diminutive frag-
ments. He took seven for 49, and
the Queenslanders, all out for 232,
had to follow on. Trying then to
avoid the outright defeat, the
Queensland batsmen, particularly
some of those high in the batting
order, possibly erred in playing over-
cautiously. After one of the openers
had been run out Lindwall and F.
Johnston, taking three and four
wickets respectively, ploughed through
most of the remainder. Miller
cleaned up the last couple with half-
an-hour to spare, and Queensland
(241) was beaten by an innings and
56 runs.
* * * *
Some fair judges among the Sydney
pugilistic fraternity would like to see
Ray Coleman stacked up against the
Mexican Ernesto Aguilar, who beat
Australian bantam champion Elley
Bennett at Sydney Stadium recently.
Coleman has been winning fight after
fight in great style at Leichhardt.
Last week Coleman (9.1) completely
outclassed Victorian Norm Tymms
The Melbournite was much
taller and longer in reach than his
opponent, but he had nary a chance;
Coleman chased him from the first
bell to the last punch, which was a
left to the chin delivered in the sixth
round, whereafter the referee stopped
the massacre.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—t—recommended for shearing-shed work.
v ..v •>
40z., Boz., 16<3z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY-
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£4O/12/6
m
K
f
AND SONS
PTY LTD
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY,I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Don’t Blame the Dip.
“J.R.D.”; Stripped of all ad-
vertising ballyhoo, any dip is an
insecticide and no more. Further,
different types of dip will give
varying results, and the sheep-
man must not only select the
right dip for the purpose, but he
must use it strictly according to
the directions of the manufac-
turer.
Departments of Agriculture
can advise on the right kind of
dip to use without mentioning
any particular brand, but correct
mixing and use is entirely in the
hands of the user. Practically
every package of dip carries a
clause absolving the manufac-
turer of any responsibility after
the product passes out of his
control.
Briefly, for body-lice, arsenic
is as good as anything. Shearing
will remove most of the para-
sites, and dipping should be done
as soon after shearing cuts have
healed as possible. The new
gammexane dips are equally
good and more pleasant to use,
although slightly more expen-
sive.
If the sheep become lousy
again it is due to (1) ineffective
dipping —sheep not properly
saturated or immersed, or de-
parture from manufacturer’s in-
structions, or (2) reinfection
through a number of possible
causes.
In any case, at normal dipping
strength, don’t expect protection
for more than three weeks after
dipping. This applies to dip-
ping for ticks or keds. In their
case arsenic is not so effective as
witl? lice, and a second dipping
three to four weeks later is
essential to kill the young ticks
that have hatched out since the
first dipping. However, by using
an arsenical dip that has derris
incorporated in it, one dipping
should kill the ticks and the sub-
sequent hatchings. Reinfestation
comes from contact with ticky
sheep. Science has shown that
a ked can’t live two weeks off a
sheep. B.H.C. dips (single dip-
ping) are also excellent for ked
eradication.
For foot-lice, gammexane dips
are best, and sheep have been
cleaned up by putting them in a
concrete-floored pen and hosing
their legs with the dip.
Itch-mite is still the most diffi-
cult of all parasites to kill, as it
lives between the skin layers
under the surface. Lime-sulphur
has given good results, but a
special new dip has given en-
couraging results, although it is
expensive.
Don’t ask more of any dip
than the results enumerated. If
your sheep are free of parasites
but you feel that you ought to
dip for preventive purposes or
“to help the tip,” don’t waste
time, sweat and money. If you
want protection from' fly-strike
read the directions again and
you will find that any honest
manufacturer will warn against
the use of an arsenical dip at
increased strengths except for
localised use in crutch-jetting.
D.D.T. and B.H.C. (gam-
mexane) dips will only give pro-
tection from flystrike if used at
from four to 10 times dipping
strength, and they have the ad-
vantage of being safe to use at
these strengths. Further, the
higher the concentration the
longer protection will be given.
A.-A. in the North.
“Oxo”: Chudleigh Park
station, north of Hughenden,
n.-w. Queensland, has proved
that Aberdeen-Angus cattle do
well anywhere, in spite of the
oft-repeated suggestion that they
are suitable only for small areas
of improved pastures.
In 1934 the Chudleigh Park
herd was very run-down, and
Dr. R. B. Kelley suggested that
the quickest way to build it up
again would be to use Aber-
deen-Angus bulls. Accepting
“Well have to do something about getting that boundary-fence mended."
this advice, bulls were obtained
from Talgai, a practice followed
for some years until the station
could breed its own herd-bulls.
The manager of Chudleigh
Park (D. J. Hassett) opines that
the introduction of A.-A. charac-
teristics had resulted in the
building-up of a herd eminently
suitable for the basalt country
to the north of Hughenden; the
“blacks” were great “doers” and
very quiet to work. Watering
at troughs might be partly
responsible for their docility.
There is a keen demand in North
Queensland for Chudleigh Park
stores, sufficient evidence of the
regard in which they are held.
N.T. Development.
“Outback”: Development of
the Northern Territory has been
making the headlines for a long
time, but to date very little of a
practical nature has been done.
C. A. Payne, Georgina Downs,
contends that continuation of
the Dajarra railway to meet the
north-south lines of communica-
tion, or at least to the Rankine
River, is one of the principal
aids to increasing production in
the Territory,
Before going to Georgina
Downs, Payne supervised the
Queensland National Pastoral
Co.’s Lake Nash, Barkly Downs
and Roxborough properties,
which run 75,000 head of cattle,
and he speaks from a good deal
of practical experience of N.T.
conditions. The need for im-
proved rail facilities was em-
phasised, he said, by the shock-
ing conditions along the Queens-
land stock-routes in from the
Territory.
On the Urandangie-Dajarra
route cattle got only two drinks
in 90 miles, and this route was
used by Territory fats ; there are
seven bores on the route, but
five of them are out of order.
Payne said someone should be
in charge of all bores at least
throughout the cattle season.
This season up to August, 70,000
cattle were dipped at the Lake
Nash dip on the border, and a
lot more were on their way.
Payne considers that southern-
bred bulls are too “soft” for the
Territory, the cattle most suit-
able being the short-haired
variety. Poll Shorthorns were
increasing their popularity. The
Q.N. Pastoral Co. was changing
to this latter breed, and had
established a stud at Barkly
Downs. Bulls which would win
in Brisbane or Sydney could
not stand up to the hot, dry con-
ditions of country where very
little shade was available.
Science—Rice —Forests.
“He-Ne” considers science and
yields, rice-growing and fertility,
and community forests:
Omitting the last three excep-
tional seasons, wheat yields in
New South Wales have shown
no average increase in spite of
tens of thousands of tons of arti-
ficial manures and thousands of
acres of new wheatland brought
under the plough. Although
many new high-yielding varieties
were bred and introduced by
plant-breeders, the average yield
stayed under 14 bushels per
acre.
The same applies to dairy-
production ; in fact, on the upper
North Coast of N.S.W. produc-
tion per cow tends to decline.
Average wool production per
sheep also has shown no rise,
although studmasters have
greatly increased the clip from
individual stud animals.
But to this gloomy picture
there is a bright side, and that
is that some properties —wool,
wheat or dairy—are showing
great production increases. The
answer is that the dominant fac-
tor in agricultural production
remains what it always has been,
good husbandry; no amount of
science will ever take the place
of good farming practices.
Scientists have never claimed
that it would, but far too many
farmers believe it will, forgetting
that the ideal is a mixture of
science and good farming.
Increasing fertility - depletion
caused by constant rice-crop-
ping in the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Areas is commented upon
by the Leeton agronomist, W. R.
Watkins. “On present indica-
tions it is doubtful whether the
acre-yields of wheat crops under
irrigation this year will surpass
those of the adjoining dry-area
districts. In fact, the difference
in favor of the dry-land crops
appears very marked,” he said.
Pastures and stock appear to
be the answer to the problem,
with a great reduction, if not
total elimination, of wheat-
growing.
This would fit into the irriga-
tion-farming practice of the
M.I.A. more easily and eco-
nomically and with better returns
than rice followed by wheat and
then rice again. Watkins said
that the older the rice-land and
the more rice crops it has grown
the more noticeable is the effect
on the present wheat crops.
During the past four years the
average acre-yields of wheat
grown under irrigation at the
Leeton end of the M.I.A. has
only exceeded the dry-land yield
of the Yanco shire by four
bushels at the most. Ninety per
cent. Of wheat grown in the
shire is grown under irrigation,
and is the main crop incor-
porated in the rotation with
rice.
Owing largely to lack of
finance, but sometimes to lack of
foresight; the idea of community
forests planted by and for
country municipalities and shires
has lagged badly in New South
Wales. The Local Government
Department is now working out
a broader scheme that should
bear some results. For hundreds
of years community forests have
been a feature of municipal
affairs in many European coun-
tries. Germany has long given
a lead, and many German towns
and cities possess their own
forests, and the sale of timber
annually more than pays the
whole outgoings of the council.
This means that the towns-
people pay no rates, something
unknown in Australia. In 1943
approximately 1600 United
States communities, spread over
30 of the 48 States, owned more
than 3,000,000 acres of forest-
land.
This is equivalent to 75 per
cent, of the total forest area of
New South Wales. This State
could well copy the South Aus-
tralian policy of offering interest-
free loans to councils, repayable
only when the forest pays its
way.
Farms and Fodder.
“Longjon”: After many de-
lays caused by floods, judging of
N.S.W. Royal Agriculture
Society’s farm-and-fodder cham-
pionship is finished. This was
the first of a new series to re-
place the old fodder-conserva-
tion contests, and, generally
speaking, is much wider in its
scope, taking in all fodder such
as standing crops, pastures,
fodder-trees as well as the grain,
hay and silage reserves to which
the old competition was re-
stricted.
This year there were two
championships, inland and
coastal, and the prizes in each
were: First, a planned tour of
New Zealand to the value of
£150; second, a trophy worth
£3O ; third, a trophy worth £2O.
The Inland Division was won
by Belabula Farms, Canowin-
dra, with 165 points of a pos-
sible 210, second prize went to
A. S. Groves, Aberfeldie,
Belarwi, with 163 points, and
A. K. K. Scott, Yuulong,
Dubbo, was third with 162
points.
Coastal Division winners
were: A. C. Dell, Lowlands,
Richmond, 168 points; R. &
C. C. Cochrane, Narrabel, Bega,
164; W. R. Winkley, Glendyn
Park, Dorrigo, 160.
Judging the inland began at
Wee Waa on June 19, and, ex-
cept for three days, was done in
wet weather. Nevertheless, the
schedule was maintained, though
it meant that the judging party
kept itself in exercise by much
car-pushing over bad roads and
tramping over sodden paddocks.
The judge, assistant principal
agronomist L. J. Green, was
pleased at the interest shown by
entrants in pasture-improvement,
but regretted that farmers on
undulating country did not make
greater use of contour furrows
on natural and improved pas-
tures ; a simple means of con-
trolling erosion. Many shock-
ing examples of erosion were
seen, and also one or two ex-
amples of gross overstocking, the
invariable precursor of erosion.
There were 21 entries in the
Inland Division and eight in the
Coastal. Commenting on the
coastal entries, Green said prac-
tically all appreciated the full
value of improved pastures and
the need for subdivision to ob-
tain rotational grazing and satis-
factory control of the paddocks.
Soil-erosion was very evident,
and all farmers with sloping
land should construct simple
contour-furrows on all natural,
permanent and temporary pas-
ture areas. These prevent loss
of soil and humus and retain
natural rainfall on the paddock
itself. The disturbing thought
is that if the type of property
which wins a district competition
and is judged for the champion-
ship shows signs of erosion,
what must others be like?
Take Care.
“Tas.”: When using tools or
machinery “safety first” pays.
Always wear goggles at the
grindstone; don’t mess about
with shafting, pulleys and belts
in motion ; don’t use files with-
out a handle on the tang ; when
using a power-drill make certain
that the work is held securely so
that it will not fly round if the


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary
NO GERMS
system.)
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER :
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
dsf
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for tree illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: B. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
t.
Iz
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cutlcura Soap. If
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
On* of the famous
trio—Cu ticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
no
dsf
ds
RIIQCM
DIRECT CURRENT
MOTORS
i, i and i Horse Power
Voltages 32, 50, 110 and 240
Solid base or Resilient Mountings (if
fox' washing machines, state make).
Guaranteed 12 Months,
Obtainable through local electrical
or hardware stores, or communicate
with N.S.W. Distributors:
DRYSDALE ELECTRIC
Pty. Xitd.
165 Clarence St., Sydney.
’Phone; BX 3646.
BRANDAUERA
Every point
guaranteed-*
do not experiment with imitation*
c utANmun a co. ltd, bikmwgham, en&
r PENS
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc..
Headmaster.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for («) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum,
payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or (b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £BO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the Uni■ "ty of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as i *•<» case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly computed not later
than the Bth January, 1951, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the sth February,
1951, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and
further particulars may be obtained from: —■
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MARK
LAMBS & CALVES
ELASTRATOR
(Hegd. Trade Mark)
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William Street, Melbourne
ELI 4.
If any
illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
INSURANCE -—for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
( Incorporated in Hong Kong .)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
HERE’S THE BEST IN
lOcwtDELIVERY VANS
TEN-TEN
EXTRA LOAD-SPACE—I2O USABLE CUBIC
FEET. Ford “Ten-Ten” will carry more-bulky, 10 cwt.
loads than is possible with other vans of ordinary design.
You can make more deliveries each trip . , . more trips
each day, and so cut cost with Ford “Ten-Ten”. Space-
wasting bulkhead has been eliminated and driver may
unload the Ford “Ten-Ten” from front or back.
EXT RA SMA RT NESS. The smart lines and sparkling appearance of your
new Ford “Ten-Ten” will bring new prestige to your business as well as saving
you money. It’s a van that’s right in keeping with a smart modern business.
vm.
LLU
COMPLETE DEPENDABILITY. Ford “Ten-Ten’s” sturdy com-
mercial chassis, strongly-built body and economical Ford-engineered 10 h.p.
motor gives you outstanding reliability. Semi-forward control simplifies
parking, backing in and out of lanes, turning in narrow streets.
LOW PURCHASE PRICE. Your initial outlay in buying a Ford
“Ten-Ten” is less. Registration and depreciation are less—Petrol consumption
and maintenance are lower. Ford “Ten-Ten” not only costs less to buy— it
costs less to run tool
rma-zt
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor
or Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. Hi VIC.) RFC. OFHCL: CUTTING. VIC.
drill sticks; don’t use anything
but the correct spanner on bolts
and nuts; wear goggles when
tinning at the solder-pot; don’t
wear loose clothing or carry
loose cotton-waste near moving
machinery ; and don’t tinker with
live electrical gear—leave it to
the expert. When working at the
forge or solder-pot keep a tube
of tannic-acid jelly handy in case
of a bum. Better still, keep a
comprehensive medicine-chest in
a handy position.
Value of Humus.
“Big Billy”: Good compost is
a complete plant-food contain-
ing all essential elements of
plant-life, including the little-
known trace elements, but apart
from being a plant-food it
greatly influences the formation
of the desirable crumbly texture
which leads to a good tilth.
Humus also binds light soils
and increases their capacity for
retaining plant-food and mois-
ture ; it improves heavy soils
and reduces stickiness, particu-
larly if lime is also present, and
thus improves drainage and
aeration.
Humus darkens light-colored
soils, causing them to warm
more quickly, and makes them
less susceptible to wind or water
erosion. In the home garden
where there is only a small heap
in preparation don’t add woody
materials such as cauliflower or
cabbage stumps unless they are
bruised and chopped up. Eschew
perennial weeds such as con-
volvulus and couch - grass,
printed paper, oil, creosote,
paints and diseased or insect-
infected plants. All should first
be burned before digging-in the
plot or adding as ashes to the
heap.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: When prepar-
ing bee colonies for breeding
stimulate by feeding warm
honey-syrup broken down with
30 per cent, of water. This is
best done at dusk to avoid
robbing. A 71b. honey-tin with
a few nail-holes punched in the
lid and inverted in an empty
super above the colony will act
as a good feeder. Jute sacking
fitted over brood chamber will
prevent warm air escaping from
the cluster.
“C.A.A.”: \\£hen cutting
saplings growing near a rabbit-
proof fence, cut level with the
ground or the height of the
fencing-posts, other wisp bunny
will negative the fence by jump-
ing on the stump and so over
the fence.
“W. Court”: Shell-grit by the
sackful is there for the shifting
on many Queensland beaches
(B. 11/10/’5O). Another way to
help fowls with lime is to feed
them eggshells broken up fine.
Don’t throw out whole shells
or you’ll start ’em egg-eating.
“Metax”: If a dog is wounded
and becomes dopey, the cause
may be an infected wound which
has closed up and is forming an
ulcer. Such ulcers fill with
watery pus rapidly and may open
naturally in two or three days
or may require lancing. When
opened, the pus should be gently
squeezed out a couple of times
each day until clear. The
wound may be washed with
warm water and dog-soap. Be-
ware of disinfectants, which may
injure the skin or be harmful if
licked off. An internal remedy
to help the blood get rid of the
infection will speed recovery.
“Big Billy”: Cucumbers will
give a maximum return if length
of main vines is restricted to
encourage lateral growth. The
round types are most suitable
for small families, the elongated
variety lending themselves best
to pickling. Whatever type is
favored yield, will be raised if
fruit is picked frequently.
“A-Jay”: If possible, hive
entrances should face north to
get maximum benefit from the
sun. Good shelter from prevail-
ing winds is essential, but hives
should not be placed too close
to trees or under hedges, as bees
often tend to be vicious if sub-
jected to too much shade. In
addition, bees in hives too well
sheltered are inclined to breed
out of season, and to use an
excessive amount of honey
stores during winter.
“Rooster”: Corrosive sub-
limate is recommended for treat-
ing vegetable seed to prevent
disease. The standard formula
is loz. of the sublimate
(mercuric chloride) dissolved in
6igal. of water, in a non-metallic
container. Dissolve by heating.
Tie the seed loosely in muslin
bags before immersing. Handle
carefully; mercuric chloride is
a dangerous poison.
“S.G.”: I sat a hen on 13
eggs. She broke two and two
were addled. From the other
nine she hatched 11 chicks. Does
this mean that a double-yoke
egg will hatch out twins?
“Weedexp”: A weed of
American origin, known to the
botanist as Franseria, has taken
possession of a small cultivation
in the Cloyna district (Q.). This
plant, which in the young stages
resembles carrot-weed, is closely
related to the imported rag-
weeds which are known pests in
N.S.W., has not been found any-
where else in Australia. It is a
perennial which shoots freely
from underground rhizomes
and soon chokes out all grass ;
it also causes milk taint. The
Queensland Lands Department
has declared it a noxious weed.


AN ORDER EVERY4O NNNOTES /
SALES
FIGURES PROVE
Phenomenal sales in the post-war period
and especially over the past 12 months
amply demonstrate the Leyland herit-
age of consummate skill & pride of
workmanship. Leyland heavy
jexjand
duty Trucks and Buses will continue to
excel in outstanding long vehicle life,
with unrivalled reliability and economy.
IT
COMET TRUCKS
AND BUSES
| Dept, of Supply 172
Dept, of Works ft Housing 76
I Tooth ft Co. Ltd 34
: Nestles Food Specialities 9
i Ltd ... ...
I Tasmanian Hydro*
I Electric Commission ... 24
I Shell Petroleum Co. ... 100
I Bombay State Transport... ISO
I Perth City Council 26
; Coras lompair Eireann ... 200
i Assoc. Portland Cement
I H'frs 150
f Nizam State Railways ... 85
i Hants ft Sussex Motor
i Vehicles Ltd.' 24
i D and B Zambra 103
; Commonwealth Oil
f Refineries Ltd 9
■ Ministry of Supply, Britain 50
S Shell Co. of Aust 10
! R. Bowles ft Son Ltd.,
I Cardiff 27
it
iTMmmfr . MffifflM JtmfflmTTßr
g||||| |||||p |g
Mii
ROYAL TIGERS
;; Autobuses Modernos, Havana,
Cuba
!; Ulster Transport Authority
North Ireland
? Red & White United Transport
I Co
S Black & White Motorways
| Empresa General Urquiza,
Argentine
Empresa El Rapido, Argentine
| City of Rio de Janeiro
TITANS
Dept, of Road Transport 377
" London Transport Executive (.806
| Manchester Corporation ... 300
3 Blackpool Transport ... „ ... ISO :
| Coras lompair Eireann SO
;? Ribble Motor Services Pty. Ltd. ... 70
City Tramways Co. Ltd., Capetown SO:
43% of British Municipalities j
| operating buses use Leyland
HIPPOS
Wambo Shire Council 15
P.M.G. Department 10
States Rivers & Water Supply *
Commission 11
Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric
Authority 3
State Electricity Commission of
Victoria 24 : :
Metropolitan Transport Co 20
V 3
W
t(bdxks & eu
SOL 0 & SE RVICED
iajo?<xfe% &6e a&&ef"
SUPER HIPPOS
Tasmanian Hydro-Elect. Commission 24
Northern Australian Pastoral Co. ... 4
Anglo-lranian Oil Co. '2
Sudan Government, Africa 8
Sovrompetrol, Bucharest 12
Burma Oil Co. Ltd 14
Literature with full information, prices, specifications, per-
formance figures, and after-sale service on all Leyland
ii Trucks and Buses available on request.
LEYLAND MOTORS LIMITED
;i Head Off ice for Australia :
IJI-167 GEORGE STREET, REDFERN, N.S.W,
Branches and Agents i
/ NEWCASTLE , . .D. L. Norton. 484 King Street.
■ BRISBANE DEPOT. .476 Adelaide Street.
? MELBOURNE DEPOT.Corner Courtney and Villiers Streets,
North Melbourne.
J HOBART , . • . .H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd., S 3-63
(Bathurst Street.
ADELAIDE . . . .Flinders Motors Limited, 62 Currie
Street.
PERTH West End Motors Limited, 1056 Hay
i Street.
mi
BEAVERS
State Electricity Commission
of Victoria 36
Ministry of Works, Britain 50
Imperial Chemical
industries 26
; Metropolitan Transport Co. 10
Power Petroleum Co 30 i
Sydney City Council 6 ?
Snowy Mountains Hydro-
Electric Authority 4 <
: Ribbles Dale Cement Ltd. ... 12
OCTOPUS
Co-operative Wholesale
Society 14
;i H. P. Butmer & Co. Ltd. ...
: Currie & Co. (Newcastle) Ltd. 4
: Lancashire Freight Services
| Ltd 4
SUPER BEAVERS
i Electricity Trust of SA. ««« 3|i
Anglo-lranian OH Co. ..37
Bloemfontein Municipality. South Africa 2
London & Scandinavian Metallurgical
Co. Ltd .3
Gibraltar Motor Hire Service ... 4ij
TIGERS
S Dept, of Road Trantport 50
Melbourne Metropolitan Tramway*
Board 30
: North Ireland Transport Board , 200
: Hants & Sussex Motor Services Pty. Ltd. 156
| P.T.H.Z. Poland 100
; Ribble Motor Services Ltd 140
i; Common de la Region d'Alexandria,
S Egypt 30
? Western Australian Govt. Tramway* 1
S />///'#// f ft 9 iff e €/• /** 9
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DANIEL MOORE formerly of “Acton”
Guest House Acton Canberra A.C.T.—
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN SUVLA
MOORE has filed a Petition for Divorce
(No. 3013 of 1950) on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 12th January 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER &
DAVIS, Solicitors for the Petitioner, 350
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd*
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Asset. Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceed.
£11,000,000.
M. C. Alder, AJJt.. Oen. Manager.
down the backyard. The vet.
put his knife in his waistcoat
pocket and, after it, the five
shillings which my mother paid
him. Then he tousled my hair
and said “There, boy, it didn’t
hurt him a bit, and he’ll grow
into a nice pussy.”
.-.of L ,1c TinM.
The cat he was called Unde
Tom not because he was black,
but because, as my father often
explained with a chuckle, an
uncleship was the most he could
ever hope to attain dreamed
away ten years ot his life in the
w and W n S bU Ii eCl neai
the back fence, where other more
forturmte cats met over his grave
and hurled their challenges at
the moon.
ABOUT the same time that
Uncle Tom died a change
came over Aunt Madge, al-
though there was no connection
between the two happenings.
She was, by this time, nearing
fifty, her hair was showing grey
and her figure had settled, not
to fat or dumpiness, but to a
solid little body not unlike one
of her Pomeranians—both of
which had been long since in-
terred down the back garden.
Her voice had risen a degree or
so, and her interest in the world
and people around her had
changed from one of interfer-
ence to a kind of anxiety, as
though she were trying to catch
up on something she had missed.
Some of the caustic went out
of her, and, although she was
still sharp enough, she was
given to alternate fits of some-
thing almost approaching kind-
ness and, then, moodiness. She
was also given to remarking “I
don’t know what’s wrong with
me.” And once, when my father
replied “You need a husband,”
she didn’t, as she would have
done once, unloose a tirade. She
merely said “Don’t be ridicu-
lous.”
I have sometimes wondered
whether it was my father’s adr
vice or just her natural instincts
that set her after our new
boarder soon after he arrived.
Mr, Thomas Butler was his
name, accommodated by Mother
on the request and recommenda-
tion of our greengrocer. He
was a pleasant enough old fel-
low, rather like an old dog that
has had its day and enjoyed it.
He was a widower and retired
civil servant and kept up a
mild defiance of his years with
forced joviality and slightly out-
rageous remarks. Only when he
fell asleep by the fire after
meals, as he often did, and when
his head dropped on to his chest
and his mouth and cheeks fell
into tired, heavy wrinkles, were
you really conscious of the
weight of age resting on him.
He had been with us no more
than a month when, with very
few preliminaries, he told Aunt
Madge: “Young woman, you
should get married and have
children ; or, at least, you should
have children.”
Whether it was because he
called her “young woman” or
that he said “should get” in-
stead of “should have been,”
Aunt Madge didn’t even accuse
him of being ridiculous. She
almost simpered, in fact.
“Oh, Mr. Thomas,” she said.
“You’re just trying to sound
like a wicked old man.”
“I might be wicked,” he said.
“And I’ve buried two wives—
after they were dead, of course
—but I’m still not too old to
take on another if the fancy
takes me.”
It soon became obvious that
they were courting. As far as
Aunt Madge was concerned Mr.
Butler passed from being “a
nice old gentleman” to being
“very active for his years,” to
having “a surprisingly young
mind,” and, finally, to “needing
someone to look after him.” On
Mr. Butler’s part. Aunt Madge
was a “nice little thing,” then “a
good wife for someone,” and
then “a fine young woman, old
enough to have some sense,”
Aunt Madge’s dressing began
to show surprising splashes of
color, and Mr. Butler took to
coming home with ties, sox and
the like and announcing “Now,
that is a good pair of sox,” with
an air that proclaimed that only
his years and experience enabled
him to know a good pair of sox,
or where to find them.
The affair was regarded rather
as a little household comedy;
no one really thought that they
would be married; so when
Aunt Madge announced that
they would be, and within a
couple of months, there were a
lot of misgivings.
“I think,” said my mother,
“that he is much too old for
Madge.”
“Of course he is,” said my
father. “He’s too old for any-
one, But it’s not that. He’s a
nice old chap and he’s had his
day. He doesn’t know what
he’s doing or what he’s in for.”
“Madge is all right,” said
Mother in mild defence. “She’s
changed a lot lately.”
“I dunno,” said Father. “The
whole thing’s been too quick.
Much too quick. You’ll see.
She hasn’t changed that much ;
she’ll give him hell.”
CATHER was right, however,
1 and soon Uncle Tom —as I
was taught to call him —came to
know it without being told.
Almost from the day she had
him hooked Aunt Madge began
slipping back towards her old
self. Her triumph was not very
well concealed, and she passed
from fussing over Uncle Tom
to gentle criticisms, and then to
noting habits that would have
to change after they were
married.
Uncle Tom didn’t seem to
mind a great deal, but some of
his joviality faded and shadows
of doubts flickered across his
face from time to time —as
though he were surprised to be
caught in such a familiar old
trap, but too tired and old to
try to escape. At other times,
when he was dozing in front
of the fire or in a deck-chair on
the front lawn, he would start
from his sleep as though from
a nightmare.
To his credit, he went through
with it. They were married late
one afternoon and returned
home for a “small reception”—
it had been arranged by Aunt
Madge that they would go on
living with us so that Mother
would not be left on her own to
“look after that big house.”
There were a lot of people there,
and a lot of food was provided
by Mother and a lot of beer and
wine provided by my father. I
was excluded early in the even-
ing and sent to bed.
When I awoke it seemed late,
and the noise of the party had
finished, but the silence was in-
tensified by low urgent voices
and quick footsteps.
I was not admitted to the
events of that late evening, and
I’ve never been completely
aware of what happened, except
that the excitement apparently
proved too much for poor old
Uncle Tom, so that his heart
gave out on him. But I do re-
member that the long, lonely
wail of the ambulance as it
rushed away into the darkness
reminded me vividly of the rend-
ing cries of that other Uncle
Tom of ten years earlier.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOTS
OSUIJIVAN. V
v pm jo *
r> c ,„' i
“»S BRw
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTTF*
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKBUL,” BRISBANE
06
SloPvou»Riipture
Worries!
* ♦ v '. ■
lprahcn
IqfVQUR ffUPTtmt.
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Public Notice.
WOULD the wife or children of the
late ALBERT CHARLES PARROTT, for-
merly of Cambridge, New Zealand, or
anyone knowing their whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Cambridge, New Zealand?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS BERNARD JONES late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Shearer Co-Respondent.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD GEORGE PICKETT has
filed a Petition No. 8565 of 1949 praying
for a divorce from JOYCE MARY
PICKETT on the grounds of her adultery
with you If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court of New South
Wales King Street Sydney New South
Wales by the 20th December 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ALLEN AND
LAURENCE, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney, Peti-
tioner’s Solicitors.—J. DOUG H A N,
Registrar.
Two lutiuls
Some sign their work with
11
*
m
m
•
i
m
Z
i
The work of a good craftsman bears the stamp of his thoroughness—it carries
his imprint as clearly as though it were signed with his name. The craftsman
who “signs his work with two hands” is a proud man.
But his pride is not bom of vanity. It is born of self-respect. Particularly
when the things he is producing are of lasting benefit to Australia.
As Australians we are concerned with self-respect. It is a trait we’ve
inherited from our pioneer stock.
It has helped us accomplish in a century and a half what no other nation
has accomplished in that time.
The Australian naturally, instinctively, does a job not only as well as he
knows how, but in a spirit of self-respect which makes him strive to do it a
bit better than the next man.
More than ever in its history Australia needs men who, having done a job,
are proud to say “I did it I” More than ever Australia needs men prepared
to do first the things that really matter.
Men are needed in our armed forces. Men are needed in our workshops.
Men are needed on the land. Men are needed on vast national developmental
projects. No matter what their skill or training, these men will play their
part to make Australia strong.
What we do over the next few years will
determine the fate and future of Australia
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia,
DRie.l 13.100
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Communism Is
Treason by J. T. Lang.—4943.
Clerk, Sydney, male, wants clerical
work, Monday to Thursday even-
ings, able to type, simple accounts,
indexing, correspondence. —4942.
Widow, Sydney, two adult children,
wants to rent flat or cottage, city or
near-city waterside suburb, moderate
rental. —4941.
Lecturer, Sydney, Australian literary
topics, seeks evening engagements
with literary societies, city and
suburbs.—4940.
To buy The Glugs of Gosh,
Doreen, Backblock Ballads and Rose
of Spadger’s Lane —all- by C. J.
Dennis.—4939.
Words of “The Drover’s Lament”
by Francis Humphrey Brown. —4938.
Information Sought.
Hints on planting young trees re-
ceived from a nursery?
Before and during planting keep
the roots covered and moist. Avoid
planting on windy or hot days and
in dry soil. Prune damaged or
broken roots. Place plant in the
centre of the pit, spreading the roots
evenly and naturally. In the case of
balled stock, do not disturb the ball
of earth except to remove the
drainage material and to see that the
tap-root is straight. In the case of
tubed stock the tube, if made of
plywood, need not be removed. Metal
tubes must be removed, taking care
not to break the cylinder of earth
enclosing the roots. Fill in good top-
soil around the plant roots; reject
roots, grass and stones. Firm the
soil with.the foot, but avoid damag-
ing the roots. After firming, the
plant should be upright in the centre
of the pit and at the same depth
as in the nursery, or iin. deeper.
In windy or wet situations plants
should be staked. Place the stake in
position before planting. If possible,
give newly-planted trees a thorough
watering. Manuring at planting-time
is not necessary on most sites.
* * * *
Some particulars about the Irish
terrier, and what points should be
looked for when buying one of the
breed ?
It is a rather large dog, varying
in weight from 17 to 251 b., with a
hard, rough and wiry coat, without
any tendency to curl. Its usual color
is a bright reddish-brown, but varies
through different shades of brown.
Its head should be long and rather
narrow; the ears small, filbert-shaped
and lying close to the head; the eyes
small and hazel, and the nose black;
the forelegs straight and strong, with
round, thick feet; chest narrow, with
deep brisket, and back straight and
strong; the tail, if not cut, should
curve. The Irish terrier is quite a
modern breed, dating from about
1870; it is much valued for its affec-
tion and pluck and its enthusiasm for
chasing anything and everything.
* * * *
Origin and meaning of the term
“the devil’s advocate” ?
Advocatus Diaboli (the devil’s
advocate) was the name of one
appointed in the Roman Catholic
Church to set forth possible objec-
tions to any person whom it is pro-
posed to canonise, i.e., admit to the
calendar of the saints. Opposing the
devil’s advocate was God’s advocate
( Advocatus Dei). As the objections
were generally not valid, and only
made as a matter of form, the term
has come to be applied generally to
any person who knowingly puts for-
ward arguments with which he him-
self is in disagreement.
* * * ♦
Details about an old-time instru-
ment of punishment known as
branks?
Branks, or a scolding-bridle, was
an instrument consisting of an iron
hoop with hinges at the side and
fashioned to enclose the head. An
arrangement in front rendered speech
impossible; in some cases a knife
was used, so that the slightest move-
ment caused great pain. Any woman
guilty of a petty breach of the peace
was formerly marched through the
streets by the beadle, with the branks
upon her head, making herself a
subject for the insults and jeers of
the populace.
* * * *
Some details about the Nonesuch
Press, London?
In 1923 Francis and Vera Meynell
and David Garnett started the None-
such Press, and the edition of the
Love Poems of John Donne proved
the herald of far-reaching changes
both in publishing technique and
typographic style. The objects of
the new press were defined in its first
prospectus as follows: “To choose
and make books according to a triple
ideal; significance of subject, beauty
of format and moderation of price.”
The Nonesuch Press by 1949 had
produced some 80 limited editions
and 37 unlimited. Perhaps the most
outstanding limited editions are the
seven-volumes edition of Shakspeare
and the 23-volume edition of Dickens,
for in these great works especially
Sir Francis Meynell displays his skill
both as a typographer and designer.
Brief Answers.
H.C.McD.: Wordsworth by George
Mallaby, and Tribute to Wordsworth
edited by Muriel Spark and Derek
Stanford HJ.: Snowy River Gold
Dredging, Ltd., Mutual Life Cham-
bers, 44 Grenfell-street, Adelaide....
W.R.M.: (1) The Canadian currency
unit is the Canadian dollar, equal to
about 95 U.S. cents. About three
Canadian dollars at present are equal
to the pound sterling. A sum in
Canadian dollars equal to £2OOO
sterling transferred to Australia would
be worth approximately £2500. (2)
£IOO in an Australian bank would
still be £IOO Australian if our cur-
rency were brought to parity with
sterling, but its buying-power in rela-
tion to some goods would be greater.
W.C.: Value of production of
Australian manufacturing industries
for year 1947-48 was £489,296,648.
....H.H.W.: Wiluna Mining Cor-
poration, Brookman Building, Gren-
fell-street, Adelaide. Western Mining
Corporation, 360 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. . . .F.W.: Dry pigments may
be mixed with either of the following
mediums: (1) Petrifying liquid (a
solution of casein and water), (2)
gold-size and turpentine or petrol,
and (3) casein emulsion (a kind of
tempera medium). All are water-
proof, though some pigments, espe-
cially certain reds, may bleed slightly.
The first is generally most practical,
and is sold commercially T.McK.:
Third-class carriages, in addition to
first- and second-class, were attached
to trains operating from Sydney from
the opening of the N.S.W. railways
in September, 1855, until June, 1863.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
D.A.C.: It’s dead stuff. Might
have been written by a serious school-
boy with a bulging brow and spec-
tacles W.S.A.: Creditable as a
first effort, but well below print-level.
K.J.: A lot of words, but it
doesn’t make its point R.D.T.:
You call it “Recalled in Tranquillity”
—to us it sounds more like the effect
produced by an attack of bulldog-
ants... .E.F.: With the glorious
audacity of inexperience you picked
a difficult subject to write about and
hashed it G.C.H.: A poor little
thing with nothing to say W.S.:
You must learn to write. A story
and a telegram require different styles.
•...Bellerive: It earns its place:
... .P. 8.: That white-feather business
is worked out H.O’G.: Get some-
thing new to write about, avoid worn
phrases, and then try us again
W.J.C.: We read “A Moonlight
Night” in spite of the bad hand-
writing, and it wasn’t worth the effort.
H.J.M.: Why don’t you find out
the meanings of words you use? Also,
there’s an advantage in having an
idea or two to start with 8.W.P.:
No market for that brand of humor
here F.G.: When your heroine
is not shedding tears she is laughing
uproariously. Doesn’t she ever relax?
M.T.: You contrived to make it
very dull R.F.K.: You might give
us room to jab a pen between the
lines M.0’8.: Your rooster can’t
crow here 8.P.: When did you
ever see anything like that in this
paper? A.J.: Get some ink, write
on one side of the paper, use a little
punctuation and collect some ideas.
J.L.W.: The idea is ancient and
the handling only fair M.J.T.:
Where did you find that sort of
winter in Australia? Old Bill:
William, you have Buckley’s chance
of getting a cheque from us for that
style of writing 8.D.G.: Material
for a yarn, but you haven’t woven
it R.M.H.: Not within cooee of
acceptance C.C.T.: Don’t doubt
you wrote them “from imagination
alone” E.S.: People who send in
copy written in pencil on sheets as
big as a blanket don’t want a hearing.
O.L.: Ghost-yarn can’t make a
whisker creep T.R.F.: Afraid you
won’t bloom this spring. But don’t
despair—there’ll probably be another.
...'.N.C.: Sorry, but the lumps and
bumps are too plentiful.,. .H.F.H.:
Nothing in the parody; and parodies
have to be something worth going a
mile or two to hear R.C.T.; That
island built for two would be better
under a crop of potatoes E.H.G.:
Wooden-legged verse with the rhymes
about 20ft. apart T.C.D.: You
don’t get any color or life into it....
I.McK.: Sounds like obituary verse
from a morning paper.. . .5.8. D.:
Read the paper and see what we
print. Then send us better. We’re
hungry for it A.R.V.: Keep on,
if that’s how you feel about it; but
you’ve a long way to travel... .M.S.:
All those words to say that a man
didn’t like drinking with the flies and
shouted for the bloke who pinched
his girl W.E.8.: You don’t “sally
gaily forth” in this paper, but there
are others who might accommodate
you T.W.C.: You can’t employ
words in that mad fashion, unless
you desire to be spoken to sharply.
M.A.T.; It’s an old idea in poor
verse and Irish dialect....B.C.H.:
Obvious things in well-worn phrases.
Of tremendous strength
And formidable foe
Is the ourang-outang
Of Borneo.
In the forests it
Climbs big trees;
Capers and swings with
The greatest of ease.
Merciless, crafty and
A formidable foe
Is the ourang-outang
Of Borneo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4JcL per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Ambon
Official Australian comment on the
fighting at Ambon is conspicuously
absent, but it is to the credit of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross that that body is
actively seeking permission to forward
medical supplies to the besieged Ambon-
ese.
It is incredible that U.N. should ignore
the complete blockading, naval bombard-
ment and military oppression of a
cultured, freedom-loving people like the
Ambonese by a minority section of ex-
tremist Javanese whose only claim to
fame, or rather infamy, is the fact that
their leaders fraternised with the Japanese,
massacred Europeans interned by the
Japs, broke an agreement with the Dutch,
and latterly have been co-operating with
an Indonesian organisation which takes its
orders from Moscow.
U.N.’s apparent complacence cannot be
excused by its preoccupation with Korea,
nor does the official Australian silence
square with our belligerent protests
against the Indonesian proposals to in-
clude Dutch New Guinea in the Indo-
nesian Republic. D.N.G. would be un-
tenable, in the military sense, against a
hostile Power based on Ambon and the
Kai Islands. Darwin could also be
threatened again.
Perhaps Mr. Spender doesn’t know that
a very large proportion of the Javanese
people favor agreement with the Dutch.
They like the Dutch and acknowledge
their past friendship. The militant
minority and the republican army is
largely composed of the types who, in
ancient times, formed the roving bands
of armed bandits who lived on the loot
extracted from unwary villagers. Javanese
youth has always been attracted to these
bands by the glamor and romance of
banditry.
These gangs of bandits were in existence
right up to the Japanese occupation.
The Dutch maintained special police units
to keep them in check.
During the war the Japanese, by
romantic propaganda and special induce-
ments, enlisted and armed these types.
On V.P.-day, Soekarno took over the
leadership of this ready-made mercenary
army, and, with its aid, imposed his will
on the people and the Dutch. “Merdeka”
(Freedom), the Republican rallying-cry,
appealed strongly to these types because
it meant freedom from the Dutch police.
The Linggadjati Agreement was broken
by Soekarno because his bandit leaders
would not consent to co-operation with
the Dutch —they wanted “Merdeka” at
once.
A Dutch psychologist (Prof. Dr, P. M.
Van Wulfften Palthe) defines these
bandits as “a group formation of a
magical-mystic nature around a leader;
a number of persons, resident in a certain
district, who periodically go in for
rampok. In Western terminology rampok
might be described as robbery by a
number of persons in combination, com-
mitted with violence or under threat of
violence. The band is thus local in
origin whilst its activities are widespread.”
It seems that, in Ambon, Soekarno is
practising rampok on an international
scale. Meanwhile U.N. is proud of its
success in Korea, and Mr. Truman an-
nounces that the U.S.A. will oppose
aggression wherever it might be. Well,
it is at Ambon, now. — Wilken (N.S.W-).
The Atom-bomb
Whether or not the dropping of the
atomic bomb on Japan saved a million or
so American and British lives can be
debated from now until doomsday, but
it would take a stronger argument than
“Castlereagh’s” (B, 2/8/’5O) to convince
me that the Allies, instead of using the
bomb, should have foot-slogged their
way into Nippon according to the book —
or that thousands of our p.-0.-w. should
have had to sweat out at the least six
months more of frightful imprisonment.
Japan was certainly beaten to her
knees but she was a tenacious enemy
and by no means wide open to an attack
by land forces. In a fight to the finish,
without the use of the atomic bomb, her
civilian casualties would have been
enormous. History shows that internecine
warfare held no respect for civilians. In
modern aerial warfare, with the proximity
of civilians to industrial targets, the
hazard is even greater. As completely as
Hiroshima was devastated, I can imagine
how Japan’s other cities would have been
flattened by h.e. before an invasion.
“C.” is hypercritical in his reasoning
of war criminality. Surely the aggressor
had first to be defeated and punished.
Before denouncing America as a war-
criminal for using the bomb “C.” should
consider the remarks of U.S. Secretary
of State Acheson (B. 9/8/’50): “The real
crime against humanity is aggression, and,
in particular, the deliberate resort to
armed aggression in defiance of the United
Nations. The war criminals are the
people who sanction such action. The
weapons used are quite incidental to the
crime.”— Doe Fashe (N.S.W.).
Australian Wines
I am neither vintner nor viticulturist,
simply one of a long line of wine-
drinkers and lovers of good wine, who
has been blessed, or cursed, with a
fastidious and selective palate.
Nowhere do we see it stated that our
wines are as good as any. The implica-
tion is there, but the statement is not, nor
are the wines. If they were nearly as
good as any the statement would have
been made, but, in point of fact,, they
“I said put your HANDS up!”
are, with some exceptions, markedly
inferior to many.
Generally speaking the red wines have
been blended into two undistinguished
and not easily distinguishable groups—
a claret group and a burgundy group.
There has been plenty of time in which
to provide vintage wines, but if it has
been done the products are not readily
available to the public. There is cer-
tainly one, and perhaps one other, very
good white wine, but to get any is not
easy. There is plenty of “plonk” and
much third-grade port, but to meet with
anything fit to keep is very rare. The
same applies to sherry. Some of the
hocks are unpleasantly dry; as for
the champagnes, with some exceptions,
there is no excuse for use of this name
on the labels.
Our principal aim should be to develop
overseas markets for Australian wines,
and the only sound approach is to manu-
facture wines at least up to the standard
to which those markets have been
accustomed and to sell them at a com-
petitive price. There must be no more
export of inferior stuff such as took place
after the 1914-18 war and did untold
harm. A different yardstick must be used
for each main market.
For the U.K. the standard must be
comparable with that of the wines of the
west of Europe. With the home-trade
it will take at least half a century to turn
Australian beer-drinkers—and mostly
very good beer, too —into wine-bibbers,
and longer still unless more of the better
and less of the worse wines are made
available. Scandinavia and the Nether-
lands take, or took, a good deal of high-
class wine. When things settle down, if
there is anything left to settle except
dust, the Chinese are in the habit of tak-
ing St. Paul’s advice. Before the last war
a friend of mine sold £A 150,000 of Aus-
' tralian brandy a year in Malaya, 95 per
cent, of it to Chinese.
When we get rid of the idea that we
habitually make the best wine for all
markets, and determine to do so if
possible, we will be getting somewhere.
As regards the actual making of wine
there cannot be any secrets left, but we
should hold a highly technical and exact
survey of the climate and soil of our con-
tinent in order to discover what it —not
the vintner —is capable of producing, in
quality and kind and amount. If the
right type of vine is planted in the right
soil under the right climatic conditions,
we should be able to make the right
quality of wine. Certainly we can’t do
so unless all these factors are present.
Two teams of experts, armed with the
mass of statistics which must have
accumulated by now, should be able to
cover the possible winegrowing districts
in, say, five years, which leaves plenty
of time for a control board to adjust the
sights.
Bottles must be properly capped,
corked and labelled, and the whole pack-
age should have a “quality” appearance.
Control is always a difficult question, but
in this case it seems necessary until such
time as the damage done by lack of it has
been neutralised. A board should be set up
with powers to appoint the survey teams
and act on their reports, to control
strictly the labelling of all wines, follow-
ing the overseas nomenclatures and re-
quiring the wines so labelled to attain a
certain quality.' All labels should bear
“Produce of Australia.”
The stricter the control to start with
the sooner it could be lifted, and it is
possible that the trade would come to see
the advantages of a permanent “Board of
Classifiers.”— ln Vino Veritas (Tas.).
Pubs and Property
N. S. Wales Premier McGirr did not
mention any provision in his Budget to
pay just prices for property acquired. An
amendment in 1948 provided an increase
of 15 per cent, over 1942 values to owners
of properties who voluntarily agreed to
resumptions for soldier-settlement. Two
court cases proved that legislation to be
watertight.
In recent months several properties
have changed hands at twice their 1942
values. The McGirrs are thus acquiring
land on the basis of half-payment, half-
confiscation —or 65 per cent, payment,
35 per cent, confiscation.
Landholders’ organisations have all
along agreed that ex-servicemen should
be placed on their settlements on terms
that would enable them to succeed. But
they rightly claim that the cost of doing
this should be borne by all taxpayers.
The “Labor” Government’s Brewery Bill
made provision for a just price to be paid
for any pub acquired by a Governmental
authority. The N. S. Wales Government
seems to have one law for the pubs and
another for primary producers. — Graz
(N.S.W.).
Steam-cars
As an old motorist —my licence-number
is probably the lowest in N. S. Wales
today—l am surprised that there has not
been greater development in the use of
steam as a means of propulsion.
I drove both White and Stanley steam-
cars about 40 years ago when petrol-
motors were crude and unreliable con-
traptions. I was amazed at the efficiency
and simplicity of the steamer compared
with the motor-car of those days. The
chief obstacle to the use of steam was
the time required heating up and starting,
and the difficulty in keeping the heating
appliance alight.
Once on the move the steamer was a
delight to drive —no gear-changing, no
rushing the hills, no vibration in the
motor and no undue wear on tyres.
There was a steady, smooth, continuous
flow of power. Hills offered little re-
sistance, and the car was always under
complete control when pulling or brak-
ing.
Many years ago in the English “Auto-
car” a controversy raged for several
months on steam v. petrol. It appeared
to me that steam had it all over petrol.
In the steamer there were fewer moving
parts, fewer complications, easier driving,
greater safety and total lack of vibration
and laboring or pinking on hills.
The drive was extremely flexible and
simple. You merely opened or closed the
throttle and a reverse movement gave
smooth cushioned braking. Fuel costs
were negligible—about one quart of
kerosene per 100 miles. If intensive
research —comparable with that given to
improvement of the petrol-motor—had
been accorded the steamer it would most
certainly be today a keen competitor in
the transport field both in passenger cars
and heavy haulage.— Ajax (N.S.W.).
Punctuation
One of the indications of approaching
old age is a sort of mental breathlessness
experienced when reading long sentences
sprinkled with punctuation-marks which
jolt hardening arteries. The opening
paragraph of B. 6/9/’5O (Red Page), for
instance, consisted of a single sentence of
87 words with 16 assorted punctuation-
marks. Fifty words were interpolated in
the sentence between dashes ; one of the
dashes followed the enclosing mark of a
parenthesis which surely was something
of a parenthetical occlusion.
I know that the punctilious employment
of the right punctuation-marks in the
right places is held as evidence of a high
literary style, but when reading by this
modern candlelight one has to pause to
peer at them anyway.
Newspaper-manager Sir Andrew Caird
told me over 30 years ago about his
reporters on the London “Daily Mail”
who could write stories using only periods
and no commas. That helped publisher
Lord Northcliffe to produce a paper which
could be read quickly and easily by
mothers of eight children. It also helped
big, bluff, dour Sir Andrew to save
money on outside contributors’ lineage
bills, to keep down type and printing
costs, save wear and tear on office type-
writers and carbons and also encourage
what he called a flowing style.
About the same time I met a shrewd
Foreign Correspondent who nightly wrote
a cable dispatch of about 500 words
without using even periods—the trans-
mission of punctuation-marks in those
days cost that correspondent three-bob
a nob. His cabled story of a sea rescue
ran something like this;
FIFTYISH LIFELINED LONDON MATE
JERRY BANKS HEIGHT MIDATLANTIC
NINETY MILER YESTERNIGHT
COURAGEOUSLY OVERHUNG
EASTBOUND VENTURAS TENTHOUSAND
TONS PLUNGING WAVESWEPT
FORWARD PORT WELLDECK UPHAULED
LEGWISE DROWNING OVERWASHED
DECKHAND NINETEENER NEUTRALBAY
SYDNEYITE COLIN SMITHERS
PASSENGERS THRILLED WHIPROUNDED
PRESENTED MONKEY EXHAUSTED
MATE.
—W. F. Leysmith (N.S.W.),
Rome
One statement in that admirable leader
“Korea and Realities” (B. 12/7/’5O) was
rather wide of the mark —the reference
to invading hordes from Asia putting out
the lights of Rome and setting the world’s
civilisation back a thousand years. Pre-
sumably it referred to the Hun invasion
under Attila. Those barbarians caused a
good deal of damage in the Roman
Empire, but they did not destroy it.
Alaric the Goth sacked Rome, but he
wasn’t an invading Asiatic; he was the
commander of an auxiliary corps in the
Roman service. Neither he nor other
sackers of Rome, such as the Vandals,
can be said to have brought about the
eclipse of the Roman Empire. It was the
western portion alone that disintegrated.
The East Roman, or Byzantine, Empire,
with its capital at Constantinople, con-
tinued until the end of the Middle Ages,
maintaining a high level of culture, and
for centuries repelling every threat from
Asia. Thus it won time for the new
Christian communities that grew up m
this period in Western Europe to gain in
strength and civilisation. In the later
Middle Ages it declined in strength, for
various reasons, until its last remnant
was destroyed by the Turks the counter-
part then of Russia today--with their
capture of Constantinople in 1453.
That historic event, however, had no
adverse effect on European civilisation.
On the contrary eminent scholars from
Constantinople fled to Western Europe
and helped to stimulate the great cul^ r j“
movement known as the Renaissance.
Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).


when done from the top of a long pole
attached to a cycle with only one wheel.
Mr. Toni Smaha, direct from Bertram
Mills’s circus, London, presented an
equine ballet with eight Australian-bred
Arab horses which evoked more heartfelt
applause than a straight run by a Cup-
winner. There was another delightful
horse-act by Mademoiselle Inga and a
fresh feast of lovely horseflesh and horse-
manship by Miss Peggy and her assist-
ants. .
Captain F. W. Schultz dared death in a
cage with five ferocious lions. Contrary
to tradition, the clowns, being the
Zacchini trio, were really funny. The
orthodox finale was this year in the hands
and feet of the High-Flying Beehees, who
caught and hurled one another about the
ether while blindfolded. A piquancy was
added to this act by the mistakes of a
young feminine aspirant. Her timing was
out by a thousandth of a second on a
couple of occasions, and she could have
been dashed to pieces if the net had
been forgotten.
Victorian Artists' Society.
Though the forms are varied enough
the show of the Melbourne Contem-
porary Artists at the Victorian Artists’
Society gives an effect of monotony
rather than variety. In “Coral Sea Pool ’
Clothilde Atyeo is quite unable to give
the character of objects—in this case fish
—seen through water any better than
George Bell can give the character of
objects seen through air in his “Flower
Piece” ; in fact, the two pictures are as
alike as two peas out of the same pod in
their aesthetic quality. The same could
be said of Alan Sumner’s “Low Water,
Frankston,” which in terms of subject-
matter is trees, sea and houses, but in
aesthetic terms is just paint.
Percy Watson, who has gone in for
the new shapes but has some skill as a
painter, gets nice color into “The Sisters,”
and so does Roma Thompson in her
“Aboriginal Design,” though her line is
stiffen than an abo's, Lindsay Edwards
gets some of the character of the scene
in “Polperro, Cornwall,” where his
formula isn’t too obtrusive. There is
more guts in John Courier’s view of Mel-
bourne housetops than in Geoff Jones’s
“Shunammite Woman,” who appears to
be composed of jelly.
These pictures give some variety to a
show in which this quality is mainly con-
spicuous by its absence. A bit more
could be given if Clive Stephens knocked
bits off his sculptures with a hammer, but
that would be the accidental variety of
nature, not the conscious variety of art.
TALKIES
"The Astonished Heart."
Although one hestitates to predict what
such an unpredictable old dame as
Posterity will do, it does seem probable
that she will remember Noel Coward
most kindly for his drawing-room
comedies — comedies of manners,
witty, graceful and polished observations
which place the author up the same
dramatic family-tree as Sheridan and
Congreve —and least, if at all, for his
more serious passages or for the passing
thoughts or little jokes which he
occasionally expands and polishes into
plays.
The trouble with this current evidence,
inspected in film form at Sydney Prince
Edward, is that one cannot be sure
whether Coward is indulging in a slightly
serious passing thought or having a little
joke. Possibly he was not sure about
it himself when he wrote it. His
main character is a psychiatrist, a
brilliant, hardworking man with a wife
and two assistants devoted to him and
with himself and most of his relation-
ships as thoroughly examined and neatly
tabulated as the histories of his patients
—mainly, it appears, men and women
with unhappy marriages or tangled love-
affairs which he patiently and dexter-
ously helps them unravel.
Mr. Coward’s little joke begins with the
appearance of his wife’s schooldays
friend, a lovely slinky creature as baited
and as obvious as a bear-trap, and it de-
velops with pleasant irony as the
psychiatrist, with a good deal of confident
self-analysis, calmly puts his foot into the
jaws. The comedy is still sure enough as
he finds, once the trap closes, that all his
education and experience cannot solve the
situation for him ; but as he falls into all
the same tearing fears and jealousies
and remorse that afflict his patients, and
finds that he is as helpless as they are and
finally forces a solution to the problem by
jumping from the top of a building, there
is a disturbing note of seriousness about
the piece.
Admittedly such things might happen,
and might happen in that particular way.
It’s not that the events depicted seem in-
consistent or otherwise ; it is rather that
the manner of narrating them is incon-
sistent—the starting of a story in a light
and slightly incredible tone and suddenly
lapsing from that into passionate serious-
ness. The result is the mildly irritating
feeling of not knowing whether Mr.
Coward’s polished irony is overloaded by
the weight of his subject, or whether the
subject loses a measure of conviction be-
cause of the author’s initial inability or
unwillingness to refrain from making a
joke of it.
A good deal of careful acting has gone
into the film. Everyone, of course, is
frightfully calm in the best Coward tradi-
tion, and mild, rigidly controlled surprise
rather than astonishment is the keynote
for the behavior of most of the partici-
pants in the drama. Coward himself plays
the psychiatrist, at first with dry, close-
clipped wit, and finally with apparently
unrestrained emotion and even a touch of
Bogart-like toughness when he starts
throwing his lady-love around. The in-
evitable dressing-gown finds its place
somewhere in the piece, and the actor’s
first appearance is given such a shame-
less and tremendous anticipatory build-
up that one can almost hear the strains
of a brass-band when he appears.
Celia Johnson, as the wife, takes the
whole business remarkably calmly even
to the extent of sending her husband off
for a three-months trip with the other
woman in the hope that he will get over
her —how nice it would be if, whenever
one looked sideways at a blonde, an
understanding wife said: “Take her up
the mountains for a fortnight to get over
it.” Still, Miss Johnson is an excellent
actress and one almost gets round to be-
lieving her.
The most consistent and credible
"Now! While he's smiling!"
character in the film is the other woman,
played by Margaret Leighton, Mr.
Coward and Miss Leighton between them
make the lady’s idle philanderings seem
very credible —much more so than the
effects of them on other people.
"The Angel with a Trumpet,"
Towards the end of this film of rather
mixed qualities (Sydney Embassy) the
woman portrayed by Eileen Herlie re-
marks rather sadly that everyone should
be entitled to all the happiness they can
get out of life. Such sentiments, however
trite, are undoubtedly commendable, but
the obvious inference in the words is that
she had been deprived of happiness.
Women! The one in question comes
into the story away back around the be-
ginning of this century. She is a beauti-
ful creature on the verge of terminating
what appears to have been a most
pleasant affair with the Crown Prince
Rudolph, whom she relinquishes in the
interests of a secure and respectable
marriage to the head of a prosperous
family of piano-makers. She bears him
three fine children and lives in compara-
tive luxury waited on hand and foot, she
breaks out again to spend a week of gay,
if innocuous, evenings with a handsome
baron, whom her husband shoots to re-
store his family’s honor, while forgiving
and forgetting his wife’s indiscretion
and so forth and so on in a fruitful and
eventful life. What more could she want?
Still, even if the lady’s dissatisfaction
does seem a trifle illogical. Miss Herlie
gives a long and, at times, rather lovely
performance, and it is not altogether her
fault that the story of her family be-
comes very wearisome before it is told.
The early chapters —set in Vienna before
1914—are pleasantly entertaining and
capture the richness and grace of life in
that city, the lazy elegance of the
aristocracy and snug, comfortable pros-
perity of the business people. In the
midst of it all Miss Herlie’s Mrs. Alt
bears her children and assumes the
responsibilities of her family and the
traditions of its business until she is as
much a part of the family picture as her
kindly, devoted and slightly pompous
husband —played with distinction by
Basil Sydney.
Their world crumbles with the First
World War, and the return therefrom of
her husband almost completely paralysed,
one son sprinting well down the road to
perdition and the other anxious to marry
and re-establish his father’s business. Not
unlike a benign matriarch, Mrs. Alt pre-
sides over the remnants of her past
glories, tending her helpless husband,
kicking out her useless offspring, who
joins up with the Nazis, and aiding and
comforting the other one in his business.
She reaches an age of wrinkles and snowy
whiteness when Hitler’s stormtroopers
arrive to incarcerate her because her
father was a Jew, a fate she avoids by
jumping out of a second-story window.
At this stage one feels mildly moved,
mildly entertained and completely
satiated —the shadows of sufferings of
post-war Vienna hang a little heavily, and
the weariness of age seems to creep as
surely into the story as, it does on to the
characters—so that the narrative’s last
convulsive heaves through the 1939-45
war to an even more war-torn Vienna
and an even thinner family of piano-
makers courageously thinking about set-
ting up business again is a little more
than the senses can stand, and one
starts with relief from a somnambulistic
state to hear the comparatively lively
strains of the national anthem.
As well as the very competent perform-
ances of Miss Herlie and Basil Sydney
there is a good deal of untroubled acting
from a string of excellent supporting
players, including Norman Wooland as
the Crown Prince Rudolph, Anthony
Bushell as the baron who drops to Mr.
Alt’s pistol, John Justin and Oscar
Werner as the two sons, and Maria
Schell, a gravely beautiful young woman
who also marries into the piano busi-
ness. Bushell also directed the film, but
with much less certainty and briskness
than he plays in it.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 93
Across.
I—Check1 —Check about light color. (6)
4 —Footballer’s hat relapsed. (8)
10 — Weapon. (3)
11— Fine tubes put the headgear on
the sick sign of the zodiac. (11)
12 — Bobby does the wash. (6)
13 — Like the main ingredient of
porridge for me and Rita Hay-
worth’s husband. (5) .
15 — Duck about unrefined metal. (3)
16— Clergyman urges you not to stop
tinning. (5)
17 — Lie about hemp or suchlike. (5)
19 — If Miss Muffet had eaten these
she would have been a cannibal.
(5)
20 — Fury direction disturbed the
hearts of the Forsytes. (5)
21 — One we dread. (3)
22 — A beauty to be about a measure.
24-Se most crippled place me in
the final. (6)
26 — Hippodromes might make up a
meal for a cannibal gourmet who
likes variety. (11)
27 Cutter multiplies two vowels. (3)
28 — Dead queen with a hat and a
family of worms. (8)
29 —Ladders might make them game.
(6)
Down.
1 — Equip a European city. (4)
2 Musketeer’s belt the orchestra
and duck the unfriendly grin. (9)
3 Beauty treatments suggest women
who are pestered by wolves and
prepared to confront them. (4, 5)
5 Military offence carried in a car-
penter’s kit. (3)
6 Nut about a bear. (5)
7 These non-clerical people drop
an egg around it. (5)
8 — Found Edward with a gramo-
phone record in the position
usually occupied by his hat. (10)
9 Student workman has a pianissimo
tear on a basis for skating. (10)
13— Girl swallowed by Mr. . French
the steamer description of Brad-
man by Lord Tennyson. (10)
14 — Bird sounds like a town, consist-
ing entirely of chefs, which is
entitled to send representatives to
Parliament. (10)
17 — Mother out of jail with the
offspring member of a secret
fraternity. (9)
18 — Jack ascended this lecture by the
first Commonwealth War His-
torian. (9)
22 Rasher essayist to get a degree
with study. (5)
23 — Behold California, a train that
stops at all stations. (5)
25 —A popular queen to be a steamer.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 92.


■
■
: ; . •■■ ■1
: .. . - ' , - •"- ' ■■- ,„ -
•;■':■ .■■ . ■ .;;•■•=:
M'm ?
n
Sg| I
■ v .:
x:r\ !
m
■
mm
'
a
mi
m.
mm
m
-
...
K -
; s
■x
m .■>.
lm®' :
■ • ' - • ;.-■
11l
sa*
;
•v .•;.
,
BSBB
mm*
■gr ; : : j
/*■
:::
:ffiS5:SS®
wg
# !
mm
m
®«sPs#
' ... ■;
iS?s
: :.\H
'
■ V •■•
A s ... % ' 'S''' S"
W •■•■;■:;■.x-.-vx.Y.
aiH
’ %$*
:w
SKSC
m. f V'
.
*1
v:vsmm
boy of
i
m
: M
■:
' &' L
LJE will carry on your name. You have brought him up with
1 affection and care, and you want him to have the best possible
start for his career ... a position in the steel industry.
That son of yours will keep his happy outlook as opportunities
open up before him ... as the industry's Staff Training Scheme
fits him for promotion,
Australia's ever-developing steel industry has big plans for the
future,- plans in which your boy can take a successful and secure
part. Give him this chance.
Call, write or phone The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. now
at any of the offices or works at Melbourne, Newcastle, Whyalla,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane. The B.H.P. Company’s local
Manager will be glad to help your boy plan a steel industry career.
