

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3693
Wednesday, November 22, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.,
Jeppelts
'T’HE beautiful Georgian city of Bath.
* lying beside the River Avon and
surrounded by the Mendip and Cotsvvold
hills, has been a spa for nearly two
thousand years, and traces its origin back
to the ninth century, 8.C., when Prince
Bladud built the first bathing establish-
ment in Britain.
The possession of the only natural hot
springs in the British Isles, which have
been used from earliest times for the
relief of rheumatism and kindred
diseases, was the most important factor
in the history of the city. The Romans
appreciated the curative properties of the
hot springs, and in a.d. 54 built the city
of Aquae Sulis and established an
elaborate system of baths, the remains
of which form the finest group of Roman
remains in Britain. Chief among these
is the Great Roman Bath, illustrated
here, which is a rectangular tank 111 ft.
by 68ft, originally lined with quarter-
inch lead sheets and surrounded by
dressing rooms from which steps lead to
the water.
The Romans stayed in Bath for over
five hundred years, and the city was then
taken over by the Saxons in 577.
Christianity came to Saxon Bath about
the middle of the seventh century, and
the first church was built on the site of
the present Abbey, the tower of which is
visible in the background of this illustra-
tion. In 1499 Bishop Oliver King rebuilt
the Abbey, inspired by his dream of
angels ascending and descending a ladder
between heaven and earth ; the dream
which is commemorated in the west front
of the Abbey to this day. It was the last
pre-Reformation church to be built in
England, and it is renowned for its great
windows and the beauty of its medieval
fan-vaulting.
The great age of Bath began in 1705,
when Beau Nash was the Master of
Ceremonies in this city which had be-
come the centre of fashion. Its handsome
streets and magnificent buildings such as
the Royal Crescent, the Circus and the
Parades are the finest examples of
Georgian architecture in Britain..
Of the many links which bind Aus-
tralia to the ancient and historic city of
Bath, none is more enduring than that of
the city’s association with Admiral
Arthur Phillip (1738-1814), first Governor
of New South Wales and founder of
Australia.
BEAUTIFUL BATH, WHERE BEAU NASH RULED
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
Interest you. Just imagine them toasting yon at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
tn the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOB-
BRITAIN" scheme Introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You'll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts "Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 112211, 0.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Handvrltmq
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—-VTJT HERE AND MA IT.
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing' Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.350) Age
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN POETRY
So A. and R.’s Australian Poetry is to
be a biennial (B. 18/10/’SO), and once
again we gather at the wailing-wall to
moan the lack of public support for our
poetry —or do we?
I am one of the many who have
wondered why the unusual support given
to poetry during the war fell away with
war’s cessation. At first I accepted the
many snap judgments which pass for
answers. Then I determined to ignore the
convenient or favorite answers, and to
search for the true one.
Is it not that the whole matter of the
popularity of poetry in the war years was
involved in a peculiar set of circum-
stances, these ultimately revealing some-
thing I have always held to be true —that
there is, and always has been, a large
public for poetry, but that that public
has always been ignored by the book-
seller and the newspaper proprietor?
The set of circumstances I speak of is,
roughly:
[a) —The war, and the spurious and
genuine sentiment and emotion it evoked
from all classes;
( b ) —the exploitation of these by
newspapers and journals, which published
any workmanlike verse bearing the name
and rank of a soldier;
(cr) —the undeniable welcome given this
verse by the reading public because of (a)
and the fact that it had been starved of
verse;
id) —the not unnatural desire of both
poets and publishers to cash in on this
wave of enthusiasm, resulting in in-
numerable books of poetry, for which
there was a ready sale;
(e>—the end of the war, which more or
less coincided with the exhaustion of the
vein of private sorrow and sentiment in
which the soldier-poets had worked ;
(/) —no more poetry in our newspapers
and journals (“The public doesn’t want
it”).
Now this, of all times, was not the time
for either publishers or newspapers to
abandon poetry; the writing of poetry,
and the public demand for it, will not
burgeon only in a time of war. This was
surely the time to let the public know,
by means of every weapon in the field of
commercial attack and exploitation, that
the poets were not all killed in, or by, the
war.
Australian publishers, in my opinion,
should not only have been publishing
Australian poetry regularly in the past,
but they should also have been expanding
its production and sale at the top of their
bent. The opposite has been the case,
I’m afraid, and the doldrums have now
been reached.
If our poets are to bte known and
encouraged, something must be done
about them immediately. The urgency of
the case poses for me a number of ques-
tions, not the least of them being:
(1> —Why, when the work of a poet is
considered to be good enough to publish,
isn’t a feature made of it in at least one
bookshop window for at least one week?
(2) —Why, at Christmas and other gift-
buying times, hasn’t some astute book-
seller hit upon the idea of a poetry kiosk
or stand in a central position in his shop,
where Australian poetry may be
purchased?
(3) —Why has it, apparently, always
been assumed that the public wants only
fiction, and shies at poetry? Has any-
one ever proved this theory satisfactorily
and finally; or has anyone ever tried to
prove it false ?
(4) Why do eisteddfods throughout
the length and breadth of fhe land con-
centrate (in the main) on second-rate
imported verse for their “Art of Speech”
sections? Hasn’t anyone told them of
the far superior Australian article?
(5) —Why is it that when an art brings
only a mild or infinitesimal response from
the public its practitioners promptly sit
on their bottoms and deplore the Phili-
stine, horse-racing and prize-fight-loving
Australian public? I am not an authority
on anything, but it does seem possible to
me that a man (and I assume that the
majority of men have a soul as well as a
body) could like and enjoy both horse-
racing and poetry; that he might be
quite ready to allow Comic Court to pro-
vide the means with which to buy food
for his body, and Pegasus food for his
soul —provided he knows Pegasus is
racing.
(6) Why is there, apparently, a con-
spiracy among booksellers to regard Aus-
tralian poetry as something in file nature
of a shameful secret? In the country
town in which I have been living for the
past three years (population 16,000) there
is one, one only, bookstore. (The town,
incidentally, has a Teachers’ College, an
Agricultural College, a Technical College,
three high schools, an R.A.A.F. Technical
College and an Adult Education College.)
I have passed its window, and entered
the store, on an average of four times a
week in that period, and have never yet
seen a new volume of Australian (or any
other) poetry in its window or displayed
in the store. I have seen Australian
poetry “jobbed” and specially displayed
at sixpence a copy—and these books have
all been snapped up in a couple of days.
Such books were not remainders, but
were volumes which had been placed on
an inaccessible shelf on the day they
arrived from the publisher, and left there
until, four or five years later, they were
jobbed out because “they didn’t sell.”
(7) —Why isn’t an achievement by an
Australian poet given the same measure
of publicity as an achievement by an
Australian singer or artist? (I’ll say no-
thing of the athletes). David Campbell
recently had a volume of his verse pub-
lished in London (he has also had several
poems in “The Listener.”) Now, to me
(and possibly to David Campbell as well)
that is a considerable achievement, but
how have our newspapers, journals and
bookstores reacted to it? Silence!
Theirs is a silence which we need not,
and must not, join. There is a public for
poetry, I am sure, but it must be led by
the hand. It must be taught (as it is
taught to be somebody’s complexion all
over) not only that there are Australian
poets, but that their work may be pur-
chased in book form.
Machinery must be set up (and I have
ideas about that, too, if anyone is in-
terested) to “market” the product of Aus-
tralia’s poets. This machinery would
take care of the many people who would
buy Australian poetry if its purchase were
made easier for them than it has been
in the past, and I refer specifically to
the people under the following (not all-
inclusive) headings:—
(i) —The “I must remember to buy
that” group. They never do, for want of
the reminder the bookseller should give
them.
(ii) —The thousands of people who
don’t buy the journals (of rather limited
appeal) in which publishers’ advertise-
ments are printed. I feel sure there is
a potential public for poetry here —or
that there would be, if it were generally
known this poetry existed.
(iii) —The further thousands who need
to be caught at the crucial moment when
they are tired of fiction and biography,
and wish they knew of something other.
(iv) The —but the list is possible of
indefinite extension.
Finally, what is wrong with an “Aus-
tralian Poetry Week,” to be held
annually? No competitions, please—but
interesting lectures on, and public read-
ings of, the work of Australian poets
could supplement State- or nation-wide
displays, publicity and radio features.
Let the people know that Australia has
produced, and is still producing, poets
who, to use an apt but vulgar phrase,
“cater for all tastes.” So far, I’m afraid,
this fact has been kept a deep secret
from them.
We’ve tried repining and reviling—let’s
now see what a little constructive effort
will do. Call in the expert and the near-
expert in marketing research. Poetry has
never been the worse for making its pro-
ducer and retainer a little money. I
believe it can make them both a lot of
money, given the opportunity.
Eric Irvin.
Four Missionaries .
Straightforward and heavily docu-
mented, First Catholic Mission to the
Australian Aborigines, by Rev. Osmund
Thorpe, C.P. (Pellegrini), tells a remark-
able story and gives a frank picture of
Roman Catholicism at work in the middle
of the last century.
From the foundation of Australia
until 1803, Roman Catholics in Australia
were forbidden the Mass, and Roman
Catholic convicts were compelled to
attend Church of England services. In
1803, Father James Dixon, a convict
transported for political reasons, was
allowed to celebrate the Mass (May 15,
1803) with a chalice of tin and vestments
cut from curtains. But in 1804 Father
Dixon was blamed for a rebellion at
Toongabbie, and dismissed from his
position as chaplain ; and convicts were
again ordered to the Church of England
service on pain of the lash, or, for a
third offence, transportation to Norfolk
Island.
About 1817 (Father Thorpe has for-
gotten to put in the date) Father
Jeremiah O’Flynn arrived with a docu-
ment from the Pope appointing him Pre-
fect-Apostolic of New Holland ; Cover-
nor Macquarie told him to take the same
boat home, but Father O’Flynn managed
to miss it, and spent six months here to
some purpose ; and the publicity of his
return was largely responsible for the
authorities’ relaxation of the rules, and
the arrival of the first “acceptable”
priests. Fathers Connolly and Therry, in
1820.
Thus the Catholics had plenty of lee-
way to make up, establishing churches for
immigrants, before taking on the
aborigines. But in 1841 the Bishop of
New Holland and Van Diemen’s Land,
Bishop Folding, soon to become (to the
indignation of the “Sydney Morning
Herald”) first Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop of Sydney, went abroad, and
brought back four members of the Con-
gregation of the Passion to become
missionaries; Father Raymund Vaccari,
a Roman, aged 41 ; Father Joseph Snell,
a Swiss, aged 39 ; Father Luigi Pesciaroli,
an Italian, aged 35 ; and Father Maurice
Lencioni, also an Italian, aged 27.
Father Raymund had a high reputation
as a master of the spiritual life, and an
enthusiasm which did not foresee diffi-
culties ; Father Joseph had labored
among the few Catholics spared to Bui-
garia by the Turks and the Moham-
medan civil authorities, and was a fine
linguist; Father Luigi had been a
diocesan priest for some years, and,
though anxious to sacrifice himself, was
unstable of purpose; and Father
Maurice, big and burly, had been em-
ployed in Rome on church affairs of
“great importance and trust,” painted a
little, knew a little music, but “found it
next to impossible to learn to speak with
ease any language but his own.”
Feted in Sydney, on their arrival in
1843, with a procession to St M.ary’s
Cathedral, the foui missionaries settled,
early in June, 1843, at Dunwich, on Strad-
broke Island in Moreton Bay, which had
been selected as the scene of their labors,
because “it afforded the missionaries an
opportunity of communicating with the
blacks in their wild state untainted by the
vices which had been so extensively
planted by European intercourse.”
The missionaries made their head-
quarters in the ruins of file abandoned
convict, settlement at Dunwich, which had
t *
'L
?. f■“ rfvL? }h,. s ’
abongines divTded into three tnbes. com-
Slriif p - n 'V n ‘
nrely innocent of civilisation since there
was a pilot-station at Amity Point which
main ained seven men, and the pilot him-
self was hvmg with an aboriginal woman
and had had several children by her. The
missionaries distributed blankets and
clothes which were received ■’with the
same feelmg that any person would ex-
penence if hIS seivant brought him his
greatcoat on a cold night when he did not
expect it” ; they covered the holes in their
rnnf with hark • thpv rmt nn a email
root wim Dane , tnet put up a small
wooden chapel ornamented, With the
natives’ help, with shells. But after six
months they still had not learned the
~,, J , ,
natives’ language—not even enough to
teach the catechism. Moreover, they de-
dded that they ought as well give the
adtdts t> es t until they could win over the
children. They made long journeys with
the natives, seeking lood, and thus studied
their customs.
While they were in Sydney, Father.
Raymund had disclosed that he had been
appointed Prefect-Apostolic, i.e., leader
of thq mission. This caused no little
worry at the time, and more and more,
after the mission was established at Strad-
broke Island, the three other Fathers
wrote to Rome, to complain about
Father Raymond’s “vexatious actions and
extravagant ideas.” And in 1844, Arch-
bishop Folding’s Vicar-General in
Western Australia, Father John Brady,
went abroad, was consecrated Bishop of
Perth and, the quarrels of the Mission
Fathers having been aired at about that
time in Rome, it was decided by the
Father-General to have the four of them
sent to Perth under the new Bishop.
Father Raymund and Archbishop
Folding entered into an arrangement to
retain the mission; whereupon letters
were sent to the other three priests to go
without Father Raymund, which they did
m June, 1846, by open boat to Brisbane;
then by schooner to Sydney. Left alone,
Father Raymund continued Masses for
the few Roman Catholic aboriginal
children, and cultivated his garden ; in
April, 1847, he sought police protection
from a black called “Canary” ; in May
had his boat taken from him insolently
by the blacks, and later was found wrestl-
ing in his garden with “Canary,” who had
been stealing his melons. He decided to
abandon the mission ; rowed out to sea
in an open boat and, 50 miles down the
coast at Tweed Heads, joined a schooner
which landed him at Sydney on July 20.
Father Raymund left Sydney for Val-
paraiso at the end of 1847, but on what
ship can only be conjectured ; and for
13 years nothing was. heard of him. Then
he was found working, uncier the name of
Wilson, as gardener in the Franciscan
Friary at Lima in Peru. The story is that
he had been shipwrecked. He became a
Franciscan and died at Lima. Of _ the
other three missionaries, who for various
reasons never got to Perth, but established
themselves in Adelaide, Father Luigi
sailed for England in 1849, but soon went
back to Italy, where he died at Corneto
in 1874 ; Father Joseph was given charge
of Morphett Vale, where he became “the
first resident parish priest in South Aus-
tralia” ; Father Maurice, after he had
been living at the Bishop’s House, Ade-
laide, for 13 years) and had become very
popular, decided to go back to Europe
but, when he was ready to go, and had
visited Morphett Vale to say goodbye to
a friend, came down with pneumonia,
and died on April 6, 1864.
4 Thomas Wolfe Play.
It is a long time since Thomas Wolfe,
who died in 1938, came out with Look
Homeward, Angel and, in his mixture of
realism and poetic symbolism, looked like
becoming a new force in the American
novel. Perhaps he would still read as
well as when he first appeared ; certainly
one remembers him with respect and
affection ; but Manner house, his play now
belatedly published by Heinemann, has
more the outward appearance of force
than genuine durability.
It is a curious, symbolic play, attempt-
ing to capture in a kind of poetic image
the tragic gallantry of the South in the
American Civil War ; published now, per-
haps, because Eliot and Fry—if O’Neill
and Maxwell Anderson in America were
not, enough—have freed the stage from
realism for a more fluid kind of drama.
But even a poetic drama, or a drama of
poetic-prose such as Wolfe writes, must
have a dramatic content; that is to say,
a story; and Manner house is inferior to
such a legend of the deep South as Lillian
Heilman’s “The Little Foxes” because it
has no story.
Or, rather, because what story there
is—a house is built in the wilderness, an
old general marches out of it to fight
in the Civil War, a “poor white” com-
mercial fellow takes over, the house falls
on his head—is continually being dis-
solved in legend, smothered in poetry,
until there is no story left, only phrases,
only atmosphere. Everything is a little
overwritten, a little feverish; and sus-
pense that should arise naturally out of
the action is very often embodied in
excited stage-directions that might be
difficult to put into practice—as when the
general goes off to the war and: —
A Thin Voice (far and high, howling
with malevolent laughter ): Snap your
fingers, gentlemen!
The Negro begins to circle the room, in a
foiled search, with great strides, the dim
lantern moving high above his head from
one huge hand. Even his pace is quickened,
until at length he is circling the room like a
great hound, making baffled, snarling noises
in his throat. Bugles are sounded, far and
thin, from the road.
And yet if this negro slave, sometimes
a great hound in the stage-directions and
usually a great cat, begins to strike the
reader as faintly comical, and if on the
whole it seems that Thomas Wolfe had
an enthusiastic idea for a play rather
than the finished article, some of this
melodramatic exuberance might come
through in a skilful production and it is
by no means distressing to read; there is
a force in it which might be genius and
might only be a valiant attempt at the
manner of genius, but which remains,
nevertheless, a force —of a poetic kind,
of a humorous kind and once, when the
general returns to his ruined house and
still thinks he has slaves to command, not
knowing they have all left him on the
defeat of the South, of a dramatic kind.
The best character is Eugene, the
general’s son, a young man who likes the
“great gestures” of the Southern gentle-
men, but doubts their practical value and
even their right to survive; a witty,
cynical, dark-minded young aristocrat
obviously borrowed from the character
of Hamlet: —
Eugene: Things can never be the same
again, Major. Among other things, from
now on, the moon will rise under your
left elbow and go down in Constantinople;
all male children with red hair who are
more than two years old at the time of their
(Continued on inside back covetd


For the Friendly
Room or Lawn...
Hospitable charm indoors and outdoors is
reflected in the easy comfort and convenience
of occasional and outdoor furniture, designed
for good looks and smart practicability, here
is the furniture to make your house really look
like home!
Cocktail Bar fitted with storage space, shelves, etc.,
at back and glass at top, padded leatherette at
front may be made in colours of red or maroon.
A beautiful item of modern furniture to grace
your home, and priced at ,£57/10/-
..... .
82
IS
■■■::-
m
ji
■<
••• as
"TRUTH,
iIN ADVERTISING*
ss
Lounge Made of fine quality Cane, £7/9/6
A truly luxurious and attractive Cane Lounge.
Cushion for lounge from £3/7/6, Total price of
lounge with cushion is £lO/17/-
M
: m
i
Maple Sun Room Chair priced at £4/0/3
With swivel back, covered in laced canvas. Seat
and back are available in a wide range; of colours.
>
oraerns
Nest of Three Tables priced at £6/18/-
Strongly made Tables with Elizabethan legs.
Made of solid timber throughout. This nest of
tables comes in cedar colour.
v
Wrought Iron Sherry Table priced at £9/5/3
An attractive Table 16iin. high, 26iin. in
diameter, with iin. plate glass top. Price, £9/5/3.
1
Writing Bureau priced at £l3/6/-
Writing Bureau conveniently fitted with
pigeon holes and drawer. Ideally suited for
study, hall or lounge room. Walnut colour.
Sfc
Is-
China Cabinet Priced at £l7/3/3
Solidly constructed China Cabinet. Two plate
glass shelves, glass doors and ends. Two-tone
oak colour.
OUTDOOR FURNITURE, 4lh FLOOR. OCCASIONAL FURNITURE, 3rd FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA.


The GOLDEN PERCH
by DENIS BROSHAN
Broken only
by the occa-
sional dimple
of feeding trout,
the pool lay dark and
silent, beneath the
overhanging willows.
Traced by the line of
trees, the river twisted
through the valley,
away towards the
distant hills, now
purple and hazy in
the fading light. A
golden gauze hung
across the valley, the
warmth of the long
autumn day lay on the earth.
Faint and far away, the excited
yapping of a dog carried across
the manuka flats.
With the pop of tiny cannon,
the broom pods quivered and
burst. A brown seed sailed
across to the pool, and little
ringlets danced and died on the
smooth surface. A wide yellow
border of fallen willow leaves
floated on the edges of the pool,
like gondolas waiting for hire.
Where their little stalks stood up
like curved prows, a woodlouse
struggled to maintain his pre-
carious hold. Clawing stub-
bornly at the slippery surface, he
rolled sideways, fell to the water,
and lay on his back with his
many legs grasping frantically
at the empty air aboye. Deep
down in the pool, the great
golden perch lay sleepily beneath
his favorite ledge. His gills
pulsated lazily, and the broad
tail wove slowly in a languid arc.
A man came slowly along the
track through the stunted
manuka scrub and stood beside
the pool. He gazed intently into
the quiet waters. Obviously a
city man, it did not need the
slender cane-rod to show he was
a fisherman. His legs were
encased in clumsy rubber
waders, and a fashionable creel
hung from the shoulders of his
thick tweed jacket. A shapeless
donegal hat perched untidily on
his head, and a strand of greying
hair clung damply to his fore-
head. Around the band of the
hat, yellow, green and red fish-
ing flies hung in small tufts of
feathers; the clusters of sharp,
barbed hooks safely buried in
the soft folds of cloth. Thrust
through the creel strap, a gleam-
ing gaff with a cork impaled on
its tip hung within easy reach.
Out in the pool a trout rose to
a fluttering moth and fell back
with a faint splash. The fisher-
man knelt in the grass and began
to arrange the rod. The dying
day hung warm and still; the
rich fragrance of leaf-mould
and manuka clung heavily in the
With a soft spat, the red fly
flicked out to the centre of the
pool, then returned in a long
glide towards the bank. The
fisherman cast again, and the
little hooks beneath the feathers
rippled a silver wake by the
raft of willow leaves. Again and
again the fly spat out. searching
the wide, still waters. The fisher-
man stood knee-deep in the
pool, among the round polished
stones.
Intently he fished with skill
and purpose. The pool drew
him like a magnet, despite the
lengthening shadows. Quickly
he changed the flies on the wet
silk thread ; the cast flicked the
water and rippled across its
calm. Shining silver beetles,
cunningly conceived moths and
insects more alluring than
nature’s own, trailed their
hidden hooks across and along
the pool. But nothing rose to
the speeding lure. The fisher-
man reeled in the line and gazed
speculatively about him. The
light was fading; the willows
cast long shadows along the
pool. He climbed the bank and
searched hurriedly beneath the
matted fern. When the fisher-
man cast again, a writhing white
grub struggled weakly on the
single hook. A small lead sinker
no larger than a pea carried the
gut-cast down in wavering
circles, past the ledge in the
quiet depth.
THE big perch stnick, and the
pool boiled to life.
The reel sang, and the line
jerked through the water; in a
flurry of fear and pain the
golden perch drove to the deep
haven below. Deep down he
flashed, the taut line straining
behind him. The fisherman
stumbled on the slippery stones,
all but losing his hold on the
bending rod. The reel spun
madly, but he did not check it;
his eyes shone with excitement
as he anxiously watched the
line.
It was always like this. The
quiet cast, the calm brooding
waters and the gentle monotony
of relaxation; a time for day-
dreams and rumination; the
hush of peace and the thin drift-
ing vapor of tobacco smoke.
Then suddenly a switch is
snapped. It’s the river again:
the arching rod and the strain-
ing line, foaming water and in-
tentness. The fight is on.
With its gills heaving spas-
modically, the giant perch
checked its wild plunge, and
turned in narrow circles at the
bottom of the pool. Far above
him the waning light gleamed
dully through the water. Up on
the bank the fisherman
cautiously reeled in a foot of
line, the little brass reel clicking
loudly in the quiet. The fish
streaked for the surface, to break
from the water in a fountain of
spray. The big gleaming body
came down in an explosion that
thrashed the pool.
The fisherman reeled the line
in madly. “A perch,” he cried
aloud. “And six pounds, by
God!”
The perch raced for the
willow-roots, turned obliquely
and streaked across the pool.
The line again checked his
progress and again he leapt from
the water in a fury of rage and
bewilderment.
The fisherman’s face worked
convulsively as he fought for
his prize; he cursed the failing
light and waded deeper into the
pool. The rod bent in a quiver-
ing arch from where the line
cut across the water. The perch
dived deep, but always the re-
straining drag led away from the
smarting pain in his jaw. He
was frightened and just a little
exhausted. The reel clicked
again, and slowly the great fish
glided behind the coaxing silk
thread. He flicked his head, the
pain in his mouth throbbed to
life, and the fish became a mad
fighting thing of shining gold.
His tail thrashed the water as
he raced over the pool, senaing
the rocking willow leaves skit-
tering up the bank.
The waters were churned to
foam as he sounded and broke.
Flailing and thrashing, he
charged about the pool, and sud-
denly the hook tore free. In a
flash he dived to the ledge again
and lay motionless beneath its
shadow. The fisherman cursed
aloud, stumbled back to the
shallows and reeled in the line.
His rubber waders squelched
loudly as he brushed back
along the track through the
scrub. Soon the gloom
swallowed him, and the pool
again lay deep and silent beneath
the willows.
IN a clearing where the track
1 ran out, a cream - colored
caravan squatted behind a
travel-stained motor-car. A
striped awning stretched from
the caravan, and sagged between
two manuka props impaled
loosely in the ground. Beneath
the awning, by the white glare
of a hissing petrol lantern, a
middle-aged woman pumped in-
dustriously at a small patent
cooker. A whirling swarm of
moths blundered aimlessly in the
flood of light. The woman mut-
tered in soft irritation as she
worked. The clearing was rich
with the smell of splattering
bacon in the hot frying-pan.
A twig snapped, and the
fisherman stepped into the circle
of light. The woman ceased
pumping and looked up at the
fisherman. “You took your
time,” she complained.
The fisherman dropped his
gear in a heap by the wheel of
the car. “I had a perch, Jean,”
he apologised. “An old man,
with live bait. God, he was big ;
all of six pounds; the light was
bad and he got away.”
The woman’s face softened.
“Your supper’s ready, George.”
Beneath the light the fisher-
man and his wife sat on their
camp-stools, and the woman
listened while the man talked of
fish and flowing rivers. The
night closed in around the little
camp; droning insects buzzed
and flitted in the manuka bushes.
The stars rode out and blinked
over the sleeping valley.
Presently the man yawned
deeply and came to his feet.
“We’d best hit the hay, Jean,”
he sighed. “It’s Lake Manapouri
for us tomorrow, and the
caravan makes heavy going.”
The hissing light went out,
and the waiting shadows sprang
back across the clearing.
Before the sun was over the
hills George was striding through
the damp cock’s-foot fringing
the path leading to the farm.
The sixpence jingled musically
in the billy as he crawled
through the wire fence and
came to the small cluster of
buildings. As he steered a
nervous passage through the
waiting cows, a lean dog came
sniffing at his heels. Two little
girls in faded blue smocks ran
shyly off to the house, from
where they stared boldly from
the window, giggling excitedly
and jostling for position.
The city man leaned timidly
in the doorway of the milking-
shed, fascinated by the rich
animal smell and the incessant
gurgle of the warm milk that
foamed into the buckets. Four
cows munched contentedly in
the milking-stalls. Two were
being milked by a man and a
boy. The man was gaunt and
tall even on the milking-stool.
His thin face was half-buried in
the flank of the cow, and an old
felt hat pushed far back on his
head showed where scissors had
cut little holes in the crown for
coolness. An old necktie sup-
ported his corduroy trousers,
and his heavy boots were caked
with the dung that clung to the
floor. The shed was old and
unpainted; green moss grew on
the boards that faced towards
the weather.
The city man coughed
nervously, and the hiss of milk
in the pails abruptly ceased.
“Morning, Mr. Grebe,” he said.
“I’ll take a we’re
moving on today.”
The man on the stool raised
his head and grunted. “Pass her
over.” , ,
He tilted the bucket, and the
foaming whiteness rushed to the
rim of the billy. The heady
smell of the new milk mingled
with the odors of the shed. The
farmer dropped the sixpence
into a square tobacco-tin,
extracted a brown penny in
exchange and turned again to
his task.
His brown hands rose and feu
as the milk sang into the pail.
Clutching the brimming billy
George stood hesitantly in the
doorway. “Any eggs today?”
he inquired.
The man on the milking-stool
fixed his steady gaze on the
monogram woven to the pocket
of the city man’s blazer.
“Damn’ hens ain’t layin’,” he
growled surlily.
The farmer hated the city ; he
hated the city men with their
helpless foreign ways. He hated
their shiny motor-cars and their
fat leather wallets. Most of all,
he despised the ones who came
to fish the rivers, with their silly
slender rods and expensive
equipment. “Like kids playing
at Zane Grey,” he always
dubbed them. “Flicking them
bits of feathers in and out of
the water.”
George lingered at the door-
way of the cow-shed reluctant to
move away He sensed the faint
antagonism of the other man,
but felt compelled to stay. He
felt awkward and rather silly as
he sought for conversation.
“There’s a big perch down in
the willow pool,” he ventured.
“I had him hooked last night”
The steady brown eyes be-
neath the battered hat squinted
across at him, a gleam of interest
flickered in their depth. “A
perch, eh? That’s a good eat-
ing fish, but he beat you?”
George shifted uncomfortably
under the farmer’s steady gaze.
“The light was bad,” he replied
apologetically. “And he was a
whopper fish, all of six pounds.”
The farmer gazed past the
fisherman, through the frame of
the doorway. Down in the
valley little glimpses of the river
glinted in the morning sun.
“S’pose he took one of your little
tin flies?” he inquired.
“No, sir, I got him with a
grub; too much feed about for
flies,” the city man replied. En-
couraged, he began to talk, and
his epic swelled within him as he
spoke.
The farmer and the boy
listened with interest, while the
milk ceased foaming and lay
quiescent in the pails.
George felt much better,
almost jaunty as he crawled
again through the fence and
swung off down the track to the
camp. He whistled softly as his
shoes swished through the over-
hanging grass.
Bacfc in the cow-byre the
farmer looked over to where the
boy was milking a rangy black
cow. “We’ll blow her tonight,”
he said.
Talking softly they went on
with the milking.
An air of neglect hung about
the farmyard; thick patches of
wild blackberry crept almost to
the peeling-boards of the
house. ,
The little girls clung to the
wire-fence, gazing in silence at the
retreatingfigure going
down the hillside.
|T was late after-
-1 noon when the
farmer and the
boy came down the
winding track and
headed for the pool.
Startled rabbits
darted over the path-
way and rustled in
the undergrowth.
The couple passed
the deserted clearing
where the caravan
had stood, and took
the track that led off to the
river. The farmer earned a glass
pickle-jar with a screw-top lid,
and the jar was a quarter-filled
with little grey pellets of carbide-
The boy jogging at the man s
heels clutched a short length of
rusty plough-chain. His face was
flushed with exertion and excite-
ment.
They were seated upon the
bank beside the quiet water
before the man spoke to the
boy. “Well, there she is, Joe,”
he observed softly. “Looks
pretty good, eh?”
The boy stared eagerly at the
tranquil water. “Bet there’s trout
there, too, Dad. Come on, heave
it in,” he cried impatiently.
The farmer rose to his feet,
groped in his pocket and pro-
duced a short length of twine.
Adroitly he bound the heavy
chain about the jar. Holding
the pickle-jar by its neck he
dipped it into the pool, and the
water rushed in to the waiting
carbide, which fizzed and splut-
tered. The boy watched intently
as the brown hands quickly
screwed the lid in place, and his
gaze followed the bundle as it
curved out to the centre of the
pool. There was a loud splash
as the weighted jar bit the water,
and the sweet sickly smell of
acetylene lingered in the air.
The two figures squatted on the
bank.
Minutes crept by, while deep
in the pool the gases generating
in the pickle-jar built up
pressure. Then a muffled ex-
plosion shattered the sleepy
waters; a little storm raged over
the pool and a white froth settled
across the heaving water. The
stench of acetylene gas grew
thick and pungent, as the boy
danced excitedly at the edge of
the pool.
“We’ll have to wait a bit,”
advised the farmer. “And we
might have missed. She’s a>
pretty big pool, Joe, and we
didn’t stir her much.”
Crouching together they
watched the pool, waiting for the
fish to rise. Slowly the wide
pool regained its former calm;
the white froth drifted away to
the outlet and only a few
trembling bubbles remained.
THE boy saw the great fish
rise.
“Look,” he cried shrilly-
“ Over there by the willow
leaves! ”
The golden perch moved list-
lessly among the fallen leaves.
He lay on his side, with his white
belly showing through the dis-
colored water. In the centre of
the pool three small trout floated
dead upon the surface, their dull
brown bodies almost invisible
in the fading light. The perch
wriggled convulsively and then
lay still. A yellow willow leaf
clung to his gill, where it pro-
truded from the water.
The farmer turned to the trees
beside the pool and broke off
I a long forked sapling; then,
leaning over the pool, he guided
the dead fish into the bank.
Bearing the fish, the man and
the boy headed home through
the scrub in the gathering dusk.
Joe danced ahead, swinging the
trout from a flax-leaf thrust
through their gills. The farmer
followed silently behind, the
weight of the golden perch
heavy in the sugarb'ag.
The hush of night crept down
to the pool, a flock of twittering
starlings quarrelled softly in the
willow branches. Presently it
was quiet, except for the faint
tinkle of water where it drained
out over the worn round stones.
THE MAGPIE.
If Ke had sung a white song for every white feather
That wicked old magpie had sinned for every b ack
But clear he carolled on the gum-tree behind the shack
For it was a mad season of black-and-white weather
When sunshowers swept the mountains in dazzling waves
And shadow and shine seemed mixed in one tower of joy;
And loud he sang, then like some larrikin boy
Magpie and sunshower, splashing on the wet bright leaves,
Tobogganed down the old green tree together.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3693
Wednesday, November 22, 1950
-are tf° TEL
BUU
STOUT
red Union
ONUS-OF-PROOF
Rum
tube
CLUB
LAGER
to Bottleneck Dept
J 1 A- 1 - 9 ), ~ PLONK
V ' T
LICENSE 0
TIED HOUSE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521: ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Natharfs Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW AUSTRALIANS.
In the profound manner in which Gov-
ernment departments habitually, if not
instinctively, make such statements, Mr.
Holt’s young men of the Immigration
Department recently announced that a
“Commonwealth Jubilee Citizenship Con-
vention” would be held at Canberra in
January, 1951, and that it would “discuss
means of assisting in the assimilation of
New Australians.” Discounting the pos-
sibility of misgivings being aroused in the
minds of inquiring New Australians who,
looking up the word “assimilate” in the
wrong dictionary and finding, given as
its primary meaning, “to take up and in-
corporate, as food,” draw the horrible
conclusion that they have been brought
to this country to satisfy the cannibalistic
craving of Old Australians, it might be
better to consider the words of Mr. Holt
himself, who is reported as saying that
“the integration of the convention with
other jubilee celebrations would serve to
emphasise the magnitude of the Australian
immigration effort.”
Without waiting for the convention to
be integrated or even venturing to
visualise how the magnitude of a thing
can be emphasised by its integration with
something else. The Bulletin sees no
reason why it should not consider the
magnitude of the immigration effort now.
Assuming that by “immigration effort” is
meant the number of migrants at present
arriving in Australia, the magnitude is
certainly considerable —how considerable
is shown by comparison with the figures
for earlier periods.
In the period from the foundation of
the Commonwealth to the outbreak of
World War 11, Australia’s net gain from
migration was just under 600,000 —an
average of 14,832 a year, although the
annual intake fluctuated widely during the
40-year period. The vast majority of the
newcomers arrived in the three years
which preceded the First World War and
during the nineteen-twenties; from
1901-05 and again from 1931-35 the
country actually lost population.
When immigration was resumed after
the recent war the flow was at first small,
because of the shortage of shipping. In
1947 arrivals exceeded departures by
12,186 ; in 1948 by 48,468 ; and in 1949
by 149,270. This last figure is more than
10 times the annual average of the pre-
war years since Federation, and enables
us for the first time to talk of “magni-
tude.” It should, however, be easily
exceeded this year ; for the six months to
June 30 last there was a net gain by
migration of 83,000, which gives a rate
of 166,000 for the full year. Next year’s
target is approximately 200,000. This
means that since the end of the war new
arrivals have exceeded the present popula-
tion of Tasmania; by the end of next
year there will be more post-war New
Australians in the Commonwealth than
there are Old Australians in Westralia.
Influx of population on this scale
naturally gives rise to many problems, and
these must be faced if the newcomers are
to be absorbed and the flow maintained.
The most obvious problem is the effect
of the steady stream of migrants on the
housing shortage. In terms of homes,
200,000 immigrants a year create a need
for 40,000-50,000 extra houses over and
above normal requirements, and this sets
a colossal task to a building industry
which since the war’s end has been unable
to satisfy even those normal needs.
But to suggest, as East Sydney’s Mr.
Ward did a few weeks ago, that no
migrants should be brought here until
every Australian has a home of his own,
is merely to give a modem touch to the
creed fostered by “Labor” in the years
before the war—that immigration should
be opposed because migrants “took the
bread out of the mouths of Australian
workers.” Such catchcries symbolise a
policy of despair and a lack of faith in
the country’s ability to face and solve
problems. Except for occasional dis-
cordant voices such as Ward’s, the main
political parties are now agreed that we
need population if we are to face the
future with any degree of security. There
is also general agreement that the time to
get new citizens is now; in 10 years’ time
a more stable Europe may be reluctant to
lose its young people, and they may be
just as reluctant to leave their own lands.
The “displaced-persons” pool is, in any
case, a temporary reservoir, and it is fast
drying up ; we must accept our New Aus-
tralians now, or in many cases never.
In this matter of housing, and in other
commodity shortages, the migrants should
tend to become a solution of the problem
they create. At the end of June figures
were quoted to show the effect of immi-
gration on the production of building
materials; since 1948 migrants in that
branch of industry had produced over
90 million bricks, 101 million tiles,
230,000 tons of cement, 120,000 tons of
steel and 92 million super-feet of timber.
Translated into terms of houses, these
figures represent a tidy number of homes.
Migrants have done good work cane-
cutting and fruit-picking, though their in-
take into permanent rural work has so
far been slight. The effect of the new-
comers upon industry will become more
obvious in the next year or so as more
and more of them complete their two-
years’ engagement with the Common-
wealth and find themselves free to go
where they please. At present probably
too high a proportion is engaged on non-
productive jobs or work like the Snowy
River scheme, which will not be in pro-
duction for a very long time.
One industry into which it seems the
New Australians must be introduced if
the production lag is to be overcome is
coalmining. The suggestion always raises
howls of protest from the Miners’ Federa-
tion, which claims that the safety of the
mines and miners would be threatened if
foreigners without an adequate grasp of
the language were taken on underground.
It’s a specious argument; the Attlee Gov-
ernment employed Poles in Britain’s
nationalised coalmines without any notice-
able rise in the accident-rate, and the
language problem is no barrier to the
employment of other Poles in the mines
of Western Europe. It would be no
barrier here if the men who control the
mining unions were really concerned
about increasing output instead of holding
the community up to ransom in the
interests of a foreign Power. This is a
problem which the Federal and N.S.W.
Governments must shortly face. It
seems futile to place migrants into in-
dustries —steel is one —in which output is
kept at a level well below capacity through
shortage of coal, yet withhold them from
the very industry on which all others
depend.
To return to Mr, Holt’s young men
and the task of assimilation, it should be
pointed out that that process is the con-
cern of both New and Old Australians,
and calls for tolerance and understand-
ing on both sides. The native-born have
no right to expect —as some who write to
the newspapers seem to expect —new
arrivals to acquire a complete knowledge
of our language and customs overnight;
but they are entitled to expect them to
adopt a policy of “when in Rome do as
Rome does.”
The likelihood of New Australians
forming unassimilable little “colonies,”
wherein their own language and customs
will be perpetuated, is not great. We
have no great areas of untapped lands
likely to encourage such a growth; and,
in any case, the experience of the past is
that the children of foreign-born citizens
tend to become rapidly Australianised
whether their parents want it that way
or not. Patience on the part of Old
Australians is rather a necessary requisite.
One little point that Mr. Holt might
find worth bringing up at that Jubilee
Convention is the desirability of urging
New Australians to anglicize their names.
A complete change is not necessary, but
in many cases a shortened form, spelt
phonetically, would help make life simpler
for the New Australian as well as the
Old Australians among whom he is to live.
The Road to Sovietism.
When major political parties and leading
newspapers set out to appeal to the
crudest material self-interest of a com-
munity, and combine the appeal with
insistent class-distinction propaganda, the
effect on national morale in a decade or
two can be devastating.
Australians, in their mass behavior,
have become a vastly changed people
in a generation. Before World War
I nobody could have condemned this
country either for a lack of community
ideals or a lack of spirit. Since then the
loss in war of many of our best young
men and the interruption of civil
life by war-time regimentation, with some
other influences, have obviously influenced
the nature of the race. It is becoming
too “easygoing.” Sport, from being
its occasional recreation and distraction,
has become the obsession of a vary large
proportion of the population. The State
funeral of a renowned scientist or a great
public man hurries through the non-
chalant streets; the departure of some
jockey killed in the field is inevitably
marked by crowds of sorrowing punters
who gather open-mouthed round the
funeral-parlor as if a god had left them.
The community is riddled with s.-p.
betting, to which journals that a couple
of decades ago would have shuddered to
bolster illegality now pander openly. The
“lottery,” with all its swarms of attendant
art-unions to build Trades Halls and for
other equally strange objectives, has be-
come an institution almost as important
as the Government itself, and far more
important as a general topic than work.
In New South Wales, where going on
for half of the population lives, the liquor
laws are out of hand; the publican does
what he likes, his bars are hog-swills —
and not in the humble wharfies’ pubs,
either, but in the most fashionable and
famed hotels in the land. The publican
serves what he likes and snaps his fingers
at most of the laws which “govern” him,
particularly those which make illegal his
practice of keeping whole floors of rooms
unoccupied and dining-rooms unstaffed.
He feels cosily secure in the fact that
he is subject to the laws only of a Govern-
ment like the N.S.W. McGirr Govern-
ment. This curious Ministry last week
bolted for cover when its “majority of
one” put forward a motion on the liquor
laws calculated to embarrass it by calling
attention to the fact that it utterly ignores
the statute against tied-houses.
The Chief Secretary to the same Gov-
ernment, who was at one time president
of the Australia-Russia Society, is at
present engaged unsuccessfully in trying
to persuade the Police Commissioner —
fortunately independent of him —to prose-
cute for operating gambling-machines
a club which Mr. Abie Landa claims is
controlled by a rival political party.
Dozens of other institutions, some
frequented by “Labor” Ministers,
operate similar machines unmolested,
and the N.S.W. Government itself,
as a lottery proprietor, owns the
biggest gambling joint of the lot and reeks
of the effluvia of dog-racing and of the
lower levels of the turf.
A departed citizen of the first genera-
tion of this century returning to earth
might well ask if the noisy, beach-mad,
sport-mad, politically apathetic section of
the community is really representative of
the country he left behind.
. What is happening to a people which
permits its educational system, as in New
South Wales, to be run by a body of
teachers who tolerate a well-known Com-
munist as their president and whose
executive’s deliberations are marked by
shouts of “friend of the Fascist baby-
killers” (directed at some opponent sup-
porting the country in the Korean War)
or by face-slapping among the ladies
charged with instilling the principles of
decorum into the young?
What sort of a community is it which
allows its educational system to be earned
on in such an atmosphere? The Minister
concerned, one of whose qualifications
for the job is that he was once chief tutor
in public-speaking to the Communist
party of Australia, doesn’t seem to worry.
When the facts of the position became
clear recently there was no angry mur-
mur from parents, and the matter was
deemed scarcely worthy of mention by a
Press which was absorbed with the great
issues connected with the racing season,
with the long string of racing-scandal
inquiries which now almost permanently
monopolise the front pages of some
dailies in Sydney.
For all practical and political purposes,
public spirit seems dead to the world in
Australia, or at least the eastern parts
of it. In Queensland, once the cleanest
and most virile of States politically, it
does not seem to be a matter of moment
that Parliament has become a dictatorial
rabble elected on a basis which allows
of minority rule brought about by an
unblushing system of gerrymander de-
signed to assure “Labor” of permanent
office. In Sydney, development of large
sections of the city and surrounding
countryside have been paralysed for five
years under edicts from the so-called
Cumberland County Council, which has
immobilised the property of about 50,000
people in anticipation of the operation
of a dream scheme of great highways,
“green belts” and other amenities which
even now are estimated to cost about
£50,000,000.
Local-government elsewhere in N.S.W.
has been ruthlessly “centralised” to suit
“Labor” in spite of protests from the
areas concerned. The set-up has been
moulded to the liking of the “Labor”
political machine, and public opinion,
however incoherent, has been by-passed.
Big and influential trade-unions are
headed by Communists who help shape
“Labor” policy along lines designed to
suit a foreign Power. But this seems
to be only in, the cpursq pf nature among
a people which is giving away its right to
the individual’s share in making his own
destiny in exchange for Government
hand-outs, pensions, unhealthy leisure
and an abundance of feverish pastimes
and excitements.
The drift is in the wrong direction,
accelerated by the efforts of radio and
the bloated daily Press and still-more-
bloated flappers’ magazines, which all
pander to imprudent squandering and
queer standards.
This country needs to take a good look
at itself. Its fine British stock, healthy
and high in mental capacity, was made for
better things than to be conditioned for
regimentation as the supine and obedient
“mass” of a Socialist totalitarian State.
That is the process through which it is
being put now by its “Labor” politicians,
its Communist-ridden unions and educa-
tional systems and its sport-mad news-
papers and goofy radio-stations.
Plans and Planners.
The New South Wales State Gov-
ernment, through its Minister for Works
and Local Government, has made
another pronouncement concerning the
Cumberland County Council town-plan-
ning scheme —without telling the affected
property-owners anything they didn’t
already know, or affording them any
more assurance as to their future pros-
pects of collecting compensation for their
losses under the plan.
This plan is the outcome of one of
those outbreaks of hasty “idealism” for
which “Labor” Governments are noted.
Having set the machinery in motion, the
Government was unable to stop it before
it had “planned” Sydney, and was airily
talking in millions and millions of pounds.
The Government, in its enthusiasm, had
visualised 1948 as the zero hour when
the plan would be put into action, and
had provided in the Local Government
(Town and Country Planning) Amend-
ment Act for compensation to be paid to
dispossessed property-owners on land
values as they were in that year—they
were really 1942 values, since “pegging”
still operated.
Property-owners who inquired about
compensation for their losses soon
learned that there was nothing in kitty.
After that the N.S.W. Government
trotted its ideas before the Commonwealth
Parliament and invited Canberra (then
Chifley-ridden) to take an interest. The
State Government put up the story that
the redevelopment of Sydney is a national
matter, and as such the Commonwealth
should bear one-third of the cost —the
State Government and the affected rate-
payers alike paying a third. Mr. Chifley
turned thumbs down, and since then Mr.
McGirr has not had any better luck with
Mr. Menzies.
Being in bad with all the people who
are debarred from building on, or dis-
posing of, their land, the State Govern-
ment is endeavoring to pass the buck to
the Federal Government.
The Minister has now advised that the
Government will pay compensation for
land resumed or reserved for roads, rail-
ways or open spaces at 25 p.c. higher than
1948 values, and for that reserved for
foreshores and vantage-points at an in-
crease of 40 p.c. on 1948, Just why there
should be any difference he doesn’t state.
As a matter of plain justice, compensa-
tion should be paid on the basis of the
value of the land at the date it is re-
sumed. Land values have advanced very
much more than 25 p.c. since 1948. In
many districts where the Valuer-General
is carrying out his triennial revaluation
the new figures are at least 100 p.c. in
advance of the 1947-48 figures, and, in
some instances, 400 p.c.
There is no guarantee that the Act will
come into force so as to implement the
plan next month, or even next year—and
until it is implemented affected land can-
not be resumed, nor can the Govern-
ment legally interfere with the usage of
any land that comes within the ambit of
the plan. Control is effected through the
local authorities, who have the right to
approve or disapprove of any plans pre-
sented by property-owners. In the mean-
time owners are liable to rates and other
charges, although unable to make any
use of their property.
If the practice of the Housing Com-
mission and other Government bodies
can be taken as a precedent, some owners
will not receive any compensation for
years. The Housing Commission resump-
tions generally take several years to
reach the stage of actual compensation
of dispossessed owners, and interest on
the amount involved is fixed at 4 p.c. for
the first year and 1 p.c. for each year
thereafter. Here again it will be neces-
sary for the Government to deal more
justly and pay interest for the whole term
at a rate not less than what would be
earned by gilt-edged investments.
JINDIVICK.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Another Wanderer Returns.
After 13 weeks of travel Mr. Percy
Spender is home once more. He has a
five-point peace plan. His first point is
that “we must build up our individual and
collective strengths, since we cannot pur-
chase peace, except with present sacri-
fice.” Everybody will agree with this
except, perhaps, Mr. E. J. Ward. And
everybody will encourage Mr, Spender to
get to work doing something about it,
now that he’s home again.
Next, it appears, we “must not com-
promise with principles, nor appease or
appear to appease.” There are obviously
two Spenders—one who is compromising
with Dr. Evatt’s principles and another
who strongly disapproves of this course. In
any case, his statement seems to embody
an axiom in honest dealing which none
disputes.
Then “we must not provoke by con-
duct or words we must use our
strength wisely we can be strong
without being provocative.” A subse-
quent item is that “despite the sad
results of the last five years we must
at all times seek to find a permanent way
of living with Soviet Russia. If Russia
by her conduct, as distinct from her words,
is anxious together with other nations to
find a way of securing international peace,
then we must be prepared to explore any
genuine attempt.”
It isn’t five years but 33 during which
our experiences with Russia have been
unfortunate. And Russia is anxious to
find a way to live with us —it has never
wavered in its belief that it knows the
way to universal peace, which consists in
destroying every Power in the world ex-
cept Russia so that there will be nobody
left to fight the U.S.S.R. and its slave
nations. It is undeviating in its belief
that this is the only road to tranquillity.
And even Mr. Spender could scarcely co-
operate in that plan.
The wandering Minister’s fifth tenet is
that “though collective defence power
may gain us time to build our efforts
for peace armed force, over the
long haul, will prove insufficient. It must
be associated with economic aid for the
underpriviliged races.”
Australia is getting a little tired of
platitudes and flapdoodle. It is high time
we got down to hard facts and kept our
mouths shut, especially regarding affairs
in which other people are involved, until
we really have something to say, and
are in a position to say it effectively.
Victorian Rail Strike.
The disastrous strike which has deprived
Victoria of trains for well over a month
and South Australia for not much less
seems to be following a familiar pattern:
last Wednesday it reached the stage where
its Communist begetter, J. J. Brown, was
howled down at a mass-meeting when he
urged the continuance of the stoppage. A
motion approving continuance was de-
clared carried on the voices and the
chairman refused a division, although a
large section of the 7000 railwaymen
present demanded one. Meanwhile the
Arbitration Court had announced that it
had no power to certify the agreement
between the Victorian Railway Commis-
sioners and the A.R.U. and A.F.U.L.E.
which Conciliation Commissioner Hall
had refused to certify. Mr. Justice Foster
urged the men to “abandon their assault
on the people and return to their work
at once.” He claimed that most of the
powers of the court had been transferred
by the 1947 Act to the Conciliation Com-
missioners, and that its jurisdiction was
now limited to matters in connection with
the basic-wage, standard hours and
annual leave.
There were some brave words from
Mr. Eli Harrison, M.H.R., for Blaxland
and president of the A.F.U.L.E, Vic-
torian members of his union, he said,
“would remain on strike until the union’s
right to make agreements with employers
was recognised.” This meant very little ;
the point at issue originally—other
factors have since been dragged in—was
the Conciliation Commissioner’s refusal
to endorse an agreement which he felt
was not a real agreement at all, but one
gained by the unions under duress. A
circular bearing the name W. G. O’Toole,
chairman “Railway Strike Committee,”
speaks of Mr. Hall’s action as an
“extraordinary step” and “a foul blow”
against the unions, which filled them
“with disgust and indignation,” and made
them realise that “peaceful negotiations
were useless.” Whether the A.C.T.U.
shares the disgust and indignation is not
clear, but the latest pronouncement of
that body urges the continuation of the
strike, although Mr. Hall has reopened
ihe case from the inter-State point o]
view since the court’s declaration.
On Monday railwaymen in South Aus
tralia resumed work, many Victoria
country branches of die A.R.U. showec
that they were fed-up with the senseles
stoppage, and A.L.P. industrial group
in Melbourne arranged a mass-meetin
for Tuesday in the hope of reversing las
week’s stay-out decision. They wer
expecting to gain some support from th
announcement that strike-pay woulc
henceforth be paid only in necessitou
cases, this, in itself, being symptomati
of the lack of sympathy and support the
strikers were receiving from fellow
unionists, despite the A.C.T.U.’s endorse
ment of the strike.
A Primate of England.
Dr. Geoffrey Fisher is the first Arch
bishop of Canterbury ever to walk on
Australian soil, and few Australians
listening to the bells, to the Archbishop
himself, to broadcasts of his speeches
and sermons, or reading of his visit, couk
fail to be impressed by what his Grace
represents. Australia’s own foundation
history begins with an Anglican parson
Rev. Richard Johnson, as chaplain to
the First Fleet, and among its few
historical edifices the old churches of St
John’s at Parramatta and St. Philip’s in
Sydney are prominent.
A benevolent cleric with a ready smile,
the Archbishop is Primate of All England
and ranks next in precedence to the
Royal dukes in the British peerage. His
sense of humor is apparent in all his
informal manners, but he is not enamored
of the paternal trend in government, see-
ing therein several dangers, not the least
being the fear that the State, becoming
Socialist, might teach a philosophy and
religion of pure materialism, eventually
destroying or suppressing man’s spiritu-
ality.
He comes to us on the eve of Aus-
tralia’s celebration of 50 years of Federa-
tion, in the midst of extraordinary times
which contain much of which to be
afraid as well as much of hope. His
church has exerted its beneficial influence
on our development, it has gone into the
farthest outback with the pioneers and
into battle with our fighting men
For 1400 years the See of Canterbury
has influenced our history; now, at a
time when the materialistic gods walk the
earth and dazzle men’s eyes with their
falge glamor, Australians of all creeds
might watch this man and listen to him
and ask themselves which is gold and
which dross in our present way of life.
The British Council.
From Sir Angus Gillan, representing the
British Council;
In “Plain English” (B. 15/11/’so> you take
notice of A. P. Herbert’s visit and ask, I am
sure in a friendly spirit, why he is here and
why the British Council has sent or proposes
to send to these shores “the Oliviers and the
other mysterious emissaries.” “Perhaps,” you
say, ‘it is felt that the Empire is somehow
strengthened by these personal contacts; and
no is-” That, surely, is something,
and the British Council is glad to have a small
part m it.
“But,” you proceed, “the real problem, if a
cultural unity is to be achieved, is not to make
Australia aware of English culture but to make
England aware of Australian. That, too, may
be part of the British Council’s plans.”
I shall not argue as to whether our objective
should be a cultural unity or, as I should prefer
to put it, a mutual human understanding.
Further, I am prepared to leave it to my
Australian friends to say whether there yet
exists a sufficient awareness of “English
culture”; I have not noticed any falling-off in
the demand for such services as the British
Council is in a position (or, unfortunately, is
very often not financially in a position) to
supply.
But as regards the necessity for making
Britain better aware of Australia I could not
agree with you more. It is a doctrine which I
ihave had the temerity to preach without ceasing
ever since I arrived in Australia, but I must
hasten to add that it is not “part of the British
Council’s plans.” It is not for us to plan
what Australia ought to do, or to try to
interpret Australia to Britain; even if we had
the money and the knowledge it would be an
impertinence. That, surely, is Australia’s job
to do in her own way—but I hope it is not
an impertinence to say that it wants doing
and that it is hardly fair to blame the average
U.K. Britisher of ignorance of Australia when
so little effort is made to remove it.
I am fully aware, and would be the last to
depreciate the importance, of the work of the
official information agencies. But I suggest that
something in the way of more organised human
contact is wanted from the Australian side as
well as from the U.K. —something that cannot
be achieved by impersonal official agencies and
yet is beyond the scope of the patriotic societies.
It is this field which the British Council tries
to fill from the U.K. side, with what success
it is not for me to say. Is not something of
the same sort needed to put Australia on the
cultural map of Britain —and of the world?
(I shall spare you mention of South-east Asia,
which is in danger of becoming my King
Charles’s head.)
Why is the whole trend of scholarships from
Australia to Britain? Couldn’t you offer some
for U.K. research students to come here?
Couldn’t you bring some visitors here to see
Australia and tell Britain about it? What
about sending us a few lecturers now and then?
Why can’t we hear the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra at the Festival of Britain? (I know
the answer to that one, and It helps to prove
my point.) But I mustn’t let my pen run away.
It is a pity we have to talk about “cultural
relations”; in my humble opinion they are
just human relations. It is this getting to know
each other that really matters, and a one-way
traffic (which is all the British Council can do
about it) is not enough.
Inigo Jones.
More money is needed to keep the Inigo
Jones long-range weather-forecasting ser-
vice going. Mr. Jones himself is now 77
years of age, and it is desired to provide
a suitable understudy to carry on when
the old man goes. Additional instruments
are wanted, and it is hoped to enlarge
the accommodation at the observatory at
Crohamhurst (Q.), and obtain clerical
assistance to keep the essential records.
Crohamhurst is not a Government
observatory. It has been run by a trust
since 1942, which has provided Inigo
Jones with meagre assistance and has
helped to circulate his forecasts; but he
has never asked the trust for remunera-
tion for himself.
Money has been coming in slowly to
those running the Inigo Jones Appeal,
even from those landmen who stand to
benefit most from the weather-forecasting
service. Donations may still be sent to
the Long-range Weather Forecasting
Appeal, Box 1921, G.P.0., Sydney.
Roads and Railways.
The ironic gods must have yelled with
delight last week when the Victorian
Railways Commissioners reported to the
State Parliament that “road-transport ser-
vices to Melbourne are unnecessary and
wasteful where rail facilities exist.” These
are the gentlemen who were bluffed into
an agreement by the Communist-led Vic.
railwaymen. In the strikes which have
followed its non-ratification by Concilia-
tion Commissioner Hall, had it not been
for road transport nearly all land-carriage
of goods and people in south-east Aus-
tralia would have ceased
A summary of the commissioners’
report, as regards non-rail transport:
Huge wage- and material-cost increases
make it important to “conserve the maxi-
mum amount of traffic to the railways.”
There is “unnecessary” competition from
charter aijd tourist buses. They opposed
new air services to Benalla, Bairnsdale and
Warrnambool because “reasonable railway
facilities were already available.” Intra-
State air services should be “controlled.”
Premier McDonald, confronted with
the spectacle of idle railways in Victoria
and S.A., and grass growing 6ft. high
on Melbourne suburban tracks what time
the city’s citizens went about their busi-
ness as best they could, promptly an-
nounced, “We won’t be putting road
transport off the road. The rail strike is
proving the value of a good road-trans-
port system.” He left the air services
to the Federal Civil Aviation Department.
In Adelaide Premier Playford said road
transport had moved perishable and other
urgently-needed goods during the strike,
but 80 p.c, of goods normally handled
by rail, such as superphosphate, coal,
wheat and cement, had not been moved.
Road-carriage of goods, he added, enor-
mously increased the freight costs. To
handle the tonnage of goods carried by
rail between Adelaide and Tailem Bend
(about 60 miles) a motor-truck would
have to leave each end every three
minutes for seven days a week, blocking
the roads and smashing them up in the
process.
Examples of good work the motor-truck
can do lie in the recent carriage of West
Australian tomatoes to Melbourne and
the shipment by truck of Adelaide-made
farm machinery to W.A., both trips
across the stony Nullarbor and involving
thousands of miles. And, even when the
railways are running, it is significant that
so many people are prepared to pay higher
freights and fares to have their goods and
themselves transported by road and air.
All of which emphasises what has been
here said before. The time has come to
end this transport “war” between State
Governments, their railways-commis-
sioners and private carriers. All the pleas
and plans for greater production will get
nowhere if the goods produced cannot be
got quickly and efficiently to where they’re
needed. The views of the Victorian Rail-
ways Commissioners, which are behind the
penal taxation and hampering restrictions
on road transport, are equalled on the
other side by the refusal of road-operators
to carry anything other than highly-
profitable forms of freight. There is also
the steady destruction of the roads.
A preliminary conference between the
parties concerned would be a very good
way to celebrate the 50th year of Federa-
tion, for the transport “war” is constantly
making breaches in that keystone of
Federation, the section of the Constitution
which provides for freedom of trade,
commerce and intercourse throughout
Australia.
Pass the Wampum.
“C.S.”; For some weird reason or other
the Canberra officials responsible for the
Commonwealth jubilee celebrations have
decided that the main musical feature of
the proceedings will be Samuel Cole-
ridge-Taylor’s musical trilogy based on
Longfellow’s marathon poem “Hiawatha,”
with a Red Indian named Oshe Ke Non
Ton singing the title role.
Coleridge-Taylor was born in London,
°f African negro descent on his father’s
side. Longfellow was an American poet.
No figure comparable with “Hiawatha”
ever appeared in Australian history or
legend. No Red Indian had anything to
do with Commonwealth history. What
the deuce these people, their poems, their
music or their singing have to do with
our Commonwealth jubilee is a mystery
beyond mysteries.
But wait—a Mr. Thomas Fairbairn, of
London, is to produce this musical feast,
with a chorus of 800, a ballet of 100, a
full symphony orchestra and soloists.
This army, accompanied by the neces-
sary camp-followers in the way of stage-
hands, dressers, electricians and so forth,
is to perform in the five mainland capi-
tals for seven months. Why Hobart is to
escape hasn’t been explained.
Mr. Fairbairn is to stage this crowd in
the Melbourne Exhibition Building, where
he ran it for 13 nights in 1939 ; “else-
where he will produce it in the open air.”
Maybe he’d better consult Mr. Inigo
Jones about that.
All that aside, the question is why
Hiawatha”? About the only connec-
tion America has with the jubilee is that
our Constitution is partly based on hers,
there are waterfalls named Minnehaha
at Katoomba, and King O’Malley was
an American before he became an Aus-
tralian.
If there had to be a big musical event
in the celebrations several British works
were available, and there was the opera
Auster” by Alfred Hill, the New Zea-
land composer now resident here. The
overture to “Hiawatha” is built on the
negro spiritual “Nobody Knows de
Trouble Ise Had.” About the only way
this can be connected with the imminent
national festivities is by reflecting on the
efforts which visiting American negro
pugs have to expend to get their Aus-
tralian fight-money home to Alabamy—
or wherever they come from.
Qantas.
“El Verdugo” looks back:
It seems far more than a generation since
Qantas was founded, and the changes which
have taken place in the interval marked by the
first flight of the company and its 30th anniver-
sary celebration last week are immense.
In 30 years the whole structure and character
of Australia has changed. It has lost its old,
gay, adventurous style of living and has become
part of the great world which for most of
the Australian-born a generation ago who had
not been taken abroad by war was only a
distant abstraction as vague and unfamiliar as
the surface of the moon.
Qantas has done as much as any influence,
when its achievements are measured by the
impetus which it has given from time to time
to movement within and without the continent,
to bring about the change.
From its initiative came the narrowing of
distances between points within the continent
through speed. Qantas was born of the concep-
tion of linking Australia with the outside world
by air, and thus contracting distance. This
idea was not originated by anybody associated
with Qantas, but by the splendid group of
Australians serving with the Royal Flying
Corps, mainly in the Middle Eastern zones,
though Hudson Fysh was one of them. For
crystallising the idea the country has to thank
W. M. Hughes, whose own personal interest
did more than that of any other man to turn
the dreams of wireless and flying into practical
politics. The writer of this article remembers
hearing the little man, sitting in a railway
carriage over a cribbage-board, his feet out
of his shoes, his collar on the floor, meeting
the platitude of a stout local politician who
ventured pompously that the war just ending
had brought great changes. “Changes!
Brother, my gahd, in a few years we’ll have you
soaring like the eagle of the Rockies and
orating like Bill Watt to the Eskimos.”
Out of the great £lO,OOO air race of 1919 from
Britain —the manifestation of the little Welsh-
man’s faith in the future of the air—arose
Qantas in the minds of the two pioneering
airmen, Hudson Fysh and McGinnis, who
planned the landing-grounds for the racers
across Australia, travelling earthbound in a
“T”-model Ford, with all the discomforts
involved in the roadless motoring of those days.
It is striking that after Fysh had performed
the service of welcoming Ross and Keith Smith
and certifying them as the only timely arrivals
in the race, Parer and Macintosh blowing in
very much later indeed, the enterprise which
blossomed in his brain and that of Fergus
Mac Master was tied primarily to the Queens-
land open spaces. It could not have happened
in any part of Australia in the way it did
except Central Queensland, which had not yet
been bled white by a series of “Labor” Govern-
ments whose closer-settlement programmes
loaded its countryside to death with “improve-
ments.” It had been the real pioneer outback
district of the motor-car, and it was ever ready
to adopt new ideas. ’
Qantas was formed on November 16, 1920 —
“Queensland and Northern Territory Air Ser-
vices.” Its first aircraft was an Avro 504
bought in 1921. Its first route was from Long-
C Continued on next page.)


m
m
m
s %
CRAVE N A
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
lO’s & 2«’s I
CfIRRFRfIS ITD —OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
oJ3 I
ill
6745
reach to the then-remote mining town of
Cloncurry. Its first passenger was a canny Scot
named Alexander Kennedy, who came to
Queensland in the wild-black days of the late
’fifties and lived to see linkage by air with
Britain almost a normal and accepted reality.
He was 85 when he made his first flight.
The company’s first aerial mail was carried
in 1922 —Cloncurry-Charleville. The service
was gradually extended to other far-outback
towns —Camooweai, Normanton, Mt, Isa in
the later ’twenties. The first flight Charleville-
Brisbane came in 1929, mail being carried
from the southern capitals to Darwin via Bris-
bane in 1930. Daly Waters and Camooweai
were linked the year following, and in 1931
Australia-England experimental flights were
made carrying mail, a new era being introduced
in 1933 with the flight of the Astraea —what
a whopper she seemed in those days! In 1934
the DHB6’s went on —one or two of them are
still knocking about, nine-passenger biplanes.
Next year the company carried its first passen-
gers to Singapore—Lady Louis Mountbatten
was early among them. In 1938 the flying-boat
service began with the Sunderland type, those
faithful giants which have never been bettered
for comfort and reliability.
With World War II on, Qantas reached
its 20th year after having extended its range
of service from Singapore to Karachi. By
1945 it was nonchalantly flying the Indian Ocean
with its Lancastrians on the “Kangaroo” ser-
vice. Now, having become a Government
concern, as was almost inevitable, but without
the Government having succeeded in bureau-
cratising its character, it covers every key
destination out of Australia to Europe and
the East, and soon will b'c flying direct to
Africa. Its achievement has been magnificent.
POLITICAL POINTS
Those passports. The position is that
16 of the 19 peace-lovers (Moscow style)
who claimed to “represent” Australia at
the Sheffield shivoo were issued with
restricted passports which precluded travel
to Iron Curtain countries; Mrs. Jessie
Street and Dr. Kaiser held full passports,
issued before the ban operated; the re-
maining delegate apparently tagged on
to the party somewhere or other —the
Government has no record of his being
given a passport When the venue of the
“Peace Congress” was changed to War-
saw all the Australian “representatives”
were warned that their passports would
become invalid if they went to Poland.
On Friday it was reported that about 25
Australians had left London for Poland
—the unexplained accretion seems to belie
the generally accepted opinion that roll-
ing stones gather no moss —whereupon
Immigration Minister Holt instructed Aus-
tralia House to “cancel and impound”
the passports.
It was pointed out here weeks ago that
restricted passports could not prevent
Reds and Pinks from getting behind the
Iron Curtain if they wanted to. Getting
back home again may be a different
matter. Shipping companies and airlines
will be advised of the cancellations, and
the returning pilgrims will have to do a
lot of talking ; perhaps Uncle Joe will fly
them back in Polish planes piloted by
Chinese Communists. As far as the
native-born are concerned there is no
legal barrier to their return provided they
can get here .; furriners like Healy may
not find it so easy to get ashore. Pos-
sibly that is why Healy took his wife
with him.
Breathing heavily after a round which
saw his Government twice on the floor in
snap divisions and several times sa,ved by
the bell —er, the Speaker—McGirr has
gone back to his corner, shutting down
Parliament until April. The boxing meta-
phor is prompted by the thought that
the House has gone into recess without
deciding whether the Stadium will be
pulled down to make way for the Eastern
Suburbs railway, or whether Rushcutter
Bay park or White City tennis-courts will
be sacrificed instead. The decision, so
often avoided and postponed, can’t be
put off much longer. Something has to
suffer, and a large slice of caucus doesn’t
want it to be the Stadium. Whichever
way the decision goes it will be the sort
of announcement McGirr would prefer
to make while Parliament is in recess.
Ward and Calwell, once the most con-
sistent mutual-admiration team in Can-
berra, seemed to drift apart during the
last term of the Chifley Government,
largely because Arthur was going flat
out to bring migrants into the country
while Eddie had always been (and still
is) anxious to keep ’em out. Apparently
all is forgiven or forgotten; report says
the two intend to start a little revival
campaign as soon as Parliament goes into
recess. Adelaide is to be the first
stopping-place for “Labor’s” hot-
gospellers ; they’ll talk on street-comers,
in the parklands and factories. The list
seems incomplete; either gentleman is
prepared to talk any time, anywhere.
Turnbull, Country-party member for
Mallee (Vic.), is no great shakes as an
orator, but he scores a point in debate
now and again. Last Thursday “Labor”
members were trying to outdo each other
in tearing a passion to tatters over the
plight of the pore woolgrower—they
were careful to point out that they were
not concerned at the troubles of the big
pastoralists; it was the effect of the wool
tax on “the little man with 500 to 1000
sheep” that brought tears to their manly
eyes. Duthie, “Labor” member for
Wilmot (Tas.), painted a touching picture
of the position of such men who had
planned to spend money this year on
improvements, but now, through the 20
per cent, deduction, were unable to do so.
Turnbull pointed out that plans for im-
provements are based on anticipated
income, and that this year’s average price
for wool is almost double last season’s.
In effect the wool men should be able to
pay the Treasurer his 20 per cent., pay
for their improvements and still have left
more than they reckoned on receiving
when they planned for the year.
Scene: The Senate. Time: 8 p.m. last
Wednesday, Senator Spooner speaks on
pensions ; is heard in comparative silence.
Senator McKenna follows him; is heard
in comparative silence. Senator Wedge-
wood, a lady, follows him; there is a
constant uproar in the background, and
at one stage no fewer than four “gentle-
men” Senators yelling at each other.
Above all the other noise is heard the
booming voice of Senator Hendrickson.
The lady refrains from comment.
N. S. Wales Assembly, Tongue-tied
House.
Twenty-two N.S.W, “Labor” mem-
bers were reported last week to be urg-
ing the McGirr Government not to re-
new the ban on mid-week racing in
Sydney when it expires next month. It
would be interesting to discover who is
urging them ; mid-week racing could
benefit nobody but the bookies, owners,
trainers, jockeys and racecourse hangers-
on, none of whom produce anything the
rest of the people aren’t better off with-
out.
Sydney’s 90-year-old rainfall record
was broken last Thursday when
sufficient moisture fell to take the
year’s tally beyond the 82.76 inches
recorded in 1860. The same day
was officially described as “probably
the worst day this year for blackouts.”
No suburb escaped ; some had two black-
outs, a few three —morning, afternoon and
evening, and each of about an hour’s
duration. There was a glimmer of hope
in the next morning’s report on the sorry
mess—Leichhardt Stadium had experi-
enced its first blackout! Suburbanites
who lost count of their lamp-and-candle
nights years ago hope that the McGirrs
will now be stirred to action.
A family-man writes his own epitaph:
“He was a decent sort, but he squandered
all his money on food.”
A bright ray shone suddenly out of the
murk of Socialism which obscures
Britain, suggesting that underneath the
crust of bureaucracy and planning and
the rest of it the British sense of freedom
still survives. Durham County Council,
which employs 13,000 people, decided to
sack all who refused to join a union.
The B.M.A. promptly blacklisted the
council, the National Union of Teachers
(4000 teachers are employed by the
council) called the move “wholly un-
reasonable and of doubtful legality.”
And Mr. Blenkinsop, Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of Health, said
the Attlee Government regretted the
action and would take all possible
measures to defeat it.
Henry Wallace’s Progressive party
seems to be going through a bout of
soul-searching since the Korean flare-up.
Henry himself resigned from the party
when it refused to endorse his condemna-
tion of Red aggression, and last week he
said he no longer believed that peace
could be achieved by meeting Russia
half-way. He urged his own country to
rearm as fast as possible. John Rogge, a
member of the party executive and a
delegate to the Warsaw “Peace Con-
gress,” drew boos and hoots from the
“peace-lovers” on Sunday when he told
them that Commtnist belief in the use of
force was a roadblock in the path of
human progress and said “If we truly
are partisans of peace, we cannot be
partisans of one nation alone.” It would
be interesting to know the current views
of Mr. Stover, co-chairman of the party,
who was in Australia a few months ago
with the Red Dean. At a Press confer-
ence in Sydney he had three wordy
attempts before giving a direct “No” to
the question “Are you a Communist?”
Australia is getting the bulk of migrants
who leave Britain. In the first seven
months of this year 43,000 British
migrants arrived here; second-top scorer
was Canada with 8000. South Africa,
since Malan replaced Smuts as Prime
Minister, has dropped right out of the
race.
According to the annual report of the
State Director of Mental Hygiene, one
in every 299 Victorians is insane. An
oversea visitor who arrived half-way
through the train strike says he doesn’t
believe it: the ratio must be much
higher than that.
When the chairman of the Joint Coal
Board told coalminers last week that the
board was prepared to guarantee them
10 years’ full employment if they
accepted full mechanisation of the mines
it was surely a fair test for the sincerity
of the men who control the unions. The
reaction of Communist Idris Williams,
president of the Miners’ Federation, was
immediate and uncompromising. His
union would oppose mechanisation be,-
cause “we are not prepared to endanger
the lives of our members.” There is no
evidence to justify a claim that
mechanisation increases the dangers of
mining; miners’ general complaints
about the present dangers of their craft
would suggest the reverse. The truth of
the matter is that Williams and his col-
leagues do not want the increased pro-
duction which they know must result
from mechanisation. Their policy, oft
declared, is to keep production down
and prevent the building-up of reserves,
and this policy is fatal to any plans for
increasing the country’s general industrial
output.
For several weeks time, paper and
postage were wasted in an argument be-
tween a Leicestershire honey-farmer and
the British Board of Trade as to whether
he should stencil “nett” or “net” on his
consignments, the word being “net” in
the “Pre-packed Food (Weights and
Measures) Marking Order” which
controls honey. In the end the board
gave in. But it shows what bureaucrats
can do when they put their minds to it.
While railwaymen in Victoria and
South Australia were striking to prove
something or other, Brisbane trammies
came out on November 12 to prove that,
despite what union bosses of both colors
declare, unionists do want overtime. It
began in Brisbane with a “regulation
strike,” the kind of thing in which, by
rigidly obeying every rule and by-law of
the service, a tramway staff endeavors to
gum-up the whole show. The men ob-
jected to a decision by Brisbane City
Council, which controls the trams, to a
cutting-down of night trams after eight
o’clock to save money. Next day a con-
ductor refused to start a tram because
he claimed it had more people on board
than regulations allowed. He was sus-
pended, All trams stopped. Lud Mayor
Chandler said the man wasn’t suspended ;
the union said he was. On Saturday the
men decided to go back and continue
their “regulation strike.” The council
wouldn’t play. Now the union is howling
“lock-out” and the council is asking the
Industrial Court to deregister the union.
Whoever wins, the public loses.
One answer to the “Labor” parrot-cry
of “Put value back in the pound” was
made in the Senate when someone said
“Put value back in the Senate.” A better
answer comes from O. L. Isaachsen,
chairman of the Bank of Adelaide: “Put
more work into the pound.” Half of
Australia’s trouble is that its population
never thinks of what value it puts into
the pounds it gets by way of salaries,
wages or profits.
By-elections in Britain this year—there
have been several —have followed the
same pattern as in the last Parliament.
No changes have been produced, but the
voting shows a continuance of the swing
against the Attlee Government. In the
seats which were held by Labor a Gov-
ernment man got in, but with a reduced
majority on General Election figures ; in
Conservative centres the Churchill candi-
date won with an increased majority.
The latest instance was the Handsworth
by-election, held last week. Sir Edmund
Boyles (Conservative) won by 8231
votes; nine months ago his party’s
majority was only 5472.
Queenslanders face another increase in
railway fares and freights, according to
Transport Minister Duggan, who told
Parliament that the State railways were
“the hardest hit of all by the present in-
flation.” Presumably he intends to hit
back —at the customers.
A Hungarian New Australian came into
The Bulletin office last week to remark
that he remembered a speech Stalin once
made in which he claimed that the Soviet
Union was “the guardian of the indepen-
dence of small nations.” What brought
the quotation to his mind was the postage-
stamp on a letter he had just received
from his native Hungary ; the design con-
sisted of a portrait, not of the president
or some national hero, but of Uncle Joe.
A Unesco committee appointed to
study race problems has agreed that “all
men belong to the same species,” This
will come as rather a shock to those who
had gathered, from listening to Canberra
debates, that there were two species—
“the workers” and the rest.


% 1\ &
*■&
TSS*
OIOWAQC
RISE
THE GHOST WALKS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Uco”: Can’t see anything out of the
ordinary in Shaw’s development as a
public speaker, as related by “Craiser”
(B. 15/11 /’5O). G.B.S. wanted to speak
well, but was nervous and self-conscious ;
he tried and made a fool of himself; he
kept on trying until he overcame his
weakness. Isn’t that the standard advice
given to anyone who wants to become a
good speaker? And isn’t it the experi-
ence of nine out of ten who have achieved
anything in the way of oratory? Demos-
thenes himself is no exception to the rule,
and it seems almost certain that in addi-
tion to the customary nervousness he had
also to overcome an impediment in his
speech. For the most part the people
who aren’t self-conscious when they make
their first public speech are not self-
critical, are unaware of their own defi-
ciencies and never improve no matter how
often they inflict their voices on un-
fortunate audiences. That’s why so many
people switch off their radio as soon as
the Senate comes on the air.
* * * ♦
“Wusslean”: One of the newspapers
recently made a great fuss about a young
lady who, for a bet, visited a Sydney
night-club clad in her nightgown. The
paper sought the views of a Melbourne
night-club proprietor, who was adamant
that such conduct, though perhaps per-
missible in Sydney, would not be
tolerated in Melbourne. A day or two
later I passed a
house in a Mel-
bourne suburb
outside which, on
a kitchen chair,
sat a woman in a
white silk night-
gown. She was
busily absorbed
in painting the
front fence. She
was still there,
painting away
happily when I passed the same house
several hours later. No crowd had
gathered and no Press photographers had
appeared. And why should they? If a
man is entitled to dig his garden clad in
shorts and singlet, surely a woman can
potter about in her nightie if she likes.
For that matter, why shouldn’t she wear
it to a night-club? In the published
photos the girl who did looked, to the
undiscriminating male eye, very like any
other young lady in evening-dress.
• * * *
“Transporticus”: Pyjama experiences
(B. n/10/’50)? Here’s mine. A party
of considerable magnitude preceded my
departure from Glasgow, and I remember
climbing into my single-berth sleeper
somewhat the worse for wear. Apart
from an excursion down the corridor and
back during the night I slept well, but
on waking I was surprised to find all the
shutters up. Opened them and fouhd
myself in Leicester, seven in the morn-
ing and broad daylight. A cigarette
seemed indicated, so I reached for my
jacket. It wasn’t there. Neither was my
case, cap or anything else, so I sat back
and thought it out. At St. Pancras my
pyjamas would be a bit conspicuous even
in war-time London, but on top of that
I had to get to Victoria station and catch
a train for the Kent coast with no money
and no ticket. In a mood of despera-
“Take her away, James.”
tion I rapped on the door of the next
compartment and, receiving no answer,
opened the door wide enough to disclose
my uniform hanging on the hook. It
sounds easy enough, but I’ve never yet
worked out how there came to be an
empty compartment on a night train
from Scotland.
* * * *
“Zake”: The passion for abbreviating
habiliments, which springs, I fancy, not
so much from a desire for ensuring
masculine comfort as from a lively
appreciation by their manufacturers that
they can get as much for the garments as
when twice as much material was used in
them, seems to have settled permanently
on pyjamas. When first the innovation
hit the display-windows the legs were at
the knee, the sleeves elbow-length. The
latest legs have shrunk, and sleeves are
only a few inches below the shoulder.
As appreciation of the sheer beauty of
this racket increases there will be a cor-
responding decrease in the size of pyjamas,
and I confidently expect that soon they
will comprise jockey Vs and a sleeveless
top, navel-length, which will sell for
about three times the price of the old
ankle- and wrist-length kind. Buyers, of
course, will have the additional privilege
of doing a perish when, as often happens
in cities like Sydney, the southerly buster
sends temperatures trembling half-way
through the sweltering night. Then they’ll
have the pleasure of rummaging in the
rag-bag for their old discarded full-
length ones.
* * * *
“Sackville”: “Regulation strikes” may
come off when the strikers are dealing
with innocents who can’t hit back, but
they sometimes bounce. Sydney’s truck-
drivers, who staged a dog-in-the-manger
demonstration against the traffic regula-
tion which limited heavily-laden trucks
to 15 m.p.h., might think twice before
they try it again. From the place where
I earn my bread-and-dripping the Wes-
tern Highway is visible. When the
drivers decided to make a mockery of
the regulation traffic became an endless
funeral procession. Trucks, which had
waited at predetermined points, formed
long convoys and crept toward* the city
of Parramattta deliberately preventing
any other vehicle from passing. Follow-
ing numerous complaints, police patrols
were sent out to break up the bottlenecks
and remove the danger of accidents. But
unlucky motorists were still being
trapped behind the loitering processions.
The Commissioner of Police came out to
investigate at firsthand. Where necessary
he had the convoys halted altogether.
With stationary trucks lining the road for
furlongs, the drivers called a meeting,
claimed that 15 m.p.h. was too slow, and
demanded a return to “as you were.” The
outcome was a compromise—25 m.p.h.—
and the conspirators were delighted with
the success of their scheming. But they
overlooked one important point—two
can play at the same game. The “boys
in blue” entered into the spirit of carry-
ing out regulations to the letter, and it’s
hard to find a truck-driver who has
escaped being booked for having a dirty
number-plate.
* ♦ » •
“Pip Tok”: Crews of ships waiting in
the roadstead at Fremantle were recently
provided with an impromptu entertain-
ment by a big frolicsome whale. The big
fellow had a high old time, churning up
the foam as he dodged in, out and around
the ships at anchor. Then, with a few
sportive gambols by way of farewell, he
headed for the open sea. The incursion
looked like a deliberate act of defiance;
the whaling season had officially ended
the day before.
* * * *
“Kas”: As I pushed the accelerator
down in an effort to cover the greatest
possible distance before the next traffic
block, my memory switched to 1942 and
the truck-convoys on the Alice Springs
Darwin road. Orders were to maintain
100yds. between vehicles and a speed of
about 30 m.p.h., but as< I always seemed
to bo about twentieth in the convoy we
bumped and swayed along most uncom-
fortably at 40 or better, in a never-ceasing
effort to keep the preceding truck in sight
through the dust. After the periodical
“A lift, lady?"
stop, the leader would start up and hit
30 as quickly as possible. No. 2 would lag
a little and accelerate to catch up ; No. 3
would lag a little more and accelerate a
little more, and so on down the long line
until the tail-enders had to bump up to 50
or so. It was great fun for the drivers,
but I doubt if any of the troops recall
the trip with pleasure. Maybe some
mathematician, will satisfy my curiosity
if each driver in a 30-vehicle convoy
lags progressively 100yds. in starting and
reaching 30 m.p.h., how fast and how far
will the thirtieth vehicle have to travel
before 100yds. distance between trucks is
re-established?
* * * ♦
“Overset”: A new worry has crept into
the lives of country pressmen. A country
paper has to be far more particular about
accuracy than a city daily, especially in
the spelling of names. A city daily can
run an edition containing mistakes and
generally have them forgotten by the
time the next edition is out —though that
is no excuse for mistakes. The country
paper isn’t so fortunate; everybody in
the town knows everybody else. In the
matter of names and misspelling of sur-
names or use of an incorrect Christian
name makes the local reporter the butt
of many, and especially of those, of whom
there are plenty, only too anxious to
sneer. Into this has come, in many
country places, the New Australian.
Where, for the most part, in court cases,
accidents, deaths, tea-fights and all the
rest of it, the reporter had mainly to
deal with Browns, Joneses, Clarks, Robin-
sons and so on, he now finds himself
struggling with Cerkewacz, Lysenogrwo,
Igyatl, Stryrwplyrrinich and worse, I
foresee a strong agitation from the
country Press for the compulsory angli-
cizing of such names.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Inexplicable thefts? A man
pinched some cycles from a world-famous
trick rider at Wirth’s in Melbourne. As
the shape of the machines is most unusual
it would take him ages to learn to ride
them and for the same reason they would
be most difficult to sell.
♦ * * *
“Macnell” on a versatile lady:
She had grace enough, but stoutness with it —
which is why the Navy changed her colorful
peace-time drapes to a dress of overall grey,
hung with a necklace of steel landing-barges;
fitted seven 6in. teeth with a brace of A.A.
barkers, and, in deference to a lady’s love of
color, decked her aft with the whipping red,
white and blue of the White Ensign. With
its hoisting she became H.M.S. Kanimbla, the
first naval ship of the name, with Commander
(later Captain) Frank Getting, of cruiser
Canberra and Savo Island history, to husband
her in her strange new duties. She took to
these like a duck —er —ship to water: patrolling
in Yangtse waters, sending upwards of a dozen
merchantmen with possible Hitler-destined
cargoes to Hong Kong for inspection, occasion-
ally baring very masculine teeth when they
disobeyed her; stealing 50 miles up the Khar
Musa at the head of the Persian Gulf (with a
heterogeneous collection of ships, including an
Indian sloop, a British corvette and a Yangtse
gunboat, an armed trawler and a dhow with
motor and sails) to capture the important railway
port of Bandar Shahpur, with about 10 German
and Italian merchantmen, and simultaneously to
emit an unladylike snarl at an escaping train,
take on a flight of aircraft, land Indian soldiers
and fight a blaze aboard a burning Italian
tanker. In 1943 they did dreadful things to a
lady’s innards —drew her teeth, hung her with
barges and scrambling-nets, corseted her with
galvanised iron in place of her polished wood,
and—saving gesture —gave her hundreds of
men to play with, These she landed at famous
battle-names like Morotai, Leyte, Lingayen,
Brunei Bay and Balik Papan, getting in return
high-explosive slaps from Jap bombers and the
Kamikaze Kids. She still had a hearty slap
herself—and with it at Lingayen crashed a
Jap Zeke into the sea in flames. When the
cease-fire bells rang she was bound for Morotai
—she was still to travel pretty-well round the
world, from Dreger to Kure, from the East
Indies back home to her birthplace, England.
And when the Navy had done with her she
had on her honor-roll seven high decorations,
innumerable “mentions” and 470,000 war-time
miles in her log. Shortly, once again the grand
lady, black-skirted, white-bloused and red-
stacked, she will resume her Sydney-Fremantle
promenade. She will be 15 next month.
DEAD-END KIDS.
“Handsome inducements, particularly in some
dead-end jobs, were causing a tragic wastage among
boys and girls who left school too early, said
N. S. Wales Minister for Education, Mr. Heffron.”
Beware, my son, those dead-end jobs,
Make do with studious bread and butter;
Don’t join the flashy “Labor” nobs
Digging out diamonds from the gutter.
Awhile, an irresponsible wealth
Visits the casual laborer;
But soon, with their habitual stealth,
The old vicissitudes recur:
He joins the union, steams and stews
At meetings, in an earnest tone,
And powers that snicker at his views
Make him the mouthpiece of their own.
Time finds him servile and sedate;
The perquisites of office come—
A visit to another State;
Official title; gilded plum.
And then they put him on a card —
Perhaps his name begins with “A,”
Perhaps he merits a reward,
Or has a secret to betray.
Whereon the voters, sir or madam,
Comparing tickets in a trance,
Elect him, though unknown from Adam —
Indeed, that is his happiest chance,
Whose mind and will are interdict,
A jellyfish of party whim,
Going wherever he is kicked,
Smearing his age with stinging slime:
And thus the casual laborer,
Offensive, always unoffended,
Becomes a “Labor” Senator,
Deadlocked, deadheaded and dead-ended.
So, son, repay your parents’ love.
Be worthy of your sweetheart’s kiss;
We fear, if you don’t learn enough,
You’ll end in dead-end jobs like this.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Villefair”: At times I probably take
some liberties with the King’s English,
but I still haven’t reached the stage where
I can read of an “all-time high” being
reached and refrain from squirming. Nor
can I reconcile myself to that word be-
loved of radio advertisers: “publicised.”
A Sydney weekly’s report that the police
were “alerted” had me wondering
whether I’m
the bloke
who’s wrong.
But before
I had time
to really
ponder the
'matter a
a voice
from the wireless commanded me:
“Listen-in at this time next Sunday, when
another collection of your favorite
singers will be programmed.” To cap it
all, at a meeting which I attended that
night the chairman announced: “More
than forty civil servants were circularised
over this matter,” I am not a squeamish
man, but the thought of forty men —even
civil servants —having pieces cut off ’em
until they were circular turned my brow
pallid.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: An inexpensive sport out of
which I used to get an epicure’s delight
was the appreciation of a good cigar
being smoked by somebody else. I have
long held the belief that the man who
smoked this exotic leaf could never, by
virtue of the fact that after the first
couple of puffs his nostrils and palate
would be clogged continually with the
smoke and thus rendered more or less in-
sensible, appreciate its charm as much as
the fellow absorbing the glorious aroma
from a few feet away. To take a seat
in a train, judiciously selected, near a
Croesus who lit up a Van Something, a
Corona or a House of Lords, was to en-
sure oneself of up to half an hour of
sheer delight, made even more delightful
in the knowledge that the other fellow
was unwittingly paying for one’s enjoy-
ment. Alas! The sport has died a
natural death, with good cigars up to a
dollar each, Blackmarketeers and other
chisellersi have got most of the cash these
days, and they nearly all stick to old
habits and “roll their own”—anyway, who
wants to walk behind anyone for the sake
of getting the sniff of a gasper? I think
I’ll have to join the Union Club —they
might run to an occasional cigar there.
* * » *
“Pat”: Those greybeards who maintain
that the race is getting soft would have
listened with joy to the unwitting sup-
port given their arguments in an A.B.C.
Youth Debate. The controversy raged
around flats or houses—which do you
prefer living in and why? Three young-
sters, who declared themselves in favor
of the former, all agreed on one great
advantage. “If it rains you can always
go next door, downstairs or upstairs to
play without getting wet. The people
who live in houses have to go out in the
rain to get to somebody else’s house,”
was the substance of their argument.
When I was a kid rain was a positive lure
to play outside rather than inside.
* * * m
“Clooter”: This sentimental notion of
clemency to convicted criminals, very
prevalent in N.S.W., where the “Labor”
Government seems to assume that the
convict is a good fellow at heart but is
impelled to his crime by the evils of
“capiterlist” society, got a rude shock at
Albury the other day. A man convicted
of having broken and entered the town
hall and stolen sundry articles for cash
turned out to have a list of previous
convictions for the same sort of thing,
in Australia and New Zealand, going back
21 years. It also turned out that whilst
doing four years for attempted rape he
was released on licence last August by
the N.S.W. Attorney-General, on condi-
tion that he went back to New Zealand.
He got three years from an unsympathetic
judge at Albury, but whether he will be
invited to cut out the remainder of his
four-year sentence, having broken the
conditions of parole, is another matter.
An interesting question is whether or not
the Attorney-General knew of the full
criminal history before he turned the
fellow loose.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Mac Hoots”: Alas, after I had written
a par, (B. 15/11 /’so> saying that A. P.
Herbert didn’t say, at the English Associa-
tion dinner, that the English language was
a great “necklace” encircling the world
but a great “nexus,” I met A. P, Herbert
at another shivoo and he told me that
he did say “necklace.” Since I have thus
not only wrongly accused a newspaper of
misreporting him, but have also described
the “neckl’ace” phrase as “vulgar,” I will,
if you don’t mind, quietly creep away and
climb up a gum-tree.
# « ♦ *
“R.W.”: Queerest example of class-
distinction I ever saw was in Tobruk. We
had some large dumps of tinned food to
be sorted and stacked. A Libyan native
working-party was bringing the tins down
from the dump and passing them on to
an Indian working-party to stack under
our direction. When the Libyans were
called away to help fight fires after a
raid we told the Indians to take over
their job while we did the stacking. Not
they. On no account would they do work
that should be done by the Libyans,
whom they considered their inferiors.
* * * *
“E.A.S.”: One of the last visits G.B.S.
paid to the Athenaeum Club, London,
caused a stir. All members of this high-
brow club must be referred to as Noble
Lords or Gentlemen. Shaw had a paper
on the notice-board requesting the Noble
Lord who stole his umbrella to return
it. The secretary objected to Noble
Lords being regarded as kleptomaniacs;
Shaw retorted no gentleman would stoop
to common theft, so it only left Noble
Lords as suspects. Never heard if he
got the brolly back.
* ♦ * •
“Bagot”: When the old chap clambered
into my compartment of the country-
bound train I saw that underneath his
MARRIAGE
LICENCES
"Do we have to renew this every year ?”
neat but well-worn coat he wore a clean
white shirt and stiff collar, but no tie. As
he hoisted his portmanteau on to the rack
he greeted me with “Good day* mate. I
suppose you’re wondering why I’m not
wearing a tie,” Ignoring my polite lie
that I hadn’t noticed the deficiency in
his neckwear, he went on: “Yes, some
thieving city cow got down on it the first
night I put up at the pub three weeks
ago,” He looked out of the window and
sighed. “Ah, it was a bonza tie, too. I’d
had it for years.”
« « ♦ *
“Kelms”: Tradesmen rendering de-
tailed accounts (B, 18/10/’50)? When
the metropolitan-scheme water was laid
past a group of houses in one of Perth’s
outer suburbs the owners agreed to en-
gage one plumber to connect all the
houses, and a friend of one of them got
the job. He supplied “labor only,” and
It
“I found it at the bottom of the garden."
that didn’t include the digging of
trenches to take the pipes—he simply laid
the pipes and connected the taps. For
this he charged at the rate of 30s. an
hour, and we paid up rather than start
an argument that might develop into a
neighbors’ row. All except one bloke,
who demanded a detailed account. That
was a couple of years ago, and he still
hasn’t got it.
* * * *
“Findy”: Bike-towns (B. 15/11/’50)?
I’ll nominate Port Pirie (S.A.). Haven’t
seen it for a long time, but 20 years
ago attempting to cross Ellen-street during
the first 10 minutes after the day-shift
stormed out of the Smelters’ gate was
equivalent for sheer recklessness to throw-
ing yourself in the path of a thundering
herd of bison. During the day the bikes
were strewn in their hundreds without
any apparent intent of order. What used
to puzzle me was how each man found
his own. I concluded that some kind of
instinct operated, similar to that which
enables a penguin to find its own egg
after having toddled away for daily
exercise.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“T.McN.”: I note that all over Victoria
they’ve been celebrating the centenary
of the little State’s separation from New
South Wales, and at Wan-
garatta and sundry other
places the orations of
mayors and similar dig-
nitaries were translated for
the benefit of Germans,
Yugoslavs, Italians, Poles,
Latvians and the rest who
make up the New Austra-
lians. To those people the
fun must have had some
reminiscent touches, for
there’s hardly a nation in
Europe which has not, at
some time or other, cele-
brated the anniversary of its
separation from some other
nation. It must be a bit of
a puzzler to a New Aussie
to understand why Vic-
torians should be so jubilant
to be separated from New
South Wales, and possibly
a few of them will be in-
spired to look up the history
of the wars which they will
naturally suppose preceded
the great event However,
any of them who spend any
time in Victoria need only
cross the Murray to appreci-
ate the Victorian’s feelings
in the matter.
“W.R.F.”; I wasn’t there long enough
to find out whether it was the regular
practice, but at a small Tasmanian town
where I spent Melbourne Cup day the
street-lights were burning brightly all day
and when night came they automatically
went out In other respects the town
seemed normal; at the post-office I saw
a notice pinned on the door: “Shut for
two minutes. Listening to Cup. Go
and do thou in like manner.”
“Hoosit”; Car-owners neglecting to
notify the department of changes of
address within 21 days are liable to a
fine, and so, after shifting my home, I
wrote advising the change. That was four
months ago. Only yesterday my letter
was acknowledged. That same depart-
ment changed its address over six months
ago. Apparently they do not consider
it important enough to notify themselves
of their own change; my belated acknow-
ledgment was typed on stationery bearing
the old address,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Qui”: Possibly others besides myself
have been puzzled whether to regard the
word “swagger” in the title of Miles
Franklin’s All That Swagger as a verb
or a noun. I asked Miles Franklin her-
self, and she wrote in reply “You raise
an interesting question. I regard
‘swagger’ as a noun. X simply meant the
title to capture the essence of the daring
and courage with which the lonely old
pioneers carried off their enterprises and
recreations,”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Aistur”: “Hamer’s” street-accident
victim (B. 11/10/’5O), if not badly hurt,
should be pleased that there wasn’t a
knife-carrier in the crowd. Old Tom,
patient for a first-aid team, once wore his
second-best suit to a big competition be-
cause he didn’t like appearing before
the spectators in the rags he wore at
practice. His team-mates, carried away
with enthusiasm, had his trouser-legs and
coat-sleeves ripped
up before he knew
what was happen-
ing, and, contrary
to first-aid teach-
ing, they didn’t
worry about a
little thing like
slitting along the
seams. To add
insult to injury, they disappeared in the
direction of the usual spread at the end
of the show, leaving old Tom alone to
cobble up the damage.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: A suburb of Melbourne
which is always certain to get into the
news when a high-tide coincides with a
torrential downpour is Elwood, through
which meanders a walled-in creek known
as “the canal.” Streets in the locality
seem to have been named in a mood of
melancholy resignation. In its latest
flood, caused by a cloudburst, the parts
worst hit were Foam-, Wave- and Spray-
streets.
* * * *
“S.R.D.” ruminates:
While imbibing some of the ingratiating
product of Normanby (Q.), I have been reading
in a London “Times” supplement an article
on rum which ought to be passed on to all
rum-drinkers. “No one knows where the name
came from; it was formerly rumbustion (also
a Devon word for a tumult) or rumbullion.”
Before that it was known as kill-devil, but that
was in the Barbados among the pirates; the
home of rum is the West Indies, and as
“rumbo” the English brought it, and the name,
home. Rum was drunk extensively in the
British Isles in the era before whisky invaded
the southern half of Great Britain in the later
19th century. Nowadays, and in Australia, too,
rum is regarded chiefly as human fortification
against cold weather, and the stuff to give the
troops before the dawn hop-over (except the
old 25th Battalion, A.1.F., which maintained a
tradition for preferring it after action). uut
in the West Indies rum has always been con-
sidered the ideal drink for the hottest weather,
both refreshing and energising in that climate.
It is then drunk iced, and in many ingenious
combinations. By 1939 only 5 per cent, of
spirits annually drunk in Britain was rum,
with the later Scotch-whisky shortage the pro-
portion rose to 15 p.c.
PARTLY A PARAGON.
“A ‘Kinsey* report on the secret life of the cray-
fish reveals that he sticks to one ‘wife,’ protects her
from bachelors, but doesn’t try to save her from
big hungry fish.”
O arthropod segmented, in your coat
Of armor which proclaims you the crustacean.
Your fate to own a flesh (this gets your goat!)
With which tradition couples the libation.
What deep humiliation yours to clunk
Along some hot and dusty urban pavement,
Drawn on a string by some revolting drunk.
Ne’er in your natural element had you sunk
So low as in this prandial enslavement.
Being humiliated thus was naught
Compared with that to which you’re now
subjected.
How angered you must be, and how distraught,
To have your love-life, as it were, dissected
Instead of your integuments! Did they
Discover, say, your pace became much brisker
When you decided she’d be Mrs. Cray?
Or, if she knocked you track, showed your
dismay
With melancholy waving of a whisker?
It pleases us to note that, in an age
When chivalry is dead, or very nearly
(At least among us humans), that you’d stage
A fight—perhaps your life be selling dearly—
The lady of your choosing to protect
From bachelors’ attentions. Most affecting!
And yet this thought obtrudes, now I reflect:
Perhaps it is you’re being circumspect,
That your own interests you would be
protecting.
If we accept the evidence, your sport
Doesn’t include such branches as polygamy.
You’re faithful just to one, ’Fore Neptune’s
court
They’ll never hale you on a charge of bigamy.
Is this sound morals, or that, ’neath the foam,
You’ve found that one strife’s much more than
enough for you?
And could it be that why you never roam,
Or get the urge to run a second home,
Is that she’s liable to make it rough for you?
Who’d blame you if for safety you had leapt—
You lacking weight and height and being no
wizard —
Instead of “going” the tiger shark who’d swept
Your missus into his capacious gizzard?
That you’ve domestic virtues, though, is true.
Of sea-equivalent of pipe-and-slippers
You’re the embodiment, in human view.
That you’re a “family man” I’ll warrant, too:
I’ve often seen you out with your two nippers!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
ALL SOULS.
Our ship was white; ice-white upon the flow,
The sails were snowy, there, among them, lan-
terns ;
We did not see another ship in months . . .
Only, at intervals, the albatross;
And once a migrant flock on tiny wings
That pulsed within the vastness of the heavens,
Birds of jade and coral colors, late
Restored by wisdom and some curious guide
Into the sheltering velvet of their clime.
We had among us young men who confessed
The fever of the sea. We had old men
Who spoke of duty, never of romance,
They were enchanted, but they did not know it.
We had grey spirits with the flesh hung light
Upon their simple bones; who read the clues
To reef or tempest with a gruesome instinct,
Who liked no company within the midnight.
We had a bully and a singing lad,
Even a poet watching by the helm;
And there were ones that loved the sea with
anguish,
Admitting nothing—but their sweethearts knew
We had a man who comprehended women,
And spoke of them with that soft insolence
The lion keeps for those that flinch before it ..
We had the fool, the lover, and the beast —
All souls, and gathered on the snowy ship
With hardly anything between their feet
And the immense intentions of the ocean.
n.z. Paula Hanger.
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: “Y* know,” Little Curl
said, looking up from his book, “some
o’ them old Greek blokes could use their
nuts. It tells here about a shiela called
Medoosa: she had snakes instead of hair,
an’ was so ruddy ugly y’ only had t’ look
at her an’ be turned into stone. She had
some sisters, an’ they was pretty tough—
killin’ blokes an’ drinkin’ their blood an’
that —an’ so a young cove named Perseus
reckons he’ll do her in. Well, he gets his
gear t’gether an’ starts t’ hunt her up.
She took some findin’, too. He was
knockin’ about all over the place for
munce an’ not gettin’ any closer to this
Medoosa until somebody gives ’im the
oil, an’ there she is. Now this is where
he uses his nut, see. He knows if he looks
at her he’ll be turned into a brick or
somethin’, so what does he do? He’s got
a polished shield, see, an’ he looks in
that, sees her reflection, sneaks up an’
slices off her nut, snakes an’ all.” There
was a brief silence; then the captious,
critical coves in that hut got going. Why
would not seeing her face in a mirror
do the same trick? How could you sneak
up on anyone by watching her in a glass?
And so on. The argument lasted for three
weeks, and ended in Pocketknife and
Little Curl going each other. After
which there was peace —until the next
argument started, but that was about
racehorses and didn’t matter much.
* ♦ ♦ *
The litter of well-bred pups
was very young when their mother
followed Ted out and got herself
poisoned. Ted didn’t want to lose the
youngsters, but, hunting around for a
foster-mother, all he could find was an
old sow.
He trans-
ferred the
canines to
the pigsty.
After a few
days of
supervision they settled in to feed with
the family of young pigs, the sow making
no objection to the increase. Soon, taken
away any distance, the pups would yelp
and streak back to the sow for protection,
and as they grew Ted’s problem became
teaching the little tripehounds they weren’t
pigs. He netted a yard and isolated them,
tpt even now the grown dogs he kept
from the bunch eat and sleep with the
pigs at every opportunity.
» • * «
“Gravelsnatcher”: Brumbies are still
plentiful in some W.A. country districts
and even in some of Perth’s outer
suburbs. Recently a farmer and his wife
and son were attacked by a brumby
stallion from whose herd they were trying
to separate one of their horses, and, after
a few fortunate escapes, they managed to
shoot it. It’s the old case of familiarity
breeding contempt. Had the animal been
a wild bull they probably wouldn’t have
gone within cooee of it, yet a stallion,
defending his harem, is a far more
dangerous proposition than any bull. He’s
got more intelligence, more weapons—
four razor-sharp hooves and a nasty
mouthful of teeth —and he’s not as far
removed from flesh-eating as his bovine
counterpart. Once saw two stallions
fighting. One was a racehorse, the other
was a Suffolk Punch. The heavyweight,
who died last, had a little the best of it,
gaining a decided advantage when he
lifted a huge piece out of his enemy’s
flank. I can remember the utter futility
of the stockmen who tried to separate
them; but most vividly do I recall the
sight of those savage beasts with their
mouths full of flesh, with blood and saliva
flowing over their jaws. They were
chewing it, and with evident relish. I’ve
known an odd horse that would feed
from a pig-trough and enjoy meat, and
I’m wondering how much, or how little,
encouragement would be needed to turn
“Add another room; it's triplets.”
stallions into complete flesh-eaters. What
wonderful carnivores they’d make!
* ♦ * »
“Kelms”: “Like a duck to water”
is an apt phrase. Just how apt has
been demonstrated to a Three Springs
(W.A.) farmer who raided the nest of a
mountain duck as the eggs were hatching
and carried the ducklings home to a
muscovy whose setting had been in vain.
The foster-mother and her new brood
took to each other and the youngsters
grew up, in company with other muscovy
broods, in the wire-netting enclosure.
When the wild ducklings were within a
few weeks of flying he let all the ducks
out for a run on the grass. The mus-
covies milled around in futile excitement;
but the mountain tribe, without hesitation,
marched swiftly across the paddock.
They were heading straight for a lake
about two miles away—the nearest body
of water to the farm. They’d never seen
that lake, or any water other than that
in their drinking-tins, yet they never
faltered in their march. When he got to
the lake they were well out on it, swim-
ming strongly.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I noticed the reptile be-
hind a bush near the bridge over the
creek. It was what we used to call a
“water goanna”—about 20in. long,
greyish-brown in general color, with off-
white diamonds down its back. But there
was something about the attitude that
impelled me to get off the bike and return
to investigate. The creature remained
posed in a crescent curve until I was
within 15ft. Suddenly it turned, raced
down a narrow track and was lost in the
wilderness of undergrowth. It was then
1 noticed the little excavation and the
eggs. Evidently the reptile had just
finished laying and was stacking the eggs
in the hole to be incubated. Two were
lying on the loose earth, four more I was
able to rake out of the hole with my
finger, but the last two were jammed
tightly in the narrow bottom. I
took the other six eggs home. They
measure |in. long, nearly £in. in diameter,
are elliptical in shape and feel like
plastic rubber covered with a soft, white
skin. Now they are buried in earth inside
a glass jar and I am awaiting a family
event. Meanwhile the hole by the creek
has been filled in. I’ll be watching that,
too,
« • * •
“Solitude”: I’d crawled to the top of
a huge rock overlooking the stream and
sprawled there, surveying the surround-
ings. For a few minutes there was a
motionless silence ; then the smaller birds
began moving about again in the nearer
bushes. A couple of black cockatoos
landed on a green limb, and on the further
bank a rustling in the tussocks proclaimed
the presence of a larger animal. A fox
perhaps, or a dingo, I was watching the
spot when sounds developed from the
other direction, and presently Seventy-
fiver pushed through the scrub and paused
on the beach below. His eyes were fixed
on the stream, and I grinned as he caught
a grasshopper and tossed it in. There
was no rise from the trout, and, still
looking at the water, Seventyfiver backed
to the foot of the rock cliff and filled his
pipe. I waited in silence. I’d confound
the old bloke later, with my knowledge
of his doings. For a long time he smoked
while I grew stiffer and one leg developed
a cramp. If I moved he’d hear me. After
what seemed a very long time he knocked
the ashes leisurely from Ins pipe, put it
away, then, just as my cramped leg
reached* excruciation point, he caught
another ’hopper and threw in. It swam
to safety and the old bloke broke the
silence with a sigh, “How much longer
y’ goin’ t’ lie up there like a flamin’
lizard, Sol?” he asked quietly. “Bloke
can’t wait round all day for y’.”
* * * ♦
“Tarbush”: As wages rocket even
more stations will consider drums of
petrol cheaper than boundary-riders, and
in doing so pave the way for future stock
losses. Many managers these days, used
to making-do in the war years, and suffer-
ing from shortage of hands ever since,
have drifted into the easy belief that you
#?££
W\£piONVE
COUNTS
“Me Wantum goanna-fat, bulldog-ant extract and nulla-nulla anasthetic
for very important operation.”
can run a station with two or three motor-
vehicles, plus chauffeurs, quartered at the
homestead. You can’t, the jeep-, truck-
and utility-drivers are mostly youngsters,
car-mad and in a hurry. They like to get
out quickly and back quickly to the home-
stead. They don’t have the opportunity
and often lack the inclination to have a
real look at stock and fences. And a
homestead-based staff only stays perma-
nent with an exceptional boss and ex-
ceptional men. The old-time manager
picked and disposed his men like a
general. Old hands—many of them rank
hatters, but almost fanatically devoted to
“me sheep” and “me paddicks” and “me
fences”—were placed well away from the
homestead in outstations and huts, and
left alone as much as possible. They
were a big run’s insurance against those
“smash-ups” that all managers dread.
* * * *
“Wonk”; The two city chaps who were
to put in my long-needed new engine and
plant duly arrived from the engineering
firm and settled in. Next morning I was
up as usual before five, put in a couple
of hours, and returned for breakfast.
There was no sign of the engineers, so
after a feed I returned to work. A bit
after eight they showed up, breakfasted,
smoked, inspected the country, and,
strolling to the scene of operations, began.
During the morning one cove unpacked
boxes and inspected parts, while the other
bored four holes in the posts I’d erected.
Mid-afternoon I found them held up. A
small hole needed sinking in one corner.
I grabbed a shovel, put the hole down in
three minutes, and they proceeded. The
following day, to save accommodating the
pair indefinitely, I bored the rest of the
auger-holes myself, and, under instruc-
tions from one of them, went on with the
assembling. Called away, I came back to
find them again unable to go on. This
time it was a couple of cupfuls of con-
crete that was needed to fill in around
some bolts. “There’s cement in the corner
there,” I pointed out, “And sand, and a
bucket. Wouldn’t take you two minutes
to mix a bit.” I let it go at the time, but
a few days later as I surveyed my account
from the firm I recalled the bloke’s reply.
Well, maybe it wasn’t his job to mix con-
crete ; maybe I wasn’t his boss, nor en-
titled to give orders ; but he was dead
wrong about his wages. By cripes, I was
paying them, all right.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: The old Toorak pub
(B. 11/9/’SO) was put on Eastern Creek
because it was the junction of the stock-
routes and handy to the 30-mile hole,
the only natural water for miles. Inci-
dentally, in 1888 when the three Bayles
brothers, of Melbourne, bought the
500,000-acre lump off Dalgonally that is
now named Toorak, their first homestead
was on this pub-site. Hence the cemetery
near by. When artesian-bores came the
homestead was moved eight miles away
to higher ground. I won’t forget the 30-
mile hole. It was the first place I was
ever camped out alone, I was pulling
out bogged sheep before the wild pigs
could get them, and my only diversion
was being tree’d by a wounded boar for
an afternoon. Once, in a drought in the
’nineties, the only water on Toorak was
in this hole, and then every human and
hoof on the run was camped there. With
the jumbucks walking through the fast-
drying-up water, it got down to a foot in
depth when they were saved by a thunder-
storm. It was after that episode that
the Bayleses put down, at No. 1 hut, what
is claimed to be the first artesian bore
in North Queensland,


629
988
23
shapes
to choose
from
i'?.
: ■<>
829
884
ANDREW M C GEE suggests
FOR GREATER SMOKING PLEASURE CHOOSE A
NIMROD DRYSMOKER
ENGUSH BRIAR PIPE
A further shipment of these
famous pipes have now arrived
for those who were not able to
purchase their favourite from
the previous shipments.
Fitted with the famous hygienic
filter, the Nimrod Drysmoker is
a Milder, Cleaner, Cooler Pipe.
Bowl stays dry. Tobacco burns
evenly. Flavour is improved. No
waste. The carbonised bowl is
already broken-in for instant com-
fortable smoking. Order your
particular shape price
straight or
bent —by mail,
from Andrew
M c Gee.
27/6
plus 9d. postage*
ANDREW M°GEE
(Established 1887)
70 Pitt Street, or
1 Castlereagh St., Sydney
TRAIN v. BUS.
As he toils up the steep incline
I hear the engine groan and whine,
“Oh, what a dreary lot is mine!
“Day in, day out, alas, alack,
I just keep going forth and back
Along the same old boring track.
“All round I see on every side
The green fields stretching far and wide
With daffodils and daisies pied;
“But should I wander, swerve or stray
Off this too, too permanent way
There’d be the devil and all to pay.
“I envy little brother bus,
The happy chap, the lucky cuss,
For he is not restricted thus;
“Following fancy light and airy
When he chooses he can vary
His prescribed itinerary,
“He’s not compelled to sweat and pull
Half a mile of wagons full
Of crates of fruit or bales of wool;
“Into his vitals oil will roll,
Slipping in sweetly, while my sole
Diet is rugged chunks of coal.”
So the poor engine, sick and spent.
Cursing his lot without restraint,
Makes his lugubrious lament;
Thus, with one tremendous sigh,
The under-trodden serf lets fly
In lachrymose soliloquy.
N.z. Arnold Wall.
* ♦ * *
“Broken Cliffs”: On Scott’s last
expedition the Discovery carried a little
Norwegian boat called a “pram” which
did stout work on the voyage out from
England, One wonders how —and when
—these Scowegian teaspoons became part
of the Murray scene. For although an
occasional, hatter fisherman or whaler
prefers a home-made flattie, the “pram”
rules the river. Fishermen row it along to
set lines, cockies use it to ferry sheep, it
bounces around in the white water below
locks, jt rides bow-high behind Marion,
Renmark and the rest, it trails Govern-
ment launches and, like a faithful dog,
follows the punts back and forth by night
and day. Built wide and shallow, sitting
on top of the water, it is the safest
possible craft in nasty, short, broken
waves. And it’s light to pull: one man
can row a 16-footer with ease, even in a
current, and just as easily he can
manoeuvre around the bows of a berthing
paddle-steamer or take a course through
thick-strewh snags in a lagoon. Perhaps,
however, the old pram is at its best as a
place to loaf in, in the shade of tall, green
reeds, over deep, green, water, with a cod
line over the gunwale and a pipe going.
They used to cost a quid a foot before the
war,
* * * *
“Blime”: As I turned in towards Ben’s
shack his dogs charged out in a mob,
Ben hard on their tails. “Come behind
’ere. Behind; you, an’ you, an’ you,”
he bawled, bringing his hat down on a
rump whenever he got near enough.
“Skitch ’im. Socks. An’ you others git
back. G’on.” He stoned them behind
the shack and turned. “Have to stop the
pack racin’ out like that,” he remarked.
“One watchdog’s enough, an’ that’s
Socks’s job.
Drop in
every
time y’
pass, will
y', so’s it’ll
gimme a
chance to
train them
and o g s. ”’
During the next few weeks I dropped in
frequently and soon only the old dog
dashed out and barked, Ben handling
the rest of them behind the shack, I
was chuckling at his success as I side-
stepped the “watch” and rounded the
corner to find all the other dogs out of
sight under the shack and Ben striding
vigilantly up and down with a stick, to
make sure no heads appeared. “No sense
ietting ’em run out at everything,” I
igreed. “But what’s the idea scooting
'em all under the floor soon as the old
dog barks?” “Aw, it pays,” Ben replied,
bringing the stick down hard against a
-rack. “ ’Specially at this time o’ year,
Y* see, I got a good lot o’ mongs on jus’
now, an’ that flamin’ dog-tax bloke’s due
round any time.”
* * * ♦
“Vet.”; Wal had only 200 sheep, and
for some years he paid for their shearing
at a contract shed. This year he was
talked out of it. “You’ll pay about
fifteen quid a hundred for ’em this next
shearing,” remarked a neighbor. “I tell
you, it mounts up. Why don’t you put
in machines of your own?” Wal went
into prospective costs over the next 20
years or so, saw the rosy side of inde-
pendence, and installed a two-stand plant,
Then he arranged with a couple of
shearers, a dasser and a rousie from the
station to drop in and put his sheep
through when they cut out. Price for
classer and rousie, including wet weather,
was approved, and the team arrived,
putting in one run the same afternoon,
Then the rain came, and Wal had no shed-
"This'd be easier if the wheels didn't move , Doctor."
room. For eight days the grey depressing
drizzle continued, Wal’s missus accom-
modating the team. Three days then for
the sheep to dry, a weekend that inter-
vened, an unsuspected night shower, an-
other two days; then Wal got his flock
completed. You’ve only got to mention
contract-shearing to him now and he’s all
for it. “Cheap,” he declares vehemently.
“Cheap at any price.”
* * * *
“Chuck”; The stranger had just walked
out of the bar when there came the
usual query. “Who’s the bloke?”
“Dunno, Must be one of the shearers at
the station. He’s the cut of a shearer.”
That started the argument as to what
type of bloke makes the best sheep-
barber. “Can’t beat the little wiry
blokes,” announced Bob. “They haven’t
got so far to bend and don’t get back-
ache like the big’uns.” “By cripes, don’t
they?” scoffed old Charlie. “Anyway, y’
want a bit o’ length to make a decent
shearer. The taU’uns can reach around
an’ handle the sheep better. The one
that don’t make a shearer is the fat
bloke.” “Nothing to that, either,” Weary
chipped in. “How many young blokes
on farm work are fat? A bloke don’t
grow a paunch till he’s middle-aged, an’
be then he’s mostly give up shearin’.
Only blokes that don’t grade up is the big,
slow, rawboned ones.” “No? Well the
ringer at the station is that sort, and he
does two hundred.” Dad Wilson swal-
lowed his quick’un and turned sourly,
“If y* ask me,” he scowled, “any high-
an’-mighty cove that drinks like a fish,
turns his nose up at good tucker, com-
plains about the sheep and the grindin’
an’ wants everythin’ altered has got the
makin’s.” That started another argu-
ment.
* ♦ * ♦
“Bo”: Herb, the dairy hand, coming
around the comer of the house in his
rubber boots, saw the red-bellied black
at the saucer of milk which had been left
out for the cat. He looked around,
caught sight of a very light forked stick
leaning against the wall, and, sneaking up,
pinned the snake’s head to the ground
with it. He recalled then he had no
lethal weapon to hand. If he let go the
forked stick to dive for a heavy waddy
he could see a few yards away Joe would
be gone in a flash. The family was away
for the afternoon. Seeing nothing else
for it. Herb settled down to a long wait,
while his captive thrashed around. It
was a couple of hours before the family
returned from the township. Dad stopped
the car, sized up the situation and within
a few seconds the black had a broken
back. “You could ha 5 done that yerself,
y’ goat,” Dad exclaimed, when he had
heard how long Herb had been standing
there in the blistering sun. “Why didn’t
y’ take off y’r rubber boot an’ dong him
with the heel o’ that?” “I thought o’
that,” drawled Herb, “but I didn’t think
it’d be any good—rubber would ’a’ just
bounced orf of him!”
♦ ♦ • ♦
“Cummee Brindle”: Alongside what is
now a main road in the south-east of
S.A. are two charred stumps 20ft. apart;
they are a monument to a victory scored
many years ago by an old bullocky
named Joe Naylor. There used to be
11 gates to open and shut along that 12-
mile stretch of road, one a double affair
of heavy redgum which had sagged badly,
and both halves took an awful lot of
heaving to move them. Coming through
with a load of wool one day, Joe thought
it was about time somebody gave the
squatter a hint, so he unhitched his team
from the wagon and used them to haul
both gateposts out of the ground. The
squatter through whose property the road
ran did a lot of cursing, then put his men
on the job of erecting two new gateposts
which he swore that a team of bull-
elephants couldn’t uproot; they were
solid redgum, 3ft. through and sunk 7ft.
into the ground. Next time Joe came
along the road he didn’t try to pull them
up; he used his bullocks to snig a hefty
crosslog up to the base of each huge post
and lit a fire on it. A strong sou’-west
wind was blowing, and by morning
nothing remained of either post save a
charred stump. The squatter got out
his buggy and drove off to report the
matter to the police, but at the same time
the local cocky farmers, who also used
that road, fired a petition about the
matter at the shire council, and the
squatter was given notice to fence off
the road and remove his gates. He also
withdrew his charge against old Joe —
but vowed he’d never give him any more
carting as long as he lived. But when the
next spring came around Joe carted his
wool again,
*, * * *
. Zake : I hand the palm for tenacity
111 plant-life to a couple of miniature
s taghorns that are clinging to the top of
a building in the middle of Sydney yard.
nerve-centre of the city’s network of
suburban electric trains. They might get
sufficient moisture to keep them alive
* rcm the ram or from an overflow from
guttering just above them, but how
*“ e y derive any sustenance from the
face-bricks to which they have become
attached has me beaten. They are essen-
tially parasitic.
“Mat’s Mate”: The present invasion
by the English cricketers recalls the time
Mat and I paused in Trundle, which is
somewhere north of Bogan Gate, on our
way to Nevertire. In the Union bar an
elderly chap offered us a quid each to
clean up his office, which turned out to
be the local printery, where was pub-
lished the “Times.” We hopped in,
carted out heaps of waste-paper and other
rubbish, burned them and generally
straightened the place up. The publisher
said he’d see us at the pub, and duly
turned up, carrying a copy of his paper,
which he proudly handed to us, asking
what we thought of his leading article.
It was a red-hot attack on Jardine, cap-
tain of an English XI then in Australia,
and the focus of the “bodyline” business.
Gripes, what that little paper said about
him could have started a war, and the
writer stood there literally bursting with
pride as Mat read it out. Mat finished,
and the newspaperman looked at him
and said “Well, what do you think of
it?” “It’s a beaut,” Mat declared
enthusiastically. “Gripes, won’t Jardine
go butcher’s-hook when he reads it!”
“Dune”: “Sackfair” certainly would
look something like Father Time and Rip
Van Winkle combined should he be seen
making along the street carrying a
“snathe” (B. 7/6/’5O). He should have
bought the entire stock oi : those Lauder-
like affairs, for I’m sure he could have re-
sold them at a profit, not only to the
paspalum-ridden suburban gardener but
to cockies accustomed to using these
peculiar-shaped scythes for jobs around
garden and orchard. My attempts to buy
a Father-Time-model snathe met with no
success, but I have been offered an even
more weird-looking substitute. This con-
sists of an almost-straight length of hard-
wood, trimmed off at the corners and
slightly thicker at the base. A gadget is
bolted on to this thickened end to which
the scythe blade itself is fixed, and in
order to compensate for the lack of bow,
which was evident in the old type and to
which was fixed the right-hand grip, the
new contraption has a comfortably-shaped
long horn-like handle jutting out. The
body of the new snathe being practically
square (in cross-section) has an advantage,
inasmuch as the two handgrips cannot
possibly work their way round the stick
as did the grips on the Father-Time
model. In all, once the operator becomes
accustomed to the new device he finds it
no disadvantage. Also, when not in use,
it can be more easily hung up, or stood in
a corner—the old model had a bad habit
of taking up a lot of shed-space and being
a bit of a menace when children were
running about.


sS
bT
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Specialised Knowledge of
Estate Management
rpHE financial assets built up during the life-
A time of a Testator may present, on his death,
a maze of difficulties beyond the comprehension
of the inexperienced executor.
Efficient Estate administration demands
specialised knowledge of legal, property and
probate matters. Sixty-five years of experience
in handling all Estate problems is available at
moderate charges, when the Union Trustee is
appointed as Executor either solely or jointly
with a relative or friend.
Call for a confidential interview—or write for
your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albary, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
UTS
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.)
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 472,128 30,000 262,600 179,628 1,965,502
Reduction intangibles, £l2l .. 1,965,623
1945.. 470,466 80,000 262,500 177,966 2,143,589
Intangibles reduced, £75 .. .. 2,143,664
From tax provision, etc., £799,519.. 2,943,183
1946.. 450,735 30,000 262,500 158,235 3,101,418
1947.. 403,659 30,000 262,500 111,159 3,212,577
To plant & Invest, reserve, £50,000 1,262,577
Unexplained additions res., £48,734 1,811,311
8i p.c. 8$ p.c.
1948.. 355,179 25,000 218,750 111,429 3,422,740
Net addition reserves, £11,104 .. 3,433,844
Added intangibles, £30,125 ~ 8,403,719
1949.. 350,000 .25,000 218,750 106,250 3,509,969
Surplus sale assets, £40,241 .. .. 3,650,210
Net reduction reserves, £48,957 .. 3,501,253
Intangibles reduced, £15,681 .. .. 3,516,884
124 p.c. 124 p.c.
1950.. 554,212 87,500 328,125 188,587 3,705,471
* After deducting intangibles (now £1,066,351).
) Excluding outside interests in subsidiaries.
This big Victorian brewing organisa-
tion enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in
its home State. Last term’s profit (up
£204,212) was the best since 1941. The
three factors mainly responsible for the
improvement in the year’s earnings were
the continued growth of turnover, a
further lift in the selling-price of beer
and “closer supervision and more eco-
nomical working of the breweries.”
The Australian output of beer has
climbed steadily from 90 million gallons
in 1938-39 to 156 million gallons in
1949-50, when the increase for 12 months
was 10 million gallons, or 6.8 p.c. Over
the same period consumption per head of
population rose from 12 gallons to 19
gallons. Yet there was a steady contrac-
tion in the co.’s net earnings over the five
years to June 30, 1949. That was be-
cause rising wage, raw-material and other
costs consumed the gains from expanding
turnover and more besides.
To help relieve the pressure the
Victorian price-control authority granted
an increase of 3d. a gallon in
the selling-price of bulk beer from
the beginning of September, 1949,
making the increase sd. a gallon (the
amount originally asked for) over the last
two years. Despite increased output the
co. was unable to meet the peak summer
demand, especially for the bottled stuff.
After allowing £222,827 (up £63,884)
for depreciation and an unspecified
amount for taxation and other contingen-
cies, the board wrote net profit at
£554,212. That disregards a surplus of
£40,241 on sale of fixed assets, a contrac-
tion of £48,957 net in reserves and a re-
duction of £15,631 in intangibles. The
£554,212 was equal to 18.9 p.c. on the
£2,925,000 of share capital (it includes
300,000 £l7 p.c. cum. prefs., which ad-
vance with the ords. beyond that rate),
compared with 11.9, 12.1, 13.8, 15.4 and
16 p.c. back to 1945. The div., which had
dropped from 12+ p.c. in 1942 to 10 p.c.
for the next five years and to 8| p.c. for
the two years after that, was lifted to
p.c. again. After deducting in-
tangibles (£1,066,351), reserves stood at
£3,705,471 (up £195,502), which was
£780,471 in excess of paid capital, so the
two combined need turn in only 5.5 p.c.
to cover 12| p.c. on capital alone.
Prospects of the 12£ p.c. being re-
peated for the current term are encourag-
ing so far as turnover is concerned. The
ugly feature is the pound-a-week lift in
the basic-wage, which will send costs
rocketing over the last half of the period.
The full impact of the rise in costs will
not be felt until the 1951-52 term, so the
I2i p.c. doesn’t wear the appearance of
the rock of Gibraltar, the satisfactory
margin between last year’s earnings and
distributions notwithstanding.
C.U.B. owns over ,8 p.c. of the hotels
in Victoria and has a big plant-expan-
sion and reconstruction programme ahead
as labor and materials become available:
0.U.8. and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Outside interests* 14,974 15,121 15,969
Creditorst.. .. 432,161 692,036 922,541
Suspense account.. 9,431 14,004 8,221
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 2.970,177 8,245,897 3,618,225
Plant .. .. 648,227 827,927 960,526
Stocks, etc. .. 595,080 772,662 746,062
Book debts .. 1,156,525 1,425,619 1,437,889
Cash, etc... .. 1,556,172 1,006,400 1,033,925
* Includes proportion reserves, t Includes tax
reserves.
To meet last year’s net additions of
£372,828 to freeholds, etc., and £132,599
to plant only £230,505 was added to the
outside debt.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public but by the following holding
cos., whose scrip is listed on ’Change :
Shares in Last Market
Paid C.U.B. Div., Yield,
Capital. Par Value, p.c. p.c.
Carlton .. .. £816,992 £928,295 12.5 2.6
Melbourne Co-op. 431,981 987,268 23.0 8.0
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 8.0 8.2
Poster .. .. 115,200 124,573 13.0 4.4
Shamrock .. .. 141,345 124,573 12.0 4.4
McCracken’s .. 62,438 62,438 12.5 4.6
Miscellaneous .. 521,732
The lift in C.U.B.’s distribution enabled
the holding cos. to raise their divs., too,
with a consequent strengthening in the
price of their scrip. In addition to divs.
from their own holdings in C.U.8., some
of the cos. gather rents, etc., from pro-
perty on their own account.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends—
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 12i p.c. serves. serves.)
1944.. 64,537 86,000 10,066 18,471 268,694
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 263,694
From tax reserve, £ll,BOO .. .. 275,494
1945.. 35,510 86,000 10,066 264,938
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 262,438
1946.. 72,018 36,000 10,066 25,952 288,390
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 278,390
1947.. 78,620 36,000 10,066 82,554 310,944
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 300,944
1948.. 74,736 36,000 10,066 28,670 829,614
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 319,614
1949.. 76,531 86,000 10,066 30,465 850,079
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 340,079
Asset revaluation, £lOO,OOO .. .. 440,079
Reserves capitalised, £« n 527 .. 359,552
61 p.O. !,i
1950.. 78,682 36,000 a.u,u U o 32,616 392.168
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 882.168
* Excluding depreciation reserve.
Last term the ords. were handed
402,635 f.-p. 4s. bonus shares, one for
one —one-quarter of the capital jettisoned
in the early 1920’5. The scrip was then
consolidated into Bs. units, and paid
capital became £561,054 in 400,000 £1
9 p.c. cum. prefs. (another reminder of
the difficult and dear-money days of the
early ’twenties) and 402,635 Bs. ords. The
ord. div. was kept steady at 6d. per share,
which means that the rate dropped from
12£ p.c. to 6i p.c., equal to only p.c.
on ord. capital as it stood before the cut
in 1922. The bonus scrip came from a
capital assets reserve of £lOO,OOO, created
by writing-up the book-value of plant.
After the reconstruction of 28 years ago,
plant was modernised and extended, the
cost being met out of earnings by way of
heavily depreciation charges. There is
nothing to suggest that the recent writing-
up has been overdone.
Another interesting feature (related to
capital gearing) is the issue of 350,000
£1 5 p.c. cumulative redeemable prefs.
(taken by Colonial Mutual Life) immedi-
ately following the close of accounts.
This new capital, which ranks in front of
the 9 p.c. prefs., is redeemable at the
rate of £25,000 p.a. for eight years from
June 30, 1952, and the balance (£150,000)
at the end of the 10-year term, subject
to the co.’s right to repay from £lO,OOO
to £50,000 additional in any one year.
The fresh money is wanted to help reduce
the overdraft and provide more working
capital. The overdraft (£1,109,697 at
June 30 last) increased by £783,210 over
the last two years, mainly because of the
growth in money-value of stocks and book
debts following the rocketing of raw-
wool prices and withdrawal of the Gov-
ernment subsidy.
The board’s broad aim is to stabilise
the financial structure and guard against
the possibility of the co. finding itself
overcapitalised, should there be a heavy
and permanent fall in wool prices later
on. Meanwhile, redemption of pref.
capital would be equivalent to accumula-
tion of reserves, which would further
strengthen the position of the remaining
pref. and ord. shares. On the other hand,
should still further working capital be
needed, those on the ord. register are to
be asked to assist.
The co.’s main spinning and knitting
mills are at Coburg (Vic.), and there are
five branch factories—Kyneton, Park-
dale, Gisborne, Woodend and Highett—
set up since the war to help overcome the
labor problem. Last term the physical
volume of turnover decreased, due, the
board says, to consumer resistance to
rising' prices for woollen goods. The
money-value of sales, however, was a
record. So, after allowing £44,701 (up
£3523) for depreciation and something
for taxation, the profit was £2151 better
at £78,682, best showing since 1942. On
capital as it now stands (including the
new pref, issue) the pref. divs. and 6} p.c.
to the ords., plus £25,000 for capital re-
demption, would together call for £88,566,
or £9884 more profit than was claimed
last term.
How figures in the p. and 1. account
will pan out at next balance is difficult
to say at the moment. The export market
for tops and yarns has lost some of its
buoyancy. But locally the outlook is
expansionary, especially on the money
side, and the subsidising of locally-pro-
duced yarns will help to take some of the
sting out of our now very highly-priced
raw wool. The selling-price of yarn
(controlled) is to be based on individual
spinners costs, which will be bumped up
by the coming lift in the basic-wage, the
incidence of which will be steeper for
female than for male labor. Everything
depends upon whether the increase in
turnover will be sufficient to absorb the
growth in costs.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £480,527 £480,527 £561,054
Liabllitiesf .. ~ 483,940 1,272,111 1,427,080
Depreciation reserve 238,174 282,933 325,082
Freeholds ~ .. 184,035 182,798 183,740
Plant .. .. 392,162 465,254 646,284
Stocks .. ~ 685,526*1,378,887* 1,491,728
Book debts, etc... 243,592 342,086 345,501
Cash .. .. 16,940 6,625 28,131
t Includes tax reserve, divs. payable and contribution
to staff fund. * Includes subsidies claimed but not
received.
Of the £181,030 added to the plant item
£lOO,OOO was on account of the writing-
up already mentioned. To help meet the
other £81,030 and carry an extra £112,841
of stocks £154,969 net was added to the
outside debt, most of which is coming to
the bank. The new pref, capital will
help to lighten the load, which will still
be heavy.
At 14s. 6d. the ords. return 4.5 p.c. on a
6| p.c. div. basis. The pound prefs. at
30s. yield 6 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£2 15s. 2d. for the 9 per cents, and 345.
lid. for the ords.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
i Dividends
r-* —Pref.——Ord. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. Eeserves. serves.
& & £ £ £
1945.. 63,882 5984 8012 19,500 35,386 149,212
To staff funds, £lO,OOO .. .. 139,212
Reserves taken in, £l7Bl .. .. 140,993
Unexplained addition res., £12,910.. 153,903
1946.. 76,443 5984 3012 19,500 47,947 201,850
To staff fund, £12,000 .. .. 189,850
Unexplained addition res., £15,983.. 205,833
1947.. 110,054 5984 3012 19,500 81,558 287,891
To staff fund, £16,000 .. ..'272,391
Assets revaluation res., £70,034 .. 342,425
Unexplained addition res., £14,828.. 857,253
13J p.c.
1948.. 121,439 5984 8012 26,000 86,443 448,696
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 429,535
Share premiums, £96,176 .. .. 525,711
Unexplained addition res., £14,775.. 540,486
1949.. 124,367 5984 3012 84,999 80,372 620,858
To staff fund, £11,161 .. .. 609,697
Unexplained addition res., £4159 .. 623,856
1950.. 185,876 5984 3012 56,185120,695 744,551
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 730,390
Continued and profitable expansion of
activities is the outstanding feature of
the latest accounts of this energetic manu-
facturing, importing and merchandising
organisation, which is spread throughout
the Commonwealth. Manufacture,
centred chiefly in Melbourne, includes
bicycles (the line on which the business
grew up), radios, refrigerators, vacuum-
deaners, batteries, machine-tools, etc. On
the distributing side the co. also handles
a wide range of components in the motor,
wireless and refrigeration trades, as well
as garage equipment, washing-machines
and other household electrical goods, etc.
The co.’s own manufactures account for
about 20 p.c. of turnover, and motor
spares and equipment and other agency
lines, together with services, for the
greater part of the remaining 80 p.c.
Since the public became interested in
1926, only severe setback was during the
three slump years to 1933, when divs.
averaged 2 p.c. and ss. a share (£53,035)
was snipped off ord. capital. Recovery
was prompt, and divs. averaged 1\ p.c.,
with comfortable margins, over the next
five years. The rate dropped to 4 p.c.
in 1939, followed by 6 p.c., two lots of
8 p.c., five of 10 p.c., two of 13.3 p.c.
and then 15 p.c, last term. And over the
last eight years more of the profit has
remained in the business than has been
distributed.
Of the £512,500 of share capital,
£192,500 (£130,000 ord. and £62,500
employee) was gathered, together with
£96,176 of share premiums, since the dose
of accounts in 1948. And the lot now has
the support and assistance of £730,390 of
reserves. The £512,500 consists of 74,800
£lB p.c. and 50,200 £l6 p.c. cum, prefs.,
250,000 ss, employee redeemable partici-
pating prefs. and 1,300,000 ss. ords. The
employee shares, which rank after the
8 p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs. for capital and
divs., carry a guaranteed 3 p.c., and
advance beyond that rate point for point
with the ords.
Last, term turnover increased by an
unstated amount, reaching a peak of
£3,750,000, and the gains therefrom more
than took care of advancing costs. After
setting aside £58,781 (up £24,673) for
depreciation and £148,000 (up £55,400)
for the tax-collector, the improvement in
net earnings was £61,509. The £185,876
of profit was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£8996) and show 47.2 p.c, on average
ord. and employee capital combined,
compared with 43.7, 57.6, 50.1 and
34.6 p.c. back to 1946. That disregards
unexplained additions to reserves of £4159
and £14,161 sent to the staff fund. Pay-
ment of the increased rate of dividend
was thus a comfortable matter.
The year’s bigger trading, to which the
new Brisbane branch contributed, is
again reflected in growths of £150,289 in
stocks, £205,208 in book debts and of
£139,125 in the overdraft:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £ e
Paid capital ~ 320,000 820,000 488,088 512,500
Overdraft .. 126,094 385,491 231,588 370,713
Mortgages .. 87,470 129,070 181,170 187.270
Sundry
creditors .. 216,044 274,719 436,802 445.520
Provident fund 12,000 11,161 6,661 11,161
Tax provision.. 211,650 158,230 131,857 194.792
Final divs. .. 23,998 30,498 39,497 60,683
Freehold and
leasehold .. 214,504 276,624 327,784 341.784
Plant, etc. .. 81,389 136,438 147,710 167.597
Stocks .. 658,585 922,574 1,089,661 1,239,950
Book debts .. 302,383 456,332 549,718 754,926
Investments &
cash .. 21,699 12,225 10,487 8.772
Stocks, which account for over 49 p.c.
of total assets, appear at or under cost
and are reported clean and in good order.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£733,509) was
£111,218. Turnover, which has been
“more than maintained” since the close
of accounts, won’t need to expand much
further before the question of getting in
more capital will arise.
The ss. ords., which rose from 14s.
in January last to 19s. 9d, in April,
dropped back to 16s. in May, following
the board’s announcement that there were
no foundations for the then rumor of
a bonus-scrip issue. Last week they
stood at 20s. 7d., giving a return of 3.6 p.c.


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Abvt.
Draftsmen
American Firm,
THE
SHEFFIELD CORPORATION
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE,
M 82870 or MU8550
Has Expanded Its Operations,
Urgently Require
JUNIOR AND SENIOR
TOOL DRAFTSMEN,
Experienced in Gauges, Tools, Dies,
Jigs and Fixtures.
High salary range, covering all
grades. Overtime available to
15 hours per week.
Also First-class Toolmakers,
Diemakers, and Gaugemakers
Required for Sydney and Launceston
Manufacturing.
It Is Worth Your Time to Phose
or Write to P.O. Box 2726 x, Melb. C.l,
for Convenient Appointment.
KUV mom SAFE!
■ufHti
SANDERS
Corr«spond»nc«. lo«olc»*.
gh
fg
•tenement*, ate.. Died In the
“Sanders' con be securely
bound and converted Into a
parted book of reference o»
(ha end of each month —or
any other period.
tbtr information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DmrtbiUtnt Agt*
STDNBT
KEiDoraxi
ADELAIDE
ffS&X M
W C Penlold A C#. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd-
• V«rd«a A Sons Ltd,
Docket
Missing Friend.
JACK LOCKINGTON
(full name JOHN BOWEN LOCKINGTON)
formerly of 7 Norton Street, Sydney, son
of Teresa and late Fred Lockington, of
Melbourne, or ANY PERSON KNOWING
HIS WHEREABOUTS, please communi-
cate with GORDON RENNICK, Solicitor,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
jaJN . A V JLQJL XQJjJL P,iLQXILCJLLaa i
'•.V'
m
'
'
IS#;
m
R-v?;
I
:: M
m
m
mk
■
wm
r-m
'
a •
:: S ; ■
■
m
V M
'
m
J-hcte £ a
NATIONAL
MUTUAL
POLICY
i to MiZ y ovr need*...
and yam
Let us advise you regard-
ing all phases of Life
Assurance, including Staff
Superannuation, Group As-
surance, Home Purchase
etc. You will be under no
obligation. Write, call, or
phone 8L1271.
The National Mutual was founded in Australia in
1869. It is a purely Mutual Association —there
are NO shareholders —every member is a partner,
and the whole of the funds belong to them alone.
Funds are available for Home Purchase
Loans and other approved securities.
■ffllOML ML
LIFE ASSOCIATION #A/ASIA, LTD.
IST. 1860 < lwc - w V,CT *)
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY - • • 8L1271
on a 15 p.c. div. Net tangible
coyer is 16s. 2d. The pref.
shares, covered by £9 18s. lid.
in net tangibles, are priced to
return approximately 4.5 p.c.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’40..11,812 10 p.c.= 11,000 812 73,172
’41.. 11,669 10 „., 11,000 669 78,841
’42..11,177 10 „,, 11,000 177 74.018
’43.. 10,900 10 ~,,11,000 73.918
’44..12,170 10 ~,, 11,000 1170 76.088
'45..13,832 10 „ ~ 11,000 7
To staff fund, £lOOO ..J 7a ' 77U
’46.. 10,541 8 p.c. =s 8,800 7 74 i 7 6 511
To staff fund, £1650 .. f
’47..10.715 8 p.c, = 8,800 1915 78,426
’48.. 10,832 8 „ „ 8,800 2032 80.458
To renovations, etc., £ 1000 .. 79,458
'49.. 11,769 8 p.c. = 8,800 2969 82,427
To renovations, etc., £3OOO .. 79,427
’50..12,035 8 p.c. = 8,800 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 80.662
To renovations, etc., £lOOO ~ 79,662
In this inflationary and
“Welfare”-State age the duties
of a trustee are not easy from
any point of view. One of the
biggest problems he faces is in
dealing with trust investments.
He must obey the directions of
the trust instrument, unless de-
viation is sanctioned by the
court, and he must strive to
preserve the capital and at the
same time provide a reasonable
income for the beneficiary. He
must hold the balance fairly
between the life-tenant who re-
ceives the income and the
remainder-man who comes after
and takes the capital. Yet, with
economic conditions and the law
as they are today, achievement
of the dual functions of capital
conservation and reasonable in-
come is almost impossible unless
the testator includes a clause in
his will giving the trustee power
to invest over a wider field than
is provided by the list of legally-
authorised trustee securities.
These consist mainly of low-
interest-bearing Government and
certain public-body securities
and first mortgages.
But this does not help the
older trusts in being, or the
many cases where a testator has
failed to appreciate the serious-
ness of the limitations imposed
on his trustee by the trustee list.
What is needed here is a revision
of the law giving trustees wider
powers to invest with the fullest
safeguards for both preservation
of principal and receipt of
reasonable income under the
“prudent man” rule. Recent
legislation in the State of New
York (U.S.) provides that up to
35 p.c. of trust moneys may be
invested in bonds, debentures
and stocks (including common
stocks and shares) “fully listed”
on a “national securities ex-
change.” Excepting minor
adjustments in 1925, trustee
legislation in N. S. Wales has
never been thoroughly over-
hauled since it was put on the
statute books oyer half a
century ago.
As for the earnings of the
trustee cos., for over a decade
the tussle has been, and con-
tinues to be, one between
rapidly-rising costs and steadily-
growing returns from an ex-
panding volume of business at
fixed corpus and other charges.
And these charges, apart from
a recent small increase, have re-
mained unchanged for over half
a century. For the five years to
the close of accounts in 1940 net
earnings of this Permanent co.
averaged £12,123 compared with
averages of £11,849 for the next
five years and then £11,178 for
the five years to the close of last
accounts. Hence the drop in the
div. from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c. four
years ago. It is difficult to say
when better than 8 p.c. need be
expected. The pending stiff in-
crease in the basic-wage, the
incidence of which will be
steeper in the case of female
than male members of the staff,
promises to bite into net earn-
ings, unless offset by a further
increase in commission charges.
Estates entrusted to the co.’s
expert care last term exceeded
the value of those wound up by
£544,437:
Exes. p.c.
Trust Gross of Gross
Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
£ £ £
'20.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 p.c.
'3O. .15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
'40..22,584,608 76,014 62,602 83.4 „
'46. .26,010,826 87,059 76,509 87.9 „
'47..27,132,985 92,209 81,494 88.3 „
'4B. .27,638,812 99,210 88,378 89.0 „
'49. .28,042,898 107,173 95,404 89.0 „
’50..28,587,330 119,225 107,190 89.9 „
The year’s increase in gross
earnings was £12,052 and in
exes. £11,786, leaving the net
result only £266 better at
£12,035, equal to 10.9 p.c. on
the £llO,OOO of paid capital as
against 10.7, 9.8, 9.7, 9.5 and
12.1 p.c. back to 1945.
When the books closed the
co.’s own funds, together with
£24,422 coming to sundry
creditors, were represented by
freehold, etc., £52,621, Gov-
ernment securities, etc., £42,992,
mortgages £87,083, cash £33,779
and shares in the Canberra sub-
sidiary £5009.
At 21s, the £5 shares paid to
11s. —755. of the remaining 89s.
is callable only if needed in the
event of liquidation—return 4.2
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 18s. lid.
“Sumting Nutting”: Tennant
Creek offers yet another example
of the retardation which can re-
sult from premature geological
theorising. One of the first
carefuJJy-prepared reports on
the field was that by a
geologist who did a good job as
far as the exposures then avail-
able permitted, but he laid too
much stress on controls which
thousands of feet of develop-
ment and hundreds of feet of
diamond - drilling have since
proved to be insufficient to ex-
plain the ore-bodies at Noble’s
Nob, Eldorado and Peko, to
name only the three most im-
portant known ore-bodies in the
south-eastern portion of the
field. W. J. Turner, London-
trained, and R. I. Rankin, Aus-
tralia-trained, were among the
first to recognise the importance
of folding of those ancient rocks.
The Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources at Canberra has now
established a party on the field,
and good progress is being
made toward solving local prob-
lems, Diamond-drilling is pro-
ceeding on the Peko, where
gold and copper have been
located at 320 ft., and on Noble's
Nob, where traces of gold have
been found at 300 ft.
» * * ♦
The Sept., 1949, lift in the
price of gold gave Hill 50, near
Mt. Magnet, on the Murchison
field, W.A., a new lease of life.
For the year to June 30 last the
co, milled 53,317 short tons ore
(down 3063 tons) for 12,6220 z.
fine gold (down 9940 z.), which
realised £185,385 (up £38,874).
Including development (£17,899)
and depreciation (£10,294), exes,
totalled £135,315 (up £6816),
leaving a profit of £50,057 (up
£31,985). Per ton of ore treated
revenue was equal to £3 9s, 4d.,
all-in exes. £2 10s. 9d. and profit
18s. 9d. Corresponding figures
for the previous year were
£2 125., £2 ss. 7d. and 6s. sd.
respectively. A 9d. div. (Is. 3d.
in the previous year) called for
£28,125, Ore reserves at June 30
were estimated at 18,200 short
tons above the 400 ft. level and
at 200,000 short tons, averaging
sidwt., between the 400 ft. and
600 ft. levels. The drill has con-
firmed continuation of the ore-
body to below the 800 ft. level.
The main shaft has been sunk to
942 ft., but it might not be in
operation before present avail-
able ore is depleted, which means
a possible gap in earnings and,
therefore, divs.


PENFOIDS
BRANDY
■HOSP IT At!
1
i; ■
m
BRAHDYIT
m
mm
m
jy,*
Your WILL is
first and foremost
a business matter
Your Will is probably the
most important document that
you will ever sign. Failure to
treat it as a business matter of
the highest importance may prove
cosdy to your family.
The best procedure is to
discuss your problems, in con-
fidence, with Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited. The Company
has more than 63 years experience
in Estate administration and is
well qualified to guide you in
your planning.
Tn
luirrrrroym^m
&raia&JM§ , i
»t atjmMS \
91
na,rrr% msa
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by
a Solicitor. This will involve the appointment of an
Executor and Trustee. If you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly with a
relative or friend you Will be following the lead of many
of our wisest and most successful citizens.
If you would have particulars of the services offered by the
Company, ring 80377 or write, and make an appointment.
A Senior Officer will be pleased to give the information you
desire.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, Etc.
TRUST AND AGENCY
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70.000,000
Directors: Hon. T. A. J, PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAG 0A WAOOA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business.Rollery.Etc.
“Capital Erosion”
An outline of the plan put
forward by the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. to deal with
“capital levies through income
tax” was published in The
Bulletin last week. More
details of the problem and
the proposed remedy may be
quoted:
Present rules for computing taxable
profits ignore the effects of inflation
and higher cost levels on the ability
of a business (and of Australian
industry generally) to preserve its
productive capacity. This is the result
of restricting allowances for deprecia-
tion to original money cost and
ignoring the fact that it costs much
more to replace stocks of materials
and worn or outmoded plant. If only
the same amount of money is avail-
able as before, production is unavoid-
ably restricted because a smaller
quantity of material, and/or plant of
smaller capacity, is all that can be
bought....
Our proposal is that, for taxation
purposes, the historical money cost of
assets be corrected to Current values
by multiplying by an “inflation
factor,” which the Commonwealth
Statistician could readily provide for
future years. In future, income-tax
depreciation allowances should be
permanently tied to “inflatkfh factors.”
Also, businesses using assets
acquired before the war, and in the
war years before inflation became so
appreciable, should be given relief.
While full relief may not be practic-
able in those cases, a method is pro-
posed that will provide a considerable
broad measure of relief and be simple
to administer....
It must be recognised that inflation,
greater or less, is with us to stay.
There is no prospect of a return to
the 1939 price-level. Even in the
Great Depression prices did not fall
to the level operating before World
War I. While the long-term trend of
the price-level has been upwards,
Governments nowadays are com-
mitted to deliberate fiscal action to
maintain full employment, and
budgeting for full employment is
admitted to mean budgeting for a
gradual rise in the general price-level
—in other words, for continuing
inflation.
We should not imagine that because
of the present steps and intentions of
the Government to control inflation,
any Government in future is likely
to pursue an active deflationary policy,
or allow deflation to proceed if it
can possibly be avoided. While the
present rate of inflation is undesirably
high, and we all hope to see it
brought under control, business
nevertheless has something to gain
from the new policy of full employ,
ment, with its concomitant of some
degree of continuing inflation, and
therefore needs to adapt itself to
"Here you are, folks—right off the front of the barrow !”
inflationary conditions. Business is
unquestionably entitled in this matter
of the computation of taxable profits
to require correction as far as is now
practicable for the degree of inflation
experienced to date; also a fully-
operating scheme for preventing the
seepage of capital into taxation
revenue in future....
In the short run adoption of our
proposals would reduce the Trea-
surer’s receipts from taxation. They
would, however, be a definite move
towards raising the level of produc-
tion and removing the serious retard-
ing effect that the present tax-system
has on the ability and desire of
industry, especially old-established
industry, to put in new, more power-
ful, more efficient and labor-saving
equipment....
In European countries that have
experienced serious inflation there is
no argument about the overall need
for alteration of tax laws that were in
principle sound enough under the
conditions of stable money-values.
The methods of giving relief have
been various, but it is accepted that
the relief was just and necessary.
The Australian outlook, conditioned
for years by wage adjustment to
accord with changing money-values,
should provide an understanding
atmosphere for remedial action.
France, Belgium, Sweden, can hardly
be described as “capitalist”- or “pri-
vate-enterprise’’-minded-—on the con-
trary; yet these countries are included
amongst those who have afforded
very substantial relief.
Where real capital is dissipated
from any cause, the standards of
material welfare of the population
will fall or fail to rise as they should.
It is to be hoped that the lesson of
the industrial revolution and the last
150 years has been well learned, viz.,
that only by more and more real
capital, more and more plant and
machinery, can man’s hours of leisure
be increased, the arduousness of work
be reduced, and his material welfare
at the same time increased. It is
national economic folly to create or
preserve an economic climate that
tends to induce industry (because of
stringency of resources, plus recogni-
tion of labor costs, running costs and
maintenance no matter how high—
but not of real depreciation) to keep
on repairing and operating outmoded
plant. Recent investigations in Eng-
land and America have shown the
vital part played by “horsepower per
man.’’
The basic plan of action should be,
in fact, what it professes to be in
theory, viz., towards a more favorable
climate for enterprise, capital conser-
vation and capital development, lead-
ing to more and better tools of pro-
duction.
Stoppage of the income-tax-caused
erosion of capital would be a major
step in that direction,
W. C. Penfold Holdings
Formed on October 12, 1950,
to acquire all the shares in W.
C, Penfold and Co, Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney printers and stationers,
W. C. Penfold Holdings, Ltd.,
has had a ready public response
to its offering of 121,628 ords.
of 10s, each at par. An issue
of 50,000 5 p.c. £1 cum. prefs.
is being subscribed privately.
The operating co. whose
shares are being acquired had
net tangible assets of £201,050
at June 30, 1950. Consideration
payable to the vendors is
£189,182 in 378,365 10s. ords.
When all the new capital is in,
allowing £7500 for preliminary
exes, and underwriting, net tan-
gibles on book-values will be
equivalent to 10s, 2d. a share.
No goodwill figures in the deal,
and book-value of plant is con-
sidered to be substantially below
present-day valuations.
The working co. has not paid
any dividends since the close of
the last financial year, and any
distributions out of current
profits will go wholly to the new
holding co. Tax-free reserves in
the operating co. at June 30
totalled £32,892.
Adjusted to a public-co. basis,
and allowing for divs. on em-
ployees’ shares in the operating
co. (2s. a share on 10,000 shares
of a shilling each) and pref. divs.
in the holding co., net earnings
in 1948 were equal to 5 p.c. on
the proposed ord. capital. For
1949 the figure was 7.25 p.c.,
1950 13.82 p.c. The earnings
have also been adjusted to allow
for the saving in rental follow-
ing purchase of the factory.
An option to buy the factory
(at Elizabeth-street, Redfera) “at
a satisfactory figure” is held by
the new co. The Pitt-street and
Hosking-place premises in the
city are to be retained by W. C.
Penfold and Co. (Investments),
Ltd., but the present co. has a
10-year lease, with provision for
renewal, of those portions of the
buildings it already occupies.
Since the preparation of the
prospectus an approach has been
made to the Capital Issues Board
for permission to issue a further
10,000 10s. shares to employees.
If these are allotted the holding
co, will start off with a paid
capital of £305,000 in 510,000
10s. ords. and employees’ shares
and 50,000 £1 prefs.
The printing trade is very
busy at present, and paper
stocks are increasing in value.
In the books of the Penfold
operating co. all stocks are said
to be included at the lower of
cost or market value, and they
figure at £197,433.
Central Banks
The decision to invite the
governors of the central banks
of a number of countries tp
Australia in February, 1951, to
discuss world problems and
economic conditions should
have worth-while results.
With the exception of Eng-
land, most of the institutions to
be represented have been estab-
lished for only a short time.
The Reserve Bank of India was
created in 1934, New Zealand's
reserve bank was established in
1933, the Central Bank of
Ceylon in August this year and
the South African Reserve Bank
in 1925. The development of
our Commonwealth Bank as a
central bank began in 1924.
Therefore, apart from discussion
of economic problems generally,
great mutual benefit may be
derived from the conference in
the way of policy.
There has been a growing
belief since the war that
economies (ours for one) can
insulate and isolate themselves
from large fluctuations in those
overseas. That this is already
contradicted to a large extent
by the high dependence of some
of our primary industries on
overseas markets is very evident.
It is thus a wise precaution to
employ every possible means of
co - operation with overseas
countries so that common prob-
lems may be met in a co-
ordinated way.
It is unfortunate, however,
that so far it appears that the
U.S.A. will not be represented.
This could be a serious loss
when it is remembered that it
is a key economy. Further,
it is to be remembered that
many still doubt whether the full
significance of Commonwealth
and/or sterling-currency-coun-
try relationships are fully under-
stood in the U.S.A.


rm
m
m
fss
"’. - ■
■■V s
■ :
THE TOLBOOTH, EDINBURGH
The Tolbooth in The Canon-gate,
Edinburgh, Scotland, the stairs
of which countless prisoners,
humble and of high degree, have
climbed to their doom. The
ancient clock is a striking fea-
ture of the structure.
THf IMP IRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
fim-7-59
I'll
OYER
8 0 0
FRONT
DOORS
One of these doors is near you —it is
the door to your local branch or agency
of the Bank of New South Wales.
The “Wales” is made up from over 800
such branches and agencies, large and
small, throughout Australia, New Zealand,
Fiji, Papua and New Guinea and two
branches in London,
Ssi
m
At your own local branch there are
officers who know your district, understand
your needs and ap-
preciate your point
of view. Through
your own branch,
you can command
the full range of
services of the first
bank in Australia.
It’s your bank and
we like to see you
make full use of it.
HI
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE'S BANK SINCE ISI 7
(INCOEPOEATIOD IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. BADFOED (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS, NORMAN FBAZEB.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
MUMZONE
PRODUCTS LIMITED
PAYNEHAM ROAD
ST. PETERS, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers of the famous “Gardener” Brand
Super Quality Food Products
•
CAPITAL INCREASE
•
75,000
“A” ORDINARY SHARES
Asset Backing £l/8/6 for each fully-paid
Ordinary Share
•
Dividends at the rate of 6% have been paid
for the past six years.
•
For further particulars regarding this progressive South
Australian Cannery
write to the Company or to
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Telephone MAS I 18, M 6542.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Pine-trees and Bungling
Bungling, obstruction or sheer
stupidity at high levels in New
Zealand is holding back com-
mercial forestry enterprise when
the brakes should be off and the
industry should be romping
ahead to cash in on vast pine
forests planted a generation ago
with the aid of millions of Aus-
tralian capital and now at or
near the milling stage.
David Henry, chairman of
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., and
leading spokesman for private
interests, said in mid-November
that a £5 million chlorine plant
which Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries, Ltd., was planning to build
at Tauranga had been lost to
Maoriland because of “lack of
harmony in the drive toward the
utilisation of timber” in the
Dominion. Construction plans
were stopped six months ago
and the project was diverted to
Australia, Another big scheme
was blocked when an Australian
newsprint co. asked for a licence
to produce newsprint in N.Z.,
but was told to wait until the
proposed State pulp-and-paper
mill at Murupara was in pro-
duction. As this might be 1957,
or even later, precious years will
be lost while the pines go on
growing at a rate of several
million log super-feet daily.
The seeds of obstruction
sprouted and took root in the
days of Socialism, and have had
too firm a hold for the new
“free-enterprise” Government to
uproot them yet. Meanwhile
tens of thousands of investors,
in Maoriland and abroad, who
succumbed in the ’twenties to
dazzling promises of fortunes
from trees, and backed their
faith with hard-earned savings,
must just wait and wait. In
place of the original wave of
super-optimism there is now a
sober, realistic view, which en-
visages no greater rewards than
come the way of normally sue-
cessful industry, and these are
still not in sight, except for
modest 5 p.c. divs. paid for the
past three years by Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., which has
given a lead others would like to
follow.
Growing trees, once seen as
the perfect answer to the “get-
rich-quick” investor’s prayer,
are viewed with mingled feelings
today by those who have to
wrestle with the problems of
turning them into profit in
M.L.’s favorable climate. To
build and equip a group of in-
dustries for milling and market-
ing timber, wallboard, pulp and
paper on an outsize scale in
double-quick time seems almost
beyond the power of easygoing
Maoriland, but it must put its
back into it. And M.L. can’t
afford to have its forestry cos.
thwarted by selfish, rather crude
efforts of the State Forest Ser-
vice to have things all its own
way.
New Zealand’s planted forests,
mainly pines, cover 800,000
acres, shared by the State and
private owners roughly on a
fifty-fifty basis, and have swal-
lowed up £25 million of capital.
If the scores of millions of trees
are to be cut and milled as fast
as they mature the output will
have to be lifted at least fifteen
times over to 1000 million super
feet yearly in the next quarter-
century. Whether this can be
done will be decided in the
decade now begun.
Torquay and Trade
When Torquay trade and
tariff talks behind closed doors
ran into their second month
there were signs of growing un-
easiness in New Zealand busi-
ness circles over possible effects
of world trade pacts if decisions
reached at Geneva in 1947 were
fastened on Maoriland for a
further term. The Retailers’
Federation, most directly in the
line of fire, raised a cry “hands
off trade” when it saw what
looked like the writing on the
wall.
Twelve years of tight control
of imports, clamped down by
the Socialists at the end of 1938,
had forced retailers to long for
nothing more than freedom and
a chance to buy in the way they
thought best. Maorilanders,
who have suffered to an extent
Australians can hardly credit
through shortages, irregularity
of supplies, low quality and
artificially high prices in the
post-war “prosperity” years, see
the situation from much the
same angle as retailers, and
don’t expect the rising cost of
living to be reined in until de-
mand and supply are restored to
balance.
The new Government has de-
controlled a third of New Zea-
land’s imports for purchases
from soft-currency areas, but
this still leaves the lion’s share
of trade in a straitjacket. One
of the hurdles is exchange weak-
ness, which makes the Govern-
ment scared of throwing open
the doors to imports, or even of
handing control back to the
banks as in the depression years,
to guard the purse-strings and
let traders spend available funds
as they please.
Cagey Minister of Commerce
C. M. Bowden is sheltering,
meanwhile, behind a statement
of a triple objective in trade,
which might mean nearly any-
thing the Government decides —
to further the interests of
primary exporting industries, to
expand manufacturing develop-
ment and to safeguard Imperial-
preference rights. There’s no
getting away from the fact that
the N.Z. pound buys more ex-
ternally than internally, and this
keeps it under continuous pres-
sure from the rear. High in-
ternal costs and underproduc-
tion don’t help, and the only
cushion at the moment —for-
tunately a big one—is the wool
boom, which is pouring much-
needed millions into the
Dominion’s over-strained ex-
change pool.
Carpet-manufacturing
Since body - carpet - making
was launched in New Zealand a
little more than a couple of
years ago the infant industry has
found its sea-legs and is now on
a profit-earning basis, with two
rivals—Felt and Textiles of
N.Z., Ltd. (a subsidiary of the
Australian concern) and Tatters-
field, Ltd.—rationing output to
an undersupplied market. So
long as the seller is on top there
shouldn’t be much to worry
about, for high costs can be
passed on in price-rises, but later
on the spur of outside competi-
tion will be felt and might hurt.
To temper this blow, Maori-
land enterprise is counting on
the shelter of the protective
umbrella when the time comes.
“It’s a grand industry for New
Zealand,” said James W. Tatters-
field at the launching, and both
cos. are proud of their achieve-
ments so far. They’re not
weighed down by the hazards of
heavy capitalisation like some
other post-war ventures, and
they have the raw material —
crossbred wool —at their door.
Felt and Textiles’ offspring,
labelled the Carpet Manufactur-
ing Co. (N.Z.), Ltd., Christ-
church, is operating on a capital
of only £66,667, and Tatters-
field’s base is a good deal
narrower, for this co. has built
a group of industries, mainly
textile, on a slender-looking
capital structure of £55,000,
supplemented by funds ploughed
back from profits over 38 years.
After a loss in the warming-up
year, Tattersfield’s broadlooms
earned their keep in the latest
term (to Sept. 19), and the solid
co. set a record for MX, in-
dustry by netting £31,356, to
cover its 12i p.c, div. more than
four times over and bring a big
windfall for reserves, now more
than double capital. Yorkshire
traditions transplanted to New
Zealand back in the early years
of the century and faithfully
followed by the family concern
in bad tunes and good have paid
well.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
With half of social Sydney exhausted
from Melbourne hospitality at the Cup,
and the other half nerve-wracked by their
families’ examination efforts, there has
been a certain lack of gaiety in town this
week. The brightest spots have been the
trenchant and witty remarks that seem
to come so effortlessly from the visiting
Archbishop of Canterbury.
Apropos of examinations, according to
the Leaving English paper, there are two
meanings to the sentence “Some people
will worry over nothing,” but there is
only one meaning to the sentence “Some
English examiners worry over trivial
things.”
When Elizabeth Northcott opened the
Book Collection Day for the Bush Book
Club she spoke of the solace that books
had been to people in flooded areas. More
than 1200 books and 4800 magazines
were received on this day, the prize for
the best collection for a bushman and
his wife going to Mrs. Keith Mackay,
who chose “Storm of Time,” “Mr.
Byculla,” “Forever to Remain,” “The
Kon-tiki Expedition,” “The Show Must
Go On” and “And So to Rome.” The
assistant-secretary, Mrs. Raymond, said
that Lloyd Douglas was one of the most
popular authors with country people, also
Ernestine Hill. Australian authors were
frequently asked for, but most in demand
were Wild West stories for the men and
love stories for the women. Present at
the opening were Miss Barbara Knox,
president of the club. Miss Beulah Bolton,
secretary, who shortly leaves for England,
Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes, Mrs. James
Dickson, Mrs. McClure Smith and Mrs.
C. M. Guiney.
Shore chapel was crowded for Cae
Marr’s marriage with Mick Angus on
Thursday evening. There were, of
course, blackouts and rain, but the bride
was on time and looked charming in
French silver-threaded lace. The recep-
tion was at Killara Golf Club. Cae and
her husband will live in Brisbane.
The new play at the Independent, “The
Madwoman of Chaillot,” provided plenty
of laughs with its crazy wit. Emile and
Flora Mercier, regular first-nighters at
the Independent, seemed to find it highly
amusing, which gives some idea of what
it’s like. Dr. Robert Patterson and his
vivid wife were there, also Max and
Thelma Afford, Dr. Alphons Silbermann,
Elaine Haxton and Mrs. Brockhoff,
accompanied by her pretty ’teenage
daughter Pam.
A new project which seems destined
for great success is the N.S.W. Garden
Club, founded last week. The club will
be concerned with helping with the im-
provement and beautification of smaller
suburban gardens, the planting and preser-
vation of trees, especially native trees,
and the encouragement of indoor-,
window- and veranda-gardening for flat-
dwellers. Mrs. Arthur Davis, who is
well known for her work with the Red
Cross Flower Festival, was in the chair
and was elected first president. Lady
Gillan spoke of similar associations in
England, and Mrs. Donald Smith reported
that she was sending to America for in-
formation on the New York Garden
Club, gardening films that may be avail-
able, and general literature on the sub-
ject. The suggestion that it should be
called “The Garden Lovers’ Club” was
rejected on the grounds that the name
was too sentimental and might scare the
men off. Present were Mrs, Alan
Williams, Mrs. Mark Barnett, Mrs. Phyllis
Burke, Mrs. J. Martin, Miss Margaret
Gillespie, Mrs. H. E, Ingman, Erik Lang-
ker, R, H. Anderson, Stanley Lipscombe
and Reg Edwards.
The Manly Art Gallery was the
pleasant rendezvous for the Manly
Musical Society and members of the
English-Speaking Union last week. The
guests, who were welcomed by the presi-
dent, Mrs, H. Slade, were entertained by
musical items by Mrs. Harry Twigden,
readings from Shakspeare, Keats, Francis
Thompson and Dorothea Mackellar by
Mrs. S. J. Jauncy, and an interesting talk
on art by Mr. Erik Langker. The Gallery,
which has been established for 25 years,
contains some beautiful oil paintings, and
a special room is devoted to the works of
Dattilo-Rubbo. It had been charmingly
decorated with flowers by the committee.
Among the guests were Mrs. W. C. Went-
worth and the Mayor of Manly.
The glamor-spy during the week dis-
covered Mrs. Mark Barnett’s beautiful
brooch (two birds with moonstone
bodies and tiny gold wings), Lady Gil-
lan’s grey snakeskin shoes, belt and hand-
bag, Mrs. Graham Swan’s black acces-
sories with a pale-lime dress, Mrs. J.
Martin’s single pale-golden pansy as a
buttonhole, Elaine Haxton’s flat black
shoes with gold-barred vamp, her black
faille suit, her tiny grey satin hat with
the cheeky feather and her black-and-
white scarf, Mrs. Millard Hagen’s per-
fect grey suit, and Mrs. H. E, Ingman’s
natural ballibuntal hat lined with black
and bearing two soft pastel roses.
Mrs. Leonard Hurst, who was June
Williams, of Kingscote (S.A.), returned
to Australia recently after a year’s study
at Denver University, Colorado (U.S.A.),
which she attended on a Y.W.C.A.
National Scholarship. June concentrated
on group work for social services, being
specially interested in camps for handi-
capped children and square-dancing,
which she found provided the sociability
so important to her work. Most of the
children at the camps were Latin-
Americans, but included also Anglo-
Americans and negroes, so that there
was a language difficulty to be overcome
as well as personal and psychological
problems. Square-dancing, she found,
was a great help; one little girl, crippled
because she hadn’t enough confidence to
walk, threw away her crutches towards
the end of the camp and joined in with
the others. It was at Denver University
that June met Leonard Hurst, who was
studying sociology and was a profes-
sional square-dance caller. They were
married last April, and have come to
Australia to give square-dance broadcasts
for the A.B.C, June is small and
vigorous, with a strong attractive voice
and a zestful personality.
Another Y.W.C.A. scholarship-winner
who has returned is Bessie Sweetland,
general secretary of the Newcastle
Y.W.C.A. Her studies took her to the
Himalayas, where a six-weeks’ training
conference was held for 40 Y.W.C.A.
representatives of 14 countries, mostly
Asiatic. The discussions were led by the
president of the world “Y.,” whom Miss
Sweetland found “efficient and human,
an unusual combination.” The subjects
discussed were Christian affirmation,
Y.W.C.A. methods and techniques, and
the place of the “Y.” in the social and
political pattern of today. Each morning
a religious service was held in turn by the
delegates, who included Anglicans,
Catholics, Methodists, Swedish Lutherans
and members of the Syrian Church. Miss
Sweetland said she was delighted and
inspired by the way the delegates co-
operated with one another, and by the
sense of unity membership of the
Y.W.C.A. created among people of so
many different cultures and faiths.
Byram Mansell came along to the
committee meeting of the Anti-T.B.
Association to receive his prize for the
best table in their table-setting competi-
tion. He has donated a cocktail-tray, de-
signed and decorated by himself, as
second prize in the raffle which will be
drawn on December 8. The first prize
in this raffle should interest people who
have children, as it is a miniature to be
painted by Mrs. C. H. Canfield. The
tickets can be obtained from Miss Loli
Ernst, MAI 164. This committee has
collected £lOOO during the past six
months for the anti-t.b. clinic, which
they hope will be devoted to the X-ray
department.
The wise people who buy their Christ-
mas-cards now, and the foolish ones who
buy them on Christmas Eve, would ail
do well to invest in some Red Cross
Art Union cards. These show Australian
designs and are one shilling each (or six
for five shillings). The total value of
the prizes is £2OOO, so that one card may
pay big dividends. They are obtainable
from Red Cross House, 27 Jamieson-
street, or from any Red Cross branch.
From Melbourne
Bagpipes skirled and braw laddies
danced the eightsome, the petronella and
strip-the-willow with pretty partners wear-
ing clan tartan ribbon sashes across even-
ing gowns at the Highland Ball in St.
Kilda Town Hall, Regimental trophies
and shields of the Victorian Scottish Regi-
ment formed part of the decor, and at
the back of the official table the Royal
Standard of Scotland, the Union Jack
and the Australian flag were draped. As
light-footed as any premier-ballerina, four
lassies in kilts danced the Hopetoun reel.
The regimental band piped into the ball-
room the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
Lady Brooks and their daughter Jeanette.
The Governor’s lady wore a gown of
pale-pink lace mounted on matching
satin, which was made with a bouffant
skirt and a round off-the-shoulder neck-
line. Jeanette Brooks’s white organza
gown had an off-the-shoulder bodice.
Mrs. Stanley Smith’s aqua-blue satins
contrasted with the brilliant crimson of
the Stuart dress-kilt worn by her hus-
band. Mrs. F. Patrick wore a white
broderie Anglaise gown and tartan sash.
Mrs. W. Kirkhope was in elephant’s-
breath satin. The hon. colonel of the
regiment, Lieut.-General Sir Stanley
Savige, and his wife were among the
official guests, who included Lieut.-
General S. F. Rowell and Mrs. Rowell,
she in attractive florals. Mrs. Ken
Menzies was with her husband, son of
the P.M. Ken sported a kilt of the family
tartan.
This is Judith, younger daughter of Mr,
and Mrs. A. Silk, of Toorak, who returned
recently from a trip overseas to be brides-
maid at her sister Joan’s wedding. She is
treasurer for the Gala Film Preview
which is to be held in the Toorak Village
Theatre on December 7 for the Women’s
Hospital Appeal, and which is being
organised by the Women’s Hospital
Toorak Junior Auxiliary, of which Mrs.
E. M. Cornfoot is patroness. Ticket-
secretaries are Margaret Cox (8J4862),
Mrs. Clive Ormond (UY5908), and Mrs.
S. R. Bickerdike (Win. 3648). Judith is
an old Mandeville Hall girl. Photo, by
Athol Shmith.
When Pauline Florence, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Wallis, of Warra-
wee, Seymour, was married at the Toorak
Presbyterian Church, Sir Dallas Brooks
and his wife and daughter were among
the guests. The bride’s gown of ivory
French brocade was cut on classical lines,
and her flowing tulle veil was held in
place with a twisted rouleaux of brocade
and tiny clusters of orange-blossom.
Pinned in the bodice of her gown was
the “something borrowed” —a lovely bow
of diamonds —and she carried a bouquet
of Christmas-lilies, Maids in attendance
were Gwen Thomas and Gwenda Mc-
Intosh. Their gowns of buttercup faille
had finely-tucked bodices and wide skirts
with pleating at the hipline. They carried
bouquets of cream and gold roses to
match those worn with their tulle coro-
nets. Bridegroom Robert Alexander,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Hunter,
of Northwood Park, Seymour, had Darby
Dunstan for best man; the bride’s
brother Bob was groomsman.
Reception was held at Grosvenor,
Toorak. Lady Brooks chose a graceful
gown of black Chantilly, with a blue fox
jacket. Her daughter Jeanette was in ice-
blue satin-brocade. Mrs. Wallis’s full-
skirted gown was of coral-pink crepe,
Mrs. Hunter’s gown of blue-grey faille
was worn with a short matching jacket.
Guests included Mrs. Essington Lewis,
in a black jet-embroidered crepe gown,
and her daughters, Mary and Jane. Mrs.
Humphrey de Crespigny’s slim-fitting
gown was of white satin printed in muted
floral tones.
With summer still to make its appear-
ance, it seemed a little odd to sit through
the first, of the autumn fashion showings.
Douglas Cox was first off the mark with
his “Fall” Co-ordinates of 1951. Not in
years has there been so much color in
fashion or so much per costume. For
next season he will star mink, a mole
tone which has had a great vogue over-
seas ; suspense, a creme de menthe shade
which is strikingly lovely for the auburn-
haired ; dusty-lilac ; hunting-green —a tone
deeper than emerald—and easy red, really
a scarlet. Sanka is a warm brown, blue
haze very delicate, tangerine bold and
arresting, royalette, a variation of the
royal-blue theme, gold and sparkling bur-
gundy, colors which speak for themselves.
Keeping in mind thei winter silhouette for
frocks that must be worn under a coat,
the line is simple and slimming, but gives
ample room for movement. Fabrics for
autumn and winter are velveteen, cordu-
roy velvet, duvetyn, a new washing wool
fabric and a cloth consisting of a mixture
of cotton and silk, also washable. The
most interesting neckline to be worn for
day wear will be the step-up rever and,
as in previous collections, the length of
the skirt still depends on the size of the
wearer, as well as the type of garment.
For evening- and cocktail-wear the main
features are the plunging neckline, one
revealed shoulder, triangular neckline, the
portrait, halter rever, and the step-up
rever, which may be winged. Many of
the gowns featured the uneven hemline,
and some prominence - was given to the
“shapely-shaft” skirt from overseas. The
fabrics used to make these after-5 p.m.
ensembles were very beautiful. Velveteen,
faille —plain, alpaca, striped or self-
spotted—jersey, nylon taffeta, sheer mar-
quisette, taffetas in stripes, checks or
spots, slipper-satin and lace. For the
’teen-ager the little cracker-jackets and
air-conditioned shortees are excellent.
They are to be worn over autumn dresses
and take the place of fur jackets or capes.
With all this color, however, a certain
reticence will be necessary. With electric-
or bright royal-blue, for instance, the
“control” is, inevitably, some black. With
many browns, greys, blues, there is, this
autumn, white. With red tones, several
shades of brown, from beige to almost
black, will be worn. One strong new rule
will be to wear complementary colors
rather than contrasting ones. One color
shaded up and down is “correct.”
For a few brief hours the clock was
turned back and the lovely, interesting
fashions of Regency, mid-Victorian and
Edwardian days were paraded before an
audience composed of members of the
National Gallery Society of Victoria.
Twenty-six of the wonderful gowns had
been lent for the evening by Mrs. D.
Gordon—they had been worn by her
grandmother. The parade opened as two
girls wearing white wigs and gowns of
the Regency period came sedately down
the long stretch of the Staweil Gallery ;
they were followed by ballet-girls with
their partners, all powder and patches, to
dance a gavotte. There were frocks for
every period in the life of the Victorian
lady. Shopping for her family she dressed
in blue-and-white striped, high-necked
frock and small black bonnet. For visit-
ing, a black taffeta crinoline gown and
lace shawl, her bonnet severe, the
ensemble finished with a long-handled
umbrella. And so through the day until
she went to ball or opera, wearing a
gown which you may see reproduced in
modern fashions. Two of the gowns
shown had been worn for the Coronation
of King Edward VII. They were recently
given to the National Gallery by Lady
Nicholson, wife of English painter Sir
William Nicholson. One is fashioned of
shell-pink satin, appliqued with a pale-
apple-green leaf design. It is cut off-the-
shoulder, has a train and is heavily en-
crusted with diamente. The other, also
encrusted with diamente, has a train. It
is made of cream satin, embroidered with
a twig design. Among those who showed
off these gowns were Lady Bruche, Lady
Hyde, Mesdames F. H. Wright, Heath-
cote Wright, W- Weatherly and C. O.
Olsen, Alice Carse, Marjorie Byron
Moore, Denise Raleigh and Valerie
Sloane. Lady Brooks, attended by Betty
Everard, sat with Mrs, Daryl Lindsay and
Mrs. Kenneth Myer. Mrs. Aubrey Gib-
son, Lady Murdoch, Mrs. Rupert Downes
and Mrs, lan Potter were others in the
large audience.
A very refined version of the rip-roar-
ing days of the Bendigo gold-rush is “The
Highwayman,” the Australian musical
comedy which had its gala premiere at
the King’s Theatre. One of the high-
lights of this new contribution to ’the
theatre is an aborigine corroboree which
closes the first act. The presence of the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, his wife,
daughter and members of the personal
suite and a beautifully-gowned audience,
plus a back-stage party, added to the
glamor of the night. Lady Brooks chose
a slim-fitting gown of cream chiffon
printed in floral tonings. Jeanette Brooks
wore a gold-threaded blue brocade gown,
full-skirted.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
o
O
T
PERSONAL ITEMS
It’s not often given to a man to see
his dreams come to such complete fruition
in his lifetime as Wilmot Hudson Fysh
has been favored to see his. After War
I Fysh and Fergus McMaster were in
Queensland waylaying any likely sup-
porter for their brain-child—an aerial
service in Central Queensland. The dream
began to materialise when, in 1920,
Fysh founded Qantas, the first commer-
cial passenger service in the British
Empire. In 1922 he carried the first air-
mail in Queensland, from Charleville to
Cloncurry. By 1934 Qantas had grown
sufficiently to rate handling of the Aus-
tralian section of the London-Australia
airmail route. Now (with Qantas 30
years of age last week) Fysh controls
airborne giants, with his one-room office
of 1920 exchanged for a modem suite
in the Shell building in Sydney. The only
features of the company’s set-up still un-
changed are Ye Olde Flying Fysh him-
self (as his mates in Longreach used to
call him) and his steady belief that the
most fascinating pastime in the world is
flying.
Apart from underproduction of coal,
slow turn-round of ships is one of the
most worrying features of the current
industrial scene. To some degree nearly
every branch of industry suffers from its
retarding influence, but naturally the main
headaches fall to those whose job it is
to keep the ships moving. It is therefore
rather surprising that Heth found the
brow of Frank Reginald Harris, Sydney
manager of the Adelaide Steamship
SHIPS.
Company and victim of the accom-
panying sketch, relatively unruffled.
Possibly years of experience in dealing
with troubles caused by the Red rulers
of the waterfront confer a certain amount
of immunity in this regard. Harris joined
the Adelaide Company’s head office 40-
odd years ago, went to Melbourne as
assistant-manager in 1931, to Brisbane as
manager 10 years later and took over
Sydney branch in 1946. In the Kaiser’s
War he put in three years in France with
sth Div. Artillery, but his best feat of
marksmanship was recorded on Kooyonga
golf-links, near Adelaide, a decade
later. He sliced his tee shot on the
fourteenth and saw it score a near-miss
on the Adelaide Company’s secretary, who
was pottering along, doing no harm to
anybody, a couple of fairways away.
Shortly after that Harris was transferred
to Melbourne.
Born in South Africa and educated in
Melbourne, 37-year-old Anthony James,
M. 8.8.5., and a Fellow of the Royal
Australasian College of Surgeons, suc-
ceeds Murray Falconer as head of the
neuro-surgical unit at Dunedin (Ml.)
hospital and lecturer in neuro-surgery
at Otago medical school. James
graduated from Melbourne University
in 1938, did post-graduate work in
Melbourne’s Alfred Hospital until
1940, when he joined the R.A.N.R., serv-
ing for three years in the Indian Ocean
and northern Australian waters. Dis-
charged as medically unfit in 1943, he
went back to the Alfred, specialising in
the medical branch in which he is now
an authority. Since 1947 he has been
associated with the Dunedin unit.
Maorilander G. B. Morgan, who is
entitled to Captain before his name and
D. 5.0., D.S.C. after it, swallowed the pick
after nearly half a century blue-watering
when he brought the Union Steamship
co.’s Monowai into Auckland recently.
One of the dwindling crew of square-
rigged ship-servers, he left the Union co.
a chief-officer when War I started, to
join, surprisingly, the Ist A.I.F. The
sea gave him only one year, when he
changed khaki for the blue-and-gold of
the Royal Navy. Up to the next scrap
Morgan had the bridge of 36 of his
company’s fleet, and he had the Awatea
in that vast array of 500 ships, escorted
by 350 warships, which in early Nov-
ember, 1942, descended on French North
Africa. Off Bougie, one of the invasion
ports, a horde of German bombers fell
upon Awatea and she went under.
Morgan next took the Monowai, at the
time an armed merchant cruiser and
assault ship, but through illness he missed
D-day (though his ship was there, with
1800 commandos). He, however, conned
her into Normandy and Le Havre for the
remainder of that vast operation, landing
upwards of 70,000 troops. Morgan goes
to a long-neglected garden in Christ-
church—Captain F. W. Young goes to
Monowai’s bridge.
Successor to Major-General Fewtrell
(who when he died last month was chief
civil engineer of N.S.W. railways), Lieut.-
Colonel Keith Fraser, .till recently the
General’s deputy, is a Digger of two
World Wars. Fraser took the Aus-
tralian Railway Construction and Survey
Cos. away in 1940, to win distinction
among British Army chiefs by his
capable building of many miles of
railways, laid in the often-difficult
terrain of Egypt, Palestine and Syria.
In his new job (with Sydney’s Eastern
Suburbs railway his baby) he will
probably remember those halcyon war
days, sans hold-ups through lack) of
funds and industrial strikes. His bridges
overseas were easily recognisable—all
bore their trade-mark of carvings of the
rising sun or Jack Moses’s dog from
Gundagai, Lately boss-engineer of the
N.S.W. Transport and Highways Com-
mission, the new man is a son of a former
chief civil engineer, afterwards Chief
Commissioner for 12 years, of the Ma
State railways.
In Melbourne to start an Australian
tour under A.B.C. auspices, Spyros
Saligoras, leading baritone of the Greek
National Theatre, Athens. Among his
audiences may be some who knew him
in somewhat different circumstances —
he was a Greek underground leader dur-
ing the Nazi occupation and helped Aus-
tralian and New Zealand soldiers, among
many others, to escape from the Germans.
For these activities he was sentenced to
death by a Nazi court which, however,
never caught him. He is the first star of
his race to visit Australia and the first
Greek star to sing in Greek films.
Most naval men (particularly navi-
gators!) agree that, regardless of the
claim to importance of gunnery, torpedo,
radar officers and so on, the bloke who
really counts is the hydrographer—that
specialist who, year after year, mooches
slowly over the ocean-bed, sounding,
feeling, measuring, charting every con-
figuration of the invisible floor below him.
Landed in Sydney last week, with hopes
of bringing his expert hand to bear on
Bass Strait rips and sets, Vice-admiral
Sir Guy Wyatt, R.N. (recently retired),
since the end of the war holder of the
extremely important post of Hydrographer
of the Royal Navy—there are few chart-
rooms in whatever nationality of ships
in which Admiralty charts are not to be
found. In the Andrew 44 years, the
Admiral had a motor-torpedo-boat-
destroyer (one of those low, whale-backed
craft, all engines, which were more sub-
marine than surface ship) in the Kaiser’s
war, and in Hitler’s commanded survey-
vessel Challenger, which, with her ex-
ceptional range (for her size) of 9000
miles, ranged through s.-e. Asian and s.-w.
Pacific waters, sounding safe lanes for
the British and American bombardment
fleets. In between wars he laid inquir-
ing sonic fingers on the ocean floors of
East Africa, West Indies, the Mediter-
ranean, East Indies, Persian Gulf and
north to Labrador. As well, he was five
years surveying the Barrier Reef, and
sounded Port Stephens (N.S.W.). In 1922
he married a Sydney woman.
Retired from superintending Westralia’s
primary education, T. S. Edmondson
knew his profession thoroughly—starting
pupil-teacher, climbing through all the
grades to chief-inspector, and reaching top
of the class in 1948. His 50 years’ service
was interrupted by a period in War 1
France, which was cut short by a serious
wound. For long interested in the West’s
R.S.L., he was State president in 1942.
“Fitz”: Among regular contemporary
Bulletin paragraphists there must be few, if
any, older than Ernest H. Stanley, of Bexley
(N.S.W.), who writes under “E.H.S.” and “Bad
Australian.” Now 86, Stanley was born at
Beechworth on the Ovens goldfield (Vic.), his
father being a member of the Beechworth-
Melboume Government gold escort. As a
nipper Stanley lived also on the Mclvor
(Heathcote) and Mt, Alexander (Castlemaine)
goldfields, until his father bought a grazing
property about 20 miles from Benalla (Vic.).
Stanley started as a surveyor’s chainman,
became a surveyor, and for many years worked
on mining and railway surveys in Victoria,
Q’land and Tasmania. At 40 he went to South
America for the Antofagasta and Bolivia
Railway Co., spent 14 years there working in
high altitudes for various mining and railway
companies, and had many exciting adventures,
recorded in innumerable Bulletin paragraphs
when his pen was more fluent than it is now.
His first Bulletin contribution had to do with
the building of the Chilean longitudinal rail-
way, a purely strategic line extending through
the northern provinces to the Peruvian frontier
and built at enormous cost. Although signing
himself “Bad Australian” Stanley always
remained a good one. Before leaving South
America after War I he was resident-engineer
and local representative of the Argentine
Transandine Railway at Mendoza, Argentina.
From the P.E.N. Club, Melbourne,
comes the information that this year’s
Montagu Grover Memorial Award will
be for a biography of an Australian who
has died during this century. The im-
portance of the figure dealt with will be
taken into account by the judges as well
as the literary quality of the essay, which
should be between 10,000 and 20,000
words, typed on one side of the paper
only, with double spacing. There is no
entry-fee and no limit on the number of
entries a competitor may send. All
sources of information must be stated.
Closing-date is May 31, 1951 ; further
information can be obtained by letter
from Miss Dorothy Blewett, Flat 3,
97 Mathoura-road, Toorak, 5.E.2,
The attached impression of a Mel-
drumite was gained when artist
Hayward Veal’s impression of Sydney’s
picture-purchasers was extremely favor-
able —they had bought on the first day
13 of his David Jones’s showing of 21
paintings. A printer’s devil in Melbourne
when the painting urge took hold, Veal
started training under A. D. Colquhoun,
at 17, continued for six years with Max
PAINTER.
Meldrum, and is now represented in every
National Gallery in Australia. In be-
tween painting he busies himself with
N.S.W. Royal Art Society (Fellow),
lectures for Sydney’s N.G., and has art-
criticised for the A.B.C. France is his
target, sometime next year.
Herewith, sketched by Prior, the owner
of the name Lister so well known
on electrical machinery in Australia, par-
ticularly in shearing-sheds. Sketched
while telling of the latest baby of his
22-company concern. Sir Percy Lister
gave the impression that a new word is
about to enlarge our vocabulary—
“fogging.” In War II the vast Todd ship-
yards in America invented an artificial
fog which was used effectively to cover
FOG.
the Rhine crossings, the landings at
Naples and in the Pacific, Shrewdly,
Lister got hold of it after the war,
atomised powerful insecticides in the
billowing clouds of fog and called the
modified machine the Todd Insecticida
Fog Applicator (“Tifa”), Since then Tiia
has fogged upwards of a million N.S.W
sheep against fly, slammed down cholera
in Cairo and malaria in Sardinia, checker
a polio outbreak in San Antonio (U.S.I
prevented frosting of Kent (Eng.
orchards in blossom and blown cleansing
clouds through Qantas aircraft. Sir Percy
hopes to see public vehicles , theatres and
so on fogged as a matter of course. As
well, at the Lister-Blackstone factories at
St. Peters (Sydney), he saw progress on
what he claims is one of the world’s
most modern foundries; unique in that
it is probably the only foundry with the
usually underground “tunnels” —hot,
dark and dirty for maintenance men —
built instead above-ground on a 9ft.-
high open ground-floor. One-time
Hussar officer, member of the Dollar
Export Board and a director of Arm-
strong Whitworth, Sir Percy bosses the
parent company in Dursley, Gloucester-
shire.
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, at 85, Mark Foy, last of the
three brothers who founded the firm known to
Sydney shoppers for over 70 years. A lover
of yachting, he started 18ft.-sailing in Australia,
and in 1892 founded Sydney’s Flying Squadron.
As well, his foresight built the Hydro-Majestic
at Medlow Bath, known to Blue Mountains
devotees from all over Australia.
In Sydney, at 59, J. J. B. Kinkead, adept in
criminal cases and K.C. just over a year. Old
Digger, M.C., with the Camel Corps.
At Rockhampton (Q.), at 78, Fletcher Young,
State Inspector of Mines for 32 years, known
among mining men from Rockhampton to
Croydon and most mines in between. He was
the first graduate from the Charters Towers
School of Mines.
At 90, in Perth, Jack Drake, one-time editor
of Billy Claire’s Coolgardie “Miner,” and
brother of J. G. Drake, P.M.G. in the Barton
Ministry. Member of the Goddard survey-
party on Hampton Plains in 1890, Jack was
one of the first white men in Coolgardie. Few
men had better-stocked memories of the roaring
goldfield days, and few could relate the story
of those days better.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 67, J. G. Lancaster,
for 30 years one of Maoriland’s top-flight
electrical-engineers. Graduating M.Sc. from
Canterbury University College in 1904, he
worked his passage to England, got across to
the U.S., and in both countries stepped up his
electrical know-how. Later he joined the
N.S.W. Public Works Department, and with
Bradfield of the Bridge worked out an electrical
scheme for Sydney’s railways.
At 91, in Sydney, William O’Connell Bligh,
pioneer sheepman in Queensland, great-grandson
of Admiral Bligh., His sister is still living in
Sydney.


ioemd
For food perfectly served. For hot meals for
late-comers. For piping hot second helpings.
For hot coffee after dinner. For hot buffets.
For your greater pleasure and convenience.
Gentle heat keeps the whole meal hot, but it
will not damage the surface of your sideboard.
‘ENGLISH
ELECTRIC’
A RITEMP PRODUCT
fm
mm
s
" ' 1
SB*
lit
i
<«&
iSS-S!
I A V
: *
the ENGLISH ELECTRIC company limited [incorporated in England] • 51 pitt street, Sydney • bu2oBB
THE HERETIC OF ISOLA
By F.O. SCHLUNKE
<‘ £J CCIDENTS will hap-
rl pen,” was the way our
/ | parents explained it to
us, if indeed they
troubled to explain at all, in the
worried state they were in ; more
likely they’d make a threatening
swipe at our heads and send us
scurrying off to feed the poddy
calves or chop some more wood.
The reason they didn’t actually
hit us, as they usually did when
they found us idle, was that they
were extremely uneasy about
what had been done. Even they,
who knew little enough about
the laws of the country they
were living in, realised that it
was no light matter to burn a
man for heresy, the degree of de-
liberateness' notwithstanding.
It seemed a very dreadful
thing then, the hushed whispers
of our elders, the police we’d
never seen before coming into
our valley, and the catastrophic
sequel to it all. But now that the
valley is no more, the whole
thing seems very unreal. We
spoke a # queer dialect there, half
German and half Latvian, and it
made everything sound so much
more dramatic. Even the story
we were told as children, of how
the Isola settlement was
established over a hundred years
earlier, seemed to seethe and
bubble with human feelings, but
now, thinking about it in
English, it makes me want to
laugh.
It seems that there was a mass
emigration of a whole peasant
village, complete with livestock,
farming plant, household goods,
a severe religion and a spiritual
head. On landing in Australia,
they set out with as much faith
as the children of Israel in search
of the promised land, and con-
siderably less sense of direction.
Naturally enough they got
into trouble, and when that
happened a schism developed.
There was a terrific dissension
about the permissibility of
travelling on Sundays where the
feed was inadequate for their
stock. The original Isolans
pressed on, leaving the spiritual
adviser behind with the diehard
fundamentalists. When they
lost their way, but found the
beautiful valley with its fertile
soil and plentiful rainfall in a
very remote and inaccessible part
of the Victorian Highlands, they
decided that they had received
Divine approbation; and they
incorporated into their creed
what was to become the main
clause of their confessions: “It
is never wrong to work.”
They knew that it was most
unlikely that the valley had ever
been officially surveyed, if in-
deed the Lands Department
officials even knew of its
existence; so, still bold in the
belief that the land had been
given to them, they divided it by
lots, and settled down to work it.
And they certainly worked it;
whether it was to silence the
objections of a latent conscience,
or the fear that they might be
discovered and punished with
heavy fines, they toiled and
saved without ceasing, men,
women and children.
WHEN the third generation
was growing up they were
still practically untouched by the
world about them. They hadn’t
changed their ways; in fact, the
habit of ceaseless work had be-
come a religion, with all the
force of a century’s tradition to
back it, and the inevitable in-
breeding which had gone on in
many families hadn’t done much
to improve their intelligence,
Dom Brauertz was a leading
citizen of the valley, a worthy
man and an example to all in the
chief virtues of the valley. We
used to have stories told to us
about the number of cows he
could milk in an hour, the bags
of potatoes he filled in a day,
and the cases of fruit he picked.
But that was before his accident.
He and his four sons were
working hard to finish a hay-
stack, persisting even after it be-
came dark; in the murk he
missed his footing, slithered
down the steep slope and dived
over the eaves head-first, land-
ing so hard that his hat was
driven two inches into the soil.
He stood up, apparently unhurt,
and said to his sons;
“Oh, well, never mind, we
won’t bother finishing tonight.”
They were a bit surprised at
this decision, but concluded that
he’d probably hurt himself more
than he was prepared to admit.
But next morning, when they
were returning to finish the job,
he absolutely astonished them.
It was a beautiful late spring
morning. Brauertz remarked
about it twice, though he didn’t
usually discuss the weather ex-
cept in relation to their work.
Then he suddenly stopped beside
a luscious patch of dense, dark-
green clover with its broad leaves
all spread to the sun and the
little dark designs showing where
the dew had just evaporated
from the velvety surface.
“God,” he said, with real
fervor in his voice, “that would
be nice and soft and fragrant to
lie on.”
And forthwith he lay down on
it. He rolled about until he got
his hip into a horse’s hoof-print
and breathed a great sigh of con-
tent like a man who had success-
fully reaped a record harvest.
“I’m stopping here,” he said to
the boys. “I think I could have
a good sleep right now. I’ve
been getting up too early all my
life.”
He closed his eyes and re-
laxed. The boys looked at each
other, their big earnest eyes
wide open in amazement and
their serious faces elongated by
their sagging chins. Two of
them scratched over their ears
and the other two pulled at their
flaxen hair They hoped for-
lornly that their father was jok-
ing, but knew that he wasn't.
After two-and-a-half minutes
Rupert, the oldest, said to his
brothers, “Come, hurry; well
have to work faster to make up
for him."
And already there was a
touch of censure in his voice
where hitherto there had been
nothing but the profoundest re-
spect.
BRAUERTZ came home very
late for dinner, but instead
of offering a satisfactory ex-
planation of his conduct to his
family, he addressed them with
this speech:
“Listen to me, my sons, I have
decided to work no more. You
may continue if you wish, but
not on my farm. I could not
enjoy myself if I had to see you
hurrying and straining your-
selves all day. So, I’ll give each
of you a sum of money, accord-
ing to the time you’ve worked,
and I hope that I never see you
again until you’ve learned some
sense.”
Now, you’d think that the first
thing they’d conclude in
those ciicumstances was that
he’d gone mad; but you’d need
to be brought up the way we
were, to know what respect for
parents (especially the male
one) meant. The
boys were grieved
and bewildered, but
they never dreamt
of rebellion. They
were shamed, too,
too much to say
anything about it;
they just went and
hired themselves
out as laborers to
other fanners in
the valley. His
wife stayed with
him, but she
trembled and wept
because of this
dreadful thing
which had befallen them.
Brauertz did a little work next
day. His soft patch of clover
had been eaten down by the
cows, and he had to walk at
least a hundred yards to find
one as good. But it was worth
the effort. There was a fold in
the ground which fitted his body
like one of those invalid lounge-
chairs ; the clover was flowering,
and hundreds of buzzing bees
made a beautifully soothing
noise. But he quickly closed his
eyes, because their greedy, waste-
not-want-not eagerness to get all
the honey before it was too late
reminded him of his neighbors.
When the sun became too hot
he needed to move only a few
yards to get under the shade of
a softly rustling pear-tree. There
he made friends with a couple of
time - wasting grasshoppers by
taking a particularly succulent
blade of grass from a squad of
strenuous ants and giving it to
them to eat.
When he returned to the house
he found his wife well on the
way to becoming what she would
have described as a “broken
woman.” She had an exhausted,
bedraggled look, through her
clothes sticking to her body with
her perspiration, hanging at odd
lengths and angles. She said to
him pathetically:
“At least you might have
helped me with the milking.”
Brauertz looked at his wife,
and he must have had an amus-
ing vision of her trying to cope
with four men’s work, because
he burst into an amused chuck-
ling.
“Never mind the cows,” he


! s l
c?4> c^foiel
FACING A PACK
The one thing you will Immo-
cliately notice when jrou stay at
the Wentworth ts the peaceful
atmosphere ... the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . , . yet
R is merely “round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
looms are all you would wish
» . . the service and cuisine
excellent
INF WENTWORTH
ht <r^bjdney>
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
relief
CHOKIIVG ASTHMA
Dr. Hair’s English Asthma
and Bronchitis medicine has
helped thousands of sufferers
to escape the agonies of
Asthma, Bronchitis, Catarrh
and Hay Fever. You, too, can
be free of those frequent
bouts of wheezing, coughing
and fighting for breath. Get
this famous English treat-
ment from your chemist or
write direct to George Ripley
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 228 Pitt
Street, Sydney. H a.i 3
Or. Hairs
ENGLISH
ASTHMA MEDICINE
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAbKER
■
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY.
I
JW.I27B.I* '
NATIONAL BANK
f Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
With which is united The Queensland National Bank Limited
Registered Office: 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1950
' __
LIABILITIES
Anthorised Capital—
-10,000,000 Ordinary shares of £1
each £10,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-3,726,025 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid .. £3,726,025 0 0
4,800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, 12/6d. paid .. 4,800,000 0 0
£8,526,025 0 0
Paid-up Capital £6,726,025 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the busi-
ness) •• 5,000,000 0 0
Final Dividend Proposed 235,410 17 6
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 220,123 15 0
Total Shareholders' Funds £12,181,559 12 6
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities including Provisions
for Contingencies 180,117,907 18 1
Notes in Circulation 47,490 0 0
Balances due to Other Banks .. 19,660,893 19 8
The Queensland National Bank Ltd.
(In Voluntary Liquidation) .. 2,650,621 15 10
£214,658,473 6 1
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc 25,844,265 10 9
£240,502,738 16 10
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers .. £6,202,903 19 6
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 4,364,786 19 8
Balances with and doe from Other
Banks 727,254 1 8
Public Securities (at or under mar-
ket value) —■
(i) Australian Government
Securities 9,282,451 8 S
(ii) Other Government Securi-
ties 1,458,375 0 •
(lii) Local and Semi-
Governmental Authorities’
Securities 400.431 17 10
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia .. .. 79,487,000 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit , 11,373,900 IS 7
£113,297,104 0 8
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting pro-
vision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) 94,473,502 11 S
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written
off) 2,942,905 17 10
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost). (The Com-
pany has made neither profit
nor loss) 2,000 0 0
All Other Assets 3,942,960 16 5
£214,658,473 6 1
Liabilities of Customers under Let-
ters of Credit, Guarantees, For-
ward Exchange Contracts, etc.
(as per Contra) 25,844,265 10 9
£240,502,738 16 10
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian Currency.)
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT For Year Ended 30th Sept, 1950
To Expenses Head Office, 623
Branches and Receiving Offices
(including Directors’ Fees,
£4.974 12 6) £3,322,590 2 4
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes 448,295 16 1
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down ~ .... 594,443 16 6
£4,365,329 14 II
To Amounts Written off Bank
Premises £lOO,OOO 0 0
„ Dividends—
Interim Paid 3lst May. 1950 235,410 17 6
Final proposed payable 29th
November, 1950 235,410 17 6
„ Balance Carried Forward .. .. 220,123 IS 0
£790,945 10 0
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions
and other income, after de-
ducting interest paid and ac-
crued on deposits, rebate on
bills current at balance date
and appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Ac-
counts (out of which ac-
counts provisions for all bad
and doubtful debts have been
made)
£4,365,329 14 11
£4,365,829 14 11
By Net Balance brought forward
from 30th September, 1949 ..
„ Net Profit for the year
£196,501 13 6
594,443 16 6
£790,945 10 0
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED, , . „ .
We hare compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations
we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are Y ra *s
up so as to exhibit a tfue and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and of the results or
the business of the Company for the year according: to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
Melbourne, Twenty-sixth day of October, 1950.
S. J. WAENOCK. F.C.A. (Aust.)
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (Aust.)
Audits n.
said, “we’ll sell them. We’ll
keep only a couple to provide us
with milk and butter, a few hens
to lay us eggs, and all the things
we have planted will provide us
with food for several years at
least, and after that—well, why
worry?”
But his wife looked as if she
was gomg to worry even more
than when she had too much
work; not that Brauertz minded.
He ate his dinner and lay down
again, on his bed this time, be-
cause it was getting a bit too hot
for comfort outside. When he
got up he went looking for his
wife to tell her about a lovely
dream he’d had; of going to
heaven, and finding there all the
people who didn’t like hard
work, and making some wise-
cracks with them about all the
people who made a hell for
themselves on earth by working
too hard. But he couldn’t find
his wife. She’d found her
troubles too much for her, and
gone 10 get help from her
neighbors. They came back with
her, but fairly late in the even-
ing, because they all had a lot
of work to finish first.
THE neighbors came into
Brauertz’s house all with
dreadfully solemn faces, most ill
at ease because of this dreadful
change in him, and not at all
sure whether his trouble was
simply physical or profoundly
moral. They talked first about
his fall, commiseratingly, persua-
ding themselves, and trying to
persuade him, that he would
soon recover. But Brauertz was
in a lightheartedly iconoclastic
mood.
“If I’m sick I hope I never re-
cover,” he said. “I don’t want
to ever be like you again.”
And it was the rumblings from
this abortive interview that we
children first heard at the break-
fast table next morning, which
made us stare hard at the
Brauertz farm as we went past
on the way to school; and be-
cause we saw no activity there
we knew for a certainty that
something momentous had
happened, and we began to get
caught up in the ripple of excite-
ment which didn’t subside until
the end of it all.
Next thing we were hearing all
the significant comments which
went on when Brauertz began
selling his horses, implements,
pigs and cows. Our parents, of
course, didn’t miss any chances
of securing something good, but
they always came home in a
rage, no matter how satisfactory
the bargains they had made.
“He’s keeping his bees be-
cause, be says: ‘They’ll provide
me with honey, without me hav-
ing to do any work.’ ”
The morals of that attitude
seemed fairly to eviscerate them.
We learnt that he spent most of
his time in bed. Only once did
he seem to encourage hope in
one of his neighbors, when he
said he’h had a busy day ; but it
turned out that all he’d been
doing was writing a few letters
cancelling orders for seeds and
fertilisers. No one was surprised
when his wife left him; most
were surprised that she’d stood
him for so long.
The neighbors reached a stage
of exasperated helplessness.
They left him alone for a while,
hoping that time would restore
him, but the only change that
took place in him was that he
lost his thin, stringy appearance
and became covered with what
they called “unhealthy fat.” And
what happened to Brauertz
happened to his farm, too. The
neighbors looked over it every
day (when they happened to be
doing something which did not
require their undivided atten-
tion) and if their hands hadn’t
been so continually occupied
they would have rung them. In-
stead they cried out aloud:
“Waste! Waste!” What they
didn’t have time to see, we
children told them. About how
it was covered by a riot of self-
sown and unharvested crops and
vegetables. His two cows moved
at will through open gates and
broken fences to eat whatever
they chose. They were even
fatter than Brauertz; they must
have been giving far more milk
than he could drink, because he
was letting the calf run with one
of them. It was all a great grief
to our parents, especially the
cows eating fruit off the trees,
and the calf running with the
covv. “Letting a calf drink its
own mother’s milk!” they ex-
claimed to each other, in
trembling, passionate voices.
RUT the person who suffered
— f most was Brauertz’s wife.
She was twice as thin and
harassed-looking as she’d been
before ; probably she was trying
to do twice as much work, in
order to atone for her husband.
We saw her about once a week
with her face full of cold resolu-
tion hurrying up the lane to his
house, or returning baffled and
shamed after an interview. It is
possible that the rest of the
people might have ultimately
been content to let him be, as a
more-or-less useful (though un-
deniably objectionable) horrible
example, but Mrs. Brauertz
couldn’t rest.
She went around the valley,
stirring the people up against
him. I remember listening at the
keyhole often, after I was sup-
posed to be in bed, shivering
with the cold but unable to go.
“I tell you he’s got paralysis,”
she hammered at my father and
mother in her thin, metallic
voice; in the community dialect
of course, because, though every-
body could now speak English,
they still reverted to the mother
tongue when they were deeply
moved. “A special kind of
paralysis, a paralysis of the body
and of the mind, and we’ve got
to cure him.”
And that indomitable woman
had a plan of a kind, too. She’d
heard of paralytics having
miraculously recovered the use
of their limbs when subjected to
a severe shock ; gone leaping out
of houses when the ground was
shaken by an earthquake, or
swum long distances to escape a
flood. She wanted something
like that deliberately designed
for her husband, and I still re-
member how I trembled as I
listened to her passionate voice,
half-hoping my parents would
join in her sensational scheme,
and half-afraid.
Most of the other children had
some tale or other about} a visit
by Mother Brauertz, and we
assembled all we knew until we
had made of her a sadistic
monster. Daily we discussed the
great question; Will they ? or
Won’t they ? —weighing each new
parental reference to Brauertz as
it might affect the balance of the
great decision.
Then suddenly, as if there
wasn’t enough excitement in the
valley, a strange man was seen
in the hills ; not once but many
times. He carried about with
him a mysterious instrument
with three legs which he placed
on the ground at intervals ; then
he looked through a black tube
for a long time, after which he
wrote in a note-book. Un-
doubtedly it was The Govern-
ment, a dangerously powerful
and potentially hostile person-
ality. The old people talked and
talked about him, until the con-
viction grew in us that he was
the man who was going to de-
cide the time and place for the
Day of Judgment. If any of us
had seen him we would have
fled for our lives, and our
parents feared him just as much.
Something portentous was
afoot, they were sure, something
that threatened every one of
them. Looking back on it now.
(i Continued on page 32.)
NARCISSUS.
Rain-pitted is your face, and in your hair
Writhe snakes upon the pool’s unsteadied rim.
Within the mist now blotting-up the air
The voice of Time says: “There’s no love for him.”
Where is the sun that gave me back my boy
Long days before the rain pricked out this fear
Of deep oblivion upon the joy
That backed the once unconquerable year?
N.S.W,
ERIC IRVIN.


The ALL-BRITISH
fanifflittiflit
c /Aefy
(send, the
OrecdeM
~~lh/ue
N?5B
55/6
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
24/-
TO
55/6
N 9
70
28/
, „ 7U?e N
themaA#e£fauA
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
"HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM"
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry,
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, the
Apiary and General Farm Activity,
PRICE ONE SHILLING
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
253 George Street, Sydney; 247 Collins St., Melbourne,
Tests continue to prove that
here is an exceptional tractor
NUFFIEL
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 3
at Hawkesbury College Field Day.
pulling double-arm rabbit ripp«r
ripping depth of 24in. Note
retraciible shakes on wheels for
extra traction. (Optional equipment.)
/' - *
PRACTICAL: Operates all widely used trailed and
fixed implements. Readily convertible irem 4-wheel
to 3-wheel (and vice versa) o a the farm.
POWERFUL: 6-way power, from 38 H.P. engine and
new hydraulic power unit, for all needs in and around
the farm.
RELIABLE: Proved under all kinds of operational
conditions throughout Australia . . . the tractor built
and backed by a name you can trust!
FULL DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS
AVAILABLE FROM STATE DISTRIBUTORS
SYOMCV • P p E J ER LTD - 213 ' 217 Elizabeth Street.
RIVEBIMA. nw/ A Ia 6 . 5 i>.K,Yi C T OR,A AND SOUTHERN
Street N MCl R K £. A . LKl fi! R PIX UD ' 206 ’ 218 Ru ««»
» J;?® V E, C.l. Phone JM 1555. QUEENSLAND
BRISBANE W Vh^nf R I V !, RS: . ! L, D N ?! ERS MOTORS PTY - LTD.. Evers Building, 457 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane. Phone B 2420. And at I Railway Street. TOOWOOMBA. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: KINGSWAX
I awe 8 un T r. F B? n DTC ?V® et, n £LAIDE - ‘Phone Central 6870. WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
M A ETRo L^wnrn p^ T ?tv S , P ?£ L , T I D ,-; 924 ' 9 ? 8 Wav stre « l . PERTH (Temporary premises). TASMANIA:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD., 36-38 Argyle Street, HOBART. ‘Phone 4061.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
. Available at
Anthony Horderns’
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mall Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 22/11/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY.
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7260
THE BLACK SWAN
By WARREN
DENNING
I CAME across Bobby at a
tiny wayside hamlet on the
North Coast of New South
Wales. If you know the
coastal countryside you will need
no description of the hamlet;
if you don’t, not much in the
way of description will help you.
It was, indeed, little but the
meeting and parting of what the
bush calls roads; the passing
stranger would have seen in it
nothing but what was old, fad-
ing and insignificant; though in
truth it was the nerve-centre of
a dozen miles around whereat the
people of the deep bush carried
on much of their social business
external to the routine of their
farms, their timber-cutting and
the varied pursuits of their kind.
At the four corners what the
authorities are pleased to call a
secondary road (which means
plenty of dust in the summer-
time and plenty of mud in the
winter) and a smaller, thinner,
even less-pretentious road bi-
sected, exchanged their gossip
and went their ways. Two of
the corners were the outer edges
of distant properties. These
corners were fenced with rough-
cut posts and rusty barbed-wire;
within the fences an occasional
fattening beast could be seen
wandering through the wreckage
of ringed trees.
At the third corner there was
no fence, and the bush frankly
marched in its tumbled, mazy
waywardness as close to the
road as it dared.
On the fourth corner was “the
store,” where Mrs, Taylor pre-
sided over purchases of
groceries, calico, dates, choco-
lates, postage-stamps, needles,
tinned meat, dummies, con-
densed-milk and all that mysteri-
ous tailpiece to the noble world
of commerce which every such
country store represents in fas-
cinating confusion.
Taylor’s had been there
longer than all but the oldest
inhabitants could remember, and
most of the oldest inhabitants
couldn’t remember any more,
anyway. It had started ages ago,
in some forgotten phase of early
Australian life, as a store to
serve what was going to be a
village, a town, a city, a metro-
polis in the dreams of those
who fashioned the beginnings of
the hamlet; but the dreamers
had reckoned without the rail-
ways and the motor-cars, which
have made a mockery of so many
such dreams.
All that remained of the ham-
let now was a decayed and
abandoned blacksmith’s - shop,
two or three old tinder-dry
houses inhabited •by elderly
people who themselves seemed
to be part of the ghostly past,
and “the store.”
BUT there was nothing dead-
and-alive about the store it-
self. Decade after decade the
original building had gathered
accretions of all shapes and
sizes as the family had grown,
married, flowered into grand-
children ; stables had been built
for horses and abandoned except
as store-sheds when horses had
given way to a rumbling old
Ford; the store had become
also the post-office, with its self
advertising brown telephone-
box outside.
All the might-have-beens of
the past had their symbols in the
store, and Mrs. Taylor stood
guardian over them all—-not
merely merchandising the
domestic wants of the district
but wisely advising wives whose
timber-getting husbands drank
too mnch, directing the course to
be followed against occasional
furtive adulteries, prescribing for
sickness, the arrivals of babies,
and encouraging the gawky
commencement of rustic
nuptials.
She was, in her way, a re-
markable woman, Mrs. Taylor,
if the word remarkable has any
meaning these days when every
second newspaper paragraph
uses it for an actress’s wedding
or a rescue on the cliffs.
At the time when, for a brief
hour, I moved into her orbit, she
must have been well over
seventy ; but at that she was still
tall, wiry, alert of body and
mind and quick in conversation.
Instinctively one knew that she
was as significant in the life of
her little world as many a woman
has been in the larger affairs of
a wider society. But for the
accidents of time and place she
might have been a Pankhurst
organising the suffragettes, or a
Saint Therese building her con-
ventual order, or a duchess hold-
ing the affairs of an aristocratic
family on a tight and drastic
rein.
With a matriarchal plenitude
of love and interest she gathered
the lives and problems of all
around her into her strong and
capable arms; she had the
spreading, vitalising quality of a
queen-bee, fecundating and mak-
ing real all there was about her.
Probably she had never had any
pretensions to beauty, but she
was of the type to whom physi-
cal beauty is but the shell
around a profound awareness of
the deepest meaning of life.
And, along with Bobby, she was
certainly the ruling force of this
bushland district.
I MET Bobby when I got out
* of my car to buy something
—a drink or whatever it was —
at the store, to be met by almost
a hundred pounds of black
swan rushing at me with wings
outstretched, uttering the most
blood-curdling threats and evi-
dently with murder in his heart.
But somewhere in the swan-
mind there must have been room
for second - thoughts, for he
stopped about ten feet away
almost at the instant that Mrs.
Taylor said from the doorway:
“Don’t worry about him; he
knows customers are all right.”
I didn’t exactly worry about
him, but kept a weather-eye on
Bobby until, sure enough, he
subsided into a kind of alert
placidity, then went about his
other affairs which my arrival
had interrupted.
Bobby was as absurd an ex-
ample of inappropriate nomen-
clature as any I have come
across —like Horatio for the
man who won Trafalgar. The
soft diminutive which one ex-
pects a Bobby to be was, in fact,
a magnificent specimen of the
male black swan, with a wing-
spread like an eagle’s, a beak
like an albatross’s, a shiny
blackness like night on the
ocean, a body like two swans
merged into one.
And, in this varied household
ruled by a powerful woman,
Bobby was the man of the
house, loved, respected, but
given that freedom in the exer-
cise of his masculine tempera-
ment which even the wisest and
most imperious woman will
always give.
His origins were vague. In
the marshlands a few miles
away the black swans were
known to live and breed, but
they rarely came near the haunts
of men, except for those wedged
flights overhead so strangely
reminiscent to modern eyes of
a pack of fighter - aircraft.
Where they were not shot by
some casual sportsman with a
o Continued on page 32.)


FESTIVAL OF BRITAIN
flJffl
MAY 3 to SEPTEMBER 30
The summer of 1951 will be long remembered by
Britons all over the world. Just as the ‘ Crystal Palace *
Exhibition of 1851 was something utterly new and bold
in its generation! so Britain now invites you to a Festival
the like of which has never been seen before.
Exhibitions will be only one part of the Festival pro-
gramme, but a spectacular and important part.
IN LONDON the centrepiece of the Festival will be
the great South Bank Exhibition on the sweep of the
Thames between Westminster Bridge and Waterloo
Bridge. Here, amid 30 acres of new buildings and broad
terraces, dominated by the giant Dome of Discovery
(the largest in the world), visitors will see the story of
Britain and her people at work and at play—in industry,
transport, the farm; at home and on the seas; in sport,
at leisure, and in those boundless fields of exploration
and discovery in which British scientists and technicians
are helping to build the world of tomorrow.
In a new extension to the Science Museum in South
Kensington, the latest advances in scientific discovery—
the frontiers of man’s present knowledge—will be on
display.
In the East end, an Exhibition of Architecture at Poplar
will show the community centre of the future in course
of construction, using the latest building styles and
techniques.
These main London Exhibitions will be open to the
public from May 4 to September 30.
IN GLASGOW an Exhibition of Industrial Power at
Kelvin Hall will show British achievements in heavy
engineering, from the earliest steam engine to the
harnessing of atomic energy. This Exhibition will open
on May 28 and last for 13 weeks.
IN BELFAST the Ulster Farm and Factory Exhibition,
staged in the interior and grounds of a new model
factory, will show the growth of the linen industry and
of research-directed developments in agriculture and
other local industries. This will be open from June z
to August 31.
IN EDINBURGH there will be an extensive Exhibition
of Scottish Architecture and Traditional Crafts, during
June and July.
In addition there mil be Exhibitions of British Books and Litera-
ture in London, Edinburgh and Glasgow, and Exhibitions of
painting in Cardiff and Norwich.
But Exhibitions are not the whole of the Festival. There will also
be Arts Festivals in twenty-three famous towns, and local activi-
ties ranging from carnivals to sporting events in hundreds of
communities throughout England, Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland,
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Ask your Travel Agent for further details.
Legal Notice.
MISS SUSAN (OTHERWISE
SUSANNA) WEBB, DECEASED.
IN an action df Multiplepoinding- and
Exoneration in the Sheriff Court of Perth
and Angus at Dunblane, Scotland, by
WILLIAM BECKETT, Writer and WIL-
LIAM BECKETT DUNLOP, Writer, both
of 241 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, the
Trustees and Executors of the late Miss
Susan (otherwise Susanna) Webb who re-
sided O/o Main, Feamach, Loehearnhead,
Perthshire (Pursuers and Real Raisers)
against MISS MARY JANE WEBB. 32,
Parkstone Avenue, Parkstone, Dorset,
WILLIAM KINGSTON, O/o Kingston,
Upper Olodagh, Drimoleague, County
Cork, MRS. HELEN KINGSTON or
MEARA, Sunvale House, Gourtnagrough,
Ballydehob, County Cork, MRS. ANNIE
(NANCY) KINGSTON or COFFEY, 49,
Cresswell Street, Worksop, Nottingham,
MRS. SUSAN KINGSTON or MCCARTHY,
2, Woodview Terrace, Rochestown, County
Cork, MRS. ELIZABETH KINGSTON or
ROSS, Dromdrasdil, Dunmanway, County
Cork, and GEORGE WEBB (care of
Keeper of Edietal Citations, Edinburgh,
Scotland) Defenders, the Sheriff Substi-
tute by Deliverance dated 26th July, 1950,
inter alia appointed intimation of the
import of the Petition and of the said
Deliverance to be made by advertisement
once in each of the “Sydney Morning
Herald” and “Sydney Bulletin” Sydney,
New South Wales, newspapers, and
ordained all parties desirous of claiming
on the said Fund in Medio to lodge a
statement of said claim within the hands
of the Clerk of Court at Dunblane within
eight weeks from the date of said posting
or advertisement, under certification.
Of all of which intimation is hereby
given.
BROWNLIE, WATSON & BECKETT,
241, St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, Soli-
citors for the deceased’s Trustees and
Executors.
It’s that
Injjrams face
again...
ms?
O
H
v \
\/
\
V
vs°*>
\
And an Ingram face means success, popu-
larity, acceptability!
Man, if you’re not an Ingrams user today,
start being one from tomorrow. The jar of
Ingrams Shaving Cream on your bathroom
shelf is a MUST! Get one from your
chemist tomorrow.
A Product of Bristol-Myen
IS-20
1
SHAVING CREAM
shot?
SUNDRY SHOWS
If only because he hasn’t tried
to fill the whole huge gallery
with big, slippery, facile art-
wares, Hayward Veal’s show is
the most attractive seen at David
Jones’s, Sydney, for a long
time. His unassuming land-
scapes, seascapes, interiors and
still-lifes, confined to the foyer
of the gallery, have the freshness
of the quick sketch, but they are
the sketches of an artist who
knows how to handle oil-paint.
The still-lifes and some of the
landscapes are in the familiar
Meldrumite formula, and there
is more interest in “Wintry
Day,” “Wet Day, King-street,”
“Rocks and Surf” and “Sun and
Rain” where Veal follows his
own line of technique and emo-
tion into a world of delicate
soft greys, A nocturne, “Out-
door Sketch,” is a remarkable
example of how much can be
said with the simplest means:
two or three tiny dots of crim-
son and gold to represent lights
reflected in the water, and the
slim grey panel becomes Sydney
Harbor in all its nightly enchant-
ment.
♦ * * *
Clif Peir is showing eight
paintings of Centralia at
Anthony Hordern’s Gallery,
Sydney, and since only one of
these has much to say for itself
the exhibition is almost exces-
sively unassuming. But this
pre-eminent landscape, “The
Golden Gorge, Chewings
Range,” with its trees, its hot
colors and its chunky moun-
tains, is a much more solid and
convincing piece of the Centre
than most of the stuff we have
seen recently; and the other
scenes, if not of the same
quality, are all pleasant enough.
Mr. Peir paints in oils.
* * * *
It is a rare thing to see as
many red spots at a sculpture ex-
hibition as erupted over the Vic-
torian Sculptors’ Society’s first
show at the Victorian Artists’
Society’s gallery in Melbourne.
Tina Wentcher seems to be the
modeller who has most real
artistic skill and knows most
what she is doing. The majority
of the others make up, or try
to make up, for their lack in
this direction by going in for
new forms. There is evidence of
some feeling behind the vest-
ments of the “Two Marys’
Andros Meszaros has done for
St. Anselm’s altar at Canterbury
Cathedral, England, and there is
a simplicity about the “Gir]
with Horse” of Julius Kuhn,
though the staff in the hand of
his monumental shepherd ap-
pears to have been misplaced,
♦ * * *
Pictures by Edwin Pareroultja,
the Arunta tribesman who was
a pupil of Namatjira, are once
more up for inspection at the
Athenseum Gallery, Melbourne.
They reflect mainly the conven-
tions of the National Gallery,
but the artist has made good use
of them, and has even imposed
some of his natural keenness of
observation on them to make
pictures which have a factual
startlingness about them and
are selling like hot cakes.
♦ * * ♦
The most ambitious produc-
tion yet attempted by Sydney
Con.’s opera school, Wagner’s
“The Mastersingers” proved an
artistic triumph —for the Con.’s
director, Eugene Goossens, who
conducted an orchestra which
gave strong support to the cast,
for joint-producers Hilda Mulli-
gan and Paul Williams, and for
William Constable’s imaginative
settings. James Wilson, the ob-
vious choice for Hans Sachs,
sang with great power and cap-
tured the dignity and nobility of
that cobbler-philosopher. Allan
Ferris’s singing of Walter estab-
lished him as the finest-quality
tenor in Australia today; his
singing of the Prize Song was
capital. A striking piece of
characterisation was Trevor
Lewis’s Beckmesser, a compound
of craft and malice, yet always
ridiculous; and his deliberately
bad singing in the competition
was cleverly devised. Frank
Lisle’s resonant bass did full jus-
tice to the fine airs allotted
Pogner, whilst Lance Lloyd’s
apprentice was naive, his light
lyric tenor suitable to David’s
age. Mollie Grouse was in good
voice as Eva, and Lorraine
Davies gave good support as
her maid. Choruses were the
one weak spot —too often they
tended to “drag.”
♦ ♦ * *
With a cast of heroic propor-
tions —over 40 characters —Doris
Fitton is producing Jean Girau-
doux’s “The Madwoman of
Chaillot” at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney, and
making an admirable achieve-
ment of it. An odd and some-
times cumbersome mixture of
fantasy and satire, the piece is
nevertheless as exquisitely witty
most of the time as it is dis-
tressingly voluble and boring
some of the time. Those faults
and virtues are characteristic of
other samples of Giraudoux
seen in Sydney over the last few
years, and, to the credit of Miss
Fitton and her cast, they make
the most of the fantasy, the
satire and the wit, and the least
of the dull moments —in fact,
there' are passages when, with a
kind of graceful exuberance,
they almost seem to trans-
form sheer volubility into
witty conversation. In a string
of distinguished performances,
Jean Robertson and Marcel
Wattel are both outstanding.
Miss Robertson plays the mad-
woman a charming old
countess in silks and feathers
who, once convinced that her
world, her vagrant friends of the
Paris boulevards and the city
itself are threatened with ex-
tinction by the operations of
company-promoters and other
smooth operators in the world
of business, solves the problem
one sunny afternoon simply by
luring them to the cellar of her
house and consigning them
through a trapdoor to the
sewers. Wattel, one of the best
of the actors who frequent the
Independent these days, plays
the company - promoter —large
and crooked business de-luxe —
and plays it with all the charm
and polish and manner of which
he is capable. The programme
notes: “Scenery designed and
executed by Desmonde Down-
ing. Costumes designed by
Jennifer Hocking and executed
by Gladys Jennings.” One
could not have asked for a better
result from the combination.
♦ ♦ * *
Having made its audience
laugh uproariously for most of
an evening last week, the
Mosman Theatre Guild may
fairly claim to have succeeded
admirably with its current pro-
duction of Coward’s “Hay
Fever.” The main contributing
factors to a pleasant and amus-
ing entertainment were Mr.
Coward himself, of course,
closely followed by producer
Charles Caspersonn, who made
a smooth job of the whole show
and, sensibly, concentrated less
on polishing it than on wring-
ing the last modicum of humor
from it. He also gave an un-
troubled performance as David
Bliss, head of the bickering,
happy, lackadaisical household
which pays as little attention to
the arrivals of its invited guests
as it does to their departures.
The rest of the family—Audreye
Clarke as the mother, Ann Pat-
terson as the daughter and
Frank Thompson as the son —
were all presented with humor
and character. Margaret Mc-
Crae, Donald Beard, Ivor Jukes
and Gladys Beard were the be-
wildered visitors, with Miss
Beard and Miss McCrae claim-
ing the histrionic honors of the
evening by a close margin. Miss
McCrae in particular had some
outstanding moments in the best
scene of the evening when, with
diplomat Beard trying to make
polite conversation, she sat wait-
ing to meet her hosts like a
lame, tame and wide-eyed little
mouse waiting to meet a gang
of hungry cats.


iSi
#ll
a
IB
Hi
<o'-
'fm
.
SS
.;•••■-:i
;:,i s
3'.
-9*
re
GEM
There’s a
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined chrome
set, complete with stropper, or a less preten-
tious set, you are assured of the same keen
shave. The super-keen Gem blades of
surgical steel and the automatic shaving
angle of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
9 Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with auto-
matic stropper, as illustrated above, complete
with 8 Gem Double Life Blades, In ivory
plastic gift case, 35/-.
• Gem chromium-plated streamline model in
handsome case of ivory plastic with 5 Gem
Double Life Blades, 20/-.
• Gem Razor with two Gem Double Life lUa«kf
In serviceable bakelite case, 3/-.
9 Gem Razor, complete with 2 Gem Double Life
Blades, 1/6.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated, 10/-
each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of sturdy,
surgical steel last longer, shave keener, 1/9.
Obtainable at al/ Jtorej, Jeweller* , Tobacconists
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
: A
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
New Hope For
RHEUMATICS
Kheumaflx, the sensational new triple-
action treatment for Rheumatic com-
plaints, can guarantee certain relief
within seven days and freedom from
pain almost immediately.
RHEUMAFIX Act* in 3 Ways
FIRST: Rheumaflx kills pain almost
immediately.
SECOND: Rheumaflx, by dissolving
the deposits of needle-pointed Uric
Acid crystals, formed in the blood-
stream by excess Uric Acid attacks
the actual cause of Rheumatic com-
plaints, and guards against their re-
currence.
THIRD; Rheumaflx gently coaxes flag-
ging muscles back into active use, and
speeds the return to sound, normal
health.
Full details of the history and develop-
ment of the amazingly effective Rheu-
maflx treatment are contained in a
novel booklet entitled “The Keys to
Health,” which shows the way to a
happier, pain-free life for all Rheu-
matic sufferers, at a surprisingly low
cost.
Write for your copy TODAY! Re-
member —supplies are strictly limited.
POST 7 ™S~COUPON ~
PHARMACO, B. 2S/11/’5O
Dept. “B,” Box 4142, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,'
Please send me a copy of your
FREE and POST FREE booklet, “The
_ geys to Health.”’
Name
Address
THE SERVICE MAN
EtattleSane Necessities.
“Ek Dum”: Winter has set in
in Korea, and Australians, suf-
fering increasing casualties and
faced with cold-weather fighting
of a kind which few Western
troops of any type have seen in
the modern era, are living in
foxholes under one-man tents —
for them none of the warmed,
two-man huts and other ameni-
ties which Mr. Francis thinks
so essential for military comfort
that he is delaying the defence
scheme to provide it for local
trainees.
It was reported that last week
the dawn temperature some-
times was only nine degrees
above zero, and anybody who
has slept in the open at that level
knows the effect on physical fit-
ness, and particularly on the
alertness, of the sleeper, even if
the day warms up reason-
ably. He also knows if he has
had the care of motor-vehicles
the extra work entailed through
the freezing-up of cylinder-
blocks and radiators.
While Mr. Francis has been
anxious about the health of his
prospective home-trainees —it is
going to take months longer to
get his “compulsories” into
camp than it did to get men
into the fighting-line in Korea —
private complaints have oozed
out to Japan that even before
the full blast of the cold had hit
the troops in Korea they found
themselves poorly equipped to
face North Korean weather.
Guarded newspaper stories
suggest that there is some truth
in this, and that it is not mere
soldiers’ grousing. The list of
equipment given by the “S. M.
Herald” on November 20 is
merely improvised by its appear-
ance, and one of the worst com-
plaints which has been received
here is that there is a dire short-
age of warm gloves and head-
gear—a shortage which makes
most other provision useless,
since it is impossible to work
in zero weather with an exposed
head and with bare or im-
properly covered hands. Iron,
around zero range of tempera-
tures, will stick to a bare hand
and burn it like hot steel.
The Korean winter has not
reached its worst intensity, and
will not for a month or so, but
when it does come the present
sample of cold will be made to
look like high summer in Manly.
Only now, it seems, has the
Japan Command begun to pre-
pare for what is due.
At this stage the “S. M.
Herald” correspondent states
that woollen mittens and fur-
lined jackets are only “on the
way,” which is a usual military
formula for saying that they
have been forgotten and that
somebody is scratching round for
some, and that “mountain
sleeping-bags and fur-lined inner
jackets” have been ordered from
America,
On the Yalu.
“Ek Dum”: It is difficult to
sum-up the situation in North
Korea. The sudden and heavy
blows of the .Chinese Com-
munists have ceased. They have
“gone on the defensive.” Their
air-support, M.I.Gs, and Yaks,
have been busy trying to decoy
United States’ fighter aircraft
across the Yalu, so that Peking
could set up a shriek of injured
innocence at the savage invasion
of peaceful Chinese territory by
the unscrupulous American
imperialist murderers.
The sum total of the situation
seems to be that winter has set
in with a vengeance. It is
almost Arctic. Rivers freeze
over for months, valleys are
filled with snowdrifts, roads and
tracks are covered with ice, and
sometimes a wind comes howl-
ing down from Siberia to chill
the marrow and daunt even the
local tigers.
The enemy, so ferocious a few
days ago, is giving way before
U.N.O. onslaughts, a little more
in the west than in the east. His
movement seems to be
strategical rather than something
forced on him by the tactical
operations of U.N.O. troops,
though he does not retire with-
out fighting.
Since October 16 it has been
clear the Chinese have been
moving into North Korea.
Their own story as told from
Peking radio is that former
Chinese Communist troops, de-
mobilised in accordance with
Mao’s statement of June 6, and
former Nationalist troops, who
have gone back to their farms,
have become volunteers in the
Korean cause spurred on by
their enthusiasm for democracy
and their indignation at the
wickedness of the American
aggression. These volunteers,
Peking said about a week ago,
included members of the
Korean minority in Manchuria.
And it adds that many of the
simple supporters of democracy
who have gone off to fight for
their Korean comrades in
Chinese Communist Army
uniforms and Chinese forma-
tions organised up to the
standard not only of divisions
but of armies—are all the more
ardent in their desire to wipe
out a few Americans because
they are American-trained, and
because “their past experiences
of the United States imperialists
makes more acute their will to
prevent reaction towards the
sufferings which afflicted the
Chinese people under the
Kuomintang - United States
regime.” Manchurian peasants
are also affected by the urge to
clean Asia of the “filthy
Americans,” and “the will to
volunteer is growing like a
rolling snowball throughout
every part of China, Every
individual and every profession
or section is seeking out some
way to help” against the United
States “invasion.”
Communist Strength
Numerous prisoners have
been taken, with the result that
units and formations have been
identified in a number of sectors.
A spokesman of General Mac-
Arthur’s h.q. made it clear a few
days ago that in the last few
months four Communist armies
—an “array” in Chinese and
Russian lingo is three divisions
each of 10,000 men, and there-
fore approximates roughly to a
European corps have been
stationed on the Korean border.
Last week it was estimated that
half of these were already over
the border. This would mean
that about 60,000 Chinese troops
had been added to the 60,000-
80,000 North Koreans left in the
Yalu region.
U.S. headquarters negatived
the suggestion that the Chinese
troops were volunteers. There
would have been no time to
organise, arm them and train
them since June, much less since
October, when the feelings of
the Chinese supposedly began
to get the better of them. They
appear to be professional
soldiers blit of Chinese
standards, fanatical, poorly-
armed by comparison with U.S.
troops, fighting on the Russian
system, which is a mass system
developed without regard for
loss of manpower, much on the
locust principle.
The Army starts to go some-
where. If it is on the road its
battalions are mown down in
swathes, but those behind keep
coming on until they reach their
objective over the bodies of their
enemies.
The nature of Chinese war-
fare is indicated by the fact
that masses on roads have not
dispersed under bombing—they
take what comes and the
remnants go on. There are 50
divisions behind in Manchuria
alone, so who cares about a few
hundred corpses?
Their discipline is sound, their
wants as simple as those of the
Russians—a bit of black bread,
some water, germ-laden or other-
wise, and something to keep
their feet from becoming stone-
bruised.
Mobility and Mechanisation
This very simplicity is a great
advantage to them, more especi-
ally as they have little modern
transport. Most of their
personal gear and light ammuni-
tion is carried on hardy moun-
tain ponies as accustomed as
themselves to ice and snow.
This form of organisation is not
to be laughed at.
Modern armies are inclined
to be' tied to roads with their
motor - vehicles and armor,
especially under winter condi-
tions, whereas these hordes of
Chinese and North Koreans can
go anywhere across country on
which there is room to put a
small hoof.
What seems to be happening
is that while the North Koreans
act as a cushion and give way
sporadically before Allied
attacks the Chinese are prepar-
ing a base-line, which cor-
respondents describe as a
“defence”-line, but which cer-
tainly is not that in the true
sense of the word.
The intention is to cover the
hydroelectric installations along
the Manchurian side of the
Korean border, to keep the line
so close to the Yalu that it can
be protected in the air by the
fast M.I.Gs, in Manchuria,
where the American command
has not yet authority to attack
them and to immobilise through
a destructive winter as large a
U.N.O. force as it can manage
to pin down.
Chinese Threats
The theory held by a few
simple people that the Chinese
are waiting to hear what
U.N.O. Security Council has to
say, and that they are prepared
to let it settle the North Korean
business, i$ completely negatived
by the nature of the Chinese
announcements about the war.
Continual references are being
made to aggression organised
from Hong Kong and Indo-
China, and Peking is obviously
preparing the way for opera-
tions all round its borders, egged
on all the time by Moscow,
whose language becomes more
violent every day.
Moscow said plainly last week
that China intends to “throw
the American aggressors into
the sea.” This is an echo of
Peking, which has begun to
publicise Hong Kong as “a base
of American aggression” in a
very pointed way. “Pravda” de-
clares that the presence of U.S.
troops on the Asian mainland
is a “serious threat to the safety
of People’s China resistance
to U.S. aggression wherever it
appears is part of the defence
of China.”
At the weekend China had
begun to develop the propaganda
technique which has been in
vogue since the attack on Fin-
land in 1939, when that coun-
try, with its little population and
peaceful habits, was suddenly
accused of attacking Soviet
Russia with its mighty armies
and “threatening the security of
the Soviet Union.” It is the
same technique used when the
North Koreans invaded South
Korea. Peking has announced
that on October 26 South


DEFEAT THAT OLD
DEVIL DANDRUFF'
(I
IMmC
&
:
.' S&i
iSStfi
LH4/134
Sold at all 2/4
Chemists &,§fan»j'
HAIRDRESSING
{WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme—Ametica’s
favourite Hair Dressing—
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down’’ look!
Tty Lustre Creme to-day!
W Relieves dry scalp
i • Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to doll,
unruly hair
' • Makes hair healthy
i and handsome
fU’s haHdier in a tube
(Si Kay Daumit
\V reparation
il
frusabev
m
x
m
X,
■
■
IS
*
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER MULQUINEY late of Bridge
Street Epping.—TAKE NOTICE that
AUDREY VIOLET MULQUINEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1348 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the SOth January 1951 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GORDON L. BEARD, Solicitor,
of 17 O'Connell Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUOHAN, Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
RE JANET FLEMING Deceased.
WILL ROBERT JOSEPH MONTGOMERY
FLEMING RICHMOND (once of Berkeley
Street, Glasgow), who was last heard of
September, 1946, or any person knowing
his whereabouts, communicate with
CHAMBERS McNAB & CO., Solicitors. 83
Queen Street. Brisbane.
ECONOMICAL TRANSPORT
*****
■m.
REDMAN MOTORS,
of Toowoomba,
cannot speak too highly of
their Bradford . . .
“I have never had to add oil between
changes and my petrol consumption
has been over 40 m.p.g. Our Bradford
has completed 12,000 miles, mainly
over black-soiled, boggy country,
carrying loads from 7 cwt. upwards
to our complete satisfaction.”
Bradford 8 h.p., 10
cwt. van as supplied
to Redman Motors,
Margaret Street.
Toowoomba.- Qld.
Call on your local representative and hear more
about the amazing performance of Bradford vehicles.
All are powered with the sturdy, horizontally-
opposed engine designed by Jowett, the exclusive
engineering principle which makes it possible to offer
you a £ tonner with an economical 8 h.p. engine.
Bradford
VANS • STATION WAGGONS . TRUCKS
Mod* la Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LTD.
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., 134 New South Head Road,
Edgeclifl. FM 2045.
Victoria; Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-64 Edward Street, Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 480 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor 00. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington Street, Perth.
Tasmania; Donald Qorringe Pty. Ltd.. 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
o
Jp-
=s
m
Midnight in Fiji—
noon in London
the BP Aviation Service gives unfailingly efficient
service. At airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney, the BP green and
yellow symbol stands for speed and reliability. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are
amongst the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Ltd.
\ AVlflTmN\g/SER VICE /
IME COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Address "A 1 RBEPEE’’H6LB.
Koreans “bombarded Chinese
territory from Chosan,” on the
Manchurian border, “thus re-
vealing their plan to invade
People’s China.” China seems
to have been long in discovering
and announcing the outrage, but
it now appears that it caused so
much alarm among the demo-
crats of China that over 600,000
volunteers have rushed to the
colors for service in “protecting
the borders of the people’s
fatherland.”
Not at War!
“Ek Dum”: About the most
remarkable utterance which has
come out of the peculiar hos-
tilities in Korea is the statement
issued by the United Nations
and the American State Depart-
ment that there has been no de-
claration of war on North
Korea, that “no state of war
exists” and that members of the
United Nations are only
engaged in an effort in com-
pliance with U.N.O.’s charter to
“resist aggression and restore
order.”
A Mr. Oscar Schachter, who
speaks as an official of the legal
bureau of U.N.0., told the
correspondent of a Sydney
paper that “there is no provision
in the charter for U.N.O. to
wage war.”
Far from viewing their acti-
vities in Korea as an act of war,
U.N.O. members “had gone to
great lengths to demonstrate
that they were fighting only in
support of a victim of armed
aggression.”
The U.S. State Department
followed suit with the announce-
ment that “we have not declared
war against the North Koreans,
and in a legal sense we are not
in a state of war. United States
Army, Navy and Air Force units
are not operating in North
Korea as an American force, but
as part of the United Nations’
drive to halt unprovoked
aggression.”
From a legal standpoint
“war does not at present exist
for the United States,” and a
person tried for treason would
not be subject to the death
penalty, as he would auto-
matically if United States
Congress had voted for the
country’s participation in war.
Possibly Australia is in a dif-
ferent position by reason of the
fact that the Korean question
\y£S taken to Parliament, and it
is to be hoped that it is, be-
cause otherwise Communist
sabotage can go to almost any
length it likes.
If we are not at war the Gov-
ernment should consider with-
drawing our troops which are
involved in actual hostilities,
suffering increasingly heavy
casualties, and yet are against
an enemy which, if U.N.O. is
right, is not bound to obey the
acknowledged rules of warfare
and cannot be brought to book
if it disregards them.
There are a number of other
considerations which are start-
ling. What, for instance, is the
position of a soldier who dis-
plays cowardice in the front-
line in Korea or who deserts in
the face of the North Koreans?
The foe apparently is not an
“enemy” in the legal meaning
of the word if there is no war
in being.
It is a pity that the U.S. State
Department does not send a
delegate or two to North Korea
to wade through the snow of
the northern front while
Russian warcraft swoop over-
head and Russian-made tanks
shoot down the road under the
hands of Chinese gunners, and
explain the position carefully to
the Australians, the Americans
and the British regiments.
The Americans’ last casualty-
list in bulk was issued on
November 3. In that week
casualties had increased by 625,
bringing the total up to 28,235
—4159 killed in action, 19,793
wounded and 4283 missing. Of
these 24,565 casualties were in
the Army, 3185 in the Marines
and 286 in the Navy. It would
be hard to tell the U.S. forces
after four months of fighting
that they are not at war ; equally
hard to convince the Australians
who have had 20 per cent, of
their numbers on the lists.
It would be doubly difficult
to make the North Koreans
understand. They are calculated
to have lost over 250,000 men,
apart from having most of their
cities blasted to bits by
bombing.
“Ek Dum”: The Indo-China
position has ceased to become
merely dangerous in the abstract.
With Vietnam and France still
quarrelling behind the scenes as
to who should control the mili-
tary operations, and with
France’s aid being sent piece-
meal in an atmosphere of ineffec-
tive hysteria, the Communists
are now almost all round the
Red River Delta, the key area
of Indo-China, and within 20
miles or so of Hanoi.
* * ♦ ♦
Reminders of how little stands
between a Communist regime on
the borders of Australia and the
present turgid despotism of Soe-
karno, which lives by grace of
Communism, is shown by the
week’s events in Java. On
November 19 the whole capital
of Djakarta (Batavia) was shut
down while the Army ransacked
the city for illegal arms. Traffic
was completely suspended.
Civilians were made to keep to
their homes. Air communica-
tion with the outside world was
cut off, and thus the link be-
tween Singapore and Australia
severed and Qantas aircraft
turned back at both ends. Some
authorities interpret the whole
operation as designed to prevent
Communist demonstrations upon
the occasion of exhumation of
the bodies of ex-Premier Sjari-
fudden and other executed Com-
munist worthies to whom Soe-
karno largely owes his throne.


fg
How much time will your
Executor have for affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
TRUST ESTATES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT.**
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F, H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
V. W. Hixson, OJUS , V.D.
G. Moucrieff Barron, OS£., M.B.ChM., FJIA.CS.
J. R. FavieUL F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A GERMAN “BROTHERHOOD.”
Apparently it was no furphy
when, a few months back,
rumors got around of a mys-
terious new German movement
organised by ex-officers of the
German Army, held together by
an oath of comradeship and
pledges to work out a new basis
for German society, and calling
itself “The Brotherhood.”
At any rate, the “Manchester
Guardian’s” Bonn correspondent
vouches for its being very much
alive, and gives some details.
Quoting Herr Franke-Griksch,
one of the “Bruderrat,” or inner
ring of three which controls its
counsels, the correspondent
says it was formed in p.-0.-w.
camps in 1945 in Britain.
The “politically-schooled” S.S.
officers, who were the type
of prisoners then reaching
England, decided to “organise,”
developing the idea of a
brotherhood which would con-
tinue the process of the “German
Revolution” and at the same
time extend it, through men of
like ideas, to other countries.
Europe should be united under
a banner of empiric social theory
and subscribing to a creed of
“dynamism” and opposition to
what Franke-Griksch calls “the
arrogance of the formalised
democracy of Britain and
America.” Neither the war nor
the Nazi regime was to be en-
tirely in vain.
The movement went ahead
fast. Ex-Colonel Bech-Broich-
stetter, once one of General von
Manteuffel’s officers in the
Gross-Deutschland Division, is
the staff organiser. Dr. Achen-
bach is its economist and elder
statesman. Franke - Griksch,
formerly a colonel in an S.S.
regiment, is its prophet. There
is a Bruderrat in every district.
To them the word goes out from
the twin centres of the Brother-
hood at Hamburg and Bielefeld.
The movement is to strive for
“the freedom and brotherhood
of Europe, the unity and in-
divisibility of Germany, the
principles of social justice.”
Europe must become the “Third
Force,” and Germany—on the
Metternichian analogy its
“strong core.” The “German
Revolution” of 1933 will be ex-
tended to other European coun-
tries. Franke-Griksch demands
a European Union which “will
be independent of New York as
well as Moscow,” which will
create its own fighting arm and
which will preserve its neutrality
in the event of a United States-
Soyiet clash, Franco-German
union is the first step towards
the attainment of this ideal.
The “Manchester Guardian”
man sums-up on it: “The
Brotherhood is the natural focus
of the ex-army officer, war-
cripple, refugee, jobless, dis-
carded Nazi and submerged
Strasserite. And behind the
Brotherhood are, indeed, the
‘dynamics’ of the German
character—the fierce desire to
launch a better belief than de-
mocracy, the deep-rooted faith
in Germany’s destiny, the sad
yearning for the comradeship
of other nations than those who
have in the past merely been
bullied into alliance. In a
peaceful and prosperous world
the Western Powers could ignore
the Brotherhood, or guard
against it. In a socially unsettled
Germany, at a time of world
crisis, it may become a new
threat to society unless its pent-
up vital energies are redirected
into more orthodox, thoughtful
channels.”
Russia’s Germany.
Neat depiction by London
“Economist”:
“The Soviet zone of Germany
is the one Communist-domi-
nated country in Europe that
cannot present a fafade to the
outside world or keep its citizens
in complete ignorance of con-
ditions in the West.
“Nothing can prevent a con-
stant stream of refugees from
escaping over the frontier. It is
a one-way stream.
“Germans are usually not
given an interzonal pass by the
Russian authorities if they have
near relatives in the West; no
such precautions need to be
taken at Bonn.
“The Western businessmen
who find that their opposite-
numbers in the Soviet republic
can be bribed for a pound of
butter have no need of statistics
to convince them that food is
scarce in the east. A factory
manager who has secured a valu-
able machine from Saxony at the
price of three radio-sets has a
very adequate picture of the
state of the consumer-goods in-
dustry under President Pieck.
“Nor is there any sign that the
Western German workers do not
realise that their standard of
living is higher than it is in the
Soviet) republic. With diminish-
ing exceptions, Western Ger-
mans react to the statement, T
live in the Soviet zone/ with an
indifferent ‘Bad luck.’ ”
Japan “Again Mighty.”
Admitting that certain factors
have helped Japan (among them
the war in Korea, “for Japan,
which has supplied steel for the
war, will now supply it for re-
construction” there), a London
“Daily Express” special corres-
pondent in Tokyo insists that
“above all, it is to her sturdy,
tenacious, disciplined people
that Japan owes her rise out of
her ashes.”
What, he wonders, will Japan
do —to all of us? “Will she pro-
vide the magical key for unlock-
ing the vast, still untapped trea-
sures of Asia, enriching the
whole earth? Or, as a fierce
competitor, will she put the rest
of us out of work? Or, in re-
yenge, will she side with Com-
munism?
“One thing is sure. In our
own lifetime Japan will again be
mighty.”
Commonwealth
Changes.
The (British) Commonwealth
today as it appears in American
eyes, represented in these ex-
tracts from a report issued by
the Foreign Policy Association,
a body of U.S. overseas-affairs
experts:
“With all the ties that exist to
hold Commonwealth countries
together, no one can deny the
seriousness of the tensions
which divide some of these
countries, notably the Asian
Dominions from South Africa,
and India and Pakistan from
each other.
“For these disputes the re-
maining countries of the Com-
monwealth have no solution,
steeped as they are in a long
tradition of non-interference in
IN THE DARK OF EVENING,
WHERE VOU STAND AND WAIT.
STANDS A LAMP-POST ClEAMllsjG
W THE BARRACKS GATE .
WE’ll, MEET AGAIN BV LANTERN SHINE
AS WE DiD ONCE UPON A TIME
MV SWEET UU MARLENE,
fAV SWEET LIU MARLENE.
London "News Chronicle."
ALTERNATIVE CHORUS: “Underneath the gaslight’s glitter stands
a little fragile girl ..."
each other’s affairs. Whether, in
the long run, the Common-
wealth is flexible enough to con-
tain countries so widely divergent
in attitude, so wholly convinced
of the rightness of their own
approach to the particular prob-
lem, is one of the unsolved ques-
tions of Commonwealth rela-
tions.
“In general, relations between
the United States and the indi-
vidual countries of the Com-
monwealth bear a marked re-
semblance to relations between
Britain and the Dominions in an
earlier period. There is the same
sense of common interest, but
also touchiness about interfer-
ence. There is the same recog-
nition that the relationship pro-
vides significant dividends, but
also the fear that it involves
commitments in a world-wide
strategy to which at least the
younger members of the Com-
monwealth are not yet prepared
to commit themselves.
“The United Kingdom re-
mains the only great Power in
the Commonwealth, but its re-
sources were seriously depleted
by the vast sacrifices demanded
by the war. By contrast, the
oversea parts of the Common-
wealth—Canada, Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa —like
the United States, increased their
industrial capacity and general
prosperity to a striking extent
in the course of furthering their
own remarkable war efforts.
“Thus in every aspect of Com-
monwealth relations there has
necessarily been a shift from the
traditional pattern of the United
Kingdom’s dominance to a more
equalitarian sharing of responsi-
bilities. At the same time, the
obvious limitations of the re-
sources of Commonwealth coun-
tries have brought about de-
pendence on the United States to
a degree never before experi-
enced,”
Truman Reassessed.
To the general reassessment,
recently given here, of Mr.
Truman showing out as a strong
character under the test of office
in an exceptionally testing
period can be added a further
reconsideration of him in
extracts from an article by a
London “Spectator” Washington
correspondent:
“Truman’s voice is different
from those of the two great
English-speaking leaders of the
late war. When Roosevelt talked
he had the ability to project him-
self into the living-room beside
you, talking firmly and effec-
tively with a cultured Harvard
lilt to what he said that unac-
countably made masses of low-
income families lift up their
hearts, whatever the upper
classes and other Harvard gradu-
ates said. And when Churchill
spoke with his majestic phrase
and breath-taking stumbling
sonorities, the clouds stood still
and Britain fused into a flame
of determination. But Truman,
it must be acknowledged, is
different.
“Few people until recently
would have acknowledged Mr.
Truman as a man of first-rate
stature. He came to the White
House by accident; he stunned
all reasonable critics by winning
an election where the experts
can still prove (and will do so
at the drop of a hat) that he had
no chance; he was an incon-
spicuous artillery captain in the
First World War, a failure as a
haberdasher, a relatively obscure
politician till fate picked him out
of its vest-pocket to make him
great because of his very con-
ventionality. Now, God knows,
he is still a poor speaker. He
does not project himself into the
living-room. You feel him
sweating out his conscientious
stint before the distant micro-
phone, and you respond to him
with the same sympathy and
vicarious effort to lift his burden
as you would feel for , the nice
lady with a slight stammer get-
ting through her piece at the
vicar’s party.
“Mr. Truman sees a climax
and rushes at it like a horseman
lifting his reluctant steed over a
fence. He muffs words as he
reads them through his thick
lenses under blinding television
lights. Doubtless he wishes he
were speaking extemporaneously
—in which field, as a matter of
fact, he is not bad at all. But
somehow the conventions forbid
this, and Mr. Truman never
manages to make his set speeches
sound extemporaneous....
“Mr. Truman, with his un-
limited capacity to astonish
people, is showing great resili-
ence. On several occasions
critics have denounced the Presi-
dent for being too soft and slow,
only to discover that he has
been a couple of jumps ahead all
the time. He intervened in
Korea for the integrity of the
United Nations after Washing-
ton was gloomily certain that
there would be ignominious
appeasement; he sent to Con-
gress on July 20 proposals for
sacrifices and belt-tightening,
which again quite obviously
could not be expected because
of political expediency. All this
is very surprising, and the most
surprising thing of all is Mr.
Truman’s continuing ability to
surprise.
“To sum up, Mr. Truman is
that curious figure, a leader so
commonplace and insignificant
in his popular facsimile that
nobody can fear him as a dic-
tator or really believe he is a
leader at all until, once more, he
demonstrates his power to lead.”
East Is East.
F.a.q, sample (and interesting
personal note on Nehru) given
by a London “Daily Express”
correspondent visiting India and
meeting the Republic’s Prime
Minister joining a plane as an
ordinary passenger:
“I told Nehru I thought it
was a little odd for the Prime
Minister not to be using his
official aircraft. Nehru looked
at me with the mocking and
slightly arrogant expression he
keeps for simpleminded West-
erners. ‘My dear fellow/ he
drawled, ‘why?’
“I could have pointed to the
carbine-carrying Indian police-
constables still standing at inter-
vals of 70 yards along his route.
But I said nothing.
“In my view, the thinking be-
hind his trip is characteristic of
this man who, as Prime Minister
of the 350-million-citizen Re-
public of India, holds today’s
most vital position in non-
Communist Asia.
“He was flying to a Congress-
party rally. Therefore he was


m
IS NOW THE
m
MATURITY DATE FOR
Commonwealth Securities
WHAT TO DO IF YOU HOLD ANY OF THESE BONDS OR INSCRIBED STOCK
On 2nd January, 1951, all the 4% Commonwealth Bonds and
Inscribed Stock issued in August, 1931, now outstanding, will
mature. These Securities were expressed to be due to mature on
the following dates:—
15th July, 1953
15th December, 1955
15th November, 1957
15th October, 1959
15th September, 1961
The Treasurer has exercised his option to redeem these
Securities before the final dates of their maturity and they are
now due for redemption or conversion on 2nd January, 1951.
If you hold 4% Inscribed Stock, or own 4 °fo Commonwealth
Bonds held in safe custody by your bank, you should receive a
letter from the Treasurer telling you the new date on which
they will mature and enclosing a conversion application form,
which you are advised to complete immediately arid return to
your bank. Whether or not you receive such a letter, it you hold
any 4% Securities, your holdings are affected and will cease
earning interest on 2nd January, 1951, unless they are converted.
Your bank or stockbroker will, immediately on request from
you, arrange for conversion of your holdings into the Eleventh
Security Loan, which opens on 23rd November. You will then
possess Eleventh Security Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock ot the
same face value as your maturing Securities and interest on
your Securities will continue. . ,
Interest on the new Securities will be payable each six months
at 3i% per annum for 11-14 years or at 2 /o per annum for three
years. (Investment in 2% Securities must be for £l,OOO and
multiples thereof.)
<4' j t
MATURIN-
GSBCUMIBI INTO Wl
Eleventh Security Loan
Opening next" Thursday
(be Cash
Investors
. too!
As well as those with maturing Securities to
convert, everyone may huy Eleventh Security
Loan Bonds (£lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO or £1,000)
or Inscribed Stock. You can make an advance
subscription now through any bank, savings
bank, or stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six months at 3\°/o per
annum for 11-14 years or at 2 °/o per annum for
three years. (Investment in 2% Securities must
be for £l,OOO and multiples thereof.) Repay-
ment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. There’s no better place for
your savings. Make an advance subscription
now.
Make an advance
Subscription
Todaq!
9(i*« msii
not flying on Government bust-
ness. ‘Ergo,’ he argued, ‘I am
not entitled to use a Government
plane. I must pay my own fare.
“It mattered little that the
security police had hours of
t > * nlainrlothes-men whose
them plamciomes-men wuusc
fares had to be paid by the Gov-
eminent The Pandit had
demonstrated his scrupulous logic
demonstrated nis scrupulous i b
to himself—and his public.
Inflation For All.
For whatever comfort there
may be in it, Australia hasn’t
inflation on its own; it is “now
rampant almost throughout the
world,” reports London “News
Chronicle’s” financial editor,
adding:
“Here are some wholesale in-
dex numbers of different coun-
tries showing the rise since
January and since June. They
tell nothing like the whole story.
They are not fully up to date;
they refer to a whole gamut of
wholesale commodities and not
merely to the basic and volatile
raw materials whose recent price-
. ,
rises in many cases have been
so fantastic:—
Aug./
Jan Q -« J™®’
ni r 944 s 9 2716
u.S.A. ” 15W I 5« 168.9
S&" - 2 - 2 -
“These mcreases Will mevi-
. d enread t ore-
tably continue and spread to
tail prices. From retail prices
they Will spread to wages and SO
J r A‘vicious
hack to pricesi g n.
spiral’ Will develop. It IS already
developing.”
Actually, as the present de-
, f further wage increases
man^ s . tor
m Britain, America an 1
where, as well as here, very
Painty indicate, the “vicious
. “develooine ” but
® pl al ~ , tmlv dewloned
has well and truly developed.
Dragnet Digest.
j r»;/ Dome Well— Lord Jowitt
gASS &K ot
Polling is a
PniiHdm come to
and nrobaWvSlvdSserle
f t P R l .f’ it R d fiwavsa SStmty for
it. But it isi always a pity x
®nfiasm jilnmnlion to be such as
f° lead foreigners to think that this
country is in a very poor way.
ix/fcfltw vrm Hire tn «av that it is
Whether of th? Government or in
s b pite G f the Government, the fact is
fa. the people of have
d * lf b *
T t,, » t Fmm
'(and .he Genjans
attribute aggression to the victim s
justified defence. But even by con-
J stant repe tition of false statements the
true f acts ca nnot be concealed, pie
tendency to defame the attacked
country as the aggressor is just as
clumsy as the attempt to divert atten-
tion f * om one , s own war preparations
with noisy peace propaganda. The
peaceful world knows that the biggest
war apparatus is,being built up where
peace is shouted loudest.”
* * * *
Canada and f/.y._Under the U.S.-
Canada agreement on co-operation in
such things as military procurement,
economic g controls and the use of
raw materials, a Canadian Govern-
ment order bans construction of 44
different types of building, including
theatres of all kinds, racecourses,
amusement parks, stadiums, swimming
pools, golf-clubs, gymnasiums and
of London “Times,” “is much suffer
than had been expected, and is an
indication of how seriously the
United States Government takes the
emergency.”
* * *
Liquidations Pending. Opening
salvo in a “Manchester Guardian
survey of the Soviet’s Korea by
Alexander Werth: “Many in the
upper ranks of the Soviet hierarchy
ft*
foreign policy been based on so many
false premises, so much misinforma-
* • * *
Refugees in Britain. From an
article by a London Now States-
man” writer: Britain has absorbed
mo re foreigners before and since the
war than any other Western European
country. During the late ’thirties we
admitted 80,000 refugees from the
Hitler terror. Dunng the war and
up to May, 1950, we extended hos-
pitality to over 200,000 refugees from
Austria Germany alone. And
even so Britain is taking a further
lot from those stlU left<
* * * *
J. Bull’s Trade Rival—Touching a
recent par, here on Germany’s collar-
jn g of Turkey’s trade, a correspon-
dent of the “British Manufacturer
declares that, to hold their present
trade with Turkey, Britain’s exporters
will have to reduce their prices by as
SW ’SSMSfS
Guardian”; “What is bemg felt m
exporting to Turkey is only one of
th £ early breaths of competition,
which are bound at some pace to
grow. How confident is the Govern-
ment that the overloaded British
economy can set its sails to meet
them.
Companies Emigrate. London
“Financial TimeT cm a cunent
suWaSal
aggregate capital, and an even more
substantial market valuation,
Tim torn
tion allowances, and now the threat
that company taxation may be further
“creasedf are driving these companies
tQ seelc ways and me ans of reducing
their burdens as far as they can.”
* * * *
Adenauer.—' “Yorkshire Post” find-
this moment Dr. Adenauer
- s chief factor i n shaping German
f ore j„ n po ii cy . Dr. Adenauer is a
Cath oi ic p He is also a native of the
Strong nationalism is an
emotion foreign to this region.”
* * * *
Schuman Plan. “Manchester
Guardian” looks into the plan as it
has more or Ip finally been shaped:
“The most that the Schuman Plan
does is to create a single market in
which a central committee (the power
of which is limited by a Council ot
Ministers) directs investment ana
helps to tide over the difficult period
!.5 .=
aside.” On the other hand, referring
to a recent speech against the plan
by Mr. Dalton as pimply malicious
demagogy, it added: There is
nothing progressive in condemning a
courageous and, in Europe, an impor-
tant step by opposing it simp y wi i
P


GIVE HIM A Gillette
(the gift he would choose himself)
TKiSfe’s shaving comfort
for life in every Gillette
Razor set, but with a
Gillette ONE-PIECE Razor
blades are changed like
magic. It’s the finest razor
ever devised for the handi-
est, easiest, fastest shaves.
Twist —it’s open! In goes
the blade! Twist again
it’s ready for use.
m
m
mini
rtw
9 If
mwm
m
Gillette No. 53. The
“Aristocrat Junior"
one-piece razor and
Dispenser holding 10
Blue Gillette Blades,
In smart case . . 18/-
Oiher Gillette
Sets from as
low as 5/-.
Gillette No. 16. Tho famous
"Aristocrat" one-piece razor
and 10-Blade Dispenser.
Plated case suitable for j
engraving. 50/-. jl
At
Christmas good mornings’
BEGIN WITH
Gillette
ON SPEEDBIRD ROUTES
TO ALL 6 CONTINENTS
mis
mop mi
Of you-
i
Constant concern for your
comfort wherever you fly on
Speedbird routes to 51 countries
is part of 8.0.A.C.*s traditionally
fine service. Pressurised aircraft.
Complimentary meals include
drinks. No tips, no extras to pay.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA
FAR EAST • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
AFRICA • ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN
AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A.
CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information & Bookings : Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Townsville, Cairns, Darwin or from
Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
1
m
GET THERE SOONER • STAY THERE LONGER
FLY" BO AC
AI6/AU
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments t
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. Jj CUP
The No. I Drink
foi wise am
“Fashion experts are trying to
revise the crinoline for street-wear.”
— Women’s paper.
They’ll run rings around their
supporters.
•i* *i* 4*
“One morning a character on
Canley Vale railway-station began
playing the bagpipes.”
—Sydney “D.T /'
A sad blow to the passengers,
•fr * •*>
“Widow lost tan nappy-bag in 144
bus, containing baby’s bottle and
nappies; depending on return as it
contains much-needed money.”
—Local paper.
The child needs its change,
too.
“For sale, heavy-gauge galvanised
bath-tub, round, fitted with bed,
225. 6d.” —Suburban paper.
Buyer will be able to retire to
the bathroom whenever he likes.
4* 4* 4*
“The tobacco racket will last just
as long as smokers let it.”
—“New Idea.”
In short, until they weed out
blackmarketeers.
4* 4* 4*
“Lost, black pup, white neck, front
and end tail, wearing collar with Sth.
Melb. address. Good reward.”
—Melbourne “Sun.”
He promises to be a real wag
when he grows up.
Mechanically-minded.
“Some fathers take more care over
the training of their dogs than they
do over the moral training of their
children.”
—Feminist Mrs. W. H. Watson.
What father worthy of the name
Would willingly incur the blame
Of having little ones neglected
While all his thoughts were
misdirected
To training greyhounds on the
chance
That some cur’s winnings might
enhance
His prospects of an easy life
With luxuries for kids and wife ?
A normal parent would be quick
To feel such rank injustice prick
The conscience that will not be
stilled
When obligations aren’t fulfilled
To little children who should be
Set on the path to honesty —
A thing I feel all parents do.
Except, perhaps, the hare-brained
few.
BERT.
Warning.
Don’t, Gorgeous Gussie, further
dare
To flaunt fresh freaks of under-
wear.
Iconoclasts might start to scoff —
And prompt the mob to take
’em off .
B.B.
The Grand Old Gameski.
“A Russian dictionary just pub-
lished defines cricket as ‘a game in
which two competing teams try to hit
a ball into the opponents’ goal.’ ”
So that the happy toilers in
the Paradise may get an even
better grasp of how their
national summer game is played
by the mad dogs of Englishmen
who go out in the midday sun,
“Depravda’s” brilliantly-
informed publicist-, Swi 1 y a
Vodkavitch, has supplied the
following additional details
about cricket,
“The cricket ‘course’—that is,
where the game is played—is an
oblong-shaped field marked out
in parallel lines every ten yards,
the spaces between lines known
as ‘wickets,’ A ‘wicket’ is a
small gate, which each player
must open and close before he
can score a ‘try.’ Parts of the
‘course’ are kept lig h 11 v
ploughed so that a player is
spoken of as sometimes being
‘in the rough.’ The goals are
half a kilometre apart, but do
not face each other. The area
around each of these is of clay
and is kept very wet, and is
consequently known as the
‘slips.’
“The game is played with an
elliptical ball filled with sponge-
rubber, the men in the
imperialist-warmonger countries
being too decadent and
effeminate to handle a hard ball.
“The 38 players face each
other on their allotted sides of
the half-way mark, and the
“So you thought we were only having a little race , hey!”
referee starts the game by
bouncing the ball towards the
No, 1 ‘stroker’ of the team hav-
ing first use of the ‘wicket’ by
having ‘won the toss.’
“This latter term will be dis-
covered with amusement and
scorn by the happy workers of
our glorious Fatherland who
have long enjoyed the freedom
of being ordered by the
N.K.V.D., when playing patball
and other manly Soviet sports,
to go in first or be liquidated as
anti-Stalinist, Trotskyite, pro-
cosmopolitanist traitors. Only
a country stupid enough to
place the individual before the
State—the chief reason for
Western Capitalism’s present
hopeless decadence would
allow an even-chance toss to
determine the start of any sport.
All sport, of course, in our
own enlightened People’s Demo-
cracy, is to keep the happy
worker fit to endeavor to be-
come, during his 56-hour
week, a Stakhanovite and
an example to others by setting
new records for the production
of guns and mortars, tanks,
bombs and shells to enable the
U.S.S.R. the better to pursue its
great campaign for World
Peace.
“The ball is thrown to the
‘stroker’ by the ‘sweep,’ who
uses a well-judged ‘breaker’
to get the stroker out. This can
be accomplished either by run-
ning him off-side, making him
hit his opponent’s ball with his
own, ‘teeing-up’ on the ‘pitch’
(along which the ‘sweep’ has to
run to deliver the ball), causing
him to miss two consecutive
balls which go over the
‘diamond,’ hit over the baseline
or footfault, or if the ‘stroker’
fails cleanly to take the flag
from his team-mate when the
game is played as a ‘relay’
match, as in what are known as
‘Tests.’
“The ‘stroker’ uses a ‘pusher’
to hit the ball, an implement
that has a thick rubber blade
and a cast-iron handle which
prevents jarring to the hands
when making the stroke. The
‘stroker’ must try to get the
ball between the opposing team’s
goal. It also must go under the
crossbar to count as a ‘try,’ and
to make it, slightly more diffi-
cult the crossbar rests on the
ground. On a scrimmage being
ordered by the referee half of
each team retires to its own
corner of the ground. The other
halves, comprising the ‘strokers,’
then try to get possession of the
ball thrown in by the half-
fieldsman.
“The ‘referee’ maintains his
post midway between goals to
penalise any ‘sweep’ who uses a
catapult to propel the ball—as
the unsportsmanlike Englishman
will try to do at every oppor-
tunity—instead of throwing it
under-arm, or any ‘pusher’ who
tries to ricochet the ball with his
head (some cricketers are
soccer-players in th& winter)
instead of using his cast-iron-
and-rubber ‘pusher.’ The reason
why so many English cricket
referees are seen wearing as
many as three or four caps and
holding several sweaters is that
they thereby seek to protect
themselves from the murderous
fury of players against whom
they have given adverse deci-
sions. Last year 114 English
cricket referees were kicked to
death by players, though (in
striking contrast to the complete
freedoin of news for which the
Soviet is celebrated throughout
the world) this fact has been
the subject of rigid censorship in
England,
“The following glossary
should help to explain some of
the technical points of the
game:
“ ‘Long On’: A famous
Chinese player who was a cricket
‘blhe’ for Cambridge. His name
is immortalised in a stroke made
behind the wicket. Long On,
who returned to China a few
years ago, has since won glory
fighting beside the gallant North
Koreans against the, brutal
American aggressors.
“ Tap to the Off’: A conveni-
ence situated on the right side
of the ‘pitch’ for the use of
thirsty players.
“ ‘Whipped Through’ ”: Dis-
ciplinary action taken by a
captain against his team for los-
ing a match.
“ ‘Declared’ ”: Under the
latest law of one of England’s
Fascist Dominions any player
who fearlessly expresses the view
that he would welcome a Red
Army which might come to
liberate his country’s workers
from the hated capitalist yoke
can be ‘declared’ by the oppos-
ing captain and without trial be
sent to one of the many slave-
labor camps there, and which
happily have no place within
the boundaries of the glorious
home of the free —the U.S.S.R.!
“ ‘The Flat Trick’ ”: Often
when he is about to hit at a
ball, a ‘pusher’s’ hat is suddenly
pulled over his eyes by a fields-
man—a gesture of bad sports-
manship typically English.
“ ‘Keeper’ ”: A warder who
accompanies a weak-minded
aristocrat who is playing against
professionals.”
Bo.
Lost Weekends.
“One would have thought that after
this robbery the prisoner would have
taken a ‘holiday,’ but the next week
he launched out on other robberies.”
—Judge Holden in Quarter Sessions.
He aimed to make, ’tis manifest,
A business of crime.
And as for leisure, pause or
rest.
He couldn’t spare the time.
But now the law’s caught up
with him
He’ll soon become aware,
The while he sweats in durance
grim.
That he has “time" to spare.
PERCIVAL.


•ffteWor/ds
mm mm
xw
BITTER
ON-
hfg
V
Ml
mmm
trade mark
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, 0.5. A.; WINDSOR. CAN.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebe DISTEIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 275), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
a
V
■
ikj*pwes
7
i
o
n
y
tr
y
4
■v -t
ra
/i
A
Vi appointment
TOBACCONIST* TO
C 5
vaio
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges ,
Old Bond Street , London —in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do •
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Zj Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Sporting Motions
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Over the past couple of decades
particularly—although there are in-
stances on record much further back
—the Williamstown Cup has very
often filled the role of consolation
prize for Melbourne Cup minor-
placegetters. It did so again at
Flemington on Saturday when it was
won by Morse Code, who had finished
third behind Comic Court and Chic-
quita in the big race.
The last horse to win the Williams-
town after running a place in the
Cup was Peter, in 1944. Others before
him, and without going too far into
the past, were Claudette (1943),
Phocion (1942), Maikai (1939), Shadow
King (1933), Yarramba (1932) and
Second Wind (1930). Second Wind
won the Williamstown again in 1931.
As well, other Williamstown winners
in Saxony (1949) and Counsel (1945)
had previously been placed in the
Melbourne Cup, but not in the same
years. Glancing through that list,
incidentally, if ever a horse deserved
consolation it was Shadow King, a
minor-placegetter in four successive
Melbourne Cups.
With Hutchinson in the saddle,
Morse Code went out a firm favorite
at 7 to 2, and gave his backers very
little anxiety. Much to the surprise
of her supporters, Saxony assumed
the role of pacemaker; usually she
runs her races from behind. Hutchin-
son, meanwhile, allowed Morse Code
to drift along quietly, well back in
the field. Saxony still led clearly as
they turned for home, but Morse
Code had been gradually improving
his position, and, working up full
speed in the straight, he dashed away
to a clear and comfortable win.
Hoyle ran a good, honest race for
second money, and Saxony, after her
unwonted task, hung on gamely to
defeat Iron Duke in a photo-finish
for third.
Jockey Ron Hutchinson gave his
followers an excellent day by winning
both main events at Flemington. The
other was the 7-furlongs Strand
Handicap, which saw Hutchinson land
the 7-to-l chance Desert Warrior an
easy winner from the hot favorite
Regal Scout. Desert Warrior looks
the cut of a much-better-than-average
sprinter, and may be one to keep in
mind when the rich sprint events
come round.
After running tiptop races in every
previous event he had contested, the
Dhoti colt Bahadur (J. Purtell) finally
cracked the ice when he comfortably
accounted for Trizami and Macfar-
lane in the Rawdon Stakes (5f.).
Great Gilbert, who came home like
a train (not the Victorian variety),
and was beaten a short half-head and
a half-head for the minor moneys,
started at 250 to 1, but he will cer-
tainly not be at anything approaching
those odds next time he lines up.
* * * *
After doing a round or two of the
minor tracks, Sydney racing returned
to Headquarters on Saturday, and
punters, flush with the proceeds ot
the fantastically good run they have
enjoyed in recent weeks, sallied gaily
into the fray. At the end of the day
most of the aforementioned pro-
ceeds” had returned to their more
normal repository in the bookies
bags, and the smile, as the verse hath
it, was restored to the face of the
tiger. Every favorite was beaten, and
the last three races went to a 100-to-1
pop and a pair of 20-to-l shots.
Sydney owners and trainers would
doubtless be loud in complaint if
there was a change in the policy of
providing on every week-to-week pro-
gramme two well-endowed open-
company handicaps for the better-
class horses, yet it is only their own
poor response to these events which
could bring such a change under dis-
cussion. Week after week, except
when major meetings are in the offing,
fields for the two open handicaps are
the smallest of the day, and not
infrequently little better than the
restricted events on the score of
quality. Saturday’s Horsley (6f.) and
Milperra (lOf.) Handicaps attracted
eight and 12 runners respectively. The
smallest fields sighted in other events
ran to 15 runners, while 24 contested
the mile Leumeah Handicap.
Both main events produced results
quite to the liking of the books.
After drifting in the betting from
fours to sevens, the Agincourt four-
year-old Hesdin (B. Smith) was a
comfortable winner of the Horsley,
beating second-favorite Carriole by
li lengths, with the veteran Trover
third. Favorite Acquittal beat only
three home. An even better result
for the bagman was the success of
the old-stager Air Flare in the Mil-
perra. Air Flare started at 20 to 1
to beat Frontal Attack and Dona
Marcheta. Favorite was the imported
Fair Recruit, who ran like a donkey.
Two-year-old events at Randwick
provided a nice double for trainer T.
J. Smith. Two of Smith’s charges,
Noble Love (R. Selkrig) and Swift
Current, fought out the Kindergarten
Stakes for fillies, to finish in the
order mentioned, and another from
his stable, Nitrogen (D. Munro),
scraped home narrowly ahead of
Ocean Bound and other colts in the
Junior Stakes. Other events saw
Lord Nottava (B. Smith) win the
Novice (13f.), Tidebar (B. Killian)
the Leumeah Handicap (Bf.) and
Laelius (R. Carrol) the Narellan
Handicap (7f.) for three-year-olds.
Laelius returned his optimistic sup-
porters £52 19s. for five-bob each
way on the tote.
* * * ♦
In commenting last week on Comic
Court’s Melbourne Cup win this
page recalled at some length Carbine’s
famous Cup win of 1890. A Queens-
land reader has now requested details
of Carbine’s other wins. Unfor-
tunately space does not permit a full
reply here, but a few details may be
of general interest. Differing from
those other great stayers Phar Lap
and Peter Pan, Carbine was a success
right from his first start. He did his
two-year-old racing in New Zealand,
and it comprised five starts for five
wins—four at Christchurch and one
at Dunedin. The remainder of Car-
bine’s racing was done in Australia,
and, with the exception of one run
at Caulfield, was divided between
Flemington and Randwick. At three
Carbine had 13 starts, and the out-
standing impression of the record on
paper is the versatility with which
he switched back and forth over a
wide variety of distances, and yet
was always placed. From these 13
starts Carbine notched up nine wins,
three seconds and a third. The fol-
lowing numbers represent the dis-
tances, in furlongs, and the order in
which they were run; 12, 7, 10, 6,
18, 24, 8, 16, 12, 16, 8, 16 and 24.
At his first start in Australia Car-
bine ran second in the Victoria
Derby. His subsequent three-year-
old wins included the Champion
Stakes, All-aged Stakes and Loch
Plate at Flemington and the Sydney
Cup, All-aged Stakes, Cumberland
Stakes and A.J.C, Plate at Randwick.
As a four-year-old Carbine had 14
starts, which returned nine wins, two
seconds, two thirds and the solitary
unplaced run of his career. His wins
were the Flying Stakes, Essendon
Stakes, All-aged Stakes and Loch
Plate at Flemington and the Autumn
Stakes, Sydney Cup, All-aged Stakes,
Cumberland Stakes and A.J.C. Plate
at Randwick. In his last season, as
a five-year-old, Carbine had 11 starts
for 10 wins and a second. The wins
were the Spring Stakes and Craven
Plate at Randwick; Melbourne
Stakes, Melbourne Cup, Champion
Stakes and Essendon Stakes at
Flemington; then back to Randwick
for the All-aged Stakes, Autumn
Stakes, Cumberland Stakes, and, to
round off his grand career, a third
win in the 3-miles AJ.C. Plate. In
all Carbine had 43 starts for 33 wins,
6 seconds, 3 thirds and once un-
placed. He covered 68| miles in
actual races, and won £29,626 in
stakes. If Carbine’s wins had been
recorded today they would represent
something nearer £BO,OOO in stakes,
despite that Carbine’s Melbourne Cup
was one of the richest on record, his
cut being £10,230, which accounted
for one-third of his total winnings.
♦ * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances); —
Maltine. Stakes: Nicaragua, 1;
Swift Current, 2; Princess Alwi, 3.
Farm Encourage: Miss Moya, 1;
Salvation, 2; Lord Nottava, 3.
Hoxton Park Juvenile: Ocean Bound,
1; Cuvalla Lad, 2; Neat Andrew, 3.
“ Sixer!"
Bankstown Handicap: Final Act, 1;
Old Jamaica, 2; Stelvio, 3. Camden
Handicap; Field Boy, 1; Frey-
berg, 2; Carriole, 3. Warwick
November Handicap: Crown Street,
1; Great World, 2; Steady, 3.
Welter: Wiranya, 1; Bold Actor, 2;
Damascene, 3.
♦ * * *
F. W. Hughes, probate of whose
will was granted in Sydney last week,
left an estate of £83,852. During the
five racing seasons 1944-49 horses
carrying Hughes’s red-and-white-check
silks won £85,067 in stakes.
♦ * * ♦
With the question of mid-week
racing in Sydney again being bandied
around the political field it is of
interest to note, by way of com-
parison, the scale on which racing is
conducted in England. According to
figures published recently in London
“Times,” England last season had
379 days of racing under Jockey Club
rules and 233 days under National
Hunt Club rules. Spread ’em as thin
as possible over England’s limited
area, 600-odd days per season is a
fair deal of racing. Prizemoney dis-
tributed at the Jockey Club meetings
totalled a shade over £1,000,000, and
for the National Hunt Club fixtures
£375,780.
* * * *
Sighted playing in the early rounds
of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Cham-
pionships at White City (Sydney) over
the weekend, visiting American
National Singles Champion Art
Larsen, whatever the quality of his
tennis, can certainly be mentioned as
possessing the most complete reper-
toire of court buffoonery yet sighted
here —and that covers a fair deal of
ground. Nevertheless Larsen is ob-
viously a player of high quality. He
does not play the “big” hard-hitting
game we are accustomed to seeing in
Americans, but concentrates on dead-
accurate placements and skilfully-
controlled variations of spin. On
Saturday he played only as hard as
he found necessary to beat R. Felan
in straight sets. Results of Saturday’s
round went pretty much as expected,
though Larsens fellow-American
Savitt had a disappointingly easy win
over Australian Davis Cup player
Worthington—ll-9, 6-1, 6-1. Taking
Sidwell to five sets, 15-year-old Ken
Rosewall again showed that he is a
coming champion. The champion-
ships continue throughout this week,
working up to the finals next week-
end.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
The cricket scene last week em-
braced the conclusion of M.C.C. y.
N.S.W. in Sydney and of Victoria
v. South Australia in Melbourne.
Then bags were packed and players
hustled off in divers directions to
commence M.C.C. v. N.S.W. Nor-
thern Country Districts at Newcastle
and the Shield match,, Victoria v.
N.S.W., in Melbourne.
• • • • •
The M.C.C. v. N.S.W. match,
which had looked the makings of a
bit of exciting cricket, degenerated
into an inevitable draw when N.S.W.
opener Moroney decided it was a
fitting occasion to give yet another
performance of his well-known
impersonation of Patience on a
Monument. By the time he had been
removed from the precincts the game
had fallen beyond redemption, and
the advent of rain at 4.45 p.m. on
Tuesday mercifully forestalled the
inevitable. In the earlier Melbourne
Shield match Victoria (264 and 303)
beat South Australia (188 and 186)
by 193 runs.
M.C.C. chose to play a second-line
team against “Country” at Newcastle.
Even so, its efforts were well short
of the mark expected against the
opposition encountered. Rain washed
out the first day’s play. On Saturday
“Country” scored 169 for a first-
innings victory over the tourists, 142.
At the end of Saturday’s play in the
Shield match Victoria v. N.S.W.,
Victoria had toted up a first-innings
tally of 374 and the ’Walers, in reply,
had lost four for 75, Miller having
blotted his recently-brilliant record
with a resounding blob.
# ♦ ♦ ♦
Fighting for the N.S.W. feather-
weight title at Leichhardt, Ray
Coleman (9st.) and Ken Wenman
(8.1 furnished a real championship
contest. There seems, however, to
be no stopping Coleman, who regis-
tered his 13th successive win when
the ref. intervened to give it to him
on a t.k.o. in the 14th round. It
had been a terrific non-stop flurry of
fighting until Wenman injudiciously
got in the road of a hard right in
the eighth round. He didn’t seem to
recover from the blow, and was help-
less when a halt was eventually
called.


m
r*
&
m
Hie worlds greatest
one-man harvest team
/5 -AMfunue wow/
For ihe first time in years the complete Allis-Chalmers ONE-MAN POWER-OPERATED
HARVEST TEAM is available* The revolutionary ROTO-BALER, the high speed RAKE
AND TEDDER and the famous ALL-CROP HARVESTER provide a practical/ versatile
team. One man can do the work of many . . . giving more profitable crops and
independence of hired labour. Best of all, this equipment is priced to be within the
reach of the ONE-MAN property. The whole team is provided with adequate adjust-
ments for all crop conditions.
LIMITED SUPPLIES ARE AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY, but you can make
sure of obtaining your team for the 1951 season by placing your order now.
THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-OFF OPERATEP
ALL-CROP HARVESTER
THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-OFF OPERATED ROTO-BALER
AC
pUIS ■ CHALMERS
N.S.W.; Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pfy, Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray,
Victoria. S. AUST,: John Shearer & Sons Pty. Ltd., Kilkenny. W. AUST.; Westrallan Farmers Co-Operative Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane. TASMANIA; A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd.. Hobart.
11/FP27
PUrt
rrrmmm
rtym
iPMffivyg
THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-OFF OPERATED RAKE AND TEDDER
SEND THIS COUPON to your Allis-
Chalmers dealer for full particulars.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDIN IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Drenching Points.
“Murrawong”: “Contortus”
(B, 8/11/’5O) claims that he con-
trolled worms in his sheep by
regular drenching with blue-
stone-arsenic and tetrachloride.
That proves only One thing—
that the only worms he had to
cope with were Hcemonchus
contortus, or barber’s - pole-
worms. Neither of the drenches
quoted is worth a cracker
against black-scour- or nodule-
worms. “C.,” as a New Eng-
lander, has probably been
drenching all his life and knows
that success depends on getting
in early to prevent serious infes-
tation. My article (B. 18/10/’5O)
reads “When worm-infestation
reaches really serious propor-
tions don’t expect results from
bluestone, nicotine or arsenical
drenches.” That is still my
opinion, and any experienced
vet. will confirm it.
This is an abnormal year for
all sheep parasites and diseases.
Even phenothiazine has failed at
times to cope with the massive
worm-infestations, but the rea-
son is less likely to be waning
efficiency of the drug than that
pastures are so heavily infested
with worm larvae that sheep are
picking up worms at a consider-
ably greater rate than any
drench can kill them. It takes
about three weeks for the larvae
to reach maturity inside the
sheep, and during that time they
are fairly immune to the
drenches that kill off the adult
worms. While these immature
worms are ploughing around the
sheep’s internal economy in
thousands they are causing it
considerable damage.
Another point is that the
nutritional value of pasture is
so much lower than usual be-
cause of the wet season that the
sheep’s recuperative powers are
lessened. In some parts young
cattle are becoming so weak in
spite of drenching that the only
way to save them is to hand-
feed in concreted pens or yards.
Their strength is thus built up
while they are protected from
reinfestation.
With regard to the small
brown stomach - worm (oster-
tagia) my original statement
that “until recently ostertagia
was not regarded by C.5.1.R.0.
as of primary importance” still
stands. In England this parasite
has always been a serious pest,
but in Australia it took several
wet seasons to make conditions
suitable for its now grave depre-
dations.
In stating that the C.5.1.R.0,
recommends a maximum dose of
2oz. of phenothiazine “C.” is not
quite up to date. Since the
“Wool - Board Handbook” was
written an amendment by
C.5.1.R.0. advocated double the
previous maximum doses to
cope with “outbreak conditions.”
Dose-rates are misleading when
stated in terms of fluid ounces
unless the mixing - rate or
grammes of pure phenothiazine
per fluid ounce are also given.
Some brands of drench require
twice as much water to bring
them to a consistency suitable
to go through a drenching-gun.
Under these conditions some
types of pheno. powder might
require a dose for adult sheep
of 4fl. oz. to equal the strength
contained in 2fl. oz. of another
brand. In Australia there is pro-
duced a more concentrated and
easier-handled product than any-
where else in the world.
I would suggest that “Con-
tortus” discuss with his stock-
inspector or C.5.1.R.0., Armi-
dale, the losses he claims to have
suffered after drenching weaners
with 2|oz. phenothiazine. The
double dose of the black-scour-
worm rate was advocated only
after exhaustive tests had proved
that sheep could tolerate it with
a good margin of safety. Up to
five times the normal dose has
been administered to a sheep
without ill effects, and no sheep
“That blasted circus must be around again.”
died from an overdose of pheno-
thiazine. It looks as though
“C.’s” sheep died not from the
increased dose, but from some
other cause.
Channel-country Beef.
“Whit”: T.A.A. is to operate
developmental air services in
south-west Queensland.
The company flew emergency
services in the area during the
recent heavy floods, and they are
to be put on a permanent basis,
with Dragon twin-engined bi-
planes for a start and, later,
Australian - built tri - motor
Drovers.
This could lead to a beef air-
lift similar to that in the Kim-
berleys, with possibly a subsidy
from the Queensland Govern-
ment.
Success of the Kimberley
beef air-lift has led to talk of
an abattoir being established at
Hall’s Creek, in the N.T. C.
Evans, secretary of Air Beef
Pty., Ltd., says that if the talk
comes to anything his company
will put planes on the job.
Detecting Mammitis.
“K.T.”; The first few squirts
of milk from any cow should be
a strong white or bluish white.
If the milk has a slightly watery
or dull look, or is yellowish,
trouble is on the way. By in-
jecting penicillin immediately
the affected quarter is noticed
much is gained. No milk is lost
and there is no risk of the
quarter being ruined.
A cow of mine was caught
early. Three teats were normal;
in the other, although it con-
tained the normal amount of
milk, the milk was dull in color.
I promptly attended to it and all
was well. On the other hand
another cow showed curds in her
milk without warning (I learnt
how to detect the early stages
from this experience) ; I was un-
able to get peni-
cillin for a week.
The cow, after
treat ment, re-
mained somewhat
weak in the par-
ticular quarter,
but the milk itself
is normal. This
same cow had a
second quarter
infected, which I
treated immedi-
ately, and the
teat returned to
normal. The
warning: Don’t
delay.
A wise dairy-
man always uses
a strip-cup to re-
ceive the first few
squirts of milk
from each cow.
Thus he can see
whether or not
everything is all
right, as generally
any defect of the
milk is indicated in the first
few squirts.
Many recommend vaccine
treatment for farms where in-
fection is bad. Much can be
done to avoid trouble by always
using a good steriliser. This
should be drawn through the
machine before milking, used to
wash the cows’ teats before milk-
ing and kept in a clean tin or
cup in which to dip the teats
after the cows are milked. Get


SEED SOWING * FERTILISING • PEST CONTROL
gh
Do it by Air-griculture !
Do your seed sowing, fertilising and pest control by air.
It's speedy, H's economical. Scientifically designed equip-
ment assures correct poundage per acre and even distri-
bution. For further details and name of nearest agent
write to
AIR-GR (CULTURE
CONTROL LIMITED
AERIAL CONTRACTORS
77 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE; M 3347 TELEGRAMS: 'AJRSPRAr SYDNEY
“Production line" perfection
At
W'
w
©
2?
s t
z.
&
»Si-
f/
7\.
z
it lasts years
longer if the
bodywork Is
$
a
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OP LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
gfh
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED—GENERAL
SALES AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE; 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE:
Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON, NX:
John Lysaqht’s Bristol Works Limited.
*ll
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.RoscAC^PDr.LM.Klqagt.Sydßsy
QUIRK’S
VACUUM CLEANERS
Here's an up-to-date Vacuum Cleaner that can
be operated from your own lighting plant—a
wonderful boon to the country housewife!
Operates on 32, 50, 110 and 240 volts. Quirk's
Vacuum Cleaner is well designed and built to
do a thorough cleaning job, taking up the dirt
COUNTRY
HOMES!
m
!, *
vtl
I m
II I
with powerful easy suction from all your carpets, floors, curtains,
etc. Complete with modern attachments for cleaning.
AND FLOOR POLISHERS
Choose a Quirk's Floor Polisher and Scrubber and eliminate the
backbreaking work of hand polishing and scrubbing. It can be
operated from your lighting plant on 32, 50, 110 or 240 volts.
Solidly made, this three-brush polisher will stand up to continuous
hard work and is easily converted for scrubbing purposes.
QUIRK S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY ’Phone M 3114
\
f
K£/>
until summer is nearly over 9 '
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.LSLAGWOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless It is Insulated preferably with BJ .
SLAG WOOL.
mm
/ . TFIffHOWS- SYOIEV. M 49311
V CiuiWooc
MELBOURNE, MU3505
PRKBME: • mum. C 7257 • PERTH. 12107
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square. General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£4O/12/6
m
WU7T Tit
SONS
/ r J Y LTp
4? -HlWlUt S\‘DN£V
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
rid of any cow that has gone
too far.
Pig-farming Economics.
“Rooster”: A good indica-
tion is given by the following
figures: The annual increase in
cattle ranges from 80 to 90 per
cent., in sheep 100 to 150 per
cent, and in pigs 1000 to 1200
per cent. It requires 121 b. to
131 b. of dry matter to produce
11b. of flesh in a bullock, 81b, to
91b. for a sheep and in a pig
only 41b. to 51b. The pig is a
voracious consumer with a
powerful digestive system, con-
verting all classes of food, much
of which is unsaleable, into flesh
in record time.
Pig-farming is payable when
run in conjunction with dairy-
farming. An average herd of
cows would yield about 150 gal-
lons of skim-milk daily, or a
similar quantity of whey if re-
turned from the cheese factory.
These by-products cannot be
put to better use than by con-
version into pork or bacon. With
supplementary meals or grains
the farmer will often fatten a
pig for each cow he milks
throughout the season. Where
more pigs are bred than are re-
quired for utilisation of the
dairy by-products the surplus
can be sold in the market as
weaners or stores.
Weed-killers.
“C.S.”: Federal Minister for
Health, Earle Page, has issued a
statement on the alleged danger
of new sprays to humans. He
says that a warning issued was
intended to apply to dinitro-
ortho-cresol preparations like
D.N.O.C. Unlike the insecti-
cidal organic phosphorous com-
pounds and D.N.0.C., new
selective plant hormone weed-
killers based on 24D and 245 T
are harmless to animal life, and
have never caused injury to any-
one using them.
They are replacing such
chemicals as the poisonous
arsenicals and the dangerous
sodium chlorate, and are doing
a bigger job at less cost. They
make these operations safer as
well as more efficient and eco-
nomical. They, therefore, con-
fer inestimable benefits on the
man on the land.
There are, of course, a few
precautions to be observed in
their application, but they are
of such a nature that any nor-
mally intelligent person can ob-
serve them without difficulty.
Considerable acreages in all
States are being tested with 24D
for the destruction of Bathurst-
and Noogoora-burr, and the
treatment is more effective and
only a fraction of the cost of
eradication by other means;
24D is also being used widely
for control of various weeds in
grain crops, such as thistles,
wild turnips, etc. At long last
—in 245T —the material appears
to be available which will en-
able the eradication of black-
berry and water hyacinth. Mint-
weed, too, in its early stages of
growth, is susceptible to 24D.
Preserving Batter,
“Country Woman”:" Those
who keep only one cow should
pot some butter now for future
use. Be sure that all milking
utensils and separator are
thoroughly scalded before use.
Run the cream into a basin and
allow it to cool, then add salt.
Next day add more cooled cream
and salt, stir the cream well
to mix the lot.
When there is sufficient cream
pour into a well-scalded chum.
If the cream is not salty enough
add more salt, A heaped table-
spoon of salt is sufficient for
each pound of butter. Churn
until the butter reaches the
crumbly stage, then pour off
buttermilk and wash the butter
with cool water until there is no
trace of milk left. Work it well
with well-scalded pats rubbed
with salt.
Butter made this way has an
unbeaten record at agricultural
shows as a prize-winning exhibit
in home-made classes.
To pot the butter, make a brine
that will float an egg. Boil the
salt and water and allow to cool.
Wrap the butter in butter-paper
and place in crock, then pour
the brine over it. Place a weight
on the butter to keep it under
the brine. As the brine evapor-
ates add more. Cover the jar
and store in a cool place.
Hints for the Farm.
“K.T.”; Chicken - hatching
should be begun now for the
best results. Not only for pro-
ducing layers, but generally the
most outstanding show stock are
early-hatched birds. Remember,
when mating your breeders,
farmers or fanciers, that you
should mate a male bird to a
female strong in the points in
which he is weak)
“C.A.A.”: While shortages of
bran and pollard exist for
poultry try any of these mix-
tures with a pinch of common
salt added: (a) pollard 201 b.,
ground wheat 401 b., ground oats
30ib., meatmeal 101 b,; ( b )
ground wheat 801 b., dried
brewers’ grain 101 b., meatmeal
101 b.; (c) ground wheat 601 b.,
ground oats 301 b., meatmeal
101 b.; (d) ground wheat 501 b.,
ground barley 201 b., ground oats
201 b., meatmeal 101 b.; ( e)
ground wheat 601 b., ground
barley 201 b., dried brewers’
grains 101 b., meatmeal 101 b,
“Sundowner”: To combat
potash deficiency of apple-trees
(characterised by leaf scorching
and rolled-leaf symptoms) spray
with potash solution up to 1 per
cent. (101 b. of sulphate of potash
in 100 gal. of water) at intervals
of about two weeks during the
first six to eight weeks of the
growing season. If arsenate of
lead is used in the spray pro-
gramme potash sprays cannot
be used without danger of burn-
ing the leaves because of chemi-
cal reaction between the two
materials,
“A-Jay”: Chickens should not
be left in the warm brooder too
long but transferred gradually
to clean, open-range conditions,
where they will receive fresh air,
sunshine and the freedom so
essential to their best develop-
ment.
“Bill C.”: It’s not hard to beat
white-ants. Knock a hole in a
nest and put in a fire with a
handful of sticks. It’ll soon
smoulder out, ants and all.
“M.”: To kill leaf slug of
pear-, cherry-, quince- and plum-
trees, mix 2oz. of lead arsenate
powder in 4gal. of water and
thoroughly coat the leaves with
spray.


. Executor can relax
at last
% -
Although retired, Mr. Executor soon found that looking after
other people’s affairs was an exacting job. Very wisely he decided
to share unsought responsibilities with Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. This Company’s officers are thoroughly conversant with
the management of estates. Beneficiaries are protected at every
turn. senior trust officer will be glad to answer your questions.
It you are unable to call, write for the booklet, “Hands That
Never Leave the Wheel.”
James Burns
MANAGER: L, 5. Parker
DIRECTORS:
Joseph Mitchell P, T. W. Black Erie Priestley Lea
SECRETARY: E. R, Overton. F.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
“Executor, Trustee, Agent”
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.O.
SECTIONS NOW IN
NOW! IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
ON ALL ALUMINIUM ORDERS
#
sss
wOR*" B L
- S?RAt
cut
HBOV#
IRR IGAT |0 »
|A
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sections to buy and
to move aroundl Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
ALUMINIUM mains and sections
Lightweight, durable spray sections and 24 ft. mains, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mams and sections.
" RA ' NBOW " MAKES
RAINBOW
iPRAY
IGATION
83 PITT STREET, SYDNEY* "PHONE
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124
Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria: C. BEAUMONT,
64 K CURRY M i b T n u~c MU j oUth Au * troli a: RALPH
«0/88 8A RY ‘ 24 L ' Sq *' Adelaide. ’Phone; C 1065.
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
I
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on ball and socket prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
fg
minimum obstruction in
both outlet and main.
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
with vegetation.
I don’t wonder that they were
worried and touchy; hardly, in
fact, in a state to be held entirely
responsible for their actions.
AND while we were all wait-
** ing for our doom to descend
upon us, Brauertz made his next
move.
He started to stroll down to
the road in the afternoons, hop-
ing, no doubt, to beguile his
loneliness by conversation with
the people who passed by. But
he had no success; no one
wanted to talk to Brauertz ihe
Loafer. Probably he got some
pleasure out of watching the
schoolchildren going home,
though I’m sure we looked too
thin and serious as we hurried
to be in time for the evening’s
milking.
At first we were very nervous
of him, because of his reputation
and his fat face (the only one in
Isola). But he smiled on us so
benevolently, and made such
amusing jokes about our ex-
tremely earnest teacher, that in
time we couldn’t but realise the
goodwill he felt towards us. We
couldn’t help responding, until
it got to the stage that it became
a sort of game to be the most
daring* not only to listen to him,
but to stop and talk. He was
very tactful, taking care from the
first not to offend our prejudices,
but as we became accustomed to
him he began to tease us about
our industry. We didn’t take
him seriously, but I still re-
member our apprehensive de-
light when we heard him say
such things as ;j
“God made the garden, but
the devil invented the hoe.”
And though thoughts like that
seemed to us to crackle and
flame with blasphemy, one of the
boys was so intoxicated with it
that he repeated it at home, with-
out taking sufficient precautions
against being overheard.
After that things happened so
quickly that we could hardly
follow the sequence of events.
There was a great running hither
and thither of fathers and
mothers at night; the dreadful
words “corrupt the children”
setting anger leaping from
parental eyes. Some of us saw
the flames on that fatal night,
and the next day there was only
a heap of ashes where Brauertz's
cottage had been. It was several
days later that the news leaked
through to us that, instead of
Brauertz leaping from his bed
and rushing to put out the fire
with all his former energy, and
so restoring himself to grace and
his true character, he had
perished in the flames.
Everything that hap-
pened afterwards we took to
be a direct retribution, and to a
certain degree it was. If the
newspapers hadn’t made so
much of the Brauertz affair, and
dug up everything about Isola’s
past, including the inhabitants’
dubious title to the land they
occupied, it is possible that the
industrious farmers of Isola
would have been able to re-
sist effectively the Government
scheme tc submerge our valley
beneath the waters of a great
new dam.
casual rifle they were feared by
the children and left alone by
all else.
One morning, years before,
Mrs. Taylor had found a tiny
cygnet, bedraggled, fluffy.
hungry, miserable, outside the
shop door one early morning.
How or why he got there she
never knew and never much
tried to guess; his presence was
more important than his past.
Gathering the life of a tiny
swan into arms, where already
the threads of a score of lives
were held, presented no prob-
lem whatever; soon Bobby was
being fed, petted, dried before
the fire and generally given to
understand that “the store” be-
longed to him as much as it be-
longed to any one of the dozens
of people who, in some fashion
or another, had found a physical
or a spiritual refuge there.
There were long odds that he
would die; but he was an ex-
ceptional swan, and it was this
exceptional quality in him, this
inward demand of his right to
live that saw him somehow
through whatever afflictions may
fall to the lot of orphaned
swans.
Soon he was filling out into
the beautiful promise of his
maturity, and he became as a
black shadow to Mrs. Taylor,
following her wherever she
went, accepting her commands,
making a niche for himself in
the busy life of the store.
Mrs. Taylor held him in high
regard, but she was too wise in
the ways of men and birds to
feel that Bobby would remain
for long beside her when the
urgent callings of his matured
life began to throb within him,
or the high dark wedges of the
wild-flying swans summoned him
to the inner life of his kind. And
she had too much quality in her
to resort to the trashy expedient
of wing-clipping or the like;
what she wanted she wanted as
wholeheartedly as what she
gave ; she sought no “pet” in the
thraldom of a jail. So she left
Bobby to live his own destiny.
Q URE enough, the time
v —' came when there was no
Bobby around the store; he
vanished as mysteriously as he
arrived. Long since accustomed
to the people she had created, or
helped, going out of her life,
aware in some strange fashion,
as the brood-mother always is,
that the purposes of life have to
be fulfilled at whatever cost of
loneliness or pain, Mrs. Taylor
accepted Bobby’s loss philo-
sophically ; even though she
had begun to depend on him as
“the man around the house,”
“because,” as she told me while
I sipped my drink, “this is a
powerful lonely place at nights,
with the daughters’ husbands
away at the camps and a dark
road down which anything
might come.”
For Bobby, now fully-grown,
had taken over the guardianship
of the household. A job befitting
his malehood, he carried it out
with a relentless tenacity worthy
of half a dozen dogs, always
vigilant, afraid of nothing, and
a formidable character to boot
when he decided it was time to
go into action, for his beak
could take a lump out of your
throat when he went about it in
earnest.
“I can’t help laughing now
about what he did to the poor
old drunken man, who was
more of a danger to himself
than to anybody else,” said Mrs.
Taylor. “He came wandering
up the road with too much
aboard, and Bobby didn’t like
the look of him after dark. It
took a fortnight’s nursing and
five quid to the doctor to put
him to rights—but at that per-
haps it was worth it, because
he’s never touched drink since;
reckons that when swans start
biting ’im, it’s time to leave off
the grog.”
Two months went by after
Bobby’s disappearance; then
one morning Mrs. Taylor was
surprised by a loud hissing out-
side which had a familiar ring.
And sure enough there was
Bobby back, ready to take up
his familiar place as watchdog,
chief snake-killer and manager-
in-ordinary of all that went on
in the busy affairs of the store.
There was, of course, no
indication of where he had
been; he was quite unharmed,
and it was clear enough that he
had returned not merely for
succor, but to a place which
represented a real part of his
life.
Hr HEREAFTER, as the years
A went on, Bobby would dis-
appear at times on his own
errands, staying away now
longer, now shorter, but always
reappearing and, with exquisite
unapologetic poise, reinstating
himself in the position from
which he had temporarily de-
parted in his own regal style.
What excuses he made to the
swan-families in which, no
doubt, he played some consider-
able part, nobody can know, but
it remains true that in some
strange fashion of his own he
was able to reconcile the
demands of two wholly differing
ways of life with a dignity in
that which was known almost
certainly duplicated in that
which was not.
There is a silly temptation to
depict some Leda-complex in
the association which grew up
between Mrs. Taylor and the
black swan, but anybody who
visited the store and understood
its warm, wholesome human
atmosphere would know at once
the foolishness of any such
romantic fancy. Mrs. Taylor’s
utter normalcy in such matters
of human life had been amply
testified by the brood of children
bom to Mr. Taylor, now some
fifteen years in his grave;
children born out of her infinite
instinct for motherhood to a
number scarcely now remem-
bered but with great effort, and
grandchildren spawned lustily a
hundred miles up and down the
coast.
But widowhood in the deep
bush, albeit a courageous and
generous widowhood filled with
busy days, has its own terrors
and its own lonelinesses, and
Mrs. Taylor never felt the
slightest reason to apologise for
her gratitude at the thought that
there was “a man about the
house,” even though the “man”
was a black swan with the
amiability to her circle of a pet
cat and the ferocity of a tiger
towards those who might do her
hurt.
THE end of it, of course, is
* the end of all things mortal.
On my next journey through
that country, some two years
later, I pulled in at the store to
find only a daughter of Mrs.
Taylor in attendance, and no
menacing black shadow on the
ground, Mrs. Taylor had joined
her husband the year before in
the little bush-grown cemetery
down the road, and Bobby, after
waiting around for a few weeks
longer, had drifted off into his
other world, from which, this
time, he had not returned. Nor
did they expect him to; they
knew that a link had been
broken for ever.


Established 186*
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
rfwumjr
>4. prawn -.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
■RAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
Monotype and linotype
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
BTEREOTTPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
Advertising creators and
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
"CANADIAN CLUB" Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC" Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 8/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Pine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Be member WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
SB
CINZANO
SWEET
OR
DRY
avrKHu/
im
m
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD THOMPSON late
of Mullumbimby.—TAKE NOTICE that
ROSE BEATRICE THOMPSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2578 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without Just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 80th day of January 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. HUNGERFORD ft
BLACKWELL, Solicitors, of Vallum-
bimby; or their Sydney Agents, MESSRS.
CLAYTON UTZ ft COMPANY, Solicitors,
136 Liverpool Street, Sydney.'—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
■* ** *******
noAajv
Australia ?
White ants like to work in the dark, sapping the strength of fine, dean timber and
destroying the substance beneath the surface. To-day, many Australians are steadily,
often unknowingly, white-anting Australia’s strength as a nation. They lack the faith
and courage to put their country’s interests before their own. Their cynicism disregards
the need for co-operation in a united effort to defend and develop one of the finest
countries in the world. They want to enjoy the comforts and privileges of a free
democracy without shouldering their responsibilities as dtizens.
A good Australian has faith in his country's future and pride in the Australian way
of life. No personal discomfort or extra effort will shake his resolution to think,
fight and work to serve and save Australia from the menace of world aggression.
TAKE THE LEAD AS A GOOD AUSTRALIAN. If you take the lead in the great
task of making Australia strong in defence, in resources and in unity of purpose, others
will follow your example. Here's how you can show your faith in Australia—in
Be ready to fight, if need be, to defend Australia on land or sea or in the air.
If you are of military age, enlist in the Navy, Army or Air Force for full-time or
part-time service.
Be willing to work harder, with one dear objective: to produce more of every-
thing we need for defence preparations, and to maintain our living standards.
Be glad to co-operate as an employer or employee in maintaining peace in
industry and in putting the interests of the whole nation before that of any single
group br section.
What we do over the next few years will determine
the fate and future of Australia
ACTION.
bumd hi tb* Government of. tb* Commonwealth of A tutrait*.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse beginning: —
With browned hand to the bridle
And scarred hand to the axe,
They chase their dim gold idols
Along the rough bush tracks
The best men, the West men.
The men from Sunset Side.
—4954.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —4955.
To exchange collection of souvenir
china, 100 miniature articles, each
with different city arms or crest on
it. —4956.
South African (35) ex Air Force
officer, single, migrating to Australia
next July, would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers in Sydney.
(Reply direct to Alfred J. Hall, 7
Natal-street, Johannesburg, South
Africa.)
Information Sought.
What is Alexandrine verse ?
A species of verse much employed
by French poets, especially in poetry
of the heroic or epic order. Each
line in the Alexandrine consists of
12 syllables, and, strictly speaking,
and following the French model, it
should be divided into two hemistichs,
the sixth syllable ending a word. The
name Alexandrine would appear to
be derived from an old French poem
about Alexander the Great, written in
this metre towards the end of the
12th century. Others attribute the
name to Alexandre de Bernay, joint
author of the poem. Generally the
Alexandrine line is used in rhymed
couplets, and was so employed by
Edmund Spenser to finish off each
of his stanzas, but it has also been
used by itself alone as the conclud-
ing line, and sometimes in the body,
of English 10-syllabled verse. Pope
railed against it in his well-known
couplet:—
A needless Alexandrine ends the song,
That, like a wounded snake, drags its
slow length along.
But, for all that, he employed it not
infrequently. The longest and best
poem in our language written wholly
in Alexandrines is Drayton’s “Poly-
olbion.”
• • * ♦
How to waterproof canvas trousers 7
Dissolve loz. yellow washing soap
in 1 pint boiling water, then stir in
1 quart boiled oil; when cold, stir
in i pint gold size. Apply two coats
with a brush, drying well between the
coatings in a shady place. Another
method is to rub the inside of the
material well with a piece of beeswax
until the material is coated grey in
color. Inquire at a paint shop for
some of the new waterproofing com-
pounds. All home methods are only
partly satisfactory.
* * ♦ *
Where and when was Jimmy Clabby
born? Did he ever gain recognition
as middleweight champion of the
world ?
Jimmy Clabby was born at Norwich,
Conn. (U.S.A.), on July 14, 1890.
Clabby was one of many classy
middleweights claiming to be world’s
middleweight champion in 1911, but
overseas authority refused to recog-
nise him as holder of the title. Mike
Gibbons was given preference,
although never universally regarded
as world champion. Clabby, how-
ever, was the only opponent to win
a referee’s decision over Gibbons, and
quite a few American critics con-
sidered him as world’s middleweight
champion for a while.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
What boxing contest drew the
biggest gate on record, and how much
did this gate amount to? What was
the winner’s percentage of this?
Jack Dempsey v. Gene Tunney drew
the biggest gate in boxing history
when they fought for the world’s
heavyweight championship at Chicago
on September 22, 1927, the total
receipts amounting to 2,658,660 dol-
lars, or £595,554 3s. 4d. at par.
Tunney outpointed Dempsey in 10
rounds, and was paid 990,445 dollars
(£206,342 16s. Bd. at par) for his 30
minutes’ work.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Some particulars about Karel
Rudolph, a modern Czech musical
composer ?
He was bom at Prague in 1881,
studied at Prague University, and
later devoted himself exclusively to
music, being Dvorak’s last pupil in
composition. His composition is
remarkable for fecundity and a cer-
tain exuberance and for its broadly-
elaborate themes. When he did suc-
ceed in subordinating this exuberance
to formal and intellectual control, as
in his violin sonata “The Demon,”
he reveals himself as an important
influence in modern Czech music. He
published also “Hsa Heart,” an
opera; “In the Glow of the Hellenic
Sun,” a song-cycle; and various
symphonies.
* * * •
What does “capacity in law ” mean ?
It means competency or ability to
do any legal act or hold any office
and the state of possessing the neces-
sary discretion to be chargeable for
one’s crimes. For example, lunatics
and infants are, generally speaking,
incapable of entering into binding
contracts. In criminal law children
under seven are absolutely incapable
of committing a crime. Between seven
and fourteen the infant is still pre-
sumed to be doli incapax, but the
presumption may be rebutted by
evidence of discretion in the infant.
Brief Answers.
F.A.McN.; (1) Yes. (2) No,
though natural petroleum is usually
referred to as “mineral oil” to dis-
tinguish it from vegetable oils. (3)
A petroleum-prospecting permit is
necessary. (4) The Minister for
Mines, through the warden for the
district where the area is situated.
(5) There is no Government offer
either of a reward of royalty....
P.T.C.: The lines are from “The
Roaring Days” by Henry Lawson.
~. .E.H.: Write H. S. Tcmby,
Literary Fund Advisory Board, Prime
Minister’s Dept., Canberra, A.C.T.
.... .R.L.K.: Q’land Agricultural
Dept., Brisbane, will forward you
free on request pamphlet “Papaw
Culture in Queensland”....A.McD.:
NSW Agricultural Dept., Sydney,
will forward on request a leaflet on
preserving passionfruit pulp and
f u ice... .S.A:e. : H. M. Andersen,
Botany-road, Alexandria (N.S.W.),
and Carrier Bag Cos., Marshall-street,
Surry Hills Sydney... .E.M.H.: The
t ; t]e of the ’ j s j he Detectives’
Handbook It is described in the
"b-t Mes as being a book of “Slang
p hrases comprising All the Quaint
Slang Words and Flash Dialogues in
use in the Australian shadows of
Life, Sporting, Stage and Gambling
Slang. Low Life Glimpses, etc. The
Most Curious Work ever issued in
Australia”... .HJ.: A Guide to Aus-
tralian Law for Journalists, Authors.
Printers and Publishers by Geoffrey
Sawer (9s. 6d.), published by Mel-
bourne University Press, Melbourne,
....N.F.: Not usually in cookery
books, as it is one of the modern ways
of using sweet fruits as vegetables,
Roast duck or chicken is sent to
table surrounded by pieces of hot
pineapple, which is served as a
vegetable with each portion; may be
served separately in a dish with a
mild white sauce A.D.T.: Die
publication is obtainable from the
Kent Publishing Cos., 429 Kent-street,
Sydney... .NJ.McK.: Write editor,
“Hoofs and Horns,” Box 101 b,
G.P.0., Adelaide....A.O.R.: The
work is so uncertain that no profes-
sional will guarantee success. A
special drill is used, and the article is
sometimes placed deeply in water
during the process to get the benefit
of pressure on the glass, etc. If the
glass is valuable a white plastic flex
taken up the outside and entering
the lampholder at the top is con-
sidered the best way. Consult C. A.
Funnelle, 109 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
J.C.: Prepared to allow punter to
“remain alone in gloom tenebrous”
while he bemoans his “loss tremen-
dous”... .W.S.: Afraid it is an ill
fitting pair of b00t5....J.R.5.: The
evils of six-o’clock closing demand
a stronger protest than that
H.J.F.: Sorry, but we cannot echo
your last line “Arrived, all well.”
~. .Bellerive: Roll back the years:—
0 n Hobart Wharf in Former Years.
On Hobart wharf when a ship was in
There was heavy traffic and rattling din.
Clerks were busy with pencil and pen
On Hobart wharf when a ship was to.
Appies and pears for dear Land
St blow 3 £ bS Z
?vh ei l far out cleaves a gigantic ship,
Among the traders I’d climb aboard,
Young in years, active and slim.
A memory are the bygone days
Of Hobart wharf when a ship was in.
... .M.L.: Both bump unevenly along
a rooky road... .D.N.; Twill not
blossom m our pages.... D.D.: W«
haven’t stable-room for your phan-
tom brumbies R.P.: “Tolerance
does not call for tolerance... .J.S.:
Admirably suitable for a high-school
magazine... .R.O H.: What has
Inigo Jones done. to deserve that?
....F.C.: Send it to a religious
-magazine J.K.: Not tempted by
song composed “at night outside the
nine-storey house of Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde below Edinburgh Castle.
...W.P.F.M.: All are headed for
home... .C. 8.: Possibility of publica-
tion very slight C.A.C.: Let us
hope that it is not as bad as all
that:-
We’ve many dodges to catch the rat.
Rabbits dogs and foxes,
But the Argentine-ant gives ns the rap;
He advances still and mocks us.
V ‘V> A miss ?u tne ui o-’’
. J?/ 16 your blowflies.
.: Why not read it to your
new neighbor/....FE.r.: Displays
no special, merit... .L.P.M.: Let ail
good jtiade-umomsts heed your
woras •
p.D.; You will have to do better
than that, Fred... .M.R.: Neither
breaks new ground....S.S.: Not
even f.a.q J.J.: At the present
we cannot see your musings becoming
“a subject for bouquets, not blows.”
R.J.H.: Prosaic W.R.C.: At
its best it’s just a janghng jingle....
A.C.P.: It finished among the rejects,
The meetings are attended
who*rtcffwriSr orders
From the Kremlin
These termites hold
Office to the end
Because the victims
Always fail to attend.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed firat Is pud
4£d. per line; all others 2id. per line.
Wages and Prices
It is not surprising that a Gallup Poll
has revealed that a majority of Aus-
tralians, worried by the shrinking value
of money, now favor endowing the
Federal Government with price-control
powers. But since wages and salaries
represent 85 per cent, of production costs
and wage-increases must inevitably lead
to price-increases, any attempt to control
commodity prices would be futile if some
form of control were not imposed on
wages.
In the recent basic-wage case, Judge
Dunphy considered the claim for a £lO
basic-wage to be out of hand. The
economy of the country, he maintained,
could not stand such an impost, and the
granting of it would be contrary to the
worker’s own interests. The other two
judges held similar Views.
For some time, however, the man in
receipt of the basic-wage has been hard
to find. Many unskilled workers receive
£lO a week—the amount the judges
thought unwise to grant —and some (on
piecework) even double that amount.
Before the 1939-45 war the basic-wage
and awards were closely observed. If a
man received a few shillings a week extra,
it could be depended on that he was
something out of the ordinary as a toiler
or craftsman. Nowadays wages are
seldom governed by the Arbitration
Court, but by the supply of and demand
for labor. Awards have become merely
the minimum amount a man must be
paid for his hire, and employers often
offer excessive rates of pay to secure
labor from a depleted market. Consider-
able bargaining goes on —the farmer out-
bids his neighbor to secure a man;
factories advertise higher wages and
better amenities to induce men to leave
other employment and come to them.
Men who in pre-war days were not
worth their salt —and workers don’t
improve with age—are now among the
big-wage men. And the public pays.
How can prices be controlled when the
major costs, wages, are out of hand?
Although prices were fairly successfully
held in check during the war and post-
war years by a comprehensive system of
controls which the Government exercised
by virtue of special war-time powers, that
system did not only control prices. It
included, among other things, the
pegging of wages and the right to direct
manpower into specific avenues of
employment—two factors which present-
day price-fixing advocates would abhor.
Sooner or later if the workers don’t
roll-up their sleeves and give value for the
pound controls will have to be accepted
as part of an overall policy to stabilise
prices and costs and to increase produc-
tion and restore value to the pound.
Jhelre are only two alternatives: the
pruning of excessive wages or an increase
in production. Commodity prices cannot
remain static while the chief production
cost (labor) rises.— Beau Forte (Vic.).
Wanted—a Leader
The Bulletin asks (1/11 /’5O) “What’s
Happened to Public Opinion?” I should
say, “Nothing.” I agree with every word
in the article, but I still hold a strong
and abiding faith in the good sense of the
Australian people.
In the early ’thirties Australia, poli-
tically, was in much the same dire straits
we’re heading for now. The post-war
boom had fizzled out, the happy-go-lucky
era of extravagant spending, both private
and Governmental, had come to an end.
The bottom dropped out of the world
market for our exports. Unemployment
was rife and the dole was introduced.
The “Labor” Government under
Scullin and Theodore proposed a fiduciary
issue of currency—inflation. Otherwise
the politicians of both sides were bank-
rupt of ideas. . The public waited for a
lead.
In a North Sydney suburb half a dozen
citizens got together to discuss the situa-
tion. The views expressed were so strong
and the gathering so determined to do
something that it was decided to tell the
public. They engaged a small hall ex-
pecting to half-fill it with interested people
and/or friends. To their surprise the hall
was filled to overflowing with an audience
which loudly applauded every speaker.
Out of that meeting the “All for Aus-
tralia League” was formed. None of the
organisers held political affiliations and
their league was founded as a non-party,
non-sectarian body.
From that small beginning the move-
ment swept like a bushfire throughout
Sydney and N. S. Wales, then to Victoria
and other States. Public opinion had
found a voice.
The success of the movement astounded
politicians. There was a rush to get on
the band-wagon, but the A.F.A.L. refused
to allow party politics to take over as
such. Out of this the United Australia
party was formed, and Joseph Lyons, a
“Labor” Minister, ditched his party to
become Prime Minister backed by the
remnants of the Bruce-Page National
party (now Liberal). Having done its
job the A.F.A.L. disbanded. It had
forced the creation of a middle-class
party. It had given a voice to the usually
inarticulate floating vote, and the shout-
ing was loud and long.
We need something like that now—a
non-political movement determined to
force the politicians to act in the best
interests of the nation as a whole and not
for any sectional interests. The majority
of Australians want a breakdown of
party politics and the merging of all in-
terests in one party designed for the
national good. Public opinion is not dead
or moribund —the last Federal elections
proved thaat. It only needs the match of
leadership to start the flame, —J. Henry
(N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Trams
The news that /Sydney tram- and bus-
fares had gone up again, making them
100 and 150 per cent, above pre-war
rates, left me undecided whether to laugh
or weep. It’s so utterly fantastic. Fares
at such levels merely mean in the long
“It's all right, Dad; I'm only looking for rats .”
run that revenue must drop, thus defeat-
ing the object in a most efficient manner.
There are two things about this which
Sydney would do well to bear in mind.
The first is that while it is extremely
desirable that public passenger transport
should pay its way in full, it very seldom
does, and if you cannot make the system
run at a profit you can at least get some
value for your money. Sydney, more so
than all other Australian cities, doesn’t.
The second point is that Sydney, collec-
tively, has asked for what it is receiving.
The dreadful deterioration which has
happened dates from the day when the
operation of the trams was taken out of
the hands of the Railway Commissioner
and passed to a Road Transport Board,
whose first action was to shout from the
housetops their intention of scrapping
the trams and substituting buses. Before
that, Sydney had had a system of which
it could have been —but never was—
proud. It was fast, efficient and cheap.
If it had a major fault it lay in the fact
that everything was subordinated to
efficiency and carrying ability, and
Sydney was easily seduced by the
promised comfort of the bus regardless
of other and more important factors.
Tlie board was permitted to go ahead
with a policy of scrapping outlying tram-
lines without regard to economics or any-
thing else, and that, when applied to my
own old route, Cabarita-Burwood-
Ashfield, where the Tramway Depart-
ment had maintained the entire length
and most of the width of the long
Burwood-road, caused one Bulletin
contributor to complain almost tearfully
that the councils were now facing a vast
outlay on road maintenance. That was
something Sydney had never bothered to
think about until it was too late.
The scrapping of those efficient trams
has given the board a headache because
they’ve found their replacement infinitely
more difficult than theory would have
suggested. They’ve followed two courses —
one to abolish tram maintenance entirely,
the other to bring out a fatuous bus-
minded commission at great cost whose
findings were either comic or tragic
according to the way you looked at it.
The basic fact remains that Sydney, as
a result of that policy, has the poorest
service and the highest fares of any Aus-
tralian city, and if that doesn’t make the
citizenry start thinking and demanding
an impartial investigation into the entire
set-up, nothing will.— Transporticus
(Singapore).
Ambon
The reference to rampok (B.
l/11/’5O) explains why the Javanese, be-
lieved to be a peaceful, soft-voiced race,
suddenly became belligerent and cruel.
Rampok means “running amuck” when
in a mob —an instability of mind peculiar
to the native races which even centuries
of contact with Europeans and the Euro-
pean concept of an orderly society has
not eradicated.
During their 200 years of control over
the Indies the Dutch accepted rampok
as part of the native way of life as we
accept our “walkabout” aborigines.
While accepting it, the Dutch learned the
way to control it. Their policy was seize
the leaders, break up gangs into sections
and then separate the individuals. With-
out leadership and the “courage” en-
gendered by being in a mob, and deprived
of an audience for vainglorious misdeeds,
the native mind subsides.
The Ambonese are distinctly different
from the Javanese. They are well bal-
anced mentally and, physically, are a fine
race. Ambon was the first island settled
by the Dutch. Here East and West have
met, and they have mixed so thoroughly
they’ve been cemented together by blood-
ties and admiration for each other.
Prompt action should have been taken
to smash Soekarno’s rampok in Ambon
by breaking the blockade and taking in
food and medical supplies to the Am-
bonese. They are a people we should
cultivate, and their country could well
be the pivotal-point of success or failure
in Australia’s s.-e. Asian policy.
If Soekarno were discredited or de-
posed the moderate Javanese, who favor
the Dutch plan for a Federal system and
eventual independence under Dutch
guidance in terms of the Linggadjati
Agreerhent, would take control. That is
the agreement Soekarno signed and
promptly repudiated once the Dutch
withdrew their forces. He then set up his
dictatorship in the guise of a Republic.
His dictatorial power is being exercised
by his armed minority—“a rampok .”
Those of the groups—embryo States
under the agreement—which opposed
him have all been subdued.
It has been put forward that, since
the Republic is the “established” Govern-
ment and in control, the Ambonese were
in revolt and the subduing of the revo-
lution was a domestic matter in which
U.N. or any nation could not interfere.
That is nonsensical and hypocritical, and
if U.N. and Australia accept that view
we are bowing to a rule of force which,
if applied to Dutch New Guinea —as it
may well be—will involve us in another
war.— J, H. Lawes (N.S.W.).
Migrants or Games?
Few citizens of Melbourne are con-
cerned about where the 1956 Olympic
Games are to be held—the “battle of the
sites” is a conflict between interested
parties and vested interests. It obscures
the real issues at stake.
There are only two questions to be
answered; “Will the Games adversely
affect housing development?” and “Are
we able to act as hosts to the world and
his wife?”
Although housing should be top
priority today, no real progressive policy
has yet been implemented. Recent
moves for the importation of prefabs—
solidly condemned by responsible sections
of the building trade —are a deplorable
example of official failure to really tackle
the problem,
Australia’s future depends on a sound
migration policy, but if migrants are to
be welcomed in ever-increasing numbers
homes must be provided for them. There
is also the plight of many young Aus-
tralians, still using makeshift accom-
modation and pathetically hoping for
homes of their own.
Sound arguments for the abandon-
ment of all other building-work in favor
of housing are ignored. A balanced
building programme is necessary, claim
the old gang, overlooking or ignoring
the fact that we live in a grossly under-
populated continent, fringed by
100,000,000 neighbors in overpopulated
countries and islands. Even our present
defence programme is retarded by lack
of labor —a position which only the
immigration of willing workers can alter.
A huge expenditure on building-work
will be needed for the Games, and there
will be heavy spending in other direc-
tions, too. Whether it be the construc-
tion of a new hotel or a repaint of the
milk-bar in the corner shop, precious
labor and materials will be diverted from
housing requirements.
Any improvement in building
economics which might be anticipated
over the next five years will be nullified
by this work. No rising stimulus can be
expected in the housing field while this
potential liability exists.
The second question is also of para-
mount importance. We cannot play
hosts to large numbers of foreign guests.
We have neither the hotels nor the
technique to operate hotels on anything
like the standards obtaining in Europe
and America.
Admittedly, the Games will give a
tremendous boost to retail trade and a
great deal of money will be spent in
Australia. But surely it would be better
to seek more important long-range
benefits than a temporary boom. —
W. H. E. (Vic.).
Wine Standards
Anna Chembee (B. 25/10/’5O) sug-
gests that Londoners buy South African
sherry in preference to Australian be-
cause it’s cheaper. That was not my
experience. The English are conservative.
They distrust cheaper brands unless long-
established. Australia to them means
wool and butter; South Africa, grape-
growing. Everything depends on prestige.
If subtle advertising can push our
product, their custom will be won.
William Irwin’s The Garrulous
Gourmet discreetly mentions the excel-
lence of Australian wines in his recipes.
That sort of thing goes down with the
English better than blatant advertise-
ment. During the war, at a big country
home near London, my Sydney host
produced his only bottle of champagne
—Australian. The guests, for want of a
familiar brand, were thankful to drink.
They were amazed and delighted, and
several diehards were won over to our
wine.— Phyllis Rose (N.S.W.).
Cuppa Coffee
I’m no skinflint, but I think the mini-
mum-charge business in eating-houses is
overdone. Consider the stable at
Sydney’s Central Railway. You’re dog-
tired: as you come off a morning train
croaking for a cup of coffee. You see no
sit-up chairs at any coffee-counter on the
platform, so you droop into the dining-
room. It’s a Sunday, so you expect to
pay the Sunday tax of sixpence extra.
As you suck up the rather dark “milk”
coffee, you decide it’s worth sixpence and,
plus tax, that will make the bill a bob.
Does it? No. For your four minutes’ seat
and the cuppa you get stung two-bob.
Why doesn’t the department dip its hand
into your pocket and just help itself?—
E. M. (N.S.W.).


Three Outstanding Books
for the Cricket Enthusiast
FROM THE BOUNDARY by Ray Robinson , 14s. 9d.
Just Published
BETWEEN WICKETS by Ray Robinson, I Os. 6d.
sth Edition
BRIGHTLY FADES THE DON by Jack Fingleton, 13s.
2nd Edition
Available at All Booksellers COLLINS
Dymock’s Christmas Catalogue
KYour Christmas Gifts can be so much more thoughtful, so much
more carefully chosen, when you buy in the peace and quiet
of your own home ... in fact, it’s a pleasure to shop from our
Christmas Catalogue.
Send for your copy today free to any address and
LET DYMOCK’S CARE FOR ALL YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone; BL 3611.
QUEENSLAND
A CAMERA STUDY by Frank Hurley
Fifty illustrations in glorious colour, 200 black-and-white photographs and
text in a superb presentation of the natural beauties and wonders, the
industry, architecture, and city and country life of the “Mecca of holiday-
makers.” 35/- (post 1/6).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
STAR MONEY
FATHER OF THE BRIDE
CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN
GONE WITH THE WIND
KRISTIN LAVRANSDATTER
THE BRAVE BULLS
CAROLINE CHISHOLM
THE NAKED AND THE DEAD
WORLDS IN COLLISION
DESPERATE VOYAGE
A DICTIONARY OF THE UNDERWORLD.
THE FORSYTE SAGA, Ulus. Anthony Gross
PRACTICAL COOKERY FOR ALL
CRAFTSMAN BOOKSHOP
Hosking Place (Off 86 Pitt Street), Sydney. BW 7318.
THE PACIFIC: OCEAN OF ISLANDS
EDITED BY CHARLES BARRETT
Limited, de luxe edition
Frontispiece in full color, 56 illustrations in black-and-white.
Contributors include W. D. Dakin, Peter Buck, Evelyn Cheesman, Geoffrey
C. Ingleton; essays on all aspects of the history of the Pacific by 15 noted
authorities.
PRICE £5/5/-, plus registered postage 1/6.
Published by N. H. Seward Pty. Ltd., 45 7 Bourke St., Melbourne.
A CHRISTMAS PRESENT
which will be remembered the whole year round
A subscription to a popular magazine is the ideal Christmas gift. Overseas magazines
are full of the latest stories —finest illustrations —articles on current events —home and
garden hints. Choose from the list given below, or write for our list.
Better Homes and
Gardens . £2 3 3
Collier’s Weekly.. £4 1 0
Esquire £5 8 0
Fortune £6 16 0
Good Housekeeping £3 3 9
Harper’s Bazaar .. £4 15
Ladies Home
Journal £2 14
Life £3 9
Living for Young
Homemakers ... £2 14
National Geo. Mag. £2 14
Popular Mechanics £2 0 6
Saturday Evening
Post £4 19 0
Town and Country £5 12 6
Vogue £6 15 0
Woman’s Home
Companion .... £lll 6
The Ideal Present for your Masonic WALKERS FASHION MAO AZIN ES
Friends The Freemasons Guide Trade and General Periodicals and Boohs,
and Compendium. _ , , _ „ ,
35/- plus postage l/-. 149 Castlereagh St., Sydney. M 2838.
birth will immediately be given important
positions in the diplomatic service: and
young married women will not acquire a
maidenhood until they reach the age of
twenty-eight. Moreover the youth of the
world, under my leadership, will band
together for freedom, truth, beauty, art and
love, and will wage merciless war on
hypocrisy, custom and tradition: for they
have been tricked.
Here again arise the doubt and the
promise which appear together through-
out the play: for if, essentially, this is
merely a copy of Hamlet baiting
Polonius, Thomas Wolfe has a wit and
vehemence of his own ; and also, when
he turns this defence into a furious attack
on youth—“that degrading and destruc-
tive brotherhood which can do nothing
alone and which must go forever pooled
against identities; youth, the inaugurator
of idiot and cowardly rebellions, which
does not understand, but can only deny”
7 -he has ideas of his own. Altogether, it
is not a satisfactory, but a lively, play.
Wolfe wrote it three years before the
publication of Look Homeward, Angel,
when he was 25.
Mr. Flanagan's Travels,
When a man endowed with the rich
Hibernian patronymic Flanagan is invited
by the president of the London Cale-
donian Society to address the society on
Burns Day, it argues that the mon Flana-
gan must be a rare good speaker. True,
as Andy Flahagan goes on to relate in his
On Tour with Bradman (Halstead Press),
the president was not aware that he had
committed himself to planting a shamrock
amidst the Heather. Nevertheless, when
he did subsequently catch his prospective
guest’s name he “gallantly exclaimed
‘Well, come along just the same.’ ”
Which confirms the notion that Mr.
Flanagan has made more than a passing
acquaintance with the Blarney Stone.
And, like many another endowed with the
i-- e * of He blarney, Andy Flanagan makes
as goxiiv ;.<ng as he does listening. In
the cap ' V y of sporting journalist, Flana-
"an c •r.vjuied Bradman’s team to
i 948, covering the cricket as
well as the numerous other attractions of
what he describes as “one of the greatest
sporting years in England’s history.”
Certainty it added up to a sporting
scribe’s dream —the Tests, the Olympic
Games, the Wimbledon tennis, the
Derby, the Wembley Soccer Cup final
and—what no Flanagan anywhere within
cooee could possibly miss—the Dublin
Horse Show.
Wisely, Flanagan has realised that the
cricket side of the 1948 tour has by now
been written to death—even if in many
cases by considerably less competent
critics than himself. He contents him-
self, therefore, with passing impressions
of odd highlights of the cricket; and deals
similarly, and for the same good reason,
with the other sporting events he
attended. He reserves his powers of de-
tailed description (considerable powers)
for the tour itself, for the places he
visited, the people he met. The result
is a thoroughly entertaining travel book,
laced with more good yarns and bright
humor than one usually encounters in
half a dozen such.
Reviewed Briefly.
After You Columbus: Hakon Mielche
(Hodge). Mr. Mielche, whose travel-
books. follow one another as thick as
autumn leaves in Vallombrosa —and are
likely to last about as long—is generally
to be found somewhere in South America
with a guidebook in one hand and a
light bright typewriter in the other. This
time he sets out in a yawl named Santa
Maria and follows Columbus’s course
from Spain to the West Indies: an ad-
venturous voyage followed by a colorful
account of the Indies as they are today.
* * * If!
Published by Longmans in separate
pamphlets as supplements to “British
Book News” are an. interesting set of
essays on notable British writers: G. K.
Chesterton by Christopher Hollis,
Bernard Shaw by A. C. Ward and Joseph
Conrad by Oliver Warner.
* * * *
Exploring We Would Go: Ellen Gatti
(Hale). Housekeeping in a remote section
of the Belgian Congo, somewhat com-
plicated by leopards, zebras, pygmies,
okapis, elephants and other African
fauna. Light and readable.
* * * *
The Old Vic. 1949-1950 Season : Lionel
Hale (Evans). Survey of the productions
of “Hamlet,” “She Stoops to Conquer,”
“The Miser,” “Love’s Labor’s Lost” and
“Month in the Country,” with photo-
graphs of sets and costumes that should
be of interest to Little Theatres.
* * * *
Modern Dance Movement: William
Loiter (Arnold S. Mapps, 3 Handley-
avenue, Bexley North, Sydney). On the
fly-leaf of The Bulletin’s copy of this
book there appears, in a curious back-
sloping handwriting, the inscription: “I
am the book Modern Dance Movement.
Unto ms is given the strange gift of
being able to be in many places at the
same time. Igo to a great magazine—
The Bulletin. I know that it does not
need me, but nevertheless I go to it with
hope in my heart that it will say some-
thing about me so that I will become
known and sought after by those that
need me, for thus will I be enabled to
fulfil the purpose for which I was created
by—William Loiter.” Faced with such a
cri du cceur what can the reviewer do but
loiter with Mr. Loiter at least long
enough to discover that here beginners
and teachers may learn to dance and
teach the modern quickstep, slow-foxtrot
and waltz, guided by a clear and concise
text and by scientific diagrams which look
strangely like the leg-bones of long, lean
ladies.
* * * *
Cutlass Empire: F.' van Wyck Mason
(Jarrolds). The buried impulse in a great
many respectable human beings (425,000
in the United States) to strut through a
city in flames waving a dripping sword
and carrying a half-naked and struggling
glamor-girl over one’s shoulder finds
harmless outlet in this fine romantic
chronicle of Henry Morgan’s buccaneer-
ing, though the author, who has gone
through records in England, and over
most of the fields of Morgan’s Caribbean
campaigns, says he has played down,
rather than up, the crudities and cruelties
of those days. He has also tried to rescue
Morgan from what he calls the libels of
Esquemeling; and portrays him as a
leader of infinite resource, of inspiring
courage, as in the assaults by his few
vicious, half-clothed rats against the
armored might of Spain, at Granada,
Porto Bello and at Panama; invincible in
battle, but unable to beget the child he
desires. The set pieces, especially the
battle of Panama, where a few hundred
buccaneers, weary from a long march,
beat an army of some 3000 foot and
cavalry, go off with a bang ; and the shore
life of the buccaneers is an expert inter-
weaving of history with imagination.
Buccaneer, one learns, comes from the
boucan-hnntevs, interlopers of all nations,
who preyed upon cattle which the
Spaniards had set loose on the Caribbean
islands to multiply for Spanish larders.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 96
Across.
I—l sleep with vegetable fur and
cannot be placated. (12)
B—Outings seem to urge you to elect
the Bishop of Myra’s. (7)
10— Has the woman been in a sly-
grog establishment? (7)
11— Aggregate. (3)
12— Teutonic articles and plants of
the mint family. (10)
15— Any one of the three cards try
to surround the East. (4)
16 — Bury Ben and Tom, somewhat
disordered. (6)
17 — It works at Lake Success (initials).
19— First personal pronoun in Latin.
(3)
20— —Midday an an inspector respon-
sible for play censorship in
Sydney. (6)
21— Nobleman to stare for an Ibsen
character. (4)
23 Archbishop's assistants all you
to take a fortissimo tatter on
an interior part of a steamship.
(10)
24 — Clique game of tennis hardened
like jelly. (3)
26_Minced sheep associated with us
and the address of the Temple
of Diana. (7)
28 —The French shaped like an ice-
cream container is terse, concise
and pithy. (7)
30—A hundred take a facial point
country with loud laughter. (12)
Down.
1 — I am after an Australian ex-
plorer with a boil. (10)
2 Cooker sleep on the way up. (3)
3 Classify the donkey crumb. (6)
4 Refrains from consuming sailor
blemishes. (8)
5 Fifty that is dishonorable. (3)
6 Nonsense supports a sailor’s
repose. (4)
7 Poultry bone with units of work
on a Nobel prizewinning French
philosopher. (5, 7)
9 —Heavenly body on anything is to
prove utterly barren. (4, 2,6)
12— Deteriorates leaves. (4, 3)
13 — Medical man has some bowling
stockmen. (7)
14— A century to expel a holy image
with a deaf-aid. (10)
18—Fellow and a rising German who
made a surprise war-time visit to
England for a King of Judah. (8)
22—Fish to spoil Lindsey’s beauty. (6)
25 —A quick look takes its ease
among peas. (4)
27 —Red, Black, Yellow or White—
yet always much the same color.
(3)
29—Duck note of Guido’s scale isn’t
in. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 95.


MASS
SPEEDS AUSTRAIfa S
PRODUCTION DRIVE
DELIVERY AT ONCE
MARS MACHINE TOOLS, BUILT TO CERTIFIED STANDARDS, ARE
UNSURPASSED FOR THEIR WIDE OPERATIONAL CAPACITY
■ ■
“MARS'* No. 4
UNIVERSAL MILLING MACHINE
•«*«>*#
-
‘MARS” No. 2 PLAIN MILLING MACHINE
mmm
■ i ®
-
m
“MARS” s|-iNCH CRAFTSMAN LATHE
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
OF "MARS' 1 MACHINE TOOLS
Built Under Guarantee,
Dynamically Balanced revolving parts-
Main Surfaces Machine Ground.
“Meehanite” Castings throughout.
Smooth Running
All Gear Teeth generated
Lathe Lead Screws cut from certified and tested Master Lead Screw
Each Machine supplied with Schlesinger Test Chart showing tolerance,
OTHER MACHINE TOOLS AVAILABLE
Sin. to 15in. Lathes Planers Horizontal and Vertical Milling
Machines—Lathe and Miller Attachments—-Machine Vices—Dividing
heads.
wm
m
i
m
mSmm
m
IfiPii
i
MODEL A: sft. 3in. CENTRES
MODEL B ; I Oft. CENTRES
‘MARS” 102-INCH ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
“MARS” 165-INCH !-*APER
“MARS” HEAVY DUTY RADIAL DRILL
SPECIAL
AVAILABLE 6 WEEKS DELIVERY
ONE "MARS" 11-inch CONE HEAD LATHE
18 SPEEDS—GAP BED—loft. CENTRES
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS;
WJS-iW.t Gibson Battle k Co. Pty. Ltd. Wwl.: The Western Machinery Co.
Ltd. Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & 00., 134 Way mouth St., Adelaide.
Queensland; Mars Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd. India—Bombay
Province: R, S. Mehta & Co., Alii Chambers, Fort, Bombay. Philippines;
The Earnshaws Docks and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
Sales Representative: C. Evans, O/o Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
MARS DIESEL ENGINES
*
AVAILABLE fOR EXPORT
8-H.P., 10-H.P. MARINE & STATIONARY
m
U
ALMOST VIBRATION FREE
SLOW RUNNING
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
VARIABLE SPEED
DETACHABLE CYLINDERS
REPLACEABLE LINERS
FORCE FEED LUBRICATION
EASY STARTING
ECONOMICAL FUEL CON-
SUMPTION
■
LS OPERATE IN
EIGHT COUNTRIES OVERSEAS
EVERY STATE IN AUSTRALIA
, r? ’ rV
i
i
©
&
a
€
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFC.CO.PTY.LTD
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & OS. Advert.
