

The Bulletin
‘The Bullet* 11 '” Vol. 71—No. 3672
Wednesday, June 28, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
r J''HE highly fertile County of Wexford
in the Irish republic has earned for
itself the title “Garden of Ireland,” and
over a thousand years ago in the ninth
century it was settled by the Danish
Vikings who named it Weisfjord. Their
shallow-draught ships were able to
ascend the Slaney River to where the
town of Enniscorthy now stands beside
its banks. In the reign of Henry II
(1154-1189) the Anglo-Normans under
Strongbow settled in this region. One
of the many castles established in these
parts is still preserved at Enniscorthy,
shown in the accompanying illustration.
This castle was founded by Raymond
Fitzgerald in the thirteenth century and
rebuilt by Sir Henry Wallop in the
sixteenth century, in 1649 the castle was
the scene of fierce fighting when it was
attacked and captured by troops under
Oliver Cromwell. Its walls were damaged
during this attack, but they were restored
in the nineteenth century by the Earl of
Portsmouth, descendant of Sir Henry
Wallop.
Enniscorthy also has a Cathedral, St.
Aidan’s, which was designed by E. W.
Pugin; its tower was built from the
stones of an old Franciscan monastery.
Near the town, overlooking the Slaney
River, is Vinegar Hill, which was the
final position occupied by the Irish
Confederate forces after the capture of
Enniscorthy in 1798. These rebels were
defeated by an army under General
Lake who thus avenged their raids on
royalists throughout the district.
(Courtesy of Irish Tourist Association)
ENNISCORTHY’S NORMAN CASTLE HAS SURVIVED SEVEN CENTURIES
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OP SEPPELT


IS
c \ance Joumatem
Learn
nf HO
Sl*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
, CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Mv Name
My Address ...
S.B. 150 .AOE
The Red Page
D. H. LAWRENCE.
Richard Aldington’s biography of
D. H. Lawrence, Portrait of a Genius,
But ... (Heinemann), is an irascible, can-
tankerous, pugnacious, inconsistent,
wrong-headed, eminently sensible and
pleasant book which has no particular
reason for existing but which, since it
exists, might profitably be read by any-
body who cares for Lawrence, for litera-
ture in general and for a good biography.
Mr. Aldington dislikes the English as
only an Englishman can ; or, at any rate,
as only an Englishman is permitted to.
He points out that it was English prudery
which drove Lawrence out of the
country—the persecution by Cornish
policemen and villagers during the Great
War when they suspected Lawrence of
being a German spy was essentially an-
other form of literary persecution—and
he says that, because Lawrence’s novels
were published in America while they
were banned in England, and the
Americans generously supported him, he
should really be regarded not as an
English but as an American author:
Poor fellow with his scarred lungs and
nerves frayed by past poverty and suffer-
ing Mabel Luhan offered Lawrence her
170 acres of land on the Lobq; and when
he refused insisted on giving it to Frieda.
(I should very much like to hear of any
American author being given even half an
acre of British territory.)
But then Mr. Aldington doesn’t like the
Americans very much either; not Henry
James at any rate nor —with some reason
—the prose style in which, like some
elegant and suicidal octopus, Henry
James strangled himself with his own con-
volutions: —
Henry James, the then reigning Ameri-
can dictator of English literature had
“lucidly” declared that Bennett and Wells
had “practically launched the boat in which
we admire the fresh play of oar of the
author of The Duchess of Wrexe and the
documented aspect exhibited successfully by
Carnival and Sinister Street and even by
Sons and Lovers, however much we may
find Mr. Lawrence, we confess, hang in
the dusty rear.”
In the same paragraph we find, too,
that Mr. Aldington welcomes the
opportunity briefly to crack on the head
“that infallible journal ‘The Times
Literary Supplement’ ”; and, since he
twice pointedly refers to Henry James as
“the then American dictator,” it seems
reasonable to suppose that Mr. T. S.
Eliot, the present American dictator of
English letters, has also aroused his ire.
And if it is not quite clear why or to
what extent Mr. Aldington doesn’t like
T. S. Eliot, there is no doubt whatever
that he doesn’t like Edward Marsh: who,
in his almost official capacity as leader of
the Georgian poets, had dared to “open a
correspondence course to teach Lawrence
how to write poetry.” And if one dares
to suggest that, on Mr. Aldington’s own
showing, when he points out the shocking
errors of taste and versification in
“Cherry Robbers,” a correspondence-
course from Edward Marsh was just
what Lawrence needed, no doubt he will
come charging across the sea to have a
crack at the reviewer.
But maybe not, Mr. Aldington seems
to have one of his rare kindly feelings—
otherwise reserved for Aldous Huxley,
Frieda Lawrence and hardly anybody else
on earth—for Australia. He mentions
P. R. Stephensen and “the Lindsays”
without acrimony if without much
evidence of a deep acquaintance with the
affairs of the Fanfrolico Press. He says
that Lawrence liked this country when he
came here:
It was the Australian winter, and yet
they were able to bathe every day. They
took walks along the coast or into the
country, where Lawrence delighted in “the
pale, pure silver” of (he gumtrees and in
“the extraordinary delicacy of the air and
the blue sky, the weird bits of creek and
marsh, dead trees, sand, and very blue
hills.” It made him think of the landscape
of Puvis de Chavannes, “so apparently
monotonous, yet when you look into it,
such subtle different distances, in layers,
and such exquisite forms.”
And if Lawrence soon found us “crude,
raw and self-satisfied” —which is true
enough—Mr. Aldington’s faith does not
waver so readily:
Only the vulgar conceit of Chauvinism
could have induced a foreigner to sneer
that Lawrence “wasted his time in Aus-
tralia,” instead of hastening direct to the
marvels of “touristy Taos.” He soon got
to like the casualness of the Australian
people, and the way they left him alone.
If he had really wanted to gratify his
“societal self” and fit gradually into another
community, this was surely the place to
make the attempt. There was little of the
claSs feeling and class hatred he had
resented in England He would not yield
himself to Australia.
This is indubitably gratifying. One is
pleased with Mr. Aldington ; and he does
not praise lightly. One is so pleased that
one forgives him the sketchiness of the
Australian chapter and, if he calls
Thirroul “an Australian Eastwood”—
but what about those “huge blue foam-
crested Pacific rollers” thundering at
Lawrence’s door! —the civic pride of
Thirroul will just have to swallow the
insult with tranquillity.
Even when Mr. Aldington says, mis-
takenly, that “While this book was being
written an Australian novelist was given
a suspended prison sentence,” the half-
knowledge may be taken as a compli-
ment: in point of fact the Australian
novelist was handcuffed, kept in jail when
he might have been out on bail, and was
sentenced to three months’ imprison-
ment . . . which, fortunately, the Appeal
Court commuted to a fine.
But, however kindly Mr. Aldington
speaks of Australia, one must not refrain
—to return to the controversial atmos-
phere so appropriate to a review of this
book —from pointing out how inconsist-
ent is his attitude to Lawrence’s writings.
Not only is Edward Marsh a villain for
trying to teach Lawrence to write verse,
but Ford Hueffer—who did, after all,
know what he was talking about (did 1 he
not “discover” Lawrence for his “English
Review”? had he not, on the whole for
his good if sometimes for his ill, guided
the development of a far greater novelist
than Lawrence: Joseph Conrad?) —is
ruthlessly reproved, along with all other
critics who talked “heavy pedantry about
the art and craft of fiction” for trying to
teach Lawrence to write stories.
Mr. Aldington’s outlook is that of the
perpetual “rebel”; he was, in his youth,
an Imagist. Yet does he not himself
admit that there are fundamental prin-
ciples governing the arts, which it is as
well to observe, when he says Lawrence’s
philosophy was no good because he had
had no training in logic, and when he
says of Lawrence’s dreadful paintings,
“He never attained to virtuosity or even
to thorough craftsmanship as a painter”?
And didn’t Lawrence himself, when he
wrote and rewrote The White Peacock
four times and The Rainbow eight times —
even though he “did not plan books or
stories or even poems as more or less
artifical ‘works of art,’ but allowed them
to flow through his mind as ‘life-experi-
ences, thought-adventures’ to such an
extent that he could write a large part of
a novel and exclaim with exasperation
that he still did not know what it was
about” —struggle desperately to find the
form, the artistry and the craftsmanship
all those “heavy pedants” were talking
about?
Well, perhaps one can admit that, at
least when a writer is beginning his
career, it is as well for him to fight his own
way through to the eternal principles,
lest he should mistake “The Times
Literary Supplement” for Aristotle or lose
the flavor of his individuality. No doubt
some of Lawrence’s novels are set down
for eternity; some of his short stories;
a few of his poems. All have the fire of
his genius. Yet it is a pity he did not
polish a great deal more and, as Mr.
Aldington says, preach a great deal less.
Mr. Aldington himself, though he
praises the novels and poems highly—and
sometimes attacks them; but won’t let
anyone else attack them —seems most of
all to delight, as does the present re-
viewer, in Lawrence’s nature-writings
(Twilight in Italy; Sea and Sardinia)
where the prose, as always, is exquisite in
its nervous urgency and where the
problems of versecraft or the novel do
not arise :
There are indications that his megalo-
mania did make him think of himself as a
sort of anti-Christian messiah, a new incar-
nation of Quetzalcoatl able to change the
whole world of man. Such was his longing
for power! Yet his true power as an artist
is most revealed when he forgets himself
and such overweening ambitions, and lives
and writes “breast to breast with the
Cosmos.” He has written wonderfully of
strange emotions, the tortured relationships
of overstrung people, the light and darkness
of sexual desire; and satirical portraits
which for hatred, vindictiveness and cruelty
are hard to match in literature. But when
he could occupy himself with simple,
manual labor, in solitude, in the presence
of great natural beauty, another self seemed
to emerge, and he felt a bliss and exalta-
tion unknown, or almost unknown, to
other men.
That quality of bliss in Lawrence,
which made him—in his good moods—
so gay, so delightful, so radiant a com-
panion that Mr. Aldington compares
him with Shelley and which, particularly
when he is writing about wildflowers,
sometimes makes one think of
Shakspeare, is what Mr. Aldington finds
hardest to portray in his biography. Per-
haps he is a little too anxious not to figure
as an idolater. Perhaps he is too eager to
slaughter Lawrence’s critics, enemies or
disciples who fell by the wayside—
Norman Douglas, G. K. Chesterton,
Middleton Murry, Violet Hunt, Philip
Heseltin© ... sooner or later everybody
gets it in the neck —and so establishes in
his book a climate of cantankerousness
in which it is difficult for bliss to flower.
But fundamentally the trouble is that
there were too many witnesses against
Lawrence —every time he threw a plate or
a glass of wine at his wife somebody was
there to see it; if he kicked a dog in
Mexico somebody was there to tell;
every time he wrote an angry letter some-
body kept it andi printed it —and it is so
much easier to record these definite acts
of violence than it is to describe the in-
definable quality of radiance.
The biography seems to have too much
of the coal-mining Lawrence, the miner’s
son who took his revenge on society by
making fine ladies have fictional love-
affairs with game-keepers; too much of
the extravagant Lawrence, cultivating
genius to such a point of bearded frenzy
that, when he birched a few schoolboys
in his teaching days, he saw himself as
possessed by “the angel of anger, with a
fiery sword” ; too much of the persecuted
Lawrence, inviting worse persecution.
when he was suspected of spying in his
lonely cottage on" the Cornish coast, by
singing German folk-songs ; too much of
the messiah Lawrence working himself
into a frenzy—-surely unnecessary—be-
cause he thought that people weren’t
doing enough love-making ; too much of
the tormented Lawrence, driven from
country to country by the demon of des-
pair which w© may trace to his social un-
ease, to his fear of the tuberculosis in his
lungs, and to the puritan attacks on his
work which alone were sufficient to send
a sincere artist mad or turn him into a
fanatic.
Yet the balance is in this book, if you
are not overwhelmed by this weight of
adverse evidence ; both ironic balance, as
when Mr. Aldington points out that what
Lawrence (and one of his biographers)
called his “savage pilgrimage” was really
the sort of irresponsible life of travel we
all dream about; and sympathetic, as
when we come across this sort of scene:
That same afternoon Lawrence and the
girl and her mother went out into the
garden to look at a wren’s nest. As he
crouched down to look at it and spoke
about it to the women with that vivid
consciousness of life he possessed, “the
nest seemed to start into life” for them.
As they went along nothing escaped him.
He saw the early celandines as “scalloped
splashes of gold,” an image so vivid to the
girl that “the celandines ever after drew
her with a little spell” “All through that
epoch,” says Jessie Chambers, Lawrence
“seemed so happy that merely to be alive
and walking about was an adventure, and
his gift for creating an atmosphere of
good fellowship made work a joy.”
There is no doubt about it: this is an
excellent biography. If one seems to have
read it all before, perhaps one hasn’t; and
anyhow there is room for a reassessment
of the previous biographies. And if a lot
of the old animosities Mr. Aldington digs
up so enthusiastically are really as dead
as (he dodo—or as dead as .
Iween the Georgians and the Sf feud be-
certamly dowhis best to
TO A CHILD.
When I was a child I saw
a burning bird in a tree.
“I see” became “I am”;
“I am” became “I see.”
In winter dawns of frost
the lamp swung in my hand.
The battered moon in the slope
lay like a dune of sand,
and in the trap, at my feet
the rabbit leapt and prayed,
weeping blood, and crouched
when the lamp shone on the blade.
The sudden sun lit up
the webs from wire to wire.
The white webs, the white dew
blazed with a holy fire.
Flame of light in the dew
flame of blood onl the bush
answered the whirling sun
and the voice of the summer thrush.
I think of this for you.
I would not have you believe
the world is empty of truth
or that men must grieve,
but hear the song of the martyrs
out of a bush of fire-
“All is consumed with love,
all is renewed with desire.”
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
"Moanalua."
Commander Thomas w
Moanalua (Faber) is a bodk° 0d / 00ffe ’s
reminiscences of a R N lie °° k of naval
peace-time New Zealand** 111 011 the
a ft^r r . *? as w^sely^forgotten ta the n *
of divisions and drill and n! h routine
rounds and whisks the read?® °’ clo( *
delay into the past and a?| d Wltho ut
south-west Pacific U round the
(t , something of the friendly i ntim
of 1 affrail and Hackforth rl * mac y
signs you on for 200-odd pa fe‘s of § he
experience—north to Aniff i of nav al
Hobart; a pilgrimage to to
on its hill above thS kea; StS
and swordfish, barracuda an? S? 8
snakes; and, with a recruifW ter '
visiting a New Zealand girlf fh o W’
“ ga: ?- ne visits - as U aXS
see our greatest royal treasure?” Whi£^J°
7 eT X pr , epf ; nng ourselves for daSIW
feathei cloaks, or a lustrous pearl thf S
of a gull's egg, the lady-in-waiting reveLuf
fd w°V I t able a bale of cloth it S
red baize, finely woven, rather of the tex
ture of modern billiard cloth. 1
“You don’t see material like that nowa
days,” said the Queen. “Americans £
offered fantastic numbers of dollars fori
but it will never leave Tonga. You J’
here” 1 * 1 S ave it to us when he was
One sees, also, a tortoise. “Captain
Cook gave us a pair when he visited us
the second time, but the other one died”
The lieutenant is rather sad about the
social activities the Navy is sometimes
forced into. When the Special Service
Squadron (including battle-cruiser Hood
and the Australian Adelaide) dropped
pick in Auckland the G.-G. intimated that
he would like the Navy League’s ball to
the squadron opened with a minuet
Eight reluctant but duty-bound officers,
among them our traveloguer, were
detailed to attend a dance-mistress in the
dog-watches. On Hood’s quarterdeck,
“in knee breeches and a muck sweat,” the
octet did their stuff. To such effect that:
“A friend of mine in the Squadron told
me later that in their cruise they had
men some weird and wonderful sights :
Maori hakas. devil dances in West
Africa, a Zulu war-dance in Durban,
Fijian mekes and Red Indians waving
r,a hawks, but nothing approached the
sight of those eight naval officers in knee-
breeches posturing self-consciously to the
thin strains of Boccherini.”
With the first turn of the screws pay-
er all debts —monetary and moral—the
avy steams to sea, to rescue a broken-
uwn trawler off the ice-pack in an
Antarctic blow ; blow up a derelict for a
ty of Fijian chiefs (in which a prac-
. -headed torpedo and a hidden demo-
• m party work a certain amount of
trickery and a spectacular explosion);
to witness the return of our wanderer
■from duck-hunting to his ship in a war
canoe at full speed:
The stern of the ship was racing towards
us; I saw our stem going straight tor me
■ungway, then with an almighty
fust grabbed the bottom guard-rail and the
; uway lights went out at the instant ot
horrid splintering crash. The door of the
commodore's cabin opened aad a figu ,
majestic even in striped pyjamas, stepped on
to the quarter-deck. 9 „ th
“Was that the mail, quartermaster? th
commodore inquired. .
“No, sir,” replied the q.m.,mth^om
mendable presence of mind. A war canu
out of control, sir.”
This is a travel book with a dffiferen ,
first-class recruiting material, cramm
with good stories But, unfortun th.
possibly because there is no nov ' J 1
him in it, the author to, Btte h.
lay readers on a to« of “
most interesting sight of all—his own P
For Chessmen.
Cecil Purdy’s Guide to Good Che®
(Associated General 1 en ormous
one more volume t _ Q
literature of chess since pnglish, Tto
the first book printed m m
Playe of Chesse. Mr. Pur J csti-
in a book census 30 yearsa| ’ that 1000
mate was 5000 volumes and tn
have been added since «J e “- . les
Mr. Purdy gives r m P e s show-
a detailed analysis of se J® ra^ p Sd. The
ing how they shoul l7 he a jlher stages
from the elm Me and
A note on Australian p ra nce radi°
national chess matches. th
match being S world’s a C } e l
reprinted from The .
Board, by the leadl ff ih u teS to Pnr d Vj
Reuben Fine, who attribute Austra i,aD
a large measure, the rise
chess prestige,


*TBUTH
IN ADVERTISING”
Anthony Horderns
&ssra
♦;%v*
♦i»i
i&^2sSsS&&
&***<&»
SSS
■-' ■ :•
r~~
s
H
;
>
r ' ** v . i > ' v
iiiii
* .
I®ii
jfH;:-
:
The famous
"Manser”
High grade Sporting Rifle
with detachable telescopic sight
and elevating sight
.22 calibre Mauser Repeating Bolt
Action Rifle with high ramp blade front
sight, 26in. barrel, and special metal
telescope case. Complete, £59/10/-.
Browning Automatic Shot Gun
Chambered for 2fin. cartridges, has a
29|in. barrel, pistol grip, and checkered
stock engraved. Priced at £55/5/-.
The Sprinter .22/.303 Rifle
A high power bolt action rifle. £23/2/6.
Sprinter Cartridges, price, 75/- per 100.
Leige Single Barrel Shot Gun
Belgium semi-hammerless, choke barrel,
ejector for 2| cartridge, pistol grip. £l9.
Double Barrel 12 gauge Gun
30in. barrels with side clips chambered
for 2fin. cartridges. Price, £47/10/-.
Double Barrel Hammer Gun
Chambered for 2fin. cartridge, choke
and modified barrels, pistol grip, check-
ered stock. Price, £37/10/-.
Ammunition and Accessories for above Rifles
are obtainable from our Gun Department, as we-aim to
keep our clients well stocked with the necessary
equipment for servicing their
■ “t* i "I
■
■Hi
■
128
The new “Sigma” High Potver Sight
This Telescopic Sight has unbreakable lenses, 4in. eye
relief, picket type mark, weighs approx. 4oz. Shockproof,
rustproof, dustproof, rainproof. £lO/4/11. Mounts, 27/6.
Special news to Hail Order Clients
We have just landed a limited quantity of .22 Long Rifle
Cartridges available in boxes of 100. Price, 15/- box.
HORDERNS’ GUN DEPT.—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. TELEPHONE; M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Pneumatic!
&RTRIDCE9
.
English Cartridges
12 gauge Cartridges, in
boxes of 25, price 15/-.
PavUer Hale Rod
Three-piece 12 gauge
Cleaning Rod, 22/6.
Pull Throughs
.22 .32 .303 12 gauge
2/- 4/3 4/3 4/3
7
Cartridge Belts
.22 .32 .303 12 gauge
6/- 9/6 9/6 il/6
12 gauge felt lined, 18/6
Canvas Gun Cases
For 30in. or 32in. barrel.
Price, £B/7/6. Canvas
Gun Covers with outside
pocket. Priced at 54/-.
Night Spotlight
Designed for shooting.
Available with flex,
switch and clamp. 49/6.


The BATTLE of the
STUMP
by
GEOFF BINGHAM
IN a perpetually changing world the
stump constituted itself as an un-
changing fact. Its solidity, com-
bined with apparent immovability,
designed it for such a message. The
message, consciously, anyway, went un-
heeded in the Creek until the time Mr.
Peebles cared to make mention of it at
the Wirril Creek Progress Association’s
monthly meeting. Then, when the stump
was mentioned, there was a faint pucker-
ing of brows, looks of query, and finally
remembrance as the farmers from the
vallgy and hills recollected the huge mass
of butt and root on the Creek footpath.
All, that is, except Mr. Brinall, store-
keeper and Association president. He
continued to pucker his brow, and look
puzzled.
“Where,” he asked, sotto voce, “is the
stump, Peebles?” And Mr. Peebles, with
some anguish in his eyes, and a little
restraint in his voice, answered desper-
ately, “In front of the church, of course.’’
Mr. Brinall muttered a sighing “Ah!”
and the audience sniggered. It was
understood that although the Creek con-
tained three churches there was only one
church, the Methodist, of which Mr.
Peebles was a worthy pillar when not
busy being Progress secretary.
There was a moment’s silence in the
meeting for the stump. Now had its fame
begun to grow, for enlarge it must, and
that moment was contemplative as the
stump achieved, in the mind’s eye, its
full significance in height, depth and
breadth. It was the sort of stump to
command an awe all of its own, for it
was, rightly speaking, a stump out of
the past as well as out of the ground.
There were tales told about when it had
been grubbed, who had grubbed it, but
they were mostly apocryphal, if interest-
ing. Sombre and tremendous, it had the
habit of dwarfing present-day stumps, and
at the root of Mr. Peebles’s opposition
there may have been some complicated
reason for his objection to it. ,
“It constitutes an eyesore,” Mr.
Peebles told the meeting firmly, and there
was none to gainsay his statement.
“Originally,” said Mr. Peebles in
a pained voice, “it was in front
of Archie’s garage. We asked the
Council to remove it.” Mr. Peebles
winced visibly. “They took it,” he said
with faint outrage, “and placed it in front
of the church,”
There were a few sniggers from the
rear of the cluster of Progress members,
and not even Mr. Peebles’s frowns were
able to silence them. More the pity, for
in the secretary’s mind were
headlines flashing in the
next Saturday’s issues of
“Guardian” and “Courier,”
for both of which Mr.
Peebles was local correspon-
dent. “Wirril Creek Man
Fights for Town Beautifica-
tion,” said the “Guardian.”
“Town Eyesore Removed
After Objection by Civic-minded Asso-
ciation,” said the “Courier.” It mattered
little that the Creek was a village and .not
a town, or that some sniggered, and re-
fused to add dignity to his project. The
stump must go.
“Gentlemen,” he told them firmly, “the
stump must go.”
NOR was there likely to be disagree-
ment on that score. True, most had
become so accustomed to its being in the
Creek that, like Mr. Brinall, they had to
rack their brains to remember it. An old
fellow-friend couched down, they would
have described it, but of course when
you thought on it, a bit of an eyesore.
Reluctantly they pledged themselves to
follow Peebles.
“Furthermore,” said Mr. Peebles, “I
think we should ask our council riding
representatives to, come and see about it.”
“Ah, you won’t get them, Charley,”
said Pat Hickey, who had little faith in
his elected councillors. “They just won’t
come.”
“Oh yes, they will,” said Mr. Peebles,
a steely glint to his eyes. “I’ll see they
do.”
“M’m,” said Mr. Hickey doubtfully,
and .lapsing into unbelieving silence.
“Now in the Depression,” observed
Tom Winter, “you might have done it
with the Relief fellers. But no, they
didn’t do it. I told ’em at the time, but
no, they took no notice. Now you don’t
stand a chance, not with the council like
it is, and no Relief.”
Mr. Peebles’s glance became more
frosty. Disparagement, even by infer-
ence, was not for him. “They’ll do it all
right,” he said. “Or I’ll make ’em sit up
—in the Press.”
The picture was, of course, figurative,
but the words contained power. This was
Charles Peebles’s final word on every-
thing—making councillors or farmers, or
politicians sit up, in the Press. There
was a deadly ring to the words, a threat
never lost upon his audience.
“That’s right, Charley,” agreed Pat
Hickey soothingly. “You make ’em sit
up.”
And so Mr. Peebles was committed to
making them sit up, on a stump, as it
were, and straightway, following the
Association meeting, did he write to the
“Coolbucca Guardian” and the “Burt-
ville Courier,” and the Battle of the
Stump was under wa’y.
AS the general of a campaign, it may
be said that Peebles made few, if any,
tactical errors, and as a council election
was in sight the stump made an excel-
lent platform, again figuratively speaking,
of course, for any councillor. As the
Wirril Creek correspondent of the
“Guardian” put it:
“It is a councillor’s regard for his out-
lying centres which judges him to be a
representative worthy of his riding.”
These were famous words, to be com-
pared with “Now is the time....,” “A
man worthy of his calling,” and even
“Friends, Romans, etc.,” and they
attracted some attention. Bob Winter,
poor simple foolish fellow, wanted to
know why the council didn’t just come
and do away with the stump; but the
sheer simplicity of his scheme was looked
upon with scorn. Civic sabotage, such
a suggestion, for why eliminate a stump
without ceremony, and especially the
Creek’s very own stump?
The word stump was used quite a deal
throughout the election campaign, and
rarely without the device of
punning. The shire engineer,
curious, came and looked at
it. He measured it and was
visibly amazed at its great
girth. He laughingly sug-
gested blowing the stump to
pieces, and thereby amazed
the loquacious Tom Winter
and other Creekers, and tak-
ing advantage of their amazement
escaped in the special late-model super
Buick which he had earned for solving
such problems Too late they realised
that the telephone-wires ran overhead and
would also be blasted So the stump re-
mained.
The first promising councillor declared
it would have to be drawn into Pat
Hickey’s paddock, and there burned.
Snigging formed the next debate. Who
would do it, would the council pay?
What would be the best bullock team,
and of course, the debate was doomed
at that stage to deteriorate rapidly, the
bullockies having been sidetracked from
the main issue. Someone suggested a
bulldozer, but shrivelled in the silence of
scorn which followed.
Blackberries turned the tide, for
blackberries brought in the’wives of
the Creekers, and altered the struggle.
A stump they had been prepared to
ignore, but the mention of blackberries
roused them, and when they heard that
Charles Peebles had asked also for the
removal of their village quarter-acre of
the vines they were openly hostile. It
seemed this was at least one tactical error
the great fellow had made. If Charles
Peebles maintained as he did in the
“Courier” that they were an eyesore and
not to be retained by any self-respecting
community, then they had the complete
and triumphant answer, that they had
been self-respecting all along while re-
taining their berries.
Blackberries: that was a word for you,
a word conjuring up dripping moist
masses of the black fruit, red-stained shirts
and dresses, torn pants and scratched
children, but. above all the triumph of
filled preserving-pans, sweet cool jelly
and tasty jam. Why, then, would they
see fit to wipe out such a source of
good-eating, or be foolish enough to bid
farewell to happy days of blackberrying
and its accompanying fun and gossip?
Mr, Peebles had indeed imperilled his
entire campaign.
Gradually, then, the news filtered
through to the prospective councillors
that all was not well with the Peebles
plank of policy. They were now
faced with a poser. To solicit
the Peebles support would be to
have the housewives against
them, for Peebles stood for both
stump and blackberries. To
promise the wives their black-
berries untouched would be to
bring down the scorn of the
men, led by Peebles in person,
wielding a mighty pen. And
Peebles insisted upon Stump
and Blackberries or Nothing At All, and
no councillor dared commit himself to
Nothing At All; not, anyway, before
election.
Most councillors would have been con-
tent to let the matter rest, to warily evade
an immediate issue, and they piay even
have succeeded had not Peebles, weary
of chiding them and thirsting for even
greater glory, suddenly come to light with
the astounding news that he, Peebles, was
standing for council.
There was a statement if you liked, in
thick type, too, in both Coolbucca and
Burtville journals, an announcement to
pour fear into the heart of the other can-
didates. Peebles to the fore! And all
Wirril Creek must vote for him, support
him to the hip, and further if necessary.
Nothing would now matter but that
Peebles should go in and alter affairs,
give a new deal to those who had been
denied road-culverts and road mainten-
ance, and direct council revenue into
profitable channels, especially at the
Wirril Creek end of the shire. Pat Hickey
supported the idea, Mr. Brinall was all
for it, and Tom Winter was agreeably
loquacious about it. Peebles must go
in.
Mr. Peebles proved himself a man of
action. True, he said, the women wanted
their blackberries. Well, he liked black-
berries, too, but then there were black-
berries elsewhere in the Creek district,
and he for one would see that parties
would be organised in the berry season.
Elect him and the berries would go at
the Creek village. Fail to elect him and
worse would befall the Creek. This
masterpiece of logic did the women con-
template in cold silence.
The candidates who had come earlier
into the field now felt at an advantage.
Peebles was no longer needed. His
Press vituperations were without power,
because they were propaganda on his own
behalf. Yes, each councillor pledged
himself to rid the Creek of the mighty
stump, but no threat was made concern-
ing blackberries. It seemed, indeed, that
Charley Peebles was on the losing end
of the tug-of-war,
ANY other than Charley Peebles might
have been discouraged, but he had
reckoned upon the support of his asso-
ciation, and support him they did. He
was seen in long and earnest conversa-
tions with Messrs. Brinall, Hickey, Winter
and other members. Late afternoons,
when the bullocks had been unyoked and
the mill quietened, and when the house-
wives were busy with evening meals, that
was when the men conferred, and there
was much stroking of unshaven chins and
much pondering and much opinion
exchanged. For three evenings did these
consultations take place, but on the
fourth there was action. Other,
the secret reckoned some terrifi? not
needed to win the
the Peebles prestige, and few h d P r oost
such a coup would be
It was strange, then, thaffcf
housewives saw nothing untoward
their husbands creeping reluctami ln
the house. A frost was in the a f r^ r ° m
the wives preferred to sleep but h and
difficult to get much sleep, so area Was
the dm outside their homes, a cS I s
a shouting, gruntings of aniimf. 8 and
customary snigging curses and
too. Mr. Brinall had provided an a B^ter >
of refreshment in bottles, but fonS“ OUnt
part ate thickly-clad wirte d r a n \T!
coffee provided by an alert and It hot
Mr. Peebles,
wives could hear, and they must
wondered. A few curious
emerged and huddled near the fire h
mg to glean an informative sentence'T
two. They even peered into &
where bullocks grunted and groaned
urged on by the mouthings of their’
masters ; but not a thing did they dis
cover. But they were fascinated by the
noises, lamps glowing, shovels scrapin'
voices bellowing, bullocks grunting and
men shouting. s
Election morning glowed, then, with a
pristine beauty for which such mornings
are generally not famed. Voting, so often
done out of a sense of duty, was this
morning a real pleasure. Men shaved
until their faces were smooth. They
dressed in their best, urged their wives to
do the same and helped with the children
Everything was an adventure. And as
if believing that time made all the differ-
ence, they hurried to record their
votes, and 10, when they
reached the Creek rumor had
not been false.
There, not in front of the
Methodist Church, but in the
tidy square fronted by the post-
office was the stump, famed sub-
ject of so many arguments. But
now it did not lie, roots up-
wards, denuded of its past glory
and a sad old object, but it was
a tree again, or the butt of its
former tree, and sunk into the ground
so that only that butt remained above;
and round the butt was a smooth swathe
of concrete, • wet, albeit, as a notice
announced, but sure to dry and retain
the stump for ever. Around the concrete
was a clean, white picket-fence, and then,
if you peered closely, that small brass
plate could be seen set in the brave old
butt of the ancient tree. “A Pioneer of
the Past,” it said, “eternally to be com-
memorated.”
And then, looking back along the Creek
main road, could be seen an unaccus-
tomed smoothness, hollows and dips
levelled, and a quarter-acre
vines cleared from the
dignified had the Creek peebles,
And so all opposition to
Esq., or, perhaps and bee n
Councillor Peebles, -j had
removed, the voters of st aj being
but one thing left to do, an a mllC Ji
of the mind that an Y . tore them-
better vote, they re uc»nUy ne ,
selves front the g - .foe print 3.
memorial b*«g
school to record then w t ha
as they did, and one m tb e
Peebles would in every
flourishing day.
BALL OF FIRE.
Blue-eyed Billy is pink and stout,
And went to school with me,
Which is fair a proof as man may seek
Of mediocrity.
I met him again in a dismal pub,
Winter upon the hills,
With a sort of domestic talking crow
With a list of female ills.
He poked away at a sorry fire;
Her smile was a glitter of gold.
Her voice was shrill and she would not
ti re : ~ ..
She said “My back is cold.
He went to shut the door and I.
To escape the destructive b a S>
Beckoned him into the windy bar.
Beer in hand and my feet on my bag.
“A drink for the road,” said Billy
We talked of war and men,
Drinking our fill of icy beer
Free and noisy then. /
‘Til tell you what, at Alamein
A ball of fire ran dpwn the I»ne
Of all those guns, an endless
Across the night at El Alamein.
“And all those guns— you
Jammed wheel to wheel acr
Spoke all at once ’ he raised
“And cracked the mgh
said.
N.S.W.
J. FOUNTAIN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3672
Wednesday, June 28, 1950
“LABOR” WON’T HAVE HIM DECLARED A SCAB!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U597J.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
• Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ONUS AND HYPOCRISY.
Not before its time the farcical pretence
of the “Labor” Opposition in Canberra
about “denial of British justice” to agents
of a Soviet fifth-column in Australia
has been dealt with as it deserves. The
House of Representatives last week cut
short debate on the spurious amend-
ments to the anti-Communist Bill insisted
upon by the “Labor” Senate majority.
Subsequent obstruction made clear that
the bill, already fully approved by the
electorate, will not be permitted to be-
come law by the Communists’ friends in
the “Labor” party without a double-
dissolution and another general election.
The Government has made every pos-
sible concession by way of changes in
the bill to assure that no innocent person
shall suffer, even a member of a Com-
munist body who is not himself a Com-
munist. Opposition leaders voted for the
purposes of the bill. They and their
party agreed to its recitals declaring that
the Communist party
Engages in activities directed to creating
a revolutionary situation in which it would
be able to seize power and overthrow the
existing Government by violence;
Is part of a Communist world-revolu-
tionary movement engaged in espionage,
sabotage and treasonable and subversive
activities towards that objective;
Aims at the dislocation and disruption
of Australian industries vital to the security
and defence of the country, by means of
strikes and stoppages;
And has by these means already caused
disruption and slowing-down of production
in those industries.
The Opposition had also agreed that for
these reasons the Communist party should
be outlawed, and that Communists should
be dismissed from any Government em-
ployment or from executive positions in
trade-unions. It had agreed to all these
premises for action and to the action pro-
posed—not voluntarily, but because its
leaders and all members of the “Labor”
caucus know that the country overwhelm-
ingly voted the Menzies Government into
office to do just these things, which
“Labor” itself refused to do during the
past four years of Communist-led indus-
trial rebellion.
“Labor” has now secured delay in
action against the Communists for a
further six months or more. Its amend-
ments to the bill, made possible only
because of a previously-rigged majority
in the Senate, were deliberately framed
in order to make the bill impotent and,
as Mr. Menzies says, to let the King’s
enemies in this country go free. “Labor”
has worked up a campaign directed to
protecting in his job the “declared” Com-
munist —whether as a member of a sub-
versive party, or as employee in the
service of a Government which the Com-
munists are pledged to destroy, or in
trade-union office where he can (and does)
plunge the country into strikes in order
to foment general discontent. Their
rejected amendments required that the
onus of all proof should be placed on
the Government; that the Communist
should be spared from having to go into
the witness-box on appeal from being
“declared” by Executive Council pro-
clamation ; that he should be ’ allowed
not merely appeal to a Court of Justice
but a whole series of appeals on a matter
of fact (whether he is a Communist),
never having himself been obliged to give
evidence ; that he should be allowed trial
by jury ; and that, if at some distant date
and by use of all these obstacles to defeat
the proper precautions of the Govern-
ment for the security and defence of the
land, he should escape—and the holes in
the net which “Labor” wants to cut for
him would make escape easy —then he
shall be reinstated in his job and com-
pensated. That is the “Labor” policy
for combating the Communist wreckers.
They call their obstruction by the high-
sounding name of “upholding elementary
British justice.” They deny that there is
any element of danger to the national
security, or to the British Common-
wealth’s security, in the Communists’
general “cold war” or in the Australian
activities of Moscow’s agents. At least
they deny it now; but only last winter,
when these same Communists brought on
the general coal strike to defy the
authority of the Government (then under
Mr. Chifley), every “Labor” leader broad-
cast, in his own language, the very
charges contained in this bill’s recitals;
Mr. Chifley: The whole economic and
social life of Australia is approaching com-
plete disruption.... [They are] holding up
the life of the community.
Dr. Evatt: [This action] strikes at the
very fabric of society.
Mr. Cal well : We will use all the
resources of the country against them.
This is a Communist conspiracy.
Senator Ashley (leader for “Labor” in
the Senate today): The Communist leaders
are trying to implement the policy of a
foreign Power. This is a struggle against
constitutional government.
Senator McKenna (leading “Labor’s’
legal obstruction in the Senate today): This
strike is a vast assault on the people and a
vast insult to them.
The unnecessary general elections
which “Labor” means to force upon the
country as the price of the Menzies anti-
communist legislation will be fought
upon the onus-of-proof issue.
The Government’s concessions to pre-
vent “Labor’s” stampeding of public
opinion on the onus matter have added
prolixity to the bill. It has added
to , the onus clauses, (5) and (9),
words which express in simple syllables
what was already implicit—that if the
“declared” person gives evidence, the
onus of proof of the charge shall then
lie upon the Government. Mr. Menzies
has extended appeal to State Courts (no
longer to the High Court alone). He
has provided that the “declaration” shall
not apply to anyone who is not, or was
not, in May, 1948, a Communist, and
that it shall be made oply after pre-
liminary consideration by a special com-
mittee of five, including the Solicitor-
General, the Secretary of the Defence
Department, and the head of the Security
Intelligence Organisation. As the Prime
Minister says, any innocent person has
nothing whatever to fear from this pro-
cedure.
What “Labor” wants to provide is that
the “declared” person need not go into
the box unless he wishes, and that without
his going into the box the Government
shall disclose the whole of its security
information, the identity and reports of
its officers engaged in the national security
service, and produce proof to the unani-
mous satisfaction of 12 jurymen (whom
the judge would have to instruct that
they must be satisfied beyond all reason-
able doubt). Proof of what? That the
“declared” person is a Communist and
a danger to the nation’s interests. This
is not a charge upon indictment for a
criminal offence; it is solely a question
of terminating some suspected traitor’s
employment in the Government service
or in trade-union office. There is no fine
or imprisonment imposed upon any Com-
munist who fails to succeed on appeal.
What he loses is the job in which he had
power to do mischief. The interests at
stake are the integrity of the nation’s
defences and the maintenance of its
essential industries. Yet, as Mr. Menzies
also says, “Labor” wishes to allow the
opinion of possibly some single dissentient
juryman, in a case not concerned with
any criminal act, to override the informed
judgment of Cabinet on whether the
“declared” person is a danger while in
his job to the security of Australia.
“Labor” in the Senate has gone
the limit in providing to the best of
its ability that the agents of Com-
munism, “a dirty and deadly con-
spiracy against Australia,” shall, when
arraigned under this legislation, go free.
It has made very clear that it wants to
make the bill, in Mr. Chifley’s words,
“futile.”
In Victoria Mr. Justice Lowe, after an
exhaustive and detailed inquiry on Com-
munist activities, reported last month that
the Communist party had been the driv-
ing-force in disrupting industry, that its
aim was to overthrow the existing
machinery of State and set up a dictator-
ship, and that —in the event of the Com-
munists creating their revolutionary situa-
tion —if Governments in power do not
abdicate voluntarily they would be de-
stroyed by violence. This purpose, he
reported, was “beyond doubt.”
Against that background, with the
“Labor” party now openly defiant of a
clear mandate for it possessed by the
Government, the Prime Minister has
now abandoned discussion and is
preparing for action. He has gone as
far as the Government dare in com-
promise to meet “Labor” objections.
Henceforth every step will be in prepara-
tion for an appeal to the electors to
decide whether they want the bill or not
The procedure constitutionally must lie
through proroguing Parliament, a new
session, a re-submission of the bill, and,
if the Senate rejects it again, a formal
request to the Governor-General for a
dissolution.
That is the “Labor” Senators’ idea of
politicians earning their salaries.
Our Political Decadence.
Further returns in the N. S. Wales elec-
tions have done nothing to produce any
hope that the stalemate in the State Par-
liament will be broken. It is a stalemate
both in membership and in voting under
which no party has any real hope of
implementing its programme.
The most disturbing fact about it is
that the situation is typical of what now
exists throughout Australia. “Labor”
and anti-Socialist are almost regularly
divided at the polls in almost equal
strength. The real deciders of elections
are a small section constituting only a
few per cent, of the whole of the voters
who swing according to conscience or to
the weakness of their own convictions or
the strength of their bump of self-interest.
“Labor” already is alive to this un-
healthy situation, and has set out to pro-
tect itself against changes of side by the
swinging vote in regard to Senate elec-
tions. And the same situation renders it
much easier for electorates to be gerry-
mandered, as they are in more than one
State,
A generation or so ago there was a
Labor party in the Commonwealth,
ardent and patriotic, and largely com-
posed of working men of ideals who
went into Parliament poor and died poor
even after a period of office. But the
breed has died out and is steadily being
replaced by another which has none of
the real aspirations of Labor. It has all
the ambitions for dictatorship which have
been inherent in the totalitarian
“Socialist” movements of Europe and
South America. When out of power it
is disorderly, undisciplined and faction-
haunted and ready to resort to any mea-
sure which will appeal to the mob in
order to regain power. As a minority it
is utterly lawless, its prime objective to
make it impossible for any other Gov-
ernment than its own to carry on. As a
Government it is arrogant in its conduct
of affairs both domestic and foreign.
Parliament under its control ceases to
be a Parliament. It becomes merely a
registering-machine used to validate the
decisions of a series of outside extra-
legal caucuses, the chief and dominating
one of which in the Commonwealth
sphere (as in New South Wales) during
the past nine years being for long periods
under the control of the Communist
unions.
“Labor’s” leaders have ceased to be
men who glory in the fact that their
wealth lies in achievement. Rich business-
men of the type of Mr. McGirr, rich
publicans, rich landlords and well-to-do
lawyers now figure more prominently in
“the movement.” The leaders of “Labor'
roll round in expensive motor-cars, even
rabble-rousers of the Ward-Pollard type
who glory in a “poverty” which any
working man in normal times would
regard as riches. A very large propor-
tion of those who enter “Labor” politics
poor soon seem able to remedy their con-
dition. Mr. Beasley died worth, for
probate purposes, over £33,000,
“Labor” teems with men who are
mere demagogues and who, when they
are confronted with the problems of ad-
ministration and finance, scarcely under-
stand what is said to them. They
naturally are compelled to build up by
patronage staffs of their own political
color, men whose ideas are foreign to the
tradition of the civil service and who are
dependent for their jobs on a servile ad-
herence to “Labor” principles. They lack
the protection of the Public Service Acts
which enables the permanent man to re-
sist maladministration and unethical pro-
ceedings by a Minister or a party. And
these civil-servant hangers-on are often
just as eager Socialises as their
patrons and masters. Thus Governments
of another color coming into office,
as the Menzies Government has done,
find themselves saddled with batches
of senior officers whbse sympathies are
openly with those who found fine jobs
for them. “Labor’s” political appoint-
ments range from the Governor-
General, who was pitchforked into
Yarralumla straight from active member-
ship of the A.L.P., to messengers and
drivers. And these are apart from huge
batches of new Government employees
staffing departments (like the Federal
employment bureaux) which have no
justification for existence at all except
that they are repositories for people whom
“Labor” wishes to favor.
Not only is there a political stalemate
in Australia, but “Labor” rule oyer the
past few years has coincided with an
almost unexampled period of false pros-
perity, due to world and local shortages
arising from war conditions. This has
enabled the party in power to m
about with a wanton hand casll
duced a feeling among a large sqm* 5 in '
l he . y ° un B er generation (which h* tlon of
had the chance to experience *u as never
ence between bad and S ® e differ '
Chr ha t rd timCS) that “Labor” T r S m
Christmas, and that it can athe r
even to the manufacture of money^ B.
With unexampled—but sadly tL
ary security and leisure, withLm P ° r '
upon as something which can be
the Government to make unnecessary u°
unlimited pensions and free ,vJ!- by
schemes, the post-war genera tS dlCal
voters is apt to overlook the significant 0 *
of general conditions and highprices a
few years ago for a New Soufh w*i A
Government to go to the S
period when there were few eg® L ' a
f s ‘ a dozen, when the city milk ratio 1
had been cut by half, when meat S
risen during its period of office so S
ordinary steak cost 3s. a pound
have been to commit suicide. ° U d
But, as matters stand everythin
taken for granted. TheintSnc* hv
the post-office with starting-price te £
phones was a bigger issue with lar?p
sect lo ns of the community than the cut
ting-off of the milk ration or the
prices of commodities. The relegation
of election news to truncated paragraph”
and badly-written summaries on remote
pages of Sydney newspapers while p aee
on page was given over to negro boxers
League football brawls, racing scandals
and lottery results shows the general
trend of public opinion and the lack
of responsibility and sane thinking which
is evident in almost every phase of Am-
tralian public life today.
It is quite clear that unless there is
a change we are in for some rude shocks
in the future when prices begin to settle
down and it is brought home to this coun-
try’s voters that they depend for their
existence not on the magic powers of
Socialists and the like but on the real
value of our efforts.
Never has the country needed more a
united set of firmly-entrenched Federal
and State Administrations ready to reduce
government to a business basis and to use
some of the inflowing wealth earned by
our wool and dwindling primary dairy
products as a reserve provision for a
rainy day.
The sober, commonsense, stable sec-
tion of the electorates, which form almost
half the total of voters, badly need
efficient leaders and missionaries so that
they may add to their numbers and re-
place the demagogues of Australian poli-
tics with a few more statesmen of the
Menzies and Playford calibres, especially
in the State Parliaments.
A "Senate" Gets the Axe.
Elected to power in New Zealand on
his Nationalist party’s policy, Mr.
Holland, the Prime Minister, quickly ran
into what Mr. Menzies,- similarly elected
to power in Australia, has collided with
—an Upper House composed of a
“Labor” majority determined not to
review legislation impartially, but to
oppose it if so ordered by the “Labor -
party caucus, which takes its orders in
turn from non-elected body of trade-
union bosses.
Mr. Holland, however, is more for-
tunate than Mr. Menzies. His Legislative
Council is a nominated body, whereas
the Canberra Senate has been elected
under rigged “Labor” rules. M;
Holland intends to abolish his Senate
and has nominated a suicide-squa
which will carry the abolishing legisla-
tion, after an “alternative to proyide some
sort of safeguard against hasty or
considered legislation” is f°uuo-
He has authority to it from *
N.Z. electors, for he made LpB is * a
Council abolition a feature of his polij
speech, knowing from P^ ■ P the
ence that a verdict/tactically 7 useless
elections would be P r^ tica “{ f t h e
with a “Labor”-stuffed Coimcil- oLW
25 Councillors, 19 are Labor. • M tQ
land will appoint new
ensure passage of Cove Houses
tion, a special committee of bo* no
will then seek an follow a s a
Council and abolition will follow
matter of course. ~ tbose
Mr. Menzies, together jn
who voted for his G “
December last year, an ts done
that a majority of Australiani w Senate
the things the Labor-do wish
won’t let the Government do, Caflberra
solution of the J er , like their
problem was as easy. know what
Government, Atfstraha d w hen
was put over by and
it enlarged the Senate, beco me,
urgent Senate reform has order
to what lengths “Labor will *
to achieve its ends.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Korea Invaded.
The sudden and hurried departure from
Tokyo of General Derevyanko, Dr.
Fvatt’s old partner in the harassing of
Teneral MacArthur, was explained on
u m e 25 when North Korea, which is vir-
ually a Russian province, suddenly in-
vaded South Korea, which is an inde-
pendent State under United States tute-
lage. The invasion came before a declara-
tion of war.
As with the Communists in North
China, the North Koreans were armed
by the Russians and added to Moscow’s
conquered empire, being used as a step-
for persistent attempts to en-
gulf the South Korean zone, which the
United States had hastened to free, in
accordance with Allied understandings,
as soon as it was possible.
Despite protests from Russia, the South
Koreans were allowed to hold an election
under U.N.O.’s supervision in April,
1948, and in October the President, Dr.
Syngman Rhee, visited Tokyo and re-
ceived official recognition from General
MacArthur, while Communists fomented
a South Korean rebellion which cost a
good many lives before it was suppressed.
The invasion came at a moment when
the United States authorities, after years
of patience, had been driven to outlaw
the leading Communists of Japan, a mea-
sure followed by the dispatch of an angry
Russian Note demanding repeal of the
order. The Note raises exactly the same
cry that was raised by several Australian
“Labor” members during the Address-
in-Reply debate, on the Communist
Party Dissolution Bill and afterwards,
viz.—that General MacArthur is making
war on the trade-unions.
Last week Mr. Dulles was in Seoul
assuring the South Korean Assembly of
U.S. support, and Mr. Johnson, U.S.
Minister for Defence, and General Omar
Bradley, head of the U.S. Armed Forces,
were in Tokyo conferring with General
MacArthur in a tense atmosphere.
A Korean victory would leave Japan
impaled on two claws of a Russian
pincer, and Russia as much in control
of the Sea of Japan as it is now of the
Baltic, The Korean move challenges the
whole Western world at a moment when
Communist forces, with Russian backing,
are already fighting a hot war in British
territory in Malaya, seemingly with the
approval of Mr. Chifley.
The invasion comes when it is known
that Russian tank forces have been pour-
ing into East Germany over the Oder for
weeks, following a peculiar raising of the
issue of Poland’s permanent right to terri-
tories annexed from Germany, for which
the Kremlin has announced that it will
fight.
It comes when not only the Formosa
invasion is threatened but when Ho Chi-
Minh’s forces are fighting the French in
Vietnam with Russian-provided arms and
under Russian guidance. It comes when
the Chinese Government has made the
diplomatic recognition of Britain subject
to humiliating conditions, yet welcomed
with open arms the Ambassador of India,
whose speech, on presentation of his
letters of credence, showed a strange,
brotherly accord with the aims of China
and the U.S.S.R.
All this is happening while Mr, Trygve
Lie, fresh from Moscow, holds out Mos-
cow-made plans of peace.
The invasion also comes when, pur-
suing his conquests wherever there is a
Power that he can bully or invade with
his foreign mercenaries, Stalin has sud-
denly issued a blast against the class-war
m non-Communist countries. And, of
course, there are newspapers which swal-
low and publish this rubbish, which
would mean the abandonment of every-
thing that Russia stands for —general in-
surrection in the interests of the
U.S.S.R. and world conquest by the soul-
kss, pitiless, inhuman doctrine which
Lommunism represents.
T T Security Council, to which the
United States has referred the Korean
invasion, ordered a “cease-fire.” General
MacArthur’s measure in sending im-
mediate military help will be a thousand
imes more effective than this order.
Fair Warning.
The session ended at Canberra in the
onny hours of June 23 with a display of
Pposition larrikinism. Parliament is
now m recess till a day to be named,
hich will probably be about three
months hence.
* s no use the Houses meeting before
en, because it is quite obvious that
rhament cannot function. The Gov-
ernment, elected by the largest majority
r years and on clear mandates, can
P £ ct no assistance or tolerance from
Mr. Chifley and his wolf-pack, which
has shown itself in its true colors during
the past session. “Labor” has a majority
in the Senate the views - of which are
diametrically opposed to those expressed
by the electors last December. It intends
to use this to the limit to make it im-
possible for any Government which is not
amenable to the dictation of the big Com-
munist unions, which form the staple of
the Chifley-Evatt trade-union support, to
carry on. It is ready to use every means
of obstruction within its power, including
a continual war on the Speaker and con-
tinual abuse and libel, under privilege,
against Ministers.
It is a staggering attitude in view of the
dangers in the overseas situation, which
Dr. Evatt must appreciate as well as any
man. With war in being in Asia, near our
own borders, and with a large fifth-
column operating under Moscow instruc-
tions within the “Labor” movement, the
Opposition-leaders continue to play the
lowest party-political game on record.
The country will welcome Mr.
Menzies’s forthright acceptance of the
challenge which has been thrown down
by him on the Communist issue.
Dunstan's Star Pupil.
Whether the Victorian Legislative
Council will, by refusing Supply, eventu-
ally compel the McDonald Ministry to go
to the country as it compelled the Cain
Ministry in 1947, remains to be seen.
Meanwhile Mr. Hollway is out, and the
way is open for the elevation of a Gov-
ernment which the late Speaker of the
Assembly describes as not a marriage of
convenience but a “living together in sin.”
Concluding stages of the efforts of the
Hollway Government to keep its head
jabove water were marked by allegations
from Country-party leader McDonald
that he had been offered the Agent-
Generalship in London at a high salary
and also “a high honor,” if he would
merge with his followers, or sufficient of
them, in the Liberal party. Mr. Mc-
Donald added, according to the Press
revelations, that this proposal did not
come from Mr. Hollway, who, indeed,
with indignant astonishment refuted it in
Parliament and offered a royal commis-
sion to inquire into the matter.
The rump of the Country party, 13
members in a House of 65, now takes
office, supported by a “Labor” party
of 25 from the back-benches. The full
legislative action to which Mr. Mc-
Donald is committed as the price of this
support has yet to be revealed. It is
known to include the “liquidation” of the
Essential Services Act, the Hollway-
McDonald bill to counter Communist-
led strikes, the gingerly administration of
which was resented by Mr. McDonald
two years ago and led to his breach with
the Liberals. It includes also, according
to informed Press statements, enlargement
of the Assembly in order to provide
“Labor” with more metropolitan seats,
and the broadening to universal-suffrage
dimensions of the franchise for the Legis-
lative Council, which should further
fortify “Labor’s” Parliamentary position.
Of course Mr. Hollway took a risk last
year when he made a bid, only partly
successful, to extinguish the Victorian
Country party by opening the Liberal
ranks to individual members and renam-
ing the party with the joint name —•
Liberal-Country party. But the whole
story illustrates the sordid state of party
politics in Victoria, which seems to have
learned nothing since the undignified
three-elevens-in-the-field exhibitions of
the Federal parties, then inhabiting State
Parliament House in Melbourne, during
the first decade of the Commonwealth.
In the latest development the most restless
hater of Socialism has now turned to the
Socialists to back him in office, so long
as he does everything demanded of him
in advancing the Socialists’ policy. Both
Mr. McDonald and Mr. Cain avowed at
the elections they would have no such
truck with each other.
Even the Socialists are at odds among
themselves about the party direction
which has committed them to such a
course. True, they tolerated much the
same sort of thing before with the
Dunstan Governments, but McDonald is
not a Dunstan and has not (as yet) be-
hind him the numbers of the Dunstan
minority party.
The Deluge on the Coast.
The spring floods which swamped Mait-
land, Kempsey and other coastal districts
north of Sydney, causing enormous
damage and loss of life, have been out-
done this month. All along the coastal
fall of the Divide, from Brisbane to the
Hunter, day after day of driving rain,
with sudden intensified downpours of up
to lOin. in as many hours, have brought
an unparalleled disaster to one of the
richest areas of the Commonwealth.
Grafton, Lismore, Coraki, Woodburn,
Coif’s Harbor, Taree, Kempsey, Mait-
land and the smaller townships and
villages around them were under seas of
water by the weekend. There is the
same tale of heroic rescues, of families
fleeing by night from the waters, stock
washed out to sea, pastures, orchards,
plantations ruined, roads and railways
washed away, telephone-lines down, even
radio-stations put out of action, homes
destroyed, ships aground or forced to
shelter from the raging seas.
The tale of disaster will not be told
for many weeks, and when it is it will be
a statistical thing of material losses. No-
body will ever know the full story of
human misery and courage which these
visitations of the elements contain ; what
it means, for instance, when a man sees
his farm go under water for the third
or fourth time in a year, when a woman
sees her home washed away, or a family
sees its living destroyed in a night.
A duty is laid on State and Federal
Governments to set about relieving flood
distress and restoring damage as soon as
possible, and a duty is laid on every
citizen to give what he can towards flood
relief. For all his skill and inventive-
ness man is a puny thing, and so are his
establishments, against the might of wind
and water when these two elements go
wild. All man can do, when their fury
is past and calmness comes again, is to
rebuild what has been destroyed.
Meantime, the great city of Sydney,
itself drenched by almost continuous rains
and suffering damage to homes and roads,
has discovered how vulnerable it is. If
an enemy had cut off its coal supplies
and much of its food as the floods have
done, it would be in a state of siege.
Its nearer food-producing areas, on the
Hawkesbury and the Nepean, have also
suffered and its gas supplies are seriously
threatened.
The city owes a word of thanks to
collier crews who faced furious, seas to
bring coal down from Newcastle. The
first little ship to get through took green
water over its deck most of the way and
the crew’s quarters were awash when it
made port. Two others battled through
similar seas at grave risk to themselves.
Men should not have to risk their lives
like this. They had to do it because the
city has no coal reserves—has not had
any for years—because of a Communist-
inspired policy under which the miners
refuse to permit coal reserves to be
established. A million and half people
might have been without heat and light
but for the collier crews.
The Great Chifley Bluff.
One of the propaganda-questions directed
at Ministers which became almost daily
routine with “Labor” Parliamentarians,
particularly in the Senate, during the Can-
berra session just ended was to inquire
as to when the Government was going
to provide the “free” health service for
which taxpayers have been paying during
the Chifley Government’s term and
the recent months of Menzies govern-
ment.
Mr. Fadden exposed the “Labor” bluff
in his speech last week in the House of
Reps, on the Supply Bill. There were
no great funds built up by the “Labor”
Government, he said, either in the
National Welfare Fund, into which
“social service contributions” have been
paid, or the War Gratuity Reserve Fund.
The “Labor” Government took credit
for building up reserves, and it took credit,
at the same time, for spending the cash
they represented. It actually levied and
collected a social services contribution in
cash, and then promptly used the cash so
collected not for the purposes for which
it was collected, but to reduce the Govern-
ment’s indebtedness.
In March next year, said the Treasurer,
£67 million will have to be found to
meet war-gratuity payments. There is
no reserve fund to meet them and the
amount will have to be raised by loan.
In the same way there is no social-wel-
fare fund in existence which “Labor”
members pretend was accumulated to
meet (for instance) “free” health services,
for which (“Labor” members say) the
people have been taxed, and now expect
to receive what they paid for.
The Chifley Government’s endless fight
with the 8.M.A., right up to the time
when the electors threw it out of office,
now begins to be explained. The “fight”
helped to cover up the fact that the money
it had collected to provide “free” medicine
was not there: it had been spent on
socialisation expenses, or “full employ-
ment” or something else. The truth has
long been suspected, and Mr, Fadden has
now confirmed the suspicions.
Mr. Fadden’s pre-Budget survey dis-
closed also that:
Prices and costs have for two or three
years been rising at “the dangerous rate”
of 10 or 12 per cent, per annum —actually
15 per cent, from 1946 to 1948 and 20
per cent, from June, 1948, to December,
1949.
The general situation is “highly infla-
tionary,” with intense demand for con-
sumer goods, materials for industry and
public works, and lagging social amenities.
Since rationing of petrol was lifted con-
sumption increase (after providing for
increased vehicle registrations) was no more
than 6 to 7 per cent.
Removal of controls over capital issues
had hardly affected the situation at all
during the past five months.
The public can now appreciate the
bluff put over by these Socialist planners,
though there is no means yet of estimat-
ing the amount of public money wasted
in superfluous planning and controls or
the inflation under this wasteful expendi-
ture of the costs of goods and services in
every direction.
What's Wrong with Pubs?
Delegates from almost every State at an
Associated Chambers of Commerce con-
ference in Manly (N.S.W.) heartily con-
demned hotels and hotel-keepers through-
out the land, the first for being generally
unfit for the accommodation of travel-
lers, the second for failing to make them
fit and for a general unwillingness to
provide accommodation because they’re
obsessed with the idea of profit from the
sale of beer.
The fault is not all with hotels and pub-
licans. Very often bath are victims of
the times. Publicans genuinely anxious to
repair and improve their premises find
it just as hard as anyone else to get
materials and skilled labor for the jobs.
Getting competent staff to provide ser-
vice for guests is almost impossible, and
when it is obtained it not only demands
high wages but exacts extra tributes and
draws definite lines between what it will
and will not do.
None of this is meant as a defence
of a lot of publicans and pubs deserving
everything said against them. One of the
evils of the Australian hotel system is
brewery-ownership, which makes the
licensee of a brewery-owned pub no more
than a manager whose main concern is
with liquor sales. Running a hotel
properly is almost an art, and the ability
to do it is not given to all; it is seldom
given to the type who manages for a
brewery, and if it is he is apt to have his
enthusiasm dampened by the constant
thought that it is not his hotel. Which
explains why family hotels —that is, hotels
which have been owned by the same
family for a generation or so—are
usually the best of all.
Another contributor to bad accom-
modation is the new-rich traveller who
leaves filthy bathrooms and broken fittings
behind him, and isn’t averse to helping
himself to soap, towels, bed-linen, cutlery
and even a rug or two from the floors.
Also, there are too many new-rich sons
of the land who think the local hotel is
a place in which to indulge freely in
those peculiarly violent exhibitions of
which the bush larrikin is capable.
Finding a general all-round remedy is
difficult, but there is one field open to
these Chambers of Commerce. Almost
every large town has such a chamber, and
it oughtn’t to be hard for it to form a
committee of public-minded citizens to
take up the matter of accommodation in
their particular town. Such a committee
could assist the genuine publican and deal
with the other kind, and it would have
a tremendous effect on the Licensing
Court.
Bertrand Russell.
Except that his brains have so stimu-
lated his hair that it shoots out in all
directions like a silver-grey, goblin moss
from some old rock, Bertrand Russell is
extraordinarily like Norman Lindsay, At
78 he has the same lean vigor; the same
quick wit and lively flow of talk ; the
same devastating directness; the same
companionable simplicity and the same
eagle’s beak of a nose which one would
hesitate to arouse to wrath.
At his Press conference in Sydney—
he is here to lecture for the Australian
Institute of International Affairs—he had
first to appear as a public entertainer,
enduring, with fortitude and an eye glit-
tering pretematurally bright under the
fierce lights, the incredible vulgarities re-
quired of celebrities who have to face a
newsreel camera.
He had to answer nearly all his ques-
tions twice while they got the focus and
the sound-track right; he was told to
“think of a quip to round it off” and.
prompted by a suave young man at his
elbow, thought of a,quip—about flying-
saucers. He had to smile “that lovely,
big smile, please,” after talking about the
atomic-bomb.
That fantastic performance over, he
answered newspapermen’s questions,
nearly all about Russia and the possi-
bility of war, with refreshing honesty.
Fie approved “in principle” of Mr.
{Continued on next page.}


mr
M
craveha
sole ifa
—■V -
■si
KK
-
A
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION
Menzies’s Anti-Red Bill, but would „ „
comment on details iov the
reason that he didn’t know them V 8 d
He said he “didn’t think there was am,
thing at all in U.N.0.”; once ffi e S
provision had been brought in the wS
thing was useless. He said Amerka
wouldn t start a preventive war agahS
Russia because the U.S.A. had never gone
in for an offensive war “if it was likX
to be at all difficult.” ely
He said that Communism in the Soviet
had put power into the hands of an
oligarchy and fastened poverty on th?
masses for ever.” He didn’t think Com
munism would “broaden” if and when it
conquered the world because systems of
inequality, such as absolute monarchy
had proved they could last for centuries’
and the Communists had merely invented
“a new system of inequality.”
He thought the Chinese Communists
would be a danger to Australia if they
allied themselves with Russia; otherwise
“they were people you could like because
they had rebelled against definite social
evils, to effect necessary reforms,” and if
the Russians had originally done the same
“that was long ago.”
He said the world must come to a
World Government, which would have
control only over armaments, treaties and
the right to make war. Without a World
Government mankind would exterminate
itself. He was afraid World Government
would come only after another war; but
he hoped it would come by agreement-
in ‘ about 50 years—when Russia had
adopted a more moderate policy. Present
Russian policy was founded on the belief
that Communism and capitalism couldn’t
both live in the same world; he thought
they could.
Somebody told him that Sydney Uni-
versity was “bankrupt,” urgently in need
of money, and asked what he thought
about that in an enlightened democracy.
He said that under Communism the
university might have money, but only
at‘the price of being compelled to teach
“a whole pack of very damaging lies.”
There was something' pathetic, tragic
even, about the interview. In times of
grave anxiety people turn to the Wise
Old Men of the tribe ; and even so wise
a man as Bertrand Russell didn’t really
know how to be an incorrigible Socialist
and yet defend the individual; how to be
a liberal when the Communists have
forced on us an age of tyranny; how to
be a pacifist and yet stand up to the
Soviet (which he insisted must be done).
He didn’t really know whether there
would be war or not, or how, except by
arming, you could stop it coming.
And at the same time he was hearte
ing; not so much because he said hat,
if atomic war came, there would stil
people alive “in Patagonia, to form h
World Government, but simply be
of his own unquenchable vitality an
cheerfulness. If our worM
atomic-bomb in it, it also sth o f o und
human spirit; and, as tho e
philosophers the newsr 1 inating
know, it is all, anyhow, a
entertainment. _
POLITICAL POINTS
An epidemic of vow- and promise-
swallowing hit politicians in three Aus-
tralian Parliaments last week. In New
South Wales “Labor” men,' who, at the
behest of the Trades Hall, had been con-
demning party rebels only a week earlier,
suddenly discovered that two of them at
least were very fine fellows indeed who
must be welcomed back to the fold with-
out delay. Federal Opposition Senators
held out against the malaise until the wee
sma’ hours of Friday morning, when they
suddenly succumbed en masse. First
symptom was the swallowing of a threat
to stop Supply; after that it was no
surprise to see them gulp down all their
objections to the Child Endowment Bill.
But it was in Melbourne that political
gullets were most exercised. “Labor”-
leader Cain, in bolting down the Country-
party scheme for a minority Government,
must have permanently strained his
oesophagus—two of his henchmen, unable
to stomach the same dose, had to be
carried out of the Trades Hall —and Mc-
Donald’s swallowing of “Labor’s” terms
without fatal results suggests that he
should bequeath his Adam’s Apple to
the Institute of Anatomy.
“Labor’s” swing-around on Child En-
dowment was typical of the hypocritical
and irresponsible tactics the. Opposition
employed all through the session just
closed. During the election campaign
last year the Liberal and Country parties
undertook to extend endowment to pro-
vide ss. for the first or only child of a
family. When the Government intro-
duced a bill to honor its promise “Labor,”
which had refused any payment at all
when in office, used its Senate majority
to increase the amount to 10s., despite
Government assurances that this would
not be acceptable, and demanded that the
Government give certain directions to
the Arbitration Court in reference to the
basic-wage case. Fixer Ashley and his
colleagues tunied deaf ears to warnings
that such an amendment might well in-
validate the whole measure, and when
June 20, the day from which payments
were to accrue, passed by, the bill was
still being thrown back and forth between
the Houses, with “Labor” Senators talk-
ing of fighting to the last ditch. Then
somebody’s wife must have had some-
thing to say; the bogus ten-bob amend-
ment was withdrawn, but its sponsors
still vowed “No Surrender” on the other
point.
The Government standing firm,
“Labor” tried a big bluff, letting it be
breathed abroad that if Menzies and Co.
would not compromise it would refuse
supply after the end of June. Cabinet
called the bluff by deciding that that
would mean a dissolution. Whereupon
the threat, like the impassioned rhetoric
which had been emanating from the
Senate Opposition benches for days,
turned out to be nothing but hot air. And
when the hot air had cleared away
“Labors” pet amendment had dis-
appeared, too, and the Senate passed the
bill in its original form.
Back went the bill to the Reps, for
final approval. When the motion was
put a few Opposition members shouted
“No! ”, thereby necessitating a division—
a thing the party’s leaders certainly did
not want. The division-bells rang, but
Chifley managed to call his followers to
heel and the “Labor” party trooped out
of the House, including those who had
called for a division but lacked the
courage to face it.
With Parliament now in recess Menzies
can claim to have won the first round,
despite the fact that his Anti-Red Bill
and his banking legislation are on the
shelf and his Avoidance of Deadlocks
Bill rustled away into hiding by a “Labor”
select committee. In his Friday-night
broadcast the Prime Minister made the
justifiable point that “Labor’s” action
over the Anti-Red Bill had guaranteed the
Communists an extra three months of
uninterrupted activity. The amendments
already accepted by the Government have
raised grave doubts as to whether the
bill, when passed, can be effectively
applied; to yield to “Labor” on onus of
proof and their eleventh-hour after-
thought, trial by jury, would make it
completely useless. It is hard to avoid
the belief that this is “Labor’s” real in-
tention. ,
Floods prevented the opening of
polling-booths in portions of 11 elec-
torates in New South Wales on June 17,
and polling in those centres was post-
poned until last Saturday. Over 11,000
people were affected, the largest numbers
in Maitland (6178) and Upper Hunter
(1956). In neither of these seats was the
postponement likely to affect the chances
of the sitting members, one a Liberal and
the other a Country-party man, and in
eight other electorates the numbers in-
volved were too small to alter the results
of the June 17 vote. In the remaining
seat, Barwon, although less than 800
electors missed the poll through the
floods, their votes assumed considerable
importance owing to the narrow margin
separating “Labor” and anti-“ Labor”
candidates in the general voting. A team
of “Labor” spruikers rushed north last
week to emphasise to the 800 the bless-
ings of McGirr rule ; CP.-leader Bruxner
also visited the area. The postponed
poll resulted: Crawford (C.P.), 632 ;
Ferguson (“Labor”), 121 ; Heferen (Un-
endorsed Labor), 17 ; McKechnie (Lib.),
12. This gave Crawford a lead of more
than a thousand over Ferguson; distri-
bution of Liberal preferences should put
him well ahead of the combined votes of
the two “Labor” men.
On Monday McGirr was still cocking
an anxious eye in the direction of a few
metropolitan seats where preferences were
still to be distributed. In Lakemba there
was still a slight possibility that the second
votes of an Independent might put the
unendorsed “Labor” man Stanley in in-
stead of the Trades Hall choice, Wyatt.
In Auburn, with 500-odd Communist
prefs. almost certain to go to “Labor,”
McGirr’s fear was that J. C. Lang might
secure sufficient votes from the Indepen-
dent candidate, Kerr, to put him ahead
of the Liberal man. If this happened
the final count would see Dring, the Mc-
Girr candidate, defeated and Jack Lang,
through his son, holding the balance of
power in the new Parliament.
Counting on Monday was still un-
finished in the new Darlinghurst (N.S.W.)
seat, which Finnan deserted Hawkes-
bury to contest. State of the poll then
was Finnan (“Labor”), 10,056; Ogston
(Communist), 958 ; and Paget (Liberal),
10,157. Finnan’s chance of winning de-
pended on a solid preference vote from the
Communists, which seems likely in an
electorate of which the “Labor” boss until
last election was Comrade J. S. Garden.
Ogston is not merely the leader of Com-
munism’s strange political party. He is
a Comrade whose name was very pro-
minent before the Royal Commission in
Victoria, where a document was submitted
bearing his signature and setting out the
Communist-party executive’s instruction
for “executing confidential conspiratorial
work” and for behavior when in the
hands of the police and when charged
before a capitalist court. Despite the
frantic assurances of Mr. McGag and
his followers by speech and advertise-
ment that they hate Communism, the
Communist preferences, where they are
known, have gone solidly to Labor. The
position, for Finnan, at any rate, must
be humiliating. It would be even more
humiliating if “Labor” were to win
Auburn, as well as Darlinghurst, on Com-
munist preferences. In that case it would
not merely owe a couple of seats to the
Communists, It would owe its continued
existence as a Government to them. At
best it will have a very narrow escape.
The unedifying manoeuvrings which
prepared the way for giving Victoria the
unsought blessing of a minority Govern-
ment representative of only 10 per cent,
of the electors reached a climax last
Thursday, when Country-party leader
McDonald moved a motion of no-confi-
dence in the Hollway Government.
Assured in advance of the dearly-bought
support of “Labor,” the result was a fore-
gone conclusion. After the three party-
leaders had called at Government House
the Governor refused Hollway’s request
for a dissolution and a new election;
following the precedent that a dissolution
should be granted only when the
Governor is convinced that any further
efforts to form a workable Government
would be useless, he commissioned Mc-
Donald to make the attempt. As long as
the Country-party leader dances to
“Labor’s” tune he has a majority in the
Assembly ; whether he can find a Legisla-
tive Council majority remains to be seen.
First event after U.N, Secretary Trygve
Lie’s visit to Moscow is the attack on
South Korea by the Soviet’s North Korea
satellite. Now let’s see if U.N.O. can
stop a war of aggression.
The Australian Military Court on
Manus has passed its first death sentence
—on Lieutenant-General Taruma Mishi-
mura, for ordering the majssacre and
cremation of 110 Australian and 35 Indian
p.-0.-w. on January 22, 1942, at Pacit
Sulong, in Malaya. He is one war-
ruffian who can expect no mercy, since
the responsibility was wholly his own,
and the only pity is that his trial was de-
layed until more than eight years after
the horrible event. He should have been
tried the moment the blood-chilling facts
were known.
A note from Hawkesbury Agricultural
College (N.S.W.) says that by laying
“352 eggs in 80 days a group of six cross-
bred fowls of heavy type continues to
lead in the College egg-laying contest.”
This sort of thing ought to be kept dark
if the College doesn’t want groups of cross
housewives, some of the heavy type,
rushing out from Sydney, where eggs are
4d. each —if you can get ’em.
From London:
Of three new “political” baronies in “the
honors,” one was .bestowed upon an ex-M.P.
who failed to secure re-election and another
upon an ex-Cabinet Minister who failed to get
adopted by a constituency. The third alone
seems to echo the golden age of chivalry.
Lt.-Col. Harry Morris gallantly gave up his
“safe” seat in order that the defeated Solicitor-
General, Sir Frank Soskice, might return to
pilot the Finance Bill through the House. It
provokes the thought ,
The man who ups and gives his seat
To a lady standing on her feet,
Like virtue, has his own rewards.
How different is the other case;
When man for man vacates his place
And rises—to the House of Lords!
One of the worst aspects of industrial
unionism is the branding of a man as a
“scab.” It has come into particular and
dreadful use since Communists got
control of unions, for it supplied them
with a weapon by which anyone who
opposed them could be blackmailed into
acquiescence or, if he persisted, be
branded and thereby made a pariah.
Such a one could not work at his trade
or get a job wherever unionism ran.
Federal “Labor” politicians have never
raised a voice against thic „ • .
horrible thing, yet i n the debate° US and
Anti-Red Bill they a l mos t JhSd ®° n the
th e prospect of some “declarer! ars at
munist losing his job " and beil C ° m '
employment elsewhere. Anv 5 denied
looking for a model for a stanL Sc c ul Pt°r
ucal Hypocrisy need go no w° f
the federal caucus. ther than
Some excitement was caused in w,
bourne at reports of whaler - n
Phillip—one is said to hav? ?V L ort
itself on the Gellibrand light Wei???* 1
can we expect? Pretty well ever /
nation in the world goes down
Antarctic chasing whales; all w?“,„ thc
talk about it. NaturaUy the
refuge on our coasts, where they’re


g
SWALLOWING HIS “DIFFERENCE.”
"After breaking with Mr. Hollway’s Government for the alleged reason that it did not go far enough in dealing with Communist-led trade-unionists on
strike, Mr. McDonald’s Country party has sought the support of the Victorian Labor party, which it previously regarded almost as untouchable and unclean,
in order to form a Government.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE INKS
“The N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. McGirr, announces
a great ‘Labor’ victory in the recent elections, which
will force him to rely for a majority on Messrs.
Seiffert and Geraghty, two former ‘Labor’ members
who'were ignominiously refused ‘Labor’ endorsement,
and won in spite of this.”
, 1-
“B. A. Ker”: Outside the polling-
booth 1 ran into Old Jim’s sturdy son.
We were in the middle of congratulating
each other on having saved the country
from certain ruin when a wild figure
stormed out of the School of Arts. For
a moment he stood with eyes flashing
around like twin searchlights; then the
beam fell on his son and he came
“You MUST know the one —it goes um-la-de , um-la-de.”
charging across the footpath. “ ’Ere,
take me ’bacca and matches. Go
on, take ’em!” Perhaps it was
the bewildered expression on my face
that got me dragged into the family
eruption. “Look, 1 goes to put my best
shirt on. It ain’t there — he’s took it. Go
to put on my best boots—no laces. He
broke his. Go to get my oilskin. He’s
wore it. I get soaked to the hide getting
down here to vote, and what do they tell
me? I’ve voted already. He’s voted for
me!” He swung back to his smirking
heir. “Here, you useless blob, take me
’bacca and matches and you’ll be me.”
When I saw them last Senior was dragging
Junior into the booth to explain the differ-
ence between James William and James
Wilfred.
* * * *
“Casca”: The smoke-laden air in the
basement stung the eyes and irritated the
throats of the crowd as they pushed and
stamped, struggling to make their way
through the confined area. Dim lights
failed to penetrate the murky atmosphere
and faces were almost indistinguishable.
The increasing tempo of crashing sounds
in the background gave further impetus
to their frenzied contortions as strong
men pushed aside frail women. Gone
was all semblance of chivalry .and
courtesy ; the shrieks of excited women,
heard plainly above the din, occasioned
no gallant response. Blindly obeying the
herd instinct, they milled round in the
stampede until a sudden cessation of the
clatter allowed their numbed faculties to
assert some degree of individuality. No
panic—just a Sydney crowd having fun
on the floor of a nightclub.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The mystery explosion of a
Melbourne hotel the other Sunday which
caused over a score of casualties and
damage to almost every building in the
block in which The Bulletin’s Mel-
bourne office stands had an interesting
feature. Expensive overcoats, suits,
ladies’ handbags and all sorts of other
goods were cascaded onto the pavement
from glassless shop-windows, and more
goods were standing in the shops de-
fenceless, but although swarms of people
were on the scene in a jiffy the only
article looted was a hat and that was
recovered. Passers-by picked up articles
and threw them back into the shop-
window even before police and passing
soldiers had been posted to guard the
treasure. It was a good example of how
a common catastrophe brings people to-
gether, and makes them more social.
Hundreds of buildings were destroyed
during the London blitzes, but looting
was never a problem. On the other hand,
during the Melbourne police-strike per-
fectly-respectable women stood in the
shattered shop-fronts and threw corsets,
furs and silk stockings to the mob out-
side, while the special police-force was
battering and being battered on the out-
skirts. The police-strike wasn’t a common
catastrophe, but an anti-social gesture by
a section and jt made others anti-social.
* * * *
“Mullum”: Character from hand-
writing (B. 14/6/’50)? I can vouch for
something of the sort. A teller of a busy
city savings-bank claims he can look at
the signature on a withdrawal-slip and
nick its owner from the 20 or 30 people
waiting in front of the counter. I
watched him do it on many occasions.
He has had no training, apart from his
years of practice, and sees no commercial
future for his skill. “However,” he ex-
plained one day, “it stops a man from
going mad when he is locked up in this
box all day doing nothing except count
out other people’s money.”
• * * *
“Ikan Besar” ; The Gellibrand Light,
hard by Williamstojvn (Vic.), shook
violently the other night and the light-
housekeeper looked out and saw what
looked like an island at the base of the
tower where an island never was before.
After placidly rubbing itself to and fro
for a while the island moved off, blew a
geyser and vanished. It was a 60ft. whale
removing the barnacles from its bosom,
as I have often seen them do on the rocky
shelves outside Botany Heads. The news
“Sure you earn the money —but it's We poor wives who have to spend it!”
that there were whales in Port Phillip
astonished Melbourne, but fishermen
promptly reported numerous examples.
Apparently they come in from their
breeding-grounds outside for a scraping
and then go straight back. Somebody
should tell the Commonwealth Whaling
Commission about ’em.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Asked what he did for
a living, a 20-year-old amateur on the
air the other night replied simply that
he was married. After the gust of
laughter which greeted this admission
had subsided the youthful Benedict
grabbed the chance to brag of an infant
son. Whereupon the compere remarked
that the pair of them should become
great chums growing up together.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Quarter day” may
have vanished from our speech and
custom, but in Perth, at any rate, another
equally significant term has taken its
place. Once every 13 weeks suburban
storekeepers experience a slack period.
They expect it. It’s “final-notice” week,
when householders are advised to pay
their electricity and gas bills or they'll
get even less than usual.
* * * *
“P.P.”: People in specialised callings
often develop unusual faculties. The
waggling of the jaws*of two women on a
tram fascinated me one day: I had rarely
seen words poured out with such
astonishing speed. “Two hundred and
sixty-five words a minute,” said my
neighbor with a grin. He added that
that was not just a joke ; he is a short-
hand expert, and it’s part of his business
to assess speaking speeds; he reckons
he can do it with only a tiny margin of
error merely by watching a speaker’s
lips and jaw. In a big Sydney store I
knew a man who, though his eyes were
failing, could tell colors instantly and
say whether there was a true match be-
tween any two pieces of material. Some-
times colors look different under artificial
light, but nobody in the firm that em-
ployed him ever doubted his decisions.
He claimed that his infallibility came not
from his eyes, but from his fingers ; he
could tell the color of anything by feeling
it.
* * * *
“Bo”: The qualifying adjective “indi-
vidual” has now become an accepted part
of commercial life. My restaurant in-
forms me on its menu that I may now
have an “individual” steak pie. Instead
of having one of the mass-produced sorts
as formerly, I now partake of one —1
take it —that is precision-built to standards
and specifications which spring from a
hasty glance at my corporational capacity,
age, complexion, etc., as gauged quickly
by the waitress as she takes my order.
That this is so is given additional con-
firmation by the inordinate time I have
to wait for its manufacture. A smart
salesman in one emporium tried to sell
me an “individual” umbrella, though of
what its characteristics were individual
as applied to me instead of to a different
customer he seemed, when I pinned him
down, somewhat l hazy. Now one posh
Sydney establishment holds out the tempt-
ing offer to “individualise” their male
customers’ “sleeping suits” —no common
pyjamas for them! —at around five
guineas the touch. Now, if there is one
garment that will not stand bein? k •,
to order it 1S the humble
pyjamas. They have to be rooml ♦ ’ 0r
comfortable, as any man knows who", be
98 turns a night in a pair that just L d °f s
fits him, and makes him wake in a b ,Z Y
thinking he's being strangled R^ at
than such a fleecy-lined aristo wfl r
makes me look like a tailor’s dl hlch
I reach for the light-switch and
something the cat has dragged in when
I wake, I’d prefer an outsize in cornsacks.
* * * *
“Exdig”; An old chap who died the
other day at the age of 88 was remark-
able, considering those years, by reason
of having been turned down for two
wars as “medically unfit.” The first was
the Boer War; though in the thirties he
was young-looking and a splendid rider
and shot. The prompt rejection was re-
peated when he tried to enlist in 1915;
although people with floating, kidneys and
others who quickly became invalids got
through, “cardiac weakness” outed the
man at once. Even at 88 it wasn’t the
alleged weak heart that killed him; while
cutting down a tree he was fatally injured
by a falling bough.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”; The cables recently
reported that a man in U.S.A. intended
to frame a cheque he’d received from
the Taxation Department. It was worth
fourpence. Once I wanted to frame a
cheque for fourpence, but wasn’t allowed.
A bankrupt businessman owed me a small
sum; he paid four shillings in the pound
as a first dividend, but was allowed to
carry on, under supervision, to prove his
contention that he could straighten things
out. Twelve months later I received a
cheque from the accountants; my share
at the final reckoning was fourpence The
cheque was such a joke and was shared
with so many people I eventually lost
track of it. Months later a letter came
from the accountants; would I please
pay the cheque into the bank so that the
books could be balanced? I wrote ex-
plaining that the cheque had been mis-
laid, but forwarded a receipt for toui-
pence. It wasn’t good enough. Another
letter came back —with another cheque
The first cheque had now been cancelled,
would I please pay this one in, etc.. . • ■
If anybody thinks it is not embarrassing
to march into a bank and pay in a 9
for fourpence, let him try it. #
“Melbn”: Melbourne isi one of l
world’s safest cities for children, t
born in. True ; but it is also one of t
world’s most dangerous Clties
to live in. According to-a
made in Copenhagen, of 33 f * ion,
great cities with over 600,000 popm
Melbourne, Giasgow and
the highest total of children
traffic. *
, (/ r, i ». “'The Firm” is bringing th £
“Cauboy . I tie nrm Ma i es ty s,
music of Edward Grieg t “ enC hanting
Melbourne, enshrined in t ” “Song
medium of an
of Norway, which sl ®ry . Copen-
unfolded in Rome, Be>rg of a
hagen, to the accompan beautiful
composed entirely or ComPoser-
melodies of the Norwegian t P tO it
The librettists will be as bar P of
to make a musicomedy Jto
Grieg’s life as they were
when they concocted ]| V ed h IS
Schubert, as far as is| kno u waS
short life without a co mp el!ed
possibly that frustration whi muSIC
him to pour oUt . hls ifSarentlyh ad
A Melbourne critic, who m unsti nted
never heard of Schub , t(^ac xim e >
praise to the libretto j e d rather
but added “The music sound
tinny!”
A FAMOUS VICTORY,
It was a winter evening;
McGag of Hargrave Park,
Before his temporary door,
Was sitting in the dark;
And by him sported, none too clean
The little migrant, Wilhelmine.
She saw her brother Peterkin
Roll something large and square
Which he beside an open drain
In playing had found there;
He came to ask what it could be,
So smooth to touch, so white to see.
Old Jimmy took it from the boy
Who stood expectant by;
And then the old man shook his head,
And with a natural sigh,
“ ’Tis some foundation-stone,” said he,
“We laid in the great victory.”
“I find them in the rubbish-tip—
There’s many here about;
On fields all round the countryside
The ploughshare turns them out.
For many thousand stones,” said he,
“Were laid in that great victory.”
“Und vot about der var all vos?”
Young Peterkin he cries;
And little Wilhelmine looks up
With wonder-waiting eyes;
“Ach, tell to us election score,
Vot for dey voted for you for.”
“ ’Twas I,” McGag replied, “who put
The Liberals to rout,
But what they voted for me for
I cannot well make out.
They cut down our majority,
But ’twas a famous victory.
“Indeed, we might have lost the day,
As many of us feared,
But for the help of two fine men
We’d recently cashiered:
We had to lick their boots, you see,
To gain our famous victory.
“I’ve just been drinking Seiffert’s health
In Geraghty’s red wine.”
“Vhy, shameful dese t’ings seems to me! ”
Said little Wilhelmine;
“Nay, nay, you little fool,” quoth he,
“It was a famous victory!
“A child like you might shriek to see
After the field is won
A thousand oaths and promises
Lie rotting in the sun.
But things like that, you know, must be,
After a famous victory.
“So spare a kiss for old McGag,
Who the great fight did win.”
“Und vill at last goot come of it?”
Quoth little Peterkin.
“It not for you, for me,” said he.
“It was a famous victory.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Over 7000 shaves with one blade
How many blades do you buy every year for your safety razor? Save all that money with a
Rolls Razor from Andrew McGee. The secret is in the blade —hollow-ground from the finest
Sheffield steel —with a built-in strop and hone that keep it keen for years of close, smooth
shaving. Call or write for your Rolls Razor —it will be despatched by return mail.
Treat yourself to a
ROLLS RAZOR
obtainable from
Andrew McGEE
(Established 188 T)
70 PITT AND 1 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
g
£4 '
COMPLETE
•i* Rolls Razor is
the only safety
razor that can
make a claim
like this.
Taken from
t e s t i m o nial
letter vn their
files.
gen
£1
McGEE'S
For All Rolls Accessories
Hone . . . 9/6 Blade . . . 167-
Paste . . 3/6 Strop . ~.j 4/6
“Jasby”: In the past I have been more
or less unmoved by stories of newly-
invented mechanical brains capable of
doing in a jiffy what the old-fashioned
grey-matter model takes hours or weeks
to achieve. Most of them seem all very
well in their way, but of little practical
use in dealing with the everyday problems
of the individual. For instance, a
machine which in three seconds can tell
me the time of high-water at London
Bridge on November 21, 2056, impresses
me for a moment until I reflect that I
really don’t want to know the time of
high-water at London Bridge on
November 21, 2056. The information
may be of value to someone ; it is wasted
on me. The totalisator impresses me not
at all. A matter of seconds after the
race it tells me how much I have won —
assuming it is one of those rare occasions
when I have won. What’s smart about
that? The bookie, using as far as I can
see, intuition only, can tell me that before
the race even starts. What earthly use
would I find for a mechanical chess-
player? My 10-year-old son can beat
me already. But at last there comes a
report of a mechanical brain which may
be of use to me. It is supposed to trans-
late foreign languages. Feed a foreign
vocabulary into it and out comes an
English translation. I’m not interested in
foreign languages, but if that machine can
handle German, Russian and Hindustani
there is a chance that after the inventor
has worked on it for a few more years it
should be able to turn out a reasonably-
intelligible paraphrase of a piece of
modern verse,
* * * *
“Clooter”: As one who has several
times just rescued the family cat from
their ravening jaws and more than several
times had to erase the evidence of their
passing from the front footpath, it cheers
my crabbed soul to learn that at least
one Melbourne suburban council has
clamped down on the keeping of grey-
hounds. Henceforth nobody may keep a
greyhound or whippet in Brunswick with-
out council permission, nor may anyone
keep more than two dogs of any kind,
nor may any dog be kept within 25ft. of
any dwelling. There’s going to be a lot
of trouble about it, especially with the
kind of mongs that live in their owners’
bedrooms. I like tykes and tykes like
me, but the advent of the racing grey-
hound is a bit over the fence. They’re
controlled on the racing-ground by all
sort of rules, but outside there is little
restriction. Strings of the things are led
through public parks, leaving ample
evidence of their passing, and I have
seen their “strappers” unable to hold
them when an inoffensive poodle of some
sort wanders their way. Neither the
hounds nor their owners are respecters
of property, and the citizen who, however
politely, protests against their filth or
violence is likely to encounter gutter-
snipe abuse, if not actual physical
violence. These dogs have a use, but it
is in the outback, not in suburban streets.
=i= * * *
“Grise”: If “Clooter” is himself one
of the authors whose tribulations he de-
scribes (B. 14/6/’5O), he may console
himself with the reflection that he is only
treading the path of all pioneers, per-
haps for the benefit of a later genera-
tion. He may also reflect that his books
are probably still being read by borrowers
from libraries, even though that will not
benefit him financially. Handling books
Mlt
UMCH
12.-Z.'-
•Mr
“Corned beef with carrots, and make it snappy .”
in two circulating-libraries has led me to
the conclusion that Australian books at
present fall into two categories. Travel
and descriptive books are popular, often
even preferred to those from abroad,
though other documentaries are less in
demand. Fiction is still suspect to many.
To many readers it is no use saying “This
is a good Australian novel,” but just
say, “This is good,” and the reader will
probably take it and come back for
more by the same writer. The other day
I even encountered a rara avis, a reader
who said, “Oh, if it’s Australian I won’t
borrow it; I’ll buy a copy instead. I buy
all the Australian books I can, because
Australian authors don’t get much, do
they?”
“Cauboy”: “Clooter’s” description of
the trials of the Australian author per-
haps explains why so many of them write
only one book. What many a writer does
after the publication of his first book is
spend the rest of his life making excuses
for not writing another —“the times are
too disturbing,” “the public is too stupid
to understand me,” or “one can’t con-
centrate on writing when the workers are
suffering”—Communist fellow-travellers
favor this one. The best one I’ve heard
was from a one-book writer who, when
asked why he didn’t write another, said
“My wife wants such expensive dresses.”
When he was a struggling unknown
author engaged on his first book she
bought her dresses secondhand at the
market.
* ♦ * ♦
“K.” Re this dud weather-forecast-
ing: the Resentment of Sydneyites at
being promised a fine weekend for the
King’s Birthday holiday when the skies
did nothing but pour out water was
matched by the news from western Eng-
land on the preceding weekend —their
Whitsuntide holiday. Over there the
weather-man forecast “dull and showery,”
and the popular seaside resort, Weston-
super-Mare, had 12 hours of beautiful
sunshine and no tourists. This caused
such resentment from local “amusement”
chiefs that one of them sought legal
opinion on whether he could get an in-
junction restraining the 8.8. C. from
broadcasting bad-weather forecasts on
the eve of bank holidays. I hold no
brief for the weather-man —except in
that I read the day’s forecast in order to
prepare for the opposite—but it does
seem as though his only hope is to leave
out holiday weather-predictions alto-
gether.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ike Hollar”: The Press- boys certainly
do their best to turn into legitimate
journalese the remarks of blokes whose
vocal expression is crude, and as a rule
the blokes are grateful—but some are not.
My amusement when the alleged remarks
of some rough diamond are reported in
language obviously unnatural to him is
stimulated by a recollection of meeting an
angry, bloke who was roaming about a
newspaper office looking for someone to
“roar up” about a “misreport.” The news-
paper account of his evidence was: “The
deceased had asked him for a loan of
£lO, which he had refused. There had
been an argument. He had told deceased
that it was a mathematical impossibility
for a punter to beat the bookmakers, and
for him to think he could do it was the
acme of foolishness.” Hardly giving me
time to read the report, he exploded, “I
didn’t say no such blanky thing. I only
said that he was a blanky mug to think
he could beat the blanky books and ’e
wanted ’is blanky ’ead read. An’ that’s
what I told the blanky Beak. The blokes
at work are chiacking me about that
blasted ‘mathematical impossibility’ and
the ‘acme of foolishness,’ and I want
something put in about me being mis-
reported.” Explaining that my hatless-
ness was due to my belonging to the no-
hat-brigade, not that office, I left him to
seek satisfaction from somebody else.
* * * *
“Vingter”: The mistaking by hospital
authorities of escort for patient as in the
play “Harvey” (B. 14/6/ ’5O), is a wheeze
almost as old as art itself. Jack London
used an almost identical situation in a
grimmer story of a red-tape bungle in
the French penal administration at New
Caledonia. Two Chinese, Ah Cho and
Ah Chow, were due for release, the former
by a shortened sentence on account of
good behavior, the latter by the guillotine
after an abortive attempt at escape. The
execution was the first manoeuvre
scheduled for the particular day and, by
a clerical error, the virtuous Ah Cho
mounted the scaffold. His voluble pro-
tests fell unheeded on the commandant,
for whom the always difficult task of dis-
tinguishing between Celestial counten-
ances was not made any easier by chronic
alcoholism.
» • * •
“Eve”: Scene; A football-field near
Sydney during the June deluge. About
200 seagulls on the ground and, beneath
umbrellas outside the fence, two men
watching them keenly. At last I can
stand it no longer and, squelching over
to them, I ask what’s doing. “Nothing
yet,” grunts one man. “We’ve got a bet
on, that’s all. We’re backing the gulls.
That’s my mate’s goal-post down the
other end and this one’s mine. Whichever
of us has a gull fly over his crossbar
first wins.” Five more minutes of teem-
ing rain pass by. The seagulls are still
on the ground; the two sports are still
watching as keenly as ever. I creep away
and leave them to their gamble.
**' * ♦
“Simon”: “Caballer” doubts the
“genuine” pigskin dispatch-case (B.
14/6/’5O). It could have been the real
thing, but it would not necessarily have
been much the better on that account;
more would depend on the workmanship.
A few pigs are flayed here, but there is
not much demand for the skins, as fre-
quently the grain is “broken,” and no one
specialises in this class of tanning. Many
years ago hogskins came mostly from
Russia and Germany. Today they come
from England and Scotland at the almost
prohibitive cost of about five shillings
a square foot. Hogskin is easily identified
by the bristle-holes going right through ;
the imitations are only surfaced by a
shallow print that pulls out when wetting
and blocking are required.
* * * ♦
“Lyle”: Great friends and keen
patrons of a suburban Soccer team are
two fellow-workers at a Sydney factory
—a. Dane and a Scot. Mac normally
speaks with a slight accent, which becomes
very broad when he is excited. One
afternoon the two attended a match in
which their team was very hard-pressed.
Mac became worked up at the most
critical phase of the game and started to
hurl an incoherent stream of advice from
the sideline. His Danish pal listened
for a minute, a puzzled frown on his
brow, then called loudly: “For God’s
sake, man, talk England.”
* * * *
“Slim Jim”: Democracy has been dealt
another foul blow in my suburb. I rode
my bike down to the local garage with
the idea of giving the tyres a spot of
free air. There I was confronted with a
new sign: “Air —Non-clients, 3d. a tyre.
Please place money in tin provided.”
This set me a problem: Were pushbike
tyres covered by the notice, or was there
a cut price for them? Then I recollected
that I had once had a carving-knife
sharpened at the garage. That made me
a client.
MOST UNFRIENDLY.
... „ prl ,iiar feature of city life for the returning
t Han exile is that, although the price of a
Australia disp i a yed prominently along with other
shave is barber shop, ‘no shave’ is the in-
'practice.” —Letter in Sydney daily,
rhp davs are long gone when a man,
line crop of bristles was sporting,
rould have his dial mowed
So closely it glowed—
And this without pleaful exhorting,
in fact for a coin of the realm
Of a’size that seems startlingly modest,
rhere’d be hot packs, he knew,
And some courtesy, too —
An item,' you’ll grant, quite the oddest.
No curses were uttered by Snips
As he gazed on the jungle prolific
Ere he tilted the chair
Horizontally. .There,
So softly, with touch soporific,
He’d lather, not recking of time.
His “cut-throat” flew deftly, a flyweight.
His customer dozed
Till with fine spray well hosed,
He’d be murmured a cert, for the Highweight.
Soacious days of an era that s closed.
Before life became hectic and hurried,
When minutes were lost
Without counting the cost
And by science we weren’t greatly worried!
From Speed Up we suffer so much;
The disease, you will note, has been catching.
You’re no sooner at ease
When a snarled “Next one, please!”
Means already he’s done your de-thatching.
This rushing to clean up a wad
In the time is a 40-hour-weekness.
Instead of a grin
And a friendly “Come m!”
There’s an air of tonsonal bleakness.
O’er a figure, recumbent, content,
His cloth tie’ll no longer be draping.
For with customers now
Snips has taken a vow:
No acquaintance he’ll ever be scraping.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Shamuseen”: Against the beauties of
“Bass Endean’s” winter threshold in the
jarrah country (B. 14/6/’5O) I would
advance those of the first flush of the
north-west monsoonal period in the
Torres Straits, where winter, spring and
autumn have no place in the seasonal
cycle. From April to late October the
parching and never-ceasing south-east
trades brown-off all vegetation. At the
end of the sou’-easter the natives have
fired the grass so that at night the hills,
are limned in scarlet line as though some
giant child had scrawled a wavy outline
with a red pencil on the slate formed by
the tropical blackness. By day the
gardens are seen as starkly bare, the
rangy wild pigs have retreated into the
hills, palm-fronds crumble at the touch
and piscatorial life is comparatively rare.
In the first week in November the rains
come with unfailing regularity and in
deluge dimensions. From out the
blackened stubble the grass grows a
foot in a day, the bushes put on vulgarly-
painted but striking blossoms on whose
nectar the birds become literally intoxi-
cated, and between which bees the size
of marbles, with shiny ebony abdomens
and thoraxes circled with purple strips,
zoom in lumbering flight. The pigs come
down from their retreat in the foothills,
and out on the reefs the bull dugong can
be heard wallowing about amid his un-
gainly consorts. A coconut-leaf flare
on the moonlit foreshore shows the waters
thick with gar and long-tom. The nor’-
wester always makes his balmy entrance
amid dead-flat calms, and, before he
assumes his suddenly tempestuous rages,
is the harbinger of plenty in the Torrid
Straits.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Perth breweries, which are
curtailing supplies of bottled beer be-
cause of shortage of bottles, are think-
ing longingly of the stack of
dead marines at Wittenoom Gorge, the
North Westralian asbestos-mining town.
Disposal of the bottles is a growing
problem, and the hotel management isn’t
getting any consolation from the fact that
other northern towns have faced the same
problem. Before the war, people who
didn’t know just where Darwin was knew
of the fortune that awaited the man who
found a cheap way of getting its bottles
to Perth or Adelaide; and Condon, the
“alcoholic” terminus of the No. 1 rabbit-
proof fence, was a close rival. Many
consignments qf bottles have left for
Perth, but apparently the profits don’t
invite a repetition of the trip. At least
one consignment didn’t arrive. It was on
the Koombana when she went down with
all hands.
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”: The wettest year ever
is in full swing in N.S.W. If you got any
crop in during a fine break the weeds
have now smothered it; if you didn’t get
it in, you won’t. Gardeners grovel
amongst little seedlings and try to clear
the strangling growth around them, or
else all their seedlings have damped off
and rotted —which is probably better
because you can wallow in with a shovel
and turn everything in. Washing spends
doleful days dripping on the lines, chooks
look like wet mops, and my cow has a
permanent hump on her spine and backs
up-wind groping for tucker, while the
genus Homo is clad in ground-sheets,
gum-boots and gloom. Out in the pad-
dock, however, live a couple who reckon
that, whatever the passing weather may
be like, it’s nearing July, and that means
scout around for grassland roots and
suitable fibres to weave into a little domed
nest, with a dummy cup on top, for what-
ever the effects upon others, no pranks
of climate must deter the yellow-tailed
tomtits from maintaining their reputa-
tion as the earliest nest-builders in the
open country. The lyrebirds, of course,
have been at it weeks ago down in the
gullies, and the yellow-tail will shame the
maggies into following pretty close, but
as a rule the little speckly-faced fellow is
the pioneer. Through all this bleak,
squally weather he has hardly bothered
about seeking shelter, and every fine
moment found him adding his bit of song
to cheer those who needed it and to re-
mind his missus that important matters
were pending. They say yellow is a happy
color. If that little fowl’s markings have
anything to do with keeping him cheerful
while everything else is shivering or
moaning, it’s enough to make a bloke get
a pot of paint and give himself a golden
rump.
* ♦ * ♦
“Bo”: We were auditing old Simpson’s
books and had come across a stray bill.
It was on a billhead from S. Mather,
storekeeper, dated a day or two back:
“J, Simpson—l straw hat, 28s. 2d.”
Old Jerry grinned when we mentioned
it. “That goes back to nineteen hundred
and eleven,” he volunteered, “and it in-
cludes compound interest —the cady only
cost about eight bob or something at the
time.” “And didn’t you pay for the hah
when you bought it from him?” I asked.
“It wasn’t my hat—it was Steve Mather’s.
He didn’t run the store then, of course.
We’d all been to the picnic races and
we’d just come back to the township
when a summer storm came up. There
was big chunks of hail, and as I had my
horse and sulky there I led the horse
under the veranda of the bank to give it
shelter. There was a mob there, including
Steve, who was wearing his new ‘donkey’s
breakfast.’ My horse must have been a
bit hungry and took a bite out of the
brim. Every year since then I’ve got the
bill for it, plus interest—compound. I’ve
i' E
Sip Vu<¥~K
mite*
“I want it strong — y' see, Bluey sleeps at the foot o’ me bed.”
often wondered what it’s cost him to send
those bills. Y’ see, he’s not much good
at arithmetic himself: he’s a bachelor, so
he’s got to give the schoolie a few bob
each year to work it out for him.”
♦ * * »
“Old-timer”: The Murain Yarrien and
its sister-creeks were flooding all the
lignum country behind Craggy Mains,
and the boss ordered Sandy Mac and me
into it to fetch out about 200 head of
cattle that hadn’t seen a white man for
months. Rain started the night we got
there and was still falling two days later
when, with all the cattle except one old
cow who declared a sit-down strike, we
cam? out on to the high ground and
headed for the Niemur Bridge. Sandy
and I had been torn and scratched by
lignum, plastered with mud, soaked with
rain, charged by wild-eyed steers, had
eaten all our tucker and smoked all our
tobacco. For two nights we’d had about
two hours’ sleep each while the other
watched the cattle, our horses were about
done, the blue dog had left us and gpne
home, we still had 15 miles to go from
the bridge and it was still raining. The
boss met us in his car at the bridge,
looked us over, then looked at the mob
and said disapprovingly and with plain
suspicion, “They look as though they’ve
had a hard time. Have you been knock-
ing them about?” Sandy, an impetuous
Caledonian, slid from his horse,
staggered to the car, pulled the
boss out of It and gave him
the father of a hiding. When
the boss could get his breath
he gave Sandy the sack. I
snatched my time. The boss
looked at me, then stumbled
into his car. “Man can never
work you blokes out,” he said.
“1 never had any idea you was
waiting to pick me.” I sat,
shivering and hungry, in the
saddle. Sandy, exhausted,
crouched on the wet ground.
Nobody seemed to know what
to do next. The boss fumbled
in the car and brought up a
bottle of whisky. He was about
to put it to his mouth, then
looked at us from the only good
eye he had, looked at the cattle
and the rain-drenched bush, then
grunted surlily from his battered
mouth, “Could you blokes keep
a snifter down?” Ten minutes
later cattle and horses were left
behind as he drove us to the
station for food, tobacco, dry
clothes and fresh mounts. In such almost
wordless fashion were bush crises solved
in those days.
* * * ♦
“Purnong”: Waterhens are certainly
not flightless (B. 10/5/’5O), though bush-
men often see flocks of the little brown
scratchers incapable of flying. This
usually happens in the dry Centre where,
following flooding rains and the filling
of swamps, thousands of the little
chooks appear in some mysterious manner
—but certainly not per boot. After a
few weeks of the super-abundant tucker
you may ride around the swamps, scaring
flocks of hens into the lignum but never
seeing one in the air, they being appa-
rently too fat to fly. As the swamp
margins dry, however, the waterhens lose
weight and the day soon comes when
they fly from your advance.
* * * *
“Gravelsnaljcher”: I think “Steve’s”
termites, which he found established in
the timber of a railway wagon (B.
31/5/’5O), must have got there from
some infested timber with which the
wagon had been loaded. Had he
examined the nest carefully he would
probably have seen that there was no
queen, she having been left behind in
the ground-nest near where the timber
had been stacked before loading. Ter-
mites wouldn’t establish a permanent
nest in any mobile object. They detest
and avoid vibration or noise in .
mediate neighborhood of their » I- ■ m '
Some old Westralian
built before the value of H Were
recognised were floored with nin„ Was
the termites waxed fat But and
trodden portions of the flo ors treT
last to go ; the house being on the the
of collapse, often, before die occumT
were aware of the danger. A 2? n s
mg example was the old Wanned Sd
“ Careful , Cocky; there's a lady present."
which the early settlers made out of sawn
“rounds” of trees. They used white-gum
and jarrah indiscriminately, and when the
blocks were removed half a century later
they were free from any traces of termite
infestation. Presumably the heavy but
infrequent traffic was sufficient to deter
the insects, who made a meal off any
stick of timber that lay alongside the road
for more than 24 hours.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”:. As beauty exists only
in the eye of the beholder, so the emotions
which “8.A.K.” (B. 7/6/’5O) sees in the
eyes of animals exist only in his own
poetic imaginings. The eye is simply a
normal organ of vision. Even their post-
mortem change in appearance is due not
to a departed psyche, but to the stilling
of the bloodstream. What is mistakenly
construed as “expression” in a creature’s
eyes is actually the composite impression
gleaned by the beholder from observance
of all the facial or bodily movements of
the subject of his scrutiny. If “8.A.K.”
could black-out all but the eyes of a
dog he’d note that these organs were
expressionless. By removing the black-
out medium and observing either bared
fangs and raised hair, salivating mouth or
wagging tail, he’ll recognise either anger
or pleasure. On the human plane the
emotional state of an eyeless man can
be gauged just as efficiently as that or a
normally-visioned man without the neces-
sity of either becoming articulate. Facia
contortions and limb movements convey
the impression in this instance.
**.*■*
“Kelms”: If those water-hens (B.
10/5/’5O) are the same as the
variety—black, with a trace of blue
around the neck, red beaks and a smai
white tail which flicks as they walk
can assure “Derwent” that they re not
flightless, although they may be on ®
way to becoming so. They P re^ e ry
or swim, but they’ll fly when necessary,
and their flight, although awkward
deceptively fast. They are amazing m
their ability to alight on top vanish,
pause without bending it, and n
They’re about the tamest of W. •
birds, probably because they make to g
eating. # *
“Wasp Watcher”: The
spider which I have had un c tIK
tion for about a fortnight ofle
same insensible condition. But o
puzzles me: the spiders a j W ays
dragged down these smafl h_
seem to be ]ust the r g know
hole. 1 would thereto i before-
this: As the holes are prepar
hand, does the wasp spot and
first, measure him U P> o ff, ° r
then come back to .finish to® of th e
does it, having in 111111 e _ src hing until it
hole it has
has found the right-size spider
THE TWO BANKSLAS.
“Roses will flourish here,” they said.
“But first dig in a little bit of clay!”
I dreamed of roses glowing dark and red
Against, the ashes of a burnt-out summer day,
And tossed the dream away
And went instead
Down to the beach along the tea-tree track;
And from the sand, cluttered with dead sea-
wrack
And yellow foam.
Lifted two banksia trees not quite six inches
high
And took them home.
Slow they would be to grow, I thought,
Slow as the drip of time;
But time and growing trees
Can cheat you into ignorance of what goes on.
The years unhurried in their stride have gone,
Unnoticed as the hollow chime
Of waters turning on the shore —
Mew questing roots
Uncurled, new folded buds and pearl-green
shoots
Fanned out to leafy bract and bough—
Fine-textured bark become
Roughened and wrinkled like the hide
Of ancient animals; and now
The trees, wide-shouldered, dark and tall,
Topping the roof, pushing against the wooden
wall
Like drunken revellers
Hold the old weathered house in thrall.
Here through the tapestry of changing cones
(Pale-primrose brushes or black, carven stones)
The honeyeaters, gay marauders, fly
Seeking their nectar, singing to the sky,
And plundering bees top-heavy, swoon
In the leafy gold-streaked shade
Of branches where the whole night long
Possums with bead-bright eyes have played , . .
0 my two banksias black as bitter night,
Shaped by the harsh sea-wind,
Limned in a strange sea-light!
1 feel my love for them leap out of me
And like a scribble of lightning run
Down through the coarse, grooved trunks and
sandy roots
Into the very sea!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


“Wonk”: Ben was seated dejectedly
on the saleyard fence when “Happy”
lounged up. “Gripes, y’re lookin’ awful
mournful,” he greeted. “Anythin’ gorn
wrong?” Ben dragged his gaze up from
the dust. “Just sold those two nags o’
mine,” he sighed. “Hated partin’ with
’em, but there wasn’t nothin’ else left t’
sell’ Cashed me milkers some weeks ago,
and the sheep six months before that.
Aw, eripes, it’s crook havin’ a missus
that blows the money like mine does.”
Ben heaved another sigh, “Wouldn’t’ve
parted with them nags,” he declared, “if
I’d had a place left t’ run ’em. It was the
blasted bank closin’ on me mortgage that
done it. Sold up me place last week,
lock, stock an’ barrel, an’ I got t’ get out,
though where to I haven’t the faintest.
Reckon y’ heard about me sale? Lousy
price everything made. Won’t get a bean
out of it meself. Aw, well, a man can
work, I s’pose, only that flamin’ tree failin’
on me last week’ll make it awkward.”’ He
slid off the fence, and picked up Tiis
crutches. “Doc reckons it’ll be months
before me leg’s right agin, and there ain’t
nothin’ but laborin’ jobs a bloke like me
can do. It was the same blinkin’ tree
that killed me dog.” “Yair, yair, I heard
all about that,” Happy interrupted in-
differently. “Them things happen.” He
dismissed the recital with a brush of his
hand. “It was just that I thought y’
looked sort o’ mournful,” he explained,
“an’ was wonderin’ if anything could’ve
gorn wrong.”
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: We were a few miles from
the township when a bloke overtook us.
“You chaps drop a bally steer near Twisted
Creek?” he inquired. Seventyfiver shook
his head. “Not ours,” he answered.
“Thanks all the same.” We were urging
the mob across the bridge when a cove
in a utility breezed up and leaned from
the cabin. “There’s a big bally steer out
on the road past Twisted Creek,” he
called. “You must have lost him from
the mob.” “Can’t belong to us,” waved
the old bloke. I glanced worriedly over
the cattle, noted Seventyfiver’s indiffer-
ence, and let it go. Presently, in the
pub, a bloke put down a telephone and
turned to us. “You blokes got cattle?”
he asked. “There’s a red bally steer out
on that scrubby stretch of road near
Twisted Creek. He’s lost, and making
back.” Seventyfiver shook his head once
again, and after a couple more we
drifted out. “Better string ’em out and get
a count,” I announced. “What makes
you think that steer isn’t ours?” “Well,
I don’t see how it could be ours, Sol,” he
replied. “Did y’ ever hear of
any of our strays bein’ sighted before, till
we’d spent days combin’ the flamin’
country for ’em?”
* * * *
Trade” sadly reminisces on a he-man’s
smoke;
® oan S-twist” they call nowadays the good
a trade-tobacco of the Islands, and the House
i Keps the other day grew facetious about it
ecause some of it issued to ex-servicemen in
■ ® rf un d°°ra (Vic.) home was regarded as an
ana 1 ' ■ * depends on what you’re used to,
fan on ?.°f the signs of deterioration in this
E-smolmg age, even in the bush, is the
bsence of the good old plug you cut with,
ak *u- What do cigarette-smokers know
out this “boong-twist,” as they call it, any-
t V • i r 5, e J ner °k £ ; r on the Onongo Mission
ln . 1922 meeting one of the hard-working
Pnests m the Sacred Heart Mission who told
me how when he, along with others of the
mission enlisted for service in France in 1915,
Wlt , l him his . bao-bao, or bamboo
»,nu lee J SI ? 10 k ;er a sec d° n of giant-bamboo
,7. aao e , at onc en d to hold a cigarette of
rubbed trade-twist wrapped in a sheath of
newspaper, three small holes at the other end
to admit air, and a smoking-hole (to be pressed
to the mouth) in the centre. The idea was to
suck the thing full of smoke, and then, when
it was good and going, take a mouthful and
pass it on around a circle. Father X took this
smoking-tool with him into the trenches as
padre of a French infantry battalion, and the
mission m Yule Island used to send him trade-
tobacco regularly while he was on service.
during a German attack which entered
the rrench trenches, he moved back with the
gantry and found he had left his bao-bao
behind. Without a moment’s hesitation he
dashed back and recovered it “before the Ger-
mans could get it.” “Boong-twist,” indeed!
* $ * *
The big coral-tree in the
fowlyard has lost its leaves and the
crimson blooms are sweeping up the bare
“Did y' tie ’er on tight , Billo?"
branches like a creeping fire, A pair of
minahs were the first to discover their
nectar-wells, and were filling up when a
leatherhead arrived. There was ample
for all, but he hunted the minahs and set
about gorging himself. Repeated
attempts of the first-comers to cut in
were savagely beaten off, and in disgust
the minahs retired to the bush. Next to
arrive were two Blue Mountain parrots.
For a while old Baldy eyed them sourly,
then tore in with beak and hoof. The
parrots took to the silky-oak, and after
making some equally vain attempts to
return lit out for the scrub yelling for
help. They got it, too ; returning a little
later with a dozen of their kind, the
whole mob sailed straight in to knock
the bully from the top of the tree to the
bottom and force him to seek refuge in
the privet hedge. I can’t see him, but I
know he’s there, for he’s squalling his
head off and wondering what the devil
hit him. The parrots are in possession
of the nectar-mine, and their purples,
blues and oranges tone beautifully with
the crimson flowers. A pretty enough pic-
ture —beaten only once in my memory.
That was when, one frosty autumn morn-
ing, a mob of red lories arrived at the old
tableland homestead to feed on the burst-
ing pomegranates ; three magnificent cock
birds taking on the job of patrolling the
near-by gravel path to pick up the
crumbs. They still hold the belt.
* * * #
“L. de F.”: An English magazine
story I have just read hinges on a big-
scale bushfire sweeping the country, after
dark on a frosty night. The many bush-
fires I have attended have sprung into
action on hot days, usually with high
winds. When a fire travelled at night
there was always wind. In our temperate
zone frost and wind just don’t happen
together. We protect our orchards from
frost by creating even a faint draught or
artificially-induced air movements. I
have, from frosted ground, gathered
materials for a campfire. But only with
much difficulty and curses has fire re-
sulted from them. There was nothing
spontaneous it. Any evidence for
the defence?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was the last quarter
of the match between Undowangie and
Walpebool; Walpe, three points in front
with a few minutes to go and Mat and
me in Undowangie colors. From a
boundary throw-in Mat got the knock-
out, followed through, grabbed the ball
and came surging towards the half-
forward line yelling to me. I led out into
the wing pocket and he drove a long
stab-kick at me. As I raced forward to
meet it about a ton of young Mailee
farmer fell on me from somewhere. I
lost sight of the ball and was picking
myself up when the y.M-farmer’s girl
or wife or mother assaulted me with her
umbrella. The umpire signalled time off
while we sorted ourselves out, and then
1 was awarded a free kick. I was too
dazed to do much and fluffed the kick,
whereupon Mat, standing close by and
unmarked, grabbed it and booted it
through to give us a win. “Cripes, you’re
quick,” I said admiringly. “What made
y’ guess I was too knocked t’ kick pro-
perly?” “Aw, it wasn’t that,” he con-
fessed. “I was a bit scared that woman’d
have another go. She was down with
the mob near the goal an’ I wasn’t goin’
down there if I could help it.”
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: All my life I have
labored under tlie impression that the
word “cocky” applied to a farmer was
derived from the word cockatoo, a bird
whose name has been applied to a less
salubrious metropolitan occupation.
However, in a Maori book I came across
the word “kooki,” spelt phonetically, and
meaning a slave. If the term “cocky” is
derived from the Maori how singularly
appropriate it is!
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; Some optimistic
Westralian cray-fishernien have gone
north from Geraidton looking for oyster-
crays. They’re crays with an alleged
oyster flavor, derived from an exclusive
diet of defunct oysters. There’s three of
us—me, the fishermen and the reporter
who passed the yarn on —and I know that
/ still walk without a limp. All the
same, it would be quite safe to market
an oyster-flavored cray. Some of the
buyers, at least, would taste the oyster
in it.
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: Coming home from
town on a dark rainy night I passed
George, who was pushing his motor-
bike. George’s farm is next to mine, so
I stopped my car and offered him a lift.
“No, thanks,” he said very reluctantly.;
“I would still have to come back to-
morrow and wheel the thing home.”
“You could fix it up in daylight and ride
home,” I pointed out. “There’s nothing
wrong with the bike,” George explained,
“but my wife is staying at her sister’s
place in the city tonight. When I left
her there this afternoon she was a bit
worried about me riding on the wet
road, so I promised to ring her up as
soon as I reached our post-office, to let
her know I was all right. Then she got
scared that I might have an accident be-
tween the post-office and home, and her
not know anything about it, seeing we
haven’t got the phone on at our place.
So she made me promise to wheel the
bike the six miles out to the farm. Good
to have a wife who cares about you, isn’t
it?”
* * * *
“George Barwick”: Mouths were gap-
ing and eyes wide as the young teacher
of the small dairy-country school pro-
duced from the long-awaited parcel,
which had arrived at Gravel Gully on
that morning’s rail-motor, a small
machine. He held it up to the class.
“This,” he said earnestly, “is the strip-
film projector which the P. and C. Asso-
ciation has so generously provided for
our school,” He then launched into a
discourse for the benefit of the consider-
able percentage of his pupils who had
never visited a cinema, on the manner in
which the pictures would be projected
on to the back of a wall-map which was
to serve as a screen. After he had
finished he asked if there were any ques-
tions. Then up rose a canny, dairy-
farmer in miniature. “How,” he de-
manded flatly, “are you gonna rub the
first pitcher off of the back of the map
before you put on the next one?”
SPARROWS ON THE SPOUTING.
r wonder what the sparrows say
So brightly at the break of day
Perched high up on the spouting?
Such gossip and such shouting!
They skip about and talk and laugh—
I swear they joke at things and chaff,
They are so full of pleasure,
Spoiling the sleep I treasure.
Huh! Let them dance and wake the sun
And chatter, full of merry fun,
To meet the dawn’s first outing;
I’m just a man —but, maybe I
Would be as bright if I could fly
And perch up on the spouting.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
I did not make
it clear in this
column (Bulletin
May 31st, 1950)
that my friend
All . Mr. Raymond
isop is now consultant to Electrical
cal Industries, Ltd., of Hayes,
iddlesex, England. He has been abroad
n several occasions over the last two years
ostiy in connection with television. He
J n way connected with the
i u ! lard . Companies either here, in Eng-
nd or in any other part of the world.
a av ®. you ever counted the number of
ostrahan Radio Stations marked on the
dial of a good Brand-line receiver these
days? You might be surprised to realise
that there are 138 —47 in New South
Wales —23 in Victoria —29 in Queensland
—l3 in South Australia —10 in Tasmania
and 16 in Western Australia,
Remembering clearly the times when
there were none—-and then (in reverse
Little Nigger Boy style) there was one —
and then there were two and so on —
I was rather astounded myself to note
by actually listening to them how many
excellent stations are now scattered over
the length and breadth of this vast con-
tinent, "the receiver I used was a stock
model Mullard Eleven-ten (mantel A.C.
Type 5 valves) just released. I fear that
a vast number of metropolitan listeners
confine their listening to near-by stations,
a few by choice, so'me by habit, but the
majority in my opinion by necessity.
Those in this latter category either have
receivers which never would give a satis-
factory interstate performance or the
valves are worn out and such like. Only
when they acquire a modern receiver such
as just mentioned above, and, set out to
explore our Australian ether will they
realise the vast enjoyment which can
come from “hearing our own country
first,” a little puzzling perhaps now and
again when they pick up recorded pro-
grammes of their favourite serial which is
either an episode in front or an episode
behind, but overall there is much pleasure
to be gained.
New components are available these
days to Australian Engineers as well as
refinements in circuit technique to allow
the sensitivity of the receiver to be in-
creased without raising the internal noise
level so as not to become objectionable
which has always been a bug-bear in the
past. New Mullard valves have been de
signed with this object in view. There
is no suggestion of course that static or
man-made interference can be obviated
any more today with our present system
of broadcasting, than in by-gone days,
with the exception that an improvement
in the strength and location of our trans-
mission stations has considerably miti-
gated against this nuisance.
“Bill from Battery Flat” is bothering
me again. He wants to know can I do
anything about getting the old Joe back
into his favourite serial. I don’t know
exactly what he is talking about, but
I hasten to assure him I have no influence
in this direction. He does not seem too
keen about “the new Joe.” Perhaps some
of my readers can enlighten me. — Advt.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
Specialised Knowledge of
Estate Management
'T'HE financial assets built up during the life-
A time of a Testator may present, on his death,
a maze of difficulties beyond the comprehension
of the inexperienced executor.
Efficient . Estate administration demands
specialised knowledge of legal, property and
probate matters. Sixty-five years of experience
in handling all Estate problems is available at
moderate charges, when the Union Trustee is
appointed as Executor either solely or join
with a relative or friend. .
Call for a confidential interview—or write tor
your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Estab i is hed 18BS)
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The [?]
COLUMN
Burns, PKilp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 194,435 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,490,631
Unexplained addition, £305,399 2,796,030
1943.. 201,464 10 p.c. = 200,000 1,464 2,797,494
Unexplained addition, £105,743 2,903,237
1944.. 226,572 10 p.c. = 200,000 1
To staff fund, £25,000 j
1,572 2,904,809
Unexplained addition, £112,658 3,017,467
1945.. 225,190 10 p.c. = 200,000 1
To staff fund, £21,373 5
3,817 3,021,284
Unexplained addition, £121,516.. 3,142,800
1946.. 232,835 10 p.c. = 200,000 1
To staff fund, £30,100 J
2,735 3,145,535
Unexplained addition, £57,438.. 3,202,973
1947.. 300,801 10 p.c. = 200,000 )
To staff fund, £42,738 )
58,063 3.261,036
Unexplained addition, £75,391.. 8,336,427
1948,. 329,759 10 p.c. = 200,000 1
To staff fund, £49,909 J
79,850 3,416,277
Unexplained addition, £219,346.. 3,635,623
1949.. 344,280 llip.c. = 225,000 1
To staff fund, £56,156 j
63,124 3,698,747
From inner reserves, £717,819.. 4,416,566
1950.. 362,599 12ip.C. = 250,000 )
To staff fund, £59,864.. )
52,735 4,469,301
The profits of this big organisation are
won from merchandising, agency and
shipping activities, and from investments
in a wide group of subsidiary and other
cos., etc., which now account for over
37 p.c. of total assets. Which section of
the business contributes most is not
ascertainable from the published figures,
but shipping, once the backbone of the
undertaking, now appears to be a lame
duck.
Merchandising, the board’s “most im-
portant concern,” accounted for the bulk
of the 22 p.c. increase (£4,424,044) in last
term’s turnover of £24,465,670. But rising
wage and other costs “more than
absorbed the additional revenue,” the
chairman says. Gross earnings from all
sources, to which better returns from in-
vestments and shipping also contributed,
increased by £161,356. Including an un-
specified amount for taxation, exes,
gobbled all the gain and £44,449 besides:
1946. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings. .1,473,807 1,853,904 2,133,984 2,295,340
Exes.* ..1,095,799 1,340,702 1,514,007 1,719,810
‘ Balance '.. 378,008 513,202 619,977 575,530
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 145,173 183,443 275,697 212,931
Profit claimed 232,835 829,759 344,280 362,599
* Includes taxation.
The allowance for depreciation (£208,583)
was £9803 heavier. It was the reduction
of £72,569 in bad debts and losses
(£4348), mainly in connection with island
shipping, that put the spring of £18,319
into the final profit figure, which was
equal to 18.1 p.c on capital as against
17.2, 16.4, 15, 11.6 and 11.2 p.c. back to
1945. The div., steady at 10 p.c. for the
29 years to 1948, was lifted from Hi p.c.
to 12| p.c., which might be taken as a
hint that the cautious board is not alto-
gether dissatisfied with the overall out-
look for the co.
In addition to the undistributed portion
of the year’s net earnings (£52,735),
visible reserves benefited by £717,819, of
which £457,669 was transferred from a
London shipping credit, £llO,OOO from
excess provision for taxation in previous
years, and £150,150 was the difference
between book-value and sale-price of two
former units of the fleet —the Jdarella
and Montoro.
The holding in subsidiaries (£2,119,164)
increased by £26,015. Chief offshoots
are Bums Philp (South Seas), which looks
after the parent’s interests in the Western
Pacific, and Burns Philp (New Hebrides)
and Burns Philp (New Guinea), which
take care of the rest of the co.’s island
activities. Penney’s, another subsidiary,
runs a big and flourishing chain-store
business in Queensland and northern
N. S. Wales.
Sundry shareholdings and Govern-
ment securities (£1,767,008) were reduced
by £106,380, mainly on account of the
final payment on the new 5687-ton cargo-
vessel Braeside, which cost about
£ABOO,OOO and took up the Australia-
Singapore run in November last. The
sundry shareholdings include scrip in
Queensland Insurance and Bankers and
Traders Insurance, and in a string of
country and/or suburban stores in N. S.
Wales, most of which have been acquired,
together with three hotel properties in
N.Q., since the war.
Principal trouble on the shipping side
is the slow turnround of vessels, Owing
to the fractious behavior of waterside
workers and others, the ships spend
about two-thirds of their time in port.
One result is an appalling increase in
handling and distributing costs. Tins
finally expresses itself in higher selling-
prices for goods, the cost of which is
further bumped up by heavy charges for
amenities and social services. Then,
with the rise in the cost-of-living index,
wage-rates go up, too. What has yet
to be realised is that without substantial
improvement in productivity and in
efficiency in distribution we cannot go on
extending social services and at the same
time raising the standard of living for the
lower-income groups. The day is not
far distant when if we choose one we
must accept sacrifices in the other.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
mainly reflect the additions to reserves
and purchase of the Braeside already re-
ferred to:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£. £>
Capital ..2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Liabilities ..3,077,817 3,509,024 4,420,771 3,750,908
Properties and
shipping. .2,341,901 2,359,317 2,420,009 3,241,704
Investments*^,sBs,366 3,751,048 3,966,537 3,886,172
Stock, advances,
etc. ..1,377,243 1,596,937 2,185,584 1,727,065
Book debts. . 894,975 1,090,861 1,223,652 1,239,845
Cash ~ 239,367 226,638 448,736 258,423
* Includes an unstated amount Govt, bonds.
Allowing for the final div., the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£3,227,597) was
£51,341 stronger than at the previous
balance, despite a net addition of £821,695
to properties and shipping.
The market for the scrip, which ad-
vanced from 735. a year ago to 90s. 3d.
in March last, shot up to 995. 3d. in
April and has since eased to 89s. The
immediate return at 89s. is 2.8 p.c. on a
12i p.c. distribution ; so the investor who
looks for 4 p.c. on his money coqnts on
an 18 p.c. div. or other benefits. The
cover is visibly 645. Bd. in net tangibles.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 38,200 10 p.c. = 37,596 604 354,460
Added contingencies reserve, £22,000.. 376,460
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,078 377,538
Warehouse reserve, £36,000 .. .. 413,538
1946.. 89,500 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,904 415,442
Net addition reserves, £64,165 .. 479,607
1947.. 40,789 10 p.c. = 37,596 3,193 482,800
Share premiums, £109,030 .. .. 591,830
Unexplained addition, £13,000 .. 604,830
1948.. 48,100 10 p.c. = 39,163 8,937 613,767
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 713,767
Unexplained addition, £lOOO.. .. 714,767
1949.. 52,462 10 p.c. = 46,365 6,097 720,864
Profit sale of assets, £17,043 .. .. 737,907
1950.. 64,454 Hi p.c. = 62,005 2,449 740,356
James M. Dunlop, who became chairman
and managing-director of this now 81-
year-old business on the death of his
father, John S. Dunlop, in 1912, died in
August last. He has been succeeded in
the dual post by his brother, William P.
Dunlop, who also grew up in the business
and is widely associated with the com-
mercial life of Sydney.
The co. handies paper and printers’
requisites, etc., is well-ribbed financially
and otherwise, and the market has always
had a high opinion of the scrip. Share-
holders got a steady 10 p.c., sweetened
with £50,000 of bonus scrip, for the 15
years to 1930. The rate dropped to
5| p.c. for the next two slump years,
climbed by annual steps to 10 p.c. again
in 1939, and has remained steady since,
with a U p.c. bonus added last term.
Also, during 1932-34 £368,484 of capital
was returned. To help finance post-war
expansion of the business 15,139 new £1
ords. were issued at a premium of 295.
each in Dec., 1947, followed by a further
100,000 at a premium of 20s. each in
March, 1949. The premiums make
10 p.c. worth no more than 4.5 p.c. on
the last £175,000 of capital.
Trading conditions were mixed last
term. At the outset the market was fairly
well stocked with highly-priced printing
and writing papers, and quotes, especially
for Scandinavian lines, eased during the
first half. But both prices and demand
strengthened following devaluation of
sterling, overseas mills now have little
stock unsold for the remainder of 1950,
and they are reluctant to accept any sub-
stantial increase in orders for 1951. Turn-
over in other sections of the business re-
mained brisk, and the board was able to
write net earnings £11,992 stronger at
£64,454. That was equal to 11.7 p.c. on
capital as against 11.3, 12.3, 10.8, 10.5
and 10.3 p.c. back to 1945.
The declared profit, however, doesn’t
tell all the story. After making “full”
provision for taxation, the year’s net
addition to fixtures, trucks, etc. (£10,946)
was written off out of earnings, the “sub-
stantial reserve” for new cars and trucks
was further strengthened, and provision
was made for the anticipated cost of
establishing new branches at Adelaide
and Perth. Also, inner reserves are
known to exist in the stocks, debtors, in-
vestment and freehold items.
The recent sale of a warehouse in
Kent-street, Sydney, resulted in a reduc-
tion of £19,027 in the book-value of
freeholds and a capital profit of £17,043
net, after deducting cost of improvements
to remaining warehouses in Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane:
1947. 1948. 1949. , 1950.
Paid capital.. £375,965 £451,158 £551,158 £551,158
Liabilities* ~ 221,414 278,071 340,031 611,067
Tax reserve .. 135,766 165,942 160,000 113,404
Pinal div. .. 9,399 10,966 12,527 20,668
Freeholds .. 126,381 126,381 126,381 107,354
Stocks .. 344,987 511,879 757,782 627,331
Debtors .. 391,111 534,806 697,580 611,303
Cash, bonds
and shares 862,865 336,838 202,840 590,666
* Including tax provision, etc.
The year’s addition of £171,036 to out-
side liabilities, etc., is largely in respect
of bills on shipments from the co.’s
London subsidiary. The book-value of
stocks on hand was reduced by £130,451,
book-debts by £86,277, and cash and in-
vestments were strengthened by £387,826.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,184,161) was £38,517.
At 695. 6d. (575. a year ago) the pound
shares return 3.2 p.c. on an Hi p.c. div.
basis. The cover is visibly 465. lOd. in
net tangibles.
National Reliance Investment Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 11,948 4J p.c. = 11,250 698 55,036
Capital loss, etc., £3637 .. .. 51,398
1941.. 13,509 4i p.c. = 11,250 2319 53,717
Capital loss, etc., £4775 .. .. 48,942
1942.. 10,055 3| p.c. t= 9,375 680 49,622
Capital loss, etc., £728 .. .. 48,894
1943.. 9,660 SJp.c. = 8,375 285 49,179
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 49,109
1944.. 10,638 4 p.c. = 10,000 088 49,747
Capital loss, etc., £45 .. .. 49,702
1945.. 11,625 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,327
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 51,257
1946.. 10,931 4 p.c. = 10,000 931 52,188
Capital gain, £1767 .. .. 53,955
1947.. 12,808 4J p.c. = 10,802 2006 55,961
Capital gain, £1054 .. .. 57,015
1948.. 18,654 5 p.c. = 12,208 8446 60,461
Capital gain, £412 .. .. 00,873
1949.. 27,028 5$ p.c. = 19,571 7457 68,330
Capital gain, £l7O .. .. 68,500
1950.. 34,588 6J p.c. = 23,100 11,488 79,988
One of the Capel Court group, sponsored
by J. B. Were and Son, this 21-year-old
is among the soundest of Australian in-
vestment cos. of the management type.
As a long-term investment, with security
and gradual appreciation of both income
and capital as the targets, there is much
to be said in favor of the scrip, especially
for the small investor.
To date shareholders have had regular
but moderate divs., an averse ,
for the first eight years P.c.
1930’s slump, 4.1 p. c . for the^ 1 ? 8 the
years of war and sV' 81 *
for the four flush years to the close p P,c-
accounts Discerning shareholder.°l' ast
ever, will not look for much kS?* h°w-
last term’s 5* p.c. until Taptf get > h f“
more support and assistance bv So lot
reserves, which accrue partly from I? i° f
earnings and partly from carS P i us
on change of investments. pro^ts
Thus far the co. hasn’t had an
tumty to put on much fat f or ° Ppor '
already stated. With the adv ent of S
it withdrew from the American f *1
London markets at a loss, but withal
serious mishap, and reinvested tfcftSf
m Austraha, where post-war induS
and other developments, accelerated bv
inflation, have provided a growing and
widening field of investment oprxfrtimf
ties, of which the management has S a
the most. The outloo/for l^ldet
time 1 in “ »»
Over the last four years £275,000 of
resh share capital has been gathered nt
par, raising the total on the register m
£525,000. The last £105,000 came in just
before the close of the latest accounts:--
Paid capital.. £300,000 £35050 £42o!o00£5&
Creditors, etc.* 69,264 111,299 122,398 14i’S
Tax reserve.. 2,755 4,193 5,51 q 14 M5!
Investments 383,315 514,284 008,488 697 bm
Debtors. etc. 1,222 931 1197 39m
Cash .. .. 43,443 10,738 l7 323
* Includes provision for div. ’
The creditor item includes £51,234 Am
£48,494) of securities bought but not de ?
livered, and debtors balances consist
mainly of securities sold but not delivered
(£38,392) when the books were ruled off
Investments (up £69,196) number 339 0 f
which 0.2 p.c. are debentures and bonds
11.4 p.c. pref. and 88.4 p.c. ord. shares’
Chief shift in the portfolio during the
year was from bonds into equities
Market value of the portfolio at end
March was £923,624, or £225,942 more
than book value (cost), and the Stock
Exchange share-price index for nearly
all classes of securities has strengthened
since.
The £34,588 (up £7560) of profit was
8.2 p.c. on average capital as against
7.6, 6.1, 5 and 4.4 p.c. for the four pre-
ceding years. On capital as it now stands
5i p.c. will call for £5713 less profit than
was earned last term, and the current
year’s income will benefit from returns on
investment of the new capital.
The f.-p. 10s. shares appear to be
fairly priced at 13s. 7d. (10s. lOd. a year
ago), giving a return of 4 p.c. on a 5£
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover was
11s. 6d. book value, or 17s. 3d. market
value.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Ee-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Pejrmewan, Weight and Subsidiary.
1943 .. 16,392 6J p.c. = 13,000 3392 122,16®
1944 . . 17,617 7 „ „ 14,0 0 0 8617 125,783
1945 .. 31,179 9 „ „ 18,000 (
To doubtful debts, £2389 .. j
10,790 136,573
1946 .. 32,725 11 p.c. = 22,000 1
To doubtful debts, £4OOO .. J
6,725 143,298
1947 .. 39,153 10 p.c. = 20,833 1
Premiums, new issue, £12,500 [
To doubtful debts, £6OOO .. f
23,820 167,113
To Red Cross, £l,OOO ..1
1948 .. 48,335 10 p.c. = 25,000 (
To doubtful debts, £BOOO .. j
15,335 182,453
Share premiums, £53,025 .. •• 236,078
Fire loss, £9814 • •• 226,264
1949 .. 60,700 10 p.c. = 29,333 |
To doubtful debts, £7OOO .. j
24,367 250,631
Share premiums, £27,500 •• 278,131
1950 . . 74,706 10 p.c. = 33,333 1
To doubtful debts, £15,000 .. )
26,373 304,504
With nothing much in the way or out-
ride investments to help stabilise income,
seasons and prices are the two big factors
affecting earnings of this station-supply)
carrying and agency business, which as
been operating in the back-country o
Victoria and southern N. S. Wales for
the past 66 years. ,
For the last seven of them shareholders
have been in clover. Expanding turn
over —the figures shot up from i l 4 n '
lions in 1944 to over £4 millions


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce,
TO WILLIAM RAYMOND NEATE late
of Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that
MURIEL BERYL NEATE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1867 of 1950 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in. the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
day of August 1950 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MAX-
WELL GLASHBEN, Solicitor, of 3 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO REGINALD NORMAN HALL late of
Cammera y.—TAKE NOTICE that
SHIRLEY JOSEPHINE HALL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1865 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion without 'just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards' If
you wish to defend you may enter an ap-
pearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
day of August 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MAXWELL GLASHEEN, Solicitor, of 3
Castlereagh Street, S y d n e y. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EILEEN VERONICA CARPE late of
W oollahra.—T AKE NOTICE that
FREDERICK CARPE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1866 of 1950 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney" by
the 29th day of August 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from, MAXWELL GLASHEEN, Solicitor,
S* 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
h>r improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
Gall or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
oient form and V/ days' free trial
°uer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
__(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
free;
iShave with I
GEM
mmmm
Ul3
SBS
\fOl D
00*
AN*
SHA
lOC k
50C
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
LEARN TO NAVIGATE
at the
Richmond Nautical School,
Sirius House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Evening Course for Yachtsmen and
Harbour and River Masters com-
mences on MONDAY, 3rd JUDY.
Day School and Correspondence
Courses for AM. GRADES OF
FOREIGN-GOING and COASTAL
NAVIGATION.
Capt. W. A. PEARSON, Principal.
BW 4762.
AUSTRALIAN LEAD PRODUCTION
Tons.
P.c.
Zinc Corpn. Lid. Lead Conct. 1948/49
North B.H. Lead Concl. 1948/49
64,123
29.17
•14,325
20.17
Mt. Isa 1948/49 (est.)
38.547(i)
17.54
B.H. South Lead Conct. 1948/49
33,546
15.26
N.B.H. Cons. Ltd. Lead Conct. I94S/49
19.154
8.72
B.HA.S. Sundry Purchased Matcriuls 1948'49
Lake George 1947/48 (est.)
E.Z, Co. 1948/49 (est.) ..
7,722
3.52
6,779(H)
3.08
5,588(90
234
Total T .
219,784
100.00
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
IS5ES
ms/
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. 'Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
• Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
tern when the increase was 25
c —has more than taken care
costs, enabling net
rnings to climb from £17,617
in £’74,706, and the div. to be
[ ift ed from 7 p.c. to 10 p.c., the
average for the seven years being
o 5 pc. Also £225,000 of fresh
capital, which brought with it
£93 625 of share premiums, was
(lathered, and the price of the
■£?p rose from 255. 3d. (old
official ceiling) to 455. 6d. in the
market. The last lot of scrip
(£110,000) was put out in Nov,,
1949 ’and carried a premium of
5s a share (£27,500), which was
added to reserves
The spring in last terms net
earnings was £14,006. The
£74 706 of profit claimed —
written after .allowing £22,060
tup £7333) for depreciation and
(un £13,000) for taxa-
tion —was 22.4 p.c. on average
capital as against 20.7, 19.3,
18 7, 16.3, 15.5 and 8.8 p.c. back
t 0 1944. After paying the div.,
£15,000 was whisked away to
inner reserves as provision for
doubtful debts, making total
thus provided over the last six
years £42,389. On capital as it
now stands 10 p.c. will call for
£32,206 less profit than was
shown last term, or 5.8 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined).
The year’s new share and
premium moneys, together with
an extra £166,392 from outsiders,
went mainly into stocks (up
£143,154) and book debts (up
£144,438):
, P.W. and Sub. N
1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 250,000 315,000 425,000
etc. 444,750 493,979 660,371
Taxation prov. 87,127 92,827 75,347
Property and
plant .. 197,323 226,405 251,321
Stock .. .. 350,561 452,567 595,721
Book debts .. 391,271 449,154 593,592
Snares other cos. 4,800 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 32,877 34,761 37,372
Stocks appear at under cost and
book debts are reported in “very
good order.” Additions to
branch premises and to the big
fleet of motor-vehicles resulted
in a net increase of £24,916 to
the book-value of fixed assets.
Although the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£495,768) increased by
£140,792, there was still 18s. Id.
of outside money (excluding tax
provision) at work in the busi-
ness for every pound belonging
to shareholders when the books
were ruled off.
With another good season in
prospect, and prices for primary
products at high levels, the
pound shares fetched 455. 6d. in
the market as against 41s. 9d. a
year ago. The immediate return
at the higher figure is 4.4 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 345. 4d.
Aberfoyle Tin, on the slopes
of Ben Lomond (Tas.) and one
of Australia’s leading producers
of tin and wolfram concentrates,
is shaping well. Production and
gross earnings for the 41 j weeks
to April 15 last were ahead
of figures for the corresponding
period of the previous year:—•
, Weeks to
Concentrates— 16/4/’49. 15/4/’5O.
Tin, tons .. 333.9 340.4
Value .. .. £133,054 £154,080
Wolfram, tons .. 69.5 82.0
Value .. .. £34,430 £33,012
Residues—
Tons .. .. 20.9 8.2
Value .. .. £5,199 £1,971
For the 12 months to June 30,
1949, co. netted £50,926, of
which £49,638 was on mine ac-
count, and paid divs. totalling
75 p.c. (£46,875). For the
current term three quarterly divs.
of 6d. each, total 30 p.c., have
been paid, the last one tax-free.
On .No. 7 level ore-veins carry-
ing good values are now being
opened up, and preliminary work
on No. 8 level has disclosed one
vein up to 96 inches wide show-
ing good wolfram assays and
some tin. The drill has also
located the main ore bodies at
depths that will permit the
opening-up of Nos. 9 and 10
levels, as well as some new tin-
and-wolfram veins west of the
main lode. Following abolition
of the Australian tin pool from
the beginning of this month, the
locally-controlled buying price
of the metal went up from
£A655 to £A7IO per ton, which
is still about £ABO per ton be-
low world parity. Since con-
sumption of tin in Australia ex-
ceeds production by some 600
tons p.a., producers are thus
subsidising consumers. With
the development of tinplate
manufacture by B.H.P. Aus-
tralia’s future requirements of
the metal will be greatly in-
creased. The co.’s f.-p. ss.
shares, which fetched 255. in
August, 1949, were priced at 345.
last week.
* * * *
Considering the difficulties,
chiefly a shortage of water for
milling purposes because of a
dry spell from January to May,
King Island Scheelite (1947),
Ltd., has put up a creditable
performance for the first half of
its current financial year. Here
is a comparison of production
figures, etc.:
r- —25 Weeks to ,
23/4/’49. 22/4/’5O.
Ore milled, tons . . 73,925 69,707
Concentrates, ' tons 361.8 340.2
Value .. .. £158,499 £112,374
Overburden, tons .. 130,740 69,175
Prices realised for concentrates
produced during the latest period
varied from 118 s. to 87s. 6d. per
unit WO3. For the year to
October 31, 1949, co. netted
£63,764 from sale of 791 tons
concentrates at an average price
of Ills. 4d. per unit WO3, and
paid a 10 p.c. div. Heavy rains
have fallen since May 26 last,
and a satisfactory run of the
mill seems assured for the re-
mainder of the co.’s financial
year. There was 2,790,000 tons
of pay-ore measured up at end
October last, and extensions
along the strike are being ex-
plored by drilling. Recent im-
provements to the fine-grinding
and flotation section have been
followed by a marked.increase in
recoveries. The market for the
f.-p. ss, shares recently
strengthened from 4s, 9d. to
ss. 3d.
* * * *
Westralian gold production
for 1949 was 664,9860 z. (down
26,5600 z.), worth £A7,962,808
(up £A805,899), and dividends
paid by gold cos. for the year
totalled £A844,525 (up £A7586).
The higher domestic price for
the yellow metal which ruled
from the middle of last Sep-
tember offset in terms of money
the fall in output, due to a drop
in average grade of ore treated ;
bur it failed to offset wholly the
continued rise in costs. The
State’s principal producers were :
Company. Tons. Fine Oz.
Big Bell .. .. 424,525 56,071
Boulder Perseverance 183,000 32,529
Hannans (8.H.P.).. 42,900 13,027
Central Norseman . . 132,930 46,865
G.M. of Kalgoorlie . 163,552 41,071
G. Horseshoe . . sands 10,004
Great Boulder .. 333,109 83,259
Hill 50 . . .. 49,230 13,128
Kalgoorlie Enterprise 52,489 16,981
Lake View .. .. 501,261 132,984
Mountain View . . 3,638 6,007
New Coolgardie .. 24,062 9,299
North Kalgurli .. 231,835 63,051
Paringa .. .. 91,810 17,782
Sons of Gwalia . . 81,395 23,573
South Kalgurli .. 84,785 20,654
Wiluna .. .. sands 3,743
New Coolgardie, one of the
Collins House group, is the only
newcomer to the list. Those with
the greatest number of names on
the payroll were Lake View and
Star (985), Great Boulder (704),
Big Bell (407), North Kalgurli
(383), Central Norseman (379),
G.M. of Kalgoorlie (354),
Boulder Perseverance (306), Sons
of Gwalia (235), South Kalgurli
(215). Richest producer was
Mountain View, which treated
3638 tons for 60070 z., employ-
ing only 24 men in the process.
Wiluna, one of the largest pro-
ducers a few years ago, treated
only sands in 1949 ; co. is now
testing what Iqoks like a promis-
ing option over Mt. Charlotte
property, on the Golden Mile.
Great Western Consolidated, the
big offshoot of Western Mining
Corp., should give the State’s
output for 1950 and subsequent
years a nice lift.
* * * *
London - controlled Golden
Horse Shoe (New), Ltd., which
has been cyaniding auriferous
Westralian tailings dumps for
the last 30 years, handled
686,247 tons from the Boulder
Perseverance No. 2 dump on a
profit-sharing basis for 10,0550 z.
fine gold and 15,0910 z. silver
during 1949. The surplus on
working account was £30,432,
of which Perseverance’s propor-
tion was £15,235 and Horse
Shoe’s £15,197. Including
sundry revenue (£690) and allow-
ing for office exes. (£2997), de-
preciation (£1000) and income
and profits tax (£6000), the net
result was £5890, or 5.3 p.c. on
the £llO,OOO of capital. A 2d.
div., less 9s. in the £ English in-
come tax, equal to 4.5 p.c. net,
called for £5042, same as the
previous year. The Perseverance
dump is expected to cut out
about a year hence, and other
dumps in the vicinity, which
look like being profitable with
gold at its present price, are
being investigated. Current assets
totalled £118,680 and current
liabilities £18,864. The 2s. stock
units, which dropped to Is. lOd.
in the market in 1949, now fetch
2s. sd.
* * * *
Gold Mines of New Guinea, a
recent Adelaide float, has taken
a sampling option over 480 acres
of auriferous alluvial ground, in
the central highlands of New
Guinea, where J, C. Coldham
suggests that there might be
4,000,000 c.y., worth from 4s. to
ss. a yard, that could be treated.
Actual value of the prospect
will not be known until it has
been systematically tested.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Proprietary Limited
Collins House, Melbourne, C. 1
SUPPLIES OF VIRGIN PIG LEAD
It is with regret that this Company
finds it necessary to reduce alloca-
tions of lead to its Australian
customers as from Ist May, 1950,
because of the circumstances set out
herein for your information.
2. The B.H.A.S. Pty. Ltd. treats the
lead concentrate output of the Broken
Hill Mining Companies, viz;
North Broken Hill Ltd.
Broken Hill South Ltd.
The Zinc Corporation Ltd.
New Broken Hill Consolidated
Ltd.,
together with the residue from the
Electrolytic Zinc Company of A/sia
Ltd. zinc treatment plant at Risdon,
Tasmania, for the production of
refined pig lead. Although 8.H.A.5.,
producing on behalf of the above-
mentioned Companies, is the only
producer of refined pig lead in the
Commonwealth, there are other pro-
ducers of lead-bearing materials in
Australia, as will be noted from the
tabulation appended to this circular.
The output of these other producers
is exported either as lead concentrate
or lead bullion. The Electrolytic Zinc
Company makes a financial contribu-
tion in lieu of physical delivery in
respect of its lead concentrate pro-
duction which is exported. None
of the other producers contributes
towards supplying Australia’s require-
ments of lead, either in the form
of physical metal or by financial
participation.
3. The price of lead in Australia
was fixed on Bth February, 1940, at
£A22 per ton, at which figure it re-
mained until 30th December, 1948,
when it was increased by State Price
Fixing Authorities to £A3S. Soon
after the local domestic price was
fixed at £A22 the overseas price for
lead commenced to advance and by
1/11/48 it had reached in the U.S.A.
£AISO, from which peak it has since
fallen and now stands at£Allo per ton.
4. During the whole of this period
the burden of supplying lead to the
Australian consumer at the fixed price
has fallen upon the four Broken Hill
mining companies and the Electrolytic
Zinc Co. of A/sia Ltd., while other
producers of lead bearing materials in
the Commonwealth have been free to
export their product for sale at the
high overseas prices.
5. The great difference which has
existed and which still exists between
the local and overseas prices has been
responsible for certain anomalies in
the lead trade. In particular this
refers to the supply of scrap lead,
B.HiA.S. carefully scrutinises all sales
and endeavours to sell lead only to
legitimate fabricators for fabrication
and sale in Australia for Australian
consumption. Notwithstanding the
efforts of 8.H.A.5., however, owing
to the great difference between the
local and the overseas prices, the"
acquiring of lead either in the form
of scrap, or in the form of fabricated
lead for re-melting, or as virgin lead,
offers great attraction to a speculator
who is prepared to hold the lead in
the hope that either the local price
will eventually be de-controlled, or
that the ban now imposed on the
export of scrap lead will be lifted, as
has been the case in the past. The
importance of the part played by
recovery and re-circulation of scrap
lead in the lead trade will be appre-
ciated when it is realised that in the
U.S.A. and the U.K. scrap lead con-
stitutes something over 40% of the
total lead consumption of those
markets. In Australia today scrap is
virtually frozen —hence it can be
readily appreciated what a loss in
terms of metal supply this means to
the legitimate lead fabricator.
6. From many years’ experience in
the lead industry in this country,
B.H.A.S. is convinced that it is today
supplying more than enough lead to
fulfil all Australia’s legitimate require-
ments, provided that the lead trade as
a whole were to function normally.
Instead, due partly to the non-
availability of scrap arising from the
disparity in price, the demand upon
B.H.A.S. for virgin lead has steadily
increased and is still increasing. It is
the definite opinion of the Companies
supplying B.H.A.S. with lead bearing
materials that this state of affairs will
continue until such time as the
hoarding of scrap ceases to have any
financial attraction to the speculator
and scrap re-circulation again becomes
a business from which the scrap col-
lector will seek his return through a
legitimate profit on scrap commen-
surate with the service which he
renders, rather than from a potential
price gain in the event of the abolition
of the present artificially low domestic
price.
7. In the belief that the only solu-
tion to the scrap problem is de-control
of the local price, or a price rise to
a figure making relatively unattractive
the purchase of scrap for hoarding
in anticipation of a higher ultimate
price, the Broken Hill mining com-
panies, through B.H.A.S. have on
two occasions during the past few
months applied to the appropriate
Price Fixing Authorities for de-
control. Neither of these applica-
tions has so far been- granted. There-
fore, the position resolves itself as
follows:
Firstly : Non-availability of scrap
will continue to result in ever-
increasing demands upon B.H.A.S.
for virgin lead, and this position
will not be cured by B.H.A.S. still
further increasing supplies,
and
Secondly: The financial burden
of providing lead at below the cost
of production for the domestic
consumer is being carried by a
section only of the Australian pro-
ducers of lead bearing materials.
This being the case, the Broken Hill
mining companies, together with the
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of A/sia —who
are at present the only lead pro-
ducers who provide lead for local
consumption at the fixed price-have
now given notification to B.H.A.S.
that they are no longer prepared to
supply B.H.A.S. with lead concen-
trate for . the production of pig lead
for resale at the domestic price
beyond the proportion which each
producer of lead concentrate would
be called upon to bear were alt pro-
ducers of lead bearing materials in
Australia contributing proportionately
towards the meeting of Australia’s
legitimate requirements of lead.
BRIAN TAYLOR.
Secretary,
AUTHORITIES:
(i) Mt. Isa—Reports and Accounts for year ended 30/6/49.
(ii) Lake George Mines—Directors’ Report and Statement of
Accounts for year ended 30/6/48.
(iii) Electrolytic Zinc Co.—Reports and Accounts for year ended
30/6/49.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Does your Will express
your present wishes?
It may need revision
Make a point of reading your Will to-day
and ask yourself whether it expresses your present
wishes in the light of changed conditions.
If you desire re-assurance on any of its aspects or
desire to consider a new plan that will ensure the maxi-
mum benefits for your dependents you should discuss
your problems with a senior officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
At the same time you would do well to consider the
advantages of appointing
Perpetual Trustee Com-
any Limited as your
Executor and Trustee
alone or jointly with a
relative or friend.
The Company has more
than 62 years experience
in the management of
Estate of many different
kinds. It can help you
to plan your Estate to the
best advantage of your
dependents and will
provide for its efficient
management, when re-
quired to act.
The new plans you make
should be embodied in your
Will by your Solicitor.
Write for the booklet
describing the Company’s
service.
\£TEP
%
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
E. R. KNOX l
ALLEN C. LEWIS?
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. lysaght;
SAMUEL HORDERNS
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMIItD
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNHEB ETC.
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES 4 OTHERS, ADMINXSTBATI
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA
WAGGA, TAMWORTH
and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Dollars and Devaluation
Along with devaluation, the
question of a dollar loan cropped
up . last week. There was Aus-
tralian newspaper talk about the
Prime Minister taking a trip to
the United States during the pre-
sent Parliamentary recess to dis-
cuss the possibilities of a loan,
and a question was asked in the
Representatives on the matter,
to which Mr. Menzies replied
that such reports were “purely
speculative.” The questioner, C.
R. Cameron, a S.A. “Labor”
member, asked also whether a
dollar loan was the best method
of combating an inflationary
spiral, and whether the Aus-
tralian Government intended to
revalue the Australian pound in
order to create a favorable
atmosphere in the United States.
Mr. Menzies said he would con-
sult with Mr. Fadden and give a
reply to' any question which did
not impinge on Government
policy.
About the time this discussion
was in progress the United
States “Foreign Affairs
Quarterly,” published in New
York, ran an article by Sir
Douglas Copland, Vice-Chancel-
lor of the National University
at Canberra and formerly eco-
nomic adviser to the Prime
Minister, suggesting that Com-
monwealth countries, including
Australia, should raise large dol-
lar loans in Australia. This was
in line with his recent broadcast
to New Zealand, in which he
advocated that the Dominion
should raise a dollar loan in the
U.S.A. by direct approach, and
not through London, As re-
ported in The Bulletin last
week, Copland’s opinion was
that it would be risky for Maori-
land not to approach New York
for a loan in view of the urgency
of obtaining essential machinery,
etc,, for the rural and other
industries.
In his later New York article
Professor Copland suggested
that Commonwealth countries
could probably absorb $lOOO
million a year in loans, with
Australia’s share at $2OO to
$4OO million, Copland added
that about half the interest on
the loan could be met now by
the export of 150 million pounds
of Australian beef a year to the
U.S.A., and that before many
years pass the United States
will become more dependent on
countries like Australia for raw
materials, thus tending to rectify
the present difficulty of trying
to establish a higher level of
dollar income from the United
States. The trend would be for
America, eventually, to buy
more abroad than she sold.
Last Thursday, too, the New
York “Journal of Commerce”
published reports that specula-
tors in the U.S.A. were still
gambling on revaluation of the
Australian pound in spite of re-
ports from Canberra that such
a move was politically impos-
sible. As much as $2.32 was
being paid for Australian pounds
to be made available in later
months of 1950, as against the
spot rate of $2,24. If the Aus-
tralian pound went to par with
sterling the official dollar rate
would become $2.80 to the £A.
Both the dollar and exchange
problems are of serious import
to Australia at the present time.
There is no doubt that the cut-
ting-off of U.S. goods from Aus-
tralia is having a serious effect
on our development plans. There
is much that is essential in the
way of heavy machinery, motor-
vehicles, raw materials, etc.,
that we badly need in order to
get into full swing with our
reconstruction and post-war de-
velopment undertakings. With
dollar requirements unavailable,
this country is paying through
the nose for much of its needs
from a sterling area in which
supplies are very limited.
Whilst Professor Copland is
an advocate of a dollar loan, he
is not an advocate of revalua-
tion of the pound in terms of
sterling or dollars at the present
“But it’s better than NOTHING for a trade-in, isn't it ?”
time. He does not deny that an
appreciated pound would be of
value to the Australian economy
in some directions, but con-
siders that the present is not an
opportune moment for a change.
It is unlikely, therefore, that
there is any connection between
Professor Copland’s advocacy
of a dollar loan and New York’s
speculation about a move in the
exchange rate.
The Bulletin has favored an
appreciation in the Australian
pound since the devaluation of
sterling last year. But it hap-
pens to be unfortunate that the
problem should arise so par-
ticularly at a time when the
Menzies - Fadden Government
has its hands full with a reck-
lessly obstructive and men-
dacious Opposition in the Repre-
sentatives and the Senate, and
when a double-dissolution and
at least two referendums are in
prospect.
The Sharemarket
The sharemarkets remained
in the doldrums last week. Too
many things were happening, or
tipped to happen, for investors
to do much except “wait and
see.” The general tendency was
for prices to slacken a trifle.
Outstanding rises were those in
Repco (35,), Westcott Hazell,
Humes, Meggitt, and York
Motors. Masonite reacted after
its steep rise, and Burns Philp
shares continued to weaken.
B.H.P. was steady.
Callide Coal
“Abdul Assiz”: The published
data available, which is still
extraordinarily skimpy for de-
posits of such exceptional extent
and value, leaves no doubt that
Blair Athol (Q.) coal, on
average, is superior as regards
ash content, calorific value and,
to a lesser extent, physical
properties to that of Callide (B,
7/6/’5O). From the commercial
viewpoint, the 20 per cent, ad-
vantage in calorific value of
Blair Athol over Callide coal is
important. The latter has a
greater volatile content, but
whether this is advantageous or
not will depend on the use to
which it is put.
As regards “rank,” Blair
Athol is definitely in the bitu-
minous-coal class, although not
of a very mature variety, while
only a few of the samples of
Callide so far analysed reach
the bituminous class, most hav-
ing a composition characteristic
of the upper range in the sub-
bituminous class.
The high ash of the Callide
coal--averaging around 16 per
cent., as compared with Blair
Athol’s 7 per cent. —is a serious
handicap, and it is rendered
worse by the fact that the tests
so far carried out indicate that
it is commercially uncleanable.
In addition, analyses of core
samples show fluctuating ash
contents, but no definite ten-
dency to improvement with
depth.
On the other hand, the com-
parative remoteness of Blair
Athol from the coast and from
industrial centres more than
cancels out its better quality—
for the present at least. Both
areas are wretchedly served by
transport facilities, particularly
for all-weather use ; Queensland
or the Commonwealth, or both,
should promptly remedy this de-
fect, if only from a purely short
view and for selfish reasons.
In their raw state, handling is
detrimental to the quality of
both coals, and reduces much
of the lump-coal to dust, as the
Melbourne wharfies were not
slow to point out. Storage has
a similar effect. For these
reasons, the coals are not suited
to long transport or export,
which harder and mnr«
opals survive. m ° re matu re
Tj hese facts account for m
differences in the results of m®
tests made in Queensland the
m Victoria, aad for i e d r i nd
tanco of buyers to accept rS'
hde coal which has
posed on the Gladstone "to*
p u e u or any len S th °f time Fn‘
the best results, both Blair Am i
and Callide coal should
after a minimum of b'indr ed
and as near to ttfpSgS’a
origin as possible. ot
In spite of all that has been
said by their detractors and bv
their advocates, tljese coalfields
i? a gr f at an asset to be
allowed to languish, particularly
if the reasons for this disregard
are political. s
Repco, Ltd., Melbourne, will
have an equal interest with
Kirkstall Forge, Ltd., of Leeds
in the new million-pound cn’
Kirkstall-Repco, Ltd., being
formed m Melbourne. The ccf
will set up a drop-forging plant
and machine-shop for the pro-
duction of heavy motor-vefiicle
front-axles and other drop-fore-
ings. No public issue is in-
tended at present. Repco has a
paid capital of £938,400 and
reserves, including those of sub-
sidiaries, of £612,245, subject to
intangibles of £295,940. It i s a
holding co. controlling eight
main subsidiaries engaged in the
motor-spares, accessories and
repairing trade. Expansion of
late has been rapid, paid capital
having been trebled since 1946.
Profit of the group last term was
17.4 p.c. on average capital,
compared with 16.7 p.c. in the
preceding year, and the 12i p.c.
div. was repeated. The co. owed
outsiders £490,426 last balance-
day, so, with the new drop-forg-
ing project in prospect, further
share-issues are on the cards.
(The last was at a 50 p.c.
premium.) The old scrip was at
60s. 9d. last week, up about 3s.
on recent quotations.


F :
£ '
U»
Ct
111
U»
in
u
Ul
111
o*
K
111
ui
SA
K
<d
V*
2
u
sa
9
*
i ess
o
4
>-
CD
When you enter a large city
building, you do not see the mani-
fold anxieties and strivings of the
tenants, each with his multiple
problems of income and outgo, of
shortages and late deliveries. You
do not see the spirit of enterprise
that keeps them going in these
difficult times.
And, of course, you do not
see the Bank, though it is there!
Its dozen and one services to its
customers are in the picture of
all kinds of businesses, all the
year round.
The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited is
Banker to men and companies
in every industry and service in
Australia.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT EDWARD KLEIN late of
Newcastle—TAKE NOTICE that VERA
ALICE LOTTIE KLEIN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 106 of 1948 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
29th of August 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
WILLIAMS, RYMAN &l COMPANY, Soli-
citors, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
VICKERS LIMITED
WIDE AND EXPANDING RANGE OF PRODUCTS
SIR RONALD WEEKS’S REVIEW
The eighty-third annual general meeting of Vickers Limited, was held on
May 31, in London, Lt.-General Sir Ronald M. Weeks, K.C.8., C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., M.C., T.D. (the chairman) presiding.
The following is an extract from a detailed review by the chairman of
the activities of the company and of its subsidiary and associated companies
circulated with the report and accounts;
OVERSEAS INTERESTS
COCKATOO DOCKS & ENGINEERING CO. PTY. LTD.
(AUSTRALIA)
The naval construction programme at present in hand continues to
receive first priority and steady progress is being made on the slipways and
in the shops.
Satisfactory steam trials of H.M.A.S. “Tobruk” were carried out.
Docking and ship-repair work has increased, and orders for considerable
miscellaneous work were received.
The conversion of one 11,000 ton merchant ship to its pre-war condition
was successfully completed to the entire satisfaction of the owners. A further
vessel of similar tonnage is now in course of reconstruction.
During the year work for various cement companies has been completed.
A staff superannuation scheme was established during the period under
review and was received with great satisfaction by the staff, all of whom
applied for membership.
VICKERS RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LTD. (AUSTRALIA)
For the period under review these works were as fully occupied as
possible, having in mind the current shortages of men and materials. Both
these problems are foremost in the minds of the Management and, whilst
every endeavour is being made to meet them, factors outside the Company’s
control make their solution difficult.
The order book is in a healthy state and covers a wide range of plant
and materials for use in industry, in particular in mining and in the rubber
and paper making trades.
The staff of the Company welcomed the inauguration during the year
of a superannuation scheme.
During the year, the Managing Director visited England to familiarise
himself with the products of the group and their manufacture, and to bring
about a close liaison between Vickers Ruwolt and the various Vickers works
in this country.
CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH
Addressing the meeting, the Chairman, in the course of his speech, said:
At the annual general meeting a year ago I ended my speech by saying
that: “For 1949, unless some unforeseen event takes place, which might
well happen, we are quietly confident of holding our own.” This has proved
to be correct, even although unforeseen events took place and once
again every branch of the business has made its contribution to the successful
results of the year.
I wish to pay a very sincere tribute to the skill and energy displayed
by management, staff and workpeople which has made success possible and
to all of them I would take this opportunity of expressing the thanks of the
Board and the stockholders.
Expanding Output Range
The range of Vickers’ products is now very wide and continues to
expand. The chairman’s circulated review deals specifically with the produc-
tion activities of the companies and works of the Vickers group; there is
no need for me to repeat what is said in that statement except to draw
attention to certain highlights, for example, to those great ships Orcades and
Himalaya, Rangitoto and President Peron, besides many others, now in
active service, tributes to the skill of our people at Barrow and the Naval
Yard. In aviation the Viking is now almost an old-stager—the Valetta
(R.A.F. Transport Command) and the Attacker (a single jet fighter) have
been the main items in our production lines —and you are all aware of the
potentialities of the Viscount and the Supermarine 510, the fighter which
put up such a fine performance in September last at Farnborough.
Clearing presses, variable speed gears and variable delivery pumps at
Elswick; power station plant, winding machinery, cement and soap machinery
at Barrow; accounting machines, boxmaking machinery, metal office furniture
at Croydon, Crayford and Dartford; malting and brewery machinery at
Bobys and Worssams; insulation and chemical rubber products from loco;
scientific instruments from Cooke Troughton and Simms; these items are
only part of what the group is making and selling.
Thanks to ihe activities of our subsidiary, George Mann, and our own
works at Newcastle the range of printing machines of all types continues
to grow and some of the available capacity at Crayford will be required to
fulfil our programme.
Exports
Throughout the year much attention has been given to strengthening our
ability to export, and there are few countries that have not been visited by
the directors of the parent or subsidiary companies with successful results.
In particular, we have endeavoured to play our part in increasing sales
in the American continent. So far as the United States is concerned we
have had some success in selling specialised products, but ours is not, in
my view, an industry where we are likely to have more than a very limited
market, although we shall spare no effort to increase our sales.
The position might be materially altered if some of the airline operators
in America were to decide to purchase our Viscount airliner. The Viscount
is far ahead of anything of its type built in the U.S.A., and many American
operators who have flown in it have spoken of it in the highest terms.
There are, however, many difficulties to surmount, not the least of which
is that of the Certificate of Airworthiness. While this country has accepted
the American certificate in the case of American aircraft purchased by
8.0.A.C., reciprocal action by America has not yet been agreed, and until
this is agreed the sale of British airliners to the U.S.A. remains virtually
impossible.
In Canada, the prospects are better; in several cases we are selling our
engineering products and I referred to the steps we had taken as regards
steel at the end of the chairman’s review.
Prospects
No one can make any reliable estimate as to what may happen in the
future in the financial and economic field either at home or throughout the
world.
The fortunes 9f the Vickers group depend on so many factors; I have
already instanced in the chairman’s review as regards aviation the cutback
in the Valetta programme, which has been disturbing; in steel the dependence
on political ideology continues; at all times there is the problem of external
competition which is gradually intensifying. The full employment of our
armament potential depends also on the extent to which the Government
of the day or Dominion or foreign Governments may wish to provide for
an improved or increased defence programme.
Encouraging Factors
Nevertheless, there are encouraging factors, which I am glad to be
able to record. Although orders for ships may be fewer and more difficult
to obtain, the complete renovation and modernisation of our shipyards at
Barrow and Newcastle has been achieved at an appropriate moment for
meeting increasing competition and we have been fortunate in securing the
following since January 1, 1950:
Two 9,000 tons dead weight cargo and passenger liners for Alfred
Holt and Co.
Four 19,800 tons dead weight steam-driven oil tankers for Mr. S. S.
Niarchos.
One 10,500 tons dead weight cargo and passenger liner for Furness
Withy (engines to be built by Parsons Marine Turbine Company—boilers
by Vickers-Armstrongs).
In the aviation field within the last few weeks we have secured further
orders for an additional 36 Attackers.
The original Viscount prototype has provided much interest for overseas
airline operators and a demonstration tour was carried out in March and
April this year to the principal cities of Europe, including Oslo, Stockholm,
Copenhagen, Amsterdam, Brussels, Paris, Zurich and Rome. The greatest
interest was shown by all who saw it, but it is too early to assess the
results that may accrue.
Specialised Products
While in no case can the sales of our engineering or other products
be regarded any longer as automatic, a number of our specialised products
can be relied on to give a good account of themselves —for example, British
Clearing presses, equipment for electrical generating stations, boxmaking
machinery and printing machinery which incidentally now covers a very
wide range of equipment used in the graphic art.
Our research and development departments will play no small part in
improving existing products, reducing cost and pointing the way to new
fields; we are also continually on the lookout for new engineering products
which will fit into our pattern of heavy or light engineering and we have
important products in view.
In summing up I would venture to hope that in 1950 we shall continue
to hold our ground.
The report was adopted.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
These are happier days, and
reasons aren’t hard to find. The
glory of high summer, the many
newly-lifted controls and the
freeing of petrol all make life
easier. Oversea visitors who
have known us during either the
tenseness of the war years or
the trying conditions of the
putative peace will notice a
difference. Eyes are clearer,
faces more relaxed and spirits
altogether brighter. And why?
Not because we are all con-
tentedly settled in the new
homes that were promised to
us, with a comfortable margin
of income over expenditure and
a confident future ; and not just
because there’s more in the
shops. .
It’s the psychological rather
than the material effect that has
such tonic properties: to be able
to lead an individual instead of
a “planned” life; to use the car
for a longish trip that isn’t in-
geniously contrived to fit in with
business; and to entertain
modestly in our homes without
embarrassment to both guest and
host. The elaborate organisa-
tions which seek to attract visi-
tors to these shores by colorful
propaganda and promise of a
tourist’s paradise are in part de-
ceptiye and offer too much.
Britain is no Switzerland, de-
pending substantially upon a
tourist trade for her living. The
visitor, as distinct from the
tourist, is the more likely to
reach full enjoyment, for he
seeks no more than to take her
as he finds her. A recent letter in
the “Observer” from a Sydney
woman confirms this opinion,
for it is a general expression of
thanks for the kindly and hos-
pitable treatment accorded to
her two daughters now in
Britain. It is a moving tribute,
and, we confidently hope, not
exceptional in its findings. Let
the tourists come, by all means,
but also let it be known to our
visitors that they’ll find us so
receptively at home that they
needn’t think twice about com-
ing.
Sales-talk
The staple diet of British
Socialism, although assured and
considerable, is nevertheless in-
adequate for lusty survival. Like
man, it cannot live by bread
alone, and must seek food of
better quality and more susten-
ance. The quest is on, but that
part of the electorate which
carries the food-basket has been
taken in once already and is
now a maturer and more
worldly-wise Red Riding Hood
than it was five years ago.
Blandishments in the form of
attractive-sounding definitions of
Socialism are unlikely to
deceive.
“Socialism,” says Mr. Morri-
son, “means the assertion of
social responsibility for matters
which are properly of social
concern.” This definition also
applies to other things, whether
they be prevention of crime,
building of houses, or taking in
hand the terrible boy who pulls
the hair of the girl next door.
Mr. Morgan Phillips, secre-
tary of the Labor party, speak-
ing to the International Socialist
Conference at Copenhagen,
sought to expunge the influence
of Marxist writings from the
annals of Socialism. His asser-
tion that “British Socialism is
Methodist rather than Marxist”
is subtler than Mr. Morrison’s
in that it is specific and partly
true. It is like saying that the
trombone is a sacred instrument
because it was once used in
church services. The Tolpuddle
Martyrs were Methodists, and
many local preachers were early
leaders in the Labor movement.
The Marx Men
On being approached, Metho-
dist opinion was guarded, which
suggests a double reluctance to
express a political opinion and
to upset the feelings of the con-
gregation ; but one could not
fail to sense the embarrassment
nor to gather the impression
that Socialism today was “slip-
ping.” Reaction in other
quarters was more emphatic,
especially from “Tribune,” the
Left-wing journal which is
closely linked with Mr. Aneurin
Bevan: the implication from the
correspondence columns was
that Mr, Phillips should go
home and relearn his political
history. (If any proof is needed
that all Nonconformists were
not Socialists it can be given by
Mr. Bevan himself, who as a
youth was expelled from the
local chapel because of his de-
cided views.)
Whole pages could be filled
with quotations substantiating
the Marxist view. Here are one
or two taken at random;
We have to take the strong points
of the Russian system and apply
them to this country.— Clement Attlee
in 1933.
It is not enough to recite Marxism.
We must apply it. — Harold Laski in
1945.
Communism is, indeed, only Social-
ism pursued by revolutionary means
and making its revolutionary method
a canon of faith. — G. D. H. Cole in
1945 1 edition of the Encyclopedia
Britdnnica.
Like all Socialists, I believe that
the Socialist society evolves in time
the Communist society.— John
Strachey in 1938.
If Mr, Phillips really believes
that he can alter the history-
books it is ironic that the
strongest opposition should
come from a determined faction
of his own party. The chastened
and disingenuous Red Riding
Hood is less likely to be in-
terested in the antecedents of
her plausible visitor, but she may
be very eager to get rid of him.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The uniforms worn by the Governor
and his aides comprised the only touch
of color to the opening of Parliament,
otherwise a rather sombre affair. Lady
Brooks, accompanying her husband,
covered her lilac-blue frock with a blue
fox cape in which pink rosebuds were
pinned. They matched the pink feathers
mingling with grey in her lilac-blue hat.
Jeanette Brooks added a cape of lynx
fur to her electric-blue crepe frock; her
matching hat was finished with a cluster
of pink roses. Mrs. T. T. Hollway
topped a frock of distant-blue wool
crepe with a junior-navy tailored coat
which had a deep collar of grey fox.
Betty Everard attended Lady Brooks in
a rich red tailored coat and matching
velvet cloche. Mrs. John Cain’s tailored
coat of rust-red wool had revers of black
Persian lamb ; her head-hugging hat of
black felt flew an osprey. Mrs. A.
Michaelis, wife of the new Speaker, wore
a navy coat piped with grosgrain and a
small navy cloche. Lady Eager was in
a black frock, dyed-ermine cape and .
small feather-trimmed black hat. Mrs.
Trevor Oldham combined greige wool
frock and winter-white hat effectively.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
added a pale-grey cloche to her black
coat, which had a deep shawl collar.
Cherries bobbed on the brim of the
pastel-green hat which Mrs. John Don
wore with her marine-blue jacket-suit.
William Warfield, the American Negro
baritone, was soloist at the concert at
which the Victorian Symphony Orchestra
was conducted by Charles Groves, the
8.8. C. conductor. The singer received a
fine ovation for his singing of the aria
from Handel’s “Samson” “Thy Glorious
Deeds,” and “Gladly Would I Be Endur-
ing,” from the “St. Matthew Passion” of
Bach. Noted in the audience were Mrs.
W. Kingham, in a pale-amber chiffon
gown, Leonore and Elsie Pitman, Mrs.
S. Gloede, Mrs. Frank Tait, artist Betty
Paterson, whose exhibition of baby
portraits opens this week, her artist-
daughter, Mrs. Barbara Newman, and
Mrs. Tom Mitchell.
When Bayles Myer, of Melbourne,
now doing a law course at Cambridge,
organised a ski-ing trip to Switzerland he
little knew he was playing Cupid. Enthu-
siasts of the sport included Timothy
Sharp, of Rhodesia, an engineering
student at Cambridge, and Pat White,
daughter of Air Minister Tommy White,
who was also in Cambridge doing a secre-
tarial job. Engagement followed, and
now the pair are here to be married at
Christ Church, South Yarra, on Friday.
Marjory Byron Moore, who will be one
of Pat’s bridesmaids, gave a party for
Pat to which she invited 30 of Pat’s
friends. The hostess wore a black crepe
ballerina frock, contrasted with gold
accessories. The guest-of-honor’s frock
of white broderie Anglaise had a pastel-
green sash. Mrs. Gordon Byron Moore,
who leaves shortly for a holiday at South-
port, had white hand-made lace collar
and cuffs on her fine black wool frock.
Other guests included Helen Mary
Macarthur, who was on the Switzerland
ski-ing trip with Timothy and Pat (she
wore a frock of floral taffeta), Dr. Jean
Hailes, in navy tie silk which had a pale-
blue stripe, Mrs. Leslie McNeil, her
taffetas pastel-blue, and Mrs. Tom
Hurley, in black crepe.
Lady Scott gave many members of this
city’s French community an opportunity
of meeting the new French Consul-
General, M. Jean Strauss, at a late-
afternoon party she gave at the Lyceum
Club. The hostess, who was assisted by
the committee of the Alliance Fran?aise
de Victoria, wore over her black wool
jacket-suit a silver musquash coat;
feathers outlined the brim of her black
hat. Madame M. Cocker ton’s black
wool coat was worn with a black hat
which had a mount of coq-feathers. With
Madame Albertine Gay, president of the
alliance, was her daughter Liliane, whose
unusual draped emerald-green peaked
hat was embroidered with sequins. In-
teresting guest at the party was American-
born wife of the French Military Attache
to Australia, Madame Van der Broucke.
Her hat was of multicolored satin ribbon
and veiling. Mrs. Maurice Belz added a
feathered hat to her black ensemble.
Madame Andree offset with a scarlet hat
her black frock and hip-length grey
Indian-lamb coat. Leopard boots were
worn by Mrs. J. Bowen Pain with her
mauve-and-black chevron tweed coat.
Madame F. Lustig’s pleated frock was
cinnamon-brown. Lenni Abrams allied a
brown skirt with a mustard-yellow wool
tunic-blouse. Madame Jacques Chable’s
slate-blue tailored coat went with a black
feather-trimmed hat. *
, , _ ,
Ho« soup with a dash of sherry was
a welcome addition to the menu at the
We-afternoon party held at the National
™ e ? lre > wh en ion voyage was said to
th .e honorary d,rector Gertrude Johnson,
who is England-bound in the Strathmore.
Knight Robert Knox, president of the
Natjonal xheatre who with his lady wel-
comed guests> ’ made a prese „tation of
lu SS a ge to Gertrude on behalf of the
National Movement. Among
guests wefe Lady Angliss> Pame l a
Kn Mrs> j so bel Green, Mrs. Rupert
Down ’ es and M Roper, Bernard
HeinZe and his wife> Mrs . A . N .
Jacobsen Linda Phillips, Mrs. W. P.
Mein Mrs Keith McKay and Mrs. H. P.
Qgilvie
'__ , .
Mrs. E. C. Daum, a char g
American who for the past two years
has been bvm S m thls Clt /’ was born
New York State. With her husband she
South A£ri Indja
’
and Sweden. She is an active member
of the American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Children’s Hospital, and is in charge
of catering for the July 4 “Springtime
in Washington” Ball, to be held at St.
Kilda Town Hall.
Attractive girls worked busily in the
foyer of His Majesty’s at the matinee of
“Annie Get Your Gun,” proceeds of
which are for the Melba Memorial Shell
Appeal. Visiting artists made their con-
tribution by working hard disposing of
gifts presented to the committee. Evie
Hayes auctioned a silver cigarette case,
once the property of Dame Nellie
Melba, and inscribed with famous names
such as Ada Crossley, Percy Grainger,
Marshall Hall and De Reszke. Joe E.
Brown stepped across from the Comedy
Theatre and sold flulfy white Harvey
rabbits, beautifully made. Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell was in charge of the front-of-
the-house. Among her helpers was Mrs.
Norman Spry, wearing a white aigrette-
trimmed cap with her junior-navy frock,
Mrs. Ned Holland, a grey Indian-lamb
coat over her black frock, Mesdames
Eric Cottrell, Gerard Alderton, A. Athorn
and Nancy Woodward, Helen Campbell
and Toni Kirkpatrick. Present at the
performance were the president of the
appeal, Mrs. W. Russell Clarke, the Lord
Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney, Madame Mario
Vigano, Lady Angliss, Mesdames T. T.
Hollway, Frank Tait and Herbert Pacini.
From Sydney
The thrilling feature of an overfull
social week in Sydney was the first per-
formance here of the Melbourne
National Ballet Company, under the
auspices of the Arts Council. Australia,
which has supplied a whole lot of talent
to the English stage, is at last producing
a national group of dancers, designers,
choreographers and composers. When
Gertrude Johnson came on stage after
the final curtain to thank the audience
for its wholehearted support, she said,
among other things, that the company
had been formed in Melbourne only 15
months ago, and that the average age of
the dancers was under 20. To have done
so mQch in so short a time suggests that
with proper encouragement and support
we could, in a decade or so, have a ballet
national in character and of international
standard. Despite the rain, the awkward
location of the Empire and its tiny foyer,
it was a first-night to satisfy the most
exacting. The house was filled to capa-
city with a remarkably cosmopolitan
audience. There was, of course, much
delightful formal dressing. Costly furs
appeared on all sides to give the final
touch of glamor to luxurious fabrics,
Honors for dressing went easily to Gert-
rude Johnson, whose tan crepe gown was
covered by a full-length matching cloak
lined with white satin, both frock and
cape trimmed with handsome appliques
of genuine Honiton lace. Dorothy Helm-
rich, representing the N.S.W. Arts
Council, wore a distinguished black velvet
gown, also with a matching cape, and
Mrs. Roy McKerihan, who entertained
them before the show, covered her tur-
quoise frock with a silver-fox coat.
A couple of nights later “The Love
Racket” opened at the Tivoli with Arthur
Askey and his English company, and
again the house was filled to the last
corner. Not so much glamor in this
audience, but heaps of laughter for the
clever little man, who is quite the nicest
comedian Sydney has seen in a long time,
He is naturally just funny. It’s not his
make-up or his clothes, it is just himself
who goes over in such a way that both
audience and players seem united in
having a thoroughly good time and a
good laugh. The cast wear some ex-
tremely nice frocks, too.
The English lass with the unusual green
eyes and light-brown hair is Valerie
Tandy, who plays Minnie Masters, lead-
ing feminine role in the Arthur Askey
show, “The Love Racket.” Valerie
started her stage career in a quite un-
orthodox fashion by making her first
appearance in a London West End theatre,
going off to the provinces afterwards in
musical comedy. At 17 she joined a
circus-a superior sort of one that played
in theatres, not big tops —on the under-
standing that she had nothing to do with
the animals. ' Be that as it may, she
admits to having danced the Lambeth
Walk with an elephant. Valerie is part
of the original London cast of “The
Love Racket.” She made one film, “Bees
in Paradise,” also with Arthur Askey,
and has been seen in television in “Bob’s
Your Uncle,” in which she played with
Leslie Henson and Australian Vera,
Pearce. Among other things she has it
to her credit that during the war she
appeared at the “Windmill,” the theatre
that never closed during the darkest days
of the Blitz.
Lady Cilento, who returned in the
Strathmore from a tour of America,
England and the Continent, called in at
The Bulletin last week, still full of the
zest and energy that have helped to make
her a figure in public life. Before return-
ing to Brisbane to continue in medical
practice, specialising in mothercraft, she
made a dash to Canberra, where she told
the president of the Executive Council,
Dame Enid Lyons, and Minister for
External Affairs Percy Spender of latest
American and European developments
and practices in the “personal needs of
mothers.” This is a subject on which
she had already compiled a report, and
which she wants to see put into practice.
In America she lectured on the aims of
the Pan-Pacific Women’s Conference held
last year at Honolulu, at which she
represented Australia. The six months
she and her husband spent in England
and on the Continent, where she studied
modern trends in infant and maternal
welfare, were not all hard work —it was
partly a family reunion.
They managed to get a car and toured
extensively, accompanied by daughter
Margaret, who is studying painting in
Paris and who worked in America with
the engraver William Hay ter. Younger
daughter Diane, who is in London at the
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and is
appearing in Phyllis Bedell’s ballet at the
Dorchester Hotel, studied both in Aus-
tralia and America. Her mother says the
ballet-training she received here was in-
valuable. ’ Although only 18, Diane
planned the choreography and trained a
ballet for a show in Virginia, U.S. Sir
Raphael Cilento is still in Cairo nr. ■
mg a seminar for the Arab
behalf of the United Nafiom ’ P l
Cilento is anxious to take ud W Udy
again and to investigate new teS Work
in physiological childbirth She lques
to lecture here on fe »
Women’s conference, the aims of Pa ? fic
are to further friendship ™ t “i whlc h
women of the Pacific counffle! lA
promote peace. The versatile ladv u SO
also made time in a busy lif e for has
journalism, and has contributed 'T 2
helpful articles in “The Ai, c t m ?- ny
Woman’s Mirror.” Australian
Grosvenor Galleries were nm j
when the Trade Commissioner f or S* 1
tan Mr. K. H. Rahman, op ened s '
exhibition of paintings bv P rv? , a “
Pratt. Mr Rahman was
his wife and her parents Mr t,i o +- d
the Begum Hasan! who kre hofc
Australia. Mr. Justice Hasan is a Hill
Court Judge of Lucknow, India. A s ft
embroidered light-green sari ,2
under a maroon coat by Mrs R a u WOln
and a beautiful copper-colored one em’
bossed with embroideries of metal
by the Begum. Mr. Erie L S rI?
introduced Mr. Rahman, waf L?
>*»*"• H n 8 k «. Others °who
attended the opening included Mrs R a
Noss, Mrs. T. A. J. Playfair, Mrs H,,!
“of Gostwick, Derek Burneft
his wife (she is better known as the paint er
Mrs. J. R. Ca.r4ha e
and Miss Beatrice Tildesley A rt k
Douglas Pratt was a bit handicapped bv
an ankle, sprained when he slipped down
some steps during one of Sydney’s nkhu
of torrential rain. Mrs. Pratt and
daughter Val were both there to heln
receive the guests. p
The Royal Empire Society’s rooms
have seldom looked more cosy and invit-
ing than on Thursday, when Alceo
Galliera, the visiting Italian conductor
was guest-of-honor at the cocktail-party
given by the members of Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestral Committee. Decora-
tions of chrysanthemums, poinsettia and
scarlet berries, culled from Killara gardens
and arranged by Mrs. Hope Gibson, de-
lighted everyone, Mr. Galliera straining
his limited English to make clear his
appreciation of such floral beauty. The
A.8.C., which was meeting in Sydney,
finished its deliberations in time to come
on to the reception. There were Mr. E.
R. Dawes, acting-chairman of the com-
mission, Sir John Medley, vice-chancellor
of the Melbourne University, Mrs. Ivy
Kent, of Perth, Mr. P. W. Nette and Mr.
P. Vanthoff. The guests were received by
Lady Anderson, in a black cocktail frock
topped with a matching velvet hat with
black feathers, and Mrs. Hope Gibson,
in a cherry wool ensemble and black
feathered hat. Others in the gathering
included his Excellency the Italian
Minister, Don Guilio Del Balzo, and
Donna Marisa Del Balzo, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Moses, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Evans (Beatrice Tange) in suave black
highlighted with a brilliant emerald-green
ostrich plume, and Mrs. A. H. Charteris
in a long flared coat of wine-red corduroy
velvet.
A Mexican fiesta was staged by the
C.W.A. at the Trocadero at their Inter-
national Day gathering. Members of the
younger set, wearing Mexican National
costume, helped as usherettes, and
Mexican colors were used in the decora-
tions. Mr. John Metcalfe, principal
librarian of N.S.W. Public Libraries, who
was in Mexico as a delegate to the Inter-
national Conference, talked on Mexico
to an interested audience. The official
guests were received by Mrs. B. Swenson,
president of the Metropolitan Group,
C.W.A. Aim of the gathering is to
create international goodwill and frieiio-
ship through greater knowledge ot otne
peoples.
The Ladies Auxiliary of the Royal
Empire Society held an “at-home
the clubrooms in Bligh-street, at. w i
Mr. Justice Herron, the guest-ot-honor,
gave an address on “Australia s
of Justice.” Mrs. J. C. Windeyer
have been one of the hostesses
prevented by illness. Mrs. Percy Sp :
wife of the president of the Society,
in her stead in company with Mrs.
Norman Jenkyn. Among those £
sipped tea and nibbled a sand ,
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Louat, M •
F. E. Manning, Mrs F M £
A. C. Williams, Mrs D. Lmdsay,
Plummer, Mr. Bill Bradley, • •
rently well recovered from h f rom
ness), and an interesting gistra te
Fiji, Mr. Roeli Ravai, ch ® council
and a member of theLeg lB ! the
of Bau, Fiji, and
Province of Tailevu. M • the
George’s black velvet a white
scolloped brim, accentuate formed
reverse, and a wimple-h was
by the braided loops at
outstanding.


FIRST IN 1888..
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXiDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD- 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
XA tO.M
PERSONAL ITEMS
Notched 80 in Sydney recently, Bert
Bailey, alias “Dad Rudd.” For this im-
memorial part Bert sprouted a fine crop
of face fungus. A trial screening was
ordered, and Bailey appeared on the
screen deep in conversation with another
character. Suddenly the house rocked
with laughter. In between the beginning
and end of a sentence Dad’s beard had
shot forward half an inch. Some
sequences had been filmed before others,
as is the usual practice, and a fortnight’s
growth was condensed into a second. An
Aucklander, Bert first trod the boards with
a touring theatrical company in 1889, and
subsequently played in parts ranging from
comedy to grand opera. He played in
five films, all “Dads,” and was co-author
of three others. Now living in Darling-
hurst, Sydney, he never goes to pictures,
is bored by radio-acting and amuses him-
self with bowls and boating.
Charles Kretsinger Gamble, calling it
a day in New York, was chairman and
managing-director of the Vacuum Oil
concern in Australia between 1938 and
1945, when he shifted to New York, to
become vice-president of the parent com-
pany. Like most oilmen, he's been in
pretty well every country. Selling oil in
Greece when the Kaiser broke loose,
he reached Paris in time to join
up with the first US. troops to reach
Europe. In Australia many years when
Hitler put on his turn. Gamble figured
prominently in the Victorian division of
the Australian Comforts Fund, and in
1942 was appointed American Red Cross
delegate for Australia, in both capacities
extending the welcoming comforts-filled
mitt to the swarms of his countrymen
then beginning to invade this country. On
the more urgent side he served the Federal
Government in an advisory capacity on
petrol matters. Hailing from San Mateo,
California, he is 61.
H. W. H. Fisher, of Perth (W.A.), who
can write wing-commander before his
name an‘d D.F.C. after it, goes from the
R.A.F. liaison-department in London to
command of the Arab Legion Air Force,
under Glubb Pasha, in Amman, Trans-
jordan, just across the Palestine border.
Now 33, Fisher knows the conditions well
enough—he won his decoration flying in
the war-time Middle East.
Hugging the asphalt for the first time in
years in a civilian shore berth, “Lachie”
De Silva Nicolson, ex - lieutenant
R.A.N.V.R. During the hush-hush con-
struction at a Brisbane shipyard in 1943
of a flotilla of weird-looking craft de-
signed to resemble Malay praus, the
supervising naval officer was referred on
technical matters to a bespectacled civilian
shipwright; and learned that the
youngster had all his master’s certificates,
an intimate knowledge of N.Q. and
island waters, and a healthy hate of
medical brasshats who, on the grounds of
his myopia, had banged shut in his face
the door to each of the Services. The
N.O. was sympathetic and resourceful,
and a week later Lieut. Nicolson floated
into the Navy by the special-entry
channel. His first command was one of
his own mystery craft. Attached to .the
Special Reconnaissance Detachment of
Allied Intelligence he carried out
numerous missions in Jap-controlled
waters, an 0.8. E. being the Navy’s
appreciation of the manner of their
fulfilment. He’s a member of the well-
known Lindeman Is. family.
Th o Very Reverend Dean Roscoe
Wilson, who has been threatened with
bombs and bullets over the visit of the
Japanese Bishop Yashiro, and whose
deanery in East Melbourne has had to
have the services of a patrol-car, was
a military chaplain in War I and is now
kanon of St. Paul’s Cathedral. Stout of
character and body, a man of tolerance
and broad views, and approaching 70, he
was born in Melbourne and has been
mi .nister and dean in the most selective
suburbs.
. At present there’s just about a record-
size invasion of British music by Aus-
tralians. Billed with London Symphony
Orchestra at the Albert Hall were
pianist Eileen Joyce and soprano
Joan Hammond, who had just finished
a 16-weeks’ tour of the island.
Muriel Brunskill has stepped down
from opera to sing in “Carousel,” the
Hammerstein show at Drury-lane which
is expected to beat the record of
“Oklahoma.” Melburnian Sylvia Fisher
and another soprano, Rosina Raisbeck,
have been singing at Covent Garden in
the supreme test for singers, Wagner’s
“Ring” of four great operas. Pianist
Valda Aveling has been playing Grieg at
Wolverhampton, and Glenda Raymond,
youngest of the singing invaders, has just
carolled to an audience of 7000 at a Phil-
harmonic concert at the Albert, and got
four encores for her 20-minute perform-
ance of Mozart’s “Exultate Jubilate.”
William Herbert would have been in the
Australian flock if he hadn’t been visit-
ing his hometown, Melbourne.
This is the easy attitude in which violin
virtuoso Alfredo Campoli is most likely
to be seen away from concert-platform
or tennis-court (for though the racquet
has to play second fiddle to the fiddle it
still looms large in Campoli’s affections).
Had he been of the temperamental
variety of virtuosi he couldn’t possibly
have maintained the geniality and amia-
bility he displayed to Dubois and an in-
terviewing Bulletin man, for during his
Sydney season the deluge blocked all
his attempts to get on to a tennis-court.
Born in Rome, Campoli has spent most
of his life in England—he speaks like an
Oxford don. He is one of the very few
top-flight violinists who never attended
a musical academy—he had no need to,
his> father being a professor of the fiddle.
With a mother who was a famous
dramatic soprano—she toured extensively
with Scottl and Caruso—he was virtually
immersed in music from the cradle, and
he took to the fiddle like a duck to water.
At 13 he cleaned up the London Musical
Festival with a performance of the
Mendelssohn Concerto, which started
him off on international tours. Later he
formed small orchestras, a sphere
which he made his own in London for
ALFREDO CAMPOLI.
some years. With the outbreak of war
in 1939 he disbanded these and took to
the solo fiddle for the delectation of the
troops, and he has stuck to the concert-
platform ever since. Possessor of a
dazzling technique and a 177-year-old
Guadagnini, the two combined, plus an
ingrained habit of putting everything he
has into his playing without mannerisms,
make him an artist who ranks With the
greatest.
When Herbert P. Ogilvie, here
presented by Mcßeath, recently gave up
golf he wasn’t complying with doctor’s
orders, as his friends imagined. After
40 years’ trying he still found himself a
victim of that common malady of stand-
ing too close to the ball —after he had
hit it. He has made no such mistakes in
business and social relationships. Twice
Federal president of the Commonwealth
Institute of Accountants (at present on
the Victorian council), foundation mem-
ber of the council of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in Australia and
BERT OGILVIE.
member of the Faculty of Commerce of
Melbourne University, friend, guide and
counsellor to many of Australia’s largest
trade and business organisations, of
which he is secretary to at least a dozen,
he has found time to be consul for
Uruguay and attend to the business side
of charitable organisations. For years
his home hospitality has been a feature
of Melbourne social life; and, with
friendships extending to most parts of
the globe, he evidently intends to wear,
not rust, out.
“Fairf”: Vic Hey, ex-Rugby League
international at present coaching the Aus-
tralian team to have at the visiting Eng-
lish, is the son of a man who doesn’t
quite know where he stands. Hey senior,
patron of the sport in the southern dis-
tricts for more than a quarter of a cen-
tury, still retains his Old Country accent
—and patriotism. When his son was first
chosen to play against England “Old
Joe” couldn’t decide which side he was
barracking for. After returning from
the ’34 tour Vic accepted an offer to
play for his father’s home town, Leeds.
For 10 years he played big football over
the other side—and returned with an
accent more pronounced than his father’s.
In the present Tests Hey senior is sitting
on a sharp fence. As a proud parent he
yearns to see his son coach the team that
will at last collar the Ashes; as' a loyal
“Yorky” he can’t bear to think of old
England going down to defeat.
Forty years in the Victorian force have
set the face of Superintendent S, R.
Mudie into its present granite mould
and given his eyes their probing glint.
The Terrible Ten of Melbourne were
aptly named, formed as they were of
picked men to bring the gun-gangs of
Fitzroy and ColKngwood to heel in the
’twenties. One of the last of them, Mudie
joined at 20, and has served in most
of the force’s ramifications, from detec-
tive to police prosecutor and licensing in-
spector, as well as in the old A.I.F. as a
gunner in the 12th Field Brigade Artillery.
He was Deputy Chief Commissioner
when he handed in his gear last week.
Recently appointed to the Advisory
Board of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, Robert Guy Howarth, Reader in
English Literature at Sydney University.
An old Fortian, Howarth gained his B.A.
with honors, went to Oxford on a
travelling fellowship and was awarded
B.Litt. for his work on the dramatist
James Shirley. While there he was in-
vited by Dent to edit for the Illustrated
Classics series Pepys’s letters and second
diary, Byron’s letters, and seventeenth-
centuiy poets for Everyman’s Library.
Back in Sydney, he continued at the Uni-
versity the tradition of Elizabethan studies
so notably begun by J. Le Gay Brereton,
a collection of whose writings on Eliza-
bethan drama Howarth recently pub-
lished through the Melbourne University
Press, For 13 years Howarth reviewed
for “S. M. Herald,” a selection appearing
not long ago as “Literary Particles.”
Also from his pen have come two books
of verse, essays on Shakspeare and on
modem writers, with a handbook on the
technique of modem poetry. Always in-
terested in Australian literature, he was
brought into closer touch by his editor-
ship of “Southerly,” now over 10 years
old; among authors honored by special
numbers of it are Hugh McCrae, Joseph
Furphy, Chris Brennan, Peter Hopegood
and William Hay, As well, Howarth hhs
compiled two selections of verse, Aus-
tralian Poetry, 1944 and the Jindyworo-
bak Anthology, 1949, and as a Com-
monwealth Literary Fund lecturer on
Australian Literature he has visited
Queensland, Canberra and Armidale and
given courses at his own university. This
year he goes to Melbourne. He is Presi-
dent of the Sydney branch of the English
Association, one of whose objects is to
further Australian literature.
Andrew Douglas Young, who bulked
largely in the life of Adelaide, was a man
of many interests. Most important, in
his own scale of values, perhaps, was his
succeeding Justice Napier as Grand
Master of the South Australian Grand
Lodge of Freemasons in 1939. But he
was also president of the S.A. Stock Ex-
change (16 years till 1948), director of
various companies and of the State Bank,
and a past-president of the S.A. Cale-
donian Society, Earlier he had been a
sharp rifle-shot, but transferred his
allegiance to bowls, becoming president
of the Australian Bowling Council. He
was on bowls business when he died in
Edinburgh last week at 69.
Mrs, Eileen Finlay, the Victorian
novelist, passed on the other day in the
same hospital in which, eight years previ-
ously, she first got her inspiration to be-
come an author. It was a broken leg
which started H. G. Wells on the writing
path; with Mrs. Finlay it was acute
arthritis. In the eight years she wrote
The Caravan Passes, Full Turn, The
Caravan Returns, Undefeated, The Hills
of Home, Galleon—Proudly Sailing, and
The Wasted Years, making three copies
of each book in her own hand, a gigantic
labor. One of her books found U.S, and
Canadian markets.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 50, Gwyn Jones, who as
“Orleigh” of Melbourne “Herald” was as well
known in southern racing circles as Flemington.
Before starting his long stay of 20 years with
the “Herald” he had piled up experience on
Adelaide “Register,” followed by the racing
editorship of Sydney “Sun.” Secretary of the
Victorian Racing Writers’ Association, com,;
mittee-nlember of the A.J.A., he found time
for charitable interests, and a week before the
end was nominated for a life-governorship of
Camperdown District Hospital.
In Adelaide, at 66, Claude Barrows Jennings,
international cricketer and, till retirement last
year, 12 years secretary of Adelaide Chamber
of Commerce, claimed to be the oldest C. of C.
in Australia—it had a hundredth birthday in
1939. Jennings represented S. Australia for
five years from 1902, did the same for Queens-
land (captain for one season), then toured
England as vice-captain of the 1912 Test team.
His business score was just as impressive.
In Melbourne, at 75, Robert Nathan, last
of a family of six brothers who among them
built up one of the biggest collective fortunes
in Australia. A leading racing man, he was a
member of all Melbourne racing clubs.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 72, Joseph Benjamin
George Smith, prominent in Boy Scout and
Rotary movements. A native of India, he was
chief-engineer and secretary of the Punjab
Irrigation Public Works when he retired in
1933 and crossed to M.L. For his Indian
services he was knighted and made a Com-
panion of the Order of the Indian Empire.
In England, at 65, Rear-Admiral Francis
Hugh Walter Goolden, C.B. He served in
Jellicoe’s Iron Duke throughout War I, and
was executive officer of H.M.S. Hood during
the world voyage of the Atlantic Fleet in 1924.
He paid two further visits to Australia —one
immediately after he had been promoted captain
in 1926, when he came to command H.M.A.S.
Melbourne for a' couple of years, and again
during War 11, as a member of a British Military
Mission.


The Search for
OIL IN PAPU A
By John Pain
[Photos by Brian Chirlian.]
Historical Foreword
THE northern coast of New Guinea
was sighted by roaming mariners as
early as 1511, and the first landings
were made by Alvaro de Saavedra
in 1528 and 1529. It was not until 1606,
however, that any record of Papua
proper occurs, in which year Luis Vaez
de Torres entered what is now known as
Milne Bay, where he went ashore. From
that point he made his way westward
along the south coast, landing where
necessary to procure water and fresh
food. He named the island Isla del Oro
—“The Island of Gold.”
Strangely enough in those days of land-
grabbing, no serious attempt to annex
this considerable island to the British
Crown was made until Captain John
Hayes, of the Bombay Marine, raised the
flag near where the present capital of
Dutch New Guinea is built. This was
followed by several more-or-less informal
“annexations,” the only one of oil interest
being that by Lieutenant Yule at Cape
Possession, whose indefinite form has
been the cause of a lot of uncertainty as
to the boundaries of the several permit
areas. The final annexation took place on
November 6, 1884, by Commodore
Erskine at Port Moresby with pomp,
gun-salutes and legality. The Germans
in November and December hoisted their
flag at Finschhafen and Astrolabe Bay
and claimed the north-east section of New
Guinea for the Kaiser. On September 4,
1888, Dr. William MacGregor changed
the then Protectorate of the area now
known as Papua to the Crown Colony of
British New Guinea and became ad-
ministrator.
Although gold was already known to
occur in the new territory, and although
MacGregor was an enthusiastic and
observant explorer and recognised other
commercial possibilities, the locality of
petroleum emanations was not definitely
recorded until the present century.
Discoveries of Petroleum
The presence of oil-seepages near the
coast of the Gulf of Papua is mentioned
in reports as early as 1891, but the first
indication given of a definite locality was
when oil-saturated sandstones were noted
within the coal-measures outcropping in
the Buti and Iwaka Rivers of Dutch New
Guinea. Later, in 1910, both coal and
oil were found in the Aitape district of
what was then German New Guinea.
The Reichstag voted the sum of 500,000
marks (then worth £25,000) for the pur-
pose of conducting a geological explora-
tion for oil in that area, and a specialist
expedition was sent out from Germany
for the purpose. The work, however,
was not completed by August, 1914, when
hostilities put a stop to it.
In Papua proper, the first locality in
which indications of oil were definitely
reported was the Kiri district, where
petroleum was noted in the mud brought
up with gas to the east of Opa. The
same observers reported similar gas-vents
about two miles north of Akauba.
These discoveries led to several applica-
tions to prospect and drill for oil in the
area, but the Government decided to
undertake the development itself. The
official investigation by Government
geologists confirmed the indications of
oil already reported and disclosed many
other seepages of gas and oil, including
the usually spectacular mud “volcanoes,”
over an area of about 900 square miles.
Rather prematurely, the official reports
referred to the area as the “Vailala
Petroleum Field.” But it has been in
this Vailala area, 200 miles from Port
Moresby along the Gulf of Papua, on
the “under-side” of the island of New
Guinea, that million after million of
pounds has been spent in the search for
oil over the past 10 years.
Early Drilling
The first well to be sunk for oil in
Papua was commenced near Upoia, in the
Vailala region, on January 18, 1913, and,
not surprisingly, in view of the near-by
seepages, a small show of oil was struck
at 288 ft. This happened at the end of
April, 1913, and was given a quite un-
deserved degree of importance. In the
meantime, another bore had been started
at Orevi, near the east bank of the
Purari River, on April 15, and drilling at
both locations ’went on sporadically.
Progress was slow owing to sickness of
the drilling staff and the inadequacy of
equipment. No results of any value
were obta j ned>
new pbase j n the operations was
entered upon when the Government
appointed to its survey a geologist who
bad specialised in the search for petro-
leum need for such an o ffi cer had,
tQ tbeir cred i t , been quite frankly ex-
pressec j hy the Government geologists
exploring the area. The British specialist
engaged arrived at Port Moresby in
October, 1913, and commenced his
examination at Upoia, travelling up to
the headwaters G f t h e VaiJala River to
collect further data. In April, 1914, he
re t urne d to the coast and extended his
survey westward to the Purari delta and
eastwart i t 0 Kerema. He also made a
rapid coas tal traverse to Yule Island,
which, unfortunately, did not reveal the
structures occurring a short distance
j n i and
Many strange stories have been told about the search for oil in
New Guinea. This article, written by an oil geologist of world
repute, is a “documentary” on the search for oil in Papua. One
prospecting group alone has spent close on seven million pounds
looking for Papuan oil in the past dozen years, including the war-
interruption period.
During this period of nine months’
field-work some drilling had been accom-
plished in the Upoia area. Well No. 2
reached a depth of 460 ft. on October 22,
but attempts to deepen it failed, and the
bore was abandoned on December 15,
1913. The gear was then moved to a
site about 100 yards further from the
river bank. It reached a depth of only
302 ft., and was abandoned at the end
of June, 1914. Again the rig was moved,
this time across the Vailala, to a site near
the first shallow hand-bores, and the well
reached a depth of 390 ft. by October 10,
1914. No further progress was made, but,
when the water which had been struck
in the well was cemented off in June,
1915. 100 gallons of oil was pumped
out in the first week and 50 gallons in the
second week. This oil was followed by
mud, suggesting that it was derived from
a restricted lenticle.
It is easy, but quite unjust, to blame
Sketch-map of drilling areas.
these early operators for their mistakes
and failures. They were up against an
exceptionally mobile form of “gumbo,”
and their equipment, methods of mud
treatment and experience were quite
inadequate to solve the new problems in-
volved. Some of their efforts to do so were
very courageous ; others were foolhardy.
(According to scientific usage.
“gumbo” is the geological name for the
stratified portion of the lower'till of the
Mississippi valley, but its use has been
extended by drillers to cover other mud-
like strata not sufficiently consolidated to
be described, in their parlance, as “rock,
In the southern States of U.S.A.,
“gumbo” is okra stew. This is probably
the original application of the word, and
is a good indication of the properties of
its geological namesake as visualised by
the derrick crew.
Where the driller’s “gumbo” contains
or is in contact with brackish water,
the’walls of a bore passing through it are
liable to swell and, sometimes, collapse.
thus impeding or preventing the move-
ment of the “string” of drilling tools in
the well. It is thpn usual to describe it
as “heaving shale,” but other appellations
—many of them not printable are used
by oil-men.)
Following the first strike of oil, the
geological examination and sporadic dril-
ling at Upoia continued. In all, eight
wells were sunk, the last three making
use of a rotary rig, which had been on
order since 1915, but did not reach the
site until 1918. The Papuan heaving
shale,” however, was still unconquered,
’
and the greatest depth reached was only
a few feet below 2000 ft.
In all, the field is estimated to have
produced over 4000 gallons of oil, col-
lected casually. It is probably just as
well that much time or labor was not
expended in an attempt to produce com-
mercial petroleum from the shallow
showings at Upoia. The physical charac-
teristics of the oil obtained strongly
suggest that it had been forced up from
depth through fine-grained strata ; wells
giving this type of oil are very rarely even
small commercial producers.
Systematic Search, 1919-39
In July, 1919, an agreement was signed
between the British and Australian Gov-
ernments and the Anglo-Persian Oil
Company, whereby the two Governments
agreed to provide £50,000 each, while the
Anglo-Persian Co. would supply and
direct the technical staff necessary for
oil exploration and boring.
The geological examination in the field
was commenced in May, 1920, at Yule
Island, and the mapping of potentially
oil-bearing structures, in some detail, be-
tween that island and the Vailala River
was carried out in the succeeding 12
months. As a result of this work, a struc-
The drill rig at Hohoro.
ture at Popo was chosen for the first test
by boring.
Drilling of the first well was com
menced in March, 1922, with a percus-
sion rig and 16in. casing. By September
a depth of 1775 ft. had been reached, bm
so had the now well-known Papuan
“heaving shale,” and only 50ft. of
progress was made in over a year, after
which the hole was abandoned.
No. 2 well was located 1100 ft. from
No. 1 site, and 350ft.'further from the
crest outcrop in the hope that drilling
conditions would be better. It was also
decided to use the percussion rig for the
upper part of the hole, changing to the
Fauck system when the mobile shales
were reached. The Fauck system already
had a good record in Europe for pene-
trating unstable strata. Percussion boring
was commenced in December, 1923, and
a string of 15in. casing was set and
cemented at 888 ft. in February, 1924,
when the Fauck rig was brought into
action.
It was then found that the casing
had become so crooked that the hole
could not be used for further drilling;
the derrick, therefore, was skidded a few
yards and a new hole commenced along-
side. This was in November,' 1924, and,
in May, 1925, a string of lOin. casing was
cemented at 2112 ft. Following this, Bfin.
casing was carried to 2359 ft. by July. At
2375 ft., however, the. heaving shale was
again giving trouble. This time the shale
submerged the string of tools, and, despite
heroic efforts to recover them, they had
to be abandoned in the hole. As a last
resource, and using mud weighted with
barytes, a string of syin. casing was
driven to 2618 ft., where it stuck firmly.
This was followed by 4£in. casing, which
“froze” at 2658 ft. Drilling with
minimum-size tools, the open hole was
carried down to 2707 ft,, when any
progress ceased and the bore was aban
cloned on May 4, 1926.
Well No. 4 was started, with 17m. cas-
ing, in August, 1927, and a fair showing
of gas was met at 746 ft. This was
off with 15in. casing, which however,
stuck at 895 ft. The hole was then aban-
doned and the rig was moved t.
away, where Well No. 5 was spudded-m
in February,. 1928, to be abandoned, afte
many vicissitudes, at 1394 ft. in M
19 The history of these wells hw b«®
given in some detail as they fi
results obtained in Papuan heav c
even when the most ac3van fr ere em-
and equipment then availabl , evef)
ployed. The lack of ’ f . m p-y-
-did not deter smaller companies fin
ing their luck over the s am n P ern ’were
between 1924 and 1929 five j n
either drilling or P rep f ar !{Js/sometimes
Papua. The history ofwith
valiant, sometimes foolish,
Papuan conditions and - we jls
tically a repetition of that eqUjF-
already detailed, except them we re
ment and methods availab we ]ls
more primitive, F eW lAnoft, the only
reached a depth oV f n jS Sark bc®«
one approaching the 20 f Q ioIT]O Oil
the Wohomal bore j den tally, *
Co., which organisation, nc
the only survivor of the gmuP inclu ding
Certain of the Oriomc» as * e re
options and dri| ID S l P Lfih wb ' c
transferred to Oil Search,


formed in January, 1929, and Oriomo
wai> , active operations but retained an
Merest of 405,000 fully-paid ss. shares
! new co. •
Thp Anglo-Persian Oil Co. ceased
Orations in October, 1929, the British
Sernment having withdrawn financial
rt in 1921 and the Commonwealth
• UP i P 927 Exploratory work by the other
JSJioanies searching for oil in Papua was
cnSended owing to the 1930 depression.
ft was not until 1936, when the legisla-
tion pertaining to petroleum was modi-
fied that interest in Papuan oil was re-
vived' and in that year applications for
Le exclusive permits to prospect were
made By June, 1938, seven permits had
been "ranted, and a further revision of
the legislation attracted some of the major
oil companies to the area.
The first of these was Shell, which,
through its subsidiary, Papua Oil De-
velopment, took up a permit of 20,000
square miles in the Western and Delta
divisions, extending from the Fly River
| 0 the Dutch New Guinea border. The
c 0 commenced activities in 1936, but
withdrew early in 1940, after expending
approximately £450,000 on aerial photo-
graphy, ground geological and geo-
physical surveys and scout-drilling, with-
out discovering structures and strata
which it considered promising.
In 1936, also. Oil Search, Ltd., had
acquired leases covering 13,000 square
miles in New Guinea and 12,000 square
miles in Papua, With considerable fore-
sight, its directors realised that the satis-
factory exploitation of the area was
beyond the resources available to it.
Negotiations with the Anglo-Persian and
Vacuum Oil cos. led to the formation of
the Australasian Petroleum Co. in
October, 1938. This group
almost immediately embarked
on an extensive air-survey and
a special ground examination
by geologists and other tech-
nicians, and, as a result of their
detailed and extensive work,
which was completed about the
middle of 1939, a site for the
first major test well was chosen
in the Kariava district, on the
Vailala River. The depth ulti-
mately reached by this well
was a record not only for Aus-
tralasia, but also for any com-
parable bush area in the world.
In addition to their interest
in the Australasian Petroleum
Co., a half-share each is held by
Vacuum and Anglo-Iranian in
the Island Exploration Co.,
which obtained, in 1937,
permits to explore for oil over
more than 20,000 square miles.
This co. has done a consider-
able amount of reconnaissance
work, but, to date, po major
drilling, although it is expected
that this will start in the near
future.
Nearly all the permits
granted have been for areas
of several thousand square
miles in extent. It is, therefore,
rather surprising to find that
one was granted for only 75
miles —a very small area in
unproved oil territory. This
particular permit was granted
to a surveyor who had been
engaged by the Anglo-Persian Co.
during their Papuan reconnaissance.
The permit was transferred, on an em-
ployment and share consideration,
to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum
Co., with a nominal capital of
£250,000. The co. started opera-
tions in 1937, with a portable dril-
ling rig, capable, under the most favor-
able conditions, of reaching a maximum
depth of 1000 ft. The site chosen was on
a fault zone, showing a little gas, near
the mouth of the Biaru River.
Late in 1937, however, an oil geologist
was engaged in London at the behest of
the Oil Advisory Board, which later was
instrumental in providing a rotary-drilling
rig, on loan from the Government, to-
gether with financial assistance. Almost
immediately following arrival of the
geologist in Papua operations at Biaru
were stopped and the rig was moved on to
the Oiapu structure, where it was em-
ployed on the scout-drilling for which it
had been designed. Early in 1939 a loca-
tion for a major test was made in the
northern section of the Oiapu structure,
this site was unreservedly endorsed by
members of the Oil Advisory Board, who
made a special visit to the area.
All drilling equipment, including items
°f 10-tons weight, was landed on the open
and unprotected beach of Oiapu without
toss at the end of 1939 —a feat deserving
of commendation for all concerned —but
me geologist, who had been responsible
tor this and for the location of the first
major well, left the co.’s employ before
major drilling was commenced.
Remarkably, in view of the unbroken
hnnT^°L th « Structure in the neighbor-
ahanrir/ first 1 ma 3° r tes t, the well was
abandoned at about 2500 ft. A second
3J eS ' Wel ™ as started in the
r hem .. part of the 0ia P u struc-
ture within, a volcanic area. This test
fbrn he h a f u deiDth of 2040 f - without passing
through the igneous zone and was aban-
donecx at that depth. A third test, using
a slim hole and starting with 6in. cas-
ing was located, on palaeontological
evidence on what was supposed to be a
structural ‘high” not far from the first
major test. It did not achieve the 2000 ft.
mark. All the major wells on this struc-
ture reached depths too shallow to test
its oil potentialities, and the results from
the second and third tests, as far as they
went, indicated that a misconception of
the tectonic (earth-crust structure) condi-
tions had occurred in their location.
The co. now proposes, if funds permit,
to drill in the hitherto untested Lesi area
north of the Biaru River, which will
necessitate much deeper drilling than at
Oiapu.
The Kariava Well
On March 8, 1941, following upon an
extensive air-survey and a special ground
examination by geologists and other tech-
nicians, the Australasian Petroleum Co.
spudded-in its first major test well. The
structure selected Jor this test was the
large, and comparatively unbroken,
Kariava anticline, 70 miles up the Vailala
River.
To reach this location, all equipment
had to be broken down, as far as possible,
at Port Moresby, where it was loaded on
to 40- to 50-ton shallow-draught vessels
and transported to the mouth of the
Vailala River and then across the
The A.P. Co.’s drilling site at Wana.
treacherous bar. In times of spate the
vessels could travel upstream for a river-
distance of 70 miles (which was only 40
miles in a straight line) to the upper
landing-point, where the equipment was
off-loaded on to lorries and carried over
three miles of speci&lly-constructed ro3.d,
through broken jungle country, to the
well-site 500 ft, above river-level,
During the dry season, the sea-going
craft had to discharge at Upoia, where the
cargo was transferred to shallow-draught
launches and to native dugout canoes.
Some of these were^h'wLhek
an . sam,'5 a m,' . . draueht was
capacity of five tons, their draugnt was
only 15in„ and, with the aid of 22 h.p.
out {, oard moto rs, the y could travel up-
gtream at a speed of fi ve knots. Eight of
lhese canoe s, manned by Papuan crews,
were used In v i ew 0 f the risks run in the
seasonally rough Papuan Gulf, in cross-
• the y a ilala bar and in the Vailala
River itse ]f 5 t h e delivery of all equipment.
chemicals and oil fuel without serious
loss was a praiseworthy performance,
Tbe ld g used was a modified National
rotary powered by diesel engines. The
derric k was Q f steel and 136 ft. in height,
d the out fi t wa s designed to reach a
depth 0 f 10,000 ft.
Boring was uneventful throughout
1941, 18|in. casing being set and
cemented at 896 ft., at 2327 ft. and
lliin. at 3760 ft. .
At the end of January, 1942, in view
of the Japanese invasion, the Govem-
ment issued instructions to stop drilling
and to prepare the plant for demolition
in case of necessity. .
The well had then reached a depth of
5400 ft. —a record for Papua—and was in
shale of Miocene age. Cuttings had been
examined at 2ft, intervals from surface to
2230 ft.; below that depth coring was
continuous, and a complete geological,
structural and palaeontological log was
obtained. Following the suspension of
drilling, the hole was filled with a special
anti-corrosive mud and plugged at the
top with cement.
As the Japanese forces did not reach
the neighborhood of Kariava, destruc-
tion of the plant was not called for, and
preparations to resume operations were
commenced at the end of 1945. The well
was cleaned out without serious difficulty,
although equipment and chemicals were
in short supply and delivery was uncer-
tain. The hole was found to be un-
damaged, proving the efficiency of the
preservative measures taken in 1942, and
drilling was resumed on November 8,
1946.
Nine-inch casing was set at the depth
of 5750 ft, and 6|in. at 7864 ft. The
target depth of 10,000 ft. was reached dur-
ing October, 1947, and, as the walls of
the bore were standing up well, it was
decided to continue drilling to bedrock,
or, if that were not reached, to the full
capacity of the equipment. On March 25,
1948, the work was stopped, the well
having attained the phenomenal depth of
12,621 ft. While this depth is not a world
record, it is by far the deepest well drilled
in Australasia, and it may certainly be
stated that a corresponding depth has
never been attained under similar condi-
tions of terrain and transport and em-
ploying labor which, apart from the white
staff, was temperamental to a degree and
not far advanced from a Stone Age
culture. No sizeable indications of petro-
leum were reported during the drilling
operations, but some of the cores re-
covered, when examined chemically,
showed oil impregnations.
After Kariava
• ,
The rig which had been used at
Kariava was dismantled and moved
downstream to Hohoro, and dnlhng there
commenced in March, 1949. Eighteen-
CaSl^. WaS a ?7f* d T a °!
963 ft, which was 67ft. deeper than at
Kariava. .
At 2192 ft. it became obvious that the
Papuan heaving shale at Hohoro would
be difficult-drilling, and work was sus-
pended until special pressure-drilling
equipment could be installed. Traces of
oil, to which no special significance was
attached, were found below 2307 ft., and
the 13|in. casing was set at 2529 ft.
The latest reported depth of the
Hohoro well was 4721 ft., at which point
preparations to land 9|in. casing were
being made. Kariava set this diameter of
casing about 100 ft. deeper, so that it is
not likely that the Hohoro well will
establish a new deep record, although the
10,000 ft. for which the plant is designed
may be exceeded if the geological data
obtained warrant it.
Prior to the Australasian Petroleum
Co.’s activities, the only well sunk on
the Hohoro structure was one drilled by
the New Guinea Oil Co., which set its
12+in. casing at 1157 ft. before abandon-
ing the well in 1926.
Apart from the 10,000-footers, A.P.C.
has drilled a well at Oroi, near Yule
Island, with a rig capable of attaining a
depth of from 6000 ft. to 7000 ft. In this
bore, shallow gas was struck, but the
well was abandoned, at a depth of
5516 ft., late in 1949, as steeply-dipping
beds had been penetrated. With similar
equipment the co.. is drilling at Upoia,
where the latest reported depth was
5194 ft. with 6in. casing cemented. At
Wana, 218 air-miles north-west from
Port Moresby, drilling was commenced
on May 6 and a depth of 3518 ft. had
been reached after setting 13|in. casing
and cementing at 879 ft. Drilling at
Malalaua is to follow shortly. In addi-
tion, preparations are being made to drill
at Orloli, between Wana and Kariava.
Island Exploration, also, is preparing
to drill at Omati in the extreme west.
Prospects and Possibilities
Papua has been examined for its oil
prospects by many explorers with very
different training, background and ex-
perience, and many contrary opinions
have been expressed as to the potenti-
alities for petroleum production in the
several localities which have attracted
attention. There is, however, almost
unanimous agreement that the territory
calls for close examination, followed by
drilling on selected structures.
The existence of commercial oil-pools
is dependent on several largely inde-
pendent factors, of which the more im-
portant are:
(a) The deposition of clay-beds under
brackish and nearly anerobic conditions,
in waters containing an abundance of
microfauna and microflora, or fed with
vegetable and animal atritus.
( b ) Either within or above these beds,
the deposition of compara-
tively coarse sediments of suf-
ficient porosity and permea-
bility to hold the oil forced
from the clay-beds by elutria-
tion or compression, or both,
and of sufficient thickness- and
extent to constitute an oil
reservoir of commercial size.
(c) The deposition, above
these reservoir beds, of an im-
permeable, 'or almost - im-
permeable, cap, thus prevent-
ing the oil from escaping.
(cl) The moulding of this
series of beds by folding, fault-
ing, local elevation or tilting,
or any or all of these, to form
a trap in which the oil is
separated from its connate
water and segregated into a
comparatively small area, at
not too great a depth to be
reached by the drill.
We have sufficient evidence
of the deposition of clays,
loaded with organic atritus,
under anerobic brackish or
salt-water conditions, during
Miocene and Pliocene times, in
Papua. These beds, in fact,
are responsible for the
frequently - reported “shows”
of oil and gas, both on the
surface and in wells. It is also
in Papua’s favor, as a potential
oil-producer, that the Plio-
Miocene belt forms a part of
the “Malaysian Arc” on which
the oilfields of East India
and Borneo are located. This fact,
however, can be oyerstressed, as the
Malaysian Arc consists of a series of
tectonic depressions and elevations
en echelon, in which the depositional
conditions vary very considerably from
point to point.
Abundant evidence exists also in Papua
of the deposit i on of impermeable cap
beds and of tectonic movements which
have produced strU ctures capable of
segregating and preserving oil collected
fr J m b large surrounding areas. But-and
it is a very big “but”—so far, in spite of
magnificent efforts, beds of the necessary
extentj thickness, porosity and permea-
bility to act as storage for petroleum in
commercial quantities have not been en-
countered. The fact that the Papuan
muds tones, which so often contain small
quantities of oil and considerable
amounts of gas under pressure, were
largely formed by the deposition of ill-
sorted and partly airborne tuffaceous
particles is against the probability of the
existence of extensive porous formation
within the series.
In spite of the enormous advances
which have been made within recent
years in the technique of the search tor
petroleum, the only means of proving
commercial reservoirs of oil with cer-
tainty remains the often tedious and
always expensive sinking of a major well,
The operations of Australasian Petroleum
alone have within the last 12 years in-
volved an expenditure of nearly seven
million pounds, although the period was
broken by four , years of inactivity en-
forced by the Japanese menace.


NIGHT TRAIN
to Capertee
By
Charles
Shaw
THE compartment held one other
occupant, a small man with a
seamed face, a large moustache and
a battered tweed cap from beneath
whose visor gleamed two bright, round,
/shallow, simian eyes. The rest of him was
hidden in a black overcoat whose collar
met the tweed cap at sides and rear.
He didn’t move, but I was conscious of
those restless, darting eyes watching
everything I did. I’d got the window seat
opposite him, and settled into it, glad to
find the compartment uncrowded but
hoping someone else would come to dis-
tract those eyes and help me rid my mind
of the silly impression that I’d seen him
the last time I was at the zoo.
“Coin’ far, mate?” The mouth under
the moustache opened in a wide, in-
gratiating grin and for a moment I
thought it was filled with black water-
melon seeds, so broken and discolored
were the teeth.
“Capertee,” I answered.
“Aw.” He apparently lost interest, for
he hunkered even farther down into the
overcoat and appeared to doze.
I looked out of the window into rain
and dark gleams along the rails, where
electric-lights played with the night. Be-
yond the immediate platforms suburban
electric-trains came and went, and I
looked at them and their passengers with
that aloof feeling you get in a night train
bound for the country. It’s as though
you were departing to another world,
severing yourself from the city and its
ways. If there is rain and the night be
late the aloofness is the more poignant,
for you look from your lighted carriage
into streets that are suddenly alien and
strange, and your train runs through them
proudly and imperiously, and you are
superior because you look upon the sleep-
ing suburbs with a sweeping and scornful
glance, knowing that in the houses and
hovels the people cannot look at you.
You can, if you have the imagination for
it, feel like a tolerant and slightly con-
temptuous god making a night tour of the
earth.
AT Strathfield the suburbs rushed back
into their real form, and poured more
passengers into the train. A very fat, de-
plorably well-dressed young man, deplor-
ably sozzled, fell into the third corner seat
and fell into an alcoholic slumber, his
pudgy hands rammed deeply into trouser-
pockets and his lumpy legs stuck straight
out. Next to me came a thin lady of
doubtful years with the most determinedly
virtuous face I’ve seen on a female, and
with her she had a gangling boy and two
small girls. All three were neatly-dressed
children of excellent behavior, and they
sat beside the lady and looked shyly about
them in silence. The boy caught sight of
the simian eyes across the compartment.
He eyed their owner carefully, looked
away, looked at them again, then moved
protectively, and as though seeking pro-
tection, closer to the little girls. The black
watermelon seeds were exposed, there
was a convulsive heave of the black over-
coat, and from it there emerged a
maculate hand clutching a paper-bag.
“Yere, have some lollies?”
The boy shot a look at the lady, at the
bag, at the watermelon seeds, and then
appeared to shrink. The little girls sat
like statues, their eyes on the hand and
the bag.
The lady said, winningly, “Thank you
very much. But really they’re so full they
simply couldn’t”
“How about you, mate?” The bag was
thrust under my nose.
Some telepathic wave from the lady im-
pelled me to rescue her.
“Thanks,” I said. I reached into the
bag and collected four or five black-and-
white sweets, called humbugs, because
they are sweet and hot. I intended to
drop them secretly somewhere, but there
was no escape. One little girl’s head came
delicately out to watch me, I could feel
the boy’s eyes on me, and across the com-
partment the darting eyes under the cap
watched and waited. I popped a couple
of the things into my mouth.
“Keep you from wantin’ t’ smoke,”
said the melon-seeds.
I grinned and crunched.
i i Ki 4 ARY WELLS,” said the fat drunk
IVI clearly, “is a little bitch. She ought
to be shot!”
This declaration created an astounded
silence. The children’s attention was at
once removed from the melon-seeds to
the fat man. I could almost feel the lady
beside me turning cold. At that instant
the door opened and three men entered.
The diversion of their entrance and their
placing of bags and finding seats, and the
railway authorities’ happening to choose
the same moment to release the train from
its anchors, rendered the fat man’s state-
ment no longer important. The train
gathered speed, the drunk slept, the black
teeth crunched the lollies, the lady and her
brood relaxed, the other three settled
down,
I resumed my game of being a god
touring the rain-wet suburbs by night.
The boy decided that it was necessary
for him to visit the lavatory, probably
because a travelling lavatory was a
novelty that had to be investigated.
These “dog-box” cars are separate units.
Once you’re in and the train is travelling
you are a prisoner until it stops again and
an official comes along and unlocks the
door. Consequently, the end of one seat
is hinged, so that it can be raised to allow
ingress to the tiny lavatory built into the
“dog-box.” If you are a boy you quickly
discover the fascination of going into the
lavatory—it, is all the more so if some-
one occupies the hinged part of the seat
and has to get up to let you pass—and
lifting the cover and hearing the roar of
the train come rushing up through the
hole out of the black night. You drop
dead matches and bits of toilet-paper and
whatever else you can find down the hole
and are awed by the violence with which
they are swallowed up in that menacing
roar. Presently you must, for very
shame’s sake, go back to your seat, and
the passenger on the hinge once more
rises politely to let you pass.
Thrice between Strathfield and Penrith
the boy succumbed to the temptation, and
his elder sister wasn’t long in emulating
him. This drew attention to the
passenger on the hinge, who turned out
to be a vague fellow with a whacking
great bandage around his head.
“Didjer get that in a naccident?”
asked the melon-seeds,
| T was dreadful mistake, for the
1 bandaged one at once sat up and gave
the compartment a long, accurately and
gruesomely detailed account of an
“orperation done to me ear” from the
initial pain down to the very last drop of
pus. He then asked the lady if the
children would stand up, which they did,
whereupon he opened a bag and took
therefrom a vacuum flask and a fearful
apparatus of tubes and steel, filled the
small tank attached to it with a yellow
mixture from the vacuum flask, handed
the whole outfit to the young man sitting
opposite, indicated'the nozzle and a bulb
which had to be squeezed, unrolled his
bandage, displayed to the dismayed lady
an awful-looking red and yellow mass of
an ear, laid himself down on the space
vacated by the children, inserted the
nozzle into his ear, and to the young man
holding the bulb said, “Now pump her
gently. It’ll hurt an’ I might yell, but you
just keep on pumpin’.”
The young man gave us all a wild and
terrified look, convulsively squeezed the
bulb, and the patient let out a heart-
rending screech. The young man dropped
the bulb and stared white-faced at the
patient, who groaned and twisted on the
seat, to the deep interest of the children.
The small man with the monkey eyes
leaned forward, missing nntV
other sober man was plainlv !ff g> The
the whole clinical perfor^anc^ b V
Pifmp, moaned the patient w
clapped to his head. “Keen on hand s
Like a shot the boy picked mf^ pillV ’
and held it to the young I hebul l>
shuddered and withdrew. With a’ wbo
centration the boy pumped his si.? P Coll '
m.nng eyes upon him, and at tif* ad '
yelp from the patient the lady le «
looked glassily round and then « Up ’
took the bulb and began Dl]m ! firi %
young man who had firsUield th' , The
fell across me in a faint the bulb
“The water-bottle,” I cried “r
the water-bottle.” * u et me
“A blasted bitch; that’s what u.
Wells is,” snorted the fat man t Mary
clumsily in his sleep. n ’ Urm ng
A of™aU."' ”red T
as «
children sat down again and talked m i
together, the drunkbreathe
tweed cap was pulled down over the dirt
mg eyes, the rest composed themself
and the tram roared into Penrith V6S
Here everybody except the fat man left
the compartment and joined battle with
the rest of the train in the refreshment
room, where, after a butting and scram-
bling, one emerged in possession of a
lukewarm meat-pie and a thick cup of
so-called tea. p [
By the time we were aboard again the
eariy reserve between strangers had been
somewhat dissolved, and while the tweed
cap and the bandaged one shouted at one
another diagonally across the carriage on
the dreadful financial position of the
working man —a discussion in which the
“greedy Jew financhers in New York”
were promised direful punishments “if
ever Jack Lang gets hold of them”—the
young man opposite asked me if I was
going far. Few people on a train ever
directly ask one’s destination—it is
always whether one is going far.
“Capertee,” I said.
“Oh, Capertee,” he said brightly.
I now saw that he was a pleasant chap,
quite young and candid, obviously a clerk
of some sort. I ought to have been
warned by the expression of eager diffi-
dence, by the anticipatory glean in his
frank blue eyes, but I wasn’t, and when he
said, in a tone at once confiding and
slightly boastful, “Know it well. It’s the
thirty-third station past Penrith,” I
echoed with stupid curiosity, “The thirty-
third?”
WE now had the attention of the
financial debaters, the lady, the
other sober man. The fat man slept; so
did the children, who were loosely
bundled together,
“Yes,” said the frank youngster, and
too late I realised that he was gloating.
“Yes. Thirty-three. After Penrith there’s
Log Cabin, then Emu Plains, Glenbrook,
Woodford, Blaxland, Warrimoo, Valley
Heights, Springwood, Faulconbridge,
Linden, Hazelbrook, Lawson —that’s after
the poet, you know [I felt that he was
wrong]—Bullaburra, Wentworth Falls-
friend o’ mine keeps the pub there”
“What’s his name?” from the tweed
cap.
“Leura —his name’s Joe —Katoomba,
Medlow Bath, Blackheath, Mt. Victoria,
Hartley Vale, Bell, Newnes Junction,
Clarence, Lithgow, Bowenfels, Marran-
garoo—like kangaroo only with Mar on i
—Wallerawang, Irondale, Pipers fiat,
Portland, Cullen Bullen, Ben Bullen and
Capertee. How’s that!”
“Strike me fat,” marvelled the tweed
“Yes,” said the performer modesty
“and I could go right on to Mudg
Y “I’ll bet you could,” I said, withal#
sarcasm. He leaned the fi at
debate was resumed, and I loo*®
the wet sides of a cutting ro g
train by this time laboring p TtOO | t he
of the Blue Mountains. Later, 1 w and
trouble to check the young g
he was right to the last Bullen of them
'"THE train had two e J gin . e
1 and on the curve ahead! 01 ’
both of them. The h eadlight n °r both
leader cut through the ram c ould hear
jetted forth clouds of steam. driVing-
their cylinders coughing and ever y
rods pounding over the rail and
now and then a fire 'b°* th ° w hite
lurid shadows danced on W * blaC k
of steam. They looke * bu tting
monsters out of the > wa ll of tbe
gleaming shoulders against h heS) treg
night and thrusting it aside.
posts, stones, cutting-
(Continued on pas e
APRES-MIDI.
You keep on underneath the broken
shade
Of the pines, gently trundling the stones
with your toes,
Until, in the mountain afternoon where
the blade
Of the bright ridge bites into the vine-
rows,
You stoop beneath the trestle of wrens
and roses
And breast the gate almost unawares.
You are welcomed to the garden and'
the old house’s
Acres of misrule by unusual airs
Of a long-ago century, which, genteelly
preserved
In wild lavender and roving orchards,
Responds as austerely as it was once
loved;
For this was the solitude of Mr.
Richards.
You will wonder as you finger the sun
on grapes
Greener than the memories they invoke,.
As you touch the trees that no more
bear, as shapes
Of forested winds form as though you
spoke,
What kind of man lived there. The
house seems now
Merely a projection of the fissured path,
Or something wiiidow ! ed and heavy
drawing the bough
Of the great camphor-laurel down.
The veranda is smooth
Still in its glazed and checkered stone;
but the dust
Has burred the broad steps, and along
the ledge
Binding the chipped walls in a band of
rust
Twist tongues of leaves licking the lan-
tana hedge.
N.S.W.
.Time and the mountain storms have
prised the roof
Into a macabre jest, iron from rafter.
And folded the spouting into a solution-
proof
Attitude. And Time has withered the
witless laughter
And the footfalls of lonely soliloquies,
and Storm
Distended small silences into eternities.
Observe the wandering old fellow s
tomb
That harbored him for months, the
chimney, obese
But narrow-tunnelled, into which he
climbed
And died incredulous, struggling and
calling unheard
In a resolute jacket of stone. His old
clock chimed
His struggles out, and his soul—per-
haps a bird.
As you tap and pry for secrets among
the rooms
You will see there is no redolent
romance,
Nor in the fireplace any remains of
glooms
To speed the blood; just the irony of
chance,
Which is life crossed by a destiny,
kneeling
In a figure of Atlas made mortal in dull
oak.
And you will find no bats upon the
ceiling,
Nor chains in corners; only a bellows
that broke
And which some hand (Mr. Richards*,
likely) laid
In a bracket on the parlor door. Yes,
you keep
On underneath the blowing bunyas
shade
And turn, at the end, in someone else’s
sleep.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


Genuine REISER pattern
SECATEURS
MANUFACTURED FROM SOLID STEEL WITH
TOLEDO alloy steel cutting blade, and steel
lining on lower jaw.
Price 32/6 each, post free.
TOLEDO STEEL COMPANY.
P.O. Box 15, Mosman, N.S.W.
Trade enquiries to STANLEY F. COFFEY, 24 Bond St., Sydney
ESSAY AND LITERARY SKETCHES
by W. A. Osborne
This is a fine selection of Essays and Literary Sketches by Professor Osborne
in the leisure of a life devoted to science. This volume contains the special
essay on “Jhe Brontes In Ulster,” that gives much new information.
PRICE 7s. 6d. (Post Free 7/10*),
Obtainable NOW from all good Bookshops or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Authors are asked to mark their name and address clearly on all MSS. submitted.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Dark of the Moon."
One wet and windy evening
last week four tough little
urchins stopped for a moment
outside the Independent Theatre
at North Sydney, and while one
laboriously read out “Dark of
the Moon” from the billboard
another peered down the long,
yellow-lit corridor that slopes
into the theatre and asked
“Gripes, what’s in there?” “Aw,
it’s just a playhouse,” a more
knowledgeable member of the
quartet told him, and, bare feet
slapping on the wet footpath,
the four of them moved on in
search of more exciting things.
One would have liked to have
told them that there are “in
there” a witch-boy soaring
among the stars and screaming
down the wind on the back of
his great eagle ; that there are
two fierce and beautiful witches,
one dark and one fair, who
might have just flung themselves
from a Norman Lindsay paint-
ing ; that there are a fearsome
conjur-man and conjur-woman
living in a deep, dark cave on
top of Old Baldy in the Smoky
Mountains in Tennessee; that
the witches live for 300 years
before changing into the smoke
that hangs around the mountain
peaks; and that the conjur-man
and his woman can turn witches
into humans and perform other
terrifying miracles.
Then, except that by this time
they would have said “Pull yer
’ead in, mug,” and except, also,
for the fact that small boys are
not supposed to be conversant
with such things, one might have
told them how the witch-boy
meets the beautiful and very
human Barbara Allen on the
mountain-side and seduces her
and then goes to the conjur-man
and asks for a soul to make him
human so that he can marry
her and join the other mortals
in the valley; how his wish is
granted provided Barbara re-
mains faithful to him for a year ;
how they are married, she pay-
ing the preacher with money
earned by “pleasuring herself”
with young men of the valley
who, rather than marry her, have
turned her father’s determina-
tion and shotgun from them-
selves with such gifts as a mule,
“which is a mighty fine mule,”
or eight dollars, “which is a lot
of money” ; how she bears him
a black and twisted witch-child
and screams and sobs for it
while the midwife and assistant
burn it on a bonfire outside the
hut; and how she is dragged to
the church and, while the hell-
fire-and-damnation preacher and
his congregation gather around
and shout and sing for her soul,
forced to rid ■ the valley of the
witch-boy by breaking the pro-
vision of his contract.
The play, by Howard Richard-
son and William Berney, is more
than the macabre oddity that
that account might suggest. It
is described as a “legend set
to music,” and, possibly, as
an ‘important contribution to
the stage, “it don’t,” in the
words of one of its> charac-
ters, “make no nevermind,”
but it is relieved by wit and
humor—the church scene, after
all, is not very far removed from
the cynical wit of Maupas-
sant’s “Ball of Fat” —and, over-
all, it has a kind of wild beauty
that one finds in a good deal of
ballet. In fact, one scene—with
the witch-boy expressing his
earth-bound frustration in the
furious swing and thud of his
axe on the woodheap while the
two witches dance, taunting and
tempting, around him —could be
transplanted into a programme
of modern ballet without attract-
ing any attention except favor-
able notice.
The play bears another re-
semblance to ballet in that, as
a fantasy, it needs a pretty deli-
cate and accurate touch to main-
tain its illusions. It is difficult
enough to pull audiences across
the footlights into a world of
human drama or comedy; it is
probably more difficult to bring
them into a world of fantasy;
not just to show them a strange
flight of imagination but to take
them on it. And on the night
this commentator saw the play
there seemed every evidence that
Doris Fitton’s production—with
its balanced contrast between
the eerie mountain-top scenes
and the earth and humor of the
valley; with its sustained weird
folk-tale quality ; and with such
superb examples of directing as
the church scene mounting from
lazy humor through frenzy to
its extraordinary climax —had
the audience home on the eagle’s
back, as it were.
Along with Miss Fitton’s pro-
duction there is a good deal of
excellent acting. Possibly be-
cause they make such wild,
beautiful witches and always
seem to be wanting someone
to 101 l on clouds in the moon-
light with them, Diana Perry-
man and Diana Davidson attract
more attention than they should.
Still, as Barbara Allen, Rose-
mary Miller exerts more human
charms with equal effect and
passes, as the story requires,
from the loose and lovely little
wench of the opening to the be-
wildered wife, and thence to the
crazed, pathetic figure of the
end. John Faassen’s witch-boy
remains, satisfactorily, a
shadowy reflection of something
human, and, at the finish, when
he is supposed to lose his hard-
won soul, he contrives, bril-
liantly, to give exactly that im-
pression, Leigh O’Malley’s con-
jur-man adds to the weird in-
tensity of the opening scene.
The witch-hunters are most ably
led by Donald Crosby as
Preacher Haggler and supported
by Mary Hosking, Harold Hoyt,
Michael Pate and the rest of a
large cast.
It is no criticism of the pro-
duction to say that it would be
interesting to see it done on a
large stage in one of the city
theatres. It looks as though Miss
Fitton has necessarily played
down the musical and dancing
side of the business to the limits
of her cast and theatre. With
those expanded and with the
cast increased by a score or more
extras in the interests of spec-
tacle, it seems likely that the
show would be even more im-
pressive than it is. Certainly it is
considerably more original and
startling than several recent
importations.
National Ballet.
To make the inevitable com-
parisons between the National
Ballet and the previous visitors
to Sydney the Melbourne co. at
the Empire, in splendid costumes
and settings, put on a more
colorful show than the Ballet
Rambert and stood up very well
to Borovansky’s standard.
One can’t expect a Baronova
among promising young baller-
inas, but there is the compensat-
ing charm of youth. The male
dancers, as a group led by Leon
Kellaway, are particularly
strong.
Of the minor pieces in the
opening programme Margaret
Scott’s version bf the fairytale of
“Peter and the Wolf” would be
best suited to a children’s panto-
mime, and Rex Reid’s “Les
Belles Creoles” went astray in
the other direction with too
much heavy sensuality in its
negroid translation of the
famous dance with the wrap
from “L’Aprbs Midi d’un Faun.”
But Aina Reega was a very
dainty bird and Leslie Sexton
a pleasing yellow duck in the
first; and Rex Reid’s Samson
was certainly forceful.
Despite some first-night
tremors, “Aurora’s Wedding”
was as exhilarating as cham-
pagne ; the bottle, in Margaret
Scott’s sparkling Princess, being
a little too icy, Bruce Morrow
and June Wood, in costumes
which Kenneth Rowell might
have plucked from the gorgeous
blue Prince Rupert bird-of-para-
dise, made a delightful pair in
the Blue Bird dance.
Shivaram, a stranger as exotic
and as welcome in an Australian
ballet as the Prince Rupert it-
self, dances with bare feet on the
earth and looks like an artist
secure in his natural element,
which is dancing. The feeling
of religious awe slowly mounts
in “Indra Vijayam” until, at the
moment when Indra descends
from his mountain, one really
believes that the dancer is a god
of the elements. Shivaram’s ex-
pressive fingers and hands and
arms as he describes the stars
and the clouds of the night-sky,
his gilded costume and the per-
cussion music with the addition
of that unearthly “human”
voice singing the praises of the
god combine to make this ballet
a unique experience.
"The Love Rocket."
In a better-than-usual curtain-
speech at the end of his show at
Sydney Tiv., Arthur Askey
asked those of the audience who
enjoyed the performance to go
home and tell all their friends
and those who didn’t to “keep
your traps shut.” The nimble,
diminutive English comedian
had no cause for worry; he has
a remarkably large bag of tricks
and business, ranging from fancy
footing and comical grimaces to
carelessly-delivered wisecracks,
and he draws from it with reck-
less improvidence all night and
still leaves the impression that
he could go on for the same time
again without repeating him-
self.
The show, by Stanley Lupino,
is actually a series of variety
turns very loosely strung to-
gether in the interests of con-
tinuity. It falls upon Mr. Askey
to provide practically all the
humor, which he does very suc-
cessfully, courting his audience a
little for a start and then, hav-
ing won them, doing practically
what he likes, Valerie Tandy
and Audrey Jeans provide a sub-
stantial part of the feminine
beauty with which the show is
decorated; Gil Johnson leads
the dancing, and winds up with
a spectacular session of tap-
dancing ; and the ever-fresh Tiv.
ballet flashes through the piece
with its usual unflagging grace,
energy and color.
It is worth noting that the
whole show is conducted clearly
and audibly without the usual
resort to microphones hidden in
garlands of flowers or shooting,
vegetable-like, from the floor of
the stage.
Richard Bonynge.
At his farewell recital at Syd-
ney Con. before going abroad,
this young Sydney pianist gave,
indications of a particularly
bright future in a programme
which tested him searchingly.
His chief offering was the Beet-
hoven Sonata in C. Major, Op.
2, No. 3. Intelligence informed
his rendering of the work, and
a keen appreciation of the fact
that, although there is undoubted
Mozartian influence, there is
also unmistakable evidence of
the Beethoven who was to
emerge.
That Bonynge is already
equipped with a considerable
technique he made clear in
diversified examples of the
classics and the modems. In
the classical-romantics, as in
Brahms and Schumann, he is
particularly at home. A Chopin
nocturne was delicately turned,
but the same composer’s
Polonaise in A Flat Major
found him out of his depth—
not surprising, for this particular
form is Chopin at his most diffi-
cult. Liszt’s pyrotechnic para-
phrase of the Rigoletto Quartet
was moderately successful. A
Scriabin Study, g. Rachmaninoff
Prelude, Khatchaturian’s Toc-
cata and Debussy’s “Reflections
in the Water” —this last beauti-
fully played—completed a good
programme. Florence Tayler
sang groups by Schubert and
Frank Bridge with discernment.
Alceo Galliera.
The visiting Italian conductor
made an excellent impression at
his first Sydney appearance. He
is obviously satisfied with only
the best, and he never misses a
musical trick; his concentration
is remarkable, especially in such
a vigorous piece of music as De
Falla’s “Three Cornered Hat”
Suite, which he included in
Saturday night’s programme. The
infectious. Iberian rhythms
wound up some splendid
orchestral playing which had
started with Mozart’s Symphony
in E Flat Major, No. 39. All
the boldness of the harmonic
combinations in the opening
movement was brought out in
glowing colors, while the
Minuet, one of the loveliest ex-
amples of the form in existence,
literally danced on air. The
orchestra responded throughout
to the conductor’s volatile style.
Concerto dell ’Estate, by the
contemporary Italian composer
Pizzetti, is one of the best
modern works heard here.
Melodically and harmonically
strong, it combines vividness
and coherence and contrapuntal
ingenuity.
Edmund Kurtz was the soloist
in the Schumann ’Cello Con-
certo. Against the rather light
orchestral background in the
early stages the inter-weaving of
the two sets of material brought
out some fine singing passages
for the solo instrument. The
jubilance of the final movement
was well sustained by soloist and
orchestra.
Youth Concert.
I have the greatest respect for
Professor Bernard Heinze and
his great achievement in creating
audiences for A.B.C. concerts,
but, as the oldest member of the
audience at the last youth con-
cert at the Melbourne Town
Hall, I can’t help wondering just
how much the youth assembled
really learn about music from
the professor’s charming exposi-
tion.
After listening to the professor
explaining what Bach and Elgar
were after, with the orchestra
giving illustrations from the
strings, the woodwinds and the
brasses, I settled down to the per-
formance, but found myself in-
tently watching for the two in-
troductory bars, the first subject
and the second, the theme in the
first movement which is repeated
in the second and then trans-
ferred from the first violins to
the oboe and then tossed to the
brasses.
When the Bach Concerto in
D Minor was finished I found
that in my unrelaxed state I
hadn’t listened to a syllable of
it. The horde of young people,
however, obviously enjoyed it,
though whether they were en-
joying Professor Heinze or the
music is another question.
At least Mr. William Herbert
escaped the professor’s explana-
tions, and his singing of the Pre-
lude and Chanson and Madri-
gale from the “Shylock Suite”
of Faure and the Bizet Serenade
from “The Fair Maid of Perth”
was an unalloyed pleasure. The
Melbourne singer seems to sing
as a lark sings, and his artistry is
perfect, though completely
hidden.—F.S.
At its third subscription con-
cert the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra gave a magnificent
performance of the Brahms First
Symphony. Eugene Goossens’s
impeccable conducting achieved
all the depth and sonority of
tone the work demands. An in-
teresting beginning to k the con-
cert was Handel’s “Richard 1”
overture, arranged by Dr.
Dalley-Scarlett, whose services
were officially recognised last
year by the Handel Society.
Edmund Kurtz, soloist with the
orchestra for a rich and satisfy-
ing performance of Elgar’s ’cello
concerto, was heard at his best
in the sustained lyricism of the
slow movement.
"The Gioconda Smile."
A writer, asked if a play of his
was autobiographical, said that
every play is autobiographical,
and in a sense it is. It may be
that Aldous Huxley, most intel-
lectual of writers, was being
autobiographical in this play
put on by the National Theatre,
Melbourne.
Henry Hutton is a rich, very
clever, very charming young man
who has commitments which
can’t be reconciled in terms of
his own viewpoints. He has an
invalid wife on the one hand
and on the other he has several
love affairs, one of which has
reached a point of crisis, the girl
concerned being about to have a
baby. In every crisis he becomes
didactic and out comes a speech
that might have been lifted
(i Continued on page 35.)


PHILISHAVE
yourself
from to-morrow
onwards
is?
%
\V\
Thousands of
Australian men now
shave this faster...
better way ...
Don't shave at home to-morrow
morning. Instead, have a tree
demonstration shave with Phili-
shave, the revolutionary new
Electric Shaver. You'll bo amaied
at the way Philishavo whisks off the
toughest stubble. One trial and
you'll agree that here at last is
an electric shaver that really
doea shave.
W
£7/5/6 complete with
leather zippered case.
I
ELECTRIC SHAVER
with the
Revolutionary
New Cutting Head
A product of Philips Electrical
Industries of Aust. Pty. Ltd.
»•••••••••••••
PSB-50
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
5
JACKS OM
OSUUJVAX
5, puna
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTTPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER#
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURER#
CARTON MANUFACTURER#
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL.” BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” |' U f r om
Aromatic Fine Cut packs-
Top Quality Leaf. In Pric ed
Priced 24/- per lb- 01 100
33/- per lb,
“PACIFIC” Fine 13^
for Satisfaction and Mildnes , looge
Packs, Priced 3/- per P aCK -
Priced 22/- P« r lb<
tpriced 20V
even better than ever.
per lb. Loose. d<
Bemember WINSTONS. »•
Write: MAIL ° kdEß
Canadian PqcjW
Tobacco Co.. 11 *
Box 77, Valley *****
THE FEDERAL SESSION
By M. H. Ellis
AFTER having sat since
February 22 and filled
over 4000 pages of
“Hansard” with talk, the
first session of the nineteenth
Parliament of the Common-
wealth has come to an end, hav-
ing accomplished exactly
nothing, except to pass the
Supply Bill, the Wool Stabilisa-
tion Bill, a bill to deal with
Burmese Nationalisation and a
Miners’ Long-Service Pension
Bill and finally—under threat of
an immediate election for the
Lower House —the amendments
to the Social Services Act pro-
viding endowment for the first
child of a family.
This is not the fault of the
Government or of the majority
of the members of the two
Houses which give it support.
It has been due to one factor —
the obvious determination of the
Labor Opposition to make Par-
liament completely unworkable.
The first debate, of course,
was on the Address-in-Reply.
It rambled on through over 800
pages of “Hansard” and 13 sit-
tings of the House of Represen-
tatives until March 16, when it
was presented at Yarralumla
with appropriate ceremonies and
refreshment.
It was marked by the emerg-
ence of Opposition plans to
undermine die authority of the
Speaker,
For Union Rule
During the debate the
guerrilla tactics of the Chifley
Army began to display them-
selves, together with an open
assumption that the trade-unions
and not the Parliament and the
Ministry constituted the cle facto
Government of the country,
, This impudent assumption,
staggering when uttered in Par-
liament itself, appeared in rela-
tion to the mention in the
Governor-General’s speech of
legislation to deal with the Com-
munists, when Mr. H. V.
Johnson (Kalgoorlie), a senior
official of the A.W.U., which is
supposed to be a “moderate”
and constitutionally - minded
union, and formerly Minister for
the Interior, said (“Hansard,”
page 611):
I now desire to issue a warning
to the Government relative to the
legislation that it may introduce to
control the trade-union movement.
My warning may be stated as follows:
“Let the Government keep its hands
off the trade-union movement, because
the trade-union movement can con-
duct its own affairs better than the
Menzies Government can conduct
the affairs of this country.” The
trade-union movement will not sub-
mit to any interference in the control
of its domestic affairs it will not
allow the Menzies Government or
any other Government to interfere
with its domestic affairs.
In other words Mr. Johnson
made a flat declaration that
trade-unions are above the law
of the land, and that no matter
what goes on i»side them they
are not amenable to controls
which Parliament has full legal
power to impose. There was no
lohd shout of dissent from this
viewpoint by Dr. Evatt, the
great constitutionalist.
Mr. Johnson’s sentiments and
his theory that there are two
Governments in the country,
one for the class-war aristocracy
and one for the also-rans,
seemed to find general accept-
ance with the Opposition.
Foreign Affairs
The Address having been dis-
posed of (with an interlude pro-
vided by Mr. Allan Fraser, who
succeeded in dragging the
Speaker into a statement of his
personal attitude to the
Governor - General) the next
great feature was the debate on
international affairs. The high-
light of this strange, seething
word-concert was a general
variation of attitude among the
Opposition.
The Ministerial statement was
not very successful or know-
ledgeable, and already Mr.
Spender has had good cause to
regret many of his conclusions.
About the worst that could be
said about it, however, was that
Dr. Evatt, burning with eager-
ness to tear his opponents limb
from limb, found very little to
criticise in it. He behaved
much like a hunter who finds
himself kissed by the bear he
has set out to shoot.
His chief essays in criticism,
indeed, consisted in assertions
(a) that Australia’s support of
the United Nations policy both
politically and economically
should be steady and unfalter-
ing, and (b) that Australia
should have recognised Com-
munist China. He failed to pro-
vide a bright moment in a dreary
address by not adding that the
United Nations had flatly refused
to recognise Communist China!
When Communism Is Not
There was in the debate the
same anxiety on the part of
weaker spirits to dissociate
themselves from Russia, as was
evident in other debates. Some
even sternly chided Messrs.
Churchill and Roosevelt for be-
traying civilisation by selling out
to Stalin at Yalta in an agree-
merit which every Labor man
in the country greeted, when it
was made, with yells of delight
combined with abuse and execra-
tion for its critics.
There was also a very strange,
earnest and. almost universal
desire to prove that Soviet
Russia was not of much account
in relation to events in*Asia,
and this was combined with a
curious desire for recognition t of
Communist China, which some
Opposition members insisted
was not really Communist at all,
and an almost frantic-fear that
the Government would decide
that Australia must take a hand
in saving Malaya from Com-
munist domination.
Obviously the party was in a
very difficult position in having
to face both ways—in having to
satisfy the Communist - led
unions and at the same time a
public opinion which is hostile
to Communism.
Enter Pandit Chifley
Thus some startling state-
ments were made by men who
obviously must have known
better. For instance, Mr.
Chifley:
Pandit Nehru is the most powerful
figure in Asian politics, and, indeed,
in the Asian world.
He would be if Stalin, Mao
Tsz-tung, the Shereef of Mecca
and a few other people could be
liquidated.
And again from Mr. Chifley:
It is a grave mistake to attribute
to Communists responsibility for all
the disturbances that have taken place
in the East. On this point Pandit
Nehru said: “If anybody thinks he
can stop the spread of radicalism in
Asia by guns, soldiers and ships, he
makes the greatest possible mistake.”
Pandit Nehru and Mr.
Chifley, in fact, are at one with
Moscow’s statements on this
point. And Mr. Chifley is also
at one with Moscow opinion on
another point:
Unquestionably, vested interests
took all they could from Malaya and
gave nothing in return.
Which is sheer, mischievous
rubbish.
Chifley v. Calwell
However, Mr. Chifley turned
to Indonesia:
Tonight I read an extract from a
speech that was delivered some time
ago by the Prime Minister in which
he described Dr. Soekarno as a
Communist-Japanese collaborationist.
That description was also applied to
Mr. Sjahrir and to Dr. Hatta, who
have been friends of Pandit Nehru
for many years. In his recent speech
Mr. Spender described these gentle-
men as moderate people of consider-
able ability The Labor Govern-
ment realised that 80,000,000 Indo-
nesians could not continue to be
governed by 10,000,000 Europeans,
whose sole interest in Indonesia was
to extract from that country as much
wealth as they could get and give, in
return, as little as possible.
Again Mr. Chifley adopts the
view which the Communists
have been preaching inaccurately
for years about Indonesia. But
one of his own Ministers —and
his Information Minister, Mr.
Calwell, at that —had earlier
made a speech on the foreign-
affairs statement to confound
his leader. He said:
I do not think the Australian
public will readily accept the testi-
mony of Mr. Spender on the work of
Dr. Soekarno and Dr. Hatta. I shall
tell honorable members what Dr.
Soekarno himself said over the radio-
stations of Java during the war.
Those statements were monitored by
our own Australian short-wave sta-
tions, and were issued in re-roneoed
and printed form by the Dutch from
time to time. On November 26,
1945, Dr. Soekarno is quoted as hav-
ing said in June, 1943: “America
we will iron out, England we will
break open with a crowbar.” In
November, 1943, Soekarno went to
Tokyo to offer thanks at the Yoku-
sumi shrine to all the spirits of the
Japanese who fell in the course of
Java’s liberation. Hirohito conferred
on him the Order of the Sacred
Treasure Second Class in recognition
of his collaboration with the Japanese
authorities in Java On July 20,
1944, Dr. Soekarno said, during a
festival to celebrate Japanese Marine
Day: “We Indonesians will continue
to co-operate with Japan even should
we be defeated. 1 am convinced that
Japan is right in this war.”
And then Mr. Calwell went
on to quote some more matter in
the same strain with an
addendum to prove Soekarno’s
relationship with Moscow.
Mr. Kent-Hughes’s Recipe
A highlight of the foreign-
affairs debate was the speech of
Mr. W. S. Kent - Hughes,
formerly Deputy-Premier of
Victoria, and as yet unrecognised
as a force in the new Parlia-
ment, who, when he finds his
feet, will undoubtedly make his
mark. He gave Mr. Spender
credit for a studied and
thoughtful speech, though he
said it might have been “a replay
of an old piece, some of it like
the speech made by Dr. Evatt
in 1949,” but he looked the
dangers of the current situation
squarely in the face as no other
member in the House did:
If we were out on a limb in 1939
we are now so far out on it that we
are hanging on by the last autumn-
leaf. v
And he quoted the master of a
famous Eriglish school:
Every nation in the world today
must follow three principles. Firstly,
it must be strong enough to command
respect. Secondly, it must be wise
enough to work for world peace.
Thirdly, it must be generous enough
to share, and ’not monopolise, this
world’s goods.
From international affairs in-
terest shifted to legislation, of
which it seemed that none
mattered except one bill. The
Banking Act Amendment Bill
the Labor party found it
difficult to oppose, in view of
the fact that it departed so little
from its own main principles
as applied to the Commonwealth
Bank. Its ultimate insistence on
an amendment to destroy the
bank board was purely tactical.
The Social Services Consolida-
tion Bill, providing endowment
for the first child, was in the
same category —all that could be
done with it was to attempt to
increase the amount as an exer-
cise in political bribery, and play
upon the fears of beneficiaries
and others with the shibboleth
that it would affect the basic-
wage. The Wool Realisation
Bill was merely used as a hanger
for another exercise in obstruc-
tion. Qutside the Communist
Dissolution Bill the only
measure about which Labor felt
real concern was the bill to
break * the Senate deadlock,
which the Senate itself has re-
ferred to a Labor committee.
The Anti-Communist Bill
The Communist Party Disso-
lution Bill was a different matter.
Its presence pervaded the whole
atmosphere of Parliament from
the moment it was foreshadowed
in the Governor - General’s
speech till it was gagged through
the House, minus Labor Senate
amendments, on June 20.
In the Address-in-Reply stage
Labor’s uneasiness was mani-
fested in a frightened eagerness
of numerous legislators who had
never before shown themselves
very uneasy in the presence of
Communists to dissociate them-
selves from the Communist
movement, while at the same
time seeking excuses to obstruct
measures for the destruction of
the Communist party, Tims
Senator Donald Grant (gifted
author, of a classic called
Through Six Jails), who spoke at
an inaugural meeting of the
Communist party in Adelaide in
1920, was heard shouting: “I
have no time for Stalinism. It
is the greatest peril the world
has ever known —imperialist
bureaucracy of the worst kind.”
Dr. Evatt, who in Sydney in 1944
carried on his campaign for the
14 freedoms with the aid of a
Trades Hall Council special
committee which included three
senior officials of the Com-
munist party, one acting as
organiser, made much of his
alleged powerful fight against
Communism. ]yr r p
James declared that the ?v Cy
mumst party is “the onh, L ° m '
that has ever opposed n!l” Pa 2 y
was quite evidently not the sam
Mr. R. James, M.H R i me
a wire to a town-haTl Sent
in 1942 ffljj
per cent, behind the rnovet
remove the ban on the Com
mumst party.” ■ ° m '
Sut Mr James nevertheless
was able to sum up the in
of most of those who spoke W
the Opposition benches on S
Address-in-Reply when he said
I regret that the Government
poses to ban the Communist party
Our particular friend, Hitler
the Communist party. g*
dictatorship in a Fascist State
brought a bloodbath to the worid
He was not satisfied with banning
the Communist party. He did S
this Government will have to do if
it bans the Communist party in Au-
U;aha. He banned trade-unionism
That is what a Government has to
proceed to do if it bans Communism
Because there may be a militant
official in a trade-union, that trade-
union has to be banned. That ran
bring about the butchery and th.
skve State that Hitler established
when he banned Communism.
And the elegant Mr. Dalv
Mr. Calwell’s erstwhile Charlie
McCarthy, assured the House
that
I and all other members on this
side of the House will fight to the
end to see that the interests of trade-
unionists shall be safeguarded so that
they can elect whom they like to
executive positions in their organisa-
tions. Honorable members opposite
may take warning that when this
legislation is introduced we shall care
little about what they do to the


Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
EDWARD JOHN CADWALLADER
DAVIES, son of Edward and Elizabeth
Davies, of Townsville, are requested to
advise QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES,
LIMITED, Box 296 E, Q.P.0., Brisbane.
HADLEY, Janey Ethel (bom Longford,
Tasmania). —Anyone knowing her where-
abouts please write “LMH,” C/o Box
7670, Q.P.0., Melbourne. Sister Linda
enquiring—to her advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN GEORGE IfUNT late of
Cobar. —I'AKE NOTICE that MABLE
IRENE HUNT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2071 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years arnj upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth of September
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from McCAW, MORAY &
JOHNSON, Solicitors. 75-77 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST HENRY HUGHES formerly
of Mudgee.—TAKE NOTICE that
VALERIE MAY HUGHES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1653 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney* by the 7th of
September 1950 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor, 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorcb.
TO ERIC GALE late of Pearce Avenue
Belmont.—TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS
MARY GALE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 518 of 1950 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th day of September 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from WOODGATE & CLEAVES. Soli-
citors, 97 Vincent Street, Oessnock. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorcb.
TO LAWRENCE NORMAN REEVES late
of Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that
CORAL JEAN REEVES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 374 of 1949 on the
grounds of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Ist day of September 1950
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from P. V. MORRISSEY, Soli-
citor, 23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN JOSEPH PIKE formerly of
Granville.—TAKE NOTICE that EMILY
MARY PIKE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2463 of 1948 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is ask-
ing for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 25th
July 1950 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. CUR-
TISS DEZARNAULDS & BUTTPIELD,
Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IRIS MARY MCCARTHY.—TAKE
NOTICE that LAURENCE HUBERT MC-
CARTHY has filed his Petition for
Divorce No. 2064 of 1950 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 21st day of August
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HAROLD MUNRO &
SERIO, Petitioner’s Solicitors, 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mother craft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
Commit g;^’ w b e Shill definitely
other g at issue,
an Tabor members, however,
nnt of this opinion. Some
We tf as Messrs, Keon and
sU °n ardent anti - Com-
ulle ? ’.hnmXe election waves
jnunists t u e Federal
had
shore side by • . ij
su P P° r ters °f Communist poficy
like Mr. Ward, t X d tb ; n view
themselves to t ‘
Neither, when it comes to the
pinch, it seem , *
{Well, Armstrong Chambers
an d others of heavier mettle.
f »
“Civil Line
Some of the speeches or the
real anti-Communist members
of the party, not the least the
feminine contribution of Senator
Tangney, must have provided
serious embarrassment for
the Labor leadership.
The lady Senator from Wes-
tralia, referring to an organisa-
tion in W.A. which she evidently
suspected of possible subversive
tendencies, declared that if it
had “anything to do with the
Council of Civil Liberties” the
Government should investigate
it. She was unaware that for
years Messrs. Ward and Pollard
had been vice-presidents of the
Council of Civil Liberties, and
that during the war it had
thanked Dr. Evatt for his assist-
ance in the way of legal advice
and co-operation in its policies.
Changing Views
There was a remarkable
divergence between the main
line of views expressed on the
question of banning the party
before and after the Communist
Dissolution Bill was discussed.
Before, the Opposition leader-
ship was against banning alto-
gether. Afterwards, there was
acceptance of banning, accept-
ance of the fact that the Com-
munist P art y was a subversive
organisation, acceptance of
everything in the Government
view Point as stated in the pre-
amble to the bill and as to its
principles. Indeed, the Opposi-
tion, with the exception of Mr.
Ward, coldly accepted the bill
as it left the Lower House, onus-
of-proof clause and all
But nevertheless the “Labor”
party agreed that there must be
absolute fair-play for the Com-
munists. They must be treated
as gent lemen to the point at
wh i c h the whole effectiveness of
the bill would be nullified.
Nothing else would “Labor”
stomach,
,
The Price or Survival
Every move and every turn
and twist of the debate made it
clearer and clearer that whatever
action might be taken on other
legislation to obstruct the Gov-
“You and your hussy music!"
ernment, whatever side-issues
such as the value of the £ and
the need for a prices referendum
or sacking the Speaker might
be raised there is only one real
issue with so-called “Labor.”
It must wreck the Communist
Dissolution Bill if it is to sur-
vive. And if need be it must
wreck the Menzies Government
before it can put the bill into
operation.
The reasons are obvious from
a study of the personnel of the
controllers of Labor finance and
executives and of the composi-
tion of the A.L.P.
Communists tightly hold
control of unions like the Water-
siders and Building Workers’
Industrial Union and Coal-
miners and Ironworkers which
provide the bulk of the financial
support of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P.
The signatures to the Labor
unions’ appeal for the return of
the Labor Government pub-
lished a fortnight ago in N. S.
Wales included those of I. Wil-
liams and E. W. Buhner, mem-
bers of the Central Committee
of the Communist party. To
support an attempt to displace
the Communist-unions leaders
would mean suicide for the
A.L.P.
On the other hand, not to give
token support to the truth that
Communism is subversive would
be to antagonise the Catholic
Church and the moderate anti-
Reds of Victoria and some other
States and tear the “Labor”
party in pieces.
The party cannot have for-
gotten that quite recently one
of its many supposedly-reformed
Communists, when arrested,
turned out to have a Communist-
party membership-card in his
possession, though he was cam-
paign-director to a Labor Federal
Minister, Mr. Ward.
Might not some of the other
high-ranking Labor officials who
so easily slipped into their jobs
straight out of the Communist
party, and who are now cam-
paigning so vigorously against
the measure to suppress Com-
munism, be subject to the same
risk if they came to be seriously
investigated for purposes of the
new bill? The party has good
reason for jitters.
The warding-off of the danger
by preventing the Communist
Dissolution Bill from becoming
law has therefore been Labor’s
main preoccupation during the
past session. Its sails have ever
been trimmed to meet the views
of the Communist-controlled
unions. Its foreign policy, and
particularly its concern for
recognition of Communist
China and for aloofness from
Malaya, has been formed with
one eye on the Watersiders and
Seamen.
It is in a desperate fix fight-
ing for its life, and so long as
the Communist Dissolution Bill
is on the paper it will go to any
length to thwart the Government
and to keep it from becoming
law.
It is so desperate an issue that
Labor will even go recklessly to
the polls and gamble on being
executed rather than allow the
fuse to be set to the greatest
piece of political dynamite it has
encountered in 30 years.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT, LTD.
All sections of the business contributed to the record results achieved by
the Company for the year ended March 31, The major query in the wool
trade today is the continued ability of the Northern Hemispheres to purchase
our wool and find buyers for the processed products. Any serious diminution
of world trade, such as might follow substantial cuts in Marshall Aid, or strong
consumer resistance to prices, could have serious repercussion on Australia’s
primary industries, which are still critically short of equipment for transport,
fencing, building, etc.
At the annual meeting of the
, MoiKAiimp nn
company, neia m Mt. t ourae on
Friday, 23rd June, Mr, K. M.
Niall chairman, said:
“Profit and T nss Account aeain
howf fiord fiau?es ACC ° Unt ag
‘■Wool nrices have risen steadily
cinr-ffthe setback atthe oneifingofthe
ion and stock value? Sfluenced
hv ?his and bv the suoni demand
mit have 7 risen to phenomenal
’ Phenomenal
number of bales of wool
handled for S year^V the
we have ever sold; but this record is
mainly due to the industrial troubles
nf 1048-40 causing a substantial
carry forward into the year—we had
u aaa u a r es more ; n store unsold at
KSSSt wS had at
the end of the year under review. Our
figures were also assisted by the
icnuisition of the business of Aus-
Italian Wool Brokers and Produce
Co. Ltd.
“The quantity of wool produced in
Australia is still considerably below
that produced in the few years pre-
ceding the 1945 drought.
“The numbers of stock handled
again show very satisfactory increases
“umbers rising from 5,250,000
to 5,700,000, and cattle from 295,000
aaa’ ooo "j , Pigs .banned t( ? tall< r d
110,000, and the value of land sold
was approximately ,14.200,000.
Uur stations have contributed
largely to the satisfactory figures.
Uur merchandise department turn-
over has Again increased substan-
hally, and its officers are continually
searching for materials for the mam-
work so
n,^fnrnPin4?,ctr^ e e ® ciency of the
P “Ymi t vapttcac
havp
—nnnhfru,!Tt
new hL^rl^Trtchase
costs bUt pnnCipa y due to increasmg
p 1
, l esis
large areas of Queensland
nr .°. South Wales the extra-
heavy rams m February,
the sheet) 11 moisfor intern ted 'most of
the S f fhif SnTtith
the ioTwir ™,nf the
most
experience^ llB m
all parts d of the hodv and ma?v
n mn S ot tllc body ’. and , ma uy
piopernes were so waterlogged as to
“l nl Um ?° SSlbl fu to y ork f he sh J ep -
Losses have, therefore, been fery
exrJJrLH^oo/ 36 he 2 tic , ca «rJi? S . S u S
advpnt ST t of the flock. With the
of Hip ot* c 2 o er we ather the virulence
“in a PP? ars have abated.
®? Rie uistncts, rabbits reached
sihle tA iF ortl °il s ’ and 11 was impos-
mainly S .abour’ an“d
netting. The cost of thic nest to the
countfy is an enormous annual bur-
den , and it is hoped that research
n°cr T* recen tly intensified by the
will eventually produce a
solution of the problem.
Once again I would like to refer
u? i • ser *ous spread of noxious
eeds m our pastoral areas brought
about mainly through the heavy rains
Jove referred to, and also to lack
ot labour necessary to cope with
them at the appropriate time.
nr . r . ta i n chemicals have given
Promising results in dealing with
several of these pests, but their
application over large areas is pro-
n’Ditive.
w P? e only answer to the problem
would appear to be biological. From
ime t° time all of us who have lived
nf ae c onntry have noticed patches
fnnu weeds affected by some
S.°i disease ’ but few of us have
p.-bfite trouble to closely investi-
sate the cause. J
“I would urge upon those on the
land, when they again observe such
j ia pp en j ngS) that they collect a few
specimens complete with foliage and
root, and forward same either to the
appropriate State Agricultural Depart-
mentor the Division of Plant Industry
at Canberra. It is quite possible
that, if this were done, some form of
biological control would eventually
be found.
“In view of the rank growth
resulting from heayy r | infallj
bush fires are likely to be a serious
menace later in the* season.
Wool Market
. . ,
! lThe phenomenal rise m wool
P nces n °w being experienced com-
menced in the 1946/47 season, and
eac J. succeeding year has seen prices
at ll h 'P er levels - . - „ ,
Jhe average price for greasy wool
sold in Australia has moved as under;
Season 1945/46 .. 15.68 d. per lb.
1946/47 .. 24.49 d. „
1947/48 .. 39.50 d. „
1948/49 .. 48.07 d. „
1949/50 .. 62.76 d. „
(11 months.)
“The season just ending opened
with prices generally just a little
Cipher than the close of the 1948/49
season, but in September the market
wea k ened t Q approximately 17F%
under opening rates. However, fol-
j ow j ng die devaluation of sterling in
t jj e m j dd i e G f September, the market
oiaickly recovered, and has since
s j lown a con tinual upward movement,
“Fortunately, this season’s selling
p rogramine was no t dislocated by any
ser j ous industrial trouble, and all the
usual wool-buying nations were rep-
resented.
“Great Britain and Western Euro-
P ean countries were the major pur-
rs, with Russia and satellite
countries, and also Japan, taking con-
siderable quantities. Australian mills
now take nearly 15% of production;
the U.S.A. bought more than in
recent seasons, and, of course, was
financially responsible for much of
the buying capac i t y of Western
Eu ™P e ’. • , ,
The hlgh p j?i es ulmg have °u d
considerable difficulty to purchasers
in P rovldin B credits, and statistics
show that reserve sto , cks hel 4 by
trade are on a very low scale The
wartime accumulation of nearly 101
million ba i es has been reduced to
just under half a million bales of
j n f er j or sorts. '
• “World production of apparel
woo i s j s approximately 10 million
ba ] es annually, while consumption
s j nce tbe war bas exceeded that figure
by near j y 2 million bales a year.
“jhis is striking evidence of the
” £ lhe dem “ d '
„ _ ...
Sterling Devaluation
“The prompt response of prices to
devaluation was due to the improve-
ment in the competitive power of
British and Continental mills in dollar
markets. # Raw wool prices have in
recent months appreciated by more
than the extent of devaluation, but
there is no sign of any break in
d emand. J
“The basis of this strong demand
appears to be the larger population
in Europe and America, and the
wider spread of purchasing power
there as compared with the position
in the 1930’5. J
i< Tbe major query is the continued
ability of the Northern Hemisphere
to purchase our wool and find buyers
for the processed product. Any
serious diminution of world trade,
such as might follow substantial cuts
in Marshall Aid, or strong consumer
resistance to prices, could have serious
repercussions,
Post J. O. Plans
“At a wool conference recently held
in London, in which delegations from
the United Kingdom, Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa partici-
Dated, the operations of the Joint
Organisation were reviewed, and pro-
posals for a new world marketing
plan were examined. No conclusion
was reached regarding a new plan
and, pending determination of this
question, which was deferred for
further consideration, it was recom-
mend d Qn . J O/ up t 0
’ . . ’ „ . . c
. 1116 , Australian Government has
been asked to support financially the
new p j an proposed by growers’ rep-
resentatives, but before agreeing to
do this> and before any further action
i s taken, the Government wishes to
be assured that a levy to supply the
initial capital required to be put up
by growers will be agreed to by them.
“The Minister emphasises that a
scheme will not be adopted unless it
is approved by growers’organisations,
“The difficulty in obtaining agree-
xnent between all the interests and
countries involved appears to be im-
mense, but this company, in common
with other brokers, is ready to assist
in the operation of any practicable
scheme desired by the growers.
“While prices on the present level
continue, there would be definite
advantages in a scheme by which
Australian growers could set aside
part of their present wool proceeds
in a reserve (free of tax until used),
to be drawn on by the grower con-
cerned when wool prices fall.
“j n November last an interim dis-
tribution of profits made on the sale
of the wartime accumulation, rep-
resenting 6J% of the appraised value
c f W ool handled under the wartime
scheme, was paid to growers entitled
to it. Further substantial profits are
now accumulating, and will be paid
out to participants in due course. A
recent announcement by the Minister
indicates that no decision has been
reached as to when a further payment
w m be made.
“It may be mentioned that the Aus-
tralian Wool Realisation Commission
again f avoU red the brokers with the
offering of the stock pile wool so i d
at auction in Australia during the
twelve months, and in this the com-
P any participated,
pd y P p
General
“As a result of the high export
prices for primary produce—particu-
jarjy wool—Australia’s credit balance
in London, which was approximately
£4OO million a year ago, has increased
to approximately £5OO million.
, “Ij infiaUonary
trends at present operating can only
be countered by an increased supply
°* goods ‘, , , , .
Since the end of the war, Aus-
traha s productive capacity has been
seriously crippled by strikes and go-
slow methods, and the diversion ot
effort to luxury lines.
The primary industries are, as a
result, critically short of equipment
for , transport, fencing, building Ac.,
and as they cannot be obtained locally
it appears essential to import con-
siderably more than we have been
doing of the materials required,
Unfortunately, owing to the dollar
shortage, American and Canadian
products suitable to our needs are
strictly licensed,
It is of the greatest importance
to the future of Australia that the
attempts now being made by Govern-
ment and other agencies to obtain a
much larger volume of this equipment
for essential development should be
successful.”


For Colds and 'Flu
WOLFE'S
<zJhr umatijc
SCHNAPPS
HOT WITH
LEMON AT
BEDTIME
At the first sign of a
cold, have a Wolfe’s Schnapps
hot with lemon just before going to bed.
It is a warming, heartening drink, and a
stimulant of special value in helping to
ward off winter ills. For over 100 years,
Wolfe’s Schnapps has been known and
appreciated by both men and women as
unique and distinctive in character from
any other liquor.
wa.iM.n
WOLFES 1
aromatic
rSSSwr
fasm
Milestones in our National Progress
PIONEERS
set the Wheel of National
■
Er
mrmm*
y
- if*
I
r
5^.5
;:iy ,r
m
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT^ 11
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Show roo ***• Tippe tt fya\A )
bourne. V.S.H'. Distributors; Konaldson Bro'• “ Tippett I (<Q‘ d -''
Bridge St.. Sydney. Q’land K°«g S t.. Brisbane. _
Pty., Ltd.. Scottish Union House, !•*<
• The names of Blaxland,
Wentwdrth, Lawson, Burke,
Wills. Eyre. Sturt and others
stand out In brilliant relie
in our country's record ot
pioneering progress.
Qn this foundation suc-
ceeding generations have
built a Nation which stands
pre-eminent in many phases
of world primary production.
The Ronaldson-Tippett Or-
ganization has served t ese
generations of s
with equipment which
added untold millions to o
National wealth and
go on so doing for gen
fions to come, basing
manufacturing policy «
firm belief in the virtue
"work well done •
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP PEACE TREATY.
“It may be stated,” says a
London report in the Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” “that the British
Government is known to have
no desire for harsh peace terms
to Japan Japan must be per-
mitted to trade to pay its way.”
This report has appeared in
practically identical words in so
many British papers that it is no
doubt an official “hand-out,” and
the same source gives the follow-
ing further information on the
present British notion of a Jap
peace treaty:
“It is worth noting that Japan
herself has no war industries
which are self-sufficient. She
has iron and steel, but to build
up her war-potential she would
have to import considerable
quantities of various types of
material from abroad, which she
did up to the last war. These
include rubber from Malaya, oil
from America and scrap from
wherever she could buy it.
“It is the view of the British
Government that membership of
the Peace Conference should be
open to three broad categories—
those countries who made their
direct contribution to the war,
those who suffered from
Japanese aggression, and those
who have special interests in the
Pacific. These countries would
be principal parties. Altogether,
49 countries declared war on
Japan and would sign the Peace
Treaty.”
Also, “The British Govern-
ment considers that the Soviet
Government ought to be asked
to take part in the Peace Confer-
ence, even though Moscow has
repeatedly contended that the
treaty is a matter for the Coun-
cil of Foreign Ministers.
“In the view of the British
Government, Japan has been
already completely disarmed. We
will support any measures
designed to obviate further
Japanese aggression, but it is
difficult to be more precise as
to the necessary measures at the
moment.
“It is also considered that
Japan must be given a mercan-
tile marine, but that her ship-
building should be limited to
ships of certain size and speed
so that they cannot be converted
for war purposes.
“Last year General MacArthur
allowed certain categories of
shipbuilding up to 12,000 tons,
the previous tonnage being 6000.
It was the view here [in Lon-
don] that the tonnage should be
restricted to 7500 with a speed
of 12 knots, as in the case of
Germany. At some stage deci-
sions will have to be taken as
to Japan’s potential in iron and
steel.
“In regard to reparations, the
feeling is that nothing much
more is likely to be forthcoming
from Japan. Finally, Britain
does not desire to see political
controls maintained in Japan,
and would like to have incor-
porated in the peace treaty a
human-rights safeguard.”
Another “Scotsman” report
has stated that a British draft of
a treaty for Japan was almost
certainly outlined at Canberra in
1947; but by the time the
Foreign Ministers met al
Colombo original British ideas
had needed substantial revision:
“In the first place the Com-
monwealth, foremost Australia,
is now pressing with unequalled
eagerness for an early treaty,
even if it needs to be concluded
without Russian and Chinese
assent. This idea, hitherto re-
jected in London, has now won
some sympathy, even if it is far
from popular in Whitehall. Im-
plicit in the proposal is the idea
that Japan can somehow be
politically and economically
severed from the mainland of
Asia, much as Britain was from
Europe between the wars and is
in some respects today while
looking to the Empire. In
Japan’s case the compensation
must take the form of a mari-
time policy in the South Seas
and in South-east Asia,
“This is not a conclusion
which Mr. Spender, the Aus-
tralian Minister for External
Affairs, would evidently care to
admit; but it can still be argued
that it is so.”
Japan, the same correspondent
contends, will expand in one
direction or another —either into
the mainland of Asia or into
South-east Asia and the South
Seas, and quite possibly both:
“If the Commonwealth coun-
tries, in their eagerness to obtain
the kind of treaty they wish, are
ready to press for it at the cost
of Russia and China being ex-
cluded, they must also be ready
for one other result: that Japan
will need to trade on a big scale
with South-east Asia and that
with trade will follow influence
coming sensationally close to
American
technicjoe
■Russian
mi^Kt
wvv^\v
—London “Daily Mail.”
WEALTH.
Australia herself —say, into In-
donesia.”
As considered editorially by
“Manchester Guardian,” the
crux of the matter is whether a
treaty will involve the with-
drawal of American forces and
the end of all real control of
Japan; “If Japan is left entirely
on its own it may continue to
develop on the lines laid down
by General MacArthur: but
there are two other distinct pos-
sibilities, each unpleasant. One
is that the Japanese Government
would become extremely re-
actionary and in its fight against
Communism would restore the
old police State. The second
possibility is that the Com-
munists may come to power. It
is not unlikely that Russia is
more interested in getting an
obedient Communist satellite in
Japan than it is in operating its
alliance with China,
“Because of these two possi-
bilities the United States will
think very carefully before with-
drawing its occupation forces.
Moreover, American troops in
Japan have a dual function: to
control the country and to de-
fend the country. If the occu-
pation is ended, how is Japan’s
defence to be guaranteed? Are
there to be once more a Japanese
Army, Navy and Air Force?
“Theoretically a Japanese
Government, set loose from con-
trols, might negotiate an agree-
ment for America to continue to
hold bases in Japan. But if
American forces remain they
will be the real power in the
background, whatever form the
treaty may take. At what stage
would they intervene in Japan’s
affairs if Japan moved either to
the objectionable extreme Right
or the objectionable extreme
Left? And would not an elected
Japanese Government be forced
by public opinion after a time
to press for the entire evacua-
tion of foreign troops? All these
problems have to be seen against
the background of Japan’s
almost insoluble economic prob-
lems, the pressure of population
and its need for export trade.”
Nonetheless, a Jap treaty be-
comes increasingly urgent: “Up
jo the present few people in
Asia have thought the American
occupation unreasonable, Japan
has been overthrown as the re-
sult of its own aggression, and
the Y orld h ac * to ensure its
security. But time is passing.
The rest of Asia feels that Japan
is an Asian Power. A long-
term policy towards Japan
should be declared before Asian
sympathies are mustered on
Japan’s behalf, and it is re-
garded as an oppressed country
struggling to be free.”
In further comment the “Man-
chester Guardian” has dealt with
divisions of opinion inside the
British Commonwealth and
within America also:
“In the Commonwealth one
interest is self-protection against
a renewed Japanese export drive.
This would lead to various re-
strictive measures. But another
interest is that Japanese exports
should revive so that the under-
developed territories may buy
cheaply the consumer goods and
the capital goods which they
need There may be some
difference of opinion between
the Australians and ourselves
about.the military provisions of
a treaty. Australia has a more
lively vision than we have of the
possibilities of a rearmed Japan
throwing off its mask of de-
mocracy.”
The U.S. is in “far more of a
split mind” regarding
than the BritishV treaty
wealth countries, and
there can be no
the public opinion of Am Untll
has slowly revolved CriCa
question of Far East great
decided definitely w £! lcy an d
American interest in
Japan he cast tor the
America’s chief friend ,? A of
-the role which China
a year ago? Or was tK Up
of Mr. Royal! correct and , tbesis
Japan as an ally be Core ° Ul<l
liability than an assets » 1° a
is to be wooed as a
American insistence on L 1
accorded bases cause such fr,?
ti°n that partnership will hIX
down? Can Japan remain k
ally of the West without “
power ,n Japan passing inlo s “
reactionary hands that J a “?
would cease to be a desirS
partner? Until there Tt
answer to these questions Ameri
can policy will be directed
chiefly to trying to make Tap 2
Sly ”° n US ° Wn fCet eCOno^
A Paris “Le Monde” corre
spondent in the Far East has no
l° U . bt TT W c hateV j er about the
that U.S. policy towards Japan
is taking:
, Each American withdrawal
m China has been an advance
for Japan towards the recon-
quest of her sovereignty. The
roles of 1945 have now been re-
versed : the former Chinese ally
of the United States has become
the adversary, yesterday’s
Japanese enemy is the hope of
tomorrow, and the American
conqueror is being transformed
at Jokio into its generous
guardian. Taught by experience,
the Americans are discovering
that in Asia their policy carries
no farther than their power; and
as they have brought only naval
forces to bear, they control only
the Asia of the archipelagos.
Now Japan is being promoted
to the first place as the bollard
of a defensive chain drawn
closely round the continent,
from Tokio to Australia, em
closing the Okinawa and the
Philippines. It only remains to
bring her into play as an active
partner by giving her a peace
treaty to sign—in other words,
by restoring her sovereignty.”
Meanwhile, the past 12 months
(as London “Times’s” Tokyo
correspondent reports) have seen
a remarkable improvement in
the living conditions and morale
of-the Japs: “The bewilderment
and inertia which followed the


jrfi
intnnmnii:
Schweppervescence
lasts the whole drink through
GOOD WHISKY
deserves FRESH SODA
fof C
render are now largely things
S Mhe past. Much of the assur-
ot 1 which characterised the
Japanese before the war has re-
Jap ec j Everywhere there is
Sence of keenness' to play a
fining part m international
Affairs Above all, there is a
crowing determination to com-
fpte completely unfettered, in
International markets and to re-
capture a large portion of world
trade.”
U.N.O.’s Deadlock.
London “Time and Tide”
mentions a report that when
rrygve Lie was in Moscow Stalin
threatened that if the question
of Chinese representation is not
settled by the September meet-
ing of the General Assembly,
Russia and satellites might leave
UNO. and set up a rival organi-
sation, Russia being willing to
come back into active participa-
tion only on her own terms:
“The Western Powers, for
their part, may also take action
if by September Russia has not
come back into the U.N. com-
mittees. They might, for in-
stance, propose a revision of the
Charter so as to lift the dead
hand of the Russian veto in the
Security Council. That would
be an effective counter-move to
the Russian threat, but the simple
truth is that the position in
U.N.O. is impossible while
Russia is at once in it and not
in it.”
Meanwhile, London “Daily
Telegraph” points out that in a
“most significant phrase” the
three main Western Powers have
served notice that they will act,
if necessary, without U.N.O. in
one quarter, at least. They have
asserted “in the strongest terms”
their determination to act, “both
within and without the frame-
work of the United Nations,”
to prevent any threatened viola-
tion of frontiers or armistice
lines in the Middle East:
“This first specific expression
of resolve to act for the pre-
vention of war, if necessary, out-
side the United Nations is a
frank recognition of the unhappy
fact that the United Nations, as
it now functions, cannot be relied
upon to do so. With Russia
‘on strike’ or wielding her eterftal
veto, the Security Council might
well be impotent in a crisis of
threatened war. The three
Powers have therefore realisti-
cally acknowledged that their
very obligations to the United
Nations may in certain eventu-
alities compel them to act with-
out it.”
Troops for Malaya.
Lieut. - General Sir Francis
Tuker, writing in “Manchester
Guardian” on the job in
Malaya:
“The most suitable soldiers
for a campaign of this sort are
not the short-service soldiers,
mainly urban, afforded us by
conscription, however much
they may be trained and guided
hy Regular British soldiers.
They are not even the Austra-
lians ; and certainly not the
Commandos, of whatever
nationality.
“It is a great advantage to
employ soldiers who are not
only used to small war opera-
tions and who may perhaps
from homes in mountain
lorest country akin to that
of Malaya, but it is also of in-
estimable benefit to employ men
who are by nature frugal, men
who need the very smallest and
lightest of administrative trains.
“The best soldiers for this par-
ticular campaign are the
Gurkhas from Nepal, and we
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Tribune.”
SNORKEL APPARATUS.
should increase our recruitment
of these men. The best avail-
able military police to back them
up, if they cannot be found from
the inhabitants of Malaya—and
it is far better for many reasons
that the inhabitants should take
their full part —can be found by
enlistment of ex-soldiers from
India. All these men are used
to living on short commons for
considerable periods and to the
type of operation we should
now be conducting in Malaya.”
Russia’s Submarines.
Various estimates have been
made, including that of U.S.
Chief of Naval Operations
Admiral Sherman, who has put
the number of Russian sub-
marines actually in commission
at between 270 and 280, “one-
fourth of them operating in the
Pacific.”
An even higher figure, how-
ever, is put forward by “Jane’s
Fighting Ships,” the British
bible on sea-power —a total of
360, with a five-year plan call-
ing for 1000 submarines by the
end of 1951. On “Jane’s”
estimate that perhaps 750 can
be completed by then, the “Los
Angeles Times” comments:
“Actually, the number of
submarines Russia can build is
limited only by the priority
Stalin chooses to give this
weapon as opposed to others.
It is not much more difficult to
build a submarine than a heavy
bomber, and parts can be
fabricated inland and shipped
by rail for assembly to
European or Asiatic bases. The
calibre of Russian crews is an
unknown quantity, but those in-
clined to underestimate Soviet
seamanship should recall the
pre-Pearl Harbor notion that all
Japanese aviators wore thick
spectacles.
“It is a sobering reflection
that when Hitler marched into
Poland the German Navy had
exactly 57 operational U-boats.
German industry continued to
produce submarines faster than
the combined Allied sea and
air forces could sink them
until the day Hitler died in his
Berlin bunker. At no time did
Grand-Admiral Doenitz have
many more than 100 sub-
marines at sea, but they took a
toll of 2,775 merchant ships of
14,500,000 tons and nearly cut
the lifeline from America to her
Allies.
“In 1940 Doenitz promised
‘the U-boat alone can win this
war.’ When it was over, he
alibied that Goering persuaded
Hitler to divert too much effort
to aircraft and other weapons.
But the point to remember is
that he very nearly made good
his boast. If Germany had been
able to get the snorkel in mass
production sooner, to quote the
official British summary of
anti-submarine operations, it
‘would have revolutionised sub-
marine warfare.’ Maybe Stalin
read that report.”
However, Britain, for one, is
not lagging in this department.
Viscount Hall, First Lord of the
Admiralty, lately told the
House of Lords that the dis-
appearance of any potential
enemy with a large surface fleet
meant that the threat was no
longer in the battleship or other
large surface ships but in the
submarine, from the air, and
from the mine. There were, he
said, now being developed by
large naval Powers faster sub-
marines which could remain
submerged for much longer
periods than before. It was re-
ported that an American sub-
marine travelled 5000 miles sub-
merged for 21 days, and in a
British experiment a submarine
was submerged for nearly six
weeks and travelled something
like 3000 miles. Priority had
been given in Britain to research
and development in relation to
a submarine capable of long en-
durance and high speed when
submerged.
He said he knew of no naval
Power to which the Admiralty
would take second place in re-
lation to research into faster
submarines and anti-submarine
methods. The Admiralty was
pursuing the development of the
fast, electrically driven sub-
marine, and several submarines
had been converted to that
form. The electric-batteries
could give a boost to the sub-
marine for nine, 12, or possibly
14 knots. The Admiralty had
actual experience with the
electrically-driven submarine
and also with a new form of
hydrogen-peroxide propelled
submarine. There was no naval
Power which had greater know-
ledge of this form of propulsion
than Britain, but for him to
reply to all the questions that
had been asked him would be to
“disclose information which the
Russians would love to have."
Dragnet Digest.
British Press Banned. —Air-Com-
modore A. V. Harvey, M.P., in a
London “Sunday Times” letter, notes
a fact that possibly isn’t as well
known as it ought to be: that the
Communist “Daily Worker” is the
only British paper permitted represen-
tation in Moscow. This, he adds, is
a state of affairs which obtains in a
greater or less degree in all the
countries in the Soviet sphere of
influence. In Britain, however, the
Russian Tass and kindred news-
agencies of their satellite Press func-
tion with complete freedom.
* * * *
Why Franco Stays. —As explained
by an Edinburgh “Scotsman” special
correspondent; “The twentieth cen-
tury has brought untold suffering to
the people of Spain. The revolution,
which cost the nation one million
lives, was one of the bloodiest in
history. The people of Spain are
grateful to Franco for having kept
them out of World War 11, yet the
fact remains that if there is to be
another world conflict —and they fully
realise the strategic importance of the
Iberian peninsula in such an event —
then they would prefer to have to
participate in that rather than ex-
perience a second civil war. Indeed,
this is the real reason why General
Franco still remains powerful.” The
correspondent adds that actually
Franco has achieved quite a lot for
Spain, and has done much to alleviate
the general living-conditions; his
greatest problem is strictly an eco-
nomic one.
* * * *
Hesitant J. Bull— N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” writer Walter Lippmann:
“It is fair to say that if the British
could know and could believe that
1952 would not see the end of
American dollar aid to the Atlantic
community, that somehow or other we
would make it national policy to
finance the ‘dollar gap’ at a high
level of international trade and
domestic employment, they would
soon be leading the procession,
rather than ‘dragging their feet’
toward large schemes of co-operation
and multilateralism and convertible
currencies.” He points out, however,
that it isn’t possible for Truman,
Acheson and Hoffman to make con-
vincing American commitments after
1952. ‘‘They cannot speak now for
the Eighty-second Congress, which is
to be elected in the autumn, much
less for the next President and the
Eighty-third Congress.”
* * * *
Brighter Berlin. —liK a Lqndon
“Time and Tide” article Reginald
Colby, who was sent to Berlin by
the British Foreign Office in 1945,
now reports that “the change in
Western Berlin is astonishing. It is
not just the full shops, the gleaming
new cars for sale ranged among pots
of flowers behind the plate-glass win-
dows, the light of the Kurfiirsten-
damm and the good, cheap food,
which makes it seem a different town
from the drab, empty, sinister Berlin
of ,a little more than a year ago. The
Berliners themselves, no longer bowed
down with rucksacks and pale-faced,
are leading as normal lives as Lon-
doners or Parisians. It is difficult to
believe the Russians are so close.”
* * * *
China Recognition. —ln a London
“Observer” survey Q. M. Green, a
recognised authority on the Far
East, admits there is something in
the view that Britain’s rather lone-
hand recognition of Communist China
must confuse and weaken efforts to
fight Communism elsewhere in South-
East Asia, in Malaya especially, but
he puts in a word on the other side:
“Russia is not only a foreign country
to the Chinese, hut is trading on the
favors of Peking to exploit China to
her own advantage. Her intention
clearly is to treat China like any other
satellite. It will be surprising if she
can pursue this policy for very long
without turning China’s deep-rooted
anti-foreign feeling against herself.
By maintaining official relations with
Communist China we are holding
the door open for a time when the
Chinese people —and even some of
the Communist leaders —may see
through Russia’s oppressive patronage
and feel the need for other friends.”
# * * ♦
Off-hand Treatment of N.Z. —At
least one London paper, the “Daily
Express,” took a poor view of the
British Socialists’ not informing New
Zealand of petrol derationing: “This
off-hand treatment would be bad
enough if it were directed to an
unimportant dependency. It becomes
intolerable when it is directed to a
people who, in our time of danger,
sustained this country with every-
thing they had, including their lives.
It is not surprising that Mr. • Philip
Noel-Baker is the Minister respon-
sible for this insult to New Zealand.
It is quite in keeping with his past
record.”
* * * *
The New “Hitler Youth.” —A cor-
respondent quoted by “New York
Times” in comment on the recent
Soviet-directed rally of Eastern Ger-
man youth in Berlin: “Here they are
as one remembers them in 1933 —
the same stance and gestures when
the band plays, the same air of im-
portance,, the same plastic faces,
empty and somehow piteous, waiting
to be moulded into anything the
master sculptor decides.”
* * * *
Hope for Israel. — On whether
Israel, given a few years of peace, can
organise itself into paying its own
way in a competitive world, London
“Economist” admits that “After sur-
veying its prospects on paper, any
arithmetician must shake his head*:
“But reasoning based on statistics,
without allowance lor imponderables
and for psychology, can be notoriously
misleading. The fact is that when a
resilient and able people is faced with
no alternative between turning the
corner and extinction, it contrives to
turn the corner. The Jew inside
Israel has no other place to go to;
the Jew outside Israel is committed to
helping a foundation that must not
fail. Israel’s enemies are deluding
themselves if they underrate the
capacity of these two forces to build
a permanent State.”


I Matchless performance! I
J
That's why IMC tOHS 3T6 hauled 33(1
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
ns
A right tyre for eoth job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed tor the
best performance on a particular job.
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
HI-MILER
AIRWHEEL
ALL SERVICE
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators* the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs —give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Gel the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
Legal Notice.
FREDERICK WILLIAM THOMAS
SMITH, formerly of 224 Murray Street,
Rockhampton, in the State of Queens-
land, but temporarily residing at 25
Wudgong Street, Mosman, Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales, Master
Baker, deceased. —AFTER fourteen clear
days from today HAROLD FRANCIS
JONES, of 136 Talford Street, Rockhamp-
ton, in the State of Queensland, Chartered
Accountant (Australia), FREDERICK
HOPPING, of Jessie Street, Rockhampton,
in the said State, Chartered Accountant
(Australia), and OSCAR MARTIN HEG-
VOLD (in the said Will called Oscar
Hegvold), of 282 Musgrave Street, North
Rockhampton, in the said State, Business
Manager, the Executors appointed by de-
ceased’s Will dated the Ninth day of
November, 1948, and Codicil thereto
dated the Twenty-ninth day of August,
1949 will apply to the Supreme Court,
Rockhampton, for Probate of this Will and
Codicil. ANY person interested who de-
alfes to object to the application or to be
heard upon it may file a caveat in the
Registry at Rockhampton at any time be-
fore the Grant is made.—O. P. STUMM,
Solicitor, 19 William Street, Rockhamp-
ton.
or an
SF
\0
■' «■ ■
i mmm
i
m
.f « ' i
11
Co»Wlt<s~v
Mi
m
a* <■ yiVv *
r* |ij 0 f Enfll 3l1 ®*
Made in Australia for The General Electric o.
(Sole Australian R J>P Te ‘ o ? tati ?*f°{ an d)
The General Electric Co. Ltd. of Eng
HOBAK.
SYDNEY . . . NEWCASTLE . . . MELBOURNE . oWNS yillE
LAUNCESTON . . . ADELAIDE . . . BRISBANE . • •
ĝ
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. 1 Drink
f or Wise men
“When a cake has been burnt
don’t attempt to cut the burnt por-
tions away.” —Cookery note.
Your husband has probably
acquired a taste for them.
+ *s*
“Two out of three Australians
favor increasing the value of the Aus-
tralian pound so that it will be on a
parity with sterling.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
But would this be a sovereign
remedy for our ills?
•J* *l*
“The ancient English drink golden
mead ale is going to modern women’s
heads —as a hair-rinse.”
This should produce some
honey-blondes.
•h “2*
“In Athens the Ministry <pf the
Interior announced the abolition of
the regulation requiring women to
state their ages when voting in local
elections.”
You can always guess it in
round figures, anyway.
Entomological.
“The lost man found near
Hunger Creek
Had lived on insects for a
week”
Bill read this, found his wife in
tears,
And scoffed : “I’ve lived on tick
for years!”
8.8.
4* 4* 4*
“You don’t need more traffic-police
to control Sydney’s traffic.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
if all concerned
acted according to their lights.
* * *
“Being well-dressed doesn’t always
bring marital happiness.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
No indeed ; we have all heard
of the divorce suit.
4* 4* 4 1
“He was arrested for drunkenness
when police found him barking af
his dog and trying to bite it.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
He’d been drinking something
with a nip in it.
4* 4» 4*
“ ‘No! no! ’ the half-caste screamed.
‘Take it away! Don’t point the
bone!’ He lapsed into dialect once
more, but the bone pointer wet on.”
—Short story.
Determined to dampen his
hopes.
Something Cooking.
“Before a woman throws herself
away on a man she usually takes
pretty careful aim.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
The lot of man was bad enough
When his already smitten heart
Became the target for a dart
As pert Dan Cupid did his stuff.
But now his plight is twice as
grim
When marriage-minded women
shoot
With deadly aim to nail the
brute
And make a partner out of him.
Ah, well! We’ll tolerate the
change
If women, in return for this,
Will give us gastronomic bliss
By constant practice on the
range.
BERT.
"Per Ardua”
An advance brawl-by-brawl
description of the attempt on
Mt. Everest by the happy team
of Soviet mountain-climbers,
preliminaries to which were dis-
cussed here a few weeks ago,
has now come to hand.
The first day’s climb was
halted at 40ft. while the chief
political commissar with the ex-
pedition, M. Pimpoff, made his
extensive report to the N.K.V.D.
on the series of ideological
questions which he and his three
assistants had searchingly put to
each member of the expedition,
including themselves, before the
climb began. One member of
the team named Dumbellovitch,
having failed to put sufficient
venom into his description of
the Western democracies as
plutocratic warmongers, was
thereupon shot by the squad of
Red Army guards who were
accompanying the expedition
ostensibly as quail-shooters in
the commissariat department.
At the start of the second day
the chief political commissar
had ordered the leader, Ivan
Nastikoff, to go by the maps
specially made for the expedi-
"And here was I dreaming I'd struck oil!”
tion by the State Collectivised
Cartographic Industry. Ivan
would have preferred to trust to
dead-reckoning, but, fearful of
acquiring a sudden attack of
lead-poisoning, complied with
the order.
By mid-afternoon the expedi-
tion was somewhere in the jungle
making in the general direction
of Burma, and it was only by
the aid of their American lend-
lease walkie-talkie sets that they
were able to get back to their
original base camp, where the
150 members of the Espionage
Corps who were about to set out
butterfly-hunting in the forti-
fied areas of the Khyber Pass
were still in camp. During the
three-days’ delay while British
maps were being procured the
team trained for the arduous
work ahead by being taken ex-
haustively through the works of
Marx and Engels.
Brilliant success crowned their
renewed attack on the moun-
tain, about 100 ft. being gained
between dawn and dusk. They
may even have achieved another
10ft. only for a two-hour lecture
after lunch on how the Soviet
railway system now had five
times the mileage of the vaunted
American railways, which, under
capitalism, had weeds 4ft. high
growing between the tracks, and
which, owing to continued
strikes in the steel industry, had
had to fall back on wooden
rails.
The next day a start couldn’t
be made until noon. This was
to allow the three assistant
political commissars to catch up
with the sleep they had lost
during the night through having
to stay awake to make a note
of anything the rest of the expe-
dition, including the chief p.c.,
said in their sleep.
Towards sundown one of the
a.p.cs., who had been a real head-
ache to the rest of the team, had
voiced to his chief his suspicions
about the ice-picks, which were
of British make and heavier
than the usual Soviet ice-pick.
He suggested that the English,
jealous of certain Soviet success
where they had failed, might
have endeavored to sabotage the
attempt by embedding dynamite
and detonators inside the steel
pick-heads, so that at the first
blow against the ice they would"
explode. This would account
for the extra heaviness. The
c.p.c. immediately ordered them
all to be dumped, and made a
note on his assistant’s history-
card and a recommendation that
he be awarded the Order of the
Twisted Thought, Fourth Class.
By the end of the eighth day
the Soviet team had, by using
their French-type oxygen masks,
reached the dizzy height of
780 ft., leaving only the bare
28,360 ft. to negotiate. There had
been one unfortunate incident.
That was when Serge Dumbel-
lovitch, a brother of the traitor
who had been shot, had taken
one of the a.p.cs. to the edge of
a deep crevice to show him
what he thought must be an
edelweiss growing. The a.p.c,
had, according to Serge when
he reported the incident later to
the leader, picked dm n
smelt it. He had sneezed'' 3nd
mg an avalanche, and v? Caus '
somewhere there with if, f Was
million tons of rock a
wZS fhadbarel^4S
300frhad y beei e reSed “o ° thw
the two remaining a n’ ne of
suddenly thought 2 that‘l’ had
rather strange that the
the expedition, only 40fi lof
Iwdn’t keanl the
started to question Serge ‘wiT
he—the a.p.c.—was last 0n h t ?
rope, with Serge second-last It
they were negotiating a triS d
shoulder of rock. V
;. or ; o f ISerge who rei
that, hearing a sudden ‘W£
had looked round to see thf ’’ r Jf
ril and A e a - px - hit ting th
bottom of Everest on the first
bounce. He thought an Afghan
sniper in the pay of the British
had cut the rope. lsa
thereafter the rate of c i inih
mg had flowed considerably Z
the leader, the c.p.c. and hi
only remaining assistant insisted
on positions in the centre of tha
chain.
At 1500 ft. the vodka started
to fail, and they found they had
forgotten to bring the batteries
to heat the water for their hot
water bottles. It was the c pc
who suggested to the assistant-
leader that they put some fat on
the heels of the leader’s boots
after which they’d seek political
asylum from Pakistan for the
whole outfit. As the remaining
a.p.c. couldn’t be trusted, he was
liquidated.
In announcing the brilliant
success of the team in being the
first humans to reach the sum-
mit, Marshal Stalin announced
that the name of the mount
would in future be known as
Mt. Liarov, in honor of the great
Russian surveyor who had made
a trigonometrical observation of
the mount 200 years before Sir
George Everest.
Bo.


0/d friends
are best friends!
ST I
vo
%
***»{,
9*
*%««
Tfie
name is
The whiskij is^
w
sm
m
liqhf "P
to
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
if lights every time
FREE BOOKLET
W** 17 It tells how you can learn
Motor Mechanics—at home ! !
SPECIAL OFFER I
We are again making a very
special offer of training students
by CORRESPONDENCE
Send NOW—and get the facts for
yourself . . . This may prove to be
the turning point in YOUR LIFE!
V
Since 1923 THE AUS-
TRALIAN TECHNICAL
SCHOOLS, Assembly
Hall, Jamieson St., Sydney,
have trained students by
CORRESPONDENCE in
Engineering subjects with
MARKED SUCCESS.
We have students from all
walks of life Rural,
Grazing, Farms, Station,
Workshop, Factories, Tex-
tile and other works —
Engineering, etc .
Here are a few extracts from Students’
letters, which speak for ■ themselves.
“I am progressing well as a Motor
Mechanic and now draw £lO/16/- per
week. I thank you for the training
you gave me.”
“Thanks to your technical training in
Motor Engineering, I have a good posi-
tion as Chief Mechanic on a Station.”
“You have done more for me than I
can put into words. When I enrolled
I was just a Farm Hand. Now I own
my own garage.”
“I now have a position at £lO per
week. Your School was directly respon-
sible for me being able to fill that posi-
tion.”
POST COUPON FOR
FREE BOOKLET
(YVfltr PUfaUy)
MOTOR-CAR
ENGINEERING
The CHIEF ENGINEER (8.L.),
Australian Technical Schools.
Assembly Hall, Jamieson St.,
Sydney. 650
Please send me, without obligation,
your FREE BOOKLET, “All About
Motors,” giving details of your CORRE-
SPONDENCE COURSE in MOTOR CAB
ENGINEERING, and Special Offer.
I Name
j Occupation Age ....t?
| Address
Spotting Notions
your shout!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
blowers of the jumping game
fn great force to Moonee
Saturday, where the double
Federal Hurdle and Common-
ot in, Steeple offered a last oppor-
we?v for trying to pick the Grand
t double, but, at the end of
Srnoon, with the favorites and
th cwa?of other well-backed runners
heatetf in every race, the question of
shortest route home for pedes-
trians presented a more pressing
problem. > , . .
F P ar of success being rewarded with
o ftiffi National penalty was probably
fj reason- for the scratching from
he Federal Hurdle of Rebel Regis,
.hr, with three successive wins to
£ credit, had headed the weights
5, 11.11! he has 11-5 in . the
S,tional. However, there remained
Nentv of interest in the appearance
Pi the South Australians Lupinus and
Fnthean. Ruling favorite for the
National . Hurdle, Lupinus started
avorite for Saturdays race, and,
while finishing only third, ran a good
Tnough trial to retain his position
at the head of National charts.
Enthean, too, ran a good trial,
endeavoring to lead all the way, and
being beaten finally only a length by
the Hellespont gelding Tynan, who
had a 71b. pull in the weights.
In view of his sudden considerable
improvement upon a couple of recent
disappointing performances Tynan
was subjected to a prolonged demon-
stration by a section of the crowd,
but there must have been, at the
same time, another considerable sec-
tion doing a spot of collecting. Tyrian
was solidly backed to start at 7 to 2,
Enthean going out at threes and
Lupinus at 9 to 4. As Grand
National prospects much could be
said for all three. They will meet
on roughly the same terms in the
National, and Tyrian, after all, was
the winner; a five-year-old, he has
shown fair ability in distance events
on the flat, and is a good neat
jumper, although, possible due to
over-haste, he bungled the last
obstacle on Saturday, but for which
his winning margin could have been
more impressive. To be beaten only
a length after leading all the way,
carrying topweight of 10.5 and con-
ceding others half-a-stone and up-
ward, was a good effort on the part
of Enthean. The four-year-old
Enthean is a mere youngster as
jumpers go. Relatively few horses
of that age have won the National,
but, doubtless, relatively few have
attempted to do so, and, as a matter
of interest, a four-year-old named
Sir Peter won the first V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle, run at Flemington
in 1881. However, of the three place-
getters on Saturday, Lupinus, making
up his ground to finish third, after
earlier being ahead of only two of
the 17 runners, most gave the impres-
sion that he would appreciate the
longer journey of the National.
The Commonwealth Steeple saw
Benarca finally beaten by sheer
weight, and, if he takes his place in
the field, that might be the only thing
that would beat him in the National
Steeple. As it was, only one horse
finished ahead of Benarca on Satur-
day, that being Jung Bahadur, carry-
ing the minimum of 9st. and ‘receiv-
ing 391 b. from the favorite, who had
11.11; to the rest Benarca conceded
181 b. and upward, and beat them by
three lengths and upward. Apart
from the question of weight, the chief
factor against Benarca is his un-
pleasant habit of mixing in one or
two really bad jumps with every
otherwise safe and sure exhibition.
So far he has contrived to always be
on his feet at the finish, but the three
miles and a furlong of the National
might find him tempting providence
a trifle too far.
Mentally reviewing form noted in
recent weeks, candidates who appeal
to present observer as fair prospects
for the Nationals are: —
Hurdle: Fox Junior, 1; Lupinus,
2; Monte Cassino, 3.
Steeple: Benarca, 1; Bay David,
2; Bronze Laddie, 3,
The flaf events at Moonee Valley
on Saturday offered a mixed grill,
apart from the uniform failure of
favorites. However, two second-
favorites were successful, they being
Douglas (R. Hutchinson), who downed
even-money favorite Lord Biah in the
Mt. Alexander Handicap (13f.), and
the Hellespont filly Weka, also rid-
den by Hutchinson and very easily
beating Cromwell and Welkin Sun
in the second Piccaninny Handicap
for two-year-olds. At the other
end of the scale were the Dhoti colt
Sir Herbert (Sam Martin) winning
the first Piccaninny Handicap and
the New Zealander Castlebrae (J.
Kerr), who licked a smart bunch of
sprinters in the Keilor Handicap. Sir
Herbert started at 15 to 1; Castlebrae
went out at 50 to 1 with the books
and returned more than four times
those odds on the tote.
* * * *
After three postponements the
A.J.C. was finally able to run off the
final day of its Winter meeting at
Randwick on Saturday, but it was a
close go. Thanks to a well-timed
spell of a couple of days of drying
wind with little rain, the track was
just barely fit for racing; a previously
unknown ornamental lake had ap-
peared in the centre of the Flat; the
normal 7-furlongs barrier, in a chute
cut back into the side of a Ml, was,
due to seepage, unusable, and 7-fur-
long events were started from that
mark on the course proper; the
going could be best described as
sloppy; and, following showers
throughout the day, the rain set in
again in earnest on Saturday night.
Compared with the corresponding
meeting last year, attendance was
down from 36,000 to 20,000, and tote
turnover from £133,886 to £82,561.
Probably the most interesting result
of the day was the return to the win-
ning list in the principal event, the
£2OOO Winter Stakes (13f.), of the
five-year-old Harinero gelding Bolivia,
a stayer of some promise until he
broke down in a race at Randwick
about six months back. At that time
it was thought unlikely that Bolivia
would race again, but his trainer,
H. O’Dwyer, managed to get him
right, and had him looking in splen-
did condition on Saturday. Jockey
A. Podmore rode a model race on
Bolivia, having him always handy
and taking charge near the distance
to go on and score by half a length
from Grand Beau and Saville Row.
First leg of the main double of
the day, the £l2OO Windsor Handicap
(7f.), resulted in a win for the four-
year-old High Caste gelding Khedive,
who finished extremely well to land
the money, but was, nevertheless, a
shade lucky. After being well up
with the leaders all the way, the
Coronation Day four-year-old Star
Day hit the front in the straight, and
was looking the winner until he began
to shift right out over the final fur-
long; even so, he wa? beaten only
a half-head.
The closest the books went to a
poor result all day was the success
of one equal-favorite, and that in a
race in which the cramped-odds
specialists had six of the nine run-
ners at 6 to 1 or less. The winner
in question was Regal Gold (B.
Moon), proving too good for Ameri-
can Edition, Happy May and other
two-year-old fillies in the Winter
Nursery (7f.). Run over a furlong
further, the Winter Juvenile for colts
and geldings saw the Le Grand Due
colt Gallant Leader win gamely by a
half-head from Wanfield, with the
much-fancied Tapoaki a very distant
third and nearly dropping from sheer
exhaustion.
* * * *
Australian jockey Rae Johnstone
missed out on his chance of repeating
this year the treble of English, French
and Irish Derbies when his mount
Pardal finished only third in the
£lO,OOO Irish classic last week. Vic-
tory went, nevertheless, to a fellow-
Australian in Jack Thompson, who
won his first really important race
overseas on the 4-to-l chance Dark
Warrior; second, beaten a half-length,
was the Aga Khan’s Eclat. Thomp-
son has been riding only a compara-
tively short time in Ireland, but he
comfortably heads the jockeys’
premiership list for the season.
* * * *
Returning for a moment to the
English Derby, the results of the
three-year-old classics this season
revive the old question of the over-
racing (or racing at all) of two-year-
olds. The A.J.C. and Victoria
Derbies and the Oaks are several
months off yet; the prospective con-
testants are as yet two-year-olds. But
it would be nearly a safe bet that
the eventual winners, and certainly
the vast majority of colts and fillies
who will eventually start in those
races, have already been seen in
action; and certainly that they will
have had plenty of racing experience
before they tackle the classics. Look-
ing back to the 1948 A.J.C. Derby,
when Carbon Copy beat a big field,
the least experienced horse in the
field had had seven previous starts;
Carbon Copy had faced the starter
12 times, Vagabond (2nd) 8 times,
Foxzami (3rd) 13 times and Comic
Court (4th) 11 times. Quite a con-
trast with this year’s English classics,
in which the Derby winner Galcador
had had only three previous outings,
the narrowly-beaten American colt
Prince Simon also had three, his first
being six weeks prior to the Derby,
and the Oaks winner Asmena had
had only one previous start, which
was, incidentally, over the Oaks dis-
tance.
* * * *
Although at time of writing a wrist
injury had Frank Sedgman labelled
as a doubtful starter, the English
lawn-tennis folk paid the young Aus-
tralian a high tribute by seeding him
No. 1 for Wimbledon. Recalling an
unfortunate occurrence last year,
when a couple of the topline
American representatives clashed in
an early elimination round, the
Wimbledon authorities this year have
departed from usual practice by seed-
ing 16 players in the men’s singles,
instead of the usual eight.
It seems, in a way, a pity that an
English club, conducting what has
long been recognised as the world
tennis championship, cannot find one
English player worthy of a place in
,the seeding. As it is, there are seven
Americans, five Australians, one South
African, one Indian, one Italian and
one Egyptian (?). The “Egyptian”
rep. is the wandering ex-Czech J.
Drobny, hailed with fanfare last year
as a New Australian, but finally
decided to gather his moss along
with the Pyramids. Number 2to
Sedgman for Wimbledon is the
American Talbert, followed by
Drobny, Sturgess (South Africa);
Patty, Mulloy and Larsen (U.S.), anc
then the Australians, in order, Brom
wich, Brown, McGregor and Sidwell
Even with Sedgman absent Aus
tralia will have a strong team. There
are several unseeded representatives
including Quist and young Rose, who
last week very nearly beat Sturgess.
Brown and Sidwell both have the
type of game to beat the Americans;
young McGregor is improving con-
tinuously; and Bromwich is in top
form. On Saturday, in the final ol
the Queen’s Club tournament, which
is always regarded as a full-dress
rehearsal for Wimbledon, Bromwich
very easily beat the American Art
Larsen, 6-2, 6-4. Brom is the first
Australian to win this tournament
since Jack Crawford took it out in
1932.
♦ * * ♦
Of the 134,000 or so who turned
out in the fog for the six V.F.L
matches in Melbourne, over 55,000
went to M.C.G. to see if Melbourne
could pull Essendon down. They
couldn’t, largely because Essendon s
little men were too good on the
ground and Essendon’s Coleman too
good a goal-gicker —he got seven of
the side’s 10.12 to Melbourne’s 8.15
—and the Dons remain on top. St.
Kilda’s forwards failed against Col-
lingwood, and, beaten 15.12-9-14,
Saints dropped out of the “four”
again, Carlton just managing to stay
in by downing Hawthorn, 16.20-16.15.
North Melbourne, the other member
of the “four,” kicked fewer goals
than Footscray, but got there by
points, 12.22 to 13.12. Geelong beat
Fitzroy, 9.19-7.11, and “Sowth” beat
Richmond, 14.17-13.8. The game is
coming into its own again, a bottle
being heaved at the umpire at South
Melbourne and a brick colliding with
a boundary umpire at Hawthorn.
* * * *
Punters who bemoan the inconsis-
tencies of equine form might gain
heart by taking a course of trying
to follow some of the form displayed
by their fellow-man in the field of
sport. A brief glance back along
the path of the English Rugby League
tourists, for instance. England beat
N.S.W., 20-13; England beat Aus-
tralia, 6-4; Queensland beat England,
15-14; and, in Brisbane on Saturday,
N.S.W. beat Queensland, 25-5.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: In Sydney Rugby Union
last week Randwick continued to
show improved form by defeating St.
George, 16-14. The match was played
with a gale blowing down the field,
perhaps the most difficult conditions
under which players can labor, and
certainly conditions which call for
strong, positive team-tactics, apart
from the adjustments that individuals
must make in kicking, passing and
the like.
The team running with the wind
must endeavour to speed the game
up as much as possible, and run the
ball back and forth across the field
until the defence weakens (and it
will!), then run home as many tries
as possible. Not a moment should
be wasted in getting the ball into
scrums and line-outs, and, with all
E layers alert, “up-and-unders” should
e preferred to touch-finding from
penalties. Such a non-stop onslaught,
effectively carried out, wifi usually be
rewarded with 15 to 20 "points, and
will have the opposition so weary j
and dispirited that they will not be
capable of taking the fullest advan-
tage of the wind when their turn
conies.
The team running against the wind
should, of course, endeavour to
thwart these tactics: slow the game
down and keep the ball tight. To
do this the forwards must gain posses-
sion and keep it —wheel scrums and
rucks and take the ball play to the
blind side as much as possible. Pass-
ing the ball out to the wingers is
deadly; whenever in possession, half
and five-eighth should aim to bring it
back to their forwards. This has the
added advantage of setting the centres
free to stand up in close defence on
their racing opponents.
In Saturday’s game neither side
altered its usual style. Consequently
Randwick, a club which plays wing-
three-quarter football, made the better
use of the wind, whereas St. George,
a team built on a strong pack and
a running half-back, did better against
the wind than Randwick, which
sapped much of its strength by use-
less passing along the backline. In
'other matches on Saturday, Manly
and Gordon drew, 14-14; University
beat Parramatta, 13-5; and Eastwood
beat Norths, 14-0. The match Easts
v. Drummoyne was postponed.
* * * *
A whopping crowd last week
crammed into the dilapidated tin
shack known as Sydney Stadium to
see a bit of prime over-matching in
which the Australian lightweight
champion Jack Hassen was the lamb
led to slaughter. American negro
Freddie Dawson, who put Hassen’s
predecessor Vic Patrick out of the
game, was Hassen’s much superior
opponent, and the constabulary
brought matters to a merciful con-
clusion in the seventh round. Hassen
is a good lad, but in need of a pile
of experience, and that he will never
get under the Australian promoters’
notion of allowing their best draw-
cards to enter the ring about four
times a year and then expecting them,
as often as not, to make a showing
against tough, seasoned, experienced
importations accustomed to fighting
something more like four times a
month.


:
w/l m\
/ //;|j r*y fU J
.
AMLF
TODAY
AS tfi GREAT-
GRANDFATHER'S
day/
Today swift freight
’planes replace the sail-
ing vessels of yesteryear
in the transport of stijd
stock—just one of the
great changes in which
A.M.L.&F. has partici-
pated during 87 years’
service to the Man on
the Land.
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND S FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Peniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandl,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Eorumburra.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griader discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed wor
■-
i
T
40z., Boz.| 1662., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and generaU
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FAI^ M
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs. .
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, t e
and General Farm Activity.
PRICE: 1/- per copy
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty-»
252 George Street, Sydney.
Ltd.,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Efficiency of Drenches.
“Trike”: This season wide-
spread rains have stepped up
worm infestation in stock in
those areas where it is chronic
and have extended the trouble to
areas normally too dry to be
worried by worms. Breeders
who have never drenched a sheep
in their lives are now doing it to
save their flocks, and many are
dissatisfied with results because
they don’t understand drench-
ing.
Many are complaining that
drenching is ineffective, and are
blaming the drench. The answer
to all is to point to those of their
neighbors who are getting re-
sults. For every complaint there
are scores who are satisfied;
they have used the right drench
at the right time.
H. McL. Gordon, McMaster
Laboratory parasitologist, points
out that no drench is 100 per
cent, effective, there is a wide
margin of efficiency among
drenches, and sheep are usually
infested with more than one
species of worm. We have not
yet found a “shot-gun” type of
drench that will kill all internal
parasites in one dose. The
nearest approach to that is
phenothiazine, which not only
has a higher degree of efficiency
against certain of the commoner
worm parasites, but is effective
against more species, including
several that no other drench will
touch.
Take a drench that is 80 p.c.
effective and use it on two sheep
with different rates of infesta-
tion. A has 10,000 worms, while
B has 60,000 worms. After
drenching A is left with 20 p.c.
—2OOO worms. Bis left with a
similar percentage, in this case
12,000 worms. The result of one
drenching is that sheep A has a
chance of picking up condition,
but sheep B is still carrying far
too many worms to give it a
chance.
In an experiment five differ-
ent drenches were tested for
effect on large stomach-worm.
Seven groups of sheep were
used; one untreated mob kept
as controls, one drenched with
bluestone, one with arsenic
(sodium arsenate), one with car-
bon tetrachloride, one with blue-
stone-arsenic and two with
phenothiazine, one mob being
returned to the same paddock,
while the other was put into a
spelled paddock after drench-
ing.
Egg counts were taken for 15
days before drenching and for
35 days after. Figures quoted
here represent the average daily
output of large stomach-worm
eggs per sheep ( a ) five days be-
fore drenching, ib) one week
after and (c) 16 days after.
Bluestone: This drench has
given its best results against
adult large stomach-worms in
young sheep. It has no effect
on immature worms nor on any
other species, and its chief value
is to switch other drenches direct
to the fourth stomach when
used in conjunction. iA) 433,200,
ib) 609,000, (c) 1,338,000. Ap-
parently this drench had no
effect, as egg output continued
unabated, in fact, compared to
the untreated sheep, bluestone
seemed to exert a tonic effect on
the worms; sheep had to be
drenched again.
Sodium arsenite: iA) 326,000,
ib) 583,200, (c) 1,600,200. Here
"No, I'll be right—radio says the flood's recedin'."
again the drench failed to check
the increase in infestation, and
sheep had to be retreated.
Carb.-tet: (A) 304,800, ( b )
45,000, (c) 693,000. Here is evi-
dence of a substantial decrease
in worm population after
drenching, but it is evident that
immature worms ♦ were not
affected and had reached egg-
laying status in large numbers
within a fortnight.
Bluestone - arsenic: ( A )
4 0 7,400, ( b ) 594,600, (c)
1,851,600. This drench failed
to check the worms.
Phenothiazine (spelled pas-
ture): (A) 136,800, (b) nil, (c)
145,200. Here are the most defi-
nite results in the experiment.
This was the only group to
register a complete absence of
adult worm activity for a
after drenching. A fortnight
later some of the immature
worms had started egg-laying,
but even a month after drench-
ing the activity of the parasites
was much lower than before
drenching.
Phenothiazine; (A) 414,000,
ib) 600, (c) 72,600. This mob
went back to its infested pas-
ture, but, notwithstanding, the
reduction in eggs voided at five
and 16 days after drenching is
highly significant. From three
weeks onwards the new crop of
worms picked up caused an
alarming rate of increase until
at 35 days 918,000 eggs per day
were being voided.
The controls which were not
drenched registered (a) 346,800,
(b) 486,600, (c) 1,564,200. All
groups with the exception of the
two phenothiazine mobs had to
be drenched a second time three
weeks after the first to control
the rapidly - increasing worm
burdens.
This experiment dealt with
only one species of worm. To
get a complete picture similar
tests would have to be made on
black-scour worms, nodule and
large-mouthed bowel - worms,
which are the chief scourges of
sheep in Australia. The large
stomach, or barber’s-pole, worm
has been responsible for most
of the damage to sheep this sum-
mer and autumn.
Deductions that can be drawn
from this experiment are (1)
phenothiazine is easily the most
efficient drench, but to get best
results sheep must be put into
spelled paddocks after drench-
ing, (2) of the other drenches
used only carb.-tet. gave any
indication of success, (3) if sheep
are put back on wormy pasture
regular drenching at three-
weekly intervals must be done
to keep the worm burden at a
reasonable level, but so long as
weather conditions favor the
survival of worm eggs and
larvae a clean-up is impossible,
(4) prevention rather than treat-
ment should be aimed at by
drenching after showery
weather, combined with good
pasture management.
It should be realised by all
sheepmen that the dose rates
shown on containers are for pre-
ventive treatment, A wormy
sheep, low in condition or bled
nearly white will not respond to
them, and increased doses are
necessary. Arsenic, bluestone
and nicotine v are toxic in in-
creased doses, but phenothiazine
can safely be used on sheep at
double doses, except ewes
within a month of lambing.
Calves.
“M.”: Calves can be reared
on as little as 25 gallons of milk
each if fed a gruel supplement
as well. Any of the following
concentrates boiled in a gallon
of water (with a teaspoon each
of lime and salt) will make
a nourishing gruel: (1) lib. of
pollard, (2) ilb. of pollard and
ilb. of linseed-meal, (3) ilb. of
each of skim-milk powder and
pollard, (4) lib. of skim-milk
powder, (5) three parts of
pollard, three parts of dried
whey and two parts of dry-
rendered meat-meal to make, in
all, lib.
During the first two weeks
feed whole milk only up to
121 b. each (a fifth of a gallon).
In the third, fourth and fifth
weeks, feed a mixture of whole
and separated milk, 91b. of
whole and silb. of separated.
From the sixth to the 24th week
a vigorous, growing calf will
need 221 b. of skim-milk daily.
These quantities are fed half in
the morning and half in the
evening.
Run the youngsters on clean,
unpolluted pasture, turning them
into another paddock every week
or so to give the grazed pasture
a chance to freshen.
Extracting Honey.
“Soc”: A good honey-extract-
ing plant can and does cost a
working-man the best part of a
year’s wages. This is due largely
to present-day working standards
and to the fact that the manu-
facturers —besides having an
almost complete monopoly of
the game—have not yet grown
completely away from the it’s-a-
backyard-job attitude.
The modern migratory bee-
man is forcetFas a consequence
into a lot of short-cuts and
gadget-making. One of his most
successful is the steam-boiler.
Constructed of two drums —a
25gal. inside a 44ga1.; with a
pressure-gauge attached and
hose to pipe away the steam to
the extracting van —it does the
work of the commercial unit,
with less wood to cut, as little
danger and at a fraction of the
cost.
Repairing an Aerial.
“Sarina”: Should the wireless
aerial fall through one of the
masts giving way you may be
able to take the wire to a dead
tree, thus eliminating the hard
job of finding and re-erecting
another mast. Failing a dead
tree, a living one will do, pro-
vided you can see a stout limb
to support the aerial. Leaves
brushing against the wire are to
be avoided, as they cause noisy
reception.
Before attempting repair
estimate the length of your
aerial. Eighty feet, including the
vertical portion, i s a
length for battery or viK B °° d
sets. The higher Vlbrat °r
portion the better VertlCa l
Many aerials are too a
If yours is, remove the insu
from the end of the wli tors
attach some more and
Wrap the ends of th e resn.Te-
wires firmly upon one S?
as is done with telenhnn 00 • er »
and solder each end ° Wlfes ’
Run out the wire until
have enough, and then re et T
insulators at the end L the
attach sufficient
« a . c . h £rojn tje overhead bra„*
a stroM° U T ° i*’ 8 a B*mtfe
a strong fishing fine with a
heavy nut tied to the end. Throw
the nut over the limb. When
falls to the ground pull i n
and wire until you have the
aerial stretched tight. Untie he
fishing fine and tie the end of
the wire to a nail driven into
the tree. u
Ihis type of aerial can be
tightened at will or lowered to
the ground when lightning is
severe.
Spread of Noxious Weeds.
“He-Ne”: Agriculturists are
alarmed at the rapid spread of
noxious weeds in north-west
N.S.W., especially mint-weed and
yellow daisy (crown beard)
During the past four to five
years mint-weed has spread seri-
ously on the heavy black soils
and now the mint-weed belt is
roughly from the Queensland
border down to the Upper
Hunter, through Warialda, Tam-
worth, Quirindi, Coolah, Narra-
bri and Moree. Indications are
that the pest cannot be eradi-
cated from badly-infested areas
where land cannot be cultivated.
It is estimated that thousands of
acres are completely covered to
the exclusion of all useful plant-
life, and at least 1,000,000 acres
are infested to some degree and
much greater areas are threat-
ened.
Bad land use, notably over-
stocking, is the main cause of
the weed’s rapid spread.
Science and Farming.
“Rooster”: Despite all the
scientific effort expended to
raise average milk yield, dairy
cows show little yield improve-
ment as a whole. True, there
are vast improvements to par-
ticular herds, but the national
increase hardly compensates for
the work and money spent on
it. Mostly it isn’t the fault of
the scientist so much as of farm
management.
Many farmers manage cheaply
and feed poorly by choice, find-
ing this more profitable even
though output is less. Despite
enormous increases in cost of
land, labor and fixed or mobile
equipment, farmers still incline
towards intensive exploitation of
quality stock. This necessarily
brings a higher disease risk, and
the loss of a cow matters more
to the quality herd than to the
cheap herd. Stud breeding is an
expensive business; pure lines


JODHPURS
and
BREECHES
tailored to your own
measurements.
Men and women in the saddle appre-.
date the comfort of well-fitting riding
garments. Allan & Stark riding gar-
ments are cut by Mr. A. McGoggan,
who is recognised as one of Aus-
tralia’s leading breecher tailors. A
self measurement chart specially com-
piled for country clients guarantees
complete satisfaction from your own
measurements and without a fitting.
Allan & Stark will be pleased to send
sample of riding material and a self
measurement chart to any part of
Australia. Write today to —
ALLAN & STARK
Leading Departmental Store,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
• %
m
/ HJ.1V3H dO
'qnimmjnv
R.
D.
tt
Kid your bloodstream of
poisons, and enjoy a NEW
KIND of health ! Headaches,
Rheumatism, Nervousness,
Pepression and other com-
mon ailments vanish. A
small daily dose of R.U.R.
will clear your system and
KEEP it clear. Buy a 2/-
packet of “ready-to-take”
R.U.R. from your chemist
TODAY. “Take R. U. R.
AND RIGHT YOU ARE.”
KB
MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
hygeia dissolvenator
(Complete self-contained sanitary
„ system .l
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
funs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet .
hygeia SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established Z 8 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
~ DISTRIBUTORS: —' —
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dlat. Co.
82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
-Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
m St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Wm, Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
and Hobart.
■’"UWIN: C. T. See Kee, Kadolectrix
Sales and Services.
t
Ancestors of
an
Industry
u
Sir Humphry Davy has been described as
being “almost, if not quite, unique as a truly great natural
philosopher who also secured a fervent popular acclaim."
The miner’s safety lamp which he invented, and for which
he refused to take out a patent, has saved many thousands
of lives and is still known as the “Davy Lamp.” He also
carried out work on the chemistry of tanning and agri-
culture, but his most important researches were on
the application of electricity to chemical problems. Using
electrolytic methods, he isolated sodium and potassium, and
he obtained compounds of calcium, strontium and barium. His
investigations of these reactions led him to suggest that
chemical affinity might be electrical in nature. Modern science,
nearly a century and a half later, has shown that this is true.
Born in Cornwall in 1778, Davy was apprenticed to an
apothecary at the age of seventeen, but in 1798 his master
released him to go to Bristol to study the physiological effects
of gases. Almost at once he attracted attention by observing
the anaesthetic powers of nitrous oxide (“laughing gas”),
and at the age of twenty-three the Royal Institution appointed
him Director of the Laboratory and Assistant Lecturer in
Chemistry. Such was his success as a lecturer that he often
attracted fashionable audiences of over a thousand, and in
1802 was appointed Professor of Chemistry at the Institution.
So great were Davy’s achievements that he was made a
baronet in recognition of his great services
to British science, as well as being pre-
sented with a gold medal by Napoleon in
spite of the fact that England and France
were at war at that time.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■■ IL-56-X4 —'
ICI
a ; ' >
.V
:
.
.
'oy^
mm sections
iliSi
PH
<f'. , , -
Here’s what you pin...
Surging further ahead in the spray irrigation
field, RAINBOW now introduce ALUMINIUM
Spray Sections. This is just another reason, why you
should instal RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION . . . the
system already renowned for such features as the combined
outlet and hydrant, flexible couplings and improved spray-
heads. Rainbow is the only system with a 48-ft. coverage.
ONLY HALF THE WEIGHT:
Rainbow’s new Aluminium Sections are approximately half the weight of normal
piping. This means a further cut in time and labour.
SEAMLESS. 24-FT. SPRAY SECTIONS:
Frictional loss in RAINBOW Aluminium Sections has been reduced by at least
10%. They may be used for all water purposes and are supplied with flexible
couplings or non-flexible joins.
COSTS STILL LOW: *
Though the cost of a new RAINBOW Aluminium plant is naturally higher than
previous Rainbow systems —because of the many RAINBOW advantages the cost
of our complete plant—WlTH ALUMINIUM SECTIONS —is still comparable with
other systems. Longer life and labour-saving features cost yon less in the long
run. Remember —irrigation is essential—spray irrigation is best—and RAINBOW
make the best spray irrigation.
60/83.5
ğ
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION,
83 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.,'
102-124 Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria:
C. BEAUMONT, 64 King St., Melbourne —MU 5271.
South Australia: RALPH CURRY, 24 Light Sq.,
Adelaide. ‘Phone: C 1065.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEADS.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS.
ġ
COMBINED OUT*
LET & HYDRANT.
STURDY STANDS.
hard to attain. The practical
fanner can afford to breed for
nnlv one thing at a time, and
be wisely elects to build up a
herd from “performance” sires
and dams, with whose proved
records his herd must surely im-
prove.
Main reason for the failure
to increase the average national
milk yield is the negative policy
of breeding to “type” instead of
to “performance.” A Shorthorn
cow with a “full generous eye”
doesn’t necessarily give a full
generous supply of milk. In
many instances conformation to
type can be very misleading, and
it seems foolish to be guided en-
tirely by these criteria. An in-
stance of this can be seen from
the following, published by the
Ayrshire Society as a “guide”
to breeders: “There should be
in female animals strong femi-
nine characteristics, and a cer-
tain fineness, quality and balance
between the parts, which is per-
haps indefinable” . . . And so
on. This stresses the vagueness
of “type” breeding.
Before effective breeding can
ever begin in a commercial herd
the owner must be clear on the
management question, clean up
disease and find out for himself
what is and what is not a good
cow. It is not until he has
established a performance herd
that he can apply genetics with
any assurance of commercial
value. Even then the pitfalls
are many and difficult, as is evi-
denced from the following
extract of a report issued by the
Reading (England) University
Shorthorn Society: “When the
University started its Shorthorn
herd in 1906 it had certain aims
in view. Forty years later these
aims are still unfulfilled. The
milk yield can now be considered
fairly satisfactory... .but butter-
fat levels are no better than in
the herd’s early history. A level
type has not yet been achieved
and disease is still present.”
There are 160,000 dairy-
farmers in England and Wales.
Only one in every eight records
his cows’ yields. Of all bulls
licensed for service each year,
only some 19 per cent, come from
recorded stock. At present dis-
ease is reckoned to cost the
farmers £20,000,000 a year, and
the country 200,000,000 gallons
of milk. The figures speak for
themselves. It’s the result of
setting up “type” against “per-
formance.”
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Although red-
mite can be one of the greatest
causes of loss to poultry eradica-
tion is relatively simple. Paint
roosts and bearers once a fort-
night with a liberal coating of
sump-oil and kerosene. A
kerosene emulsion spray made
by mixing half to one gallon of
kerosene in a 4gal. bucket of
soapy water three times at in-
tervals of five to six days will
control mite and ticks,
“Metax”: For a quickly-
made depth-gauge for drilling
holes use a short piece of hose
or rubber tube that will slip
lightly on to the bit.
“Bill C.”: Despite some
claims that it would not really
get going, Lespedeza clover is
making steady progress in parts
of s.-e. Queensland. Like the
Townsville lucerne of N.Q., it
is an annual legume with a
growing period extending from
spring to the following winter.
The seed, deposited in the
winter, is carried about by water
in the first storms, and growth
takes place quickly. Stock like
the plant.
“Rooster”: A frequent cause
of fodder poisoning in horses is
mildewy or musty chaff. More
rarely a poisonous plant is to
blame. Affected animals show
signs of colic, rolling on the
ground. Some become partly
blind, swollen at the hips, and
are inclined to stagger, or be-
come semi - paralysed, with
heavy breathing. Discontinue
feeding faulty fodder and purge
thoroughly with raw linseed-oil.
Follow this with a stimulant,
such as whisky, every two hours.
“Law”: The best treatment
for an old tank is painting it
with a mixture of linseed-oil and
cement, but there will be a few
weeping spots that become de-
finite dribbles. Choose a
threaded-to-the-head bolt, pre-
ferably of brass, of the size of
the dribble, make two tight
washers of old car tube, paste
one side of these with bitu-
minous waterproof compound,
send someone into the tank
with the nut, washer and a
spanner, poke your washered
bolt through the dribble, and
yell to the assistant to slide on
the washer gooey side first and
thread on the nut. Tighten and
the repair is permanent.
“Big Billy”: Most effective
treatment of scaly leg in poultry
is dipping in crude-oil and scrub-
bing with a hard brush. Don’t
get oil on upper part of leg or
feathers. Dip in morning to
allow oil to drain off before
birds roost. Also effective is
washing in soap and water and
applying a mixture of nine parts
of lard and one part of sulphur.
As a further preventive spray
oil on perches.
“8.A.T.”: The reason so
many calves are puny and suffer
from scours, constipation and
intestinal troubles generally is
that they dre taken from the
mothers too early. The first milk
after calving contains bodies
which are necessary to immunise
the calf against certain diseases,
as well as to clear out the
alimentary canal. Failure to get
it results in illness and stunted
growth. When the first milk of
its mother is kept from a calf
the cruelty perpetrated is de-
serving of punishment.
“Biro”: The greed of cows,
especially when fed with grain
or other appetising fodder, is
usually the cause of impaction.
The beast will mope around and
grunt with discomfort, cud-
chewing having ceased. Mobility
and action, generally visible be-
tween the last rib and the hip-
bone, are absent. The cow should
be kept away from food for four
or five days and given plenty of
water to drink. A dose of Hlb.
to 21b. of Epsom-salts in two
quarts of water should give
relief.


blaze of the headlight and vanished, and
all the time the steam poured forth and
the thunder of the giants at their labor
roared along the train. The curve
straightened; I lost them, and looked
again at my companions.
“I’m going back to Mudgee,”
volunteered the frank young man; “but
not for long. Work in a store there. But
it’s no place if you got ambition.” He
looked at me, to see whether I had any of
it, I suppose, and apparently assured that
I had and therefore knew that Mudgee
was no nursery for it, continued, “Never
get on be sticking there. What I told the
girl-friend. So I bin down seeing about a
job in the State Lottery Office. Look
like getting it. The girl-friend, her old
man knows the member for the district.
Man’ll have a chance working there. Get
somewhere. Mudgee’s no place if you got
ambition.”
I had a vision of the population of
Mudgee being stifled in a bog, but it was
cut short by the other sober man, a rather
saturnine fellow whose most distinctive
piece of apparel was a red-and-white bow
tie.
“I was told Mudgee was a'good town,”
he said, somewhat violently and restlessly,
as though fearing he had been imposed
upon. “They told me it was a good
town.”
“Depends,” said the ambitious man
cautiously.
“Well, they told me it was a good
town,” insisted the bow tie.
“All towns i§ good towns if you’re
doin’ all right,” put in the tweed cap.
ALONG-DRAWN hoot from the
engine cut the discussion short, for it
caused the bandaged man to start and
lean sideways, trying to peer out of the
window.
“Katoomba,” said the ambitious one
confidently. “Know ’em all.”
“What? Katoomba!” The bandaged
one became anxious.
He reached down his bag and opened
it. A dead silence fell as we watched the
fell preparations. Out came the vacuum
flask, out the apparatus with its tubes and
steelware and bulb. Off came the lid of
the tank and in went the yellow fluid
from the flask.
He stood up in the carriage, looked
grimly at the children and at the lady.
The lady compressed her determinedly
virtuous lips and ignored him.
“We’ll have to stand up,” he said, to
the ambitious man. “If you stand on the
seat here, we’ll manage.”
Before he could evade it the ambitious
man held the apparatus and the bulb;
the bandage came off, the awful ear was
exposed. Like one in a trance the
ambitious man got up on the seat, hang-
ing on to the luggage-rack with one hand,
juggling the contrivance. The sufferer in-
clined his head and inserted the nozzle,
the bulb was squeezed, there came the
cry of agony, I felt the lady next to me
tremble, the children stirred and mumbled
and the train came to a long, clanking
stop.
The ambitious man got down from the
seat, handed the apparatus to its owner,
sank weakly to the cushions and said,
“Katoomba.” It was one o’clock in the
morning. Another three hours to
Capertee.
A FTER Katoomba the train lost one
engine and put on speed. AH of us
were lulled to sleep. I remembered seeing
an electric sign of some sort flashing, and
the next thing I knew was being violently
shaken and the bright, simian eyes glaring
at me while from between the water-
melon seeds came the significant message,
“Mount Vic., Dig. Wanner cup o’ tea?”
It was exactly what I did want, and all
of us except the fat man and the two little
girls got out and scrambled along the
platform. When I reached the refresh-
ment-room there were solid ranks of
travellers between me and the refresh-
ment. I danced anxiously up and down,
but it was hopeless, and when somebody
cried “All aboord, pleez!” I gave up and
was swept back to the train in the crowd.
Hungry and irritable and seeing noth-
ing to love in my fellows, I made ready to
come heavily with sarcasm or cruelty on
the first of them who spoke to me. They
bundled into the train, the children
sleepy-eyed and as fretful as myself, the
bandaged man aloof and alien, the others
little more than blurred shapes from
whom the heat of the compartment
brought steam and an odor compounded
of wet clothing and tired bodies. Against
my hip pressed the bony hip of the lady
next to me, and I had a wild desire to
take her hand.
“We could put a rug over our knees,”
I’d say, “and then nobody would know,
I’ve always loved thin women of thirty-
odd,” I’d say, “because their virtue is a
banner before the world and” —my
thoughts stopped abruptly, for a large
paper-bag was under my nose, smelling
hotly of meat and pastry and gravy.
“Got in first,” said the young man of
ambition, “an’ reckoned I better grab a
few pies for everybody. Go on, have
one.”
I SWALLOWED my contemplated
I sarcasms with the first rich, pleasing,
luscious bite at the pie. The bag was
passed round. The tweed cap prodded
the fat drunk, who was still asleep, and
he came awake with startling suddenness,
looked wildly round like a lost soul who
has suddenly found itself on a dark and
barren planet in outer space, and de-
manded, *‘What train’s this? What train’s
this?”
“Mudgee mail,” replied the ambitious
youth,
“It ain’t the one they shot Mary Wells
on,” added the tweed cap, and fell into
demoniac laughter and choked on his pie
and made a general exhibition of himself.
This awoke the smaller girl, who sat up
and cried at the top of her voice until
the lady gathered her on her thin lap and
hushed her. The other children didn’t stir.
The now-sober fat man ignored us all,
dropped the window and put his head
into the streaming night. Then he drew
it back and said, “Aincha got any sense?
What train is it?”
“Mudgee mail.”
“Well, I gotter get out at ’Wang,” he
asserted, with faint belligerence. “I gotter
get out there,” He looked slowly round
the compartment, giving each of us a
close scrutiny from his little eyes, then he
stood up, turned his back on us all,
reached down a bag from the rack, fished
in it, brought forth a bottle of whisky,
found the thick glass in its iron ring on
the carriage wall, poured a stiff dose of
whisky into it and drank it quickly.
The atmosphere at once acquired a new
bouquet. The fat man put the empty
glass on his seat, re-stoppered the bottle,
slipped it into his overcoat pocket, re-
placed the bag on the rack and settled into
his seat.
“How far t’ ’Wang?” he asked civilly
enough. (’Wang is an abbreviation of
Wallerawang.)
“We just left Mount Vic.,” said the
tweed cap, and added, pointedly, “You:il
just about make it on y’r whisky; that’s
if y’ don’t go sharin’ it with anybody.”
The fat man looked at him and his
blank face slowly took on a look of in-
tense hate. It began somewhere about his
mouth and spread slowly until even his
ears were red with it.
“I bet you could go your share,” he
said slowly.
“Y’ can stick it,” said tweed cap, with
a snap like an angry terrier.
imminence of drama silenced the
I carriage, except for the roar of the
train. The fat man turned slowly in his
seat and eyed the other from the tweed
c|p to the muddy shoes, and the hatred
on his face was a thing to wonder at. He
shot to his feet with astonishing agility,
violently wrenched the bottle from his
pocket and thrust it so fiercely at the
tweed cap that its wearer bumped his
head violently on the back of his seat as
he jerked it back.
“Have a ruddy drink,” wheezed the fat
man angrily. “Have a ruddy drink an’
don’t have so flamin’ much t’ say about
it. Go on, have a ruddy drink, I wouldn’t
see a poor, half-starved go short of
a drink,”
“Aw, I don’t want y’r booze.” The
little man was watching him closely, ob-
viously ready to duck.
The fat man instantly appealed to us.
“There y’ are. He made a song-and-
darnce about it an’ when a man offers him
a ruddy drink he don’t want it.”
He turned back to the little man.
“I got no time for mugs like you,”
he gritted. “You have a flamin’ drink or”
—he made a threatening grimace.
The little man’s hand reached out and
captured the bag of pies from the gawk-
ing man of ambition. He brought it
forward under the fat man’s attention.
“What y’ want, mate,” he said sweetly,
“is somethin’ in y’r guts. Have one o’
these.”
“You have a drink,” insisted the fat
man, with some diminution of his rage.
“You have a pie.”
Out of the night the engine hooted at
us.
“Lithgow cornin’ up,” said the man
who knew ’em to the last Bullen. We
glanced at him impatiently and warningly.
“You have a drink.”
“You have a pie.”
It looked like deadlock, until the fat
man suddenly took the paper-bag, at the
same time as the little man took the
whisky-bottle. My own pie had dis-
appeared to the place, appointed for it.
The fat man sat down, a pie in his
pudgy fist. The tweed cap poured a mild
portion into the glass. I looked round the
compartment, meeting looks of relief
queerly mixed with disappointment. The
tweed cap absorbed the whisky linger-
ingly, but my eyes were on the fat man,
for with the end of their talk his hatred
had returned and I could see his eyes
glaring malevolently at the floor. He dis-
posed of the first pie, reached into the bag,
took out another, looked at it with a
queer, blurred light in his eyes, then
turned and reached across and squashed
it firmly into the face under the tweed
cap.
AS the train rattled through the Lith-
gOW yards, slowing for the station, we
got them apart and put ourselves as a
barrier between them while the little man
went into the lavatory and cleaned the
pie off himself. Instead of being appalled
by his act, the fat man was dated by it.
“That stopped him. That stopped him,”
he chuckled, full of glee.
The lady astonished us by saying, “It
served him right. He had far too much
to say.”
The train had stopped.
“Who’ll have a drink?” the fat man
asked happily,
“By God,” declared the K n „j
“that’s just what I could A? da # ed one
took the bottle, upended it to h?’’
gurgled twice, wiped the botti m °uth
other hand, returned it, theefed With 5
his bag of surgical implement. . Brab bed
door and with “So long all » n° pened the
into the maw of uncoAsctaus
The train was moving a. m r B°w-
came from the lavator? th/l'T
seeds showing where the ton hSf”?® lon
lip was lifted. We watched h/ f ° f ° ne
as he went quietly to his seat li! nXlol %
his hands on his knees, watchiiTu at with
of Lithgow go past, anTaiuff
sensation of tenseness, for / had a
vinced he was merely waitir, Wer ® COn '
train got clear of the station 8 m the
As much of his face as could t,
between cap and moustache wa. 7 seen
white, and the little simian eyl! shn my
it like live coals. His knotted/itt/u m
clenched and unclenched the^? v J ands
his knees. I saw his tongue s 0n
his lips. Then he arose*!^looked?'. 0 " 8
the window, seemed to draw 1- ° ut °f
spat with a cold vidousn ™
of the carnage, turned and looked!/ 001
I see we lost the bloke with thl V*
ear. he said mildly, and sat do« a g™ 8
T ffl S. anticlimax went through tu
carnage like a sigh. T Cn ,i
everybody withdrawing into themllv/
becoming strangers again. Even S?’
With the red-spotted tie, the 1! ? an
and immobile of us all, seemed to *5
off into some further distance of hh o 1
where no doubt he brooded on the T/
question as to whether or not Mud?
was a good town. And the tain maS
At Wallerawang there was a slight
aftermath. There we lost the fat m f
who, as he departed, looked at his enemy
and said, with a queer hopefulness which
rather startled me, “Well, so long
Reckon 111 run across y’ somewhere-
when y am t got a mob with y’.” He was
gone before anyone could reply.
In his place we got two young girls
Lively young things full of apology fa
disturbing us, and with those strange and
seemingly vapid half-finished sentences
accompanied by giggles and significant
looks at each other and sidelong looks at
the males in the vicinity. Both wore
macintoshes which they promptly threw
open to reveal sweatered torsos from
which nature stood out in a way
nobody could ignore, and they repaired
whatever damage the night and the rain
had done to their faces, and stole looks
at us and conversed in spasmodic gasps.
Their entrance had galvanised both the
ambitious young man and he of the red-
dotted tie, who now sat up with bright
eyes and smiles ready to break out at the
slightest hint of encouragement.
Being married and elderly I pulled my
hat over my eyes and pretended to doze,
using this stratagem to study those supple
torsos and the shapes pushing against the
sweaters. The lady beside me was lean-
ing back with closed eyes, one child in
her lap and the other two huddled
against her in slumber. Opposite me the
simian eyes under the tweed cap flashed
from the girls to the two young men and
back again, missing nothing. By the time
the train was running through Piper’s
Flat —the ambitious young man
announced it, of course, though no
piper greeted us—the opening gambits had
been made and responded to, and the
four were together at one end of the
compartment. I was astonished by the
suddenly-developed conversational powers
of the wearer of the red-dotted tie, who
now seemed to have decided that
Mudgee was likely to be a good town.
Some such thought must have occurred
to the tweed cap, for from under it,
harshly and suddenly, as though deter-
minded to drown all other sound and
thought, came, “They got a brewery m
Mudgee, but the police sergeant there is
tough as hell.”
WHILE I was trying to estimate the
the nuances of the advantage ol
having one brewery as against one tougn
police sergeant, the train slowed an
voice outside cried “Ben! Ben. W
wants Ben?”
This was discovered to be a porter, ou
in the wet darkness being sardonic i
misery, for it appeared nobody w ,
Ben (Bullen), and the train gathered spec ■
I realised that Capertee was at ban
and was glad of it, for the adyen o
girls had somehow divlde . . ase
passengers into two groups, an
with which the young men had le f.f * s
other interests reminded me tha
dark and wet outside, and a
probably have to wait untd /nw m
lonely and deserted ■4Eiii
COMMISSIONED PORTRAIT.
He said he’d have his hand upon his
sword,
Thus the great nobleman. I give my
word
I altered not a jot but, as he said.
Put hound at foot with brutish, lolling
head
Baying a kennelful, so those would say,
Gaping before the canvas day by day,
“There’s our brave soldier, General-in-
the-West,
Our huntsman knight witlj martial
virtues blest.”
Halberds and pikes I slung against the
wall,
Heraldic shields draped darkly with a
pall
To show he d make his own a warlike
death
(Though at the last he sighed away his
breath
With fretful groans upon a four-post
bed).
He liked the touch. Would have upon
his head
A helmet, highlights dulled, lest they
should try
The wrathful lightnings shooting from
his eye.
Bethought him of his wife, who shrink-
ing came
Upon the thunderous shouting of her
name.
In middle distance he would have her
yearn,
A warrior’s wife, to weep her lord’s
return.
Yes, she was something like a spring-
time wind,
A wreath of flowers with ribbons blown
behind,
A bird, a cloud—all these I thought
upon—
“ The usual things,” you say? A rose,
a swan.
Ay, but—thereafter if I should but
chance
Briefly to catch her slow, exquisite
glance
Such sweet, wild raptures flooded
through my heart
To voice new phrases was beyond my
s. art: •
Painting’s the only skill that I profess—
“ Her portrait then?” It seems I must
confess . . .
Think of yourself for days with that
great lout.
That oafish pike-man thundering orders
out,
“Paint this, paint that. You, fellow,
where’s your eye?
My shoulder there is half-an-inch too
high.”
The wife? A fancy took me. Listen,
dunce,
She wore a veil. I only saw her once.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON


u.
fontbtu#u&
wwwttil)
mSm/M
nv;
m
m
m
m
if
WK
Fill a Sparklets Syphon with
water, “charge” it with a
Sparklets Bulb—and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty ‘soda’ is yours!
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
of new Standard and Streamline
models, or write for illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
MOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
VI
V//j
mms.
SPARKLETS LTD.. LONDON N. 18
»
t
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. .
ģ
g
mu
Circular Charts for all typers
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Machinary
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
1 MC WJf^O V SILLI VAN %IL
STREET. BRISBANE
Legal Notice.
IN the Estate of MARY ANN BROWN
deceased and MARY HELEN DEVINE
BROWN, both formerly of Thornwood
Estate, Mlanje, Nyasaland.—PUßSUANT
to an Order of His Majesty’s High Court
of Justice in Nyasaland made on the 12th
day of April 1950 and directing that
enquiries be made as to possible claimants
in the matter of the Estate of Mary
Helen Devine Brown deceased Cause No. 9
of 1947 and in the matter of the Estate
of Mary Ann Brown deceased Cause No.
10 of 1947 persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Helen
Devine Brown late of Mlanje in the Nyasa-
land Protectorate living at the time of
the death of the said Mary Helen Devine
Brown on the Twenty fourth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty six and persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Ann Brown
deceased late of Mlanje aforesaid living
at the time of the death of the said Mary
Ann Brown on the Nineteenth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and
forty six or persons claiming to be next
of kin according to the Statutes for
the distribution of intestate estates of the
said Mary Helen Devine Brown and/or
the said Mary Ann Brown living at the
time of their respective deaths as aforesaid
or to be the legal personal representatives
of such of the said next of kin as are
now dead or persons claiming to be en-
titled under the Wills and Codicils of the
abovenamed deceased or Charitable Insti-
tutions and persons claiming to be
entitled under the said Wills and Codicils
of the said deceaseds ARE by their soli-
citors on or before the Thirteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
fifty to come in and prove their claims
at the Chambers of His Honour the
Chief Justice for Nyasaland at the High
Court of Blantyre or in default thereof
they shall be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order. Monday
the Fifteenth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty one at 9
o’clock of the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for the hearing
and .adjudicating upon the claims. Dated
this Twelfth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty.—(Sgd.)
M. J. GOW, Registrar, High Court of
Nyasaland.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE MARY ANN COLBRAN, nee Mary
Ann Charles, late of Morven in the State
of Queensland, Widow, deceased. To
JOHN CHARLES, ROBERT CHARLES,
MRS. BENNELL (or Brennell or Brunell),
and MRS. ANNIE McGUIRE, and any
other person or persons claiming by,
through or under them, or under the
abovenamed deceased or by derivative
title or otherwise, howsoever. —'NOTICE
is hereby given to all persons claiming
to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
MARY ANN COLBRAN, nee Mary Ann
Charles, late of Morven in the State of
Queensland, deceased, who died at Charle-
ville, in the said State, on the seventh
day of August, 1945, and any person or
persons claiming through or under them
by derivative title or otherwise howso-
ever* are hereby required to forward
proof of Tiis relationship to the PUBLIC
CURATOR, Brisbane, on or before the
Thirtieth day of September, 1950.
Notice is also hereby given that after the
expiration of the lastmentioned date the
Public Curator will proceed to distribute
the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto having re-
gard only to the claims of which he shall
have had notice. Dated at Brisbane this
Fourteenth day of June, 1950. —ALAN
FORD, Public Curator, Brisbane.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of VERNON BANBURY, of
Albert Park and Wangaratta, in Victoria,
but lately of parts unknown, please com-
municate with MESSIEURS W. H.
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213
Nich )lson Street,, Footscray.
MALONE or MOLONE—NEXT-OF-KIN
SOUGHT.
THE Public Trustee for Victoria is the
Administrator of the Estate of JOHN
MALONE, deceased, who died on the Bth
November, 1946, and whose parents were
Daniel Malone and Brigid Malone, nee
Murphy. Would any person having in-
formation as to the whereabouts or deaths
of the deceased’s sisters, Johanna (or
Joanna or Anna or Ann or Annie)
Malone and Eliza (or Elizabeth or Ella
or Ellen or Ellie) Malone or his brother,
Thaddeus (or Thady or Ted or Edward
or Edmund) Malone or of any children of
.either of such sisters or of such brother
please communicate with the PUBLIO
TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA, of 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
.spi
vji
m
m
N
w-
mm
'
E
£
<=-
-> ?
*--— t
//
K/ ■
4.
Mfc>
2
3 /
/
/'/
From 30° below zero to 120° above ...
at airports all over the world including those of Melbourne
and Sydney the green and yellow symbol of BP Aviation
Service stands for speed, courtesy and efficiency. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Air Lines are amongst
the many national airlines regularly fuelled by this great Service,
which has behind it the global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-1 ranian Oil Company Ltd.
mm
«C
■ p
\I IK
nu
It,
CJIj
P.iiV
noM ■
Jo
r
* i
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Telegraphic Address “AIRBEPEE” MELB.
871-28-8
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Cattle Chosen by
Professor Shann. —4858.
To buy Henry Lawson s Corona-
tion Ode and Retrospect (1911).—
buy Proceedings of the Court-
martial on the Bounty Mutineers
(London, 1794); any Bligh items —
48 To buy copy ot .The Quest for
Corvo by A. J. A. Symons, Penguin
edition.—4856.
To buy an edition of Byron m
readable type.—4857.
To buy copies of books by William
Astley (“Price Waning”).—4855.
To buy copy of After Many Days
by Cuthbert Featherstonhaugh.—4863.
To buy collections of short stories
and novels dealing with early Sydney
by J. H. M. Abbott. —4864.
Copies of books and magazines
giving details of the horse- and
bullock-teams that operated in
central-western N. S. Wales during
the period 1850-1900. —4859.
To buy copy of The Garden Path
by M. H. Ellis.—4860.
Information Sought.
Some details about the discovery
of gold at Kiandra (N.S.W.) and the
early history of the township?
Gold was discovered at Kiandra
late in 1859 or early in 1860. The
“S. M. Herald” of January 28, 1860,
mentions the discovery of gold at
Gibson’s Plains, near the Snowy
River; 700 people were then on the
field. For the last 12 miles of the
road the only means of travelling was
on horseback. The gold was said to
have been found by two brothers, D.
and J. Pollock, and the field extended
over an area of five square miles.
Early in February, 1860, 1800 people
were on the field. The gold escort
brought down 1680oz. and the next
escort 3455oz. In September, 1860,
there were 3000 people on the field.
Nuggets up to 201b. weight had been
found. At that stage there were 44
stores, 19 bakers, 23 butchers, 26
hotels and eight blacksmiths on the
field. Kiandra is probably a corrup-
tion of the native name “Giandora.”
In March, 1860, population was up-
wards of 3000, and later about 5000
were on the field. At one time it is
estimated there were 7000 on the
field. In winter the population fell
owing to the severity of the climate.
An account of the township of
Kiandra in 1880 states that many of
the weatherboard buildings had been
moved elsewhere and the few that
remained were falling into decay.
There were still two hotels in the
town in 1880, a church used as a
school and about a dozen private
houses.
* * * *
What was the Nenni telegram ?
A telegram of support sent by J.
Platts-Mills, K, Zilhacus and 20
other members of the British Labor
party to the Italian pro-Communist
Socialist leader during the Italian
general election of April, 1948. The
Labor party had decided to support
the right-wing anti-Communist Social-
ists Saragat and Lombardo. The
telegram was therefore regarded as
disloyal, Platts-Mills was expelled and
the other signatories reprimanded.
Zilliacus was expelled later.
* * * ♦
Is it safe to use the new insecticides
D.D.T. and benzene hexachloride on
dogs ?
There may be danger in using
D.D.T. in certain forms on dogs—in
oil solutions, for instance. B.H.C.,
however, is safe for external applica-
tion, particularly when the pure
gamma isomer “gammexane” is used.
Used as a wash, one application of
gammexane per week has kept dogs
free from ticks and lice. Once a
fortnight or up to once a month
gives freedom from fleas. It has also
given excellent results in treatment of
sarcoptic mange. The dog should be
washed with a non-irritant dog-soap,
then, after rinsing, wet dog thor-
oughly from nose to tip of tail, and
particularly the feet, with gammexane
solution. Thereafter apply to affected
areas and surrounding skin at double
normal bathing strength. Allow dog
to dry naturally, without rubbing dry
with towels. Burn bedding, move
kennel to fresh site and spray it
inside and out with gammexane solu-
tion. It can be obtained as a powder
for mixing with water or as an emul-
sion (gammawash) for breaking down
with water, from retailers or from
Grazcos Co-operative, Ltd., 46
Young-street, Sydney. Where it is
used to keep down tick-, flea- or lice-
infestation the solution may be
applied without previous bathing of
the animal; in fact, unless dirty or
malodorous, wash dogs with soap as
seldom as possible.
* * * *
How old was Bob Fitzsimmons
when he won the world’s heavyweight
championship from James J. Corbett ?
Who defeated Fitzsimmons, when
and where, for the title?
Born at Helston, Cornwall, on
June 4, 1862, Bob Fitzsimmons was
almost 35 when he k.o.’d James J.
Corbett in round 14 at Carson City,
Nevada (U.S.A.), on March 17, 1897.
James J. Jeffries stopped Fitzsimmons
in 11 rounds at Coney Island, New
York, on June 9, 1899, and took the
title from him.
Brief Answers.
A.H.McM.: The first English
pennies in copper were struck and put
into circulation during the reign of
George III, and are dated 1797.
Queen Victoria’s first bronze pennies
are dated 1860. Before this the coin
was much larger, and made of copper.
The size has been retained to the
present day since 1860. First Aus-
tralian pennies are dated 1911. None
were struck for 1937... .J.U.: Aus-
tralian pennies dated 1933 are defi-
nitely not rare or worth more than
face value. English pennies of this
date are rare, as no pennies were
issued for circulation with this date.
Proof coins were struck. These are
usually retained by the min(, but
sometimes they are sold by the mint
to collectors as specimens for their
collection, and sometimes to dealers
for sale to collectors N.D.H.: (1)
The English 4s. piece, although an
obsolete coin, is quite common
among collectors, and is still legal
tender in England as currency. In
perfect mint condition they can be
purchased for 9s. 6d. (2) Write D.
Raymond, 128 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
... .H.A.L., A.E.S., E.M.A. and
S.H.: The secretary of the Yorick
Club says that the result will be
announced shortly. In the meantime
MSS. are being returned to authors
as quickly as possible W.H.H.T.:
(1) England, 903; Australia, 201 and
123. (2) Len Hutton, 364. (3) Yes,
287, made by Foster in the 1903-04
season, at Sydney... .A. 8.: Com-
parison between “A,” “B” and “C”
passes in the N.S.W. Senior and
Junior examinations and “A’s” and
“B”s” of the later Leaving and Inter-
mediate Certificate examinations has
not been assessed H.G.C.S.: The
Commonwealth Child Endowment
Act came into force on July 1, 1941,
and payment of endowment com-
menced from that date. The Act
provided for endowment in respect
of all children in excess of one being
maintained by any person... .D. 8.:
Coins were struck for New Guinea,
Fiji, British East Africa and British
West Africa during the reign of
Edward VIII. They are dated 1936
only. The New Guinea pennies were
issued in large numbers and were not
officially withdrawn, and are quite
common among collectors. As col-
lector’s items they can be purchased
at Is. each C.M.N.: The laying
of eggs unfit for consumption is not
uncommon. In some cases it is
apparent that fully-formed eggs have
been withheld in the oviduct for a
considerable time, because of ruptures
and other abnormal conditions, before
being laid. These %gs are not rotten
in the true sense of the word, but
are mostly addled, with the contents
coagulated and totally unfit for food.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and ■address must appear on the
US, No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, US, should b»
addressed to the Editor.
L.N.: All talk 1.N.: “Man’s
Finest Hour” was one of our worst
few minutes J.C.: Much too
slight R.L.M.: Not even estate
agents in heaven F.F.: Out on the
swing at night! We hope the mother
took a strap to him... .Z.V.W.:
Looks a little rigged... .H.H.R.8.:
You had us, like your hero, turning
in dazed circles 8.5. H.: People
like that, we just ignore them
A.E.S.: What happened except that
because of something a drunk said,
an employee thought less of his
boss’s wife? J.L.: It’s as con-
fusing as a pet-shop H.W.: In
running one lake into another so
that two lovers can get married, we
fear that Nature has been more
accommodating than our readers
will find credible G.E.T.: You’re
better-off with the baby, of course.
.... Bellerive: We agree:
’Neath the shade of a willow
While the sunlight' beams
Upon the bosom of
Rippling streams,
If equipped with tackle,
A fine breezy sport
Is river fishing at
A pretty resort.
G.F.S.: It’s a good idea, but you
make it seem so improbable
N.G.: Certainly not solid enough for
four instalments G.R.G.: Judging
by the first episode, your “episode
novel” will have to get better as it
goes along A.M.: Yes, fright-
fully brazen... .F. 8.5.: Too thin....
D.J.H.: Somewhat arch L.R.:
That old damp squib again S.G.:
Never has less happened on a beach.
H.McH.: It didn’t get past the
Religious Editor V.G.W.: Agreed
with the line: “Here, what’s the sense
in this soliloquy?” J.M.P.: “The
“Demon Wind” now “howls and
sighs and tests his bond with all his
might” in the w.p.b D. 8.: Shows
improvement... .M.8.G.: Pitchforked
out J.M.W.: A slight and fleeting
impression L.A.H.: Old Rooney
didn’t make the grade M.Y.: Well
back among the rearguard C.N.:
The fact that your uncle was an
Anzac doesn’t make you a writer of
Anzac poems J.McU.: No, we
only sigh when confronted with verse
of that description.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4½d. per line; all others 2¼d. per line.
The Pound
It seems absurd to claim that Aus-
tralian industries could not maintain our
standards of hours and wages if they had
to compete against imports and our
money values were on a par with sterling.
Published balance-sheets of our old-
established companies do not support
such a claim, while new capital issues for
further expansion do not suggest any lack
of faith on the part of the directors.
Without exception these older companies
are now strong enough—and their goods
are sufficiently well known and liked —to
maintain their markets against competi-
tion.
Industries which may be hit —and
some certainly would —are the new ones
which are capitalised and equipped far
beyond the needs of our home market.
Among them are included cotton textiles
and rayon fibres. The amount of capital
invested in these new industries since the
war is immense. They have already
drawn the manpower to build, equip and
staff their plants from established in-
dustries, to the detriment of our trade
generally as well as creating scarcity in
much-needed items in everyday use.
In the national sense we cannot afford
to subsidise uneconomical industry. In
time, when our home market expands, it
may become economical to branch out
but, until then, our first thought must be
to increase production in our regular in-
dustries and so remove scarcity and re-
duce prices. That would put some value
back into the pound.
Lifting the value of our pound in rela-
tion to sterling by cutting the exchange-
rate would help to do that. Overseas
competition will kill uneconomic pro-
duction, and the labor employed will
gravitate back to and strengthen the solid
industries. Competition for the best jobs
will induce efficiency and so production
will be increased.
After the war, the Chifley Government
advised Australian industry to expand
and capture a share of international trade.
Under compulsion of controls Austra-
lians had to accept cheap suitings, while
all the best were exported—much of it
came back, in ready-made suits at
fabulous prices. Singapore stores are
full of Australian canned pineapple,
while our shops offer, at outrageous
prices, Singapore canned pineapple. We
are importing French asparagus while we
ship our own prime product abroad.
What madness is this? Is it so essential
that we build up astronomical trading
figures at such cost? How can we put
value back into the pound by such non-
sensical trading?
We are importing steel from Japan,
and it isn’t only coal shortage. Several
hundred New Australians have had
to be drafted to the steelworks be-
cause the normal labor just isn’t available
any more.
Thousands of millions of dollars have
been spent by the U.S.A. in an effort to
re-establish European industry and start
international trade flowing again. Now it
is suggested that Australia borrow dollars
from America to buy capital goods while
we go on building new factories making
non-essentials which we will protect by
prohibitive tariffs from competition of
European factories. Americans have
worked to make those dollars. Can’t we
do the same?
In all our history we have never had a
favorable trade balance with the U.S.A,,
and there is no reason to suppose we ever
will have one. How are we going to pay
off the loan? Previously we have used
British balances to make the adjustment.
Who is going to do it this time?
We- are a young nation; ample
room and ample scope for millions
more people. We are in the happy
position of being practically a creditor
nation. We are assured of a ready
market for years to come for our
staple, proven, products, primaries and
processed. Industrially we have capacity
and talent, but we can’t change over from
a primary-producing country to a full-
scale industrial one overnight. Let us
concentrate on essentials first. Let us
help the U.S.A. and Britain in their
efforts to save our way of life by buying
our non-essentials overseas with our
surplus credits. We should not deny to
the overseas manufacturer his market or
his profit—we can afford it. And, re-
member that overseas markets are
essential to our exporting primary in-
dustries, —Wilken (N.S.W.).
.22 Ammo
Foxes and rabbits have never been
worse in Australia, but farmers’ efforts
to check their depredations are hampered
by the shortage of .22 ammunition. Be-
cause of the shortage of supplies farmers
are forced to use the imported and more
expensive article. It would be interest-
ing to know how Australia’s small-arms
ammunition output is distributed. —
Plain Australian (Vic.),
Diesel Rail-motors
The Victorian Railway Department’s
bid to speed-up country passenger service
by running diesel rail-motors to pick up
“wayside” passengers is one of the most
successful made by any State to re-
capture some of the lost traffic.
Headed by a keen chairman of com-
missioners, a bunch of expert railmen set
out to discover why Victorians were using
air and road in preference to the long-
established rail. Hundreds were inter-
viewed, and most complained that too
•SERVICE
Oso\
nrrr rrrrtKi I
"I think the valve's stuck."
much time was being wasted in the
picking-up and setting-down of pas-
sengers at isolated stations. At some
stations, it was said, trains often had to
pull up twice to allow a passenger in the
front and another at the rear to alight.
Running a special train to pick up
“waysiders” was too costly, because small
trains burn almost as much coal as the
long ones. The department had a series
of rail-motors, but they had outlived their
usefulness and were only suited to small
branch lines.
Despite warnings from many “experts,”
the chairman of commissioners ordered a
large number of the diesel electric rail-
motors from England and arranged for
the bodywork to be built by a Melbourne
firm at the railway workshops, Newport.
The first diesel ran a couple of years
ago. The fleet has been steadily increased
and more are to come. Country travellers
are rushing to ride in.them, while others
in the larger towns and cities have a fast,
smooth ride to and from Melbourne.
Other States could well follow
Victoria’s lead to speed up their
country expresses and give the small-town
traveller something for his money.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Honesty
What has gone wrong with us as a
nation? Most of our old conceptions of
honesty seem to have been wiped off as
“corny,” and “Honesty is the best policy”
seems to be an outmoded slogan.
During the tough times in the early
’thirties dishonesty was not rife. Men who
could*' scarcely rake up two or three
shillings were still fundamentally honest.
Today, though there are jobs available
everywhere, and big money for anybody
prepared to work for it, crime has in-
creased alarmingly and this new attitude
towards honesty and honor is apparent in
almost every walk of life.
Two decades ago a man lucky enough
to possess, say, more tobacco than he
needed gave some to his less fortunate
mate, or sold it at shop-price to a stranger.
Few do those things these days. Now we
have the person who habitually acquires
commodities “in short supply.” He doesn’t
give anything away to friends or sell it
at a fair price. He may sell at a black-
market profit, but generally he runs a
raffle at two-bob a ticket —and makes
10 times the value of the article.
Anyone who has been in charge of
stock in a factory or workshop knows the
modern set-up. A tool left out is a tool
lost. Articles that could be bought for
a shilling “go off”—evidently there is
more pleasure in pilfering them than pay-
ing for ’em. Nor are the lower-paid men
the sole culprits.
Of course there are honest men, plenty
of them, but the proportions have
changed. Once they were in the majority ;
now their percentage is alarmingly small.
—H. C. B. (N.S.W.).
“Social Services”
Despite “Taswegian’s” wishful thinking
(B. 31/5/’5O), “social service” is charity.
Such was its title a few short years ago.
Only by becoming the biggest, most con-
temptible and demoralising of vote-
catching schemes devised by politicians
has it attained the aura of “social service.”
It is contemptible because of its abuses,
and demoralising because politicians who
do not believe in it have to sink their
principles and advocate it. They dare not
do otherwise.
There are as many derelict and
neglected kids now as ever, and if “T.”
cares to visit the crowded cities of Eng-
land and Australia he will see proof of
it.—H.W. (N.S.W.).
The Liberal Unionist
It is typical of their outlook that Red
union bosses can’t conceive the possibility
of union members having Liberal views.
They see nothing paradoxical in the fact
that “the Red Dean” champions doctrines
that strike savagely at the very thing he
accepts, yet they can’t, or won’t, believe
that a Liberal man could carry out
genuine union principles without
hypocrisy of any kind.
Party and religion should, in a properly
conducted union, be the members’ own
private business ; neither should be intro-
duced into union affairs. The duty of
a union, after all, is to act as a solicitor
for the members —to give advice when it
is sought, convey just claims to the Arbi-
tration Court, and, when called upon by
members, police industrial by-laws. And
a unionist, in the true sense of the word,
believes in a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay; he wants to work under
reasonable conditions with reasonable
amenities ; and he is prepared to pay into
a union all the time the union is working
for his interests.
No honest employer would object to
union principles based on those lines, and
no militant Leftist could point to any
infringement of union ethics. That’s
what a Liberal unionist wants. And that’s
what he can’t get. He’s told how to
think.
Because of that he doesn’t join a union
voluntarily, as a general rule. Press-
gang tactics are applied to make him
join, but he is never accepted as “a
brother” —he doesn’t think right. He
has the right to speak at meetings, of
course, but if he does speak out he is
seldom allowed to finish, and certainly
never heeded. Unionism —under Red
patronage! It gives him the right to pay
his dues to a source that is being schooled
to overthrow every decent thing he wishes
to preserve.—B. H. (N.S.W,).
Bread
Day-baking has a lot to do with the
poor quality of Sydney’s bread (B.
iU6/’5O). Everything has to be done too
quickly. The bread has to u
before it has time to cool and? load ed
the lower part of the pile ’are nfl° aVes °n
squeezed. p are often badly
The other morning I saw a w ,
draw up at the kerb. Steam?** 8 Ca «
mg from the cart so thickly than? 8 P ° Ur '
to be on fire. y nat 11 seemed
We'll never get decent bread .. *•,
baking is done away with Un A ’ da V-
(N.S.W.). y Wlth -—A.L.D.
Lotteries and Gambling
As Una Auld points out (R 7
there is more than one view,w . 50 )
these alleged evils are considered** When
1 once admonished a (rusted Uu
ployee in a business which I was ? em '
m a country town in N. Queensland^! 1 * 8
he approached me for a
Monday after a disastrous Satur? the
the local wide-open s.p. joint day at
“Don’t you think you’re a’bit f nn y u
fer4T
bosP“he £ xrs s; self ’ didn,t *».
| ePindStm Z aVw^nl
e^W e T” b f, r0k ' 5 i". the o£ U>e week
the foot gof tha£s
crofiT h°l a - £, f k and Pl “ so “« ofyour
profits back into it and are careful S
even, quid you take out. you'U L™ a
small fortune in a few years. But the
only hope a chap in my position has nf
getting off the labor market is to back
£ Oisket Up a Sat “tday or fl a g
“daT^R^Nl^
Dairymen’s Hours
I agree with “Magnoon” (B 7/6/’50i
that the arrangement of working hours
for dairymen is a problem. It almost
seems as if the dairyfarm will always be
a family show, with Mum and the kids
taking their turn at the bails. The alter-
native is larger areas and more mechani-
sation, but these can only go hand in
hand, and to a certain point.
It is doubtful if dairying will ever be
more prosperous than at present, and the
Treasury even now has to dub in about
£9,000,000 a year to subsidise either the
cocky or the consumer, depending on
one’s point of view.
One of the troubles today is that many
fanners’ sons are not keen to stay in the
game. They can scarcely be blamed. It
takes at least £5000 to finance a dairy-
farm, according to R. C. Gibson, presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Primary Producers’
Union, and if the youngster hasn’t got
that in kitty he might as well take on a
40-hour-week job in the city.
Work on a dairyfarm is tedious and
monotonous. The wheatman varies his
work with the seasons, and in between
times has periods of leisure when he can
improve his property or his mind, or
have a few pots in town. There is no
such slack period for the dairy bloke,
and if he wants a holiday he must leave
someone, not just to keep an eye on the
place, but to carry out the entire job.
Until stabilisation was introduced dur-
ing the war dairying was definitely a
“depressed industry”—which did not
prevent some men in some areas making
a good thing of it. The aim now, of
Governments and producers’ organisa-
tions alike, is to guarantee long-term
stability to all sections of the industry,
but whether that can be done has yet
to be proved.
The answer may be somewhere be-
tween “Magnoon’s” proposal for shift-
work (the question of finance would have
to be watched there), and some form ot
co-operative farming that would give the
working shareholders a reasonable roster
on which to plan the less mundane side
of their lives. —D. T. (N.S.W.).
Military Service
“S.H.P.’s” suggestion (B. 7/6/’50)— that
trainees should be allowed to v °lun e
for a two-year term, receiving certa
privileges to distinguish them from 0
year compulsory men—is a g° od . 0 •
could be taken further. If quahficfttio
for training in the services were of a h g
standard, so that it was regarded as
honor for a man to be chosen t P !(J
sent his country on the battlefiel,
be plenty of competition for selectio
Special Army units in thelas*
winch restricted entry of v pj alrnos t
men of high character and abi
always had plenty of apphca
Make the peace-time sen**
get into, with the P enalty Hi . > t measure
discharge for those who didI t
up to the high standards 3 orceS;
although you might have sm let jt
they’d be twice as efficient * for
be clearly understood * hat an honor
a term of military training R y.
reserved for those worthy ot «.
(N.S.W,).


from one of Mr. Huxley’s essays. His
wife dies and he is filled with an agony
of remorse for his perfidy towards her
and out comes another essay. He marries
the girl, which shocks his wife’s friends,
and out comes another essay.
Isolated from their context the essays
are quite brilliant and often wise, but, as
they never have anything to do with the
particular problem of the moment, all
they produce is boredom in the girl or her
various rivals and a feeling of discourage-
ment in their author.
A nurse voices suspicions that the wife
was poisoned, the body is exhumed and
at the inquest Hutton is charged with
murder. He is condemned to be hanged,
and is awaiting execution while outside
his new wife and a doctor are frenziedly
seeking evidence of his innocence. They
succeed half an hour before the time for
the execution, and the prisoner is released
without a stain on his character and his
capacity for making speeches unimpaired.
The story, of course, is invented, but
the character of the hero doesn’t look as
if it had been invented, and the com-
plaints of critics that the play is wordy
hardly stand because it is a wordy
character who is depicted. It might as
well be said that Shakspeare was bawdy
because he depicted bawdy people.
Hutton is the type of individual who runs
to words in the presence of a feeling, and
he was very well played by Ian Borrie.
Doris Mead, his girl-friend, runs to tears,
cries and giggles in a similar situation,
and she was also well depicted by Shirley
Soden, but the best performance was pro-
vided by Jeanette Caldwell, as the re-
jected lover who manifests her unrequited
love for Hutton in a determination to
bring him to the scaffold. The conflict
between her beliefs and feelings nearly
drives her over the border into madness,
and the accident that saves her from con-
summating her desire is supposed to cure
her.
That is a problem Mr. Huxley could
well go into. The death of the wife cer-
tainly didn’t remove any of the obstacles
in the path to freedom for his hero.
The Bloody Tower.
A replica, strictly speaking, is a dupli-
cate of a work of art executed by the
original artist, and I know artists who,
rather than part with a sold picture, make
a copy of it and sell that, much to the
disgust of the patron when he discovers
that there is another picture in the world
of the same sort as the one he has hang-
ing in his drawing-room. I knew one
such who wanted his money back because
he thought he had been diddled, for-
getting that the aesthetic value of a picture
consists in what is in the picture and
isn’t diminished if there are copies of
it Works of art aren’t postage-stamps
or new hats whose value lies in exclusive
possession.
There is a great difference, however,
between a replica and a reproduction, a
difference that is painfully obvious in
the “Tower of London” exhibition at
Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne. There are
models or copies of royal coaches, the
Coronation Chair (a good one). Queen
Vic.’s letters which don’t say anything
of importance, armor from ducal collec-
tions, a midget rack with a midget person
on it (the last person to be racked in
England), a bad model of the Tower, and
oil paintings of the palaces and castles
of England by modern artists which are
even worse; and there is a reproduction
of the King’s Kitchen with a modern
•fireplace and imitation faggots and pots
and pans which look as if they had been
obtained at Myer’s, The Queen’s Orb,
the Royal Sceptre, the Sword of Tem-
poral Justice and the various crowns which
have sat on the easy or uneasy heads of
English monarchs are all there looking
extraordinarily tinselly and gimcrack—
but what royal crown didn’t? —and there
is a jewel which contains in its depths
what looks like a huge clot of congealed
blood, symbolic of the bloodshed it caused
or looked on at.
The names are hallowed by tradition
and can’t help but thrill us, but why the
sponsors thought it worth while to bring
this junk from England when that country
contains so much of artistic value, why
the gallery thought it worthy of exhibi-
tion and why a Minister of Education
thought fit to give it his benediction and
grant permission to all his schoolchildren
to attend and listen to the Beefeaters’
—real Beefeaters —lectures is beyond my
comprehension. It is said to be educa-
tional, It might make a good sideshow
at a circus.—F. S.
The Holly Group, displaying their
wares at the Athenaeum Gallery, Mel-
bourne, are, according to the catalogue,
a group or fellowship of artists who, first
meeting in a celebrated cafe, have joined
together for the express purpose of en-
couraging each other, sharing costs and
exchanging ideas, but they are going to
fight shy of becoming a school with a
single outlook. If there is any funda-
mental difference between their outlooks
this commentator is unable to see it. They
all seem to be trying to describe what
they see, and some do it better than
others. Reshid Bey describes himself
freshly in a bright but uneven self-portrait
and describes other people very badly.
Graham Thorley gets a fine quality of
light into his “Main-street, Lilydale.”
Ewen J. French states things simply in
some landscape drawing and G. S.
Grossley, following some great exemplar,
gets some feeling into two landscapes.
TALKIES
"Sword in the Desert."
phis is the film—about the running of
Jews into Palestine and the efforts of
British soldiers to stop the then illegal
immigration —which raised considerable
protest in England. The protests were not
without reason. The film does not make
a show of impartiality by presenting both
British and Jews without obvious malice ;
while it can’t resist an occasional depic-
tion of the British officers as nice-minded
duffers, it also shows them as courageous
men, obediently carrying out orders, if a
little weary of fighting and dying to keep
the peace in a foreign country.
The Jewish refugees it presents—and
presents very well—as a stricken, desper-
ate people with the horrors of Buchen-
wald and Dachau engraved into them
and with only the thought of reaching the
safety of “their own country” driving
them on. Their leaders are gallant, high-
minded patriots, clever and deadly effi-
cient, and as ready to kill as they are
to die for their beliefs. And, of course,
they outwit the British troops at every
turn, not with enmity but in a spirit of
self-preservation. They are not terrorists,
but simply members of a phenomenon
which has cropped up in history before —
the tremendous movement of a race or
people like the shifting 'of one whole
organism; something that seems to be
as elemental and as irresistible as growth
itself.
While there is some truth in that and
while it might be acceptable as an
“I’m right but I see your point” version
it was not a very tactful dish to serve
to a British public very much aware of
the hanging of two British soldiers held
by terrorists as hostages—an outrage of
a kind with the Japanese atrocities now
being aired and not remotely excused by
the oblique reference to it in the film.
What seems much more probable, how-
ever, is that the film wasn’t very much
concerned with the British public, but
with the American. The skipper of the
ship which brings tire particular load of
refugees with which the film is occupied
is depicted as a tour American interested
only in getting payment for running a
“hot” cargo and very unwilling to be in-
volved in any causes, whatever their
merits. He is, unfortunately, marooned
ashore with his cargo when a British
patrol-boat appears on the scene and is
thereafter hunted ail over the desert
along with his cargo He's not a bad kind
of chap, this skipper ; a hard-bitten,
straight-talking man who likes keeping
out of other people’s troubles—the kind
of character American audiences like.
And, slowly, as he sees the courage, pur-
pose and pathetic state of the refugees
he is won over to sympathy for them, and
sacrifices his ship and master’s ticket- by
refusing to identify the leader for the
benefit of the British authorities.
There could scarcely be a simpler,
better appeal to the American public for
American sympathy and American
money to support the Jews in Palestine.
And that, of course, sets the film in the
same class as the more flagrant outpour-
ings of Mr. Hecht and others, who were
supporting and provoking the murder of
British soldiers doing their best to main-
tain law and order in a troubled land
while their Government attempted to
solve the problem. And, to that kind of
propaganda, the British had every right
to protest.
The film, then, despite its superficial
air of impartiality, is very cleverly dressed
propaganda which, incidentally, con-
veniently ignores the Arab question,
very much Britain’s concern. It should
he taken as such, if it is taken seriously,
and should preferably be taken along
with a thoughtful reading of Sir Ronald
Storr’s Orientations, which contains as
fine and as readable an account of the
events preceding the Palestine troubles as
could be wished for.
Taken simply as a melodrama of
skirmishes, quick wits and plot and
counter-plot, the film has its merits. The
two Jewish leaders are very ably played
by Stephen McNally and Jeff Chandler,
while Dana Andrews makes a creditable
sea captain mixed up in he-knows-not-
what. There is of course the beautiful
girl who announces over the secret radio ;
she is played by Marta Toren, who is
beautiful- The British soldiers are, in
the main, also played with some dignity,
and there is an Irish renegade fighting
with the Jews because it happens to be
the best fight available at the moment.
"Adam's Rib."
In a spirit of learning, this commen-
tator has gone into many films on Ameri-
can football and the American legal set-
up and almost invariably come out no
wiser. A few months ago a film called
“Thelma Jordan” presented the situation
wherein the district attorney, as chief
prosecutor, was taken, off a case because
a relative of his had been shrewdly
appointed to the defending team. It
was, according to the film, unlawful or
unethical to have such connections oppos-
ing each other in the courtroom. That
point, having been clarified, has now
been cast back into the tangle by this
well-acted and pleasantly amusing
M.-G.-M. comedy at Sydney Liberty,
in which husband and wife, both lawyers,
are represented as taking rival sides in
court over a blonde’s shooting of her
philandering husband.
The shooting of husbands is not really
a subject for public discussion in case it
gives off any inflammatory ideas, but
Spencer Tracy, as the husband, has the
very sane and sound view that husbands
shouldn’t be shot, by their own wives,
anyway. Katharine Hepburn, as his wife,
takes, as most wives probably do, a much
more complicated stand. Her view is
that, whereas a man who takes to fire-
arms or other violent means to rid the
nest of any cuckoos is generally regarded
with some lenience by the law, a woman
who does likewise is immediately branded
as a criminal of the first water. Without
wishing to encourage the shooting of hus-
bands, it could be pointed out that the
opposite state of affairs seems to apply
in these enlightened times. Miss Hep-
burn, however, with typical feminine
perversity and intricacy, turns and twists
the argument until she has shaped it into
a case for women’s rights, which, as any
raere male or husband knows, is a weapon
with which any woman can reduce him
to silence or, at most, incoherent mum-
bling to himself. And, as Miss Hepburn
uses it, it is equally effective in silencing
judge, prosecutor and the rest of the
courtroom.
There were, no doubt, some males in-
voived in writing and making the film,
so after Mr. Tracy has been defeated in
the courtroom on his point—which can-
not be overemphasised—he contrives,
with some neat subterfuge and bright
comedy, to prove that no one should be
shot, and, while that is not as particular
as it might be, it is at least a blanket pro-
tection which presumably includes hus-
bands.
Miss Hepburn and Tracy handle this
kind of comedy particularly well, and
there is no exception here. Their court-
room squabbles, their domestic tiffs and
their mumblings and nuzzlings, which are
passed for displays of marital devotion
by Hollywood, are all kept on an agree-
able plane of light comedy. They are
supported by a notably good cast, includ-
ing June Holliday as the hysterical trigger-
happy wife and Tom Ewell as the hunted
husband. David Wayne figures as an
overbearing character patterned on Clif-
ton Webb, and Clarence Kolb spends an
uneasy time on the Bench.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 75
Across.
I—Court the hide-out and cuddle
and kiss the booby-prize. (6, 5)
i— Funny fellow to cause some
agitation. (3)
Sixth letter that is finishing off
this girl. (5)
10—U.S.A. lark in the reception-
room of a spa. (7)
-i mg has one in grass-seed. (5)
1 impudence to go backwards with
some mutton writing in which all
words containing a particular
Id -ru- er 3X6 orohted. (8)
4 Inis tradesman is not in better
, physical condition. (9)
German death of an ivy-bush
l6^Th Ck ’n g ' Doiot hy- (3)
the .Prime Minister, but not his
income. (3)
fii?°j er Httle state that is 500
nlled with whimsical ideas. (9)
Everybody on the beach is
2 totally confused. (3, 2,3)
Returning earth as the judgment
24 ? f a tribunal. (5)
tgg-shaped barrel in a wind-
-25— l A Strumcnt - ( 7 )
I - S u a '® rt territory runs through
2fiJ\T. rcll without moving. (5)
a small island aid to code-
crackers. (3)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
27—Cane the final letter by the fish
befuddling. (11)
Down.
1 — Animal fibre to leave a Russian
woman in this Australian locality.
(10)
2 “Ham” position of planes bomb-
ing Canberra? (7)
3 Turkish title summarises the
Federation of Numskull Dumb-
bells. (7)
4 Initiate litigation, girl. (3)
5 Sound the ’orn and let a pro-
genitor telephone a place in South
Australia. (11)
6 When everything is left without
any justification. (2, 5)
7 You and 1 have a beach material
in the throat. (7)
8 — An ex-convict turned up in the
festivity. (4)
12 — The French swells’ side got off
its bike. (3, 3,5)
13 — Part of the Danish Parliament
brings the object ashore. (10)
16 — Wavy circle on the west swal-
lowed by Mr. Hughes. (7)
17 — A false god and a doctor make
an animal described by a toddler.
(3, 4)
19 —This famous Swiss-Amencan
naturalist could answer this:
What is a vaporous substance
not condensed into liquid at
ordinary terrestrial temperatures?
(7)
20 —Levantine islands upset a Shak-
spearean king on one. (7)
23—Hand is to act all right. (4)
25—Fuss of 1950 years ago? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 74-


AUSTRALIA’S ENGINEERING NEEDS MET BY
“MARS”
PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
m
■*> - •
THE “HERCULES” 55-INCH LATHE
12 MONTHS AGAINST FAULTY MATERIALS OR WORKMANSHIP
Outstanding Features of ‘‘MARS' Machine Tools
"■“■■iiHinni 1 " ' mu m ■ "inma
TEST CHART . . . Showing tolerances against Schlesinger
standards, supplied with each machine.
BALANCE ... All necessary revolving parts are Dynamically
Balanced.
FINISH . . . All surfaces are Machine Ground.
MATERIALS . . . “Meehanite’ casting throughout.
SMOOTH RUNNING . . . All Gear Teeth are generated.
VERSATILITY . . .All Lathes have generous Detachable Gap
Bridge.
“MARS” Lathe Lead Screws are cut from a certified and tested
Master Lead Screw.
THE MARS 16MNCH SHAPER
Som° Other “MARS” Machine Tools
GAP BED LATHES—
6-in., 7-in., 8-in., 10-in., 11-in., 14-in.
HIGH SPEED PLANING MACHINES.
No. 2 PLAIN MILLERS.
UNIVERSAL AND SEMI-UNIVERSAL DIVIDING
HEADS.
'
“MARS” HEAVY DUTY RADIAL DRILL
QUALITY DIESEL ENGINES -
MADE BY MANUFACTURERS OF PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
Outstanding Features of “MARS” Diesel Engines are :
SLOW RUNNING—Bosch Injection—Water Cooled—Replaceable Liners—
Variable Speed—Sensitive Governor Control—Crankshaft and Fly Wheel
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED (giving smoother running and less
wear).
Ideally suited for Milking and Shearing Machines, Pumping Units,
Light and Power generating sets, and all other Agricultural and
Industrial Power requirements.
"Mars" Diesel Engines are serviced by Experts only
THE “MARS” 5-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
I
CASTINGS
All castings are produced in the
“Mars” Foundry, under the super-
vision of a highly-trained metallurgical
and laboratory staff. We manufac-
ture all 21 grades of MEEHANITE
IRONS.
THE “MARS” 3-H.P. DIESEL ENGI
NE
THE “MARS” UNIVERSAL
r (
■
THE “MARS” 8-H.P-
AND 10-H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
Distributing Agents
N.S.W. - Gibson Battle & Co.PU-
Sydney, W.A.—The Western Machinery
Co. Ltd., Perth. ItOia-Bombay F [ oVinC JT ri
R. S. Mehta & Co., Alii
Bombay. Sales Representative- C '
C/- Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby,
Papua.
INTERSTATE AGENTS
WANTED
n
a
i
*9
m
©
m
o
ft
I/fflE
making the widest range of machine tools in the southern hemisi
s
MACHINE TOOL
M AN FG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES! VALLEY - BRISBANE
j. & O’S. AdvcrU
