

The Bulletin
•T&e Bulletin,” VoL 71 -No. 3649
Wednesday, January % i r *l\ x
Frit e 64* \
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*
" !'■ Mil ■IIWIIHI ■■UmilUll >l l 111 IMIOIIHIIIHI *HI MWIWBMIIIIMfCWMWWMWWWBMBMiiiitMiiiMBMBgWMBK WWMfIIIWMMI i JMOraMIIBIOTwrrr'IMHf I—l mm fIWIWWIBMBMWWWMgiiIW ««S»* jraaMM
Seppelts
RABY CASTLE, ANCESTRAL HOME OF THE NEVILLES
SIXTEEN miles from Durham, near the ancient town of Staindrop, stands
Raby Castle. Although some portions of an earlier manor afe incorporated
in the present edifice, it is regarded as a perfect example of a fourteenth-
century castle, complete in all its details. The name Raby is of Danish
; ls first mentioned m connection with a visit to the near-by Shrine
Ci Sh Cuthbert by King Canute, who ruled over the north of England from
1017 to 1036.
Early in the thirteenth century Raby, then owned by a monastery, came
into the possession of the Nevilles, and it remained with them for many
generations. In 1397 Ralph Neville was created Earl of Westmorland by
Ptr-harH tt n rut oc Me t i n r . j , i
Richard 11, and he married, as his second wife, Joan Beaufort, daughter of
John of Gaunt; because of her great beauty, the youngest of their twentv-one
namori “Tt,. t T 3 u n .
children was named The Rose of Raby. After the failure of the Rising
Oi the Norm m 1570 the sixth Earl was exiled and his estates forfeited.
Raby remained the property of the crown until 1616, when it was. granted
to Sir Henry Vane, m whose family it has since remained,
Among the vast and majestic group of buildings which make up the
castle are nine great towers, the earliest of which is said to have been built
by King Canute. For its main defence Raby depended on a wide moat
which originally surrounded the castle. The form of the moat can still be
seen, but now only the south side contains water.
The most impressive room in the castle is the Baron’s Hall, a vast
room, a hundred and thirty-six feet long, running above the drawing-room
“J entrance, hah In this room history was made, for here was planned the
ill-fated Rising of the North, which aimed at placing Mary Queen of Scots
on the throne of England
™ t .. , . , ■ ..
The kitchen, which dates from the fourteenth century, retains its original
features; it is two storeys high and is surrounded at first-floor level by a
stone gallery.
~XTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


L Ston^ r nf}.OM,9
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250
AGE
The Red Page
SUCCESS STORY.
Though it would save a lot of bother,
and give extraordinary satisfaction to the
authors, the Red Page doesn’t usually
invite writers to review their own books.
An exception, however, might be made
in the case of James Francis Dwyer,
whose letter to the Red Page from 119
bis., Boulevarde d’Alsace, Pau (8.P.),
Fiance, dated December 1, was distinctly
unusual:
May I call your attention to my auto-
biography which Georgian House, Ltd.,
will put out in the early days of December?
The Bulletin is much mentioned in the
story. One day in the long ago Mr.
Archibald met me in George-street and
thrilled me by saying that a paragraph
by me in the current issue was one of the
best he ever read. I have been praised
by more than a hundred editors since that
day, but I have never been so thrilled.
Mr. Archibald was a great friend to me.
He fought for my release when I was a
prisoner in Goulburn Jail, and he printed
verse I had written there and stories that
I smuggled out. He came and saw me
when 1 was in Sydney in 1913.
I have told a sincere story of my life,
omitting nothing. I think I was roughly
handled in Australia. I was a wild,
imaginative boy of 24 when Sir Frederick
Darley handed me a sentence of seven
years’ penal servitude. A sentence that he
regretted with tears when I spoke to him
after my release.
Leg-ltons oh Wings is not what one
would class as a dry autobiography. It is
a sensational news-story telling of belief
and courage and kicking at the judges
that make second offenders out of young
men by handing them appalling sentences.
The same letter carries printed on the
side of the page the information that
Mr. Dwyer is the author of more than a
thousand short stories that have
appeared, in the U.S. magazines
“Collier’s,” “Woman’s Home Com-
panion,” “Delineator,” “American,”
“McCall’s,” “Redbook,” “Liberty,”
“Country Gentleman,” “The American
Weekly,” “This Week,” “Vanity Fair,”
“Popular,” “Blue Book,” “Adventure,”
“Short Stories,” “Argosy,” in three
French magazines, and in the' English
“Strand,” “Pearson’s,” “Britannia and
Eve,” “Argosy” and “Storyteller.”
There is certainly a good deal about
The Bulletin in Leg-Irons on Wings.
Mr. Dwyer, who, as he tells, took, like
many another youth, an excessive interest
in horses and women, was sent to Goul-
burn for an attempted fraud in the
Postal Department while he was assistant
postmaster at Oxford-street, Sydney, and
during his three years in jail—he was
then released on parole and was be-
friended by the judge who had sentenced
him —he developed a passionate desire to
write stories and verse. At night in the
privacy of his cell he would set his com-
positions down on a slate and then in
the morning, lest they should be seen
by a warder, rub them out. Then he
got to know a fellow-prisoner, serving
three years for buying stolen opal at
Wilcannia, who also had written poetry.
Mr. Dwyer recited to him a poem called
“The Boot of Fate”; the prisoner
memorised it and on his release shortly
afterwards sent it to J. F. Archibald:
Days and weeks went by. I heard
nothing. Then one afternoon the warder
on the post near the printing-shop stopped
near the door and spoke to me in a low
voice. “Did you write a poem called ‘The
Boot of Fate’?” he questioned.
Careful about making an admission that
might get me into trouble I countered with
a “Why?”
“Because I read it in The Bulletin last
evening,” he said. *
Next day the same warder came to the
printing-office. He whispered a question. »
Would I like to see the poem as it
appeared in print? Would I? I had spent
half the night trying to put the thought
into that man’s head. His question brought
tears of longing into my eyes.
“I thought you would,”* he whispered.
“I cut them out of the back page. Here
they are. You can have them for five
minutes and then I’Jl take the cutting
back.”
I snatched the morsel of paper from his
hand. I read the lines with little sobs of
emotion. Wonderful were my words in
?rint! And my name was signed to them,
our times a day at the roll-call I answered
to the shouted number of “Ninety-eight.”
But The Bulletin used ray name. Boldly
they had printed it. 1 kissed the piece of
paper that had re-baptised me to my
country. It was wet with tears when I
handed it back to the kind warder.
The warder became Mr. Dwyer’s un-
official literary agent. He gave him pencil
and paper; Mr. Dwyer wrote his stories
and verses and the warder mailed them
to The Bulletin. Some of the verses
were published immediately, but, for
fear of creating trouble for the writer,
Archibald delayed publication of the
stories of prison life until author was
released.
One of these, “The Lost Button,”
arose from an occasion when Mr.
Dwyer had had a chance to ;oo into
the “dark cells,” sine abdl&b* •.». in
which prisoners who had cammitted
some jail offence were locked in ■ db ry
confinement. A fellow-prisoner, for a
joke, pushed the writer into one of these
cells and shot the boh; on the outside,
and from that experience Mr. Dwyer
evolved the nightmarish fantasy of a
prisoner who, to occupy his min
darkness, repeatedly tossed a
button into the air, searched for it on
the floor, then tossed it again—until one
day he tossed the button up and it failed
to come down and he went insane: the
button had been caught in a spider-web.
Clearly in the tradition of Poe and O.
Henry, this story went round the world.
For a month it was written on the slate
each night and nibbed out again in the
morning, until the writer found himself
becoming obsessed with it; eventually he
related it to the warder, who gave him
materials to write it down and sent it to
Archibald, who published it two years
later. It has since been reprinted in the
Boston “Black Cat,” London “Story-
teller,” and in magazines in France,
Sweden and Germany, also in The Poppy
Annual, which was published for British
soldiers in the 1914 war.
Mr. Dwyer himself, like his stories,
has travelled far and wide since his
Bulletin days when he hobnobbed with
Daley, Dyson, Albert Dorrington and
Randolph Bedford. * Emotional, efferves-
cent, brimming with energy and'bubbling
with ideas for stories, he tackled the
Inky Way in London, found it heavy
going and shot off to America, where he
folded newspapers for a living, addressed
envelopes, took a job on a street-car,
worked as a super in an opera company,
got into fights, had adventures of all
kinds and, in double-quick time, made
his name and his fortune as a writer of
magazine stories. He wrote a novel, The
White Waterfall, in three weeks, and
Doubleday published it.
Afterwards he lived in France, hit
upon the idea of writing a weekly travel-
letter, for a price of ten dollars, to any-
one in the U.S. who wanted to hear
about Europe—“ James Francis Dwyer,
Adventurer, Novelist, Short Story Writer
and World Traveller, will send you a
weekly Letter from the Great Cities of
Europe. A Letter such as a travelling
Father or Brother might write” —and, in
the interests of his innumerable clients,
travelled to tourist resorts all over Eng-
land and the Continent. “I became a
Harper, like my long-dead ancestors,”
he says, romantically describing this
episode.
For a while he lived in Spain and, at
a bullfight, had a presentiment which
saved him from getting hit on the head
with a bottle —at intervals throughout
the book he has strange, clairvoyant
experiences—and later he travelled in the
Sahara aifd to Timbuctoo, where “I
never saw such flies in all my life.”
At the end of tijis colorful and im-
petuous autobiography Mr. Dwyer in-
vites Australians who have read his book
to write to him about it at his address
in France, and the publishers weigh in
with a pamphlet making the same sug-
gestion, under the heading, “Let’s coax
Dwyer back to his homeland.”
Introducing Hauff.
Mahdi McCrae, who is Hugh Mc-
Crae’s daughter, brought Hauff’s Tales
into The Bulletin just in nice time to be
reviewed for Christmas; but she made
the mistake of talking to the reviewer
about trout, and talked so eloquently and
persuasively that the reviewer promptly
went away for a fortnight’s trout-fishing
and forgot to review Hauff’s Tales.
Which, like the trout the reviewer
brought back in a heatwave from Cooma,
is really a little bit hauff.
However, Hauff shall now be attended
to: at least in ample time for next Christ-
mas and also for everybody, young or
old, who intends to have a birthday in
1950. He is a queer fish to meet in Aus-
tralia, but, then, it is the habit of the
McCraes to bring into this country
strange and exotic immigrants from
Europe, and Hauff is for the world to
know. He was born in Stuttgart in
1802 ; became tutor to the sons of a
general and invented the stories in this
book to amuse them. Printed, the Tales
became a children’s classic in Austria and
Germany.
Except in their authorship, there is
nothing German about them. They are
imitations of the Arabian Nights stories,
supposed to be told in camp at night by
merchants returning in a caravan from
Mecca. Some, like the story of the Calif
of Bagdad who changed himself into a
stork and then forgot the magic words
to changi himself back ■ again, ave
humorous; some, like “The Tale of Ihe
Cut Off Hand.” in which a doctor is
tricked into murdering a sleep rig girl,
are macabre ; all are caught up and
linked together in an mgfehipus romance
ol_ the desert in which' the central figure
is a rbbbef named Orriasan.
The stories have been neiMy translated
into English—in a clear, crisp narrative
prose—by Margaret H. Gallia, and are
illustrated in color and black-and-white
by Mahdi McCrae, whose style is bold
and decorative. The Book lias been
handsomely bound ana printed by Wil-
liam Brooks and Co., Ltd., 99 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
A "Standby" Novel.
R. S. Porteous, the author of Sailing
Orders (Dymock’s), is “Stand-by,” who
writes short stories for The Bulletin and
also sells them for fabulous prices in
America. Some of his stories were pub-
lished in the book Little Known of These
Waters; Sailing Orders is his first
attempt to expand a story to the length
of a novel.
His theme is simple and traditional: it
is man against the sea. The story is set
in \var-time off New Guinea, and has a
documentary and national interest as a
record of the small merchant ships which
carried supplies and men to such places
as Milne Bay, Oro Bay, Morobe and
Finschhafen, but it is war from a seaman’s
point of view, in which such exploits as
sailing in a convoy on a black night
among the islands north of Townsville or
searching among rain and reefs for an
infinitesimal harbor in the New Guinea
coast are only an intensification of the
normal dangers of thd sea, and even a
raid by Japanese planes—so much salt-
water gets mixed up with the bombs —
seems merely a new kind of aquatic
phenomenon.
The departure of the Haichow from
Brisbane, which opens the book, with the
men’s wives and sweethearts coming down
to the docks on the night before sailing,
is not so much a picture of men going to
war —to the excitement of a tremendous
new experience—as of sailors going to a
sea whose perils they expect and accept.
And it is the sea, finally, a cyclone that
strikes the Haichow when she is on her
way back to Brisbane, that crushes
Captain Simms against the wheelhouse: - -
To the men on her bridge it sounded as
if she had crashed head on to a solid wall
of rock. But, although it was not rock,
the wall was real, and solid enough. She
struck right at the base of a towering wall
of water, and did not rise to meet it. There
was no time. Before she had recovered
from the shock the wall toppled over and
crashed down on her. The main impact
of it missed the fo’castle head buried deep
under solid green water and crashed over
the bridge. The four men saw it coming,
and all four bowed their heads and clung
grimly to the rail. The two mates and
Joe Grant retained their holds, but Captain
Simms had not their youth or strength.
They saw him go, torn loose and hurled
backwards by the weight of solid water
as it crashed over him and flung him back
against the armor-plated wheelhouse.
There is always a fascination in this
theme of man against the sea, and the
virtue of this novel is the authenticity
with which both the men and the sea are
described. There are minor characters
convincingly sketched: a ship’s cat that
objects to bombs; two ship’s boys named
Peanuts and Fags; a steward who makes
money selling whisky to the Yanks at
£lO a bottle ; a surly mate ; an -excellent
Scottish engineer who when the bombs
are exploding or the cyclone raging is
“not interested in the scenery on deck”;
and a couple of cheerful hard-cases, Lofty
and Squeaker, who are chiefly interested
in beer and girls. But it is Captain Simms
with whom the novel is really concerned:
a solid, irascible man richly and meticu-
lously painted “in the round” from the
bristles on top of his head to his feet
that tread the deck with nain because of
a wound he received in his knee in the
1914 war.
Unless there is to be some interior
drama amongst the crew as in The Nigger
of the .Narcissus or unless there is a dis-
tinct plot as in Stevenson’s The Ebb Tide,
it is difficult to make a novel merely out
of the adventures of a ship, even the
crowded adventures of war-time. The
problem is to find the continuing theme,
the story capable of dramatic develop-
ment.
The drama of Sailing Orders is not
quite broad enough to be wholly satisfac-
tory; to add as much as it could to the
short story “Jellicoe” in which, though
with a very different figure at the centre,
Porteous handled the same theme. In
places where there were opportunities to
paint a broader canvas—where there are
disputes with American officers, or when
the New Guinea fighting is mentioned, or
when Australian wounded are brought
aboard—the writer takes a one-sided view,
no view at all: which does indeed con-
centrate attention on Captain Simms, but
■\vh icb nevertheless makes the novel too
wane v.
Within its confines various attempts to
broaden the interest are well-enough sus-
tai 1. There is the crew’s dislike of
Cap in Simms, changing to veneration;
thei is the steward’s fear of losing his
v/iil <y profits in air-raids; there is the
opment of seamanlike qualities in
tiie oys and an officer’s sense of respon-
•ibiuty in the mate; there are the tribu-
lations of the Second Officer named
Jimmy whose girl-friend, Pamela, writes
to him from Brisbane that she is going
places with an American. But for a
variety of reasons there is no compelling
interest in these themes. The crew’s dis-
like is rather overdone; the fact that a
mischievous boy becomes a keen seaman
is not necessarily the most interesting
thing that could be told about mis-
chievous boys ; that the war develops the
best qualities in a mate who is capable
of drunken indiscipline, even of mutiny,
is patriotically pleasing but may be
fictionally regrettable; the storms at sea
are more profound than the storms in
Jimmy; and so, except for the steward,
who is a pleasant but minor note of
comedy throughout, one is left with
Captain Simms.
And Captain Simms, within the narrow
limits of the story, suffices. He is in-
volved in no intricacies of plot. He is
not portrayed as a man doomed to in-
evitable death. There is no attempt to
build up tension by overdramatising fear
or danger. Yet as he takes the Haichow
in the convoy from Townsville to Milne
Bay, blinded by rain and smoke on the
night when there is a minor collision with
a Liberty ship ; as he searches for a land-
mark —a magistrate’s house off Tufi —
which has been bombed out of existence
six weeks previously ; as he undergoes his
first air-raid, very nicely timed just when
the Naval Officer at Oro Bay is explaining
what happened to the magistrate’s house ;
as he fights through another air-raid that
kills his bosun —a vivid and exciting piece
of writing; as the story proceeds from
day to day and from episode to episode
it does convey the impression of inevit-
able movement and mounting tension
necessary to make a novel.
This is because Captain Simms is
shown each time in a scene of increasing
danger—from the alarms in the convoy
to the risk of running aground on the
coast, then the air-raid that does no harm,
and then the direct and deadly attack
on the ship—and so is shown each time
a little more deeply. The episode of
Jimmy, leaving the ship in a small boat
to rescue a lost seaman and to rehabili-
tate himself, breaks this continuity, but
it is restored again in the cyclone when,
having saved his ship. Captain Simms
perishes in conflict with his natural and
most formidable adversary, the sea,
It's Loaded, Mr. Bauer: John P.
Marquand (Robert Hale). Set in South
America during the last war; a German
raider sends a man ashore to hold up a
shipment of gold from the Boca Grande
Mine and buy fuel with the gold. Work-
ing with a couple of sinister German
agents, he comes up against the virtuous
young American mining engineer Winslow
Greene; and Mr. Greene has a lover ®
quarrel with a beautiful typist called
Henrietta Simpson, as a result of which
he nearly loses the gold and Miss Simpson
nearly loses that which is held by some to
be mote precious far than gold; but the
brilliant strategy of Mr. Greene and Mr.
Marquand saves all —it is really quite a
clever ending.
* ♦ ♦ *
Taken At The Flood: Agatha Christie
(Crime Club). A rich bachelor marries a
designing widow and is killed in an air-,
raid. A flock of relations who had ahvay B
depended upon him, and resented ms
marriage, transfer their hopes to the
widow, who, with her brother, stands by
to repel boarders. Then an unpleasant
stranger dies in doubtful circumstances in
the village inn; : t gets around Li at the
stranger might h vc been the first husband
of the widow who married the moneybag
and inherited his wealth. Hercule
is asked to investigate; and a’thouga tn
reader gets the impress, r that .t ?v
shame to waste bis talents on rucL an •
interesting lot of people, he does manage
to conclude the case in A coruscation
surprises as 1 as any ,Ag -|
Christie has co ivt


TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING''
Anthony Horderns
Premier 61 H 6 forms a compact unit, giving all
the advantages of heat storage cooking together
with plentiful supply of hot water. Rustproofed
solid panelled fire doors, boiler fire consumes
household rubbish, thus saving time and energy.
,
' mm**
m I
, ■;*■
:«*•
mm
■■
■f -
; .a
; -^m
m
.
' \r
:
sSss
1
?!A5
miwiu
S'S
EHSt
imiliumiiiii
Wl
■
i math -a
Wiinnm, •■■
I Hill I
'
fa
I!
ill'll i.
T'MI!
, 7j§
urn
M
miiwwiim
mm
i •JJnilv “i I '
mmm i
*
s M ■ ■'■'■■■■ i
mm
P: i
a
an
ill v^tl/ffifigKfirtiiiiiNjiftfffffn<i(i<[fi/(»f((fi/iift[ii(((niti[if//i«u(ifff/[iimi(iiiini l [»H»ii
: •;■•
....:
World famous ESSE heat storage cookers
The Esse Cooker is continuous burning (smokeless fuel, coke or charcoal).
It is always ready day and night with a constant supply of heat
is so clean, economical and easy to use. (Sole agent in N.S.W.)
m
The Esse Major Cooker
The Esse Major Cooker is a
heavy duty cooker. It is ideal
for use by hotels, restaurants,
schools, institutions and caterers.
Esse Stoves, Water Units—Lower
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Water Heating Unit
The Bonny Bridge “Hydresse” in-
dependent water heating unit burns
all combustible fuel, holds 45-60
gallons of water. Water raised 100
deg. per hour. Both economical and
durable, ideal for use in your home!
_dHl
I
m ©
New “Weistood” Cooker
Gives instant cooking service and
constant hot water for kitchen.
Cater for maximum of six persons.
FOR FURTHER
INFORMATION WRITE BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, OR TELEPHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT


LOVE AFFAIR
BY ETHEL ANDERSON
THERE were such hundreds of
poplars! Each orange nodule
showed a green nipple. There were
such thousands of chenars! On
those full-bosomed planes that are apt to
assume the importance of oaks each
prickly tassel was brilliant with rouge.
There were plantations of mulberries in
every earth-brown village in that eighty-
mile plain; their dun, tremulous bracts
were, each one, clouded with golden dust.
The red threads of a fruitful expect-
ation bunched among their tentative
leaves, the almonds, in that region the first
of the orchard-trees to flower, were dis-
carding far-roving petals that never
touched the ground but* floating in the
faintest of zephyrs, were, in the distance,
dissolved from sight by snow.
All these springtime manifestations
were sprinkled against the ice-ferns of the
encircling mountains in colors that had
the transparency of light; even the buff
heights of the Takht-i-Suliman domina-
ting the foreground of this idyllic land-
scape had an ethereal quality.
Grey in its depths, green in the shallows
near its grassy banks, the gleaming,
much-wandering river that gave its
pattern to the locally-made shawls (works
of art so valuable that two, paid yearly,
were the tribute given to Queen Victoria
for the Kingdoms of Jammu and
Kashmir) could still throw at the
spectator’s feet the image (of a crystal
clarity) of snow-peaks hundreds of miles
distant; stooping, it was possible to touch
Nanga Parbat or K 2 with a dipping finger.
Mauve, purple and wiiite iris and those
orange lilies that the Kashmiris plant on
every grave, blossoming in untold
thousands —every field was thick with
them —perfumed the cold, thin air with
the most illusive, the most delicious of
perfumes.
It was about the middle of a March
that had been unusually forward. The
willows were well budded, the apricots
and peaches advancing towards an ex-
perimental flowering. Even the wild
cherries, as a rule the last of the fruit-
buds to appear, balanced on some mound
or protuberance commemorating the ruins
of a vanished fort or crumbling temple,
sprayed their white fronds against snowy
chains of hills, the peaks of which might
have been cut out of paper, so stiff were
they.
Into this beauty the lovers yet once
again adventured.
THE group of women sipping their
eleven-o’clock tea on the Chubootra
—a wooden platform overlooking the
Jhelum erected on piles in front of the
English Club —being, as usual, on the
watch, discussed them.
They had observed Captain Alexander’s
shikara splash its way to the houseboat
tied to the opposite bank, and they had
waited, as he had waited, reclined in its
cushioned helm, until Faith Stuart had
appeared in the doorway of her Ark and
stepped lightly into her place beside him.
In the Residency garden, next the
Club, the wood-pigeons, pleasantly
audible, were saying “O Dara, O Dara,
O Dara Oh!” Naturally, they spoke
Persian; somewhat less naturally, having
in the sixteenth century become en-
-1 tangled in politics (as the legend says),
they mourned continually for Prince
iDara, Shah Jehan’s murdered son.
Consorting with them, the amber and
white cloudy-winged Paradise birds were,
,vocally, more cheerful, yet the spring day
jwas of so exquisite a quality that even the
sorrow of the wood-pigeons took on a
perfunctory note.
The river just there was only fifty
yards wide, and in that clear atmosphere
ithe faces of the young people under
observation were plainly to be seen.
“They’re both looking the worse for
love.”
“He is. I doubt whether she knows
f the meaning of the word.”
Mrs. Breakspear (she in the antiquated
(hat) looked down on the lovers as their
; craft splashed on its watery way below
; them,
“How can six such energetic oarsmen
propel that wobbly cockleshell so f a ® t
without upsetting it?” she wondered
Her question was rhetorical, merely. a fl( ' I
she added with inconsequence, Ju
must remember that I watched her with
his brother all last summer. They were
inseparable.”
“Did she find that flirtation equally
profitable?”
“James gave her his mother’s engage-
ment ring. A garnet in a gipsy setting—
a bagatelle, merely! He gave her nothing
else.”
MISS BELLTREES, an ingenue,
marked her place in Ulysses with an
unlighted cigarette.
‘To my certain knowledge Alex
Alexander has given Faith a ruby ring,
another —of diamonds —a string of pearls
(the clasp is good), a blue Chinese jar
(the one Suffering Moses was asking
sixty pounds for) and a gold-fitted
dressing-case.”
She enumerated each item in her list
by touching a finger with a scarlet nail.
“The poor boy has nothing but his pay!
He’s in debt to the Schroff.”
“If she ruins him by her rapacity how
can he be expected to buy her a wedding-
ring—with a roof over it?”
“Yesterday morning they climbed the
Tukht-i-Suliman,” Miss Belltrees con-
tinued.
“It’s a climb!”
“A thousand feet! I saw them! She
wore that Play-suit for the Rockies
designed for her by Norman Hartnell —
bell-bottomed trousers in plum-colored
corduroy, a double-breasted pea-jacket
with buttons five inches across and,
slapped on the back of her head, a straw
sailor exactly like an old Jack Tar’s.”
“I thought the hat too nautical.”
Below the speakers a late-flowering
almond trailed its blossoms in the seeth-
ing, dimpled waters, while the shikara
with its passengers, the two figures under
discussion, relaxed in comfortable in-
security, went splashing and pirouetting
its way out of sight.
“They’re going, perhaps, to the Chenar
Bagh.”
“They did that on Monday.”
“Or the Shalimar Gardens?”
“They went on Tuesday.”
THE. three women stared at the house-
boat tied to the bank on the opposite
side of the ruffled waters ; the snows were
melting and the river ran exuberantly.
Faith’s elaborate Ark had seven windows ;
some dcck-chairs were grouped on its flat
roof.
“She’s alone there?”
“Her sister and brother-in-law return
next week.”
“Faith’s boat was tied last summer to
the same moorings.”
“How that girl was talked about last
year!”
“You mean —‘How we talked about
that girl’!”
Miss Belltrees removed from her book
a cigarette which had (apparently) ignited
at page one.
“I never really fathomed that business
with James Alexander. Did he break if
off or did she?”
“If he jilted her, some idea of revenge
may be at the back of this wild affair
with his brother. James was always fond
of Alex.”
Mrs. Breakspear, who was considered to
be an infallible authority on her
neighbor’s wife, his ox, his ass or any-
thing that was his, admitted ignorance.
“I am completely baffled,” she sighed.
“Those two —James and Faith —appeared
all last summer to be irrevocably mated.
They were wildly in love.”
“Yes. They seemed to float about to-
gether in a world that had no other in-
habitants.”
A MRS. BEATTY fluttered out to join
the group.
“He has given her his polo stud —three
splendid ponies!” she announced, her
sense of drama making the use of names
unnecessary. “She asked for them! I
heard her with my own ears.”
Certainly Mrs. Beatty as a bringer of
news gained her desired sensation.
“Asked for his polo ponies!”
“Precisely! Yesterday afternoon! She
was holding his sweater and sticks and,
after the match, when he went up to her
to claim them, she simply laid her hand
on his wrist and said, ‘Dodo.’ ”
“She calls him Dodo! Like the
daughters of the horse-leech who cry
‘Give! Give!’ How appropriate!” The
sarcasm was Mrs. Breakspear’s.
“ ‘Dodo! You told me you would give
me anything I asked for.’ That’s what
she said! And he answered, ‘Yes —any-
thing ! ’ and he looked at her in that mazed
way he has, his green eyes absolutely
glazed over with adoration —poor boy!
And Faith then said, ‘Well, I would like
to own your polo ponies. I will pay for
their keep and for their grooms and
grass-cutters, and you may play them as
you choose —it will be a sort of partner-
ship.’ ”
“What a girl!”
Mrs. Breakspear
was piqued to have
her thunder stolen.
“Though I have a
great respect for
your veracity,
dear”-
“The respect of
the snake for the
adder,” Miss Bell-
trees interposed,
smiling.
“even Faith,
predatory as she ap-
pears to be, could
hardly have been so
outrageously greedy,
so lacking in finesse.”
In the clear
astringent sunshine,
while the river
rippled on its thou-
sand - mile journey
to the sea, while the
snowy ranges glittered against a sky dyed
the palest of blues, the four women’s
high-pitched, self-confident voices con-
tinued to set going vibrations which
(science infers) would make their way to
Aldebaran and beyond.
T" HE shikara, however, went no further
J than the Nishat Bagh.
There, on the green turf under the
lilacs on the seventh terrace, the chenars
shielding them from the merest of winds,
the lovers lay side by side, and Alex
realised afresh an untutored wooer’s
difficulties.
He had been without sisters. His
brother’s all-absorbing companionship
had satisfied his childhood. His man-
hood (it might be said) had been framed
by puritanical parents who had inculcated
in their son an anchorite’s restraint in
venturing into the realms of Eros.
He fully realised that, to be won, a
woman must be wooed. Yet his
ignorance of what gestures would, in this
respect, be acceptable, of what advances,
shyly offered, would be, for his purposes,
profitable, was profound. To induce
Faith to suffer his touch! That, plainly,
was his problem! She would allow him
to come so close! Yet, respecting his
amatory designs, she remained such miles
away!
He had reached that stage of his in-
fatuation —a year-long flame —in which
only her nearness, or, were she absent, the
thought of her, kept him, as he imagined,
alive. All that he had formerly cared
about, his parents, his brother, his
regiment, sport, his few male friends, had
ceased to exist for him. Absent from the
woman he loved,, he would sit for hours
on end, entranced, not consciously think-
ing of the wayward girl, but obsessed by
visions of her, by the rapturous turn of
her fair head, the enthralling appeal of
her unyielding and reluctant hand, the
sound of her importunate voice. He
could not sleep. He was, indeed, quite
unaware of the need for such oblivion in
a world in which Faith moved so
miraculously, so desirably.
When, last summer, he had made her
acquaintance, she had been, he believed,
his brother’s fiancee; an untouchable.
The easy intercourse into which they had
then drifted had been for him his first
introduction to the natural, as opposed to
the social, charms of a pretty woman. It
had been an overture to love played on
emotions, the searing and dramatic
possibilities of which he, in his innocence,
had not gauged. He had then had no
notion of the powers of love. Indeed, no
sensible man, aware of the danger,
remembering such nights and days eaten
with desire, would have exposed himself
to so much suffering as he now endured.
YET again he watched the adored face
looking down at him.
Faith now sat, her blue eyes blank in
a white face, her fair hair bathed in the
lilac lights of an abundant blossoming,
and, reclining by her side in the attitude
of Michelangelo’s “Adam,” he, like his
first father, extended a finger inviting her
caress, his eyes entreating her. But unlike
the God in the painting she extended no
assuaging, no life-giving hand.
“You are the only living thing in this
valley that refuses to flower,” he ex-
claimed. “Our only lasting relationships
are made by our bodies! The stuff of life
is entirely physical. Yes. In spite of the
poet’s insistence on the importance of our
dreams! Marry me! I adore you. I
will never change.”
Faith betrayed a mysterious endurance
of a sorrow that drained her face of color.
He sat up, locking his knees with
trembling hands.
“You are probably the first woman
who has ever said ‘No’ to her lover in
this garden,” he persisted. “Look at all
this beauty. If I can’t move you, surely
some quality in your nature must respond
to the power of this spring day?”
The waters ran down the carved
viaducts of the fountains that adorned the
pleasure-grounds laid out by Jehangir
centuries earlier.' They made in their
transit that faint, Aiolian music the
marble runnels had been designed to
create ; each jet had been keyed to play
an air, to chime a note.
The spurting, milky rockets thrown up
by the stone lotus-buds sang their
anciently dictated love-songs, dropping
down seven terraces to murmur their last
utterances into the bosom of the Dal
Lake, which, below the lilacs, the lawns,
the trees, stretched, reflecting all heaven,
right across the valley to a snow-locked
horizon.
The birds twittered in the chenars.
Stocks, flowering in the urns that
punctuated each descending stair and
bordered the square reservoirs into which
the fountains played, augmented the
lilacs’ fragrance.
“Look! Even this smallest <?f sundew
is alert. How can you be so insensitive
to the general invitation to the dance?”
Though she listened, though she
watched him, Faith remained mute.
ALEX was certainly good-looking.
He was a fair man with a skin that
neither tanned nor freckled, and his hair
(i Continued on page 23.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3649
January 18, 1950
fo
c
111
tel
111
m
ml
FINALE.
“After nearly five years of Socialism, the U.K. election's will be held on February 23.”
"And now, ladies and gentlemen, I will proceed to place my head right in the animal’s mouth."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney!
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
BRITAIN AT THE POLLS.
The Attlee Government has decided to
hold the British elections on February 23.
The Government was the first U.K. Labor
Administration which had been able to
apply what it calls its “principles”
freely. Labor had never before
been in office with ' a complete
majority. Its first Ministry in 1924
had lasted only a few months and
was buried wrapped up in the Zinoviev
letter. Its second, in 1929, was able to
live precariously for. two years, after
which it became the tail of a coalition
Government in which the Conservative
party provided the Prime Ministership
for 10 out of 14 years, creating a condi-
tion of which the party-minded British
people became heartily tired.
Then it assumed office for the first time
with a majority (of 186) in the House,
which enabled it to stand on its own
feet. It did this thanks to the first-past-
the-post voting and a multiplicity of
parties which drained votes to the tune
of 4,200,000, in the main from the Con-
servatives, with the support of only
11,980,000 out of the 25,000,000-odd who
voted. The poll averaged only a little
over 70 per cent. —less than 70 per cent,
in Scotland and Northern Ireland.
If the electors wanted something in
line with the policies of Moscow they
certainly were not disappointed. The
Government has socialised all that it has
had time to socialise, and has made its
plans for getting the rest into the posses-
sion of its new teeming and inept
bureaucracy. It put into operation with
the utmost haste measures based on Mos-
cow’s conviction that all colonies and
Dominions of Britain were imperialist
haunts, their peoples held down by terror
imposed by the British warmongers and
slave-owners. Section after section of the
Empire was handed over to the first set
of agitators who happened to ask for it.
At a time when Britain was emerging
from the throes of the most exhausting
and widespread war in which it had
been engaged for nearly a century and a
half the Government chose to plunge into
a series of huge and ill-calculated Socialist
experiments which have come near to
bringing the country to ruin. It has ham-
strung defence.
It was, of course, inevitable during the
reconstructional period after the war
that the United States, which had been
untouched by invasion and had not borne
the overall burden as a focal point of the
battle as had the British and the Russians
and French, should be the temporary
financial centre of the world ; but it was
not inevitable that it should be able to
deal with Britain much as a receiver
deals with a bankrupt.
Instead of cutting its coat to meet its
financial position, the Attlee Government
was more concerned to bribe its fol-
lowers with wages which the country
could not afford and to placate the half-
savage associates of U.N.O. along
Socialist lines than to carry out a prudent
plan of reconstruction and stabilisation
of private enterprise which would have
done much to put a different complexion
on the currency situation.
The British people go to the polls for
the first time in history after having had
a sound sampling of Socialism in practice
by a party which, on total votes cast, cer-
tainly did not have a mandate to intro-
duce it. They go with a new Par-
liamentary Representation Act, intro-
duced in January, 1948.
While oozing verbal democracy the
Parliament, in the new Act, has main-
tained the first-past-the-post principle,
under which the votes of members of the
two great parties, Conservative and
Socialist, obviously have a different and
higher value than the votes of inde-
pendents and others —all electorates are
now on a one-member basis.
Indeed, it abolished the only constitu-
encies in which proportional representa-
tion prevailed (single transferable vote),
those of the universities, along with the
ancient constituency of the City of
London, which has had separate represen-
tation in the House for 600 years and
which is now brigaded with Westminster.
With a steadily-rising population it re-
duced the House, under its new Act, from
640 members to 608, the reductions being
apparently aimed mainly at party ad-
vantage, and then quite flagrantly in-
creased the numbers again to 625 by the
division of industrial electorates in a
manner which seemed designed to present
Labor with 17 seats. And while it made
a great parade of democratic purpose in
abolishing plural voting, which allowed
residents in one electorate to hold a
second vote under certain circumstances
in another by virtue of occupying busi-
ness premises there, this great “reform”
affected only about 64,000 plural voters.
If Labor-Socialism wins again at the
forthcoming election it will be a disaster
not only for the United Kingdom but for
the whole of the British Commonwealth
and for the civilised world. The world
needs a morally and financially strong
United Kingdom as a stabilising factor
for peace and civilisation. The British
Dominions of Canada, Australia and New
Zealand in particular need it as a rally-
ing-centre. There can be no strength or
cohesion in the British Commonwealth
while there is an utter divergence of
political objective among partner nations,
such as is represented under Labor’s
policy of socialisation of possessions and
resources and Dominion Liberalism’s
adherence to the sober and well-tried
principles of free enterprise.
Australia, afdjacent to Hong Kong and
Malaya, not to mention the unstable
Indian nations which have arisen in the
last five years, has as big a stake in the
elections as Britons themselves, and will
wait eagerly for the result. If the recent
municipal polls held throughout the
country are any guide it should scarcely
be in doubt. These took place in May
before the real drift against Labor in-
duced by the feebleness of the defence
policy in the East and the Cripps financial
plans had really made themselves felt.
The Conservatives estimated that in
these elections —which their chairman.
Lord Woolton, described as “a general
election in miniature on a national scale,”
the register used being common to the
national Parliament and to the munici-
palities, though the distribution of “con-
stituencies” was, of course, widely
different —the net gain in seats to the Con-
servatives was 830, together with 68
Independent gains where seats had been
fought with Conservative support. The
best Socialism’s spokesman could say was
that his party was “still in possession of
two-thirds of its post-war local-govern-
ment gains,” and that Labor could “look
forward to 1950 with confidence.”
It is.obviously not looking forward with
nearly so much confidence now. While
it has continued to win by-elections in
seats which are naturally Labor, there has
been a marked drift against the Govern-
ment in recent votes. And the abandon-
ment of the trade-union conference
which was scheduled to open early in
February was certainly not an evidence
of confidence. It looked as if the Gov-
ernment was more frightened of that con-
ference and what it might commit it to
than it was of an election which it did
not need to hold until well into the year.
The Red-tape Worm.
“There must be an adequate force of
Government servants,” said Mr. Menzies
in his policy-speech, “and it should be
well-organised, highly-trained, competent
and well-paid.” That the Commonwealth
public service today does not measure up
to these standards, in his view, seems
clear. He added;
We propose to reorganise the depart-
ments, some of which have grown up rather
like Topsy; to rationalise their work; to
cut out overlapping; to reduce red-tape;
to simplify procedures. There are many
thousands of true civil servants who would
welcome such a move, which would define
their functions, give some coherence to
their future, and avoid mushroom growths
which create an unnecessary hostility in the
general public mind and sometimes actually
hinder productive capacity.
One of the first decisions of the new
Ministry was to appoint a committee of
four senior Ministers assisted by a de-
partmental committee of four leading
public servants to make “an overall review
of the Commonwealth Public Service,
examine the functions and structure of
departments and propose arrangements
to bring about economies and increase
efficiency.”
There can hardly be any party differ-
ences about the need for a thorough over-
haul. It is a job which the late Socialist
Government publicly recognised as de-
manding attention, and then funked.
While the late Chifley Cabinet was yet
in its salad days, and before its decay had
set in under the blight of socialisation,
Mr. Chifley announced that “an efficiency
expert would be sought who would re-
organise the Commonwealth Civil
Service.” But after some weeks the plan
was thrown overboard. It was officially
explained that “there were no applicants
who were deemed qualified for the post,”
and if Ministers themselves had any
ghost of an idea of what wanted doing,
they were much more interested in going
full belt for “Socialisation in three years.”
That objective, of course, meant enrolling
new departmental employees by tens of
thousands in short time. Every “Labor”
Minister could be relied on to nominate
recruits. The horde of “temporary”
hands throughout the service grew to
monstrous proportions as new depart-
ments, branches, liaison-officers, com-
mittees, boards, controls, regulations and
the corps of planners fo r r industries to be
nationalised spread their growth like upas-
trees over the land* The problem, already
serious in 1946, is clamant for remedy ho,
1950.
The number of Government employees
—the only description which fits a great
proportion of them—is by now about four
times the enrolment of 1939. The vast
majority are listed as “temporary” ; so
“temporary” are they that, when some
ephemeral bureaucratic activity finds
itself cut short by circumstances beyond
political control (as happened with petrol-
rationing), those engaged in it are
“absorbed” (the favorite word) in other
departments. They are never sacked
however superfluous and however
starved for labor may be the industrial
market “outside.” In 1937 the Lyons
Government was maintaining nine
administrative departments ; today there
are 19 of them, many of them with
branches and directors in each State, and
the payroll is about eight times the size.
The Post Office alone employs more
people than the whole pre-war Civil Ser-
vice. The Civil Aviation Department is a
monster of outrageous proportions. It
supports —“supports” is right:
A Director-General, two assistant
D.-Gs., separate Directors of Air Naviga-
tion and Safety, Airways, Air Transport
and External Relations, Airports, finance
and personnel; 13 superintendents with a
host of assistants to them, a Chief
Engineer, a Technical Adviser overseas —
in all, some 200 senior officials.
The Department of Labor and National
Service has another lavish staff:
A permanent secretary, two under-sec-
retaries, a chief industrial officer, five area
officers, a Director of Industrial Welfare,
a Director of Industrial Training, six
deputy directors, eight assistant directors,
three controllers and two assistant con-
trollers, a chief research officer, five
chief employment officers, 103 district
employment officers, a personnel officer,
four investigating officers, 19 psychologists,
as well as architects, engineers, dietitians,
librarians, survey officers.
The Transport Department is another
growth whose human catalogue would be
a weariness to recite.
Since there are listed “outside,” accord-
ing to the Chifley Government’s own
statistics, about 120,000 more jobs than
men to fill them, now is the time to cut
out some of the deadwood. The
enormous extension of Government over-
seering in the industry and daily life of
the community makes reform and re-
organisation imperative. Even in Britain,
where for many years the Organisation
and Methods branch of the Treasury has
under special authority done its best in
effecting running reforms, the public-
service routine is under sharper challenge
than ever before. The “Times” declared
more than two years ago that “the in-
fusion of traditional civil-service attitudes
into the regulation or operation of indus-
trial and commercial activities threatens
to be a menace to economic recovery,”
and that threat has recently been making
itself good. In one of its latest reports
the standing House of Commons Select
Committee on this subject warned the
Attlee Ministry:
It is essential that the Government should
put its administration in order. Insufficient
thought has been given to adapting the
machinery of government to its new tasks
and administration is strained to breaking-
point. New and great responsibilities have
been placed upon it, particularly in regard
to nationalised industries
There should be a review at the highest
level. As instances of wasteful staff pro-
cess, in one department 20 typists were
dispensed with by the introduction of a
photostat machine, and in another 300 sur-
plus staff were released for outside employ-
ment by “a replanning of the uses of
accommodation.”
And when at Washington a few months
ago Chancellor Cripps was told that, as
the price of dollar concessions, he must
reduce his administrative overhead, the
Government-run airways corporation,
8.0.A.C., which had been losing tax-
payers’ money at the rate of £6 million
a year, dismissed in one hit one-eighth of
the administrative staff, including 14
senior officials at salaries ranging up to
£3500 a year. Even then it was left with
20,000 employees to run 100 planes.
The trouble both here and in Britain—
a trouble magnified by “Labor’s”
socialisation experiments—is not only
overstaffing as a menacing expense in
itself, but also the inefficiency of the
service as exhibited by:
Obsolete departmental methods which, if
reorganised, should admit of economy in
staffing;
The character of administration —that is,
whether departments make unnecessary
work for themselves and other depart-,
ments;
Lack of overall planning—that is,
whether much detailed supervision should
not be removed from Ministerial attention
altogether.
After nationalisation had got into its
stride in Britain, it was revealed, as re-
ported in the “Times,” that under the
spate of unintelligible or contradictory
regulations the Board of Trade alone was
receiving 40,000 letters a day from
exasperated subjects of its controls.
The Fabian Society in Britain, bureau-
cratic Socialism’s spiritual home, has re-
ported that the civil service is so inexperi-
enced for its new duties that, without
reform, “there may soon be only
two choices—to agree to less Government
activity, or to watch the economic life of
the country gradually slowing down."
Judging from its snowball growth this is
equally true of the Commonwealth Civil
Service. Before the revelations of the
Lynskey Tribunal (Stanley case) had pro-
duced its detonations throughout the
British service, Bertrand Russell —and no
Socialist dare impugn him as an authority
—delivered six broadcasts on the evils as
he saw them. Urging reforms without
delay, he declared that “those with initia-
tive are perpetually controlled by a civil
service which has only a veto and is per-
petually prone to prohibitions.”
Under such a system the energetic are
reduced to despair... .The tendencies
towards centralisation may be too strong
to be resisted until they have led to disaster.
The whole system must then -break down,
with all the inevitable results of anarchy
and poverty.
The Chifley Government’s socialisa-
tion programme ignored not only its lack
of any public mandate, but also the utter
inefficiency of the Commonwealth Public
Service for.the tasks proposed to be laid
upon it. The need for overhaul and re-
organisation is at the very heart of the
problem of halting the soaring national
expenditure.
The Rot in Apples.
Whenever they hear it said that the
apple first brought trouble upon the
world because Eve pinched one from the
Forbidden Tree, Australian housewives
don’t doubt that if Eve were alive today
she’d do it again ; apples being* near the
price of diamonds in this land of oppor-
tunity.
When we were very young apples
hung over almost every fence, and
we nicked them and determinedly
ate them down in the old quarry
and then went home and almost died
from colic, stoutly denying that we’d
“et” anything. Today pur own offspring
look at an apple suspiciously, seldom
having seen one before and hearing
Mother tell Dad that she doesn’t know
what she’s going to do for fruit for the
children at these “awful prices.” There
is an Apple and Pear Board somewhere
about, but all it seems to do is announce
another increase in price and find excuses
for allegations that apples rot tinder the
trees in orchards all over the continent.
However, let us not despair. The great
minds of the Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organisation
have not neglected the pippin’s place in
our lives, and in a work entitled “The
Non-parasitic Disorders of Apple Fruits
in Australia” says that apples suffer from
senility (so do we, alas!), defective nutri-
tion (a medical term for children who
don’t get enough apples) and other “de-
fects,” The trouble is that each of these
“defects” is known by several different
names, and the C.5.1.R.0. says this is a
very bad thing. So it proposes to use
standard names for each “defect.”
The housewife frequently meets these
“senile” apples at anything from 3d. to
6d, each, and while she muses as to
whether or not they were picked the year
Singapore fell or just after the 1946 elec-
tion she invents several different names
for those from whom she buys them. If
she cares to read this C.5.1.R.0. work
she will discover that a lot of very funny
things happen to apples, why they hap-
pen and what happens to the apple when
they happen.
But nowhere in the 80-odd pages will
she find what happens to the apple be-
tween the orchard and herself —presum-
ing she’s lucky enough to get one to
make it cost so much, nob why two ot
every six she buys are “senile,” internally
rotted or sour, or all three, nor why m
a country which produces more than
3000 million apples a year—which is
more than “an apple a day” for each or
its 8,000,000 inhabitants—good and rea-
sonably-priced apples are scarcer tha
hen’s teeth. f
She could, perhaps, get some sort or
an answer from the Apple and 1
Board, which is supposed to know the
things, but few housewives have time
chase and capture A. and P.B. officials.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Revaluation.
Last September Mr. Chifley and the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank
determined —in a taxi, it is said —a de-
valuation of the currency against the
dollar to a degree which left unaltered the
exchange rate of the Australian pound
against sterling. Whether or not the
British Treasury’s devaluation of sterling
was too severe a drop—it was decidedly
more severe than was expected by British
industries —the Canberra decision cer-
tainly undervalued the Australian pound
in the international money market.
The Australian pound was officially
worth $3.20 last August. It is now worth
$2.24. If we come to parity with sterling
it will be worth $2.80.
Revaluation before long is regarded as
inevitable by Australian economists and
in business circles. The outstanding influ-
ence in the Menzies Government against
any such correction is that of the Country
narty. Mr. Chifley’s attitude suggests that
he acted in September on political rather
than economic grounds. He wanted to
attract the rural vote, and, having failed,
he has since inquired, not without accents
of partisan malice, whether Mr. Fadden
will allow his Liberal allies to interfere
with a decision which is apparently satis-
factory to some country interests —though
by no means to all —but which others
believe to be a mistake.
During the elections Mr. Fadden took
it upon himself, speaking for his party
alone, to declare against revaluation by a
Liberal-Country Ministry to appreciate
the pound against sterling. Since then
neither he nor Mr. Menzies has said
another word about it; but the sleeping
dog—-if it is sleeping— cannot be allowed
to lie indefinitely. The Government’s
commitment to counter the inflated and
rapidly rising costs of living by all pos-
sible means is regarded by the electors as
vital, and may assert itself in Cabinet as
vastly more important than the matter of
the Country party’s sentiments —and,
after all, these have not yet been revealed
as unanimous even there —about the
sanctity of the exchange “premium” of
25 per cent.
Putting it baldly, any adamant C.P.
stand on the point would mean that the
farmer preferred inflated export receipts
to be maintained even at the expense of
inflated costs of everything he must buy,
either imported or locally produced in
competition with imports. This attitude
of mind is not essentially different from
that of the average wage-earner, to whom
rising wages are vastly more important
than their falling value. While this out-
look persists even a Ministry of archangels
could not succeed in checking inflation
and “putting the value back into the
pound.” If Liberal Ministers cannot in-
fluence their own Country-party col-
leagues committed quite as deeply as
they to remedial courses—in this matter,
what prospect is there of persuading the
trade-unions to co-operation in the
general effort?
(• As the London “Spectator” comments
on a problem, very much the same, in
Britain—“ Government by hope is not
enough.” The truth is that this evil of
inflation is no longer a menace in the
offing which, in the Chifley phrase, the
national economy must be geared to meet,
but a present and damaging emergency.
Governments elected to combat it effec-
tually must do things which will make
them “unpopular” in some quarters—
indeed, perhaps, in all quarters—but that
is hardly avoidable. If as between “de-
flation” or “disinflation” there is
more of sugar-coating for the pill in one
term than another, by all means make the
pill as palatable as possible. But policies
for “restoring values,” “reducing costs,”
j “increasing unitary production” are all
mere Govemment-by-hope if it is pre-
tended that the objective can be gained
without a realistic outlook and hard work
on all sides.
Everybody concerned knows this to be
true. What is no less obvious is that the
community waits on leadership, and
leadership (so-called) which consists only
of lofty appeal without example—the
Chifley Government repeatedly offered
that wordy stuff —is rated as poorly as it
deserves.
That is why a public admission now by
the Country-party leader, having become
Federal Treasurer in the meantime, that
his election statement on the exchange-
rate was made upon insufficient considera-
tion, would be of immense value to the
! Government and to its prospects of ful-
J filling its pledges to “put the value back
into the pound.” The parties now in
power vied with each other while in
Opposition in demanding that the Gov-
ernment should meet it with unflinching
resolution and without forethought for
any sectional interest in the performance.
That is the spirit in which they have now
been called to take the lead.
If something like this is not the burden
of what Mr. Menzies is trying to impress
upon Mr. Fadden, then it ought to be.
Financing the States.
One of the first things Prime Minister
Menzies said after election was that his
Government would early call the Premiers
together to see what could be done about
a revision of financial aid to the States
under uniform taxation. In his last
Budget speech as Prime Minister, Mr.
Chifley said annual payments to the
States had jumped from £4B million to
£79 million and his Budget estimated the
1949-50 payments at £lOl million, made
up like this;
£ million.
Tax reimbursements 62.5
Strike emergency grant .. .. 8.0
Special grants 11,0
Aid roads and works .. .. 9.0
Prices control 0.8
Interest and sinking-fund payments
under financial agreement .. 9.6
W.A. waterworks 0.4
Total 101.3
The strike “emergency grant” was an
extra, paid before the elections to square-
off the Premiers who blamed Canberra
for their strike losses, and all the others,
except payments to interest and sinking
fund under the Financial Agreement,
were very much higher than for 1948-49,
the total being over £22,5 million more.
The new Government may alter the
general plan of this finance ; it is expected
to pay some attention to anomalies like
the one whereby one State got consider-
ably more than another whose taxpayers
actually paid more.
To both Victoria and Queensland,
N. S. Wales has always seemed to be out-
rageously favored by reimbursements
from uniform taxation, which was intro-
duced by a Federal “Labor” Government
whose voting strength was in N. S. Wales.
All the Liberal States have frequently
hinted that the “Labor” States benefited
inordinately from a Federal “Labor”
Government.
However that may be, from far-away
West Australia comes a report that the
State will need £7,000,000 in grants this
year “to meet its indispensable require-
ments.” Mr. Chifley’s estimate was for
£5,168,000, Seeing that up to three years
ago the special grants to the three smaller
States never totalled £3,000,000 a year, it
sharply and somewhat startlingly
emphasises the enormous rise in costs that
has occurred and is still going on. W.A.
is asking for more than five times what
it got in 1945-46, and the others are in
the same financial boat. W.A., like S.A.,
Queensland and Tasmania, is primarily an
agricultural State, and in these times of
high prices for land products agricultural
States contribute heavily in taxes per
head.
How long this can go on is a problem
for the Menzies Government to consider.
Under the national financial set-up Can-
berra is responsible for the solvency of
the States, and the growth in their
demands has a significance which the
national Treasury can’t ignore. So far the
Grants Commission has been more or less
pliable in acceding to demands, but the
question now looming up is whether the
enormous sums involved can any longer
be handled by the commission and why
the finance granted has increased, rather
than lessened, the States’ dependence on
Federal aid.
Threat to Queensland.
Queenslanders, who threw out Federal
Labor candidates with such unbounded
enthusiasm last month, have now been
told what they can expect by Comrade
T. M. Millar, Communist boss of the
Queensland Colliery Employees’ Union,
a miners’ organisation which once had a
soul to call its own, but has been merely
a tool of the Communist-run N.S.W.
Miners’ Federation ever since Comrade
Millar got his paws on it.
Comrade Millar grimly told Queens-
landers through their Press that his crowd
intends “to make many demands on the
employers this year,” and that “if there
is any disruption in the industry it will
be caused by employers not granting our
requests.” Then, carried away, he be-
came somewhat incautious. “We will be
going for extra amenities and for certain
award points.”
Whereupon an inquisitive reporter
asked him what the award points were.
He balked, shied, and vaguely replied
that it was “too early to make a state-
ment on award points.” Anyone familiar
with Communist technique knows that if
the Communist programme to halt pro-
duction takes in Queensland coalmines,
finding the “award points” will be no
trouble, however silly or cheeky they
may be.
This Comrade is probably whistling in
the dark to keep his spirits up. And par-
ticularly dark the Queensland scene must
be just now for Corns. A main plank
in the election policy of the Menzies Gov-
ernment was the slapping-down of the
Red conspirators, and Queenslanders
responded to it by putting in 15 Menzies
men against three for Chifley. More than
once during the Chifley regime Comrade
Millar was able to put it over the Queens-
land “Labor” Government by getting
Canberra’s ear. About all he’ll get from
Canberra now is the boot.
Landing Migrants.
“Dee”: I travelled to Brisbane with an
intelligent young British ex-officer who
had migrated to Australia. He had plenty
to say for the country he had come to,
and nothing to say against the one he had
left. But he did have one point of
criticism which merits consideration by
the new Minister for Immigration. He
suggested it was quite wrong to disembark
large numbers of British migrants in
Sydney, or, for that matter, in Melbourne
or the other capital cities. His reasoning
was that the vast majority of migrating
English folk had just come from large
cities, which are much the same the world
over—paved streets, tall buildings, shops,
much traffic; and they had migrated to
Australia expecting to find a country
quite different from what they had left.
Instead they found themselves in busy
streets and closed-in suburbs extraordi-
narily like those they had left.
The first reaction often was disappoint-
ment or disillusionment. This particular
chap had broken free of Sydney quickly;
(Continued on next page.)
THE PETROL-DIVINER.


mi
mM
ill
jSSSSS :
m
jgi
They satisfy
in every way •..
CRAVGNA'
nmds specially to
~r
r
V
(5659 B-F
CARRERAS LIMITED —— OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR
in less than a year had seen something
of N. S. Wales from Bega to Byron Bay ;
thus he already had an appreciation of
the freshness and wideness of the Aus-
tralian countryside harmonising with all
his preconceptions. It was, indeed, to him
a rich new land of opportunity—but he
had to leave Sydney to find it.
His idea was that migrants, no matter
where they were eventually to live, should
be disembarked at places like Byron Bay
or Rockhampton or Albany so that the
first impression of their new land would
coincide with what they believed it to be
like, after which all their thinking about
Australia would be colored by the ripe
fulfilment of the dream which lay behind
their long voyage. After all—he pointed
out —Englishmen and women who ven-
tured across the sea in 1949 did so in
the same spirit as their ancestors in 1849,
seeking new lands to conquer, not new
queues to line-up in.
POLITICAL POINTS
The point that nobody should overlook
in this petrol furore is that the Chifley.
Government wasn’t anxious to get petrol
because, as a Socialist Government, it
wanted to keep control over a vital com-
modity. The Menzies Government means
to get it —it can now be said that
petrol-rationing is practically over —and
it means to abolish as many controls as
possible as quickly as possible.
According to Melbourne “Argus”
“Britain’s decision to recognise the new
Chinese People’s Republic formed by the
Communists is one more example of that
mellow diplomacy and traditional wisdoin
that is rooted deep in centuries of experi-
ence.” Insertion of “expediency” after
the 18th word would have saved all that
space and put the thing clearly.
An indignant Victorian has written to
Melbourne “Herald” saying that when his
wife applied for a passport to travel with
him to England she had to fill in a lot
of forms ; so did he. They had to produce
birth- and wedding-certificates, and a
witness to confirm their marital state.
Then from the Social Service Depart-
ment came a long form asking why they
were going abroad, what it had to do with
business, full name and address of the
indignant one’s employers, how much he
paid a week for the maintenance of each
of his children and where the children
would live while the couple were away.
Well, that’s what most of us voted against
on December 10 last.
In Britain the Attlees show no signs
of letting up on socialisation. Recently
Morgan Phillips, secretary of the Labor
party, told a rally of supporters that it
was essential to the success of the Gov-
ernment’s “attack on the cost of living”
that sugar, cold-storage and meat distri-
bution “should be nationalised.” If that
means State butcher-shops Attlee had
better send some of his brains-trusters
out to Brisbane for first-hand informa-
tion. Queensland’s State butcher-shops
cost the taxpayers £36,000; losses on
other Government ventures were;
Produce agency, £20,000; fisheries,
£64,000 ; canneries, £112,000. Of course,
figures like this would be chicken-feed to
Cripps and Co. Come to that, they were
chicken-feed to Queensland “Labor” com-
pared with the losses on State cattle-
stations —close on £1,800,000.
There could be elections in every State
this year and there must be in at least
four of them —New South Wales, Queens-
land, South Australia and West Australia.
In Victoria the statutory term of Holl-
way’s minority Government ends in
November; Cosgrove’s has three more
years to run in Tasmania, but could be
thrown out at any moment by a change
of heart in the two Independents it relies
upon.
There seems to be a likelihood that
American capital will be forthcoming for
the development of Blair Athol coalfield
in Queensland. Two Australian com-
panies, Blair Athol Coal and Timber and
B.A. Open Cut Collieries, are at present
working the field on a limited scale. The
projected plan, which would need the co-
operation of jthe two concerns, envisages
an annual output of 3,500,000 tons.
Queenslanders hope something comes of
it all; but they’ll believe it when they see
it; their hopes have been blasted so often
oyer Blair Athol,
News from the North:
In 1943 the reigning Labor Prime Minister,
John Curtin, announced that it was “incredible”
that “any decent man” would contest the
Northern Territory Federal seat against the
prisoner-of-war member, A. M. Blain. In 1949
the “Labor” party not only endorsed one of
the “incredibles,” one Nelson —in 1943 a man
of military age—but its Federal executive passed
a special resolution to the effect that the N.T.
should be organised to beat Blain, who had been
the subject of one of the wickedest libels ever
uttered in Parliament by a “Labor” man, after
he had mortally offended Dr, Evatt by asking
awkward questions in the House. The result
was a massed “Labor” campaign in the Territory,
some sections of it apparently run by a leading
civil servant. And, after 15 years, Blain was
beaten by fewer than 300 preference votes by
“Incredible” Nelson, son of a former member.
Ever since 1945 all sorts of Govern-
ment chaps have been investigating all
sorts of things about the Burdekin Dam
scheme in Queensland, but there is no
sign of any dam yet, and every time
Premier Hanlon is asked about it he re-
plies that all sorts of Government chaps
are investigating all sorts of things.
While the world debated whether the
United States should recognise Com-
munist China diplomatically, Communist
China seemed to settle the matter by
seizing the Peking United States Consulate
and much of the property in it. There-
upon Uncle Sam withdrew his consulates,
which had been operating tentatively,
from China altogether.
Charles McCann, South Australian
Agent-General in London, blew into
Adelaide last week and told the South
Australians that almost all the European
countries except Britain and Russia’s
satellites had abolished food-rationing.
Russia is Communist, and the British
Socialist Government buys all the U.K.
food in bulk. The Britons are expected
to work this out for themselves by
February 23, when the Attlees come up
for judgment at the ballot-box.
Mcßride, the Menzies Minister for
the Interior, told Adelaideans that as soon
as the dollar position improved he meant
to replace steam locos on the trans-
Australian line with diesel-electric ones.
He had other plans for new trains, air-
conditioning and so forth. All good as
far as it goes. But don’t let all our plans
depend on dollar contingencies, etc.
Some penetrating soul in Queensland,
studying the 1947 census for that State,
has discovered that there are “more
graziers to the acre in Brisbane” than the
rest of the State. Well, by the time the
seasons, the taxation people and the
dingoes have had their will of them, the
poor coves have to go somewhere.
Cripps, preaching in St. Paul’s (Lon-
don), and the first layman to do so at an
ordinary service, took as his theme “Un-
conscious materialism, rising in a cres-
cendo of power, must crash in self-
destruction.” So the man really does
know what Socialism is and what end it
must reach.
S. P. Lewis, president of N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation, bobbed up at a
teachers’-conference in Hobart to say
that adult education in N.S.W. was
dominated by “vested interests.” This is
another way of saying that Communists
aren’t allowed to run the adult educa-
tion show. Lewis is a Communist.
The Netherlands Information Bureau
announces that the Dutch Government
doesn’t recognise or approve the Captain
Westerling who claims to have a private
army of 20,000 in the N.E.1., and is
alleged to be making threats to the new
Republic. Perhaps this Westerling is on
that “joint frontier with Australia” the
Indonesians are talking about.
The British Iron and Steel Federation
was able to say that the industry last year
achieved “by far the highest annual out-
put ever reached,” It amounted to oyer
151 million tons. How lucky the British
were that this particular industry escaped
socialisation last year!
That old, moth-eaten Communist reso-
lution urging the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to grant the States £lOO million
for education came up again at the
Hobart teachers’ conference and was
carried for the umpteenth time. When
the teachers get the Commo taint off their
deliberations and proposals they’ll get
public sympathy and support; until then
far too much of what they say will be
regarded with suspicion.
Twas announced the other day that
more than 120,000 people were still wait-
ing for telephones. They don’t know how
well off they are, for the longer they go
without the awful impost of a telephone-
bill the happier they’ll be. About the first
thing Postmaster-General Anthony should
concern himself with is the penalty people
have to pay for having a telephone in-
stalled.
“Dee”: Not the least of R. G.
Menzies’s gratifications at the outcome of
the elections must have been his break-
ing of the hoodoo which had overhung
Australian Prime Ministers for more than
30 years. In that period not one P.M.
had managed to make a comeback. In
the first 14 years of Federation two Prime
Ministers —Deakin and Fisher —were able
to return to office twice after having been
defeated either at elections or on the floor
of the House, but it has not been done
again until now. With all his
adroitness W.M.H. could not do it.
S. M, Bruce had several wistful
looks around after his defeat in
i’29, but could not regain the saddle. Ill-
health apart from any other considera-
tion kept Scullin out of it after his un-
happy two years, 1929-31; Lyons and
Curtin died in office. Page and Fadden,
as minority C.P.-leaders, could scarcely
expect to see the top rank twice; Forde
was an accident of the hour. Few Prime
Ministers in British Parliamentary history
have returned to office after a gap of
eight years, and the record now set by
Menzies is likely to stand for a long time.
The Menzies Government is looking
for the good oil.
Warning note from the usually opti-
mistic Australian Wheat Board :
The U.K. Ministry of Food has pur-
chased 100,000 tons of flour, and negotia-
tions for the sale of 19 million bushels of
wheat to India are practically complete.,
A proportion of flour is included in the
prospective Indian sale, but the percentage
is not as high as the board would have
wished.
Flour is becoming increasingly difficult
to sell for export, partly because of in-
creased milling capacity in wheat- and
flour-importing countries and partly
because of severe competition from U.S.
and Canada, To meet the competition
the board has revised its prices to the
limit possible, having regard to the world
price of wheat, but competitive advantages
available to U.S. and Canada through their
higher offals prices as compared with ours
accentuate our flour-marketing difficulties.
It is probable that State Treasurers,
who, for years, have had to go cap in
hand to Chifley for handouts, will ruefully
agree with the conclusion drawn by the
president of the Real Estate Institute
of N. S. Wales from a study of stamp-
duty figures. He found that in September
last the receipts for stamp-duty in New
South Wales were £139,619 against
£67,888 for September, 1948, and £71,361
for August, 1949. September, 1949, was
the first month during which real-estate
transactions were free of control. The
president said:
There was no exceptional rush of busi-
ness during September, buyers and sellers
being cautious. Therefore, the increased
receipts of stamp-duty must be because
the full consideration of sales was reflected
in contracts and agreements for the first
time in years. • The Government probably
lost about £3 million in stamp-duty in the
last 3i years, when the land-sales regula-
tions were widely disregarded.
The estimate is for one State only, but
the same conditions applied all over Aus-
tralia. The State Treasuries suffered
through Canberra’s passion for “controls.”
In London on January 23 wool-
industry representatives will meet to seek
a marketing scheme aimed to. stabilise
wool, and at the same time leave the open-
auction system free. On Friday the
Federal Government and growers’ repre-
sentatives reported general agreement on
the matter. The big thing is to avoid any
semblance of Government control of
wool, either here or abroad.
Herbert Morrison told the British the
other day they had six objectives to
achieve “independence and prosperity”
and named them thus: (1) More produc-
tion, (2) increased exports, (3) build up
financial reserves, (4) expand national
income, (5) control inflation and defla-
tion, (6) convince the world that the
British way of life is right and successful.
There is a seventh: Get rid of Socialism ;
but Morrison is agin that.
Britain’s new House of Commons,
now doubly in the public eye, is
nearing completion; the structure com-
bines the new and the old. Most of the
facing-stone comes from Rutland, Eng-
land’s smallest county, but some parts of
the building have been faced with Caen
stone to match walls which defied the
bombers. Woodwork is of English oak
from Shropshire. Stones from the old
House have been used to frame the Chur-
chill Arch, which gives entry to the
Chamber from the Members’ lobby.
Every Dominion and colony has contri-
buted to the new Commons chamber.
Australia’s gift is the Speaker’s chair, and
Queensland walnut has been used for the
flooring ; Canadian wood built the Table
of the House; Ceylon supplied the
Sergeant -at - Arms’ chair ; India and
Pakistan each an entrance-door; New
Zealand two dispatch-boxes ; Newfound-
land half a dozen chairs for the Prime
Minister’s conference-room. Like the old
House, the new one will seat only 437 of
the 625 members, but it makes more
provision for onlookers. There will be
seats for 15 officials, 161 reporters, 161
ordinary strangers and 165 special
strangers. Just why the House antici-
pates. a greater attendance of special than
of ordinary strangers and how the two
classes are differentiated are questions the
Parliamentary historian could probably
answer.


SINCE 1847
fyJionA*
■V MAKERS
■OF GOOD WINE
OR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Sydney to advise on the setting-up
of Courtauld’s Tomago (N.S.W.) factory,
Grenadier Guards Colonel Francis
Davies, son of Lieut-General Sir Francis
Davies, who commanded the British
Eighth Army Corps on Gallipoli.
Schooled at Eton, in Hitler’s war
from beginning to end, the colonel
joined his firm in 1930, and since
has been concerned mainly with
the company’s overseas operations in
Canada, France and Italy. An all-about,
43-year-old executive whose shoulders,
level mouth and jarrah-stump jaw are as
Guardsmanlike as the bearskin, he owns
to a link with Australians even older than
his father’s-—his wife, a great-grand-
daughter of Baron Brougham and Vaux,
England’s Lord Chancellor in 1830, is a
kinswoman through her mother (who was
a Sturt) of Australian explorer Charles
Sturt.
“E.V.”: Some time ago Donald
Mclntyre, of Strathmore, Toobeah, in the
Goondiwindi (Q.) country, read in a
Bulletin advertisement that Seppelts’
London office would deliver parcels of
wine to addresses in the U.K. Mclntyre
felt that poet Will Ogilvie would appreci-
ate something from Australia in that line,
and the arrangements were duly made.
Ogilvie, receiving the gift of half a dozen
of Australia’s best just in time for Christ-
mas, wondered if it was from some old
friend his memory had mislaid, and
added: “If yours is the gift of some un-
known friend who has perhaps read and
liked my bush doggerel, then I am all
the prouder, I assure you.” Ogilvie told
with pleasure of a recent surprise visit
from one Bill Fennel, hailing from South
Queensland or thereabouts and making
a tour of England and Scotlandl Bill,
said Ogilvie, though of a younger genera-
tion, knew all the Darling and Warrego
stations where the poet had wandered as
a youngster: “We had a great talk of
that country and he was like a breath
from the bush.”
British naval aviation is expertly
mothering its chicken in Australian
waters —for our Fourth Naval Member
and Commodore (Air) it has given us
Captain A. R. Redder, who, with service
in four aircraft-carriers, knows the game
backwards. A qualified naval air-
observer and meteorologist (supplement-
ing, of course, his primary function as an
executive officer), he learnt his carrier-
work in Courageous, Glorious and Eagle,
at the end of World War II commanded
the escort-carrier Khedive, and after it
captained cruiser Phoebe. As early as
1937 the Admiralty awarded him the
Carslake Prize for his treatise on the
development of naval aviation, and two
years before that the august board, not
oyergiven to specific praise, commended
him for the excellence of his meteoro-
logical logs and for his research into the
weather peculiarities of Gibraltar, Now
45, at present Deputy-Director of Plans
at the Admiralty, he relieves Commodore
Guy Willoughby, who, with our naval
aircraft flying from their own tarmac,
returns to the R.N.
“M. McC.” farewells an esteemed
colleague;
“He killed himself by refusing to let up,”
was the way in which a Queensland A.W.U.
veteran described the death in Sydney of Clarrie
Fallon, secretary and vice-president of the
Queensland branch of the A.W.U. Newspapers
gave Fallon’s age as 63, but his family said
it was 59. A native of Bundaberg, he took
his first A.W.U. ticket at 17, while a rural
worker. Graduating to the post of organiser,
in 1935 he was appointed secretary of the
Queensland branch in succession to Jim
Riordan, who had been elevated to the bench
of the Arbitration Court. Fallon was offered
a judgeship on the same Arbitration Court at
£5O a week last year, but he simply could not
disengage himself from his A.W.U. environ-
ment. Fallon also was appointed president of
the Queensland branch of the A.L.P., and
subsequently became Federal president, as well
as acting general secretary of the union, fol-
lowing the fatal illness of Ted Grayndler,
M. In characteristic fashion he butted into
N. politics as Federal president, had Jack
Lang removed, and again butted in a little
later to remove the Hughes-Evans team which
had succeeded the Lang regime. He arranged
for the present Governor-General to take over
the affairs of the N.S.W. Labor party, thus
paving the way for the Labor unity which
ultimately won the general elections in Federal
and State spheres. His friends and foes regarded
him as ruthless and relentless. He, himself,
preferred to believe he simply was being deter-
mined in maintaining a strong stand on any
particular line of action decided on. He had
no time for appeasement or compromise. A
thing was either right or it was wrong, and
once he decided it was right nothing within
reason was permitted to stand between him
and his objective. The name of Fallon in
Queensland had become a synonym for A.W.U.
and for energy and efficiency. His frail frame
will be missed at next week’s annual conven-
tion in Brisbane, but his drive, leadership and
combativeness will linger long in the memories
of his colleagues. He leaves a widow, two sons
and two daughters.
“Jemac”: Gone prospecting beyond
the Divide at Waverley (N.S.W.), 87-year-
old Ted Murphy, whom a providential
bout of scarlet-fever, caught at St.
Patrick’s College in Melbourne in 1875,
sent to Paika Station on the Murrum-
bidgee, thus starting its victim on a roving
road which led through most of Aus-
tralia’s opal-fields on to international
fame as opal-assayer and -buyer. Ted
bought lon Idriess’s first stone at Light-
ning Ridge, and that gouger reckoned in
his book there was no man alive who
knew more about the romantic lovelies
than Ted. At the height of White Cliffs’
and the Ridge’s production Murphy was
buying £50,000-worth of opal a year. He
reverenced the stones, and put his adven-
tures and knowledge ' gained gathering
them into a book. They Struck Opal,
which struck Australian bookstalls in
1948, and of which the Red Page thought;
“It is a kind of opal itself; in the rough ;
unpolished ; but warm with life, flashing
with adventure, and, simple though it is,
lit with the Australian spirit.” As was
Ted.
Picked a “sir” out of the New Year
Honors basket, Thomas Ernest Victor
Hurley, World War I medico with the 2nd
Field Ambulance, A.1.F., and War II
Director of R.A.A.F. Medical Services.
Under his vigorous administration in the
late show a highly efficient service was
maintained, based on specialist research
into all aspects of the problems of young
men taking to wings. For years a force
in surgical teaching in Australia and an
honorary surgeon of Melbourne Hospital
SURGEON KNIGHT.
(whose wards he walked as a student),
he was born in Melbourne, son of a
school inspector, and educated at Wesley
and Melbourne University. He returned
to his Alma Mater as Stewart Lecturer in
Surgery, visited the leading sawbones
schools of Europe in 1938, and in 1940
was made honorary surgeon to the King.
As president of the B.M.A. he led the
doctor’s fight against “Labor’s” free-
medicine scheme, and is now leading his
association’s thrashing-out of its co-
operation with the Menzies Government.
Davjd Brendan Brennan is another
example—and there are plenty around —
of the truth of the R.A.A.F.’s advice to
young men that there’s a career for them
in the Air Force. Nine years ago
Brennan was 20 and jackerooing on his
uncle’s cattle-station at Nebo in north
Queensland; when Prior spotted him
in Sydney he was flight-lieutenant
with a “mention” and also the
King’s Commendation for meritorious
service collected in the New Year’s
Honors List. Born in the Sydney suburb
R.A.A.F. EXAMPLE.
of Roseville, Brennan jackerooed for four
years before he joined the R.A.A.F. in
1941 ; he trained at Lindfield, Narromine
and Wagga (he was on the same course as
artist Jack Lusby) ; was staff pilot training
navigators and wireless ops. at Port Pirie
and Nhill, then went to O.T.U, at Sale and
Jervis Bay before posting to Eight Squad-
ron—the squadron which with Lockheeds
did sterling work in Malaya and re-
formed again at Milne Bay with Beau-
forts as torpedo-bombers. When Brennan
joined the squadron its main work was
Army co-op, with both the Americans
and the A.I.F. in strafing, bombing and
so on round Nadzab, Tadji and points
north. Later he went instructing for a
while on Beauforts and then to the C47s
on transport work, including the Japan
run and elsewhere —Lasseter’s country
and the short stretch between Perth and
Geraldton are about the only parts of
Australia he hasn’t flown over. These
days he’s O.C. of the V.I.P. flight of
86 Transport Wing stationed at Rich-
mond, Mr. Chifley, until recently, having
been one of his V.I.Ps.
With the death of Joseph Wilson
(Bill) Mawhinney Sydney art lost
one of its best-liked younger members.
Coming from Ireland as a small boy,
Bill studied his art under J. S. Watkins
and architecture at Sydney Technical Col-
lege. An associate of the Royal Art
Society, he was a regular exhibitor at
their annual shows, and this paper’s art
critic specially remembers the very fine
portrait of Jim Phillips, “S. M.
Herald” artist and once of The
Bulletin, which Mawhinney entered for
the Archibald Prize a couple of years
back. Within recent years Mawhinney
made a name for himself as a designer
of furniture in laminated wood, and his
work attracted a good deal of overseas
attention He was preparing a one-man
exhibition of his paintings when death
called him early at 34.
Lord Cobham, visiting Australia in the
interests of the British steel and heavy-
machinery exporting firm of which he’s
director, belongs to the hereditary aristo-
cracy, new style. The family’s seven-
teenth-century Gedrgian house of 34
rooms once carried a staff of 20; now it
is run by a married couple and a cook,
like a cocky’s homestead, the imposts on
the estate and the potential heavy death-
duties being more or less paid for by a
market-garden. The family has affilia-
tions with Australasia —it still holds pro-
perty in Maoriland’s south island, where
Lord Cobham’s great-grandfather was one
of the founders of Christchurch. The
present noble lord was a former batsman
for England.
Retired from the 125-year-old Rens-)
selaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New *
York, after 40 years there, Maoriland
Professor A. Matthew Hunter. Shifting
to the U.S. in 1906, he joined the R.P.I.
faculty in 1908, taught electro-chemistry,
and by stages advanced to dean of the
faculty of the metallurgical department,
which he has held since 1943. The Insti-
tute’s metallurgical laboratories, con-
sidered among the finest in the world, are
Hunter’s work. Prior to going to
America he studied under Sir William
Ramsay in London, Walter Nemst in
Germany, and Henry Moissen at the j
Sorbonne. Among the prof.’s plans for|
his retirement is a holiday in Maoriland,
herding sheep on his brothers’ runs, a
garrte he was familiar with before going
to the States, i
H. A. Winneke, K.C., appointed to the
new post of Senior Counsel to the Vic-
torian Attorney-General, is one of Mel-
bourne’s most brilliant barristers and a
Ballarat man. Scotch College and Mel-
bourne University moulded his education, i
Now 49, he graduated with first-class'
honors, was admitted to the Bar in 1931, i
and served with the R.A.A.F. in the late
war. The new job carries with it appoint-
ment as prosecutor for the King, so that
the State* can have effective participation
in major criminal proceedings. j
“Horseless H.”: Angus McPhail, who
has passed on at South Kerang (Vic.) at
83, was acclaimed by those who should;
know as Australia’s champion sheep-
counter. A master contract-drover on
the Darling in the ’eighties and ’nineties,
after drought and rabbits had driven his
father from his Lachlan River run, Angus
was accustomed to count mobs of 20,000
without being one out. With two others
in 1896 he bought the now-celebrated
Boulder Perseverance mine from the
original prospectors, and three years
later purchased Booth and Holloway’s
station, Tragowel, on the Loddon at South
Kerang—the old homestead, still stand-
ing, was the last house Burke and Wills
slept in. For the next 50 years Angus
established a remarkable reputation as
stock-judge in northern Victoria. A
quiet, retiring personality, his advice was
sought by hundreds who enjoyed his
hospitality at Tragowel, One son, Allan,
was lost with the Eighth Division in
Malaya.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, A. J. Reid, known widely in
Australian mining circles and a director of
O. T. Lempriere and Co., one of the country’s
largest ore-buyers, with whom he had been for
43 years, mostly as Sydney manager. Born
in Maoriland, he entered the mining industry
at Zeehan (Tas.), shifted north to the Charters
Towers and Herberton mines, largely impelled
the development of tin and bismuth mining,
as well as the smelting industry, and for years
contributed pars to the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.”
In Auckland (M.L.), at 57, J. H. Thompson,
twice-wounded captain in Kaiser’s war.
With the armistice he remained to study
languages in France and Germany, and on
return to M.L. was for a time Professor of
Modern Languages at Victoria University Col-
lege, Wellington. Cricket-coach, musician and
lecturer were other activities.
At Beverley (W.A.), at 66, James Davidson
Weaver, as well known among sheepmen as
his Riverdale Romney Marsh Stud. One of
the most successful in the State, run by Weaver
and his son, it’s netted many Royal- and
country-show championships.
In Melbourne, at 62, Reginald Wynter, presi-
dent of the Stock and Station Agents of Vic-
toria. Joint head of Dalgety’s stock-and-station
department, he had been with them 46 years.
He was a First A.I.F. man.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 82, J, H. Quillianj,
temporary Judge of the Supreme Court for a
year before World War 11, A native of
Melbourne, taken by his parents to the Isle
of Man and later to Maoriland, he was the
father of R. H. Quilliam, associate-prosecutor
for M.L. at the Tokio war-criminal trials.
In Melbourne, Miss Florrie Gordon, a well-
known contralto singer who did as much work
for private charities as professionally, and in
World War I raised thousands for the Red
Cross. She specialised in Scottish songs; no
Caledonian gathering was complete without her.
At Whangarei (MX.), authoress Mary Jane
Mander. Daughter of an old-time politician,
Francis Mander, Jane began as schoolteacher,
joined the Inky Way in 1912, studied at the
School of Journalism at Columbia University,
U.S.A., till the Kaiser’s war broke out, then
joined the American Red Cross and served
with it seven years.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Tarry Rope”: The victory of the
welded-steel Trade Winds in the ocean
yacht race to Hobart was a triumph of
the Australian engineer as against the
mere shipbuilder. Its creator was on the
engineering staff of Lysaght Bros., Chis-
wick ; he put a lot of ideas of his own
into the boat. The vessel showed its
fleetoess from the start, for it got away
from the slips ahead of time at its
christening, and, its creator’s wife finding
herself likely to be left with a bottle of
champagne in her hand, threw it after the
vessel. A worker from her husband’s
firm boasts today that he noted the spot
where the bottle sank, and, scooping it
later, had a champagne celebration of his
own. In its first race the boat failed
because of the skipper’s kindly considera-
tion for men of Lysaght’s staff who
had volunteered as members of the crew
but found their enthusiasm couldn’t
stand up to seasickness; the boat missed
the race last year, but this year, with a
seasoned crew, it was able to show its
quality.
* * * *
“Fraiser”: Hawthorn East, one of
Melbourne’s most hygienic suburbs, is
having a flea epidemic. The fleas even
jump brazenly on to the pages of your
newspaper when you’re reading. Although
I don’t live in Hawthorn I am having the
same trouble. I think they’re dog-fleas.
They don’t bite me, though they bite my
.wife, who gets large lumps all over her.
Apparently there is something in my
blood which the fleas can’t stand ; but
they crawl all over me, and that is just as
bad. The other day I dusted myself all
over with flea-powder, spent a peaceful
night and forgot all about it. The next
evening at the pub the fleas, apparently
scenting the hops, started to crawl in
numbers out of my sleeve, too ex-
hausted even to jump. A Hawthorn resi-
dent says that D.D.T. “calms them down
a bit.”
* * * *
“Bluepeep”: There are 33 homes in
our street of a Sydney suburb. Going up
one side and down the other the num-
ber of children in each house respectively
is I, 3,3, 1,0, 0,2, 0,2, 2, Q, 2,1, 4,4,
3,5, 2,0, 0,0, 2,2, 5,0, 2,1, 2,1, 1,1,
5, 3. Thus 33 married couples have be-
tween them 60 children ; in other words,
they’ve failed to replace themselves let
alone increase the population. A sig-
nificant result comes from an analysis
which shows that the second, third, 24th
and 32nd families of three, three, five,
five are “lower-income” families, and
the 14th, 15th, 17th and 33rd are New
Australians, Of the rest a depressing
number are comparatively young Aus-
tralian couples earning good incomes or
running their own businesses, a few are
elderly, in five of the noughts husband
and wife are both in paid employment.
I don’t know what it means, except that
these New Australians will do me be-
cause they believe in producing children.
* * * *
“Clooter”: As one who has frequently
had to contort himself or stand jammed
against the kerb by the crawler-type of
motor-driver who inches his car past a
stationary tram or over a pedestrian
crossing-line when the signals are against
him, I long to stretch a hand across the
seas to a hobnailed Texan bloke. He
found himself blocked off by a smart
new car obstructing a pedestrian crossing
in San Antone and invited the motorist
to back. He was curtly told to “mind
his own business.” So he put a hob-
nailed boot on the running-board, stepped
to the shining bonnet and walked over
the car, making a thorough job of its
shining duco with his hobnails. The
motorist was too astonished to utter a
word. Anybody got a pair of hobnail-
boots they’d like a price for?
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A newspaper has re-
mained tucked under the arm of Francis
Ormond, whose effigy fronts the Mel-
bourne Tech., for at least 18 months.
* * * *
“Bo”: The question whether on
January 1 of the even hundred we enter
another century (B. 11/1/ ’5O) was made
the basis of a joke by Heinrich Heine,
the German poet. In a passage of his
Reisebilder he mentions to Francesca that
he was born on January 1, 1800, thus
giving Gumpelino the opportunity to
come back with: “I told you, he was
one of the first men of the century! ” In
his translations of the lyrics of Heine,
Schiller, Goethe and other German
writers which are set to the music of
Schubert and Schumann knight Robert
Garran says of the incident: “Neither an
error of three weeks in the date nor the
fact that the year 1800 was the last year
of the eighteenth century, not the first of
the nineteenth, could be allowed to rob
Heine of his jest.” Sir Robert himself
probably meant two years, not three
weeks—Heine was born on December 13,
1797.
* * * *
“Uppercliff”: In an attempt to instil
some idea of thrift and of counting in
my young hopeful’s skull, I made him
a box with 100 compartments, each
“I believe you Were right, Bill—it WAS the Water-main”
to hold 12 pennies. I told him that when
the box was full it would hold 100 shil-
lings and that when he started on the
second half I would give him an incentive
payment of Is. His union didn’t hear
of this, and thereafter it was impossible
to find a copper to put in the gas. He
came to me one day and claimed the
bonus, stating that he had started off
on the last 50, having plaeed a penny in
the fiftieth compartment. His uncle, a
professor of biblical history, and the kid
next door, who had fallen off the roof
on his head at an early age, supported
his contention strongly, and even Granny
wasn’t too sure. It was left to my small
daughter to convince him by bringing in
the box with the last 50 compartments in
all their virgin emptiness and to say that
till he had filled up the fiftieth compart-
ment he couldn’t start on the second half.
Granny’s still looking puzzled.
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: Hitler’s number one
public executioner, Johann Reichardt,
recently sentenced to 18 months for Nazi
activities, claims to have finished off more
than 2000 people during his 25 years in
the business, hereditary in his family since
1710. Johann’s record may be nothing to
be ashamed of these days, but it won’t
get him anywhere historically. The
trouble with Hitler was his obsession for
modern methods ; if he’d allowed Johann
exclusive right of operation in the Reich
there might have been a tally worth crow-
ing about, but how can a craftsman
compete with gas-chambers, mass firing-
squads and the waste of good material in
guinea-pig stunts? One thing about the
architects of the French Revolution, they
may have introduced a machine, but they
didn’t interfere with the individuality of
the job. One man one chop was the rule
in those days.
“He looks better that Way”
“Lao-dah”: A festival of former
times which seems to have gone out of
fashion is Twelfth Day. If it were re-
vived it would give the opportunity for
another holiday with no bread delivered.
According to the “Melbourne Morning
Herald” it was observed with some pomp
100 years ago, and the issue of January
7, 1850, reports a spectacle worth survey-
ing in the confectioner’s shop of Mr.
Yewer in Elizabeth-street. It was “the
largest Twelfth Cake ever made in Aus-
tralia,” being 16ft. in circumference,
weighing 2001 b., and with a 4ft. figure of
Prince Albert in Field-Marshal's uniform
surmounting the edifice. The comestible
was to be drawn for by lottery on Twelfth
Night. The winner of the big bun must
have been thrown into a greater panic
than the coalman and his wife in England
who won £35,000 in a football pool the
other day and were utterly dismayed at
the wreck that would be made of their
hitherto happy home by the presence of
so much money.
* * * *
“Rooster”; I looked in at a dance-hall
and was reduced to gaping at the antics
of several “jivers” who, between dances,
retired to a corner, combed their pre-
cisely-waved and lengthy mops of hair,
sprinkled their gaudy handkerchiefs with
powder for the purpose of dabbing over
their narcissus-like features, adjusted their
floral ties and generally behaved as
though a skirt would have become them
better than a pair of strides. What
flabbergasted me completely, though, was
the remark I heard one of them pass.
“Girls,” he said sweetly, “are so much
coarser these days. They don’t seem to
appreciate a good dancer any more.
They’re so staid ! ”
* * * ♦
/ “Taswegian”: “Hamer’s” par. on the
“bashful male” of the medical school (B.
21/12/’49) reminded me of the time
when I qualified for that title, though not
at a medical school. A cookery expert
was giving a lecture and demonstration
at Hobart’s Town Hall; I went with my
wife and managed to find a spare seat
among 3000 women. The expert stressed
that vegetables should be cooked in very
little water ; this meant they should be
watched carefully to prevent burning.
She prepared potatoes, put them on, and,
having to leave the stage for a few
minutes, asked the audience to warn her
when they boiled. I had noticed that
women asking questions had difficulty in
making themselves heard—the hall is
large and its acoustics poor. Suddenly
I noticed steam coming from the pot
and yelled loudly “The potatoes are boil-
ing ! ” The expert rushed on to the stage,
3000 women jumped, then, with my words
still echoing round the hall, they clapped
me. I realised how people feel when
they wish for the floor to open.
* * # *
“Sackville St.”: Nothing makes man
realise just how little he understands
woman like being imprisoned in a seat in
a train while two members of the un-
predictable sex talk across him. There
are hair-lines, it seems, that he can’t even
see, let alone comprehend. For instance,
after my head had finished whirling from
a long session, I began to realise that a
certain type of handbag was “all the go.”
That appeared to be good. Some par-
ticular design of shoes was “very fashion-
able now” —high praise, it seemed. But
some other kind of apparel was “common
as dirt —everyone wears ’em!” That
appeared to be very bad indeed. I was
still pondering over the invisible dis-
tinction when I arrived home. The joy
had gone out of my good wife’s existence.
“That new dress—the floral voile I liked
so much” was ruined. Another woman
had entered a shop—she was wearing a
dress made of “exactly the same material.”
That reminds me —I must dump my blue-
serge suit in the garbage-tin tomorrow;
saw another bloke wearing one just like
it in the train tonight.
$ *
“Bullwhanger”: In the dreamy depres-
sion days my friend Blank, a budding
commercial artist, found himself in Sydney
broke and hopelessly out of work. In
Melbourne lived a brother-in-law who
was prepared to stake him if Blank could
get to Victoria under his own steam.
Blank stowed-away on an inter-State
passenger ship, was discovered when the
ship got out to sea and hauled before
the captain, who had had his fill of
stowaways’ hard-luck stories and dressed
Blank down in real quarterdeck fashion.
Stung by the tongue-lashing Blank hit
back. “All right,” he “You
needn’t be so lousy about it. I’ve got a
brother-in-law who’s got plenty of money.
He’ll pay my fare when we get to Mel-
bourne.” “Oh, will he?” said th®
skipper. “Well, we’re not going to Mel-
bourne. Hobart is our next port, and its
clink for you, my boy; in the meantime
you can peel spuds in the galley.’
ANTIQUERY.
“A young scientist demonstrated before the Linnsean
Society in London that ants, like human beings,
can become neurotic and have nervous breakdowns.”
There’s much to, be said for the life of ants:
They never wear out their coats and pants.
When a weary ant relaxes
He’s not harried by dreams of taxes;
When a sleeping ant awakes
He’s never troubled with shivering shakes,
By radio blah
And his kids’ wah-wah;
He doesn’t have to grouse
’Cause he can’t get a house;
He doesn’t give a damn
When the pub doors slam;
He doesn’t have to travel on a Sydney tram,
Or jump for the pavement when a motorist
swerves—
So why in the devil have ants got nerves?
We haven’t much time for political ants
Living in a kind of Marxist trance;
They’d be puzzled, like as not,
At Gallup questionnaires on how they meant
to vote:
Workers up to major-domos,
They’re a comatose lot of Commos;
Wrong or right
They work and bite,
And the March of Asia
Doesn’t drive them any crazier,
And they never rage
At the basic wage,
And Chifley never blessed them with a Golden
Age:
Their feast of life is ended at the mere hors
d’ozuvres —
But why in the devil have ants got nerves?
We’ve never read a story about passionate ants;
They never take a female to a nightclub dance;
Ants don’t pucker-up like quinces
At the literary efforts on the bill at Princes;
Love is where ants never fall;
They’ve got no maiden-antis, or in-laws at all:
Ants never dread
Being lectured in bed,
Or fear the aftermath
Of splashing in the bath;
They haven’t any use
For playing fast and loose,
For there’s only one female, so she’s bogged
for an excuse
To beat them up for whistling at another set
of curves —
So why in the devil have ants got nerves?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“D.A.”: It was in Sydney Divorce
Court. Murphy was versus Murphy and
Mrs. Murphy was giving evidence. “He
came home to tea and said: ‘What —
bloody spuds again ?’ That started a
quarrel which altered the course of our
entire life together,” deposed Mrs.
Murphy. “What? Murphys quarrelling
over spuds ?” interjected his Honor (Act-
ing-Justice Toose) from the Bench.
* * * ♦
“Retired Soak”: “Fitz’s” reference to
the Cannibal Club (B. 12/l/’5O) reminds
me that the club was formed in Mel-
bourne about 1893, at George Coates’s
studio, over Peppa’s fruit-shop in Swan-
ston-street, and that it later carried on
in a studio in St. James’s Building, in
William-street. Some other well-known
members, not mentioned by “Fitz,” were
Leon Pole, Alec Sass, Miles Evergood and
Harry Weston, another Bulletin old-
timer. In those halcyon days the needy
artist could get in a wine-shop in the
Royal Arcade a mug of hot spiced wine
for 3d., and, at Fasoli’s in Lonsdale-street,
dinner, with wine ad lib. and cafe noir,
for a shilling. The Cannibals were a
lively crowd, and at the free-and-easies
on Saturday nights almost anything could
happen. In an advertisement in a morn-
ing paper a firm of winegrowers an-
nounced a competition for a poster, the
first-prize to be a fiver. It was stated
that all entries submitted would become
the property of the firm. Next morning
appeared an advertisement inserted by the
Cannibal Club for competitive cases of
wine, all cases to become the property
of the artists. The manager of a rival
wine firm was so amused by the
Cannibal Club’s retort that he presented
the artists with a case. The evening the
club sampled the gift was one of the
wettest in its history.
* * * #
“Pasquin”: My early studies of
American folk-lore gave me the impres-
sion that a Sears and Roebuck catalogue
hanging from a nail by a loop of string
was a feature of the American lavatory;
most prominent Americans, I understand,
had taught themselves to read and spell
from its pages. Even though I realised
that the outhouse had been brought in-
doors and was now a shining, chromium,
pastel-tiled annexe of the bathroom, I
still had a vague idea that the Sears and
Roebuck tradition persisted. But the
latest issue of an American magazine on
the modern home to which my wife sub-
scribes shows that this, too, has gone
with all the rest of the homely old Ameri-
can ways. A full-page colored picture of
one of these marvellous bathrooms shows
beside the pedestal a gaily-painted book-
shelf holding an assortment of books and
magazines. My wife is a fervent admirer
of American domestic architecture, and I
am now expecting orders to get busy on
a built-in bookshelf designed to hold, in
accordance with the ages and tastes of
our household, a selection of comics,
wild-wests and screen and fashion papers,
a few of the latest novels, several overseas
political reviews and possibly a volume
or two of the Encyclopedia Britannica.
* * * *
“H.F.C.”: Every Lawson collector
knows that the most difficult item to find
is the “Coronation Ode,” written in 1911.
It was commissioned by a firm of Sydney
undertakers and is a frail pamphlet of
eight pages in an unusual format. The
text is adorned with portraits of the
royal family, coats-of-arms and castles.
The whole thing exudes Imperialism,
suggesting that Henry was very hard up
when he wrote it. Rod Quinn wrote an
ode at the same time at the request of
Parramatta council. It is by far the
better poem, and the booklet is a very
fine souvenir, illustrated with views of
Parramatta and district and, of course,
photos of the mayor and councillors.
This must also be a scarce book, for
although I have collected Rod Quinn for
years, I had never seen a copy nor heard
it mentioned until one turned up recently.
* * * *■
“ “Pawang”: Since when have diction-
aries taken on themselves the function
of making moral judgments? I always
thought there was nothing more im-
personal than a dictionary until, turning
over the pages of my Funk and Wagnall,
I was suddenly arrested by the word
“Wilde.” It gave me a shock to read
the definition —“Oscar Fingall O’Flahertie
Wills, an Irish poet, playwright and
pervert.” I turned up Shakspeare, ex-
pecting to read “English poet, dramatist
and actor; shotgun marriage.” But no.
The work was as reticent about him as
it was about Marlowe, Goethe, Wagner,
Burns and Shelley, all of whom, from
the compilers’ point of view, lived un-
conventional lives which were as liable
to censure as Oscar’s. Even Casanova is
merely “an adventurer, wrote sprightly
memoirs”! Evidently Wilde’s real sin
was being too close to our own times.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The word “djongas” will
no longer ring through the lounges of
hotels and the precincts of bungalows in
Indonesia from armchairs occupied by
whisky-drinking tuans, the fiat having
gone forth that the word for “waiter”
shall be "boeng,” meaning “brother.”
This is no doubt a delicate recognition of
the dignity of the new republic, though
it will have different connotations for
Australians who know New Guinea.
“Oe” in Malay, romanised according to
the Dutch pronunciation, has the sound
of “oo,” so it is the same as our “boon^,”
the unpleasant name given to black
brother of Papua, whom the Javanese
regards as so low in the human scale that
he wouldn’t call one of them his uncle.
“j Djongas” actually means “boy,” and
was applied indiscriminately to waiters
of all ages, and would sometimes fetch a
wrinkled youth who looked 80.
* * * *
“D.M.M.”: Mummied merfolk (B.
4/1/’5O) At the age of 12 I went to
Sydney Show by myself. As 1 was
wandering among the sideshows the
posters outside a tent intrigued me. I
was soon inside. There on a bench lay
the merfolk, naked except for a neatly-
folded flag placed modestly on each of
them. The only other member of the
public inside the tent was a spinsterish
elderly lady. The showman, a fellow
with all the earmarks of a retired pugilist,
looked bored. When he had exhausted
the usual pseudo-scientific talk, he winked
slyly at me, whipped off both the flags
and said to the lady “There y’ are, M.um,
just the same as you and me.” I was a
modest lad, and in the sudden red-faced
rush for the door the lady and I ran a
dead-heat.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: The New Order has
arrived. A Rose Bay (Sydney) tram was
just leaving the cdty when two well-
dressed ladies climbed aboard. All seats
were taken, and a crowd stood along the
aisle. The two philosophically hung on
to the straps and began to talk in cul-
tured voices about some proposition or
other connected with a rather tony col-
lege, but they were interrupted by the
apparition of a round, unshaven, grimy
but cheerful face which said “ ’Ereyar,
girls, take me an’ me cobber’s seats.” Be-
side him wa§ a small, grizzled veteran in
equally greasy clothes, his eyes ringed
with black grime, his boots scuffed and
his hands calloused. “Oh, no,” one of
the ladies said, smiling, “we don’t be-
lieve in taking seats from men who’ve
been working hard.” The big fellow
swung clear of the seat. “Don’t let it
worry y’, girls,” he said, “Me an’ the
cobber’ll grab a cab t’ get us home. We
can afford t’ do that better’n you,” And
at the next stop the pair of them fell out
and halted a cab with an imperative
whistle.
* * * *
“Allwet”: Tell “B. A. Ker” there are
no “lathers” left now; 30 years ago
there were hundreds. One of them,
Long Hughie Carstairs, would come on
to the job with the plasterers hot on his
heels, put on a leather apron with a
capacious pouch, hang a hammer, around
his wrist with a thong, throw —yes, throw!
—a handful of nails into his mouth and,
taking up a dozen laths in his huge hand,
set to work. He literally spat the nails
into the wood, and the sound of his
hammer was like a round of machine-
gun fire. He never hit a nail twice, and
he never marked a lath with the head of
his hammer. Hughie’s long, sad face was
a deep shade of blue and, like most
lathers, he died young from some wasting
disease brought on by chewing nails. No
true “lather” ever carried his nails any-
where but in his mouth—all other
methods were too slow. It was a good
thing when the discovery of fibrous-
plaster sheets drove the “lathers” into
other branches of the trade.
wmf
"Yes, your husband DOES need a holiday—on his OWN!”
“Spasebo”: After continuous deputat-
ing, Victorian women are to get what
they want and have the same privilege as
men of sitting being bored on juries. Why
they want to do it is more than an
ordinary male can comprehend. Ah
artist friend of mine was once served
with a notice in London. “Yes, I’ll serve
all right,” he said to the policeman, “but
if I do I promise.you that whatever ver-
diet my fellow-jurymen come to I’ll go
against it.” He was excused.
* * * *
“Sally Jane”: At Liverpool (N.S.W.)
cemetery, graves of the German-Austrian
internees and prisoners of the 1914-18
show are trim and well-kept. This, the
locals declare, is the work of the Govern-
ment. Within sight of these well-kept
plots are graves of pioneers in a pitiable
state of neglect. Many of these dead,
whether they came along under their own
steam or not, did a fine job in a new
country. All the older towns appear to
have forgotten their pioneers, and there
are instances where headstones have been
carried off to function as hearthstones
and steps. Port Macquarie appears the
exception. There a worthy descendant
ol pioneers fought local authority till a
general clean-up of graves, some dating
back to the early 1820 s, took place.
* * * *
“Morehead”: Among the pile of school
magazines from all over Australia that
reached my desk at the end of last year
one of the most interesting was the bright,
well-printed production of the pupils of
Darwin Higher Primary School. All
school records and furnishings were lost
or destroyed when Darwin was bombed,
and when the school reopened in May,
1946, the buildings were almost derelict.
Repairs have been effected, furni-
ture provided and additional class-rooms
built. When the school was reopened
after the war 69 children attended; it
now has an enrolment of over 500.
Higher primary classes were established
in 1948. This opened up the way for
pupils to enter a three-years’ secondary
course not previously available. The
material to be found in this, their first
magazine, is proof that the children are
resourceful and enterprising. Photo-
graphs show them to be as healthy-
looking a bunch of youngsters as is to be
found anywhere in Australia.
# * * *
“Wals”: As a bibliomaniac (B. 4/1/’5O)
one well-known collector takes some
beating. His wife is not allowed in his
library, the door of which is always care-
fully locked. The key goes everywhere
with its owner. Whenever visitors are
shown the books the wife inquires as to
the state of the room. They say he
keeps it spick-and-span. So careful is
he of the condition of his books that
whenever possible he reads a library copy
of a book he owns so that his copy will
not be soiled. Another cove I know
carries this fetish to the point of always
donning gloves before settling down to
read.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: I recently spoke to a Mel-
bourne man who told me that years ago a
now-famous artist who had a studio close
to his office gave him a batch of un-
finished drawings. I asked what became
of them, and he told me he finished them
off himself and gave them to his kids
to color with crayons. I suggested that
if he had kept them they might now be
of value to collectors, but he replied airily
that they were no good as they were
only uncompleted sketches and that, any-
way, they kept his kids quiet for a few
hours. The artist? Norman Lindsay.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”:- Ever since Caxton’s
“The Playe of Chesse” the game has run
strongly to literature. A recent cata-
logue lists 67 current books; but the
man who has the most complete chess
library I know of has over 250 yolumes
—possibly a small tally compared with
some European chess libraries. Aus-
tralian F. L. Vaughan, who figured in
many championship contests, has another
sort of chess library—the annotated
records of 14,000 first-class games, with
a complete cross-index by which similar
situations occurring in different games can
be traced.
SELF-EVIDENT.
“Addressing a Victorian adult-education summer
camp, Dr. Pennycuick, of Adelaide University, said
that women could ‘take it’ better than men, had more
courage, and bore pain better. Backing him up, Pro-
fessor F. S. Cotton, Professor of Physiology at Sydney
University, declared that, biologically and physiologi-
cally, women excel men.”
Lord of the Earth and every living creature,
One jump beyond the anthropoidal ape.
You’ve boasted, Homo sapiens, that a feature
Which correlated with your manly shape
Was toughness. On your own evaluation
Your fibres, in proportion to their length,
As well as taking them in aggregation
Were quite, for either work or recreation,
Pre-eminent in strength.
Beneath your epidermis brown and glowing,
Your bulging biceps rippling up and down,
Your hewing, lifting, carrying or throwing
May constitute some feats of high renown.
Your forty-six-inch chest may be quite hairy,
But get this biologically true
And awful fact: That Joan or Jill or Mary,
Or any other slim and dainty fairy
Is tougher far than you!
You think, because a razor you are using
To fell the stubble sprouting from your chin,
You’re quite a he-man. Why! That’s most
amusing
To scientific minds. Just kick his shin
And man will hop around with bull-like roaring.
A stomach-ache will make him moan and
groan.
He can’t take pain—it breaks him from his
mooring.
Such trifles, though, woman would be ignoring—
At this she’s on her own.
Ah, well! The knowledge his sex is the weaker
Into man’s ego must put quite a dent.
It boils down to the test-tube and the beaker,
The elements of Life, and how they’re blent.
But, still and all, ’twill be no revelation —
Though some regard the same as so much
guff—
To benedicts who’ve learned, through long
probation,
That in a long and vivid fulmination
Wives can be very tough!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: The other side of
Nectar Brook (S.A.), where there’s no-
thing on one side but the broken scarps
of the Flinders Range and a thousand
miles of saltbush, nothing on the other
but the pallid waters of the Gulf, and a
man’s only vision of the future is Port
Augusta and its pubs some 25 miles north,
we ran into a road-gang which needed
some help. The foreman put us on and,
for some reason, took a shine to us, and
started to skite about his rise to power
and prestige. “Yair,” he said. “I was
just a banjo-swinger when I come. But
the foreman got on the booze in Port
Germein and they sack him. I’m work-
in’ away like a good ’un. The next fore-
man lasts three weeks, gets on the
schnapps here in the camp an’ the heads
catch him an’ sling him out. They send
up another bloke. Be this time, o’
course, I bin on the job nilly the longest
because the blokes ’d go boozin’ at the
weekends an’ not come back ; you know
how it is. Well, the next foreman’s only
here about ten days an’ he jumps the
train t’ the Port an’ is caught beerin’-up
“ Crikey! Two and a trey! What about discount for me ’ air ?”
by the inspector. So they look round for
a teetotaller, an’ that’s me an’ I’m right
on the job an’ now I’m foreman. It
shows y’ how a man can get on if he
wants t’, an’ sticks t’ his job. I’m boss
here an’ have things done my way. Y’ve
only got t’ look at me t’ see how I got
me position. .It takes guts an’ brains t’
get a job like mine.” Mat looked at him.
“No it don’t,” he said. “It takes beer.”
♦ * * *
“Blime”: Bob’s property joined Ted
Henderson’s in irregular pattern on a
long sloping range. In the gully the two
shared a small creek that yearly became
drier, till nothing but a few mud-holes
remained. Carefully each man cleaned
his mud-holes for stock water and ignored
the other. Then Bob got sick of it. He
went hunting a bulldozer. In the only
suitable gully on his property he put in
a dam and for a time was free of water-
shortage. Then Ted Henderson put in
a dam. He selected the same gully as
Bob, but a few hundred yards higher
up, just through the boundary-fence, and
rain coming off the higher slopes went
into his reservoir instead of going down
to Bob’s. Bob went hunting a single
furrow. He ploughed gutters across the
slope, grading them carefully into his
dam. The following week similar fur-
rows appeared higher up the slope, all
draining into Henderson’s reserve. Bob
went hunting longer furrows. Then it
started to rain. Steadily, day and night,
it poured down, and, returning after a
weekend away, Bob inspected his water-
supply to discover that the dam above
had burst its banks and come down with
a rush that collected the one below and
spilled the whole works into the creek-
bed, half a mile away. Bob went hunt-
ing Henderson.
* * * *
“Bo”: The stranger who had blown
into the little coastal township in the
heart of the big-timber country had been
injudicious enough to mention to a beer-
fancier in the place’s only life-saving
institution the subject of axemen, and in
the ensuing four hours he had taken a
terrific earbashing from the finest collec-
tion of champion wielders of the Kelly
and the Plumb that any country or any
century had ever seen. After he had with
great difficulty torn himself away he
explored the hamlet; with every male
inhabitant with whom he opened conver-
sation he found that the locals would
allow a maximum of about 14 words
before they hit and stuck to the subject
of axemanship, and that each man was
either a. past, present or future champ, or
had sired, uncled or befriended past,
present, etc. That is, all bar one man—
he was a rotund, somnolent, hairy indi-
vidual whom the stranger came upon as
with dreamily ecstatic look he slowly
massaged his spine against a post.
This heretic, it seemed, had no interest at
all in sharp-edged instruments or tall
vegetables; in heartfelt appreciation of
which the stranger escorted him to the
brass rail and plied him generously with
the stuff that goes with brass rails. Five
minutes after the stranger had bibulously
sought his. couch a hat was thrown down
truculently in the middle of the road out-
side the pub, and a loud voice was raised
to bet anyone a tenner, or to fight who-
soever refused to believe him, that he was
capable of felling a 150 ft. bluegum single-
handed in 20 minutes. The owner of the
voice was rotund, hairy and temporarily
aroused from his customary somnolence,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Y’ know,” Little Curl
said, chucking his book aside and reach-
ing for the makings, “that Surksey ol’
Ulaseeze run inter was some tart. One o’
them lady magicians like y’ see at the
show, only a lot better. She had ol’ Ula.
an’ his mob eatin’ out o’ her hand,
showin’ ’em tricks like turnin’ water inter
beer an’ all that. An’ looks! Gripes,
she’d ’a’ bin Miss Australia every time she
had a crack at it. She got a nark on
Ulaseeze mob an’ beswitched the plonk
they was drinkin’ an’ it turned ’em into
pigs. Gripes, it must ha’ bin funny when
ol* Ula. comes ashore an’ finds ’em
runnin’ about, gruntin’, an’ rootin’ in the
rubbish like the boss lookin’ for a spare
stirrup-iron in the harness-room.” “What
did their boss do?” asked Pocketknife.
“Aw, he was awake-up t’ her. He et
some sow-thistle or somethin’ an’ the
plonk wouldn’t work on him an’ he made
her switch ’em back. Later on he come
back an’ had a good time with her an’
everything was jonick.” Little Curl
sighed. “Pity it was in the old days,” he
said wistfully. “We could do with a good
sort like her around here.” At this Big
Fleming, who’d just got back from a
fortnight in Sydney, sat up. “She ain’t
dead,” he asserted. “She’s somewhere
"I'll lay six-to-four on Windy.”
down in the city an’ she’s still got her
tricks. Y’ve only got t’ go inter some of
them city pubs an’ y’ see blokes actin’
like pigs, all right. Just like they was
standin’ at a trough an’ swillin’ slops,
Yair, I reckon them breweries or pub-
licans or someone down there is payin’
her big money right now.”
* * * *
B. A. Ker”: It is hard to believe that
this flourishing town is the quiet, friendly
little hamlet I knew 30-odd years ago.
The water-trough no longer stands in front
of the pub; the hitching-posts are gone,
and the red-dust road that stretched
parallel with the railway-line is now a
wide expanse of concrete sloping to
formed kerbs. Yet, strangely, it is the
neon sign over the chemist’s shop that
attracts me most. That site has always
been the pharmacy, although the shop
has been rebuilt once and altered several
times. Old Brown didn’t have a neon
sign, but he was a proud man when he
installed his lighting plant. It was some
sort of a remote-controlled carbide-burner
and it illuminated the inside of the shop
very efficiently. Then the old stink-
dabbler got the inspiration to hang from
the awning a red lamp bearing his name
and letters of degree. It was visible from
one end of the township to the other,
and old Brown loved to stand under its
i tt • .1- r .
rosy glow. He was m this favorite posi-
tion the Friday night when Nobby
Clarke’s horse bolted. Around the pub
rnrn pr the terrified creature careered
comer me terrmea creature careered,
crashed a wheel of the spring-cart against
a hitching-post, cannoned off, fouled the
horse-trough and, breaking free, pounded
madlv down the main street Ahrnntlv
madly down me main street. Abruptly,
tor no noticeable reason, the runaway
swung on to the footpath. A trace-chain
flogged violently against an awning-post;
the other loose end rang against the
weatherboard wall of the fruit-shop—
Sin. below the window. Old Brown stood
under his lamn like Hnratins bis arms
■. , r f ll /* \ m P } Ke rioratms, ms arms
outstretched and waVing slightly. At
the last moment he realised that the on-
rushing bay was too blind with frenzy
to see even his bulk. He scrambled to
safety, with inches to spare. It was the
perversity of Fate that made the runaway
snn rt nlnnnp and kirk madlv with both
snort, plunge ana kick madly witn botn
hind-legs at that second. The near-side
trace-chain flicked upwards like a giant’s
stockwhip. And in all that vast expanse
of srmi drcrrtrd ctrppt tbp ctppl had fn
ot semi deserted street me steel nad .o
crash on one object—old Brown s light,
* * * *
“H.H.”: The only time the gang-gang
, . „ 11, „ i “y, „
cockatoos are really quiet is when they
are dining. Camped recently in the tall
forest country of the Otways, the wheez-
imr nratinp call of these red-crested
mg, grating can or mese red-crestea,
slatey-grey birds most of the day punctu-
ated the accompaniment of the great
harmonious chorus of the bush, and even
• „„„ .1 ’ , . .i
when Winging their way through the
timber they continually Utter their dIS-
tinctive cry. However, one hot noon all
was nniet excent for the lisht thumo
was quiet except ror me ugnt mump,
thump, thump of something dropping.
On investigation I came on 11 gang-gangs
on an acacia silently eating seeds and
breaking off and dropping enough twigs
to light a bonfire. Not until I walked
under the limb did they casually fly off
to the next tree. Although darkish, the
flesh is good eating, and I fancy the
knowledge of this in other years is the
reason why this cockatoo is so scare
today.
* * * *
“Hanko”: We were jogging past the
Aue place when Emma ran out and
stopped us. “A snake,” she spluttered,
“A snake as thick almost as my leg.”
“Gripes,” the boss sniggered. “It must
be one of them bore constructors.” Fritz
was in the chaff-shed armed with a
sinking-bar heavy enough to maim a
salt-water crocodile. The snake was lying
along a rafter staring balefully at a piece
of derelict bagging. “It’s a ’nold carpet,”
the boss said. “Carpet? Mein Gott, a
snake is, yet,” Fritz shrilled. “A carpet-
snake,” the trump told him, “Y’ won’t
have a mouse about the joint while y’
got him. Worth a millyun cats.” “He
vill no mouse get oop dere sitting,” said
Fritz. The snake swayed a foot-length
of its front end from the rafter and its
forked tongue flicked out and in. “Ooh,”
Emma gasped. “Look at him stickin’
his fangs out at us.” The snake swung
more of its length into space and Emma
screamed. Fritz raised the bar; the boss
grabbed his arm; Emma yelped. When
we turned to look at her she was up on
a bag cuddling her skirt. “A mouse,”
she giggled. “It went real near me.”
“That’s wot the snake saw,” said the boss,
“Come away an’ give him a charnce to
ketch ’em.” But Fritz lingered stub-
bornly, still grasping the bar. “I hope
Joe chucks a coupler loops round y’r
neck,” the trump bellowed. We then
left.
* * * *
“H.A.L.” lets go a broadside-
“Shamuseen’s” remark (B. 28/12/’49) that the
N.Q. abo. “seems to thrive on germs” is typical
those superficial observations which hamper
h °i ar V ry p ing t( ? save5 ave n f tive
races trom extinction. Lack of sanitation, sleep-
ing in ill-ventilated quarters, filthifiess of body
and clothing, infestation by lice, etc., are not in
themselves very harmful to any race, white,
b,ack or brown > 50 l°ng a S the natural quaran-
tine of isolation protects them from outside
infections; it is when somebody brings to such
a community the wogs which cause amoebic
dysentery, typhoid, influenza, V.D. or a deadly
l nter ?, al P arasite „ llke hookworm that the
trouble starts. Store clothes and white-feller
tucker are not to blame for the mortality which
results when natives come to European settle-
Lfanf-W SSe ga In
among people who neglect all the rules of
hygiene and sanitation and the results are tragic.
The Maori people, prior to white settlement,
ere ai ? l , on 8 the strongest and most virile in
the wor j d ; fifty years ago they seemed doomed
to extinction. Then they found a saviour in
one of their own race: Maui Pomare, the
£ rs i aori . to graduate in medicine. He also
gf of
administrator. He moved from one Maori
settlement to another, exhorting his people to
be clean m clothes an d person and to observe
the rules of sanitation . gra dually he won the
fight—he was awarded one of the most deserv-
ing knighthoods ever bestowed, and from that
day dates the amazing renaissance of the Maori
P eo P le - In th ® same way the late Dr. S. M.
L am b er t devoted the best years of his life to
work among the native peoples of the Pacific.
Financed by the Rockefeller Foundation, he
bro ”B bt hookworm under control, introduced
sanitation to villages and trained intelligent
young Fijian men and women to act as doctors
and nurses among the Melanesian and
Polynesian people. Wherever they went Pomare
and Lambert met their greatest obstacles in
people like “ Shamusee nwho decried what
the trained scientists advocated and who made
the fatuous claim that natives were better off
™ hen lef t 1° . th( F superstitions in regard to
disease, their lack of elementary hygiene and
overcrowding and filth. Fortunately, the
work of medical missionaries has now produced
such wonderful results, as revealed by falling
death-rates especially among infants- longer
]ife expectancy and r i sing birth-rates, that only
t h e w iif u lly blind would attempt to contradict
it.
BIRD-SONG.
Listen, and birds will singl
The unresponsive pass,
Deaf to a lyric world,
Nor know their loss.
They hear the crow complain
Upon his mourning flight,
And the plover’s kitter-kitter-kit!
In the eerie night.
But sweeter songs are sung
To charm the listening ear,
While in the seeing mind
Spring fresh and clear
The flame of a crimson breast
At the robin’s soft-trilled note;
The flash of an olive wing
And a yellow throat
As the honeyeater veers
Through the green like a rudderless ship,
When he whistles his liquid song
Pickle-whip! Pickle-whip!
I see a flirting fan
When sweetly, high and thin,
The nesting fantail plays
Her violin.
And the summer-bird’s soft shirr I
Evokes his sooty face,
His suit of Mue-grey smoke,
And his gliding grace.
When the undisceming ear
Knows nought of the world a-wing,
Look with an inward eye.
Listen, and birds will sing!
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURCES.


“Sackville St.”: I’ve never personally
witnessed the domesticating of a dingo
pup (B. 21/12/’49); but I once saw the
experiment tried with a fox cub. It was
a pity that she died before reaching
maturity. No kid in our rural school
was envied as much as the owner of that
pretty little pet; every afternoon his mates
trailed more than a mile to his place for
the sole pleasure of playing with the
frolicsome ball of fur. Young Puddin’,
I think it was, who one evening started
the speculation as to whether the play-
ful little animal would kill chooks when
she grew up. Nobody thought she
would, but just to make sure it was
unanimously decided to put her in the
fowl-run for a while every afternoon so
she would get used to chooks. The les-
sons were begun immediately. Chicka
carried her in and put her down. The
rest of the memory is a blur of racing
boys, darting foxlet and dying fowls. It
was a pity she died that night.
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had been on
a droving trip, and, back, about three days,
got round to mentioning a few of his ex-
periences. “Nice town they got there,
Sol,” he murmured. “Big. Plenty o’
pubs, too, but hang me if I c’d find one
open. Two flamin’ hours t’ put in I ’ad
an’ nowhere t’ put ’em. Would ’a’ gorn
up an’ had a look at the big monument
thing they put up on the hill f’r the
soldiers that died only Blue reckoned it
was too far. So we took a squint round
their gardens.” The recital flagged, and
I flicked him with a question or two,
“Yair, they’re s’posed to have good gar-
dens there,” he continued, “but it seems
like they’ve got the same trouble as
everyone else these days. Shortage o’
labor. Their public gardens looks like
the farms them settlers tried t’ make out
o’ that bush country near Wanderon.
Remember? Damn’ shame, though,
lettin’ them gardens go. The feed’s short
in ’em —mostly kikuyu an’ couch—and
there’s a lot o’ gravel tracks. Mind y’,
in some places there’s been cultivatin’
done, an’ they’ve got flowers growin’,
but every here ’n’ there y’ strike big
shapeless sort o’ patches that’s just gorn
inter nothin’ but thick trees ’n’ scrub.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The first steps
in the establishment of an Australian
sardine-canning industry were taken at
the William Angliss Food Trades school
laboratory, Melbourne, a week or so ago
when these fish, caught in Port Phillip
bay in lampara-seine nets, were auto-
matically processed and turned out in
tins. Surveys by the C.5.1.R.0. and the
Victorian Fisheries Department have dis-
“Keep her under thirty or I'll pot y'."
closed that sardines of first-class quality
exist in unlimited quantities in the bay.
The Scandinavian expert in charge of
the experimental operations believes that
when proper plant and equipment are in-
stalled and the method of treating is per-
fected Australian canned sardines will
prove better and cheaper than the
imported brands.
* * * *
“Lower Topi”; Fishermen don’t
usually buy horses, but in South Aus-
tralia in recent months they have bought
dozens. The unfortunate neddies have
been butchered for crayfish-bait, and at
the S.A. Fishermen’s Co-operative
freezers at Beacliport and at Robe hun-
dreds of boxes of horse-meat are stored
for use during the coming cray season.
Times change. Twelve years ago at
Robe wombats, old ewes and sharks were
the main bait, but they’re now too dear
alongside the Clydesdales at two or three
quid a head.
* * * *
“Tarbush”; For many years most
biologists have agreed that the machinery
of heredity is contained only in sex cells.
A few scientists, however, including some
bright brains in Moscow, have clung to
the Lamarckian doctrine that heredity
can be influenced by environment: in
effect, that the blacksmith’s children will
have bigger biceps than the counter-
jumper’s. The Lamarckians have held as
a trump-card an experiment carried out
nearly 20 years ago by Professor Mc-
Dougall in U.S.A. This experiment, con-
tinued through 32 generations of rats,
seemed to show that rate of learning in-
creased—that the offspring of experi-
enced laboratory rats learned to perform
tasks more quickly than uneducated
rodents. Last year Professor Agar and
other workers at Melbourne University
published the result of a similar experi-
ment that was continued even further
than McDougall’s. This showed an in-
crease in learning ability, followed by a
decline. Parallel with the psychological
changes, however, slight physical changes
appeared, and Professor Agar was able
to show that the variation was due, not
to Lamarckian heredity but to the emerg-
ence of hidden genetic characters in the
supposedly “fixed” laboratory breeds.
The long research is a notable Australian
contribution to a very important field of
medicine and general biology.
* * * *
“Zake”: Time was when the good old
weskit was considered an indispensable
item of the rural dweller’s habiliments, a
thing he would no more think of ventur-
ing from the homestead without, even on
the most sweltering of days, than his
moleskins or his number eights. Latterly
it seems to be falling out of favor, the
belt now being regarded as the most im-
portant item of personal furniture. It
may be all right for carrying, say, a toma-
hawk or a pannikin, but it requires an
expert belt-wearer to use it for carrying
pipe, tobacco, matches, snakebite cure,
pocketknife, string, nails and such other
items as were considered the true appur-
tenances of the weskit’s four pockets. In
my youth the correct summer-dress was
boots, strides, singlet, weskit and hat, and
if a man had had to discard, all but one
he’d have chosen the weskit to keep on,
* * * *
“Betcha”: There were half a dozen
cows running in the home paddock and
all had red calves with the exception of
old Brindle, whose offspring sported a
couple of white legs. Then I added an-
other milker to the paddock and a calf
with the same white markings. Milking-
time came, and, seeing me coming, Brindle
pursued her usual tactics of looking
hastily for her calf and making for it.
This time she picked the wrong one, go-
ing right up to the youngster for a sniff
before suspecting anything amiss. And
so ended the argument round here as to
whether a cow knows the markings on
her own family. The same bovine has
devised her own mAiod of dealing with
the dog that grabs her tail and hangs
on. Spotting the mong bearing down on
her, she immediately takes off for the
nearest, fence, turns and backs her rear
against the wire-netting. From that posi-
tion she challenges the mong to a head-
on attack, leaving me no alternative but
to walk all the way for the brute myself.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of
Lady Barron, Flinders Island (B.
16/11/ 49), recalls that Tasmania’s
Minister for Transport proposes to make
this little township, the island’s main port
by closing Whitemark, the chief centre
of population on the 42-miles-long lump
of dirt in Bass Strait. There’s very nearly
a war on at present in the Strait over
the proposal, but it seems that Lady
Barron, on the sandy shore overlooking
the sound between Cape Barren and
Flinders Islands, will win, for although
“The Mark” is 2\ hours’ less steaming
from Launceston for the ketch Loatta
and 70 p.c, of the island’s produce is
shipped there, silting-up has reduced the
water at the wharf to six feet at low
tide, and the Loatta draws Bft. 6in. More-
over, when the new abattoirs are built at
Pat’s River aerodrome,. all beef will be
flown out in the carcass and there won’t
be enough revenue to keep two wharves
in repair. Whitemark’s strong hold is
“Come on, stupid—you'll never get a tune out of HIM!”
that it has the only pub in the Furneaux
Group, but Lady Barron has 27ft. of
water at its wharf, it is more sheltered,
and, oddly enough, has a woman harbor-
master.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The Hollywood expert
who advised on the underwater sequences
of a film I saw recently was really expert.
Trapped in a bullion-carrying barque
wrecked in the Pacific, the diver’s air-
pipe was cut by a falling beam dislodged
as the wreck, urged by the reper-
cussions of a storm up top, plunged
over the edge of a thousand-fathom
chasm on which she’d been poised. The
camera faithfully showed the diver’s-suit
suddenly deflated as air-pressure failed.
How many of the audience, divers ex-
cepted, realised the horrible significance?
Lift a kero.-tin full of water and you’ll
appreciate what pressure a diver with
30 fathoms of ocean above him is capable
of resisting—solely because the air
pumped into his suit circulates under
pressure through his innards and makes
inside pressure equal outside. In war-
time Trincomalee I saw what happened
when a diver slipped from the grating
under a ship’s screws and plummeted,
before tenders could check him, into deep
water. The suddenly and enormously in-
creased water-pressure overcame his
suit’s resistance and crammed his body
into his helmet, the only solid thing about
him, in a red, glutinous mass. That is
the one consolation of a deep-sea diver—
if air-pressure fails his is not slow death
by suffocation but an instantaneous end
as the waiting pressure of tons of ocean
crushes him to pulp.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Each summer the
rivers and coastal waters between Perth
and Bunbury swarm with crabs, and
generally the best catches are made at
Mandurah, at the mouth of the Murray.
I’ve seen them thick enough to make
swimming unpleasant. Yet, invariably
the Mandurah crabs are thin-fleshed
specimens. There may be some simple
explanation for their half-starved appear- ,
ance, but the latest catch has reminded me
that, apart from them, I’ve never seen an
ocean denizen that was not apparently
well-fed. We have fish that are as boney
as herrings or as scaly as mackerels, but
we haven’t any that are as skinny as —
the simile doesn’t exist. Either the seas
are capable of providing fully for their
inhabitants, or the struggle for existence
is such that only the very fit survive. The
oceans into which the continents are
hourly pouring vast mineral tributes may
contain an abundance of food ; yet to
our knowledge life in the depths is
hazardous. Strange, then, that such con-
ditions —food to build brain and body,
and danger to provide the evolutionary
stimulus —have produced no race or
beings comparable with earth’s civilisa-
tions. Some fish hunt, or are hunted, in
schools, and perhaps the waters are
peopled by “colonies” in which some
sort of communal spirit or obligation
•exists. But, as far as we know, there is
nowhere any urge to correspond with
man’s insatiable curiosity, or any organ-
ised attempt or desire to control the
natural, or apy other, element. The
oceans and ponds are the home of life,
The human baby, forming in its mother’s
womb, is at first a sea-animal as it
passes through the first stages on its un-
conscious march through evolution. Yet
not until life left the seas and established
itself finply on land did anything
approaching the divine spark appear. I’d
say the reason is in the stars. While man
can look up to the heavens he grows.
His fall comes when he applies his accu-
mulated knowledge to convince himself
that he is looking down on them.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Since .the advent of the
Argentine ant in Perth, any ant less than
a quarter of an inch long is classed as
a foreigner, and its presence in a house
is enough to make the owner contemplate
suicide. When the first panic subsides
he’ll probably crush a few, and the
absence of any smell will confirm his
worst fears. Perth has at least a dozen
varieties of ants about an eighth of an
inch long and about half of them don’t
smell when crushed, but we took no notice
of them until the cussed little importa-
tion came to plague us. Now, either be-
cause the foreigners are eating them out
of house and home, or because they’re
quick to follow an example, they’re in-
vading us in force. Recently traced one
swarm through the front-door, up one
wall, along a ceiling, through two doors,
and across the width of another room.
Their object? A dead spider, the rem-
nants of one whom a vicious spouse
wouldn’t tolerate and couldn’t eat. Even
the Argentinians wouldn’t have been as
hungry as that.
* « * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An Austrian pro-
fessor has demonstrated (conclusively, he
claims) that bees have a system of com-
munication by means of which a worker
may tell others about the source of the
honey it has gathered, including the
distance, direction and quantity available.
All this information is imparted in a
“dance” which the worker performs in-
side the hive. In one variation of the
dance the bee traverses a circle of about
two-cells diameter, reversing direction at
intervals of anything from a quarter of
a circle to two complete circles. This
movement indicates food close to the
hive. As the distance increases the bees
introduce a tailwagging movement, the
wagging increasing with the distance,
until, between 50 and 100 metres, the
circular dance is replaced by one in
which the bee runs in a semicircle until
opposite her starting-point, when she
runs across the circle, vigorously wagging
her abdomen, and traces the other semi-
circle in the opposite direction. The
direction of the food is indicated by the
direction of the “run” across the diameter
of the circle ; directly perpendicular, ti om
bottom to top, indicates towards the sun,
in the reverse direction away from the
sun, while to the left or right of the sun
is indicated by the inclination of the
run to the perpendicular. The bees are
quite accurate in their depiction of the
degrees right or left, and are unaffected
by sun-obscuring clouds. The distance
of the food from the hive is shoVpn by
the amount of tail-wagging in the dance
and by the length of time taken for each
complete run. The professor, with a
stop-watch, can estimate accurately the
distance a bee has returned with her load.
The bees manage quite well without the
watch.
IN THE PLANE.
Now I am borne aloft,
Now I am floating high
In the strange Cloud-Country,
The country of the sky.
The strange Cloud-Country
Roofing the earth below
Runs out to blue cloud-ranges—■
A field of curdled snow.
And pinnacles and turrets,
_ Towers pale and pencil-slim,
And frail, rose-tinted hilltops
Fashion its farthest rim.
Cloud-woven towers and turrets
And pearly peaks all seem
Cold solid things of substance,
Less figments of a dream
Than this great plane that cuts
Its ordered way through space
With a curtained window framing
My frozen, spellbound face.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


AND SCUSIDUMES.
Paid capital—
1047,
1918.
1949.
D.H-1 £2,930.776 £2,970.775 £3,«S0,0U0
Outride Intcmts*
5,978
6,867
0.664
Mortgage* ,.
79,507
79,607
44,457
Sundry creditors)
Tex reserve )
1,4(W,190
1,725,877
8*5,078
182,049
174,414
14
M
%
sundry creditors, including the bank, by
£850,119:—
DJH_A. AMD SGUSIDIAMES.
Paid capital— 1047. 1918. 1949.
D.H-A £2,930,776 £2,970,775 £3,450,01)0
Outside internets* 6,978 6,867 0,664
Mortgage* 79,607 79,607 44,457
Sundry creditors) , jon to* J l,"55,8n 876,078
| Tax reserve / 1,490,190 £ lg2( ooo 174,414
1 Freehold, plant, etc. 908,820 948,229 877,006
■ Shares, etc. .. 256,383 250,088 234.228
> %MV 9 ogs 111 1 o i!Td laB 't,.*, 17.369
-iii
paata
-
nili
Zja
m
six?
Book debts .. '9S&,22o 1,073,300 1,338.062
Gash, etc. .. 124,474 80,183 05,388
■n
Kxwjss cost sbaiKK *01,256 701,211 791,224
Goodwill, etc. 820,602 320,602 820,452
UeUa
_ _ fi-.
sundry creditors, including the bank, by
materials, especially steel, limited output
J/if) Cm\.
£850,119:—
last term, turnover increased by £302,697,
5^1
D.ILA, AND SCIISIDUJMES.
reaching £2,332,601. One of the biggest
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949.
orders received was for distance-measur-
D.H.A £2,930,776 £2,970,775 £3,450,060
Outside interests* 5,978 6,857 6,654
ing equipment valued at over half a
w.mL K.
Mortgage* 79,507 79,607 44,457
Sundry creditors) , , 0j , i 1,725,877 875,678
Tax reserve j 1,496,190 £ lg2( oo0 174,414
Freehold, plant, etc. 908,620 948,229 877,066
Shares, etc. .. 255,383 250.023 234.223
million pounds—this apparatus enables
pilots to determine actual distance of their
aircraft from aerodromes and other
«
l
L
points. Owing to the steep rise in pro-
Wt
Stocks .. .. 2,238,511 2,679,196 2,317,339
duction and other costs (research is a
55v (SU iSJliN I- J
Book debts .. 9S6,225 1,078,360 1,333.662
Gael), etc. .. 124,474 86.133 95,388
hungry item in this class of business),
i
Suspense account.. 68,763 81,224 45,804
Excess cost shares 791,256 791,214 791,224
Goodwill, etc. .. 820,60 2 220,602 8 20.4 52
• Including proportion of undistributed profits.
the gain in net earnings was only £8307.
The £98,885 of profit claimed was 23.6
p.c. on the £418,845 of capital as against
r
Stocks, the most prominent and the most
vulnerable of the assets, were reduced by
21.6 p.c. and 19.8 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The div. was kept at 12 p.c.,
Drug Houses of Australia
£161,337, and efforts are being made to
leaving nearly as much to put on the
Daoo Houses Aim Sgbsipubibs.*
Nominal
Be-
further lower the figure. Of the £260,302
shelf as was distributed.
, Dividends v
Net Pref. To £te-
Jinie, Profit, 6 p.c. Ord. serves.
growth in book debts, £125,000 was on
When the books closed £82,130 of the
tervw.t
account of disclosure of inner reserves
new capital and £96,624 of the share
£ £ £ £
1943 181,646 6000 01 p.C.= 160,890 14,656
Unexplained additions, £39,351
£
620,610
659,801
already referred to. Altogether the visible
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
premiums had come in, leaving £66,620
of capital and £78,376 of premiums to be
1944 131,369 6000 6* p.e.= 180,890 14,479
Unexplained additions, £140,028 ..
1945 179,479 6000 8 p.c = 108,019 —
674,340
714,363
689,823
surplus (£2,857,357) was £1,001,118.
Local demand for the cosmetics, per-
gathered. When that has been done paid
capital will be £567,595, oa which 12 p.c.
Added reserves, £90,626
1946 186,350 6000 6$ px.= 162.326 18,024
780,449
fumes, proprietary medicines and light
chemicals, etc., that the group turns out
will call for £30,774 less profit than was
793,473
997,733
earned last term. And the additional
1947 214,437 6000 7 p.c.= 179,808 28,631 1,026,364
seems likely to be maintained, the chair-
premium money will lift reserves (after
Unexplained additions, £C1,S71 .. 1,083,235
Profits, sale cl assets, £12,468 .. 1,100,703
194S 255,629 6000 7 p.e.= 198,164 61,475 1,152,178
man says; the possibility of appreciation
of the Australian pound in terms of
deducting intangibles) to £1,021,574, or
£453,979 in excess of paid capital. The
Share
premiums, £283,891
1,436,069
sterling has not been overlooked; and any
Government free-medicine scheme isn’t
two combined therefore need turn in only
From
Less
inner reserves, £108,4a5
tax adhistment, £3482
128 6000 7 p.e.—231,350 9,778
1,594,»24
1,591.092
4.3 p.c. to cover 12 p.c. od capital alone.
1949 247,
1,600,870
expected to adversely affect earnings.
The following comparison of balance-
* After deducting outsiders' interest. t Subject to
But the high, and still rising, level of costs,
sheet figures further reflects the all-
in tangibles.
The slip of £8501 in the latest profit of
this big holding co.—it amalgamated the
interests of half a dozen leading Aus-
tralian drug houses in 1929 — was due to a
loss of £10,470 incurred by the export
subsidiary, Drexo Pty. This offshoot,
which has failed to earn a profit since
it was formed four years ago, is to be
tsrAitnrl i«n n r*.-l IMrlilil/llinl rtf tVlP
including the burden of co. taxation, re-
mains a severe handicap to expansion of
net earnings. Plans for erection of new
laboratories, warehouses and offices in all
the capital cities have been pigeonholed
until labor and materials become avail-
able.
In the sharemarket, the f.-p. pound
ords. advanced from 39s. 3d. before the
round growth of the business: —
*' 1947. 1948. 1919.
Paid rnpiUl .. £418,845 £418.845 £660,976
Sundry creditors, etc. 626,768 1,023,358 1.074,880
Deprecation reserve 724,687 739,743 778,013
Freeholds, rte.* 525.483 064,896 05-3,396
Plant, etc.* .. 683,973 724,430 792.39S
Shares In other cvx. 130,104 158.679 162,080
Stock* .. .. 700,082 970.220 1,083,623
Bonk debts .. 440,203 634.477 687.376
Cash, etc 14,5 ta 16,465 40,050
Patents .. .. 85,811 86.811 83,811
UcUa
January 18, 1950
sundry creditors, including the bank, by
materials, especially steel, limited output
paids, 25,000 of the contribs were also
£850,119:—
last term, turnover increased by £302,697,
reaching £2,332,601. One of the biggest
taken by the parent.
>
D.H„\. AND SoiisiDiaaies,
Shareholders came into the picture
Paid capital— 10*7. 1948. 1949.
orders received was for distance-measur-
with a 6 p.c. div. in 1937, and have re-
D.H.A £2,930,776 £2,970,776 £3,450,0U0
Outside interests* 6,978 6,367 6,664
ing equipment valued at over half a
mained there, the rate being lifted to
UOltLlil
Mortgages ,. 79,607 79,607 44,467
Sundry creditors) , -on mn f 1,725,877 8*6,678
Tax reserve j 1,400,190 £ lg2( oo 0 174,414
Freehold, plant, etc. 908,620 948,229 877,066
Shares, etc, .. 266,383 250,023 234.223
million pounds—this apparatus enables
pilots to determine actual distance of their
aircraft from aerodromes and other
7 p.c. in 1940, 8 p.c. in 1946 and to 10
p.c. last term, when the return from in-
vestments alone (£6230, down £1382)
liiittlisf-■
i
1
points. Owing to the steep rise in pro-
practically covered the increased dividend
ml 1
\\mmm
Stocks .. .. 2,238,611 2,679,196 2,317,859
duction and other costs (research is a
charge. And they could sec reserves of
R f /I
kpj H
Book debts .. 9S6.226 1,078,360 1,338.662
Oaxh, ptc. 124,474 86,133 95.383
hungry item in this class of business),
£92,482, including £66,627 earmarked for
ly.'V P
1
Suspense account.. 09,768 91,224 45,804
Excess cost shares 791,256 791,214 791,224
Goodwill, etc. .. 820,60 2 320,602 8 20.4 52
• Including proportion of undistributed profits.
the gain in net earnings was only £8307.
The £98,885 of profit claimed was 23.6
p.c. on the £418,845 of capital as against
unexpired risks, to support and assist
capital.
Gross premium income, which has
vmBBSm
Stocks, the most prominent and the most
vulnerable of the assets, were reduced by
21.6 p.c. and 19.8 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The div. was kept at 12 p.c.,
more Ilian doubled since 1946, reached
£301,515 (up £58,553) last term, when
Drug Houses of Australia
£161,337, and efforts are being made to
leaving nearly as much to put on the
£134,948 (up £47,479) was reinsured,
Dnoo Houses Aim Sobsidubibs.*
Nominal
further lower the figure. Of the £260,302
shelf as was distributed.
leaving the gain in not premiums at
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. To £te-
Juue, Profit, 6 p.c. Ord. serves.
growth in book debts, £125,000 was on
When the books closed £82,130 of the
£11,074: —
aervea.t
account of disclosure of inner reserves
new capital and £96,624 of the share
Incorao Claims
£ £ £ £
1943 181,646 6000 0i p.C.= 160,800 14,656
Unexplained additions, £39,351
1944 131,369 6000 0} p.e,= 160,890 14,479
£
620,510
659,801
674,840
already referred to. Altogether the visible
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£2,857,357) was £1,001,118.
Local demand for the cosmetics, per-
premiums had come in, leaving £66,620
of capital and £78,376 of premiums to be
gathered. When that has been done paid
Premiums, lov'ts. Exes.* Outgo.
£ £ £ N.P.
1946 .. 69,220 S,3D5 47,066 70.4 p.0.
1947 .. 111,804 5,897 lOl.lOO B5.8 ,,
Unexplained additions, £140,028 ..
1945 179,479 6000 8 p.c = 108,019 —
A .nr A «rr. n O Cl ft AO A
714,363
689,823
7SO 449
capital will be £567,595, oa which 12 p.c.
will rail for f"WY774 less nrofit than was
19)8 .. 166,403 7,612 189,614 88.7 ,,
1949 .. 100,567 0,230 131,000 98.0 „
ifHO.
1017.
1048.
1940.
Paid capital
£02,600 £02.100 £02,600 i
e 03,600
Mortgage ..
—
—
6,000
6,000
Creditor* etc, ..
21.1SS
46,378
Cl ,606
77,056
Tax provirfcio
I5,6fia
6. <70
7,470
0,013
Oort. Mcaritiea..
01,602
01,662
101,503
Ondi >.■ . .
J U,342
8.201
10.212
24,832
Hbar-es other cw*.
19,326
20,600
22,162
23.152
Debtors, etc.
20.724
:
46,801
07,490
Equipment .,
1,686
1,702
3,127
4,097
Real property ..
—
23,267
40,346
40,346
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Expert Handling of X OUT Estate
may save much more than it costs
CDMPLEXITIES of legal and taxation matters,
constantly changing values of investments, amend-
ments in legislation, details of Probate and Death
Duties, all call for specialised knowledge in Estate
Administration and Property Management—knowledge
that can be acquired wily through many years of
experience.
The safety and security of your Estate are assured
when you appoint the long-established Union Trustee
Company as your Executor, Trustee, Manager or
Attorney.
Charges are moderate . . . service continuous and
comprehensive. •
You are invited to call for a confidential interview—
or write for your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated In Victoria) ' #
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney: 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The [?]
COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends * Nominal
Net Pref, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1943 181,546 6000 6i p.c.= 160,890 14,656 520,510
Unexplained additions, £39,351 .. 559,861
1944 181,369 6000 6$ p.C.= 160,890 14,479 574,340
Unexplained additions, £140,023 .. 714,363
1945 179,479 6000 8 p.c.= 198,019 689,823
Added reserves, £90,626 .. .. 780,449
1946 186,350 6000 6i p.c.= 162,326 18,024 798,473
Unexplained additions, £199,260 .. 997,733
1947 214,437 6000 7 p.c.= 179,806 28,631 1,026,364
Unexplained additions, £ 61,871 .. 1,088,235
Profits, sale of assets, £12,468 .. 1,100,703
1948 255,629 6000 7 p.c.= 198,154 51,475 1,152,178
Share premiums, £283,891 .. .. 1,436,069
Prom inner reserves, £158,455 .. 1,594,524
Less tax adjustment, £3432 ..1,591,092
1949 247,128 6000 7 p.c.=231,360 9,778 1,600,870
* After deducting outsiders’ interest. f Subject to
intangibles.
The slip of £B5Ol in the latest profit of
this big holding co. —it amalgamated the
interests of half a dozen leading Aus-
tralian drug houses in 1929 —was due to a
loss of £10,470 incurred by the export
subsidiary, Drexo Pty, This offshoot,
which has failed to earn a profit since
it was formed four years ago, is to be
wound up, and individual cos. of the
group will, in future, attend to their own
export business, which is largely with
Asiatic countries.
Sales of the remaining operating cos,
in the group increased substantially.
These cos. are:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; A. M.
Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide and
Brisbane; Felton, Grimwade and Bickford,
Ltd., Perth; Taylors, Elliotts and Austra-
lian Drug Pty., Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhamp-
ton and Townsville; L. Fairthorne and Son
Pty., Ltd., Launceston; Drug Houses of
Aus. Export, Ltd., London buyers; Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney.
But increased wage and other costs,
aggravated by the 40-hour week, just
about gobbled the gains in gross earnings
that followed the bigger trading. And
there was more capital to feed-—474,225
new £1 ords. were issued at a premium
(fixed by capital-control authorities) of
12s. 6d. each a few days before the close
of accounts in 1948.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and allowing for deprecia-
tion (£81,905, up £4253) and taxa-
tion (£164,116, down £10,292), the
£247,128 of profit claimed was enough
to pay the pref. div. (£6000) and show
7.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against 8.8, 8.1,
7.2, 7 and 7 p.c. back to 1944. The div.
was kept at 7 p.c., making average distri-
bution over the last decade 6.8 p.c.
The year’s net addition to reserves
amounted to £448,692 —£283,891 from
share premiums, £125,000 from past pro-
visions for doubtful debts, £33,455 from
undisclosed sources and £9778 from the
year’s disclosed profit, the lot less £3432
net tax adjustment. That lifted the lay-
by to £1,600,870, which is subject to
£1,111,676 of intangibles, of which
£320,452 is goodwill, etc., and £791,224
excess cost of inter-co, holdings over par
value. So the year’s net earnings might
have been better than claimed, and it is
unlikely that the cupboard where inner
reserves are kept have been left entirely
bare.
The fresh capital and share-premium
money, and more besides, was used
mainly to reduce the amount coming to
sundry creditors, including the bank, by
£850,119:
Stocks, the most prominent and the most
vulnerable of the assets, were reduced by
£161,337, and efforts are being made to
further lower the figure. Of the £260,302
growth in book debts, £125,000 was on
account of disclosure of inner reserves
already referred to. Altogether the visible
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£2,857,357) was £1,001,118.
Local demand for the cosmetics, per-
fumes, proprietary medicines and light
chemicals, etc., that the group turns out
seems likely to be maintained, the chair-
man says ; the possibility of appreciation
of the Australian pound in terms of
sterling has not been overlooked ; and any
Government free-medicine scheme isn’t
expected to adversely affect earnings.
But the high, and still rising, level of costs,
including the burden of co. taxation, re-
mains a severe handicap to expansion of
net earnings. Plans for erection of new
laboratories, warehouses and offices in all
the capital cities have been pigeonholed
until labor and materials become avail-
able.
In the sharemarket, the f.-p. pound
ords. advanced from 39s. 3d. before the
elections to 43s. last week. At the higher
figure the return is 3.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis, or 3.9 p.c. on a 7 i p.c, distri-
bution, with the possibility of share-
holders being asked for more later on.
The 6 p.c. prefs, at 30s. yield 4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £38 18s. lOd. prefs. and
22s. lid. ords.
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd,
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ &
1942.. 125,192 8 p.c. = 72,408 52,784 338,737
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 56,310 895,047
Investment reserve disclosed, £39,695 484,742
1944.. 140,300 9 p.c. = 86,697 51,603 486,845
Added investment reserve, £3,560 .. 489,905
1945.. 142,901 10 p.c. = 98,552 44,349 534,254
1946.. 143,027 8 „ „ 78,842 64,185 598,439
To reserves a/c goodwill telecom-
munications, £1,120,828 .. 1,719,267
Reserves capitalised, £1,120,828.. 598,439
Intangibles disappear, £49,067 .. 647,506
Net surplus a/e tangibles, £60,676.. 708,182
1947.. 82,959 8 p.c. = 83,508 49,451 757,638
1948.. 90,578 12 „ „ 60,261 40,317 797,950
Share premiums, £96,624 .. .. 894,574
1949.. 98,885 12 p.c. = 50,261 48,624 943,198
* After deducting intangibles, now £85,811.
When this co. sold the telecommunica-
tions section of its business to the Gov-
ernment in October, 1946 —the price was
£1,400,000, of which £1,120,828 was for
goodwill—it was left with a paid capital
of £418,845, and manufacturing plant
and other assets that have since turned in
attractive and expanding profits. To help
finance the all-round growth of activities,
350,000 new 8s. 6d. shares were issued
at a premium of 10s. each just before
the close of accounts in June last, too
late to contribute to the year’s earnings.
The wide variety of equipment turned
out can be grouped under four main
headings; (1) Used goods—broadcast
receivers, amplifiers, public - address
systems, etc.; (2) engineering lines —
broadcast transmitters, radar, F.M. modu-
lation apparatus, industrial aids, etc.; (3)
specialised lines — road - traffic signals,
navigation instruments, telephones, etc.;
(4) components for other manufacturers.
In addition the co. is interested in eight
subsidiary and associated cos. It operates
eight broadcasting stations, provides
technical services for a lot more, and
holds some 3000 patents covering radio,
radar and television.
Although shortages of power, labor and
materials, especially steel, limited output
last term, turnover increased by £302,697,
reaching £2,332,601. One of the biggest
orders received was for distance-measur-
ing equipment valued at over half a
million pounds—this apparatus enables
pilots to determine actual distance of their
aircraft from aerodromes and other
points. Owing to the steep rise in pro-
duction and other costs (research is a
hungry item in this class of business),
the gain in net earnings was only £8307.
The £98,885 of profit claimed was 23.6
p.c. on the £418,845 of capital as against
21.6 p.c. and 19.8 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The div. was kept at 12 p.c.,
leaving nearly as much to put on the
shelf as was distributed.
When the books closed £82,130 of the
new capital and £96,624 of the share
premiums had come in, leaving £66,620
of capital and £78,376 of premiums to be
gathered. When that has been done paid
capital will be £567,595, on which 12 p.c.
will call for £30,774 less profit than was
earned last term. And the additional
premium money will lift reserves (after
deducting intangibles) to £1,021,574, or
£453,979 in excess of paid capital. The
two combined therefore need turn in only
4.3 p.c. to cover 12 p.c, on capital alone.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures further reflects the all-
round growth of the business: —
Including the final div., but excluding
shareholdings, the year’s improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£709,350)
was £135,865, due to introduction of
fresh capital.
Broadcasting transmitters are now in
process of manufacture for several Aus-
tralian stations and for Singapore. The
scope of the marine section has been ex-
tended to radar, and a comprehensive
course on television is now included in
the curriculum of the co.’s wireless
school. Introduction of television, for
which no date is yet officially fixed, is
not expected to greatly reduce demand
for broadcast receivers. The co. has
already televised surgical operations in
Melbourne and Sydney. Another promis-
ing field is development of high-frequency
micro-wave relays—wireless circuits de-
signed as alternatives for physical tele-
phone and telegraph lines.
The market anticipates the future by
pricing the scrip at 32s, 6d., giving an im-
mediate return of 3.1 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div, basis. Including uncalled capital,
net tangible cover is 23s. lOd. per share.
Southern Pacific Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £> £> £>
1946 . . 8,754 8 p.c. = 5,000 3,754 44,648
To unexpired risks res., £20,557 .. 65,205
1947 .. 2,048 8 p.c. = 5,000 — 62,253
To unexpired risks res., £14,926 .. 77,179
1948 ., 8,665 8 p.c. = 5,000 8,665 80,844
To unexpired risks res., £7456 .. 88,300
1949 .. 10,432 10 p.c. = 6,250 4,182 92,482
This little 14-year-old fire, marine and
accident business is nicely,
and shareholders have the board’s assur-
ance that the co. will continue to act
cautiously in the acceptance of risks.
The co. kicked off with a paid capital
of £25,000 in f.-p. £1 shares —all taken
by W. R. Carpenter and Co. —to handle
business offering as a result of the parent’s
expanding activities in New Guinea,
N. S. Wales and Victoria. It was soon
decided to accept outside risks as well,
and in 1936 a further 75,000 £1 shares
were issued and called to 5s., and later
(in 1940) to 10s., each, thus raising paid
capital to its present figure, £62,500 in
100,000 £1 shares. Besides the fully-
paids, 25,000 of the contribs were also
taken by the parent.
Shareholders came into the picture
with a 6 p.c. div. in 1937, and have re-
mained there, the rate being lifted to
7 p.c. in 1940, 8 p.c. in 1946 and to 10
p.c. last term, when the return from in-
vestments alone (£6230, down £1382)
practically covered the increased dividend
charge. And they could see reserves of
£92,482, including £66,627 earmarked for
unexpired risks, to support and assist
capital.
Gross premium income, which has
more than doubled since 1946, reached
£301,515 (up £58,553) last term, when
£134,948 (up £47,479) was reinsured,
leaving the gain in net premiums at
£11,074: —
Claims and exes, (lumped in one omnibus
entry in the published accounts) took an
extra 66s. p.c. of the year’s net premiums.
The gross underwriting surplus was thus
£4321 lighter at £11,658. But after send-
ing £7456 (down £7470) to the reserve
for unexpired risks (making it 40 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums, which is the pro-
portion usually considered adequate), the
net surplus from underwriting was £4202
(up £3149). The return from invest-
ments lifted the amount available for dis-
tribution to £10,432 (up £1767), or 16.6
p.c. on capital as against 13.9, 3.2 and
15.6 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
Prospects of the div. being main-
tained at 10 p.c, appear bright enough,
despite uncertainty concerning motor-
vehicle and third-party risks.
The financial position is sound, and
continues to improve: —
The year’s additions of £16,153 to the
creditors item —it includes provision for
unpaid claims —and of £21,605 to debtors’
balances reflect the continued growth of
business. Shareholdings include £SOOO in
a small wholly-owned marine subsidiary,
operating in islands around New Guinea.
The market prices the lOs.-paid con-
tribs. at 30s. each, giving an immediate
return of 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
It obviously anticipates that shareholders
might be asked for, say, another ss. of
the uncalled capital in the not-too-far-
distant future. With maintenance of the
div. at 10 p.c. that would lift the yield
to 4.3 p.c. Net tangible cover is now
495. 7d. per pound of paid capital.
i
Goliath Portland Cement Cos. (Tas.)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 55,663 10,016 14.3p.c. =36,776 8,871 *2,891
1941.. 34,220 10,016 13.1 „ ~33,579 33,516
1942.. 24,250 10,016 6.3 „ ~ 15,990 81,760
1943.. 12,794 10,016 2.5 „ „ 6,396 28,142
1944.. 12,596 10,016 2.5 „ „ 6,396 24,828
1945.. 20,703 10,016 3.75 „ 9,594 1,093 25,419
1946.. 26,126 10,016 5.06 ~14,391 1. 7 ! 9 27,138
1947.. 44,361 10,016 11.1 ~ ~ 28,781 5,564 32,702
Add plant renewal res., £25,000 .. 57,702
1948.. 42,268 10,016 11.1p.c.=28,783 3,469 61,171
Add plant renewal res., £25,000 •• 86,171
1949.. 36,767 10,016 11.1p.C.=28,782 84,140
Whether profits over the last couple of
years are any better than stated depends
partly upon whether the ordinary allow-
ance for depreciation (£IO.OOO p.a.) proves
sufficient to cover actual replacement
costs, which have rocketed, like the cost
of everything else, owing to inflation.
The board doesn’t think it will, and has
therefore transferred £25,000 from taxed
profit to plant-renewal reserve (now
£50,000) before declaring the net amount
* Including proportion of undistributed profits.
*At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£778,643).
* Includes provision for taxation.


1947.
1948.
1949.
£
£
£
Paid capital..
398,926
398,926
898,926
Sundry creditors
10,405
18,890
28,476
Tax provision..
31,000
49,000
36,000
Stall funds
4,949
6,867
—
Freehold, leases.
plant, etc. ..
187,839
190,153
190,081
Stocks
90,762
116,110 136,387
Book debtB ..
62,640
84,364
89,139
Cuah, etc.
149,916 160.938
136,630
Shares in other
cos. .,
17,000
17,000
19,500
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Whether junior is going to a
new school or into a higher
class the child will do better with
a British •‘BLACKBIRD’* foun-
tain pen. It has written the
lessons of generations of school-
boys and girls right round the
globe. The "BLACKBIRD’* nib
is l4ct. gold with a hard-wearing
iridium point, giving character
to the writing. Price from all
Stores, Stationers and Jewellers,
only 19/9,
In mottled
Blue, Grey
and Pink.
‘BLACKBIRD’
made by the
‘Swan’Pen People
MABIE, TODD & CO.
OUST.) PTf. LIU., SYDNEY
l/120
HOUSE FOR SALE
Pymble, N.S.W.
Two-storey residence, choice elevated
position, bush setting, comprising
lounge, dining, kitchen, etc., 4 bed-
rooms, tiled bathroom, shower recess,
h.w.s., maid’s room, etc. Brick
garage, workshop. Sewered. About
li acres. Excellent locality. Few
minutes P.L.C. and golf. V.P.
Price, £9OOO.
E. G. STEVENS.
60 Pymble Avenue. JX3423.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Incorporated in England by Royal Charter 1835 .
&
3
&
/835
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 12. 1949
To be presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting to be held on
Thursday, 26th January, 1950.
LIABILITIES. £ £
Capital Authorised and Issued—
-900,000 Shares of £5 each, fully
paid 4,500,000
(There is under the Charter a
reserve liability of the Pro-
prietors of £5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund 2,500,000
Profit and Loss Account Balance.. 384,221
„ x 7,384,221
Notes in Circulation ... .. 2,621
Currency Depreciation Provision
and Reserve 2,000,000
Current, Deposit, and other Ac-
counts, including Bills Payable
and Drafts in Transit, reserves
and provisions for contingen-
cies and taxation 110,129,736
Amount due to Subsidiary Com-
pany 600
Dividend payable 27th January,
1950, less Income Tax .. .. 136,125
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra 1,283,617
118,552,599
Contingent Liabilities—
-120,936,820
Forward Exchange Contracts, Outstanding
Credits, Guarantees, and other Engagements
on behalf of Customers, as per contra .. 16,449,696
NOTES—
(I) Full provision has been made for Taxa-
tion in Australia, New Zealand, and the
United Kingdom on Profits to date.
(2) Assets and Liabilities in Australia and
New Zealand are Included at the par
rates of exchange. The Currency depre-
ciation provision covers the net difference
which would have arisen had they been
converted at the rates ruling at the date
of the Balance Sheet, viz., Australia
£125/10/- to £lOO Sterling, and New
Zealand £lOl to £lOO Sterling, These
Assets amount to £A101,414,729 and
£NZ22,550,945, and the Liabilities to
£A93,069,580 and £NZ19,310,863.
(3) Forward Exchange Contracts were not
included in the Contingent Liabilities
at 13th October, 1948.
On behalf of the Court,
G. O. GIBBS, Chairman.
P. NESBITT, Director.
£187,386,616
ASSETS, £
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes and Bank
Balances 13,861,068
Money at Call and Short Notice
Investments at or under Market Values—
Quoted in Great Britain: £
British Government Securities .. 2,009,939
Other Securities 202,170
Quoted outside Great Britain:
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities 3,518,437
Other Securities 143,155
Unquoted Investments
Tax Reserve Certificates ..
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia 29,441,000
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit.. 9,086,392
Advances to Customers (less provision for
Doubtful Debts) and other Accounts .. .. 59,361,260
Liability of Customers for Acceptances, as per
contra 1,283,617
£119,876,638
Fixed Assets—• £
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, and London,
at Cost, less amounts written off 1,059,682
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company, at Cost 500
1,060,182
120,936,820
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at
any time and has made neither profit nor
loss. Its only asset is a deposit of £5OO with
this Bank.)
Liability of Customers and others on Forward
Exchange Contracts, Outstanding Credits,
Guarantees, and other Engagements, as per
contra 16,449,696
2,212,109
3,661,592
741,910
227,700
G. O. COWAN, Manager.
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS
We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were
necessary for the purposes of our audit. In our opinion, proper books of account have been kept so far as appears
from our examination of those books. We have not visited the Branches in Australia and New Zealand, but proper
returns adequate for the purposes of our audit have been received therefrom. We have examined the above Balance
Sheet and annexed Profit and Loss Account which are in agreement with the books of account and returns. In our
opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us the said accounts in-
cluding the particulars concerning the Subsidiary Company, give, in the manner required, the information required of a
banking company by the Companies Act, 1948; as authorised thereby the accounts do not show the aggregate amount
of reserves, the movement thereon and the market value of investments. On this basis in our opinion the Balance
Sheet gives a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Bank and its subsidiary company as at 12th October,
1949, and the Profit and Loss Account gives a true and fair view of the profit for the period from the 14th October,
1948, to the 12th October, 1949.
London, Bth December, 1949. DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, from October 14, 1948, to October 12, 1949
(Expressed in Sterling.)
£
To Interim Dividend paid 30th September, 1949,
at the rate of 3J per cent, actual, less
Income Tax at 9/- in the £ 86,625
„ Final Dividend payable 27th January, 1950, at
the rate of 5$ per cent, actual, less
Income Tax at 9/- in the £ .. .. .. .. 186,126
„ Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet.. 884,221
£606,971
By Profit for the period after payment
of all expenses (excluding Directors’
fees), providing for taxation on
profits earned to date and making
transfers to reserves and provisions
for contingencies, out of which
accounts provision has been made
for any diminution in value of
assets 290,704
„ Less Directors’ Fees 12,414
Balance brought forward from October, 1948..
278,290
828,681
£606,971
ESTABLISHMENT IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND:
General Manager for Australasia .. .. A. R. 1
Manager at Sydney
(The liability of the members is limited.)
WILTSHIRE
F. HASSETT
%fu™ e J° r
aims fl nrnF°t cy ’ , rl^ tls [
interests correct lol then
the Government is SSSIv tax*
is acmany tax-
mg capita! as well as profit,-
which is thoroughly bad in both
principle and practice.
After making the allowances
just referred to, and setting aside
£30,481 (down £18,519) for the
taxgatherer, last term’s profit was
put at £36,767 (down £5501).
inat was enough to pay the pref.
2%< a a « Sh f 0W i 0 p c ', on the
was kept at 11 1 pc thoush it
called fnr fVoi i
than was clawed
indii was claimed.
The drop in net earnings was
due to the continued rise in
wage and other costs, which has
not been arrested yet, though
hopes are that it will be when
the new Government gets into
its stride. Plant worked to near-
capacity. The new asbestos-
cement factory, alongside the
cement works, is experiencing a
strong demand for its products,
but what amount, if any, it con-
tributed to the year’s profit isn’t
mentioned.
Few industries enjoy a more
satisfactory outlook than cement
at the moment. The heavy con-
sumers of the stuff —large-scale
public works, commercial build-
ings, flats, etc. —are not yet at
the head of the queue of appli-
cants. And a large programme
of public works has been
planned, much of it as an anti-
dote to unemployment when the
economic climate changes. The
co. enjoys a virtual monopoly
of the trade in its home State,
and its 100,000-ton-per-annum
plant is an efficient and moder-
ately capitalised unit, alongside
good shale, clay and limestone
deposits at Latrobe (Tas.), with
comparatively cheap hydro-
electric power available. Net
earnings will be governed largely
by what happens in connection
with the price-costs structure.
Selling prices are still controlled.
The co, is well-shod financi-
ally;—
The year’s addition to stocks (up
£20,277) partly reflects the
growth of the asbestos-cement
section. Latest addition to share-
holdings (up £2500) is 25,000 £1
shares, on which 2s. was paid
when the books closed, in the
recently - formed North Aus-
tralian Cement Co. (Townsville),
a half-million-pound proposition
in which Queensland Lime and
Cement and Adelaide Steam are
also interested. It will be a.
few years before the new co. gets
into production; meanwhile
shareholders are to get bond in-
terest (3| p.c.) on subscribed
capital. Before the war Goliath
figured prominently in the
North Australian market.
On ’Change the f.-p. 13s. 4d.
ords. are priced at 33s. (34s. 3d.
a year ago), giving a return of
4.4 p.c. on the basis of last term’s
distribution. The 7 p.c. pound
prefs. at 31s. yield 4.5 p.c. In-
cluding plant-renewal reserve,
net tangible cover is 67s. 6d,
prefs, and 17s. 9d. ords.
Emperor (Fiji)
For the year to June 30 last, 1
the Emperor Gold Mining Cos.,
Tavua field- (Fiji), netted
£67,735 (up £17,391), equal to
15.1 p.c, on capital of Emperor
Mines, Ltd., the holding co.
through which the public is in-
terested, The profit was struck
after allowing for depreciation
(£44,411, up £25,920), develop-
ment (£13,028, down £13,090)
and taxation (£37,406, up £7786),
Though the mill treated 8782
fewer tons ore, there was an in-
crease of I.l3dwt. in head value,
and finer grinding and more effi-
cient plant control lifted re-
covery to 90.7 p.c, as against
87.2 p.c. in the previous term,
thus increasing gold production
by 38240 z.:
r- Gold x
Treated, Head Re- Silver
Ore, Value, covered. Recov’d,
tons. dwt. fine oz. fine oz.
1946. .149,155 7.36 48,795 12,845
1947.. 138,760 8.73 56,632 18,679
1948.. 148,370 7.76 55,417 19,?00
1949. .189,588 8.89 59,241 17,004
Underground sulphides provided
about half the feed, the other
half coming from the opencut,
P^ able . ore j s <&***
1° exhausted within' the next
four years at current rate of ex-
traction
t- , * . , . . ,
Excluc * m g depreciation, de-
velo P™ ent taxation, costs
by 2s ‘ , d -» re f cbing 49s ’
at< ? n> due mai r t 0 wa S e "
hits, higher price of stores, etc,,
and use of inexperienced labor.
Positive ore reserves were put
at 1,025,000 tons (up 125,000
ine mine is opening up nicely
underground, where encouraging
results have been disclosed of
vine a a omi n i o „ o ic tu.
' No ®‘ 4 Air ‘ i e - L S i ® ew
?*“ <W t" a . Ce shaft
bdow S No 10 level and°should
P® . w iNO, an " should
m operatlon before the open-
cut is worked out. Further,
chum drillholes have indicated
some high-grade ore just outside
the known Emperor ore-bodies
at denths nf fmm
at aeptfts ot from 230 ft. to 680 ft.
Por this reason the northern ex-
tension of No. 7 level is con-
s id er ed of “major importance.”
The rise in the price of gold will
bring a lot of hitherto marginal-
g rac j e ore within payable limits
and give eam i n gs a boost too
r™, '
dI J* I ®^t, T
rate of AustS
“™^ nd a of s re
/rcji /w\\ j * t
(£571,000), reducing paid capital
to £3B2 > 800 in f -P- 4s. shares,
and hones to return a further
1 )( , m n . a further 3 s.
a sh f re (f , 2 „ 87 ,- 100 >. d “ n , n 8 195 °-
monwealth bond* ? and * r*" 0 . m "
monwealth bonds and cash, etc.,
totalling £176,010 against out-
side liabilities of £lB os? Thf>
market prices the ’ serin at
13s. Sd. fl2s 9d a yfarV)
thus valuing the undertaking at
£1 411 662
z.
. * * *
After a two-year drought.
shareholders in London-con-
trolled South Kalgurli, operating
at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), got an
i nter i m 6d. (stg.) per ss. share
last mon th, thanks to the lift in
the price of gold in September
Over the last iwoTears
»g* ~^
before that annual distributions
ls 3d h Divs
declared are to English
dre i>UD J ect 10 *mgusn
income tax 0 f q s j n t h e £. The
price of the scrip has advanced
?° m S ‘ Bd ‘ 17s ‘ 6d - in tbe
Australian market over the last
three months.


<y)
Jl
p
f
filtf O b
V
A ...
19
w- 1
p
; /
| j|||| -
ill
V.... :
Sr.
CAPSTAN
"~J-Le a <= ~}avoutc<L d'L^zettc
X754D-6.40 ________
Business. Rollery. Etc.
What Happens Now?
To the speculative mind there
is a wide field for thought at
this juncture of the world’s, and
particularly Australia’s, history.
How much closer to full
productivity are we than a year
ago? How much longer will it
take for enterprise to loosen up
and become fully competitive
again in countries of the British
Commonwealth? Is the time
approaching when there will be
sufficient incentive for the
majority of citizens to get back
to diligent work again, as con-
trasted with the present condi-
tion of things where manage-
ments are preoccupied with prob-
lems of form-filling for Gov-
ernments, struggling against pin-
pricking trade-union tactics,
paying crushing taxation and in
; many cases failing to get a
reasonable effort from their
working staffs?
To many, minds the past 10
years have been wasted years in
Australia. These minds are
usually those of people possessed
1 with the idea of pioneering new
industries or new areas, de-
veloping basic industries and
transport services on a much
greater scale, exploiting our
rural, mineral and marine re-
sources, establishing new finan-
cial facilities, expanding export
trade, and seeing to it that Gov-
ernments do their proper job on
the public-works side —build the
dams, construct the roads, pro-
vide facilities for research and
geological exploration.
Certainly we have been stag-
nating for several years. We
have made very little real in-
dustrial progress since 1939. The
country has been subject to an
upheaval wherein the private
individual and firm have had
little say in the plotting of their
economic courses ; the State has
done that for them, and the em-
phasis has been on output of
consumer goods rather than
national development; even at
that the output of goods has not
satisfied consumer demand. The
nation, willingly or not, has been
more interested in distribution,
or redistribution, than in produc-
tion. We have been living on
past thrift, on past tooling-up
and working at a rate that must
inevitably bring us a lower
standard of living unless we
change our general attitude,
First production problem to
overcome is that of coal. We
must have more coal to provide
us with industrial power, as well
as fuel and power for rail and
shipping services. Industry can-
not function at even its present
inadequate level of full plant
capacity unless we get more coal.
An increase of at least 50 p.c. in
coal output is required over the
next five years. This must be
one of the first responsibilities
of the Menzies Government,
more particularly so if a Liberal
Government is returned to power
at the N. S. Wales elections to-
wards the middle of this year.
Both the Federal and N. S.
Wales Governments have a diffi-
cult task ahead of them in clear-
ing the way for the getting of
adequate coal-supplies for the
whole of the Commonwealth.
But until the required coal is
forthcoming this country will
still cut the figure of a maimed
or hobbled man unable to make
full use of his property.
Given enough coal annually,
and enough manpower, the steel
industry should quickly revive ;
it is possible to lift iron and steel
output by half as much again
as it is now without adding to
plant. During the war output
at Newcastle, Port Kembla and
Whyalla was almost 50 p.c.
higher than it was last year,
A steadily-increasing flow of
basic iron and steel would effect
a revolutionary change on con-
struction activity generally. So
accustomed have we become to
the Communist-created shortage
of coal, steel and shipping facili-
ties that few people realise the
industrial potentialities which
“I still think you can overdo this incentive-payment
business."
done quickly, there are many
reactions to be allowed for ; and
if one of the first moves of the
new Government is to revalue
the pound, then it must follow
that, for a while, it will be harder
to grant tax concessions.
Capital Issues Freed
The first act of the Menzies
Government in its policy of
making economic conditions
freer was the lifting, last Friday,
exist right at hand if fewer than
100,000 trade-unionists make up
their minds to do a fair day’s
work for fair pay and stop in-
dulging in wanton and petty in-
dustrial warfare. With more
coal it would be comparatively
easy to raise the output of wire,
wire - netting, galvanised - iron,
piping, structural steel, etc., as
well as cement, bricks, tiles and
other building and structural
materials.
The economic observer will be
wise to watch coal-output figures
in making any assessment of
our progress towards a virile and
expanding economy, and the pre-
requisite to increased coal out-
put will be adequate control of
the Communist party, the de-
velopment of opencut mining,
and the mechanisation of some
existing deep pits. But none of
these things can be done in a
hurry.
Enough has been said on
the production side of things to
open up many lines of thought.
The financial conditions are also
of great importance. It is not
yet known whether the Menzies-
Fadden Ministry will present a
revised Budget after Parliament
meets; again it is difficult to
act in a hurry here, pie new
Government has promised en-
dowment to cover the first child,
and this will cost a large sum.
What Budget economies are con-
templated is not known, but
there are ample opportunities,
especially in the’ civil service,
notably on the “temporary”
side. Private enterprise could
absorb many thousands of these
Government employees, especi-
ally if greater coal supplies are
forthcoming.
The Federal Budget, State
Budgets, overall taxation, the
general level of productivity,
overseas prices and the exchange
rate all have a bearing on the
vital problem of our internal
costs and prices. Obviously the
whole economy would benefit if
non-productive civil servants
were put in jobs that helped pro-
duction rather than hindered it,
and lower costs of government
would make tax-reductions more
likely. Lower taxes would give
the whole population an incen-
tive to work harder.
The bringing of the Australian
pound to parity or thereabouts
with sterling would tend to curb
both costs and prices in Aus-
tralia, but it would also reduce
the various Governments’ taxa-
tion-raising potential. Though
there is little doubt that the Aus-
tralian pound should be re-
valued, and that it were best
of capital-issue controls. Im-
mediately prior to removal of
the ban it was illegal for a com-
pany to raise more than £25,000
in any two years without special
consent from the Treasury, and
during the war the restriction
was even tighter than that. It
has been necessary also to ob-
tain approval for the placing of
preference shares to any amount,
and there has been restriction
on the rate of interest offerable
on pref. shares.
Even under capital-issues con-
trol there has been a vast in-
crease in the amount of capital
raised by public companies since
the end of the war. In the
five years to the end of 1939
the amount of new funds
raised by share issues in Aus-
tralia was £24.5 million. During
the six war years (to the end of
1945) the figure was £12.8 mil-
lion. In the four years 1946-
1949 (inclusive) a total of £ll6
million has been raised, the
amount for 1949 being a record
at £46.4 million. It included big
issues by Broken Hill Proprietary
and Courtaulds. One concern
that had a great deal of trouble
in getting permission from the
Chifley Government to raise
more capital was the Henry
Jones fruit-preserving concern.
It will be in the clear now.
Apparently companies will
henceforth be free to make
bonus issues to shareholders. To
what extent this can be done
and at the same time taxation
avoided (which is only fair
where a writing-up of assets is
involved) is not clear in all
cases. But the inflation that has
taken place in the cost of build-
ing present-day factories makes
old assets appear at a ridicu-
lously low figure in the books
of long-established companies,
and it may be desirable, from
the relative dividend-earning
point of view, to bring the book
figure at which old assets appear
up to something more like post-
war values. In the 1920’s this
was usually done too soon and
with a too-optimistic mind. But
there will be grounds, in the
case of a number of Australian
companies, for a prudent re-
valuation of assets in the light
of inflation in costs and prices
that seems bound, to stay. It is
not suggested that assets should


This Is an abridgement of a prospectus dated 16tb January, 1950,
a full copy of which has been filed with, and can be inspected at
the office of, the Registrar-General in New South Wales and Victoria,
and the Registrar of Companies in South Australia, Queensland,
Western Australia and Port Moresby.
OIL SEARCH
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Papua 17th January, 1929)
% ’ <
AUTHORISED
CAPITAL
£2,500.000
ISSUED
CAPITAL
£1,207.544
PAID-UP
CAPITAL
£1,204,916
ISSUE OF 2,100,000 SHARES
OF 5'- EACH AT PAR
Payable If- per share on application and the balance by
calls of not less than If- at intervals of not less than one
month. Applications from existing shareholders have
priority.
DIRECTORS
W. A. FREEMAN, Solicitor, 19 Kent Bd., Bose Bay (Chairman)
E. F. GRIFFIN, Managing Director, 18 Kent Bd., Bose Bay
A, J. GIBSON. Consulting Engineer, 59 Pine St., Cammeray
W. D, WHARTON, Company Director, 38 Wentworth Bd., Vaucluse
H. G. FOXAIX, Surveyor, 25 James St., Chatswood
NOEL WALKEB, Accountant, IS Elston Ave., Dentstone
SECRETARY AND SYDNEY OFFICE
Noel Walker, AJPJL (N.Z.), A.C.1.5., 350 George Street.
Sydney
SOLICITORS
Laurence & Laurence, 42-44 Martin Place, Sydney
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE
Philip Pring & 00., Q.N. Bank Chambers, Cnr. Pitt & Hunter
Sts., Sydney. (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
HOLDINGS OF THE COMPANY
Oil Search Ltd., through Its
wholly owned subsidiary Nomina-
ted Holdings Pty. Ltd., is one
of the three shareholders of
Australasian Petroleum Co. Pty.
Ltd., which is conducting a large
scale search for oil
In Papua, New
Guinea. The other
two shareholders in
Australasian Petro-
leum Co. are
D’Arcy Exploration
00. Ltd. of London
(which is a wholly
owned subsidiary of
Anglo-Iranlan Oil
Co. Ltd.) and
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty.
Ltd. Oil Search
Ltd. is thus linked
With two of the
md&t powerful oil
Organisations in the
world in a project
of the highest im-
portance to every Australian.
OPERATIONS IN NEW GUINEA
Survey work In the Company’s
permit areas In Papua has re-
vealed geological features favour-
able for the accumulation of
oil, and Australasian Petroleum
Co. is engaged in test drilling
the more promising structures.
Drilling is in progress at Hohoro
and Upoia, and is about to be
commenced at Malalaua and
Wana.
The known petroliferous nature
of the country and the favour-
able geological features mark
these areas as a highly promis-
ing field for oil search. It is
known that geologically a con-
siderable tirea of the island of
New Guinea is an integral part
of the so-called “Malaysian Arc,”
which includes the prolific oil-
fields
Borneo,
Java
and
Sumatra, and the more recently
discovered fields in Netherlands
New Guinea.
Australasian Petroleum Co. is
well equipped for the task of
conducting an exhaustive search
•to.
PAPUA
Locality of drilling operations. Map does
not form part of prospectus.
for oil. Some Idea of the magni
tude of the operations of the
company will be gained from
the fact that over 400 Europeans
and 2,000 native labourers are
employed. Overseas advisers,
Dr. G. M. Lees. Chief Geologist
of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., and
Dr. B. O. Winkler, Assistant
Exploration Manager and Chief
Geophysicist of Standard
Vacuum Oil Co., have recently
Inspected the operations and
expressed themselves as very
satisfied with the progress.
PURPOSE OF THE NEW ISSUE
The proceeds of the new issue
of shares by Oil Search Ltd. are
to be used to acquire additional
shares in Australasian Petroleum
Co., amounting in all to 487,272
shares of £1 each, and to provide
additional working capital.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES
Any member of the pnblio may subscribe to this issue of shares by
Oil Search Ltd. subject to the right of existing shareholders to
priority of allotment of 1,200,000 shares. Applications for shares
must be upon one of the forms of application which are attached
to a printed copy of the full prospectus or the circular to share-
holders. Although the requirements of Sect. 137 of the Companies
Act, 1936, have not been fully complied with, copies of the full
prospectuses and' application forms may be obtained from the
following: (1) from the brokers for the issue; Philip Pring & Co.,
Q.N. Bank Chambers, Cnr. Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney; (2)
from Members of the Stock Exchanges throughout Australia; or (3)
from the office of Oil Search Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney.
Applications for shares will be received only on the form referred
to and accompanying the printed copy of the full prospectus,
CLOSING DATE, 27th February, 1950
The Directors reserve the right to close the issue earlier.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoecb.
TO WILLIAM SKERRY late of 311
Botany Street Kingsford.—T A K E
NOTICE that EMMA SKERRY has filed
Petition No. 4083 of 1949 praying for a
divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 27th February 1950
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE, Solicitor,
66 King Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
r'
%
K
3d
V
yr
m
\
Over 400,000 acres under fruit
cultivation in Australia provide
healthy food for the nation and
permit exports valued at from
six to ten million pounds annually.
Fruit growing, processing, canning,
preserving and exporting
are all fostered by the
Bank of New South Wales*
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
* A4940D
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
\ X
i r>
9
m
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
be revalued at present standards
of costs. It is always desirable
to have financial strength that
does not show in the balance-
sheet. But where asset figures,
become grossly misleading the
dividend rate is inclined to be-
come politically embarrassing
simply for the reason that it is
shown as a percentage on a
smaller amount of shareholders’
funds than is really employed in
earning dividends-
So far there has been no hint
that the Menzies Government
proposes to relax its control over
interest rates. These represent
a much greater problem, but
there is no doubt that the pre-
vailing cost of money is too low
by other standards. People who
invested money 12 years ago in
Commonwealth loans are get-
ting a very low return on their
funds now. But they would not
benefit by a lift in interest rates,
The increase would only come
to new lenders until old loans
fell due for conversion at the
new rates. In the meantime
higher interest rates on new
loans would cause a fall in
Stock Exchange prices for the
old.
Costs and Prices
The prices-and-costs situation
is still a matter for profound
thought by many thousands of
Australians. It sets questions for
any prudent businessman, in-
vestor or prospective property-
owner. People hoping to buy
land, a home, a car, a small or
large rural property, especially
if is necessary for them to
borrow money in order to com-
plete the transaction, are vitally
concerned about the future of
prices.
Two things are exercising a
strong influence over prices in
Australia. One is the rise in
wages in relation to static or
falling production ; the other is
the level of overseas prices that
are being paid for our chief ex-
ports—wool, wheat, metals and
dairy produce. Our export in-
come not only encourages high
prices to be paid for rural
properties; it inflates the
national income, increases
spending and tends to raise
arbitration-court wages that are
based on “the capacity of in-
dustry to pay.”
One of the things that would
tend to stabilise all prices in
Australia would therefore be an
increase in all industrial output
following an improvement in
production per man per week,
beginning with coal. Another,
equally obviously, would be a
drop in overseas prices tor our
ex P°rts. But whilst an improve-
™ent in man-hour output would
have the desirable ettect or
bringing down costs as well as
prices, without that production
improvement a fall in our ex-
P ort mcome would be embarras-
sin § to th « ext ® n t that mternal
P™r e S mi §bt tall, m some cases,
while production costs continued
t 0 . nse » which would create
serious problems tor me less-
r°bust classes of industry,
If the exchange rate on Lon-
don is brought to parity, or
thereabouts, there would be an
automatic readjustment in the
prices received in Australian
currency for exports and the
costs paid in Australian cur-
rency for imports. Taken as a
whole, the wool, wheat and
metal-mining industries (bar
goldmining) could well stand the
20 p.c. reduction in export
prices that a return to parity
with sterling would imply. And
the cost of imports paid for by
all classes would be correspond-
ingly lower.
Before Britain devalued sterl-
ing from $4.03 to the
pound to $2.80 the Australian
pound was worth $3.20. Now
it is worth $2,24. If we returned
to parity with sterling it would
be worth $2.80 —still consider-
ably below the parity of five
months ago. While The Bulle-
tin opposed the idea of an
Australian pound that assumed
a dollar value of $4.03, it con-
siders the present $2,24 much
too low, and parity with sterling
would not bring the figure up to
more than $2.80.
At present there are rumors
in the motor trade that a return
to parity with sterling is im-
minent. They may be baseless,
but already there have been
many cancellations of orders for
British cars pending some defi-
nite Government statement on
the matter. Provided Australian
agents passed on to customers
all the benefit derived from ap-
preciation of our pound to parity
with sterling, a car that now
costs £lOOO would henceforth
cost £BOO. But, of course, stocks
on hand or paid for and on the
water would have to be sold at
their old price unless the dealer
was to suffer a heavy loss.
Price-fixing authorities in such
a case would probably set a
time-limit for the unloading of
these stocks at old prices.
Then again production costs
abroad may not have ceased
rising, and there may have to be
a compromise in any price-
adjustments ; but the whole
British Commonwealth is en-
deavoring to lower production
costs, and Britain may be near
the point of achieving something
of the kind. At any rate, out-
put of both coal and steel in
Britain has reached record levels.
But a stabilising of costs in
Australia will still, as indicated,
depend principally upon results
of our own efforts to increase
output. If productivity of
property can be increased and
costs lowered it does not mean
that the value of productive
property will necessarily fall;
but houses should cease to soar
in price, and ancient cottages
may become rapidly depreciating
assets from an investment point
of view. The trend of our
general productivity over the
next year or two will be interest-
ing to watch.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
There wasn’t even table-tennis in the
Lady Mayoress’s rooms the other after-
noon when American tennis stars Doris
Hart and Louise Brough were entertained
by Sydney’s Lord Mayor O’Dea and his
Mayoress. But the girls showed no sign
of disappointment. After all, their prac-
tice sessions since their arrival had been
more than strenuous. On the Saturday
previous the two had played at Albury,
made the night journey by train to Syd-
ney and then on the Sunday morning,
practically with the crack of dawn, they
.were at the White City getting into their
routine.
The two girls make attractive con-
trasts. Doris is slim and dark and
Louise is fair. They have ease of manner
and soft speaking voices. They both
adore South America, where they have
played, and they both admitted to feel-
ing a bit tensed-up over their coming
matches on last Friday and Saturday,
but eagerly looked forward to a Sunday
morning’s yachting. Noted was Louise’s
watch bracelet —very new in style,
gold and hinged. Present, were former
international tennis-player Mrs. Roland
Conway and Thelma Long, who, on her
doctor’s advice, had to withdraw from
her matches against the American girls,
her place being taken by Joyce Fitch.
Bryan Fuller, K.C., was another guest.
Manly’s Mardi Gras, which will put
the waterfront village in festive mood and
decoration from Friday next to January
30, will be enlivened by a Mardi Gras
queen contest. The girl who is selected
as queen by the judges will win a free re-
turn trip to U.S. by B.C.P.A. After that
will come what has always seemed to this
writer the most interesting way to
travel across America —a journey by
greyhound-bus to New Orleans in time
for that lovely city’s Mardi Gras.
Dr. J. P. Baxter and Mrs. Baxter
and family have very comfortable
and bright quarters waiting for them
in Sydney. They will occupy Mrs.
Bernard Muscio’s flat in Elizabeth
Bay during her stay in England.
Dr. Baxter, who has been research-
director with 1.C.1., comes to Australia
as professor of chemical engineering at
the N.S.W. University of Technology.
The professor’s work during the war was
very important. In current jargon he
was a “backroom boy.” Family arrived
in Orcades last Monday.
Weekend engagement interesting to
Killara and Clifton Gardens was that of
Betty Mclntosh, only daughter of the
M. W. Mclntoshes, of Clifton Gardens,
and Alastair Macdonald, only son of the
A. G. Macdonalds, of Killara.
Abbotsleigh Old Girls’ dance has a
very farseeing committee. Although the
dance this year will not take place before
April 24, a large committee had been
formed before Christmas. The next
meeting will be on January 31 at the
Girls’ Secondary Schools Club. The
president of the committee is Carol Rule-
Taylor, secretary Jane Wolff, treasurer
Barbara Campbell. Committee-members
include Margaret Salenger, Robin Mc-
Phillamy (last year’s senior prefect),
Margaret Boxhall, Jennifer Ormsby,
Margaret Gustafson. All of the commit-
tee are arranging preliminary functions to
aid the success of the dance.
Whales’ teeth and publishers, black
cockatoos in screaming flight (that was
from one of the poems of Roland Robin-
son read by its author), overseas writers,
among them Hope Stanton, and popular-
science writers, our own Mr. McEwan
among them, were gathered in the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers one night last
week. Australian drama was there
represented by Maie Hoban, and from
the walls portraits of Rod Quinn, Henry
Lawson and other of our immortals
decorated with green fern looked on.
There were, in addition, a hundred or
more Australian writers who, so far
without the aid of British or American
publishers, have managed to eat three
meals a day and sleep fairly soft.
The gu6st of the night was British
publisher Michael Joseph. Michael is a
nice, slim, dark man, with a twinkle in
his eye and voice. He talked on what
makes a best seller, and in the end just
seemed to come to the conclusion that
we all do, and that is “you never can
tell.” He told of writers like the author
of How Green Was My Valley, who be-
came a best seller with his first book, and
of the delightful C, S. Forester and H. E.
Bates, who had many novels published
only reaching the 2000 to 5000 sales
before they leaped into popularity, Any-
way, even if you have got past the stage
of regarding British publishers as
Olympians and know that they are only
hard-headed businessmen, do remember
that Michael Joseph was the man who
decided to give Gallico’s Snow Goose to
the reading world.
“Does it ever happen, Mr. Joseph,”
asked a listener, “that someone says,
‘Now there is a publisher who is a
genius’?” Michael said he had never
heard such a remark. The whole affair
was very matey, and president Muir Hol-
burn was in the chair. The lady carrying
the whale’s tooth showed her treasure,
and at the back of the hall Roland Robin-
son sold his books. The Fellows smoked
cigarettes and sipped sherry. In the days
of Lawson and Rod Quinn, no doubt,
it would have been casks of beer, pipes
and cheese.
Here is the newest photograph of Ann
Berryman, only daughter of Lieut.-
General Berryman, G.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand, and Mrs. Berryman. Ann and
Bill Wills, of the well-known Adelaide
family, recently announced their engage-
ment. The wedding will take place about
the middle of the year, but no definite
date has been set. Norton Trevaire
photograph.
For a few weeks every year the theatre
in every city of the world becomes a
children’s playground. Pantomime reigns
with its magic and good fairies who spoil
the wicked plans of the evildoers. These
summer holidays have been rich in such
entertainment. The Tivoli, the Minerva
and the Palace are all running plays for
children from four to forty and onwards.
The Palace is packed twice daily with
youngsters, their parents and loving aunts
watching the story of “Red Riding
Hood.” The Palace version is a free trans-
lation of the fairy-tale, but the youngsters
eat it up.
The Dame (Reg Quartley) is really
funny. Two of his cracks: “Mar-
vellous to be a hen and have every-
body chasing me for my output.”
And again when the wicked squire re-
marks “What a horrible face.” “Yes, but
it’s not really mine. I’m trying it out for
somebody else.” Businessmen taking the
afternoon off with their youngsters sang
heartily with Jack Gunn’s pealing bells,
and clapped as loudly as the children
when requested to do so by the Dame.
Mrs. Gladys Crawford, of Warrawee,
was the hostess at an afternoon-party to
say farewell to Margaret Gillespie, also
of Warrawee, and known as one of this
city’s most ardent music enthusiasts. No
more harmonious spot in Sydney could
have been found than the drawing-room
of the Royal Empire Society during this
tea-drinking. Margaret wore a frock of
cool blue-and-white-printed silk. Fellow-
traveller in the Orcades, Mrs, Bernard
Muscio, wore a trig suit of thin navy
crepe. Mrs. Muscio’s journey is not alto-
gether a happy one, for she goes to Eng-
land principally to visit a sister slowly re-
covering from an illness. Travelling also
in Orcades is Mrs. Neville Cardus. Mrs.
Ellis, Mrs. Roy Henty, Mrs, Merewether
and Gwen Aldis were a group hob-
nobbing over the literature of music.
Gwen and Margaret are arrang-
ing quite a music library. Mrs.
Alan Foott, whose new book is just about
to be published by a Sydney publishing
house, was another at the party.
Captain Sydney Foulkes, of the Bris-
bane Star, married his Ellen Armstrong
in St. Stephen’s Church, Macquarie-
street, last Wednesday afternoon. The
Brisbane Star was moored out in stream
off Double Bay, so while the skipper was
ashore being wed the Chief Officer, Mr,
Bowie, had to remain on board. How-
ever, the whole wedding party returned
to the ship for the reception, so the Chief
Officer was in the picture after all. The
bride is an ex-Army nurse whose home
was in Cheshire, England.
From Melbourne
Anna Bethell’s production of “The
Yeomen of the Guard” is as good Gil-
sullivan as has been seen in Melbourne,
with quite a slice of the success due to
Helen Roberts’s Elsie and Marjorie
Eyre’s Phcebe. Ivan Menzies and Helen
Roberts especially delighted the audience
with their singing of “I Have a Song to
Sing O.” In the first night’s audience
was Mrs. Frank Tait, who allied black
crepe skirt with wide-meshed net top.
Mrs, Victor Letcher was also in
black. Mrs. Ross Grey Smith’s gown of
black velvet was slim and graceful with
a deep V neckline both back and front.
Mrs. Maurice Johnson, of Perth, wore a
gown of cornflower-blue crepe which had
silver-sequin trimming. Muriel Howard
was a member of the audience for a
change ; her ballerina frock was of steel-
blue taffeta. Linda Phillips, who has just
been rewarded by the Performing Rights
Association of Australia for her outstand-
ing work as a composer, was accompanied
by her daughter Bettine Kauffmann. An-
other G. and S. addict noted was Alice
Adcock, who has just been appointed
matron of the Margaret Coles Maternity
Wing of the Alfred Hospital.
Surrounded by a few intimate friends,
a nun with a happy and vivid personality
occupied the seat-of-honor in the sitting-
room of the convent adjacent to St.
Vincent’s Hospital. She was Sister Mary
Celestine, who had just completed 50
years as a professed Sister of Charity and
64 years as a nursing sister. A member
of one of Tasmania’s pioneer families,
she was born Beatrice Sheridan at Laun-
ceston. Entering the Hobart (now Royal
Hobart) Hospital in 1886, she completed
her training and remained for another
six years as sister-in-charge. In 1894
Beatrice Sheridan came to the main-
land and took the position as
matron of the Sir Thomas Fitzgerald
Hospital, which she occupied for three
years—that institute was in Lonsdale-
street, opposite the Law Courts. In 1897
she entered the Sisters of Charity, and
since then, as Sister Mary Celestine, she
has lived and worked at St. Vincent’s. On
the morning of her jubilee Sister Mary
Celestine received gifts, letters and tele-
grams ; a crown of frangipani was on her
black veil, and she held a staff bound
with gold ribbon —these had been blessed
and presented by Father Dillon, who said
special Mass for her.
This picture of Julie, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. L. C. Tabart, of Kurweeton,
Camperdown, was taken just after her
marriage to lan William, only son of
Mrs. Morrison, of Wooriwyrite, Terang,
and the late Mr. Morrison, at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Julie wore a
classical gown of off-white French waffle
cloque, fashioned with a high neckline,
long sleeves and a graceful, trained skirt.
A rope of the same material which
fashioned her gown caught the long tulle
veil, and she carried a sheaf of Christmas-
lilies. Margaret Bott came from Yarra-
wonga, Jane Chirnside from Carranballoc
and Janet Learmonth from Mount
Gambier to be Julie’s bridesmaids; their
gowns were of white broderie Anglaise
mounted on primrose-toned taffeta and
were worn with stoles of broderie Anglaise
lined with matching tulle. They wore
circlets of marguerites in their hair, and
their bouquets were of similar flowers.
James Morrison was his brother’s best
man. and Robin Allard and Tim Tabart,
the bride’s brother, were groomsmen.
Reception was at the Hotel Windsor,
where with her husband Mrs. Tabart re-
ceived the guests in a frock of powder-
blue crepe which had bands of pleating
at the hem of the skirt and sleeves; hep
picture hat was in matching blue straw.
Mrs, Morrison added to her black
ensemble an off-white, small-brimmed hat
trimmed with ruby ribbon. Mrs. Alec
Finlay s tailored suit was of grey English
flannel; her wide-brimmed hat was of
matching felt. The Rutherford lady allied
black frock and sea-green taffeta hat. Her
daughter Plum wore a frock of hyacinth-
blue crepe, the skirt featuring a floating
panel; cerise flowers trimmed her match-
ing blue hat. Virginia Grimwade was a
study m navy and white. Diana Lear-
month’s choice was a tailored black outfit.
Mrs. Byron Gumming covered a soft-
blue-and-white-spotted silk frock with a
matching blue coat; her hat was flower-
trimmed. White flowers embellished the
naA T h at Mrs. Hector Gumming wore
with her frock of navy crepe, which was
patterned in white floral design. Mrs.
Alan Coy wore deep-green shot taffetas.
Mrs. Fred Coy’s ensemble was dusty-
pink.
Rhoda, younger daughter of Mrs. D.
Taylor, of Toorak, has announced her
engagement to Alan, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. F. C. Yeonaans, of Brighton. For
some years Rhoda has been Public Rela-
tions Officer with the Australian-American
Association. These duties she will re-
linquish, but her wide knowledge of all
things concerning the association will be
put to good use in her new capacity as a
member. Alan served with the R.A.N.
during the war. The wedding will take
place next October.
February 10 is the date set for the
marriage of Evelyn Parish and Malcolm
Wallace Mitchell at Melbourne Grammar
School chapel. Bridesmaids will be
Evelyn’s small sister Margaret and Noelle
Smith, a friend of schooldays spent at
Merton Hall, C.E.G.G.S. Mrs. J. Pierce,
Evelyn’s aunt, will be the first hostess in
a round of pre-wedding parties. This will
be a kitchen-tea. On February 6
Malcolm’s two sisters, Mrs. Dudley
Gordon and Betty Wallace Mitchell, will
give a luncheon-party at the Australia,
and two days later Mrs. John Alderson
will hostess a luncheon-party at Menzies'.
In 1948 Evelyn was an entrant in the Miss
Australia Quest, and won the prize
awarded to the girl who raised the most
money—her candidature, under a live-
wire committee of which Mrs. Theo Lewis
was president, was responsible for a
cheque for £5OOO being netted for the
Free Kindergarten Union.
Betty Coldham, back from holidays
spent at Peterborough with her husband
and children, has just completed plans for
a children’s party to be held on February
7. Betty is president of the Vera Scantle-
bury Brown Memorial Appeal Junior
Auxiliary, and proceeds from the party,
which will be held in the garden of Mr.
Clifford Adams’s Toorak home, will be
devoted to the appeal funds. There will
be pony rides, lucky-dips, merry-go-
rounds, Punch and Judy shows and after-
noon-tea provided for mothers of young
party-goers. In this effort Betty has tb-
assistance of Mesdames lan Miller, Dick
Noone, Peter Lempriere and Lorian
Downey.
Quite a change from the drab clothes
worn during the week were the soft
pastels, florals and white frocks aired at
the Caulfield meeting of the V.A.T.C.
Individuality of the styles was most
marked in skirts, which ranged
from the fully-flared to the pencil-slim.
With her silk frock in green-and-white
Paisley design Mrs. Norman Robinson,
wife of the V.A.T.C. chairman, wore a
hat of white grosgrain, Mrs. Harold
Rabling, who has been visiting her
daughter in the U.S., added to her suit
of deep-navy taffeta spotted in red a wide-
brimmed hat of natural straw. Mrs.
Edvard Alstergren’s suit of navy ottoman
silk contrasted with her small hat of
wheat-gold straw finished with matching
taffeta bows. Mrs. A. Fowler’s Paisley
silk frock was patterned in rose and
shell-pink. Mrs, Bill Gluth’s tailored
frock was of dove-grey crepe, her small
white hat of lace straw.
Mrs, Roy Youlden’s pink dimity frock
was contrast for the white sharkskin
frocks worn by Mesdames Alan Murray
and Lionel Letcher with London-tan
accessories. With a wide-brimmed,
natural straw hat Mrs. G. A, Davis wore
a silk frock printed in a modernistic
design of deep browns, green and gold;
her niece, Patricia Neeson, of Sydney,
was in aqua-blue floral silks. Mrs. F.
Selleck’s multicolored printed taffeta
frock contrasted with her white straw
hat. The Wales lady, just back from a
Tasmanian holiday, chose navy and white
for her ensemble. Aqua-blue silk on
which were printed white daisies formed
the material for Mrs. D. S. Smith’s attrac-
tive frock; black ospreys trimmed her
natural straw hat.


EAVMNA
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
lAVINA
WATCHES
Founded in 1852 -M lllsiwt, Suisse
LW2
KUV mom SAFE!
yliftitfiS
SANDERS
file|
Correspondence. Invoices.
statement*, etc.. Died in the
"Sander*'* can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
Prices and for-
U)«r inlormidoa
tapoa application
any other period
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
thitnbtU***
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PiBIE
u « ”
j 1 3
«E O. PcnUld A C*. Ply. Ltd.
Scraita Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vftrdon A Sons Ltd.
e«ao Ami Cm. (AuU
:~r-x '
trtWRE CHAMPIou
%
S'
B ■ i
DA 5
S'
m.
Pf
,\o*’
,b* 1 ’
\9* 9,
\o*»
N" t ‘^“"° 4^* VSO ' . <*»
? t.*
.e* 4-
mms
BRANDY
ANGO V E S LIMITED <w M makers i
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Eye-bashers.
The 1950 art season will
shortly be under weigh, and in
garrets and stables and in the
purlieus of the suburbs no
doubt scores of young men and
women are busily preparing for
it with a brush, in one hand and
a Paris or New York art maga-
zine in the other and without a
look outside the window at
Nature. If the coming season
isn’t another orgy of eye-bash-
ing like the last one it will be
surprising. Eye-bashing is the
same as ear-bashing, but per
medium of a different organ. An
ear-basher i§ one who tells you
something he isn’t feeling or
that he has read in a book; he
generally reiterates what some-
body else has said far better.
Most modern artists are re-
iterating what Cezanne, Picasso
or Van Gogh or the custom-
house-officer Rousseau said and
said much better, so they come
under the category of eye-
bashers. They aren’t describing
their own world but describing
a description somebody has
given of his world. They have
probably never looked at their
own world.
A friend recently decided to
become a painter and became a
pupil of one of the fashionable
modern artists. At the New
Year he threw a party, and
when I walked into his house I
was astonished. 'The walls were
covered with pictures, although
he had only been learning for
six months. “Which did you
paint. Bill?” I asked in all inno-
cence. “I painted the lot,” he
said. Unfortunately they looked
as if everybody had painted
them Matisse, Modigliani,
Utrillo and all those fellows.
Bill paints from his head, not
from his heart. He is not feel-
ing his own world. He is
not reflecting Nature, but the
last painter of the past whose
works he has looked at. His
pictures of streets in his suburb
look like streets in Paris,
It is his own experience an
artist has to deal with, not the
experience of other people. He
has to reflect his own world. If
his works, whether they are
poems, plays, novels or pictures,
don’t reflect his own happi-
nesses and unhappinesses, but
somebody else’s, he is not an
artist at all.
Bill is a charming, intelligent,
good-natured fellow, but he
lacks depth. As a painter he re-
flects current gossip, and current
gossip these days is all about
Van Gogh and Gauguin, who
were no doubt great men and
painted great pictures but
weren’t a bit like Bill, because
they dealt with their own world.
We know from their works
something of the experiences
they had. But a hundred years
hence nobody will know from
his work What experiences Bill
had, whether he was happy or
unhappy, whether he had a
mistress, like Rembrandt, or
children, or hadn’t either, or
even that he lived in Australia.
But we do know from his
music what Beethoven was like.
His music is alternately gay and
tragic, full of hope and despair-
ing, joyous and gloomy; his
music is never solemn. The rea-
son it is like that is that he
poured all his happinesses and
unhappinesses into his sym-
phonies and sonatas. It was his
own experiences he was describ-
ing, not somebody else’s, just as
it was his own world of wife,
mistresses and children Rubens
painted. We feel Beethoven’s
music to be deep because he
was a deep man.
If a writer has a girl and she
goes off with another man and
he can’l express his feelings of
unrequited love in a poem or
a novel he is not a writer. Shak-
speare did just that in his son-
nets, and that is the reason why
we still admire them —thousands
of people have written sonnets
in just as good a form and knew
the language just as well as he
did, but their sonnets don’t
affect us. The artist who looks
out of his window and sees the
blaze of light of the Australian
landscape and then paints some-
thing more or less like Cezanne
or Van Gogh hasn’t begun to be
an artist. —F.S.
War Memorial
Competition.
at Melbourne University; Pro-
fessor Leslie Wilkinson, Sydney,
L. Layboume Smith, architect,
Adelaide; Professor Brian Lewis,
Professor of Architecture at
Melbourne University) will:
answer queries raised by com-
petitors and lodged in writing
according to the conditions
already set out; examine
all designs submitted and dis-
qualify those which do not sub-
stantially conform with the con-
ditions of the competition ; and
For the interest of architects,
sculptors, artists and designers—
and the authors of all those
letters to the Press who believe
or don’t believe in war
memorials —here is the gist of
the conditions and requirements
of the Empire-wide competition
for an Australian war memorial
to be erected outside Australia
House, London. The competi-
tion, promoted by the Australian
Battlefields Memorials Commit-
tee, on behalf of the Australian
Government, is open to British
citizens living within or with-
out Australia.
Intending competitors should
register their names and
address in writing with the
Secretary of the Committee,
434 Collins-street, Melbourne,
before noon on March 1, 1950.
Competitors seeking further
information about the competi-
tion should forward their ques-
tions, typewritten and without
name and address, to the secre-
tary of the committee so as to
be received not later than noon.
May 1, 1950. A copy of all
questions received and the
answers to them will be sent to
all registered competitors not
later Sian June 1, 1950. No
competitor shall communicate
with the assessors or with any
member of the designs commit-
tee or the Australian Battle-
fields Memorials Committee ex-
cept as provided in the fore-
going.
The assessors (Daryl Lindsay,
Director of Melbourne National
Gallery; Prof. J. T. A. Burke,
“Herald” Professor of Fine Arts
“Is there a doctor in the house?”
then consult with thie designs
committee and report in writing
to the Battlefields Memorials
committee, making the awards,
which shall be binding upon the
committee and competitors. The
awards will be subject to the final
approval of the Federal Cabinet,
and will be published in 12 weeks
from the closing of the competi-
tion.
The designs committee will in-
clude the Governor-General,
Minister for the Interior, Secre-
tary of the Department for the
Interior, the General Editor of
the Australian Official War
History, the executive member
of the Battlefields Memorials
committee, and one representa-
tive each from the Navy, Army,
Air Force and Mercantile
Marine.
First, second and third prizes
will be £A2SO, £AISO and £ASO.
Competitors may submit more
than one design, but each entry
must be submitted, packed and
delivered separately. The
memorial is not to cost more
than £A25,000, and every model
or set of drawings should be
accompanied by a concise type-
written report explaining any
matters not clear in drawings or
models and concluding with a
detailed estimate of the cost of
the design. The report must not
be enclosed in an envelope, but
securely fastened to one of the
models or drawings. A plain
sealed envelope containing the
name of the author, plus a
declaration that the design is his
own work or was completed in
his own office under his super-
vision, must accompany each
entry.
Designs, without any distin-
guishing mark, must be delivered
personally or by registered post
under cover to the Secretary,
Australian Battlefields Memorials
Committee, 434 Collins-street,
Melbourne, not later than noon,
September 1, 1950. Where de-
livery addresses are necessary the
package, without distinguishing-
mark other than the name of the
competition, shall be enclosed in
the final wrapping for delivery
purposes. The envelope contain-
ing the guarantee of authorship
should be attached to the
external face of the inner pack-
age so that it may be readily de-
tached as soon as the outside
wrapping is removed before the
inner package is passed to the
assessors.
After the prizewinners have
been announced, models and
drawings will be exhibited in
Canberra, Melbourne and
Sydney for at least one week; a
selection may also be exhibited
elsewhere or published in
the Press. All except the prize-
winning designs will be returned
free of charge to the authors one
month after the closing of the
exhibitions; the prizewinning
designs become the property of
the committee. Every care will
be taken of entries and the com-
mittee will accept liability not
exceeding £25 per set, but it
undertakes no further liability in
the event of loss or damage.
Materials to be used
and the form of the
memorial are left to the
competitor, but it should
form a suitable com-
memoration of the deeds
of all the Australian
fighting services and the
Merchant Navy in the
1939-45 war. It should
harmonise with the archi-
tectural and sculptural
treatment of Australia
House, and should not
unduly obstruct the visi-
bility of vehicular traffic.
Drawings showing the
site and maximum over-
all dimensions of the
base, as well as photo-
graphs of Australia
House, may be obtained
from the committee.
Entries should include either
a model to a scale of Ift. to lin.,
or the following drawings: (1)
Plan of memorial, (2) sufficient
elevations to indicate the com-
petitor’s intentions, (3) details of
important features to illustrate
the competitor’s intentions re-
garding construction and design,
(4) perspective drawing of the
memorial only—a perspective
drawing of the memorial and its
surroundings may be submitted
as well. Drawings (1) and (2)
must be to a scale of 4ft. to lin.
and (3) to a scale of 2ft. to lin.
They may be in ink or pencil,
finished in line only, and may be
tinted with a light wash of color,
and the walls and sectional parts
of them may be blackened or
hatched in. The drawings must
be on sheets of uniform size and
mounted on strainers or stiff
board without borders.


THEY BEAT IT
BY JOHN
FOUNTAIN
“71 JTISTE-R CAMPBELL!
/I// Visitor! ”
Jy J[ It was the blonde girl, Dot,
singing out from the
shadowed hall; good-natured scorn in the
accented first word —scorn of my youth—
with something else in the bell-like voice,
too, as indefinable as femininity and as
strong. An irresistible frank interest in
all human males, perhaps, young or not.
“All right, coming!” I shouted from
behind the locked bathroom door.
It would be Sam, I thought. Sam
usually came round after tea on Saturday
nights. Sam and I had been'at school
together, and together had been dumped
in the strange, exciting, rather frighten-
ingly huge and impersonal city. I lived
at the boarding-house at Glebe, hut Sam
boarded with some relation, a small-
minded man, Sam told me, stingey about
second helpings at meals and addicted to
the writing of long imaginative letters
home. Lately there had been a terrible
row about Sam leaning over the front
gate at dusk, whistling at girls.
The boarding-house was a refuge for
Sam. I shared the front upstairs room
with Harry, a worldly mechanic, and
sometimes we would get quarts of beer
from the Forest Lodge Hotel and the
three of us would sit upstairs drinking,
looking out through the big windows at
the brilliant sky-high hoardings, the mov-
ing bright eyes of cars sweeping out from
the city and the trams throwing off blue
sparks as they crossed into Parramatta-
road. On these occasions Sam and I
would forget our loneliness and the in-
visible umbilical cord which still bound
us to the school up-country, and, listen-
ing to Harry’s tales of wonder and delight,
we would really feel ourselves part of the
throbbing life about us.
I WENT downstairs. It was Sam, of
I course. He was standing at the foot
of the stairs, talking to Dot, making a
sorry mess of his new grey hat with his
strong hands. Sam was wide, very wide
of shoulder —like a Hollywood hero —
with a square face, short blunt nose with
a scar down the centre —an over-
anxious forward’s boot had done that, at
Wagga—and brown hair coming down in
a V overhanging forehead and honest grey
eyes. If Sam wasn’t whistling he was
scowling, and his smile was slow, grudg-
ing ; but very pleasant when it arrived. At
school some teachers had found it infuri-
ating.
Now, talking to Dot, Sam’s smile shone
wide.
Dot’s hair shimmered under the dragon
and pink tassels of the electric-light shade
in hard gold corrugations. She was erect
and beautiful and proud in her green
cardigan, condescending and rounded and
a little weary, wide blue eyes and plucked
eyebrows and amply filled silk stockings
and a diamond ring glittering on her soft
white finger, and red lips smiling. Dot’s
visitors called late in the evening, and
carried her off in cars, returning her in
the pale morning. Not every night, natur-
ally. But often enough to give food for
salacious thought to Harry. “Of course
she does,” Harry would say, winking into
our smeary mirror. Virtuous or glamor-
ously vicious, Dot was the queen of our
boardihg-house, periodically upsetting
our company of apprentices, students and
one mechanic. Although, it must be ad-
mitted, she had no very serious feminine
rivalry. Only a nice pink primary-school-
teacher, rather like a cheerful white
rabbit, Mrs. Haggerty, the landlady, and
Mrs. Haggerty’s married and prolific
daughter.
“Do you think there’ll be a war?” Dot
was saying. Her diamond flashed, hover-
ing over her helmet of ridged gold. “That
would be awful —wouldn’t it? I’d go
bush.” She smiled, confident in her
beauty and vitality that she could subdue
war and the men who waged it.
Sam was still wringing his hat, his
smile fixed, when I joined them.
UP in the untidy sanctuary of the bed-
room Sam was still not wholly free.
A vague, silly smile lurked about his lips,
and he strode up and down the room,
snapping his fingers.
“Gripes, she’s a good-looking sheila —
cripes! ”
I watched him without surprise. I had
heard him enthuse about Dot before;
and, oddly enough, I got a vague pro-
prietary pleasure out of it. Dot, after all,
was the pride of our boarding-house.
And what had Sam to offer to delight the
eye in his wretched place? An ill-favored
third or fourth cousin who showed
promise of growing into as great a nark
as her old man.
“A beautiful figure,” Sam said, com-
posing himself; sitting down and rolling
a cigarette
“Yes.”
“Did you notice her legs?”
I had, often.
“Why don’t you do a line with her?”
Sam wanted to know, in his untutored
way.
“Aw”—l met his eye and we exchanged
a smile of perfect understanding.
It was no use pretending with Sam.
Where Harry, a man of twenty-two, had
failed, what hope had I, at seventeen?
“Harry gone out?” Sam nodded at the
signs of Harry’s departure. A pool of
spilt brilliantine on the brown wood of
the dressing-table, socks and shoes on
the floor, greasy overalls in a heap in
the corner. A ransacked drawer gaping
with shirts and ties. I didn’t answer.
One advantage about knowing anyone
as well as I knew Sam, conversation
wasn’t always necessary.
“Redhead?” Sam inquired cryptically.
Both of us took a lively interest in
Harry’s love-affairs. And Harry himself
was co-operative—naturally garrulous
and unchivalrously indiscreet. He even
woke me up in the early hours of the
morning, to keep me up-to-the-minute.
All of which information I faithfully
passed on to Sam. ,
“No, he’s taking Gloria out tonight.”
“Oh.”
SILENCE, save for the rustling of the
evening paper Sam was reading.
“Got a letter from Ken,” Sam informed
me, from behind his shield of newsprint.
“Ah?” Ken was Sam’s young brother.
I wasn’t very interested in Ken’s puppyish
doings, but I was interested in news from
school. Even after a year in Sydney, we
were imperfectly weaned from the place.
The trouble was, I suppose, that we were
bored. School had been boring, too, at
times—but then we weren’t exasperated
by the vision of pleasures beyond our
reach. And at schools we had been
persons—characters—seniors. In Sydney
we were a couple of commonplace youths,
without much money and with few
friends.
Sam leant back in the battered arm-
chair, crossed his legs and dragged the
letter out of his pocket. He read it aloud:
could Sam lend him some money? Sam
snorted humorously. So-and-so was in
first-grade cricket. “That twirp”—Sam
commented—the food was crook —new
matron coming—swimming carnival . . .
I listened, feeling incredibly ancient, sad
with the lush theatrical melancholy of my
years. Something like this my thoughts
ran: We—Sam and I—had left school
full of confidence and high hopes only
twelve months before; and what had we
achieved? What, in particular, had I
achieved? Nothing. So far from setting
the Tank Stream ablaze, it seemed
extremely improbable that I should pass
my examinations. And other, more reck-
less, dreams were as far as possible from
realisation. I wondered seriously whether
it was not, perhaps, too late. Whether at
seventeen —seventeen and a half, I re-
minded myself coldly—l had not outlived
my powers.
“I think I’ll work tonight,” X said with
sudden resolution.
Sam stared at me. “But it’s Saturday
night! ”
True. It was Saturday. Saturday night.
Our bush blood rebelled at the idea of
working, of staying inside, on a Saturday
night.
“So it is,” I said with alacrity.
“Where’ll we go?” All Sydney lay in-
vitingly outside the big windows, beyond
the ’ swinging gate, in darkness " and
millions of lights. All the adventure and
romance we had dreamed about, heard
about, but never, in fact, encountered.
Sam introduced a practical note:
“How much money have you got?”
“Not much,” I said promptly. I
jingled my trouser-pocket. “A few bob.
How much have you got?”
Sam scowled seriously. “I’ve got a
couple of quid here. But I haven’t paid
my board ...”
“Hang that!”
“Say five-bob, keeping back my board
and a couple of bob to go bn with,” Sam
said, ignoring my suggestion. “Where’ll
we go—the flicks?”
We considered this. Going to the
pictures seemed a tasteless way to spend
a Saturday night.
“Or Manly?”
]W[ ANLY sounded attractive. There
I was a legend at school that Manly
was haunted by beautiful young women,
always on the look-out for amorous
adventure. Such encounters, according to
the theory, had a pattern, an etiquette of
delightful simplicity. One wandered
down the Corso, and there, sooner or
later, one of the beautiful young women
would drop her handkerchief. One picked
up the handkerchief and then—informa-
tion on the next steps in the affair was
rather vague, but it was understood that,
one way or another, one finished up in
Fairy Bower, a name of deliciously wicked
connotations.
It had all sounded feasible enough at
school, 300-odd miles from Sydney. But
although Sam and I had been swimming
at Manly scores of times, and had
wandered up and down the Corso until
we were footsore, no young woman had
dropped a handkerchief anywhere near
us. Attractive young women there were
in abundance —but not one of them had
seen fit to make advances to us. We
had even inspected Fairy Bower—and an
unremarkable sandy place it appeared in
sunlight.
“Oh, hang Manly,” Sam said. “I’m
sick of it.” I nodded. I was a bit sick of
Manly, too.
“Feel like a beer?” Sam asked, putting
his hands in his pockets, leaning back in
the chair and looking as though an invita-
tion to drink beer was a commonplace
We did occasionally go to a hotel at
King’s Cross, where we could sit in the
lounge and drink after-hours. But only
after anxious, thought, a careful weighing
of costs and benefits. For it was expen-
sive. Even making a beer last as long as
possible, sitting over it and carefully sip-
ping, one could easily spend five or six
shillings. And so far this reckless spend-
ing had only been rewarded by a long
conversation with a retired grazier who
told us all about the breeding of Corrie-
dale sheep.
“What about Luna Park?” I said, and
Sam’s face brightened. Luna Park was
the shot. Luna Park it was.
/ E*could see Luna Park crossing the
bridge, and it seemed a fairy city,
lights blazing in dotted turrets and domes
against the dark summer sky. We had
come by train because of the unwelcome
attentions of a tram-conductor, who came
crawling along the footboard, back to us,
his face sharp with suspicion, as we
approached Wynyard. So we left, alight-
ing, larrikin fashion, before the tram had
stopped, continuing down the footpath
with the momentum of our landing.
Evading tram-fares was both a point of
honor and, with the habitual range of
our wanderings, an economic necessity.
“It’s pretty,” Sam said, his hard young
cheek pressed to the window-pane. I
looked down at the dark harbor, the
million lights and the long beams from
the shore, like slender gold lances resting
on a polished mirror. There was the
rusty cargo-ship we had seen that morn-
ing, changed by the night to a galleon
of gold. And here, rushing through the
early evening in the electric train, one
could, for a breathing-space, rid oneself
of the fretful dissatisfaction of youth and
wrap oneself in its bold, clear dreams.
The tawdry brilliance of Luna Park
fascinated us, crept into our blood, with
the warmth of jostling bodies and the
scent of face-powder and perfume and the
loud hilarity of laughter. So that, half-
reluctantly, we edged away from one
noisy group to the next, letting the mob
carry us, and infected with the easy mob
excitement. But a glimpse of bold eyes,
red lips, short skirts, still had the power
to disturb us; and I, following Sam’s
bustling lead, alternated between keen
pleasure and vague disappointment.
Sam’s swaggering shoulders disappeared
round a corner when we came out of the
fun-tunnel, and when I discovered him
he was grinning at a couple of girls, offer-
ing them cigarettes.
“No, thank you,” one said primly.
“We don’t smoke.”
“Here by yourselves?” Sam inquired
gallantly.
“Oh, yes,” they said together, and
broke into giggles. “I’m Sam,” Sam said,
and nodded towards me. “This is Joe.”
“Joe?” the first one said, and giggled
again. They were a woeful pair of
gigglers and looked exactly alike —round,
foolish blue eyes and brown fluffy hair.
They did not volunteer their names, and
seemed ill at ease.
“Come on, Joan,” the prettier of the
two said—-there was, when one looked at
them closely, a faintly perceptible dif-
ference^—“We’ll have to go.”
They scurried off, holding each other
tightly by the hands. Some few minutes
later we saw them again with a couple of
sailors, very gay.
'"P HEN we saw John. Sam saw him
1 first. “There’s John,” he said, point-
ing. “John Kershaw-” I followed the
direction of his finger, and saw a mass
of flushed faces, gaping mouths, wild hair.
It couldn’t be John in that company 1
thought— not staid John, honest John.
But Sam pushed past me and said “Hullo,
John,” and a short bulky figure in expen-
sive tweeds detached himself from the
group. It was John Kershaw all right,
and I had done him an injustice. He had
been accidentally hemmed in by the
blazered youths and their females, and
parted from them with relief. _ ,
“Hullo, Sam —Joe,” John said with
extraordinary cordiality. He insisted on
shaking hands with us. his pale prominent


eyes blinking up at us, his hair of mouldy
straw all awry. The rest of him was neat
enough, quietly elegant: the prosperous
countryman down for a holiday.
“If it isn’t old John,” Sam said,
boisterously, his grudging smile expand-
ing into a grin. “How are the sheep,
John?” John—John’s family, anyway —
bred famous Merinos. And indeed there
was something sheep-like about John
himself, his pale eyes and nodding head
and his stupidity. His walk, too, a kind
of inoffensive, ovine swagger, often re-
minded me of the gait of a sheep. There
is always one young wether who walks
in a yard like that, a bit in the tail of the
mob: and when the dogs try to bring
him in he usually gets terrified and
bashes his woolly head against the fence.
“Where’re you staying, John?” I asked.
Unwillingly, I found myself pleased to
see him —a link with the school. But I
had never liked him. What I had disliked
about John was not so much his stupidity
—although that was plain enough—but,
paradoxically, his cunning. For I was
convinced a deep and unhealthy cunning
lay beneath his bluff and blundering
manner. It was remarkable that John’s
blundering never led him into trouble of
any kind with the authorities, and that
his convictions always guided him into
paths undistinguished but pleasant. He was,
moreover, mean. His mother used to send
him luxurious food parcels, and often,
on chilly winter afternoons, it had been
an agonising sight to see honest John’s
peak of straw and bulging pale eye peer-
ing round the locker-room door while he
stuffed cakes and other dainties into his
large loose mouth. On such occasions I
was quite willing to forget the gibes I
had flung at him during the week, but
John never gave me the chance.
Although, in his bluff way, he would be
sure to offer a little something to Roberts,
who was a house captain, and a red-
hot tip for school captain.
“At the Metropole,” John said. His
bluff manner seemed to have deserted
him. He looked pale, nervous and kept
shooting glances over his shoulder.
J WAS not as offended as I might have
A been at this proof of wealth. Although
I did feel a faint twinge of regret —an
acrid sensation of the irony of life. Here
was John, whom Sam and I had always
heartily despised. Honest John, who,
however highly thought-of he may have
been by the teachers, was never beloved
by the students. Plodding John, as un-
distinguished on the sports-field as in the
classroom. And here were Sam and I
who —well, we had thought very highly
of ourselves at school, very lowly of
John. I remembered the awful fuss I had
made when John was made a prefect,
“Bringing the body into contempt,” I
had raged—a fine phrase I had picked up
from “Hansard.” But the feeling was
genuine. Honest John!
And while Sam and I had wasted a
year thinking about our brilliant careers,
wondering whether we should become
captains of industry, or distinguished
lawyers or wondfer-working surgeons—
and, in the meantime, spinning out our
resources by dodging tram-fares and visit-
ing relatives for hot meals on Sundays—
John, in his dull, undistinguished, plod-
ding way, had been making money.
“I say, I’m glad I met you fellows,”
John said nervously, almost whispering.
He kept looking around in that odd way,
as though he expected someone to come
up behind him. “Something very funny
just happened—that is, not funny at all —
bloody awful.”
It was the first time I had heard John
swear.
“Yes?” I asked idly. What could
possibly happen to commonplace John?
“I’ve been robbed!” ,
“Go on!” I said, inwardly delighted.
Of course, that was likely enough.
Bucolic John had carried his money in
his inside pocket, most probably, with his
return ticket, and while he was gaping at
the Big Dipper some clever pickpocket
had calmly lifted it. Here was something
to tell the boys.
“Tough luck, John,” I said sympa-
thetically, and Sam shrugged his wide
shoulders, as though to say, what else
could country youths expect in a wicked
city?
“Told the police?” I asked. “Not
that it would do much good now, you
know —the bloke is probably well clear.”
I spoke as though I had an intimate
knowledge of the habits of Sydney’s
underworld: both Sam and I, with good-
natured sympathy, managed delicately to
convey the impression that if John had
only been in our city-wise company all
would have been well.
Sam even put it into words. “Pity you
didn’t meet us before,” he said. Never
go down to the end of the town unless
you go down with me sort of thing.
JOHN rubbed his Roman nose with
his stubby finger. “Er—the police?
Well, no, I didn’t go to the police. It’s —
er—awkward.”
“No good going to the police now,”
Sam said briskly. “The pickpocket
would be well away. How much did he
take?”
John looked at him wonderingly. “It
wasn’t a pickpocket. I didn’t say it was
a pickpocket, did I? I didn’t mean to.”
“Then who was it?” Sam said im-
patiently. “And how much did he take?”
“Two pounds,” John said slowly. “I’ve
paid my bill —that doesn’t matter, but
I was going home tomorrow and I
haven’t much left. Unless I go to the
bank. The trouble is”
Sam brushed these miserable worries
aside. “But how did you lose it? Who
pinched it?”
“It was a girl—-actually—took it,” John
said, with extreme reluctance. “That is
—yes —l handed it to the girl, in the
lift”
“A girl, eh?” Sam grinned wickedly.
“You old devil, you!”
Johnny looked embarrassed, but some
inner compulsion was stronger than his
shame. “Yes. A girl. You fellows
know how it is” —we didn’t, but we
nodded —“a few of us, drinking ‘at
Aaron’s —Bill Duffy, from Narrandera,
Jones, the New England fine-wool
breeder, Fatty Carlile, from Deniliquin—
dripping whisky, they were. Don’t drink
much myself. Went in, met ’em, they
said have a drink. What’s a man to do?
Can’t be a wowser. Met these fellows
at the Sheep Show last year. Had a
couple—three, maybe four, whiskies.”
“What about the girl?” Sam said,
winking at me.
“I’m coming to that. All these fellows
had to go off somewhere —must have
been a private party, because they didn’t
ask me to come —and I went for a walk
—to clear my head. Down Bridge-street
and along George-street—towards the
Quay. That’s where f met this girl—
she was nothing but a harlot!” John said
viciously.
“What did she look like?” Sam wanted
to know.
“Sort of fat —fair hair —there were
two of them, actually, walking along
together, a short, dark one, and this fair
fat piece. I just stood there, looking at
them, thinking of nothing in particular,
and they came up to me —the faggots—
and the fat one said ‘Looking for a girl,
love?’ You know how it is,” John said,
wagging his finger at us; he seemed
anxious to implicate us in his downfall.
“Anyway,” he said, with a flash of his
old manner, “you can see why I can’t
go to the police, can’t you? No decent
bloke would get mixed up in that sort
of thing—what would his family think?
—for a couple of quid. Not even”—
dubiously—“for five or ten quid. Eh?
Wouldn’t be worth it—would it?”
“But what happened?” Sam said im-
patiently.
JOHN swallowed, “We went up—up
to this residential place. In George-
street.” He told us its name. “Crook-
looking place it was —real tough. The
three of us. Only the other girl left us
at the door. I couldn’t’ve got away if
I’d ’ve wanted to. Walked right up
George-street with me —one on each side
—holding my arms real tight. I was
dead scared I’d run into someone I knew.
Anyway, this dark one left us at the
door. ‘Good luck, Daphne,’ she whispers
as she’s going. ‘Don’t s’pose I’ll get a
squatter, too. Half his wool if I don’t!’
The fat piece looks at her sharp and
says ‘Sh! You’ll scare him back to his
paddock.’ Mind you, I didn’t like that
much. And I didn’t like the look of the
place. Then she says to me —the fat
piece—when we get into the lift. ‘Two
quid!’ and holds out her hand. ‘Two
‘quid?’ I said. 'lhat sounded a bit hot,
‘Two quid!’ she says, sharp, and holds
her hand under my nose.”
“Did you give it to her?”
“Yes,” John said miserably. “Don’t
know why I did. I suppose it was those
whiskies. It’s different with a lot of
fellows, I know, but in my right mind I
wouldn’t go near one of those places.
Not within a hundred miles of them. Not
even to have a look. What I mean to
say is, right’s right, isn’t it? And wrong’s
wrong. And anyway,” he added, with
sincere misery, “I don’t know what
they’d say at home if they heard about
it.”
“Don’t worry,” Sam said. “Sydney’s
a big place.”
“Yes. That’s what I like about coming
to Sydney. It’s big. Now round home,
well, a chap’s got a position in the
district—hasn’t he? Can’t go fooling
around.”
“No, indeed.”
“Upstairs,” John said slowly, his
bulging blue eyes staring at a passing
policeman. “I got thinking about things.
My head cleared, I suppose. And when
we went into this room, I said ‘No.’ I
said I was going home.”
“What did she say to that?”
John wrinkled his slightly-hooked
nose. “She said, ‘All right, you lousy cow,
go. You stink of sheep, anyway.’ ”
We roared with laughter, while John’s
prominent eyes looked at us in pained
astonishment.
“Pretty crude, some of these girls,”
Sam said, in half-apology.
“Crude, all right,” John said, with some
heat. “Although—what beats me —how
did she know I was on the land?”
“She might have seen your photo in
some of those Sheep Show numbers,” I
suggested.
“That might have been it. Although,
you know, you wouldn’t expect a girl
like that to read those things, would you?
Not unless she came from the country.”
“A squatter’s daughter,” Sam said,
grinning.
H, no,” John said, shocked. “You
should’ve heard her language. I
stood there and she started waving her
arms round and screaming ‘Go on, go,
you •’ everything, she called me.
Never thought I’d hear a woman use
words like that. ‘Go on —go. 1 can’t
waste all night on the likes of you,’ ‘l’ll
go,’ I said, ‘when you give me back my
money.’
“Do you know, she didn’t even answer
me! She just called out ‘Jimmy!’
“And a little squirt walked in through
the door as though he’d been standing
there all the time. N
“ ‘Beat it! ’ he said and jerked his thumb
at the door. I wasn’t going to stand for
that —I walked up to him and said, ‘Beat
it yourself.’ ”
“You’d have had a go at him?” Sam
said wonderingly. I looked at John with
new interest. There must be infinite
possibilities in the human soul.
“I wasn’t going to stand any nonsense
from that little squirt,” John said stoutly.
“So I shaped up to him—‘Go on —clear
out!’ I said.” John shaped up, to the
keen interest of a group of passing
sailors. “Get stuck into him, mate! ” one
of them called encouragingly. John
hastily dropped his fists.
“Yes?” Sam and I said avidly.
“He pulled a gun on me!” John said
dramatically.
“A gun?” We were startled out of our
attitude of superiority.
“An automatic, I suppose it was. Little
black, shiny thing.” Sam nodded: that
would be an automatic, .all right. “He
took it out of his coat-pocket and pointed
it at me, ‘Now,’ he said. ‘Beat it.’ ”
“What did you do?”
“I beat it, of course,” John ss.id, with
some indignation. “What do you think
I’d do —what would you do, with a
little murderous swine pointing a revolver
at you?”
SAM and I exchanged glances. It
was, after all, what one would expect
from poor old John. So far from blaming
him we felt sorry for him. After all, it
was a cow of a thing to happen to one
on a visit to Sydney. It wasn’t as though
John was fitted for the strenuous life,
John hadn’t been a first-grade footballer
or a boxer. If the little gunman had
bumped into Sam, now
“What did he look like —this bloke?”
Sam asked.
“Like a rat!” John said vehemently.
“What color hair?” I asked.
“Black, parted in the middle. Only a
little bloke, though. Why? What are
you thinking of doing, Sam?” John was
very humble now, I noticed with satis-
faction. Our relationships had slipped
into the right proportions. He was see-
ing, not a couple of shabby schoolfellows,
but Sam Thomas and Joe Campbell, first-
grade footballers and men of their hands,
with their talents sharpened by twelve-
months’ city experience. I remembered
that I had been a prefect a long time
before there had been any talk of raising
John to that honor.
Sam pulled a packet of blue Capstans
out of his pocket and deliberately lit one,
smiling his slight, vaguely insolent smile.
“Oh, we might wander over and look up
this gunman of yours, John,” he said
airily, and while John goggled at him I
said: “I think he bluffed you, you know,
John. Not that I blame you—most
people would do the same —but it isn’t
likely he’d run the risk of shooting you,
just for two quid. Besides, the shot would
be heard, you know.”
John scratched his straw head. “By
cripes, you don’t think of that with a
gun pointing at you!”
I chuckled, thinking of the shock the
little gunman would get when he met, not
simple John, but Sam and me. There was
no need for us to rehearse what we would
do. We had rehearsed it, many times, in
dormitory battles. We would be stand-
ing far enough apart for our victim to
be powerless to watch us both, and when
I made a slight move, Sam would tackle
him. There never was a tackier like Sam.
In the dormitory manoeuvres, I followed
Sam’s lead, grabbing the captive and
dragging him into our dormitory, but in
this case I would probably hit him. Our
boxing instructor had spoken highly of
my left hook.
“About what weight do you think this
bloke would be?” I asked.
John’s pale eyes blinked. “Lighter than
me —a good bit lighter. Not more than
nine stone —if that.”
There was the gun, of course. But
Sam weighed eleven and a half stone and
I was a stone heavier, and we were both
in hard condition,
“See you again,” Sam said, wheeling in
his abrupt fashion. I followed him.
“Good-bye, Sam ; good-bye, Joe,” John
called after us, with a sort of dismal
humility. Sam acknowledged this with
a backward wave of his hand.
AN immense excitement boiled and
bubbled within me as we crossed the
harbor in the ferry. Past the gold galleon,
past the buoys—this was it, this was
adventure, I kept telling myself, and I
glanced over at Sam to see how he was
taking it. Sam’s square, healthily-pink
face was impassive, but he caught my
eye and grinned. A gunman! But I felt
nervously confident.
Sam didn’t wait for the gangplank,
and after a quick glance at the oily black
and flame-tinted water, I followed him,
jumping to the wharf. Sam was already
a good way ahead, walking swiftly with
his quick short step, which gave him a
rolling, individual swagger.
Lower George-street seemed deserted.
We walked as far as Wynyard, and saw
only two couples—man and woman —
and, opposite Martin-place, a group of
obviously respectable people in evening-
clothes. “Let’s walk back,” Sam said, and
I agreed., But I was beginning to think
that it was extremely unlikely that we
should meet the two girls John had
encountered. And if we did, how could
we know them —for sure? And if we met
another pair—what then?
At Circular Quay we discovered a milk-
bar that was about to close, and drank
a vanilla malted-milk each, and bought a
sixpenny bar of chocolate. “An army
marches on its stomach,” Sam said, justi-
fying this reckless expenditure.
I was looking at the crowd around us.
“Any one of these girls could be them,”
I whispered.
“Yair,” Sam said nonchalantly. “Come
on.”
We walked towards Wynyard station
again. Then Sam dug me forcefully in
the ribs. “That’s them,” he said, in a
tone of absolute certainty.
TWO girls were walking slowly ahead
of us. The larger one was wearing a
blue coat, and had fair hair, her slighter
companion was dark.
“It might be,” I said nervously. “But
it mightn’t be, too.”
“Come on,” Sam said, quickening his
step.
As we passed them, we turned and had
a good look at them. One was fair, the
other dark, no doubt about that. The
larger one was plump. But how could
we tell, I wondered —they bore no special
satanic brand. We passed them so quickly
that it was hard to inspect them
thoroughly. We hurried on, and then
slackened our pace. I looked back and
saw that the girls were pursuing the even
tenor of their way—neither fast nor slow.
“It might be them,” I said doubtfully.
“If it is, they’ll speak to us, I suppose.”
“I suppose so,” Sam said.
We stared into a window of wardrobes
and double-beds, awaiting their arrival
with tremulous impatience. They passed
us unhurriedly, and I saw that the dark
one wore a red flower of some sort in
her straight black hair. They didn’t
glance in our direction, and looked re-
markably like ordinary, respectable girls
walking home from choice in the pleas-
antly cool air. I confided my suspicions
to Sam. “Maybe,” he said enigmatically.
Wje followed them again, at a cautious
distance. Then, gradually, the gap be-
tween us seemed to dwindle. When we
were a few feet away from them Sam
stepped forward briskly, and I thought
he was going to pass them. Then, in a
twinkling, he did an amazing thing. He
shot between the two of them, and put his
left arm around the fat girl’s waist. Both
girls stopped, and I halted, too, in con-
sternation. What would they do? Call
for the police? A hasty glance assured
me that there were no police in the
neighborhood. The fat girl stood looking
up at Sam’s flushed, smiling face.
“What’s the big idea?” she demanded,
A WILD gaiety seemed to have carried
Sam out of himself.
“I thought you might be going our
{Continued on next page.)


way,” he said, with superb, smiling con-
fidence.
“Oh, indeed, did you?” She smiled
across at her dark companion. “And
what do you think, Olive?”
Olive shrugged. By this time I had
crept closer, fascinated, and was standing
almost beside Olive and a little behind
her. Under the street-light I could see
a thin, chalky-white face, a hard crimson
mouth, and eyes like black sinister glass,
“Come on,” said Sam, this new, extra-
ordinary Sam, giving the fat girl’s waist
an impatient tug. “Come on, Daphne.”
“How d’ ya know my name?” The
voice had suddenly lost its good humor,
“A little bird told me,” Sam said, still
“Oh.” She looked at him intently and
his grey eyes didn’t waver. She seemed to
reach a decision. “Oh, well.” As soon as
she spoke Olive extended a crimson-
clawed hand. “Come on, love,” she said,
and firmly hooked my arm in hers.
I have a very confused memory of that
promenade down George-street. Sam, I
remember, was still unnaturally gay, and
Olive plied me with prim conversation, to
which I replied in monosyllables.
Daphne laughed her rolling laughter, and
now and then whispered in Sam’s ear,
which was burning a bright pink.
And as we approached the gaunt build-
ing with its chessboard of windows, black
and bright. Daphne said, confidentially,
\Ve spotted you way back -there near the
Quay, but we you were just a
couple of kids.”
I m no kid, sweetheart,” Sam said
magnificently.
W
E walked into a hallway gaunt and
ugly as a modernist painting, four
abreast, Olive still gripping my arm like
a vice, the girls’ high heels tapping loudly
on the bare floor; past a horrible row of
eyes ’ a P ee Pi n g-bole of an
office, keys hanging in a brass line and
a P a^e shadow of a human face blurred
beneath a green eyeshade; up to the lift,
the fatal lift. Daphne pressed the round
white button with her firm fat thumb.
“ ’Lo, Daph. ’Lo, Olive.”
Greetings from the male ghouls lean-
ing and sitting along the peeling walls.
Daphne acknowledged them, nodding her
head of fair frizzy hair to left and right,
She had the beginnings of a plump
double-chin, I noticed, when she nodded,
And Olive'grinned. Olive, with her long
.sharp nose, her white face and long black
eyes and raven hair, was rather a sinister
person, and her grin showed long narrow
teeth with a red smear of lipstick on their
whiteness. The lift thudded to a stop,
and Daphne opened the door.
“Come on,” she said, with a bold bright
glance at Sam’s face, which had suddenly
turned from pink to pale, and stepped in.
We followed her, first Olive, then Sam
and I, shouldering each other in our con-
fusion. But as Sam turned to shut the
door, Daphne dropped her compelling
hand on his arm.
“Just a minute,” she said. “Business is
business.”
Olive and I slunk in the corners. The
central figures were Daphne and Sam.
Daphne, now I could have a good look at
her, was not so fat as massive. A round,
strong-boned face under the fan of frizzy
hair, a polished forehead and a wide
crimson mouth. Eyebrows of a vigorous
hairiness by nature, meant to meet
menacingly over the short, stout nose,
reduced by art to two elegant dark lines,
curving over round, hazel, warmly
vigorous eyes. There was a coarse vitality,
a sort of earthy and dominating power
about her as she stood there, legs planted
widely like young oaks, and her light
green coat gaping to show an immense
bust and a paunch straining against her
tight black frock. She seemed larger
than life, and outside morality, like Doll
Tearsheet.
SAM stood as though frozen, her hand
still on his arm, grinning nervously,
“Eh?” he said. “Business? Business?”
If she hadn’t interrupted him he would
probably have kept on repeating it until
the end of time
“Yes, love, business,” Daphne said
crisply. “A quid each, love,"
. ba,r ! an d J exchanged a glance. So
they had gauged our economic status
correctly, compared with Johns? Or had
they correctly judged John to be the
greater mug.
Sam looked at me again, then,
very slowly, put his hand into his
inside pocket, and pulled out the two
pounds. Daphne rustled them like a bank
clerk and handed one to Olive. The other
she put in her big shiny black handbag.
Click went the handbag and bang went
the door of the lift. And as we rapidly
ascended I had that common yet un-
failingly mysterious sensation of having
taken each precise step before—reliving a
dream. Which, considering we were
almost perfectly following John’s steps
of the earlier evening, was not so very
surprising. Yet the sensation itself is
eerie, and in this trance-like state I found
myself in an ill-lighted corridor, Olive
digging her crimson claws into my wrist,
facing a girl with skinny bare legs and
straight red hair and a pointed pale face.
“ . , T ~ j .
The gin,-I discovered, had a bundle of
notes in her hand, a bundle of green one-
pound notes of a surprising size, and she
was flourishing them gleefully. “The
old geezer passed out like a light,” she
sa i d -
t< Daphne thrust past her, dragging Sam.
Come on, love. See you later,” she flung
over her shoulder as she pushed open a
door. Sam, before he followed her,
turned round and jerked his head sig-
nificantly.
“Where are you going? Hey, where
do you think you’re going?” Olive’s
voice had lost its calmness and was
strident in my ear, but I wrenched away
from her digging fingernails and fol-
lowed Sam. My only hope lay in follow-
*nS l £ac h now, I realised,
__ , , , , „
j) APHNE wheeled round, formidable
.r,. h . anda Planted on wide black hips.
What s the B ame? she sald m a terrlble
voice.
“Nothing,” Sam said, half-smiling. He
se emed very calm. “Only we’ll have our
m if i( , s a „ same ,
W e’ve changed our minds.”
“Changed your minds?” The spurious
eyebrows came down over the hot hazel
eyes. “Changed your minds, you ...”
A torrent of abuse poured out of the wide
red mouth. It was like a physical torrent,
and Sam seemed to stagger before it.
Olive stood watching from the doorway,
sinewy and sinister,
Abruptly the storm ceased. “Jimmy!”
Daphne called. Then again, more loudly,
Jirnm Y-
T T c . . . ,
I—l E came mlo the room so quickly that
Vtte SSf' A^iST?af o“f a VaTas
T \ rat a m . an ’ as
in had descubed him, with black hair
P arted m the middle and beady dark eyes
B leam f in g meeting eyebrows, and a
moat h. Dancing pumps, and a
a Oll e " reast^ d waistcoat, striped shirt-
thHnt t ? ttooed arms ’ and a
glaring tie. He looked so congruous, as it
were, to the subterranean atmosphere of
the place, so funnily sinister, as to be
startling. He didn’t seem to glance at us,
but walked straight to Daphne’s side.
“What’s the trouble?” The words slid
out of his slits of lips.
“These ! ” Daphne screamed.
“Trying to put it over!”
Jimmy looked at us then, with his
beady, shifting little eyes, and I noticed
that his hand was in his trouser’s pocket.
There was a significant bulge there, under
the blue cloth.
“Beat it!” he said.
We beat it.
THE CONQUEST OF EMMIE
BY JOAN
WISE
SIX dead rabbits strung on a piece
of fencing-wire were fastened
around Emmie’s waist. Deftly she
skmned two kangaroos, tossed their
carcasses into the scrub and carefully put
their skins in the sugar-bag along with
little Johnnie.
All her life Emmie had lived in the
Lake District, helping first her father with
his few sheep and his trapping, and now
helping Sam.
Sam was all right, but he had promised
to build her a house. Four rooms she
wanted—no more, no less. She herself
had helped split the timber, and they
had lived in a tent while Sam built the
first room. Then Johnnie was born, the
cow got sick, the horse got lost in the
marshes, and Sam got tired. Emmie
made a bag sling for Johnnie, fastened
him on to her back and resolutely went
on with her trapping. There was nothing
slack about Emmie!
Sam sat on a cushion of dried bracken,
his back against a chock and log fence.
The sun, the scent of the ti-tree and even
the tangent smell of the marshes was
good. He had first met Emmie, six scrubs
back, on the slopes of Table Mountain.
She had been helping her dad with
kangaroo snares.
“Too much for a slip of a girl carrying
them heavy carcasses home for the dogs,”
Sam had thought, and each morning
neglecting his own bit of trapping he had
made it his business to appear in time to
carry her catch for her.
Conversation came slowly, but this
simple gesture formed an unspoken bond
between them.
Sam altered his position, for even
bracken after a time can become tedious.
Funny how soft he had been, promising
Emmie a house. It was that damn’ Moss
with his quick-and-ready tongue and two
empty rooms in his old man’s own house.
Emmie was, all right when Moss was
away. Why couldn’t he stay at his fish-"
ing!
*4 OSS JONES had two professions. In
the summer he and some mates
worked a trawler, filling big contracts
with mainland fish markets, and in the
winter he came home to live with the
“old man” and went trapping. A pre-
carious income, but, with no responsi-
bilities, what matter? The old man was
happy enough. He had his pension.
Moss was small, energetic and quick-
witted. He got drunk every Friday night
and thought about Emmie.
The rabbits bobbed against Emmie’s
knees as she trudged wearily around the
edge of the marshes. Johnnie beat his
fists incessantly on her back and her
neck ached.
Then she met Moss. She didn’t alto-
gether like being caught by Moss doing
Sam’s job and, what’s more, wearing his
old coat and hat. But Moss was waiting,
sitting on his hunkers watching her pick
her way between the sags and fallen
timber.
“Y’ back again?” she inquired resent-
fully.
Moss nodded and unfastened the
rabbits from around her waist.
“I’ll carry these across to y’r new
’ouse.”
“It’s not finished yet,” she shuffled her
feet uncomfortably. Mockingly Moss
raised his bushy eyebrows.
“The timber’s split,” she went on
hastily. “Sam’s waitin’ for it to season.”
“It was seasoned last winter, afore I
went fishin’,” Moss laughed.
Emmie smiled indulgently, “I knew
as soon as I seen you you’d be makin’
trouble agin.”
“I’ll always make
trouble until”
“Y’ still got y’r
brushwood on,
Moss,” she broke in
coyly.
Moss put his hand
up to his tangle of
beard.
“It’s cornin’ off
tonight.”
Johnnie began to
whimper and
thumped her neck
even harder.
“ ’E’s hungry.
Come in and find
Sam, Moss?”
“I seen ’im last
night, when I got off
the bus, didn’t ’e tell you I was ’ome?”
“’E must ’a’ forgot,” said Emmie
slowly. “It won’t ’urt to remind ’im.”
SAM was the mail-carrier. On Mon-
days and Thursdays he would collect
the mailbag from the postmistress, walk
two miles with it, and fasten it to a post
on the edge of the Lyall Highway, The
Hobart-bound bus would gather it up,
and then on Tuesdays and Fridays Sam
would walk out and collect the bag of in-
coming mail. He always felt he had been
talked into this job by Emmie, who was
so set on “steady money” as she called it.
Not that he minded much, for he
gathered up all the news as he went along.
Much more than Emmie read in the
papers. But he always felt uneasy about
leaving Emmie alone. Especially when
Moss was in the district.
Now the beggar was home again. Well,
there was nothing for it but to finish the
damn’ house. It would be a bit hard now
that he had no horse.
“These wimmen! ”
Sam rose awkwardly from his bracken
seat and rubbed gingerly those parts
affected with pins and needles. Perhaps
Moss’s old man would lend him his old
crock of a horse ; it would be better than
nothing.
He gathered an armful of sticks and
busied himself with a fire. Moss and
Emmie were approaching. It wouldn’t do
to be caught napping by Moss! Out of
the corner of his eye he saw Moss help
Emmie over a log.
Carrying her rabbits,
too! A cunning look
spread over Sam’s
face. Perhaps Moss
would even give him
a day or two’s work
on the house. After
all, he would be with
Emmie!
Sam was a man of
his word. Four
rooms, no more, no
less. • Unlined and
thatched with bark
and leaking with the
first thaw.
MOSS helped odd
days all through
the winter, and then
went back tp his fishing.
Emmie managed to hammer the last
nail into place before she was obliged to
take the bus into Hamilton, where Maggie
was born that night.
Sam reluctantly took over Emmie’s
rabbit-run. It meant getting up early
and going to bed late. What a pity
Etnrnie had such fancy ideas for making
a bit of extra money!
The house was horribly gloomy with-
out her banging about; and he found
himself dropping in more and more often
on Moss’s old man. Dull-eyed and living
in the past the old man shuffled about
making pots of tea and muttering end-
lessly. He was lonely, too.
“I won’t be ’ere much longer,” droned
the old man for the fiftieth time. “What’s
gonna ’appen when I’m gorn? Who’s
gonna milk the cow, feed the pig and
look to me boy?”
A trickle of tea ran down his chin and
dropped on to his already stained waist-
coat.
Sam swigged his tea, rolled himself a
cigarette with some of the old man’s fine-
cut and thought uneasily about Emmie.
Women were the devil with their naggin’!
“Who’ll look to Moss?” the old man
inquired fretfully.
“I dunno,” said Sam. “Guess ’e’ll
manage f’r ’iself; ’e seems t’ have a way
with ’im.”
“Yes, always knows what ’e wants
and goes arter it —gets it, too,” the old
man nodded.
"PHE next day Sam borrowed the old
I man’s best suit and went down to
Hamilton to collect Emmie, Johnnie and
Maggie.
“Why, Sam!” said Emmie, somewhat
surprised. “I didn’t know you was
cornin’ down for us. Is anything the
matter?”
Sam removed the old man’s hat, and
mopped his head. Rolling his eyes, he
turned away from Emmie. Then like a
shot burst from him.
“It’s the old man ' . . thinks ’e’ll peg
out soon . . . Moss’ll take over. Won’t be
able t’ go fishin’ then . . . ’E might be
wantin’ a missus . . . What about it?”
The flush on Emmie’s cheek shot down
her neck. With amazed wonder she eyed
Sam. Never had she heard him say so
much before. And all because of her.
Nonchalantly she gathered Maggie and
her few belongings up.
“Well, what about it?” Sam said
sharply. “Can’t y’ speak up, woman?
Pity t’ waste me trip down t’ Hamilton.
Parson says he’ll marry us right away!”
“ ’Ere, take me string-bag; I’m glad
y’ didn’t let Moss beat y’ to it,” said
Emmie proudly.
Salmon .
Wouldn’t you think the salmon
would come into the river from the sea
with the weight of the sea behind them
pouring in
to fill the wide wings of the lagoon.
Instead, when the tide runs out,
the black and pointed fins
of the salmon fish that wait
move in and close into a flood
of tumbling wafer yellow-white with mud.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


had that reddish tinge that goes with such
a skin. His green eyes could look blue,
or orange, as emotion moved them. His
lithe, strong body was perfectly exercised ;
it was a delight to watch him play polo.
“I can’t make up my mind to live,”
Faith answered. “Some impulse I can’t
understand is influencing all I do.”
“Do you still love James?” Alex looked
away. “Is it the memory of last summer
that hinders you? Did James sicken you
of kisses?”
It was a relief to him to have voiced
his fears,
“James did not once kiss me. He used
me, merely, to hide his own love-affair
with Julia —the girl he married.”
“Oh, surely James is not like that?”
“Yes. James is just like that. Julia
was waiting for her divorce and James did
not want her talked about. I was such a
fool! I was eighteen only, and fresh from
school. I thought he cared for me. I was
completely taken in!”
Alex was amazed.
“Julia’s divorce! Actually—l hadn’t
heard of it!”
“Her husband, who had been fond of
her, allowed her to have a divorce for
desertion.” Faith looked down on the
fingers nervously interlaced in her lap.
“The divorce came through in London
and she waited out here. No one but
James knew about it —I didn’t . . . then.”
“I quite thought Julia was a widow.”
“She gave one that impression.”
“James was —he is—devoted to her!
The Julias of this world! You’ve shocked
me —terribly.”
Alex turned away from her to lie rest-
ing his elbows on the smooth turf,
“Last summer James and I went every-
where together—just as you and I have
this spring! We visited all the beauty
spots! Yes, we spent an afternoon here —
this is the very lilac under which we sat.
He wore a grey flannel suit that might
have been the one you are wearing.”
“It is the same. When James went off
to England with Julia he gave me some
old clothes—duds not smart enough to
wear on a honeymoon.”
THERE was silence. Presently turning
to Faith, Alex asked, gently, “Does it
hurt very much to come with me to all
these places you went with James?”
“The pain I’ve felt just nags! It doesn’t
seem to intensify or lessen in the doing of
this or that. It’s not only the sense of
loss! My whole nature has been hurt —I
am quite changed. I am afraid of life —
I can’t trust people any more.”
“Why come with me?”
“I don’t know. I’m following blind
instincts in all I do. I feel, perhaps, that
you might have some comfort to give me!
Do I need to bolster-up my wounded
pride, my self-esteem? It’s quite shattered.
I can hardly hold up my hea'd.”
“Poor girl!”
Alex rose; and pulled her to her feet
with hands she did not refuse to take.
“What has been remains unchanged.
I shall spend the rest of my life, I suppose,
staring back at a past illusion.”
They walked slowly downhill between
flower-filled urns.
“We’ll watch the sunset from the middle
of the Lake —or near it! There the colors
show more intensely, and as for the
depths—there’s no limit to them.”
As they were about to step into the
waiting shikara, Alex remarked, as if
telling her a fact she ought to know, “I
helped James to get back to England. Did
he tell you?”
“No. But I guessed that, perhaps, you
had. I knew someone must have.”
“Yes. He was in debt. You’re aware,
I expect, that a soldier can’t leave India
if he owes money? Now that we’re on
the eve of leaving the country, we still
keep such chivalrous rules! ”
“Oh, yes! James explained that he
couldn’t leave while he owed the Schroff
money.”
“James turned over all his debts to me.
They hang like a millstone round my
neck. I took them on —I’m probably tied
here for the rest of my life —unless, as
they predict, the whole British army quits
this graceless country! ”
<<|L Allah, USJEE! II Allah, USJEE!”
* The boatman’s chanty, noisily
sung by their Kashmiris, gave the rhythm
to the oars as their frail skiff, in a lather
of foam, carried them into the centre of
the lake. There, once established, they
floated, at rest, the only objects that
appeared to have substance in a world all
rose and gold.
Each streamer of light, each hyacinth
shadow in the sky, was reflected in the
lake ; to look down was to see the whole
depths of heaven repainted, ineffably re-
mote, jubilant with color.
In the midst of this enchantment the
two young people sat, estranged by their
own particular sorrows and desires, saying
little, bleakly aware of the beauty they
shared but could not relish of the joys
both were renouncing.
As they returned along the shallow
canal, an orchard of flowering quinces,
the cumulus shapes of the trees on the
Isle of Chenars, kingfishers driving blue
darts through luminous branches, tow-
boats carrying grain, a handsome woman
balanced on the extreme prow of her
skiff to pole her load of merchandise to
market, a solitary fisherman intent among
the lotus-leaves (the lilies would not
appear until June), all the vivid and
vocal activities of this wooden Venice
claimed only their casual attention; their
talk disguised their thoughts. They were
lovers no longer.
The sun had set when, after an hour’s
journey through the rose-lit water, he
stood beside her on the narrow decking
of her lantern-bedizened Ark to give her
his hand in farewell.
It was in this twilight world of lavender
mists and faintly barking watch-dogs (all
from the villages on the invisible plain,
for Srinagar housed none) that Alex said,
like a man making a final renunciation,
“Well. This is good-bye. I shall trouble
you no longer! I thought you might have
flirted—quite harmlessly—with James. I
imagined you had exercised a woman’s
prerogative in saying ‘No’ to him —as you
so often said to me. It never occurred to
me that James could behave so badly!
It astonishes me that you could even
speak one word to the brother of such a
cad! ”
“All that I told you is true,” Faith
murmured, distressed. “We can only
follow our own instincts. I don’t know
what made me treat you as I did —I acted
without the least intention of taking my
revenge—do, please, believe that.”
“Yes. Yes,” he hesitated, looking
vaguely at her.
The light hanging on a wooden peg
beside the doorway illuminated Faith’s
brooding face with brightness.
“She is like Botticelli’s Venus,” he
thought. “The tender oval of a face that
isn’t rosy, that is all one delicate blonde
fairness of flesh. The eyes, that seem so
clear a blue, yet have v a salty hint of the
sea in their depths. The mouth, so
sensuous, yet so firm in denial.”
Aloud, he said abruptly, “This is the
end. I’ll inflict no more protestations of
devotion on you!”
He did not take her hand again, but
stepped down into his boat and was rowed
away. His boatmen, untired by their
three hours’ exertions, hurried him out of
sight and he vanished in the milky haze of
a rising moon.
GOING in. Faith went directly across
the elaborate room that served her
as a dining-room. Its red and blue
Persian carpets, its carved sideboard and
embroidered curtains, its highly ornate
table and chairs, were part of a luxuriance
that made her Ark an expensive boat to
hire.
Opening a cupboard she took out the
last of the presents Alex had given her.
She laid these valuable offerings with
some circumstance on the table before
her, and in the lamplight read the
packet of letters she had found awaiting
her. An English mail had been delivered ;
she learned that the “blue jar” had
fetched three hundred pounds at Christie’s,
that the gold-fitted dressing-case had been
sold, most advantageously, to an Indian
buyer who had replied to her advertise-
ment in the “Pioneer.”
Answers forwarded from the “Civil and
Military Gazette” brought a really
magnificent offer (and indeed she had not
expected to make so quick a sale) for the
three polo ponies, the advertisement of
which she had sent only twenty-four
hours back by telephone to Lahore.
The buyer, it appeared, knew the
ponies. He was a nephew of the
Maharajah, and had played in matches in
which Alex had used these well-bred and
highly-trained mounts. With the large
sum they brought (she had never
anticipated such a magnificent offer) and
with the varying sums she had already
banked, Faith had netted, she calculated,
two thousand pounds.
Pleased, she went to the window and
looked across the moonlit acres of iris.
Rosemary is a generous herb, repaying
the gift of a few drops of water with an
immediate, fragrant response. Violets
will dispatch their orris scents across
many yards. Thyme, trodden upon, has
an instantaneous, excellence to offer to a
sensitive nostril. But their sweetness lags.
It acts as an opiate deadening the nerves.
Iris sharpens the senses. Like waves on
a beach, its perfume beats, undiminishing,
in the strength of its pleasurable impact.
Faith felt this appeal to be almost un-
endurable. As she leaned out of a
window that had its own resinous
reminders of the pine forests in which she
and James had lingered days on end, she
breathed an aroma that cut her to the
heart. It brought back the night James
had leaned in at this window-sill, very
late, idly talking. She knew now that he
had been on his way downstream, to
Julia, watchirig, perhaps, for a sign that
would tell him her guests had gone. “He
spent his days with me, and his nights
with her,” Faith thought bitterly.
NEXT morning on the Chubootra all
was rumor, all was excitement.
It was Mrs. Beatty who had hurried out
to the group that was invariably
established there to say, breathlessly,
“Alex has committed suicide! His boat-
men told my ayah! They say he said
good-bye to the ‘Miss Sahib’ —Faith, of
course —about nine o’clock, went back tp
his Dunga, wrote some letters —and shot
himself! ”
But the group had more authentic
news to give.
“He was about to shoot himself,” Mrs.
Breakspear corrected her excited in-
formant with much emphasis. “My
husband, who had looked in on Alex
about ten o’clock to borrow a rifle,
stopped him. Bertie spent half the night
with Alex, talking him into a saner frame
of mind.”
“Will Faith return his presents?” Miss
Belltrees wondered.
“She has sold them —every one! My
cook had it from her ayah.”
“My dear! What an adventuress!
Last season —what an innocent school-
girl she appeared to be! She was fresh
from school —what a school it must have
been!”
“It’s weeks since she showed her nose
in the club. She realises people have
talked.”
“What will happen to Alex, now?”
“I left him sleeping like a child in my
spare bedroom,” Mrs. Breakspear
announced, with complaisance. “My
husband gave him a sedative. He is
waiting by his bedside till I get back.”
The eyes of the gossiping women had
been focused on the houseboat; they
were expecting that the girl they discussed
might at any moment make a brazen
appearance.
“Dd your husband tell Faith all this?”
“No. Why shpuld he? There’s nothing
between them now.”
“What time was it, dear, when you
left Alex?”
Mrs. Breakspear was quick to sense a
tension. She looked at her wrist-watch.
“I left about nine. I did some
shopping, then came on here!” She
appeared to be surprised that time had
flown so smoothly. “It’s twelve o’clock!
I must go ; but why, dear, do you ask?”
“I thought I recognised Dr. Breakspear
in that shik'ara”
“Which one?” Mrs, Breakspear
scanned the teeming waters.
“The boat just splashing out of sight
upstream! I’m certain it was the doctor!
I couldn’t make out who was with him —•
there were rods in the boat.”
“Bertie would never take any risks—
with Alex in that nervous state!” But
Mrs. Breakspear was puzzled. She rose.
“I’ll look in on Faith on my way back.”
She looked shamefaced—a little. “It is a
duty to tell her what has happened.”
“Let me come with you!” Miss Bell-
trees rose.
| T was hardly ten minutes later when
' these two visitors called a shrill “Quhai
Hai” at the houseboat’s shut door. To
their surprise Faith appeared to give
them entrance.
She looked happy.
Not to be defrauded of their sensation,
her friends exclaimed in unison, “Oh, my
dear! Have you heard? Poor, poor Alex
has attempted to commit suicide! ”
“My husband stopped him —in the nick
of time!”
Miss Belltrees enlarged on this.
. “Dr. Breakspear took the loaded
revolver from him —Alex is now asleep
in the Doctor’s spare bedroom.”
Faith led her callers into a drawing-
room in which the art of all India seemed
to have paid tribute in an overcrowded
exhibition.
She found them chairs, cushioned in
plush, ornate with carving.
She sat.
“I don’t think you can have heard the
latest news!” Faith smiled. “By this
time Alex is well on his way to
Rawalpindi.”
“To ’Pindi?”
“He’s catching a plane home.”
“Home?”
“Back to his mother —poor boy! I’d
better tell you the truth about it all,”
Faith resumed kindly. “I daresay you
may have heard” ——
“That you have sold all his gifts?” It
was an impulsive exclamation.
“Yes. You did hear? I thought you
might! ” Faith laughed. “With the
money I got I paid Alex’s debts—they
were James’s, really!”
“Yes!”
“I went to see Alex about nine”
“The moment I’d left! ”
“Yes! Your husband showed such
understanding. He gave Alex a jorum!
Providentially a lad from his regiment
was driving into ’Pindi —he had no
passenger in his car —he promised to see
Alex off safely. We paid the Sc hr off —
every penny! There was money enough
for the passage home.”
Certainly Faith looked —inexplicably—
happy, her visitors decided, departing.
I EFT alone Faith still looked, for
*—' some reason, radiant.
“It was just as Alex said good-bye that
the revelation broke in on me,” she
mused. “He looked at me exactly as
James used to look! And I knew that
this was what I had been waiting for —
to see Alex look like James! To see,
once again, that turn of the head, that
lift of the eyebrow, that glance of the
eye—all I had loved so much! ”
She leaned out of the window of her
Ark, inhaling the noontide sweetness of
the warm iris fields, the resinous
fragrance of the wooden sill —neither had
power to wound her. -She felt buoyantly
happy.
Presently, having beggared herself by
the additions she had made to the money
she had given Alex, she drew towards her,
at her ridiculous desk —it was of silver
filigree, with red plush lining it—pen and
paper, to draft to the “Pioneer” an
appealing formula, “Officer’s daughter,
refined”
Faith was exposing herself to the last
indignity fate offers to a rejected woman.
She was seeking “a job” ; but she kept
putting down her pen and breathing in
the overmastering sweetness of the iris;
she felt an unquenchable joy welling up
in her tired heart.
HOMAGE TO THE WINDS.
From “The Great South Land.”
Do homage to the Winds that rove the
World;
that stay not in one place; invisible,
except by signs they make in clouds, on
seas,
in foliage of tree and shrub, in grass,
in wraiths of dust and wraiths of pelting
rain;
that flutter the flags of nations, fill the sails
of ships; the Winds that Man will wait
upon
for end of ocean calm, will dread when,
raging
in uniaon of conflict with the sea
and thunder and lightning, they flap wings
of terror;
the Winds that veer and change; the Winds
that blow
reliably and steadily in season,
dependable for trade; the Winds that sing
and whine and howl through rigging,
raising seas
and whipping spray in toiling sailors’ faces;
the Winds that have dictated History,
as partisans in battle, and as hounds
of heat and famine to gulp and lick and
sniff
all moisture from a land and leave it
barren,
its mortal occupants compelled to go;
the Winds that have denied the will of
captains
and forced them on to new discovery;
the Winds that harp in pine-trees, rustle
palms,
bring scent of wild-flowers and the scent
of sea,
drown echoes, carry voices; Winds that
make
tornadoes and dust-spirals, water-spouts,
cyclones, siroccos, hurricanes; that race
in gales and loiter lazily in breezes;
the Winds that show to men all characters
and properties, of strong and weak, of hot
and cold, of dry and wet, of song and dis-
cord;
the Winds that visit human homes, and
rattle
the window-panes and rush along the walls;
Winds in the noon and in the dark of
night;
the Winds that live with eagles in high
places;
that pile up banks of snow on Everest,
raise walls of sand on the Sahara; beating,
shouting, singing, murmuring, dreaming
Winds;
Winds wandering through old ruined,
empty cities,
and whistling through the ribs of broken
ships;
the Winds in fronds of fern, and raging
blizzards;
Winds in the mountains; Winds in the
troughs of sea;
Winds waking the dreams of men, abetting
schemes
of daring scope and world-wide wander-
ing . . .
Victoria.
REX INGAMELLS.


WSSfWSi
m
i
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY
The Bank and
the Community
A Bank must have the same
qualities as have people who
prosper: Vision, Enterprise,
Industry and Capital.
For 115 years this Bank has
worked in co-operation with tens
of thousands of men and
women and businesses who
exercise these qualities in the
maintenance and development of
their businesses.
Indeed, a Bank prospers only
when it helps the Community
prosper.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
TBS BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Something Representative of Australia For a
Friend Abroad?
The February 1 issue of “The Bulletin” will be a special
Jubilee Number commemorating the paper’s 70th birthday. It
will include a large supplement embracing the best that Australia
has produced in stories, verse and black-and-white—all reprinted
from weekly issues' of "The Bulletin” published over the past 70
years. Henry Lawson, “Banjo” Paterson, Phil May, “Hop,”
Roderic Quinn, Norman Lindsay, Edward Dyson, “Steele Rudd,”
Frank Dalby Davison, Percy Leason, C. J. Dennis, Ted Scorfield
and Brian James are only a few of the names represented. It
will be a production truly representative of the best this country
has produced in the way of art and letters, and it will be worthy
of its place among any similar anthologies from any country.
Price, as usual, 6d.
“THE BULLETIN,”
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACTKSOH 4
OSWUIYAN
nrecro - j
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUR,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machine*.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All type*
Saw Repairs.
THE SERVICE MAN
A Good Start in the Air
“Ek Dum”: One of the best
bits of news from a defence
viewpoint is that the new Gov-
ernment has lost no time in
arranging the manufacture in
Australia of the new Canberra
bomber, which is probably the
fastest and most up-to-date
thing on wings in the medium-
bomber line in the world apart
from American stunt planes.
It is to displace the obsolescent
Lincoln —obsolescent, that is, by
comparison with machines in
production in the United States
and suitable for the purposes of
Australian defence.
The Canberra came off the
fully-secret list only last year
when it was flown with Rolls-
Royce Avons, which have been
replaced with Rolls - Royce
“Tays,” packing something to-
wards the equivalent of 30,000
h.p. in power between them.
The practical speed is well
over 500 m.p.h. In size it runs
round normal medium-bomber
measurements —64 ft. wing-
span, 65ft. 6in. long and about
15ft. high.
It is a pity that it was not an
all-Australian product from the
beginning, but its adoption
should be the start of the
programme which will induce
British firms to come here with
plans for commercial aircraft-
building. Canada, with its De
Havilland associates from Eng-
land, has put into the air recently
a jet liner carrying 50 passengers,
which would have been enough
to stagger the Americans and set
them years behind programme
if its performances were not
overshadowed by the more-
advertised Comet. Its speed is
well above the 400-mile-per-hour
mark.
There is no reason why Aus-
tralia should not enter the export
field in heavy aircraft if she
could develop something speci-
ally suitable for Asian and
Pacific conditions. It will be a
long time before some other
countries in the South Asian
zone are able to do anything of
the kind on a large scale, and
Australia is a natural home
market if she can produce the
goods.
With her superb record in the
air, all the more remarkable
since it was built up in a non-
manufacturing country which up
to the outbreak of World War
II had scarcely half a dozen two-
engined aircraft in its R.A.A.F.
—Ansons were the giants of
1939, before the Hudsons came
—this country should be able to
turn out something which will
make the rest of the world sit
up.
Eastern Affairs.
“Ek Dum”: According to the
“S. M. Herald,” Mr. Spender,
Minister for External Affairs,
“followed the broad approach
of his predecessor. Dr. H. ,V<
Evatt, in making it clear that
Australia could not afford to
take any chances or leave
dangerous loopholes in any
peace settlement with Japan.”
And the conference decided to
set up a “working party” to
study Japanese peace - treaty
problems.
It certainly needs studying,
though whether there will ever
be a Japanese peace treaty and
whether it will be worth two-
pence when it is made are dif-
ferent matters altogether. In
any case, it is obvious that the
United Kingdom, the United
States and Russia also cannot
afford to take any chances or
leave dangerous loopholes, and
as each of them are apt to dis-
agree as to which loopholes are
dangerous and what the solution
is of the problem, the prospect
of any satisfactory settlement
seems improbable, especially
since a Communist Government
has taken over in China under
the thumb of Moscow.
The various peace-treaty
makers on the Allied side are
divided into widely-separated
camps—so widely separated that
two of them, Russia and Com-
munist China, have proved
already that no agreement made
with them on an Asian question
is worth a bale of mildewed hay.
The Russian rape of Manchuria
and its common Allied resources
captured from the Japanese, the
usurpation of authority in the
zones of occupation allotted to
the Russians in China, such as
Dairen, from which the other
Allies have been rudely excluded,
the disappearance of hundreds
of thousands of Japanese
prisoners-of-war in flat defiance
of a solemn agreement, the Rus-
sian- assistance given to destroy
Nationalist China, a war ally,
the night-and-day plotting which
went on to destroy U.S. or-
ganisation in S. Korea and make
that area a jumping-off place
for Communist control of
Japan, the widely - organised
Moscow conspiracies in British
and French colonies —all these
things, and the odd-man-out
attitude in Tokyo of the Russian
emissaries on the Control Com-
mission, are a clear indication
of what the Russian attitude is
going to be.
Russia does not want an Allied
peace treaty with Japan. It
wants a failure so that its
Government and the Govern-
ment of China will be free to
make their own arrangements.
Asian Objectives
The Japanese are the first
consideration in the peace
treaty. Their objectives are to
maintain their national strength,
build their national trade and
regain their national “face.”
They naturally have a closer
affinity with the Chinese as a
people than with Europeans,
among whom the only race
with which they have a chance
of agreeing is the British, an
island people. They do not like
the Americans as a race —actu-
ally they hate and fear them,
though they get on with some
American individuals. They do
not hate or fear the Russians,
with, whom they had a working
agreement on fisheries and other
matters almost right up to the
end of World War 11.
Indeed, one might have mis-
givings from a close study of
Russian behavior and their own
whether the pair have not some
sort of a loose private agree-
ment even now. They normally
need Russian fisheries. The
Russians would not be averse
to having some of their products,
especially their low-priced tex-
tiles. It is to the interests of
Russian policy to build up a
low-price textile industry and
other industries based on cheap
labor in Japan. Such industries
could be used as: a weapon of
war against Britain and the
United States, and might go a
long way towards helping to
destroy the United Kingdom
economy. The same applies in
the Russian attitude to India.
Nothing would suit Russia better
than to develop this kind of
competition to the limit. No-
thing, also, would suit Japan
better. It is an issue On which
Russia will go the limit in en-
deavoring to paralyse relations
between Japan and the West,
creating as much enmity as pos-
sible.
A Japan fairly strong mili-
tarily would also suit Russia,
provided friendly relations could
be established. Here Russia has
a definitely powerful weapon.
The Western Allies may force
permanent disarmament on
Japan down to the last dagger.
But they cannot prevent Russia
from accumulating war material
to be handed over to Japan at
the right time. They cannot pre-
vent Russia doing as it did with
the Germans in the years fol-
lowing Versailles and allowing
Japan to organise her officers’
military training on Russian soil.
“Lebensraum”
Moreover, the Russians are in
a they are the only
ones in that position nearer than
S. America and Australia—to
offer a receptacle for Japan’s
excess population. The Russians
have no racial inhibitions. They
have no “White Australia”
policy. And they have a rela-
tively empty Siberia, as the
Chinese have Manchuria. They
are short there both of tech-
nical ability, of competent
factory labor and of other
essentials for success. And
they could profitably provide for
an immense amount of tem-
porary or permanent Japanese
immigration when that country
becomes so crowded, as it must
in a few years, that the position
is wholly desperate.
India’s Attitude
In the development of com-
petition with Anglo-American
and European industry the
Japanese will have at least the
competitive sympathy of India,
whatever some of the wily
leaders of that country may say.
It is not to be forgotten that the
Indians are natural Asiatics—
not Canberra politicians of the
Dr. Evatt type or those who
“follow his broad approach”
who profess to have become
Asiatics by adoption and to
have conferred Asian citizen-
ship on the rest of their fellow-
Australians, Some Indians now
in high ■ places undoubtedly
hoped that Japan would win the
war —a few even collaborated.
China and Japan
The relationships between the
Chinese and the Japanese will
be fairly easy to arrange with
Russian backing, however much


The Department of Technical Education
New South Wales
Offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in a wide
range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in touch
with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home study courses
will open up new interests and enthusiasms as well as lead to
EFFICIENCY — PROMOTION — SUCCESS
Any person, other than those of school age, who. by reason of
remote phuU of residence, hours of employment or phys.ca
disability, cannot attend Technical College classes, may apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following courses:—
ART— Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing, Freehand Drawing, Dress-
makers’ and Milliners’ Art, Display Card
Writing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCE —Bookkeeping, Commercial
English, Commercial Principles, Account-
ancy, Auditing, Commercial Law, Income
Tax Law and Practice, Banking, Finance
and Foreign Exchange, Cost Accountancy,
Company Secretarial Practice, Economics,
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Corres-
pondence, Shorthand, Typewriting.
IiOCAE GOVERNMENT— LocaI Gov-
ernment (Town and Shire) Clerks’ Cer-
tificate.
ELECTRICAE —Electrical Trades (for
apprentices and journeymen).
ENGINEERING— Fitting and Machin-
ing, Automotive Mechanics, Refrigeration
(for apprentices and journeymen). Steam
Engine Operation, Steam Boiler Attend-
ants, Gas Engineering, Diesel Engine
Operation. Surveying I (course in pre-
paration). Motor Maintenance (for owners
and drivers of motor vehicles).
GENERAE EDUCATION— EngIish and
Mathematics (approximately from Ist year
secondary to Leaving Certificate standard),
French, Mechanics, Modern History,
Geography from Inter-
mediate Certificate to Leaving Certificate
and/or Matriculation of University of
Sydney standard).
MARINE ENGINEERING— Ist or 2nd
Glass Marine Engineer’s Certificate,
Part A.
BUILDING Building Construction,
Carpentry and Joinery (Theory, Calcu-
lations and Drawing).
PRINTING —Composing, Printers’ Eng-
lish and Arithmetic, Linotype Operation,
Bookbinding, Letterpress Printing (for
apprentices and journeymen).
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS Certifi-
cate Entrance and Qualifying Examina-
tions (Department of Technical Educa-
tion). Intermediate Certificate -(see
Secondary), Nurses’ Entrance.
PUBLIC HEALTH —Health Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
BUBAL —Agriculture, Care of Animals,
Pig Raising, Poultry Farming, Sheep and
Woolclassing, Dairy Technology, Dairy
Farming, Bee Keeping, Farm Mechanics
(including Farm Machinery, Farm Science
and Farm Arithmetic), Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Station Book-
keeping.
SANITATION—House Drainage, Sewer
Plumbing, Water Plumbing.
SECONDARY—Art, Business Principles
and Bookkeeping, English, French, General
Mathematics, Geography, History, Latin,
Mathematics I (Arithmetic and Algebra),
Mathematics II (Geometry and Trigo-
nometry), Technical Drawing. (All from
Ist year to Intermediate Certificate stan-
dard.)
HOME HANDlCRAFTS—Dressmaking,
Millinery, Dressmakers’ and Milliners’ Art.
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and other of the above courses.
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND A TECHNICAL COLLEGE
STUDY BY CORRESPONDENCE
FEES
Basic Scale 25/- per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Complete
schedule of tees available upon application. Half fees to students under 21 years
and receiving less than 80/- weekly.
A. DENNING,
Acting Director of Technical Education.
mail coupon for syllabus
TO: The Officer-in-Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Department of
Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course.
NAME (in BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTUS VANCE FENWICK late
of Unanderra. —TAKE NOTICE that
RHODA MINNIE JANE FENWICK baa
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1938 of
1949 on the grounds of desertion ■without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 3rd April 1950 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MADDOCKS, COHEN & MAGUIRE, Soli-
citors, 38 Martin Place. Sydney. —(1.5.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
II
At lost you con hove Kerosene Refrigerotion that
combines every advantage— more storage capacity,
more economy, more ieemaking, more beauty—
with Icemoster, the refrigerator that is os easy ond
economical to operate os a kerosene lamp?
... AND MORE OF EVERYTHING IN
FEATURES* CONSTRUCTION AND RELIABILITY
AUSTRALIA'S LATEST AMD BEST SEBOSEME REFRIGERATOR
• DISTBJBOTORS: Queensland:
Ain m Bade Street, Brisbane. & WAitKHAM, Sic Sliielda
Ml WK BENNETT A WOOD PTST.
Pttt A Bathnist y l
traHa. WESTERN APPLIANCES LJaPTOP.
sons Ltd., Barrack Street, PertL. WKgi'KttM OD-OP.
BID., 569 Wellington Street. Broth. # B«rth
RADIO WHOLES AU3SS LIMITED.
BARRIER ELECTRICAL ABBUANC^JUMmro.
Broken will • Victoria: KELVXNATOE ADBTBAMA T.HW HTha
Willi am stovn Road, Port Melbourne.
APPLIANCES LIMITED. FINSBURY, SOUTH ABSTEALAA - i«»
distrust there may be of main-
landers in Tokyo. The Com-
munists of China have an im-
mense advantage oyer the West-
ern and southern nations in
negotiation with and persuasion
of the Japanese nation as a
whole —the average Japanese
can read and write. Moreover,
with very little difficulty, he can
read a Chinese newspaper or
pamphlet, something which he
cannot do with an English one.
And racially Japanese and
Chinese are so close together
that some varieties themselves
cannot tell each other apart.
The only permanent agree-
ment which can be had with
Japan is certainly not one based
on an attempt to keep a country
of 80,000,000 people hamstrung
commercially and militarily by
force. Peace can only be main-
tained by mutual understanding
and toleration and by the same
sort bf co-operation that ob-
tained between Britain and
Japan before the intrusion of
the United States into world
politics after World War I. The
Americans are naturally not pre-
pared to see this position de-
velop. And if Australia wishes
to continue the Evatt policy—
which is unbelievable—-it is sow-
ing the seeds of a third world
war right away.
To continue to treat the
Japanese as outcasts and
pariahs is also to envision that
country as flung wantonly into
the arms of Russia and Com-
munist China.
“ Don't worry, pet —I've had hub by quick-frozen
for the trip across.”
Allied Differences
The divergences of opinion be-
tween the Allied Powers and
Commonwealth Nations about
the recognition of China em-
phasise the difficulties which lie
ahead. There are even open in-
ternal differences. General Mac-
Arthur is reported to want to
defend Formosa against Com-
munist intrusion, something
which would be tantamount to
going to war with the “new”
China. Mr. Acheson, the Secre-
tary of State, merely sees “no
reason for haste in the matter of
recognising the Communists.”
The British Government, with
Hong Kong abutting Communist
territory, which is now being
extended to Hainan to outflank
it, seems to have had little chance
of avoiding a quick decision.
The Australian Government fol-
lows U.S. official policy but with
less tact and refuses to join
Britain, India, Norway, Russia
and Yugoslavia, which have
recognised the Mao Govern-
ment.
Russia has gone further than
all by demanding that the
Chinese Nationalist delegate be
expelled forthwith from the
Security Council —it is a grimly
humorous facet of the situation
that this month the Chinese dele-
gate, Dr. Tsiang Ting-fu, whose
Government has been repudiated
by so many of his colleagues
and who has no power to com-
mit the Chinese Nationalist
Government on behalf of the
Chinese people, is chairman of
the Council. Dr. Tsiang
annoyed the Russians by
moving that the matter of his
expulsion should be considered
at the next Council meeting, the
Russian resolution being circu-
lated among members in the
meantime. And then the
Russian leader, Comrade Malik,
demanding a vote without delay
and failing to get it, walked out
“with his chin stuck out defiantly
and followed by the other dele-
gates.”
Eight votes to two supported
Dr. Tsiang, whose Government’s
warships during the week had
been engaged as usual in bom-
barding mercantile ships be-
longing to members of the
Security Council, but particu-
larly one belonging to the U.S.,
which has obliged Chiang Kai-
shek’s regime by delaying recog-
nition of its enemies.
World Plan Needed
In any case, conferences of
the Colombo brand do little
good. They are of a type which
have arisen with the importation
into power of self-advertising
Socialist politicians and those
new Asians who are learning
their technique from them with
avidity, since they exactly fit the
trends of the babu mind. Be-
fore the war differences between
partners and the framing of con-
certed British Commonwealth
policies was done wisely behind
closed doors, in the same manner
that any wise board of directors
conducts its business.
Communists
Move South.
“Ek Dum”: One of the most
interesting and ominous moves
made by the Chinese Com-
munists is that to invade Hainan
Island—if it needed invading,
since the Communists claimed
to have dominated it locally for
the past couple of years. It is
obviously designed to Outflank
Hong Kong and prepare for
attack on the Indo-China area.
Hainan is China’s second-
largest island —the name means
“south of the sea”—and it is
the place where, in the better
world of a generation ago, all
the little golden “larn-pidgm”
boys used to come from to be
turned into ship’s stewards. It
lies about 300 miles south-west
of Hong Kong, like a stopper in
the mouth of the Gulf of Tong-
king, and it completely dominates
the entry to the main northern
ports of French Indo-China and
the Tongking region. It is only
divided from the mainland at
the Lui-chow-fu peninsula by
a narrow strait. It is about half
the size of Ceylon and its popu-
lation is pretty uncertain—per-
haps a couple of millions. A
rough, mountainous island, its
central peaks and ranges rear
themselves well above the snow-
line. Much of it is heavily-
timbered and broken up by wide
and turbulent rivers, and some
of the tribes in the central area
have hair on their teeth and are
almost as wild as Arthur Cal-
well.
The daily-Press description of
it as “a remaining Nationalist
stronghold” is a nice compliment
to the Nationalists, which seems
to prove that the traditional
courtesy of the Orient has not
died with the Communist influx.
If the Nationalists have any
“stronghold” there it is merely
a coastal shell. If they ventured
inland they would probably be
eaten alive by the guerrillas of
the insalubrious mountain centre,
even if Chiang Kai-shek does go
down there, as it is reported
that he will (or has), to “bolster
up morale” —which has long
ceased to exist.
Interesting also are the Com-
munist plans to make a minia-
ture Iwojima assault on Chusan,
a little group of islands lying
about 50 miles from Ning-po in
the wide mouth of Hangchow
Bay, commanding the entrance
to Shanghai and Hangchow.
From these isles the Nationalist
Navy has been operating to
blockade Shanghai. The British
took the Chusans as far back as
1840 and again in 1841, when
they held them for a year or
two until a few problems were
settled with the Chinese Govern-
ment. Nationalist bombers also
seem to be operating from the
islands against Shanghai, which
was mildly attacked last week,
according to Russian reports,
which seem to be the only ones
which are leaking out to the
news services.
With the “Nationalist” Navy
out of the way, little further
Chinese resistance will be pos-
sible in the north.


SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to : —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
A “BULLETIN” PAGEANT
On February 1 The Bulletin will publish a special 68-page issue
commemorating its 70th anniversary. There will be a large supplement
containing a reprint of 10 or more famous short stories, about 40 black-and-
white illustrations and numerous pieces of verse—a selection froip 70 years
of the best that Australia has produced. In addition there will be all the
usual weekly features. Order a copy from your newsagent today, and send
copies to your friends in Britain and the U.S.A. Price 6d. Posted for Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A GERMAN ARMY.
On the tentative kite-flying a
month or two back concerning
an army for Western Germany a
German view, expressed by the
“Frankfurter Rundschau,” pub-
lished in the American occupa-
tion zone, has some special
interest: —
“We [Germans] want to assert
our prestige in the world on
grounds of real proof of <a
genuine desire for peace and of
willingness for international co-
operation. We do not need any
troops or army to achieve this.
Complete German disarmament
is such an important psycho-
logical contribution to peace that
military expediency and interna-
tional considerations should be
put aside. German disarmament
entails the obligation for the
others to protect us. And under
these circumstances we may well
GERMAN STORY: BEWARE OF THE DOG!
—“France Amérique.”
renounce the need for an army
and military prestige.”-
Those views have since been
entirely endorsed by the Bonn
Bundestag, in which last month
all parties joined in repudiating
the idea of rearmament. The
result of their debate, as inter-
preted by the London “Times”
correspondent, “was to put on
record the West German Par-
liament’s opposition to and even
detestation of a revival of the
Wehrmacht.”
In that debate the Chancellor,
Dr. Adenauer, said that “an im-
portant non-German source”
had indicated the necessity of a
German contribution to Euro-
pean security, possibly by Ger-
mans serving in another army.
The Chancellor said that he ex-
pressed the view that in no cir-
cumstances could Germans serve
in a foreign army as mercenaries.
“Even if the demand for a Ger-
man contribution to European
security was put by the allies in
a categorical form there could
be no question of the establish-
ment of a German army,” he
said. “The most that could be
considered would be the ques-
tion of a German contingent
within the framework of a Euro-
pean army.”
Dr. Adenauer has emphasised
bluntly: “We do not want a
German Army.” Even so, there
has to be something more than a
token defence for Germany as
the advance line of all Western
defence, and on this there is
growing support for the view
expressed in London “Observer”
that the existing manpower gap
in Western European land de-
fence can hardly be closed with-
out a German contribution. The
“Observer” poses the problem
that worries the Western
planners:
“To leave Western Europe un-
defended is unthinkable, To
rearm Germany is undesirable.
The only way out seems a
Western European Army in
which Germans would serve side
by side with others. But a
Western European Army, to be
anything else but a meaningless
noun of assembly for several
national armies, would have to
owe loyalty to a Western Euro-
pean Government. Would
Britain agree to this?”
Britain probably would not
agree to anything of the sort;
by very general report Britain is
decidedly reluctant about enter-
ing fully into Western European
Union. That seems to take the
position back to the alternative
the “Observer” (and not it alone)
considers “undesirable.” When
the kite-flying for this was tried
the reaction was so strongly
against in both Britain and the
U.S. that denials came fast, on
the lines of U.S. Defence Secre-
tary Johnson’s statement that
“the United States has no inten-
tion of rearming Germany.”
This, however, has since been
described by usually well-
informed Washington corres-
pondents of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” as flying flat in the face
of the professional assessment of
the Western military chiefs, in-
cluding the French:
“German rearmament has
been generally regarded as a
wicked project of the American
and British military men. But
the fact is that both French
General Staff Chief Georges
Revers and Western Union
ground commander De Lattre
de Tassigny, who bitterly dis-
agree on everything else, agree
on purely military grounds that
there must be some degree of
German rearmament. Both re-
cently said as much to a leading
American Senator with close
French connections. De
Tassigny’s view, moreover, pre-
sumably reflects the assessment
of Field-Marshal Bernard Mont-
gomery’s Western Union staff.
“The fact is that all the
Western military chiefs arc con-
vinced that the defence of
Western Europe is likely to prove
enormously difficult in case of
war, without German ground
troops. They are wholly con-
vinced that the defence of Ger-
many itself is totally impossible
without German troops.”
In that, as in many other
accounts, there seems more than
a suggestion of the sort of buck-
passing that usually indicates
something due to happen for
which nobody wants the respon-
sibility. Thus it is the U.S. that
is most blamed by Lord Van-
sittart in a London “Daily
Mail” article. Stating that he
has found the notion of rearm-
ing Germany present “in high
and influential circles,” he de-
clared ;
“The notion is much stronger
in the United States, whose
policy tends steadily to
strengthen both Germany and
Japan. There is American talk
of letting Germany have an army
—unspecified in number —with-
out an armament industry. There
is more of giving her a fully-
equipped army of five divisions.”
Quite needless to add that
Lord Vansittart is fiercely against
the whole idea. “I am appalled,”
he exclaims, “that anyone should
think these illusory limitations
would ‘stick,’ once we had madly
given way on the principle of
keeping Germany disarmed.”
As another British example,
the “Manchester Guardian” also
largely passes the buck to Uncle
Sam;
“At present the strategic argu-
ment, put forward not only by
soldiers of various nations but
by Congressmen in both Houses
and parties, is this. With the
French Army in its present low
state of effectiveness and no sign
that French military expenditure
will be allowed to rise, the West
European land forces are quite
inadequate to hold an attack
from the East. There is a man-
power gap which Congress is
unlikply to allow to be filled by
more American troops; there-
fore the obvious answer is to
take Germans, good soldiers and
impeccably anti-Russian, and to
ensure that they fight only in the
right direction by keeping all the
main equipment and the supply
services in the hands of the
Allies.”
Among other views worth
noting on a subject of which a
good deal more will certainly be
heard, the Rome “II Memento
Sera” has commented: “All the
world thought [at one point
during U.S. State Secretary
Acheson’s European talks] that
Germany had re-entered Con-
tinental life through the front
door. Then suddenly came a
communique that the Bohn
Government had pledged not to
rearm. Paris had put down its
foot. The consequences are
easy to imagine. Moscow is
winning the main place in Ger-
many. The new West German
Republic will slide fatally to-
ward the East when it has proof
that the ‘Westerners’ intend to
keep it unarmed and inferior.
The Russians have given life to
a Germany that at least gives an
appearance of autonomy. The
Kremlin [in its zone] is support-
ing rearmament enthusiastically.
Even with Soviet officers in
command, such a formula may
seem preferable to the men of
arms than cultural disarma-
ment.”
Of American comment, the
most emphatic appears in last
month’s “United Nations
World,”* in which T. H. Tetens
(who was employed during the
war on “highly confidential
assignments by the U.S. Gov-
ernment”) declares flatly that
“Franklin Roosevelt’s nightmare
of a Russian-American split
over Germany, followed by a
German - Russian combination
against the United States, has
all but come true.... Whatever
America does, Germany will be-
come a partner of Russia. And
if it comes to war, Germany
will fight on Russia’s side.”
As another American ex-
ample, the Baltimore “Sun,” re-
ferring to U.S. Defence Secre-
tary Johnson’s denial of U.S.
intention to form a German
army, dryly comments that
“Events have a way of changing
the minds of even the astutest
politicians. It is at least within
the bounds of possibility that
events may change the policy
of the whole Western world with
reference to Rhineland Ger-
many.
“What we know as of now is
that the Russians, with their
absolute control of Eastern Ger-
many, are building what they
call a police force but what
could easily be turned into the
nucleus of an army On our
side we have not permitted the
Germans to have anything closer
to a military organisation than
local police forces. They have
not been allowed to establish
even an armed border guard.
All such semi-military duties
have been assumed by the
occupying Powers.
“This means, of course, that
if the Eastern Germans, urged
on by their Russian bosses,
actually seek to move into the
West for the purpose of ‘liberat-
ing’ their Western fellows, it will
be British, French and Ameri-
can troops who will have to stop
them. If in due course the
Russians themselves should de-
cide to move their millions of
cannon fodder west, again it
would be British, French and
American manpower which
would have to oppose them.
Under our present policy the
40,000,000 West Germans could
stand aside and cheer for one
force or the other, like a street
mob in a grand opera.
“So that it becomes necessary
in -considering Mr. Johnson’s
words to say that they are true
as of now. We have no present
intention of arming our Ger-
mans. But if the worst comes
to the worst and it transpires
that they want to be on our side
we shall certainly not feel
obligated to force them into
unwilling neutrality.”
With so much smoke there
must be fire underneath, and
London “Economist,” holding
that “policy cannot be based
simply on arguments, however
strong, of what is desirable,” but
“must be rooted in the realities
of the European situation,” has
made the following sound
analysis:
“Germany is not a second
Sweden or Switzerland, a
sheltered area, preserved by re-
moteness or high mountain
ranges from the direct threat of
invasion. On the contrary, it
lies directly along the fault line
in international affairs, it is the
inevitable area of any possible
dispute between East and West.
It is quite impossible to think
of ‘neutralising’ Germany or to
believe that it can be left as a
species of strategic vacuum.
“Germany must therefore be
defended. Indeed, it is in Ger-
many that the defence of the
West must begin, and that it
'might fatally end. This being so,
it is impossible indefinitely to
postpone the crucial question of
who is to do the defending of
Germany,
“It is inconceivable that the
present Western occupying
Powers should accept in per-
petuity the burden of providing
the whole defence themselves,
even if they had united German
goodwill and support in the
attempt. But they will face, on
the contrary, Germany’s con-
stant and increasing claims—as
of right— to contribute to its own
defence. At the moment, the
memories of defeat and devasta-
tion are strong. They offset to
some extent the sensitive nation-
alism which will sooner or later
demand a measure of equality
with other nations in Western
Europe. They even offset the
fear of facing, unarmed and
helpless, the risk of Russian
aggression. But these conditions
cannot last. The more Germany
becomes a partner in Western
Europe, the more inequality will
be found irksome. As the im-
plications of Western defence be-
come clearer, such vital ques-
tions as the exact line in Europe
to be defended—the line of the
Elbe or the line of the Ruhr —
will remind Germans of their
intense vulnerability on the
marches of Europe.
“From the resulting combina-
tion of pressures—Allied pres-
sure to reduce the burden of
defence, German pressure to take
it on —only one result is conceiv-
able, an Allied agreement to
restore a German army and to
entrust it with German defence.”
In the Name of Free
Health!
For the time being Australian
doctors have missed what their
British counterparts have to
endure in the name of “free”
health for everyone, as described
in a “Manchester Guardian”
letter by one signing himself
“National Health Doctor”;
“Our surgeries are over-
crowded, not with people who
are ill, but with people coming
for certificates or, in many cases,


BRITAIN IS MAKING THE GOODS
YOU NEED
Designing for your needs now has first call on Britain’s
resources and skill. She has studied your requirements, and
has welcomed your buyers in greater numbers every year.
Exhibiting at the British Industries Fair 3,000 manufacturers
will reveal the latest products of ninety industries, and
from every country overseas 16,000 buyers will assemble
to make immediate selections for their own markets.
Making new goods for the world has raised Britain’s pro-
duction to a record level. In turn these exports enable her
to buy and Britain is the world’s greatest customer.
Trade Buyers! Ensure your accommodation now because
tourists also reserve Britain s hotels in May.
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
LONDON MAY 8-19 BIRMINGHAM
INFORMATION about exhibitors, advance catalogues, special
displays and facilities at the Fair can be obtained from the United
Kingdom Trade Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or
Brisbane: or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth
Face Facts
u
W
More than 20 feet of hair grow on a man’s face each
day nearly a mile and a half in a year! That s a fact,
for each of the 25,000 hairs, the average crop of an
Australian male, grows at the rate of at least 1/100 inch
each day. A tough assignment for a razor blade?
Certainly, but it can be tackled comfortably by using
Blue Gillette Blades daily—they have the sharpest edges
in the world.
<s>
c;
<s»
rv
O
vV-
'Good Mornings' begin with Gilletii
BLUE
Gillette
blades
TEN FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6
I
1/169
n
There's
o friend
like an old
friend •
E
(T) c Cclllujt2's
Scots (ilhisky
tb'MO»QM(*oun6cbiBo*)t **&***
The nome ls_
(Oudlums
The whisky is_
for repeat medicines or trivial
complaints.
“Of the former the variety is
apparently endless. I have been
recently asked to give certificates
for the following: Extra petrol,
electric immersion - heaters,
electric cookers, milk and eggs,
absence from school, excusing
from gymnasium, absence from
work more than two days but
not requiring National Health
Service certificate, witnessing
passports, mortgage bond, certi-
ficate that an examination for
glasses is required, corsets,
brassieres, family - allowance
applications, lost ration-books,
certificates of character for
adoption and employment pur-
poses.
“The crowning achievement of
certification was a visit from
schoolgirls, sent by their teacher,
to see if their bones were strong
enough for them to go ski-ing in
Switzerland at Christmas.
“In addition there are the usual
statutory certificates connected
with births, deaths, vaccination,
infectious diseases and the like.”
Also, “there are the people
who come with the most trivial
conditions, simply because it is
free. I have seen in one surgery
three common colds, two cases
of pimples on the face and one
on the abdomen. Not one of
these patients would have visited
a doctor if the service had not
been free, but would have
obtained what they required
from the local chemist. As it is,
patients do not hesitate to wait
a long time in the waiting-room
in order to obtain aspirins. It is
quite common, when the patient
enters the consulting-room to-
day, for him to tell us what is
wrong and what he wants for it!
A 15-year-old boy this week told
me exactly which medicine and
what flavor he required for his
cold!
“The combination of mono-
tonous signing of one’s name
on the certificates with the
swamping of surgeries by people
with the most trivial conditions
is stultifying medicine so that
one has not the time nor the
mental alertness to deal with
those who are really ill (but they
must also wait their turn in the
waiting-room for a very long
time).”
Airy Ministerial appeals to
people not to visit doctors for
trivial complaints fall on deaf
ears. “One cannot expect irre-
sponsible people to respond to
such an appeal; in fact it is the
people with a sense of responsi-
bility who so often stay away
until it is too late because they
know how overcrowded surgeries
are. The only way in which such
folk can be kept within reason-
able proportions is to have some
kind of levy (preferably on the
prescription) which will make it
pointless for them to visit here
when they can get what they
want at the chemist. A measure
such as this and the prohibition
of the use of doctors for any
kind ci official documents would
help to save us from the new
occupational disease of doctors
—writer’s cramp!”
Credited to U.N.O.
All things considered, U.N.O.
can hardly complain that it gets
a “bad Press.” Both the Ameri-
can and British summings-up on
the Assembly’s late-1949 session
acknowledge that some things
were accomplished and take a
hopeful view of the future.
As typical of the very largely
favorable Press, “New York
Times” declared that every
nation which sent delegates, in-
cluding Soviet Russia, had
recognised that what the
Assembly says and what it does
are alike important. Business
transacted:
Action was taken on the
question of the Italian colonies,
remanded by the Big Four and
settled by compromise ; the ques-
tion of peace in the Balkans,
dealt with by a resolution con-
tinuing the special committee in
that area and calling on Albania
and Bulgaria to stop aiding the
Greek guerrillas; the question
of human rights in Hungary,
Bulgaria and Rumania, referred
to the International Court of
Justice; a resolution on peace
vigorously opposed by Russia,
which had a counter-resolution
denouncing the Western “war-
mongers” ; a programme to pro-
tect the rights of the 15,000,000
people now living in trust terri-
tories ; a one-year extension for
the Korean “Watch-Dog” Com-
mission ; the continuance of the
so-called Little Assembly; the
decision to go on with the seem-
ingly hopeless task of arriving at
agreement for the control of
atomic weapons ; the acceptance
of the Indonesian settlement;
and the election of Yugoslavia
with India and Ecuador to the
non-permanent positions on the
Security Council. To the Little
Assembly, in a resolution which
side-stepped the critical issue of
what to do about Communist
China, were referred the charges
made by the Chinese Nationalists
against Russia. The problem of
Jerusalem caused some strange
divisions, and the solution
arrived at presents enormous
difficulties.
“New York Times” wound up
its editorial comment with the
finding: “We may not be satis-
fied with all that happened at
this session. Yet underneath the
flood of words, behind the trad-
ing and bickering, something
real was going on. The Assembly
is organisationally restricted and
weak. Morally it is, or can be,
a great force in the world. There
are some things on the record of
this session, and more yet in the
atmosphere of the meetings,
that encourage one to believe
this will in due time happen. ’
Housing Extraordinary.
For the special attention of
Australian Housing Ministers,
here are a few of the things a
London “Daily Express” Am-
sterdam correspondent vouches
for as having been done by the
Dutch Housing Minister, who
bears the picturesque name of
Dr. Joris In t’ Veld:
He has cut the staff of his
Housing Ministry from 3000 to
1200. At the same time he has
raised the rate of Dutch house-
building almost up to its pre-
war figure of 40,000 new per-
manent homes a year. He aims
at a swift and steady increase to
a total of 55,000, the highest in
Dutch history. He has no trouble
in getting all the timber he wants
from Sweden and Finland.
He has reduced the cost of
house-building by 10 per cent, in
a year without reducing
builders’ wages.
He is using an assortment of
wooden huts left behind by the
Germans. The huts are bigger
than those in which British
families now squat; but he is
not putting families in—Dr. In
f Veld and his Ministry have
moved into the huts, and their
old building is being converted
back into 100 substantial flats for
people of The Hague.
He has told Dutchmen that
from now on they can once
again build their own houses.
No licence needed.
Dragnet Digest.
U S Com. Exclusion. —In one
respect the U.S. is downright enough
on Corns; the present immigration
law denies admittance’to “any private
individual” who is or ever was a
Communist.
* * * *
Happy, Happy U.N.O.—' “Encourag-
ing signs” noted by “veteran U.N.
observers,” as reported by ‘New
York Times”; “Despite the harsh
words spoken in formal meetings,
there was some amiability on a per-
sonal level. It was common to see
even such opponents as Andrei
Vyshinsky of the U.S.S.R. and
Hector McNeil of Britain chatting
amiably on a divan. Mr. Vyshinsky
had made no secret of his low
opinion of the Assembly’s president,
Carlos P. Romulo of the Philippines.
But before sailing for Russia the
Soviet Foreign Minister sent to Mr.
Romulo some caviare, vodka and
cigars, and to Mrs. Romulo a dozen
red roses.”
* * *
Germans’ Hero. —The German-bom
writer of a recent series of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” articles on present-
day Germany records that, while the
name of Hitler very rarely entered
spontaneously into the hundreds ot
conversations he’d had with Germans,
whenever he turned the conversation
deliberately that way the reaction was
that everything Hitler did was fine
up to 1939, “and then the fool went
and lost the war.” He’d heard the
Fiihrer referred to as “that non-
smoking vegetarian,” but seldom by
any more derogatory epithet. One
fact, he writes, “that hit me m the
face time after time as I talked
to Germans was that of all the
key Nazis, Reichsmarshal Hermann
Goering today still retains the greatest
hold on the imagination and affection
of the German people.”
$ * * *
Soviet Settlement Terms. The
“Scotsman” (Edinburgh), reporting a
list of “terms” for an East-West
peace pact in Europe lately being
hawked around diplomatic quarters
on the Iron Curtain’s fringes, said
the proposed “terms” included: Con-
clusion of a four-Power German
peace treaty “neutralising” Germany
against association with either East
or West; “neutralisation” of Scan-
dinavia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary
and Austria; recognition of Bulgaria
and Rumania as within the Russian
sphere of influence, but facilities to
be allowed for Western trade; inter-
nationalisation of the Danube and
Dardanelles; partition of Yugoslavia
into a “neutral” Northern State a'ncl
a Southern State, including Albania,
which would be within the British
sphere of influence.
U.S. "Welfare State.”— On the
statement by General Eisenhower that
“The task of our time is to promote
social and economic welfare without
jeopardy to individual freedom nnd
right,” the ‘‘Manchester Guardian’s
New York correspondent comments:
‘‘Whether he meant to or not,
General Eisenhower hereby set up
the target for the 1950 Congressional
elections. For there is a growing
sense in Congress, in Wall-street,
among Labor leaders and among all
economists, that even if the Welfare
State is not the issue of our time
it is going to be —short of a Russian
adventure —the issue of the next
Presidential election.” For which, it
can be added, U.S. papers are already
strongly tipping Eisenhower himself.


NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with New! Improved!
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Exhaustive research by
Eminent American Dental
Authorities proves how using
Colgate Dental Cream helps
stop dental decay before it
starts! Continuous research
hundreds of case histories
makes this the most im-
portant news in dental his-
tory! Eminent American
dental authorities super-
vised 2 groups of college
men and women for over a
year. One group always
brushed their teeth with
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating. The other
group followed their usual
dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
higher rate.
Giant z/-
Large 1/3
AMERICA’S
AR6EST SELLING DENTAL CREAM. L
m
New! improved!
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Ever!
New delicious double minty
flavour! New sparkling snow-
white colour! New scientific
polishing action! New soap-
less penetrating foam For
effective daily dental care.
No claim is made that using
Colgate's can stop all tooth
decay, or help cavities already
started. But brushing teeth
right after eating Is the
proved way to help stop tooth
decay with Colgate Dental
Cream.
Always Use Colgate’s* to
ill Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth—and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY 1
■"Right after eating.
8.0.A.C. INTRODUCES
T
\
TSZ.
SPEEOBIRDS ACROSS THE ATLANTIC!
Yes, 8.0.A.C. has added Strato-
cruisers to its modem Speedbird
Fleet ! Passengers relax in
deep-seated comfort and enjoy
double-decked spaciousness in
these, the largest, fastest, most
luxurious airliners in the world.
The main cabin on the upper
deck is linked with the lower-
deck lounge by a spiral staircase.
The entire aircraft is air-con-
ditioned and pressurised for
smooth over-the-weather flying.
Complimentary meals are served
in flight and there are no tips or
extras for traditionally fine
Speedbird service.
MM
Double-decked Stratocruiser Speedbirds
accommodate 60 passengers comfortably t
cruise easily and quietly on four engines
,at an average speed of 325 m.p.h.
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF
YOU
FLY" S'O’A’C
M 53
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents
in Australia) or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Shock knocks out barber.”
—Sydney “D.T.” heading.
A customer actually asked for
a bottle of hair-restorer.
“Bomb in garden intended as
scare.” —Sydney “Sun.”
And what’s more, it was.
Double-dealing.
“It is entirely possible for a man
to love two women at the same time
-—until one of them finds out.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Because of woman’s intuition
It’s hard to carry to fruition
Two simultaneous love-affairs,
And any man who rashly dares
To try this form of mean
deceiving
Soon finds an angry girl reliev-
ing
Her feelings in a sharp tirade
That only flight can well evade.
But if you young Australians
feel
That you successfully can steal
Two hearts at once, the safest
way
To dodge a showdown and a
fray
Is just to scorn our local beauties
And set your caps at migrant
cuties
From Warsaw, say, then use
your art
To keep your charmers Poles
apart.
D. H. E.
Only Skin-deep.
“Dr. Desire Piette, in his new May-
fair beauty-salon, has invented a revo-
lutionary blue-light treatment for his
clients. After the skin has been
cleansed and sprayed with chemicals
the light is switched on the face. It
reveals freckles and otherwise-
invisible blemishes so that a com-
plete treatment may be prescribed.”
—Cable item.
The news that invisible
freckles can at last be success-
fully treated will be joyously
acclaimed by all women and
girls cursed with these most un-
sightly of all facial blemishes.
True, certain detractors have
gone so far as to affirm that
provided the right chemicals are
sprayed on the face in the first
place, such as sulphuric acid or
concentrated perchloride of iron,
the use of the blue light is un-
necessary. Be that as it may,
there is no doubt that the suc-
cess of this pioneer step in the
application of colored light to
the skin presages even more re-
markable developments in the
field of beauty-culture.
Already, it is reported, a
Hollywood medico. Dr. Stani-
slaus Wrkzclozkowitz, has suc-
cessfully used a green-light ray
treatment on a number of film
actresses to indicate the presence
of unsightly moles embedded
in the adipose tissue be-
neath the skin. And from
Stockholm comes news of an
even wider application of this
revolutionary technique: using
a special dark-brown light, Dr.
Gustav Winde claims to have
completely eradicated in three
days what had previously proved
to be an exceptionally stubborn
case of dandruff in a vaudeville
comedian’s toupee.
CAL.
Quite Authentic.
“Vivid Press speculations as to
international diplomatic moves seems
to be one of the mid-twentieth-
century’s favorite sports.”
—Radio speaker.
London, Monday: According
to the “Daily Whinger” Sir
Bloodshotte Lampe, one of the
top men of the Foreign Office,
who left Lympne last night by
jet helicopter for a secret destina-
tion, has gone to Belgrade to
bring Marshal Tito completely
into the Western orbit and to
discuss with the Rumanian dic-
tator the reputed possibility of
assisting another and as yet un-
named Balkans country to
throw off the Kremlin yoke. The
paper asserts that among gifts
which Britain has sent the Mar-
shal by Sir Bloodshotte is a cine-
camera which no matter where
the lens is aimed will take only
photos of the one who is using
it.
New York, Tuesday: The
“Hurry up—my train goes in ten minutes !”
famous columnist, Blew Queer-
son, who is read daily by
60,000,000 Americans and is
syndicated in 75 countries and
is even translated into pidgin
Portuguese, Lapp, Vietnamese,
Mush and Voodoo, discloses
that the Balkans country about
to embrace Titoism is Rumania,
whose Foreign Minister Anna
Pauker has fallen violently in
love with Marshal Tito. Queer-
son says that for his last birth-
day Anna sent Tito a gift of a
huge bunch of pansies in the
form of a double-cross.
Wednesday: In a dispatch
from Ankara, Geuter’s corre-
spondent says he has learned
from a source which he is un-
able to divulge, but whose dis-
closures in the past have been
remarkably accurate, that.
Madame Anna Pauker last week
had three face-lifts, is shaving
every day and is undergoing
special blowlamp treatment for
warts on her nose, all in antici-
pation of her becoming Tito’s
girl-friend. Bucharest is seething
with rumors that the Marshal
has already liquidated, at
Anna’s request, four of his
guerrilla girl-friends, including
Greasa Pullthru, who attained
overnight fame and broke all
records of history and fiction by
potting off 293 Nazi sturm-
truppers before breakfast.
London, Thursday: The very
foreign correspondent of the
“Daily Yelp,” discussing the
now strong probability, through
Sir Bloodshotte Lampe’s brilliant
diplomacy, of a Rumanian-
Yugoslav anti-Stalin alliance,
says that if these two fighting
nations gang-up on the U.S.S.R.
the whole Soviet Eastern bloc
may well collapse. It is known,
he says, that Rumania’s “iron-
man,” General Heerim Yell-
forescu, has been secretly whip-
ping the army into such shape
that he is completely confident
of its ability to break even the
Red Army’s speed-retreat record
by up to 30 miles a day.
Friday: The Sofia corres-
pondent of the Moose Jaw
(Ga.) “Morning Trombone,” in
a delayed dispatch that had to
be smuggled out of Bulgaria,
discloses that when at Belgrade
Madame Anna Pauker stepped
from the bomber which she had
piloted herself, and out of which
on the journey from Bucharest
she personally threw four of her
N.K.V.D. guards, she displayed
her strong emotion at being with
her Marshal lover that she belted
him joyously between the
shoulder - blades, whereupon
Tito buckled at the knees and
coughed for half an hour. Ob-
servers say that seeing his for-
midable girl-pal in strong day-
light so wrought upon Tito’s
own emotions that he had to be
given a strong anti-emetic.
Saturday: The Oslo corres-
pondent of “La Vie Parisienne”
reports that there are strong
rumors that Molotov is now en-
joying a long holiday in a
Siberian saltmine following the
failure of his cocktail-party re-
cently in Bucharest to Anna
Pauker, who, although she
soaked up at least 18 of the
famous Molotov cocktails, didn’t
turn a hair, although when a
well-known but unnamed diplo-
mat surreptitiously dipped a
toothbrush into one of the drinks
all the bristles immediately dis-
solved. The Politburo, he says,
has allotted Secret Police Chief
Beria the task of liquidating
Anna.
Sunday: Correspondents in
various European capitals put
the number of purges now
sweeping Iron Curtain countries
at 66, following the firm estab-
lishment in Tito’s affections of
Anna, who has cut down her
smoking to 14 cigars a day, and
whose bass voice *Tito is said
to find soothing after the
soprano voices of his military
staff. According to circles close
to the Marshal, Anna has supple-
mented the gift brought by Sir
Bloodshotte with a toy rubber
duck for the Marshal’s use if
and when he takes a bath.
Monday: A message from
Kenya says that Sir Bloodshotte
Lampe, who has been there on
a mission in connection with
Britain’s ground-nuts plan, has
left for Tanganyika for a con-
ference with Ugh Goo, the
powerful chief of the Groo-El
tribe.
Tuesday: Bucharest Radio
reports a speech by Madame
Anna Pauker in which she re-
ferred to Marshal Tito as a
“flea-bitten, sub-human mon-
grel.”
Bo.
Lashings of Arguments.
“Should children he allowed to do
as they please?”
—Letter to Sunday paper.
The question comes too late
today
When so-called child psy-
chology
Has laid the emphasis on play
And, backed up by psychiatry,
Insists that, children get their
way.
For nowadays you mustn’t
chide
The child who wants to be a
pest
For fear expression be denied,
Nor must he be frustrated lest
His personality divide.
Well, if you must, just let him
shout
And grow up sullen, spoiled
and odd,
Yet surely there is room for
doubt
If such a scheme can beat the
rod —
So let us thrash the matter
ouf
BERT.


</e/s
WORK SETTER
OR-
ION
P
WOMBS
\
\
\
cit
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, 0.5. A.; WINDSOR, GAN.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’' practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbkre DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26u), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
s.
Qf
\
N
ft=2
-~iO
.u?
H
BT APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS to
n» majesty no king
To mark those occasions
when charm, perfection
and easy confidence are
the keynote, nothing could
be more in keeping
than a cigarette hearing
the hallmark of
Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London —
when only the best will do.
3* 20 SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bensonmd Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
fd
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
Anchored by a steadier of 9.13, it
was not unexpected that San
Domenico would be beaten as he
was in Saturday’s Sefton Handicap
at Randwick. The brilliant son of
Hua is a topnotch sprinter, but
handicappers are making it very djffi-
9ult for him to add to his present
record of eight victories —the last
recorded at Eagle Farm, Brisbane, in
June last year. Indeed, San Domenico
has never been a horse much favored
by handicappers. In a total of 19
starts he has only on six occasions
carried less than 9st.; one of those
occasions was at his first outing as
a two-year-old, when he was started
off from, the highish mark of 8.3,
and another when he carried the pre-
scribed 8.10 in the fixed-weight
Hobartville Stakes. At his last three
starts San Domenico has carried 9.10,
9.8 and 9.13 and been beaten
into second place by horses carrying
7st., 6.13 and Bst, respectively.
Unfortunately for his connections
San Domenico was, in Saturday’s
Sefton Handicap, as on previous
occasions, so impressive in defeat
that no handicapper could feel really
justified in giving him much of a
drop in the weights. Beginning slug-
gishly, and slow to get properly
moving under his crushing plaster,
San Domenico was almost hopelessly
far from the leaders turning for
home; with a field of 22 scrambling
for positions there had been a pile
of interference, and three horses had
fallen at the half-mile. As they
straightened up for home, however,
San Domenico really got into his
stride; sweeping up on the extreme
outside he fairly mowed ’em down
to hit the front and look the winner,
but the last half-furlong saw the con-
sistent Blue Flag (W. Briscoe), with
his 231 b. advantage in the weights,
peg back the favorite and win by
three-parts of a length.
The field of alleged “stayers” con-
testing the 12-furlongs Warwick
January Handicap was hardly worthy
of Randwick or of the £lOO9 prize-
money; suffice to say that the top-
weight, conceding the other six
runners 141 b. and upwards, was
Steady, a five-year-old who has won
in all three races —a novice, an en-
courage and a trial, all of which he
bagged in one surprising burst of
form in January, 1948. Steady started
favorite on Saturday, and barely ever
raised a gallop. Blue Danube U*
Thompson) took the main cut ‘■u®
prize, with Royal Reward and Ball-
room in the places.
The 71b.’ allowance claimed by
apprentice S. Cassidy contributed to
trainer F. Allotta landing a nice
double. . Young Cassidy was suc-
cessful on Crag Son in the mile
Three-year-old Handicap and on
Ocean Prince in the Juvenile En-
courage for colts and geldings.
Carrying, even with the allowance, a
steadier of 9.2, Crag Son won in the
very easiest fashion after young Case
sidy’s assiduous adherence to his in-
structions “to take things quietly if
the pace was hot in the early stages”
had almost induced apoplexy among
supporters of the hot favorite. Crag
Son was one of the tailenders at the
turn, but, given his head, won with
great comfort, Very frequently what
looks good form round this time o’
year doesn’t actually amount to
much, but Crag Son, a three-year-old
Felcrag colt, impresses as one Who,
with normal improvement, could give
a lot of cheek in one of the major
mile handicaps a little later on.
Ocean Prince, winner of the
Juvenile Encourage, is one of the first
crop of the imported White Ensign,
\ a son of Fairway and a three-quarter
brother to the Derby winner Blue
Peter; Ocean Prince was bought for
650 guineas at the last Sydney year-
ling sales. Other winners at what
was a typical off-season meeting at
Randwick were Star Bloom, a
daughter of Talking, taking the Two-
year-old Encourage for fillies; Cap-
tain Roddy (N. McGrowdie) proving
best of a moderate bunch in the 13-
furlongs Novice; and Overseer (D.
Armstrong) winning the mile Minto
Handicap.
* * * *
One would think that in a country
which has as its richest racing prizes
the £12,500 Melbourne Cup, the
£lO,OOO Sydney Cup and now, as
announced last week, a £12,000 Bris-
bane Cup, the ordinary run of racing
programmes throughout the year
would include many more 2-mile
races, and certainly that they would
attract better-class fields than
contested the quite - well - endowed
Inkerman Handicap over the 2-mile
journey at Caulfield on Saturday.
The £l5OO Inkerman resulted in a
thrilling finish between a four-year-
old maiden and a five-year-old
hurdler.
Uncle Joe, an elderly Portofino
gelding who has won a string of
minor Cups and middle-distance
handicaps, mainly on provincial
tracks, led the field along till he ran
out of steam, which was about three
furlongs short of the requisite dis-
tance. Departure of Joe left the
favorite, Lord Bian, Tyrian and
Purdey in front. Lord Bian, too,
soon discovered that his staying
ability fell a furlong or so short of
his supporters’ anticipation, and
Purdey and Tyrian settled down to
fight it out; sheer powerful riding by
W. A. Smith on Purdey won the
battle. The winning margin was a
neck, with the aged Blank mare
Dovette a distant third.
Bookmakers offered Merry Scout
as the initial favorite for the Juvenile
Stakes (s£f.), but a huge plunge for
Matterhorn saw this High Peak colt
start favorite at 9 to 4, Merry Scout
drifting to threes. Over the increased
distance Merry Scout handled his
topweight of 9st. quite comfortably
and won well, but the confidence
expressed in Matterhorn seemed not
without foundation. This likely-look-
ing colt, who had had only one
previous outing, was drawn towards
the inside at the barrier, but missed
the jump and was chopped back to
the tail of the field; in the circum-
stances he did well to finish within
three-parts of a length of the
winner.
Merry Scout is, of course, a son
of ( the imported Kinderscout, a most
successful sire who, it is regrettable
to record, died at A. G. Hunter’s
Northwood Park Stud, Seymour
(Vic.), last week. A bay horse, foaled
in 1935, Kinderscout was a son of
the Phalaris horse Bold Archer, and
himself raced successfully in Eng-
land. The first crop of his get raced
here in 1944, since when his progeny,
including such good-’uns as Reperio,
Regal Scout, Bold Beau, Gilwell, On
Time, Better Days, etc., have won
some £70,000 in stakes.
Dornoch, a three-year-old son of
the 1942 Oakleigh Plate winner High
Title, showed something of his sire’s
speed in winning Saturday’s Park
Stakes (6f.), and impressed as being
quite capable of adding another Oak-
leigh to the family record. In front
nearly all the way, Dornoch appeared
to be easing up nearing the post
after shaking off a challenge from
Phoibos, but still managed to clock
l.lli; Phoibos, who started favorite
and finished second, was spotting the
winner 201 b., and, as well, might
have preferred a slightly longer trip.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances):^ —
Maiden Two-year,-old (fillies): Even
Flow, 1; Whippet, 2; Lady Rosetta,
3. Maiden Two-year-old (colts and
geldings): Bordeaux, 1; Tuituilla, 2;
Hioniti, 3, Parramatta Mixed:
Matinee, 1; Carriole, 2; Lady Kris-
tine, 3. Auburn Mixed: Crownall,
1; Peace Treaty, 2; Dixie Belle, 3.
Civic Handicap: De La Salle, 1;
Wattle, 2; Blue Ensign, 3. Lord
Mayor’s Cup: Barnsley, 1; Silent, 2;
High Spirits, 3. Welter: Damascene,
1; Lone Duke, 2; Chessman, 3.
* * * *
All round, a mighty wail is arising
over the question of finance for the
Empire Games team. The simple fact
is that all concerned have bitten off
more than the available finance can
digest. It’s costing £lOO per nob to
send the team, and after the various
individual sporting bodies had nomi-
nated their teams it was found that
only £BO per nob was on hand.
The swimming fraternity put the
“And that message came to you from the Road
Safety Council
onus of raising the extra £2O-per on
the clubs to which the chosen rep-
resentatives belong—a bit tough on
a club such as Palm Beach, which
has five of its members in the Games
team. The athletics people were a
trifle more cold-blooded; they de-
cided to put up the full £lOO for
23 performers and leave nine others
to each find the lot themselves if
they wanted the trip. First prize,
however, goes to the cycling fplk,
who, nominating 14 representatives
and receiving £BO per head for them
from the general fund, then cut the
team down to 11.
* * * *
Some weeks back the New Zealand
tennis authorities invited a couple
of young Australian players to visit
the Shaky Isles and compete in the
N.Z. championships. This, as might
have been expected, threw the Aus-
tralian association into a convulsive
series of forward and backward
somersaults —“Yes, they can go—
No, they can’t go—Well, maybe one
of them can go.” With those
responsible for arranging the draw
in N.Z, just about reduced to
despair, George Worthington was
finally allowed to go, accompanied
by T. H. Warhurst, and on Saturday,
at Christchurch, Worthington won the
N.Z. singles title. The Australian
pair were stitched in a marathon
doubles final which the N.Z. cham-
pions, Robson and McKenzie, won
3-6, 6-3, 5-7, 7-5, 7-5.
* * * ♦
First of the feast of international
matches with which local tennis fans
are to be regaled was turned on at
White City, Sydney, on Friday and
Saturday when the visiting American
lasses, Doris Hart and Louise Brough,
played a series against the Australian
team, Mrs. Bolton and Miss Fitch.
Miss Fitch, who should be able to
snare the Australian title before she’s
much older, was substituting for Mrs.
Long, and gave the impression that
possibly she should have been in the
team in any case. The “Test,” which
provided the best women’s tennis
seen here in donkey’s years, was a
splendid financial success for the
N.S.W. association, 4000 turning up
on the first day and 4500 on Satur-
day. Mrs. Bolton won her singles
against Doris Hart and the Australian
pair proved too hot in the doubles;
the visitors won the other three
singles matches.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield cricket over the
past couple of weeks has seen Vic-
toria give South Australia a belting
(by nine wickets) in Melbourne,
while in Sydney, as this went to
press, N.S.W. was in process of ad-
ministering like treatment to the same
unhappy Croweaters. Victoria and
N.S.W. are the only ones in the hunt
for the Shield, and the meeting of
the pair in Sydney on January 27-31
should provide the match of the
season.
Not quite completed at time of
writing, the South Australia v.
N.S.W. match was a sorry affair.
The efforts of some of the S.A. bats-
men in the first innings, when they
had first use of a perfect pitch, were
embarrassing to behold. Topscorer
was L. Michael, with 32, which was
a fraction more than one-third of his
side’s total of 94. Seven of the
South Australians had totals ranging
from nil to six, which compared
rather unfavorably with sundries’ con-
tribution of five. N.S.W. responded
with 346, and with two days to play
South Australia had lost six for 143
in their second innings.
* * * *
After dishing an Eastern Province
team by an innings and 39 runs
earlier in the week the cricket tourists
in South Africa moved on to tackle
Border at East London on Saturday.
Evidently the boys, or at least some
of the upper strata batsmen, decided
to use this match for a spot of solid
batting practice—at stumps on Satur-
day the Australians, batting first, had
methodically piled up 425 for the
loss of four wickets. Morris bagged
106, Archer 93, Loxton 81, Harvey
29, while Hassett was 106 n.o. and
McCool 6 n.o.
* * * *
Professional running is enjoying a
real boom in Victoria, whither the
authorities have imported a couple
of overseas stars to contest a “world
championship.” One of the importa-
tions, American negro Barney Ewell,
turned on the hottest run seen in
Australia for years when, on Satur-
day, he won his heat of the £2OO
Geelong Football Club Gift in 12sec.
flat. Representing 10 yards inside
even time, Ewell’s run equalled Jack
Donaldson’s world pro. record set
at Sydney Cricket Ground in 1911.
Ewell turned pro. after competing at
the London Olympic Games, in which
he was beaten by an inch or so in
the 100-metres final.


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
Making time
time>
//
/
/ 0/'// / /A
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
fd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
87 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863
when consigning your dip—
everything
points
to
fd
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches;: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Oharleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Ycates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
LUL, Wiuton. Vic,; Wodonga, Korumburra.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dipping Hints.
“Outback”: Best results are
obtained when sheep are treated
up to two months off-shears.
Correct strength can be ob-
tained only if the capacity of
the bath, in gallons, is known;
a simple method of calculating
bath-capacity is to add together
the length of the dip line and the
length of the bottom in inches
and divide by two to obtain the
average length. The average
width is obtained in the same
way. By multiplying average
length, average width and depth
in inches the volume of the dip
is obtained. If the answer is
divided by 277 the result will be
approximately the number of
gallons in the bath.
If only liquid dips are to be
used add slowly the prescribed
quantity of the liquid in the pro-
portion given and keep the
bath’s contents stirred con-
stantly. When powder-dips are
used ascertain dip capacity and
apportion powder as recom-
mended on packet. Mix
thoroughly by taking only a
small portion of the powder in
a convenient vessel, adding water
and stirring to the consistency
of mustard. When the neces-
sary amount of powder has been
treated add to the bath, stirring
constantly from the bottom.
Choose fine weather for dip-
ping, avoiding whenever pos-
sible extremes of heat and cold.
If there are lambs at foot keep
them from sucking for two to
three hours after their mothers
have been dipped. Sheep should
not be dipped when heated, and
it is wise to yard them over-
night. Drain thoroughly, and
where practicable let them dry
in the shade,
D.D.T. and Later.
“Nedrium”: Before D.D.T.
was used for codlin control
orchardists had noted that the
number of arsenate sprays
needed increased year by year.
Where one annual spray was re-
quired in Colorado in 1890, 10
were needed in 1930. It was
apparent that resistant races of
insects were being formed, blit
as the resistance was against
arsenic poisoning only the ad-
vent of D.D.T. was the more
welcome. At that time a few
people foresaw that the pattern
would repeat itself with any new
spray, but they were shouted
down.
Now it has been found —in
Denmark, the first country to
notice it —that flies have sur-
vived 33 p.c. D.D.T. dustings—-
a much greater than normally
lethal concentration. And it
seems that the new resistant
races evolve most rapidly in
areas where the spray is used
more conscientiously.
It has been suggested that
alternation of spray treatments
is an answer, or else application
of mixed insecticides. , These
treatments will complicate
orchard-spraying schedules and
will probably increase costs, but
they seem to be necessary.
That is not all about the
D.D.T. problem. Not only does
the spray kill pests, but it also
affects bee life and insects that
prey or parasitise on pests. It
kills the parasite of apple
woolly aphis ; thus the aphis has
been increasing lately.
The answer could be in the
use of systemic insecticides—the
latest development in insect-
control. Systemic insecticides
are carried in the sap-stream of
plants, making the whole plant
toxic to insects, even though a
small part only of the plant is
sprayed. Selenium compounds
have been used for a long time
with this effect, but they were
poisonous to higher animals, so
were limited in field and orchard
use.
However, the compound
known as di-methyl-amino-phos-
phorus anhydride is not harm-
ful, except to plant pests (no
doubt it will receive a short
name when it comes into com-
mon use). In a test using a .005
p.c. solution a total kill of aphids
was effected in 96 hours, and
there was no effect on aphis
parasites or bees.
Probably there will be resistant
races to this spray, but by a care-
fully worked out programme of
alternation of sprays or of the
use of different spray types to-
gether orchardists, aided by
scientific advisers, should be able
to cut pest losses and market a
cheaper and more presentable
product.
Choosing a Boar.
“Rooster”: A sow farrows
two litters of pigs a year, and
each litter can average up to 12
pigs. The boar’s faults are in-
evitably handed down to the
progeny. Some are not always
apparent in the showring. The
animal could be a bad feeder
not in so far as actual eating
goes, but in its inability to
convert a given amount of food
into flesh in reasonably fast time.
Such a fault would prove un-
economical in any piggery.
Litter recording has shown
that some strains of pigs mature
more quickly than others, and on
the same amount of food. This
quality of early maturing is
essential in the boar. The best
choice can usually be made from
the stock of a breeder who prac-
tises litter-recording. The boar
I should come from a large thrifty
litter.
Look for compactness, not too
.chunky or short, but showing
full development at every point,
and representative of the com-
plete features of his breed. At
six months the boar should not
be less than 2001 b. liveweight.
Some breeds will weigh over
3001 b. at this stage. If purchased
at three months old, he should
weigh 501 b. to 601 b. in the Berk-
shire, Tamworth and Middle
White breeds, and 101 b. heavier
in the Large White, Large Black
and Duroc Jersey. Consideration
must also be given to the kind
of food the animal has been re-
ceiving, this having a strong in-
fluence on his development and
growth.
Whatever the breed, be careful
of the type. The various breed
societies have issued a scale of
points, with the objections and
lent green-feed when pastures
brown off, and up to 201 b. a day
for dairy cows, fed with pasture
hay, will help maintain produc-
tion at a time when it is normally
falling off. A chemical analysis
made by the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, of willow
leaves and mixed succulent
pasture, showed that willow
leaves had a starch equivalent of
18 per cent, compared with
pasture, 14 per cent.; and a
protein equivalent of 5.1 per
cent, against 4.5 per cent, for
succulent pasture. Protein
equivalent of a flowering mixed
pasture (2.2 per cent.) was less
than half that of willow leaves.
Overseas Meat Needs.
“Oxo”; In the opinion of the
chairman of the Australian
Meat Board (J. L. Shute) satis-
factory markets for heavyweight
meat are limited. During his
recent European tour he found
that retailers in Britain favored
beef quarters weighing from
1701 b. to 1851 b., well covered,
They 've been on those ironbark flowers again!”
disqualifications. Tlie head is
regarded as the index to char-
acter aqd quality. Generally, it
should be medium-sized, broad
between the eyes and ears, ears
inclined forward and fringed
with fine, silky hair. Eyes should
be bright and kindly; the back
long, straight and slightly arched,
with parallel underline, well let
down at the flank ; sides deep ;
ribs, broad and well-sprung;
chest, wide, deep and full, with
shoulders level on top and not
coarse; girth should indicate
plenty of heart and lung space;
legs, well set apart and the bone
not too coarse; hams, broad,
deep, long and fleshy to the
hocks; skin, smooth, pliant and
free from wrinkles. Look also
for plenty of fine, soft-textured
hair. The boar should walk
freely and smartly and with dig-
nified bearing.
Pests in the Garden.
“Cloudy”; Frequent cultiva-
tion will usually keep garden
insects in check. To make
certain of keeping them down
sterilise the soil. Use either a
prepared manurial insecticide or
formalin.
Commercial formalin broken
down to one pint to a gallon of
water, and applied at the rate of
one gallon to a square yard is
satisfactory. Sprinkle it on
freshly-turned soil with a water-
ing-can, cover it for a day with
wet bags, then dig the ground
over again. Leave it for a fort-
night so the chemical will have
evaporated before the plants go
in. When applying it see that
none reaches growing crops.
Wireworms, eelworrns and
millipedes can be destroyed in
this way. If wireworms attack
growing vegetables, dip small
pieces of carrot or turnip in
arsenate of lead and bury them
just below the surface, where
they will be effective baits.
The Weeping Willow.
“Mr.”; To provide shade
and green-feed for stock it’s an
asset on any farm. It needs a
25in. rainfall or more, although
it will do well in areas with a
lower rainfall if within root-
length of dam or stream. Cut-
tings about 9ft. long and 3in. in
diameter, planted where they can
get sufficient moisture, will grow
rapidly, but need protection from
stock and rabbits.
Leaves and twigs make excel-
-n.
but not too fat. Butchers pre-
ferred lambs within a weight
range of 281 b. to 361 b., not
carrying surplus fat. Mutton
was not popular if it showed too
much age and was overfat.
The British consumer, said
Shute, was discriminating, and
he believed that producers and
exporters would be well advised
to export the highest possible per-
centage of good-quality meat.
Pig-meat production in the
U.K. and Europe, as in Aus-
tralia, had a serious setback
during the war, but there was
evidence of increased produc-
tion, Denmark having doubled
its pig population during the
last 12 months. In Eire the Gov-
ernment permitted the use of
large white boars only, and con-
sequently a very good type of
pig was in evidence at all mar-
kets he visited there. Bacon-
curers were complimentary re-
garding the quality of Australian
baconer-pigs exported, but it was
sometimes suggested that their
reputation would be improved
if the carcasses were singed be-
fore freezing.
A Warning.
“Cloudy”: Dr. A. R. Cal-
laghan has warned South Aus-
tralian farmers not to be over-
confident of their strains of rust-
resisting wheat. He quoted how
Gabo, a recently - developed
wheat variety that had been
proved resistant to six known
strains of rust, had been attacked
by a new type of stem-rust that
had made its appearance in
northern New South Wales and
Queensland, Strains of rust
hitherto unknown are continu-
ally breaking down wheat de-
veloped to resist all existing
strains of rust.
Plant-poisoning.
“W.C.Q.”: Watch for plant-
poisonmg during dry spells or
whilst shifting sheep from one
locality to another. Soda-bush,
andrachne and fuchsia-bush are
very dangerous in Queensland at
these times.
In soda-bush poisoning the
victims are excited, froth at the
mouth, muscles of head and
body twitch, food given is re-
turned through the nostrils.
They won’t recover without
treatment. Dissolve 2ioz. of
calcium borogluconate in half
a pint of boiling rainwater.
When it has cooled to blood-
heat inject from 50 c.cs. to
80 c.cs. of the solution into each
victim. The loose skin along the
ribs is the best place for injec-
tion, and the quantity will treat
five sheep.
Poisoning by andrachne and
similar plants containing prussic
acid is characterised by blueness
of mouth and eyelids, swaying
body, labored breathing, collapse
and quick death. Affected sheep
are usually cured by a thio-
sulphate of soda (hypo) drench.
In preparing the drench, use soz.
of hypo and rainwater to make
one pint. Two ounces per sheep
is the correct dosage.
Combating Itch-mite.
“Bungaree”: Upon the dis-
covery that benzene hexa-
chloride, and particularly its
active ingredient gamrnexane,
gave outstanding results against
external parasites of animals, it
was hoped that a remedy for
itch-mite in sheep had been
found. The additional fact that
B.H.C. had also been highly suc-
cessful against the majority of
mange-mites which actually live
under the skin’s external layer
strengthened the hope.
Although itch-mite must have
been present in flocks for many
years, and has caused consider-
able loss, it was only discovered
and identified by a C.5.1.R.0.
expert about eight years ago.
Animals affected show much
the same symptoms as those in-
fested with body-lice—signs of
rubbing on the outside of the
fleece but without the character-
istic odor of lousy wool. Eventu-
ally the fleece becomes cotted
and hard to shear and its value
is reduced. The mite can be
detected only by shearing close
to the skin, scraping with a
sharp knife or razor to remove
the outer layer and examining
the scrapings under a micro-
scope. Unfortunately, very little
is known of its life-cycle and


Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
-Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6. 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine,
j enclose Cheque—-P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name.
Address..
B. 18/l/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co, Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6h YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed fey Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. 534
fd
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIUL.TOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON HEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidc
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A.Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd.King St. Sydney
THE
“ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Company Accounts
Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
V
cvr
Go
GW
63®,
n.®
r~TUsVs
u L(V«v
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd,
Qua/iA
Gordons
Stands Sup\AWA
(/He can non deliver
30 HP. LAHZ
Crude Oil Tiacfaytt
m
mmmmi
V\
W
li
« I V■ ■■
"
■ iHi
SSfS x
\ <?
LANZ & K.L.
30, 40 & 45h,p, Models
KL2I9
LOWEST RUNNING COSTS
OF ANY TRACTOR MADE
Any Lanz or K.L. Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor
owner will tell you how easy it is to save up
to £l5O per year on low cost crude oil oper-
ation. He’ll tell you, too, that the sheer
simplicity of Bulldogs’ single cylinder slow
speed engines, with only 8 main moving parts,
drastically reduce wear and maintenance-
cut repair bills to a fraction those of compli-
cated tractor engines. So, if you are a medium
power user, start enjoying the _ wonderful
money saving advantages of this 30 H.P.
LANZ Crude Oil Model—ready for delivery
to your property NOW.
&EE your Local
BULLDOG Agent or:—
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA
K.l. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd.. 304 Spencer St„ Melbourne. SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA. Elder. Smith & Co. Limited. 27-31 Currie Sfc. Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. 34 | i^obart.
TASMANIA, K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 E ' ,zabet^,.f V, M w“,,
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.
habits, and until a vulnerable i
point in the life-cycle is dis- 1
covered attacks must be on the
hit-or-miss principle.
In an experiment by the
C.5.1.R.0. six large separate
patches on each mite-infested
sheep were prepared for treat-
ment and B.H.C. in various
forms and at different concen-
trations was applied. Each
patch was tested for infestation
before application, then at one,
two and four weeks after.
Generally, the results were
disappointing. At approximately
normal dipping strength the
mixtures hardly troubled the
mites. As the strength of the.
insecticide was increased sheep
examined one week later showed
the adult mites killed off but
the younger ones not affected.
Some mixtures showed results a
fortnight after treatment, but
four weeks after application the
infestation was as before, the
young mites having survived.
Two dipping tests on freshly-
shorn sheep gave much the same
result. B.H.C, above a certain
concentration killed adult mites
but not eggs or young mites,
which were also not affected by
the insecticide remaining on the
animal. This residual effect has
proved most valuable in its
action on young keds or lice
hatched after dipping.
It appears that until we know
more of the habits of the mite
and where to hit it hardest,
control by dipping off-shears in
lime-sulphur must remain the
practice.
Linseed-growing.
“He-Ne”: L. F. and L. J.
Cosh, Karoola Pastoral Co.,
Pallamallawa, won the N.S.W.
R.A.S. first linseed - growing
competition. The Coshes scored
99 points, only one better than
J. Ross, of Rosslea, Finley
(Riverina), who was second.
R. S. Doolin and Sons, of
Myall Downs, North Star, were
third with 97 points. Special
agronomist W. M. Curteis, who
judged the competition, said that j
of the 37 crops judged all but
10 were in the north-west. Ross’s
Finley crop was grown under
irrigation, and Curteis said there
is no reason why crops, even
better than his 23-bushel one,
should not be obtained each
year under irrigation.
In America much higher-
yielding crops are regularly
grown under irrigation. The
average estimated yield of crops
judged for the R.A.S. competi-
tion was 15 bushels, considerably
above the N.S.W. average of
nine bushels in 1948. Curteis
made the point that it was
most significant that the dis-
tribution of competition crops
show them mainly situated in the
north-west, the best wheat dis-
tricts of N.S.W. Obviously the
best area for growing linseed
under natural rainfall, apart
from the climatic conditions
being favorable, is in the north-
west, the heavier soils being
ideal for linseed. Curteis found
practically all crops infected
with pasmo, which was rather
surprising, as pasmo only entered
N.S.W. in 1948 from Victoria ;
in one season it spread from the
Murray to Queensland.
Hints for the Farm.
“K.T.”: Do not allow your
poultry-nest litter to become
damp, or you will have dirty
eggs, which bring a much lower
price. Have the litter deep and
highly absorbent —shavings or
sawdust.
“Rooster”: In a large piggery
have a concrete dip for destroy-
ing hog-lice. Drive the herd
through about once a month.
The dip should contain sufficient
water to cover the pigs along the
backline, and a few gallons of
used motor-oil added. In smaller
piggeries the oil can be applied
by hand. In obstinate cases,
where infestation is advanced,
make up a mixture from half a
cup of benzene, the same of
kerosene and one pint of linseed-
oil.
“Baringa”; Kurrajong weevils
harm valuable trees, and to get
rid of them watch for the grey
adults about the trunk and limbs
of affected trees. Spraying with
D.D.T. is effective, loz. mixed
with five quarts of water; pay
special attention to areas where
burrows appear,'
“Fine”: The banana passion-
fruit is a much hardier plant
than its brother, the black
passionfruit, and for that reason
alone is worth cultivating as a
creeper, particularly in drier
areas. Plant it in a sunny posi-
tion in a soil which has well-
rotted manure dug into it, and
water regularly. The pink
flowers are quite pretty, and the
long yellow fruit good eating.
“Baroona”: The delicate
flowers of the toad-flax —better
known as linaria —are a delight-
ful change from most of the
bright, hardy flowers grown in
drier areas. Linaria, despite its
apparent delicacy, is a strong
grower, and does not require a
great deal of water. It makes a
gay show when the flowers are
massed, and they can be cut for
the vase. Fairy Bouquet is the
dwarf —this grows to only Sin.
Maroccana hybrids, which come
in blue, orange, purple, pink and
most shades between, are about
a foot high. They do well in a
rockery and are splendid for the
inland. Plant seed from now
until July.
“Konanda”: A plant for
desert places is mathiola, the
night-scented stock. I found it
growing wild in a dry sandhill
area. The plant was small but
well established, and the scent
was not impaired. In the garden,
under better conditions, it did
very well.


OMf
COST
DIESELS
{fObM"’
ft
m
THE LOWEST-PRICED HEAVY-DUTY DIESEL IH AUSTRALIA TODAY!
Important Advantages of the A.E.C.-Diesel
110 H.P. DIESEL ENGINE: Powered with the wonderful A.E.C.-Diesel
engine.
MAXIMUM TORQUE: 330 ft. lbs. at 1.000 R.P.M.
4 WHEEL, double reduction, spiral bevel, double helical drive.
Selective 2 or 4 wheel drive for heavy-duty haulage under abnormal
conditions.
8 SPEEDS FORWARD—2 REVERSE: Heavy-duty double-reduction front
and rear drives.
SELECTIVE TOTAL REDUCTION: From 90 :1 to 115:1.
ELECTRICAL CONTROLS: Concentrated in one compact control unit.
10.50 x 20 TYRES: Standard equipment.
HEAVY DUTY WINCH: 17,000 lbs., Governed Pull, with 250 ft. of
Cable.
“THE INDESTRUCTIBLE
CHASSIS"
in the Heavy-Duty Truck complete
with compressed air-
operated brakes.
SB
HASTINGS PEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street Corner
■Phone M 0412 (25 lines)
The wonderful A.E.C.-Diesel engine achieved
outstanding success in all theatres of the
war. It is winning equal success to-day with
transport bodies all over the world.
During the visit to England of the Managing
Director, Mr. Hastings Deering, arrange-
ments were made to increase the Australian
content of the A.E.C. chassis and buses. As
we control A.E.C. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., we are
pleased to report that orders have been
obtained, and which are at present being
executed, to the value of £250,000, from—
• Department of Road Transport, Sydney
• Municipal Tramway Trust, Adelaide
• Hobart Tramways. Tasmania
• Brisbane City Council
• Rockhampton City Council, Queensland.
Ring M 0412 for special demonstration and
delivery arrangements.
f
DSL-4
3£#All'Bßimtt
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with tb«
marvellous nib
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
THE BOY WHO LOVED THE MOON
BY EDNA JOY LEE
A TALL youth he was,
thin and gangling in
body, with great, in-toed
feet ending his shambling
limbs. His walk was a difficult
balancing feat, so that he thrust
out his hands spasmodically as
he trundled forward; for the
sharp, white stones set hard in
the clay rose suddenly to lurch
him sideways into the curling
bracken and cutting grasses.
His face was strangely glow-
ing when it turned without
warning full upon the skies.
brown as the winds and sun of
his sea-girt isle could make it,
smooth as polished wood, with
green, docile eyes that yet im-
prisoned a shining sun behind
them—green and translucent as
the unfolding swell of the in-
coming tide on the cloud-
shadowed sands.
In the day-time he ran mes-
sages for the house and hoed
between the straight lines of let-
tuce and beet and around the
brown onions and watched the
sea-birds wheeling vigilantly in
the haze of the sky. Always, at
some time, he appeared down on
the shore two hundred yards
from the tree-veiled house. He
would crouch close to the
water’s edge and skim flat shells
across the waves, listening criti-
cally as they sank far, far out.
More than anything, he
watched the skies. Even at noon.
Once they placed a pair of
smoked glasses over his crinkling
eyes, but the sudden darkening
of the skies filled him with
terror, and he sent the glasses
skimming after the shells into
the bay. He watched the skies
through chinks in his fingers,
filtering the glare, watched and
watched until they brought him
inside. Sometimes when they
took him from the skies they
sat him at a table and helped
him to food, and sometimes they
just brought him inside and left
him.
D Y day they found him
obedient and submissive as
he weeded among the plants, or
carried wood and coal into the
house, or took his bag and note
along the hot, dusty valley road
to the store; only in the even-
ings was he restless and wilful,
In the warm summer dark-
ness he would lie back in his
chair on the creeper-sheltered
veranda, rocking gently back
and forth as he absorbed the
exalting beauty of the night
skies, the glimmering stars and
amassed glow of the Milky Way
until, ascending in dignity above
the trees, she appeared. Some-
times she came to him very
early in the dusk, scarcely be-
fore he had wrested himself
from them at the table, and
:
for her, and at such times they
could do nothing with him.
When they came quietly out
of the shadows and dragged
him to bed he fought them
sturdily and wept, but alone in
his plain room with the high
windows screwed shut he would
sprawl across his bed, his face
whitely pressed to the glass
pane,
'"FHE day she came to him he
* was hoeing in the morning
sun. The white sea-birds were
circling even higher and plain-
lively calling. Shading his eyes,
he watched them, then with a
cry like a startled gull he
dropped the hoe. There she
was, low in the heavens, as
white as the clouds she rode
amidst, sinking gently to her
abode in the hills. Not far
away.
Along the shore road close to
the lapping waves he flung him-
self, hindered by the jagged
stones and the deep grooves
eaten into the clay by solid cart-
wheels. Soon he was off the hard
roadway and loping up the
brackened track zigzagging to
the summit of the point. His
clumsy feet stumbled painfully,
for his green gaze saw only the
sinking moon, dimming into
the haze as the rival sun
strengthened.
Distressingly he pushed up-
wards, ever nearer, despair in his
heart gnawing deeper to the core
lest she should not see him.
Safely away from them he
shouted powerfully to the Lady,
frantically waving his long
arms. He burst on to the sum-
mit of the hill, alternately flail-
ing the air and wildly shouting
through cupped hands. White
wisps of cloud idled through the
blue, shaped by the fickle breezes
—but the moon had gone.
Unbelieving, he threw himself
first one way, then the other,
anguish tearing his heart and
leaping out from his throat in
great sobs. Then he saw her
bathing gracefully in the placid
water of a tiny inlet The
shadow of the hill lay darkly on
the water, and in a tiny patch of
light floated the Lady of the
Sky silvery-white.
Awe tingled his finger-tips and
trembled in his body, and with
his eyes never roving from the
shimmering pool of light on the
dark water he crossed the brow
of the hill and plunged down the
slope. Blood spurted suddenly
on his skin where the spiked
bracken and gorse clutched at
him,
I_JE was almost down wjien
* *■ the flapping gannet dived for
fish. Alarmed, the Lady of the
Sky struggled in the water,
waves rocking over her, and
sank beneath them out of sight.
He sank to his knees with the
agony. The gannet rose vic-
torious and wheeled out of sight,
and as the beating wings rushed
in the air he raised his head a
little and peered fearfully into
the shadow. The tiny patch of
light had moved farther out, but
there, enthroned again in the
placid water, was the moon.
He stumbled over the waylay-
ing weeds, taking breath only
when his lungs throbbed for
air. The rocky base of the point
halted and worried him, but
after a tentative step he pain-
fully edged his way along the
unyielding rocks. Pools of
water lay warming in the sun,
and bordering sea-anemones
opened sparingly.
He had lost sight of her now,
for he was level with the sea,
but he knew she had not fled,
for she was not in the sky.
Rejoicing, he shouted to her
and plunged off the rock into
the chilling green depths. White
sheets of water rose above and
around him and rained back on
to him. All about him glowed
and shimmered the land of the
Lady of the Sky. He laughed
to her and called out. Dragging
pain knotted his limbs and loud
noises filled his head, shutting
out the soft, swishing caress of
the Moon Lady’s voice, but her
radiance was there with him,
shining.
He laughed louder and louder
and stretched out his great hands
to her. There was no fear as he
sank, for his heart was made of
delight and fulfilled. He turned
his . brilliant eyes to the floating
patch of light.


Missing Friend.
WOULD DOUGLAS PERRY EYERS, for-
merly of Albert Park, In the State of
Victoria, and Albury, in the State of New
South Waites, or anyone knowing his
present whereabouts, please communicate
with MESSRS. W. H. JONES &
KENNEDY. Solicitors, 218 Nicholson
Street. Footscray ? .
To tell you of the
WAVY NAVY
For several centuries, Britannia has been mistress of the seas. Playing a valuable part Li
this ascendancy is ttie R.N.V.R. or —in Australia the R.A.N.V.R. To many,
these volunteer reserves are known as the Wavy Navy, a friendly title arising
from the fact that the braid on the cuffs of officers’ uniforms is applied
in a waved pattern instead of in the straight lines used by the regular
Navy. All honour, then, to the officers and men of the ‘Wavy
Navy’ who in two World wars so gallantly manned the little ships’.
and WAVY NAVY Cigarettes
The high quality of Wavy Navy cigarettes
is a further tribute to the deeds
of a section of the senior service too often
‘unhonoured and unsung’. As you
enjoy this outstanding blend of fine
tobaccos ... as you appreciate the
generous size and obvious superiority
of these imported cigarettes . . .
think, too, of the Wavy Navy for
whom they are respectfully named.
WAVY NAVY . . . The Dependable Cigarettes
2/8 for 20
wo
WN-149
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Splinters on the
Wall by J. S. Ryan (“Narranghi
Boori”). —4765.
To buy copy of A Thousand Ques-
tions and Answers. —4766.
Words of verse beginning: —
A kiss of the sun for pardon,
A song of the birds for mirth ;
One is nearer God’s heart in a garden
Than anywhere else on earth.
—4767.
Information Sought.
Playing cricket on concrete with
matting, a howler landed a ball on
the pin holding down the mat. The
umpire called ‘‘wide.” The ball was
deflected by the pin and took the
off-stump. The batsman, who had
made no attempt to play the ball,
was then declared out. Was this
verdict correct?
There is nothing in the laws of
cricket covering the points raised, but
the umpire was in error in the first
instance in calling “wide” when he
did. The laws of cricket state that
“wide” should not be called until
the ball has passed the batsman. It
is customary for associations con-
trolling cricket played on concrete
wickets with matting to have a rule
which states that any ball pitched off
the matting is to he regarded as a
wide, and if such rule is in force in
connection with the match referred
to then, as the ball pitched off the
matting, it was automatically a wide,
and the batsman could not be given
out.
* * * *
Some details concerning Charles
Chaplin, the film-actor?
Born April 16, 1889, of English
parentage, he passed his early child-
hood in London. At an early age he
appeared on the music-hall stage,
taking small parts in vaudeville.
After a short experience on the
legitimate stage he re-entered vaude-
ville in London as a member of the
Fred Karno company. In 1910 he
went to the United States as leading
comedian in a Karno production. He
attracted the attention of Joseph M.
Schenck, and on the latter’s sugges-
tion he was engaged by Mack Sennett
to make films with the Keystone
Comedy Co. In his first picture,
made in 1913, he adopted the eccen-
tric costume which has ever since
been associated with his name. His
success was immediate, continuous
and universal. In 1918 he formed his
own company, and he produced a
series of films which placed him in
the front rank of artists and in a
category ®f his own in the field of
screen comedy.
* * * *
What is the Albert Medal?
A British decoration instituted in
1866 as an award for signal acts of
bravery in saving life at sea, and
extended in 1877 to acts of bravery
on land. The conditions governing
the, award were amended in 1905.
There are two classes, each with two
divisions. The medal, which is in
gold for the 1st class and bronze
for the 2nd, is oval, and bears the
monogram V.A. The ribbon is either
blue (for bravery at sea) or crimson
(for bravery ashore), with white ver-
tical stripes.
* * * *
What is angostura bark, and what
are Us uses?
The bark of Cusparia febrifuge, it
is used in the form of an extract
as an astringent to increase the
appetite, to stimulate gastric secre-
tion and as a tonic. Its effect, best
obtained by administration a few
minutes before meals, is due to the
bitter alkaloid cusparine. Its action
is probably a reflex one between the
taste-buds and the gastric glands.
Angostura bark is. now very seldom
prescribed.
* * * *
Details concerning China clay?
It is white, friable and earthy, and
occurs as a result of decomposition
of granite, porphyry and syenite, and
occupies hollows or cavities, often
of considerable depth. The crude
material contains kaolinite (the pure
hydrated silicate of aluminium), scaly
white mica, quartz", tourmaline and
other minerals. The kaolinite is pro-
duced by the action of heated
gases, which have escaped from the
igneous rocks, on certain of the con-
stituent minerals. Pure clay for
commercial purposes is obtained by
levigation of the crude product and
repeated settlement in tanks.
* . * * *
Cause of, and cure for, pharyngitis ?
The pharynx is frequently the seat
of a chronic inflammatory condition,
usually associated with derangements
of the digestive organs or various
diseases; sometimes it is due to too
much speaking or to excessive
tobacco-smoking—especially of cigar-
ettes. On inspection, the inflamed
mucous membrane is seen unduly
red and glazed, and dotted over with
enlarged follicles. The condition
produces irritation and “dryness,”
with cough and discomfort, which
may eventually become chronic.
Treatment consists in removing
sources of irritation and in the
application of the electric cautery,
of astringent lotions or of mild
caustic solutions. In all such cases
it is advisable to see a doctor.
Brief Answers.
A.H.: Schools attended by pupils
of compulsory school-age (6-15 years)
—whether convent or otherwise —
come under the provisions of the
N.S.W. Public Instruction (Amend-
ment) Act, 1916, and are visited
regularly by district inspectors of
schools S.G.: Copies of Little
Known of These Waters by R. S.
Porteous can be obtained from
Dymock’s Book Arcade, 424 George-
street, Sydney A.A.: Arundo
donax has been grown as a garden
plant fairly extensively in Australia,
particularly the variegated form.
Hazlewood Brothers, Nurserymen,
Epping (N.S.W.), could supply
L.T.: The poem is “Before the War”
by C. J. Dennis, and appears in his
book Digger Smith.... M.A.: R. G.
Menzies was born at Jeparit (Vic.),
December 20, 1894; J. B. Chifley
was born at Bathurst (N.S.W.), Sep-
tember 22, 1885... .A.B.W.: Slander
is the utterance or dissemination of
false statements or reports concerning
a person, or malicious misrepresenta-
tions of his actions, in order to de-
fame or injure him K.V.; Myriad
is generally used of a great but
indefinite number; but it is well to
remember that its original sense, still
occasionally effective, is ten thousand.
S.W.: Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6
Henrietta-street, W.C.2; John Far-
quharson, 8 Halsey House, Red Lion-
square, W.C.I; A. D. Peters, 10
Buckingham-street, Adelphi, W.C.2—
all L0nd0n....V.D.: “The Song of
the Flea” is by E. N. McCulloch
(“O. C. Cabot”) and appears in The
Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse
and Recitations J.8.W.:
ment House at Canberra was officially
opened by the Duke of York, our
present King, on May 9, 1927 ....
E. The Gregory M. Matthews
collection of Australian ornithological
works, comprising about 4000 items,
was presented to the National
Library at Canberra E.M-F.;
Conveyancing part of transaction
should be put in hands of a solicitor
or conveyancer.... J.G.: rite
Greens Committee, Q’land Bowling
Assoc., Ann-street, Brisbane....
F. : The 1915 Melbourne Cup
resulted; Patrobas, Ist; Westcourt,
2nd; Carlita, 3rd... .A.M.G.: The
Wynne Art Prize was first awarded
in 1897, when it went to Walter
Withers for “The Storm.” For a full
list of prizewinners write Director,
National Art Gallery of N.S.W.,
Sydney... .W.M.: Western Australia
issued its first postage-stamp in
August, 1854; it was engraved on
steel by Perkins, Bacon and Cos., the
design being a swan swimming to the
left in an oblong inscribed frame.
The first supply was printed by the
engravers in black. New values of
4d. and Is. were made in the colony
by the Government printer, who took
lithographic transfers of the swan,
and enclosed it in an octagonal frame
for the 4d. and an oval frame for
the Is S.P.: The Story of Aus-
tralian Art (2 vols.) by William
Moore, published by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS > should be
addressed to the Editor .
T.K.: A bit bleak, but you raised
our curiosity about the poems Fessie
used to write when her brutal father
sent her to her room—maybe this is
how a lot of contemporary poetry is
written... .H. 8.; Afraid your horse-
thief stories, like habitual criminals,
stick too much to the same methods.
W.W.: That would have been
the way to kill that good old horse
if so many authors hadn’t killed him
like that before T.F.: The clearest
thing about it was the typing
K.H.H.: Our liking for detectives
with automatics does not extend to
automatic detection G.M.A.: We
didn’t like Aunt Agatha, either....
C.A.M.: Your characters sounded as
uninteresting as a group of boarding-
house inmates, which, indeed, they
were D.T.: Bit old-fashioned,
going after whales in a rowboat,
weren’t they?... .P.J.C.: Not the
singing boy, and not the old piano;
but you might make something of
the coalfields pug by dropping the
sentimental sweetheart and telling the
story yourself — as a different story.
Y.M.H.: “The Tortoiseshell Cat”
just didn’t seem to be happy here.
Bellerive; A natural - history
item:
Z.V.W.: “Dressmaker’s Dummy”
wasn’t quite our shape V.W.H.:
“Walanginni’s Revenge” is an illus-
tration of the emptiness of ven-
geance G.H.K.M.: “The Two-tip
School” is out, being good, but
elementary; whereas so many of our
readers are graduates W.H.E.:
“The Last Train to Freedom” has
been shunted J.McC.: Jazz article
not vicious or tight enough E.P.:
“Some Call It Love”—we’ll let it go
at that.., .V.O’C.: Fancy your find-
ing a character who could be taken
down by an old confidence-trick like
that!....K.: “Unsuspected mental
weakness” rarely makes a good story.
J.T.: The Dog Pathetic and the
Lady Embarrassing, who turns out
to be only a dog, are shot on sight;
their skins are rapidly carpeting the
dream-homes of the editorial staff —
wall-to-wall E.G.: We’ve had
better floods than that, not even
counting personal visits from dis-
appointed women - contributors
J.S.: Probably it was proper that
they should have got more fun out
of their honeymoon than you did.
G.F.S.: “The New Poetry” is
the old subject; and those two
cripples need modern treatment
Z.V.W.: It’s a domestic quarrel that
happens every day, but you can’t
make it ’convincing.
THE JUMPING SPIDER.
The trickful viper
In a merciless way
By threads of its spinners
Entangles its prey.
Acrobatic and crafty,
’Twill pounce on a grub
Or a prancing fly.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Rice
A matter to which the newly-appointed
Minister for Supply and Development
might well accord priority is bring-
ing back to the grocers’ shelves
—and the housewife’s kitchen shelf —that
highly valuable food known as rice.
Available readily on the blackrnarket
and in every Chinese chop-suey joint, it is
years since Australians were legitimately
permitted to buy rice in their shops, the
excuse being that all available supplies
are required to feed the hungry hordes
living in the Pacific areas.
After five and a half years of peace
the peoples of the Pacific should by now
be able to grow their own requirements
in rice, and if, by virtue of their local
outbreaks of “nationalism,” etc., they
have been too busy to do so, the duty of
our Government surely was to increase
local output of rice to meet the demands
of our own people as well as those of
our dark neighbors.
With the world demand for foodstuffs
so critical, it is an anachronism to main-
tain the blight of provincialism that has
for so long governed rice-growing in
Australia. Under an old* arrangement be-
tween Queensland and N. S. Wales, the
former agreed not to grow rice so long
as N, S. Wales restricted production of
sugar' The arrangement went a little
further—local consumption governed the
amount of rice grown each year and
growers were permitted to sow only as
much as the powers-that-be decided was
sufficient. In the pre-war days that was
probably a good thing. Everyone had
enough rice, and those growers who went
about their jobs in an efficient manner
made fortunes.
Conditions are so very different today,
in the market for both rice and sugar.
There is no reason in the wide world why
Queensland and the N.T.—both having
the climate and the land —should not
turn to and grow rice and N.S.W. grow
more sugar.— Jindivick (N.S.W-)-
Trams
Hector Hercules Bell (B, 4/1/’5O), now
retired chairman of the Melbourne Tram-
ways Board, is, as his name implies, a
strongman. I’ve travelled the world and
rode in most forms of street transport
from the cable-trams of ’Frisco to the,
rickshas in Singapore, and give honors for
the world’s best street transport to Mel-
bourne’s trams and to “ol’ man Bell,”
who stuck up for them against the
strongest political and business interests
—and won.
Despite “Transporticus’s” views I must
say, however, that the veteran chairman
was biased in favor of trams because he
knew that Melbourne was a city where
fixed traction was the only payable form
of transport. He ran buses in Bourke-
street to Northcote and East Brunswick
only because the Government ordered him ■
to scrub his trams, and he did not have
enough electric trams or the necessary
rails to run them.
Although he added a few buses to the
Bourke-street fleet, Bell did little to im-
prove them, especially the double-deckers.
People are so sick of them now they
want trams along the route, but that will
take time, because of labor and materials
shortages and the need for 60 more trams.
Bell’s “bias” was a kink in the right
direction. Vested interests wanted him
to run buses all over the city, but they
knew they couldn’t get past his huge
public following.
Melbourne owes much to this grand
citizen. His C.B.E. in the New Year
Honors was richly earned. He was
respected by all. On the eve of his re-
tirement Melbourne pressmen made a
presentation to him, and in many years
of journalism I can never remember them
paying such an honor to any other
departmental head. — Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic-)-
Canna for Bags
“He-Ne” opines (B, 4/1/’5O) that Aus-
tralia will be in a serious situation regard-
ing jute bags within a year or so. The
Indian and Pakistan Governments are
setting out to grow food for their people
instead of growing, to the same extent as
previously, jute for export to Dundee and <
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
for the making of hessian for wheat-
bags, industrial-bags and woolpacks.
“He-Ne” suggests bulk handling to over-
come the future shortage of jute bags.
This may be only a partial solution, even
if it is given the greatest support by
our railways.
Two years ago I discovered the ordi-
nary garden canna as a source of fibre
for the production of bags. The canna
is the answer to the bag problem in Aus-
tralia, as it can be mechanically harvested
and entirely mechanically , treated to the
final fibre. It is not only the answer to
the bag problem; it is also a fine paper
fibre, and an alpha cellulose cap-
able of replacing dollar sulphite pulp
imports for the production of a viscose
for rayon. Our company is making
the special harvesting machines and plant
to produce the fibre, and nurseries are
cultivating increased root stock to sow
large areas during this year’s spring.
The Bulletin had a paragraph some
time ago in this connection, and I write
merely to point out that the answer to
the bag problem is here in Australia, an
Australian discovery, with patent applica-
tions throughout the world which have
resulted in inquiries from Brazil, South
Africa, New Zealand, France, India and
many other countries which require a
“A beautiful portrait , old man —who is she?”
cheaply-produced fibre for the many pro-
ducts of a good cellulose, — Eric Brad-
ford (N.S.W.).
Education
I cannot agree with “Kageel” (B.
4/1/’5O) that the modems lack zest in
their youth and patriotism. We have par-
taken of adventure and unselfishness in
two recent wars ; Tudor England partook
of the adventure and spoils of piratical
expeditions.
Compulsory education has failed to
dispel ignorance. For many of us, history
begins in the mid-Victorian era and
Shakspeare and Dickens could be con-
temporaries. X remember a comic-strip
• tale of the days of King Arthur, in a
widely-read newspaper, which spoke of a
Mahometan Court as one of the “Courts
of Christendom” and was unchallenged,
as far as I know, by any of the readers,
who doubtless call themselves Christians.
Tudor and pre-Tudor studies gave a
better background for learning than do
our own. In those earlier times one of
the major studies was scholastic philo-
sophy, which taught men standing on
earth to look upwards to heaven and
downwards to hell — i.e., to look outside
themselves. Modern thought, in its philo-
sophy and psychology, its literature and
comic-strips, teaches man to look up-
wards from his conscious mind to see
his super-ego beckoning him to ideals and
to look downwards to his subconscious
mind, which prevents him following those
ideals.
Our ancestors of the sixteenth and
earlier centuries were thus able to look
outside themselves and to see and appreci-
ate the orderliness of the universe and
their own place in it. We, on the con-
trary, are perpetually concerned with our
inner conflicts, and anything we see out-
side ourselves is distorted by the back-
ground of the inner chaos which domi-
nates our minds and against which we
must appreciate all the sensations we
receive from external stimuli.
This confusion exists in far too many
modern minds and has spread beyond the
confines of the inner man and produced
a topsy-turvy world. We could start to
reorganise the world by starting on our-
selves, and a proper study of logic would
not be a bad starting-point. Moreover,
if it were studied in the schools, we might
see some return for the effort of spending
10 long years getting “educated.” —
A. B. C. (N.S.W.).
Forestry
Our reafforestation problem would be
simplified if areas close to soldier-
settlement estates could be set aside for
planting. With the reservation of suffi-
ciently large tracts—say, 2000 to 3000
acres, on the basis of 2500 acres to 1000
population allowing each person 10 tons
of wood per year, the plantation to cut
four tons to the acre at maturity—future
firewood and rough-timber needs of these
settlements would be met.
Startling facts on deafforestation of the
9000 square miles of the Glenelg region
in the western district of Victoria were
recently put before its committee.
Although 25 per cent, forest to land area
is reckoned as the safe minimum, here
the percentage has fallen to 19. Of an
original estimated 4,000,000 acres of red-
and yellow-gum less than 100,000 acres
remain.
. Forestry officers see a partial solution
in the present extensive planting of soft-
woods—2o,ooo acres are being planted
in the south-west and a similar planta-
tion is planned for the north-west of the
region. But they also advocate a lopg-
range scheme of reafforestation —planta-
tions for each centre of population to
supply future rough timber and firewood.
It seems that only a co-ordinated and
ambitious plan by the soldier-settlement
commission, Forestry and Lands Depart-
ments can save what remains and also
provide for the future. — Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
Infantile Paralysis
With polio very much in the news, it is
infuriating to recall that at the inter-
national poliomyelitis conference which
began in New York on July 12, 1948,
there was no Australian representative
present. That in spite of a heavy out-
break of the disease in 1946 and other
smaller outbreaks in between. Thirty-
nine countries were represented by 1800
delegates, but the only Australian in
evidence was Sister Kenny, who was prac-
tically driven out of the country years
ago. Doubtless the “free”-medicine
scheme, then at the height of discussion,
took up so much time and thought that
“Labor” could not possibly spare an
envoy to a conference where the medical
brains of the world were discussing one
of the most frightening of diseases.
It is to be hoped that the new Federal
Government will give fullest co-operation
to any such conference that may be
arranged in the future. America, in par-
ticular, has spent millions of dollars in
research on polio, and has reached the
stage of producing a vaccine capable of
immunising animals, but as yet not suffi-
ciently developed to be used safely on
human beings, Post-paralysis treatment
has also received a tremendous amount of
attention at the many polio-research
centres in the United States.
With 188 cases reported in 1949 in
N. S. Wales alone, Australia should cer-
tainly miss no future opportunities to co-
operate with overseas scientists who are
working to control the disease.— Mac
(N.S.W.).
Small Investors
The financial trend is for ss. shares —
to encourage the middle-class investor
and secure a greater number of share-
holders. The Federal Government should
bear that in mind in future loans, and
arrange to have the £lO bonds paid in
six instalments (two of £1 each at each
end and four of £2 in the centre), instead
of four. Except for big financial
concerns, big business will soon want its
own money for its own purposes, and
anything that would help the middle-class
investor is worth trying.—C. H. R. (Vic.).
More Socialisation?
The N. S. Wales State Government’s
intention to establish yet another elec-
tricity authority—an Electricity Com-
mission this time—to organise this much-
organised public utility smells very much
like socialisation of the kind that was so
vehemently rejected by the majority of
Australians on December 10.
It is almost an axiom that Govern-
ment departments make shortages— not
make away with them. The post-war
years of bureaucratic restrictions and
controls amply proved that.
The! State Electricity Authority was
established to co-ordinate the generation
and distribution of electricity; it
is not clear what additional benefits
can accrue from duplicating such
an organisation. Just what will the com-
mission be able to accomplish that the
authority is unable to do? If the weak-
nesses of the authority are apparent, why
not remedy them instead of establishing
a further bureaucratic cell? If they are
not apparent, why not inquire into the
matter, and, if the authority is found to
be useless, abolish or reorganise it!
Then there is Mr. Conde—about whom
much was heard a few months ago.
Given extraordinarily wide powers—
those of a dictator, in fact —he took a
good look around and issued regulations
and restrictions by the ream. The result—
a 30 per cent, cut in power and light con-
sumption, on pain of death or some
similarly dire penalty.
The Conde era swiftly ran into the dark
age of the coal strike when the community
went kerosene-happy— to be brightly-
lighted once more at the end of a couple
of months of primitive living conditions.
With loud cheers Mr. Conde was hailed
as the man who restored the juice to
Sydney. What the joyful population
appeared to overlook is the fact that we
still have only 60 per cent, of our normal
electricity output.
The reason for all this shortage—this
organised blackout system—is that Gov-
ernment dictatorships never tackle any
problem at its sources—only at the point
where it impinges on public (and Govern-
ment) susceptibility. Running true to
form, the electricity overlords, busy
issuing regulations and drafting penalties
for consumers they are never game to
prosecute, refuse to search too closely in
the really basic regions of electricity pro-
duction —the generating plants and the
men who operate them ; the fuel con-
sumed, its quality and quantity.
If Mr. McGirr is wise he’ll tackle the
electricity problem on a realistic basis —
the supply of coal of top-quality in suf-
ficient quantity, efficient labor for opera-
tion and maintenance of the plant, the
replacement of worn-out and obsolete
machinery. Then, having ensured that all
the essentials of adequate electricity
supply are available, he will be justified
in taking over the management of the
plants if the present managers cannot or
will not use their resources in an efficient
and practical manner. Any other form of
monkeying with the electricity business
may have awkward repercussions at an
unfortunate time—a State election is due
to fall during that period when citizens
have to look forward to half-cooked
meals, cold baths, refrigerated sitting-
rooms and candlelight. —Cave (N.S.W.).
. In 1918, when Victoria’s State Elec-
tricity Commission was established, there
was considerable opposition and a bitter
fight by municipalities and private firms
retailing “juice” to a long-suffering and
power-hungry public. The price per unit
for a not-too-refiable supply was sky-
high, and every possible obstacle was
placed in the way of the new commission,
whose charter called for the “co-ordina-
tion and concentration of all electrical
undertakings in Victoria.” Under the wise
guidance of Sir John Monash, one
by one the opposition was swallowed
up until the S.E.C. became to all intents
and purposes the sole producer of power.
The history of the Victorian S.E.C. is
amazing. Starting from scratch it has
built up an organisation whose efficiency
could well be envied by any concern in
the world. The price of power has been
progressively reduced until —according to
American experts —its cost per unit is the
lowest in the world for power generated
from coal. The commission is a good
employer, major industrial disputes being
practically unknown —there have been
only two in its 30 years of operation.
A N. S. Wales commission, if modelled
on the same lines, could hardly fail to
bring lasting benefit. —Kayell (N.S.W.),


TALKIES
Two Australian Films.
Charles Chauvel’s “Sons of Matthew”
(Sydney Lyceum and Victory) and T. O.
McCreadie’s “Into the Straight” (Sydney
Capitol) have both lately been released,
and, while any analysis must note certain
merits, certain improvements and other
features worth commendation, neither
film gives any promising overall indica-
tion that, considering the limited material
and talent available to them, Australian
filmsmiths are doing anything except
plugging along conscientiously in the
wrong direction.
In “Sons of Matthew,” as in his earlier
films, Chauvel demonstrates that he prob-
ably has more sincerity and feeling for
the Australian scene and character than
any other producer in Australia—the
impression gained from watching any of
his films is that he is trying to say some-
thing ; to do a little more than throw a
story together and photograph it in the
hope that it will make a profit. That, of
course, is an excellent approach, but the
trouble it can lead to cari easily be traced
n the development of “Sons of Matthew.”
The film is, for want of a better term,
’ pioneering story—of the O’Riordan
family, the father holding grimly to his
land against drought, fire and other vicis-
situdes and sending his sons out into wild,
inhospitable but promising country to
establish themselves on farms. So far so
good. Except for a few small patches of
naive sentiment and some histrionic slips
from supporting players—-the principals
do very well —the story develops natur-
ally and well with, as the sons fight their
way into the wilderness, a mounting drama
of a rugged, silent land both threatening
and promising the young men who hump
their equipment and supplies on their
backs into the middle of it and set about
conquering it with axe and fire and sweat.
Here, however, producer Chauvel goes
off the track, not, one suspects, so much
by inclination as by necessity. With the
stage all set for a saga of conquest of the
land, the film suddenly dwindles down to
a not very exciting romantic triangle be-
tween two of the sons and a girl (the
fiancee of one of them) they have brought
along with them. That being worked out
a final scene and commentary to the effect
that the O’Riordans succeeded in their
efforts to tame the land winds up the
film. The only reason one can suspect
for the sudden subsidence in the drama
and narrative from an expansive pioneer-
ing saga to a little three-cornered love-
story is that the producer hadn’t the
necessary financial, technical and artistic
resources to carry through on the
ambitiousi scale on which he' started.
What the film needs is an extra-
ordinarily powerful human drama to take
np and develop with the men-v.-the-land
cneme. That, of course, calls for, first,
the extraordinary writing of it, and then
ffie extraordinary acting and directing of
I t, none of which can be bought off a
shop, a counter or anywhere else very
easily. And until such things are avail-
able the sad but inevitable solution to
the problem is to make films which do
not require them. John O’Malley, as the
father, and Michael Pate, as one of the
sons, are the only two players in the film
who, playing their parts very naturally,
look as though they might measure up to
more exacting requirements. To make a
success of the kind of film which “Sons
of Matthew” aims at being would need
half a dozen players at least of equal or
even better standard.
McCreadie’s “Into the Straight” has a
background of horseracing. In the par-
lance of that sport, it could be said that
while it would need a pretty hefty “sting”
to make it a winner, it does, atHhe same
time, run a fairly honest race under a
big handicap and gives supporters a
middling-fair run for their money, •
The handicap under which the film
labors is the collection of shortcomings
and faults which one has come to almost
automatically expect and accept in Aus-
“Just you Wait until I get home after this cat show!”
tralian films. Without again digging over
the whole field of these noxious flora, the
basic difference between any f.a.q. Holly-
wood production and pretty well any
local ditto is the same essential difference
which exists between a slick, competent,
professional stage production and the
efforts of a moderate suburban amateur
dramatic society.
On the credit side, the producers of
“Into the Straight,” while managing to
fall foul of almost every pitfall known
to the Australian film industry, have
miraculously managed to steer clear of
the more grievous faults which Holly-
wood could not but help instil into any
film with a racing, or other animal,, back-
ground. )The local product is pleasingly
free of the pathos, bathos, sentimentality,
agonisingly overdrawn suspense, and
general handkerchief-fodder which Holly-
wood producers lay on with bulldozer
whenever they get any animal within
range of a camera. In short, it’s com-
pletely painless, indeed, somewhere the
other side of the purely negative.
That this is so is extraordinary in a
film which employs such trite tripe as a
couple of mangled romances with the
lass who fancies herself jilted when tying-
up with the jiltee’s father, the same
heroine crippled but miraculously walk-
ing when her good man comes on the
scene, a ne’er-do-well son in the clutches
of gamblers and pinching a few hundred
quid from his father’s safe, for which
skullduggery another good but mis-
understood soul is falsely accused, and,
of course, the inevitable climax of the
right horse winning the Melbourne Cup.
Photography, particularly the outdoor
stuff, is fairly good. Unfortunately they
haven’t yet mastered the art of making
an indoor scene look like anything but a
film-set, nor of making a crowd of folk
indoors look other than as if arranged
in a tailor’s window; but there are some
—unfortunately all too few —splendid
shots taken at St. Aubin’s Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.).
The acting is fair to indifferent; some
quite creditable; some hopelessly un-
convincing. Present writer has never had
the pleasure of announcing to a fair young
damsel who has just seen her dear father’s
nag beaten in the Melbourne Cup that
the winner is really her own horse racing
under a different name. If such an odd
pleasure ever did come our way, we
should expect a somewhat better response
than Miss Nonnie Peifer’s “Oh, how
wonderful” uttered with the same degree
of perfunctory enthusiasm as would be
accorded the receipt of a Christmas gift
comprising a two-bob bottle of perfume.
From “Sons of Matthew” and “Into
the Straight” and other Australian films
it is fairly obvious that Australian pro-
ducers are either fascinated with the idea
of making epics or sagas of the Austra-
lian scene and, because of the limited
material and talent available to them,
falling a long way short of their object,
or else they are trying to play safe by
making inconsequential little potboilers
along the general pattern set by Holly-
wood.
This commentator will readily admit
that it is very easy to sit back and pick
holes in Australian films as they come up
for inspection and that such picking can-
not be gratifying to the producers, who,
apart from battling against almost every
conceivable difficulty, have to offer the
wares thus produced in competition with
those of wealthy old-established concerns
which have almost every facility imagin-
able at their fingertips. That the Aus-
tralian producers can compete with and
surpass of a good deal of overseas stuff
is in itself remarkable achievement.
Still, conceding their handicaps and recog-
nising their good work doesn’t do much
to produce good films of world standard.
What has to be recognised is that the
vast bulk of films from overseas get by
because of opulent production, .technical
slickness or simply the efficiency of large
organisations with any number of highly
competent players, technicians, eftfT, in
turning ouf good magazine fiction. Those
resources simply aren’t available to Aus-
tralian producers, who must realise that
they can only replace them with authen-
ticity of material and writing, acting and
directing of complete artistic sincerity.
Even that is no small order, and would
involve continually searching through
Australian stories, short-stories and plays,
past and current, for suitable material
with economical settings and as few
characters as possible. The legit, theatre
particularly repertory and radio
should be scouted thoroughly for players,
and the total effect aimed at by both
actors and director should be modest
little human dramas and comedies played
for as much character as they will yield.
The Hollywood and Current English con-
ception of film entertainment should be
ignored as far as possible, and the French
methods in particular could be studied
with advantage. And what should always
be remembered is that two or three good
characters, well acted, will generally carry
a play or film where action, spectacle and
other devices can easily fail.
"Champion."
This rather arresting film, a Screen
Plays production released by United
Artists (Sydney Plaza), traces the career
of a boxer who goes from the very bottom
to the very top using everything—wife,
women, friends, manager—that comes his
way with complete and utter selfishness.
The film is hailed as an exposure of the
boxing game, or something, which it is
not; the fight sequences look willing and
bloody enough, although this reviewer
cannot vouch for their authenticity, but
the same story could probably have been
written around any other sport, or busi-
ness for that matter.
What carries the film is the careful,
impartial portrayal of the character and
its development. Kirk Douglas, a com-
parative newcomer with a surprising
habit of turning out as good as the
advertisements say he is—first a nightclub
racketeer, then a schoolteacher with a
love of Beethoven and Shakspeare in “A
Letter to Three Wives” —plays the pug
and builds and holds the character with-
out a slip. His acting has a rather hard
unsearching realism, but what it leaves
unsaid is almost as effective as what it
says.
The supporting cast, including Arthur
Kennedy and Marilyn Maxwell, is practi-
cally faultless.
Bob Hope cracks only about four gags
worthy of him as “The Great Lover”
(Sydney Prince Edward), which is a dim
show for one of the funniest men on the
screen. As the earthwire reporter of an
outback journal Hope is snared to take
the editor’s son and the rest of a company
of the Youthful Foresters on a bicycle
trip through Europe. The journal’s
future editor is a veritable young stinker
who makes it the company’s business to
see that Hope observes his oath of allegi-
ance and does not put his hands around
cigarettes, whisky or women who are not
his mother. With such a set-up Hope
should have sent his audience home seek-
ing sewing gear to mend their fractured
shirt and corsets.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 52
Across.
I—Weeps about her fruit to see a
Hugh Walpole family. (8)
—Victorian beach vehicle runs on
alcoholic spirit. (6)
s—Organ author of “The Beggars’
1 Opera” gets a bouquet. (7)
i I—To a small type fifty of current
. interest. (7)
1 2—An American who is entitled to
, this description comes to tea. (4)
—Fruit street even ending in an
, East Indian fruit-tree. (10)
15 —Submerged one steamship with the
, editor revealing a summer tan. (9)
1 '—Book’s name for the bird by the
, French. (5)
* Q—Mother swallows a bee serpent.
that the west is to study
-> . evil deeds. (9)
fi rm belief that an, Australian
pioneer associates with Idriess.
(11 >
Russian city. (4)
'—Managed to return the tax and
2s> tell. (7) _ , ,
° —Expand about the thanks in a
Place for a gift. (7)
“heel” takes a Latin thing in
the nuclei. (6) .
What heads these clues in the
French game? (8)
(cryptic type.)
Down.
1 — Star composition for jam-tins. (7)
2 He has no aspiration behind the
ship that is Oriental. (7)
3 Equip a Baltic port. (4>
5 Poison,it, pa (anagram). (10) '
6 American State cabinet is more
plutocratic. (7)
7 Editor of the Children’s Encyclo-
paedia swallows an Australian
politician in the medley. (7)
8 — Venerable holy man is presented
in a theatre. (6)
10—At the interior of an affirmative
poet. (5)
14 —Prima-donna to race it badly for
fork. (10)
16 —High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
18 — When I am shaped like an ice-
cream container and like the acid
of poppies. (7)
19 — Fertilised fellow has you blush-
ing. (7)
20 — Animal suggest how to change a
dry girl’s condition. (6)
21 — Ceases to return the leopard’s
marks. (5)
22 — Characteristic ef any winter, but
particularly the French winter in
the steamer. (7)
23 Velleless tales such as Boc-
caccio’s. (7)
26—Brace. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. SI.


|:;: :; <: : : ; X;^ : >^;:
mmm&
m
r
m
mm
. *rtSLX> '>
fc ♦ * ?
■ •■"SX
M&MMM
■i&yf*
Itm- *
\ ><\
lIMm
Mi
<3
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a
mark of quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is
the symbol of the Radio Age, representing the
knowledge gained from research and engineering
over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A, products and services are the
A.W.A. laboratories, which have advanced radio in
the home, on the highways, at sea, and in the air.
As one of Australia’s key industrial organisations,
A.W.A. recognises the value of scientific research
and its important role in peace and security.
® BROADCASTING AND RECORDING.
Producing a Play at A.W.A. Studios.
MOBILE WIRELESS.
• Driver of vehicle fitted with A.W.A. Frequency
Modulated Radio-Telephone Equipment answering
a call.
A.W.A. Air-Mite V.H.F. Trans-
ceiver and Inter-Communica-
tion Unit for light aircraft.
m
A.W.A. manufactures; Broadcasting stations, broadcasting studio equipment, communication transmitters
and receivers, mobile radio equipment, marine transmitters and receivers, direction finders, automatic alarm
apparatus, radar, air navigation beacons and distance measuring equipment, instrument landing systems,
aeradio stations, telephone terminal equipment, micro-wave links, radio programme recordings, military
communication equipment, transmitting and receiving radio valves, broadcast receivers, etc.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Ausmusu) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
