

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3688
Wednesday, October 18, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Windsor’s Terrace,
Favourite Walk of
Many a King
“POR almost nine centuries Windsor
Castle has been a residence of British
sovereigns, and from it the Royal family
take their name. Soon after his corona-
tion at Westminster Abbey in 1066,
William the Conqueror visited the Thames
valley and his expert military eye noted
the chalk bill that rose above the river
dominating the surrounding country.
Here, on the site of a Saxon hunting
lodge, he built a Norman military post,
the remains of which are incorporated in
the present magnificent pile of buildings.
The Norman castle was, in size and
plan, identical with the Windsor of today,
but between 1070 and 1170 it was a
fortress of earthwork and palisade. The
stone walls and buildings followed
during the reign of King Henry II (1154-
1189), and succeeding monarchs made
further additions and alterations to this
vast and imposing castle. Its ancient
walls have seen the coming and going of
many of the great ones of the earth, for
nearly every statesman, soldier or ecclesi-
astic who has played a prominent part
in British history has travelled the road
between London and Windsor.
Here, at the request of Queen Eliza-
beth, came Shakespeare with his manu-
script Of “The Merry Wives of Windsor,”
and within the castle walls strolled the
tragic Anne Boleyn, unaware of what
the future had in store for her. In its
long history the castle has been twice
besieged—first in 1193, during the reign
of Richard I, when his brother, Prince
John, garrisoned the castle against him,
and later in 1215, when the barons rose
against King John, a rebellion which
resulted in Magna Carta, the famous
document from which democracy springs.
The castle covers an area of twelve
acres, and is nearly a mile in circumfer-
ence. Its most prominent feature is the
Round Tower, 230 feet high, from the
summit of which on a clear day land-
marks in twelve counties are visible. The
accompanying illustration shows the
North Terrace, built by Queen Elizabeth
in 1571 and extended by King Charles 11.
The magnificent State Apartments,
which are open to visitors when the
Court is not in residence, contain valu-
able pictures, historical relics, tapestries
and many other treasures which can be
seen nowhere else in the world.
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN I
A Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest yon Jnst imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while yon toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! Xhat’s possible through the “WINB-FOB-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their Uondon Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. Ton’ll hare to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Writ* to The House of Seppelt, Box 1132 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
ifm
oilnaiism
Ht Honr
This Book FRiv; to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPO
100 Russell Suee
CE COLLEGE.
Hbourne .
CUT HERE ANI MAIL
"Lease send, without O your Ngw
Hornets* how to Write for Profit a*
advertised in the tiyaney “Bulletin.” 1 1
My Name
My Address ~
S.B. 150
•AOB.
The Red Page
THE YEAR'S VERSE
Though Angus and Robertson’s Aus-
tralian Poetry 1949-50 looks as fresh as
a daffodil in its yellow jacket and though
the editor, Rosemary Dobson, has found
an exceptionally fine lot of poems, the
anthology has been reduced, like its com-
panion in the short-story field, Coast to
Coast, to the sad. and dubious status of a
biennial: to be explained by the vastly
increased cost of publishing since
Mr. McGirr blessed New South Wales
with his 40-hour week and by a decrease
in public support after the war ended.
■ It seems incredible that from all the
schools and public libraries throughout
this enormous continent, as well as the
men and women of culture, there is not
enough interest to support annual
anthologies of the best Australian poetry
and the best short stories: but that is how
it stands. Rosemary Dobson’s anthology
makes one thing clear at any rate; there
has been no falling-off in the quality of
Australian poetry.
Her selection —since all editors,
up to a point, are at the mercy
of their contributors —hasn’t quite the
hard strength of the two outstanding
issues, those edited by R. G. Howarth
and T. Inglis Moore, which were rein-
forced by long poems from Robert D.
Fitz Gerald and Francis Webb ; but there
are no important omissions to complain
of, there are no poems included not worth
a place, and, lit by half a dozen poems
of exceptional merit, the general effect is
of high quality all the way through.
As usual, more than half the poems are
reprinted from The Bulletin —those by
David Campbell, Elizabeth Riddell,
Kenneth Mackenzie, Nan McDonald,
Judith Wright (“Murdering Hut”), W.
Hart-Smith, David Rowbotham, Nancy
Keesing, Robert D. Fitz Gerald (“A
Friend’s Visit”), Nancy Cato, Val Vallis,
Mary Finnin, John Blight and Douglas
Stewart —and among these some of the
best anthology-pieces, standing de-
tached from the authors and capable
-r Australian antholo-
gies v eth Riddell’s picture of a
■ ; i out o water in a country town, with
iiS pee- ’ ages and its beautifully
box.hie }ue; Nan McDonald’s
stretch of i esbury River scenery and
uvpy if:, kcsbury life ; Judith Wright’s
story of “Murdering Hut” haunted by the
figure of a woman who becomes identi-
fied with “the white rose-tree, the wander-
ing mist and the stone.” Another Judith
Wright poem (from the Queensland
paper “Modern Times”) dealing with an
old convict prison where the cells sug-
gest a beehive —
O dark and fierce day:
the wind like an angry bee
hunts for the black honey
in the pits of the hollow sea.—
is even better for anthology purposes ; so
clear and compact a lyric. Both these
poems, incidentally, clearly show the in-
fluence of Yeats ; and somehow, because
Judith Wright has planted the white rose-
tree in authentically Australian earth, so
richly and vitally her own, read all the
more attractively for the distant echo,
William Hart-Smith’s “Bathymeter,”
one of the most complete things he has
done since his Columbus sequence, and
an ingenious piece of architecture because
it is divided into two parts, one of the
deep sea and one of the upper air, and yet
remains a unity, also stands out among
the Bulletin contributions; and for all
its lightness of touch it contains a strik-
ing image of the harmony of the universe
where
This dance of stars in solemn time
And fish in swing is certain proof the Lord
Whoever he be, cannot resist a rhyme.
And, appropriately after Hart-Smith’s
examination of the colossal “rhyme” be-
tween the stars in the air and the phos-
phorescent fish in the depths of the ocean,
there is Nancy Keesing’s exploration into
the nature of poetry—
Here’s a strange journey; here’s a traffic
strange.
A queer eternal struggle, some compulsion
Driving us, ever the same, and yet with
change,
With variations constant as a tide,
Shudders of dreadful joy, or black repul-
sion.
Who is it stands with the compass, who’s
our guide—
a deep, energetic, powerful poem which
may help to establish for Nancy Keesing
the reputation she deserves: she has had
some difficulty recently in finding a pub-
lisher for a book of verses which, with
its upper level as brilliant as this,
should surely awaken a warm response.
Then, apart from Bulletin contribu-
tions, there are two adaptations of classi-
cal mythology to contemporary psycho-
analysis by Harold Stewart and James
McAuley which, if these writers are run-
ning some risk of losing their individu-
ality by writing too much like each other
and too much like A. D. Hope, who was
first in this Freudian field, remain excel-
lent pieces of verse-craft. There is Francis
Webb’s sombre and dramatic re-creation
of the death of Morgan the bushranger ;
there is Mary Gilmore with her inex-
haustible vigor:—
But from the sea’s great pulse.
Out of the deep life came;
Up from that mighty heart
Jetted aloft like flame;
there is Marie Reay’s analysis of the con-
flict between poetry and science, very
smoothly and capably written ; there is
a fine nature poem by Roland E. Robin-
son reprinted from “Southerly”;
Not here the lyrebird breaks
silence with piercing power;
here the land’s genius
is the. dark orchid-flower;
and, reprinted from “Meanjin Papers,”
is the loveliest of Rosemary Dobson’s
graceful set of poems from paintings, in
which a cockatoo that somehow strayed
into a portrait by Verelst becomes, like
“a meteor from the sun,” an image of
Terra Australis, unimagined land —
Only that sulphur-crested bird could tell
Of dark men moving silently through trees,
Of stones and silent dawns, of blackened
earth
And the long golden blaze of afternoon.
The anthology does not—thank Heaven
—prove that Australian poetry is using
any one set of images or “marching” in
any one direction ; it is variable, fluid, as
art must be. But, opening with David
Campbell’s magpies singing in the moon-
light, running through all its variations
and coming back to a set of Australian
poems at the end, it is a selection arranged
with an unusual sense of form: a kind of
music takes shape in it, and a kind of
image of Australia.
A Fighting General.
Lieutenant-General Sir Adrian Carton
de Wiart, V.C., K.B.E., C.B., C.M.G.,
D.S.O., left Oxford while under age to
enlist under another name for the Boer
War, and, having arrived, he tried to cross
a river in full view of Boers, and received
“a bad stomach wound and a bullet
through the groin.”
Since then he has had an eye knocked
out by some dervishes whose stone block-
house he was endeavoring to enter, a
hand blown away and a bullet through
the back of his neck fh France in World
War I, and broke his back during World
War II, among other injuries.
He was fortunate in discovering, at
about the time of losing his eye, the Sir
Douglas Shields Nursing Home at 17
Park Lane ; for the duration of World
War I it was to him a kind of London
holiday residence —he would go to
France, walk about for a while among
the shot and shell, and then be carried
back to the nursing home ; then off again
to the French festivities, and back home
again on a stretcher. He was reminded of
the home while in Calcutta during World
War II, when he was Mr. Churchill’s
representative in the councils of Chiang
Kai-shek, and stayed with the Governor
of Bengal: —
By a strange coincidence Mrs. Casey had
been a V.A.D. at 17 Park Lane....when
I had been the home’s most recurring in-
habitant. Mrs. Casey said she was sure
that I could not have remembered her, as
she had spent her entire war under the beds
cleaning the floor. I did remember her, so
she must have come up for air occasionally.
General de Wiart, by the way, rather
likes Australians: —
The Australians, to my mind, were the
most aggressive, and managed to keep their
form in spite of their questionable discipline.
Out of the line they were undoubtedly diffi-
cult to handle, but once in it they loved
a fight ; they had come to fight and the
enemy were made to know it.
Himself, he is a Belgian ; son of a
Belgian lawyer who practised in Egypt,
he was not a naturalised Englishman
even during the First World War, as he
told King George V, somewhat to his
Majesty’s displeasure. But, as he says
in his autobiography, Happy Odyssey
(Cape): —
I didn’t know why the [Boer] War had
started, and I didn’t care on which side I
was to fight....I know now that the ideal
soldier is the man who fights for his country
because it is fighting, and for no other
reason. Causes, politics and ideologies are
better left to the historians.
And also: —
To me war and politics seem bad mixers,
like port and champagne. But if it wasn’t
for the politicians we wouldn’t have wars,
and I, for one, should have been done out
of what is for me a very agreeable life.
It is not surprising to find him trying
to organise a duel in London during
World War I, as second of a gentleman
who has been crossed in love; and most
annoyed when the challenged party
decided to relinquish the lady. The lover
had previously protested that duelling
was illegal: —
My reply to that was that the war was on,
everyone too busy to be interested, and
that it would be simple to go to some
secluded spot like Ashdown Forest with a
can of petrol and cremate the remains of
whichever was killed.
For some time, during the Boer War,
De Wiart served in India ; next, in South
Africa, he was an A.D.C. to Sir Henry
Hildyard, Commander-in-Chief; in the
middle of 1914 he was fighting dervishes
in Somaliland ; in 1915 he went to France
and transferred from cavalry to infantry,
where he found trench-fighting very
much to his taste, although, behind the
lines, when told to move his battalion at
a church-parade, he “had to admit that
I did not know how to.”
In 1919, he led the British Military
Mission to Poland, where he contracted
a profound admiration for Pilsudski, and
on the conclusion of the mission was
given a house on the Prypet Marshes by
Prince Charles Radziwill, a duck-
shooter’s paradise, and there he remained,
with winter visits to England, until the
beginning of World War II. For a while,
he commanded the 61st Division in
England ; and then was given command
of the Central Norwegian Expeditionary
Force, which was to have taken
Trondhjem. The expedition was recalled
13 days after it set forth (returning to
Scapa Flow on the general’s 60th
birthday).
The War Office told him he was too
old to resume command of a division ; so
he was sent to Yugoslavia to form a
British Military Mission. His plane
came down into the sea with engine-
trouble, and he swam ashore on Italy, and
was arrested and imprisoned. He gives
a diverting account of how he and his
fellow-generals plotted escape from
Vincigliati, and finally tunnelled through
a wall into a chapel, and from the chapel
through a hillside, whence they got away,
but were recaptured; and then of how
he was freed to accompany General
Zanussi to London. At Lisbon Zanussi
was side-tracked to see General Eisen-
hower in North Africa ; De Wiart went
on to London, where he was held in-
communicado for some 10 days until
September 7, when the Italian armistice
was announced; —
For some extraordinary reason, totally un-
merited, it was assumed by the world that
I had manipulated the armistice with Italy,
and for a few days I achieved a cheap
notoriety as embarrassing as it was incon-
venient.
At the same time, the British
authorities had had some doubts about
General Zanussi, and if De Wiart had
not spoken in his favor might not have
credited him.
After which Mr. Churchill sent De
Wiart to China, as his personal repre-
sentative ; and there he secured a pleasant
house and household, a succession of
bombers for his personal chariotage
which crashed one after another, and
contracted admiration for both Chiang
Kai-shek and General MacArthur; and
among a great many others of whom he
speaks with approval we find “Mr. Keith
Officer, the Australian Charge d’Affaires
.... born in Australia and brought up in
the tradition of Oxford.... he retained
the best qualities of both.”
A Queensland Pioneer .
First published in 1934, Hudson
Fysh’s biography of the Queensland
pioneer Alexander Kennedy, Taming the
North (Angus and Robertson), has been
reissued and brought up-to-date with an
introduction and a notice of the death of
Kennedy, aged 98, in 1936.
The key to the mysterious appearance
of Mr. Fysh—so well-known as an
organiser of airways—as biographer is
towards the end of his book. At the
formation of Qantas, Kennedy was per-
suaded by Fergus McMaster to put in
£250 provided that Kennedy be the first
passenger when the service started.
Accordingly in 1922, at 87, Alexander
Kennedy made his first flight, and
traversed in a few hours the Gulf-
country scenes over which he had taken
months on horseback and packhorse 45
years before.
The old man had a lot to look back
on. He came out to Rockhampton from
.Scotland in 1861, worked on stations as
hand, foreman and manager, tried sugar-
growing, married in 1871, and went with
his wife by buggy and saddle-horse to
manage Lome on the Barcoo River.
Next he got bank credit in Rockhampton,
bought cattle and went with them out
past Longreach to the Gulf country,
taking-up Buckingham Downs, near the
same longitude as Cloncurry (not laid out
until 1876); and thither Mrs. Kennedy
and her sister, Mrs. Currie, whos
husband Kennedy had taken into partner
ship, set out by train to Duaringa, coaci
to Blackall and thence by spring-cart, t
join him ; a six weeks’ journey,
A bewildering series of buyings an
sellings of huge properties, Noranside
Sulieman Creek, Devoncourt, Teddington
Loch (Bushy Park), etc., leaves the reade
with two burning memories ; of the two
women, each carrying a baby, walking
from Noranside station 12 miles to
waterhole during a drought, the horse
knocked-up on the way, crows anc
carrion hawks feasting on dead bullocks
to stay camped by the water eight month
before enough rain fell to enable them to
return to the station ; and of the trek
from Noranside to Normanton, near the
Gulf, when, the party being held up by
creeks in flood on the way to Cloncurry
Mrs. Currie was delivered of a child in
tent by the roadside in pouring rain
contracted dysentery, and, with the baby
and her second-youngest child, died, the
three being buried there, and Kennedy
reading the service.
There are also vivid pictures of
Kennedy charging hostile blacks alone
and routing them, and of the early experi-
ences of F. C. Urquhart, later Commis-
sioner of Police in Queensland, and his
black troopers with the aborigines, who
murdered a great many settlers in the
Gulf country, among them one of
Kennedy’s partners, and who were said
to be father partial to baked human be-
ings, especially Chinamen. There is also
some comic relief in the stories of Ken-
nedy’s dealings as a member of Clon-
curry’s first council and some reference
to the huge fortune which lay so
long undiscovered or unworked beneath
or overlooking all these happenings—the
Mount Isa mine.
The Duchess Coppermine was dis-
covered in 1895 by Mr. Kennedy’s son
Jack, says Mr. Fysh on page 222 ; but on
page 225 remarks “The new owners of the
Duchess started production about 1890”
—a somewhat contradictory state of
affairs ; and indeed the book hardly runs
to those accurate schedules which Mr.
Fysh has imposed in other spheres of
endeavor; its incidents tend rather to
take-off and land like a number of
privately-owned aeroplanes than like the
aircraft of one great corporation: some
future writer, no doubt, will tame
Taming the North; meanwhile, it is a
most readable, if haphazard, account of
a most admirable and haphazard period
of Australian settlement.
Reviewed Briefly,
A Kiss for the Leper; Genetrix:
Francois Mauriac, translated by Gerard
Hopkins (Eyre and Spottiswoode). In
these two novelettes the great French
surgeon of souls cuts into the lives of a
bride in revulsion from her unwieldy
husband, and of a husband whose mother
sets him against his wife so that he lets
his wife die for lack of medical care ; this
second story is a thing of dreadful tragic
power. The book is part of the collected
English edition of Mauriac, which now
includes A Woman of the Pharisees,
Therese, The Unknown Sea and The
Desert of Love with The Enemy. At least
three more titles are in preparation.
% * * *
The Fires of Spring: James A.
Michener (Dymock’s). Author of the
Pulitzer prize-winning Tales of the South
Pacific, Mr. Michener here gives a
superb account of the struggles of a
young American whom we first see living
under the care of his vicious aunt in a
poorhouse. He then starts life as a
cashier in an amusement park, where
cashiers make hundreds of dollars a week
above their salaries by chiselling the
company and short-changing the public.
Mr. Michener’s knowledge of the
methods of giving short change is
immense and of enthralling interest. The
boy has his first affair here, with a
prostitute who trades secretly in the park.
He meets a conductor of symphony
orchestras, goes to college, passes
brilliantly in mathematics, becomes the
lover of the symphony conductor’s
mistress, joins a travelling theatrical com-
pany to be near her; then, in New York,
decides to be a writer, gets a job in a
pulp-magazine publisher’s, throws it over
and starves while he writes a great novel.
The great number of different kinds of
people, all so vigorously alive, make one
think of Smollett; and the college, amuse-
ment park, theatrical and publishing
scenes are done with most informative
detail.


•TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns’
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES' WALK FROM TOWN HALL STATION
No. 77—Sunshields in
Demie Amber colour.
Price, £3/3/-. jk
Protect
your eyes
completely and safely with
Polaroid
Stylish Sun Glasses
mm
■ m
.mm
is
m
ral
m* wmsssmm
n
- .
■MMI
Mnfl
mm
.
m im
Vl : .
' afcSstj
*** v
< ■
m
THE PRINCIPLE OF
LIGHT POLARISATION
Suw
SURFACE
A. —Sunshine reflects as useful
seeing light.
B. —When it strikes a surface,
part is absorbed and part is
reflected.
C. —the reflected part becomes
jumbled up with seeing light
and distorts colour and view.
D. —Ordinary sun glasses dark-
en both the reflected and the
seeing light. This causes pupils
to open wider, admitting harm-
ful rays to affect delicate
tissue.
E. —Polaroid lenses actually
absorb what is left of the
reflected light (indicated by
lines) within the lens.
No. 33 —Sunglasses
available in
Flesh colour.
Priced at 42/6.
No. 66—Sunshields in
various colours. Available
for ladies only. 27/6 pr.
No. 11 —Clip-on Sunglasses,
gold-filled frames. For
ladies and gents. 42/6 pr.
No. 36—Sunglasses in
various colours. For ladies
and gents. 45/6 pr.
m -
mmmmm
mtM
»
r
x
IPw
m
No. 77—Sunshields, various
colours. For ladies
and gents. Price, £3/3/-.
m
French Prismatic Binoculars
A distinctive and very necessary adjunct to sport-
ing men everywhere! Strong but light, they are
8x32 with central rack focus and individual eye-
piece adjustment. Complete in solid leather case,
these ideal field binoculars are priced at £23/5/-
All items —Mail and ’Phone Orders
Thermometers!
Refrigeration
Box wood with
Red spirit column, 7/6
3'h-
rS^Mj!
Confectionery
Confectionery
Thermometer, Bin., 14/-
Q
Household, 6/6
House Thermometer with
Red spirit column.
Household, 9/-
Plastic Household
Thermometer with
Red spirit column.
3
ii/
//\
Oven, 33/6
Metal scale Oven
Thermometer, at 33/6.
/
r#
Hand-Reading
Glass, 21/-
With metal frame.
2-2 in., 21/-; Sin z6/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS' JEWELLERY—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. TELEPHONE; M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


01
Sdlfn
msL
£
*JSs?-
■ftjsi'
’/fed#.
:
wm
»es
WS'SVi
%
m
't'if'jYf*.
£.^s
K/J'
M
i
W
V'i
m
■>’!
"fir
ib
m
Wr.
m
■
>
jr' # »
*<:•
VU
ri
f&j
itiiio
€S>
9f
XS**Km
\
Ssssa^®«
jsssg
«Wtt!
SSHB
: s
it
m
•V
I
r.
\
K
Sa*
as
SS
SB
SAW
s
K%\%=?*
i\M
:
M'
■NR
mm
im
>5
I
agrafe
s&t
SBXK
mi
»e
auwisnns
OS
SKS®*
SB
$
: a
a»
saw
KTa
feaviiss
»\2.*Sh?
sWt
eM9nc*t
»s
*««W
«38
W
®S
079/ 9128
rr>:
THE
ft"'
if
OF A GREAT
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
ENTERPRISE
%
COR
u
m i
ka
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
Proprietors :
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
and
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LTD.
ARE On Roads
. . „ . . <•
: '■ ... I'-''
“Life is so


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 No. 3688
Wednesday, October 18, 1950
I ABJECT I
[surrender
fe, > :
BETWEEN THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP BLUE SEA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
* ‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
INFLATION v. FADDEN.
Mr. Fadden, in presenting his Budget to
Parliament, gave the impression of an
earnest man in holts with a somewhat
muscular octopus, and not altogether
triumphing.
It was a discouraging fact that he was
called upon to present it on the very day
that the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, by a two-to-one majority, decided
to grant an increase in the basic wage
(subject to individual union applications)
of £1 a week plus the increment in female
rates represented by a shift from 54 per
cent, to 75 per cent, of male rates.
As Mr. Justice Kelly, the dissenting
Chief Judge, declared in giving his reasons
against the increase, “the rapid deteriora-
tion in the value of money must, perhaps
even with some serious sacrifice on the
part of all, be arrested.” Failure to
arrest it will “surely endanger this un-
balanced economy to the material detri-
ment of our established industries and to
the general unhappiness of large numbers
of our people.”
■ The overall total of Commonwealth
expenditure swells and swells, regularly
outbulking revenue. The plans for ex-
pansion and development, some of them
on purely Socialist lines, continue to
grow alarmingly, representing a liability
upon posterity which it may be unable to
meet if there is a substantial drop in
overseas prices or if the burden of an-
other war —of the danger of which the
Government frequently warns us —falls
on our shoulders.
The civil service, still under the impetus
given to it by the war and the Chifleys,
grows larger and larger, and main
business departments, such as the
post-office, not only have ceased to
be profit-earning, while more than
doubling their expenditures, but are fall-
ing rapidly towards the slough of bank-
ruptcy. Pensions are to have an all-
round increase, the announcement
greeted from the “Labor” Opposition
benches with larrikin, vote-buying cries
that the Treasury is being mean in its
benevolences. The States, of course, are
as demanding as every other section of
the community; grabbing £ 100,000,000-
odd from the Commonwealth to meet
their rapidly-growing “needs.” And even
though the Commonwealth proposes to
investigate the chance of liquidating some
overlap in the expenditures of Federal
and State authorities there is little hope
that the future will see the six Premiers
any less hungry than at the conference
lately concluded in Canberra.
Under all these conditions Superman
himself could not cope with the situation
unless he had the full support of a popu-
lation capable of submitting to a little
self-sacrifice and of seeing the dangers
where a swollen and still swelling economy
becomes more and more dependent upon
the inflationary portion of fantastically
bloated overseas prices for wool and
cereals. Every day this country is in
more danger of finding itself out in the
void, with the staple of the external por-
tion of the national income reduced 50
per cent., or perhaps even much more,
and Governmental commitments still on
the jag scale so long in vogue.
Unfortunately there is little co-opera-
tion to be had from any section of the
community, and some of the Socialist-
formulated expedients to which the Gov-
ernment is turning in its travail are
scarcely calculated to secure universal
co-operation or to produce that faith in
the Government’s economic capacity
which it is necessary that the people
should have if they are to support its
financial measures.
There was little in the Budget speech
beyond an underemphasised summary to
pinpoint the real reasons why the present
strangulation due to oversupply of loafing-
money places the Commonwealth in peril.
What references were made did not strike
home as did the succinct summary of the
position given by Mr. Justice Kelly in
his basic-wage judgment.
With all pockets fairly bulging, there
are still shortages which threaten both
the economic and the defence security of
Australia—shortages in key materials,
such as coal and steel and building re-
quirements, which hamper production in
general and which are a result of loaf
and go-slow, strikes and Communist
sabotage. These factors assure that, with
a rapidly-growing population deriving
from an expensive immigration pro-
gramme and a birthrate which climbed
during and after the war, the main
abundances in the country are currency
without work in return and leisure and
easy conditions which the country cannot
afford even in normal circumstances,
much less the present ones existing when
the world is imminently threatened by
aggression. All activities are subject to
the blighting imposts of high costs, and
labor shortage which has become so
acute that the Ministry of Defence cannot
even man the tiny nucleus of an army
at princely wages without the expedient
of R vaudeville recruiting campaign.
There is only one cure —universal hard
work to bring production of essentials to
a satisfactory level, universal saving
against the day of need and universal
Government economy, especially in man-
power. But it is a sad fact that the man-
agement of Australia has long been so
much a matter of vote-buying and politics
that the right and practical expedient has
always given way to the popular one.
Trends are quickened in the wrong direc-
tion because the Administration at Can-
berra is forced to rely on an army of
advisers some of whom, from the
Governor of the Commonwealth Bank
downwards, are in the strange position of
being ardent Socialists already wedded to
a policy which they framed for their
appointers, the Chifley Government, yet
called upon to aid the present Govern-
ment, which cannot get rid of them, to
place a brake on Socialistic tendencies.
The result of all this seems to be an
attempt on Mr. Fadden’s part to com-
promise with circumstances, to evade
obviously risky political issues and to
experiment with expedients which
“Labor” will find difficulty in criticising,
since they are more in keeping with
Socialist-planned economy than with free
enterprise. It is the same kind of trend
as is noticeable in his banking legisla-
tion.
It is true that the increase in defence
expenditure puts an added burden on the
Government, and it is true that it is re-
turning to soundness in eschewing the
method used by Mr. Chifley of financing
deficits with manufactured bank credit.
But these facts do not prevent the Budget
—with its increases in social-service
costs, its luxury taxes and levies and
subsidies and its half-bankrupt railways
and post-office—from being inflationary
in itself and from perpetuating a system
of “progress” under which still more
inflation is inevitable.
None of Mr. Fadden’s main measures
of control can be maintained permanently
without helping Socialism on its way to
triumph, and none of them gets down
to the root of sound finance, which
prescribes that assets should be treated
on the basis of their true value and that
money should be brought to its true level
vis-a-vis world currencies and the
realities of the internal situation.
Such a scheme as the wool “levy,”
which provides for the seizure of 20 per
cent, of the produce of sales at its source
and its incorporation in current revenue
as a forward payment against the growers’
income tax, would be dubious even if
it were effective in securing its primary
objective, which it might fail to be,
since taxation funds are very largely and
very quickly digested into the spending
stream which swells the tides of infla-
tion. It is objectionable because it is
discriminatory —there is almost as much
justification for the seizure of a percent-
age of inflated civil-service wages on the
same basis —and because it draws on the
resources of the future.
A saving consideration is that Mr.
Menzies and his Government will not de-
liberately misuse the devices which they
have created or borrowed to help wreck
the prevailing system of economy. In
using those methods, however, they are
paving the way for the Socialists, and the
country required of them at least a
Budget which would set an example in
economy and which would not put the
seal on current alarming financial trends
that are heading swiftly towards the
precipice.
What this Commonwealth needs at the
moment is a will to face realities.
The Obstructionists.
“Labor’s” rolling strike in the Senate
continued last week, and must soon bring
to a head the Government’s counter-
action.
The objective of this obstruction, to-
gether with that of the Communists in the
industrial field, is to create chaos and
discontent, the conditions desired for the
forwarding of these allies’ special pur-
poses. Defeat of the Menzies Govern-
ment would leave the Communists free
to do their nefarious work for Moscow,
and would offer political “Labor” another
chance to fasten socialisation on the
country.
Moscow’s tentacles seem to have dug
farther into this once-proud democracy
than most people have realised. Poli-
tical “Labor’s” tolerance and protection
of those who under foreign orders are
wrecking Australian industry are fully
confirmed in its efforts to prevent Parlia-
ment from dealing with them as they
deserve. The rump majority in the
Senate is able to do mischief only because
it was not obliged to expose itself in the
election field 10 months ago when
“Labor” was utterly routed. Its insolent
refusal of Government business and re-
jection of the Ministry’s business-paper
parallel closely the current efforts of the
Communists, routed at last year’s coal
strike, to revenge themselves upon the
entire community.
In this obstruction of the country’s
business “Labor” and the Communists
go hand-in-hand; the same “bloody-
mindedness” (in the Navy’s term for it)
animates both of them. To the Chifleyites
and the Stalinites alike this is deemed
“democracy”—meaning the right of a
minority (if it can) to seize power, and
by violence, force and fraud to maintain
it against the will of a majority.
The antics of the States’ A.L.P. execu-
tives last week were not more contemp-
tible than the buffoonery of the “Labor”
Senators who affected to assume the reins
of government. Those concerned could
not fail to hear the rising murmurs of
resentment from Jthe electorate or to read
the signs of the Government’s prepara-
tions to submit the whole issue to the
people—“to purge,” as Shakspeare makes
the Archbishop of York say to Henry
IV’s Westmoreland —
To purge the obstructions which begin to
stop
Our very veins of life.
Nothing is more significant of “Labor's”
awareness that it is playing the fool with
Parliament and the country’s urgent busi-
ness than its shifts to try to avoid a
double-dissolution. By its own showing
“Labor” knows that on the issue of the
Communist-party Dissolution Bill its
prospects at a general election are prac-
tically dead and damned.
Such is the background to “Labor”
obstruction of the bill. Under the guid-
ance of a leader acclaimed by some of his
followers as the greatest Australian
“Labor” ever had, and by others as a
second Abraham Lincoln, a political
party once acknowledging authentic,
sturdy Australian instincts has been de-
graded to a panic-stricken mob ostensibly
devoted to “the class-war” but unable to
subdue its own rebels, tied to a pledge
of socialisation which at all material times
it dodges like the plague, unable to decide
whether it ought to ban the Communists
or back them, and seeking to restore
“solidarity” by the miserable expedient
of obstructing all moves to strengthen
the nation —moves to subdue deadly
enemies in its midst, to raise the necessary
fighting services to withstand its enemies
abroad, and to combat high prices in-
flated by a deliberate slowing-down of
man-hour output which is rapidly making
Australians their own enemies, too.
It cannot really matter much now
what the minority under Mr. Chifley may
decide about the Communist-party Dis-
solution Bill. “Labor” has already de-
based its own political currency and
destroyed any respect for itself even as
a Parliamentary Opposition. As an
alternate Government of the Common-
wealth at this juncture it is a laughing-
stock. It has supported the bill’s arraign-
ment (in the preamble) of the Com-
munists as wreckers of industry and sub-
versive Soviet agents; it agrees that the
party should be destroyed and its
members dismissed from Government
employment and from trade-union
executives; it agrees that their books and
assets should be seized. But, though it
consents thus to recognise the menace
this gang represents to the prosperity and
even the independence of this country,
“Labor” refuses to endorse the only
process of law by which the Communists
can be suppressed as intended, and even
wants to provide a means of acquittal
and reinstatement for them through trial
by jury. And this although the procedure
proposed by the bill is not based on any
allegation of criminal offence, and
imposes no punishment of either fine or
imprisonment upon the “declared”
person as such. “Labor,” that is to say,
wants both the country to believe that it
is “fighting” Communism, and the Com-
munists controlling leading unions to be
so reassured to the contrary that they will
continue their subscriptions to the
“Labor” party’s “fighting funds.”
Whether, therefore, the Federal A.L.P.
executive changed its mind or not —
whether caucus decides to fight or to
surrender—whether Mr. Chifley eats all
his stupid words about “ensuring British
justice” or retires to the back-benches to
eat worms —it must seem that this Par-
liament cannot survive. “Labor” has
succeeded at least in sentencing it to
death. Mr. Menzies’s duty is to get a
double-dissolution as early as possible
and a renewed mandate from the electors
with support in both Houses which will
permit of its being carried out.
“Labor’s” obstruction campaign is
based on the hope that the Governor-
General may reject his Ministers’ advice
and rule (in effect) that the obstructionists
in the Senate, who have been fighting to
keep the Communists in their trade-union
jobs immune from the resentment of the
electors, have a right to a similar im-
munity in their own jobs as obstructionists
however fatal the consequences to the
carrying on of the country’s government.
Of such deliverance “Labor’s” chance
should rank with that of the celebrated
Buckley.
Bellowings by Night.
The aboriginal’s best-known and most-
feared mythical monster was the bunyip,
which appeared to be a cross between a
wombat and a sea-serpent, with a touch
of Carbine blood, much given to roarins
dolefully in swamps at night and being
accused of making off with young lubras.
small boys and other fauna for whose
disappearance no other satisfactory
reason could be found.
The sceptical white man laughed at the
bunyip, used it as the base of humorous
yarns and sketches and frequently applied
“bunyip” as a nickname to hatters and
other harmless characters. Victoria
named a village Bunyip, though whether
this is the ancestral home of the monster
is debatable.
Anyhow the white man, for all his
scepticism, hadn’t long supplanted the
black before he began inventing a
monster or two of his own. Except with
apparitions like the Guyra ghost, Fisher’s
ghost and the more recent Bathurst ghost,
his monsters differed from those of the
aborigines in being mostly identifiable
beasts somehow got loose in environ-
ments foreign and circumstances peculiar.
Greatest and most notorious of them
was the Tantanoola “tiger,” which
prowled the South Australian south-east
for some time and left a permanent
monument on the local pub. Pretty well
every district has at some time or other
produced an equally ferocious and in-
visible terror. To their credit these
marauders never tackled humans, favor-
ing livestock as their diet, and, though
hunted with firearms, were never brought
down In more recent years Yamba had
a crocodile, Grafton a polar bear, Coota-
mundra a lion, Lake Dynevor a bunyip
(a poor effort in imagination) and Junee,
probably to vary the theme, produced a
harmless reindeer.
Now Wee Waa declares there’s a
crocodile (by the time the story got to
Melbourne it was three crocodiles) in the
Namoi, Departing from the usual theory
of escape from a circus, Wee Waa claims
that American troops brought young
crocs down from the Pacific islands and
turned them loose in the river. Anyhow,
all the other features are present —bellow-
ings at night, strange tracks in the mud,
dim shapes seen in the bushes, even the
inevitable chap who took a shot at some-
thing and missed.
So it goes on. Perhaps it was inevitable
that a people pioneering a wide land
singularly free of predatory beasts should
invent a few of their own. With the
exception of the Junee reindeer, however,
these terrors follow a somewhat
monotonous pattern. We may not be
able to equal the black’s bunyip; at least
let’s have a change from tigers, bears
and crocodiles. The place is old enough
to produce a pterodactyl, if necessary,
and men on outback tracks have seen
things far weirder than crocodiles.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Bench and the Wage.
As all authorities agree—court, em-
ployers, unions—if there is anybody in
Australia working for so low a remunera-
tion as the basic wage, he is not to be
found.
Theoretically, too, as well as actually,
the basic wage is not a wage but a base
for calculation of wages. The base is
now augmented by £1 a week as a start-
ing-point for male wages, for females
from 54 per cent, to 75 per cent, of the
base declared.
So much having been decided by a
two-to-one majority of the Arbitration
Court, the next process is for the
A.C.T.U. and/or individual unions to
apply to the Court for new awards for
industries constructed on the new base.
Consequently, when spokesmen like
the Communist executives of the iron-
workers and metal-trade workers talk
about “delays” in applying the new rule,
and the injustice of not simply adding
£1 to existing awards, they are merely
out to foment disorder, because that is
not the process, never has been the pro-
cess, and they know it.
The automatic quarterly adjustments
on the “C index” prices-yardstick will
continue as usual. Nothing the court
has decided changes that feature except
undoubtedly to increase the rise-steps in
steepness.
Main interest, of course, is in the
judges’ reasons for their decision. The
differences of outlook on “the national
interest,” which the Bench is required to
take into account, are considerable
enough to warrant the conclusion that
they reflect the lack of disposition in the
community at large to regard “the
national interest” as something which
must override entirely all sectional in-
terests.
The varying opinions from the Bench
on the court’s responsibility not to
aggravate inflation, for instance, are in-
structive. It does not require any very
great intelligence to perceive that this
boost to the cost of all employed labor
must set in train serious increases in
prices of all goods produced by labor, a
development which will be modified only
by increased output of the goods in basic
demand.
Chief Judge Kelly: ....Today this
court’s duty is to give a lead to other
instruments of adjustment by taking a firm
stand to stabilise, as well as lies in its
power, the level of wages, for it is un-
doubtedly principally owing to the rapidly-
increasing level of wages that costs and
prices are tending to become out of con-
trol Any action in raising the nominal
wage-level... .cannot lead to a raising of
living-standards without an acceleration of
the rapid rate of inflation
Judge Foster: The existing infla-
tion is due in part to the action of this
court while the action of employers in
voluntarily-increasing wage-rates has added
its quota, but the economists all agree that
the major cause is due to factors out-
side the court’s activities. [Some of these
quoted.] How far the court should be
constrained to avoid adding anything to the
inflationary forces prevailing is a very moot
point; the influence of the court’s awards
is not itself a menacing one It seems
inevitable that we will have to grow used
to living with a much-depreciated pound,
and as far as I am aware it is unlikely
that value can be put back into it....
Judge Dunphy: ~..! reject the claim
for a £lO basic wage out of hand. The
economy of the country could not stand
such an impost All witnesses with any
sense of responsibility at all recoiled in
horror from the proposition Although
the union advocates asked us to dismiss
the question of inflation, such an attitude
would be contrary to the workers’ own
interests On whether a lesser amount
should be considered... .1 consider industry
is in a better position now [“afford to
pay”] than in either 1936 or 1940 and
that something more than 10/- should be
added to the “needs” and the “prosperity”
loading and that when the £1 Australian
is not revalued, the appropriate sum to
be added should be £l.
Judge Foster referred to “machinery
available to regulate” inflationary forces
in other quarters than the court. “Evi-
dence has shown that steps are possible
by the appropriate authorities... .and I
would not hold my hand in doing eco-
nomic justice because there was failure
for the time being to take these pre-
cautionary steps.” On this it must be
said that prices-control without wages-
control can do nothing. If it could the
States’ Prices Ministers would control
prices. “Pegging” prices to the consumer
is not controlling their movement; it re-
quires ever-increasing subsidies from
the Government, for which the consumers
have to pay in taxation, which both
raises costs of goods and increases their
scarcity, and so puts more zip into the
inflation spiral.
The court’s decision is as much of a
shock as the Australian economy can
stand unless man-hour output improves,
and probably a bit more.
Going up King-street.
Report of N.S.W. Auditor-General on
the condition of railway and road
transport shows that both are insolvent
and ought to be put in the hands of a
receiver. The morning after Mr. McGirr
presented a mournful Budget for the year
1950-51, the Federal Arbitration Court’s
judgment raising the basic wage by £1
a week added another £5,000,000 to Mr.
McGirr’s deficiency in one hit.
With all the direct grants from taxation
revenue and from levies on motor trans-
port, and after being let off its debt
charges, the N.S.W. Railways are esti-
mated to lose £3,010,000 this year, and
that does not include the cost of the new
basic wage, which adds another £130,000
per annum to the railways bill for each
Is increase—raising this year’s railway
loss to £5,610,000 on present budgeting.
Last year the railways lost £2,494,000,
in spite of receiving £3,000,000 of Federal
grant to cover coal-strike losses, the usual
£BOO,OOO per annum from consolidated
revenue for “losses on developmental
lines,” and £592,000 from charges imposed
on private road-transport (motor freight
vehicles). This last-named amount is a
sort of compensation paid to the railways
for goods which the railways can’t carry
“President Truman flew across the Pacific to Wake Island for a conference with General
MacArthur, partly aimed at reconciling Truman Administration and MacArthur Far East policies.’’
“Of course you can never be like us,
But be as like us as you’re able to be..."
or which are sent by road because of
damage, pilfering or delays which the
railways cannot remedy.
Loss or damage to goods carried cost
the railways department £175,423 in com-
pensation payments, nearly £4OOO more
than in the previous year. The A.-G.
notes: “Imposition and theft on a planned
scale remain the problem with which the
department has to contend.”
There is also an outstanding debt to
the Treasury of £5,350,000 for advances
as much as 20 years old.
Mr. McGirr’s metropolitan transport
services—trams and buses —lost £688,666
last year in Sydney and £115,364 in New-
castle, a total of £804,030, or double what
was expected. This year, in spite of
raised fares, the loss is estimated at
£914,000. That was before the new basic-
wage lift came out, and that, at £31,000
for each Is. rise, will mean another
£600,000 of loss, to meet which it looks
as though fares will have to be raised
again. Mr. McGirr, of course, says they
won’t.
Last year’s loss was “the highest in the
history of the undertaking,” and would
have been £178,000 higher but for a cut
from Federal grant to meet coal-strike
losses. Of the £688,666 the trams lost
£452,777 and the buses £235,889. Pay-
ing passengers (460,361,000) were fewer
by nearly 31,000,000 than in 1948-49, and
that cannot be explained by the coal strike
because the A.-G. notes:
In the last four years passengers on
trams and trolley-buses have progressively
diminished from 394,125,000 to 278,841,000,
while those using omnibuses have increased
from 120,173,000 to 181,250,000—an overall
decrease of 53,937,000, or 10 per cent.
In the same period transport mileage
covered has increased by over 8 per cent.
Evidently either the “Labor” Govern-
ment’s free-list is out of control, or scal-
ing is beating all records.
Here is something else Mr. McGirr
wants Australian income-taxpayers to pay
for. The State brickworks lost £6193 for
the year; but it need not have lost any-
thing if this sort of thing did not go on
—A.-G. commenting;
Payments to workers... .were award rates
plus a fixed loading calculated at 10 per
cent, of award rates in force as at July 31,
1949, together with an additional 2\ per
cent, on days when prescribed tasks were
attained. Conditional upon targets being
reached a further 10 per cent, on current
award rates was paid daily to production
teams.
Which can only mean, since the work is
done at a loss, that the production
“targets” are miscalculated or are not
reached, and that the State brickworks’
incentive payments are paid whether the
incentive produces any higher output or
not.
Australia's Transport "War."
The Registrar of the Privy Council is to
hear, next month, an application by
Francis C. McCarter, road-transport
operator, of South Australia, for leave to
appeal against a High Court decision
that the Victorian Government could
prevent the road transport of goods be-
tween States without infringing Section
92 of the Commonwealth Constitution,
Whatever the result, the case brings to
a head the growing confusion, the
charges and counter-charges, the shocking
anomalies, the injustices and the selfish
arguments between State Governments,
their railways and private road-hauliers,
All this, with intervention of the Com-
monwealth Transport Department in the
case, suggests that the time is overripe
for the Government at Canberra to call
all hands into a national conference to
see what can be done about the transport
muddle, which is one of the major factors
in the rising cost of living.
Boiled down to essentials, the position
is that the State railways cannot handle
the goods requiring transport between the
four eastern mainland States ; neither can
coastal shipping. The railways, publicly-
owned, show steadily mounting losses ;
for which there are many reasons. The
Governments controlling the railways
impose taxes on road-hauliers to com-
pensate their railway losses, holding that
road transport takes business away from
railways. Yet if there was no road trans-
port the railways couldn’t move a fiftieth
of the nation’s goods.
Heavy road transport is wrecking
roads which were not built to carry it.
It is fair enough to ask road transport to
pay special taxes for road maintenance,
but such taxes have not been used
for that; and the Commonwealth Gov-
emment no longer accepts that petrol-
tax money should be spent solely on
mads. Further, there is the curious
anomaly of a State taxing a road vehicle
which carries goods inter-State, while the
sa s- ® ooc k ma y 8° by air tax-free.
There are such absurdities as a South
Australian truck being allowed to carry
goods from S.A. to N.S.W., but being
compelled to return empty This, of
course, doubles the freight charge and
increases the cost to the consumer. In
one case a S.A. truck travelling to
N.S.W. was stopped at the Vic.-S.A.
border and told that it must unload its
cargo on to a Victorian train, which
would take it to the N.S.W. border,
where the truck could go and reload it
again. These examples could be
multiplied endlessly.
From their own viewpoints there are
strong arguments for both sides in this
transport "‘war,” but from the nation's
point of view the existing position is
ruinous.
In this land of vast distances raw
materials are produced in one place,
manufactured goods a thousand miles
away for sale another thousand miles
away. Each State to some extent
specialises in primary and secondary pro-
duction, and always will. Population is
expanding; so is consumer demand.
The first essential is to get the goods
where they are needed as speedily and
efficiently as possible, according to their
nature, and as economically as possible.
At the same time roads must be preserved
and new ones built, and the public’s rail-
ways must be protected from unfair com-
petition. Road transport keeps on pro-
gressing, vehicles become faster and
loads heavier. The railways do not
progress except at snail’s pace, and they
are notorious for damage, pillaging and
staff irresponsibility.
That, in brief, is the position. And if
ever a problem called for the serious
attention of all concerned this is it. It
cannot be beyond Australian enterprise,
both Government and private, to evolve
some order from the chaos. But it will
not be evolved while the opposing Gov-
ernmental and private operators continue
their “transport war.”
More Room for Ships.
Changes in world economic, national and
political set-ups since the war have
brought Australia very much into the
limelight of world trade. India and
Pakistan, with their 400 million people,
are desperately anxious to a ado with . ;,
most European countries want to sell us
their goods and buy ours, and, if and
when the dollar position improves, many
more American ships will appear. The
enormous development of Australian in-
dustries since the war is a foretaste of
what is to come. And, to a large extent,
our future expansion depends on ship-
ping.
Development of internal trade and
transport is seriously hampered by lack
of ports. The coastline from Brisbane
round to Adelaide flanks the most popu-
lous, highly-developed and productive
part of the continent; yet in the 1600
sea miles between the two cities there
are only five ports.
Everything that comes or goes by sea
is canalised into Brisbane, Newcastle,
Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide, thence
carted up and down the coasts by rail-
ways, often single-track lines, themselves
congested with freight, which actually
run close by good natural harbors.
North of Brisbane the position is even
worse. There are half a dozen ports on
the Queensland coast between Cairns and
Brisbane, but instead of serving their
natural functions as centres for receiving
and dispatching the vast trade of northern
and western Queensland, they are either
purely sugar ports or limited to local
trade, what time the State railways suck
away their freights on the long, costly
and slow hauls to Brisbane. It is a far-
too-common sight to see ships unloading
freight in Brisbane to be carted by rail
to the ports up north. South of Bris-
bane, right round to Adelaide, are plenty
of natural harbors —Byron Bay, CofTs
Harbor, Iluka, Port Stephens, Moruya,
Twofold Bay, Portland—some, if not all,
capable of taking the biggest ships in the
world, almost all of them the natural
coastal outlets of the inland behind them.
The Government at Canberra can no
longer regard shipping matters as being
purely confined to the existing ports in
capital cities, nor can it dismiss the claim-'
for new ports as purely matters for the
States. It is clear that shipping and
wharf congestion call for something more
than attempts to placate watersiders and
speed turn-round of ships at existing
wharves, Australia, in the new posi-
tion it occupies in the Pacific, has a big
and growing future. The Government
has shown itself as aware of that
as anyone else. But new ports will be-
come increasingly necessary as that
future develops.


CWW®*"*
W , ■■
>• w?
@UVEtf&
u ** hl
[ CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY J
POLITICAL POINTS
Apart from party intrigues transport
troubles have been the No. 1 headache
of all recent Governments in Victoria.
The Cain Government was tottering
through its inept handing of a transport
strike even before the Chifley Bank Grab
made its fall a certainty, and the com-
posite Liberal-Country-party Govern-
ment split through a disagreement over
the same problem. Now it is the turn of
the Spring-street Farmers.
Early last month a threatened stoppage
on the Victorian railways was “settled”
when, under instructions from the Gov-
ernment, the Railways Commissioners
agreed to the demands of railways guards
on overtime and “passive” time. Ex-
Premier Hollway commented that the
Government’s action had given Com-
munist J. J. Brown, local boss of the
A.R.U., his first victory for three years,
and he forecast that as a result of the
appeasement there would be further de-
mands. Conciliation Commissioner Hall
apparently agreed with Hollway. When
the agreement came before him for rati-
fication he rejected it on the ground
that it had been brought about by duress.
Brown had submitted demands while the
men were actually on strike ; the Rail-
ways Commissioners had declined by
letter, but later in the same day had
agreed v to the demands. This change of
front Mr. Hall described as astounding.
Sequel to the Conciliation Commis-
sioner’s action was an order from
Comrade Brown stopping all Victorian
trains at midnight on Sunday “until
further notice.” As Hollway had pre-
dicted, further demands were added to
the points at issue—Brown now wants an
extra £1 a week on all margins and in-
clusion of the basic-wage increase of £l.
On Monday Melbourne was getting to
w'/rk as best it could; motor-transport
nad been given an open go to carry goods
and passengers anywhere in the State, and
J. A. Ferguson, who among his many
jobs includes those of Federal president
of the A.L.P. and N. S. Wales secretary
of the A.R.U., was trying to hurry
through the anti-Red Bill talks of the
Federal executive in Canberra in order to
fly to Melbourne to assure Comrade
Brown that he was heartily behind him.
His task was made a little more com-
plicated by the fact that he did not know
how much longer Brown would be free
to dislocate the Victorian transport
system.
When this went to the printer Federal
“Labor” members were still waiting to
be told whether their minds had been
changed for them on the anti-Red bill
or whether they would be permitted to
allow caucus to consider whether they
should change them.
On the decision depended the likeli-
hood of an almost immediate double-
dissolution and also probably the con-
tinuance of Chifley as leader of the party.
Tipsters were already writing him off and
canvassing the claims of Senator Mc-
Kenna to the succession. If Chifley goes
it is hard to see how McKenna, Evatt or
anyone closely identified with the Chifley
policy on the anti-Red bill could be
accepted by the party. Best outsider,
P. J. Clarey.
There’s nothing like leather —unless it’s
hide, “Labor” used its hangover Senate
majority to pigeonhole Government busi-
ness and bring forward its for-display-
purposes-only Prices Referendum Bill.
Senator O’Sullivan, leader of the Govern-
ment in the Senate, announced that the
Government would not take part in the
debate, and when talking was resumed
next day he informed the House that the
Government was prepared to vote on the
bill right away. Fixer Ashley refused,
and, when O’Sullivan moved to have the
anti-Red bill debated, accused him of
trying to waste time. Whereupon
“Labor” Senators, to show their own
regard for time, drooled on for hours, the
words “inflation,” “capitalists” and “de-
pression” running equal first for frequency
of use.
Real aim of the Fixer and his men
was twofold—to cash in on the propa-
ganda-value of rising prices and to stall
for time on the anti-Communist bill until
their masters told them whether to change
their mind on it or not.' The first of
these two objects was emphasised by a
remark of Ashley on Wednesday night:
We are not going to give up the oppor-
tunity of being on the air to tell the people
of Australia how they are suffering under
soaring prices caused by a spineless Menzies
Government.
Had a comment of that sort been made
in the House of Representatives Speaker
Cameron would have promptly pointed
out that members were required to address
the Chair, not the radio public. No
such admonishment came from Senate
president Brown.
In pursuance of the second object those
Opposition Senators who felt like exercis-
ing their voices had a field day. Senator
Hendrickson top-scoring with a speech of
almost an hour without saying anything
that mattered. Some of his colleagues
found the unwonted freedom a little em-
barrassing ; there was the possibility that
they might say more than they were in-
tended to. This seems to have happened
to Queensland Senator Benn, who, refer-
ring possibly to a report that the economic
adviser to the Queensland “Labor” Gov-
ernment had advocated the temporary
abandonment of the 40-hour week, said
that workers were not going to sacrifice
their 40-hour week by working longer
hours to reduce prices. “We are not so
badly off even with the high prices.”
Presumably the Senator later explained
to his colleagues how this last sentence
supported the party’s contention that
Federal price-control was an urgent neces-
sity.
The “Labor” representation in the
present. Senate was planned and shaped
for obstruction, and in obstruction it will
persist to the last. A leading spokesman
in the late Chifley Ministry declared
long before this Parliament was due to
be elected that obstruction in the Senate
would be “Labor’s” tactics if there were
a change of Government, and that the
“Labor” rump in the Senate, in spite of
the electors (being beyond their reach),
would reject all legislation proposed by
a succeeding Government, including the
Budget.
Professor Bland, doyen of education in
public administration, has changed his
mind. He told Taree (N.S.W.) Chamber
of Commerce that he had “recanted” his
earlier belief that new States would only
increase the number of Governments for
little practical return. He now favors
them as “a counter to centralisation-of-
power tendencies, apparent in Canberra.”
He could have added, “and in Sydney
and Brisbane.”
Douglas Sinclair, of the Lawson Labor
College, who writes a weekly article for
the A.L.P. “Standard,” quotes in the
current issue Colin Clark, economic
adviser to the Queensland Government;
“Australia’s inflation looks like getting
rapidly worse. If the authorities left it
too late to control inflation it would be-
come uncontrollable without foreign in-
tervention,” Sinclair didn’t trouble to
quote Clark’s suggested remedies: (1)
appreciation of the pound, (2) temporary
abandonment of the 40-hour week, (3)
better use of the working population.
“Labor” doesn’t believe in the first,
regards the second as heresy. As to the
third Clark explained that he considered
“too great a proportion of the workers
was now employed in the centralised
bureaucracy of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.”
This same Colin Clark was the only
economist willing to give evidence against
the 40-hour week when the question was
before the Arbitration Court in 1947.
What he warned against then has come
to pass—the 40-hour week has slowed
down production and bumped up costs —
but even had the court been prepared to
listen to Clark the matter was taken out
of its hands by McGirr, who rushed the
measure in to win an election. Now
McGirr is in the worst administrative and
financial mess of any of the six Premiers.
According to N.S.W. Attorney-General
Martin, his Government will not tolerate
“monopolistic action.” He alleged that
oil companies had refused to supply
petrol to some garages because there was
an understanding between the companies
and retailers that where there were suffi-
cient sellers in an area no new outlet
would be opened. Mr. Martin was
mighty indignant about this, perhaps with
some justification, but isn’t it exactly
what his Government does when it tries
to force people to use its railways, stops
private people from running bus-services,
imposes strict limits on the number of
taxi-cabs operating and confines them to
limited areas, hands over milk-distribu-
tion to two companies and stops anyone
else and in a host of other ways adopts
“monopolistic action” itself ?
The voice that croaked in, raven-like,
at intervals during Fadden’s Budget
speech with such comments as “That
won’t get you far,” “You won’t get many
votes with that” belonged to Calwell, a
senior Minister in the last Government.
Presumably Arthur’s only standard for
assessing the quality of a Budget is the
number of votes it will win.
“Labor” members kicked up a first-
class row in the Macquarie-street talking-
shop when a Liberal member moved the
gag on Premier McGirr. A little earnest
thought might have convinced them that
the sooner he is gagged politically the
better for their party.
If the Communists weren’t such a
humorless tribe the Red-dominated
Waterside Workers’ Federation would be
suspected of cracking a joke with their
latest excuse for a one-day stoppage “as
a protest against the high and rising cost
of living.” Rising costs, with consequent
hardship and discontent, are the studied
policy of the Communist party in this
country, and no union has served the
Communist cause better than the W.W.F.
Queensland Transport Commissioner
Anderson has publicly acknowledged two
facts which it would be well for other
State transport-authorities to recognise:
that development has gone beyond the
railways, and must in future depend on
greater use of roads. For too long State
transport-bosses have regarded road-
transport as something to be checked
because it allegedly takes business away
from railways.
Reported from Melbourne the forma-
tion of a “breakaway” movement calling
itself the “Progressive Labor party.”
According to its provisional secretary it
will be a militant organisation “formed
to carry out the true principles of the
Labor platform.” Mrs. Blackburn is
named as provisional president of the
party, which is against “Labor’s” policy
on the anti-Red bill —that would be last
week’s policy —and critical of the Chifley
Government’s use of troops in the coal
strike last year. It “has no love for the
Communist party,” but because it believes
in freedom of speech it opposes the
banning of the party. That’s exactly what
Chifley has said many a time and oft;
perhaps the group could persuade him to
join the “breakaway.”
Its stand against revaluation has already
cost the Country party one member, and
a live one at that; C. W. Russell, M.H.R.
for Maranoa, told the party last Wednes-
day that until it changed its views on
the subject it could count him out. If
there is an election he will defend his
seat as an Independent.
Queensland public servants at their
biennial conference passed two resolu-
tions the Federal Opposition might well
ponder upon. One urged the A.L.P. to
water down its socialisation objective;
the other, carried by 41 votes to seven,
approved the anti-Communist bill. True,
some of the delegates seemed more con-
cerned over “Labor’s” election chances
than over the rights and wrongs of the
ban, but the seconder, Mr. Dunn from
Rockhampton, didn’t mince words. His
idea on the subject was that it was the
duty of the Government “to put the
Communists where they could do no
harm.”
A special bus was sent to pick up late-
wonuug wharfies at Pyrmont (Sydney).
When it was loaded the conductor, for
the men’s own safety, told 4hem it had
14 men too many, and couldn’t start until
the load was reduced. An argument
began, a wharfie attacked the bus-con-
ductor, the wharfies then declared the bus
“black,” demanded their money back and
walked off. To round off this story it
only needs the bus-conductors to declare
the wharfies “black” and we could have
another shipping hold-up.
The S.A. Parliament is considering a
private bill introduced by a “Labor”
member with the object of setting up a
State Lottery. As usual the name of sweet
charity is being used as the main argu-
ment for the gamble. Back in 1936 a
similar move from the same side of the
House led to an investigation of the sug-
gestion by a Royal Commission, which
advised against the project. However dis-
guised it may be, a lottery is a device
whereby the many contribute towards
enriching the few. This is against all
professed “Labor” policy, yet “Labor”
men in every State favor the racket.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
will have to do something about William
Sheahan, Minister for Transport. Hitherto
the railways have regarded themselves as
the sole beneficiaries of the special tax
imposed on road-transport operators.
Mr. Sheahan has announced that most
of the money to come from the increased
road-transport taxes is to be spent on
roads.
Several large and small vessels have
run aground in Newcastle harbor lately
in places where they were expected to
float. It shows how many tons of silt
must have come down the Hunter from
the floods, and how necessary is urgent
erosion-control on the stream’s water-
shed.
It cost Queensland railways over £U
million in the last financial year for over-
time, a direct result of the 40-hour week
imposed at a time when all industry was
short of men. Senator McKenna said
nothing about that when blithering over
his prices-referendum bill in Canberra
last week. “Labor” apparently believes
in miracles —1950 wages and hours and
1940 prices. McKenna ought to invite
the McGirrs and Hanlons to reduce fares
and freights to 1940 levels to prove it.


dsf
SIXER!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Sixenate”; Certainly it is hard to
make anyone believe the story about the
black-eye. A friend and myself were
forcing our way through the jostling
crowd in Martin-place on the day Peace
broke out, when a girl in an upper
window of a high building yelled as her
handbag slipped
out of her hands.
It bounced from
the edge of the
lower - floor
window-sill and
landed right on
my friend’s left
eye as he looked
up to see what
caused the
scream. In spite
of my verifica-
tion, nobody be-
lieved his story ;
probably, if not
personally seen, it would have stirred my
own doubt. But the universal doubt is
sometimes an advantage. By saying face-
tiously “My wife gave me that,” about
a black-eye he wore for some time,
another friend saved himself from the
ignominy of a general knowledge that it
was a present from his missus.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Sack”; Sydney dailies show a nice
sense of discrimination when reporting on
migrants in Australia. Those whom the
“camera catches” or who make a
“charming study” or an “attractive pic-
ture” are invariably welcomed as “New
Australians.” But should a disturbance
occur at one of the hostels “New Aus-
tralians” are never involved —“migrants”
are in the brawl. When a new arrival
does something creditable, however, he is
promptly written in on our side. The
migrants who mobbed some of Sydney’s
constabulary not long ago were less
fortunate. A tabooed word was brought
“Here’s a new one. ‘ Teach Yourself to Teach Yourself.”
out of retirement to label them. In the
Press report the designation “Balts” was
applied not less than seven times. On
thinking the case over I’m not sure that
the daily didn’t have the right idea. After
all, mobbing and kicking Sydney’s police-
men could hardly be called a new Aus-
tralian practice.
♦ * * *
“Craiser”: Equality of women? A
young woman in Frankston, on Port
Phillip Bay, recently applied to the
Games and Fisheries Department for a
licence to fish. To her astonishment she
received a reply “desiring to state that a
female person is not permitted to use nets
for the purpose of catching fish.”
* * * *
“Sackfair”: There is nothing psycho-
logical about a cramp; it is purely
physical. But a cramp showed me an
angle of psychology I’d never thought on
before. I awoke in the middle of the
night with the very grandfather of one
in my thigh. Painful experience had
taught me that the nearest thing to a
cure is to get out of bed and limp around
in agony until the blood circulates again.
I was hobbling along the hall trying to
mb the afflicted limb at the same time
when a horrifying scream shrilled from
my young niece’s bedroom. “What’s the
matter?” I shouted and hobbled towards
her room. Her screams became more
blood-chilling. “Quick, quick, there’s a
man going to get me!” my little guest
screeched. When I pushed the door open
and snapped on the light the kid had her
head under the bedclothes, but the room
was empty and the window shut. It took
the wife a long time to calm her enough
to find out the cause of the terror. No ;
it wasn’t a nightmare. She’d heard a
cripple hobbling along the hall. I might
have laughed if I hadn’t remembered
just how frightened I used to be of a
neighbor in my school-days. The sole
reason was the poor chap had lost an
arm. Physical deformity seems to have
a strangely horrifying aspect to the
juvenile mind.
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mullum”: A few weeks ago, in a
Bulletin par., I suggested that Warsaw
would never be forgotten. I was wrong.
In a radio quiz the contestant was asked
to name the country whose capital was
Warsaw. He did not even try to guess,
though he admitted that it was in Europe.
Even when the quizmaster gave a hint
that the country was under Red domina-
tion, the contestant still had no clue.
Such, I suppose, is the fate of all fame
and heroes, but I didn’t think it hap-
pened so quickly.
♦ ♦ * *
“Spokeshave”: A psychiatrist recently
told a Sydney court that a man charged
with having stolen goods worth almost
£9OO from Army stores was obsessed
with a desire to hoard useless objects. I
couldn’t help thinking of this unfortunate
case when I attended the philatelists’ ex-
hibition at the Town Hall, Melbourne. I
had the stamp-collector’s obsession badly
when I was a boy, but it lasted only six
months. Then I got bored and sold my
collection at a profit of 2s. 3d. The
stamps in this exhibition are worth tens
of thousands of pounds, and Royalty
shares the obsession. What gives a
stamp importance varies. Sometimes it
is the fact that a postmaster in Fiji used
the wrong stamp in 1893, or a printing-
machine failed to perforate the margin
between two stamps, or some careless
person left out the fraction-bar on a
tuppenny-ha’penny issue. The im-
portant thing, apparently, is that there
must be only a very limited number.
If there’s only one only millionaires can
compete for it. The most coveted
are often the worst designed and printed,
whereas some which are fine examples of
the etcher’s art aren’t worth much at all
because there are plenty in existence. So
it isn’t an aesthetic pleasure the philate-
list gets but the gloomy joy of posses-
sion.
* * * *
“Bo”: Barnum’s famous remark re-
garding mugs has a special application
to Sydney, which numbers among its
citizens more come-ons than ever allegedly
came out of the mulga. And, among
the crassest mugs of all, those who allow
themselves to be regularly fleeced in
flash night-spot joints lead the field by
several streets. Hoof-and-yap addicts
with bantamweight brains and heavy-
weight waflets make an easy feed for the
drink-waiter who, as well as practising
"My husband REALLY started off as a designer for stained-glass
windows, you know.”
psychology, co-opts the first principles of
physics to assist him in prising coin from
his charges. One trick that enables the
grog-toter to maintain his minimum of
£5 a night in tips—which often puts his
earnings higher than some of the mugs
who help supply it—is to press a shilling
heavily into the damp cloth which he uses
to prevent the glasses on his tray from
shifting. This will be included in the
change from a note. Suction renders the
picking up of the coin momentarily diffi-
cult, aud, rather than persist with his
efforts, the patron leaves it as a tip. They
never wake up. The drink-men also have
their “toe-ing” service for patrons. This
usually comes into operation after mid-
night when the mugs are “ripe.” Fum-
bling to peel a “flag” off the wad, a
diner may, unnoticed, drop one. This is
skilfully “toed” under the table-centre,
to be garnered later. But not all harpies
in Sydney wear an ironclad shirt.. Were
you to examine closely many of the two
pennies, stacked one on the other, that
are pushed back across the beer-sodden
bar to Hebe by magnanimous drinkers
hopeful of making their marble good and
land an extra couple in the weekend
bottled-beer issue, you would see almost
as often as not a shilling that Hebe had
stacked there out of the quid change.
That’s what keeps ’em in mink and nylons,
* * * *
“Plop”: Under a new law a customer
may demand that his milkman give an
account and be paid each week. This is
to the joy of housewives out my way
who have been getting great shocks from
delayed bills carrying heavy slugs. Up
to now, unless the housewife kept a day-
to-day tally she has had no check what-
ever. A bachelor, of all people, solved
this problem. When the first bill of the
new year turned up he asked the milk
company for an itemised account. It
didn’t come, nor did he pay. At the
end of the year he had a 12-months milk
bill, was still asking for an itemised
account, was still not getting one, and
his milk was still being delivered. Then
he died ; I don’t know where it went
from there.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Now that Melbourne
modernists have suffered the usual fate
of innovators or imitators of innovators
and been accepted, they should in grati-
tude erect a monument to their great
forerunner. He was one Ivan Romanoff,
described as an “exiled sculptor,” who
had his stand opposite the Athenaeum.
Armed with nothing more complex than a
piece of wood, a pencil and a meat-
skewer, he executed reproductions from
memory—said to have the endorsement
of nobility, science and members of the
medical profession—of such masterpieces
as “Moses on Sinai,” “Ajax Defying the
Lightning” and “Pygmalion and Galatea.”
Unfortunately none of his work survives
to bear out his opinion of himself that he
was a “genius with an extraordinary
knowledge of anatomy” ; his medium was
sand, and “Pygmalion and Galatea”
would have been indistinguishable from
a truckload of that material by the time
a buyer got it home.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Forty-two years ago I re-
ceived a letter from George Bernard Shaw
which might have had a considerable
value today, although there was no
Shavian wisecracking about it. It was
written in serious vein in Shaw’s capacity
as president of the British National Union
of Clerks; I was battling, then, to get the
Clerks’ Union on its feet in Sydney and
had written to Britain and other places
to gather information about what was be-
ing done elsewhere in the same way.
Shaw told me when I saw him (once oniy
—his flat was as hard to a pP r °£ C at
fortress) when in London with the /v.x.r.
in 1918 that he maintained ms
affiliation but had given up acti
in the association. The letter, having
keepable value when it was rece ,
went the way of all such corresp *
HOUSING PROBLEM.
“The ‘Labor* majority in the Senate, led by
Senators Ashley and McKenna, has taken business
out of the Government’s hands to debate Opposition
bills until the ‘Labor’ party decides whether to
have the Communist-party Dissolution Bill rejected
a second time, thus allowing both Senate and
Representatives to get a verdict from the voters.”
Ours was the ’appiest of boardin’-’ouses, I
alius said,
Till that Bob Menzies bought it over our ’ead.
First orf ’e’s nice as pie; says “Orright, Ma
McKenna,
Let’s you and me and Ma Ashley, your doughty
ol’ duenna,
Tool along together with loads of goodwill—
And now there’s just the little matter of this
’ere bill.
“This bill,” ’e says, “is for insurance against
rats and marauders”
“I ’ope by that,” I says, “you’re not referrin’
to none of my boarders!”
“Oh no,” ’e says, “but I think it’s a bill we
oughta share.”
“Bills!” I says. “I got bills enough and to
spare.”
So I leave ’is bill a month or so on the shelf,
Then send it back for ’im to deal with ’imself.
’Owever, though poor, I’ve still got my figure,
and I’m worldly-wise,
So I says to this Menzies, “ ’Ow about a little
compromise?
Drop along some evenin’, and bring your pal
Artie;
Let’s see if we can settle this bill at an informal
party.”
But with ’im, not being compromised is a sort
of obsession:
“Not me,” says Menzies. “I’m going for Vacant
Possession I ”
“You’ve got one ’Ouse all to yourself,” I says,
refusing to budge.
“What do you want with another? —Tell that
to the judge!”
“Orright,” ’e says, “orright. I’ve ’ad certain
complaints
That the conduct of your establishment passes
all restraints;
I don’t ’ave to prove ’ardship—that ain’t the
point—
I’m ’avin’ the place declared a disorderly joint.”
Well, I admit that ’it me a bit of a crunch.
For lately we been ’avin’ dinner for breakfast
and breakfast for lunch,
And Ma Ashley and I sometimes contrive a
cheery entertainment,
Not clowning, maybe, but lackin’ a bit in
refainement,
And some of the boarders ’ave took to the ’abit
of creepin’ in
The beds other boarders already are snorin’
and sleepin’ in.
But, as I said to a boarder who got ’it on the
’ead by a crumpet,
Them that don’t like ’ow this ’Ouse is con-
ducted can lump it.
If Menzies can manage to lumber us out, well,
’e’s welcome,
And, after we’ve gone, I don’t care if the devils
from ’ell come:
At that, we’ll leave plenty of labor for
decorators,
Carpenters, painters, bottle-ohs and fumigators.
For we’re just two weak sisters, protected by
Bert and by Ben;
Failing them, we’ve got prospects in one or
two earnest young men—
More for the sake of purity than because they
love us,
They seek some ’armless way of making honest
women of us—
Which leaves us, as they say in books, not
knowing if to laugh or cry,
But if we’re put to it, I suppose we’ll ’ave to
give it a fly.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“5 G.R.”; My nomination as the most
remarkable old soldier ever enlisted is
Joe Bishop of the old Fifth Battalion.
Joe had 10 dinkum war ribbons before
1914, but didn’t wear them until later
in the war. Back in Egypt after Anzac,
old Joe was the only one in the Brigade
who could explain the layout of Tel-el-
Kebir; he had fought there in ’B2. Joe
lived hard, slept anywhere and served
right through the Australian campaign in
France. He was well into the eighties
when I interviewed him at the Sailors’
Home in Melbourne, but his mind was
going then ; he mixed Burma with South
Africa and other campaigns. And he
needed two hands to steady the pot to
his lips. He used to quote the Army say-
ing of his early days: “Woman brought
me into the world ; beer comforts me in
the world ; gunpowder will blow me out
of the world.” But it was Joe’s heart
that blew him —at nearly ninety,
* * * *
“Brolga”: “Macnell’s” yarn (B.
13/9/’5O) reminded me of an even more
primitive anti-aircraft weapon. Going
from England to the M.E. in early ’4l
in the Franconia I was one of a gun-
crew manning the ship’s primary ack-ack
armament —a device known as a bomb-
thrower. Idea was that grenades, encased
in loose-fitting tins, were flung out of a
stovepipe arrangement by release of a
blast of com-
pressed air. At
about 2000 ft. the
tins were to fall
clear of the
grenades; the
firing - levers
would then
operate and the
grenades explode.
The chief officer
had great faith in
the weapon ; he had heard of a plane
being brought down at Narvik by a
similar device. He also told us that on
a previous voyage one of the weapon’s
crew had been a bit careless with a
grenade, fused at two seconds, and that
his remains had been hosed down the
scuppers. He gave us an hour’s instruc-
tion on the operation of the contraption.
The demonstration over, the muzzle-
cover—a round piece of wood—was re-
placed before an A.B. reminded him that
the air-chamber was still charged. He
kicked the trigger, and hundreds of troops
who had been watching our drill dived
for cover when they saw what they
imagined to be a live grenade dropping
straight down on them. It was only the
muzzle-cover! We never got a shot at
a J? . ne > 80 I can’t report on the weapon’s
efficiency. Anyway it made a lovely
bang.
♦ jfg £
8.A.K.”: Our local shopkeepers must
have been reading Lawson’s “The Burst-
ing of the Boom” ; twice I’ve heard a
mumbled “Sorry” from one of them in-
terim ng a customer that the article re-
was not in stock. But that’s not
all; on the screen at the local picture-
show a slide now counsels “Shop Locally.
Service. Civility. Value.” It looks as if
the old Chamber of Commerce has re-
assembled itself. In the days when the
customer was always right the C. of C.
fought heroically to stop residents spend-
ing money out of the town. One
campaign was waged with handbills.
Hundreds were handed out, their message
commanding in the size and blackness of
the print: “SHOP LOCALLY. HELP
YOUR OWN AS YOU HELP YOUR-
SELF.” It sounded a reasonable-enough
“Whistle at me, will you ?”
request. The local rag, however, didn’t
take a kindly view at all. In cold dis-
approval it observed: “A great number
of handbills recently circulated in the
district requested residents to shop locally.
It is a commendable suggestion. We
wonder why the instigator of the
campaign went out of the district to have
the bills printed,”
* * * #
“Spike”: As any barber will tell you,
we are, head for head, well in front of
other nations at competitive sport, so it
is rather strange that our sports
chroniclers are such incurable and in-
accurate clairvoyants. They predict that
a certain football-match will end like
this; when it ends like that they can
produce a hundred reasons why it
shouldn’t have. After admitting that
Bromwich and Sedgman won the doubles
match in the Davis Cup, one of these
scribes told us what he really thought;
“ But many Australian and American
critics consider they were lucky to win.
Most experts agree that Bromwich’s cool
head and court guile retrieved many of
Sedgman’s errors. Australian Jim Russell
believes the selectors blundered in not
choosing the Bromwich-Quist team.”
“R.W.”: “Zwig’s” explanation of these
invitations to take shares in a Hobart
“consultation” (B. 4/10/’5O) sounds
feasible, but I don’t see how it can
account for the one I received. I’ve never
gone in for “guessing competitions” or
“games of skill,” nor have I bought tickets
in any of these inter-State gambles. The
electoral roll is the only explanation I
can see. It might be a trial-and-error
method, yet there would probably be
enough interested to make it worth while.
It doesn’t account for this one, though.
A few weeks after my discharge from the
A.I.F. in 1945, when my new civilian
address was known officially only by the
Army, I received a book of tickets in a
Sydney art union. My new address hadn’t
even reached the electoral rolls at that
stage.
♦ * * *
“Lower Tops’l”; The long picturesque
stretches of land-locked waters down
Hobart way will be deprived of a lot of
color by the Huon Transport Co.’s de-
cision to discontinue its river-steamer
services because of rising costs. For 120
years these little steamboats have chugged
their way not only down the Derwent to
mountain-shaded “Channel” ports, but
also out across Storm Bay to Tasman
Peninsula bays and beaches pioneering
the fruit and timber industries. The
paddle-wheeler Governor Arthur, which
first took the water on the Derwent in
1832, later became Melbourne’s first tug.
In Hobart on Christmas Days a highlight
was the steamer-race around Green
Island and back for “the cock-of-the-
river” race. In 1926 the crack steamer
Cartela, when hard-pressed in a close
finish by the Togo, disposed of her
passenger-laden rival by bumping her and
sending her on the rocks by the Castray
Esplanade. During the years these boats
experienced many mishaps, but except in
1914, when the Huon foundered sud-
denly, drowning three women, there was
no loss of life. Several of these vessels
left their bones in the Pacific-war area.
One, the Dolphin, with a native crew on
board, was lost with all hands.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Early this month Scotch
College, Melbourne, entered its centenary
year. It was opened as an academy for
young men on October 6, 1851, and of
its four headmasters, Mr. Lawson, Dr.
Alexander Morrison, Dr. William Still
Littlejohn and C. M. Gilray, the second
is most likely to be remembered. He
made every Friday his Judgment Day,
when all boys on the punishment-list were
lined up and flogged. There were usually
so many of them that before the grim
dominie got half-way through he had to
knock off from sheer exhaustion and post-
pone the rest to a later occasion. There
was always a rush of boys to the far end
of the line. Scotch, with 1400 boys, is
now one of the biggest schools in the
Empire.
* * * *
“Zake”: Expressions of the inventive
genius of man abound wherever we look,
especially in the field of useful little
gadgets used every day, but there has still
to be invented something which has defied
them all so far —I refer to the side-
buckles on men’s sports-trousers. When
new they tighten well, which leads the
wearer into the belief that they will cling
to his hips, unshiftable. Within a week
the straps gradually slip through the
buckles, and the hitching process is on
“Bom-Bom- Bom, bom, bom."
—and it will stop on until the strides
wear out. There are alternatives for the
manufacturers: to make the buckle-teeth
blunt and therefore slippable, or to make
them sharp and tear the straps to shreds.
They prefer the latter —and the eternal
hitching. I sometimes think the Arabs
have the best idea in nether clobber —
wrap a tent around themselves, and to
blazes with all buttons, buckles and other
curses of civilisation.
“Simon’*; Before dentists developed
the technique of “one out all out” most
dentures had gaps in them to accommo-
date the remaining natural teeth. Mum
had such a top set, and Dad, only seeing
it in situ, had no idea what it looked
like removed from its moorings. One
night Mum, thinking to park it under
a pillow, somehow got it into a pocket of
Dad’s coat that hung on the bedpost.
Next day at smoke-oh Dad, feeling for a
box of matches, drew it out and
wondered what it was and how it got
there. Real teeth must have been more
prevalent in those days, as none of the
shearers could say what the notchy thing
was. It was classed as some sort of
comb, broken in two, and thrown in the
grass. Some days later the mystery was
cleared up and the pieces recovered. They
figured more or less in unison till the next
visit of the travelling dentist.
* * * ♦
“Strip”: “Taswegian’s” allusion (B.
20/9/’5O) to the “red and yaller” hand-
kerchief of the bowyang and clay-pipe
era reminded me of seeing a life-size
portrait in oils of the man who invented
the aesthetic plebeian “wipe” and made a
fortune out of it. The painting showed
the old man sitting with a particularly
brilliant sample of his stock gracefully
draped over one knee ; as proudly dis-
played as a knightly coat-of-arms. His
family tried to hide the heraldic emblem
behind a spreading palm on a pedestal,
but he insisted that the useful and artistic
article which had brought brightness into
millions of drab lives had a right to be
immortalised in paint.
* ♦ * «
“Curate’s Egg”: White twins cause
enough confusion, but distinguishing
them is a simple matter compared with
the task of sorting out the brown or
black variety. I recall a pair who did
business with the island trading-
station on which I once earned a
crust. The similarity between the
black pair extended even to their
handwriting, they having modelled
their calligraphy on that of their white
mentor. On my first encounter, as a
savings-bank agent, with Twin No. 1,
he presented his passbook with the
request “Kill ’im all one time, boss.”
After checking the
signature I paid him
the entire amount -
credit, . whereupon
he departed, beam-
ing pleasant surprise
at the amount of
cash received. Half
an hour later, when I
had recovered from
my consternation at
being confronted by
the seeming ghost of
my earlier client, I
realised it was Twin No. 2 with a dif-
ferent passbook, but an identical request
to “Kill ’im all one time, boss.” After
verifying the signature again I paid out.
This time the withdrawer howled like all
the devils in Sheol at the small
amount received. Investigations showed
that Twin No. 1 had, on discovery that
they had confused their respective pass-
books, taken the line of least resistance
by signing his brother’s name to a with-
drawal and No. 2 had followed suit with-
out a thought as to future complications.
I left it to the brothers to make adjust-
ments as they saw fit, but at the subse-
quent audit drew attention to the
forgeries, for such they were. The in-
spector also took the line of least re-
sistance by declaring that he was, despite
a deal of experience in that line, unable
to distinguish any irregularity in the
signatures.
A LONG-FELT WANT.
“Suggestions have been made that there should be
established in Australia colleges similar to those now
operating in America, where prospective fathers may
obtain a diploma in baby-management. In America
pupils practise on life-size dolls.”
It’s something, this, that seems long overdue.
Say! What a menace is the amateur father.
You’ll even find benighted fellows who,
Where baby-management’s concerned, would
rather _ , ,
Leave everything to Mum. They vaguely know
A natural bowser for the babe’s provided,
That infants should be shuffled to and fro.
Beyond this, though, their knowledge doesn’t go.
Over a bath-tub they have ne’er presided.
How often has one seen the new-made dad
Handling his child so nervously, as if he
Held in his paw a live grenade, which had
The pin out, and might go off in a jiffy!
I know one chap—for truth of this I vouch—
The baby howling madly, sought to shift it.
He deemed himself at handling ’em no slouch.
Yet, bending tenderly down to the couch,
He took the nipper by the neck to lift it!
Perhaps the greatest bugbear of them all,
To un-diploma’d fathers, is the nappy.
Too tightly pulled in to prevent its fall
It makes the heavy-breathing babe unhappy;
Too loosely done, it only needs a sneeze
And then the wearer isn’t one, that’s certain.
To blindly thrust a safety-pin and squeeze
May bring a roar the very blood to freeze —
For Dad that rings down the domestic curtain.
Those fathers—ah, how many!—now compelled
To crawl from bed (that’s when there’s
bottle-feeding)
After the lusty new-arrival’s yelled
■ His warning that some fodder he is needing,
Would undeniably some gain obtain
From strenuous academical tuition.
Who knows but what the tutor may explain
Some easy way to get to sleep again
Or curb a wakeful baby’s ebullition.
PT’aps Father may be taught to learn the knack
Of picking cries, the dinkum from the phony,
Or, if his face has suddenly gone black,
What might have gone amiss with little Tony.
As one not inexperienced, I should say
Most valued lesson for the tyro scholar
Would quickly teach him to devise a way
To beat the carried infant who’d essay
To pour a pint of sour milk down his collar,
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Eurimburra”: The cows came round
the corner at a canter and barged into
the big yard closely followed by the old
blue heeler. Inside, he deftly drafted a
dozen milkers, pushed them through to
the milking-yard and waited for Chas to
shut the
gate. “Old
dog’s work-
ing well,”
I remarked.
“Yair, been
like that
"since h e
got the
p e n i c i 1-
lin.” “Been
crook, has
he?” “Must
have been,”
Chas replied. “You know what a beggar
he is for milk ; near got his tongue wore
out lickin’ froth off the concrete. Well,
I bin havin’ a spot of trouble lately with
mastitis and got the factory to send me
two dozen of penicillin. Instead of
putting it in the stand, the silly cow of
a carter left it in a can, and of course
I had to go and dump a couple of gallons
of milk on the package before I spots it.
I’m out milkin’, of course, when old Blue
comes sniffin’ around and scoffs the lot —
bag and all. By cripes it done him good
though.” Making a rapid calculation —
thirty-six-bob’s-worth of penicillin,
720,000 units ; in oil, to say nothing of
the foil containers —1 expressed the
“I tell you , missionaries ain't got wishbones!"
view that it was probably the oil that was
responsible for the hound’s sudden re-
juvenation and the eviction of the metal
tubes. But Chas won’t have it, and has
chalked up another miracle to the wonder
drug.
* * * *
“Tea Tree”: Years ago the parklands
about Adelaide were freely dotted with
the fragrant purple wildflower Dicho-
pogon, which belongs to the lily family.
The graceful little “lilies” have now dis-
appeared from the metropolitan scene ;
one species, however, is common in the
north of the State and, with its com-
panion species, may still be found in the
Hills district near Adelaide. That the
Dichopogon hasn’t shared the fate of the
orchids, which have been wiped out in
closely-settled areas by ruthless flower-
pickers, is due to an utterly senseless
name bestowed on them in the early days
of the State. Children, collecting wild-
flowers, learned from their elders to avoid
the purple lilies because they were “snake
flowers.” As a nipper I firmly believed
that if you picked “snake flowers” you
would inevitably come across a snake
soon after. The superstition has pro-
tected Dichopogon more effectively than
legal means have protected other native
plants and animals.
♦ * * *
“E.”: It was a grand morning, and
Bob jogged along in the sun, at peace
with the world. Presently his old sheep-
dog showed unusual interest in a low
sawn-off stump; going over, Bob looked
down into the optics of a coiled fox.
The fox made no attempt to jump out
and run for it, and Bob selected a piece
of wood, heavy and strong. Awkward to
get at, but he could pound the thing to
death, if he kept at it long enough. Look-
ing in again he discovered the animal’s
reason for remaining—five very young
pups. Bob watched them a moment, read
a beseeching expression into the helpless
upturned eyes, fidgeted, then, flinging his
weapon away, he went on. Plain murder,
he told himself roughly, and cripes, a
bloke had to live with himself, didn’t he!
Nearing the homestead a couple of hours
later he was in time to see a large fox
trotting through the lambing ewes, and
before he could stop him, Johnny had
grabbed a lamb and killed it. Bob re-
called the number of lambs lately missing
from the paddock, cursed himself, his
dog and his nag, and, collecting a rifle,
cantered savagely back along his morning
route. But the sawn-off stump was
empty. The vixen had shifted her family.
* * ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: The five pelicans
were airborne when I saw them, and their
slow spiralling rise took them directly
over me as I stood near the edge of the
swamp. At the same time a solitary black
cockatoo screamed his perpetual lament
and a pair of crows cawed in sympathy as
they fled before the savage attack of a
pair of vociferous nesting magpies. A
crane croaked mournfully as he lumbered
down to feed, and a black duck quacked
a warning to her scattering brood. Some-
where a dove cooed, reed-warblers trilled
and a willy wagtail chattered ; listening
there, I felt that there was something
strange in the utter silence of the big
graceful pelicans. I can’t recall ever
having heard a note that I could identify
as a pelican-call. That they have some
means of communication must be obvious
to anyone who has seen them manoeuvring
in their perfectly-timed aerobatics, but
the contact may not be vocal. I can
think of no other bird whose acquaintance
I have made with whose cry I am not
at least passing familiar. Anyone else
heard it?
* * * *
“Broadway”: A sheep-dog in the
trials at Perth Royal Show found his run
interrupted by the water-jump for horse
events, and took it in his stride. The
jump was a 3ft. 6in. hurdle and a 16ft.
sheet of water. He cleared both, doing
17ft. all told. That must be close to a
record.
“Will you call back and pick me up at lunch-time, Joe?"
“Old-timer”; The log was about 4ft.
above the little backwater, and down
through the transparency you could see
the sloping clay bottom of the Murray
running into deeper and deeper water
until it disappeared. There was a tiny
cliff on the slope, perhaps 3ft. down, and
from under it emerged slowly the dark-
blue body and probing feelers of a lob-
ster. It drifted rather than crawled down
the clay, allowing the current to waft it
into the deep, doubtless preferring to
look like a bit of waterlogged wood. Then
it stopped—l saw the rear claws clutch at
the mudlike anchors —and 6ft. down-
stream a big cod appeared, lazily quarter-
ing the clay bottom against the current,
side-fins waving, dorsal partly erect, the
tail fanning easily. The lobster shot
right, left, right again, leaving a cloud
of yellowed water from the disturbed
clay, and the cod was after it, almost but
not quite as fast. I didn’t see the lobster
shoot under the little cliff, though I saw
the yellow cloud it left behind. The cod
came out of the cloud, nosed along the
cliff, appeared to meditate, gave a
wriggle and resumed its quartering of
the ground, tacking upstream. Men use
the lobster tactic today to baffle their
enemies, with smoke instead of disturbed
clay.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Wippegong”: Two o’clock on a Sun-
day morning and I’m biking home. At
this hour the bike is the best way to
travel, for it’s the quietest, and you dis-
turb none of the night noises while you
can hear them all. The sky is clear,
the moon a couple of days from full, so
Billy the Wag chirrups throughout the
night while with him the little bush-lark
adds a bar or two in tribute to the warm-
ing days—next moon he’ll be nesting and
then nothing will silence him. The long
pond in Jenkins’s paddock resounds to a
frog-chorus, while faintly through it
comes the sharp call of the black-fronted
dotterels that will be nesting on the pebbly
spit by the willow. They like the moon-
light, these little waders; so do their
larger cousins, the plovers ; who are now
calling urgently across the flat as, on
night exercises, their formations wheel
across the moon. The old gum at Ross’s
gate stands still and silent, though if you
climbed on the corner-post and listened
at the first big, broken limb, you’d hear
a soft humming that would explain the
stream of traffic in and out of that spout
during sunny days. Just now, a faint
scratching and a low chatter high in the
branches tell where the grey possum
feeds. Crossroads, and Miss Talbot’s pedi-
greed cocker, a disgraceful distance from
his cushioned kennel, trots homeward, a
self-satisfied leer on his slobbery mug—
if the old girl only knew! A soft film
of fog lies along Boundary Creek, and
after dipping through this we reach the
railway-gates; they’re wide open, for all
the expresses have roared through and
there’ll only be an odd goods till the
thunder of returning expresses stirs the
dawn. The township just a wide, empty
street with shops asleep on each side of it.
Out of that and a mopoke calls from my
own garden, trying to make out he’s been
waiting up for me; I answer him and
we keep up the pretence until I put the
bike in the shed. An ungodly hour?
Maybe ; but worth it, once in a while.
* * * *
“Billy T.”; The approaching tour of
the English cricketers will revive old
Charlie’s saga of how he scored a few
dozen against their forerunners when the
century was young ; so until the summer
has waned I’m keeping clear of him. It
was one Saturday afternoon when Ham-
mond’s team was bearing down in this
direction and we were sunning ourselves
in the comfort of Charlie’s tool-shed that
Mrs. C. poked her head in and asked if
we’d mind going down the street and
getting two-shillings’-worth of fish and a
shilling’s-worth of scallops for tea. Well,
there was plenty of time and, anyway,
you couldn’t go straight down the street
and back on a
Saturday ; and
it was in the
back parlor of
the Commer-
cial that
doubts began
to haunt
Charlie. Paus-
ing in a learned
comparison of
the respective
styles of Clem
Hill and Ver-
non Ransford
he whispered,
“Billy, was
that two-bobs’-
worth o’ fish
and a bob’s-
worth o’ scal-
lops or the
other way round?” We settled that, and
off he went into the famous bowlers he’d
belted, and that led to a heated debate
between two whiskery cronies as to
whether Harry Trott could bring ’em
across from the leg as smartly as old Bill
Howell could whip ’em back from the
off; and it was under cover of this dis-
course that Charles was heard to mumble,
“Wonder why she’d want two-bobs’ o’
scallops an’ only a bob’s o’ fish! You
know?” I didn’t know; by then I only
knew what I wanted ; and during C.’s
oration in response to the simple query,
“Was Ernie Jones as fast as Tibby
Cotter?” X slipped away. I’d had tea and
had settled down with a book when the
sound of unsteady steps up the path pre-
ceded a bang on the door, and out I
went. “Hey, Billy,” he pleaded. “That
two-bob shcallopsh —was they shcallopsh
or chipsh?”
JERRIDONG.
“Jerridong.” A name.
A town in the west
with red roads lame
in the heat and the dust.
“Sheep and wheat.”
That means flies
sticking to your face;
and shivering straw
that’s drying on the stalk
spread by the wind
to thin-wire cries:
fields of wheat
shifting like sand
and sighing to the mind.
Gum-trees
passionless and smooth.
Kicking the tank
and staring in its glass;
the world caught in mud
and water —the red bank,
the blue sky, the pass
of a friendless crow.
Jerridong. A town
in the west, in the heat.
Any town in the west
where the earth shudders
under the white sun.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


ANDREW M°GEE suggests
FOR GREATER SMOKING PLEASURE CHOOSE A
NIMROD DRYSMOKER
ENGUSH BRIAR PIPE
23
shapes
to choose
from
A further shipment of these
famous pipes have now arrived
for those who were not able to
purchase their favourite from
the previous shipments.
Fitted with the famous hygienic
filter, the Nimrod Drysmoker is
a Milder, Cleaner, Cooler Pipe.
Bowl stays dry. Tobacco burns
evenly. Flavour is improved. No
waste. The carbonised bowl is
already broken-in for instant com-
fortable smoking. Order your
particular shape
straight or
bent —by mail,
from Andrew
M c Gee.
27/6
plus 9d. postage.
ANDREW M C GEE
(Established 1887)
70 Pitt Street, or
1 Castlereagh St., Sydney
“En B.”: The human effort and in-
genuity responsible for even simple things
are usually missed by the bloke who uses
them. The other day I carried a fruit-
case of groceries from the train. The
case seemed top-heavy, and made the
short trip to the car a staggering misery.
When I’d dumped the thing I realised that
the packer had tacked a 2in.-deep tray
on top of the case to enlarge its capacity.
And then I woke up to the fact that
fruit-cases have been designed by some
unknown genius to balance nicely—their
depth is just the length of a man’s fore-
arm. The extra 2in. of depth was enough
to destroy the balance.
* * * *
“Bass”: A Shorthorn cow which was
highly commended by the judges at the
Perth Show gave birth to twins, male
and female, and the owner wasn’t pleased.
He thinks the heifer will be sterile, and
he’s probably right. It is known as a
free-martin. Twin calves can be either
two males or two females, and both be
normal; but where they are of different
sex, the female is almost invariably
sterile. In seven out of eight cases of
bovine twins, vascular intercommunication
becomes established, and the sex-differ-
entiation of both is directed by the sex-
hormones which are strongest or earlier
formed. The testes become differentiated
before the ovary, so male sex hormones
are liberated first, and in the female the
sex-differentiation process goes on under
the direction of the male sex-hormone. A
post-mortem examination of that heifer
will probably reveal that she is almost
completely male.
* * * *
“3298”: Black Joe had two hobbies,
picking ’em and playing draughts. His
pet aversion was rouseabouts. The
approach by a traveller to Joe’s kitchen
was usually as follows. “Good-day,
cook. Do you know if there is any
chance of a pen here?” “Good-day,
think you are lucky. B’lieve they want a
couple of shearers. Help yourself to a
pannikin of tea from that bucket near the
fire; and you’ll find some brownie
under that cloth on the table.” Should
a stranger
unaware of
Joe’s aver-
sion ap-
pio a c h
him, it
went like
this.
“G o o d-
day, cook.”
“Good-
day.” “Do
you think
a man
could
get a job
a s rouse-
about
her e?”
“Dunn o,
and couldn’t care less, and if you want
any tucker you had better go over to
the rouseabouts’ hut. And now get out,
I’m busy.” The year he was cooking at
Boolong station, where the kitchen was on
the bank of the creek, and the back of
the brick oven only about sft. from the
steep bank, some campers had had Joe’s
“hospitality.” Knowing the time Joe
would be putting a batch of bread in the
oven, they sent a stranger up with
full instructions to talk shearing, and
challenge Joe to a game of draughts—
best three out of five. Instructions duly
carried out, Joe won the deciding game
when it was about time the bread
came out of the oven. Opening the
oven-door he looked in, put his hand up
to his eyes and yelled to George, his
offsider. “Hey, George, come quick. I
think I’ve been struck blind.” George
came on the run, took one look and
yelled, “Holy mackerel! What do you
know about that?” He found himself
looking straight through the oven across
the creek to the cultivation paddock in
the distance. The campers had had nice
time to take the back out and get away
with the batch.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: You learn certain
things in the bush, usually by experience
and pain—your own and others’. So
you never leave hand-shears open, guns
loaded, pieces of wire in the grass, fires
burning in summer; you carry an axe
with the blade turned away from you, and
so on. The cove working with us on the
hay-making had never learned any of
“There's modern eddication for y'! Diploma in domestic science and
doesn't even know how to hold an axe."
them; he left his chair in the doorway
at night, threw lighted butts anywhere,
waved his arms and yelled at the horses
in the yard and generally acted the fool.
Then came the day when Mat, sliding
down the wall of the growing stack at
dinner-time, just missed the up-turned
prongs of the pitchfork leaned wrong-
way up against the stack. Mat’s eyes
almost stuck out of his head. “I know
whose ruddy fork that is!” he growled,
grabbed it and headed for the house.
The offender was bent at the wash-bench
and fell into the dish when the three
points jabbed into his rear. “There,” Mat
roared. “That’ll teach y’ t’ be careful,
leavin’ a ruddy fork upended for a man
t’ spear himself on.” The wounded one
glared at him. “I wasn’t near the stack,”
he howled. “My fork is on the tray of
the wagon.” Mat was dumb, but only
for an instant. “Well, it’ll teach y’ just
the same,” he grunted. “If y’d thought
of loanin’ it against the stack y’d ha’ done
it an’ a man might be in three pieces
now.” And he stamped in to dinner.
« * * *
“The Bunyip”: Eight-hour—sorry, Six-
hour —weekend, and the cars are stream-
ing over the mountains ; twice the normal
fine-Sunday traffic seems to be running,
for the motor races are on at Bathurst
(N.S.W.), I’m poking about the bush
with the nippers and although, as usual,
they reckon it would be better on the
other side of the road. I’m scared stiff
to venture a gamble with that traffic.
Then, as we wait, a little fellow with a
swarthy complexion saunters on to the
bitumen as though nothing faster than
a tip-dray is expected during the next
week, and, just as a racing Riley flashes
by, he pauses to scratch himself, and so
lives. He wanders toward the middle of
the road, stops a while, then reckons he’ll
come back ; but at the last minute swings
left and begins to march valiantly along
the centre of the highway. During this
carefree saunter scores of assorted
vehicles, similar only in that they’re all
in a tearing hurry, flash past him —
sedans old and new, upright jeeps and
low-slung sports models —but by a miracle
they all miss him by a whisker; then,
deciding that the long pull is a bit steep
to be taken without a spell, he turns
right again and, leaving the traffic to
dodge him as best it can, completes the
crossing and settles for a rest at the butt
of a bloodwood. I wipe the sweat from
my face and thank the gods for sparing
me the spectacle of a fatality; if my
clutch had insisted on crossing that road
I’d have sent for the ambulance first,
and then we’d have dashed over like
hunted hens instead of dawdling like that
little brown beetle.
* * * *
“Dicky”: The ringer looked up from
the ram he was shearing to find “Light-
ning,” the dopey rousie, beside him,
leaning drowsily on his broom. “You’re
just the bloke I want,” he said. “Go and
ask the boss for the wrinkle-stretcher,
will y’?” Lightning mooched off. When
he at last ran the boss to earth the latter
shook his head. “I dunno where it is.
Ask the classer.” The classer grunted
that the expert should have it. The
expert scratched his head and looked
under the bench, lifted a tray of combs
and cutters, moved some emery-paper
and finally said that he reckoned the
presser might have it. The presser re-
garded Lightning thoughtfully. “Wrinkle-
stretcher? Now lemme see. I believe I
left it over in the huts. Go and ask the
babbler if he’s seen it.” It was a pity I
had to go then and look after the ewes.
I never did find out what happened to
the ringer’s wrinkle-stretcher.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Tea-tree (B. 20/9/’5O) will
last well as fence-posts in swampy
ground; where the posts will be under
water part of the year I’d use it in prefer-
ence to a Jot of other timbers. A lot de-
pends on when it’s cut. Early spring is
the best time, and don’t let the posts dry
out before you use them,
* * * •
“The Missus”; When it comes to
eradicating bracken (B. 13/9/’5O) I’ll
nominate Lilac and others of her tribe.
Lilac is our brood sow; she has been
running on free range in a paddock con-
taining good cocksfoot and rye pasture,
but with two banks of bracken totalling
something over a couple of acres. Practi-
cally ignoring the good pasture she has
spent most
of her time
on the
brae ken ;
now, after
two months,
it is prac-
tic a 11 y
cleaned up.
She does
an amaz-
ing 1 y
t h o rough
job, too.
Digging under the growing stem she fol-
lows the tough rhizome down, sometimes
as deep as 2ft. to the point where the
new frond is located and, with guffles of
evident joy, gobbles the tender shoot be-
fore following on to the next growing-
point. The banks where the bracken
grew are now lying fallow and ready for
the grass-seed I intend to broadcast be-
fore the next rains. Lilac should farrow
soon and I plan to pen her, with her
family, on other fern patches about the
farm, moving the confining hurdles as
each patch is cleaned up. Pigs may be
pigs ; they’ll do me as bracken-eradicators.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Last spring two
migratory fairy-martins blew into a
Murray River homestead near Swan Hill,
and began to build their inverted water-
bottle-shaped nest of mud outside the
owner’s window. A visiting relative de-
cided to thwart the dainty black fliers in
their idea by capturing them at night and
taking them to Melbourne. But there,
instead of nesting, the pair departed
immediately, and in three days they were
resuming their home-building at a faster
tempo back on the window of the same
old-world Murray River homestead.
After all, what’s 250 miles to a couple of
fairy-martins?
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“R.E.H.”: “Bogaduck” is right off the
beam when he takes the W.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture to task for declar-
ing mesquite a noxious weed (B. 5/7/’5O).
Though they are both leguminous and
of somewhat similar habit, the mesquite
(Prosopis chilensis ) and honey-locust
(Gleditsia triacanthos ) are by no means
identical. The mesquite is native to the
desert grasslands of America from Chile
to south-west U.S.A., where it is regarded
as a pest, although it has value both as
a honey plant and for the fodder-value
of the leaves and pods; is grown exten-
sively for that purpose in Hawaii. It
invades overgrazed areas and replaces the
more valuable range grasses, and so it
must remain very suspect in any pastoral
country. The honey-locust, on the other
hand, is a native of the wetter forest
country in the U.S., and has been widely
used by the US. Soil Conservation Ser-
vice for planting in gullies and as a
windbreak. For this work a thornless
variety has been developed which is prov-
ing very popular, and this variety might
be useful in Australia. However, unlike
' most legumes, the honey-locust doesn’t
nodulate, and so doesn’t possess the
valuable attribute of being able to manu-
facture its own nitrogen supply. Although
the honey-locust is quite a good source
of honey, in its native state the flowering
season is extremely short, and it could
only be regarded as a secondary source
of bee-fodder.
EDWARD JOHN EYRE.
t who stand where Eyre once, anxious, watched
The cold blue morning burn to arid gold,
See only beauty where the range is notched
As tulas, gouging all the eastern sky,
With no sharp fear that waterholes are dry
And men can die. Here, fold on purple fold,
The ranges melt to desert rose, and I
Have no despair at what salt lakes once told.
But it was written that I, too, awhile
Should live with beauty, where no thing lies dead
but lives again. 1 love this desert place,
And every detail that my mind has read;
But he, he walked beside her mile on mile
And saw both past and future in her face.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


dsf
BOARD OF DIRECTORSi
Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws.
“ S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jonea; J, Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Sir
C.8.E.; G
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson,
LL.B., K.C.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; Thomas
B. Heffer.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Fuil time Service
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has, since its
inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to the provision of prompt, efficient and economical
service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
O Jt is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
® Its charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
g#
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
t Dividends ■, Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
May, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.!
Share premiums, £49,847 .. .. 3,229,097
’42§ 427,864 15,750 7J p.c. = 318,273 3,322,938
Loss, sale of assets, £1869.. .. 3,321,069
'43 829,324 15,750 6} p.c. = 302,821 8,331,822
Loss, sale of assets, £295.. .. 3,331,627
'44 341,851 15,750 6} p.c. t= 802,821 3,354,807
Profit, sale of assets, £3063 .. 3,357,870
'45 892,186 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 3,420,269
Loss, sale of assets, £7,792 ~ 3,412,477
'46 402,578 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 3,485,268
From inner reserves, £823,360 .. 4,308,628
'47 475,761 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 4,454,602
June,
From inner reserves, £135,414 .. 4,590,016
’4B 472,320 15,750 8 p.c. ■= 358,899 4,687,687
Net unexplained additions, £97,446 4,785,133
Share premiums, £650,503.. ~ 5,435,636
Exchange surplus, £79,433.. .. 5,515,069
'49 542,435 16,760 9 p.c. «= 423,949 5,617,805
Reserves capitalised, £789,577 .. 4,828,228
Less exchange adjustm’t, £11,599.. 4,816,629
Net unexplained add’t’ns, £95,289. . 4,911,918
'5O 599,573 15,750 9 p.c. = 444,060 5,051,681
* Subject to intangibles, now £2,416,871.
! Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
§ 14 months.
This big and expanding organisation—
parent (holding co.) and over a score of
subsidiaries —is one of the major indus-
trial groups in the Commonwealth. And
its operations, which extend out over the
Tasman to New Zealand and north to
Singapore, cover a wide range of pro-
ducts. These include the humble glass
bottle (the line on which the business
grew up), a variety of other glass con-
tainers, window-glass, pressed and blown
glass, plastics, refractories, cartons, cork-
board and a variety of engineering
materials, such as fabricated steel, tools,
bolts, nuts, etc.
The story since war ended is one of
rapid expansion in all sections of the
undertaking. Major developments have
been the erection of new glass works —the
one at Singapore, whose first furnace came
into operation in 1948, is now giving a
good account of itself; the new bottle-
uiaiviuj-, unit at Sydney, one of the largest
of its kind in the world, came into opera-
tion last February, and a similar one at
Melbourne is expected to be at work
before 1950 runs out; the Hobart fac-
tory has just commenced production ; and
work on the new Christchurch (N.Z.)
plant, which is to turn out glass containers
and pressed ware, as well as corrugated-
paper containers, is about to commence.
The intention was to make the plant for
these projects in the co.’s own engineering
shops. But owing to industrial troubles
and shortages of coal and steel, sub-
stantial orders for equipment have had to
be placed overseas, with consequent
delays in completion of new works.
To help finance the big programme
448,623 new £1 ords. were issued at a
stiff premium (fixed by capital-issues
control) of 295. each in Nov., 1948.
Although it was expected that share-
holders would soon be asked for more,
the market was surprised when the request
was made at par and accompanied by
an issue of gift-scrip. Those on the ord.
register at March 31 received 789,577 £1
bonus shares, one for 25, which were pro-
vided by drawing upon share-premium
reserve for £641,531 and capital assets
reserve for £148,046. At the same time
they were offered 1,000,000 new £1 ords.
(including 13,029 reserved for subscrip-
tion by the staff) at par, one for five.
When all the money on that lot is in
(there was £23,922 to come when the
books closed), paid capital will be
£6,899,433, on which an all-round 9 p.c.
will call for only £21,376 more profit than
was claimed last term.
Earnings can be expected to
further improve as output of exist-
ing plant units of the group approaches
capacity and new units come into
production. Although the Budget has
given no relief from the present high
rate of co. tax, or from double taxation
of profits paid to shareholders as divi-
dends, it contains nothing to retard
economic development and expansion.
The thing most likely to affect earnings
is the stiff increase of £1 a week in the
basic wage just announced by the Arbi-
tration Court. Expanding turnover is not
likely to offset the effects of this without
the help of a lift in selling-prices.
The market for the ords. shot up from
68s. 6d. in Feb. to 725. in March, dropped
back to 545. ex rights, and now stands
at 61s. 6d. At the last-mentioned figure
the return is 2.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
So the investor who looks for, say, 4.5 p.c.
on his money counts on a 14 p.c. distri-
bution and/or other benefits. The prefs. at
465. yield 3.9 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £54 9s. prefs. and 275. lOd. ords.
After allowing whatever was considered
necessary for taxation and other con-
tingencies, and setting aside £885,874 (up
£253,065) for depreciation, etc. (equal to
23.4 p.c. of book-value of freehold and
plant at June 30), the year’s profit was
put at £599,573 (up £57,138). It was
enough to pay the pref, div. and show
11.8 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
11.2, 10.1, 10.3, 8.6 and 8.4 p.c. back to
1945.
There is no indication in balance-sheet
figures that shareholders might be asked
for more at an early date:
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures.
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £4,661,233 £5,109,856 £6,875,511
Outside interests* 46,258 63,605 60,018
Sundry creditors! 1,442,213 1,712,868 1,831,822
Final divs. . . 198,540 252,575 246,743
Freehold ~ .. 1,748,034 1,761,349 1,937,237
Plant, etc. . . 2,248,869 2,574,301 2,847,743
Shares, etc. .. 917,391 1,133,181 1,127,568
Stocks .. .. 2,624,579 3,289,811 3,836,140
Debtors . . . . 829,107 1,215,855 1,457,798
Bonds, cash, etc... 244,456 363,033 375,344
Intangibles . . 2,372,526 2,416,748 2,416,871
Inter-co. balance! 50,969 2,231 66,165
* Including proportion reserves. ! Including tax
provision, etc. } Due to differences in balance date.
When the books closed more-or-less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities, in-
cluding the final div., by £4,718,286, and
there was only 3s. Id. of outside money
in the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders. To meet net additions
of £175,888 to freeholds, £273,442 to
plant, £546,329 to stocks and £241,943 to
debtors’ balances the co. gathered £976,078
of fresh cash capital and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
by £118,954.
Bruck Mills (Aust.), Ltd.
Year, , Dividend To Re-
June 30, Loss. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, £70,000 70,000
Preliminary exes., £23,105 .. .. 93,105
1947.. 22,850 Nil Nil 115,955
Profit.
Pref. interest capitalised, £19,555 .. 135,510
1948. Nil Nil 16,340 119,170
1949. .60,950 12,500 3 p.c. = 16,416 32,034 87,136
1950.. 70.187 12,600 4} „ „ 27,190 30,497 56,639
* After deducting intangibles, now £135,510.
Exactly what the future holds for this
lusty newcomer to the ranks of Aus-
tralia’s infant rayon-textile industry is
difficult to say at the moment. The
answer largely depends upon what hap-
pens in connection with costs, the tariff
and the exchange rate. Doubts concern-
ing the last-mentioned have been put at
rest for the present, the relevant tariff
item has been increased, but has yet to
be ratified by Parliament, while costs have
not yet reached the top of the hill.
The co. kicked off with the blessing of
Brack Silk Mills, Ltd., the big Canadian
manufacturers of rayon-yarn and -fabrics,
who took £70,000 (in scrip) for goodwill
and provided the looms and key techni-
cal personnel from the managing-director
downwards. The Australian public
backed the venture with £784,687 of cash-
paid capital—2so,ooo 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 535,000 ords., on which there is £313
to come. The mill at Wangaratta (Vic.),
which now has over 500 names on the
payroll, is a worthy contribution to the
decentralisation of industry. It began
commercial production on a small scale
during the 1948 term, when a profit of
£16,340 was earned. Output has since
increased in volume and variety as more
looms and other plant became available,
and earnings have responded.
After setting aside a generous £52,533
(up £14,600) for depreciation and £45,000
(up £25,000) for taxation, which includes
provision for deferred assessments, the
improvement in last term’s net earnings
was £9230. The £70,180 of profit covered
the pref. div. and 9.5 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 8.8 p.c. for the previous
term. The ords., which got a maiden
3 p.c. in 1949, received 4\ p.c. last term,
and the £30,497 that remained reduced
the amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books to £56,639. In-
tangibles total £135,510, made up of
goodwill (£70,000), preliminary exes.
(£23,105), establishment account (£22,850)
and interest on pref. capital temporarily-
capitalised (£19,555).
It is an encouraging performance con-
sidering the difficulties. The business has
not yet got into full stride. Under exist-
ing conditions plant and staff take longer
than usual to develop maximum
efficiency. And over the last 12 months
or more the co. and others in the in-
dustry have had to face aggressive com-
petition from old-established Continental
and other overseas manufacturers. Last
term production had to be switched to
goods still in short supply and to lines
adequately protected by other tariff pro-
visions. Trading and development in the
industry could not long continue on such
a basis, and since rayon-weaving is one
of our major post-war developments, the
Government lifted the duty on imported
rayon materials by Is. 4|d., making it
Is. 6d. a square yard, in June last; this
notwithstanding strong and wide protests
from importing and retailing interests.
Any material reduction of the rayon tariff
“could set back our general development
by many decades,” says chairman R. I.
Vicars, a veteran of the Australian textile
industry in another field. Apart from
this, rising costs, which have received a
fresh impetus from the lift in the basic
wage, promise to be the co.’s chief bug-
bear.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
development and a stronger liquid posi-
tion :
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Pref .. 249,637 250,000 250,000 250,000
Ord 294,963 487,500 570,888 649,687
Overdraft • . - 154,360 92,225 187,104
Sundry creditors 42,636 45,365 44,213 214,784
Tax provision, etc. 20,000 65,000
Final divs. . . 12,500 22,666 33,440
Freehold .. 388 14,309 15,613 19,548
Leasehold . . 23,145 50,157 64,799 72,557
Plant .. •• 270,505 366,914 450,267 484,925
Stock .. .. 98,341 275,933 260,455 577,902
Book debts, etc... 11,958 110,591 121,602 188,254
Cash . . . . 59,889 151 230 190
To add £48,351 to the book-value of fixed
assets (mainly to plant), carry an extra
£317,447 of stocks and increase book
debts by £66,652 the co. raised an addi-
tional £78,799 of capital, added £94,879
to the overdraft and £170,571 to the
amount coming to trade creditors. The
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£266,018) was £63,835.
The ords. at 275. Bd. (245. 6d. a year
or so ago) return 3.2 p.c. on a 4\ p.c.
div. basis, or 4.3 p.c. should the distri-
bution rise to 6 p.c. The prefs. at 21s. 9d.
yield 4.6 p.c. Net tangible cover is 675.
sd. prefs. and 18s. 3d. ords.
Lennons Hotel, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re-
June, Profit. , —Dividends serves. Deficit.!
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1948*.. 20,819 5 7} 15,144 5,675 3,337
Deferred repairs, £lOBB .. .. 4,425
Reserves.!
1949 . . 38,783 5 8 26,299 12,484 8,059
Less deferred repairs, £97 .. .. 7,962
Assets written up, £11,277 .. •• 19,239
1950 .. 44,896 5 10 31,000 13,896 33,135
* Seven months. t After deducting goodwill, etc.,
now £lOl.
This is Brisbane’s leading hotel, and
it is one of the most up-to-date and
fashionable in the Commonwealth. The
business —originally established about
1887—took a new lease of life in 1941,
when the old building had been de-
molished and new premises, replete with
all the modern amenities of the trade,
were erected in its place. The present co.
bought the undertaking as a going con-
cern from City Mutual Life in Nov.,
1947, for £360,000—£296,700 for free-
hold and buildings and £63,200 for plant,
equipment, etc. Goodwill figured in the
deal at only £lOl, and preliminary exes,
totalled £11,277, so there was no heavy
load of intangibles to weigh down the
earning-power of capital.
To finance the deal and provide work-
ing capital, etc., the co, issued 150,000 £1
5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 235,000 £1 ords.,
all of which, excepting a small parcel of
the ords., were taken by the vendor,
who immediately sold through under-
writers 30,000 of the prefs. at par and
220,000 of the ords. at 245. each.
Boom conditions and able management
have enabled the co. to more than live
up to prospectus estimates, which put
average net earnings of the old business
at £32,251 for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1946. That was after
allowing for depreciation and taxation on
a public-co. basis. Since the co. took
over 2-\ years ago trade and industry in
Brisbane have hummed like a hive of
bees in summertime, there has been a
steady growth of population, seasons
have been good, prices for primary pro-
ducts, especially wool, have rocketed, and
employment has been at the full at high
and rising wage-rates. It has all meant
free spending, and, subject to travel diffi-
culties, increased tourist traffic, with a
brisk bar and lounge trade, high level of
guest occupancy, full dining-rooms and
satisfactory takings on account of the
ball- and choral-rooms.
Despite the effects of the nation-wide
coal strike of 16 months ago, the con-
tinued rise in costs, especially on the cater-
ing side, and the staff turnover inseparable
from a sellers’ market for labor, the board
was able to write net earnings £6113
stronger last term at £44,896. That was
after allowing for depreciation (£4304,
up £l3) and taxation (£25,413, up £4486).
The £44,896 was enough to pay the pref.
div. (£7500) and show 15.9 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 13.2 p.c. for the preced-
ing year. The div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to
10 p.c., and the £13,896 ploughed back
into the business lifted reserves to £33,135.
Preliminary exes. (£11,277) were rubbed
out of the accounts by writing up land
and buildings (they are worth more than
book-value) by a like amount. This
adjustment doesn’t affect the co.’s earn-
ing-power or liquid position one way or
the other. Although the immediate out-
look favors continuance of free spending,
the lift in the basic wage will make any
further improvement in net earnings a
difficult matter.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Preference .. •• £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Ordinary .. . . 235,000 235,000 235,000
Creditors . . . . 16,992 21,730 21,419
Provision for taxation.. 5,038 20,927 26,617
Final divs. .. .. 15,144 13,737 17,850
Freehold, etc. .. . . 299,698 301,453 318,884
Plant etc. .. .. 64,000 70,300 69,572
Stock 5,347 8,804 15,238
Debtors . . .. 5,696 5,573 5,652
Cash and bonds . . 44,096 63,323 74,674
Intangibles . . . . 11,378* 1i,378* 101
* Included £11,277 preliminary expenses written off
in 1950.
During the year alterations were made to
the premises, giving improved bedroom
accommodation, and £17,431 was added
to freehold, etc. Of this increase £2375
was a deposit on purchase of an adjoin-
ing property, Salisbury Chambers, at the
corner of George- and Ann-streets, for
£62,500 ; and the co. has the ready cash
to meet the balance. When materials and
labor become available, the intention is


Right round the clock at your service
No matter whether you land at noon or take-off at
midnight, you can rely on the unfailing readiness and
efficiency of the B.P. Aviation Service, available at
airports all over the world including those of Melbourne
and Sydney. Qantas Empire Airways and Trans-
Australia Air Lines are amongst the many national
airlines regularly refuelled by this great service, which
has behind it the global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-iranian Oil Company, Ltd.
X.aviation\^/service^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL, REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEBPEB” Melbourne.
C74/9515
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;-—*
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
im
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Positions Vacant.
QUARRY SUPERINTENDENT, to control
open-cut mining section Scheelite Mine,
King Island, 5000 tons p.w. output.
Duties include instructing and assisting
Quarry Foreman on working details, run-
ning monthly surveys and plans Quarry
faces, keeping sampling plans, etc. Appli-
cants must possess Mining Engineering
Degree or Diploma and have had sound
practical experience of large open-cut
mechanised operation. Commencing salary
£l7 p.w., plus unfurnished rent-free
house, removal expenses allowance, fire-
wood and electricity allowance, annual
bonus at Directors’ discretion and three
weeks’ annual leave. Written applications,
with full details qualifications, previous
positions, copies refs., etc., to Managing
Director, King Island Scheelite (1947)
Ltd., Currie, King Island.
IRRIGATION. —A position is available as
sales and service officer for northern
N.S.W. with progressive Company. Know-
ledge of pumps and hydraulics essential,
and previous experience selling irrigation
advantage. Excellent salary and commis-
sion remuneration, car also provided.
Only first-class man with good references
should apply to RAINBOW SPRAY IRRI-
GATION, 83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
dsfds
fds
fdsf
Simple
and
Reliab>«
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
r -eWiee
A
\1
i
The service given by
the Bank of Australasia
is appreciated by the
Bank’s customers and is,
of course, freely available
to you. The nearest Branch
Manager will welcome your calling, and will
gladly explain our services and facilities.
Established 1835
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand and in London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
BAxo>x6mmm
to extend the existing premises
by rebuilding on this block, and
shareholders might be asked to
assist. Meanwhile, rents from
the chambers will turn in more
than interest on bonds to be sold
to finance them.
For the ords., which rose from
245. 3d. a year ago to 31s. 3d.
at end o| August, 335. 6d. was
recently offered, at which figure
the return is 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 225.
yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £2 15s. 9d. prefs. and 225. lOd.
ords.
Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Many of those who bought
one or more acre lots in this
afforestation venture 20 years or
more ago are disappointed and
perplexed. Disappointed be-
cause the £750 per acre they
were led to expect, or even part
of it, has not yet been realised;
nor can anybody give them a
worth-while indication as to
what return, if any, they are
likely to receive, or when. Now
they are perplexed by an offer
from the vendors inviting them
to take shares in a new co.
formed “for the purpose of
handing over the freehold title
to the forest land to the lot-
holders as shareholders in the
new co.”
Originally Afforestation Pty.,
Ltd., and Afforestation (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd, —two Melbourne con-
cerns with interlocking director-
ates formed during the boom in
this class of speculation in the
1920’s —bought some 25,000
acres of freehold, at an unstated
figure, in the Auckland (N.Z.)
district. The area was divided
into sections of 1000 acres
each, and the sections were sub-
divided into acre lots in which
the public was invited to take a
“beneficial interest” at £3O and
£35 an acre.
In return the cos. undertook
to plant each acre with approxi-
mately 680 pine-trees (radiata)
and to tend and care for the
forests and to pay rates and taxes
for a period of 20 years. The
contract also provided for each
section to be held in trust until
returns therefrom yield £750 net
for each acre lot, whenever that
might be. After that returns
from each section belong one
half to lotholders and the other
half to the co. There is noth-
ing in the contract to indicate
who would be responsible for
the conversion and marketing of
forest products and for financing
these activities.
The cos. have now informed
lotholders of what should have
been made equally plain to them
at the beginning, namely:
The matter of turning to account
the pine-trees requires the co-opera-
tion of lotholders and the afforesta-
tion cos. It is obvious under existing
conditions that the power of the
afforestation cos, to deal with the
timber on the planted areas in any
way without the individual consent of
each lotholder may be very doubtful.
It is equally obvious that to obtain
the unanimous consent of all lot-
holders to any plan would be quite
impossible.
The afforestation cos. have
therefore formed a new co, for
the purpose already stated. The
land, however, is to be held by
the new co. “on such of the con-
ditions contained in the contract
made by each lotholder with the
afforestation co. as are applic-
able.” These conditions have
been briefly outlined above.
The new co., Matured Pine
Trees, Ltd., has been registered
in Melbourne (Vic.) with a
nominal capital of £750,000 in
£1 shares. Of these 600,000 are
to be issued fully-paid to lot-
holders for certain “interests in
the produce” of the plantations
concerned. The basis of allot-
ment is 50 of these f.-p. shares
for each acre lot on which the
full contract price has been paid.
In addition, lotholders are asked
to take up for cash 30,000 shares
in the new co. (two for each
acre lot held), payable ss. on
application and the balance as
required. The directors of the
new co., who are also the direc-
tors of the two afforestation
cos. already mentioned, are Dr.
F. G. Donovan, H. C. Luth and
Geo. W. Vowell. They will hold
office until the first general meet-
ing of the co,, when they auto-
matically resign. The general
body of shareholders them-
selves —they are well scattered
throughout the Commonwealth,
which means that most of them
will vote by proxy—can then
elect the directors.
After that the board will need
to decide upon the form in
which the trees in the forests
are to be marketed, and the
plant and organisation that will
be necessary for the purpose.
Whatever the decision, the
question arises whether the
£30,000 of cash-paid capital now
asked for will be enough. The
present board offers no opinion
on this and other important
questions relating to plant,
skilled labor, transport, market-
ing and taxation, though it
should be well qualified to do
so. At any rate, they say that
a similar co. dealing with earlier
sections has been formed and is
in operation.
Also, if lotholders fail to put
up the necessary cash it is not
known whether enough outside
money could be raised on mort-
gage or otherwise to enable the
co. to function efficiently. Any
such secured capital would, of
course, stand in front of the
share capital for both interest
and principal. On the informa-
tion thus far made available to
lotholders it is impossible to say
when the new co. is likely to
begin operations, or what pro-
fits, if any, it is likely to earn.
The whole proposition called for
fuller and franker treatment
than the promoters have given it.


Y'l i
m /JiY
OLD
Don’t take age for granted
Don’t take age for granted where
whisky is concerned. Whisky is
not good whisky until it is 5
years old. Here's how you can tell
whether the whisky you buy is 5
years old or not. Look for the word
“OLD” on the label. This is your
protection.
When whisky is bottled under Aus-.
tralian Customs and Excise Depart-
ment Supervision, it must not be
labelled “OLD” unless it has been
matured for at least 5 years. Every
bottle of Corio Special Whisky
bears the word "OLD”—every drop
of Corio Special Whisky has been
matured for at least 5 years in oak
casks. Insist on the whisky of
outstanding quality Australia’s
finest whisky— "Corio Special.**
Corlo Special ‘OLD’ whisky
CJl'lo A
ECONOMICAL TRANSPORT
a
REDMAN MOTORS,
of Toowoomba,
cannot speak too highly of
their Bradford . . .
“I have never had to add oil between
changes and my petrol consumption
has been over 40 m.p.g. Our Bradford
has completed 12,000 miles, mainly
over black-soiled, boggy country,
carrying loads from 7 cwt. upwards
to our complete satisfaction.”
Bradford 8 b.p* 10
cwt van as supplied
to Redman Motors,
Margaret Street
Toowoomba.- Qld.
Call on your local representative and hear more
about the amazing performance of Bradford vehicles.
All are powered with the sturdy, horizontally-
opposed engine designed by Jowett, the exclusive
engineering principle which makes it possible to offer
you a tonner with an economical 8 h.p. engine.
Bradford
VANS • STATION WAGGONS . TRUCKS
Made la Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LTD,
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N./S.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., 134 New South Head Road,
Edgecliff. FM 2045.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward Street Brisbane , , . •.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 4 3p King WiUrim SU, Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
Business. Rollery. etc.
The Budget
The Fadden Budget can by no
stretch of imagination be de-
scribed as deflationary. It has
few anti-inflationary virtues, be-
ing based on political circum-
stances as well as on economic
conditions. Perhaps in other
political surroundings Mr.
Fadden would have offered the
country a better but more im-
mediately unpalatable Budget.
Including payments to and on
behalf of State Governments, the
Federal Government proposes to
spend £738.3 million this year,
an increase of £146.6 million. Of
this increase, £lO million (£lll
million altogether) is in respect of
the States, £79 million (£133.4
million) in respect of defence,
£5 million (£lO4 million)
repatriation, etc., including war
gratuities, £24 million price-
subsidies (£44.4 million), and
£3.7 million (£127 million)
National Welfare Fund, includ-
ing rises in pensions.
Most of the extra expenditure
is to be defrayed by the imposi-
tion of a 20 p.c. levy on this
year’s wool receipts, which is
estimated to bring in £lO3 mil-
lion. With additional sales tax
on luxury and similar goods and
an increase in postal charges,
total revenue is expected to rise
to £738.7 million (up £172
million) after allowing for
tax concessions expected to
cost the Treasury £7 million.
A surplus of £400,000 is
budgeted for, compared with a
deficit of £25.5 million last year.
The most controversial feature
of the Budget is the wool-levy
proposal. This levy is being
taken at source by the Treasury
from growers’ current receipts
and used as ordinary revenue.
The woolgrower will be allowed,
at a later date, to offset his
credits so established against his
taxation assessments in the year
of offset, while this year’s in-
come and tax in respect of the
woolgrower will be correspond-
ingly reduced.
The fact that the levy is not
being “frozen,” but is simply be-
ing spent by the Government in-
stead of the woolgrower, de-
prives it of the anti-inflationary
virtues which its sponsors origin-
ally intended it to have.
On the other hand, assuming
that the £738.3 million expendi-
ture for the year is the minimum
into which the Government can
compress its obligations, the
wool levy has enabled the Gov-
ernment to avoid any bank
borrowing, which would have
added to the spendable funds in
the hands of Governments and
woolgrowers together, and to this
extent should have some check
on the progress of inflation.
But whilst this was bound to
be a year of large Government
expenditure because of defence
and war-gratuity commitments,
it was an ideal year, from the
economic (if not the political)
point of view, in which to cut
civil spending drastically.
A flaw in the wool-levy theory,
especially since it is not being
frozen, is that it will probably
be made available as a tax-
offset in a year that will not only
be otherwise bad for the wool-
grower, but bad for the Govern-
ment, from a revenue point of
view, also.
The Copland plan envisaged a
33| p.c. wool tax. This would
have absorbed all the 50 p.c. in-
crease in this year’s average
wool prices. The present 20 p.c.
levy will allow the grower some
margin to meet increases in
costs, which are bound to come
in the train of the increased
loading of the basic wage. These
increases in costs will make it
more difficult for Australia to
revalue its pound at any future
period.
National financial complica-
tions which are arising through
not having revalued the pound
already are causing some previ-
ous objectors to think deeply.
Oil-exploration Afloat
“Lemon”: The search for
petroleum in the Delta area of
Papua is a tedious and very ex-
pensive operation where the
normal ground methods of geo-
logical and geophysical survey
are employed, and is hampered
dsf
dsf
“That Was charming, Miss Tinkle; and here's a roll
of our sponsor's product."
by the network of watercourses
which separate soggy patches,
usually covered by dense bush
through which tracks have to be
laboriously cut.
With the object of expediting
both the completion of its sur-
veys and of reducing the all-in
cost, the Australasian Petroleum
Co. has allotted £130,000
annually for the maintenance of
a special seismic-reflection party
which, for the first time any-
where in Australia or New
Guinea, will be fully water-
borne.
The European technical ex-
perts—eight of whom belong to
a special contract party which
has recently completed an
assignment in Pakistan —will
number 14, and will include
seismograph - observers, com-
puters, surveyors, engineers and
drillers. A hundred native
laborers will also be employed.
These are in addition to the tech-
nical and labor personnel of the
magnetic, gravity and seismic-
refraction parties already in
operation.
The seismographic party
will live in specially - built
houseboats, fitted with electric
light, fans and refrigeration as
well as electrically-driven calcu-
lating-machines and other equip-
ment. A two-way radio for
communication with the
A.P. Co.’s offices in Port Moresby
will also be carried. Office,
workshops and stores will all be
accommodated on specially-
converted floating craft. Ex-
plosives, of which the estimated
expenditure will be one ton of
dynamite and 500 detonators
per month, will be stored in a
wooden hulk. Petroleum fuels
and other products will be
carried in a steel pontoon.
To take party members to
work in the area surrounding
this floating town a flotilla of
small craft, including three 18ft.
boats, four 32ft. scows and a
28ft. “Higgins” boat will be
used.
Where the water is too shal-
low, or the waterways too
narrow to allow of the passage
of these small craft a supple-
mentary flotilla of native canoes
fitted with outboard motors,
which proved so satisfactory in
transporting equipment for
Kariava, up the Vailala, will be
employed.
Supplies will be brought from
the nearest company-base to
the floating headquarters by a
40ft. army-type workboat and
by the two amphibian aircraft
(B. 5/7/’5O) already in use for
provisioning existing land-
camps.
Explosives for the use of the
survey will be shipped from
Cairns to Port Moresby in one
of the A.P, Co.’s largest vessels.
Waterborne seismic-reflection
exploration has been largely
responsible for the recent de-
velopment of oilfields on the
Gulf Coast of Louisiana and
Texas, U.S.A., and a notable
success, attributable to the re-
flection method, which since its
introduction has opened up
more new oilfields than any
other, is the LeDuc oilfield in
Canada.
The reflection method works
by measuring the speed of earth-
tremors, artificially generated
by explosion and reflected by
an underground stratum or in-
terface and noting the time
which elapses between the firing
of the charge and the return of
the reflected impulse to sur-
face. The depth of the reflect-
ing surface is then estimated,
much as the distance of a cliff
can be judged by the time an
echo takes to return. From a
series of such measurements the
form of the reflecting surface is
plotted and the presence and
location of any structure favor-
able to oil-accumulation is
deduced.
The fact that A.P. is prepared
to undertake such a project sug-
gests that the Wana location has
already produced satisfactory
data as to the depositional con-
ditions in the Delta area, where
the optimum hopes for the win-
ning of commercial oil in Papua
are now centred.
Wage-rates for New Zealand
males, averaged over all indus-
trial groups, were
represented by an
index of 1100 in
1939. By 1945
the average had
risen to 1381.
When the Socialist
Government was
put out towards
the end of 1949
the index stood at
1724. After sub-
sidies had been
discontinued b y
the Holland Gov-
ernment it rose to
1790 on June 30,
1950. In 1939,
b y comparison,
the cost-of-living
index stood at
748. For 1945 it
was 884. In 1948,
year of revaluac
tion, the figure was
995. For the September quarter
of 1949 it was 1014, and at the
end of June it had reached 1052,
the last rise being also influ-
enced by the withdrawal of
price-subsidies. Appreciation of
the currency has certainly helped
to check cost-of-living inflation
in New Zealand, which depends
on imported clothing and manu-
factures to a greater extent than
Australia.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS
osuujya*
HkWIIJK a.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPH IC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYFS
OPERATORS
■TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors' and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
rpcr Call or send stamp for
r IvEjEj FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days' free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 0 Martin Place, Sydney.
Missing Friend.
JACK LOOKINGTON (full name JOHN
BOWEN LOOKINGTON), formerly of 17
Norton Street, Sydney, son of Teresa and
late Fred Lockington, of Melbourne, OR
ANY PERSON KNOWING HIS WHERE-
ABOUTS, please communicate with
GORDON RENNICK. Solicitor, 3S» Col-
lins Street, Melbourne?
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
It is essential to our own as well as to the
interest of our customers that we maintain
the highest standards of efficiency. . .
That is good business.
It is natural that customers should seek the
advantages of an efficient organization. . .
That is sound judgment.
As a result of these factors the Bank's circle
of customers is ever widening and its ser-
vice constantly improving. , .
That is a matter of record.
(Incorporated in England )
Established 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Tealani
YOUR SON
may qualify for a fine career as
NAVAL OFFICER
in the Royal Australian Navy
IF YOUR SON is in the
age groups specified he
has an opportunity to be
trained as a permanent
officer in the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy and thereby
enter upon one of the most
interesting and attractive
of all careers open to a
youth to-day. Successful
candidates will begin their
training at the Royal
Australian Naval College.
Subsequently they will go
to England for about 3i
years first joining the
Royal Navy Training
Cruiser, then serving in
Battleships, Aircraft
Carriers or other vessels,
and undergoing specialist
courses in historic Naval
shore establishments.
Candidates must be the
sons of British subjects by
birth or naturalisation and
be substantially of Euro-
pean descent. They will
also be required to appear
before a selection commit-
tee and undergo a strict
medical examination.
For Boys to 18
who attain the age of 18
years between Ist July,
1950, and 31st December,
1951.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN
(Special Entry)
Entries in this group will serve
in the Executive, Engineering
or Electrical Branches of the
Royal Australian Navy .
Selection will be made
from youths who have
passed (or intend sitting
for in 1950) school or
technical school examina-
tions of Matriculation
standard in Mathematics,
Physics and English.
Satisfactory passes in two
other subjects, not neces-
sarily of Matriculation
standard, also required.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN(S)
Entries will serve in the
Supply and Secretariat
Branch of the Royal
Australian Navy.
Candidates must have passed
(or intend sitting for in 1950)
the Leaving Certificate, Senior
Public or Tasmanian Schools’
Board examinations.
Successful candidates in
both entries will enter the
R.A.N. College about the
end of January, 1951.
Applications close with the
Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office,
Melbourne, S.C.I, on 31st
October, 1950.
For Boys of 15
whose fifteenth birthday
occurs between Ist
October, 1949, and 31st
December, 1950.
CADET MIDSHIPMEN
(Intermediate Entry)
Entries in this group will serve
in the Executive, E j ineering,
Electrical or Supply and Secre-
tariat Branches of the Royal
Australian Navy.
Selection will be made
from boys who have
passed or who intend sit-
ting for, in 1950, one of
the following examina-
tions:—
Intermediate Certificate.
Junior Public Certificate.
3rd Year Tasmanian High
School Standard.
Equivalent Technical School
examinations.
Successful candidates will
enter the Royal Australian
Naval College in March
and July, 1951.
Applications close with the
Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office,
Melbourne, S.C.I, on 30th
November, 1950.
APPLICATION FORMS AND
ALL PARTICULARS can be
obtained from Naval Re-
cruiting Office in your
capital city.
Actual date of birth should
be stated in your enquiry.
dsf
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Apart from autumn being
upon us, there are other, less
seasonal, features that mark the
face of London with new
character. A good deal of build-
ing is nearing completion, espe-
cially (or, as it seems to many,
entirely) towering offices for the
Ministries of this, that or the
other.
The site for the Festival of
Britain on the South Bank, not
long ago a flimsy skeleton, is
now taking well-covered shape.
As it grows so does public
interest diminish. In fact, it
seems that enthusiasm for the
project is confined chiefly to
those behind its promotion.
Passers-by, with some rightful
indignation, would look more
kindly upon new housing estates.
Luminous posters, the latest
innovation from across the
Atlantic, have taken on like a
pre-war craze, giving a vivid,
colored dazzle to a wide range
of marketable goods, from
patent medicines to Albert Hall
soloists.
The way things are going, it
looks as if the time is not far
distant when it will again be
fashionable —for men, that is—
to be shabby. A man’s utility
suit is price-controlled and free
of purchase-tax, and now costs
about 12 guineas. Because of
“consumer resistance” (bureau-
cratese for shortage of money)
there is a poor sale for non-
utility suits, which cost as much
as you like to pay above 20
guineas. Utility ranges are not
being renewed, because of the
high cost of wool, and the prices
of other suits are expected to
rocket, because of the same;
so the wheel looks like coming
full circle to the threadbare days
of the late ’forties. Here it is
significant that the only “run”
on the shops noticed in London
has been for the cheaper woollen
garments, such as underclothes.
Most outfitters are sold out or
have scant stocks which they
can’t easily replace. What can
be the answer to a population
of 50,000,000 and a winter
climate unsuited to cotton —a
high-priced luxury or effective
synthetics?
Strike-stricken
London is being considerably
upset by unofficial strikes. All
now appears to be well with
transport, except perhaps for
the “consolidation” of fares,
markedly in an upward direc-
tion. A strike by some sections
of the employees of the national-
ised Gas Board has caused
hardship and inconvenience to
most households. The printing
trade is disturbed by a pro-
tracted quarrel between masters
and men and has led to the
suspension of publication of the
8.8.C.’s journal, the “Radio
Times” (circulation 8,000,000),
and a large number of weekly
periodicals. Here the Employers’
Federation is holding out tena-
ciously, arguing with determina-
tion and at considerable legal
expense that agreements are not
one-sided but must be honored
by both parties.
What is distressing (especially
in a country which has a remark-
ably good record of industrial
relations between employer and
employee) is that security,
nationalisation, higher wages,
shorter hours, works canteens —
indeed all the objectives that
trade-unionism has promised
would bring happiness to the
community—seem to have led
only to more discontent and
bad - tempered irresponsibility
among the rank-and-file workers.
The fact that the Minister of
Labor, Mr. George Isaacs, had
announced the evidence of an
international conspiracy with a
central organisation to promote
strikes and cause industrial up-
heavals caused the nation to
expect a good deal more from
his Ministerial broadcast than it
actually received.
Mr, Isaacs said, in effect, that
if all trade-unionists behaved
like good trade-unionists there
would be an end to the trouble.
They must turn a deaf ear to the
wicked Communists among
them, attend their union meet-
ings, take part in them, leave
their grievances to be settled in
the proper way and put their
trust in the Government, which
would “use all its powers, should
it be necessary at any time to
step in and safeguard vital sup-
plies and services.”
Action, Not Exhortation
Criticism has heaped high and
strong upon him. “The Times”
says that “to expose the menace
is only the beginning of his
duty,” and points out that trade-
union machinery for collective
bargaining “creaks and crawls.”
“Scotsman” asserts that the
rank-and-file are too easily
influenced, and that action
should be taken against the
Communists. “Yorkshire Post”
asks: “When are the Govern-
ment going to take effective
action against the Communist
conspiracy? How much longer
do they intend to dally?
Why are they still content to
rely on pious exhortation?”
“Manchester Guardian” asks
why the evidence of conspiracy
behind the strikes has not been
used to “invoke the proper pro-
cesses of the law,” and suggests
that trade-union leaders “should
not become so immersed in
national affairs that they are
almost unapproachable.”
It is vain to hope that Mr.
Isaacs’s exhortations will convert
even an infinitesimal fraction
of Britain’s 8,000,000 trade-
unionists into the model pupils
of his wishful fantasy. This is
still a free country, and while it
remains one the majority of the
workers in industry will do as
they please in their leisure hours.
They will down their tools when
the hooter goes, clock out,
thankfully put the factory
behind them and go home to
follow their various pursuits. If
they stay behind it will be for
social or sporting activities, not
for dull committee meetings.
There is one workable alter-
native which Mr. Isaacs did
mention. If the mischief is to
stop, no other authority than
the Government can effectively
stop it; and something less than
“all its powers,” which are tre-
mendous, should suffice. The
trouble in the past has been that
the hand which held the power
in trust for the community has
quivered and faltered when it
might have shown that it meant
business.
The course of action held to
be best suited to protect the
nation against its traitors de-
pends upon normal security
precautions. The Communists,
it is argued, failed to obtain a
single seat in the February elec-
tion, and have no direct influence
upon the masses. By stating,
last August, that henceforward
they would support “Labor-
party candidates pledged to a
policy of peace and working-
class advance” (how welcome to
Mr. Herbert Morrison!) they
may be deemed to have gone
underground. So that, among the
Far Left, it will be impossible
by outward signs to know who’s
who, whether genuinely doc-
trinaire or crypto-Communist;
also, in industry it will be hard
to distinguish between the dupe
and the ringleader. Communist
discipline, however, is not so
tight that its inner workings are
unknown outside the Covent
Garden headquarters. “Defec-
tions” occur regularly, and
secrets can be broken.
What happens inside Scotland
Yard and M. 1.5 is, perhaps a
little inconveniently for this
argument, a much better guarded
secret, but, Dr. Fuchs and all,
it is reasonable to assume a high
degree of awareness. That, con-
eludes the argument, is the most
likely solution,
The granting of summonses,
applied for on the advice of the
Attorney-General, against leaders
of the gas strike indicates direct,
if comparatively mild, Govern-
mental intervention. Its out-
come will be watched with wide
interest.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
For the United Services Institution’s
annual ball in South Melbourne Town
Hall Army officers were resplendent in
scarlet mess-jackets, gold braid decked
their naval counterparts and the R.A.A.F.
were distinguished by the lighter-blue
mess-dress. With the Chief of the
General Staff, Lieut.-General S. F.
Rowell, was his wife, whose ice-blue-
and-silver-lame gown was in contrast to
the deeper blue of her daughter Ross-
lyn’s material. Pastel-pink chiffons under
a jacket of white Arctic fox were worn
by Mrs. W. Seymour, who was with her
husband, Commander Seymour. U.S.
Army Attache Col. R. S. Ramey was
there with his wife, whose pale-lime
crepes were heavily beaded. Mrs. S.
Heseltine’s deep-wine crepe gown had a
short matching jacket. Mrs. Douglas
Beattie’s geranium-red chiffons were en-
hanced with masses of lily-of-the-valley.
Cynthia Cook set off her dark beauty
with pale-green taffeta striped in pale
blue and pink. A diamente Juliet cap
and slim black satin gown were the
choice of Mrs. C. Spurgeon. Pale-lilac
crepe suited Mrs. Ted Pickard admirably.
White chiffon flowed about the svelte
figure of Mrs. Keith Kemp. Mrs. J. H.
Piper’s white crepes were crystal-beaded,
Mrs. Laurie Ogilvie’s orchid-pink gown
having the same embellishment. Mrs.
Vernon Pett’s chiffons were of gay pat-
tern. Red-and-white flowers were
splashed on the white organza worn by
Mrs. John Knox. Mrs. C. McKay danced
in bouffant black tulle.
The First Naval Member, Vice-
Admiral J. A. Collins, has issued invita-
tions for a late-afternoon party on board
H.M.A.S. Australia at Port Melbourne
on Monday, October 30. On November
1 Archbishop and Mrs. J. J. Booth will
give a garden-party at Bishopcourt in
honor of his Grace the Archbishop of
Canterbury, Dr. Fisher, and Mrs. Fisher.
No longer need the holiday-girl set off
with bulging suitcases, for the problem
of luggage has been solved by crease-
resisting clothes and dual-purpose out-
fits. Ideal for travelling is a swing-back
coat in a soft shade of teal-blue, shown
at the Hicks Atkinson fashion-parade.
Of lightweight wool and unlined for cool-
ness, the coat had long sleeves with wide
cuffs and a roll-collar. For warm but
showery days there was a proofed dove-
grey faille coat with a detachable hood.
This could also serve for evening wear.
Two-way cotton frocks won approval
from the young audience. There were
full-skirted gingham and floral frocks
with shoulder-strapped bodices and little
jackets to dress them up for more formal
holiday occasions. Over an attractive
swimsuit in a floral design and shirred to
the figure was worn a white towelling
stole with pocket-ends. Linen and shan-
tung jackets for beach-wear were also
novel items.
St. Kilda Town Hall echoed with the
sound of many foreign tongues when all
nations met at the International Club’s
Ball, held under vice-regal patronage.
From the balconies hung flags of many
countries, and tables were decorated
appropriately. As well as a grand march,
there were exhibitions of dancing of
Austria, Sweden, Switzerland, Estonia
and Scotland. Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
president of the International Club, with
Mrs. L. Sigalas, convenor of the
Nationals Committee, received the official
guests. A black crepe gown topped with
a gold lame jacket was worn by Mrs.
Brookes, while Mrs. Sigalas was in
powder-blue crepe. Among the official
guests were Mrs. G. Peacock, her gown
of white brocade faintly patterned in
tracings of green and black, Mrs. L. H.
Eyles, in a pretty beige-lace creation,
Mrs. D. P. Jamieson, her black gown
slimly-cut, Mrs. G. Robertson, whose off-
the-shoulder gown was of self-patterned
green satin, and Mrs. G. H. Hargrave, in
midnight-silver nylon.
At the luncheon-party given at Flinders
Naval Depot by Commodore and Mrs.
H. J. Buchanan, guests were told of plans
for the forthcoming Navy Ball, which
will be held in St. Kilda Town Hall on
October 26 in aid of the R.A.N.
Memorial Chapel Appeal, Luncheon
over, guests were driven to the work-
shops, where small anchors, to be sold on
the night of the ball, were being made,
and where the deck of a ship was under
construction which will be a part
of the stage decor. Ships of the Australian
squadron are expected to be in port on
the appointed day, and officers will be
entertained at the ball. Mrs. R. Dowling
(8J2348) is appealing for flowers to
decorate the Town Hall, and prizes for
the lucky envelopes are also wanted.
These can be sent to Miss D. Alden, 363
Flinders-lane, City. Tickets are now
obtainable and applications can be made
to Betty Wallace Mitchell (LF2551), or
Mrs. Edward Campbell (Win. 6774).
For daughter Pat’s 21st birthday Dr.
and Mrs. John Heath gave a party at
No. 9 Darling-street. Mrs. Heath re-
ceived her guests in a gown of petunia-
pink satin broche. Pat allied a bodice of
brocade with a skirt of graduated shades
of pink tulle. Pink-and-white candy-
striped cotton fashioned the frock worn
by Elizabeth Robinson. Other foimer
school-friends of the guest-of-honor
included Rosemary Watson, in aqua-blue
marquisette ; Jennifer Purnell, her rose-
sprigged lemon organdie having a delight-
ful old-world look ; Sue Spry, in pale-
grey chiffon over apricot taffeta ; Judith
Noske, whose striking gown was of
black-and-white striped taffeta and tulle ;
Joy Beattie, wearing a black satin striped
faille and black tulle overskirt; Judith
Southby, chic in cyclamen-toned faille ;
Jennifer Tolley, her white organza hav-
ing bands of lace inset in the wide skirt;
and Deidre Southby, her pretty powder-
blue broderie Anglaise frock wide-
skirted.
Organised on the lines of London’s
famous function, the Theatrical Garden
Party to be held at Kinlock, Olinda, the
home of Mr. and Mrs. L. Daley, on
November 12, will be helped to success
by many stars of stage and radio. Pro-
ceeds will aid the Eye and Ear Hospital
and the British Memorial Fund.
Myrna Brox, wife of the Continental
musical comedian Gus Brox, who is
appearing in “The Tourist Trade” at the
Tivoli Theatre, will be one of the helpers
at the Theatrical Garden Party. During
the war, although then only 17, Myrna
played her part in the Dutch underground
movement; it was there she met her
future husband. Myma and her husband
are so much taken with Australia that
they are taking out their naturalisation
papers. Photo by Harry Jay.
The newly-decorated Claridge’s has
pale-grey walls —an excellent neutral
shade as a background for multicolored
gowns—new murals and chairs uphol-
stered in deep-burgundy leather. The new
importation from over the border, Shirley
Abiceir, made her bow at the gala open-
ing and delighted her audience. Honors
for the best-dressed woman went to Mrs.
Philip Dare, whose brilliant-red organza
gown featured a full swirling tiered skirt
and a strapless top. Mrs. W. H. Hors-
fall’s dove-grey laces had the pattern out-
lined with tiny crystal beads. Daffodil-
yellow chiffon made the short, topless
gown worn by Mrs. W. Ebstein. Sydney
visitor Mrs. Vere Matthews wore a
stunning gown of black sequins. Jill
Daveron displayed the harem-skirt treat-
ment ; her strapless bodice was of fine
white lace over black. Gloria Ladd’s
gown was of black tulle with touches of
powder-blue grosgrain ribbon on the
wide, filmy skirt. June Harper was in
pale-apricot tulle. The skirt of Mrs. W.
S. Cox’s deep-wine crepe gown featured
a floating panel.
From Sydney
The increased tax on lipstick seems
to be putting more value into the Aus-
tralian pound by taking it out of the
Australian face. As for the increased
price of musical instruments, perhaps the
clarinet-players, etc., may be able to
change to something less expensive,
so that in due time we will see Eugene
Goossens presiding over an orchestra of
jew’s-harps, mouth-organs and paper-
combs.
Opening night of “Bonaventure” at the
Royal brought a number of Independent
devotees into town, for the producer was
Doris Fitton, and many of the cast had
stepped out of the repertory theatre.
Noticed Gwen Meredith (or Harrison,
as her married name is) chatting
vivaciously as ever, Laurel Mather, Mrs.
Max Afford, wearing a black lace
“fascinator,” and Mrs. John Faassen.
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Brady were there, of
course—they haven’t missed a first-night
for 14 years. “Bonaventure” is a woman’s
play, all the girls being definitely
“goodies,” even the one who is con-
demned for murder, though she is a
little edgy at times, understandable
enough in the circumstances. Beside the
women the men seem a very inferior lot.
The play marked the return of delightful
Letty Craydon. The more often she is
to be seen the better this Letter likes it.
Betty Evans’s exhibition of pottery at
Anthony Hordern’s Art Gallery should
rate a visit from those who like beautifiil
things for the home, for her work cap-
tures the glaze effects of that exquisite
old Chinese porcelain called celadon,
which sometimes looks like jade. There
will also be examples of temmoku
ware, which is black with a thick purplish
glaze shot with brown lines. Betty Evans
studied pottery at the Southampton Row
School of Arts, London, after she left
the New England Girls’ School (Armi-
dale). Later she became a qualified
librarian in Sydney and is at present in
charge of the technical library of the
Metal Trades Employers’ Association.
Her exhibition, beginning next Friday,
will continue till Wednesday, November 4.
Diane Roden, wearing buttercup
broderie Anglaise, celebrated her 21st
birthday at a party given by her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. H. Roden, of Bellevue Hill.
Highlight of the evening was the
announcement of her engagement to
Ronald Murphy, who comes from
Galston Gorge, near Hornsby. Her ring
is a sapphire surrounded by diamonds.
The reception given by the Consul-
General for China, Martin Wang, and
Mrs. Wang at the Australia was to cele-
brate the Chinese “double-tenth” festi-
val, so called because it is held on the
tenth day of the tenth month. Many of
the guests wore evening dress, as they
were going on to the ball at Grace Bros.’
later in the evening, but most of the
women members of the Chinese com-
munity present wore their national dress
—simple, slim and soft-shouldered. Poli-
ticians were well represented, also the
consular corps. Claudia Beazley looked
beautiful in a cocktail dress of black lace
over soft pink with a low, wide neckline
and three-quarter sleeves. Her hat was
transparent and black with a wide, lat-
tice-work brim. Brigadier-General Calla-
ghan brought Mrs. Callaghan, Mrs. C.
M. Guiney decorated her wide hat with
wheat-sheaves. Lady Moxham wore a
little pink hat, and Countess Pietrasanta
Sauvaigne, who was in evening dress,
wore a wonderful full-length cape of
Canadian blue-fox, which isn’t blue at
all but a soft, creamy brown.
At the reception Marie Louise Fernan-
dez-Yayle, youthful wife of the Consul
for the Argentine, explained that in the
Argentine it is the custom for children
to add their mother’s maiden name to
their surname. Thus “Yayle” is her
mother-in-law’s name, Fernandez is the
family name. As her own maiden name
is Milanowska, her children would be
called “Fernandez - Milanowska.” It
seems a commendable practice to remem-
ber the mother when speaking of the
children, but it does make introductions
a little lengthy.
A happy feature of Sydney life is the
Strath Art Group’s open-air exhibition
held in Hyde Park. Strollers in the main
walk examine the brave paintings in the
sunlight, nearly all offering fresh, frank
(and often devastating) criticism, A good
proportion of the works are striking,
but even the least successful have some-
thing to commend them, for, as Chesterton
said, “If a thing is worth doing, it’s worth
doing badly.” it’s better to paint an in-
ferior picture than not to paint a picture
at all.
A delightfully reposeful “afternoon”
was given by the Australian-American
Association at the Double Bay home of
Mrs. Leo Cherniavsky. A violin recital
was given by Leo Cherniavsky, accom-
panied by Hilda Mawby and assisted by
19-year-old soprano Marjorie Conley,
whose voice is as true as a bellbird’s.
The decoration of this beautiful home is
interesting. Walls and carpets of soft
pale-green give the air of tranquillity
necessary for music-listening. The ceiling,
muted-red between the rafters, and the
deep windows overlooking the bay add
lightness and gaiety to the room. Orna-
ments and lamps are black. Afternoon-
tea was served in the stone-terraced
garden. Mrs. Florence Taylor, wearing
black with a wide hat, presided. Mrs.
Ted vScorfield had yellow flowers in her
hat to match the striking bayadere print
of her dress. Mrs. Edgar Bainton was
present, also Mrs. Harald Bowden, Miss
Parsons, Mrs, Allen Williams, Mrs.
Arthur Charteris and Mrs. S. J. Gandon.
Ex-students’ reunions, pleasant as they
are, have an element of menace about
them. There is always to be found some
elderly “old-girl” who will say “Don’t
you remember me? I was in the kinder-
garten when you were doing the Leaving.”
The catty reply to this is: “You’d never
think it to look at us now, would you?”
or “Did you really stay in the kinder-
garten all that time?” Most of us suffer
in silence, however, bearing home a
heavy heart and a jar of wrinkle-remover.
Perhaps the increased cost of transport
has made people miserly, for the bidding
at the Red Cross treasure sale was any-
thing but animated. A genuine Chinese
mandarin jacket in red silk, embroidered
with dragons, lotus and peony flowers,
which would have made a dreamy even-
ing coat, brought only four guineas, and
a long Japanese silk kimono was knocked
down for two and a half guineas. Lots
of beautiful antiques went at bargain-
prices, which should have tempted the
unwary into buying things they didn’t
really want, as is usually the way
at auction-sales. But fear of what the
family will say is a great deterrent, for
to explain that one has bought a French
cavalry sword “because it was a bargain”
is likely to be coldly received at home.
Still, it was a pleasant auction, David
Jones’s Gallery being beautifully decor-
ated by the committee, and the Red
Cross netting about £5OO.
Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker will be the
guests-of-honor at the Royal Empire
Society’s “At-Home” to be held today.
Mr. Langker, who is the president of the
N.S.W. Opera (Incorporated) and the
Royal Arts Society, will give a talk on
“Some Aspects of Australian Culture.”
Excerpts from opera will be included as
musical items.
The popular square-dance night in
aid of the Kindergarten Union, which is
to be held at the Trocadero on October
31, should bring the young things flock-
ing. Square-dancing is on the rising-tide
here, groups being formed all over the
place, callers being trained and the shops
showing clothes suitable for the art,
denim skirts and gingham blouses for the
girls as well as full-skirted cotton dresses,
rather terrifying embroidered shirts and
ties for the boys. One of these is black
satin embroidered with white crotchets
and quavers and the words of one of the
songs. The ties are appliqued in large
designs and embroidered with gold
thread.
The two lunch-hour concerts to be held
at the Chapter House of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral on October 27 should provide
a restful half-hour for workers and
harassed Friday shoppers. The first
concert begins at 12.15, the second at
1.15. Arranged by Arline Lower, the
artists will be the Allard trio, soprano
Patricia Baird and baritone Donald
Graham. Admission is 25., proceeds in
aid of the Wybalena Hostel Appeal, spon-
sored by the Inter-Church Council of
Women.
The energetic Far-West Concert Party
is on tour again, this time on the North
Coast. Already they have played at
Dungog, Kendall, Port Macquarie,
Kempsey, Coff’s Harbor, Woolgoolga,
Lismore and Kyogle. Tonight they are
at Casino, tomorrow Tenterfield, Friday
Wallangarra, Saturday Bonshaw. On
Monday they play at Inverell, and give
concerts on each of the following nights
at Bundarra, Barraba, Manilla, Mur-
rurundi and Singleton.


FIRST IN 1888.
FIRST TO-DAY
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD„ 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
•VS/SSyrrm/A-YS.'.-Y.-
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia could do with more new-
comers of the John Wolfson type. A
big, rather shy instrument-maker who
was bom in India, learned his profession
in Germany, and spent most of his life
iri Canada, he heard of Australia through
relatives who had come here and liked
it, decided to come himself, likes it and
means to stay. His particular interest is
in Australia’s mineral resources, not in
digging them out but in finding them,
and he is about to begin production of
highly sensitive ore-finding instruments —
one of which he presented to Sydney
University for use on a• mineral-survey
expedition, to the university’s gratifica-
tion —and a Geiger counter, all of which
he says can be made here at a price that
would make them available for export
as well as for home market.
Had a birthday last week, the
Adelaide Steamship Company’s yellow-
and-black funnel. First worn 75 years
ago by Victorian and South Aus-
tralian 400-tonners running a passenger
service between Adelaide and Melbourne,
the familiar smoke-stack has blackened
the company’s houseflag on something
like 200 vessels, of which 26 comprise
the present fleet, headed by crack pas-
senger-vessels Manoora and Manunda,
which, being motorships, flaunt the
yellow-and-black chimney mainly for
decorative and traditional reasons. Five
general - managers have guided the
destinies of Adelaide Steam: John Turn-
bull, Edward Northcote, F: Bridgman,
A. D. Hill, and the present chief, Guy
Packard.
Leader of the Brisbane Bar for several
years, Deputy-Chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Queensland and Dean of its
LAW AND LEARNING.
Law faculty, Alec Douglas McGill, here
portrayed by Lambart, was born at
Ipswich 64 years ago. Scholarships took
him to Ipswich Grammar and St.
Andrew’s College, Sydney University,
where he graduated B.A. with honors in
classics. For a while he was in the teach-
ing game—classiqs-master at Cooerwull
Academy, Bowenfels (N.S.W.), and house-
master at Brisbane Grammar —before
he really got his teeth into the Law. He
admits to doing at three-year starve after
his admission to the Bar in 1911 ; after
that briefs came thick and fast. Granted
silk in 1935, McGill turned down a judge-
ship two years later. For a period he took
an active part in State politics—he was
president of the Country Progressive
National party for 11 years and stood
for South Brisbane in 1926, losing by 99
votes —but in more recent years his in-
terest in publio affairs has found its out-
let in his university work.
Lloyd Roberts, who a few months ago
defeated Paterson, the only Communist
M.P. in Australia, to win the Whitsunday
seat in the Queensland Assembly, has
several other wins to his credit since he
turned his attention to politics four years
ago. He was the campaign director who
helped Country-party man Evans oust
Deputy-Premier Walsh from the Mirani
seat in 1947, and last year he performed
the same service for Federal member
Davidson when he moved from Capri-
cornia to the new electorate, Dawson.
At the recent Queensland election he
again brought Evans safely home in
Mirani as well as running his own cam-
paign. Roberts has earned his success.
At 15 he was an office-boy by day ; at
night he sold sweets and programmes at
a Brisbane theatre and at weekends
knocked out a bit extra by writing Soccer
notes for a sporting paper. A round of
varied jobs led him at last to Mackay,
where he established himself as an estate
agent and insurance broker. Born at
Toowoomba 43 years ago, he comes of a
family of five girls and five boys. Of
the latter, two served in the First A.I.F.
and the other three were shared by the
Navy, Army and Air Force in World War
11. Lloyd was the family rep. in the
Second A.I.F. With the rest of his unit,
he was “nipped” in Singapore and had
first-hand experience of the Burma rail-
way.
Eminent English scientists seem to be
arriving by the dozen, and one of the
most eminent is, at 40, also probably the
youngest. He is Professor A. R. Todd,
just touched down in Melbourne. An
authority on biochemistry and organic
chemistry, the tall, lithe man has in his
department few peers anywhere in the
world. He is a Master of Arts,
a Doctor of Philosophy and a
Doctor of Science and a fellow of the
Royal Society. Since 1944 he has been
Professor of Organic Chemistry at Cam-
bridge. During the war he was research-
ing into methods of combating the
chemical warfare that fortunately didn’t
happen. He feels that his branch of
science can produce an age of health and
happiness if the world will only stay at
peace long enough to give it a chance.
There is a link between the Australian
National Philatelic Exhibition at Mel-
bourne Town Hall and the firm of C. J.
and T. Ham, estate-agents, of Collins-
street. One of the most revered names in
the stamp-collectors’ pantheon is Thomas
Ham, Victoria’s first stamp-engraver. In
1849 he secured a contract from the
Chief Postmaster of Melbourne for
1,800,000 stamps at a shilling a thousand
and engraved on them an intimate and
sonsy half-portrait of Queen Victoria,
then a buxom thirty. When the gold-fever
struck Melbourne, he went on engraving
and brought out “The Gold Diggings of
Victoria,” reproductions of five pictures
by David Tulloch. Ham was first in a
lot of things. He published the first
“Illustrated Australian Magazine” in Mel-
bourne, founded the firm of Thomas
Ham, Land and General Commission
Agent, was the first lithographic draughts-
man in the Crown Lands office, and when
he transferred to Brisbane, where he be-
came Government engraver, he was
among the pioneers of sugar-growing in
Queensland.
“Benson”: If Otto Becher puts into his
command of Warramunga in Korean
waters half the intensity and passion-for-
detail he managed, as gunnery-officer at
Flinders naval depot, to put even into
such things as marches through the city,
ship and crew will be doing a good job.
One war-loan march I remember went
like clockwork, from assembly in Alex-
andria Gardens to departure by train
from Flinders-street. Bottleneck was the
barrier at Flinders-street, where six
abreast could not pass, and banking-up
would have spread back into the streets.
Becher’s solution: have a band at the
barrier playing in double-time. We went
through in threes as fast as in sixes.
When Australian composer Arthur
Benjamin, composer and conductor
Eugene Goossens and Ormond Professor
of Music Bernard Heinze met
recently in Melbourne their memories all
went back forty years to the occasion
when a youthful student brought in his
first composition to his teacher at the
Royal College of Music, London, and the
teacher handed the opus to another
student to try out, while a third student
listened and later discussed it with them.
The three students concerned were the
distinguished persons mentioned in the
opening sentence of this par., in that
order.
Reg. Ansett, managing-director of
Ansett Airways, Pioneer Tours, Ansett
Transport Industries and a batch of com-
panies all associated with the idea of
getting someone or something somewhere
fast, has come a long way since the day
20 years ago when he sat himself behind
the steering-wheel of the second-hand
car, bought on time-payment, which was
the nucleus of his present vast enterprise.
He was then 22, and his first trip showed
a profit of 10s. For a while his activities
were confined to the Hamilton (Vic.) dis-
trict, and when he started to expand, the
transport-authorities looked like forcing
Ansett cars off the roads. Young Ansett
had his headaches, but fought hard and
triumphed. Next he started a plane-
service between Melbourne to Hamilton
and return, and later wove it into an inter-
state network. Today he controls 30
hotels, a fleet of aeroplanes, tourist-
launches, bus-services running all over the
Commonwealth and tourist-offices in
many parts of the world. His company
recently increased its capital by £300,000
to £1,750,000. To those who complain
that a man without capital has no chance
nowadays Reg. Ansett is the answer.
Retiring after 10 years as Westralia’s
Director of Education, M. G. Little, who
came up from pupil-teaching at Perth
Boys’ School. When he reached the top
in 1940 he became the first product of
the State’s education system to do so.
When Lester Brain picked David
Douglas Laurie out of hundreds of appli-
cants for the job of traffic-manager of
T.A.A. the Government airline gained a
young man trained from youth in air-
transport. Laurie had been eight years
with Qantas, and in addition to the ex-
perience gained with the company, which
pioneered outback flying, he brought with
him energy, enthusiasm and a bright
personality. These qualities no doubt
contribute to the general approval
accorded his recent election to the pre-
sidency of the Victorian Travel League,
a body which aims to improve travel
facilities so that oversea tourists will not
only be attracted to this country, but will
return home walking advertisements for
TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL.
its scenery . and attractions. Prime
essentials, it is recognised, are accom-
modation and comfort. Mcßeath
sketched this drawing of Laurie just after
he returned from an extensive tour of
U.S.A.
To Sydney addicts, accustomed to see-
ing the visage of their city orchestra con-
cert-master only in rather serious profile,
this sketch of Ernest Llewellyn might
seem unfamiliar; yet it is definitely
Llewellyn, in his lighter moments,
And that he has plenty of lighter
moments he amply demonstrated when
Dubois sketched him just after re-
FIDDLE AND BOW.
hearsal one day last week. Besides play-
ing the fiddle as well as any Australian
has ever played it —he was soloist under
Sargent’s baton at 19 —he possesses an
acute anecdotal sense and a gift of
mimicry that wouldn’t disgrace a Tivoli
artist. Llewellyn, who will shortly cross
the Tasman to appear as soloist with
orchestras and to give broadcast recitals
—touring New Zealand is becoming a
habit with him —founded and was leader
of the Queensland State Quartet, which
ensemble he took all over the northern
State. Notched to his credit is years
with the R.A.A.F. Ranking high among
his rich musical experiences was his work
with Hephzibah Menuhin in the per-
formances of the Beethoven Violin Sonatas
—he accounts that charming lady the
perfect keyboard-associate for a violinist.
“V.A.”: Percy Page has certainly dons
a lot for Australian Rules football in Vic-
toria, but he did not originate the system
“which controls the playing of finals” (B.
27/9/’5O). Credit for that bright idea
goes to Kenneth Gordon Mclntyre, M-A.,
L.L.8., who was a young man in his
early twenties when he made the sug-
gestion, and is now a solicitor at Box
Hill (Vic.). He also thought out the
proposal put forward by the Menzies
Government for avoiding a deadlock in
the Senate after a double-dissolution.
Into the Silence:
In Durban (South Africa), at 57, Oliver
Johnston, managing-director of the Aspro
interests in South Africa for nearly 20 years.
A First World War Digger, he was a past-
president of the Natal Chamber of Industries
and was well known in business and sporting
circles throughout the Union.
At Mackay (Q.), at 85, William Henry Wessell,
a pioneer of the sugar industry of North
Queensland. Born in Brisbane, he accompanied
his Danish parents to Bundaberg in 1874; there
they began growing sugar in the Woongarra
scrub. In 1879 the Wessells shifted to Kolan
River, where they erected a mill. William sent
a sugar exhibit to the Brisbane Exhibition in
1884, and followed the industry for 56 years.
In Melbourne, Dr. Paul Grieg Dane, founder
and director of the Melbourne Institute for
Psychoanalysis, where students are trained in
the treatment of war neuroses and the psycho-
logy of delinquency. Dane served in the war
as a and most of his work was done
amongst returned men.
At Rockhampton (Q.), at 78, Fletcher Young,
former mines-inspector in North Queensland.
First graduate of the Charters Towers School
of Mines, he served for 24 years in the Chillagoe
district.
In Adelaide, at 72, John Mclnnes, a former
Speaker of the S.A. House of Assembly, Com-
missioner for Public Works and Minister for
Industry in the second Hill Ministry and a
Labor M.L.A. for over 30 years.


UNCLE ISAAC
by JUDAH L. WATEN
MY sister and I once spent a year
away from home. Mother was
sick in hospital and convalescent
home and Father was working in
the country. Our bits of furniture were
stored and we were boarded with a
middle-aged, childless couple some streets
from where we lived.
We called the pair uncle and auntie,
and in some remote way they were related
to us on our mother’s side. Uncle Isaac
was a little fat man with a remarkable
fund of odd bits of information. Any
sort of conversation was an invitation for
him to bring forth his knowledge. If
Auntie Fanny mentioned the price of fish
he would ask us if we knew that sharks
had more than one set of teeth.
Uncle Isaac was always busy. He was
for ever absorbed in his business in the
city and he rarely spent much time in
the house. But every evening after tea
he spent a while in the dining-room. He
would produce a ledger-book and with
great rapidity enter figures, add and sub-
tract out loud. Finished, he went to the
mirror on the wall, stared at himself for
a brief moment, arranged his tie, patted
his fat cheeks, smoothed his grey, curly
hair and said in a serious voice,
“Isaac, you must rest now.”
Turning to me he said,
“In Spain they have siestas after lunch.
I have mine after tea. Do you know
why they have siestas in Spain?”
I can’t remember just why they have
siestas in Spain, but Uncle Isaac certainly
told me. His own siesta was a hurried
one. He lay down for barely a quarter
of an hour, and when he opened his eyes
he stretched himself with pleasure, rose
from the sofa and said, “Now .I’m as
fresh and lively as a two-year-old.”
And out he went again. I was never
sure whether he was going on business
or to visit friends. He was not like any
other head of a household I had ever
known, he was like a boarder in the
house.
A UNTIE FANNY lived her own life,
■** never commenting on her husband’s
whirlwind comings and goings.
There was a time and place for every-
thing in her house. We rose at the same
hour eveiy morning, we ate our meals at
the same time every day. The merest
trifle had its own place. There were cup-
boards for this and that, racks and
shelves everywhere; it was maddening for
my sister and me. And Uncle Isaac
sympathised with us, and he said that if
there were children in the house all the
time this order would never last.
The Sabbath was an awesome day for
us. Auntie Fanny was a very pious lady,
and she never allowed us out of her sight
on this day. She was afraid Uncle Isaac
wanted to entice me out of her hands
and take me to the city. He sinned by
driving his sulky on the Sabbath, but she
was determined to make sure I would
not share in his sin.
After synagogue and lunch, when Uncle
Isaac disappeared from the house, Auntie
Fanny read to us from her favorite parts
of the Bible; the story of the captivity
of the Jews in Egypt and the story of her
favorite prophet, Jeremiah. Only at sun-
set did she let us go out of the house
for a short stroll in the street.
Our evening meal over, Auntie Fanny
entertained guests in the sitting-room.
There was Madame Koch, the retired
midwife, a retinue of old ladies and a
widow or two. I was never allowed into
the company and I was even afraid to
put my ear to the keyhole. There seemed
something mysterious and frightening
about the conversation within. Rare
words occasionally did penetrate the door
and the wall. They were about births
and deaths, about deceased parents and
the vanished past.
ONCE Uncle Isaac came home unex-
pectedly and took me and my sister
into the sitting-room. He wanted to show
us off in front of the ladies. And I dare-
say he wanted them to see how well
cared for we were, so that the news could
be spread through the community.
But Uncle Isaac took one look round
the room and whispered to me so that
all could hear,
“A cheerful assembly, eh?”
An old lady looked up sharply and
said ironically, “Perhaps if you joined us
you would make things more lively.”
“Nothing I could say would make you
any more cheerful,” he replied gravely.
I could see that Uncle Isaac was no
favorite in this company. Then one of
the women, without looking in his direc-
tion, said sneeringly, “I’m sure it wouldn’t
do the menfolk any harm if they spent
a little more time
with their wives.”
“If I had a family
perhaps I’d take
your advice,” said
Uncle Isaac weakly.
He suddenly went
red in the face at
his own words. From
his expression I was
sure he would have
gladly bitten off his
tongue. He hurried
us out of the room
without speaking
another word.
IT was not long
1 after this that I
overheard a strange
conversation between
Uncle Isaac and Auntie Fanny. They
were whispering together in the kitchen,
and the words that floated through the
half-closed door that separated me from
them made me listen intently.
“The beginning of December, I think.
I saw the midwife, Mrs. Mendelsohn,
today,” Auntie Fanny said.
Her voice was agitated and Uncle Isaac
coughed nervously. But they talked no
more about the matter. Soon Uncle
Isaac came out of the kitchen and sat
down in his chair at the head of the round
polished table. I could see he wanted to
say something to me, but the words were
slow in coming. This was so different
from usual, w r hen words flowed from his
This story was awarded second
prize in the Melbourne Yorick
Club’s 1949 Competition.
mouth. His eyes roamed around the
room from the polished candlesticks on
the mantelpiece to the tapestry on the
wall. Without looking at me he picked
up a newspaper and pretended to read.
But soon the newspaper fell from his
hands and he blew his nose impatiently.
With an embarrassed smile on his face
he drummed his fingers on the table and
said, “You’ll have to be very good to
Auntie Fanny now. You must do every-
thing she says and you must never annoy
her.”
I stared at him in astonishment, for he
had never spoken to me like this before.
EI7ROM that evening onwards a great
I change came over Uncle Isaac. There
were whole days when he stayed at home.
He would drive away to his shop in the
city and then return as though he had
remembered something important. His
yellow sulky standing before the front
gate became a familiar sight in our street.
His grey horse would stand patiently, a
nose-bag over its ears, waiting for the
evening, when Uncle Isaac would drive
him away to the stable in the lane behind
the house.
Auntie Fanny had withdrawn into her-
self. We rarely heard more than a few
words from her, and from morning till
night she crocheted baby clothes. She
had lost interest in her housework, and
now she never reprimanded us for dis-
turbing the tidy arrangement of things in
the bathroom. Uncle Isaac often urged
her to walk in the street with him, but
she invariably refused.
“Why this interest?” she said to him.
“You never asked me to go out before.”
He pretended he hadn’t heard her, and
noisily and clumsily pottered about in
the kitchen. He wiped a few dishes, put
them on the wrong shelves, rolled the
wet dish-cloth into a ball and threw it
into a corner of the room.
Suddenly she said, “Have you nothing
to do outside?”
“Don’t you want my help?” he
answered in a hurt voice. “Then I shall go.”
He left the house, but he soon came
back. Nothing would keep him away;
and just as once he rarely stayed in the
house, now he never wanted to leave it.
Auntie Fanny was often sick and in
pain. There were days when she could
hardly walk owing to the tormenting
pains in her legs, and she tottered about
dragging her feet one behind the other.
She bore her pain silently and it never
found any reflection in her face. Even
when beads of sweat stood out on her
temples, when the pain was intense, her
eyes still glowed warmly. But Uncle
Isaac could not see her suffering in
silence. His voice rose in vexation,
“Please let me call Dr. McDiarmid.
Everyone speaks well of him. What does
a midwife know?”
Auntie Fanny obstinately refused to
have Dr. McDiarmid in the house. She
was quite content with Mrs. Mendelsohn,
who was well spoken of by the ladies of
the community.
K4RS. MENDELSOHN had a large
*** family, and when she visited the
house she always brought her two
youngest in a black-hooded perambulator
that she left on the veranda. Auntie
Fanny always took her into the best room
and danced attendance upon her as though
she were the patient. She made her cups
of tea and baked a cake in honor of her
coming. Mrs. Mendelsohn ate heartily
and talked loudly and never let Auntie
Fanny ask those questions that troubled
her.
“What’s a bit of pain?” said Mrs.
Mendelsohn as though anticipating Auntie
Fanny s thoughts. “I often say our
grandmothers had a worse time and they
survived and here we are today,”
Uncle Isaac was very uneasy about the
midwife. He had his mind fixed on Dr.
McDiarmid, and he began to think that
Mrs. Mendelsohn was in some way re-
sponsible for his wife’s poor health. One
day as Mrs. Mendelsohn was about to
wheel her large, black-hooded perambu-
lator off the veranda. Uncle Isaac
approached her with a dignified expres-
sion and suggested that she call in the
doctor. He had read somewhere that
new methods had recently been dis-
covered, and he was sure that so worthy
a doctor as the Scotchman McDiarmid
would be familiar with them.
Mrs. Mendelsohn drew up her robust
frame to her full height so that she looked
down on Uncle Isaac’s grey curly hair
and she shot him a glance of contempt
from beneath thick, black eyebrows.
“And why are you so concerned,
pray?” she said, “Are you having the
baby?”
“I don’t know if you have ever
read” He started to say something
when she interrupted him.
“I wish you would attend to your own
affairs. And read only those books that
concern you. Like books on second-hand
clothes.”
She placed her gladstone-bag on the
hood of the pram and without another
word pushed her children down the street.
I knew she would never forgive Uncle
Isaac for his lack of confidence.
But Uncle Isaac had got Dr. Mc-
Diarmid into his mind, and when he found
Fanny lying down he returned to the
subject.
“What does Mrs. Mendelsohn know?
Call in a man of science, I beg you. I
can’t bear to see you suffer,” he pleaded.
“I don’t want your learned men,”
Auntie Fanny burst out. “I’m satisfied
with my own people. You prefer the
strangers, I know,” she added morosely.
His ruddy face turned pale, and only
with difficulty did he suppress his vexa-
tion in front of Auntie Fanny. But as
soon as he ran out of the house he began
to shout ugly and hateful words at the
inoffensive horse, which looked at him
with grateful eyes.
I NOW spent many an hour with Uncle
* Isaac, and even on the Sabbath I occa-
sionally drove with him to his shop in
the city. The shop was in a back-street,
and there was an iron grille over the
window. There were three different locks
on the front door, and Uncle Isaac com-
plained that he wasted a lot of time
opening and shutting them. It was a
nuisance having to come at all, although
now he opened the shop only infre-
quently. This was the Uncle Isaac who
had always been absorbed in his business
and who took a delight in his second-
hand goods.
The more often I came to the shop the
more I learned about his treasures, right
back to their genesis. Although he talked
freely to me, I was conscious all the time
of his anxiety. It seemed to me his mind
was with Auntie Fanny so that he was
never able to rest in the shop. He ran
from room to room, never dusted his
treasures as he kept promising himself
he would, and listened with impatience to
the odd buyer ©r seller who came into the
shop.
November day we drove home
in the twilight, less than two hours
alter Uncle Isaac had opened his shop.
A blue, rose-tinted haze hung over the
house as Uncle Isaac quickly unharnessed
the horse, filled the bin with chaff and
hurried towards the kitchen.
We found Auntie Fanny sitting on a
chair in the unlit room groaning and
holding her hands beneath her stomach,
while my sister stood against the wall
staring wide-eyed at Auntie’s writhing
lips,
“What’s the matter?” Uncle Isaac
asked in a hoarse voice.
“Fetch Mrs. Mendelsohn. Go, hurry,”
she whispered.
Uncle Isaac fixed dilated eyes vacantly
on his wife while seconds like hours
passed. Suddenly he ran out of the
kitchen, stopped in the middle of the
yard, turned his head and shouted to
me “Help your Auntie to her room.”
She slowly shook her head.
“You can’t help me,” she said.
My sister and I walked behind Auntie
Fanny, who almost fell at every step. The
passageway was in complete darkness,
and I hurried back to fetch a lamp.
Holding the lamp in front of me, I
peered into Auntie Fanny’s room. I was
frightened by the sight of her lying in her
clothes on the bed, her face distorted,
her wet cheek pressed against the pillow.
“Take your sister into the kitchen,”
she whispered. “Don’t be frightened,”
she went on. “I’ll be all right. I’m in
God’s hands,” she added with great
effort, her eyes screwed up tightly.
I clasped my sister’s hands and led
her from the room. She whimpered pro-
testingly, but I was carried away by
Auntie Fanny’s request that was like a
sacred command, and I almost dragged
her the length of the passageway into our
bedroom. I was filled with a sense of
the importance of the occasion, and I
felt I was playing a very responsible role
in the house.
CROM the room I heard the voices of
*■ women in the passageway. Uncle
Isaac must have notified every lady in
the community on his wild run for Mrs.
Mendelsohn, for I never saw so many of
them in the house at once before. I
walked back into the corridor, but the
women wouldn’t budge to let me past.
But they all made way when through the
open front door came an old shrunken
woman followed by a retinue of women
much like herself.
The ancient lady wore a frilly white
cap like an egg-white, and she and her
following made for Auntie Fanny’s room,
opened the door and went in without
speaking a word to anybody.
“That’s Madame Koch and her
retinue,” one woman said.
Another said “I thought she had long
retired from practice.”
“No one can keep her away from a
confinement,” added yet another.
But just then Mrs. Mendelsohn, the
midwife, and Uncle Isaac arrived. With
a purposeful, serious expression on her
round, swarthy face as though to say “I
have arrived in the nick of time,” Mrs.
Mendelsohn turned the door-knob of
Auntie’s room, and I caught a glimpse
of the hunched shoulders of the old
woman hovering around the bed in the
streaky, yellowish lamplight.
As the door closed Uncle Isaac turned
frenziedly to the women in the dark pas-
sage, and to cheer him up they began
telling him of their own experiences, and
chiding him for his masculine weakness.
Then the door of Auntie Fanny’s
room opened again and out came the old
women, followed by Mrs. Mendelsohn
dressed in a spotlessly starched gown,
and they were all arguing loudly.
The shrunken old lady with the frilly
white cap protested in a high-pitched,
toothless voice against Mrs. Mendelsohn’s
imperious ways. What right had she to
cast her out of the labor-room? She
had been the first midwife in the com-
munity, long before Mrs. Mendelsohn
o Continued on page 52.)


When the
Occasion calls
lor the best!
*
M
m.
*i *#*
'l
W-E3
/ /
/ <
ESTAtUSHEO JfiSß
,;■ M|special hqspit
r’s
Sp Sc
'4l
H °sp,
■ST.nra
f Ui
By
f N S,W. Distributors:
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
TST.f3.ia
l FASTEST
to IOMDOMg
B CPA
wmrumw
ds
ONLY 3J DAYS*
via AMERICA
(NO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
dayf at II a.m. t arrive London
for breakfast on Tuesday! No
problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA's fare includes a
special dollar allowance for meals
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-6.
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only TJ hr*.
' 4S mins.
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
[ RETURN £585
5i Departures every Wednesday and
afurday. Full parficulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents;
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: S 3 Martin Place, Sydney.
tW 2741.
They're angels aint they
By
DAVID
SAMPBELL
THE first storm came in
autumn when he was cut
ting out the corners of the
wheat paddock.
All day the wind had
streamed from the north-west,
a cold blow that flattened the
wire-grass on the red slopes,
shook the black gorse bushes
and furrowed the sky with
heavy-turning clouds. Dust
blew off the lean land from the
tines, leaping through and past
him on the up-hill leg; and
each time, changing down, he
thought: It’s on me. But the
wind came clean at the turn and
there was only the threat of
storm bruising the sky above the
western mountains.
It held off till dusk, and by
then the paddock was as good
as sown. He felt the wind shift
as he came down the corner,
and rain was lashing his back
on the way up. Tall and drip-
ping, he stood in the kitchen
doorway.
“Well, it’s done, Em,” he said.
“All of it?”
“All bar one corner.” And,
twisting his smile in the warm
lamp-light, he said, “That ought
to suit you.”
He would have liked to
straddle the cat by the black
stove, to talk down the comfort-
able simmer of pots and the
loud news, saying, “Yes, Em,
she’s done fifty acres. There’s
a new coat of paint for the car
and the kids’ woollies and may-
be a week of sea-air and some
good fishing.” But instead he
kept the smile to himself and
walked cold and nagging to the
bathroom. The water smoked
but could not warm him.
“I don’t seem able to git
warm,” he said. “What’s wrong
with the fire tonight?”
“There’s nothing wrong with
the fire!”
His wife was fair with a lank
fairness. A bird pecked from
her mouth and looked out
brightly from her sharp eyes
above the mending. She bit off
an end of thread, defending the
fire.
“I’m all of a shiver,” he said.
His wife stitched scorn in the
seat of his pants.
“You wouldn’t be thinking
about washing up?” she said.
“Not by any chance!”
That night he sowed the
paddock again, while the rain
fell. He fought to get the
tractor moving, but the wind
was a steel cable lashed about
the butt of the great dead apple-
gum outside the window. The
wheels of the tractor spun and
his wife held him down in the
deep bed.
“You’re dreaming,” she said.
“Lay still. You’re all of a
lather.”
“Must git that paddock
done,” he said, throwing her
aside with the bedclothes. “Em!
we’re finished. It’s raining.”
He stared through distorting
panes at night winds swirling
thickly round the dark tree ;
and he said, “I’m sick, Em.
What’s got into me?”
She led him back to bed.
FOR days after that he
ploughed the land. He
stared blankly at strangers in
the room, and went back
through the slip-rails to the high
clearing where flies blew his
wethers green. The cows died
again in a past drought and the
wind rattled white bones in stiff
hides like dice. He saddled the
little dead pony and rode over
the hill to school through the
frost. Soft morning light
streamed into the dim bedroom,
almost blinding him.
“Em!” he whispered. “Em!
Here, quick!”
And when she came he
gripped her tightly in his big
wasted hands and said, “I’m all
right, now, Em, right as rain.
Only I’m dead. I’m sorry to
leave you, Em ; real sorry.”
“Silly man!” she said.
“You’re not dead. You’ve been
very sick that’s all. Lay still
now and try and git some sleep.”
“Em,” he said. “If I’m not
dead, what are them angels
doing? They’re angels, ain’t
they?”
His wife smoothed his hand
and went to the window.
“Shoo,” she said, shaking out
her skirt.
The great white birds rose
screaming from the branches of
the apple-gum, turned in sun-
light, and were gone, leaving
steel boughs and the aching blue
of the sky.
“Cockatoos,” she said laugh-
ing. “Silly man, thinking they
was angels! Now git some sleep.
You’re better today. We’ll have
you chirping in no time.”
“Em!” he whispered. “Em,
they’re in the wheat. Here, Em,
help me up.”
The blankets were as heavy as
three-bushel bags.
“You lay easy,” his wife said.
“It’s just that old stack by the
shed ; top blew off in that storm
a week gone. They can’t do
that much harm ; and I’ve got
Willie Glover coming round
Sunday to thatch it, You lay
quiet, Jack.”
So he lay in bed and let gold-
dust silt through his fingers in
the shafting light. Never had
the sky above the clearing been
washed with such miraculous
blue.
THE blue was stoned each
day by cockatoos. And in
the dingy bedroom he waited
for them. They would wheel on
the wind and flock into the
gaunt tree, hanging it with
clustered fruit. The sun burnt
in the sulphur of their crests.
“Children, come to tea. This
instant! ”
And the birds would scream
and rise. But there was a new
note in his wife’s voice.
“Em,” he said, “you’re filling
out. You’re getting your looks
back.”
“You lay still,” she said, but
she glanced in the glass. “ ’Bout
time you shaved.” ,
“Not yet,” he pleaded.
“Tomorrer. I’m too tired, Em.”
His body was just another
piece of junk that he had worn
out and left lying around, like
the motor chassis, the odd
wheels and flake-iron rotting
in the yard. He only lived with
his eyes.
When he was able to get up
for a few hours, he stood in the
fierce cold light, a bony man
seamed by weather like his land,
and watched his old black bitch
come squirming up the yard.
Her coat had the gloss of
Sunday shoes, and when she
tumbled humbly at his feet, he
saw the peppering of grey about
her mouth and blue films over
her eyes.
“Good Nell,” he said, slap-
ping her knotted belly.
The bitch leapt around him
in surprise, trotted off tail acock
to bark, bark, triumphantly at
the chained dogs. Cows gazed
curiously around the swinging
door of the barn and green hens
sailed, gliding from the roof.
Under a smoking gum-tree,
long lipped, his bay horse
dreamed.
He stood and dreamed too in
the draught of sun. Cockatoos
came over, their tails wedged
with light, and as they flaked
down like leaflets he noticed
for the first time a green trans-
parent flame licking the
ploughed land. The rain had
rooted and turned to fire. Ex-
hausted, he went indoors. It
was like striking a sudden cold
patch in the river.
BRINGING in his tea, his
wife said “Them cockatoos
are playing merry-hell with the
wheat.”
“There’s only one way to fix
that,” he said. “Poison.”
Immediately his mind began
to work again, but the old
jarring irritation of thought had
gone. Ideas broke gently in the
flow like bubbles.
There were his sheep, they
should be right until lambing.
He would put in two weeks
solid on the fences, getting them
into shape, and then tackle the
rabbits on a front, system-
atically. He’d tidy up the yard
and put a new catch on the barn
door to keep the cows out.
They’d made a regular mess of
the hay. Next year he’d restock
with western wethers . . . But of
course the cockatoos came first.
“The trouble’s been, Em,” he
said, gazing out through panes
at the darkening ranges, “you
don’t git time to think. It’s as
clear as daylight now. Thursday
when I’m in town I’ll buy the
kids them woollies.”
“You look after the cocka-
toos,” she said. “Then we might
get somewhere. You’re looking
better though. The rest’s done
you good.”
For two days he fed the
cockatoos. He walked down
across the springing slope carry-
ing a bucket and strewed the
red ground with yellow grain.
The birds rose in front of him
like a cloud and settled in the
far corner, where they pulled up
young shoots for the buried
wheat. They swarmed in behind
him, and shading his eyes he
felt a new strength in his tired
body.
Angels, he thought. Well,
they’ve given me another
chance.
His wife was standing by the
gate.
“You won’t see the place for
them soon,” she said. “You’ve
brought in every cockatoo in
the district.”
“It’s Thursday tomorrow,” he
said. “I’ve got it on my list:
poisoned wheat.” And, walking
to the house with his arm
around her, he said, “She’ll be
a good crop, Em, you see.”
HE sold a dozen sheep-skins
to his agent —fat fingers
opening the fleece and sliding
weights like small sliced cakes
on to the hanging T of the
scales; bought some heavy
underclothes for the children —
('Continued on next page.)
THE MIRROR.
In the crystal oval wait
Sighs and snows and ravens’ feet.
Love is deceiving, none shall pass
Undistorted by the glass;
And when the snows of winter fall
The raven’s foot shall cross us all.
In the crystal oval wait
Sighs and snows and ravens’ feet.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
THE FOUNTAIN.
As the gorge, blue and still,
is pierced by the long
tremulous trill
of the tree-runner’s song,
as the lyre-bird is loud
in rich, bold stress
where eucalypts crowd
at the cliff’s recess
looking on the steep
coast, through the hours
gloomed to the deep
blue of iris flowers,
from wastes of despair,
the mind’s starless hell,
to the gold-dusted air
the seepages well.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


Perfectly
Vi'
fa.
/V
At
LO^-j
fu.
m
m
k t/:.M
." t.: Xs
th:
m*mm.
mm
r,
20
a
2
m
///
IB
8
-•-3.
saf-supp°™ MG
THE BRAND WITH A P«
I
i
s
61
J/UXta IwutoAA
* NO ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
V'
Amishes
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
plexion I Use Cuticura
Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
mm
&r".
;
T, I
JACK
was
Circular Chart* for all lypt*
•I Recording Instrument*
Per sny <Um o# HidilMfy
•r Equipment
HETER CHARTS • Special*?
O's"ILUVAN%U
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
“Wear till doomsday,” the grey
young man said, “That’s wool,
that is”; and was passing the
crowd by the pub on his way to
the chemist, happy and shy to
be back in town again, when a
neighbor hailed him. He re-
turned home after dark, red and
unsteady.
“Got ’em, Em,” he cried,
breaking into the warm glow of
the kitchen. “Where are the
kids? Neck to knees, I got.
They’ll look a treat.”
“You must be crazy,” his wife
said, “coming home in this cold
so late. We’ll have you in bed
again tomorrow; and who’s
going to look after the place?”
“Ah, ha,” he said. “She’ll be
right. Now look alive, Em.
Rouse up the kids. We’ll try
’em on.”
“Did you git the poisoned
wheat?”
He began folding up the
underclothes again with elabor-
ate care, his big hands burring
on the creases.
“I been talking to Jimmy
Althorne,” he said. “Knows a
thing or two, Jimmy. He
reckons a gun’s the ticket. ‘Pot
’em off,’ he says. A regular
shooting - gallery. Poisoned
wheat’s just a waste of time,
Jimmy reckons.”
“Jimmy Althorne!” his wife
cried. “That crazy coot! And
when you’ve fed ’em wheat all
week! ”
“You see, Em, it was late.”
His wife ran to their cold
bedroom, crying into her apron,
slammed the door. He
grumbled about the kitchen, cut-
ting himself a cold slice off the
leg and some crumbling bread,
too perverse to look in the oven.
Home late and him sick and no
tea ready! He poked up the
grate and sat down for a
moment in his father’s patched
leather chair. It was dawn when
he woke.
The grate had burnt grey and
there was a brown scum on the
cup of tea by his elbow. He
shivered, lighting the stove.
Cigarette-smoke was bitter on
his tongue and the warmed stew
was not much better. The sun
came up over the dead timber
on the clearing as he walked
out with the gun.
The sun sharpened the cold.
Loading* he felt the steel of
the barrel and thought—A few
points colder and it’d freeze to
your hand. The cockatoos on
the frosty wheat paddock were
like a fall of snow.
They were used to being fed
and had become tamer, the near
birds scattering in small slow-
winging flocks while the sun lit
up the sulphur of their under-
wings.
It seems like murder, he
thought, to feed them first. I
should have brought the bucket
as a decoy.
He was thinking of going back
for the bucket when a hare leapt
up from under his feet, startling
him. Its winter coat was
freckled, brown on fawn. He
raised the gun and fired —fired.
The hare was lolloping, long-
legged ; but when the pellets
hit it, its ears dropped and its
pace doubled. Suddenly it
bowled over, head over heels
like a wheel, in the young
wheat.
He held it dangling by the
hind legs and watched the birds
circling high up out of range.
Their shadows passed over the
wheat and the air was sharp
with their rasping cries.
Won’t get another shot today,
he thought.
By the time he reached the
house, they were settling down
in the far corner of the paddock.
| T was late spring when the
* traveller called round about
insuring the wheat in ear.
The traveller stood square
with his hands in the pockets of
his dustcoat, thinking—He’ll be
one of the long ones. The
farmer had his foot on the third
wire of the fence and was roll-
ing a cigarette.
“Dry?” he was saying. “Yes,
it’s drying up. A drop of rain
wouldn’t do no harm.”
“So long as there’s no hail in
it,” the insurance-man said.
“Once it sets in dry this time
of year, it usually stays dry—
usually.”
“Any outbreaks of fire in the
district so far?” the traveller
asked.
“No . . . Can’t say there has
been.”
The farmer was gazing out
across the valley to the far
mountains. The valley was
bleached blond under the liquid
shimmer of sun and a blue haze
increased the distances. The
sky above the waterline of the
mountains was cold and still like
ice.
“ ’Forty-two was a bad year,”
the farmer said. “Wonderful
growth that year, A fire started
up where you see that clump of
trees there by the river; wood-
carters set it. Came roaring in
on one of them red windstorms
and you wouldn’t give nothing
for the place.”
“Burn you out?”
“No . . . Wind dropped off
with evening and it set in cold
from the south. We held her
along the highway.”
They stood there in sunlight,
the farmer leaning on his knee
seeing the fire, the traveller with
his hands deep in the dustcoat.
“Lucky for your wheat!”
“Oh ... I was insured that
year. No,” the farmer said,
“I’ve never got nothing out of it.
And fifteen pounds is fifteen
pounds.”
He slewed around and looked
over the wheat paddock. The
under straw had yellowed but
the ears rustled, brown and
green. They grew evenly, a
speared army, on the slope by
the house, and then dwindled,
straggled out, towards the
centre and lower corner.
“Not a bad crop,” the
traveller said. “Bit patchy!”
“You noticed that?” There
was a look of mild alarm, of
faint bewilderment, in the
farmer’s long-sighted eyes
under the shading brim. “Yes
• . . Just don’t seem to have the
heart in it; hasn’t the heart.”
He rubbed his hand over his
lean jaw. “Well . . . I’ve got the
fences to fix. I’ll let you know
later about that insurance.” He
waved a long arm.
He skirted around the back
of the barn, avoiding the house,
and saw his wife watching him
from the kitchen window. The
sharp birdlike glint had returned
to her eyes.
On the warm seat of the
utility, the traveller smacked the
dust out of a pad on his knee
and crossed a name from his
list. He sat a moment, and all
he saw was the thin wheat, the
grass tufting the raw slopes like
hair, the black scars of the gorse
bushes, under a hard sun. And
he felt better. Three square
meals a day and a steady salary
were not so bad—-in spite of the
types you had to deal with. He
looked at his watch. He had
missed his morning cup of tea
with the petrol agent,
"THE dry spell held, and the
1 wheat ripened quickly. To-
wards harvest heavy storms
built up over the mountains.
They would move out in the
early afternoon, dragging lake-
blue shadows across the plain.
The wheat would shudder under
the skating of sudden airs, and
the storm would hesitate, would
turn south, skirting the lean line
of hills. In the late sultry light
he would see their towering
brilliance fade out beyond the
clearing.
The storms moved past and
did not trouble him. He had his
eye cocked for fires.
From the clearing he looked
down the valley and the whole
plain spread below him, mile
after mile of tinder grass shim-
mering under the sun; and the
mountains dreamed in the dis-
tance. He had the sheep in the
broken yards, going through
them for fly-strike, and every
now and then he would pause to
roll a cigarette, to gaze out across
the plain. The storm came on
him from behind, while his back
was turned.
The first he knew of it was a
sudden hurrying of dead leaves.
The leaves blew through the
yard like birds and the storm
followed them over the gap.
It overtook him in shadow
and pelted his back with green
hail while he galloped, dwarfed
and frantic, down the gullied
track. The lightning was a
rooted tree. His old bay mare
stumbled in the torrent and he
drew rein. What he thought he
could do he could not have ex-
pressed.
It was all over by the time he
reached the house. A red water-
course flowed through the yard
and the barn door swung,
swung, crippled, on one hinge.
A sheet of hailstones was
bleaching over the crumpled
wheat. It was as if the cocka-
toos had returned.
He squelched into the kitchen
and sat down, elbows resting
on the table.
“I didn’t see it coming,” he
said. “It was that sudden.”
He turned his hat around
stupidly on the table and kept
glancing up under heavy breeds
at his thin wishbone of a wife,
stooped, washing, over the sink.
Slowly his expression changed
and he smiled sardonically,
almost with satisfaction,
“I’ve always told you,” he
said, “haven’t I? There’s noth-
ing you can do about the
weather.”
His wife went on washing-up.


Missing Friend.
TO FREDERICK CHARLES SHARP for-
merly of 6 Somerset Street St. Kilda in
the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife LILIAN CATHERINE
SHARP formerly of 6 Somerset Street St.
Kilda in the State of Victoria but now of
Scarsdale in the said State Married
Woman has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Bro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court of
the State of Victoria Law Courts William
Street Melbourne in the said State on or
before the Eighth day of November 1950
and file an answer in the said office on
or before the Twentieth day of November
1950 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs. —F. J. CORDER, of 108 Queen
Street, Melbourne, in the State of Vic-
toria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
HYGEIA dissolvenator
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER :
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
fd
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established Z 2 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS!
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
“THE GUARDSMAN’
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246—300 CANDLE POWER
II
i
mm
mm
m m
m
%
w
t-5^
S'
m
mm
§?
55>
m
m
m
ft
W/h
m
m
ft
M
m
m
m
s
■
m
Vi
Ml
High Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY.* LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
'The Jlcimpl mtl
the -J-Jappy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers Representatives: —
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Ch
SUNDRY SHOWS
No Magic.
There was, on sundry Sydney
stages last week, a most depress-
ing shortage of magic in places
where it might have been most
expected—at the Tiv., where
there is a magician; at the
Palace, where there are witches,
a witch-boy and a conjur-man ;
and at the Metropolitan, where
there are fairies.
The magician at the Tiv. is
John Calvert, who occupies the
full second half of the bill; two
of his acts —the production of
apparently innumerable cigar-
ettes from his finger-tips and the
levitation by invisible means of
a beautiful blonde several feet
above the floor —are smoothly
done and appropriately bewilder-
ing ; but the rest of his turns,
even including a disappearing
camel, savor more of boxes and
mechanics than the black arts.
The best item on the Tiv. bill,
and a good one by any standards,
is the Colleanos, a team of
acrobatic dancers and comedians
led by Maurice Colleano, who
can do things with his body and
face and feet that must almost
wring tears of mirth from the
plaster angels that decorate the
theatre’s lofty ceiling.
At the Palace is Doris Fitton’s
production of “Dark of the
Moon,” which has already had a
good run at the Independent at
North Sydney and in Melbourne.
It is a weird and fascinating
stretch of folk-lore and witchery,
and the only qualification to be
made in a recommendation of
the current performance is that
a little of the magic seems to
have run out of it since it left
the Independent. The leaks are
in several places—there is more
noise and less dancing in the
witches’ wild dance around the
earth-bound witch-boy ; Donald
Crosby as Preacher Haggler
needs to be a little less casual
and burn with more hellfire in
his soul-saving; and the extra-
ordinary church scene should be
played straight—with all the
feeling and intensity the players
can muster, as though they really
believe they are finding salva-
tion—and not played, as it is
now, as a rather jolly farce.
The magic that is missing
from the Metropolitan, which is
presenting “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” is the fairies,
and when they are lost so, also,
is almost everything else. They
are there in person — Titania
(Lynne Murphy) almost in spirit
—but it’s a very earthly Oberon
(Nigel Lovell) who jumps from
the shadows, and Moth,
Mustard-seed, etc., look rather
like five naughty little girls,
pretty ones, too, but not fairies.
Rolf Bartik (Theseus) and
Audrey Peek (Hippolyta), Wanda
Herbert (Hermia) and Robin
Lovejoy (Lysander), and Norma
Roberts (Helena) and Richard
Meikle (Demetrius) are pleasant
couples, but they all seem a long
way from Athens and its woods,
and enchantment falls on none
of them. Bottom and company
come to noisy cheerful life under
the leadership of Lionel Bain,
but, welcome as their vitality is,
it serves mainly to show what is
missing from the rest of the
mortals.
There is a lot of lively mis-
chief in Coralie Neville’s Puck,
but she still looks rather like a
tidy little item in a bathing cos-
tume, and, while there is un-
doubtedly a measure of magic in
that, it is hardly the kind that
W.S. intended.
Alden's Angelo.
James Alden’s
company, which has moved into
the nicely refurnished St. James
Hall, Sydney, is currently doing
“Measure for Measure,” and, on
the whole, doing it very well -
cast ranging from passably good
to very good, decor by William
Constable as sensible as it is
simple, and some beautiful cos-
tuming by Alistair Roberts, who
seems to be forging up to the
lead of the Sydney field in that
particular line.
While one admires the excel-
lence of Alden’s acting, as acting,
however, and while it is easy to
agree with his overall concep-
tion and presentation of the
piece as an argument for “jus-
tice tempered by mercy” against
a cold, insensible application of
the law to the last savage letter,
it is not altogether possible, in
view of that conception, to ac-
cept the measure of Angelo. He
makes this temporary ruler of
Vienna first a fanatical puritan
administering the laws with in-
human ferocity; he takes him
through the tortures of tempta-
tion as though the flames of
Hades were at his pants ; and he
finally sinks him full several
fathoms in corruption, hypocrisy
and villainy.
All of it is well and spectacu-
larly done, as though the actor
had Hitler and Olivier’s Richard
III in mind, but coming from
that to the final scene of justice
and mercy and sweet forgive-
ness all round is rather like com-
ing from the chamber of horrors
into the lollyshop. And it makes
the leniency extended to Angelo
look like the act of kissing a
tiger after it’s bitten off your
hand. Which, of course, instead
of substantiating the original
plea for justice and mercy tends
rather to support Mr. Bumble.
Still, that is an argument
about the argument, and taking
the piece, as it can be taken, as
a very human romance with
darker overtones and threaded
with unshakable philosophy, it
goes over well enough, with the
villainous Angelo sending young
Claudio (Alistair Roberts) to
the axe, with the lovely Isabella
(Anne Bullen) pleading beauti-
fully and passionately for his
life, and with the benign and
handsome Vincentio (Leonard
Bullen) manipulating the ends of
all of them.
And even if one does some-
times feel that the performance
is rather like an illogical illustra-
tion of a logical argument, it is
possible to feel with most of the
characters most of the time, and
that, after all, is the main thing.
"Bonaventure."
This thriller by Charlotte Has-
tings, current offering at Sydney
Royal, presents a young woman
sentenced to death for the mur-
der of her brother and being
taken to the place of execution
by two police officials. The
three of them are marooned by
floods and take shelter in a con-
vent, where Sister Mary Bona-
venture evinces a keen interest
in the girl and sets about in-
vestigating her case with noth-
ing more to go on than a couple
of stray remarks from witnesses,
a bundle of newspaper cuttings
covering the trial and a volume
of Who’s Who.
While there is no doubt about
Miss Hastings’s sincerity, she
doesn’t make the religion, the
crime or the detection seem very
convincing, partly because the
words she gives her characters
are more like the stock-in-trade
of playwrights than the pas-
sionate utterances of feeling
people, and partly because,
despite a very red and very high
herring which she drags slowly
and tantalisingly through the
piece, the only possible solution
stands out like the Harbor
Bridge so early in the doings
that the police must have been
wearing blinkers to miss it.
Margery Weston gives a brisk
benevolence to Sister Mary
Bonaventure, Diana Perryman is
very dramatic as the young
woman sentenced to death, and
Michael Pate, Ivor Bromley,
Letty Craydon, Max Oldaker
and Junee Cornell apply their
talents with conscientious in-
dustry to roles that aren’t really
worth them.
Max Ragless, the South Aus-
tralian painter best known as a
watercolorist, is showing a few
good watercolors and a quantity
of big bright oil landscapes at
Anthony Hordern’s Gallery,
Sydney. Most of the oils,
whether put on with the palette-
knife or in his wide, rather
smeary brush-strokes, are too
much on the surface, as if he
had slapped them on with the
haste necessary for a watercolor
wash but not suited to the deep,
slow medium of oils. In No. 25,
a battlefield of crowding red and
white gums, and No, 26, with a
red road running through vivid
green hills, there is a sort of
hard vitality, chunky with earth
and vibrant with light, that gives
promise of a more solid develop-
ment.
* ♦ ♦ *
Odd though they may look
to anyone unacquainted with
modern formulas, lan Fair-
weather’s paintings in gouache
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
are not very different from the
minor sculptures of Henry
Moore or the paintings of
Rouault. The usual things can
be said in praise of their color
and design, and one can work
up in their presence the usual
feeling of “disquiet” popularised
by the surrealists—they look
very much like golliwogs—but
anything that is said for them is
an evasion of the one simple and
obvious criticism that this is, at
best, a kind of artistic shorthand,
and it was not by evading all
the problems of a realistic tech-
nique that the masters became
the masters. In “Head of a
Woman” Mr, Fairweather looks
as if he might become a genuine
artist of the horrifying variety,
and in “Native Boats” he looks
pleasantly decorative; but most
of the time he just doesn’t look
as if he is trying.
Klemperer and Sandor.
Otto Klemperer—the greatest
master of orchestra to visit
Sydney since Szell —made his
farewell with a coruscating read-
ing of Beethoven’s Seventh
Symphony.
Klemperer’s greatness lies in
the fact that, as well as general
splendid musicianship and an
uncanny ability to get an
orchestra to rise above its nor-
mal best, he adheres to the
simple belief that great sym-
phonic creators knew what they
wanted more than can any in-
terpreter. Consequently he
eschews the idea—which too
many conductors don’t — of
“tinkering around” with their
(Continued on page 35.)


|WVi
£>
siMUV ' ft
IS
e c
£
O
—it gets
the picture
"Nft
PRICES SUBJECT
TO ALTERATION
WITHOUT NOTICE
Voull
pictures w/fti
amw camera
pm
DAK
Easier to load, to sight, to shoot,
to carry, So smartly styled,
too , . . and always reliable,
Ask to see these exciting
new cameras.
10
51*
C*
t'
ft 1 !
P ed
ot»
fO*
P<H
vf!
Your Kodak Dealer is equipped to provide the fullest possible
service in photography. Ask him about all the new accessories
that can improve your picture-making and add so much to
your enjoyment.
Kodak dealers Everywhere
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. Branches in ail States.
4c
%
C?
/s
?Vs/‘
On
*
i
*3O
S
'a
wo
: tpi*.
*a
%
fs
"sr
**A
'Oyy
FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’
THE SERVICE MAN
The Truman-MacArthur
Meeting.
“Ek Dum”: The warnings of
Peking Radio that the Chinese
Communist Government may
not find itself able to stand by
while North Korea is subdued by
the United Nations forces, the
swift manner in which Indo-
China has followed Korea as a
scene of Communist military dis-
turbance, the invasions of the
Pakistan border territory by
Afghan troops and levies under
a regular Afghan Army officer,
the attack by Communist
troops on the borders of Tibet
all lend gravity to the meeting
between President Truman and
General Mac Arthur.
It is unbelievable that the
President would have left the
United States except in such
circumstances that it was im-
possible for General Mac Arthur
to leave his post for even a few
days.
Their reported subjects of dis-
cussion, while they all had a
long - term application, were
mainly concerned with events in
being or actually imminent —the
protecting of countries along the
China-Burma arc from further
Communist aggression and inter-
ference ; the protection of For-
mosa ; military aid for Indo-
"hina, which the United States
is already helping with sub-
stantial grants ; the hastening of
the Japanese peace treaty; the
handling of problems arising
from the policy of the Indo-
nesian Government, the installa-
tion of which has been one of
the worst blunders of U.N.O. —
a blunder for which the United
States must carry much
of the responsibility.
On Wake Island
The Truman-MacArthur meet-
ing on Wake Island was brief
and sounded as if it were
designed rather for an exchange
of important information than
for a discussion of plans.
It synchronised with changes
in important U.S, Army com-
mands and with the announce-
ment of considerable acceleration
of the United States effort to
build up defence. General
Bradley broadcast an announce-
ment that the U.S. command
aims for a force of 2,100,000
men, 62 air groups and 905
naval ships by June next year.
United States steelmakers were
ordered by the National Re-
sources Board to reserve 25 per
cent, of output for military pur-
poses.
General Bradley said the U.S.
Defence Force was being built
“as rapidly as possible—as fast
as men can be inducted and
trained and ships can be taken
out of ‘mothballs’,” adding that
“even these forces will not be
adequate” and that a still larger
plan was being prepared to cost
more money and put more men
in uniform.
Bradley and Bevin
General Bradley added em-
phasis to the earlier statement
in which he declared: “This time
we intend to be there with our
friends before it starts, in the
hope that our obvious intention
may deter aggressors.”
The Canadian Government
has placed orders within the
past fortnight for £250,000,000-
worth of war materials, includ-
ing about £A100,000,000-worth
of aircraft, and has offered to
equip immediately one or two
European divisions.
Yet Mr. Bevin, returning from
Lake Success, said that “he
thought Russia would be more
careful after the United States
successes in Korea.”
When he was asked if the
Russians wanted an all-out war
he answered;
Ido not think they do. I doubt
if ever they d0....l do not think
they would be as unwise as that. If
they can get it on the cheap, and
annoy everybody at the same time,
they do it and go on doing it. We
have to be alert.
There is no sense of urgency
or imminence about this state-
ment. Yet it is clear that Russia
has been preparing at an
accelerated rate for large-scale
war. It is clear also that the
present chain of events cannot
continue without a halt being
called to the infiltrations, the
organisation of fifth-columns,
the abuse of national hospitality,
the engulfing of countries such
as Czechoslovakia, which has
adopted for implementation on
January 1, 1951, the whole
corpus of Soviet Union law and,
having liquidated all Com-
munists with nationalistic ten-
dencies during the past three
months, is preparing to replace
the existing Government with
what is virtually a Russian
military dictatorship under a
Red Army Marshal on the same
lines as that already in being in
Poland under Marshal Rokos-
sovsky.
Afghan and Viet-minh
On the very day on which Mr.
Bevin spoke the Afghan lashkar,
headed by Brigadier Ghafoor-
khan, a gentleman who is said
to have had training or instruc-
tion with some detachment of
Marshal Timoshenko’s
Turkestan army group, was
striking at the Quetta-Chaman
railway in Khojak, apparently
as part of the scheme which is
being promoted everywhere the
hand of Russia can reach —to
produce local rebellion and ham-
string defence on the pretext of
starting a nationalistic agitation
for the independence of some
race.
In Persia the authorities have
been dealing with such a rebel-
lion specifically instigated from
Russia for “the cause of freedom
of the noble Kurdish people.”
In Pakistan, at a time when
that country and India are drift-
ing further and further apart as
the result of the failure of the
Kashmir arbitration, the Afghan
invasion is obviously connected
with the mysteriously developed
movement for a Pathan State.
That both attempts were abor-
tive, like the Communist-
organised strike in Vienna, the
rebellion in Burma and the
“Huk” raids in the Philippines,
is overshadowed by the fact that
these disturbances have both a
continuing and a cumulative
effect.
Indo-China Flares
It is clear that the Korean
business is only part of a pattern
which is being woven by Russia
and China. An official Com-
munist daily quoted by Peking
Radio said on October 5 that
“the Korean war had only begun
in its real sense,” that it would
be a “drawn-out war of attri-
tion, perilous for the foreign
aggressors,” who would become
“more and more exposed to the
blows of the people’s armies as
they penetrated dee p e r.”
Premier Chou En-lai already
had said that “China would not
stand aside should the im-
perialists wantonly invade the
lands of her neighbors.”
On that very day fierce fight-
ing broke out in Indo-China,
in the Chinese border country,
and at Travinh in Southern Viet-
nam, where a French battalion
surrounded a Viet-minh force,
killing about 250 Communists.
Operations in the moun-
tainous Thai-Nguyen area by
Viet-nam forces were reported
as being carried out according
to plan, but against strong re-
sistance in places.
Viet-minh operations were
stepped up considerably when
Mr. Donald Heath, U.S.
Minister to the Associated States
of South-East Asia, on October
5 met M. Pignon, the French
High Commissioner, to draw up
an agreement for United States
military aid to Indo-China.
The reorganisation of French
forces in Chinese border areas
seemed to stir up a busy
hornet’s-nest whose Communist
occupants aimed to prevent the
French regroupings and to
isolate their few remaining
border posts.
The French command per-
sisted up to October 7 in the
statement that Viet-nam forces
still held the initiative, but it
was a significant fact that it was
found necessary to send a relief
column to meet the garrison at
Kaobang, which had been
forced to abandon its positions.
Over 2500 civilians had been
evacuated by air from Kaobang
between September 21 and 27.
Within a day or two, however,
French pretences had to be
abandoned.
Kaobang is a border outpost
flung out from That Khe, a
French fortress from which the
relief column had been sent.
The retreating garrison at the
weekend failed to make its
rendezvous with its rescuers be-
cause of difficulties of road and
terrain, and its five battalions
were suddenly pounced upon
from every side by about 20,000
Communists. Meanwhile the
relief force from That Khe found
itself heavily attacked and was
forced to retreat. Neither
French force Legionnaires,
Moroccans and Vietnamese —
succeeded in getting completely
clear on October 7 and 8, though
part of the two bodies of troops
did get away. The Communists,
ignoring all attempts to secure
an armistice, smashed up the re-
maining 3500 troops.
By the end of the week That
Khe itself was being abandoned,
and there were reports that
150,000 Chinese Communists
were massed a few miles away
on the border.
Nehru’s Stand
These events must have a pro-
found effect on Asian public
opinion, more especially as such
Governments as that of Indo-
nesia and even India are giving
open or tacit support to Ho Chi-
minh and his Communist fol-
lowers in their fight against the
French.
India is the only major Power


Its the worlds
most wonderful
Lamp'
mmm
m
&
BRIGHT, STEADY WHITE LIGHT
75 candle power without pumping,
smoke or odour! The Aladdin non-
pressure kerosene mantle lamp
gives you good lighting*for every
room in the home. Complete
range of lamps available now
from your Aladdin dealer.
QUICK COOKING—
for home or holiday —Use it at
home as a compact, quick-cooking
table stove—or outdoors for easy
camp cooking. Pressure-kerosene
operation gives strong flame—
adjustable to any heat. Self-prick-
ing burners for trouble-free ' use.
Metal carrying case (optional)
seizes as windshield outdoors.
a
STORMPROOF
LANTERN
Turns Night
into Dayl
Built like a battleship for years
and years of rugged service.
Floods area with brilliant 300
candle power white light. Self-
pricking. rustless, easy to light,
withstands rain, wind and storm
conditions.
THERE ARE AUTHORISED ALADDIN
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL CITIES,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY TOWNS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
Alabin
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALAOO IN INDUSTRIES Pty.ltd
BOURKf ST.. WATERLOO N S.W.
43/141.16
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEA\
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAWRENCE ELYIN SCHROEDEH
late of 57 Webb Street Croydon.—TAKE
NOTICE that ESMOND SCHROEDER has
filed a Petition lor Divorce No. 2159 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 27th December 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. NUGENT, WALLMAN i:
CO., Solicitors, 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY DUBOIS late of Kingsway
Caringbah Spinster.—TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE JOYCE GAY has filed a Peti-
tion No. 2739 of 1950 praying for a
divorce from EDWARD FRANCIS GAY on
the ground of his adultery with you You
mav apply to the Court to be allowed to
defend A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from LORTON,
DUKE <fe CO., Petitioner’s Solicitors,
77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN CEDRIC McBAIN formerly of
156 Penshurst Street Willoughby in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET McBAIN has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 1807 of 19a0
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
18th day of December 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition free of charge from
MESSRS. DAVID S. DIND t CO., Soli-
citors. 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS BERNARD JONES late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Shearer Co-respondent.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD GEORGE PICKETT has
filed a Petition No. 3565 of 1949 praying
for a divorce from JOYCE MARY
PICKETT on the grounds of her adultery
with you If you wish to defend you may-
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court of New South
Wales King Street Sydney New South
Wales by the 20th December 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ALLEN AND
LAURENCE, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney, Peti-
tioner’s Solicitors. —J. DOUGHAN, Regis-
trar*
QUIZ
m
Are you a good
Australian ?
You and your family are proud
to claim the “Australian Heritage”
which you now enjoy in a world
where millions of people live in
abject slavery, without any rights
at all. Yes, in an age where
tyranny blackens half the globe,
it’s a wonderful thing to be an
Australian. But do you take your
Australian citizenship for
granted? Australia invites you
to answer this simple “Quiz”
just to find out how good an
Australian you really are.
MARK YOUR ANSWER YES OR NO
"I Has it occurred to you that Aus-
tralia would be in real danger
in the event of aggression by a
heavily armed foreign power?
Answer \es □ No □
O Have you considered whether you
personally can help Australia in
these critical times by joining the
Navy, the Army or the Air Force?
Answer Yes □ No □
O If it is not possible for you to
serve full-time, have you con-
sidered joining the Citizen Military
Forces, now a vital factor in
Australia’s armed strength?
Answer Yes □ No □
A Do you have that “couldn’t care
less” attitude to the great prob-
lems Australia is facing today?
Answer Yes □ No □
r Do you believe everything you
hear from rumour mongers in-
stead of having faith in Australia
and yourself and preparing to work
and fight for our free democracy?
Answer Yes □ No □
/C Do you ask before you do any-
thing, “What do I get out of it?”
without considering how you can help
the community? Yes □ No □
H Do you realise that Australia’s
future security depends largely on
everyone’s willingness to work-more
intensely to increase Australia’s total
production? Yes □ No □
Q Has it occurred to you how vital
it is for Australia’s defence and
prosperity that hydro-electric
schemes, irrigation plans and other
projects for national development he
completed quickly? Yes □ No □
Q If you are an employer, are you
'' fully aware of your responsibility
to play your part in the national
drive for increased production?
Answer Yes □ No □
10 Are you so foolish as to imagine
that Australia can survive un-
aided and alone in the shadow of
international Communist
an
conspiracy i
Yes □ No T 1
WHAT WE DO NOW
WILL SHAPE AUSTRALIA'S FATE AND FUTURE
If you are really an Australian you’ll be able to ainswer all these
questions without the slightest hesitation. If any question makes you
feel uncomfortable, now is the time to do something about it. Whether
you are an employer, manager or employee, you can work more
intensively to produce more goods. You can put the brakes on senseless
spending. You can choose the section of the Navy, Army or Air Force
in which you are best fitted to serve on a full-time or part-time basis.
by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia .
ORI2-U3-1M
with a diplomatic representative
in Peking, and he would not be
there if Moscow did not find
him useful. And Nehru assesses
Communism, like everything
else, on the basis of how far it
can be used to promote Asian
nationalism.
All Asian events lend color to
the conviction that the meeting
between President Truman and
General MacArthur was one of
supreme importance.
Peace with Japan
The Truman-MacArthur meet-
ing synchronised with the issue
of U.S. peace plan for Japan
among U.N.O. members. Al-
though the details have not been
officially publicised it seems to
envisage conclusion of peace
much on the same terms as those
which have governed the occu-
pation period—that the United
States shall virtually remain
dominant in the Far East under
a token authority from the
United Nations.
It is proposed, according to
the “New York Herald Tribune,”
that the United States —not the
United Nations —shall maintain
trusteeship over Bonin and the
Ryuku Islands, but that the
treaty may be signed with any
country which took part in the
war with Japan. Korea is to be
independent, the status of For-
mosa and the Kuriles to be
determined by the “Big Four,’
or, in the case of their disagree-
ing, which is absolutely certain
since Russia wants the Kuriles
for itself and Formosa for Com-
munist China, the matter would
be left to U.N. Assembly.
Japan is to grant the United
States security facilities —again
it is U.S. and not U.N.—and to
observe all existing international
agreements. In return she is to
be admitted to U.N.O. as soon a:
eligible and all claims agains
Japan arising out of the war be
fore September 2, 1945, are to
be waived, though nations art
to be permitted to keep wa
assets in their possession—Russi;
grabbed the lion’s share. Damag
to foreign property in Japar
would be made good by the
Japanese.
In effect, the peace would b
made by the Great Powers, Aus
tralia having very little part in
it, which is perhaps just a'
well, since there is not mud
to be gained and participate,
inevitably means long-term, i
not permanent, involvement h
Far Eastern international pol
tics, which we are far bette
out of. The sooner we are on
permanent basis of stable trade
relations with Japan the better.
The main bone of contention
with Canberra is likely to be the
absence of restriction on Japan’s
defence. But there never has
been any sillier scheme than the
proposals put forward by
“Labor,” and seemingly sup-
ported by Mr.’Spender, to place
a permanent veto on Japanese
armament. Any attempt to
achieve this would be bound to
failure from the start, and would
throw the Japanese straight into
the arms of the Russians.
On to Pyongyang.
“Ek Dum”: Once over the
North Korean border the Ameri-
cans and South Koreans seem
to have found little to hinder
thern in overrunning North
Korean territory.
Their progress has been
described as a “race,” and
though it is scarcely that, they
have not been nearly so strongly
resisted as they might have been.
Whether the same conditions
will prevail as spearheads reach
the country near the Manchurian
border is another matter. There
appear to be three distinct
operations.
Over the weekend the South
Koreans on the east coast had
swung west and were making
rapid progress across the penin-
sula towards Pyongyang, the
enemy capital. They had ap-
parently left the main resistance
behind them for the moment.
They were moving in two spear-
heads, one of which covered the
north approaches, while the
other was moving westward by
a more direct route through
Yongporj, which is almost in the
same latitude as the capital.
To the south-east of the
Koreans the United States First
Cavalry had been driving on at
a great rate along the main road
from Seoul. Between their main
line of march and the coast the
British-Australian brigade had
been clearing-up the flank,
wiping out the division or two
of enemy troops caught in the
hill country in the Kumchon
area across the border, with few
shots fired.
The movement forward has
been accompanied by continual
attacks on coast roads, railways
and ports both from the air and
by sea. All the east-coast ports
of North Korea were bombarded
right up to Chongjin, which lies
a few miles south of Rashin
and the borders of U.S.S.R.
territory. The naval bombard-
ment has been carried out by 37
U.N. warships headed by the
United States battleship Mis-
souri and including R.A.N.
units. Pyongyang was bombed
heavily over the weekend.
The R.A.A.F. squadron has
moved its base forward to Po-
hang—formerly it operated from
Japan. It has been working in
conjunction with the military
forward movement. Four of its
pilots forced to land through
fuel shortage in the South
Korean advance area on the
east coast became fhe first air-
men to put their wheels down
north of the 38th Parallel.
With the war apparently
nearly over, unless resistance
develops in the far north with
Chinese aid, United Nations
forces are still arriving. The
British 29th Brigade landed at
Sasebo in Japan from Singapore
and is to be flown to Korea,
and the Siamese contingent has
appeared in South Korea.


m
i
Wk
Expert Management of
YOUR AFFAIRS
If impending absence abroad, ill health or pressure of other business
necessitates that you “hand over the reins,” you can place the management
of your affairs with complete confidence in the hands of the Permanent
Trustee Company.
Over sixty years’ experience enables this company to control your affairs
expertly and to conserve your interests, whatever they are and wherever
they may be.
For full details, call in and interview one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for our free booklet —“ Trust
Estates and Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming,
Manager: N. L. Shaw,
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EAST GERMAN THREAT.
“The German situation has
acquired an uneasy and menac-
ing look, and we shall do well
to prepare now for the possi-
bility that a far graver crisis
than the Korean one may face
us in Germany before the year
is out.”
This comment by a well-
informed London “Observer”
writer is fairly typical of recent
British Press assessments of the
threat in Germany—a Soviet-
directed German threat, rather
than any outright Russian attack
on old-fashioned lines.
The “Observer” writer refers
to reports (“too frequent and
coming from too serious sources
to be ignored”) of a Treaty of
Peace between Russia and Eas-
tern Germany being in prepara-
tion, in which Russia would
recognise the East German Gov-
ernment as the only Government
of all Germany, legalise its re-
armament and possibly enter
into some kind of alliance with
it. Russia would then, accord-
ing to these reports, withdraw
its occupation troops and give
the East German Government a
similar independence of action
as that given to the North
Korean Government.
The writer accepts as prob-
able that Russia wants to play
for limited stakes. “It does not
look as if she intends to set in
march the Red Army and un-
leash a world war. On the con-
trary, it looks as if the Red
Army, as in Korea, will be with-
drawn from the scene before the
crisis starts, and will remain in
the background as a silent
threat. What seems to be
planned is an attack on West
Berlin and West Germany by
the East German ‘People’s
Police,’ accompanied by well-
prepared and co-ordinated acts
of sabotage and assassination in
the areas under attack, the whole
being advertised as a purely
German uprising for national
unity and liberation.”
Reports from Berlin quoted
by “Manchester Guardian” in-
dicate that by next summer the
Russians will have moved their
garrisons across the Oder into
Poland, or even as far as
Konigsberg. In Berlin they will
leave an accomplished Ambassa-
dor, Gregori Maximovich Pus-
kin. They will also leave an
established Communist Govern-
ment and the People’s Police.
The “Guardian” regards it as
“already clear” that Puskin will
tell the East Germans, as soon
as the Russian troops have gone,
that the time has come to exer-
cise their right to govern West
Berlin. It holds also that an
East German Government
would be in a better position
than the Russians to capture the
whole city.
Similarly, London “Econo-
mist” holds that the self-interest
of the Soviet Government, hard
economic facts and logic—even
the logic of the Kremlin—sug-
gest that Stalin would regard
any winning of Germany by out-
right attack as dangerous, crude
and extravagant. “The more
practical question is: could
Western Germany be attacked
and won by proxy, without a
platoon of the Red Army mov-
ing, either by the Korean
method or by some other method
which Communist ingenuity
might devise? The answer
clearly is ‘yes.’ It is not only
possible—ihdeed probable ; the
Communist leaders of Eastern
Germany are avowedly prepar-
ing to do it.”
The Western German leaders,
it suggests, realise that a straight
imitation of the tactics of the
North Koreans is unlikely; be-
cause it would run head-first into
superior Allied forces of highly-
trained troops and air forces.
“But they cannot feel certain—
indeed, nobody can —that joint
action by the East Germans
and by well-organised supporters
in Western Germany could not
take a form in which the occu-
pying forces would be at a dis-
advantage— not to say at a loss.
“Korea has shown the great
difficulty of distinguishing friend
from foe in an occupied coun-
try. Five years of occupation
have shown the impossibility of
controlling movements across
the border between Western and
Eastern Germany. The future
may see forces now dormant in
Western Germany turning
against the occupation because
their idea of the equality of
status to which they are entitled
may not be that of the Ameri-
cans, the British and the French.
If —as is not impossible—there
is some withdrawal of Soviet
troops from the Eastern zone,
Communist propaganda could
make great play against the
Americans with the demand
‘Ami, go home.’ The stage
would be set for what is regarded
in the Communist doctrine as a
‘war of liberation,’ which means
civil war with help from Mos-
cow.”
There is, declares the “Econo-
mist,” no lack of evidence that
this is the real German threat.
It would appear that such is the
official British view, too. “We
are confronted,” Mr. Bevin told
U.N.O. last month, “with a
divided Germany, on which we
look with anxiety lest it may be
the scene of another act of
aggression like that which has-
taken place in Korea. The pre-
sent organisation of Eastern
Germany, with its powerful mili-
tarised police force, justifies
very real anxiety on this score.
We must naturally take this into
account in the shaping of our
policy, for here you have a
threatening situation which
might plunge the world again
into conflict. Our attitude is en-
tirely different. We are reluctant
to move a single inch towards
the creation of any war-like
organisation, even a purely de-
fensive one. But we should not
have been doing our duty to the
world, to this organisation and
to our peoples if we had not
united our forces and built up
our military power to resist the
threat from the East.”
And Mr. Bevin most signifi-
cantly added; “If aggression
takes place it cannot be con-
fined to Germany.”
French and Germans.
Having “done a lot of think-
ing” in their position just across
the Rhine from Germany, the
French have changed in their
German outlook in the last year
or two even more than the
Schuman-plan concept suggests,
according to the findings of a
staff correspondent of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune’s” Paris edition.
—Chicago “Sun-Times.”
ROCK-A-BYE, BABY ....
Assessing what has happened
as “a basic change in philo-
sophy,” the correspondent com-
ments :
“The original French premise
was that the Allies (which, it
may occasionally still be remem-
bered, included Russia) were
strong enough to keep Germany
down. A year or so ago France
decided that it couldn’t be done.
The French concluded that, to
modify an old expression, if you
can’t beat them you should let
them join you.
“M. Schuman has been in
charge of French foreign policy
for the last two years, and the
new policy of ‘understanding 1 ’
with Germany is his. It does
not mean that the French have
gone sentimental about the Ger-
mans or that they have suddenly
decided that all the things they
had been saying about the Ger-
man danger were not true.
“It does mean that France has
decided that the only solution
for the German ‘problem,’ the
only way of channeling German
energies into constructive paths,
is to bring Germany into the
Western community, to integrate
it with Western Europe in such
a way it will be an equal but
cannot be a dominant partner."
Coddled Fifth-column.
It seems that even the Attlee
Socialists are moving towards
something more like realism re-
garding the fifth-column’s activi-
ties in Britain. Thus, Minister
for Labor Isaacs in a recent
speech in the House of Com-
mons :
“In view of statements that
have been appearing in news-
papers carrying reports of
attempts to be made to cause
serious industrial unrest in this
country, I feel that I should
warn the House and the country
that these reports are not with-
out foundation.
“Evidence is accumulating
that an organisation is being
created, chiefly by men promin-
ent in previous unofficial strikes,
including some who were ex-
pelled from the unions because
of their anti-union activity, and
others who have returned from
meeting their Cominform friends
in Warsaw. These men are
going about the country with
promises and proposals that are
impossible of fulfilment. Meet-
ings are being held, purporting
to represent dockers, road-trans-
port workers and workers con-
cerned with our meat supplies.
These meetings have only one
object in view, and that is of
disorganising our essential ser-
vices. Past experience proves
this.
“The instigators are the same
people, and the technique is
always the same. Trouble is
fomented over any convenient
grievance and the issue confused
by introducing additional claims
as stoppage of work occurs. In
the excitement of calling off the
strike when it fails, as fail it
must, the original demands are
forgotten, and the net result to
the workers —in return for their
hardship, the inconvenience they
have occasioned themselves,
their families and the community
—is precisely nil. But this does
not matter to the instigators. The
main purpose of causing trouble
having been achieved, they wait
for the next opportunity. The
Government are keeping a close
watch on these activities, and
will not hesitate to take all
necessary action.
Mr. Eden: I think the House
will agree that the statement
which the Minister has just made
is one of the gravest made to it
in recent years in times of peace.
I would like to ask, when he says
the Government will not hesitate
to take all necessary action, does
that include legislative action?
Mr. Isaacs; Yes, sir, if such
would be necessary.
It has taken a strangely long
time for the democracies to
realise that coddling the admitted
fifth-column of a foreign and
aggressive country is a luxury
democracy cannot afford. The
U.S. has at last had enough of
it, and so has all Australia, ex-
cept only the Communist-
coddlers. So far, the Attlee
Socialists are stopping at ap-
peals to the unions to do the
curbing job. A typical appeal
by Isaacs was lately cabled.
That weak evasion, of course,
proved a washout here in Aus-
tralia when the Chifleys made a
show of trying it.
Marathon Futility.
“Yorkshire Post” has totted
up the number of meetings held
by the Foreign Ministers’
deputies on an Austrian peace
treaty: total, 257 of them!
“For nearly three years the
deputies have been meeting and
adjourning. Only a few articles
of minor importance remain to
complete the treaty, but full
agreement is as remote as ever,
for the Russians have made it
plain that they do not want a
treaty to be concluded. If they
did, agreement could be reached
in a few minutes.
“The meetings are continued
at all only for political reasons.
Neither Russia nor the Western
Powers wish to take the respon-
sibility of breaking off negotia-
tions. Also, apart from the
United Nations, the deputies’
meetings afford almost the last
remaining contact between East
and West.”
A Surprised Kremlin.
Cables have reported a cur-
rent Molotov eclipse over Korea.
Earlier, British Press reports
stated that Moscow was bitterly
surprised by the U.S., the
U.N.O. and the general Western
action on the aggression there.
London “Sunday Times” re-
ferred to accumulating evidence
that the dictators of the Krem-
lin had been “shocked and dis-
mayed by the sharp reaction to
their aggressive acts. Their ob-
ject was to strike terror. In-
stead they shocked the free
world with a realisation of its
mutual danger, and transformed
anyone’s doubt into a united
resolve to resist.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” simi-
larly quoted a European diplo-
matist lately returned from
Moscow as reporting a general
belief behind the iron curtain
that there’d soon be a reshuffle
in the Politburo:
“This source repeats what he
reported after a previous visit to
Moscow; that the U.S. reaction
in Korea came as the sharpest
possible surprise to the highest
organs of the Soviet Govern-
ment. It is common talk among
satellite diplomats that Stalin
himself was immediately taken
aback at the fact of America’s
reaction, and then at its persist-
ence in the face of a grave
danger of loss of prestige through
military disaster.”
As for Molotov, at other
times he has been reported to
be on the way out, but has
bobbed up again apparently
more solid than ever. So this


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Writes MAIL ORDER DEPT,,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
FORDSON MAJOR
CUTS WORKING COSTS
ALL THE YEAR
There’s a Fordson combination of power,
gear ratios and equipment that’s right
for your job and your soil
Fordson Major provides a lower cost per horsepower
than any comparable tractor. But that is not the only
factor in the certain manner in which Fordson cuts
your working costs. Fordson provides a choice of
power —Kerosene (rated drawbar h.p. 21.5) or Diesel
(rated drawbar h.p. 28)— a wide range of optional gear
ratios —wheeled or half track units and a range of tyre
and wheel equipment. Your local Fordson Dealer will
give you all the details of these Fordson combinations
and advise you which will get the work done at least
cost in your particular job.
ploughing
&
rJ
DISC HARROWING
SOWING
**” H' .* |“ «»V J i' J
HARVESTING
HAY BALING
FORDSON
FARMS
AUSTRALIA
Choice of Diesel or Kerosene Power
Choice of gear ratios and tyre equipment
Ample Drawbar power for any size farm
Lowest cost per horsepower
Full local Dealer service
Enquire from your State Distributor:
Ns V Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA:—MaIcoIm Moore Pty. Ltd.,
300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND :-Buzacott’s (Q’ld.) Ltd., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie Street, Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA;—Lynas
Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay Street, Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
f
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) RE6. OFFICE: GEELONG, VIC.
FMS2-44
further finding in the Scots-
man” report could be the right
one: — . .
“The same source now insists
that the Korean crisis was the
product, ultimately, of the
Malenkov group in the Polit-
buro, which is credited with be-
lieving that the present is
Russia’s last opportunity to make
substantial gains in Asia with-
out the risk of world war. That
group, however, is said to have
lost prestige within the Polit-
buro to the group reputedly
headed by Molotov, who argues
that the Korean affair proves
that one more false step can
only lead to world war. Molo-
tov is believed to be supported
in this view by Mao Tse-tung
of China.”
Royal Tour.
London “Daily Telegraph,”
recalling that the first draft
itinerary produced for the 1949
tour (presumably by the Chifs
and their counterparts in N.Z.)
was “hardly credible” and had
to be revised, states that,
although the now-intended tour
is still over a year ahead, work
on the programme is already
under way, with some lessons
learnt:
“The South African tour, on
which the King lost a stone in
weight, was regarded as the
limit of endurance. Certain rest
days had been reserved for the
King and Queen. Eventually, at
their own request, most of them
were abandoned to avoid creat-
ing disappointment.
“Reports from Australia and
New Zealand indicate that these
difficulties will not be over-
looked this time. Draft pro-
grammes sent in by communities
will be scrutinised and scaled
down by the two Governments
before being forwarded to Lon-
don.”
The final programme, the
writer anticipates, “will be an
exercise in logistics and diplo-
macy beside which most inter-
national agreements are child’s
play.”
Attlee Steel Grab.
London “Times,” which said,
in effect, before the last British
elections that the two parties
were much of a muchness, seems
to have had second thoughts
forced on it. Editorially it lashed
hard at the steel grab:
“The Government have them-
selves contended, rightly, that
the effort in defence cannot be
stronger than its industrial and
economic foundations with
which they now propose to
tamper irresponsibly.
“The risk has always been, in
fact, not that too much would
be attempted for the economy
to bear, but rather that the limits
of what can be done for national
safety without economic dislo-
cation or undue hardship would
be set too narrowly. Time and
again in the past too small an.
estimation has been put upon
what this nation can willingly
perform if the call is clear.
“There is the chance that this
time a world war may be pre-
vented by prompt and apt
action. To seize it, with courage
and with independence, is the
only hope of preserving peace
and its rewards.
“To put those rewards before
the necessities of defence —and
to include among the rewards
the cruel folly of nationalised
steel —is to put everything at the
mercy of catastrophe—and, un-
less better counsels can still pre-
vail, to risk losing them all.”
Which is precisely what the
Attlee Socialists intend to go
ahead and do.
Dragnet Digest.
Caught Napping. —Recorded in N.
Y. “Herald Tribune” that, whereas
on Pearl Harbor day the U.S. was
producing 2429 combat aircraft a
month, on Korea day it was turning
out only 215 a month. Result of
this and the general unpreparedness:
“cruel losses of men and hard losses
of territory” in the early Korean
fighting.
* * * *
German Trade Push. —Britain, figur-
ing lately in cables in this connection,
isn’t by any means the only target
in the strengthening German trade
push. There are big increases in
German trade with America for re-
armament, as well as with adjacent
European countries. A special target
is Turkey, where, in the words of a
London “Daily Mail” report, sales-
men shock-troops of the German
offensive are mostly beaming happily,
their satchels stuffed with orders: “In
the year before the war Germany had
cornered 60 per cent, of the Turkish
trade; before .long she may exceed
this figure and reach near-monopoly.”
* * * *
Philistines Provoked. —“Manchester
Guardian” editorially dishes out a
little caustic: “Once every year the
British Council [which makes Britain
better known abroad] produces its
report; each time it explains almost
from first principles what it is trying
to do; each time it is jumped on. To
some extent this is due to our guilty
irritability . whenever we hear such
words as ‘culture’ and ‘intellectual.’
It is not only Nazis who feel for
their revolvers on such occasions.”
* * * *
Balkans Back to “Normal.” —Lon-
don “Spectator,” quoting a U.N.O.
report that “The threat to the poli-
tical independence and territorial
integrity of Greece still exists, and
comes now chiefly from Bulgaria,”
adds the dry comment; “This judg-
ment is extracted from the third
annual report of the United Nations
Special Committee on the Balkans,
and the fact that it might have come
out of almost any report on the
Balkans in the past seventy or eighty
years shows that this part of the
world is returning to its uneasy
normal. Another Balkan war, in
fact, has ended, and the defeated side
is brooding on its plans for a new
round.”
* * * *
Old Volcano, Active. London
“Time and Tide’s” allotting of honor
where it’s due: “It is no fault of Mr.
Churchill’s that he has been unable
to do anything except talk in these
last years. He has talked, both inside
this country and abroad, to very good
purpose. Few statesmen out of office
have achieved more than he has in
the last years. His great speeches
have led the way in international
politics; his pioneer work has dug
firm foundations for the first time in
history for a United Europe. The
consolidation and defence of Western
Civilisation owes more to Mr.
Churchill than to any other single
man.”
♦ * * •
Self-defence Warning. London
“Observer” comment on the strain
the defence effort will put on Britain;
“If, as is likely, we have to economise
on Commonwealth defence, then we
should make it clear to Canada, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand that they can
no longer take British protection for
granted, in the traditional way, but
must increase their own defence
efforts.” The note of urgency in Mr.
Menzies’s voice these days suggests
that quite likely he was told some-
thing of the sort.
* * * ♦
Keeping Russia in U.N.O. —U.S.
reasoning on keeping Russia in U.N.O.
has been given here. Dry enough,
it is no more so than British reason-
ing as recorded in a London “Daily
Telegraph” editorial: “Sir Gladwyn
Jebb [Britain’s U.N.O. rep.] rightly
rejects the idea, mooted in some
quarters, of expelling Russia from the
United Nations. Since this cannot
be done legally it would disrupt the
organisation, and on the whole the
free world has nothing to lose from
Russia’s self-exposure of her own
infamy by word and deed within its
precincts.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
J. Bull in Africa. —-From an article
by an Edinburgh “Scotsman” special
correspondent: “Britain has three
great countries on the east coast of
Africa. Now and for some years to
come they are Britain’s to do with as
she pleases. But it is also true that
most Britons in Kenya, Uganda and
Tanganyika display a noticeable
uncertainty about their future. It is
not easy to see how these three places
will develop. There are many who
say they see one great country,
federated or united, rich and produc-
tive, freed of a perpetually futile
Colonial Office, a place where, almost
to the end of time, the natives are
guided and cared for by a white
minority which rules by virtue of its
superior wisdom and morality. Apart
from this, there seems to be no very
definite idea of what should be done
with this enormous area.”
* * * *
■ Astronomical US. Output. —A few
sample official figures: U.S. steel pro-
duction in 1939 was 55 million tons;
today it is at an annual rate of 100
million. Aluminium was 164,000
tons; today it is 743,000. Electric-
power output has risen from 12b
billion kilowatt hours to 317 billion,
that of crude petroleum from H
billion barrels to nearly 2 billion and
the index of food production from
106 to 139.


s£2
*>
/j/mveyiml/i
Blue Gillette
Some men, by their very occupations, have great
traditions to keep up. Not the least of them
is that they should be well shaved, always
That is why such men use Blue Gillette Blades.
They know, by actual experience, that the Blue
Gillette is the world’s finest blade. It shaves
cleaner and more smoothly —and it lasts longer.
• SO DURABLE—each
blade gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP—they stroke
your beard away.
• SO FAMOUS—they have
made the world clean shaven.
CjvO
S3
(josuadtip 3 ipofd ai)
8/9 -ioj o*
9/8 *<** 01
8/1 «»»
‘Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
e/i«o
NOW! Dental Science Shows that
Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Better Than Any Other Way
of Preventing Tooth Decay According to Reports
in Authoritative Dental Literature!
EVEN MORE IMPORTANT,
THERE WERE NO NEW CAVI-
TIES WHATEVER for more
than 1 out of 3 who used Colgate
Dental Cream correctly! Not even
one new cavity in two full years!
No other dentifrice has proof of
such results! No dentifrice can
stop all tooth decay, or help
cavities already started. But the
Colgate way is the most effective
way yet known to help your
dentist prevent decay!
2 YEARS’ RESEARCH AT 5
AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES
—case histories of hundreds of
people who used Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating—shows
the Colgate way stops tooth decay
best! Better than any other home
method of oral hygiene known!
Yes, both clinical and X-ray
examinations showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay for
more people—than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
Set more for your moneyl FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE, ONLY 3/3
ALWAYS USE
COLGATE'S TO CLEAN
YOUR BREATH WHILE
YOU CLEAN yOUR
TEETH-AND HELP
STOP TOOTH DECAY!
No Other Toothpaste or Powder
AMMONIATED OR NOT
Offers Proof of Such Remits!
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Farmer Donelson’s wife put up
with his nudism for 28 years, then
left him.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun:”
At least this provided him
with a divorce suit.
•h -I-
“Women scream and run when
they first see Britain’s tallest man, 9ft.
3Jin. Ernest Evans, 26, of Englefield
Green, Surrey.”
No doubt they wonder what
he’ll be up to next.
•F •I*
“Politicians ought to be paid their
salaries according to the amount of
good work they do for the country.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser
In which case the work of
some politicians would be a
“Labor” of love.
“There are plenty of hotels in
Sydney where you can walk in at
any time after six o’clock and drink
to your heart’s content.”
—Sydney “D.T .”
Without being in the least put
out.
4*
“In his latest film John McCallum
co-tars with Jean Kent.”
—Sydney "Sun.”
They are worth going to sea.
Inelegant Investment.
“Heavy shoes were noticeably
popular with womenfolk at Randwicic
on Saturday.”
Smart hats and coats of latest
cut
And model frocks of faultless
length
They decked their lovely frames
in, but
Their shoes were built for
wear and strength.
Gloves, parasols and bags to
match
And frills and fripperies of
drapers
They carried, roving lens to
catch
And get their pictures in the
papers.
But heavy shoes, mark you, they
wore
To Randwick’s horsey hippo-
drome . . .
Perhaps, pumps proven false
before,
They came prepared for walk-
ing home.
P.O.M.`C.
Attractive.
“A physics professor says that if
girls want to transform a dull boy-
friend into a real live-wire they
should get him to buy crepe-soled
shoes. The shoes build up a large
charge of static electricity from fric-
tion with carpets and floors, and
which remains in the wearer’s body
until he is touched.”
As the crepe-soled character
in immaculate evening - dress
shuffled across the carpeted
foyer towards her she sat up and
took notice. Great heavens! He
must be generating enough elec*
trie energy to light up several
suburbs.
As he approached she could
feel the radiation of his mag-
netic personality drawing her to
him as if by some unseen im-
pelling force that would not be
denied. Taking a firm grip on
the grand piano she pondered.
She’d never felt like this about
him before. Now all was
changed. Her Cupid’s bow of a
mouth framed a phrase which
froze on her lips, while a strange
turbulence stirred within her as
the particles of her iron tonic
formed themselves into the
mystic pattern of a magnetic
field.
Speechless with wonder, she
gazed at the strange cosmic
glow which shone eerily from
his deep'-set eyes, whilst his pale
features resolved themselves into
an outline in neon and his thick
curly hair stood up on end
charged as it was with static
electricity.
He beckoned, and, irresistibly
drawn, she followed him out
into the scented solitude of an
adjacent lilac-perfumed portico.
For a moment she paused irreso-
lute. Her senses swayed. A
current passed through her. It
became stronger . . . stronger.
She felt her feet leave the floor.
She flew to his arms, but quickly
returned to the foyer—
thoroughly shocked.
JONAS DILL.
“Women outnumber men at open-
ings of art shows.”— “S. M. Herald.”
They’re so much more given
to painting themselves.
“She’s old enough to give HERSELF away, parson."
On the Job Again.
Cricket’s Big Shots were all
assembled in the dressing-room
discussing the various aspects of
their relationship to the Press
in preparation for the Test sea-
son.
“Well,” said Single Past
Point, “I don’t know about the
rest of you chaps, but I’m fight-
ing fit. I’ve got to be —that’s
why I had to start training
while it was still winter. It’s
all right for Sixer over there —
he can loll in the shade right
through the series, lazily watch-
ing the rest of us work like
beavers. If anyone suggested he
do something to earn a crust
he’d consider it over the fence.
What makes me mad is that
when, by a fluke, one of the
‘rabbits,’ swinging a cross-bat
like a rusty gate, manages to
connect and sends him across
the pickets, he hits the headlines
as a sensation. I can work like
hell in the sun all day while a
couple of stone-wallers are pot-
tering around and could never
hope to raise even an exclama-
tion-mark. Ah, for the good
old days when Braddie and Mc-
Cabe were in partnership and I
could have a good loaf.”
“Oh, you’re not so badly off,”
put in Leg Glance. “At least
you haven’t to put up with being
flogged almost to death every
day with superlatives like ‘bril-
liant’ and ‘magnificent.’ If I
could only be simply ‘good’ now
and then what a relief it would
be! I’m often referred to as
‘sweet,’ too —cripes, the mob or
the Hill must get the idea I’m a
bit of a pansy. Yet if the sug-
gestion that the same adjective
be applied to Pull Past Square
Leg or On Drive the Press
blokes’d be so upset they’d mis-
takenly bang the percentage-
mark instead of the exclamation
one on their tripewriters.”
“Well, anyway. I’m putting in
for police protection,” went on
Single Past Point gloomily. “I’m
not taking any chances —I’ve
worked for this mob before.”
“Whatever are you doing that
for?” asked Silly Leg innocently.
“Are you afraid of someone
clouting you?”
“Are you plain dumb?”
asked S.P.P. gruffly. “Don’t tell
me you’ve ever heard of my
being described in the afternoon
paper without the concomitant
remark that I had been ‘stolen’!
As a matter of fact, the M.C.C.
became so alarmed at the inci-
dence of it during the last series
they sought Scotland Yard’s ad-
vice. I’ve also had to ‘trickle’
out there so many times I’ve
developed quite a sympathetic
feeling for a dripping tap. It’s
terrible.”
“What about me?” asked
Late Cut plaintively. “Now that
Neville Cardus is here again I
won’t know what I really look
like. One day I appear to be
like a cloud drifting serenely
across the face of the Matter-
horn, the next like the leap of
the Golden Slave in ‘Schehera-
zade,’ or again like a hart-
beeste bounding gracefully across
the African veldt at sunrise. All
/ want to look like —and I sup-
pose all that the barrackers
want me to look like —is just a
plain Late Cut.”
“Yair, they’ve got you sewn
up, right enough,” put in
Through The Covers jocularly.
“But I can’t see what you fel-
lows have to growl at if you
stop to consider what I have to
put up with. Have I ever been
anything else but ‘punched’?
Even the slow leg-break bowler
who is always last man is
always able, if you believe the
scribes, to ‘punch’
all seem to slip horseshoes in-
side their batting gloves before
they leave the pavilion. If the
Press boys can’t think of another
cliche soon I’ll finish up walk-
ing on my heels and be wear-
ing a permanently goofy look.”
“You know,” said Straight
Hit, “often after I’ve sent the
ball whizzing past the bowler
down toward the sightboard I’ve
taken a quick peek in an effort
to get a glimpse of that physical
feat that is peculiar only to
cricketers —I refer, of course, to
the batsman ‘opening his shoul-
ders.’ I’ve seen ’em open their
gobs when the ump.’s raised his
forefinger at the l.b.w. appeal,
but the most I’ve ever seen a
batsman do just before the
bowler tries to look uncon-
cerned as the ball tears past him
is to lift up his bat, then bring
it down and crack the ball hard.
But perhaps the shoulder-open-
ing spectacle is one that is re-
served exclusively for the cele-
brated commentator. It would
be interesting to have the opinion
of a professor of anatomy on
the subject.”
“I’m afraid I must be an
awful nuisance, you know,” said
Yorker, “what with everyone
having to ‘dig me out.’ I feel
almost subterranean every time
a Famous ex-International sees
a fast one lob in the block-hole.
I’ve often wondered why cricket-
ing bags were made so big—l
suppose it’s to allow room for
long-handled shovels and picks
needed for the operation.”
Just then a hugely obese figure
heaved itself up slowly.
“You wouldn’t think,” it said
in a panting wheeze, “that once
—l’m speaking of the days when
they used to be content merely
to report Test matches and not
try too hard for the literary
flavor —I was all whipcord,
streamlined toughness. Those
were the days when I was
allowed to ‘lash,’ or even to
‘flick,’ at Off Stuff. Now I’m
compelled, hll day and every
day, to ‘nibble’ at it. I don’t
know how I manage under
about three stummicks. No
wonder a bloke’s about sixteen
stone o’ bubbles!”
BO.


pC fUM Cfjf
. . .
That’s the thrill when
the Spanish Mackerel,
gamest fish in the sea,
strikes your bait and goes for
the bottom, your line singing
like a plucked violin string!
You needn’t be a fisherman to
catch these silver thunderbolts off
Hayman Island, and angler or not,
the greatest holiday thrill of your life
is waiting for you now in this unique
island playground.
Royal Hayman was built for you and has
every facility to give you the holiday you
need—a holiday that builds up nerve and
muscle and peace of mind that only com-
plete and utter relaxation can give.
Royal Hayman is but a few hours
away by giant flying boats that
take you direct to the island an-
chorage—and the climate _
is perfect right now!
(a^mm
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
GREAT BARRIER REEF
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE
Melbourne, MU6921; Sydney, 8W2921; Adelaide, Cen. 2514;
Brisbane, 82291; Hobart, 7470; Launceston, 1760; Canberra, F 390;
and all recognised travel agencies.
VICTORIA
RACING CLUB
Flemington
CUP WEEK
Derby Day 4th November
Cup Day 7th November
Oaks Day 9th November
C. B. Fisher
Plate 1 Ith November
K. A. Morrison, Secretary.
The comfort of a
large car but ...
THE JAVELIN COSTS TO DRIVE
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
Enjoy large-car comfort and riding
qualities all on the cost of running
a light car. Fuel consumption
is only 35 miles on a gallon
at a steady 35 m.p.h. yet there
is ample elbow-room, knee-room
and head-room for up to six
passengers and luggage.
Powered with a 50 B.H.P. four-
cylinder engine the Javelin has
no rival in its class for speed,
acceleration, and road ability.
Once tried you’ll say t Vd rather
go by Javelin!’
★ Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.8.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgocllff
Phone: FB 3100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Qorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
TUB I* LITRE
JOWETT
JAVELIN
agood favJk wfa* Jt/rasa&t yon
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Sydney Spring Racing Carnival
has run its course, and now the
patient, in his collective thousands, is
well conditioned for the annual attack
of Cup fever. The big Melbourne
double, which kicks off with the
Caulfield Cup next Saturday, will,
this year, be the richest ever run in
Australia; the Caulfield Cup has gone
up to £lO,OOO and the Melbourne
Cup carries £12,500. But it is more
than the size of the prize that makes
these events the glamor double of the
Australian Turf —and the toughest for
a punter to try to pick.
At time of writing some 50 horses
remained in the Caulfield Cup and
some 150 in the Melbourne Cup.
Thus the prospective double-picker is
offered the choice of 7500 possible
combinations, a fact which should be
sufficient to make one drop the whole
notion here and now. However,
taking the bull by the horns, and
hoping to have the double by the
throat, a selection which appeals to
present observer is Saville Row and
Bruin. A rather terrifying percentage
of the remaining 7499 combinations
have most excellent recommendations.
Saville Row may seem to have
rather too moderate a winning record
to merit consideration against such
fine performers as Comic Court,
Chicquita, Achilles, Iron Duke, Play-
boy, Spellman, Beau Gem and
Saxony; or, further down in the
weights, Grey Boots and Indian
Chief. What does recommend Saville
Row to our fancy is the combination
of a featherweight of 7st. on a horse
who in recent months has been the
most consistent handicap performer
in training. In 10 starts Saville Row
has not finished out of a place. Two
of these races he won, and another,
in which he was beaten a head, he
was subsequently awarded when the
winner was disqualified as the alleged
recipient of a stimulant. The other
seven runs represented five seconds
and two thirds. The distances ranged
from a mile to 13 furlongs, and were
spread over Randwick, Rosehill,
Canterbury and Moorefield, so that
the mere trickiness of the Caulfield
12-furlongs course should not beat
him. Finally, while some of the
efforts mentioned have been made in
mediocre company, the list does
include a third, beaten a half-length
and a head, in the A.J.C. Winter
Stakes (13f.), a second in the S.T.C.
Cup (12f.) and, his most recent per-
formance, a third, beaten a nose
a neck, in the Metropolitan.
Attempting to pick the Melbourne
Cup at this stage, with nearly three
weeks of racing to go, including all
the good pointers which can be ex-
pected to come to light in the Caul-
field Cup, Moonee Valley Cup,
Hotham Handicap, etc., is really ven-
turing a trifle into pure speculation.
However, Bruin appeals on tne
strength of his having won oyer the
Cup distance; of the recollection ot
his excellent showing when he finished
fourth in last year’s Cup; and of his
very handy burden of 7st. buyer
Buzz, another who has won over the
distance, and is nicely weighted a
7.12, would be, at this stage, our
second fancy. Then, and again
horses which have won at two rmies,
Foxzami, Sir Falcon and Dark
Marne.
The opening day of the V.A.T.C.
spring meeting at Caulfield on Satur-
day rang up the curtain on the Mel-
bourne carnival. Perfect weather
seemed to augur well for the coming
programme, but it is to be _• hoped
that the results were not typical ot
what is to be expected for the
remainder of the meeting. Backers ot
favorites commenced the day on the
right leg, with the 2-to-l chance
Varemba an extremely easy winner
of the Debutante Stakes for two-year-
old fillies, but the first was also the
last winning favorite of the day.
Varemba’s win was particularly
impressive. Dwelling at the start she
was quite the last to get going, but
within a furlong was boxing-on with
the leader. In the straight she cleared
right out to win by four lengths from
Los Feliz and Pania. A daughter of
Melbourne Cup winner Sirius,
Varemba is an exceptionally hand-
some filly, and is certainly a bargain
at the 350 guineas she cost as a
yearling.
Biggest upset of the day was pro-
vided by the main race of the day
the mile Caulfield Guineas, which
carried a total prizemoney of 5000
guineas. Among the good colts
engaged was the A.J.C. Derby winner
Alister, but, in view of the shorter
journey, Flying Halo went out
favorite at twos; then Alister, with
Beau Avion and Regent King the
only others at all in demand. Backers
of all four did their sugar on what,
as it transpired, simply wasn’t a race.
First out from the barrier was the
25-to-l chance Merry Scout (W. A.
Smith), and in no time the Kinder-
scout colt had the field strung out
like Brown’s cows. By the time they
approached the turn it was obvious
that the bolter was not going to come
back to the field and Alister was the
only one who had any show of over-
hauling him. Alister set about the
job in fair style, but he was still a
length and a half short when Merry
Scout passed the judge; Flying Halo
finished a somewhat distant third.
Winning five races as an early two-
year-old last season, and carting
some whopping weights, Merry Scout
had looked the cut of a coming
champion, but his subsequent poor
form had altered general opinion to
the belief that he was just another
of those flash-in-the-pan youngsters.
Another reassessment seems called
for.
Early takers of Cups doubles end-
ing with the erstwhile favorite Peerless
Fox must have long ago discarded
them as practically worthless, but
they were sent frantically searching
for them again when the Foxbridge
five-year-old re-entered calculations
with a tiptop showing in the 12-
furlongs Herbert Power Handicap.
Following the interruption of his
preparation, Peerless Fox was rather
short of top condition, but he ran a
really good race to finish second to
Dashing Beau. Peerless Fox com-
menced to move up at the half-mile;
he had reached the front as they
entered upon the run home, and,
while not quite able to hold otf
Dashing Beau’s challenge, nevertheless
fought on solidly to be beaten only
a half-length.
Punters turned in a bit of weird
logic when it came to betting on the
Toorak Handicap. Though really an
unknown quantity at anything beyond
a mile, Grey Boots had risen to the
top of bookmakers’ Caulfield Cup
charts on the strength of his excellent
ferformances at a mile; yet, for the
oorak, run over a mile, he was
allowed to start only third in the
betting at 5 to 1. Finishing power-
fully to down Regular Port and
Achilles, Grey Boots gave further
evidence that he can certainly run
his mile well, and added to the im-
pression that the 12 furlongs of the
Cup may be well within his capacity.
He is definitely a strong chance in
the Cup with 7.13, though at the
time of writing there was a sugges-
tion that connections might raise
their aim to the Melbourne Cup.
They might be wise to give thorough
consideration to the old proverb
about shadow and substance, which
is nowhere more frequently illustrated
than in racing.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
City Tattersall’s Club’s meeting at
Randwick on Saturday came as some-
thing of an anticlimax to the big
spring meeting, an impression which
was heightened by the rather poor
prizemoney provided. Added money
of £l2OO for the Gold Cup race was,
admittedly, fair enough, but £BOO for
the principal sprint and £7OO for all
other races hardly measured up to
the standard expected of a spring
racing date at Randwick.
The most surprising feature of the
afternoon’s racing was the veiy fast
track, despite a fair deal of rain
during the week. It must have been
very nearly the fastest going encoun-
tered in Sydney in what has been one
of the wettest years on record. The
youthful Stakes saw the two-year-olds
cut out their five furlongs in one
minute flat, and Cognac, winning the
George Herdsman Stakes, clocked
I.loi for the six furlongs—only the
odd fraction outside the track record.
George Moore had the mount on
Cognac, and virtually won the race
when he bounced him out to gain a
break of a couple of lengths right
from the start. There are few sprinters
in Sydney who can afford to give the
speedy Cognac any sort of a start
over six furlongs, and there was cer-
tainly nothing in Saturday’s field able
to do so. Favorite Heroic Sovereign
finished well for second money, but
he had no chance of running Cognac
down; the margin was a half-length,
with Pantomime third.
It would, of course, scarcely be a
Sydney meeting without the McCarten-
Sellwood combination pulling some-
thing out of the hat, and on Saturday
they drew the juifiiest plum, City
Tatt’s Gold Cup, with the Melbourne-
owned Chitral. A better-than-useful
handicap performer, without being
quite up to the top flight, the Dhoti
four-year-old Chitral won the Cup
safely from favorite Great World.
Notwithstanding the good per-
formances of Cognac and Chitral,
possibly the most impressive win of
the day was that of the High Caste
gelding Highlea (W. Hogg) in the
Youthful Stakes. It was his first start
in a race, but he ran like a veteran
in fighting out every inch of the run
down the straight with the Scorpion
colt Osborne, who had the advan-
tageous experience of a previous run
under his belt. Highlea simply refused
to be beaten, and won on the post
by a nose.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Maiden Nursery (fillies): Gilmara,
1; Hua Tara, 2; Gililpi, 3. Maiden
Nursery (colts and geldings): Mid-
tide, 1; Free Life, 2; Channel Star,
3. Parramatta Mixed : Auburn River,
1; Video, 2; Rippling Tide, 3.
Auburn Mixed: Final Act, 1; Fres-
teem, 2; Revenue, 3. Flying: Dyna-
mite, 1; Penmore, 2; Pantomime, 3.
October Handicap; lolanda, 1; Great
World, 2; Dona Marcheta, 3.
Welter: My Request, 1; Duke of
Syke, 2; Wiranya, 3.
For the Caulfield Cup: Saville
Row, 1; Spellman, 2; Grey Boots, 3.
* * * *
The English invasion force, led by
acting-unpaid-captain Fred Brown,
established a beachhead on the Wes-
tralian coast last week, and retired
bearing the honors of a moral victory
after an unfinished one-day skirmish
with some lightly-armed local troops
at Northam. England, 329; casual-
ties five; Westralian Country Dis-
tricts, 113; casualties, seven.
* * * *
If the experience of the last M.C.C.
tour of Australia is any guide, the
present tour will not progress far
before there arises a crop of dis-
puted decisions and complaints
against the standard of Australian
umpiring. However, the present
generation of visiting cricketers really
have nothing to complain about if
we are to believe the following yarn
told by Ranjitsinhji in his Jubilee
Book of Cricket published in 1901:
“By the rules, an appeal for stump-
ing should receive the answer ‘Not
out’ when any part of the wicket-
keeper is in front of the stumps as
the ball is taken. In this connection
an amusing story is told of the dis-
comfiture of a wicketkeeper by the
decision of the umpire against him.
It happened, I believe, in some game
in Australia. The batsman had
danced down the pitch and completely
missed the ball. The wicketkeeper
whipped off the bails and appealed
triumphantly. But the umpire gave
the man ‘ln’ on the ground that the
tip of the wicketkeeper’s nose had
been an eighth of an inch oyer the
wickets at the time of receiving the
ball —a perfectly valid decision if the
umpire’s observation was accurate.”
* * * *
The gentry to whom a bull’s eye
is not a bovine optic foregathered in
force at the Anzac Rifle Range, Liver-
pool (N.S.W.), last week, when the
1950 King’s shoot offered them an
opportunity for doing less damage
with more ammunition than could be
achieved even by a Pork-and-beans
army. Winner of the King’s, with®
brilliant score of 49 over the final 900-
yards stage, was Queenslander Reg
Parker. A wild and gusty southerly
upset most competitors on the final
day, but Parker, up till then five points
behind the leader, opened with three
bulls, dropped a point with an inner
on his fourth shot, and then reeled
off another six bulls. Parker won the
grand championship at Bisley (Eng.)
in 1948.
* * * •
“Pass-it”: The record signing-up
fee of over £6OOO which persuaded
Australian Rugby Union captain
Trevor Allan to throw in his lot with
an English Rugby League club may
seem a very juicy proposition for a
young man, but as Allan himself is
doubtless well aware, life, during the
coming four-years period of his con-
tract, will be anything but the bed
of roses it may seem on the surface.
On the purely personal side, Allan
and his young wife-to-be have to
uproot themselves from the familiar
surroundings and associations of Aus-
tralia to spend four years in the
heart of an industrial centre which
is anything but one of the scenic
beauties of England. Then, of course,
there is the football side. Although
quite young, Allan has been play-
ing big-match football almost con-
tinuously for the past four seasons,
and must be getting heartily sick of
it. Now, for the next four years, in
addition to constant training, he will
be playing on an average two matches
a week, many under atrocious con-
ditions, for nine months of the year,
and every one will be grimly con-
tested, with himself expected to be
the grimmest of the grim. To main-
tain their standing in English League
football, teams must win. Allan, of
course, as the star of his side, is
going to receive very close and con-
stant attention from the opposition.
And Allan’s enemies may not be con-
fined to the opposition. As a rule,
very-highly-paid importations are not
particularly popular among the rank-
and-file of an English professional
team.
* * * ♦
When Ambrose Palmer’s protege
“Bluey” Wilkins met Sydneysider Ray
Coleman at Leichhardt Stadium a
couple of weeks back, he was well
beaten on points. Evidently uncon-
vinced by the experience, Wilkins
came back for another dose last
week, and got same ir large quan-
tities. Coleman forced the fighting
all the way, and much cleaner punch-
ing won him almost every round,
with which opinion the referee con-
curred.


w
m
iicipjf
R
/
Head
sheeP c
I b oW n
apP r j X ’
D ennV
„«. VIW«' W
l>s b :>.„'S-
v
tooJfypti
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Don’t Blame the Drench.
“Murrawong”: When worm-
infestation reaches really serious
proportions don’t expect results
from bluestone, nicotine or
arsenical drenches. Use carbon
tetrachloride (double strength)
for liver-fluke and phenothiazine
for stomach-, intestinal- or
bowel-worms. Under existing
severity of infestation the
maker’s recommendations must
give way to new dose-rates.
The C.S.I.R.O. has been
aware of the worm danger all
along, but unfortunately its
warnings reach only a small
proportion of the people for
whom they are intended, and
many refuse to listen. C.S.I.R.O.
parasitologists now recommend
drastic steps as the only way to
save heavily - infested sheep.
They have discovered that in
addition to the main parasites, a
stomach - worm ( Ostertagia ),
which has been largely ignored
in the past, is now a serious
factor.
For economy they used to
advise a low dose-rate of pheno-
thiazine for stomach- and bowel-
worms. Black-scour-worms —
the No. 1 enemy of young sheep
—required a higher dose con-
taining 22\ grammes of the drug
for adult sheep. The new
C.S.I.R.O. recommendation is a
double dose of the high-dose
rate. It should be followed no
later than three weeks after by
an ordinary dose (black-scour
rate). A third dose after
another three weeks may be
built up according to circum-
stances. If there is already a
definite improvement in the
condition of the sheep give an
ordinary dose ; if not, another
double dose.
It should not be necessary to
give this increased dose to adult
sheep unless they are in a bad
way, but everything under two
years old should be treated. In
addition to drenching, sheep
must be moved to fresh pad-
docks. Under present pastoral
conditions, it should be possible
to stock up a paddock to several
times its normal capacity. So
long as wet weather continues,
it will be practically impossible
to clean up a paddock, even if
it is spelled for six months, but
three months’ spell will kill off a
fair percentage. If sheep are put
back each time after drenching
in the same paddock they will
continue to build up a huge in-
festation, and regular drenching
—much of it on the new high
scale —will be necessary to keep
them alive.
The new dose-rate will entail
a phenothiazine dose for young
sheep ranging from 2 fl. oz. to
2\ fl. oz. This may be more
than they can swallow comfort-
ably, so give it slowly. If using
an automatic drenching gun set
it to give half the dose and give
two shots. The nozzle should
reach over the back of the
tongue, but be careful not to in-
jure the delicate lining at the
back of the mouth. This method
will obviate staining the fleece
with surplus drench.
Mange in Cattle.
“Choro”: Chorioptic mange
infects a small area of the skin
surface, usually around the tail.
In the first stage the skin looks
as if it has been coated with
varnish; it gradually becomes
itchy; fine, dry scales can be
noticed and lesions appear. In
occasional cases the mite attacks
the feet, causing a scabby con-
dition of the fetlock area. In
severe cases it may spread to
the croup, sacral region, back
and inner sides of the thighs
and sometimes to the udder.
Sometimes mange will be pre-
sent for years without causing
any severe trouble. To diagnose
successfully microscopic scrap-
ings of the area should be taken,
when the mites will be plainly
seen. The scrapings must be
examined carefully, as there are
various types of mange and
blood-sucking lice which cause
superficial eczema and itching,
but these conditions can almost
be seen \yith the naked eye.
They also could possibly occur
in conjunction with the mange.
A severe type of mange, Idio-
pathic pruritis, can be dis-
tinguished by the large area
attacked, which is intensely itchy.
To treat, the hair is clipped from
the lesion and its surroundings
and the affected area scrubbed
thoroughly with hot soap-and-
water. Lime-sulphur solution
containing 1 p.c. polsulphides
at blood temperature is then
scrubbed or sprayed on to the
affected area. Treatment is re-
peated three times a week.
Silage.
“Billjim”: Silage has these
advantages over meadow-hay:
A crop which would yield two
tons of hay would return eight
tons of silage on the basis that
two tons would be lost through
wastage and moisture on the
sides. Silage is fire-, water- and
mouse-proof, and will not de-
teriorate however long it is kept.
Initial cost of hay is also much
higher than silage.
Most serious drawback to
silage-making is difficulty of ob-
taining labor. Mechanical de-
vices can overcome this. After
greenstuff is cut and raked it
can be brought into the stack
with a tumbler or power-sweep.
(If the latter method is used the
crop need not be raked). Silage
can be lifted on to the stack with
a grab and friction-winch. With
such a device —easily made by
the handyman for an expendi-
ture of a few pounds —the annual
problem of when the weather is
right for cutting and stacking,
and labor’s not available, is
solved.
Green Panic.
“Agric”: The adviser of the
Agriculture Department in
Gayndah (W. Winchester) told
a field-day audience that green
panic-grass was proving most
suitable for extensive growing
in the South Burnett, and some
very fine stands had been estab-
lished. In many instances it
was actually checking the spread
of such pests as lantana. A. G.
Haylett, senior adviser in dairy-
ing at Maryborough, stressed
the value of farm refrigeration,
and outlined experiments being
conducted to find an economi-
cal solution to weed-taint prob-
lems. It was thought, he said,
that the taints caused by cer-
tain weeds, particularly turnip-
weed, were intensified by bac-
terial action, and, if this were
so, refrigeration would assist in
suppressing the undesirable
flavors.
T o wnsville-luceme.
“Sarina”: Like most legumes,
Townsville - lucerne must be
grown from seed (B. 20/9/’SO).
It is a very strong-rooter, get-
ting down into tough gravel and
shales and withstanding drought
and heat.
When the plants have died
out in the late winter the ground
where they were will be thick
with seed. Collect it by sweep-
ing the dust into heaps and bag-
ging it. Normally storm-water
and wind in spring broadcast the
lucerne-seed; it does not need
loose soil to germinate well.
This and similar pasture
"He didn't stop for us yesterday. I bet he will today."
legumes are quickly propagated
if sown along bush-tracks, stock-
routes and on the hilly margins
of valleys. Travelling stock and
running water spread the seed
fast.
The Channel Country.
“Outback”: Tom Dunstan
says his 20 years’ experience as
a drover has convinced him that
the biggest problem of Aus-
tralia’s cattle industry is not so
much the growing of beef as
getting it to market after it has
been grown in the vast inland
areas.
Some of the best beef grown
in Australia, he says, is raised
in the lignum swamps of the
lower Georgina and lower
Cooper River basins, but much
of it never comes to market. If
bullocks can’t be brought out
when they are five-year-olds
they stay there for ever.
After rains these swamps are
100 miles wide in places, and
extend for hundreds of miles in
length. In dry seasons the
swamps dry up, but the blue-
bush and other feed continue to
thrive, these seeming to have
access to water or moisture close
below the surface. A peculiar
feature of that country is the
way the hoofs of bullocks grow.
Dunstan has seen five-year-old
bullocks with hoofs at least a
foot in diameter. It would be
impossible, he says, to drive
such cattle out of the Channel
country, even if stock-routes
were good. It is impossible to
say how much beef is grown
and lost each year under pre-
sent conditions, but the men out
there believe that more beef
grows and dies on the luscious
herbage of the Channel coun-
try than ever comes off it.
Thistle-root Baits.
“3298”: Here is a variation
(B. 16/8/’5O). Using this for-
mula its inventor poisoned never
fewer than 600 rabbits a night
from 1000 baits. Thistle roots
are dug up in normal way,
washed thoroughly, drained till
dry, then cut up into baits and
placed out in the sun till they
become “mealy,” or take on a
somewhat shrivelled look.
Procure a tin with a close-
fitting lid. Put 500 baits into the
tin and add li dessertspoons
white sugar, vanilla essence
(must be genuine and not syn-
thetic), ioz. strychnine and 10
drops of sandalwood oil. Mix
thoroughly by shaking, and then
add gradually l}oz. of plain
flour; continue shaking mean-
while. In very cold weather add
a couple of drops of the best
eucalyptus oil.
Put the lid on tightly and allow
to sweat for not less than 16
hours. The lid should not be
removed till the baits are ready
to be put out on the train. A
shallow furrow is necessary;
baits should be placed in the
furrow at yard intervals, and
should be handled with a pair
of nippers. A pair of boots
should be specially reserved for
laying baits, and the soles
should be impregnated with a
a few drops of sandalwood oil
and vanilla.
Liquid Manure.
“Taswegian”: Liquid cow
manure is a boon for the
vegetable-grower—for rhubarb,
pumpkins, marrows, lettuce and
other greens it’s hard to beat.
For the small garden a 20gal.
drum is big enough, and a sugar-
bag of manure will last three or
four weeks. Use fresh drop-
pings ; suspend the bag in the
drum full of water. Stir once a
day for a week, then the liquid
will be strong enough to dilute
by about four to one with water.
When the first lot is used, fill
the drum again, and after an-
other week it can be used with
about an equal amount of water.
The third time it will be right to
use neat. Always stir just before
use.
Poultry Hints.
“E.M.R.”: Epsom salts are
most effective when given fowls
in wet mash.
Pale yolks indicate that the
fowls lack greenstuff, maize or
iron.
Remember that heredity, food
and age all play a part in size of
egg and egg production; study
your fowls and act accordingly.
Only the most vigorous layers
will produce eggs consistently
during autumn and winter ; note
these hens and breed from them
in the spring.
It costs most to start with the
best, but is cheaper in the end ;
don’t stock with poor birds.
Fowls intended for exhibition
should not be fed heavily before
dispatch to a show, as they be-
come sluggish.
Two-way Control.
“Taswegian”: Those with
electric power on their farms
should take advantage of the
convenience of two-way control
of lights.
In the farmhouse it can be
used for passages—a switch at
each end ; for rooms with two
doors —a switch at each ; in the
bedrooms —a switch at the door
and one at the bed; for the
porch light—a switch at the gate
and the porch ; and for a two-
storied house a switch at the top
and bottom of the staircase is
necessary for safety and con-
venience.
For outbuildings near the
house the lights can be con-
trolled from the back door and
the outbuilding, so doing away
with lantern or torch.
Converting existing single-
switch lights to two-way control
is not expensive ; the only extras
needed are two two-way switches
and enough three-core cable to
run from the original switch posi-
tion to where the second switch
is required. Existing wiring is
not disturbed.
Growing Veges.
“Ngaduri”: In between the
rows of carrots, which take a
long time to mature, plant
radish or turnips, which are
ready to pull in a comparatively
short time. When the short-term
crop is pulled the carrots will
be forward enough to need the
whole area.
Similarly, plant lettuce with
cabbages and cauliflowers. The
lettuce will cause the bigger
plants to grow straighten Plant
early peas between the rows of
late broad-beans; plant peas
between rows of potatoes and
you can have spuds earlier be-
cause the peas will protect them
from frost damage.
If you must grow weeds be-
tween the rows of plants, chop
them up with a hoe, add a little
lime and mulch them thoroughly
with the soil to make green
manure for the next crop.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Don’t spray in
showery weather in a high wind
or on a warm day. Before going
ahead it is advisable to prune
trees to eliminate criss-crossing
limbs. Equipment used should
be adequate enough to cover the
whole of the orchard within a
week.
“Bill C.”: The road in or
through the farm is the start-
ing-point of many weed pests.
Seed is brought in unnoticed,
embedded in mud on car mud-
guards and axles; travelling
stock bring new burrs clinging
to the hair on their legs. Fence
along parallel with the track if
a stock-route or public road


USE ONLY
ELASTRATOR
(Regd. .Trade Mark)
RINGS Greenßing)
FOR MARKING LAMRS & CALVES
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William Street, Melbourne
EL 13.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
£4O/12/6
-i
i
m
Hi! I< 1
42 HUNT r :R STREET. SYDNEY.
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
L
L
r
r
c
B
□> n
w
m
wx
m
lilililil
INVERNESS
W
ABERDEEN
wi
PERTH
*
s*?.
m|
GLASGOW
EDINBURGH
M
DUMFRIES
BELFAST
Ml
M
*fil
+
YORK
LLANRWST
-K
liwi
+.
wwl
LLANGOLLEN
NORWICH
"+
STRATFORD-ON-AVON
*.+
WORCESTER
CAMBRIDGE W,
m
DAVID’S
+
m
£
m
SWANSEA
r CHELTENHAM
+
m
m
T
+
OXFORD Ti
LONDON
Hil
BATH
m
m
CANTERBURY
BOURNEMOUTH
m
BRIGHTON
m
+
Festivals
of the Arts
Exhibitions
During the Festival Summer from May to Sep-
tember 1951, the visitor to Great Britain will
find something of interest going on everywhere. In
addition to the centres shown abovej cities, towns
and villages all over the country will take part in this
great national event. With exhibitions, arts festivals,
carnivals, pageants and sporting events of all kinds,
there will be something for everyone to see, to enjoy,
and to remember.
Further details of the Festival Programme mil be
published in this journal over the next six months.
A HOME IN PERTH
2 Stories, Brick, with tile roof.
At popular Nedlands, overlooking
Swan River. 5 rooms, 2 sleepouts.
Garage and barbecue for outdoor
entertaining.
Good Value at £B6OO
Accept less for quick sale.
N. 8.: Owned by high company ex-
ecutive being transferred, so V.P.
Write, wire or call for full details.
37 Bushey Place, Dee Why, Sydney.
Dlicru
DIRECT CURRENT
MOTORS
i, | and i Horse Power
Voltages 32, 50, 110 and 240
Solid base or Resilient Mountings (if
for* washing machines, state make).
Guaranteed 12 Months.
Obtainable through local electrical
or hardware stores, or communicate
with N.S.W. Distributors:
DRYSDALE ELECTRIC
Pty. Ltd.
165 Clarence St., Sydney.
’Phone; BX 3646.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work.
40z., Boz., 16<1z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
f'henovis" Worm Remedy
time H
Lt**' 0 tm -
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
/ //Z // y //.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phcnothiazine Drench
dsf
dsfds
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
I “ * " ’■*
I
| Matchless performance!
That's why more tons are hauled and
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
V
A right tyre for each job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
U
HI-MILER
Hl-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
ALL SERVICE
AIRWHEEL
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
10AL1-U.
traverses your property. It pre-
vents passing stock wandering
about and distributing weed
seeds.
“Milo”: Stimulating laying
by feeding extra meat, pepper,
etc., may show results for one
season, but if it is intended to
keep the hens another year no
profit will result. Extra grain
in the ration may be necessary
during very cold weather and
during the moulting season.
Corn is a heating, but safe,
stimulant to laying, as it has
good body-building qualities.
Cool bough sheds, leafy trees
and plenty of cold water will
prevent loss of eggs and birds
in very hot weather. Water
warms up very quickly in the
open and germs multiply more
rapidly in warm conditions.
“Myrr”: To kill the fungus
which spots apples spray at green-
tip (i.e., when the bud-scales
have separated from most of the
blossom buds and the tips of
the green folded leaves are just
visible) with Bordeaux mixture,
6-4-40 ; at 5 to 10 per cent, blos-
som, with lime-sulphur (a pint
in 4gal. of water), and when 80
per cent, petals have fallen, with
lime-sulphur (i pint in 4gal.).
“Jay Gee”: Aboriginal names
suitable for Australian farms
and homes include Carinya, a
happy, peaceful home; Coo-
loongatta, a splendid view;
Illoura, a pleasant place;
Lumeah, here I rest; Thoomee,
peace or silence; Yoothapina,
very great luck ; Noo-jee, con-
tent ; Talkook, very good;
Noollada, plenty; Moola, a
shady place; Koolagoor, good
or sweet; Kurrambee, laugh ;
Coolella, to cooee; Carbethon,
cheerful.
“Espee”: A sure way to beat
mice on newly-planted pump-
kin-, marrow- or cucumber-
seed is to soak the seed between
two wet bags placed flat on the
ground for a few days and kept
constantly damp. The steamy
conditions will soon germinate
the seeds, when the plants can
be transferred to their per-
manent position without harm.
“S.P.”; Beetroot - seed is
usually difficult to germinate.
To make a good strike the seed
should be soaked for 60 hours
in water. When planted in the
prepared bed the plants are
then enabled to be up well ahead
of the weeds.
“Bat”: Three bags of cement
are sufficient to make a pig-sty
floor of eight square yards if
sawdust is used for the middle
layers. On top of an ordinary
concrete foundation three or
four layers of half-inch sawdust
concrete are laid, each being
allowed to dry before the next
layer is applied. A topping of
full cement is then put on and
finished with a coating of sand
and ashes. The sawdust concrete
is made by adding one part of
cement to three of sawdust,
which should be as coarse as
possible.
“Sundowner”; A prerequisite
to the control of snails is clean
cultivation and removal of weed
growth and plant debris. If the
pest is still troublesome use
about one part of metaldehyde
with 20 to 30 parts of bran
mixed to a mashy paste.


M
-
'A
. -i
■ ■
/
"I consider / have saved
£lOOO in running costs and
maintenance, compared
with other makes of
tractors, since I purchased
my BULLDOG 11 years ago’
writes Mr. S. Shearwood of
Dooen North, Victoria.
He is just one of thousands of
owners enjoying the remarkable
economies of Bulldog Tractor
operation
fds
f
Send this
coupon for
our fact-full
leaflet “How Angus
Saved £l5O on Tractor Costs”
NAME-
I
I
I
ADDRESS
Stot« Age if
under 13
S.B.
I
I
I
-/
| tt%%*
0
0
S 5' £ 30 ft-
' cl^£S
<aO e* X’l
Jfe
tHHI
ft
S.
8
KfCQp
O
O
, %
1 m
V *%%
&£.v£-c.»
< c-TS
53,2 55 0
53
s*Ji •
<8
OB
CP
*SI
C 8
ooaiina
dsf
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA: K.L.
Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., Melb. SOUTH AUST.: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.,
27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN AUST.: Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349
William St., Perth. TASMANIA; K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
Compare Today’s
Fuel Costs
IMMI
while
KERO COSTS
PER GAUOh
therefore
CRUDE OIL OPERATION
SAVES 71
EVERY GALLON
Compare
Fuel Consumption
does the same work as
GALLONS OF
therefore
CRUDE OIL FUEL GOES
A LOT FURTHER FOR
LESS COST
Compare
Acreage costs
Bulldog Tractor
V& m
while
KERO TRACTOR
OPERATION COSTS
therefore
BULLDOG CRUDE OIL
TRACTORS CUT KERO
TRACTOR FUEL COSTS
IN HALF!
6.-*«
COMPARE ANNUAL TRACTOR FUEL COSTS
working a property of 500 acres ~~ 7 to 8 operations
BULLDOG TRACTORS
using 1675 ga!s.
Crude Oil at
1/2 per gallon
dsf
KERO TRACTORS
iwi
■
ECOHOMICAI. TBACTORS YOU «Mt •per***
wore plaits. She, Madame Koch, had
brought many into the world, even some
of the people in this very corridor. She
pointed a withered hand at several
women at the front door. The retinue
of old women chimed in with angry
voices, Madame Koch knew more than
Mrs. Mendelsohn would ever know.
Mrs. Mendelsohn impatiently tapped a
foot on the floor and in a cold, dignified
voice said, without even looking in the
direction of her ancient rival, that she
would have no truck with so-called mid-
wives who practised spells and incanta-
tions. She was a real midwife with a
diploma. With that Mrs. Mendelsohn
quickly turned her back on her angry
enemies and banged the door in their
faces.
old women clustered around
* Madame Koch kept to themselves,
refusing to stir from their place near the
door. The others in the moved
closer to Uncle Isaac and stood near the
front door and on the veranda. I sidled
past the old women and joined Uncle
Isaac. He seemed pleased to see me, and
asked me what I had done with my sister.
Before I could tell him she was in bed
he had turned away and was staring
vacantly at the women talking animatedly
around him.
One said “Madame Koch is as often
in the death-chamber as the labor-room
now. Both places are the same to her, I
should think.”
“She goes to every funeral,” said
another.
Still another said “These old crones
shouldn’t be allowed into a room where
there’s a new life. Preserve us from the
evil eye,” she continued in a mysterious
voice. “Thanks be to God my children
aren’t here.”
Uncle Isaac suddenly looked with
loathing at the women with their com-
placent faces. As Auntie Fanny screamed
again the blood drained from his face.
“I can’t stand this any more,” he said
loudly. “She’s dying in there and here I
stand like a block of wood.” Then he
continued with passion: “We live in an
age of electricity, of steamships and
scientific thought and I have to listen
to all these old-wives’-tales. The evil
eye! Did you ever hear of it?”
Uncle Isaac, stirred by his own words,
ran down the passage, through the back-
yard towards Although I was
by his side, he talked to himself all the
while he harnessed the horse, who
stumbled sleepily as it was led into the
lane.
I climbed into the sulky behind him,
and he cracked the whip in the air and
swung the reins around the horse’s head,
Without looking this way or that he drove
f ast towards the doctor’s house. The
horse responded to his demands as if it
understood the importance of the mis-
si°n > an d cantered over the uneven stones
°f hie road.
After Uncle Isaac had seen Dr.
McDiarmid he drove more quietly, and
we drived back a minute or so before
the doctor drove up to the house in his
open car. The lights of the car shone on
a § r °up of men, husbands of the women
inside, who stood idly near the edge of
the footpath. The clatter of the car
brought some of the women to the gate,
p.R. McDIARMID, a stout, red-
L J faced man with curled, waxed
moustaches, good-naturedly pushed his
W ay through the women who crowded
the path and doorway. He said cheer-
fully to Uncle Isaac “Where’s the
patient?”
Then he asked in a puzzled voice
“What are all these people doing here?”
Uncle Isaac began to make some ex-
planation about the different customs of
people from other countries, but he
stopped suddenly and walked hurriedly
to the door of Auntie Fanny’s bedroom,
He was too anxious to get the doctor to
his wife to hold him up with talk,
As the doctor opened the door
Madame Koch and her retinue of old
women who had been watching him with
darting eyes stepped behind him into
the room f rom which they had been
driven. Uncle Isaac looked about help-
lessly, and for once not a sound came
from his mouth. Some men who had
come up to him to speak words of en-
couragement shrugged their shoulders and
left him alone. With his pale face, his
vacant eyes and his limp arms hanging
by his sides he looked more dead than
alive.
It seemed that hours had passed when
the door of the bedroom opened and the
doctor came out, a large smile wrinkling
his red face.
“Congratulations! A boy,” he said
to Uncle Isaac.
Uncle Isaac stared open-mouthed for
a moment. Suddenly he opened wide
his arms and weeping for joy kissed me
wildly on the face. He shouted to the
assembly of men and women “A boy!
My wife has given me a boy! Good
folk, how can I repay my wife?”
He kept repeating his words until the
doctor said “You can go in and see your
wife now.”
UNCLE ISAAC was more like himself
when he grasped the door-knob, but
suddenly a smile of embarrassment
passed over his face and he called to
me “Come in with me.”
I joined him and held on to his burn-
ing hand as we came into the bedroom,
I could just hear Auntie Fanny’s quiver-
ing voice as Uncle Isaac bent down to
kiss her mouth.
My eyes turned to the white-and-red
living thing that was stirring in Madame
Koch’s arms. The tiny boy was passed
from hand to hand, each old woman
mumbling a strange-sounding blessing
over him. Gradually their strange chorus
rose to a rhapsody of joy.
“Praise God for a new living being,”
Madame Koch cried shrilly. Then, pro-
nouncing the child a perfect specimen,
free from all blemishes, the shrivelled
but sure hands Of the old lady delivered
the baby into Uncle Isaac’s nervous
hands. He gazed down in astonishment
and admiration at the tiny mouth from
which came a long wail.
Mrs. Mendelsohn, the widwife, who
had just finished drying her hands at a
table near the head of Auntie Fanny’s
bed, watched the scene with rising anger,
and finally burst out to Uncle Isaac in a
loud and peremptory voice;
“Give me the child. And please ask
those women to leave at once.”
And as an afterthought she added
“And go yourself. You have seen your
wife and boy.”
A shrill chorus rose against Mrs.
Mendelsohn as she took the child from
Uncle Isaac’s hands and put it alongside
Auntie Fanny.
“Why do you give yourself such airs?”
asked Madame Koch in a sing-song
voice. “You should be thankful for the
assistance I gave you.”
“The assistance you gave me!” Mrs.
Mendelsohn gasped as if unable to be-
lieve her ears.
“Yes, the assistance Madame Koch
gave you,” the retinue echoed,
“This is all your doing,” Mrs. Mendel-
sohn said into Uncle Isaac’s face. “You
brought the doctor, and he, the fool, let
these old women in. The work was done
before your precious doctor came near
the room. You cowardly men are ail
the same.”
“Now, be calm, Mrs. Mendelsohn,”
replied Uncle Isaac patiently. “Are you
telling me,” he uttered each word with
emphasis, “that Dr. McDiarmid, a
man of science with degrees from Edin-
burgh, wasted his time in this room? Do
you know where Edinburgh is? Do you
know the school of medicine there has
a history that”
He would have continued in his cus-
tomary way, but Mrs. Mendelsohn
wouldn’t hear another word. She said
“j have asked you to take these women
outside. If you have no consideration for
me a t least show some feeling for your
wife. She needs rest. Now please go.”
she almost shouted the last words,
“Very well,” Uncle Isaac said with
dignity. But he was a little crestfallen as
we left the room, leaving Mrs. Mendel-
sohn alone with Auntie Fanny,
Only a few people remained in the
passage as Madame Koch and the old
women pattered out of the house, well
satisfied with their visit. Uncle Isaac
shook hands with them and with all the
departing friends. Then he said to me
“Come, we’ll eat something. I’m hungry,
would you believe it?”
COR the first time I felt sleepy. I had
1 never been up all night before. I
almost slept with my head on the kitchen-
table as Uncle Isaac buttered slices of
bread and talked about everything that
came into his head. He wondered what
his son would be. If only one could
see as well into the future as one could
into the past. He would like to see his
son a great scientist, or a professor of
medicine, or an inventor.
I closed my eyes, but I could still hear
Uncle’s voice and the crow of the first
cock in a distant backyard and a milk-
cart rattling down the lane.


For Sale.
National Geographies for sale, all Issue
frbm 1924 to 1949 inclusive, the first si:
volumes being bound, remainder in gooe
order. Price £lOO as one lot.—No. 331.
Advt. Dept., The Bulletin, Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
name is_
The
i
c
The whisky is_
mmniMtiiititi
7T
i
u fa-
ils
Meeting
an old friend
/s always a
pleasurable
• /
occasion .
4 ' : -1;
I | I
warn
mm mmm
■r
THE ONLY THING TO
REPLACE IU
BHWiG is more—
■
«
V- * '
'V'S-' » ' ' ,
V /
M' . '
if - *>ss SSiii
" <■ 1
■
■■■:.< M M ■'
;> Slli I I
■
m
_ 1
«r:-l
>
m
ftsTflsm*
if
!■
-V^VA-'^W
l
ON MAINTENANCE
LUDOWICI
LIFETIME
LEATHER
BELTING
ds
ON INITIAL COSTS
fds
fds
PIONEER LEATHER RELTING
features:-
• "WET-FRAMED" STRETCHED
• UNIFORM QUALITY
• "DEEP WELD" ADHESIVE
• SUPERIOR CO-EFFICIENT
OF FRICTION
• LONG LIFE.
No belting has more proved, practical applications than
PIONEER BELTING, a name famous in Australia for 92
years.
Pioneer Belting often saves money on "initial costs" and
keeps saving it by providing continuous years of trouble-
free transmission.
The only replacement for Pioneer Belting is more Pioneer.
Belting.
fd
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SOM LTD.
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. 20-2 G QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE, VIC.
OTHER LUDOWICI LINES OF EQUIPMENT INCLUDE:— Rubber Belting, Conveyor and Elevator Belting, Round Leather
Belting, Textile Leathers, Belting Accessories, Leather Packings, High-Speed Grinder Belts, V Belt Drives, Industrial
Clutches, Plain Bearings, Anti-Friction Bearings, Steel Shafting, Shafting Couplings, Shafting Hangers,_ Microid Bearing
Metals, Porous Bronze Bushes, Gears, Pulleys, Wall Brackets, Variable-Speed Drives, Ludowici Pivot Drives, Fla-Seal Oil
Retainers, Composition Packings, Lutex Industrial Plastics, Industrial Gloves, Rubber Hose, Lemcol Trucks, Wheels, Castors,
etc,, Perry Chain Drives.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Good country home for young
blue cattle dog. Has been immunised
against distemper.—4928.
To buy copies of The Bulletin
Reciter and The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse and Recitations. —
4927.
Whereabouts of Annie Revell, one-
time professional nurse, and resident,
40 years ago, of Stockton-on-Tees.
Brother inquiring. Write direct to
Walter Godfrey Revell, 18 Grove-
street, Stockton-on-Tees, Durham,
England.—4933.
Words of verse “Who Keeps the
Pub in Sydney Now?” —4931.
To get in touch with makers of
puppets in Australia for puppet
shows. —4930.
Words of verse “That Day at Boil-
ing Downs.”—4932.
Does Anybody Know?
Source of quotation: “To save my
darling from death, oh Lord, and
my soul from the power of the dog.”
—4929.
Information Sought.
How to dye string to be used in
mat-making ?
Any of the commercial packet
dyes will do the work. The string
must first be unwound from balls and
tied in loose hanks so that the dye
penetrates evenly, and it should be
wetted before immersion. Follow
directions, move the string in the
dye-bath with a stick and dry in the
shade. A good brown, with various
shadings by the addition of more or
less water, can be made from the
crystals of permanganate of potash.
jj* jj 5
What is the food-value of
kangaroo-meat ?
In food-value, apart from digesti-
bility, there is little difference between
kangaroo- and other animal-meats.
In either case the component parts
are water, protein, mineral substances,
fats and extractives. The younger the
flesh the more water it contains, and
its nutritive value is correspondingly
less. Proteins are present in propqr-
tion from 8 to 23 per cent., with
myosin, an albuminoid constituent,
as the most important. Hunted
animals, such as the kangaroo, develop
myosin freely, with the result that
their flesh, hung and prepared for
food, has a piquant, distinctive flavor.
Caloric value per pound of lean meat
is 1005.
* * * *
Some details about Halley’s comet ?
The most celebrated of the periodic
comets, it takes its name from
Edmund Halley, who, in 1705, pre-
dicted that the comet of 1682 would
return in 1759. This prediction
proved true, and the comet has since
returned in 1835 and 1910. Halley
thought that the comets of 1531 and
1607 were identical with his own, and
it may be taken as practically certain
that the comet of 1066 depicted on
the Bayeux Tapestry is Halley’s
comet.
* *
What is guild socialism ?
It is the British variant of syndical-
ism. The movement was begun in
1906, under Hobson and Penty, to
bring about the restoration of the
medieval guild system on modern
lines. The trade-unions were to be
organised as guilds to connol their
respective industries after they were
nationalised. In 1915 the National
Guilds’ League was formed, and
many trade-unions joined it. Five
years later the National Guild Council
was formed and a building guild was
organised to carry out an ambitious
plan, formulated by the council, to
erect houses. The collapse of this
scheme ended the league, which was
dissolved in 1925.
Brief Answers.
E.L.B.: The British Council is
the official instrument of the U.K
Government for cultural and educa
tional liaison with other countries
It is interested generally in the fin
arts, music, the English language anc
literature, as well as scientific anc
medical subjects. Office of its N.S.W
representative is at 104 Hunter-street
Sydney... .F.B.: Chekhov in My Life
by Lydia Avilov, translated fron
the Russian by David Magarshack
and A Life of Chekhov by Irene
Nemirovsky, translated from th
French by Erik du Mauny H.J.D.:
J. E. Cann (Broken Hill) won the
1949 Stawell Gift... .N.McN.: Vic
torian Artists’ Society, 430 Albert
street, East Melbourne; Melbourni
Contemporary Artists’ Society, S
Selborne-road, Toorak (Vic.)
G.W.B.: The greatest depth of Syd
ney Harbor is 155ft., west of the
Harbor Bridge, near Blue’s Point,...
N.H.: J. Toohey rode four winner;
of the AJ.C. Doncaster Handicap-
three of them in successive years oi
Speciality, Julia Grey and Th<
Epicure. The fourth winner wa;
Karuma.... J.G.: Phar Lap measurer
17.1 hands, Bernborough 17.0i hands
Carbine 16.0| hands G.H.W.:
“Biblionews” is distributed monthl;
to members of the Book Collectors
Society of Australia. Meetings are
held on the last Friday in each
month in the lecture-room at the
Public Library, Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney. Annual subscription is 10s. 6d.
Contributions to “Biblionews” can
be sent to the editor, Walter Stone,
12 Parnell-street, Strathfield (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
A.V.; Might have just done, only
we like them cheerful.. . .8.W.: Not
bad, but rather horrible... .J.P.:
That situation was used in an Italian
film, and wasn’t any more pleasing
there; if sadism triumphs in life,
that is all the more reason why it
should not in literature A.D.G.:
The tree-felling’s good, but that story
of rivalry between mates for the
same girl was ringbarked long, long
ago... .R.M.E.: “Well, that’s the
story. You needn’t believe it if you
don’t want to” Too kind, too
kind M.M.D.; No, child; you
must not take the detective-story
lightly—do you know that, thick as
the Australian literary scene is with
morbid and sociological genius, there
is not one of these cows who can
write a detective-story which, by
world standards, can be called first
class? E.V.C.; A coffin in a sate
on an island in a lake —what next?
Bellerive: As refreshing as a
long swig of cool beer:
E.A.: Your huntsman was quite
nice as far as he went, but when you
kill a man in a short story you should
he able to show a motive—life, as
the radio says, is so precious....
1.R.: You would do very well it
you did better... .A.A.C.: A long
way to g0....N.5.: A dead opera-
star with an epigrammatic ending—
both a little odorous on arrival
N.D.: At least you demonstrate your
trick, and how to do it, in full view
of the audience N. 1.: Bet you
that by tightening our mouth and
talking through our nose we could
talk like any of your characters
R.L.K.: No prize for your raconteur.
....P.S.C.: Your Man in the Moon
and Man in Mars are a bit too
universal for our particular tastes.
J.B.: Liked the traveller and his
exit, but the situation was a little
forced.... R.A.: Sleepy story
M.A.: Tiddleypop H. 8.: All that
over killing a rat R.V.C.: Long,
long ago, that was how they used
to write R.H.C.: A short-story
writer must always avoid the charge
of having framed his characters....
M.M.D.: Re “Pussy, Pussy!” Be
good, sweet maid, and let who will
be clever K.K.: You don’t have
to believe all the yarns old bushmen
tell you G.W.: Trying to make
us cry? H. 8.: The milking and
river scenes were good, but you for-
got the story.... A.W.: “A Shadow
from Within” not bad, but not quite.
H.W.: Nothing to it R.A.:
These arguments over listening to
the radio; they’re as standardised
as McCackie Mansions H.W.:
“Family Eccentric” isn’t quite clear;
besides, we’ve got a better one on the
same subject... .G.T.: The new am-
bulance is just a few old anecdotes.
E.S.: Angels, physicists, nuclear
microscopes—they never come to any
good together J.S.; Much toe
jolly V.O’C.: Bright, but you
should clean it up and tell it about
someone else, with amusing aside
in a mannered style like Wodehouse’:
or Damon Runyon’s J.N.: It’s
time someone touched up writers of
racing stories with a little benzedrine
P.O.McK,: Yo Ho Ho yourself.
... .0.E.M.: Ifn’ you gotta write about
convicts, write about Australian con
victs, wise guy—we got them as good
as they have gotten them in America
B.W.M.: Now, if your “Old
Irish” had been Old Scotch!
L.L.: “We Had a Dog”—it’s hat
its day R.H.: Neither one oi
ours.
SUN SHOW ERS.
Pleasant on a summer day
Are the patter of light showers,
Glistening through the golden sun
Upon the tinted flowers.
Pleasant on a summer day
In gardens, parks and street
Are the patter of light showers
After dust and heat.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2\d. per line.
Old-age Pensions
Those who, in their day, developed
this country and reared their families
without any social-security aids are re-
warded now with a pension of a few
shillings a day provided they don’t earn
more than £1 per week and have not
more than £5O in the bank. If they have
been thrifty and have managed to save
£650 they get nothing at all, even though
the savings have lost half their value
through inflation. How can they live
and pay rent on 6s. a day in these
times? It can’t be done, as members
of the Federal and State Governments
recognised when they provided generous
retiring allowances for themselves.
Federal Ministers now assert that a
contributory system will have to be
adopted if the aged are to have a fair
deal. Taxpayers were under the impres-
sion that such a scheme in the guise of
“Social Services Contribution” had been
in force for years.
All parties profess sympathy with the
plight of the old people and regret their
inability to do anything, as the cost of
the elimination of the means test is pro-
hibitive. That may be so, but couldn’t
improvements be carried out in stages?
Foi Instance, to compensate for the
decreased value of the pound-Australian
pensioners could be permitted to earn
more and own more without sacrificing
part of their pension. That would be
only justice, as the Victorian Govern-
ment recognised when it increased the
superannuation allowances of its retired
servants.
Next, a start could be made to get rid
of the means test by providing pensions
for all on reaching an advanced age, say,
70 years. The £22,000,000 to be spent on
first-child endowment would have gone
a long way in that direction. — West
Riding (Vic.).
City Farmers
In S.A. a lot of city folk are acquiring
some of the choicest farms for weekend
playgrounds. Doctors, bookmakers and
businessmen minimise their taxation
problems by buying properties at prices
far beyond the means of genuine land-
workers. Real young farmers, whose
careers were upset by war service, are now
pottering round the city in uncongenial
jobs. How much better for the State if
they were on the land working it intelli-
gently and raising normal families.
The community spirit of a district loses
something vital as its farms pass into
the hands of “city farmers.” The home-
stead is usually empty (with a manager
or caretaker in an adjacent cottage), ex-
cept when the owner flits in on a week-
end to see his thoroughbreds.
This kind of farming brings nothing
into the community life of the district
and produces very little of importance
to the State generally. Even where
general farming is conducted by a
manager results rarely compare with
those achieved by real farmers on
privately-owned and -worked properties.
—N. K. (S.A.).
Sydney’s Traffic Problem
One obvious way to ease Sydney’s
traffic problem has not yet been publicly
discussed. Colonnaded footpaths inside
the building-line would permit the widen-
ing of the road proper by at least 20ft.
Some years ago the big Pitt-street
stores, in order to relieve the footpath
congestion, considered the idea of an
arcade, behind their front windows, to
run from King-street to Market-street.
It was stillborn because of the opposition
of one firm.
It seems appropriate now to revive the
idea, as a civic move, in King-street,
from George- to Elizabeth-streets. This
would permit the retention of the trams
for public convenience and would pro-
vide the additional road space for motor
traffic.
Both footpaths would be pushed back
inside the building-line, which would in-
volve resumption on ground-floor level
only, the footpath being in the area
now occupied by the windows, which,
in turn, would have to be shifted further
back or dispensed with altogether, as is
the modern practice for small shops. The
upper floors would be undisturbed.
Pedestrians would walk along a
weatherproof footpath in safety and com-
fort. The columns to support the upper
floors above the kerb-level are already
in existence, or, at most, sections of the
walls through which the arcade was cut
would have to be strengthened.
King-street is a particularly good site
to try out the idea. There are very few
modem buildings in the sections I’ve
quoted. Pitt-street could follow in stages.
I sometimes wonder whether Sydney’s
traffic “experts” during their peregrina-
tions abroad to study traffic problems ever
visit Genoa. This Italian city has some
beautiful colonnaded streets, where, in a
climate equivalent to Sydney’s, it is a
pleasure to stroll along, window-shopping
in comfort. Somehow the columns along
the kerb gave me a sense of detachment
from the scurrying bustle of motor and
tram traffic on the road. I was not liable
to be pushed off the footpath, and the
columns were solid enough to deter even
the wildest driver from parking too
hastily.— Wilken (N.S.W.).
Prefabs
Victorian authorities are toying with
the idea of importing vast quantities of
prefabricated houses, and an English firm
has offered to put 10,000 annually on
vacant allotments. Melbourne’s first pre-
fabricated house was constructed by a
“If y ’ asks me, I think y' broke it on purpose."
London builder who took it to Australia
in a sailing-ship in 1851 and erected it in
Canvas Town amongst the tents of the
diggers. Forty years later his son found
it still standing, covered with ivy, in
North Melbourne. It was sold for £lOO.
French prefabs were recently erected in
Melbourne, and anything less suited to
Victorian conditions could scarcely be
imagined. The excuse for bringing them
into the country is shortage of materials
and the high cost of local labor, though
their price is quoted as £3OOO. Yet there
are houses being erected by amateurs
round Melbourne made of pise and mud-
brick which are admirably suited to the
climate and cost half the price of the
French prefabs.
Dozens of houses built of the same
material by the early settlers are still ex-
tant and as durable as when they were
built in the days of Batman. I know
because I own one. Even the roofs can
be made of mudbrick, and they are five
times as cool as tiles or iron and
impervious to moisture. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
At long last concrete prefabricated
houses are finding favor in Sydney, and a
builder is well advanced with the erection
of the first of a group of 128 cottages in
the Parramatta district.
On brick foundations are placed
sin. by Sin. concrete wall plates tongued
on the upper face. Walling is of 9ft. by
4ft. by 4in. concrete slabs tongued and
grooved on alternate edges, grooved
bottom, and tongued top edges.
Wall slabs are weaker —and temper-
ature-proofed by l|in. tubular channels
set about lin. apart heightwise in each
slab.
Window and door openings are cast in
slabs, thus enabling placement in any
desired position. Slabs being 4ft. wide
make it possible to provide rooms of any
multiple pf 4ft. in area.
Smooth-finished faces require only a
water-paint finish on exterior and interior
walls, and plastering, except for ceilings,
is eliminated.
A carpenter aided by two laborers and
a mobile crane can wall up a five-room
cottage in under two days. Several de-
signs are possible with these new-style
slabs, and the finished cottage presents a
very pleasing appearance. All services,
gas, electricity, water, telephone, etc., are
accommodated in specially - moulded
cavities and channels.
Some 50 years ago I saw what must
have been among the first of Sydney’s all-
concrete houses (a terrace of four)
erected near Waverley tram depot. They
are still habitable, but those buildings at
Parramatta are vastly superior in con-
struction and appearance and seem to
have solved the brick, timber and fibre
problem for house-hungry Australians.
—Pongo (N.S.W.).
Touch of Color
Government red-tape is a bleached
commodity beside a trade-union’s insis-
tence on the strict letter of each section
of an award. An industrial case, the
first of its kind to be heard in Westralia,
has ended in the cancellation of a Perth
boy’s apprenticeship to the signwriting
trade, because of his color-blindness.
In the services and the railways it is
natural that color-blindness should be a
disqualification, especially when the
defect might cause loss of life, but the
Perth boy’s trouble is only very slight.
His parents want him to continue his
apprenticeship and his employers are quite
satisfied with his work. In fact, the em-
ployers say the lad’s color discrimination
is excellent and that he has outstanding
ability for this type of work.
Unfortunately, a section of the award
for the Operative Painters’ and Decora-
tors’ Union provides that no apprentice
shall be registered if he suffers from any
disability because of color-blindness, and
the union approached the Court to have
the apprenticeship cancelled. Westralia’s
Conciliation Commissioner, who has been
a union secretary himself, pointed out
facts of the case and asked the union to
reconsider its attitude, but it refused. The
commissioner then reluctantly cancelled
the apprenticeship, adding some severe
words about the section of the award not
being framed to allow discretion in a case
like this.
The only consolation in this drastic
interpretation of the award is that it
should keep Communists out of that
union; a Commo is a color-blind person
who calls himself red when he is merely
yellow and declares everyone else black.
—Pip Tok (W.A.).
Wool and Inflation
As long as I remember it has been said
that Australia lives on —or off —the
sheep’s back. If that was so in the days
when wool was a few pence per pound
why should it be any less true today
when the price is nearing the pound-per-
pound mark? The position is somewhat
akin to that of the fellow on the dole
who won first-prize in a Calcutta sweep.
Australia has a product which has
quickly become worth big money over-
seas, so that wealth is flowing into the
country. Why the panic? Why all the
talk of revaluation which will auto-
matically block the inlet-pipe and reduce
our income from wool and, in the doing.
have a dozen other ill-effects which will
become plain to the man-in-the-street as
they hit him.
As with the lottery-winner, the effect of
sudden wealth on the country depends
upon what is done with it. If it is spent
in riotous living then much harm can
come. On the other hand, careful con-
servation of this income can only result
in a build-up of the national reserve
against times which may not be so good.
The Government should see that in-
creased income is absorbed into our
economy so that all the people benefit —
not just a few immediately connected
with the production and distribution of
wool.
Since so much wool is used in the
manufacture of his clothes the man-in-
the-street is concerned at the high prices
being paid by overseas interests. The
Government should ensure that there is
an adequate supply for the local market
at reasonable prices. It should not be
beyond the ability of economists to evolve
a scheme to ensure such protection with-
out penalising the woolgrowers.
The real menace to our nation is in-
flation arising, not from high wool, wheat
and metal export prices, but from the
tactics of those who advocate shorter
hours, less work, more pay and greater
amenities —all without any compensating
increase in production and efficiency.
Wealth has always come from hard
work. It was for years the ambition of
man to create machines that would enable
him to sit back and watch while they did
his work for him. Today, in a large
measure, that condition has been
achieved, but the men either refuse to
operate the machines or operate them for
so little production that all the benefit
of the invention is lost.
In the post-war years this country has
lost a heaven-sent opportunity of
dominating the southern hemisphere as
a manufacturing-exporting nation. Good
markets in the Indies and Far East have
been spurned or rejected, potential indus-
tries destroyed at birth and people with
visions of a great Australian nation dis-
couraged and sent back to America,
England and elsewhere.
Now we seem to be heading for infla-
tion that has little to do with wool, and
possibly depression in the midst of riches.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Wasting Land
Forty years ago fertility of the Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.) red-soil dairy-
farming country was a standard in agri-
cultural circles. During a flush season
only the backs of the cows would be
seen in the high paspalum-grass. Those
lush days are now but a memory.
Alarmed at the falling production
figures, the branch-manager of the Com-
monwealth Bank at Lismore asked head-
office to finance a scientific survey of the
district’s red-soil. Showing a commend-
able sense of its responsibilities the bank
agreed to the proposal. Spectacular
results are not promised. Government
officers who will undertake the survey are
cautious; they say that results of their
research will not be known for five years.
Meantime, while welcoming a scientific
investigation of their soil problems, pro-
gressive farmers in the Lismore district
claim to have arrested the decline and
restored the natural fertility of their soil.
The first step, they claim, is to restore the
organic matter. That is achieved by the
addition of lime to the soil. Clovers and
other legumes are sown in order to raise
the nitrogen level. A second step involves
replacing some of the run-down paspalum
paddocks with legumes and suitable
mixed grasses. Where practicable, farm
manures and wastes are systematically
treated and used to topdress the soil
when applying fertiliser. It is a question
of sound land-use principles and practice.
The problem is seen as one of practising
the age-old law of return.
For generations most dairyfarms have
been overstocked. This expedient has
been necessary to give the farmer an
acceptable standard of living. Nature,
of course, has exacted her penalty. The
net result has been that the soil-building
organic-matter, plus nutrients, have been
carried off the land as milk and cream.
Little has been replaced. Manure voided
by the farm animals has been allowed to
remain undisturbed until rain and sun
have leached away most of its soil-
building properties.
A final and more recent factor in
lowered fertility is soil-erosion. This goes
unnoticed because of the grass cover
which prevents the gullying characteristic
of lower-rainfall areas. Quicker run-off,
not higher rainfall, has caused the record
flood peaks on the Richmond in recent
years. After a heavy rainstorm on the
upper watershed, one may stand on the
river-bank in the park opposite the
Lismore post-office and observe the red
topsoil being washed to the sea at Ballina,
70 miles distant/ — H- X, (N.S.W.).


works. He plays Mozart and Brahms
and Strauss exactly as they wrote it, and
thus makes it easier for the players and
certainly better for the listener.
Some writers have professed to see in
Beethoven’s Seventh much morbid bitter-
ness underlying the traditional gruff
humor. Nonsense! Like those other
strange geniuses Mozart and Schubert,
Beethoven was able, even while his per-
sonal life was weighed down with worry
and ill-health, to pour lilting Joyousness
into his major works.
So it is with the Seventh, the “Dance”
Symphony. At no time this season has
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra played
with greater verve. The upper strings
sang their way through it, and horns and
woodwind combined beautifully in the
first theme of the Allegretto before the
fascinating and persistent rhythmic
material enters. The elasticity and
exuberance of the rhythms became more
marked and the gaiety more pronounced
in the Presto, which gained its greatest
momentum as the final movement was
driven to its brilliant climax with
. orchestra and conductor in perfect
unison.
Before the interval Stravinsky’s
Concerto in D Major for String
Orchestra was given its first Australian
performance. A brittle work of some
nervous energy, it has little else to recom-
mend it.
Bela Bartok’s Third Piano Concerto
had Gyorgy Sandor as soloist —an
example of a very good pianist devoting
his talents to a work which doesn’t merit
them, and which contains none of the
folk-tunes which make this composer
worth listening to. There are demoniacal
leapings from major to minor mode, a
good deal of unhealthy' agitation which
leads nowhere, and, even in the slow
middle-section, marked Adagio religiose,
it seems as if devotion has to wear a
hair-shirt.
"Worm's Eye View."
This comedy, written by R. F. Delder-
field and offered by J.C.W. at Melbourne
Comedy, mainly under the ministration
of English actors, is a kind of English
“Rusty Bugles.” The main difference is
that Sumner Locke-EIIiott’s hard, photo-
graphic picture—of Australian soldiers
marooned in a tin-shed in the Never-
Never and bored to extinction with a
war which might have been on another
planet—is far more truthful than Delder-
field’s sentimental study of Air Force
men billeted on the ineffable Mrs.
Bounty and her ineffable son Sydney
Spooner at Sandcombe, England.
There is something definitely comic in
the spectacle of a group of airmen heroes
being tyrannised over by a couple of
civilians to such an extent that these de-
fenders of their beleaguered island get
no more liberty than a lot of school-
boys. It was probably true enough, and
looks like the personal experience of the
author—he wrote the play while fire-
watching on the roof of the Ministry of
Air in London and had it rejected by a
dozen theatrical managers until it was
taken up by a multi-millionaire and
staged in London, where it has beaten
the run of “Charley’s Aunt” and made
another fortune for its owner.
The play’s success is probably ex-
plained by the simplicity of its character-
isation: there is the amorous corporal
and the well-brought-up young lady in
revolt against her ferocious stepmother
and her restrictive stepbrother, the Cock-
ney spiv who believes in free enterprise
and practises it in the blackout, the
politically-minded Welshman and the be-
nign old colonel who weighs the scales
between the contending parties. It is all
what is called clean fun and wouldn’t
hurt anybody. When the English actors
get oyer their habit of firing off their
lines like tail-gunners it should go down
well with Australian audiences.
From the farce viewpoint the best of
the performers were David Cahill as the
dour assistant town clerk, Jessica Page
as his mother, William Hodge as the
Cockney spiv and Morris Sweden as the
Welshman.
"The Light of Heart."
Though rather inclined to plagiarise
the obvious in this drama about actors —
put on by Anew McMaster and a com-
pany of professional and very competent
barnstormers at the National Theatre,
Melbourne —Emlyn Williams has made
an interesting study of self-pity, with
some tendency to glorify it.
The principal character, Maddoc
Thomas, an actor who has once been
“great,” takes to drink and sinks into the
social gutter, where he is looked after
by his club-footed daughter, is a common
"This should keep the little pet off the streets at night."
enough phenomenon. Some stray sug-
gestion restores his hope, he is billed to
appear as Lear at Covent Garden, and
gives up the drink, but the anxiousness of
his friends and his crippled daughter
makes him anxious, and an hour before
the opening of the gala first night, with
the whole of London there expecting
something it has never seen before, he
gets blind drunk and the curtain never
goes up.
That is too much for the crippled
daughter, who has fallen in love with a
handsome young composer, and she de-
cides to desert her hopeless father. This
increases his self-pity, which causes her
to rescind her resolution. Her father
overhears her telling her lover of her
intention, and makes a noble gesture
quite inconsistent with his character
by throwing himself from an up-
stairs window. Mr. Williams is here
strongly suspected of relying, not so
much on his own observation of human
nature, but on some well-worn stereotype
of melodrama. It raises doubts as to
whether Maddoc Thomas ever was great.
Mr. McMaster, however, made a great
do of the sold-out Maddoc. He has the
skill of the trained actor in making a
speech, an aside or an entrance important.
It is nine-tenths knack and one-tenth feel-
ing, but it gets across. Helen Franklyn
is an actress of a different order. As
the club-footed daughter devoted to the
father who had caused her malformation
by dropping her as a baby while in
liquor, she seemed to feel her situation in
a spontaneous fashion. Emlyn Williams
is good at small parts, especially Welsh-
men. His Welsh policeman, who loves
intellect without having it, was done to
the life by Allan Ashbolt.
Two-hundred-guinea
Art Prize.
With the object of stimulating interest
in religious art among Australian artists,
“a representative committee of citizens”
will hold, as part of the Commonwealth
Jubilee celebrations, an exhibition of
religious paintings or drawings in March,
1951, at Mark Foy’s Exhibition Gallery,
Liverpool-street, Sydney. A prize of 200
guineas will be awarded to the best entry.
The term “religious paintings” will be
broadly interpreted—“the prize is not
being offered to encourage painting of any
and the name and address clearly marked
on a tie label and on the back of the
picture; any questions arising and not
covered by .the foregoing conditions shall
be referred to the committee, whose de-
cision shall be final.
The judges will be Donna Mariza del
Balzo, Miss Jean Bellette, John D. Moore,
the Hon. Mr. Justice Nicholas, the Rev.
Michael Scott and the Rev. Alan Tory.
particular school nor to limit subject-
matter too narrowly.”
Conditions: The prize to be known
as the Blake Prize for Religious Painting ;
the competition open to anyone resident
in Australia or any Australian resident
outside Australia for not more than two
years before the entry date of the com-
petition ; entries must be the original
work of the competitor, must be suitably
framed and all costs of transport must
be borne by the competitor; the com-
mittee will exercise all reasonable care
with entries, but will not be responsible
for loss or damage while in its custgdy;
all entries will be seen by the judges and
committee, but not all will necessarily
be hung.
If the judges opine no entry is worth
the prize the committee may refrain from
awarding it; all entries must be delivered
to Mark Foy’s Exhibition Gallery not
later than noon, March 1, 1951 ; competi-
tors must collect and remove their pic-
tures within two days after the closing
of the exhibition; no competitor may
submit more than three entries and each
should have the title, price (if for sale)
TALKIES
"Mother Didn't Tell Me."
The idea that the wife of a medico is
often left on her pat is not novei, yet,
with only that as its theme, this offering
at Sydney Centmy manages to be good
light entertainment most of the way.
Dorothy McGuire, still faintly like
“Claudia,” plays the lead. Decked in a
lacy man-trap, and using a dose of in-
fluenza and a cough like a beagle’s for
a decoy, she snares a handsome young
doctor (William Lundigan). Two visits
and his heartbeat would splay the nib on
a cardiograph. Nobly he tells her that
a doctor’s wife is not a happy one, but
is proposed to and accepts.
The young wife finds herself in a new
social group of cynical ladies who fell
for it, too. One or two axioms come her
way: if a dinner-party she is holding
starts off with her husband and four
other doctors, it will, by eight o’clock,
have dwindled to lone frustrated ladies in
the parlor; if, on the other hand, the
husbands are not called away, they will
be sure to stand in a dull clique keeping
their engines turning over with medical
conversation.
Odd items dragged into the piece in-
clude a psychiatrist who enlivens things
Jby persuading Dorothy McGuire into be-
lieving she has the natural hip-movements
of a Balinese temple dancer, and another
of the sorority that she is the reincarna-
tion of a Chinese goddess who could play
drums.
Why Not?
Perhaps, after all, they do do such
things in America. Perhaps they do have
glamorous brunettes as staid deans of
colleges and perhaps they do have
eminent British astronomers being con-
ducted on tours of the U.S. by shrewd
entrepreneurs and red-hot publicity
merchants. And, if they do have such
things; then why shouldn’t the publicity
person cook up a romance between the
dean and the star-tracker, and why
shouldn’t the dean blame him for the
gossip and why shouldn’t he blame her,
and why shouldn’t her nibs belt him
across the skull with her voluminous
handbag for the benefit of Press photo-
graphers? Why not?
And, if so, why shouldn’t the heavens-
gazer interrupt his contemplation of the
milky way to contemplate the dean’s
ankles and, finding them as interesting as
any ethereal body, come up for further
punishment from the handbag; and why
shouldn’t the lady’s father indulge in a
little urging and hocuspocus in the cause
of matrimony; and why shouldn’t the
college students and the villagers begin
to wonder and whisper and speculate
while looking cross-eyed at the star bloke
and the dean’s adopted daughter?
Again, why not; why not, indeed?
And if they have such things and do such
things, well, why shouldn’t they make a
film about it and call it “A Woman of
Distinction” and why shouldn’t it be
shown at Sydney State?
PS.: This department.does not require
any possible answers to any of the fore-
going questions.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 91
Across.
I—Virtuous1 —Virtuous eyes of handsome
people. (4, 7)
B—Victory8—Victory accompanies Timothy’s
people who have been imposed
upon. (7)
10 — Tested the uprightness of the
place for the rest of the fruit. (7)
11 — The pacemaker is first to take
this metal. (4)
12 — Mongrel with 50 in the grain
vehicle with two wheels and two
horses. (8)
13 — Alternative backed a Castilian
city. (3)
14 — Fish with a winding-up section
of a musical work. (4)
15 — Artillery to cry about an English
or French negative. (8)
18 — Lion boat found in a religious
offering. (8)
19 — Cows as containing you and I. (4)
21 — Noted army with a first-class
forte, (initials)
22 Source of some brewing material
urges Ellsworth to be a bounder.
(3-5).
24 —Haberdashery to cut with the
scissors on the way back. (4)
27 Swore, and are between hail and
the radical. (7)
28 — Again put the sticky paper on
the envelope and relax with a
legislator. (7)
29 — Stubbornness .by a can and a
metropolis. (11)
Down.
1 — Judge’s mallet donated 50. (5)
2 Where fruit grows an inflexible
and ruthless whale. (7)
3 Face up when rested. (4)
4 Neat prose (anagram). (9)
5 Course studies with some sus-
picions. (8)
6, 7—Australian novel crime with
children’s bowling. (7, 5,4)
9 —French coin. (3)
14, 18—Well-washed cads (two of
them) shown by fugitives. (5, 4,
2,5)
16— Act of outlawing and disgracing
to reach a rising Communist. (9)
17— A century and a half with an
appropriate hit piece of music
or oratory intended to raise
applause. (8)
18— See 14 down.
20 —State has it with a King Island
river in N.Z. (7)
23—Go wrong. (3)
25 — Indian soldier mentioned in
poesy. (5)
26 — Continent member of the Ocean-
ides. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 90.


CLOTHES
Follow the Champion!
Known throughout the world as an
immaculate dresser, Bobby Locke
is naturally wearing STAMINA
Self-supporting TROUSERS dur-
'
ing his 1950 tour of Australia.
He realises that, unless you are
dressed comfortably, you cannot
relax and that you must relax to
play good golf ... So follow the
Champion, choose STAMINA
, . . all costs are again increasing.
Trousers.
Buy now while the price is
mi
BUY
x 'ix -
m
;• V,
ipJ|
«
m
■ m
»»5S
mm
t
mm.
* *
:;■•■;
i ■
W? i '
EMM: ;.
- 0 *
v» ' ' ' ;
" j
m
V"
■: I
Pi
g ■:
'
■
m
.■■■;.
X/.X
IlSiili
m
1 i
v;-V'C;w-S
s
■
1
BBS
■
H
1
Wmmmm
Wmm
m
/:■: i
■ y H
if?}
m
mm
m
Wm
m
m
-
mm
mm
■
mm
'&*■
m
m
; i
feg
■ m
HR
:
m
■
tea ■■ !
S
i •■■■;
*
M |W
■■■■■:■■:>■< '■■::■■ •••••.•:•
ii ;
Hi
■
*.<*l
i
■
■
mM
m
5 - :
Ii
i
-;s
ii
r 'j I
■
. m
m
m
■H
■■ i
■ vo ■;
Hi
11111111111
Starrurva
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM
CRUSADER CLOTH
